St Mark (Hals)

St. Mark is an oil-on-canvas painting by the Dutch Golden Age painter Frans Hals, painted in 1625. It was purchased by Russian philanthropist Alisher Usmanov from the art dealer Colnaghi, London in September 2013 for the Pushkin Museum and donated by him to that museum in November that year, where it still hangs.

El 33

El 33 is Catalonia's second public television channel. It belongs to Televisió de Catalunya, a subsidiary of the CCMA.

Habib Saher

Habib Saher, was an Azerbaijani poet, writer, translator and literary researcher. The founder of Turkish free poetry in Iran.

Malaysia–United Arab Emirates relations

Malaysia–United Arab Emirates relations refers to foreign relations between Malaysia and United Arab Emirates. United Arab Emirates has an embassy in Kuala Lumpur, and Malaysia has an embassy in Abu Dhabi. Relations between the two countries are mainly in economic co-operation.

Muhammad Mustafa Mero

Muhammad Mustafa Mero was a Syrian politician who served as Prime Minister of Syria from 7 March 2000 to 10 September 2003.

Cuyler–Brownville Historic District

The Cuyler–Brownville Historic District is a historic district in Savannah, Georgia. It is one of the oldest African-American neighborhoods in the city.

Indonesian National Armed Forces Day

The Indonesian National Armed Forces Day abbreviated HUT TNI is a national day of Indonesia that is celebrated on 5 October, the day of foundation of the Tentara Keamanan Rakyat, the predecessor of the TNI, in 1945, itself a replacement for the Badan Keamanan Rakyat established on 29 August the same year. Military parades, fun games, concerts and other events are held nationwide in major cities and provincial capitals in honor of the INAF's serving men and women and military veterans.

National Alliance for Reconstruction

The National Alliance for Reconstruction (NAR) was the governing party in Trinidad and Tobago between 1986 and 1991. The party has been inactive since 2005.

Bezbozhnik u Stanka

Bezbozhnik u Stanka was a monthly and later biweekly antireligious magazine of the Moscow Committee of the AUCP(b). Published from December 1923 to 1931, it circulated roughly 35 thousand to 70 thousand copies per issue.

Polystoma integerrimum

Polystoma integerrimum is a flatworm (platyhelminth) from the class Monogenea found in amphibians in Asia and Europe. It is an endoparasite of frogs and toads and has an unusual life cycle which synchronises with that of its host.

IPython

IPython is a command shell for interactive computing in multiple programming languages, originally developed for the Python programming language, that offers introspection, rich media, shell syntax, tab completion, and history. IPython provides the following features:Interactive shells.
A browser-based notebook interface with support for code, text, mathematical expressions, inline plots and other media.
Support for interactive data visualization and use of GUI toolkits.
Flexible, embeddable interpreters to load into one's own projects.
Tools for parallel computing.

Eliphalet Stone (Massachusetts politician)

Col. Eliphalet Stone was an American politician.

Pueblo County High School

Pueblo County High School is a four-year public high school in Vineland, an unincorporated area in Pueblo County, Colorado, near Pueblo. It is a part of the Pueblo County School District 70.

WTNX-LD

WTNX-LD is a low-power television station in Nashville, Tennessee, United States, affiliated with the Spanish-language network Telemundo. Owned by Gray Media, it also functions as a repeater for its full-power sister station, NBC affiliate WSMV-TV. The two stations share studios on Knob Road in West Nashville; WTNX-LD's transmitter is located on Oldham Street near downtown.

Halorella

Halorella is an extinct genus of brachiopods belonging to the family Halorellidae.

Friedrich Wilhelm, Duke of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Glücksburg

Friedrich Wilhelm, Duke of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Glücksburg was a German-Danish prince and officer who was the Duke of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Beck from 1816 to 1825, and the Duke of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Glücksburg from 1825 to 1831. Friedrich Wilhelm is the progenitor of the House of Glücksburg.

Kavaĺskaja Slabada (Minsk Metro)

Kavaĺskaja Slabada is a Minsk Metro station. It is located at the intersection of Žukoŭskaha and Varanianskaha streets. The station was opened 6 November, 2020 as the southern terminus of the line.

What If... Ultron Won?

"What If... Ultron Won?" is the eighth episode of the American animated television series What If...?, based on the Marvel Comics series of the same name. It explores what would happen if the events of the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) film Avengers: Age of Ultron (2015) occurred differently, with Ultron using the Infinity Stones to eliminate all life in the universe after successfully transferring his consciousness into Vision's body. It also serves to set up the first season's finale, as Ultron finds a way to traverse to other universes, threatening the balance of the multiverse. The episode was written by story editor Matthew Chauncey and directed by Bryan Andrews.

William Oakes (botanist)

William Oakes was an American botanist.

Piyush Ranade

Piyush Ranade is a Marathi film and television actor. He appeared in Zee Marathi TV series Ekach Hya Janmi Janu, Lajja and Asmita, also in Star Plus's Burey Bhi Hum Bhale Bhi Hum as Kaivalya.

Pink Champagne (E-girls song)

"Pink Champagne" is a song recorded and performed by Japanese collective unit E-girls, taken as a single from their fourth studio album E.G. Crazy (2017). The track was released on August 10, 2016 through Rhythm Zone and Avex Music Creative Inc. in three physical formats—two CD's and a DVD bundle—and for digital consumption. The song was written by Masoto Kotake and produced by Exile Hiro. Additionally, each addition apart from the one-track format came with the two B-sides: "Bad Girls" and "Cowgirl Rhapsody" which was produced by Skylar Mones, one remix of their single "Dance Dance Dance" and the first three instrumental tracks, respectively.

Iffwil

Iffwil is a municipality in the Bern-Mittelland administrative district in the canton of Bern in Switzerland.

St Mary the Virgin's Church, North Stoke

North Stoke Church, rededicated in 2007 to St Mary the Virgin after its medieval dedication was unexpectedly rediscovered, is a former Church of England parish church in the riverside hamlet of North Stoke in the Horsham District of West Sussex. The partly 11th-century cruciform building, set in an almost deserted village in a loop of the River Arun, is mostly unrestored and stands on an ancient earthwork which has pre-Christian origins. The building has architectural features and internal fittings spanning hundreds of years, including some very old stained glass and wall paintings, although there are few memorials compared with other Sussex churches of a similar age. The church, "movingly eloquent of centuries of remote Sussex agricultural life", is no longer used for worship: it was declared redundant in 1992, after which it was entrusted to the Churches Conservation Trust. English Heritage lists the church at Grade I for its architectural and historical importance.

Northwood Congregational Church

The Northwood Congregational Church is a historic church at 881 1st New Hampshire Turnpike in Northwood, New Hampshire. The Greek Revival wood-frame building was built in 1840, and is one of the finest and least-altered Greek Revival churches in the state. The building was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1979. The congregation is affiliated with the United Church of Christ.

Ayetoro

Ayetoro is a town in Nigeria. It lies on the latitude 70 12’N and longitude 30 3’ E in a deciduous- derived savannah zone of Ogun State. The climate is sub-humid tropical with a longtime average annual rainfall of 1,909.30mm. Ayetoro is about 35 km northwest of Abeokuta, a town in south-west part of Nigeria and the capital of Ogun State. The town is the administrative seat/headquarters of Yewa North Local Government Area. It is connected to Lagos by road and rail and serves as the shipping centre for an area in which cocoa, cassava, cowpea and maize are produced.

Antananarivo

Antananarivo, also known by its colonial shorthand form Tana, is the capital and largest city of Madagascar. The administrative area of the city, known as Antananarivo-Renivohitra, is the capital of Analamanga region. The city sits at 1,280 m (4,199 ft) above sea level in the center of the island, making it the highest national capital by elevation among the island countries. It has been the country's largest population center since at least the 18th century. The Presidency, National Assembly, Senate, and Supreme Court are located there, as are 21 diplomatic missions and the headquarters of many national and international businesses and non-governmental organizations. It has more universities, nightclubs, art venues, and medical services than any other city on the island. Several national and local sports teams, including the championship-winning national rugby team, the Makis, are based here.

Pristimantis acuminatus

Pristimantis acuminatus is a species of frog in the family Strabomantidae. It is found in the Amazon rainforest of Ecuador, northern Peru, and adjacent Colombia and Brazil. It is a lowland Amazonian rainforest species that also occurs on the lower reaches of the Andes. At night these frogs can be found perched on leaves some 10–15 m (33–49 ft) above the ground; during the daytime they may be found in bromeliads or sleeping on the undersides of leaves. It may also occur in cultivated areas. This widespread species is not considered threatened.

Aina Station

Aina Station is a railway station in Kita-ku, Kobe, Hyōgo Prefecture, Japan.

Mid Blue

Mid Blue is the 17th studio album by Japanese entertainer Miho Nakayama. Released through King Records on September 30, 1995, it features the single "Hurt to Heart ". Like her previous studio releases Mellow, Wagamama na Actress, and Pure White, the ballad-oriented Mid Blue was self-produced and recorded in Los Angeles.

Bruff R.F.C.

Bruff Rugby Football Club is a rugby union club in County Limerick, Ireland. As at December 2025 it was playing in Division 2C of the All-Ireland League. The club plays at home in Kilballyowen Park, near the town of Bruff in County Limerick. As at the 2025/26 season they were fielding 18 rugby teams at the club including 4 men's adult squads, Adult Women's, girls' youth, minis and boys' youth rugby teams ranging in age from under-7 to under-18.

The Complete Collection and Then Some...

The Complete Collection and Then Some... is a four-disc and one video greatest hits compilation by American pop singer Barry Manilow. It features 70 tracks including unreleased songs and five new recordings. It was certified RIAA gold. Originally released in 1992 with a VHS cassette, this box set was re-released on September 6, 2005, with a DVD replacing the tape.

Nanmoku, Gunma

Nanmoku is a village located in Gunma Prefecture, Japan. As of 31 February 2026, the village has an estimated population of 1,354 in 819 households, and a population density of 11 persons per km2. The total area of the village is 118.83 square kilometres (45.88 sq mi).

Country Bird Bakery

Country Bird Bakery, founded in 2022, is a bakery in Tulsa, Oklahoma, the United States.

Oakland Catholic High School

Oakland Catholic High School is a private, Roman Catholic college preparatory school for girls, located in the Oakland neighborhood of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States, within the Diocese of Pittsburgh. It was established by Bishop Donald Wuerl in 1989 as the merger of former all-girl parish high schools of Sacred Heart and St. Paul Cathedral to serve as a sister school for Central Catholic. Approximately 600 students matriculate at Oakland Catholic and the school draws female students from all over Pittsburgh and its suburbs. Upon graduation, 100% of its students continue to a four-year university.

The Adventurous Sex

The Adventurous Sex is a lost 1925 American silent drama film that was directed by Charles Giblyn and starred Clara Bow, Herbert Rawlinson, and Earle Williams. The Howard Estabrook production was shot in studios in New York City and on location at Niagara Falls.

Moamoria

The Moamoria were the adherents of the Mayamara Satra, an egalitarian and proselytizing Neo-Vaishnavite sect of 18th-century Assam, who initiated the Moamoria rebellion against the Ahom kingdom in the 18th century. The rebellion weakened the Ahom kingdom to such an extent that the kingdom became vulnerable to repeated Burmese invasions of Assam and the subsequent colonization by the British. The Moamorias were also called Mataks. Over time, the main groups that had supported the Ahom kingdom came to owe allegiance to the Moamara satra: Morans, the Sonowal Kacharis (gold-washers), Chutias, professional castes such as Hiras (potters), Tantis (weavers), Kaibartas, and Ahom nobles and officers. The largest group among the Mataks were the Morans, followed by the Chutias.

Prabhakar Gaonkar

Prabhakar Pandurang Gaonkar was an Indian politician from Goa. He was a former member of the Goa Legislative Assembly, representing the Sanguem Assembly constituency from 1999 to 2002. He was a member of the Bharatiya Janata Party.

Splean

Splean is a popular Russian rock band, formed in Saint Petersburg in 1994. Since then, they have remained one of the most popular rock bands in Russia and the former Soviet Union. The band's name is derived from "spleen", and the "ea" spelling in English is a pun on the spelling of the Beatles. It was borrowed from a short poem by Sasha Cherny, which the band set to music.

Sunshine Coast railway line

The Sunshine Coast line is an interurban commuter railway line in South East Queensland. Operated by Queensland Rail, the line runs for 173 kilometres from Gympie North to Roma Street, where services continue on the Ipswich/Rosewood line.

Japan National Route 427

National Route 427 is a national highway of Japan connecting Nishiwaki, Hyōgo and Asago, Hyōgo in Japan, with a total length of 96.9 km (60.21 mi). The southern end of the road connects with Route 175 and the northern end with Route 9.

Duwayr Taha

Duwayr Taha is a village in northwestern Syria, administratively part of the Tartus Governorate. It is situated near the Mediterranean coast. According to the Syria Central Bureau of Statistics (CBS), Duwayr Taha had a population of 1,714 in the 2004 census. Its inhabitants are predominantly Greek Orthodox Christians.

Christian Bregazzi

Christian Bregazzi was a German photographer as well as the name of an early 20th-century publishing house for postcards.

De Mulieribus Claris

De Mulieribus Claris or De Claris Mulieribus is a collection of biographies of historical and mythological women by the Florentine author Giovanni Boccaccio, composed in Latin prose in 1361–1362. It is the first collection devoted exclusively to biographies of women in post-ancient Western literature. At the same time as he was writing On Famous Women, Boccaccio also compiled a collection of biographies of famous men, De Casibus Virorum Illustrium.

Kestanepazarı Mosque

The Kestanepazarı Mosque is a historical Mosque in İzmir, Turkey.

Magic Kamison

Magic Kamison is a 2007 Philippine television drama fantasy anthology series broadcast by GMA Network. Starring Gladys Guevarra, it premiered on February 4, 2007. The series concluded on June 17, 2007 with a total of 19 episodes.

Chaskhar Gewog

Chaskhar Gewog is a gewog of Mongar District, Bhutan.

Clinidium

Clinidium is a genus of wrinkled bark beetles in the subfamily Rhysodinae. Most species are Neotropical, but some occur further north in North America and there is also one species in Europe and one in Japan. Two species are known from Miocene amber.

The Return of the Condor Heroes

The Return of the Condor Heroes (神鵰俠侶), also translated as The Giant Eagle and Its Companion, is a wuxia novel by Jin Yong. It is the second part of the Condor Trilogy and was preceded by The Legend of the Condor Heroes and followed by The Heaven Sword and Dragon Saber. It was first serialised between 20 May 1959 and 5 July 1961 in the Hong Kong newspaper Ming Pao.

St. Elizabeth, Missouri

St. Elizabeth or Saint Elizabeth is a village in Miller County, Missouri, United States. The population was 418 at the 2020 census, up from 336 in 2010.

Kilternan

Kilternan, also known as Kiltiernan, is a village in Dún Laoghaire–Rathdown, in the foothills of the Wicklow Mountains south of Dublin, Ireland, near the border with County Wicklow. Kiltiernan is in a civil parish of the same name, in the barony of Rathdown.

Seligpreisung

Seligpreisung is the fourth album by German band Popol Vuh. It was originally released in 1973 on record label Kosmische Musik. The title is the German name for the Beatitudes, from Christ's Sermon on the Mount.

Vestereng

Vestereng is a nature site in the environs of northern Aarhus and the suburb of Skejby. The name literally translates as 'westward meadow'. The Municipality of Aarhus took ownership in 1939.

Greatest Hits Live (Roy Orbison album)

Greatest Hits Live is a posthumous compilation album of live recordings made during Roy Orbison's career. It was released in 2006 by Legacy Recordings. It sampled two previous releases; Roy Orbison: Authorized Bootleg Collection and Black & White Night; as well as providing two exclusive tracks.

Hypolimnas usambara

Hypolimnas usambara, the red spot diadem or Usambara diadem, is a butterfly in the family Nymphalidae. It is found along the coast of Kenya and in Tanzania, from the coast inland to the Usambara Mountains of Tanga Region. The habitat consists of primary coastal forests.

Appomattox Manor

Appomattox Manor is a former plantation house in Hopewell, Virginia, United States. It is best known as the Union headquarters during the Siege of Petersburg in 1864–65.

Thousand Cranes

Thousand Cranes is a novel by Japanese author Yasunari Kawabata which first appeared in serialised form between 1949 and 1951 and was published as a book in 1952.

Mount Royal Academy (New Hampshire)

Mount Royal Academy is a private, Roman Catholic pre-K, elementary and high school in Sunapee, New Hampshire. It is located in the Roman Catholic Diocese of Manchester.

Daniel Turner (footballer)

Daniel Turner is a professional Australian rules footballer playing for the Melbourne Football Club in the Australian Football League (AFL). A key defender, he is 1.95 metres tall and weighs 88 kilograms (194 lb).

W. Arundel Orchard

William Arundel Orchard OBE FRCM was a British-born Australian organist, pianist, composer, conductor and music educator.

Dillingham Transportation Building

The Dillingham Transportation Building was built in 1929 for Walter F. Dillingham of Honolulu, Hawaiʻi, who founded the Hawaiian Dredging Company and ran the Oahu Railway and Land Company founded by his father, Benjamin Franklin Dillingham. The building was designed in an Italian Renaissance Revival by architect Lincoln Rogers of Los Angeles, who also designed the Hawaii State Art Museum (1928). It was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1979 and restored by Architects Hawaiʻi Ltd. in 1980.

Communauté d'agglomération du Boulonnais

The Communauté d'agglomération du Boulonnais, created in January 2000, is a communauté d'agglomération centered on the city of Boulogne-sur-Mer. It is located in the Pas-de-Calais department, in the Hauts-de-France region in northern France. Its area is 205.1 km2. Its population was 112,836 in 2018, of which 40,664 in Boulogne-sur-Mer proper.

German submarine U-18 (1935)

German submarine U-18 was a Type IIB U-boat of Nazi Germany's Kriegsmarine during World War II. It was laid down 10 July 1935 and commissioned on 4 January 1936. It served in many U-boat flotillas during its service.

François X. Matthieu

François "Francis" Xavier Matthieu was a French Canadian pioneer settler of the Oregon Country. He was educated in American values by a radical schoolteacher. Matthieu became involved in the 1837–1838 armed rebellion against British rule in Canada, for which he was forced to flee his native Quebec for safety in the United States, where he worked as a carpenter and a fur trader.

Ramblin' Man (The Allman Brothers Band song)

"Ramblin' Man" is a song by rock band the Allman Brothers Band, released in August 1973 as the lead single from the group's fourth studio album, Brothers and Sisters (1973). Written and sung by the band's guitarist, Dickey Betts, it was inspired by a 1951 song of the same name by Hank Williams. It is much more grounded in country music than other Allman Brothers Band compositions, which made the group reluctant to record it. Guitarist Les Dudek provides guitar harmonies, and it was one of bassist Berry Oakley's last contributions to the band.

What's New (Bill Evans album)

What's New is an album by jazz pianist Bill Evans with flautist Jeremy Steig which was released in 1969 on the Verve label.

Hardin, Kentucky

Hardin is a home rule-class city in Marshall County, Kentucky, United States. The population was 580 at the 2020 census.

Fishmore Hall Hotel

The Fishmore Hall Hotel in Ludlow, Shropshire is a house of historical significance. A major part of it was built in about 1820 but some of the building may be older than this. It was a private residence for many years and in the late part of the 20th century it became a school. It was recently converted to a hotel.

Birdlike noctule

The birdlike noctule is a species of bat. It nests in the holes in old trees and buildings, and sometimes in mineshafts. It is distributed across Northeast Asia, from northeast China and Siberia through the Korean Peninsula to Japan.

Gereonsklub

The Gereonsklub was an avant-garde artists' association in Cologne in the years immediately prior to World War I.

Sainte-Marie-des-Champs

Sainte-Marie-des-Champs is a commune in the Seine-Maritime department in the Normandy region in northern France.

Marte Berg Edseth

Marte Berg Edseth is a Norwegian professional racing cyclist, who currently rides for UCI Women's WorldTeam Uno-X Mobility. She previously competed in alpine skiing before turning to cycling.

Ultrasound (film)

Ultrasound is a 2021 American science fiction film directed and produced by Rob Schroeder in his feature directorial debut. It is based on the comic book Generous Bosom by Conor Stechschulte, who also wrote the screenplay. It stars Vincent Kartheiser, Chelsea Lopez, Breeda Wool, Tunde Adebimpe, Rainey Qualley, Chris Gartin, and Bob Stephenson. The plot follows a man's sexual encounter with a married woman that results in them questioning their sanity. The film premiered at the Tribeca Film Festival on June 15, 2021, and was released in the United States on March 11, 2022, by Magnet Releasing. It received generally positive reviews from critics.

Peroxymonosulfuric acid

Peroxymonosulfuric acid, also known as persulfuric acid, peroxysulfuric acid is the inorganic compound with the formula H2SO5. It is a white solid. It is a component of Caro's acid, which is a solution of peroxymonosulfuric acid in sulfuric acid containing small amounts of water. Peroxymonosulfuric acid is a very strong oxidant.

Arikitari na Onna

"Arikitari na Onna" , also known by its French title "Une femme ordinaire", is a song by Japanese musician Ringo Sheena. It was the leading promotional song for her fifth album Hi Izuru Tokoro on October 1, 2014.

Bailar en la Cueva

Bailar en la Cueva is the tenth studio album by Uruguayan singer and songwriter Jorge Drexler, released on March 25, 2014, through Warner Music. The album was produced by Carlos Campón and features collaborations from Brazilian singer Caetano Veloso and Chilean-French rapper Ana Tijoux. Li Saumet from Bomba Estéreo appears in the title track while Puerto Rican producer Eduardo Cabra co-produced the song "Todo Cae".

Tjerkwerd

Tjerkwerd is a village in Súdwest-Fryslân municipality in the province Friesland of the Netherlands. It had a population of 455 in January 2017.

Nature Reviews Microbiology

Nature Reviews Microbiology is a monthly peer-reviewed review journal published by Nature Portfolio. It was established in 2003. The journal publishes reviews and perspectives on microbiology, bridging fundamental research and its clinical, industrial, and environmental applications. The editor-in-chief is Ashley York.

Drumshoreland railway station

Drumshoreland railway station was a railway station in West Lothian, Scotland. It was located on the Edinburgh and Bathgate Railway.

Kolpochoerus

Kolpochoerus is an extinct genus of the pig family Suidae related to the modern-day genera Hylochoerus, Phacochoerus, and Potamochoerus. It is believed that most of them inhabited African forests, as opposed to the bushpig and red river hog that inhabit open brush and savannas. There are currently eleven recognized species.

Ed Emery (politician)

Edgar Glenn Harvey Emery was an American businessman, engineer, and politician who served as a member of the Missouri Senate, representing parts of southwestern Missouri.

France at the 1936 Winter Olympics

France competed at the 1936 Winter Olympics in Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Germany.

The Shortening Winter's Day is near a Close

The Shortening Winter's Day is Near a Close (1903) and its replicas -- The Shortening Winter's Day is Near a Close and Beneath the Snow Encumbered Branches -- are three oil on canvas paintings by Scottish painter Joseph Farquharson. The iconic artworks depict a shepherd tending sheep with the evening sun shining through snowy trees.

Hygrocybe lepida

Hygrocybe lepida is an agaric in the family Hygrophoraceae. The species occurs in Europe and was previously referred to the American Hygrocybe cantharellus but is now known to be distinct. Its recommended English name is goblet waxcap. The species is typically found in nutrient-poor waxcap grassland.

Chili Con Carnage

Chili Con Carnage is a 2007 action/adventure third-person shooter video game released exclusively for the PlayStation Portable. It was developed by Deadline Games and published by Sci Entertainment in Europe and by Eidos in North America. Its predecessor Total Overdose was released in 2005. Many reviews of the game classify it as both a sequel and a remake.

Vestibular membrane

The vestibular membrane, vestibular wall or Reissner's membrane is a membrane inside the cochlea of the inner ear. It separates the cochlear duct from the vestibular duct. It helps to transmit vibrations from fluid in the vestibular duct to the cochlear duct. Together with the basilar membrane, it creates a compartment in the cochlea filled with endolymph, which is important for the function of the spiral organ of Corti. It allows nutrients to travel from the perilymph to the endolymph of the membranous labyrinth. It may be damaged in Ménière's disease. It is named after the German anatomist Ernst Reissner.

Richie Steamboat

Richard Henry Blood Jr. is an American retired professional wrestler, better known by his ring name Richie Steamboat. He is known for wrestling in WWE's developmental territories Florida Championship Wrestling and NXT, and was the second FCW Grand Slam Champion having won the Florida Heavyweight Championship, Florida Tag Team Championship, and Jack Brisco 15 Championship.

Cautethia

Cautethia is a genus of moths in the family Sphingidae first described by Augustus Radcliffe Grote in 1867.

Larry Holmes vs. Tim Witherspoon

Larry Holmes vs. Tim Witherspoon, billed as The Crown Affair, was a professional boxing match contested on 20 May 1983, for the WBC and The Ring heavyweight championship.

Hypsiglena tanzeri

Hypsiglena tanzeri, the Rio Verde night snake or Tanzer's night snake, is a species of snake in the family Colubridae. The species is native to Mexico.

The Magic Soup and the Bittersweet Faces

The Magic Soup and the Bittersweet Faces is the debut studio album by Norwegian hip hop duo Envy, and the only album credited to that name before they later changed it to Nico & Vinz. It was released in Norway on April 27, 2012. The album has peaked to number 37 on the Norwegian Albums Chart. The album includes the single "One Song".

Searchers 2.0

Searchers 2.0 is a 2007 Western road film directed by Alex Cox. It stars Del Zamora and Ed Pansullo. Described by Cox as a "microfeature," it was shot on digital video in 10 days for a budget of $180,000. Lacking distribution, it featured a very limited theatrical run of one-night showings at various theaters throughout 2007 and 2008, followed by its premiere on BBC in the UK, and eventual DVD release in Japan and North America. The film marks Cox's return to the comedy genre, his first since Straight to Hell, 20 years prior.

Valentin Glushko

Valentin Petrovich Glushko was a Soviet engineer who was program manager of the Soviet space program from 1974 until 1989.

Shimanokoshi Station

Shimanokoshi Station is a railway station on the Sanriku Railway Company’s Rias Line located in the village of Tanohata, Iwate Prefecture, Japan. The station was destroyed by the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami and subsequently rebuilt at a new location.

Mellitic anhydride

Mellitic anhydride, the anhydride of mellitic acid, is an organic compound with the formula C12O9.

INXSIVE

INXSIVE is the first compilation album by Australian rock band INXS, which was released in 1982 on Deluxe Records for the Australian market only. It appeared in the top 100 of the Kent Music Report Albums Chart. INXSive features highlights from the band's first two studio albums, related B-sides, and two non-album singles: "Simple Simon" and "The Loved One". The latter is a cover of a 1966 single originally by The Loved Ones; INXS later re-recorded this song and released it on the album Kick.

Snakes & Ladders Records

Snakes & Ladders Records is a London-based independent DIY label founded in 2005 by members of the London band My Tiger My Timing.

Mohamed Fadzli Hassan

Mohamed Fadzli bin Hassan is a Malaysian politician and lecturer who has served as the Deputy Menteri Besar of Kelantan since August 2023 and Member of the Kelantan State Legislative Assembly (MLA) for Temangan since March 2008. He is a member of the Malaysian Islamic Party (PAS), a component party of the Perikatan Nasional (PN) and formerly the Gagasan Sejahtera (GS) and Pakatan Rakyat (PR) coalitions.

Envermeu

Envermeu is a commune in the Seine-Maritime department in the Normandy region in northern France.

East Lambrook

East Lambrook is an English village situated in the civil parish of Kingsbury Episcopi, within the South Somerset district of Somerset. It is noted particularly for its manor gardens.

Ferdinando Partini

Ferdinando Partini was an Italian painter who was active in the 1790s. He is best known for his vedute of ancient buildings. His 1794 oil painting View of the Pantheon was featured in the exhibition Art of the Royal Court: Treasures in Pietre Dure from the Palaces of Europe at the Metropolitan Museum of Art along with a reproduction in pietre dure.

John Murray Anderson's Almanac

John Murray Anderson's Almanac is a musical revue, featuring the music of the songwriting team of Richard Adler and Jerry Ross, as well as other composers. It was conceived by John Murray Anderson. An earlier version of the show had been produced in 1929 with the title Murray Anderson's Almanac. The earlier production included Henry Sullivan for composing the music and Noël Coward as part of the script writing team. Sullivan would go on to write music for the 1953 production mentioned here. The full title for the show was John Murray Anderson's Almanac: A Musical Harlequinade.

John Wesley De Kay

John Wesley De Kay was an American entrepreneur and self-made millionaire, playwright, author, and eccentric socialite. He became known as the "Sausage King" of Mexico with the brand "Popo".

Park Soo-hong

Park Soo-hong, is a South Korean comedian and presenter.

Strumble Head - Llechdafad Cliffs

Strumble Head - Llechdafad Cliffs is a Site of Special Scientific Interest (SSSI) in Pembrokeshire, South Wales. It has been designated as a SSSI since January 1954 in an attempt to protect its fragile biological and geological elements.

VTB Arena

The VTB Arena – Dynamo Central Stadium is a multi-purpose sports complex in Moscow, Russia. It consists of an ice hockey and an association football venue. The football stadium is officially named Dynamo Central Stadium "Lev Yashin". The ice hockey venue is known as the Universal VTB Arena.

Zaporozhtransformator

Zaporozhtransformator (ZTR) is a Private Joint Stock Company specializing in the design and manufacturing of oil-filled power transformers, shunt reactors and magnetically controlled shunt reactors, with production facilities located in Zaporizhzhia, Ukraine.

Crimson-browed finch

The crimson-browed finch is a true finch species. It is found in Bhutan, China, India, Myanmar, and Nepal. Its natural habitats are temperate forests and temperate shrubland.

Baynards railway station

Baynards is a former railway station on the Cranleigh line, between Guildford, Surrey and Horsham, West Sussex, England. The station opened with the line on 2 October 1865 and had two platforms and a signal box, which controlled the level crossing immediately to the south. Freight trains served the nearby brickworks and there was a public goods shed at the station.

Kentucky Route 1865

Kentucky Route 1865 is a 6.193-mile-long (9.967 km) state highway in the U.S. state of Kentucky. Its southern terminus is at KY 2055 in Louisville and its northern terminus is at U.S. Route 60 Alternate in Louisville.

Observing Systems

Observing Systems is the fourth studio album by German electronic and jazz band Tied & Tickled Trio. It was released on 8 September 2003 by Morr Music.

Jan Pullinger

Janis Margaret "Jan" Pullinger is a former Canadian politician who was a member of the Legislative Assembly of British Columbia from 1989 to 2001. She was a member of the British Columbia New Democratic Party.

Dora Lewis

Dora Lewis, also known as Mrs. Lawrence Lewis, was an American suffragist. She was active in the National American Woman Suffrage Association and later helped found the National Woman's Party. Lewis took part in the Silent Sentinels protest to advocate for women's suffrage.

Magosternarchus

Magosternarchus is a genus of weakly electric knifefish in the family Apteronotidae, containing two species. They are endemic to Brazil, occurring in large river channels in the Amazon River basin. Both species are unusual benthic predators that specialize in biting off the tails of other knifefishes, and are characterized by their greatly enlarged jaws and teeth. Recent systematic studies indicate that both species should be included in Sternarchella instead of being placed in their own genus.

Mohammad Reza Foroutan

Mohammad Reza Foroutan is an Iranian actor and singer.

Ji Eun-hee

Ji Eun-hee, also known as Eun-Hee Ji, is a South Korean professional golfer who plays on the U.S.-based LPGA Tour. She is also a member of the South Korean KLPGA. She was born in Gapyeong, South Korea.

The Trip to Panama

The Trip to Panama is a 2006 German film directed by Martin Otevrel, based on the children's book by Janosch. The film stars Til Schweiger and Dietmar Bär.

Lavalleja Department

Lavalleja is a department of Uruguay. Its capital is Minas. It is located in the southeast of the country, bordered to the north by the department of Treinta y Tres to the east with Rocha, to the south with Canelones and Maldonado, and to the west to Florida.

Osceola National Forest

Osceola National Forest is a National Forest located in northeast Florida. It is named in honor of the noted Seminole warrior, Osceola. The forest also has a history of Native American presence, in which they inhabited and traveled through this area. Osceola National Forest was created by President Herbert Hoover's proclamation on July 10, 1931.

Alan Duff

Alan Duff is a New Zealand novelist and newspaper columnist. His novel Once Were Warriors (1990) was made into a film of the same name in 1994.

Kuwait's Fifth Constituency

The fifth constituency of Kuwait is a legislative constituency in Kuwait. Like the other four constituencies in Kuwait, it elects exactly 10 members to the National Assembly via plurality vote. As of 2022, it currently represents thirty-one residential areas and has an electorate of 257,913. The fifth constituency includes the Ahmadi and Mubarak Al-Kabeer governorates.

Charodei

Charodei is a 1982 Soviet romantic fantasy musical comedy television film directed by Konstantin Bromberg. The film premiered on Soviet Central Television on 31 December 1982.

Château de Montignac

The Château de Montignac is a ruined castle in the commune of Montignac-Charente, in the Charente département of France. The castle is the property of the commune and has been listed since 1962 as a monument historique by the French Ministry of Culture.

Robin Geiss

Robin Geiss is a German United Nations diplomat and international legal scholar. In 2021, he was appointed by United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres as Director of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research. Prior to this, Geiss held the Swiss Chair of International Humanitarian Law at the Geneva Academy of International Humanitarian Law and Human Rights and served as Director of the Glasgow Centre for International Law and Security at the University of Glasgow.

The VelociPastor

The VelociPastor is a 2017 American comedy horror film written, directed, and edited by Brendan Steere. The plot follows pastor Doug Jones who becomes infected by an artifact, resulting in him turning into a velociraptor when he becomes angry. After screening at the B-Movie, Underground, and Trash (BUT) Film Festival on August 31, 2018, the film received a wide release in the United States on August 13, 2019, by Wild Eye Releasing.

Solar cell research

There are currently many research groups active in the field of photovoltaics in universities and research institutions around the world. This research can be categorized into three areas: making current technology solar cells cheaper and/or more efficient to effectively compete with other energy sources; developing new technologies based on new solar cell architectural designs; and developing new materials to serve as more efficient energy converters from light energy into electric current or light absorbers and charge carriers.

North West Leicestershire (constituency)

North West Leicestershire is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2024 by Amanda Hack of the Labour Party. It had previously been held by Andrew Bridgen since 2010, as a Conservative from 2010 until 2023, a Reclaim Party member between May and December 2023 and as an Independent for the remainder of his term.

Jonaicha Khurd

Jonaicha Khurd is a village of Neemrana tehsil and the Alwar district in Rajasthan state, India, with a population around 3,500+.

Moritz Wesemann

Moritz Wesemann is a German diver. He is the 2023 European champion in the 3 metre springboard event.

African Warriors F.C.

African Warriors is a South African football club based in Phuthaditjhaba, Free State.

Directly elected mayors in England

In England, directly elected mayors are directly elected executive political leaders, usually referring to either local authority (councils) mayors, or the more powerful regional mayors (sometimes called metro mayors) who lead the Mayoral Strategic Authorities.

Graça Fonseca

Graça Maria da Fonseca Caetano Gonçalves is a Portuguese politician who served as Minister of Culture in the government of Prime Minister António Costa from 15 October 2018 to 30 March 2022.

Vubwi (constituency)

Vubwi is a constituency of the National Assembly of Zambia. It covers Chilengo and Mkoko in Vubwi District of Eastern Province.

1997–98 Charleston Cougars men's basketball team

The 1997–98 College of Charleston Cougars men's basketball team represented the College of Charleston in the 1997–98 NCAA Division I men's basketball season. The Cougars, led by 19th-year head coach John Kresse, played their home games at F. Mitchell Johnson Arena in Charleston, South Carolina as members of the Trans America Athletic Conference.

Lebbeke

Lebbeke is a municipality located in the Belgian province of East Flanders in the Denderstreek. The municipality comprises the towns of Denderbelle, Lebbeke proper and Wieze. In 2021, Lebbeke had a total population of 19,560. The total area is 27.31 km².
Lebbeke is home to the chocolate factory Callebaut.

Snapdragon (film)

Snapdragon is a 1993 film directed by Worth Keeter. It stars Pamela Anderson and was her first starring film role after the success of her Playboy layouts.

Thatcher CX4

The Thatcher CX4 is an American-designed aircraft for amateur construction designed by David Thatcher of Pensacola, Florida and plans are supplied by Thatcher Aircraft, Inc.

Spreuerhofstraße

Spreuerhofstraße is, according to Guinness World Records, the world's narrowest street, found in the city of Reutlingen, Germany. It ranges from 31 centimetres (12.2 in) at its narrowest to 50 centimetres (19.7 in) at its widest and has a length of 380 centimetres (149.6 in). The lane was built in 1727 during the reconstruction efforts after the area was destroyed in the massive citywide fire of 1726 and is officially listed in the Land-Registry Office as City Street Number 77.

Lactitol

Lactitol is a disaccharide sugar alcohol produced from lactose. It is used as a replacement bulk sweetener for low calorie foods with 30–40% of the sweetness of sucrose. It is also used medically as a laxative.

Battle of New Bern (1864)

The Battle of New Bern was fought during the American Civil War from February 1–3, 1864. The battle resulted in the failure of Confederate forces trying to recapture the coastal town of New Bern which had been lost to the Union Army in 1862.

Wolfhampcote

Wolfhampcote is an abandoned village and civil parish in the English counties of Warwickshire and Northamptonshire, which it straddles. The civil parish is only in Warwickshire, with the entire eastern boundary with Northamptonshire clearly formed by the River Leam. This river also forms the boundary with Willoughby civil parish to the north.

Palmetto State Park

Palmetto State Park is a 270.3 acres (109 ha) state park located in Gonzales County, Texas, United States northwest of Gonzales and southeast of Luling. The park opened in 1936 and is managed by the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department. The park is named for the dwarf palmetto which grows abundantly in the park.

Charu Sharma

Charu Sharma is an Indian sports commentator, broadcaster, compere, and quizmaster. He is a director of the Pro Kabaddi League and co-founder of Mashal Sports.

Pak Nam BTS station

Pak Nam station is a BTS Skytrain station, on the Sukhumvit Line in Samut Prakan Province, Thailand.

Million-Follower Detective

Million-Follower Detective, is a Taiwanese crime thriller television series. The series is directed and written by Shaun Su and stars Ekin Cheng, Shou Lo, Patty Lee, Wang Po-chieh, Lee Lee-zen and Buffy Chen in the lead roles.

Sautens

Sautens is a municipality in the Imst district located 9 kilometres (6 mi) southeast of Imst on the lower course of the Ötztaler Ache. The village is located to catch the sun but is protected from the wind, which makes for an especially mild climate. The main source of income is agriculture. Fruit is especially important with a good part of the harvest used to make Schnapps.

Steve Ryan (author)

Steve Ryan is an American author who specializes in the creation of games and puzzles. Ryan is also a television game show historian and creator. Ryan was a long-standing staff member of Goodson-Todman Productions and Mark Goodson Productions, where he created the concept for the game show Blockbusters. Ryan also created the rebus puzzles for the game show Classic Concentration. He was also a writer and creator of puzzles for the game shows Body Language, Catch Phrase, Password Plus and Trivia Trap.

Merlyn G. Cook School

The Merlyn G. Cook School, also known as the Merizo School, is a historic former school building on GU 4 in Merizo, Guam. Built sometime before 1931, it is one of the first schools built during the administration of the island by the United States Navy. Its construction methods are transitional, including both traditional Chamorro-Spanish methods and period American methods. A series of concrete pillars provide the main structure, with the flooring substructure and wall framing of insect-resistant ifil wood. The windows are covered with rare ifil-wood shutters that pivot horizontally. The building's interior is clad in wood planking typical of early 20th-century Chamorro construction. The school has long served as a community meeting point, and was used as a place of refuge during World War II.

Pristidactylus

Pristidactylus is a genus of lizards from Chile and Argentina.

Duplicity (play)

Duplicity is a 1781 comedy play by the British writer Thomas Holcroft.

Fumiya Ono

Fumiya Ono is a Japanese professional baseball pitcher for the Chiba Lotte Marines of the Nippon Professional Baseball (NPB). He previously played for the Tohoku Rakuten Golden Eagles.

2021 New York Jets season

The 2021 season was the New York Jets' 52nd season in the National Football League (NFL), their 62nd overall, their third under general manager Joe Douglas and their first under head coach Robert Saleh. It began with the team's third head coach in four seasons.

Antonio Serravalle

Antonio Serravalle is a Canadian racing driver who most recently competed in the FIA World Endurance Championship for Isotta Fraschini. He previously competed on the Road to Indy, competing in Indy Lights and the Indy Pro 2000 Championship.

Forgotten Songs of Some Old Yesterday

Forgotten Songs of Some Old Yesterday is a compilation album released in 1980 by folk musician John Stewart, former member of The Kingston Trio. This album was only released in Great Britain and includes the otherwise unavailable "Rodeo Mary".

Miraculous births

Miraculous births are a common theme in mythological, religious and legendary narratives and traditions. They often include conceptions by miraculous circumstances and features such as intervention by a deity, supernatural elements, astronomical signs, hardship or, in the case of some mythologies, complex plots related to creation.

Sir Oswald Mosley, 5th Baronet

Sir Oswald Mosley, 5th Baronet, was a British Army officer, aristocrat and the father of Oswald Mosley, leader of the British Union of Fascists (BUF).

North Keltma

The North Keltma is a river in Komi Republic, Russia, a left tributary of the Vychegda. It is 155 kilometres (96 mi) long, with a drainage basin of 7,960 square kilometres (3,070 mi2). It starts in the extreme south of the Komi Republic, near the border with Perm Krai. It flows into the Vychegda near the settlement of Kerchomya. There are many swamps along the river.

Sunday in August

Sunday in August is a 1950 Italian comedy drama film directed by Luciano Emmer and starring Vera Carmi, Marcello Mastroianni, Emilio Cigoli and Massimo Serato. It earned just under 150 million lire at the domestic box office. The film was nominated for a BAFTA. In 2008, the film was included on the Italian Ministry of Cultural Heritage's Hundred Italian films to be saved, a list of 100 films that "have changed the collective memory of the country between 1942 and 1978".

PC World (retailer)

PC World was a British retail chain of mass market computer megastores. Established in November 1991, it became part of Dixons Retail in February 1993, and then part of Dixons Carphone, after the merger of Dixons Retail and Carphone Warehouse in August 2014.

Till There Was You (2003 film)

Till There Was You is a 2003 Filipino romantic comedy-drama film, directed by Joyce E. Bernal, from a story written by Ned Trespeces and adapted into a screenplay by Dindo Perez and Mel Mendoza-Del Rosario. The film stars Judy Ann Santos and Piolo Pascual, who both starred from the top-rating primetime soap opera, Sa Puso Ko, Iingatan Ka, which ended two months earlier.

Nosebleeds (song)

"Nosebleeds" is a single by American rapper Doechii. It was released on February 3, 2025, only hours after she won Best Rap Album for Alligator Bites Never Heal at the 67th Annual Grammy Awards. The song finds Doechii celebrating her victory and was produced by Jonas Jeberg.

Marek Doležaj

Marek Doležaj is a Slovak professional basketball player who plays for Ármann in the Icelandic Úrvalsdeild karla. He played college basketball for the Syracuse Orange. In 2024, he won the Icelandic Basketball Cup as a member of Keflavík.

Queenborough

Queenborough is a town on the Isle of Sheppey in the Swale borough of Kent in South East England.

WV24

Tomb WV24 is an ancient Egyptian tomb located in the western arm of the Valley of the Kings. It was reported by Robert Hay and John Wilkinson in the 1820s and visited by Howard Carter; however, it was not fully explored until Otto Schaden's excavations in 1991.

Heliconia episcopalis

Heliconia episcopalis is a species of plant in the family Heliconiaceae. It is an erect herb typically growing up to 2 meters tall, native to the Amazon rainforest, in Colombia, Venezuela, Guyana, French Guiana, Suriname, Brazil, Ecuador, and Peru in South America.

JS Fuyushio

JS Fuyushio (SS-588) was the sixth ship of the Harushio-class submarines of Japan Maritime Self-Defense Force.

PalaNorda

The PalaNorda was an indoor sporting arena located in Bergamo, Italy. It was open on 6 June 1965 and was mainly used as the home venue for volleyball and basketball clubs based in and around Bergamo, with other sporting events taking place occasionally.

Death Shall Rise

Death Shall Rise is the second album by British death metal band Cancer. It was released on 24 May 1991 through Vinyl Solution.

Digital private mobile radio

dPMR or digital private mobile radio, is a common air interface for digital mobile communications. dPMR is an open, non-proprietary standard that was developed by the European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI) and published under the reference ETSI TS 102 658.

Ginásio Municipal Tancredo Neves

Ginásio Municipal Tancredo Neves is an indoor sporting arena located in Uberlândia, Brazil. The capacity of the arena is 8,000 spectators and opened in 2007. It hosts indoor sporting events such as basketball and volleyball, and also hosts concerts. It stands just to the east of Estádio Parque do Sabiá.

Saxon Fratricidal War

The Saxon Fratricidal War was a war fought between the two brothers Frederick II, Elector of Saxony and Duke William III over Wettin ruled areas from 1446 to 1451. After a dispute over the division of certain family lands between Frederick II and William III, the Division of Altenburg eventually led to growing tensions between the two brothers and an inability to agree on who ruled which areas. After failed attempts at reconciliation, the war broke out and lasted for five years. The war was destructive and had no clear winner before being ended with a peace treaty at Naumburg. Following the war and subsequent divisions the Saxons lost much of their former power and influence within the different German states and families.

Kiri no Hi

Kiri no Hi (霧の火) is a Japanese television drama which originally aired on Nippon Television (NTV) on August 25, 2008. Directed by Nozomu Amamiya and with a screenplay by Yō Takeyama, it starred Etsuko Ichihara and Karina Nose. The production won a TV Drama Award at the 2008 Festival of the Arts of the Japanese Agency for Cultural Affairs.

Soviet destroyer Gremyashchy (1937)

Gremyashchy was one of 29 Gnevny-class destroyers built for the Soviet Navy during the late 1930s. Completed in 1939, she was assigned to the Baltic Fleet and was later transferred to the Northern Fleet in 1941.

Saint-Martin-du-Mont, Saône-et-Loire

Saint-Martin-du-Mont is a commune in the Saône-et-Loire department in the region of Bourgogne-Franche-Comté in eastern France.

St Mary and St John's Church, Hardraw

St Mary and St John's Church, Hardraw is a Grade II listed parish church in the Church of England in Hardraw, North Yorkshire.

Augustus Van Wyck

Augustus Van Wyck was an American judge and politician who served as Supreme Court Justice of Brooklyn, New York. In 1898 he received the Democratic Nomination for New York State governor against the Republican choice, Theodore Roosevelt.

1972 Virginia Tech Gobblers football team

The 1972 Virginia Tech Gobblers football team was an American football team that represented Virginia Tech as an independent during the 1972 NCAA University Division football season. In their second year under head coach Charlie Coffey, the Gobblers compiled an overall record of 6–4–1.

Spilonema

Spilonema is a genus of lichen-forming fungi in the family Coccocarpiaceae. These lichens form small, dark tufts of thread-like filaments that grow on rocks and are found in various regions from tropical to arctic climates. They partner with nitrogen-fixing cyanobacteria, which gives them their distinctive blue-green colouration and allows them to survive in nutrient-poor environments. The genus was established in 1856 by the French botanist Jean-Baptiste Édouard Bornet, who distinguished these species from similar-looking lichens based on their unique internal structure.

Vedro Polje, Croatia

Vedro Polje is a village in Croatia. It is connected by the D224 highway.

Central Catholic Marianist High School

Central Catholic High School is a Catholic, all-male, non-boarding college preparatory school located in the River North District of Downtown San Antonio, Texas, USA, in the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of San Antonio.

Keep an Eye Out

Keep an Eye Out! is a 2018 French surreal black comedy film written and directed by Quentin Dupieux. It stars Benoît Poelvoorde and Grégoire Ludig, alongside Marc Fraize, Anaïs Demoustier, Philippe Duquesne and Orelsan, in a story that involves a commissaire de police and a suspect in an interrogation room. This is Dupieux's first film shot in France. The film's French title literally means "To the police station!".

Happyish

Happyish is an American dark satirical comedy-drama television show created and written by Shalom Auslander and starring Steve Coogan, Kathryn Hahn, Bradley Whitford, Ellen Barkin and Hannah Hodson. Ken Kwapis helped develop the program and directed its pilot and three of the first season's episodes. It first aired on Showtime on April 5, 2015, as a sneak preview, before its official premiere on April 26, 2015. On July 24, 2015, Happyish was cancelled by Showtime due to low ratings.

Aleksandar Tirnanić

Aleksandar "Tirke" Tirnanić was a Serbian football player and manager. He earned a total of 50 caps, scoring 12 goals for Yugoslavia.

The New Al Grey Quintet

The New Al Grey Quintet is an album by trombonist Al Grey which was recorded and released on the Chiaroscuro label in 1988.

Magneto-optical drive

A magneto-optical drive is a kind of optical disc drive capable of writing and rewriting data upon a magneto-optical disc. 130 mm (5.25 in) and 90 mm (3.5 in) discs are the most common sizes.

Jesse Kriel

Jesse André Kriel is a South African professional rugby union player who currently plays for the Canon Eagles in the Japanese Top League and South Africa national rugby team. His regular playing position is as a utility back but can also play centre, wing or fullback. Kriel was part of the national team who won the 2019 Rugby World Cup and 2023 Rugby World Cup, where he played in all the games of the latter.

Radišići

Radišići is a village in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in Ljubuški municipality of West Herzegovina Canton. According to 2013 census, it has 2,363 inhabitants, predominantly Croats (99,45%).

Erythrokeratodermia variabilis

Erythrokeratodermia variabilis is a rare autosomal dominant disorder that usually presents at birth or during the first year of life. To date, it is thought to be caused by mutations in genes encoding for connexin channels proteins in the epidermis, leading to the misregulation of homeostasis in keratinocytes.

Isabelle Vandre

Isabelle Vandre is a German politician from Die Linke. She was a member of the Landtag of Brandenburg from 2014 to 2024 and was elected to the 21st Bundestag in the 2025 German federal election via the Brandenburg state list.

Land Run of 1892

The Land Run of 1892 was the opening of the Cheyenne-Arapaho Reservation to settlement in the U.S. state of Oklahoma. One of seven in Oklahoma, it occurred on April 19, 1892, and opened up land that would become Blaine, Custer, Dewey, Washita, and Roger Mills counties. The land run also opened up what would become part of Ellis County, but was designated County "E" and then Day County prior to statehood.

Lyon

Lyon is a city in France. It is located at the confluence of the rivers Rhône and Saône, to the northwest of the French Alps, 391 km (243 mi) southeast of Paris, 278 km (173 mi) north of Marseille, and 113 km (70 mi) southwest of Geneva, Switzerland.

Webuye

Webuye, previously named Broderick Falls, is an industrial town in western region of Kenya and home to the Bukusu people. It is located within Webuye West sub county in Bungoma County, at the slopes of chetambe hill Kenya. Located on the main road to Uganda, the town is home to the Pan African Paper Mills, formerly the largest paper factory in the region, as well as East African heavy-chemicals plant. The area is heavily populated and is used mainly for subsistence agriculture. The town has an urban population of 42,642.

Emiliano Fenu

Emiliano Fenu is an Italian politician, mayor of Nuoro since 2025.

Lancy

Lancy is a municipality of the Canton of Geneva, Switzerland.

Harrisburg Bureau of Fire

Harrisburg Bureau of Fire (HBF) is a firefighting agency that is located in and serves Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, and its surrounding metropolitan area. It is a career firefighting agency with at least 15 firefighters and fire officers on duty at any given time, supplemented with volunteer staffing as well. Everyday duties for the Bureau include fire suppression, emergency medical services, tactical rescue, urban search and rescue, water rescue, hazardous materials response, fire prevention, fire codes enforcement, and public safety educations.

Noel Frederick Hall

Sir Noel Frederick Hall was an economist and academic who was one of Britain's earliest post-World War II specialists in business theory and education. He was Professor of Political Economy at University College London, co-founder of what is now Henley Business School and Principal of Brasenose College, Oxford.

André Borie

André Borie was a French civil engineer who was involved in many public construction projects of the French state and helped to build part of the Mont Blanc tunnel. He was president of the Entrepreneurs de travaux publics who awarded a medal in his honour. He is said to have been an art collector and to have left his paintings to his daughter Andrée Borie.

Kosovo men's national basketball team

The Kosovo men's national basketball team represents Kosovo in international basketball. They are controlled by the Basketball Federation of Kosovo, the governing body for basketball in Kosovo. Kosovo has been a member of FIBA since 13 March 2015.

Mount Ivohibe gecko

The Mount Ivohibe gecko is a species of gecko endemic to southeastern Madagascar.

Scottish Democratic Alliance

The Scottish Democratic Alliance (SDA) was a political organisation formed in 2009 as the successor to the Scottish Enterprise Party (SEP). It supports Scottish independence and withdrawal from the European Union. Although it evolved from a political party, the SDA spent some time operating as a think tank on current affairs in Scotland. It stood its first candidate for election in the 2013 Aberdeen Donside by-election, coming last with 35 votes (0.1%).

MZ Puppis

MZ Puppis is a red supergiant star in the constellation of Puppis. It has a radius of 400 R☉ and a mass of 14 solar masses, similar to Betelgeuse.

Oliva emeliodina

Oliva emeliodina is a species of sea snail, a marine gastropod mollusk in the family Olividae, the olives.

Apamea commoda

Apamea commoda, the southern Quaker, is a moth of the family Noctuidae. The species was first described by Francis Walker in 1857. It is native to North America, where it is distributed from Nova Scotia west across southern Canada to southern British Columbia, north to Alaska and Yukon Territory, and south at least into Manitoba.

Mitch Dane

Mitch Dane is an American record producer, musician, and songwriter who resides in Nashville. He has worked with artists such as Jars of Clay, JJ Heller, Brandon Heath, Jetty Rae, Sonia Leigh, The Blind Boys of Alabama, The Young Fables, Ole Lonesome, Swearingen and Kelli, Kenny Foster, and many others. He was awarded a Grammy for his work on Jars of Clay's The Eleventh Hour and nominated for Grammys for his work on four other albums. Dane also received ASCAP's "Most Played Song" award for "Nothing Without You", co-written with Bebo Norman. He owns the recording studio Sputnik Sound with Vance Powell.

Tugomir Alaupović

Tugomir Marko Alaupović was a Yugoslav educator, poet, and politician, serving as Minister of Religion in the government of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats, and Slovenes.

20S-Hydroxycholesterol

20S-Hydroxycholesterol is a steroid of the oxysterol class. It is a human metabolite of cholesterol.

Dr. Sharmila

Dr. Sharmila is a doctor, actress, social activist and YouTuber from Tamil Nadu, India. She debuted in a STAR Vijay show, Puthira Punithama? along with N. Mathrubootham, which made her popular. She went on to act in various television series in both Tamil and Malayalam, and some Tamil films.

Thăng Long Bridge

The Thăng Long Bridge is a two-level crossing over the Red River in northern Hanoi. It forms a key segment of Ringway 3 of Hanoi, connecting the city center with Noi Bai International Airport and provinces in the northwest of Vietnam. The bridge stands as a lasting tribute to Soviet–Vietnamese cooperation, a role reflected in its alternative name “Friendship Bridge” and memorial features at both ends.

Jurģis Klotiņš

Jurģis Klotiņš is a Latvian politician of the National Alliance serving as a member of the Saeima. He first took office in 2022, replacing Ināra Mūrniece upon her appointment as minister of defence. He served until 2023, when Mūrniece left the cabinet and returned to the Saeima. In 2024, he replaced Rihards Kols in the Saeima, when Kols resigned to become a member of the European Parliament.

Oenococcus oeni

Oenococcus oeni is a Gram-positive bacterial species in the genus of Oenococcus. It was the only species in the genus until 2006, when the species Oenococcus kitaharae was identified. As its name implies, Oe. oeni holds major importance in the field of oenology, where it is the primary bacterium involved in completing the malolactic fermentation.

U.S. Route 61 in Iowa

U.S. Highway 61 (US 61) is a United States Highway that serves eastern Iowa. It enters the state from Missouri near Keokuk with US 136. North of Keokuk, it is overlapped by US 218 for a few miles. It the follows the course of the Mississippi River past Montrose and Fort Madison. It meets US 34 at Burlington. It passes through Wapello and bypasses Muscatine and Blue Grass on its way toward Davenport. There, it follows Interstate 280 (I-280) and I-80 around the Quad Cities. North of Davenport, it follows a freeway north toward DeWitt where it meets US 30. The highway continues north through Maquoketa and reaches the Dubuque area. There it is joined by US 151 and briefly by US 52. The two highways enter the downtown area on an expressway. Due to the proximity of the Mississippi River and railroad tracks that lie between, the routes have an indirect junction with US 20. The two highways leave the state and enter Wisconsin about one-half mile (800 m) north of the Illinois–Wisconsin state line.

Knowledge argument

In philosophy of mind, the knowledge argument is a thought experiment proposed by Frank Jackson in his article "Epiphenomenal Qualia" (1982), and extended in "What Mary Didn't Know" (1986).

Slingsby Vega

The Vickers-Slingsby T-65 Vega is a 15-metre class glider which first flew on 3 June 1977. Of fibreglass construction, it features linked camber-changing flaps and airbrakes, and a retractable main and tailwheel.

Provinces of Nigeria

The Provinces of Nigeria were administrative divisions in Nigeria, in use from 1900 to 1967 in Colonial Nigeria and shortly after independence. They were altered many times through their history. They were divided into divisions; some of these were further subdivided into native authorities. Northern Nigeria and Southern Nigeria were also sometimes known as the Northern Provinces or Southern Provinces respectively. Currently, Nigeria is a federation of 36 states.

Tanx

Tanx is a 1973 album by English rock band T. Rex, the eighth since their debut as Tyrannosaurus Rex in 1968, and the fourth under the moniker T. Rex. It was released on 16 March by record label EMI. Tanx was a musical departure from previous works: still containing tracks in the vein of The Slider, singer and songwriter Marc Bolan showed his interest for soul music, funk and gospel. Female backing singers appeared on a few tracks. New instruments such as mellotron were used, played by producer Tony Visconti, allowing the T. Rex sound to evolve.

American Falcon

American Falcon was an Argentine airline that operated largely domestic services, but also some international routes in South America.

Neoscona angulatula

Neoscona angulatula is a species of spider in the family Araneidae. It is an endemic species to Africa.

Edwin L. King

Edwin L. King was a Nebraska attorney who served in both houses of the state legislature; was instrumental in passage of legislation improving public education and regulating the railroad as a public utility; and was a revisor and codifier of the state's laws.

Lonely Orchid

Lonely Orchid, also known as Orchid in the Valley, is a 1926 silent family drama film directed by Zhang Shichuan for the Mingxing Film Company. Adapted from a British novel via several intermediary translations, it follows a married couple who are separated after the husband falls for a seductress, but reunite when his disguised first wife returns. The film changed several settings and plot elements to better suit Chinese audiences, and was a commercial success upon release. Now lost, Lonely Orchid was remade by Mingxing in 1935.

Typhoon Dot (1989)

Typhoon Dot, known in the Philippines as Typhoon Kuring, was one of several tropical cyclones to impact southern China and northern Vietnam during the 1989 Pacific typhoon season. Originating from a tropical disturbance near Palau on June 4, Dot tracked west-northwestward towards the Philippines. Crossing the country on June 6, the system moved over the South China Sea and attained typhoon status. Late on June 8, Dot reached its peak intensity with winds estimated at 185 km/h (115 mph). The system weakened slightly the next day before making landfall in Hainan Island. A weakened storm then entered the Gulf of Tonkin before striking northern Vietnam and dissipating on June 12.

John Hare Powel

John Hare Powel was an American agriculturist, politician, art collector, and philanthropist from Pennsylvania.

Bażanowice

Bażanowice (baʐanɔvit͡sɛ) is a village in Gmina Goleszów, Cieszyn County, Silesian Voivodeship, southern Poland, close to the border with the Czech Republic. It lies in the Silesian Foothills in the historical region of Cieszyn Silesia.

Crypta

Crypta is a Brazilian death metal band formed in São Paulo in 2019. The band consists of bassist and vocalist Fernanda Lira, drummer Luana Dametto, and guitarists Tainá Bergamaschi and Victoria Villareal.

Immigration Act of 1891

The Immigration Act of 1891, also known as the 1891 Immigration Act, was a modification of the Immigration Act of 1882, focusing on immigration rules and enforcement mechanisms for foreigners arriving from countries other than China. It was the second major federal legislation related to the mechanisms and authority of immigration enforcement, the first being the Immigration Act of 1882. The law was passed on March 3, 1891, at the end of the term of the 51st United States Congress, and signed into law by then United States President Benjamin Harrison.

Henrico County Public Schools

Henrico County Public Schools is a Virginia school division that operates as an independent branch of the Henrico County, Virginia county government and administers public schools in the county. Henrico County Public Schools has five International Baccalaureate schools – John Randolph Tucker High School, Henrico High School, Fairfield Middle School, Tuckahoe Middle School and George H. Moody Middle School.

Tha Return

Tha Return is the third studio album by American rapper Lil Zane. It was released independently on February 26, 2008.

Casa Vilaplana

The Casa Vilaplana (Vilaplana house) is a private building at 8 Joan Cantó street in the city center of Alcoy (Alicante), Valencian Community, Spain.

Lamb & Flag, Oxford

The Lamb & Flag is a pub on St Giles', Oxford, England. It is owned by St John's College, and lies just north of the main entrance to the college. Lamb & Flag Passage runs through the south side of the building, connecting St Giles' with Museum Road, where there is an entrance to Keble College to the rear of the pub.

Nobody's Baby (2001 film)

Nobody's Baby is a 2001 comedy film written and directed by David Seltzer and starring Gary Oldman and Skeet Ulrich.

Kunisada Chūji (1958 film)

Kunisada Chūji is a 1958 color Japanese film directed by Shigehiro Ozawa.

Palisades Center

Palisades Center is a shopping mall in West Nyack, New York, which as of December 2022, was the twelfth-largest in the United States by gross leasable space. It has also been one of the nation's most lucrative malls, producing $40 million in annual sales tax and $17 million in property taxes in its first ten years of operation.

Gordon Kinvig

James Gordon Kinvig was a New Zealand cricketer, rugby union footballer and soldier.

Kick-Ass 2 (film)

Kick-Ass 2 is a 2013 black comedy superhero film written and directed by Jeff Wadlow, based on the graphic novels Book Two and Book Three of Kick-Ass – The Dave Lizewski Years by Mark Millar and John Romita, Jr., and serving as a sequel to 2010's Kick-Ass. It is the second film in the Kick-Ass franchise, and stars Aaron Taylor-Johnson, Christopher Mintz-Plasse, Chloë Grace Moretz, and Jim Carrey, with the former trio reprising their roles from the first film. The film follows Dave Lizewski / Kick-Ass (Taylor-Johnson), who joins a vigilante team called "Justice Forever", while Mindy Macready / Hit Girl (Moretz) attempts to live a normal life, and Chris D'Amico (Mintz-Plasse) taking up the mantle of The Motherfucker and forming a supervillain team to take revenge on Kick-Ass.

Coria CF

Coria Club de Fútbol is a Spanish football team based in Coria del Río, in the autonomous community of Andalusia. Founded in 1923, it plays in Tercera Federación – Group 10, holding home matches at Estadio Guadalquivir with a capacity of 5,000 seats.

The Favourite (song)

"The Favourite" is a song by Australian acid jazz band, D.I.G. and released in February 1994 as the lead single from the band's debut studio album Dig Deeper. The song peaked at number 63 on the Australian ARIA Charts.

Df (Unix)

df is a shell command for reporting the amount of available and consumed storage space on a file system.

One Tony Lockett

"One Tony Lockett" is a song recorded by Australian musician James Freud as a tribute to St Kilda and Sydney AFL player Tony Lockett, who booted his record-breaking 1300th goal shortly before the release of the track. The song utilises the music of the popular traditional Cuban song "Guantanamera". Released in 1999 with the backing of the Seven Network, the song charted in the Top 40 during the month of June, reaching a peak of #38.

Hibbertia mucronata

Hibbertia mucronata is a species of flowering plant in the family Dilleniaceae and is endemic to the south of Western Australia. It is an erect shrub with hairy branches, crowded, thick, tapering linear leaves ending in a sharp point, and golden yellow flowers with five stamens fused at their bases, all on one side of two densely hairy carpels.

Chante France

Chante France is a radio station created in 1994 by Groupe HPI, based in Paris, France. It is largely dedicated to French Chansons. It has 2 transmitters - in Paris and Beauvais, both broadcasting on 90.9 MHz.

Delresto (Echoes)

"Delresto (Echoes)" is a song by American rapper and singer Travis Scott with fellow singer Beyoncé. It was released through Beyoncé's Parkwood Entertainment, Scott's Cactus Jack, Columbia, and Epic Records as the second single from his fourth studio album Utopia, both being released on July 28, 2023. The song was produced by Scott with additional production by Beyoncé, Hit-Boy, Mike Dean, and Allen Ritter; all of whom wrote the song alongside James Blake and The-Dream. The song also features uncredited additional vocals from Justin Vernon of Bon Iver.

Rüsselsheim am Main

Rüsselsheim am Main is the largest city in the Groß-Gerau district in the Rhein-Main region of Germany. It is one of seven special status cities in Hessen and is located on the Main, between Frankfurt and Mainz, only a few kilometres from its mouth in Mainz. The suburbs of Bauschheim and Königstädten are included in Rüsselsheim. Rüsselsheim has attained international recognition through the presence of the German car company Opel.

Family Appreciation Day

"Family Appreciation Day" is the twelfth episode of the second season of the animated television series My Little Pony: Friendship Is Magic. The episode was written by Cindy Morrow. It originally aired on The Hub on January 7, 2012. In this episode, Apple Bloom is embarrassed about bringing her eccentric grandmother Granny Smith to school for Family Appreciation Day.

Kumamoto Electric Railway

The Kumamoto Electric Railway is a public transport company in Kumamoto Prefecture, Japan. It is abbreviated as Kumamoto Dentetsu (熊本電鉄) or Kumaden (熊電). The company was founded in 1909. The company operates railway and bus lines.

2020–21 Western Michigan Broncos men's ice hockey season

The 2020–21 Western Michigan Broncos men's ice hockey season was the 47th season of play for the program. They represented Western Michigan University in the 2020–21 NCAA Division I men's ice hockey season and for the 8th season in the National Collegiate Hockey Conference (NCHC). The Broncos were coached by Andy Murray, in his 10th season, and played their home games at Lawson Arena.

Gould's frogmouth

Gould's frogmouth is a nocturnal species of bird in the order Caprimulgiformes and the family Podargidae. It is one of the 12 species in the Batrachostomus genus. Its common name commemorates the English ornithologist and bird artist John Gould (1804–1881).

Elizabethtown-Kitley

Elizabethtown-Kitley is a township in eastern Ontario, Canada, in the United Counties of Leeds and Grenville. Its southern border lies along the St. Lawrence River and it extends north into many rural hamlets and villages. The township was created on January 1, 2001, by the amalgamation of the former Township of Elizabethtown and Township of Kitley.

Phantom and the Ghost

Phantom and the Ghost is the seventh studio album by American rapper Styles P. The album was released on April 29, 2014, by Phantom Entertainment, New Music Cartel and Empire Distribution. The album features guest appearances from Sheek Louch, Vado, The Bull Pen, Jadakiss, Rocko, Chris Rivers, Raheem DeVaughn, Shae Lawrence and Dyce Payne.

FC Korea

FC Korea is a Japanese football club playing in the Tokyo League Division 2, the eighth tier of Japanese football.

Bruno Ruffo

Bruno Ruffo was an Italian Grand Prix motorcycle road racer born in Verona. He won three Grand Prix World Championships.

Halifax RUFC

Halifax Rugby Union Football Club is an English rugby union team based in Halifax, West Yorkshire. The club currently runs two senior men's teams along with 2 Women's rugby union teams and a Mixed Ability rugby team.

Gmina Istebna

Gmina Istebna is a rural gmina in Cieszyn County, Silesian Voivodeship, in southern Poland, in the historical region of Cieszyn Silesia. Its seat is the village of Istebna.

Cha: An Asian Literary Journal

Cha: An Asian Literary Journal is an online English literary journal based in Hong Kong. It publishes poetry, fiction, creative nonfiction, book reviews, photography and art, with a focus on Asia-related creative works and pieces by Asian writers and artists.

HMS Trident (1845)

HMS Trident was an iron paddle sloop built for the Royal Navy by Ditchburn & Mare in 1845 at Leamouth, London.
She served in the Mediterranean, off West Africa and in the South Atlantic, and was broken up in 1866.

Archie Davies

Archie Daniel Davies is an English professional footballer who plays as a defender for EFL League Two side Carlisle United.

Hasan Karmi

Hasan Sa'id Karmi was a Palestinian linguist and broadcaster for the BBC Arabic Service.

Ghislain Printant

Ghislain Printant is a French football coach and former player who is the assistant head coach of Ligue 1 club Montpellier. He played as a goalkeeper.

Rural Municipality of Lomond No. 37

The Rural Municipality of Lomond No. 37 is a rural municipality (RM) in the Canadian province of Saskatchewan within Census Division No. 2 and SARM Division No. 1. Located in the southeast portion of the province, it is south of the city of Weyburn.

2007 Speedway World Cup

The 2007 Speedway World Cup (SWC) was the 7th FIM Speedway World Cup season. The Final took place on 21 July 2007 in the Alfred Smoczyk Stadium in Leszno, Poland. The tournament was won by host team Poland and they beat defending champion Denmark, Australia and Great Britain in the Final.

Euryope

Euryope is a genus of leaf beetles in the subfamily Eumolpinae. It is distributed in Africa and the Arabian Peninsula.

Baban SC

Baban Sport Club, is an Iraqi football team based in Sulaymaniyah, that plays in Iraqi Third Division League.

Tania Singer

Tania Singer is a German psychologist and social neuroscientist and the scientific director of the Max Planck Society's Social Neuroscience Lab in Berlin, Germany. Between 2007 and 2010, she became the inaugural chair of social neuroscience and neuroeconomics at the University of Zurich and was the co-director of the Laboratory for Social and Neural Systems Research in Zurich. Her research focuses on the developmental, neuronal, and hormonal mechanisms underlying human social behavior and social emotions such as compassion and empathy. She is founder and principal investigator of the ReSource project, one of the largest longitudinal studies on the effects of mental training on brain plasticity as well as mental and physical health, co-funded by the European Research Council. She also collaborates with the macro-economist Dennis Snower on research on caring economics. Singer's Caring Economics: Conversations on Altruism and Compassion, Between Scientists, Economists, and the Dalai Lama was published in 2015. She is the daughter of the neuroscientist Wolf Singer.

Main Street Historic District (Medina, New York)

The Main Street Historic District in Medina, New York, United States, is the downtown commercial core of the village. It is a 12-acre (4.9 ha) area stretching south along Main Street from the Erie Canal to the railroad tracks.

Carolana

The early province of Carolana was the land forming the southern English colonies, spanning from 31° to 36° north latitude. In 1629, King Charles I of England granted the territory to his attorney general Sir Robert Heath. The original charter claimed the land from Albemarle Sound in present-day North Carolina, to the St. Johns River in the south, just miles below the current Florida-Georgia state line. The region as a whole comprised all or parts of the modern-day states of Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, Florida, Georgia, South Carolina and North Carolina. Charles I named the colony for himself, the name Carolana being derived from Carolus, the Latin form of Charles.

Radyščius

Radyščius is a village in Varėna district municipality, in Alytus County, in southeastern Lithuania. According to the 2001 census, the village has a population of 61 people.

I Used to Go Here

I Used to Go Here is a 2020 American comedy-drama film written and directed by Kris Rey. It stars Gillian Jacobs, Josh Wiggins, Hannah Marks, Forrest Goodluck, Jorma Taccone, Kate Micucci, Zoë Chao, and Jemaine Clement. The film follows Kate Conklin (Jacobs), a first-time novelist who returns to her alma mater for a reading 15 years after graduating and becomes involved with the lives of the current students. It was released in select theaters and on video on demand in the United States on August 7, 2020, by Gravitas Ventures.

South Bermondsey railway station

South Bermondsey railway station is on the South London line, serving the district of South Bermondsey in the London Borough of Southwark and managed and operated by Southern. It is 1 mile 63 chains (2.9 km) down the line from London Bridge; the following station on the line is Queens Road Peckham. The station is the principal stop for Millwall F.C.'s The Den.

Philipp Strompf

Philipp Strompf is a German professional footballer who plays as a centre-back for 2. Bundesliga club VfL Bochum.

Vittoria Accoramboni

Vittoria Accoramboni, Duchess of Bracciano was an Italian noblewoman. Her life became the basis for John Webster's play The White Devil, several novels, and a novella by Stendhal.

Shlomit Malka

Shlomit Malka is an Israeli fashion model. Earlier in her career, she was credited as Shiloh Malka, but she has since been credited as her birth name.

Running Springs, California

Running Springs is a census-designated place (CDP) in San Bernardino County, California, United States. The population was 5,268 at the 2020 census, up from 4,862 at the 2010 census. Running Springs is situated 17 miles (27 km) west of the city of Big Bear Lake.

Shiji Niangniang

Shiji Niangniang is a character in the 16th-century Chinese novel, Fengshen Yanyi. She was a 10,000-year-old yaoguai, originally a stone, born outside the heavens and the earth during the Chaos and Xuanhuang eras. Shiji is worshipped as a deity in Chinese folk religion.

Sharon Gaetz

Sharon L. Gaetz is a former mayor of the City of Chilliwack, British Columbia, Canada. She was first elected to that office in the 2008 election and served three consecutive terms. In 2018, she lost to incumbent city councillor Ken Popove whilst seeking a fourth term. She remains the only woman in the city's history elected to the office of mayor. She previously served twelve years as a city councillor, during which time she served as acting mayor. Mayor Gaetz also served as director of the Fraser Valley Regional District. She was not affiliated with any political party whilst in public office. She described herself as a “fiscal conservative with a strong social conscience” politically.

Lucha Libre (comics)

Lucha Libre is an anthology comic book series written by Jerry Frissen. It is published in France by Les Humanoïdes Associés and reprinted in North America by Image Comics. It is also published in Spain, Italy and Korea. It is regularly illustrated by Gobi, Bill, Fabien M., Hervé Tanquelle, Nikola Witko, Romuald Reutimann, Christophe Gaultier along with several other guest artists.

Yayladere

Yayladere is a town and seat of Yayladere District of Bingöl Province in Turkey. The mayor is Sabri Akyürek (CHP).

Noa Regev

Dr. Noa Regev is the CEO of the Israel Film Fund, and a former CEO of the Jerusalem Cinematheque.

Derek Stingley Jr.

Derek Stingley Jr. is an American professional football cornerback for the Houston Texans of the National Football League (NFL). He played college football for the LSU Tigers and was selected by the Texans third overall in the 2022 NFL draft.

Albrecht Glockendon the Elder

Albrecht Glockendon the Elder, also spelled Albert Glockenton, was a German engraver and manuscript illuminator. He studied under Rogier van der Weyden, and was also influenced by Martin Schongauer. His descendants made up the large and active Glockendon family of artists.

Stephen Morgan (American politician)

Stephen Morgan was a U.S. representative from Ohio.

Ed Dorn

Edward Merton Dorn was an American poet and teacher often associated with the Black Mountain poets. His most famous work is Gunslinger (1968).

Nicholas Fagan

Nicholas Fagan was a prominent figure in the history of Refugio County, Texas, known for his contributions as a blacksmith, rancher, Texas patriot, and pioneer during the early 19th century. He hoisted Texas' first flag of independence, Dimmitt's "bloody arm flag," after the signing of the Goliad Declaration of Independence. Nicholas was spared execution twice, once at Refugio and once at Goliad, by José de Urrea's men due to his close friendship with Carlos de la Garza, a Captain in the Mexican army.

Margarita Lopez Maya

Margarita López Maya is a Venezuelan historian who is a retired professor at the Central University of Venezuela. She is known for her work on Venezuelan history, especially with respect to Hugo Chávez.

Nepenthes of Borneo

Nepenthes of Borneo is a monograph by Charles Clarke on the tropical pitcher plants of Borneo. It was first published in 1997 by Natural History Publications (Borneo), and reprinted in 2006. Clarke describes it as "primarily an ecological monograph".

Barbara Forever

Barbara Forever is a 2026 American documentary film directed by Brydie O'Connor in her feature directorial debut and executive produced by Christine Vachon. It is an archive-driven exploration of the life and work of the pioneering lesbian experimental filmmaker Barbara Hammer.

Shang Xiaoyun

Shang Xiaoyun was one of the four great twentieth-century performers of the Dan role type in Peking opera with Mei Lanfang, Cheng Yanqiu, and Xun Huisheng. All four were male actors who specialized in impersonating women.

Laura Alfaro

Laura Alfaro is chief economist and economic counselor at the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), a leading source of financing and knowledge for the economic, social, and institutional development of Latin America and the Caribbean.

Shariatpur

Shariatpur is a town in Dhaka division in south-central Bangladesh. It is the headquarters of Shariatpur District. It is named for Haji Shariatullah, an Islamic revivalist.

Taillepied

Taillepied is a commune in the Manche department in Normandy in north-western France.

Bishop Mountain Lookout

The Bishop Mountain Lookout, located near Island Park, Idaho, was created between 1936 and 1938 by the Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC) in the Caribou-Targhee National Forest. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1986, and its cabin is currently available as reserved accommodations through the United States Forest Service.

Like U Like

"Like U Like" is a song by British recording artist Aggro Santos featuring Girls Aloud member Kimberley Walsh. The song was written by Steve Mac, Wayne Hector, and Aggro Santos and produced by Mac for his first album, AggroSantos.com (2011). After Santos mentioned to Gary Barlow that he was interested in making a duet with Walsh, Barlow contacted her and arranged their duet. Originally, Walsh's part was sung by a male. The song uses synthesiser noises while Walsh's voice was described by reviewers as sultry and monotone.

Randy Gardner (figure skater)

Randy Gardner is an American former pair skater. Together with Tai Babilonia, he won the 1979 World Figure Skating Championships and five U.S. Figure Skating Championships (1976–1980). The pair qualified for the 1976 and 1980 Winter Olympics.

America's Next Top Model season 10

The tenth cycle of America's Next Top Model is the fourth season of the series to air on The CW network. The promotional catchphrase of the cycle is "New Faces, New Attitude, New York". The promotional song was "Feedback" by Janet Jackson.

New Zealand Opera

New Zealand Opera is New Zealand's only full-time professional opera company, formed in 2000 from the merger of companies in Auckland and Wellington. New Zealand Opera is headquartered in Parnell, Auckland, stages several productions a year, runs educational programmes, and supports early-career opera singers with the Dame Malvina Major Foundation.

Anthony Mantha

Anthony Mantha is a Canadian professional ice hockey player who is a winger for the Pittsburgh Penguins of the National Hockey League. Mantha was drafted 20th overall by the Detroit Red Wings in the 2013 NHL entry draft.

Boer War Memorial, Gatton

Boer War Memorial is a heritage-listed war memorial at Crescent Street, Gatton, Queensland, Australia. It was designed by William Hodgen and produced by Toowoomba mason William Bruce. It was built in 1908, and was unveiled on 3 August by Governor of Queensland, Lord Chelmsford. The memorial honours four local men who died in or as a result of the Boer War, and is one of only three known Boer War memorials in Queensland. It is also known as the Fallen Soldiers Memorial and the South African War Memorial.

Zagorka

Zagorka is a Bulgarian beer brand from the city of Stara Zagora. It is brewed at the Zagorka Brewery.

South Dakota Highway 17

South Dakota Highway 17 (SD 17) is a 1-mile-long (1.6 km) state highway in southeastern South Dakota, United States. It runs along the eastern edge of Lennox. SD 17 formerly continued south to what is now SD 46 near Centerville, and north to SD 42 west of Sioux Falls.

James Russell Lowell

James Russell Lowell was an American Romantic poet, critic, editor, and diplomat. He is associated with the fireside poets, a group of New England writers who were among the first American poets to rival the popularity of British poets. These writers usually used conventional forms and meters in their poetry, making them suitable for families entertaining at their fireside.

Martin Frese

Martin Frese is a Danish professional footballer who plays as a defender or a wing-back for Serie B club Hellas Verona.

Alexandra Ladies' Club

The Alexandra Ladies' Club is an historic building in Victoria, British Columbia, Canada.

Charles de Lacy

Charles John de Lacy was one of the foremost British marine artists of his period. He was especially known for his warship imagery and was regularly commissioned by Elswick, Tyne and Wear shipbuilder W. G. Armstrong Whitworth.

Bindu Rawal

Bindu Rawal is a Nepalese cricketer who plays for the Nepal women's national cricket team. Bindu Rawal serves as the vice-captain of the team.

Millicent Rogers Museum

The Millicent Rogers Museum is an art museum in Taos, New Mexico, founded in 1956 by the family of Millicent Rogers. Initially the artworks were from the multi-cultural collections of Millicent Rogers and her mother, Mary B. Rogers, who donated many of the first pieces of Taos Pueblo art. In the 1980s, the museum was the first cultural organization in New Mexico to offer a comprehensive collection of Hispanic art.

Croatia at the 1994 Winter Olympics

Croatia was represented at the 1994 Winter Olympics in Lillehammer, Norway by the Croatian Olympic Committee.

Flagey Building

The Flagey Building, also known as the Radio House, is a building located in Ixelles, a municipality of Brussels, Belgium, housing the Flagey cultural centre. It is located on the south-western corner of the Place Eugène Flagey/Eugène Flageyplein, with its main entrance on the Place Sainte-Croix/Heilig-Kruisplein.

Richmond–Brighouse station

Richmond–Brighouse is an elevated station on the Canada Line of Metro Vancouver's SkyTrain rapid transit system. Located in the Brighouse area of Richmond, British Columbia, Canada, it is one of the outbound terminus stations of the Canada Line, the other being YVR–Airport. Like YVR–Airport, Richmond–Brighouse only has a single track.

1476 Altarpiece

The 1476 Altarpiece or San Domenico Altarpiece is a 1476 tempera and gold on panel altarpiece by the Italian Renaissance painter Carlo Crivelli. Its central panel of the Pietà is now in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, whilst the other nine are now in the National Gallery, London.

Cacti (album)

Cacti is the second studio album by English musician and songwriter Billy Nomates. It was released on 13 January 2023 through Invada Records.

Stradbroke

Stradbroke is an English village in the Mid Suffolk district of the county of Suffolk. The census of 2011 gave the parish a population of 1,408, with an estimate of 1,513 in 2018.

1979 Cal State Fullerton Titans baseball team

The 1979 Cal State Fullerton Titans baseball team represented California State University, Fullerton in the 1979 NCAA Division I baseball season. The Titans played their home games at Titan Field. The team was coached by Augie Garrido in his 7th season at Cal State Fullerton.

HaAliya HaShniya Garden

HaAliya HaShniya garden is an urban park in Israel, located on the Kozlovsky Hill in Givatayim. Its summit overlooks the Tel Aviv Metropolitan Area. The park, which is named after the Second Aliyah, is administered by Givatayim Municipality and is one of the oldest gardens in Israel. It covers an area of 16 hectares.

Slavyanoserbsk uezd

The Slavyanoserbsk uezd was one of the subdivisions of the Yekaterinoslav Governorate of the Russian Empire. It was situated in the eastern part of the governorate. Its administrative centre was Slovianoserbsk until 1882 and Luhansk after that.

Mount Vernon Downtown Historic District

Mount Vernon Downtown Historic District is a national historic district located at Mount Vernon, Indiana. The district encompasses 39 contributing buildings, two contributing sites, one contributing structure, and two contributing objects in the central business district of Mount Vernon. It developed between about 1850 and 1953, and includes notable examples of Italianate, Queen Anne, Romanesque Revival, and Classical Revival style architecture. Located in the district is the separately listed Posey County Courthouse Square. Other notable contributing resources include the McFadin Cemetery, Sherburne Park, the Armory (1922), the Alexandrian (Carnegie) Library (1905), City Hall (1893), Fogas Building (1880), Eagles Home (1917), Palace Soda Shop, Memorial Coliseum (1925), and the Opera House (1879).

Archdiocese of Glasgow (historic)

The Archdiocese of Glasgow was one of the thirteen dioceses of the Scottish Christian church. It was the second largest diocese in the Kingdom of Scotland, including Clydesdale, Teviotdale, parts of Tweeddale, Liddesdale, Annandale, Nithsdale, Cunninghame, Kyle, and Strathgryfe, as well as Lennox, Carrick and the part of Galloway known as Desnes.

Jaquel Spivey

Jaquel Spivey is an American actor. He won a Drama Desk Award for Outstanding Actor in a Musical and received a Tony Award nomination for Best Actor in a Musical for his starring role as Usher in the Broadway theatre production of A Strange Loop in 2022. He also earned a Grammy Award nomination for the cast recording of the show.

Suede (singer)

Suede is an American pop and jazz singer. A well known artist in the LGBTQ community, she has an entry in An Encyclopaedia of Gay and Lesbian Recordings (1992).

1000 North Water Street

1000 North Water Street is a 16-story 296-foot-tall (90 m) post-modern high-rise office building in Milwaukee, in the U.S. state of Wisconsin. It is the twelfth-tallest building in Milwaukee, and was completed in 1991, right at the tail end of a construction boom in Milwaukee that started in the late 1980s, and included 100 East Wisconsin, Northwestern Mutual Tower, and the Milwaukee Center. The facade and windows are a light pink color, giving it a unique appearance among Milwaukee's skyline.

Super Bowl XX

Super Bowl XX was an American football game between the National Football Conference (NFC) champion Chicago Bears and the American Football Conference (AFC) champion New England Patriots to decide the National Football League (NFL) champion for the 1985 season. The Bears defeated the Patriots by the score of 46–10, capturing their first Super Bowl and first NFL championship since 1963, ending a 23-year championship drought for not just the Bears, but the city of Chicago in general. Super Bowl XX was played on January 26, 1986, at the Louisiana Superdome in New Orleans.

Glory Mountain

Glory Mountain is a 7,228-foot (2,203-metre) mountain summit located in the North Cascades Range in Chelan County of Washington state. Glory Mountain is situated southeast of Trapper Lake on the shared border of North Cascades National Park and Glacier Peak Wilderness. The nearest higher peak is Trapper Mountain, 1.72 miles (2.77 km) to the west. Precipitation runoff from the mountain drains into Cottonwood Creek and Flat Creek, both tributaries of the Stehekin River. An unofficially named secondary peak called Halleluja Peak 7,120+ ft lies 0.32 miles (0.51 km) to the west of the summit.

İsmail Cem

İsmail Cem was a Turkish centre-leftist politician, intellectual, writer, author and journalist who served as the Minister of Culture of Turkey from 7 July to 26 October 1995, and Minister of Foreign Affairs of Turkey from 30 June 1997 to 11 July 2002.

Range Murata

Range Murata is a Japanese illustrator and manga artist, known for his unique style combining dieselpunk and japanese moé elements. He is best known for his conceptual design work on anime series Last Exile and Blue Submarine No. 6.

U.S. Route 65 in Missouri

U.S. Route 65 is a north–south U.S. highway that runs from Clayton, Louisiana to Albert Lea, Minnesota. In Missouri, the highway enters the state from Arkansas, just south of Branson. The highway exits the state into Iowa near South Lineville.

Golgo 13: The Professional

Golgo 13: The Professional, known as simply Golgo 13 (ゴルゴ13) in Japan, is a 1983 Japanese adult animated action film based on the manga series Golgo 13 by Takao Saito. The film was directed by Osamu Dezaki, produced by Yutaka Fujioka and Mata Yamamoto and was written from a screenplay by Shūkei Nagasaka, a tokusatsu writer best known for writing episodes for Android Kikaider and Kamen Rider X. It is the first animated film based on the manga, and the third overall Golgo 13 film after two previous live-action films.

Héctor Hidalgo Solá

Héctor Hidalgo Solá was an Argentine diplomat and politician. He was named Ambassador of Argentina to Venezuela by president Jorge Rafael Videla in 1976 during the dictatorship known as the Proceso de Reorganización Nacional as part of an agreement of the military government and some parties. However, during this dictatorship he disappeared during a visit in Buenos Aires while still in charge as ambassador on 18 July 1977.

Planetary science

Planetary science is the scientific study of celestial bodies and planetary systems and the processes of their formation. It studies objects ranging in sizes from micrometeoroids to huge gas giants, with the aim of determining their composition, dynamics, formation, interrelations and history. It is a strongly interdisciplinary field, which originally grew from astronomy and Earth science, and now incorporates many disciplines, including planetary geology, cosmochemistry, atmospheric science, physics, oceanography, hydrology, theoretical planetary science, glaciology, and exoplanetology. Allied disciplines include space physics, when concerned with the effects of the Sun on the bodies of the Solar System, and astrobiology.

Cheap Cheap Cheap

Cheap Cheap Cheap was a British television game show produced by Hat Trick Productions for Channel 4, presented and created by Noel Edmonds. Billed as "a game show that thinks it's a sitcom", the show takes place in a fictional general store and centres on a game show, hosted by the store owner (Edmonds). He is joined by the shop's eccentric staff, played by actors who appear throughout the game.

NuMega

NuMega Technologies was a software company founded in 1987 by Frank Grossman and Jim Moskun in Nashua, New Hampshire. The company specialised in developer tools, including debuggers, profilers and runtime error-detection utilities for MS-DOS and the Windows NT family. Its best-known product was SoftICE, a kernel-mode debugger that ran below the operating system and was widely used by developers and security researchers.

Yoshitada Konoike

Yoshitada Konoike was a Japanese politician of the Liberal Democratic Party and member of the House of Councillors in the Diet, formerly Minister of State for Disaster Management. A native of Amagasaki, Hyōgo and graduate of Waseda University, he was elected to the House of Representatives for the first time in 1986 after an unsuccessful run in 1983. After losing his seat in 1993, he was elected to the House of Councillors for the first time in 1995 and is currently serving his fourth 6-year term.

Seven for a Secret

Seven for a Secret is a 1922 romance novel by the British writer Mary Webb. She wrote to Thomas Hardy asking if she might dedicate the novel to him, to which he agreed. As with her other novels it takes place in her native Shropshire. The title is taken from the traditional nursery rhyme One for Sorrow.

Laingsburg, South Africa

Laingsburg is a town located in the Western Cape province in South Africa. It is a relatively large agricultural town in the semi-arid Great Karoo; its economy is based on farming goats, sheep, fruits, and vegetable. The town is served by two main roads, namely the N1 and the R323.

Queens' Sitting Room

The Queens' Sitting Room is a small sitting room located in the northeast corner of the second floor of the White House. It was used as part of the president's offices until 1902 when the West Wing was built. The room became a sitting room for guests in the Queens' Bedroom in 1902. As a part of the Kennedy White House restoration the room was redecorated by Stéphane Boudin of the firm Maison Jansen. The walls are covered with a heavy cotton Toile de Jouy fabric. Black lacquered furniture of the early and mid-19th century provides contrast with the white painted wainscot and trim of the room.

Virgin Forest (album)

Virgin Forest is a studio album by Beninese guitarist Lionel Loueke. ObliqSound released the album on 23 October 2006.

The Ten Commandments (Malevolent Creation album)

The Ten Commandments is the debut studio album by American death metal band Malevolent Creation. It was produced and engineered by Scott Burns.

Thierry, Count of Flanders

Theoderic, commonly known as Thierry of Alsace, was the fifteenth count of Flanders from 1128 to 1168. With a record of four campaigns in the Levant and Africa, he had a rare and distinguished record of commitment to crusading.

White Gold (TV series)

White Gold is a British sitcom featuring a group of UPVC window salesmen in mid-1980s Corringham, Essex. It stars Ed Westwick as Vincent, the head of a double-glazed windows sales team, with former Inbetweeners cast members Joe Thomas and James Buckley. BBC Two announced that series two of the show would air on 6 March 2019. Series 1 was released internationally by Netflix on 11 August 2017.
Series 2 was released internationally by Netflix on 17 May 2019.

Dinomischus

Dinomischus is an extinct genus of stalked filter-feeding animals within the Cambrian period, with specimens known from the Burgess Shale, the Maotianshan Shales, the Kaili Formation and the Marjum Formation. While long of uncertain affinities, recent studies have suggested it to be a stem-group ctenophore.

Master of the World (1934 film)

The Master of the World is a German science fiction film first released in 1934. Directed by Harry Piel, the story features a villain who is trying to conquer the world using "Überrobots". The film was released in the U.S. in 1935.

Hermann W. Dommel

Hermann W. Dommel was a German inventor who received his Diplom Ingenieur in 1959 and Doktoringenieur in 1962, in Electrical engineering, from the Technical University of Munich.
"In the 1960s he pioneered the foundation for the electromagnetic transients program, (EMTP) software that has become an indispensable tool in the power industry", according to the IEEE, winning him in 2013 the IEEE Medal in Power Engineering.
From 1973, he worked with the University of British Columbia in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada,
where he was Professor Emeritus.

Kendra Harrison

Kendra "Keni" Harrison is an American hurdler. Harrison held the world record in the women's 100 metres hurdles with a time of 12.20 seconds, set on July 22, 2016 at the London Müller Anniversary Games, breaking the previous world record of 12.21 seconds achieved nearly 28 years earlier by Bulgarian athlete Yordanka Donkova.

Sender Donebach

The Sender Donebach was a 500-kilowatt long wave radio transmitter operating on 153 kHz and transmitting the program of German public broadcaster Deutschlandfunk. The facility, which was the property of Media Broadcast, was built between 1965 and 1967 on a former airfield, and entered service on March 10, 1967.

Seán Barrett (politician)

Seán Barrett was an Irish Fine Gael politician who served as Ceann Comhairle of Dáil Éireann from 2011 to 2016, Minister for Defence and Minister for the Marine from 1995 to 1997, and a Minister of State from 1982 to 1987 and 1994 to 1995. He served as a Teachta Dála (TD) for Dún Laoghaire from 1981 to 2002 and 2007 to 2020.

Valmadrid

Valmadrid is a municipality located in the Campo de Belchite comarca, province of Zaragoza, Aragon, Spain. According to the 2004 census (INE), the municipality has a population of 100 inhabitants.

Boggabri

Boggabri is a small town in north-eastern New South Wales, Australia. It is part of Narrabri Shire and lies between Gunnedah and Narrabri on the Kamilaroi Highway. At the 2021 census, the town had a population of 885 people.

Skarinou

Skarinou is a village in the Larnaca District of Cyprus, located 4 km west of Kofinou.

Laura McGhie

Laura McGhie is a Scottish radio and television broadcaster, who presents on BBC Radio 5Live.

Urartian language

Urartian or Vannic is an extinct Hurro-Urartian language which was spoken by the inhabitants of the ancient kingdom of Urartu, which was centered on the region around Lake Van and had its capital, Tushpa, near the site of the modern town of Van in the Armenian highlands, now in the Eastern Anatolia region of Turkey. Its past prevalence is unknown. While some believe it was probably dominant around Lake Van and in the areas along the upper Zab valley, others believe it was spoken by a relatively small population who comprised a ruling class.

Labelle

Labelle was an American band that originated out of The Blue Belles, a girl group who were a popular vocal group of the 1960s and 1970s. The original act was formed after the disbanding of two rival girl bands in the area around Philadelphia, in Pennsylvania, and Trenton, in New Jersey: The Ordettes and The Del-Capris, forming as a new version of the former, then later changing their name to The Blue Belles. The founding members were Patti LaBelle, Cindy Birdsong, Nona Hendryx, and Sarah Dash.

Work (physics)

In science, work is the energy transferred to or from an object via the application of force along a displacement. In its simplest form, for a constant force aligned with the direction of motion, the work equals the product of the force strength and the distance traveled. A force is said to do positive work if it has a component in the direction of the displacement of the point of application. A force does negative work if it has a component opposite to the direction of the displacement at the point of application of the force.

Southwest (Washington, D.C.)

Southwest is the southwestern quadrant of Washington, D.C., the capital of the United States, and is located south of the National Mall and west of South Capitol Street. It is the smallest quadrant of the city, and contains a small number of named neighborhoods and districts, including Bellevue, Southwest Federal Center, the Southwest Waterfront, Buzzard Point, and the military installation known as Joint Base Anacostia–Bolling.

1995 Grand National

The 1995 Grand National was the 148th official renewal of the famous Grand National steeplechase that took place at Aintree near Liverpool, England, on 8 April 1995.

Aspendale railway station

Aspendale station is a railway station operated by Metro Trains Melbourne on the Frankston line, which is part of the Melbourne rail network. It serves the south-eastern suburb of Aspendale, in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. Aspendale station is a ground-level unstaffed station, featuring two side platforms. It opened in April 1891, with the current station provided in 1981.

Södermanland Runic Inscription 109

Sö 109 is the Rundata designation for a runic inscription on a Viking Age memorial runestone that is located in Gredby, which is near Eskilstuna, Södermanland County, Sweden, which was in the historic province of Södermanland.

Live in London (R5 EP)

Live in London is the second EP by American pop rock band R5. The EP was released on May 29, 2014 by Hollywood only for digital download. The album is the recording of the series of videos released on VEVO.

Korakuen Stadium

Korakuen Stadium was a stadium in Tokyo, Japan. Completed in 1937, it was originally used for baseball, and was home to the Yomiuri Giants for nearly fifty years. For various periods of time, it was also the home stadium of six other professional Japanese baseball teams, including the Mainichi Orions, the Kokutetsu Swallows, and the Nippon Ham Fighters. Korakuen was the home of the Intercity baseball tournament for nearly fifty years. It originally hosted the Japanese Baseball Hall of Fame, now located at Korakuen's successor venue, the Tokyo Dome. In the 1970s and 1980s Korakuen was also used as a concert venue for superstar performers. The ballpark had a capacity of 50,000 people.

Vũng Tàu, Ho Chi Minh City

Vũng Tàu is a ward of Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam. It is one of the 168 new wards, communes and special zones of the city following the reorganization in 2025.

Warbirds (video game)

Warbirds is a 1991 first-person combat flight simulation video game developed and published by Atari Corporation in North America and Europe exclusively for the Atari Lynx. Taking place in the 1910s during World War I, players assume the role of a rookie aircraft pilot from the Army Air Force who joined the titular squadron taking control of a prebuilt biplane in order to win the war against the enemies. Its gameplay mainly consists of dogfights against either AI-controlled opponents or other human players using the Lynx's ComLynx system, with a main four-button configuration.

Clermontia hawaiiensis

Clermontia hawaiiensis, the ʻŌhā kēpau, is a species of Hawaiian lobelioid endemic to Hawaiʻi island, where it grows in Hawaiian tropical rainforests. Like other Hawaiian lobelioids, it is highly susceptible to damage from invasive grazing mammals such as feral pigs.

Laurence Robert-Dehault

Laurence Robert-Dehault is a French politician of the National Rally and the Member of the National Assembly for Haute-Marne's 2nd constituency since 2022.

Matthew Kelly (speaker)

Matthew Kelly is an Australian motivational speaker and business consultant. He is a founding partner at Floyd Consulting, a management consulting firm.

Bakersfield Christian High School

Bakersfield Christian High School (BCHS) is a private, college-preparatory, nondenominational Christian school. It is fully accredited by the Western Association of Schools and Colleges and the Association of Christian Schools International.

Devayani (actress)

Sushma Jaidev, professionally known as Devayani Rajakumaran, is an Indian actress known for her works primarily in Tamil and Malayalam films. She has also appeared in a few Telugu, Kannada, Hindi and Bengali films.

Milby, North Yorkshire

Milby is a hamlet and civil parish in North Yorkshire, England. It is situated to the immediate north of Boroughbridge.

Grace Huang

Grace Huang is a Taiwanese-Australian actress of Cantonese descent, best known for her role as the Gemini Female in the RZA directed martial arts film, The Man with the Iron Fists.

Franco Cerri

Franco Cerri was an Italian guitarist and double bassist.

Praise (film)

Praise is a 1998 Australian drama film directed by John Curran and adapted by Andrew McGahan from his novel of the same name. The film stars Peter Fenton and Sacha Horler and is about two outcasts who fall into an unlikely relationship.

Novoukrainka Raion

Novoukrainka Raion is a raion (district) of Kirovohrad Oblast in central Ukraine. The administrative center of the district is the town of Novoukrainka. Population: 138,842.

Bipolar coordinates

Bipolar coordinates are a two-dimensional orthogonal coordinate system based on the Apollonian circles. There are also other systems, based on two poles.

Ethan Katzberg

Ethan Katzberg is a Canadian hammer thrower. He is the 2024 Olympic champion and a two-time World champion in that discipline, as well as the 2023 Pan American champion and the 2022 Commonwealth Games silver medallist.

Parallel play

Parallel play is a form of play in which children engage in recreational activities adjacent to each other, without trying to influence one another's behavior. It typically begins around 24–30 months, and tapers off within childhood. It is one of Parten's stages of play, following onlooker play and preceding associative play.

Verrens-Arvey

Verrens-Arvey is a commune in the Savoie department in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region in south-eastern France.

Peterborough East railway station

Peterborough East was a railway station in Peterborough, England. It was opened on 2 June 1845 and closed to passenger traffic on 6 June 1966. Located on East Station Road just off Town Bridge, only the engine sheds remain. The station had services running west to Northampton and Rugby, as well as to the east to March, Wisbech, and Norwich.

Faux d'Enson

The Faux d'Enson is a mountain of the Jura, located south of Roche-d'Or in the canton of Jura. At an elevation of 927 m (3,041 ft) it is one of the highest summits in the region of Ajoie. An observation tower is located on the top.

Rush Valley

Rush Valley is a 30-mile (48 km) long north-trending valley in the southeast of Tooele County, Utah. It lies adjacent to and attached to the south of Tooele Valley; the separation point is the low point of the valley at Rush Lake, and lies at the southeast of the small mountain massif causing the separation, South Mountain at 6,541 feet (1,994 m). The region of Rush Lake is a marsh region, fed by various streams from the mountain regions east and west.

Kankakee Downtown Historic District

The Kankakee Downtown Historic District is a national historic district in downtown Kankakee, Illinois. The district includes 73 buildings which form the commercial and governmental center of the city, most of which are grouped along Court Street and Schuyler Avenue. While development in the district began in the 1850s, the oldest surviving building in the district is from 1864; the newest contributing buildings are from the mid-twentieth century. Kankakee's Courthouse Square and the 1908 Kankakee County Courthouse are part of the district; other government buildings in the district include Kankakee's post office, police and fire station, and armory. Most of the district's other buildings are one- to three-story brick or stone commercial buildings. Many popular architectural styles of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries are represented in the district; the Italianate, Neoclassical, and Art Deco styles are among the most common.

Mahakala

Mahākāla is a deity common to Hinduism and Buddhism.

Arthur-Schnitzler-Hof

The Arthur-Schnitzler-Hof is a residential tower block in Döbling, a quarter on the northern side of central Vienna. It was built between 1959 and 1960, according to plans produced by the architects Michel Engelhart and Alois Machatschek. It comprises 47 residential apartments.

2013 FIFA Beach Soccer World Cup

The 2013 FIFA Beach Soccer World Cup was the seventh edition of the FIFA Beach Soccer World Cup. Overall, this was the 17th edition of a world cup in beach soccer since the establishment of the Beach Soccer World Championships which ran from 1995–2004 but was not governed by FIFA. It took place from 18–28 September 2013 at Tahua To'ata Stadium in Papeete, Tahiti, French Polynesia and was the fourth tournament to have taken place outside Brazil. This was the second tournament to take place since the establishment of a longer two-year cycle of tournaments. This was also the first FIFA tournament held in a Pacific country other than New Zealand, and the first senior FIFA tournament took place in the region.

Hiroden-itsukaichi Station

Hiroden-itsukaichi is a Hiroden station on Hiroden Miyajima Line, located south of the JR Itsukaichi Station in Asahien, Saeki-ku, Hiroshima.

Finances of George Washington

George Washington is frequently cited as among the wealthiest presidents of the United States. Estimates of his wealth vary depending on the methods used for calculation. His net worth has been estimated at about $780,000 at the time of his death, which would be equivalent to approximately $594 million in 2020 dollars when adjusted for inflation and relative economic value.

OFC Karnobat

OFC Karnobat is a Bulgarian association football club based in Karnobat, currently playing in the South-East Third League, the third level of Bulgarian football.

Madalena Iglésias

Madalena Iglésias was a Portuguese actress and singer. She represented Portugal at the Eurovision Song Contest 1966, with the song "Ele e ela".

Angelo Tarchi (politician)

Angelo Tarchi was an Italian Fascist politician, Minister of Corporative Economy of the Italian Social Republic. He was the grand-uncle of Marco Tarchi.

Bazon Brock

Bazon Brock is a German art theorist and critic, multi-media generalist, artist and philosopher. He is considered a member of Fluxus, and was a leading art theorist in the 1960s and 1970s. Interested in making the arts accessible, he ran a "visitors' school" at the documenta from 1968 to 1992. Brock was a professor of aesthetics at the Hochschule für bildende Künste Hamburg, the University of Applied Arts Vienna and the University of Wuppertal.

Tjauti (nomarch of Iqer)

Tjauti was an ancient Egyptian official who is known from inscriptions found at the cemetery at Denderah in Upper Egypt. He lived at the end of the 6th Dynasty and was perhaps the successor of Idu II as governor of the province.

Lake Whitney State Park

Lake Whitney State Park is a state park located in Hill County, Texas, United States near Whitney, Texas. The 775 acres (314 ha) park opened in 1965 and is managed by the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department.

Rachna Korhonen

Rachna Sachdeva Korhonen is an American diplomat who has served as the United States ambassador to Mali since March 2023.

Santa Prisca, Rome

Santa Prisca is a titular church of Rome, on the Aventine Hill, for Cardinal-priests. It is recorded as the Titulus Priscae in the acts of the 499 synod.

Barnacle Bill (Martian rock)

Barnacle Bill is a 40-centimetre (16 in) rock on Mars in Ares Vallis. It was the first rock on Mars analyzed by the Sojourner rover using its Alpha Proton X-ray Spectrometer. The encounter occurred during Sol 3 of the Mars Pathfinder mission on the surface of Mars and took ten hours to complete.

Cole Butcher

Cole Butcher is a Canadian professional stock car racing driver. He competes full-time in the NASCAR Craftsman Truck Series, driving the No. 13 Ford F-150 for ThorSport Racing.

George Adams Post

George Adams Post was a Democratic member of the U.S. House of Representatives from Pennsylvania.

Skellefteå IBK

Skellefteå IBK is a floorball club in Skellefteå, Sweden, established 1985. The men's team played six seasons in the Swedish top division, starting with the 1989–1990 season.

Jeon Sung-woo

Jeon Sung-woo is a South Korean actor. In 2007, he made his debut as a musical actor at the age of 20 in Lee Yun-taek's production of the musical Dream on Mars. Since then, he has ventured into television, making his debut in 2015 with a minor role in the drama Six Flying Dragons. Jeon is recognized for his notable supporting roles in various dramas, including The Fiery Priest, Designated Survivor: 60 Days, Diary of a Prosecutor, and The First Responders.

Christus Dolens (Bramantino)

Christus Dolens, also known as Christ as the Man of Sorrows, is a tempera-on-panel painting by the Italian Renaissance painter and architect Bramantino, executed c. 1490, housed in the Museo Thyssen-Bornemisza in Madrid. The original Thyssen-Bornemisza Collection acquired it in 1937 from Countess Teresa Soranza-Mocenigo. A similar work by Bramantino is held in the Museo della Certosa in Pavia.

Tom Thumb (film)

Tom Thumb is a 1958 British musical fantasy film produced and directed by George Pal, and released by MGM. The film, based on the fairy tale "Thumbling" by the Brothers Grimm, is about a tiny youth who manages to outwit two thieves determined to make a fortune from him.

The Beautiful Spy

The Beautiful Spy is a 2013 historical-thriller television film set in Nazi Germany shortly before the outbreak of World War II inspired by the few facts known about Vera von Schalburg.

Massepha rufescens

Massepha rufescens is a moth in the family Crambidae. It was described by George Hampson in 1912. It is found in Tamil Nadu, India.

1973 European Cup Winners' Cup final

The 1973 European Cup Winners' Cup Final was the final football match of the 1972–73 European Cup Winners' Cup and the 13th European Cup Winners' Cup final. It was contested between Milan of Italy and Leeds United of England, and was held at Kaftanzoglio Stadium in Thessaloniki, Greece. Milan won the match 1–0.

Flat Iron (restaurant)

Flat Iron is a British steak restaurant chain.

Jerez de la Frontera Cathedral

The Cathedral of the Holy Saviour is a Catholic cathedral located in Jerez de la Frontera, Andalusia, southern Spain. It is the seat of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Asidonia-Jerez. It was declared Bien de Interés Cultural in 1931.

Revenge of the Barracuda

Revenge of the Barracuda is the fourth solo studio album by American rapper WC. It was released on March 8, 2011, via eOne. Production was handled by Hallway Productionz, Jahzilla, EQ, Fredwreck, Jiggolo, THX and Trick-Trick. It features guest appearances from Young Maylay, Bad Lucc, Daz Dillinger, Ice Cube, Juvenile, Kokane, Kurupt, Soopafly and Traci Nelson.

Data

Data is a collection of discrete or continuous values that conveys information, describing the quantity, quality, fact, statistics, other basic units of meaning, or simply sequences of symbols that may be further interpreted formally. A data point or datum is an individual value in a collection of data. Data is usually organized into structures such as tables that provide additional context and meaning, and may itself be used as data in larger structures. Data may be used as variables in a computational process. Data may represent abstract ideas or concrete measurements.
Data is commonly used in scientific research, economics, and virtually every other form of human organizational activity. Examples of data sets include price indices, unemployment rates, literacy rates, and census data. In this context, data represents the raw facts and figures from which useful information can be extracted.

Villers-sur-Mer

Villers-sur-Mer is a commune in the Calvados department in Normandy, northwestern France.

Moment of Silence (song)

"Moment of Silence" is a song recorded by Romanian singer Ovidiu Anton. It was written and composed by himself, while production was handled by Liviu Sorescu. A gothic-inspired pop rock track featuring an electric guitar solo throughout, "Moment of Silence" acts as a homage to the victims of the 2015 Colectiv nightclub fire. It received mixed reviews from music critics, with one likening it to the works of Swedish band Europe. At the 2017 Radio România Actualități Awards, the track won in the Best Pop Rock Song category.

losing in the final of Cincinnati. At the 2016 US Open, Djokovic reached the final but lost to Stan Wawrinka in four sets.
Murray dominated the rest of 2016. He won titles in Beijing, Shanghai, Vienna and Paris. As a result, upon reaching the Paris final, Murray gained the number one ranking, ending Djokovic's 122 consecutive weeks at the top spot. This meant that all of the Big Four had reached world No. 1 at some point. Following an early loss at Shanghai, Nadal announced that he would skip the remainder of the 2016 season to recover fully from the wrist injury that troubled him earlier in the year. Thus, for the first time since 2001, neither Nadal nor Federer would be present at the year end championships. At the 2016 ATP Finals, Murray beat Djokovic, claiming the title and the No. 1 spot at the end of the year and ending 2016 on a 24-match winning streak, the longest of his career. He became the second player after Andre Agassi to win a Grand Slam singles tournament, ATP Finals, Olympic and Masters titles, and the first to do so in the same calendar year. 2016 marked the first year since 2003 that neither Federer, Nadal or Djokovic finished the year as world No. 1. Despite his struggles with form throughout the second half of the year, Djokovic still ended 2016 as world No. 2. Having suffered from injury plagued season, Nadal and Federer ended the year at No. 9 and 16 respectively. For Nadal, it was his lowest end of year ranking since 2004, while Federer's fall in the rankings meant that November 2016 marked his first time outside the top ten since October 2002.

=== Big Three solidified ===

==== 2017–2018 French Open: Federer and Nadal return, Djokovic and Murray sidelined ====

At the 2017 Australian Open, Djokovic and Murray both suffered defeats prior the quarterfinals. Nadal and Federer, meanwhile, both progressed to the final after each won five set semifinals. In the Australian Open final, Federer triumphed over Nadal in five sets, winning his 18th Grand Slam title and his first since the 2012 Wimbledon. Federer went on to win a record-equaling fifth Indian Wells title, defeating Nadal in the fourth round. Federer and Nadal once again met in the 2017 Miami Open final, where Federer again won.
As the 2017 clay court swing commenced, Federer skipped the entire clay season to rest and focus on the grass and hard court seasons. Nadal claimed the Monte Carlo title, which saw him become the first man to win a single tournament ten times and simultaneously establish a new record for the most clay court titles at 50, surpassing Guillermo Vilas's 49. Nadal also won in Madrid, while Djokovic fell to Alexander Zverev in the Rome final. Nadal breezed through to the 2017 French Open title, defeating Wawrinka in the final and not dropping a set at the tournament for the third time in his career. This marked Nadal's first major title since the 2014 French Open. Following the win, Nadal returned to world No. 2, while Djokovic, who lost in the quarterfinals, fell to world No. 4, his lowest ranking since October 2009 and his first time outside the top two of the rankings since March 2011.
At the 2017 Wimbledon, the quartet formed the top four seeds at a major for the first time since 2014 Wimbledon. Nadal, Murray and Djokovic all lost before the semifinals. Federer, however, won the title without dropping a set by beating Marin Čilić in the final. Federer's run marked a record breaking eleventh Wimbledon final and eighth title. This led to the "Big Four" being the ATP top four again. Djokovic announced in July that he would skip the rest of the 2017 season to recover from an elbow injury, and Murray did not play another tournament in 2017 as well due to a hip injury. At 2017 Canadian Open, Federer reached the final but sustained a severe back injury there, which took him out of contention for the US Open and the No. 1 ranking. Although Nadal did not reach the semifinals of either North American Masters event, he returned to world No. 1 over the inactive Murray. Nadal then defeated Kevin Anderson in the 2017 US Open final. This was the fourth time that Nadal and Federer had won all four majors in the same year, following their sweeps in 2006, 2007, and 2010. Additionally, on 11 September 2017, Nadal and Federer were ranked No. 1 and No. 2, respectively, the first time since 20 March 2011 that they held the top two rankings spots. Federer then returned to Shanghai and won his second title there, defeating Nadal in the final. This was his fourth win out of four meetings with Nadal in 2017, as well as his fifth consecutive.
In 2017, Nadal had his best year since 2013, winning two majors and four other titles. Federer finished the year at world No. 2 behind Nadal and overall had his best year since 2007, with his highest number of titles won since that year, winning two majors for the first time since 2009, and ending the year with a winning percentage of 91%, his highest since 2006. Djokovic and Murray both finished with their lowest year-end rankings since 2006, at No. 12 and 16 respectively.
At the start of 2018, Murray underwent hip surgery for the injury that had sidelined him since the previous summer. Djokovic and Nadal lost early at the 2018 Australian Open. Federer, however, went on to defend his title in a five set final against Marin Čilić, thus equaling Djokovic and Roy Emerson's then-record of six Australian Open titles, and becoming the first man to win 20 major titles. Soon after, by reaching the semifinals in Rotterdam, Federer overtook returned to world No. 1. In doing so, he became the oldest-ever player to top the ATP rankings (since 1973).
Federer reached the final of the 2018 Indian Wells Open, but lost to Juan Martín del Potro. Federer's early loss in Miami resulted in the loss of the No. 1 ranking with Nadal overtaking him by 100 points. Federer announced that he would again skip the entire clay court season. Nadal won his 11th title in Monte Carlo, then claimed an 11th Barcelona title, winning both without dropping a set. Nadal lost to Dominic Thiem in the 2018 Madrid Open quarterfinals but came back the following week to win the title in Rome.
Following Djokovic's early exit from the 2018 Australian Open, he underwent surgery for the wrist injury that had been causing him issues for the previous year. He returned to the tour at Indian Wells and struggled much with form, failing to reach the quarterfinals of any of his first five tournaments after surgery. He showed promise by reaching the semifinals of Rome, losing to Nadal in two straight sets. He reached the quarterfinals of the 2018 French Open, but lost to unseeded Marco Cecchinato. Nadal went on to win the tournament, defeating Dominic Thiem in the final to claim a record extending 11th French Open title and his 17th major overall. Federer returned to the tour for the 2018 Stuttgart Open and won the title there, which saw him return to the No. 1 ranking for a 310th week.

==== 2018 Wimbledon–2020 Australian Open: Djokovic returns, dominates with Nadal ====

At the 2018 Wimbledon, Federer lost to Kevin Anderson in the quarterfinals despite holding a two sets to love lead and holding a match point in the third set, having suffered a hand injury at the start of the grass season. Meanwhile, Nadal as world No. 1 and Djokovic as world No. 22 made the semifinals where Djokovic defeated Nadal in a five-set thriller to reach his first major final in nearly two years. He then defeated Anderson in the final to win his fourth Wimbledon title and 13th major title overall.
During the 2018 US hard court season, Nadal won his fourth title at the Canadian Open which was a then-record 33rd Masters title. A week later, Djokovic beat Federer to win the Cincinnati title, becoming the first and only player so far to complete the Career Golden Masters. Djokovic advanced to his eleventh US Open semifinal in as many appearances, and proceeded to win his third US Open title and 14th major title overall. With the win, Djokovic returned to the top three in the world rankings for the first time since the 2017 French Open.
Djokovic then won his 4th Shanghai title without dropping a set, which improved his ranking to world No. 2. Nadal withdrew before his first match at the 2018 Paris Masters, thus yielding the No. 1 ranking to Djokovic. Djokovic and Federer met in the semifinals, where Djokovic won in three hours. Djokovic was defeated by Karen Khachanov in the final. Nadal withdrew from the 2018 ATP Finals to undergo surgery for an ankle injury. Federer and Djokovic were both defeated by Alexander Zverev in the semifinals and final, respectively. The year ended with Djokovic, Nadal and Federer occupying the top-three positions in the rankings.
In the 2019 Australian Open, Federer was upset in the fourth round by 20 year-old Stefanos Tsitsipas in a tight four-setter. In the final, Djokovic defeated Nadal in straight sets to claim a record breaking seventh Australian Open title and increased his major tally to 15. In the week following the Australian Open, Murray underwent another hip surgery.
Federer rebounded from his early loss at the Australian Open by winning his 100th title in Dubai. He followed this with a runner-up finish at the 2019 Indian Wells Open and a title in Miami.
After withdrawing from Indian Wells due to injury, Nadal initially struggled upon returning for the clay-court season, losing in the semifinals at Monte Carlo, Barcelona and Madrid. However, he returned to form in Rome, defeating Djokovic in the final to win his ninth crown at the event. At the 2019 French Open, Federer returned to play at the tournament for the first time since the 2015 French Open, reaching the semifinals where he was defeated by Nadal in straight sets. Djokovic also reached the semifinals without losing a set, but was beaten in five sets by Dominic Thiem in a match that was spread over two days due to rain. In the final, Nadal prevailed over Thiem for a second consecutive year, winning the tournament for a record extending 12th time. The win brought Nadal to 18 major titles, just two behind Federer's record of 20. Federer, meanwhile, won his tenth title in Halle, making him the only player in the Open Era besides Nadal to win ten titles at the same event.
At the 2019 Wimbledon, Nadal and Federer again met in the semifinals, their first meeting at Wimbledon since the 2008 final. Federer defeated Nadal in four sets to reach the final, where he faced Djokovic. There, Djokovic defeated Federer in the longest Wimbledon final in history. It was Djokovic's 16th major title, only trailing Federer's 20 and Nadal's 18.
Nadal returned in Montreal where he defended his title. Following his victory, he decided not to play in Cincinnati once again. Murray, meanwhile, continued his comeback to tennis through doubles, however, he returned to singles in Cincinnati, where he lost in the first round to Richard Gasquet in straight sets. There, Federer was upset in the third round by qualifier Andrey Rublev, and Djokovic was upset in the semifinals by the eventual champion Daniil Medvedev.
At the 2019 US Open, Djokovic retired against Stan Wawrinka in the fourth round due to a shoulder injury, and Federer was upset by Grigor Dimitrov in the quarterfinals. Nadal only dropped one set en route to his fifth US Open final, where he met Daniil Medvedev. Despite Nadal going up two sets to love, Medvedev responded furiously and claimed the next two sets. Nadal then defeated Medvedev in the fifth set, claiming his fourth US Open title and 19th major title overall, one behind Federer's record.
Nadal ended 2019 as the world No. 1 for the fifth time, despite not reaching the semifinals of 2019 ATP Finals. In the 2019 Davis Cup, Spain won its sixth title (its first since 2011), defeating Canada in the final 2–0. Nadal received the Most Valuable Player (MVP) award for his performance in the tournament after he won all eight matches in which he participated. This was Nadal's fifth Davis Cup title.
At the 2020 Australian Open, Nadal lost to Dominic Thiem in the quarterfinals, while Djokovic defeated Federer in the semifinals. Djokovic then won his eighth Australian Open title and his 17th major overall by a narrow victory over Thiem in the final.

==== 2020–2021: Disrupted seasons, Nadal and Djokovic tie Federer's major titles record ====

The 2020 season was disrupted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Four of the five Masters 1000 tournaments typically held between the Australian Open and the French Open were cancelled, with Rome the only one to be postponed. The French Open itself was postponed to late September, while the 2020 Wimbledon was cancelled. The first Masters to be held after the resumption of the tour was the Cincinnati Open, where Djokovic emerged victorious to complete the double Career Golden Masters.
Nadal opted to skip the 2020 US Open, citing concerns over the COVID-19 pandemic, while Federer withdrew due to a knee injury. Djokovic was disqualified from the tournament during his fourth-round match against Pablo Carreño-Busta after inadvertently striking a ball at a line judge after conceding a break. The title was won by Dominic Thiem, who became the first player outside the Big Three to win a major since Stan Wawrinka in 2016. Djokovic rebounded to win a record 36th Masters title in the 2020 Italian Open two weeks later. Federer did not enter the rescheduled 2020 French Open, still sidelined by his knee injury. Nadal successfully defended his title over Djokovic in a straight-sets final. With the win, Nadal equaled Federer's all-time record of 20 major singles titles and extended his own record to 13 titles at the same major tournament.
Federer did not compete in the 2021 Australian Open in order to recover from surgery. There, Nadal was upset by Stefanos Tsitsipas in the quarterfinals despite taking a two sets to love lead, while Djokovic successfully defended his title by beating Daniil Medvedev in straight sets. The win marked his ninth Australian Open title and 18th major title overall, putting him two titles away from tying Federer and Nadal.
Nadal achieved his 36th Masters victory by defeating Djokovic in the 2021 Rome final. At the 2021 French Open, Federer withdrew after his third round victory in order not to jeopardize his recovery from a knee injury, while Nadal's bid at winning a record 21st major ended when he lost to Djokovic in an epic semifinal encounter. Despite being down two sets to love in the final against Stefanos Tsitsipas, Djokovic rallied to win the title in five sets. With the victory, Djokovic won his second French Open title and 19th major singles title overall, and became the third man after Roy Emerson and Rod Laver to have won each of the four majors at least twice, and the first to do so in the Open Era. Djokovic was then only one title away from tying Federer and Nadal for the most men's singles majors of all time.
Nadal withdrew from the 2021 Wimbledon due to scheduling reasons. Federer was defeated in the quarterfinals by Hubert Hurkacz. Djokovic won the title and his 20th major against Matteo Berrettini, thereby equaling both Federer and Nadal's all-time tally. The victory made him the first man to win the Australian Open, French Open and Wimbledon titles in the same calendar year since Rod Laver in 1969, and the second player to win majors on three different surfaces in a calendar year, after Nadal in 2010.

Djokovic had hoped to emulate Steffi Graf's 1988 Golden Slam in men's tennis by winning the 2020 Tokyo Olympics (postponed to 2021) and the 2021 US Open. However, he lost in the semifinals of Tokyo Olympics to Alexander Zverev, despite being up a set and a break, and subsequently lost the bronze medal match to Pablo Carreño Busta.
At the 2021 US Open, Federer pulled out of the tournament due to his need for further knee surgery, while Nadal also withdrew due to a nagging foot injury. Djokovic lost in the final to Daniil Medvedev, preventing him from winning a record 21 majors and achieving a Grand Slam, which would have been the first in men's tennis since Rod Laver in 1969. Medvedev thus became the ninth player outside the Big Three to win a major since Federer's first win at 2003 Wimbledon.
At the 2021 Paris Masters, Djokovic defeated Medvedev in the final to win his sixth title at the event and surpass Nadal for the record of most Masters titles at 37. By reaching the final, Djokovic also clinched the year end No. 1 ranking for the seventh time, breaking Pete Sampras' all-time record.

==== 2022–23: Federer retires, Nadal then Djokovic set major titles record ====

Djokovic was unable to compete at the 2022 Australian Open for being unvaccinated against COVID-19. Despite multiple appeals for exemption, he was denied a visa to enter the country, which prevented him from defending his title. Federer was unable to compete due to a persistent knee injury while Nadal returned after a lengthy six-month injury hiatus and a positive COVID-19 result. Despite low expectations, Nadal progressed to the final, beating Denis Shapovalov and Matteo Berrettini to get there. In the 5 hours, 24 minutes final he defeated Daniil Medvedev, coming back from a two-set deficit, to win his 21st major and establish a new all-time record for the most men's major singles titles. He became the fourth man in history to complete the double Career Grand Slam in singles, and the second in the Open Era after Djokovic.
In February 2022, Medvedev became the world No. 1 ranked player, following Djokovic's loss in the quarterfinals of the 2022 Dubai Tennis Championships, thus ending the Big Four's streak of 921 weeks at the top of the ATP rankings which began on 2 February 2004 when Federer overtook Andy Roddick. At the 2022 Indian Wells Open, Nadal lost to Fritz in the final in straight sets. At the 2022 French Open, Federer did not participate while Nadal and Djokovic progressed to a quarterfinal encounter, their record 59th meeting, with Nadal emerging victorious in four sets. Nadal went to contest his 30th major final against Casper Ruud, winning a record-extending 14th French Open title and 22nd major overall. He became the third man after Mats Wilander (1982 French Open) and Federer (2017 Australian Open) to defeat four top-10 players en route to a major title.
The 2022 Wimbledon marked the event's first edition since 1998 Wimbledon in which Federer did not compete. Nadal returned to Wimbledon for the first time in three years; however he incurred an abdominal injury during the tournament. He progressed to the quarterfinals to face Taylor Fritz, defeating him in a five set match that further aggravated his injury. He then withdrew from the tournament before his semifinal encounter against Nick Kyrgios, who then advanced to his first major final. Djokovic successfully defended his title by defeating Kyrgios in four sets in the final to win his 21st major, thereby passing Federer and placing himself one behind Nadal. He tied Pete Sampras for the second-most Wimbledon men's singles titles at 7, one behind Federer's all-time record of 8 titles.
At the 2022 US Open, Djokovic withdrew from another major for being a foreigner who was unvaccinated against COVID-19, while Federer did not compete due to injuries. Nadal's attempt to win his 23rd major title was thwarted by an upset in the fourth round by Frances Tiafoe. Medvedev's later elimination guaranteed a new champion in Carlos Alcaraz, making it the 13th time that a major featured a new champion since Federer's first Wimbledon title in 2003, and the third consecutive year that the US Open featured a new champion. At the 2022 Paris Masters, Djokovic lost to Holger Rune in the final in three sets. Djokovic won the 2022 ATP Finals, tying Federer's record of six titles in the event. At the 2022 Laver Cup, having struggled with a recurring knee injury for the past several years, Federer retired from professional tennis, thus ending the Big Three era. He played his last match on Team Europe in doubles, partnering Nadal, on a team that also included Djokovic and Murray. This was the last professional level tournament featuring the Big Four together.
At the 2023 Australian Open, Djokovic returned to Melbourne and won a record-extending 10th title, matching Nadal's record of 22 major titles and joining him in the ownership of double-digit titles in a single major. Nadal, on the other hand, was beaten in the second round, partially due to a hip injury sustained during the match. That injury would later prevent him from participating the 2023 French Open – the first time he did not compete there since his debut in 2005 – and the rest of his 2023 season. Meanwhile, Djokovic reached the tournament's final by defeating world No. 1 Alcaraz in the semifinals, then won the final to claim his 23rd major, breaking his tie with Nadal for the most major titles in men's singles and becoming the only man in history to achieve the triple Career Grand Slam.
At the 2023 Wimbledon, Djokovic reached a record-extending 35th major final as the favourite for the title, but lost to Alcaraz in five "stunning" sets in an almost five-hour final. The victory made Alcaraz the first non-Big Four player to win Wimbledon since 2002 and marked Djokovic's first loss on Wimbledon's Centre Court in a decade, since losing the 2013 Wimbledon final to Murray.
Djokovic then defeated Alcaraz in another epic match at the 2023 Cincinnati final, in the longest best of three sets final in ATP Tour history. During the 2023 US Open, Djokovic set the record for most semifinal appearances in Grand Slams among male tennis players with 47, surpassing Federer's 46, and became the second man after Federer to reach all major finals in a year three times. At the finals, Djokovic beat Daniil Medvedev in straight sets to win his record-extending 24th major title and equal the record for most singles majors in the history of the sport. Winning the US Open also made him the first man to win at least three slams in the same year four times. He also retained the No. 1 ranking after winning his first round match in the US Open.
Djokovic continued his winning streak in 2023 by claiming his seventh Paris Masters title which was his 40th Masters title overall. By winning his first round-robin match in the 2023 ATP Finals, Djokovic secured the year-end No. 1 for the eighth year, thereby extending that record. This victory also allowed him to become the first player in tennis history to be ranked No. 1 for at least 400 weeks. Despite his winning streak ending after losing to Jannik Sinner in his second Round Robin match, he went on to defend his title by defeating Sinner in the finals, thereby winning a record seventh ATP Finals, surpassing Federer's six.

=== End of era ===

==== 2024: Djokovic wins Olympic gold, Nadal and Murray retire, no titles at majors ====

Nadal made his return in the 2024 Brisbane International, his first tournament on the tour since the 2023 Australian Open. He lost in the quarterfinals to Jordan Thompson. He suffered a muscle tear during the match, causing him to pull out of the 2024 Australian Open.
Djokovic entered the 2024 Australian Open with the goal of winning an 11th title in the tournament and a record-extending 25th major. He advanced to the semifinals, tying Federer's record of most Grand Slam quarterfinals appearances (58) in the process. However, he was defeated by Sinner in four sets, making his first loss in the tournament since 2018 and ending his 33 consecutive wins. Djokovic's defeat also guaranteed a new Australian Open champion for the first time since 2014, and that the tournament final would not feature at least one of Djokovic, Nadal or Federer for the first time since 2005. Sinner went on to win the tournament by defeating Medvedev in the final, becoming the tenth player outside the Big Three and ninth outside the Big Four to win a major since Federer's first title at 2003 Wimbledon.
At the 2024 French Open, Nadal entered the tournament while ranked No. 275 and in the first round played against No. 4 seed Alexander Zverev, a rematch of their previous encounter at the 2022 French Open. Nadal lost in straight sets, which was the first time he lost his opening match at the French Open and only his fourth loss at the tournament. During the post match on court interview, Nadal said he was unsure if this was his last French Open. Djokovic made it to the quarterfinals, while breaking Federer's record of most grand Slam matches wins (370). However, he withdrew before the quarterfinals due to a knee injury he suffered in the fourth round, ensuring a winner outside of the Big Three for the first time since 2015 and second time since 2004, and also ensuring that the final would not feature anyone from the Big Four For the first time since 2004. Zverev would go on to the finals where he faced Carlos Alcaraz, who had only dropped one set up until the semifinals. Alcaraz won in five sets.
At the 2024 Wimbledon, Andy Murray announced his retirement following a string of injuries since reaching No. 1 in 2017, and only played in the men's doubles (where he lost in the first round to Rinky Hijikata and John Peers). He intended to play in mixed doubles, but his partner Emma Raducanu dropped out before the competition. Nadal withdrew to focus on the Olympics, leaving only Djokovic to compete in men's singles after a hasty recovery from surgery. Despite this, he managed to reach the final where he faced Alcaraz in a rematch of the previous year's final, but lost in straight sets. Alcaraz won his second Wimbledon title and fourth overall Grand Slam title. This marked the first time since 2003 that the Big Three failed to win at least two Grand Slam titles in a year.
Nadal competed at the 2024 Swedish Open and made it to his first final since 2022, but lost in straight sets. However, his rating improved to No. 161.
At the 2024 Paris Olympics, Murray and Dan Evans made it to the quarterfinals of the men's doubles tournament but lost to Taylor Fritz and Tommy Paul in two sets, in the final match of Murray's career. Nadal and Alcaraz also reached the quarterfinals of the men's doubles, but were defeated by Austin Krajicek and Rajeev Ram in two sets. In the singles, Djokovic and Nadal progressed to a second round encounter, their record 60th meeting, with Djokovic emerging victorious in straight sets. He went on to compete in the final for the first time in his career and once again faced Alcaraz. Djokovic won in straight sets, becoming the oldest men's singles champion in Olympic tennis. Additionally, he became the fifth ever tennis player (third male) to complete a Career Golden Slam and second male player to complete a Career Super Slam (after Andre Agassi). After the Olympics, Djokovic and Nadal both announced their withdrawal from Montreal and Cincinnati.
On 7 August, Nadal announced his withdrawal from the 2024 US Open. With Murray retired, Djokovic was the only Big Three and Big Four member to compete in the US Open, which was the first year in which only one member entered the tournament since 2002. By winning his first round match, Djokovic set the record for most matches won (89) at Arthur Ashe Stadium. Subsequently, his second round win made him the only player to register at least 90 match wins in all four Grand Slam tournaments, and moved him up to second all-time in matches won at the US Open behind Jimmy Connors's 98 wins. Djokovic lost to Alexei Popyrin in the third round, making 2024 the first year since 2002 that none of the Big Three and Big Four won a Grand Slam singles title. Sinner won his second Grand Slam and first US Open title by defeating Fritz in the final.
On 12 September, Nadal announced his withdrawal from the Laver Cup due to fitness concerns while Djokovic reached the finals of the 2024 Shanghai Masters, but his hope for a 100th career titles was denied by Sinner, who won in straight sets. Sinner's victory additionally made him the first man to defeat Djokovic three consecutive times since Nadal in 2013. Following the tournament on 10 October, Nadal announced he would be retiring from tennis following the 2024 Davis Cup in November.
Djokovic and Nadal competed in the 6 Kings Slam exhibition tournament. Both were defeated by Sinner and Alcaraz, respectively, leading to them facing each other in the third place match, which would be their final match against each other. Djokovic defeated Nadal in straight sets to claim the third-place trophy. Immediately after Djokovic's victory, both he and Nadal paid tribute to each other, and Djokovic attempted to encourage Nadal to stay on the Tour longer. Following this, Djokovic announced withdrawal from the 2024 Paris Masters and 2024 ATP Finals. This was the first edition of the ATP Finals to not feature any members of the Big Three since 2001.
At the 2024 Davis Cup, Nadal was defeated by Botic van de Zandschulp of Netherlands in the quarterfinals, marking the last match of his career.

==== 2025: Djokovic reaches 100 career titles ====

Djokovic started the year well, but continued to struggle with injuries and faltered later on. At the 2025 Brisbane International, Djokovic was defeated by Reilly Opelka in the quarterfinals in straight sets. Later that month at the 2025 Australian Open Djokovic defeated Alcaraz in the quarterfinals, but had to retire after the first set against Zverev in the semifinals. Sinner defeated Zverev in the final to win his third Grand Slam title. Djokovic continued to struggle following this, losing in the first round at the Qatar Open to Berrettini and the second round at Indian Wells to van de Zandschulp. However, at the 2025 Miami Open, Djokovic became the oldest person to reach the semifinals of a Masters 1000 tournament at 37 years and 10 months, and also became the oldest person to reach the finals of Masters 1000 tournament, losing in the finals to Jakub Menšík.
At the 2025 Monte Carlo Masters, Djokovic was defeated in second round to Alejandro Tabilo. Later, at the 2025 Madrid Open, Djokovic was defeated in second round to Matteo Arnaldi. Then, Djokovic announced his withdrawal from Rome to compete in the lower-ranked Geneva Open. After a 3 hours 5 minutes final, the longest in the history of the tournament, he secured his 100th career single title, becoming the third person in the Open Era after Federer and Jimmy Connors to complete the feat. After that, at the 2025 French Open, Djokovic was defeated by Sinner in the semifinals. Alcaraz defeated Sinner in the final, winning his fifth Grand Slam title. This was the sixth consecutive Grand Slam win for either Alcaraz or Sinner, leading some commentators to call them the "Big Two".
Djokovic then skipped most of the grass season and went straight into the 2025 Wimbledon, where he again reached the semifinals and once again faced Sinner, losing in straight sets. It was the first time he failed to make the final since 2018. Sinner defeated Alcaraz in final.
Djokovic skipped the early hard court season (Toronto and Cincinnati) but participated in the 2025 US Open where he reached his fourth Grand Slam semifinals of the year, losing to Alcaraz in straight sets. He became the first male player to lose in the semifinals of all four Grand Slam events in the same year. This was the first year since 2002 that none of the Grand Slam finals featured a member of the Big Three. Alcaraz defeated Sinner in finals.
At the 2025 Shanghai, Djokovic was defeated by Valentin Vacherot in semifinals. In his final tournament of the year, Djokovic won the inaugural 2025 Hellenic Championship, becoming the oldest ATP champion. Djokovic qualified for but withdrew from the 2025 ATP Finals.

==== 2026: Djokovic’s Grand Slam goal ====

At the 2026 Australian Open, Djokovic defeated Sinner in the semifinals and lost to Alcaraz in the finals. At the 2026 Indian Wells, Djokovic lost to Jack Draper in the fourth round.
At the 2026 Rome, Djokovic lost to Dino Prizmic in the second round.
At the 2026 French Open, Djokovic lost to João Fonseca in the third round.

== Career statistics ==

=== Grand Slam events ===

Djokovic, Nadal and Federer are the top three all time men's leaders in Grand Slam singles titles won, winning record 24, 22 and 20 respectively. All three have completed the Career Grand Slam, Djokovic achieved it three times, Nadal twice and Federer once. They are as well the players with the most finals appearances, Djokovic has reached record 38 finals, Federer 31 finals and Nadal 30 finals.
They are the only three men in history to win at least eight titles at a single Grand Slam events: Nadal with 14 French Open titles, Djokovic with 10 Australian Open titles, and Federer with 8 Wimbledon titles, all of which are all time title records in their respective events.

==== Combined performance timeline (best result) ====
Since the year of first Grand Slam win.

==== Grand Slam winners ====

* Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the 2020 Wimbledon was cancelled.

=== ATP Masters 1000 events ===
Similarly, ATP Masters 1000 events have been dominated by the Big Three. Djokovic leads with a record 40 titles including a double Career Golden Masters, Nadal with 36 and Federer with 28. Each one of them made at least 50 finals at the Masters 1000 events, Djokovic with a record 58 finals, Nadal with 53 and Federer with 50. Federer, Nadal and Djokovic won their first ATP Masters 1000 event in 2002, 2005 and 2007 respectively. Since then, the only ATP Masters 1000 events missed in their respective careers were: Federer: Monte Carlo (clay) and Rome (clay); Nadal: Miami, Shanghai (hard outdoor) and Paris (hard indoor); Djokovic: Hamburg (clay) and Madrid (hard indoor).

==== Combined ATP Masters 1000 performance timeline (best result) ====

Since the year of first ATP Masters 1000 win.

==== Combined ATP Finals performance timeline (best result) ====

Since the year of first ATP Finals qualification.
The Year-end championships was dominated by Federer and Djokovic for more than a decade. At the event, Djokovic leads with a record seven titles and Federer won six. Nadal made two finals and lost to Djokovic and Federer.

=== Big Titles ===

Current as of 2026 French Open

Other feats: Djokovic achieved a Non-calendar Grand Slam. Nadal and Djokovic both achieved a Surface Slam. Nadal, Djokovic and Federer achieved a Channel Slam and a Three-Quarter Slam.
^ Outright active tournament record underlined (§ = title(s) in different tournament(s)).

=== ATP Rankings ===

The Big Three monopolized the top spot in the ATP singles rankings 947 weeks (equivalent to 18 years). Djokovic has been ranked No. 1 for a record 428 weeks, Federer for 310 weeks, and Nadal for 209 weeks. Each player has occupied the year end top position at least five times, with Djokovic holding the record with eight year-end No. 1 finishes.

==== Combined rankings timeline (best result) ====
Since the first year-end No. 1 finish.

^Outright records indicated in bold.

==== Singles rankings achievements ====

Bold indicates outright record.

=== Head-to-head matchups ===

The respective rivalries between the Big Three are considered to be some of the greatest tennis rivalries of all time, and are the three most prolific men's rivalries of the Open Era. Amongst the three of them they have played 150 matches against each other, 49 of which were at Grand Slam events. They contested in 71 finals, including 23 Grand Slam finals, more than any other trio in tennis history. Djokovic finished with a winning head-to-head record against both Federer and Nadal. Federer has delivered the most bagels against the other two with four, while receiving only one.

^Despite losing record in matches, Federer had a better head-to-head record against Djokovic in games (758–749) and points (4729–4695) played.

==== Results by court surface ====
Nadal dominated on clay, particularly at the French Open, where he won all six matches against Federer and eight of ten against Djokovic.

^Two walkovers (2014 ATP Finals finals and 2019 Indian Wells semifinals) are not included in that table.

==== Results by tournament level ====

== Overall performances ==
Current as of 2026 French Open

The match win% includes matches of ITF team competitions: Olympics, Davis Cup, Hopman Cup and ATP team competitions: Laver Cup, ATP Cup, United Cup

== Overall major record comparison ==

Outright records compared to all other players and winning head to head records are indicated in bold.

== Notable matches ==
With a combined total of 150 matches played, the Big Three have played many notable matches against each other. The 2008 Wimbledon final, 2009 Australian Open final, 2012 Australian Open final, 2013 French Open semifinal, 2017 Australian Open final, 2018 Wimbledon semifinal and 2019 Wimbledon final are considered some of the greatest tennis matches of all time. Djokovic saved double match points against Federer at the 2010 and 2011 US Open semifinals and the 2019 Wimbledon final, whereas Federer ended Djokovic's 41 match winning streak in the 2011 French Open semifinals. Nadal stopped Djokovic from completing a Non-calendar year Grand Slam at the 2012 French Open and has delivered eight of Djokovic's defeats at the tournament, while Djokovic has delivered two of Nadal's four losses at Roland Garros and outlasted him in the longest major final in history at the 2012 Australian Open. Federer ended Nadal's Open Era record 81 match winning streak on clay at the 2007 Hamburg Masters, while Nadal ended two of Federer's Open Era record surface streaks, Roger's 65-match winning streak on grass in the 2008 final, as well as Roger's 56-match winning streak on hard courts in the 2006 Dubai final. Additionally, Rafa thrice denied Federer the non-calendar year Grand Slam at the 2006 and 2007 French Open finals, and the 2009 Australian Open final.

2005 Miami final – Federer was down 0–2 sets, but would beat Nadal in five sets their first final against each other.
2005 French Open semifinal – Nadal defeated Federer in four sets on the way to his maiden major title.
2006 Rome final – Nadal prevailed over Federer in a five-set, five-hour epic. It was the second of four runner-up finishes for Federer, who never won the Rome Masters.
2006 French Open final – Nadal thwarted Federer's bid to achieve the non-calendar year Grand Slam by triumphing in four sets. It was also Federer's first loss in a major final, ending his record streak at 7 consecutive grand slam finals won. This was also the first of three consecutive French Opens where Nadal would defeat both Djokovic and Federer en route to the titles.
2006 Wimbledon final – Federer triumphed over Nadal in four sets to win his fourth consecutive Wimbledon title. This was Nadal's first loss in a major final and Federer's first win over Nadal at a major. Federer would take the first set 6–0, this would be the only time Nadal would get bageled (0–6 set) in a major final.
2007 Hamburg final – Federer defeated Nadal for the first time on clay, ending Nadal's 81-match winning streak on the surface. It was one of Federer's two victories over Nadal on clay, from their 16 meetings on clay.
2007 French Open final – Nadal denied Federer a second bid to complete the non-calendar year Grand Slam. This was only Federer's second loss in a major final, and second to Nadal.
2007 Wimbledon final – Federer defeated Nadal in five sets. It was Federer's 13th slam final, but it was his first 5-sets slam final.
2007 Montreal final – Djokovic beat Federer in three sets in their first final against each other.
2008 Hamburg semifinal – Nadal defeated Djokovic in three dramatic sets.
2008 French Open final – Nadal defeated Federer in three sets for the first time in a major final. Nadal won the third set 6–0, marking the only time Federer would be bageled (0–6 set) in a major final. It was also the first time since early 1999 that Federer lost a set 0–6, and only the fourth time in his career (the first 3 were in 1999, when he was 17 years old). He would only get bageled one more time, in 2021 during his last tournament as a professional, at Wimbledon, in the last match of his career, and in the last set of his professional career.
2008 Wimbledon final – Nadal prevailed over Federer in five sets in the then-longest Wimbledon final of all time. Some consider this the greatest match in tennis history. This was the second time Federer was taken to 5 sets in a major final, both versus Nadal.
2009 Australian Open final – Nadal beat Federer in five sets for his first hard court major title. This was the third time Federer was taken to 5 sets in a major final, all three by Nadal. By virtue of this win, Nadal had defeated Federer in the finals in 3 of the last 4 majors and on all different surfaces, making him the only man to do so.
2009 Madrid semifinal – Nadal defeated Djokovic in three close sets in one of their longest matches.
2010 US Open semifinal – Djokovic beat Federer in five sets while saving two match points in the final set. It was their third consecutive year meeting in the US Open semifinals, but Djokovic's first time winning.
2010 US Open final – Nadal beat Djokovic in four sets in their first meeting at the US Open, marking their first hard court meeting at a slam. It was their fifth meeting at a major, but their first major final, with Nadal winning all 4 of their previous major meetings, all in straight sets. Nadal had now beaten both Federer and Djokovic on all three surfaces at majors. By virtue of this win, Nadal also became the youngest man to complete the Career Grand Slam at 24 years, 102 days.
2011 Miami final – Djokovic beat Nadal in three close sets, finishing the first quarter of the season with a 24–0 winning record.
2011 French Open semifinal – Federer beat Djokovic in a close four-set match that could have gone either way. It was Djokovic's first loss of the season.
2011 Wimbledon final – Djokovic defeated Nadal in four sets to win his first Wimbledon title. This was Djokovic's first win over Nadal at a major, after losing in the first five attempts.
2011 US Open semifinal – Djokovic beat Federer in five sets while saving two match points in the final set − a repeat of the previous year's match. This was the fourth consecutive year meeting in the US Open semifinals with Federer winning in 2008 & 2009 and Djokovic in 2010 & 2011. It was also their 5th consecutive meeting at the US Open, starting in the 2007 US Open final which Federer won in straight sets.
2012 Australian Open final – Djokovic outlasted Nadal in five sets. This is the longest major final ever, clocking in at 5 hours and 53 minutes. Just as Nadal did to Federer at the 2007 Wimbledon final, Nadal pushed Djokovic to 5 sets in a slam final for the first time. This was also their third consecutive meeting in a major final, marking the only time in the Open Era (Carlos Alcaraz and Jannik Sinner would join this elite club in 2025).
2012 French Open final – Nadal bested Djokovic in four sets to win his seventh French Open title, surpassing Björn Borg's record of six, and denying Djokovic's attempt at a non-calendar year Grand Slam. This was their fourth consecutive meeting in a major final, and they remain the only duo to do so in the Open Era.
2013 Monte Carlo final – Djokovic defeated Nadal to end his eight-year winning streak at the event, the longest win streak at a single tennis tournament (46 matches). The last time Nadal lost at the Monte Carlo Masters was in 2003, when he was just 16 years old.
2013 French Open semifinal – Nadal beat Djokovic in five sets. It's one of only three times, from 116 matches, where Nadal was taken to a fifth set at the French Open.
2013 US Open final – Nadal defeated Djokovic for the second time in a US Open, both times in four sets. Having won the Canada Masters and Cincinnati Masters prior to the US Open, Nadal becomes just the third man in the Open Era to complete the Summer Slam after Patrick Rafter in 1998 and Andy Roddick in 2003. Nadal's two wins would also contribute to Djokovic's Open Era record of 6 finals losses at a single grand slam tournament.
2013 Beijing Open final — Djokovic defeats Nadal in straight sets, handing Nadal his first hard court loss of 2013, in October. Nadal won his first 26-consecutive hard court matches since the start of the year, winning his third Indian Wells title, third Canada Masters title, first Cincinnati Masters title, and second US Open crown.
2014 Indian Wells final – Djokovic defeated Federer in a three-set final. It was Federer's fifth Indian Wells final, and his first loss. Conversely, it was Djokovic's fourth final, only losing the first one in 2007 to Nadal in straight sets.
2015 Indian Wells final – Djokovic defeated Federer in a rematch of the 2014 final.
2014 Wimbledon final – Djokovic defeated Federer in five sets. Although this was their 12th meeting at a major, it was only their second meeting in a major final, with Federer defeating Djokovic in the 2007 US Open final.
2015 Wimbledon final – In a rematch of the previous final, Djokovic needed only four sets to down Federer.
2016 Rome quarterfinal – Djokovic beat Nadal in one of the best matches of the season.
2017 Australian Open final – Federer beat Nadal in five sets to win his first major in four-and-a-half years, and ending a six-match losing streak against Nadal at the majors. Nadal pushed Federer to 5 sets for the fourth time, Federer would play 5-set major finals 9 times in his career. This would mark the first time Federer beat Nadal on a hard court at a major final.
2018 Wimbledon semifinal – Djokovic, who was ranked world No. 22, defeated world No. 1 Nadal in five sets to reach the final. It was his biggest win in almost two years.
2018 Paris semifinal – Djokovic beat Federer in three sets in one of the year's best matches.
2019 Wimbledon final – Djokovic prevailed over Federer in a fifth-set twelve-all tiebreaker, after saving two championship points in the final set, in the longest final in Wimbledon history.
2020 French Open final – Nadal defeated Djokovic for the third consecutive time in their third French Open final. Djokovic was bageled (0–6 set) in the first set of the final, marking the only time he's been bageled in a major final. Combined with the four finals won over Federer, half of Nadal's 14 Roland Garros crowns came at the expense of Djokovic and Federer in the finals.
2021 French Open semifinal – Djokovic defeated Nadal in four brutal sets, delivering Nadal's third-ever loss, from 108 matches, at the French Open. The win improved Djokovic's record to 2-7 versus Nadal at Stade Roland Garros.
2022 French Open quarterfinal – Nadal beat Djokovic in four sets in a record 10th meeting at one tournament, with Djokovic prevailing twice, matching Nadal's two wins over Djokovic at the US Open.
2024 Paris Olympics second round – Djokovic beat Nadal in two sets in their 1st meeting in Stade Roland Garros outside the majors and their 11th overall meeting at the Roland Garros Stadium. This was their 60th, and final, professional meeting.

== Grand Slam title race ==
The Big Three have been competing to win the most Grand Slam men's singles titles of all time. Federer first led the trio by winning his first Grand Slam singles title at 2003 Wimbledon. He broke Pete Sampras's all-time record 14 Grand Slam titles at 2009 Wimbledon. Following the 2010 Australian Open, Federer had 16 titles, Nadal 6, and Djokovic 1, the peak of Federer's lead over Nadal and Djokovic. After winning the 2016 French Open, Djokovic came to within 2 titles of Nadal (12 to 14), but over the next two years, Nadal and Federer extended their lead over Djokovic again; following the 2018 French Open, Federer, Nadal, and Djokovic had 20, 17, and 12 titles, respectively. During the 2010s, Federer's lead gradually shrank, culminating in Nadal tying Federer's record 20 titles with his win at the 2020 French Open. Subsequently, Djokovic's three victories in 2021 brought him on an equal footing with Federer and Nadal, when for the only time all three players had an equal number of titles. At the 2022 Australian Open, Nadal surpassed both Federer and Djokovic by claiming the title, and went on to claim his 22nd Grand Slam trophy at the 2022 French Open. Djokovic subsequently won the 2022 Wimbledon, the 2023 Australian Open, and the 2023 French Open, surpassing Federer and Nadal and setting the all-time record at 23 Grand Slam titles. Djokovic then claimed the 2023 US Open for a record-extending 24th Grand Slam title. Federer retired in 2022 with 20 Grand Slam titles; and Nadal retired in 2024 with 22 Grand Slam titles.

Chronologically
Federer won his first Grand Slam title in 2003, Nadal in 2005, and Djokovic in 2008. Djokovic won his most recent title in 2023, Nadal in 2022, and Federer won his final title in 2018.

By age
Nadal won his first Grand Slam title at age 19, Djokovic at 20, and Federer at 21. Nadal, Djokovic, and Federer have won their final or most recent title at the age of 36.

== National and international representation ==
ITF team competitions: Olympics, Davis Cup, Hopman Cup and
ATP team competitions: Laver Cup, ATP Cup, United Cup

Current as of 2024 Davis Cup
The United Cup, a mixed-gender team event from 2023, directly replaced now defunct ATP Cup (2020–2022).
A player being considered as a part of Davis Cup winning team, if he is nominated for the Finals.

=== Overall matches statistics comparison ===

=== Performance comparison by events representation ===

=== Overall performance comparison by events ===

Bold indicates outright record.

== Legacy and recognition ==

=== Current and former professionals ===
Fellow top players, including David Ferrer, Tomáš Berdych, Jo-Wilfried Tsonga, Stan Wawrinka and Andy Roddick have all spoken about the dominance of the Big Three (and Murray until 2017) and the challenge they have faced in matching them. Many former top professionals have also spoken about the topic, including Björn Borg, Andre Agassi, Pete Sampras and Goran Ivanišević.
David Ferrer declared in 2013:

I think the top four, they are better. It's my opinion. But I am trying to win every match. The results, are there, no? I'm not making something up. It's very difficult for me to win a Grand Slam because there are the top four. At this time they are better than the other players.

=== Media ===
Since 2010, when the Big Four increasingly began to dominate the tour as a group, many articles and reports have concentrated mainly on the members of the Big Four and their chances in upcoming tournaments, with smaller sections devoted to all other players.
The presence of the Big Four is generally seen to have had a positive impact on tennis, making the sport more exciting and in turn attracting more attention. However, with all four members being European, this may have had a potentially negative effect on tennis popularity in North America compared to previous decades, when Americans were regularly at the top of men's tennis. It has also been argued that the dominance of the Big Four has made the game predictable or even boring.

=== Alternative concepts and proposals ===

==== 'Big Four' ====
Even initially, some tennis commentators, including Murray himself, spoke of a "Big Three" or "Trivalry", due to Murray's lesser achievements than the Big Three. In 2014, statistician Nate Silver labelled the group the 'Big Three and a Half'. Murray's overall record against the Big Three is 29–56. However, Murray features in the top ten on a number of Open Era records, including in quarterfinals, semifinals, and finals reached at the Majors, and is to date the only person in history to have won two gold medals in singles at the Olympic Games, and only the second player in the Open Era (after Andre Agassi), to have won a Grand Slam singles event, an ATP Finals, an ATP Masters, and an Olympic singles gold, as well as reach world No. 1 in the ATP rankings, with Djokovic finally joining the pair with his gold medal in men's singles in the 2024 Summer Olympics. He reached world No. 1 after the Big Three reached it, though he had by that time spent 76 weeks as No. 2; further, he first reached No. 2 in August 2009, ending the four-year Federer–Nadal stranglehold on the top two in the process, six months before Djokovic did for the first time (in February 2010).
Murray's three Majors, two Olympic Games victories, ATP Finals, Masters titles and his success in reaching the world no. 1 ranking, all since 2012, saw him listed more comfortably alongside the other three members during the mid-2010s. His rise to reach the world No. 1 ranking in November 2016 and keep it to finish the year at the top position further helped arguments about him belonging in a "Big Four". However, given Murray's injury-ridden exit from the tennis elite after his 2016 triumphs, and the Big Three's continued dominance through year end 2019, the "Big Four" label has increasingly become a description of a set period within the larger 'Big Three' era. confined to 2008 to 2017, and specifically the period from 2012 to 2016 when Murray was consistently higher than number 4 in the world, and winning grand slams, Davis Cup and Olympic gold until sidelined in early 2017 by injury. The players themselves, however, have tended when discussing the era to speak in terms of the quartet, partly because of Murray's Olympic legacy and his long association from the days of junior tennis with Djokovic.

==== 'Big Five' suggestions ====
Occasionally, it was claimed that the current era in tennis could be seen as featuring a "Big Five", with Juan Martín del Potro, Marin Čilić and Stan Wawrinka each suggested as additional expansions to the then Big Four. Wawrinka is the only active player outside the Big Four to have won three major titles (the same number as Murray), defeating Djokovic and Nadal on the way to the 2014 Australian Open title, Federer and Djokovic to win the 2015 French Open, and Djokovic to win the 2016 US Open. He also holds a positive win–loss record in Grand Slam singles finals, winning three of four (the loss being to Nadal in the final of the 2017 French Open), as opposed to Murray who has won only three from eleven (a 27.27% strike rate). However, Wawrinka has reached seven fewer Grand Slam singles finals, has won 13 fewer Masters titles than Murray, and has peaked at only number 3 in the world rankings. Wawrinka himself has downplayed the suggestion that he be included in an expanded "Big Five", describing Murray as "well ahead" of him.

=== Golden era ===
Some players, including Steffi Graf and John McEnroe, believe the presence of the Big Four has coincided with that of a new "Golden Era" in men's tennis since 2008, wherein depth, athleticism and quality have never been better. The era has been compared to that of Rod Laver, Ken Rosewall, Roy Emerson and John Newcombe throughout the 1960s and that of Björn Borg, Jimmy Connors, John McEnroe and Ivan Lendl during the late 1970s and early 1980s.
Novak Djokovic and Roger Federer have both recognized the period as a golden era for tennis, though Federer tempered discussion around the all-time-greatest status of the Big Four in 2012, commenting:

I'd say no, but I don't know. Just because you look back maybe 15 years, then you have Sampras, Edberg, Becker, and Agassi, I don't know who else. Those guys weren't good or what? You look back, a further back, 20 years, and you have the Connors and the Lendl. Those weren't good either? I mean, I don't know. So for me I think that's respectful. It's just different times and definitely more athletic, there's no doubt about that. But then again we don't play doubles. We don't play mixed. Maybe we play less matches today because it's more taxing, but we do play less best of five set tennis than they used to play. You can't compare really, but we have somewhat of a golden era right now. I feel that truly. It's nice to see Andy making his move at the Olympics, nice to see Novak having an absolutely ridiculous year last year, and then Rafa and myself still being around. It's definitely good times. Past that you still have great champions as well. It's very interesting at the top right now, and the depth I think has never been greater than right now. But then best ever? The four of us? That's a really difficult call.
The term Golden Era has also been applied to other famous eras in tennis history including the mid-1970s to 1980s, and the 1920s to the 1930s.

== Prize money ==
Djokovic, Nadal, and Federer makes up the top three prize money leaders of all time (not adjusted for inflation).
Additionally, they collectively own the 10 biggest single season payouts ranging from $13.06 million to $21.65 million.

Current as of 29 May 2026.

== Main tennis and sports awards ==

== See also ==
Big Four career statistics
The Four Musketeers
List of career achievements by Roger Federer
List of career achievements by Rafael Nadal
List of career achievements by Novak Djokovic
All-time tennis records – Men's singles
Tennis performance timeline comparison (men)
ATP Tour records
Tennis male players statistics

== Notes ==

== References ==

== External links ==
Roger Federer official site
Rafael Nadal official site
Novak Djokovic official site

Acalyptris shafirkanus

Acalyptris shafirkanus is a species of moth of the family Nepticulidae. It was described by Puplesis in 1984. It is known from Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan.

== References ==

2016 U.S. National Gymnastics Championships

The 2016 P&G U.S. National Gymnastics Championships was the 53rd edition of the U.S. National Gymnastics Championships and was held June 3–5, 2016, at the XL Center in Hartford, Connecticut, for senior men and June 23–26, 2016, at the Chaifetz Arena in Saint Louis, Missouri, for women and junior men.

== Medal summary ==

== References ==

2001 Fed Cup Europe/Africa Zone Group I – Pool C

Group C of the 2001 Fed Cup Europe/Africa Zone Group I was one of four pools in the Europe/Africa Zone Group I of the 2001 Fed Cup. Four teams competed in a round robin competition, with the top team advancing to the play-offs and the bottom team being relegated down to Group II for 2002.

== Sweden vs. Great Britain ==

== Belarus vs. Romania ==

== Sweden vs. Belarus ==

== Romania vs. Great Britain ==

== Sweden vs. Romania ==

== Belarus vs. Great Britain ==

Great Britain failed to win any ties in the pool, and thus was relegated to Group II in 2001, where they achieved promotion back to Group I for 2002.

== See also ==
Fed Cup structure

== References ==

== External links ==
Fed Cup website

9 Boötis

9 Boötis is a single, variable star in the northern constellation of Boötes, located around 630 light years away from the Sun. It is visible to the naked eye as a faint, orange-hued star with an apparent visual magnitude of 5.0. This object is moving closer to the Earth with a heliocentric radial velocity of −41 km/s.
This is an aging giant star with a stellar classification of K3 III, which indicates it has exhausted the hydrogen at its core and evolved of the main sequence. As a consequence, its outer atmosphere has swollen to 44 times the radius of the Sun. It is a suspected irregular variable that ranges in photographic magnitude from 6.1 down to 6.6. 9 Boötis is considered mildly lithium-rich with a moderate level of chromospheric activity. It is radiating 857 times the luminosity of the Sun from its enlarged photosphere at an effective temperature of 4,197 K.

== References ==

Decoration for a Thesis in Honor of Saint Francis Solano

Decoration for a Thesis in Honor of Saint Francis Solano is an etched print in two sheets by the Italian printmaker Stefano della Bella, made in 1639 as an invitation or advertisement for a debate defending a theological thesis. The event took place in the Franciscan convent of Santa Maria in Aracoeli in Rome and was related to the writings of Friar Buenaventura de Salinas y Córdoba. The thesis was dedicated to the Spanish Franciscan friar, Saint Francis Solano for his works with the indigenous communities in the Peruvian Viceroyalty of Spain.

== Visual description ==

=== Top sheet ===
Standing in the middle of the piece is Saint Francis Solano dressed in traditional Franciscan garb, his arms encircling a rising sun. Above the sun appears an emblem displaying a cross overlaid by two crossed arms. He is surrounded by an ovular frame made of leaves, also encompassing within a background featuring two major landmarks in colonial Peru, the capital city of Lima and the Silver mines of Potosí, as well as the Pacific Ocean directly behind Solano. Both within the frame and around it lay several inscriptions written in Latin as well as four putti. Two putti sit at either side of Solano holding an inscription regarding Solano across his knees, while the others look down upon the scene from outside the frame each from one of the top corners. Each of the putti are holding individual coats of arms. Those near the feet of Solano are identical copies portraying medieval imagery and short Latin inscriptions. Those of the upper putti are distinct. The upper left is adorned with three crowns underneath a star with an inscription stating, ¨this is the sign of kings¨. The upper right depicts a friar surrounded by a crowd of men, heads adorned with halos, and an inscription stating, ¨pronounce twelve disciples from Peru¨. The space in the bottom corners is filled on both sides with bound books.

==== Latin inscriptions ====
Ovular frame:

Left: "The city of Lima for almost unlimited souls converted to the ecclesiastical glory of the Canonization of Solano"
Right: "The silver Mount Potosi, after conveying to Spain almost unlimited treasures, begs for the favor of the Beatification of Solano"
Center banner:

"Solano, the guardian angel of the Peruvians"

=== Bottom sheet ===
In the center of the piece stands 13th century Scottish theologian Friar John Duns Scotus dressed in the same fashion as Solano. Scotus is holding a Latin inscribed banner that flows down past his arms. He is flanked by two putti in the same manner as Solano in the work's top sheet. He stands above a Latin inscription and between two stone columns. The columns in the print show similarity to those in the Sevelli Chapel altar in the right transept of the cathedral. The emblem above the sun in the upper sheet also appears as an element in the altar. Directly to the outside of the columns are two sections of Latin inscriptions. The inscriptions on the side are the sixteen theses that were defended at Santa Maria in Aracoeli.

==== Latin inscriptions ====
Center banner:

"The whole doctrine is spread out by the egg of the prince of Scots theologians"
Bottom margin:

"General treatises of the whole Seraphic religion will be discussed at the convent of Santa Maria of Aracoeli in Rome, celebrated on the first of June 1639"

== Historical background ==

=== Steffano della Bella ===
In 1610 Steffano della Bella was born to a Florentine sculptor father, whose early death led to Steffano becoming an apprentice in the arts himself. His career took him through various methods, ultimately landing on the practice of etching. He learned the practice from Remigio Cantagallina, former master of Callot, an important figure in Baroque era printmaking. Steffano produced around one thousand etchings throughout his career, focusing greatly on reproducing events going on in the world around him. In 1633 he would move to Rome, where he would eventually complete the titular piece of the article.

=== St. Francis Solano ===
The honoree of the thesis defense at Santa Maria in Aracoeli was a member of the Franciscan Order and a subset of the organization sent on mission to the Viceroyalty of Peru during the times of the colonial Spanish Empire. Franciscans in Peru were both utilized by the Spanish Crown as well as the Catholic church. The crown sought to seek cooperation with the indigenous populations of the region through religious connection, while the church viewed it as an opportunity to evangelize the people of the new world. St. Francis himself was particularly successful in the attempt to grow close with the indigenous peoples. His ability to communicate in various native dialects allowed him to form significant connections within the communities in which he served. It was for this reason that the thesis described in etching was dedicated to him personally.

=== Buenaventura de Salinas y Córdoba ===
Buenaventura was born of mixed Spanish and Peruvian heritage in 1610, in Lima, Peru. Nephew of former Spanish conquistadors, he attended Spanish academic institutions due to the connections of his family, being named the Secretary of the Interior to the Viceroyalty of Peru. However, in 1616 he abandoned his governmental position in favor of the same Franciscan Order as Solano. Compelled by his mixed heritage, he felt the need to protect the indigenous populations from the intentions of the Spaniards via his newfound position as a friar. Buenaventura took up an academic position within the order, authoring several works regarding the work done in the New World. Most notably, "Memorial de las historias del Nuevo Mundo, Perú", chronicling the efforts of the Franciscan Order in Peru, and arguing for the Canonization of Friar Francis Solano. This work prefaced the 1639 thesis defense in Rome.

== Bibliography ==
"Decoration for a Thesis in Honor of Saint Francis Solano". www.metmuseum.org. Retrieved 2022-02-24.
Massar, Phyllis D. (1968). "Presenting Stefano della Bella". The Metropolitan Museum of Art Bulletin. 27 (3): 159–176. doi:10.2307/3258383. ISSN 0026-1521.
"Buenaventura de Salinas y Córdoba | Real Academia de la Historia". dbe.rah.es. Retrieved 2022-02-24.
Tibesar, Antonine (1953). Franciscan beginnings in colonial Peru. Publications of the Academy of American Franciscan History. Monograph series, v. 1. Washington: Academy of American Franciscan History.
"Basilica Santa Maria in Ara Coeli - MONNOROMA.it". www.monnoroma.it. Retrieved 2022-02-26.
Donovan, Stephen (1909). "St. Francis Solanus" . Catholic Encyclopedia. Vol. 6.

== References ==

2008 Team Speedway Junior European Championship

The 2008 Team Speedway Junior European Championship was the 1st UEM Team Speedway Junior European Championship season. The Final took place on 22 May 2008 in Florian Kapała Stadium in Rawicz, Poland. First edition European Championship was won by Sweden team.

== Results ==
It was the first Championship title for Linus Eklöf (11 points in Final), Ludvig Lindgren (10 pts), Simon Gustafsson (9 pts), Linus Sundström (6 pts) and Niklas Larsson (0 heats).
In Semi Final 1 in Güstrow, Germany won Germany team (45 points). Second was Denmark (38 pts) and they were qualified also. Third was Croatia (28 pts) with Jurica Pavlic (the then Individual European Champion) who was the best rider in this meeting (18 points in 6 heats). Last was France (9 pts).
In Semi Final 2 in Wiener Neustadt, Austria won Sweden team (37 points). Second was Russia (31 pts) but they did not qualify because the 2nd team in SF1 Denmark had more points. Third Latvia (28 pts) and fourth Czech Republic (24 pts) did not-qualified also. The best rider in SF2 was Artem Laguta from Russia (15 points in 6 heats).
In the Final, Sweden team (36 points) beat Germany (29 pts), Denmark (28 pts) and Poland (26 pts). Champion title was won after 19th heat, when Lindgren beat German Erik Pudel. Silver medal for Germany was won after last heat, when Frank Facher was last, but Danish Patrick Hougaard took only one point. Poland lost chance for a bronze medal after the 19th heat: Dawid Lampart won, but Danish Simon Nielsen took one point. The best rider in Final was Maciej Janowski from Poland (15 points in 6 heats). Janowski won 2nd heat the best time (62.16 sek.).

== Heat details ==

=== Semi-Final 1 ===
23 March 2008
Güstrow
Referee:
Jury President:

M - exclusion for exceeding two-minute time allowance •
T - exclusion for touching the tapes •
X - other exclusion •
E - retired or mechanical failure •
F - fell

=== Semi-Final 2 ===
19 April 2008 (2 pm)
Wiener Neustadt
Referee: Wojciech Grodzki
Jury President: None (FMNR Jury Member Susanne Hüttinger)
Austria team was replaced by Latvia team.

M - exclusion for exceeding two-minute time allowance •
T - exclusion for touching the tapes •
X - other exclusion •
E - retired or mechanical failure •
F - fell

=== The Final ===
22 May 2008 (5 pm.)
Rawicz, Florian Kapała Stadium
Referee: I. Darago
Jury President: S. Lyatosinskyy
Attendance: 1,500
Beat Time: 62.16 - Maciej Janowski (POL) in 2nd heat

M - exclusion for exceeding two-minute time allowance •
T - exclusion for touching the tapes •
X - other exclusion •
E - retired or mechanical failure •
F - fell

Heat after heat

(62.75) Ekloef, Norgaard, Wölbert, Kajzer (E1)
(62.16) Janowski, Facher, Gustafsson, Larsen
(63.03) Pudel, Lindgren, Hougaard, Łopaczewski
(64.97) Jakobsen, Dilger, Sundström, Miturski
(63.56) Hougaard, Janowski, Sundström, Wölbert(E4)
(63.93) Lindgren, Facher, Jakobsen, Kajzer (X)
(63.19) Gustafsson, Miturski, Pudel, Norgaard
(64.37) Ekloef, Larsen, Lampart, Dilger (E4)
(62.61) Janowski, Gustafsson, Jakobsen, Petersen
(63.53) Hougaard, Facher, Ekloef, Miturski
(64.03) Sundström, Pudel, Larsen, Kajzer (E)
(63.97) Wölbert, Lindgren, Janowski, Nielsen
(65.31) Hougaard, Facher, Sundström(X), Łoaczewski (M)
(63.44) Lampart, Wölbert, Lindgren, Larsen
(64.66) Janowski, Ekloef, Pudel, Jakobsen
(64.59) Wölbert, Hougaard, Gustafsson, Lampart
(65.40) Nielsen, Kajzer, Sundström, Petersen (E4)
(65.59) Wölbert, Gustafsson, Larsen, Lampart (X)
(65.03) Lampart, Lindgren, Nielsen, Pudel
(65.16) Janowski, Ekloef, Hougaard, Facher

== References ==

pzm.pl - UEM Calendar 2008
pzm.pl - Allocation
speedway.org

== See also ==
2008 Team Speedway Junior World Championship
2008 Individual Speedway Junior European Championship

2010 Little League World Series

The 2010 Little League World Series was held in South Williamsport, Pennsylvania. It began on August 20 and ended on August 29. Eight teams from the United States and eight from throughout the world competed in the 64th edition of the Little League World Series. In the championship game, the international champions from Tokyo, Japan, defeated the United States champions from Waipahu, Hawaii. It was the seventh championship for Japan overall, and the first since 2003.
Activision released a video game in advance of the event, Little League World Series Baseball 2010.

== Tournament changes ==

On April 14, 2010, Little League announced that starting in 2010, round robin play would be replaced by a double-elimination bracket in each pool. The winners of each pool will advance to single elimination US and International Championship games and the winners of those games will advance to the World Championship game. Every team will play a minimum of three games: the four teams that lose their first two games will cross over and play special US vs. International games.
On August 2, 2010, it was announced that instant replay would be expanded. The system, which was first used in 2008, now includes force outs, tags along the base paths, missed bases, and hit batters as plays that are subject to review. Previously, only plays in which a dead ball would have resulted were able to be reviewed. Additionally, team managers are now allowed to challenge plays if the umpires have not already called for a replay. Before losing the right to challenge, managers are allowed only one unsuccessful challenge in the first six innings of a game, as well as one unsuccessful challenge in extra innings. Challenges must be made after the play in question and before the next pitch. A "replay team" located in an office at Howard J. Lamade Stadium will judge all plays under review. The first challenge in LLWS history that resulted in an original ruling being overturned occurred on August 21, the second day of the tournament. Prior to the championship game, instant replay had been used 16 times with 8 calls being overturned while the other 8 were upheld. The average amount of time needed for all reviews was 52 seconds.

== Teams ==

Republic of China, commonly known as Taiwan, due to complicated relations with People's Republic of China, is recognized by the name Chinese Taipei by majority of international organizations including Little League Baseball (LLB). For more information, please see Cross-Strait relations.

== Results ==

=== United States ===

==== Pool A ====

==== Pool B ====

=== International ===

==== Pool C ====

==== Pool D ====

=== Crossover games ===
Teams that lost their first two games played a crossover game against a team from the other side of the bracket that also lost its first two games. These games were labeled Game A and Game B. This provided teams who were already eliminated the opportunity to play a third game.

=== Championship games ===

== Champions path ==
The Edogawa Minami LL reached the LLWS with a record of 8 wins, 1 loss, and 1 tie. In total, their record was 13–1–1, their only loss coming against Musashi-Fuchu.

== References ==

== External links ==
2010 official results via Wayback Machine

1983 Algerian Cup final

The 1983 Algerian Cup final was the 21st final of the Algerian Cup. The final took place on May 20, 1983, at Stade 5 Juillet 1962 in Algiers with kick-off at 19:00. MP Alger beat ASC Oran 4-3 after extra time to win their fourth Algerian Cup.

== Pre-match ==

=== Details ===

== References ==

2013 UCI Road World Championships – Women's junior time trial

The Women's junior time trial of the 2013 UCI Road World Championships is a cycling event that took place on 23 September 2013 in the region of Tuscany, Italy.
The course of the race was 16.27 km from the Cascine to the Nelson Mandela Forum in Florence.

== Qualification ==
All National Federations could enter 4 riders of whom 2 could start. Besides of that, the below listed continental champions could take part in addition to this number.

== Participating nations ==
30 nations participated in the women's junior time trial.

== Schedule ==

Source

== Final classification ==

DNS = Did not start

== See also ==

2005 UCI Juniors Road World Championships – Women's time trial

== References ==

Avdo Palić

Avdo Palić (4 April 1958 – 1995) was a Bosnian military officer during the Bosnian war. Palić held the rank of colonel in the Army of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina (ARBiH) and commanded the Bosnian government forces in the enclave of Žepa during the entire 40-month-long siege.
On 27 July 1995, Palić disappeared after he went to a meeting with UNPROFOR and Army of Republika Srpska (VRS). He was last seen alive in a prison in Bijeljina in September 1995 after which his fate remained a mystery for 14 years. On 5 August 2009, it was announced that his remains had been found back in November 2001, but were not positively identified using DNA profiling until July 2009.

== Early life ==
Avdo Palić was born in the village of Krivača in the municipality of Han Pijesak in north-eastern Bosnia and Herzegovina, Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, into a Muslim Bosniak family. Prior to the war he served in the Yugoslav People's Army (JNA) as a reserve artillery officer and was a graduate of the Yugoslav Military Academy and the University of Sarajevo. During his studies in Sarajevo, he met his wife Esma from Žepa. Before the war, they lived in Vlasenica, where Avdo was employed as a teacher in the local high school.

== Bosnian War ==
During the war Avdo and Esma Palić married; the couple had two daughters. Esma came to Žepa, her hometown on 29 March 1992, to visit her relatives. Her future husband joined her shortly thereafter, when he came to visit his father in Vlasenica. When the war started in early April, Vlasenica fell to the Serb forces and Palić came to Žepa, where he became the commander of the local unit of the Territorial Defence Force of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and subsequently the commander of all Bosnian government forces in the area (which would eventually become known as the ARBiH 285th Light Mountain Brigade).
On 4 June 1992, a 40-vehicle convoy of Bosnian Serb troops was sent from Pale to occupy Žepa. As it passed through a canyon on the way to the town it was ambushed by Palić and his men. The defenders of Žepa were not adequately armed and equipped to stop the convoy so they also dislodged boulders and rolled logs down into the canyon in effort to stop the attack. Forty-five Bosnian Serb soldiers were killed and another 31 were captured. All of the captured Serb soldiers were later exchanged for food. Following that unsuccessful attempt to occupy Žepa the Serbs laid siege for the next three years.
The Žepa enclave was in a remote, mountainous and heavily forested area and was completely surrounded by the Republika Srpska rebel army which regularly and indiscriminately shelled the enclave. Žepa was entirely dependent on outside supplies of food and medicine which were supposed to be delivered by the Ukrainian UNPROFOR peacekeepers, but the deliveries were consistently obstructed by the Serbs. Nevertheless, the defenders of Žepa were able to hold out in spite of a severe lack of weapons and ammunition. Nearly all of their weapons were captured from the enemy or were smuggled in on foot or by helicopter from the Bosnian government controlled areas.
On 6 May 1993, the United Nations Security Council passed Resolution 824. The resolution declared six areas in Bosnia and Herzegovina including Žepa, as "safe areas" and declared that they "should be free from armed attacks and any other hostile act".
After the passage of the resolution the Žepa enclave was demilitarized and a contingent of UNPROFOR troops from Ukraine was stationed there. The ARBiH forces turned over most of their weapons to the UNPROFOR in exchange for UN guarantees to protect the enclave in the event of an attack. However the shelling as well as other offensive actions against Žepa continued.
In early 1995 the Serbs stepped up military operations against the eastern Bosnian enclaves of Srebrenica and Žepa. In March 1995 the President of Republika Srpska, Radovan Karadžić, issued a directive concerning the long-term strategy of the VRS forces in the region. The directive, known as Directive 7, specified that the Serb forces were to "complete the physical separation of Srebrenica from Žepa as soon as possible, preventing even communication between individuals in the two enclaves. By planned and well-thought out combat operations, create an unbearable situation of total insecurity with no hope of further survival or life for the inhabitants of Srebrenica". Between 6–11 July 1995 the Serbs overran the enclave of Srebrenica and committed the notorious Srebrenica massacre, summarily executing thousands of Bosnian prisoners of war and male civilians. Following that, they turned their sights on Žepa.
Knowing that his men were outnumbered, outgunned and low on ammunition, Col. Palić sought to negotiate a withdrawal and spare the 9,000 people in Žepa the fate of the massacre victims in Srebrenica. He first escorted his family to safety and returned to Žepa to secure safe passage for everybody else. While he negotiated his men hid in the forests around Žepa and began to make their way to areas such as Tuzla, Goražde and other Bosnian government controlled areas; many civilians also escaped. By engaging in negotiation he was able to give the people of Žepa time to escape and another massacre was avoided. During his meetings with Serb officers he was supposedly under the protection of the UN.

== Death ==
On 27 July 1995, Palić went to a meeting with senior Serb and UN officials, among whom was General Ratko Mladić, the chief commander of the Bosnian Serb army. At the meeting he was seized by the Serbs. Abdurahman Malkić and Sado Ramić, two Bosniak prisoners from Srebrenica confirmed that they were held at the same prison as Palić in Bijeljina until late August 1995. However, the two men were transferred to another prison and eventually released after the signing of the Dayton Accords. The Republika Srpska government has concluded that on 5 September 1995 a VRS military officer came to the prison in Bijeljina and took Palić with him, after which he was never seen again.
Since the end of the war through the day that the remains of Palić were positively identified his widow Esma campaigned to force the government of Republika Srpska to investigate the case, locate the remains and prosecute the killers. During the campaign Esma Palić has filed lawsuits in the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Court of Human Rights in Strassburg. She has also petitioned the Office of the High Representative in Sarajevo. Amnesty International and other human rights groups have also made efforts to get publicize the case. In January 2002 the government of Republika Srpska paid Esma Palic 65,000 KM in compensation.
The remains of Palić and eight other men were found in a mass grave near the village of Vragolovi in the municipality of Rogatica, near Žepa in November 2001. The remains were prepared for DNA analysis in June 2002. The first attempt to match the DNA from the remains to DNA samples provided by Palić's sister and daughters as well as samples extracted from the remains of Palić's father who died in 1992 were unsuccessful. The reason for the failed identification was that the sample did not yield enough genetic materials for a match.
Starting in November 2008 the laboratory charged with identifying the remains of people killed during the war began to reexamine all remains that had not been matched to any DNA samples provided by relatives in the database. A second analysis of Palić's remains was conducted in late July 2009 using more sophisticated methods and yielded a positive match. Since 2002, the remains had been buried in a cemetery for unidentified victims of the war in Visoko. In light of the second, positive match, Palić's body was re-exhumed on 12 August 2009, and sent for a third analysis at the request of Esma Palić.
On 26 August 2009, Palić was buried on the grounds of the Ali Pasha's Mosque in Sarajevo with several thousand people in attendance.

== See also ==
List of solved missing person cases
Naser Orić
Operations Krivaja '95 and Stupčanica '95

== External links ==
BH Dani article about Palić
Where is Avdo Palic?

Aftab Ahmed Khan

Aftab Ahmed Khan (27 February 1940 — 21 January 2022) was a former Indian police officer (IPS) and politician from Mumbai. He is noted for his encounter killings of gangsters from the Mumbai organized crime syndicates. He is also known as the founder of Anti-terrorism Squad (ATS) in 1990.

== Early life and background ==
His father A.S. Khan had been a noted Public Prosecutor in undivided Hyderabad State and then in Bombay State, practising at the Aurangabad Sessions Court and the High Court.

== Career ==
An officer of the Indian Police Service, Khan was a Deputy Inspector General of Police in Maharashtra state in the 1980s. He shot into fame with the shootout at the Lokhandwala Complex, Andheri, in which seven gangsters including Maya Dolas and Dilip Buwa were killed in 1991.
Khan was commissioned as an IPS officer in 1963 in the Maharashtra Cadre. He served as SDPO (DySP) of Miraj (1965-1967) and Baramati (1967-1968), Addl. SP (HQ) of Ahmednagar District (1968-1969), Addl. SP (Town) Nashik (1969-1971), Acting Commandant in the rank of Addl. SP of SRPF Group II at Pune (1971-1973), SP of Satara District (1973–1975), DCP of Mumbai Police Detection Unit (1975–1977), Commandant of Group VIII at Mumbai (1977–1978), SP of Amravati District (1978–1980), SSP of Thane District in which capacity he was involved in the raising of the Thane Commissionerate as Addl. Commissioner (I) in the rank of SSP and later DIG (1980–1984), DIG (Sector Commander) of CRPF on deputation in Punjab (1984–1986), Joint Director of IB (Haryana) in 1986–1987 on Central Deputation, Addl. CP of Mumbai Police Crime Branch (1987–1989), DIG (State Intelligence Bureau) (1989–1990), Addl. CP (North) (1990–1993) and Jt. Cp (Crime) (1993–1995) of Mumbai Police. He retired 2 years prematurely as ADG (Training) of Maharashtra Police in 1997.
In the mid-1990s, Khan sought to build on his media image by entering politics. Initially expressing interest in joining the Samajwadi Party, he eventually went with the Janata Dal, with whom he stood for elections in the Mumbai North-west constituency in 1998. However, he was unsuccessful.

== Later life and death ==
Khan later helped to run a private security agency that he set up in 1996, along with his son. Following a bout of COVID-19, he died of pneumonia in Mumbai on 21 January 2022, at the age of 81.

== In popular culture ==
In 2007, producer Apoorva Lakhia directed the Bollywood crime film Shootout at Lokhandwala, which was based on the 1991 Lokhandwala Complex shootout led by Aftab Ahmed Khan. Khan was also portrayed in the film as Additional Police Commissioner Shamsher Khan played by Sanjay Dutt. He himself appeared as Commissioner Krishnamurthy in the film as well.
He also played a court judge in 2012's Four Two Ka One.

== References ==

== External links ==
Aftab Ahmed Khan at IMDb

Aken Ferry

The Aken Ferry (German: Fähre Aken), also known as the Steutz Aken Ferry, is a cable ferry across the Elbe river between Aken and Steutz in Saxony-Anhalt, Germany.
Technically, the ferry is a reaction ferry, which is propelled by the current of the water. The ferry is attached to a floating cable which is anchored firmly in the riverbed upstream of the ferry. To operate the ferry, it is angled into the current, causing the force of the current to swing the ferry across the river on the cable.
A ferry was first mentioned in Aken in 1355. The current ferry vessel was built in 1997 and has a load capacity of 42 tonnes (46 tons), with the largest single load being 25 tonnes (28 tons). It can carry up to 12 cars across the Elbe in about 5 minutes.

== References ==

2010 BWF World Junior Championships – girls' singles

The girls' singles event for the 2010 BWF World Junior Championships was held between 21 April and 25 April. Ratchanok Intanon defended her title, becoming the first ever to do so in her category.

== Seeded ==

== Draw ==

=== Finals ===

=== Top half ===

==== Section 1 ====

==== Section 2 ====

==== Section 3 ====

==== Section 4 ====

=== Bottom half ===

==== Section 5 ====

==== Section 6 ====

==== Section 7 ====

==== Section 8 ====

== References ==

Claire Holt (art historian)

Claire Holt (August 23, 1901 - May 29, 1970) was a Russian-born American journalist, anthropologist, and art historian specializing in the arts of Indonesia.

== Early life ==
Born to an upper-middle class Jewish family as Claire Bagg in Riga, Russian Empire in 1901, Holt married Bernard Hopfenberg in 1920 and emigrated from the Soviet Union shortly thereafter with her husband. In 1921, they moved to New York City, where she received instruction at the Brooklyn Law School and Columbia University School of Journalism. During this time, she also studied sculpture with Alexander Archipenko at Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art. Her husband died in 1928. From 1928 to 1930 she was employed as a reporter for The New York World, for which she wrote dance reviews under the pen name Claire Holt, which later became her legal name. In 1930, she traveled to Indonesia where she studied and documented Indonesian dance through film and photography with Rolf de Mare, a Swedish dance archivist and art collector. She returned to the US upon the start of World War II and served as a research assistant to anthropologist Margaret Mead at the Museum of Natural History.

== Career ==
Holt joined the staff of Cornell University in 1957 as a research associate. Her most important work of scholarship was Art in Indonesia: Continuities and Change (Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 1967), an interdisciplinary introduction to Hindu and Buddhist monuments of Indonesia and the heritage of Indian influence in the performance arts. In 1965, she helped found the Cornell Modern Indonesia Project with faculty in the Cornell Southeast Asia Program, a compilation of analyses of contemporary Indonesia and translations of documents regarding Indonesia's socio-political evolution in the 20th century made available for scholarship. Her approach to art history incorporated history and politics into the analysis of sculpture, dance, and traditional and modern painting. She was still active in scholarship at the time of her death in 1970.

== References ==

== External links ==
Guide to the Claire Holt Papers, ca. 1928-1970, New York Public Library
Claire Holt Papers, Cornell University Library Digital Collection
Guide to the Claire Holt Papers, 1927-1970, Cornell University Library
Cornell Modern Indonesia Project
"A Radiant Love for Indonesian Art"[1]
Sitting at the Feet of Gurus

56th government of Turkey

The 56th government of Turkey (11 January 1999 – 28 May 1999) was a minority government led by Bülent Ecevit of Democratic Left Party (DSP).

== Background ==
The election results of 1995 necessitated a series of coalition governments, all of which were unstable. Finally, Bülent Ecevit, the leader of DSP, was asked to form a minority government to serve as a caretaker government until new elections. Although DSP was the fourth party measured by seats, the others promised to support his government without formally participating in it.

== The government ==

== Aftermath ==
The government ended because of the elections held on 18 April 1999.

== References ==

1981 New Jersey gubernatorial election

The 1981 New Jersey gubernatorial election was held November 3, 1981. Republican Speaker of the New Jersey General Assembly Thomas Kean narrowly defeated Democratic U.S. Representative James Florio, 49.46%–49.38%, following a recount. Kean's final margin of victory was 1,797 votes out of more than two million votes cast. As of 2026, the 1981 gubernatorial election remains the closest gubernatorial contest in New Jersey history.
Primary elections were held June 2, 1981. The 1981 primaries were unique in New Jersey history (prior to 2025) in lacking county lines, whereby county party organizations endorsed candidates for preferential ballot positions, reliably delivering them a large percentage of the vote. As a result, a record number of candidates ran for the Democratic and Republican nominations, and the primaries were highly competitive. Kean and Florio prevailed, each with less than one-third of the vote.
The general election was framed as a referendum on the new presidency of Ronald Reagan and, in particular, Reagan's cuts to federal spending. On election night, the results were too close to call, but Kean led by fewer than 1,700 votes. Florio petitioned for a recount, which expanded Kean's lead slightly; Florio conceded the race on November 30.
Kean went on to serve two terms as governor from 1982 to 1990, whereupon he was succeeded by Florio, who won the 1989 election in a landslide.

== Democratic primary ==

=== Candidates ===
Herbert J. Buehler, former state senator from Point Pleasant Beach
John J. Degnan, New Jersey Attorney General
Frank J. Dodd, state senator from West Orange
James Florio, U.S. Representative from Runnemede
Kenneth A. Gibson, Mayor of Newark
William J. Hamilton, state senator from New Brunswick
Ann Klein, Human Services Commissioner, former Assemblywoman from Morristown, and candidate for governor in 1973
Stella E. Mann
Barbara McConnell, state assemblywoman from Flemington
Joseph P. Merlino, president of the New Jersey Senate from Trenton
Rose Zeidwerg Monyek
Robert A. Roe, U.S. Representative from Wayne and candidate for governor in 1977
Thomas F. X. Smith, Mayor of Jersey City

==== Withdrew ====
Donald Lan, Secretary of State of New Jersey (withdrew April 1981)
Charles B. Yates, state senator from Edgewater Park
Both Robert Roe and Jim Florio, who had run in 1977 against incumbent governor Byrne, ran again in 1981. Roe entered the race alongside New Jersey Senate President Joseph P. Merlino in late February. Merlino, who served as acting governor during Byrne's frequent trips out of state, took the opportunity to announce his campaign from the governor's podium at the state Capitol Building.

=== Campaign ===
The incredibly large primary field led candidates to define themselves on the issues, taking bold positions and trying to make the competition look unexciting by comparison. Most of the campaign was dominated by Florio and Roe, the best known candidates on the basis of their 1977 challenge to Byrne. However, they remained in Washington, D.C. for much of the campaign, allowing a number of challengers to gain attention.
For months, Gov. Byrne declined to endorse a candidate to succeed him. Instead, he praised several candidates: Degnan, Florio and Merlino for preserving the Pine Barrens; Merlino for his position on firearms; William J. Hamilton as a tax reformer; and Gibson as an urban planner. Eventually, Byrne threw his support behind Degnan and urged some other candidates to stand down.
Merlino ran a campaign focused on his record as President of the New Jersey Senate, making him sherpa of the Byrne legislative agenda and sometimes acting governor. He emphasized his sponsorship of laws banning handguns and a prescription drug assistance bill targeted at senior citizens. His strategy was to get 70 percent of the vote in his native Mercer County and 20 and 25 percent in the New York and Philadelphia television markets, respectively.
As the primary campaign came to a close, no clear favorite had emerged.

==== Crime and guns ====
Most Democratic candidates stressed the need to fight crime, supporting restoration of the death penalty, mandatory sentences without parole for gun crimes, limits on plea-bargaining, and tougher treatment of violent juvenile defenders. Merlino, for instance, emphasized his sponsorship of a ban on the sale or importation of handguns. Some candidates who supported a national ban nevertheless called Merlino's ban unworkable. It drew opposition from many rural legislators and sportsmen's and gun clubs and support from the National Coalition to Ban Handguns.
Two candidates broke from the pack on crime in different ways. In May, Florio was the sole Democrat endorsed by the National Rifle Association of America; the organization endorsed all of the Republican candidates. Gibson maintained his opposition to the death penalty.

=== Endorsements ===

=== Campaign finance ===

=== Results ===

Turnout was much higher than projected. Neil Upmeyer, director of the State Division of Elections, had predicted 575,000 Democrats would vote, and some campaign consultants projected the number would actually be much smaller.
Florio won, dominating in South Jersey and displaying surprising strength throughout the state. In his victory speech, Florio argued that the fall campaign would be a referendum on the Reagan administration's spending cuts, which had implicitly shifted the burden of government to the states. "[New Jersey] will be the first state to confront the problems of the 80s," he said. "Whether or not we agree with the policies coming out of Washington, a massive shift in responsibility is taking place."

== Republican primary ==

=== Candidates ===
Anthony Imperiale, assemblyman from Newark
Thomas Kean, former speaker of the New Jersey General Assembly from Livingston
Lawrence F. "Pat" Kramer, mayor of Paterson and former Commissioner of Community Affairs
Richard McGlynn, former New Jersey Superior Court judge
Barry T. Parker, state senator from Mount Holly
John K. Rafferty, mayor of Hamilton Township
Bo Sullivan, businessman
James Wallwork, state senator from Short Hills

==== Withdrew ====
Donald J. Albanese, assemblyman from Belvidere (ran for New Jersey Senate)

==== Declined ====
Raymond Bateman, former state senator and nominee for governor in 1977
The first candidate to enter the race for the Republican nomination was Assemblyman Donald J. Albanese, who announced even before the conclusion of the 1980 election.
Tom Kean, the former Assembly Speaker and runner-up in the 1977 primary, announced his campaign for the 1981 nomination in January. His announcement was shortly followed by that of Pat Kramer, the four-term mayor of Paterson. Both candidates entered the race as moderates, though emphasizing their appeal to supporters of President-elect Ronald Reagan following his overwhelming victory in the state.
The surprise entry into the race was businessman Bo Sullivan, whose political involvement had been limited to service as finance chair of the Essex County Republican organization. Sullivan laid the groundwork for his campaign at the 1980 Republican National Convention in Detroit, where despite being a complete unknown, he fêted the New Jersey delegates with a lavish poolside dinner. Beginning in January, Sullivan spent over $1 million of his own money to fund a television ad campaign throughout the state. Former senator James Wallwork, an Essex County resident like Kean and Sullivan, ran as a firm conservative and Reagan supporter.
John K. Rafferty, mayor of suburban Hamilton Township, had run Reagan's New Jersey campaign for a time before being replaced by Raymond J. Donovan, who had become the most powerful Republican in the state after Reagan appointed him United States Secretary of Labor.
The candidate least aligned with Reagan was former judge Richard McGlynn of Short Hills, who referred to one candidate forum as a "Ronald Reagan sound-alike contest."

=== Campaign ===
The candidates focused on presenting themselves as close, either personally or ideologically, to the new Reagan administration. Though he had been a loyal supporter of President Gerald Ford during the 1976 primary, Kean hired Roger Stone, who had served as Reagan's northeast coordinator and quoted Reagan in his campaign announcement. Kramer cited his experience as a business and municipal executive as similar to Reagan's as Governor of California. Both Kramer and Kean embraced capital punishment as a solution to crime and drug trafficking in the state.
Kramer's campaign, which had broad establishment support in all regions of the state, suffered a setback when the legislature passed an open-primary law, which effectively abolished the powerful "county line" for the 1981 primary. At that point, Kramer had already secured nine out of 21 county endorsements, while none of the other candidates had more than two. "We were driving to lock the thing up by the filing deadline," Kramer said, "and then they changed the law on me."
Kramer's reputation also suffered from the perception of Paterson and Passaic County as corrupt, though he aggressively distanced himself from an ongoing probe into highway bid-rigging by voluntarily testifying before a grand jury. He referred to the bid-rigging conspiracy and attendant whisper campaign as "a cancer that was killing me."
Taxes, crime, and economic stagnation remained major issues as they had been in 1977. In May, Kean released his plan for a comprehensive series of tax cuts over four-years, which he said would work "hand in glove" with the supply-side economic program of the Reagan administration. He promised a two-phase halving of the state corporate income tax and a reduction of the sales tax. Kramer was highly critical of the Kean plan, calling it "a blueprint for defeat of the Republican Party in November." He recalled the 1977 campaign, where the early Republican polling lead had vanished after Raymond Bateman's economic program was heavily attacked by Governor Byrne. Kramer said, "If we insist on playing tax plan politics for the sake of a primary victory, as Tom Kean is doing once again, we are asking for a repeat of the 1977 Republican disaster." Kramer instead proposed that spending cuts and deregulation must precede any tax cut.
By the end of the primary, no clear dominating issue or leading candidate had become evident. Kean, Kramer, Sullivan, and Wallwork were all considered contenders for the nomination.

==== Hoax Wallwork assassination attempt ====
In April, less than a month after the attempted assassination of Ronald Reagan, Wallwork was the subject of a complicated hoax assassination attempt. Wallwork was speaking at the Veterans Administration hospital in East Orange when a patient yelled, “There’s a man with a gun and he’s going to shoot the senator.” Wallwork was safely escorted from the building. The hospital's chief of police, Joseph Lancellotti, claimed to have unsuccessfully wrestled with the assassin before he escaped. Wallwork was assigned a police security detail to guard his home and escort him to campaign events. However, a Federal Bureau of Investigation inquest revealed that Lancelotti's claims were a hoax; further investigation revealed that he had a history of mental illness and similar hoaxes, including claims that he was shot at and kidnapped. He had previously served a prison sentence for calling in a false bomb threat.

=== Campaign finance ===

=== Results ===

In his victory speech, Kean praised his opponents and said the fall campaign would be a referendum on the Byrne administration. "People are sick in this state about the loss of jobs, the rise in taxes, the expansion of government and the fear of crime that abounds in this state," he said.

== General election ==

=== Candidates ===
James Florio, U.S. Representative from Runnemede (Democratic)
Bill Gahres, electrician and ditchdigger (Down With Lawyers)
Harry J. Gaynor, former mayor of Plainfield (Leadership By Example)
Jasper C. Gould, retired well-driller (Contempt of Court)
James E. Harris, Ford assembly line worker from Metuchen (Socialist Workers)
Thomas Kean, former Speaker of the New Jersey Assembly (Republican)
James A. Kolyer III, Cranford High School industrial arts teacher (Middle Class Candidate)
Jules Levin, apartment complex manager and perennial candidate (Socialist Labor)
Jack Moyers, real estate investor (Libertarian)
Ernest D. Pellerino, machinist (Law & Order)
Paul B. Rizzo, retired federal textile inspector (Independent-Honest-Available)
Charles C. Stone Jr., gun shop owner (Federalist)

==== Withdrew ====
Chester Grabowski, publisher of the Clifton Post Eagle and candidate in 1977 (The Suffering Majority) (withdrew in October, endorsed Florio)

=== Campaign ===

The candidates primarily sought to contrast themselves on economic issues, down to the personal contrast between Kean as the scion of a wealthy political dynasty and Florio as the upstart grandson of ethnic immigrants. Kean continued his praise of Reagan's economic program and worked to link Florio to the Byrne administration, while Florio pointed to his record in Congress as an opponent of Reagan's agenda and leading proponent of environmental regulation. In one early television ad, Kean was shown playing bocce, an indication that he was appealing to ethnic Italian voters.
Despite the initial framing, Kean distanced himself from some of Reagan's platform as Reagan became less popular with Democrats in the state. Kean campaigned on a theme of change from the previous eight years of the Byrne administration, and Florio attempted to counter this message with television spots projection Florio as the candidate for change instead.
In the final days of the campaign, Vice President George H. W. Bush and U.S. Senator Bill Bradley campaigned with Kean and Florio, respectively. Bush and Kean emphasized that the race was about local issues, rather than a referendum on the White House; Bradley and Florio argued the opposite.

=== Debates ===
In their first debate at Monmouth College, the lead candidates focused on economic issues. Kean blamed the state of the New Jersey economy of Byrne's tax and regulatory policies. Florio countered that a "drastic, across-the-board" corporate tax cut would threaten bankruptcy. Both candidates postured themselves as tough on crime, supporting capital punishment and new prison construction. Both supported Reagan's handling of the air controllers' strike, though only Kean did so enthusiastically.
A second debate before the New Jersey State Chamber of Commerce likewise focused on the economy. Florio attacked Kean's program as "voodoo economics" and compared it to similar plans which he said caused "financial chaos" in Wisconsin and Minnesota. Kean repeatedly challenged Florio to rule out an increase in the income tax, but Florio declined. After the debate, he said, "I am not prepared to unequivocally say that in the Florio administration there will never, never be a tax increase—that would be irresponsible."

=== Polling ===

=== Campaign finance ===

=== Results ===

==== Initial results ====
On election night, the results were extremely close. At least two television networks inaccurately declared Florio the winner.
Kean proceeded to his campaign headquarters in Livingston to deliver a prepared concession speech, but was stopped by his campaign manager. By the end of the night, Kean held a lead of 1,677 votes, and neither candidate would concede the race.

==== Ballot Security Task Force ====

Immediately after the election, New Jersey Democrats accused the Republican National Committee of intimidating minority voters in Newark, Camden, and Trenton via the Ballot Security Task Force, a private organization which sent out mailers to voters in these cities and posted armed off-duty police officers and large signs at certain precincts.
Litigation arising from the Ballot Security Task Force activities led to the Republican National Committee operating under a consent decree through 2018 constraining its use of a variety of tactics it deployed in the New Jersey 1981 gubernatorial campaign.

==== Recount ====
Florio, who later admitted he "assumed [he] was going to win," filed a petition for a formal recount in court. The process took another 27 days. In that time, both candidates set up transition offices to prepare to take office. On one occasion, both men showed up for a hotel ribbon-cutting ceremony with scissors.
Florio conceded on November 30 as Kean's lead grew slightly. "The people have selected Tom Kean," he said. Though the recount was still ongoing, Florio said that there was no longer any doubt that Kean had won and abandoned his request for a manual recount in Salem, Sussex, and Warren counties. Despite his concession, Florio called for further inquiries into the activities of the Ballot Security Task Force.
After 27 days, Kean was declared the winner on December 2. He prevailed by a margin of 1,797 votes.

==== Results by county ====

==== Counties that flipped from Democratic to Republican ====
Atlantic
Bergen
Cape May
Hunterdon
Monmouth
Ocean
Union
Warren

== Notes ==

== References ==

10th Rifle Division

10th Rifle Division can refer to:

10th Rifle Division (Soviet Union)
10th NKVD Rifle Division of the Soviet Union
10th Guards Motor Rifle Division of the Soviet Union
10th Siberian Rifle Division

Anoreina

Anoreina is a genus of beetles in the family Cerambycidae, containing the following species:

Anoreina ayri Martins & Galileo, 2008
Anoreina biannulata (Bates, 1866)
Anoreina helenae Machado & Monne, 2011
Anoreina nana (Bates, 1861)
Anoreina piara Martins & Galileo, 2008
Anoreina roosevelti Machado & Monne, 2011
Anoreina triangularis (Martins & Galileo, 2005)

== References ==

D-glycero-beta-D-manno-heptose-7-phosphate kinase

D-glycero-beta-D-manno-heptose-7-phosphate kinase (EC 2.7.1.167, heptose 7-phosphate kinase, D-beta-D-heptose 7-phosphotransferase, D-beta-D-heptose-7-phosphate kinase, HldE1 heptokinase, glycero-manno-heptose 7-phosphate kinase, D-beta-D-heptose 7-phosphate kinase/D-beta-D-heptose 1-phosphate adenylyltransferase, hldE (gene), rfaE (gene)) is an enzyme with systematic name ATP:D-glycero-beta-D-manno-heptose 7-phosphate 1-phosphotransferase. This enzyme catalyses the following chemical reaction

D-glycero-beta-D-manno-heptose 7-phosphate + ATP

⇌

{\displaystyle \rightleftharpoons }

D-glycero-beta-D-manno-heptose 1,7-bisphosphate + ADP
The bifunctional protein hldE includes D-glycero-beta-D-manno-heptose-7-phosphate kinase and D-glycero-beta-D-manno-heptose 1-phosphate adenylyltransferase activity (cf. EC 2.7.7.70).

== References ==

== External links ==
D-glycero-beta-D-manno-heptose-7-phosphate+kinase at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)

17 X Infinity

17 X Infinity is an American anthology of science fiction short stories edited by Groff Conklin. It was first published in paperback by Dell in August 1963 and reprinted in April 1969. The first British edition was issued by Mayflower-Dell in 1964 and reprinted in 1965.
The book collects seventeen novelettes and short stories, plus one poem, by various authors, together with an introduction by the editor. The stories were previously published from 1909-1962 in various science fiction and other magazines.

== Contents ==
"Introduction" (Groff Conklin)
"The Simian Problem" (Hollis Alpert)
"Strikebreaker" (Isaac Asimov)
"Come Into My Cellar" (Ray Bradbury)
"MS Fnd in a Lbry" (Hal Draper)
"Cato the Martian" (Howard Fast)
"The Spaceman Cometh" (Henry Gregor Felsen)
"The Machine Stops" (E. M. Forster)
"Frances Harkins" (Richard Goggin)
"The Day They Got Boston" (Herbert Gold)
"A-W-F, Unlimited" (Frank Herbert)
"As Easy as A.B.C." (Rudyard Kipling)
"MacDonough's Song" (poem) (Rudyard Kipling)
"Silenzia" (Alan Nelson)
"What to Do Until the Analyst Comes" (Frederik Pohl)
"Short in the Chest" (Idris Seabright)
"The Last of the Spode" (Evelyn E. Smith)
"Never Underestimate" (Theodore Sturgeon)
"Brooklyn Project" (William Tenn)

== Notes ==

American Legion Hall

American Legion Hall, Post, Building, Hut, or variations, refers to buildings associated with the American Legion. Such buildings in the United States include:

American Legion Hall (Searcy, Arkansas)
American Legion Hut-Des Arc, Des Arc, Arkansas
American Legion Post No. 121 Building, Paris, Arkansas
American Legion Post No. 127 Building, Eudora, Arkansas
American Legion Post No. 131, Leslie, Arkansas
Beely-Johnson American Legion Post 139, Springdale, Arkansas
Bunch-Walton Post No. 22 American Legion Hut, Clarksville, Arkansas
Estes-Williams American Legion Hut No. 61, Yellville, Arkansas
Hall Morgan Post 83, American Legion Hut, Rison, Arkansas
Jess Norman Post 166 American Legion Hut, Augusta, Arkansas
Lynn Shelton American Legion Post No. 27, Fayetteville, Arkansas
Nashville American Legion Building, Nashville, Arkansas
Newport American Legion Community Hut, Newport, Arkansas
Perryville American Legion Building, Perryville, Arkansas
Riggs-Hamilton American Legion Post No. 20, Russellville, Arkansas
Willie Lamb Post No. 26 American Legion Hut, Lepanto, Arkansas
American Legion Post 43, Hollywood, California
American Legion Post No. 560 (Long Beach, California)
American Legion Post No. 512 Carmel-by-the-Sea, California
American Legion Hall (Eads, Colorado)
American Legion Forest CCC Shelter, Barkhamsted, Connecticut
Milton-Myers American Legion Post No. 65, Delray Beach, Florida
American Legion Cabin, Potlatch, Idaho
American Legion Hall (Shoshone, Idaho)
John Regan American Legion Hall, Boise, Idaho
Nampa American Legion Chateau, Nampa, Idaho
American Legion Memorial Building, Atlantic, Iowa
Carl L. Caviness Post 102, American Legion, Chariton, Iowa
Leo Ellis Post No. 22, American Legion Building, Princeton, Missouri
American Legion Hut (Decatur, Mississippi), Decatur, Mississippi
American Legion Hall (McGill, Nevada)
American Legion Hut (Edmond, Oklahoma)
American Legion Hut (Tahlequah, Oklahoma)
Cushing American Legion Building, Cushing, Oklahoma
American Legion Building (Spartanburg, South Carolina)
American Legion Hut (Hampton, South Carolina)
Faulkton American Legion Hall, Faulkton, South Dakota
Fillmore American Legion Hall, Fillmore, Utah
American Legion Hall (Olympia, Washington)
Jackson Hole American Legion Post No. 43, Jackson, Wyoming
Site of Ferdinand Branstetter Post No. 1, American Legion, Van Tassell, Wyoming
American Legion Post 160 (Smyrna, Georgia)

== See also ==
List of American Legion buildings

APRE (band)

APRE are an English alternative pop duo formed in Kent in 2018, comprising two members: Charlie Brown, and Jules Konieczny. Their debut single ("All Yours") was released on 10 April 2018, followed by their debut EP (The Movement of Time) on 25 May 2018. Upon its release, "All Yours" hit number-one on Hype Machine.

== Background ==
APRE comprises two members: Charlie Brown, and Jules Konieczny. Brown and Konieczny met at Ealing Chess Club, where the owner used to let them use the back-room to rehearse and record music. Both studied BA Creative Musicianship at The Institute of Contemporary Music Performance in London.

== Career ==
Their debut single, "All Yours", was released on 10 April 2018 through their own label Beach 91; named after a sign on Ealing Chess Club's garden shed. This was succeeded by the release of "Don't You Feel Like Heaven?" on 24 May 2018; both of which then appeared on their debut EP (The Movement of Time) released on 25 May 2018. Their second EP, Drum Machines Killed Music, was released on 14 September 2018; featuring the singles "Without Your Love" and "Everybody Loves You". The band released their first single with Polydor, "Backstreet", on 16 October 2018. Preceded by the release of "Gap Year 2008" on 7 February 2019, their third EP - Everyone's Commute - was released on 29 March 2019. A 12" vinyl containing tracks from their three EPs to date (The Movement of Time, Drum Machines Killed Music, and Everyone's Commute) was released on 13 April 2019 as part of Record Store Day 2019.

== Discography ==

=== Studio albums ===

=== Mixtapes ===

=== Extended plays ===

=== Singles ===

== Awards and nominations ==

== Tours ==

== References ==

== External links ==

APRE official website

Coles County Courthouse

Coles County Courthouse is a historic courthouse in Charleston, Illinois. The courthouse is located in a public square in central Charleston and houses most of Coles County, Illinois's administrative offices as well as its courts. It was built in 1898 and designed by Chicago architect C. W. Rapp in the Richardsonian Romanesque style. The building's exterior is faced in brown stone from the Embarras River; Bedford stone is used for several architectural details. The corners of the building feature pavilions topped by pyramids, and a clock tower topped with a pyramid is situated atop the center of the courthouse. The four main entrances, located on each side of the building, feature an arcaded porch with recessed doors.
The courthouse was added to the National Register of Historic Places on November 28, 1978.

== References ==

153rd Regiment Royal Armoured Corps

The 153rd Regiment Royal Armoured Corps (153 RAC, sometimes known as 153 (Essex) Regt RAC) was an armoured regiment of the Royal Armoured Corps, part of the British Army, and was raised during the Second World War. The regiment saw brief but intense action in the invasion of Normandy before being broken up to provide replacements to other units.

== Origin ==
153rd RAC was formed by conversion to the armoured role of the 8th Battalion, Essex Regiment, a hostilities-only infantry battalion that had been raised during 1940. The battalion had been serving in 226th Independent Infantry Brigade (Home), a Home Defence formation, when the whole brigade was converted into 34th Army Tank Brigade on 1 December 1941. The regiment served in the brigade alongside the North Irish Horse and 147 RAC and later 151 RAC (later redesignated 107 RAC) when the North Irish Horse was transferred elsewhere. In common with other infantry battalions transferred to the Royal Armoured Corps, the personnel of 153 RAC would have continued to wear their Essex Regiment cap badge on the black beret of the Royal Armoured Corps.
During the conversion, surplus personnel were formed into "R" Company, Essex Regiment, which soon afterwards was designated V Corps HQ Defence Company.

== Training ==
153 RAC began to receive its first Churchill tanks in March 1942; it had its full scale of equipment by the end of August. Having been billeted in Swindon, Wiltshire, the regiment moved with 34th Tank Brigade to Eastern England and then the South Coast for training. At the end of 1942 it moved to Broome Park, Kent, which remained the regiment's base for the next year, utilising firing ranges across Southern England.
In early 1944, as training intensified for the coming Normandy invasion, 153 RAC moved to Folkestone in Kent, and then Headley, Surrey, before finally moving to its Marshalling Area near Portsmouth at the end of June.

== Service ==
153 RAC was transported to Normandy from 2–4 July. As an independent brigade under 21st Army Group, 34th Tank Brigade could be assigned to support any infantry division that required the assistance of tanks, its regiments usually split up to form brigade groups with the infantry.
On 9 July, 153 RAC was ordered to move to I Corps' front to prepare for an attack on Caen, but the fall of the city (Operation Charnwood) led to the cancellation of the move. 153 RAC finally went into action on 16 July, when 34 Tank Brigade supported 227th Brigade of 15th (Scottish) Infantry Division in an attack in the Esquay–Évrecy area west of Caen. The object of the operation was to "hold the attention of the enemy to that front while preparations for a breakthrough were being made east of Caen" (referring to the forthcoming Operation Goodwood).
The last phase of 227 Brigade and 34 Tank Brigade's joint operation was an attack on the wooded area of Gavrus and Bougy by 8th Battalion, Royal Scots and 153 RAC. Some Churchill Crocodile flamethrowing tanks and Churchill AVREs were assigned to support the operation but were not used. The attack began at 05.30 on 16 July, and the final objective was reached by 10.25, but there were still enemy troops in the woods to be mopped up. An early casualty was the regimental commanding officer, hit in the back while climbing into his tank. At 14.50 the Germans counter-attacked with a mixed force, and the British claimed to have destroyed a Tiger tank. In a second counter-attack later in the afternoon the Germans lost another Tiger and three Panther tanks. The regimental war diary refers to "a slogging match" throughout the rest of the day. Casualties included the commander of "A" Squadron and four of his crews who crossed a ridge to deal with machine-guns on the flank. Their burnt-out tanks were discovered weeks later near Évrecy. The counter-attacks dwindled after 18.00, and 153 withdrew into its forward rally position. It was in this posn. [sic] that the majority of the casualties occurred. A considerable number of tks were damaged and crews injured through intense mortar fire'.
The following day, 153 RAC formed two composite squadrons, absorbing the remnants of "A" Squadron. "C" Squadron spent 17 July north of Bougy as an immediate counter-attack force, and was heavily mortared. "B" Sqn supported an attack by 147 RAC and 53rd (Welsh) Infantry Division. "B" Squadron was soon engaged by enemy armour and the battle continued until nightfall, with casualties including the squadron commander. 153 RAC's total casualties for this two-day operation comprised 10 tanks knocked out or destroyed, 16 officers and 70 other ranks killed, wounded, or missing. The crews had been in their tanks for 30 hours without relief, either in action or instant readiness.
Over succeeding days, the regiment was rested and reorganised. From 23 July, it returned to supporting other formations in a defensive role around Bougy and Maltot. In early August, its tanks fired in support of raids by 158th Brigade of 53rd (Welsh) Division trying to establish whether 10th SS Panzer Division was still in front. It transpired that the Germans were withdrawing. On 5 August, 153 RAC made a rapid cross-country move to Mondrainville to support 177th Brigade of 59th (Staffordshire) Infantry Division, which was attacking towards Mont Pincon. The operation was mounted so hurriedly that there was no time to organise a proper tie-up between tanks and infantry. Next, 153 RAC was transferred to support 197th Brigade of the 59th (Staffordshire) Division, which crossed the River Orne on 9 August. The following day, it followed the retreating enemy, carrying infantry aboard its tanks. The regiment continued in the line until 15 August, supporting infantry and helping to clear up pockets of resistance.

== Disbandment ==
On 17 August, 153 RAC learned that it was to be disbanded, due to a severe manpower shortage, to provide replacements for other regiments. "C" Squadron was transferred complete to 107 RAC; the rest of the personnel went to the other regiments of 34th Tank Brigade or to holding units. The regiment ceased to exist on 28 August 1944. 153 RAC was replaced in 34 Tank Brigade by 9th Royal Tank Regiment.

== Notes ==

== References ==
Major L. F. Ellis, History of the Second World War: United Kingdom Military Series: Victory in the West, Volume I: The Battle of Normandy, London: HMSO, 1962/Uckfield: Naval & Military, 2004, ISBN 1-84574-058-0.
George Forty, British Army Handbook 1939–1945, Stroud: Sutton Publishing, 1998, ISBN 0-7509-1403-3.
Joslen, H. F. (2003) [1960]. Orders of Battle: Second World War, 1939–1945. Uckfield, East Sussex: Naval and Military Press. ISBN 978-1-84342-474-1.

== External sources ==
Land Forces of Britain, the Empire and Commonwealth

1936 Louisiana Tech Bulldogs football team

The 1936 Louisiana Tech Bulldogs football team was an American football team that represented the Louisiana Polytechnic Institute (now known as Louisiana Tech University) as a member of the Southern Intercollegiate Athletic Association during the 1936 college football season. In their third year under head coach Eddie McLane, the team compiled a 6–2–1 record.

== Schedule ==

== References ==

Aquifer thermal energy storage

Aquifer thermal energy storage (ATES) is the storage and recovery of thermal energy in subsurface aquifers. ATES can heat and cool buildings. Storage and recovery is achieved by extraction and injection of groundwater using wells. Systems commonly operate in seasonal modes. Groundwater that is extracted in summer performs cooling by transferring heat from the building to the water by means of a heat exchanger. The heated groundwater is reinjected into the aquifer, which stores the heated water. In wintertime, the flow is reversed — heated groundwater is extracted (often fed to a heat pump).
An ATES system uses the aquifer to buffer seasonal reversals in heating and cooling demand. ATES can serve as a cost-effective technology to replace fossil fuel-dependent systems and associated CO2 emissions.
ATES can contribute significantly to emission reductions, as buildings consume some 40% of global energy, mainly for heating and cooling. The number of ATES systems has increased dramatically, especially in Europe. Belgium, Germany, Turkey, and Sweden are also increasing the application of ATES. ATES can be applied wherever the climatic conditions and geohydrological conditions are appropriate. Optimisation of subsurface space requires attention in areas with suitable conditions.

== System types ==
Bidirectional ATES systems consist of two wells (a doublet). One well is used for heat storage, and the other for cold storage. During winter, (warm) groundwater is extracted from the heat storage well and injected in the cold storage well. During summer, the flow direction is reversed such that (cold) groundwater is extracted from the cold storage well and injected in the heat storage well.
Mono-directional systems do not switch pumping direction, such that groundwater is always extracted at the natural aquifer temperature. Although thermal energy is stored in the subsurface, there is usually no intention to retrieve the stored energy.
Closed systems store energy by circulating a fluid through a buried heat exchanger that usually consists of a horizontal or vertical pipeline. These systems do not extract or inject groundwater. They are also known as borehole thermal energy storage or ground source heat pumps.
Geothermal energy production commonly uses the deeper subsurface where temperatures are higher.

== History ==
The first reported deliberate storage of thermal energy in aquifers was in China around 1960. The first ATES systems were built for industrial cooling in Shanghai. There, large amounts of groundwater were extracted to cool textile factories. This led to substantial land subsidence. To inhibit the subsidence, cold surface water was reinjected into the aquifer. Subsequently, it was observed that the stored water remained cold after injection and could be used for cooling. Storage of thermal energy in aquifers was suggested in the 1970s which led to field experiments and feasibility studies in France, Switzerland, US and Japan.
ATES was used as part of enhanced bioremediation in the Netherlands in 2009.
As of 2018, more than 2800 ATES systems were in operation, providing more than 2.5 TWh of heating and cooling per year. The Netherlands and Sweden dominated the market. 85% of all systems were then located in the Netherlands, while a further 10% were found in Sweden, Denmark, and Belgium.

== Typical dimensions ==
Flow rates for typical applications are between 20 and 150 m3/hour/well. The volume of groundwater that is stored and recovered in a year generally varies between 10 000 m3 and 150 000 m3 per well. ATES system depths is commonly between 20 and 200 meters. Temperature at these depths is generally close to the annual mean surface temperature. In moderate climates this is around 10 °C. In those regions cold storage is commonly applied between 5 and 10 °C and heat storage in the range 10 to 20 °C. Although less frequent, some projects store heat above 80 °C.

== Hydrogeological constraints ==
Energy savings that can be achieved with ATES depend strongly on site geology. ATES requires the presence of a suitable aquifer that is able to accept and yield water. For example solid rock limits access to the aquifer. Thick (>10 m) sandy aquifers are optimal. Sufficient hydraulic conductivity is required, enough that water flows easily. However, excess groundwater flow may transport (part of) the stored energy outside of a well's capture zone during the storage phase. To reduce advective heat loss, aquifers with a low hydraulic gradient are preferred. In addition, gradients in geochemical composition should be avoided, as mixing of water with heterogeneous geochemistry can increase clogging, which reduces performance and increases maintenance costs.

== Legal status ==
Shallow (<400 m) geothermal installations' legal status is diverse among countries. Regulations for installations concern the use of hazardous materials and proper backfilling of the borehole to avoid hydraulic short circuiting between aquifers. Other regulations concern protection of groundwater areas for potable water. Some countries limit minimum and maximum storage temperatures. For example, Austria (5–20 °C), Denmark (2–25 °C) and Netherlands (5–25 °C). Other countries adopt a maximum change in groundwater temperature, for example Switzerland (3 °C) and France (11 °C).

== Contaminated groundwater ==
ATES is not allowed to process contaminated aquifers, due to the possible spreading of groundwater contamination, especially in urban areas. The possibility of contamination encounter is however rising, because of the rapid increase of the number of ATES and slow progress of contaminated groundwater remediation in urban areas. Among the common contaminants, chlorinated ethenes have the most chance to interfere with ATES systems, as they are often found at similar depths. When chlorinated ethenes present as dense non-aqueous phase liquid (DNAPLs), the possible dissolution of DNAPLs by ATES will increase the impact on groundwater quality.

=== Possible application ===
The presence of ATES and chlorinated ethenes offers the potential for of integration of sustainable energy technology and sustainable groundwater management. Increased temperature around the warm well can enhance reductive dechlorination of chlorinated ethenes. Although low temperature in cold well can hamper biodegradation, seasonal operation of ATES can transfer contaminant from cold well to hot well for faster remediation. Such seasonal groundwater transport can homogenize the environmental condition.
ATES can be used as biostimulation, for example to inject electron donor or microorganisms needed for reductive dechlorination.
The lifespan of ATES (30 years) fits the required duration of in situ bioremediation.

== Societal impacts ==
The combination concept of ATES and enhanced natural attenuation (ATES-ENA) can possibly be used in the Netherlands and China, especially in urbanized areas. These areas are confronted with organic groundwater contamination. Currently, the combination concept may be better applicable for the Netherlands which offers more mature technology and greater experience. However, for China where ATES is much less developed, demonstration pilot projects can be evaluated prior to production applications, and flexible systems can be developed because of the less intense pressure on subsurface use by ATES.
A 2023 study reported that ATES could reduce the use of energy in heating and cooling US homes and businesses by 40 percent.

== References ==

2021 national electoral calendar

This national electoral calendar for 2021 lists the national/federal elections held in 2021 in all sovereign states and their dependent territories. By-elections are excluded, though national referendums are included.

== January ==
10 January:
Kazakhstan, Assembly
Kyrgyzstan, President and Referendum
14 January: Uganda, President and Parliament
24 January: Portugal, President

== February ==
7 February:
Ecuador, President (1st round) and Parliament
Liechtenstein, Parliament
14 February: Kosovo, Parliament
19 February: Turks and Caicos Islands, Legislature
21 February:
Laos, Parliament
Niger, President (2nd round)
28 February: El Salvador, Parliament

== March ==
2 March: Federated States of Micronesia, Parliament
6 March: Ivory Coast, National Assembly
7 March: Switzerland, Referendums
14 March: Central African Republic, Parliament (2nd round)
15–17 March: Netherlands, House of Representatives
17 March: Saint Helena, Referendum
19 March: Curaçao, Legislature
21 March: Republic of Congo, President
23 March: Israel, Parliament

== April ==
4 April: Bulgaria, Parliament
6 April: Greenland, Parliament
9 April:
Djibouti, President
Samoa, Parliament
11 April:
Benin, President
Chad, President
Ecuador, President (2nd round)
Kyrgyzstan, Constitutional Referendum
Peru, President (1st round) and Parliament
14 April: Cayman Islands, Legislature
18 April: Cape Verde, Parliament
25 April: Albania, Parliament

== May ==
15–16 May: Chile, Constituent Assembly
23 May: Vietnam, Parliament
26 May: Syria, President
30 May: Cyprus, Parliament
31 May: Somaliland, House of Representatives

== June ==
6 June:
Mexico, Chamber of Deputies
Peru, President (2nd round)
9 June: Mongolia, President
12 June: Algeria, Parliament
13 June: Switzerland, Referendums
18 June: Iran, President
20 June: Armenia, Parliament
21–22 June: Ethiopia, House of Representatives (1st stage)
24 June: Gibraltar, Referendum
25 June: Aruba, Parliament

== July ==
11 July:
Bulgaria, Parliament
Moldova, Parliament
Slovenia, Referendum
18 July: São Tomé and Príncipe, President (1st round)
26 July: Saint Lucia, House of Assembly

== August ==
1 August: Mexico, Referendum
12 August: Zambia, President and Parliament

== September ==
5 September: São Tomé and Príncipe, President (2nd round)
8 September: Morocco, House of Representatives
12 September: Macau, Legislature
13 September: Norway, Parliament
16 September: The Bahamas, House of Assembly
17–19 September: Russia, State Duma
20 September: Canada, House of Commons
23 September: Isle of Man, House of Keys
25 September: Iceland, Parliament
26 September:
Germany, Bundestag
San Marino, Referendum
Switzerland, Referendums
30 September: Ethiopia, House of Representatives (2nd stage)

== October ==
2 October: Qatar, Consultative Assembly
8–9 October: Czech Republic, Chamber of Deputies
10 October: Iraq, Parliament
13 October: Saint Helena, Legislative Council
17 October: Cape Verde, President
24 October: Uzbekistan, President
31 October: Japan, House of Representatives and Supreme Court retention elections

== November ==
4 November: Falkland Islands, Legislature
7 November: Nicaragua, President and Parliament
10 November: Pitcairn Islands, Island Council
13 November: Nauru, Referendum
14 November:
Argentina, Chamber of Deputies and Senate
Bulgaria, President (1st round) and Parliament
18 November: Tonga, Parliament
21 November:
Bulgaria, President (2nd round)
Chile, President (1st round), Chamber of Deputies and Senate
28 November:
Honduras, President and Parliament
Kyrgyzstan, Parliament
Switzerland, Referendums

== December ==
4 December: The Gambia, President
12 December:
New Caledonia, Independence Referendum
Transnistria, President
18 December: Taiwan, Referendum
19 December:
Chile, President (2nd round)
Hong Kong, Legislature

== Indirect elections ==
The following indirect elections of heads of state and the upper houses of bicameral legislatures took place through votes in elected lower houses, unicameral legislatures, or electoral colleges:

30 January and 6 February: Gabon, Senate
3 March: Pakistan, Senate
22 March: Laos, President
28 March: Turkmenistan, People's Council
1 April: San Marino, Captains Regent
3–4 April: Kosovo, President
5 April: Vietnam, President
24 April and 7 October: India, Council of States
2 June: Israel, President
29 July – 13 November: Somalia, Senate
30–31 August: Estonia, President
17 September: San Marino, Captains Regent
19 September: Hong Kong, Election Committee
26 September: Austria, Federal Council (only Upper Austria seats)
5 October: Morocco, House of Councillors
20 October: Barbados, President
22 October: Fiji, President

== See also ==
List of elections in 2021

== References ==

== External links ==
IFES Election Guide – Elections
National Democratic Institute – Electoral Calendar

2013–14 DEL season

The 2013–14 Deutsche Eishockey Liga season was the 20th season since the founding of the Deutsche Eishockey Liga.

== Teams ==

== Regular season ==

== Playoffs ==

=== Playoff qualification ===
The playoff qualification was played between 9–14 March 2014 in a best-of-three mode.

==== EHC München vs. Iserlohn Roosters ====

==== Eisbären Berlin vs. ERC Ingolstadt ====

=== Bracket ===
There was a reseeding after the first round.

==== Quarterfinals ====
The quarterfinals were played between 16 and 28 March 2014 in a Best-of-seven mode.

===== Hamburg Freezers vs. Iserlohn Roosters =====

Hamburg won the series 4–2.

===== Thomas Sabo Ice Tigers vs. EHC Wolfsburg =====

Wolfsburg won the series 4–2.

===== Adler Mannheim vs. Kölner Haie =====

Köln won the series 4–1.

===== Krefeld Pinguine vs. ERC Ingolstadt =====

Ingolstadt won the series 4–1.

==== Semifinals ====
The semifinals were played between 2–13 April 2014 in a Best-of-seven mode.

===== Hamburg Freezers vs. ERC Ingolstadt =====

Ingolstadt won the series 4–2.

===== Kölner Haie vs. EHC Wolfsburg =====

Köln won the series 4–1.

==== Final ====
The final was played between 17 and 29 April 2014 in a Best-of-seven mode.

===== Kölner Haie vs. ERC Ingolstadt =====

Ingolstadt won the series 4–3.

== References ==

== External links ==
Official website

2011 Open Diputación Ciudad de Pozoblanco – Men's singles

Rubén Ramírez Hidalgo was the defending champion; however, he was eliminated already in the first round by Ivo Klec.
Kenny de Schepper eliminated Íñigo Cervantes Huegun, Adrian Mannarino, Roberto Bautista Agut, Illya Marchenko and won in the final against Iván Navarro, 2–6, 7–5, 6–3.

== Seeds ==

== Draw ==
Key

=== Finals ===

=== Top half ===

=== Bottom half ===

== References ==
Main draw
Qualifying draw

Benedicte Wrensted

Benedicte Marie Wrensted (February 10, 1859 – January 19, 1949) was a notable Danish-American photographer, who emigrated to the United States after running a studio for a few years in Horsens, Denmark. She was an obscure photographer who is most notably remembered for her documentation of the Northern Shoshone, Lemhi, and Bannock tribes in Idaho between 1895 and 1912.
She is remembered above all for the many photographs she took of the Shoshone native people in Idaho.

== Early life ==
Benedicte Wrensted was born in Hjørring, Jutland. Her parents were Captain Carl V. Wrensted, later an innkeeper, and Johanne Borgen. She grew up and attended school in Frederikshavn in the far north of Jutland. One of the few professions considered suitable for women at the time was photography. Wrensted learnt the craft in the 1880s from her aunt, Charlotte Borgen, who was a photographer in Frederikshavn. She then opened a studio of her own in Horsens which she ran for a few years before emigrating to the United States with her mother in 1894.

== Years in America ==

After immigrating to the United States from Denmark, she first went to visit a cousin in Philadelphia, then went on to Pocatello, a small town in southeastern Idaho where her brother Peter lived. She operated a photography studio in 1895 where she took photographs of the local and regional inhabitants and recorded the growth of the town. From her studio, she produced telling portraits of Northern Shoshone and Bannock Indians from 1895 to 1912. She was known for her expressive handling of natural light and the painterly quality of her photographs. Wrensted photographed The Edmos, a prominent Native American family from the Fort Hall Indian Reservation, quite often.
Wrensted became a U.S. citizen in 1912, at age 53, and the same year she ended her career as a photographer. She sold her studio in Pocatello and moved to Los Angeles where she died on January 19, 1949, shortly before her 90th birthday.

== Place in anthropology ==

Many of her Native American images are preserved at the Smithsonian Institution and the National Archives. In the fall of 1984, Smithsonian anthropologist, Joanna Cohan Scherer was looking for photographs in the Smithsonian Institution's "Handbook of North American Indian" and came across the clutter of the Bannock County Historical Society in Pocatello, Idaho. She came across some Bannock County images that had the imprint "B. Wrensted, Pocatello." After rediscovering these photographs and finding a collection of glass plate negatives in the National Archives labeled "Portraits of Indians from Southeastern Idaho Reservations, 1897"., she was determined to find out more about Wrensted. She consulted tribal elders from the nearby Fort Hall Indian Reservation, wrote letters to people, checked business directories and looked through tons of museums and libraries in an effort to uncover the background of Wrensted and her photographs. The Idaho Museum of Natural History has a goal of demonstrating ways in which photographs can be placed within a historical context. Only 1% of Wrensted's images at the National Archives and Records Administration were identified at the onset of a digital library collection project. Once they were shown to the descendants at the Fort Hall Indian Reservation, information regarding families of origin were discovered and with the help of written records, 84% of Wrensted subjects have now been identified.
Scherer encourages the reader to "go beyond consideration of Wrensted's portraits as art," by advocating for the identification of the individual people portrayed in the photos as a means of avoiding stereotyping and the characterization of generic Indians as more "noble savages". "What sets Wrensted's work apart," says Scherer, "is her skill in portraying the humanity—the individuality—of the people who posed for her. She captured their presence with a dignity and beauty that transcend time and place." According to Scherer's estimates, today 170 of Wrensted's Shoshone Bannock images are known to exist in various collections, with a substantial number at the Idaho Museum of Natural History. Wrensted's photographs of her Indian subjects were not left with the people of the Fort Hall Indian Reservation, but were, as Scherer tells us, "uprooted from their place of origin and put into impersonal hands—namely, the National Archives in Washington, D.C."

== See also ==
Photography in Denmark

== References ==

== External links ==

Benedicte Wrensted: An Idaho Photographer in Focus
Out of the Shadows (video), Idaho Experience 07/18/2019. Idaho Public Television

Alyia Gaskins

Alyia Gaskins (born May 1, 1989) is an American public health professional, urban planner, and politician serving as the mayor of Alexandria, Virginia. She assumed office as Alexandria's first Black female mayor in January 2025, having previously served on City Council from 2021-2023.

== Early life and education ==
Gaskins was born May 1, 1989. She was raised in Pittsburgh by her mother and grandmother. Her mother experienced health issues, including diabetes, sarcoidosis, and asthma, which led to frequent hospitalizations and financial strain on the family. Growing up in a household where her mother prioritized health insurance over other essentials, Gaskins encountered challenges such as a mold- and rodent-infested home, which influenced her early aspirations toward healthcare. In sixth grade, Gaskins received a scholarship that enabled her to attend an all-girls private school, which her mother's income could not have otherwise afforded.
Gaskins pursued higher education at Vanderbilt University, earning a degree in medicine, health, and society. She subsequently obtained a M.P.H. from the University of Pittsburgh Graduate School of Public Health and a Master's in Urban Planning from the Georgetown University School of Continuing Studies. Gaskins also completed a professional certificate in municipal finance from the University of Chicago.

== Career ==
Gaskins began her career working on hunger policy at D.C. Hunger Solutions and later joined the National League of Cities as part of the health team. While there, she started a learning collaborative on health disparities, working with over 20 cities. Gaskins also managed the Let's Move! Cities, Towns and Counties program, an initiative promoting healthy eating and active living, where she coordinated with federal agencies and local governments to implement health-related policies across over 500 cities.
Gaskins held leadership positions in various Alexandria and Virginia boards, including the Virginia Transportation Commission and Virginia Fair Housing Board. In 2019, she founded CitiesRX, a consulting firm specializing in cross-sector partnerships with cities to foster healthy, sustainable environments. She later worked as a senior program officer at the Melville Charitable Trust, focusing on philanthropy to address issues related to housing and community health.
Gaskins entered local politics in 2021, successfully campaigning for a seat on the Alexandria City Council, where she was elected to serve a three-year term beginning in 2022. Her platform emphasized public health, infrastructure, affordable housing, and economic support for small businesses. As a council member, she was involved in initiatives to address Alexandria's infrastructure challenges, including investments in stormwater management to alleviate flooding issues in Old Town Alexandria.
During the 2024 Alexandria, Virginia mayoral election Gaskins won the Democratic primary, a position she ran for unopposed in the November general election. She was sworn in as Alexandria's first Black female mayor on January 2, 2025.

== Personal life ==
Gaskins resides in Alexandria's West End with her husband, Greg, and their two children. As a mother to a two-year-old and a four-year-old, she has spoken about the importance of balancing her family responsibilities with her career. Her family also includes a beagle, Riley, who has frequently accompanied her to public events.

== Electoral history ==

== References ==

Aurora X-65 CRANE

The Aurora X-65 CRANE is an experimental aircraft that is currently under development. In charge are the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) and the Boeing subsidiary Aurora Flight Sciences.

== Purpose ==
Purpose of the X-65 aircraft is to demonstrate the feasibility of Active Flow Control (AFC). AFC utilizes bursts of air rather than moving flight control surfaces on the exterior of the wings and tail to control its flight.

== History ==
Aurora Flight Sciences embarked on the development of an experimental X-plane, as part of the DARPA's CRANE programme, in November 2020. Wind tunnel testing was also conducted in San Diego, California, in May 2022. DARPA allocated funds for the detailed engineering design of a full-scale X-plane in December 2022. Aurora Flight Sciences was commissioned to construct a full-scale X-plane in January 2024.

== Acronym ==
The acronym CRANE refers to a DARPA programme called Control of Revolutionary Aircraft with Novel Effectors. DARPA announced the X-65 designation on its social media accounts on 15 May 2023.

== References ==

(I'm A) Stand by My Woman Man

"(I'm A) Stand by My Woman Man" is a song written by Kent Robbins, and recorded by American country music artist Ronnie Milsap. It was released in July 1976 as the second single from the album 20/20 Vision. The song was Milsap's sixth number one on the country chart. The single stayed at number one for two weeks and spent a total of eleven weeks within the top 40.
It is an answer song to Tammy Wynette's Stand By Your Man. Backing vocals were provided by The Holladay Sisters.
According to Milsap, the song was "almost" a lawsuit because the opening piano melody, played by session musician Hargus "Pig" Robbins, sounded similar to Robbins' intro on "Behind Closed Doors".

== Charts ==

=== Weekly charts ===

=== Year-end charts ===

== References ==

== External links ==
Ronnie Milsap - (I'm A) Stand by My Woman Man on YouTube

Belindé Schreuder

Belindé Schreuder (born 1997) is a South African beauty pageant titleholder who was crowned as Miss South Africa International 2024 and represented South Africa at Miss International 2024, was held in Japan on November 12, 2024. She previously held the titles Miss Earth South Africa 2023 and Miss Grand South Africa 2019.

== References ==

48th National Conference of the African National Congress

The 48th National Conference of the African National Congress (ANC) took place from 2 to 7 July 1991 at the University of Durban–Westville in Durban, Natal (now KwaZulu-Natal). It was the first national conference of the ANC since the organisation was banned by the apartheid government in 1960 and marked the ascension of Nelson Mandela to the ANC presidency, which since 1967 had been held by Oliver Tambo.
Notably, the conference elected trade unionist Cyril Ramaphosa as secretary general, and elected several United Democratic Front leaders to the ANC National Executive Committee. That shift was taken as reflective of the ongoing broadening of the membership base of the ANC, which since 1990 had begun to re-establish legal structures inside South Africa. This entailed integrating the ANC's headquarters, formerly based in exile, with the ANC's internal underground and recently released political prisoners (such as Mandela), but also entailed incorporating other elements of the internal struggle against apartheid. The conference adopted a new constitution for the organisation, although a proposal by the ANC Women's League to inscribe gender quotas was, controversially, withdrawn.
Held under the theme "People's Power for a Democratic Future", the conference took decisions regarding the organisation's policy in the ongoing negotiations to end apartheid, including the decision to maintain the ANC's armed wing, Umkhonto we Sizwe, in a state of combat readiness. Delegates to the conference also formulated preliminary policy proposals for a post-apartheid government in South Africa. Indeed, in the three years between the 48th National Conference and the next in 1994, the ANC won a majority in the country's first democratic elections and formed a government under Mandela as national president.

== Background ==

The African National Congress (ANC) was banned by the South African government between 1960 and February 1990. In those three decades, the ANC was based in exile, primarily with headquarters in Lusaka, Zambia, and deviated from its regular governance procedures: in particular, it did not elect its leadership and take policy decisions at annual national conferences, but rather was governed on a fairly ad hoc basis by the incumbent leadership. In the exile period, the organisation held three "consultative" conferences: at Morogoro in 1969, at Kabwe in 1985, and in Johannesburg in 1990. Only at Kabwe in 1985 did the membership elect its leaders, including by confirming the presidency of Oliver Tambo, who until then had been acting president. The Johannesburg conference in 1990 was the first held in South Africa since 1960, but abstained from making major decisions: it resolved to reaffirm the composition of the leadership as elected at Kabwe.
The 48th National Conference was therefore anticipated as a return to the erstwhile ANC norm of democratic decision-making, not only in the selection of a new leadership but also in decision-making about the ANC's strategy during the ongoing negotiations to end apartheid. Since February 1990, the organisation had also set about re-establishing legal structures for members inside South Africa, a process which involved integrating the ANC's membership in exile with elements of the internal movement against apartheid – not only the ANC's internal underground, but also the Mass Democratic Movement (MDM) and its constituent organisations, including the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the trade unions – and also with recently released political prisoners, including but not limited to the Rivonia Triallists. At the time of the conference, the ANC reported a registered membership of 760,000 people; and many of the delegates to the conference were young people, with an average age of 34.
According to the ANC, the conference was also attended by 450 foreign guests from 57 countries, including representatives of 92 foreign organisations such as the Organisation of African Unity, the United Nations Special Committee against Apartheid, and various left-wing political parties. Among ANC delegates from other regions of the country, there was some anxiety about meeting in Natal province, which had been the epicentre of recent political violence between ANC-aligned groups and Inkatha-aligned groups.

== Opening session ==
The theme of the conference was "People's Power for a Democratic Future", and the conference hall, at the University of Durban–Westville, was decorated with banners showing slogans from the Freedom Charter. On 2 July, the opening session of the conference began late – "in true ANC fashion", as one delegate observed – with a prayer delivered by Archbishop Trevor Huddleston of the international Anti-Apartheid Movement. The conference was formerly opened with the political report of the ANC president, which, because Tambo had been weakened by a stroke, was delivered jointly with his deputy, Nelson Mandela. Tambo provided an overview of the ANC's activities in exile since 1960, while Mandela reflected on the ANC's role – as "the repository of the aspirations of the overwhelming majority of our people" – in South Africa's ongoing transition away from apartheid.

== Electoral procedure ==
The 2,244 voting delegates at the conference represented three main categories of ANC membership: the newly established internal regions, inside South Africa; the external regions, in Southern African and Western countries, and also including Umkhonto we Sizwe (MK), the Women's League, and the Youth League; and the chief representatives of the ANC's key departments and various international offices. There were also 117 non-voting delegates present, including from other ANC departments; from the UDF; and from the ANC's Tripartite Alliance partners, the South African Communist Party (SACP) and Congress of South African Trade Unions.
At the request of the ANC – and presumably because of the considerable international interest in the conference's outcomes – all the elections conducted at the conference were organised by the Independent Mediation Service of South Africa and overseen by independent observers. They were held by secret ballot over the course of a day. As the ANC pointed out afterwards in its statement on the conference, most of the delegates had never before voted by this method, given the limited racial suffrage of the apartheid system.

== Leadership election ==
The results of the leadership elections, announced at the end of 6 July after a day-long secret ballot, were as follows (victorious candidates in bold):

The election of Cyril Ramaphosa as Secretary General received particular attention, and was viewed as symbolic of the ANC's new direction and changing membership; Ramaphosa was an internal activist, attending the conference in his capacity as a leader of the National Union of Mineworkers. According to Ramaphosa's biographer, the SACP leadership had encouraged him to run for the position. When his election was announced, delegates carried him to the dais on their shoulders. The other leaders represented more traditional ANC constituencies: Mandela and Walter Sisulu were ANC stalwarts and leading political prisoners on Robben Island, while Tambo and Thomas Nkobi were incumbent leaders of the exiled ANC, and Jacob Zuma was associated with MK. Mandela's ascent to the presidency was not unexpected: Tambo had suffered his stroke in 1989 and, upon his release from prison in 1990, Mandela had assumed the ANC deputy presidency and many of Tambo's duties. The chairmanship, to which Tambo was elected, was a newly created position.
Sisulu was elderly and in poor health after his imprisonment, but told reporters, "If the people that I lead desire that I take a particular position, even though I am hesitating, I will do that". He was reportedly persuaded to accept the deputy presidency in order to avert an acrimonious contest for the position among a younger generation of leaders – particularly between Thabo Mbeki, Tambo's protégé, and Chris Hani, a SACP and MK leader. Indeed, initial nominees for the deputy presidency, selected by the regional branches of the ANC, included not only Sisulu and Harry Gwala but also Mbeki, Hani, and Zuma – although, according to R. W. Johnson, the fact that Inkatha leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi had publicly supported Zuma's candidacy harmed, rather than helped, his prospects. All the nominees, excepting Sisulu and firebrand Gwala, were evidently persuaded to withdraw from the race.
The leadership election results were also taken to indicate the declining influence of Mandela's ex-wife, Winnie Madikizela-Mandela. Ramaphosa was associated with the MDM's public "ostracism" of Madikizela-Mandela due to the conduct of her "football club", and her patron and favoured candidate, Alfred Nzo, was defeated in two votes.

== National Executive Committee elections ==

Following the election of the so-called Top Six leaders, the other fifty members of the National Executive Committee (NEC) – the top executive organ of the ANC – were elected from a list of 130 nominations. The following candidates received the most votes:

Chris Hani (1,858 votes)
Thabo Mbeki (1,824 votes)
Joe Slovo (1,761 votes)
Terror Lekota (1,724 votes)
Pallo Jordan (1,702 votes)
Ahmed Kathrada (1,697 votes)
Ronnie Kasrils (1,666 votes)
Harry Gwala (1,644 votes)
Steve Tshwete (1,634 votes)
Arnold Stofile (1,546 votes)
The composition of the committee again represented the broadening of the organisation's base: prominent UDF activists ranked high in the election results, among them Terror Lekota, Steve Tshwete, Popo Molefe, Cheryl Carolus, and Trevor Manuel. Many SACP members were also highly ranked, although it was not possible to judge their proportionate share of NEC seats, since membership in the SACP remained secret.

== Resolutions ==
Between plenary sessions, the delegates attended meetings of commissions appointed to debate various policy issues of significance. The main commissions covered the ANC's "strategy and tactics"; negotiations with the government; international policy; MK; the ANC's organisational development; and the ANC's constitution. The latter commission discussed a draft constitution for the organisation, which was adopted by the plenary. In addition, delegates attended sessions which formulated preliminary policy proposals for a post-apartheid government, such as on education and the national constitution.

=== Negotiations and armed struggle ===

Since at least the mid-1980s, and as reflected in the debate about Operation Vula, the top leadership of the ANC and SACP had been embroiled in a debate over the plausibility of a negotiated end to apartheid, and over the question of whether disarmament should be averted to maintain armed struggle as a fallback position. By 1991, serious negotiations to end apartheid were underway, and the ANC had committed to suspending the armed struggle – until then waged under the auspices of MK – in the Pretoria Minute of August 1990. However, at the time of the 48th Conference, talks with the National Party government had stalled, due to the ANC leadership's belief that the government was permitting or even encouraging the ongoing political violence in the country. The delegates at the conference concurred in this suspicion: in an early articulation of the third force theory, the conference described the violence as "counter-revolutionary" and as "perpetrated by agencies of the state". Thus the conference reiterated the ANC's commitment to end apartheid peacefully, but also resolved to maintain and expand MK structures inside the country. It described MK's role as, among other things, defending the ANC's personnel and property, and defending "peace and stability"; and stated, "the ANC shall maintain and develop MK until the adoption of a democratic constitution and the creation of a new defence force into which cadres of MK will be integrated. Until such a point is reached the equipment of the movement shall NOT be surrendered to the regime. MK shall remain in constant combat readiness."
The conference's concern with political violence was ultimately embodied in the September 1991 National Peace Accord. In terms of the ANC's substantive negotiating position, the conference reaffirmed the ANC's existing demands for an interim government and a constituent assembly elected on the basis of one-person, one-vote.

=== Proposed gender quota ===
According to delegates present, the most heated debate of the conference took place on the afternoon of 3 July, when the floor discussed a proposal to include a principle of affirmative action in the organisation's new constitution. This would directly affect the conduct of elections later in the week, because the Women's League had been lobbying for a gender quota which would reserve for women thirty per cent of elected positions, at all levels – including, therefore, fifteen of the fifty seats on the NEC. The proposal had been accepted by the outgoing NEC, by the constitutional committee which had written the draft constitution, and by all the regional branches at an inter-regional workshop; but, at the conference itself, delegates on the constitutional commission proposed that the quota should be dropped from the draft. Delegates had an impassioned debate on the matter: Frene Ginwala, for example, lodged a forceful defence of the quota, while Terror Lekota argued that it would be anti-meritocratic. The question eventually went to a vote, but was disrupted when a delegate announced that the Women's League would abstain from the vote – supporters of the quota pointed out that, because of the lack of affirmative action to date, only seventeen per cent of the delegates to the conference were women, so a vote risked perpetuating the problem that was at issue. The meeting fell apart as delegates began singing and demonstrating in favour of their positions.

As a delegate remembered, "The arguments continued in the toilets, over a cigarette and outside during dinner", and the women held a special caucus during dinner. When the conference reconvened in the evening, Mandela, as outgoing deputy president, appealed that, instead of a vote, the delegates should reach a compromise in order to avoid sowing division. Although delegates reacted to this proposal with scorn, considering it anti-democratic, Mandela convinced the main proponents of a vote – Lekota among them – to back down. The NEC and leadership of the leagues met overnight; in the morning, the President of the Women's League, Gertrude Shope, apologised that the previous day's vote had been disrupted and said that the league had agreed to compromise. The quota provision was eliminated from the constitution, but a clause was added which committed the ANC to investigate and undertake affirmative action to correct gender imbalances. As the ANC concluded in its statement: though the Women's League withdrew the resolution affecting 30% representation of Women in all ANC elective structures, the conference fully accepted the principle of affirmative action to ensure the equal and full participation of women in the movement as a whole, and stressed that appropriate mechanisms to make this effective be determined.In the event, as reflected above, women were elected to fewer than a fifth of the NEC seats as elected later in the week, and no women were nominated for Top Six positions.

== Closing session ==
On 6 July, the plenary meet through much of the night, including in a session on sanctions led by Mbeki. The conference was closed by Mandela, the newly elected ANC president, at around 5.30 a.m. on Sunday 7 July; in his last address, he paid tribute to Tambo, whom he described as having:paved the way forward with gold, the gold of his humanity, his warmth, his democratic spirit, tolerance and above all intellectual brilliance, which in the end outwitted the racists in this country. Of course, comrades, no struggle can depend on one person. The struggle is basically a collective affair. But there are exceptions to every rule, and looking at the history of the 30 last years of exile, one may be tempted to think that Comrade OR is that exception.Delegates sang Nkosi Sikelel' Afrika in closing. The declaration adopted by the conference, "as our collective message to our country and to the world", reflects the hopefulness of the early transitional period in South Africa:This 48th National Conference of the ANC, comes at a time when our country and its people are poised to commence the last leg of our long struggle to bring an end to minority domination and usher in an era of democracy and peace. The people's hopes for freedom, social justice, democracy and peace stand higher than at any time during this century. As a result of the struggles and sacrifices of the people, the moment for the final eradication of the hated system of white domination has dawned. We remain convinced that the only real hope for the future of our country and its people lies in the creation of a democratic society based on humane values. These values – government of the people, by the people and for the people – have been kept alive and survived in our country thanks to the sacrifices of millions of our people against the tyranny of white domination... We reiterate our adherence to the principles of a united, non-racial, non-sexist and democratic South Africa as enshrined in the Freedom Charter.

== References ==

== External links ==
ANC documentation
Video footage of the conference
AP footage of the conference

2025 Asian Athletics Championships – Men's 3000 metres steeplechase

The men's 3000 metres steeplechase event at the 2025 Asian Athletics Championships was held on 29 May.

== Records ==

== Schedule ==
The event schedule, in local time (UTC+8), was as follows:

== Results ==

== References ==

All the Greatest Hits (video)

All the Greatest Hits is a music DVD by the pop/rock band McFly. The DVD was filmed during their Greatest Hits Tour in 2007, with the majority of the footage recorded at the Wolverhampton Civic Hall. The DVD was released on 3 December 2007. The DVD also includes all 18 of McFly's Music Videos to date of release except for "Baby's Coming Back", which was dropped for unknown reasons.

== Concert Track listing ==
"That Girl"
"Friday Night"
"Obviously"
"Star Girl"
"Broccoli"
"I Wanna Hold You"
"I'll Be OK"
"Transylvania"
"The Heart Never Lies"
"Umbrella"
"All About You"
"Please Please"
"Room on the 3rd Floor"
"Don't Stop Me Now"
"5 Colours in Her Hair"

=== Music videos ===
5 Colours in Her Hair
Obviously
That Girl
Room on the Third Floor
All About You
You've Got a Friend
I'll Be OK
Pinball Wizard
I Wanna Hold You
Ultraviolet
The Ballad of Paul K
Please, Please
Don't Stop Me Now
Star Girl
Friday Night
Sorry's Not Good Enough
Transylvania
The Heart Never Lies

==== Notes ====
"Broccoli" was performed at the three opening shows and the 18 October and 6 December shows at the London Astoria and Wembley Arena, respectively. At all other shows, it was replaced with "Ultraviolet" and "Sorry's Not Good Enough".

== Chart performance ==

== Tour dates ==
These tour dates are taken from setlist.fm.

== References ==

Auriscalpium

Auriscalpium is a genus of mushroom-forming fungi typifying the family Auriscalpiaceae.

== Etymology ==
Auriscalpium is a compound of the Latin, auris, "ear"; and scalpo, "I scratch", generally meaning ear pick. The term was originally applied as a specific epithet by Linnaeus in 1753, viz. Hydnum auriscalpium and changed in 1821 to vulgare when S.F. Gray recognized the cone-inhabiting fungus as a new genus, named after its type species, Auriscalpium vulgare. Tautonyms, such as "Auriscalpium auriscalpium" are illegitimate under the International Code of Botanical Nomenclature.

== Taxonomy ==
The genus includes the following species:

A. andinum
A. barbatum
A. dissectum
A. gilbertsonii
A. luteolum
A. umbella
A. villipes
A. vulgare

== Description ==
Members of this genus are characterized by in part by rough-walled, amyloid spores that are produced on pendant spines, hence it is considered to be a tooth fungus. The type species, A. vulgare, is a common, easily identified fungus in the Northern Hemisphere found fruiting exclusively on mature, fallen, often buried conifer cones. Its wiry, long hairy stipe is topped by an eccentrically placed, shaggy pileus bearing the pendant, flexible, spore-bearing spines. The entire fructification resembles and perhaps could be used as an ear pick (see etymology above). Other species in the genus do not occur on cones or lack the eccentric pileus on a long stalk. According to the Dictionary of the Fungi (10th edition, 2008), the genus contains eight widely distributed species.

== References ==

AVN Media Network

AVN Media Network is a publishing, digital media and event management company for the adult entertainment industry. AVN Media Network's portfolio of businesses includes several widely recognized adult industry publications, expos, shows, and communities. These include gfy.com, an adult webmaster community, AVN magazine, AVN Online, GAYVN and AVN Adult Entertainment Expo.
AVN Media Network, Inc. is headquartered in the Chatsworth, CA

== See also ==
AVN Adult Entertainment Expo
Pornography in the United States

== References ==

== External links ==
Official Website

Aarti Sequeira

Aarti Lucica Sequeira (born 19 August 1978) is an Indian-American cook and television personality, best known as the winner of the sixth season of Food Network's reality television show, The Next Food Network Star. In 2010, after her victory, her show Aarti Party premiered on the network. Following Aarti Party, she went on to host Taste in Translation on Cooking Channel, in which she seeks out the most popular dishes from around the world. She had previously worked as a CNN news producer and in 2008 started the online cooking variety show Aarti Paarti.

== Early life and education ==
Aarti Sequeira was born in Bombay, India, on 19 August 1978. Her family was originally from Mangalore in the state of Karnataka. She has two sisters, and grew up in a traditional Indian Catholic home. When she was still an infant, her family moved to Dubai due to better job opportunities for her father. Sequeira was educated in a primarily Indian-attended school in Dubai until age seven, when she was transferred to a British school, which was initially a challenge for her as she felt like an outsider. She participated in music-related activities at school, including choir and playing piano.
Sequeira said cooking was a large part of her family's identity, and she credits much of her culinary inspiration to her Indian cultural background and her mother's influence. She called her grandmother an "incredible, incredible cook". Sequeira's mother started keeping a recipe journal after her own mother died, which inspired Sequeira to start her own recipe journal starting at age 10. Her fondest food memories as a child were her father's weekly trips to the market for fresh fish and produce, as well as her mother's daily recipe creations. She was also exposed to cuisines of other countries, including homemade pastas in the home of her Italian best friend, and Arabian spit-roasted shawarmas her family ate every Friday. As a child, Sequeira would sometimes pretend to host a cooking show, She moved to the United States in 1996. and she was nicknamed "Showcase" because she enjoyed dancing and performing for people.
Sequeira was inspired to pursue a career in journalism after watching CNN cable news coverage of the Gulf War as a child. She aspired to work at CNN and pursue a career like that of journalist Christiane Amanpour. Sequeira graduated from Northwestern University's Medill School of Journalism in 2000, with a degree in Broadcast Journalism, with an adjunct major in International Relations. She worked at the school's student-run radio and television stations as a student, and spent a short time in Washington, D.C. covering the United States Congress for a local news station in Fargo, North Dakota. Sequeira described Medill as a challenging school, but said it helped make her feel tougher, more prepared for challenges, and "like I had something to offer".

== Early career ==
Two weeks after her graduation from Medill, Aarti started worked as a production assistant for CNN in Chicago. One year later, she transferred to CNN's bureau in New York City, where she worked as a producer and helped cover the September 11 attacks, which occurred while the show she was producing was on the air. Sequeira produced stories about challenges firefighters faced after the attacks, as well as other topics like economic news. She was eventually promoted to segment producer for CNN, producing shows for the network and packages for various networks and outlets in the company.
Sequeira worked for CNN until 2003, and in 2004 moved from New York City to Los Angeles, California, to be near her husband Brendan McNamara, who was pursuing an acting career. She freelanced for CNN's Los Angeles bureau and other outlets, as well as other outlets in the city's entertainment industry, but otherwise had trouble finding work, and began to crave a different career path than journalism. She called this a difficult realization because "it felt like my very identity had vanished", but that she found some solace in cooking. Sequeira began working on the production of Sand and Sorrow, a documentary about the Darfur crisis. She began as what she called a "Girl Friday" before becoming promoted to co-producer on the documentary, which was released in 2007 on HBO. Sequeira began to develop an interest in cooking during this time, partially inspired by receiving the Joy of Cooking cookbook as a wedding gift, as well as a gift certificate her cousin gave her for a local 12-week cooking program. Her husband enrolled her at the New School of Cooking in Culver City. She competed in both levels of its professional classes, and interned for chef and restaurateur Suzanne Goin at the West Hollywood restaurant Lucques, but after the experience felt she did not aspire to own or run a restaurant, which made her start to feel "lost" and without purpose. Sequeira earned a professional certificate from the school in 2007.
A friend suggested Sequeira start a cooking show on the video-sharing website YouTube, an idea she initially regarded with skepticism. In 2008, she started an online cooking variety show called Aarti Paarti, as well as a food blog called AartiPaarti.com, which included the tagline "eat. giggle. repeat." The name "Aarti Paarti" came from her husband Brendon McNamara, who previously suggested it on a date when they were discussing possible Ben & Jerry's ice cream flavors that could include Sequeira's name. She initially found the phrase too cheesy, but he suggested it as a title when she began her online show, and she found it was a good way to help people recognize and remember her name. After filming the first segment by herself, her husband began helped her record subsequent episodes, which were filmed in the kitchen of her small studio apartment in Los Angeles. She felt comfortable working in front of the camera because she felt cooking segments were less pressure than some of the journalistic stories upon which she previously worked.
Inspired by her childhood, Sequeira prepared Indian and Middle Eastern dishes on the show, which also included brief comedic interludes and variety segments that included Sequeira playing the ukulele, belly dancing, or juggling. She said these skits helped attract viewers from different demographics to her show, including teenage boys. Sequeira also hosted cooking segments for the website GoodBite.com for about one year. Sequeira initially doubted whether a cooking show was the best use of her education and training instead of something more "serious", but a friend and producer at NBC News encouraged her and "(made) me feel like a cooking show career could impact people just as much as a good news story could -- it can inspire, it can relax, it can inform".
Sequeira said she experienced imposter syndrome in her early years making cooking videos because she had not gone to culinary school or worked in restaurants for a long period of time. Sequeira said she occasionally felt she was "not the best person for this job because I'm not your quintessential Indian", not having grown up in the country, and she described her early videos as "almost like doing an experiment; I was doing it because something in me was compelling me to do it". Sequeira openly discussed her struggles with self-doubt on her blog, which she later said helped her grow her following.

== The Next Food Network Star ==
In part due to encouragement from her husband Sequeira auditioned to be a contestant on The Next Food Network Star, a Food Network reality television series in which the winner is awarded his or her own culinary show on the network. In 2010, Sequeira became a participant on the sixth season of the show, where she 12 contestants participated in cooking competitions and on-camera challenges. The Houston Chronicle described her as an "early fan favorite". Although Sequeira believed her experience with the Aarti Paarti online show would give her an advantage with the camera segments, she instead found them to be very challenging. Judges and critics were attracted to her bubbly personality, sense of humor, on-screen charisma, and strong food, though they repeatedly commented upon her admitted lack of self-confidence. Sequeira participated in 18 challenges over 10 weeks during her time on the show, and she ranked among the bottom contestants twice, but avoided elimination both times. The first time she faced possible elimination, series judge and Food Network executive Bob Tuschman said, "You were a frontrunner," and Sequeira said his use of past tense made her realize she could not become complacent and had to work harder in future challenges.
Sequeira won several of the weekly challenges, including an Iron Chef-style cook-off competition in the penultimate episode, which drew her particularly strong praise from judges Cat Cora, Bobby Flay, Masaharu Morimoto, and Michael Symon. In June 2010, six weeks before the finale aired, Sequeira's name was on a list of chefs on the Food Network website, leading to speculation that she would win and that the network had mistakenly listed her before her victory was made public. During the season finale on August 15, Sequeira was tasked with shooting a pilot of her possible television series. Sequeira's pilot was Aarti Party, the title and style of the show were based upon her previous online cooking show, Aarti Paarti. Sequeira felt more confident about shooting the pilot compared to some of the other challenges, because there was no time limit and it did not involve cooking for celebrity judges. Entertainment Weekly writer Michael Slezak called Sequeira's pilot "thoroughly engaging and casually informative, while managing to present a dish that looked equal parts unique and delicious". Sequeira was selected as winner of The Next Food Network Star, defeating fellow finalists Tom Pizzica and Herb Mesa.
This show represented a series of historic first in representation. It was the first female-led transition of a webseries into a network series. Sequeira became was the first Indian woman to be the on-screen lead on a U.S.-made broadcast television series on U.S. national television. Her preceding win on NFNS made Sequeira the first Indian person and first immigrant, non-citizen to win a U.S. reality competition series. 'Aarti Party' also made Sequeria the first Asian woman to host her own cooking show series on Food Network, the first chef to host an Indian-cuisine centric series on cable television and the first immigrant, non-citizen to host their own recurring series on an English-language U.S. cable network.
Tuschman said of Sequeira: "Aarti has that all-too-rare combination we seek in our stars: a passionate food expert who is warm, radiant, fun, and relatable." Slezak said of her victory: "the right person took home the crown".

== Food Network career ==
The Food Network launched Sequeira's six-episode cooking show Aarti Party on August 22, 2010, one week after her victory on The Next Food Network Star. The half-hour series focused on easy ways to enhance American favorite dishes with Indian flavors and influences. It marked the Food Network's first show focused on Indian cuisine, and Sequeira became one of the network's first Asian hosts. She was also featured in Food Network Magazine and appeared at the Food Network New York City Wine & Food Festival that October. The series was filmed on a sound stage at Culver Studios in Culver City. Sequeira had to conceive 40 recipes in the span of one month for the series, which she described as challenging but "great for your brain because you start thinking creatively much more quickly". She was able to utilize recipes she had prepared and published on her blog prior to appearing on Food Network. She had originally hoped the series would have variety show elements, like her online show, but that did not happen due to time restraints. Aarti Party was renewed for a second season, which debuted in December 2010, and then later received a third season, but was cancelled after about one year.
In September 2012, Sequeira was a headliner at the Savor the Central Coast, a culinary festival in San Luis Obispo County, California. She hosted the series Taste in Translation and was a co-host on Drop 5lbs with Good Housekeeping, both of which debuted in January 2013 on the Cooking Channel. Sequeira also hosted Hidden Eats, a Cooking Channel travel series, making her the first Asian woman host of a National Food Travelogue series on US national television: helmed Taste in Translation (Cooking Channel, 2013) and was a contestant on the competitive cooking reality shows Cutthroat Kitchen All-Stars and Chopped All-Stars, winning on both. She is a frequent judge on cooking game shows Guy's Grocery Games, hosted by Guy Fieri, and From Duff Til Dawn, hosted by Duff Goldman. Fieri nicknamed Sequeira "the spice queen" because of her love of spices. She has also appeared on various other Food Network and Cooking Channel shows, including The Best Thing I Ever Ate, The Best Thing I Ever Made, Guilty Pleasures, Unique Eats, and Unique Sweets. In November 2020, Sequeira appeared on a special Thanksgiving episode of the Selena Gomez-hosted HBO Max cooking show Selena + Chef. In the episode, entitled "Selena + Aarti: Friendsgiving", Sequeira helped Gomez cook a Thanksgiving turkey for the first time. Since 2021, Sequeira has appeared as a judge on the holiday-themed cooking reality shows Holiday Wars, and Halloween Wars.
Sequeira published a cookbook called Aarti Paarti: An American Kitchen with an Indian Soul, which was published in 2014 by Grand Central Publishing and became a Top 10-ranked Indian cookbook on Amazon. She called the book an extension of both her Aarti Party show and the family recipe books her mother made in her youth, and said she hoped the book would be a "gateway drug to Indian food" for non-Indian readers. Her favorite recipe from the book was the ground beef dish keema, which she said she makes for her own family every two weeks. Los Angeles Times food writer Russ Parsons praised the books fun approach to cooking, writing: "there is so much joy in her food that you can't help but smile when reading her recipes".
In 2015, Sequeira began writing a recurring food column for the Associated Press, 'World's Fare,' making her the first Asian woman and first immigrant, non-citizen to become a nationally syndicated AP columnist. Sequeira was working on a new cookbook as of August 2022. Sequeira also released a book My Family Recipe Journal: With Prayers and Scriptures, inspired by her recipe journals previously made by herself and her mother. She intended for the book to allow others to document their own culinary traditions and flavors. Published by DaySpring, the book is color-coded and divided into 10 sections, with rooms for eight recipes in each part. Sequeira has been a guest on several talk shows, including The Today Show, The Talk, The Dr. Oz Show, The Nate Berkus Show, and Home & Family.

== Personal life ==
Aarti Sequeira has been married to actor Brendan "Bren" McNamara since 2003. The two met when they were both attending Northwestern University, where McNamara majored in theater studies. They lived in Mid City, Los Angeles as of 2013, and the family moved to Raleigh, North Carolina in 2020.
Sequeira and her husband have two daughters, Eliyah and Moses Marigold. She suffered from post-partum depression after giving birth to Eliyah, and the experience led her to become an advocate for women suffering from post-natal mood disorders. She has been involved with the organization Postpartum Support International.
Sequeira is a Christian and is devoutly religious. In addition to cooking, Sequeira likes improvisational theatre and has taken classes for it, which she said helped give her the courage to post her original cooking videos online. She also enjoys music, Middle Eastern dance, and visiting art galleries. She is active on the social media network Instagram.

== Filmography ==

== References ==

== External links ==
Official website
Aarti Sequeira's Food Network biography
Aarti Sequeira at IMDb

122nd Division (Imperial Japanese Army)

The 122nd Division (第122師団, Dai-hyakunijūni Shidan) was an infantry division of the Imperial Japanese Army. Its call sign was the Maizuru Division (舞鶴兵団, Maizuru Heidan). It was formed 16 January in Mudanjiang as a triangular division. It was a part of a batch of eight simultaneously created divisions comprising the 121st, 122nd, 123rd, 124th, 125th, 126th, 127th and 128th Divisions. The nucleus for the formation was the 4th Independent Border Group and the remnants of the 11th Division.

== History ==
On 30 March 1945 the 122nd Division formation was complete and it was assigned to the 1st Area Army. It was tasked with garrisoning Mudanjiang. In June–July 1945, part of the division was moved to the Ning'an area.
At the start of the Soviet invasion of Manchuria the headquarters of the 122nd division were on the west coast of the Jingpo Lake. The 122nd Division surrendered to the Red Army on 17 August 1945.

== See also ==
List of Japanese Infantry Divisions

== Notes and references ==
This article incorporates material from Japanese Wikipedia page 第122師団 (日本軍), accessed 28 June 2016
Madej, W. Victor, Japanese Armed Forces Order of Battle, 1937–1945 [2 vols], Allentown, PA: 1981.

1987 Suntory Japan Open Tennis Championships – Women's doubles

Sandy Collins and Sharon Walsh-Pete were the defending champions, but lost in the final to Kathy Jordan and Betsy Nagelsen. The score was 6–3, 7–5.

== Seeds ==

== Draw ==
Key

=== Draw ===

== References ==

== External links ==
Official results archive (ITF)
Official results archive (WTA)

Arturo Casadevall

Arturo Casadevall is a Bloomberg Distinguished Professor of Molecular Microbiology & Immunology and Infectious Diseases at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health and Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, and the Alfred and Jill Sommer Professor and Chair of the W. Harry Feinstone Department of Molecular Microbiology and Immunology at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. He is an internationally recognized expert in infectious disease research, with a focus on fungal and bacterial pathogenesis and basic immunology of antibody structure-function. He was elected a member of the National Academy of Sciences in 2022.

== Biography ==
Arturo Casadevall was born in Sancti Spíritus, Cuba, in 1957 from a Catalan-descendant family. He is the great-great-great-grandson of Colonel José Martínez-Fortún y Erlés, the first Marquis of Placetas. He moved to Elmhurst, Queens, New York City in 1968 and became a U.S. citizen in 1976. Prior to his career in medicine, Casadevall worked at McDonald's for 4 years and later as a bank teller. Casadevall received his Bachelor of Arts degree in Chemistry from Queens College, City University of New York in 1979, and his M.S. and Ph.D in Biochemistry from New York University in 1983 and 1984. He then received his M.D. from New York University in 1985. Casadevall completed his internship and residency in internal medicine at the Bellevue Hospital Center, and a fellowship in infectious diseases at the Montefiore Medical Center of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine. Under the guidance of Matthew D. Scharff, he completed a postdoctoral fellowship in immunology at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine from 1989 to 1991.
In 1992, he accepted an assistant professorship in medicine and microbiology & immunology at Albert Einstein College of Medicine. In 2000, he became the director of the Division of Infectious Diseases at Montefiore Medical Center and rose to the rank of full professor by 2001. In 2002, he was named the Selma and Jacques Mitrani Professor in Biomedical Research. In 2006, he became the Chair of the Department of Microbiology and Immunology and was named the Leo and Julia Forchheimer Professor of Microbiology Immunology. He is board-certified by the American Board of Internal Medicine in internal medicine and the subspecialty of infectious diseases.
Until July 2009, Dr. Casadevall served as an editor of the ASM journal Infection and Immunity and continues to serve on the editorial boards of the Journal of Infectious Diseases and the Journal of Experimental Medicine. He is also the founding Editor in Chief of mBio, the first open access general journal of the American Society for Microbiology. He served as a member of the National Science Advisory Board for Biosecurity from 2005 to 2014. Casadevall was also a commissioner for the National Forensic Commission of the United States Department of Justice from 2015 to 2017.
In March 2015, Casadevall was named a Bloomberg Distinguished Professor at Johns Hopkins University for his accomplishments as an interdisciplinary researcher and excellence in teaching. The Bloomberg Distinguished Professorship program was established in 2013 by a gift from Michael Bloomberg. Casadevall holds appointments in the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health's Department of Molecular Microbiology and Immunology and the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine's Department of Infectious Diseases. He also serves as the Alfred and Jill Sommer Professor and Chair of the W. Harry Feinstone Department of Molecular Microbiology and Immunology at the Bloomberg School of Public Health in 2015. Casadevall is passionate about improving the doctoral curriculum, stating that he wants to "develop a program of putting the 'Ph' [philosophy] back into 'PhD' [...] Hopkins reformed medical education 100 years ago, and now we can experiment with creating better ways of training scientists." In 2017, the R3 (Rigor, Reproducibility and Responsibility) reflecting these values was launched at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health.
Casadevall is profiled in the last chapter of Range by David Epstein, a book arguing against specialization. Epstein posits that Casadevall's early life experiences, including working odd jobs unrelated to medicine, contributed to his later success.

== Awards and distinctions ==
Casadevall's groundbreaking work in the field of infectious diseases has been recognized by many, including the National Institutes of Health, which presented him with a Merit Award in 2007. He received several distinguished awards, including the Alumni Achievement Award in Basic Science from New York University, the Rhoda Benham Award of the Medical Mycological Society of the Americas, the Kass Lecture from the Infectious Diseases Society of America, and the ASM Founders Distinguished Service Award from the American Society for Microbiology. In 2022, Casadevall received the Lucille Georg Award from the International Society for Human and Animal Mycology.
In 2001, Casadevall received the Samuel M. Rosen outstanding teacher award and in 2008 he was recognized the American Society for Microbiology with the William Hinton Award for "outstanding contributions toward fostering the research training of underrepresented minorities in microbiology." ASM also notes that Casadevall was the first Hispanic Department Chair at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, and has "provided exemplary training and mentoring to a significant number of minority scientists, and himself served as a role model of success."
He has served as President of the Medical Mycology Society of America, Chair of American Society for Microbiology Division F, Chair of the American Society for Microbiology Career Development Committee, and Co-Chair of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases Board of Scientific Counselors, and currently serves on the Scientific Council of the Pasteur Institute. He is a member of the American Society for Clinical Investigation and the Association of American Physicians, and was elected Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and the American Academy of Microbiology. In 2014, he became an elected member of the National Academy of Medicine and in 2017, he was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He was named a Johns Hopkins Gilman Scholar in 2018. In 2022, he was elected to National Academy of Sciences. He was elected a distinguished fellow by the American Association of Immunologists (AAI) in 2023. He is a member of the Council of Foreign Relations.

== Research ==
Bridging the fields of microbiology and immunology, Casadevall's research is focused on fungal and bacterial pathogenesis and basic immunology of antibody structure-function. He has defined much of what is known about fungal pathogenesis and how fungi such as Cryptococcus neoformans evade the host immune response. Fungal infections are particularly dangerous in immunocompromised individuals such as cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy, making this work highly significant. With his collaborator Dr. Ekaterina (Kate) Dadachova, he pioneered the use of radioimmunotherapeutic strategies for the control of systemic fungal and other infections. During the course of his studies, he noted that certain fungi were radioresistant and worked to develop novel therapeutic strategies for a variety of human diseases including melanoma and infectious diseases, such as tuberculosis. He holds several active patents on these approaches.
Casadevall has a long record of outstanding scholarly and leadership contributions. His lab has studied host-microbe interactions with Cryptococcus neoformans, Mycobacterium tuberculosis, and Bacillus anthracis, with a focus on microbial pathogenesis and mechanisms of antibody action. His lab established that humoral immunity could protect against intracellular pathogens, demonstrated that Cryptococcus neoformans was a facultative intracellular pathogen, and suggested that virulence in environmental fungi was selected by amoeba predators, a hypothesis dubbed "accidental virulence". Jointly with British biologist Robin May, his group were the first to observe non-lytic expulsion, or vomocytosis, of intracellular fungi. Subsequently, with Kirsten Nielsen at the University of Minnesota, he characterized the ability of cryptococci to form "giant" or "titan" cells in vivo, unusually large cells that help drive persistent infections. His lab continues to work on fungal and bacterial pathogenesis.
Together with Liise-anne Pirofski, he proposed the 'Damage-Response Framework' of microbial pathogenesis, a new synthesis that shifted the emphasis away from focusing on microbes as pathogens, commensals, opportunists to the outcome of host-pathogen interactions. The damage-response framework was the first theory of microbial pathogenesis to incorporate the contributions of both the host and the pathogen and refocused attention into the outcome of the interaction. From the view of the damage-response framework there are no pathogens, commensals, symbionts, etc., but only microbes and their hosts, which interact to produce the states of pathogenesis, commensalism, symbiosis, indifference, etc.
In addition, Casadevall, in collaboration with Dr. Ferric C. Fang, has been constructive in shaping the nations approach to science, scientific misconduct, and promotion of women and underrepresented minorities. Among his own trainees, nearly half are members of underrepresented minority groups and more than half are women. With a focus on American Society for Microbiology events, Casadevall has been active in creating gender balance among speakers at conferences. Along these lines, he stated: "When you have an underrepresentation of women as speakers and many panel discussions made up only of male researchers, you're sending the message that perhaps the field is not welcoming to women. That isn't the message we want to send." His research on scientific misconduct has focused on fraudulent results published in journals and the subsequent rates of retraction. In addition, his views on and analysis of topics ranging from problems with the funding pipeline to the rise in retractions in journals to the complex ethics of dual use research are widely sought by premier journals and media outlets.
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, Casadevall was part of a national effort to investigate and expand the use of convalescent plasma, antibody-containing blood serum collected from patients who have recovered from the virus, as a measure to help until a COVID-19 vaccine becomes available. These antibodies are produced as part of the body's natural immune response, and bind to and neutralize the virus. A transfusion of blood containing these antibodies boosts the immunity of newly infected patients or people at risk of contracting the disease. Such infusions have been successfully implemented in past outbreaks, such as the SARS Epidemic, 1918 Flu Pandemic, and an outbreak of measles in 1934. The use of COVID-19 convalescent plasma for immunocompromised patients was found to be associated with a decrease in mortality.
Casadevall has written about the impact of climate change on fungal infections, especially fungal infections caused by the drug-resistant fungus Candida Auris, a species of fungus that grows as yeast. The fungus has spread through U.S. health care facilities and can cause severe illness in people with weakened immune systems. Casadevall has suggested that global warming could result in the emergence of new fungal diseases as natural selection could slowly increase heat tolerance in fungi to the point where they may be able to survive in human hosts.

== Publications ==
He has published more than 1,000 papers and 33 book chapters, largely in the fields of immunology and microbiology, genetics and molecular biology, biochemistry, and medicine, and more recently scientific culture and competition. As of early 2024, Casadevall has more than 90,000 citations in Google Scholar and an h-index of 157.

Books
2023, Thinking about Science: Good Science, Bad Science, and How to Make It Better. with co-author Ferric C. Fang, ASM Press.
2014, Human Fungal Pathogens. With co-editors A.P. Mitchell, J. Berman, KJ Kwon-Chung, J.R. Perfect, J. Heitman, Cold Spring Harbor Press.
2011, Recent Advances on Model Hosts. With co-editors E. Mylonakis, F.M. Ausubel, M. Gilmore, Springer Verlag/Springer Science & Business.
2011, Cryptococcus: from human pathogen to model yeast. with co-editors J. Heitman, T.R. Kozel, KJ Kwon-Chung, and JR Perfect, ASM Press.
1998, Cryptococcus neoformans. with co-author John R. Perfect, ASM Press.
Highly Cited Articles
2020, with Liise-anne Pirofski, The convalescent sera option for containing COVID-19, in: The Journal of Clinical Investigation. Vol. 130, nº 4; 1545–1548.
2015, with Lisa Brown, Julie M Wolf, Rafael Prados-Rosales, Through the wall: extracellular vesicles in Gram-positive bacteria, mycobacteria and fungi, in: Nature Reviews Microbiology. Vol. 13, nº 10; 620–630.
2012, with JM Bardeen, JR Bond, and N Kaiser, Misconduct accounts for the majority of retracted scientific publications, in: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. Vol. 109, nº 42; 17028–17033.
2003, with Joshua D Nosanchuk. The contribution of melanin to microbial pathogenesis , in: Cellular Microbiology. Vol. 5, nº 4; 203–223.
2002, with John R Perfect. Cryptococcosis, in: Infectious disease clinics of North America. Vol. 16, nº 4; 837–874.
2001, with JN Steenbergen and HA Shuman. Cryptococcus neoformans interactions with amoebae suggest an explanation for its virulence and intracellular pathogenic strategy in macrophages, in: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. Vol. 98, nº 26; 15245–15250.
2000, with Gary M Cox, Jean Mukherjee, Garry T Cole, and John R Perfect. Urease as a virulence factor in experimental cryptococcosis, in: Infection and Immunity. Vol. 68, nº 2; 443–448.
1999, with Sarah P Franzot and Ira F Salkin. Cryptococcus neoformans var. grubii: separate varietal status for Cryptococcus neoformans serotype A isolates, in: Journal of Clinical Microbiology. Vol. 37, nº 3; 838–840.
1999, with Liise-anne Pirofski, Host-pathogen interactions: redefining the basic concepts of virulence and pathogenicity , in: Infection and Immunity. Vol. 67, nº 8; 3703–3713.

== References ==

== External links ==
mBio Founding Editor in Chief
Faculty Webpage
"Promoting Diversity and Inclusion in the Research of Health and Medicine" Johns Hopkins News-Letter coverage of the Osler Medical Symposium
Pubmed citations
Arturo Casadevall publications indexed by Google Scholar

2016 European Athletics Championships – Women's 800 metres

The women's 800 metres at the 2016 European Athletics Championships took place at the Olympic Stadium on 6, 7, and 9 July.

== Records ==

== Schedule ==

All times are local times (UTC+2)

== Results ==

=== Round 1 ===

First 4 in each heat (Q) and the next fastest 4 (q) advance to the Semifinals.

EAA : Independent athlete competing under European Athletics Association flag.

=== Semifinal ===
First 2 (Q) and next 2 fastest (q) qualify for the final.

=== Final ===

== References ==

== External links ==
amsterdam2016.org, official championship site.

1992 United States Senate election in South Carolina

The 1992 United States Senate election in South Carolina was held on November 3, 1992. Incumbent Democratic U.S. Senator Fritz Hollings won reelection to his sixth (his fifth full) term. Apart from Hollings's first election to the Senate in 1966, this was the closest election of his Senate career. This is the last time that South Carolina simultaneously voted for presidential and U.S. Senate candidates of different political parties.

== Republican primary ==

=== Candidates ===
Thomas F. Hartnett, former U.S. representative from the 1st congressional district
Charlie E. Thompson, teacher

== General election ==

=== Candidates ===

==== Major ====
Thomas Hartnett (R), former U.S. representative
Fritz Hollings (D), incumbent U.S. senator

==== Minor ====
Robert Clarkson (American)
Mark Johnson (Libertarian)

=== Campaign ===
The race between Hollings and Hartnett was between two politicians from the Lowcountry. Hartnett attacked Hollings for co-sponsoring a bill in 1983 that would have outlawed discrimination against homosexuals and Hollings shot back about questions of Hartnett's integrity for pushing for military contracts with a firm he had ties with in North Charleston. The anti-incumbency mood helped to bring Hartnett close to topping Hollings in the general election, but South Carolina voters traditionally support their incumbent politicians and Hollings was elected for another six-year term, albeit with a much reduced margin.

=== Results ===

== See also ==
List of United States senators from South Carolina
1992 United States Senate elections

== References ==
Krauss, Clifford (October 30, 1992). "THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Senate Race; A BITTER RIVALRY IN SOUTH CAROLINA". The New York Times. Retrieved February 2, 2008.
State Election Commission (1993). South Carolina Election Commission Annual Report 1992-1993. Columbia, SC: The Commission. p. 80.

Abdoellah Steenkamp

Abdoellah Steenkamp (born 24 October 1974) is a South African cricket umpire. He has stood in matches in the Sunfoil 3-Day Cup tournament. He is part of Cricket South Africa's umpire panel for first-class matches.

== References ==

== External links ==
Abdoellah Steenkamp at ESPNcricinfo

Badami Bagh railway station

Badami Bagh Railway Station (Urdu and Punjabi: بادامی باغ ریلوے اسٹیشن) is located in Badami Bagh, Lahore district, in Pakistan's Punjab province.

== See also ==
List of railway stations in Pakistan
Pakistan Railways

== References ==

Bethlehem Missionary Baptist Church (Florida)

Bethlehem Missionary Baptist Church was located south of Tallahassee, Florida in the unincorporated community of Belair and was moved to the Tallahassee Museum as one of its historical buildings. It was the first regularly, commenced black church in Florida.

== History ==
The church was founded by James Page in 1851 on cotton plantation property given to him by John Parkhill, his owner. Bethlehem Missionary was the first regularly organized black church in Florida according to the museum and was restored by Florida A & M University.
Before obtaining the official building, church members gathered on John Parkhill's plantation under the leadership of James Page. When James Page chose to move to Bel-Air, members began raising money through festivals and other means to buy the estate from John Parkhill, which was 250 dollars. Under James Page, Bethlehem Missionary Baptist Churches' values flourished beyond religion. The church was a made to be a safe place for commencement exercises, freed education, and places for fraternal civic organizations to hold meetings.

== Role in civil rights movement ==

During the Civil Rights Movement, the church's reverend was Charles Kenzie Steele. He is a renowned Civil Rights Activity, particularly known for his miraculous guidance through the Tallahassee Bus Boycott. In response to his demonstrations, the Ku Klux Klan burned a cross and left it in front of the church on January 2nd, 1957. Cross burning is a sign of intimidation, but Steele utilized this situation to take a stance. He took a picture near the cross with the church included in the background to demonstrate his resolve.

== Bicentennial restoration project ==
Commenced by Florida A&M University's Black Church Restoration Committee along with their by Bicentennial Planning Committee under the area of Philosophy and Religion in 1976, this project aimed to refurnish and resettle the original Bethlehem Church at the Tallahassee Junior Museum. They sought to preserve the cultural, historical, and structural legacy that was left behind. According to the Bicentennial Restoration Project's pamphlet, the church was donated by Mr. and Mrs. Charles F Johnson. It was no larger than a storage shed only containing a single organ, pulpits, and pews.

== Legacy and reconstruction ==
Bethlehem Missionary Baptist Church was described as a building with a white single room covered by a tin roof and lit by kerosene lamps. The building was tore down in 1974 as the congregation wanted a larger space. They moved their praise elsewhere, and it was fully rebuilt in 1976. Now, grounded on Martin Luther King Street in Tallahassee, Florida, it is known as Bethel Missionary Baptist Church. The new building preserved the stained glass windows from the original estate. Now under the leadership of Reverend Dr. RB Holmes, Bethel Missionary Church excels in committing to the development of their community; they have nurtured the community in Frenchtown, developed a school, mall, housing and still have other various developments within the Tallahassee community.

== References ==

Christopher Floyd (disambiguation)

Christopher Floyd is an English barrister and judge.
Christopher or Chris Floyd may also refer to:

Chris Floyd (born 1975), American football player
Chris Floyd (photographer), British photographer
Christopher Floyd, character in 2010
Chris Floyd, character in 2061: Odyssey Three

2018 Liga 3 (Indonesia)

The 2018 Liga 3 was the second season of the Liga 3 under its current name, the third season under its current league structure, and the only amateur league football competition in Indonesia.
The league was divided into the regional stage and the national stage. Every amateur team in Indonesia competed in its provincial stage of the league and the teams which relegated from 2017 Liga 2 competed in the national zone preliminary round.
Persik defeated PSCS 3–2 on aggregate to win their first Liga 3 title.

== Overview ==

=== Player regulations ===
Teams can register a maximum of 30 players. 27 players were under 23 years old (U-23) and 3 players without age restriction, the teams also could not use foreign players.

== Qualifying round ==
Qualifying round for national round was divided into 2 routes:

Regional route (consist of representatives from 34 provinces). First, each province held their provincial league followed by unlimited amateur teams with different competition format (see table below). Then qualified teams from provincial league competed in their respective region to earn 24 spots in regional preliminary round based on their quota. These 24 teams then competed for 12 slots in national round.
National zone route was consisted of the teams which relegated from 2017 Liga 2, 20 teams (winners and runner-ups from 8 groups + 4 play-off winner) qualified for national round from this route.

=== Regional route ===

==== Province round ====
These teams were representatives from their provincial league to be competed in regional round.

==== Regional round ====

The following teams qualified from regional route for the national round.

=== National zone route ===

The following 32 teams entered the national zone route:

There should be 40 teams relegated from 2017 Liga 2 competed in this route, but Pro Duta and Persifa Fak-fak disqualified. On 5 June 2018, PSSI disqualified PPSM Magelang and Sragen United. Also PS Bengkulu, PS Timah BaBel, and Persigubin Gunung Bintang withdrew from the competition. Later on 28 July 2018, PSSI disqualified Yahukimo because they didn't attend match coordination meeting in Gawalise Stadium.
The following teams qualified from national zone route for the national round.

== National round ==
A total of 32 teams (20 teams from national zone route and 12 teams from The regional route) compete in this round.

=== First round ===
In this first round, 32 teams divided into eight groups. Each group played a home tournament basis. First round was played from 26 November – 2 December 2018. Winner and runner-up of each group advanced to second round.

==== Group A ====
PSGC hosted this group at Galuh Stadium, Ciamis Regency and Wiradadaha Stadium, Tasikmalaya.

==== Group B ====
PSCS hosted this group at Wijayakusuma Stadium, Cilacap Regency and Goentoer Darjono Stadium, Purbalingga Regency.

==== Group C ====
Bogor hosted this group at Mini Stadium and Pakansari Stadium, Cibinong. But due to 212 reunion activity and the arrival of the president to Pakansari Stadium (Indonesian Teachers' Union Anniversary), the last matches in this group was moved to Heri Sudrajat Stadium, Depok and PPMP Stadium, Sentul without spectators.

==== Group D ====
PS Badung hosted this group at Gelora Samudera Stadium, Kuta and Beji Mandala Stadium, Pecatu.

==== Group E ====
Persijap hosted this group at Gelora Bumi Kartini Stadium. Perseka withdrew from the competition due to technical constraints.

==== Group F ====
PSBK hosted this group at Gelora Supriyadi Stadium, Blitar.

==== Group G ====
Persik hosted this group at Brawijaya Stadium, Kediri and Canda Bhirawa Stadium, Kediri Regency.

==== Group H ====
Persinga hosted this group at Brantas Stadium and Kusuma Agrowisata Stadium, Batu.

=== Second round ===
The second round featured by 16 teams which are the winners and runner-ups from each group of the first round. The second round matches was played from 8–9 December 2018. Each winner advanced to third round.

=== Third round ===
In this round, eight teams divided into two groups. Each group played a home tournament basis. Third round was played from 16–22 December 2018. Three best teams of each group promoted to Liga 2. Winner of each group also advanced to final.

==== West Group ====
PSGC hosted this group at Galuh Stadium, Ciamis Regency.

==== East Group ====
Persik hosted this group at Brawijaya Stadium, Kediri and Canda Bhirawa Stadium, Kediri Regency.

=== Finals ===

Persik won 3–2 on aggregate

== Champions ==

== See also ==
2018 Liga 1
2018 Liga 2
2018–19 Piala Indonesia

== References ==

Bentley Rare Book Gallery

The Bentley Rare Book Gallery is a rare book library housed on the lower level of the Horace W. Sturgis Library at Kennesaw State University in Kennesaw, Georgia, United States. It is one of only three certified, museum-grade rare book libraries in Georgia; the others are located at the University of Georgia in Athens and Emory University in Atlanta. Named after Fred D. Bentley Sr., one of its principal benefactors, and his wife Sarah Bentley, the library contains a diverse collection of works documenting the history of the written and printed word in English.

== History ==
The rare book room was a result of a collaboration between Library Director, Robert Williams, College President, Dr. Betty Siegel, and Fred Bentley.

== Design ==
The gallery is designed to resemble a "domestic library in a middle-class household during the reign of King George III (1760-1820)." Other cited sources for the design were Agatha Christie's description of her ideal home in her autobiography, the Edwardian imagery of E. M. Forster, and Edith Wharton's "The Decoration of Houses."
The space, on the ground floor of the Sturgis Library, was dramatically transformed into an immersive environment in which patrons can interact with and appreciate the collection. The room’s woodwork was entirely hand crafted to evoke an authentic atmosphere. Behind these beautiful surroundings, modern technology and systems were utilized to make the space secure and environmentally controlled. The Gallery was completed with period pieces that highlight the rich cultural and social history of objects and complement their setting.

=== Notable volumes and literary items ===
Franciscan breviary from northern Italy (1450)
A leaf from the Golden Legend (c. 1470)
A leaf from Tractatus et Sermones (1490)
A leaf from Recollections on the History of England (c. 1470)
Voi chascoltate inrime sparse (1472)
The Divine Comedy (1502)
The Complete Works of Chaucer (1542)
Aesopi Phrygii Fabulae Graece Latine Conversae (1544)
Newe Testament of Our Lord Iesus Christ [sic] (1583)
The vvorkes of the most high and mightie prince, Iames by the grace of God, King of Great Britaine, France and Ireland, defender of the faith, &c. (1616)
Fourth Folio of William Shakespeare (1685)
Paradise Regained (1758)
Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde (1886)
Trilby (1895)
Tristram Shandy (complete nine volumes)
The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn (first edition)
Up From Slavery (original copy - signed by Booker T. Washington)

== Department of Museums, Archives & Rare Books ==
The Bentley Rare Book Gallery is part of Kennesaw State University's Department of Museums, Archives & Rare Books. In addition to the rare book collection, the department is responsible for the University Archives and Special Collections, Records Management, Art Museum and Galleries, and the Museum of History and Holocaust Education.

== External links ==
Kennesaw State Official Website
Bentley Rare Book Gallery Website

14th Tank Division (Soviet Union)

The 14th Tank Division (Russian: 14-я танковая дивизия) was an armoured formation of the Red Army active during the early stages of the Second World War. It formed part of the 10th Mechanized Corps within the 6th Army of the Kiev Special Military District. The division participated in the opening battles of Operation Barbarossa in June 1941 before being destroyed in combat later that year.

== History ==
The 14th Tank Division was created in early 1940 as part of the reorganization of Soviet armoured forces following the Winter War. It was assembled from existing tank brigades and reserve regiments stationed in the Ukrainian SSR. Like many early-war formations, it struggled with shortages of modern tanks, trained crews, and logistical coordination.
When Operation Barbarossa began on 22 June 1941, the division was part of the 10th Mechanized Corps positioned near the western Ukrainian border. It soon engaged German forces in the Brody–Dubno battles, one of the largest early tank clashes on the Eastern Front. Despite strong counter-attacks, the division suffered heavy casualties due to Luftwaffe air superiority, lack of fuel and ammunition, and mechanical failures of its older tanks. Archival data indicate that by 30 June 1941 the division fielded 9 146 personnel and 293 tanks.
By mid-July 1941 the division had been reduced to fragments. Surviving personnel were pulled eastward, with remnants integrated into other Red Army units. The formation was officially disbanded between 8 and 19 August 1941 as part of the general Soviet withdrawal toward the Dnieper River.

== Organisation ==
The 14th Tank Division followed the 1940 table of organisation for Soviet tank divisions, which prescribed two tank regiments, one motorized rifle regiment, an artillery regiment, and supporting reconnaissance, engineer, and signal battalions. However, chronic shortages meant the 14th rarely reached its intended strength. At the time of the German invasion, most of its tanks were older BT-7 and T-26 models rather than the newer T-34 or KV-1.

== Commanders ==
The division’s initial commanding officer is not clearly documented in surviving wartime records. Leadership within the 10th Mechanized Corps changed frequently as officers were lost or reassigned during the chaotic opening weeks of the German invasion.

== Legacy ==
The 14th Tank Division was not re-formed after 1941. Its destruction was typical of the Red Army’s early-war mechanized corps, many of which were encircled and annihilated in the first months of the conflict. The division’s numerical designation was later reused in the post-war period for other Soviet armoured formations, including a unit established in 1974 in the North Caucasus Military District, reorganised in 1989 as the 100th Operational Division.

== See also ==
Operation Barbarossa
10th Mechanized Corps (Soviet Union)

== References ==

2015 Club Atlético Independiente season

The 2015 season Independiente Participate in the Argentine Primera División, Copa Argentina and the Copa Sudamericana .

== Club ==

=== Kits ===
Supplier: Puma SE
Main Sponsor:: Correo OCA /
Secondary Sponsor: Audifarm Salud

=== Squad information ===

=== Current coaching staff ===

== Transfers ==

=== Player In ===

Total spending: €127,350,000

=== Player Out ===

Total Income : €2,850,000
Net income: €124,500,000

=== Players out on loan ===

== Pre-season ==
Win
Draw
Loss
Postponed

=== Copa De Oro ===

Standings

=== Copa De Avellaneda ===

=== Friendly ===

==== Summer ====
Win
Draw
Loss
Postponed

==== Winter ====
Win
Draw
Loss
Postponed

== Competitions ==

=== Overall ===

=== Overview ===
Updated as of 2 November 2015

== Primera División ==

Win
Draw
Loss
Postponed

=== League table ===

=== Relegation table ===

=== Liguilla Pre-Libertadores ===

=== Results summary ===

=== Results by round ===

== Copa Argentina ==

=== Round of 64 ===

=== Round of 32 ===

=== Round of 16 ===

== Copa Sudamericana ==

=== Second stage ===

=== Round of 16 ===

=== Quarterfinals ===

== Statistics ==

=== Squad statistics ===
Last updated on 21 November 2015

=== Goals ===
Last updated on 20 November 2015

=== Assists ===
Last updated on 20 November 2015

=== Clean sheets ===
Last updated on 9 November 2015

=== Disciplinary record ===
Last updated on 20 November 2015

=== Penalties ===
Last updated on 9 November 2015 2015

=== Overall ===
Last updated on 20 November 2015

== References ==

== External links ==
Club Atlético Independiente official web site (in Spanish)

2022 Oslo shooting

The 2022 Oslo shooting, commonly known in Norway as the Pride Shooting in Oslo (Pride-skyting i Oslo), occurred on 25 June 2022, when two people were killed and twenty-one people were wounded in a mass shooting in Oslo, Norway. Police declared the incident as an "act of Islamist terrorism". The target may have been the Oslo LGBTQ pride event, which was hosted by the local branch of the Norwegian Organisation for Sexual and Gender Diversity. As of 2026, it is the only terrorist incident linked to the Islamic State to occur in Norway.
As of 2025, the shooter has had a trial, and its verdict has become final.
In 2026, a lower court handed down a verdict, in regard to the trial against an alleged facilitator, Arfan Bhatti; he will be imprisoned for at least 30 years; however, he has appealed the case.

== Shooting ==
The shooting occurred at locations associated with Oslo Pride, the local LGBT pride event hosted by the Oslo branch of the Norwegian Organisation for Sexual and Gender Diversity, the night before the planned pride parade in Oslo. The shooting occurred in front of the London Pub, a popular gay bar and nightclub, the bar Per på hjørnet, and a takeaway restaurant in-between both bars. A journalist from the Norwegian public broadcaster NRK who was present stated he witnessed a man arrive with a bag, then pick up a weapon and start shooting. The journalist thought it was an air gun at first, until the glass shattered at the bar next door. According to one witness, the perpetrator shouted "Allahu Akbar" as he started shooting. The gunman first took out a Luger P08 handgun and fired 8 rounds at the people in front of him. He then raised his MP 40 submachine gun and fired 10 shots in sporadic bursts. The gun jammed immediately afterwards. The gunman ran away from the scene of the crime.
As he ran away, the gunman tried to reload his submachine gun. A civilian quickly tried to tackle him. The gunman ran away and ran out onto Kristian IVs gate. Several civilians began to tackle and struggle with the gunman. The gunman fired his Luger handgun once during the struggle before being disarmed and overpowered. In total, the gunman directly shot 11 people while several more were injured during the chaos. 5 people, including 2 fatalities, were shot outside the Per på hjørnet, 1 person was shot outside the takeaway restaurant, and 5 people were shot in and outside the London Pub.
It was determined the shooter fired 19 rounds in total. 9 from the Luger P08 and 10 from the MP 40.
Police were called at 01:15 local time and arrived minutes later. The suspect was detained five minutes after the shooting. 80 to 100 people hid in the pub's basement during the attack, and wounded people were lying both inside and outside the bar.

== Victims ==
Two people were killed and twenty-one others injured, ten of whom were critically injured, while the other eleven sustained minor injuries. The deceased victims were a 60-year-old man, killed at the London Pub, and a 54-year-old man, killed at the Per på hjørnet bar. Both victims resided in Bærum.
Oslo University Hospital reported that it had gone on red alert following the attack. Ten people received medical treatment for serious injuries. According to Eskil Pedersen, a number of those present in London Pub, including himself, were also on Utøya during the 2011 shooting by domestic terrorist Anders Behring Breivik.

== Investigation ==
At a press conference on 25 June 2022, the police said that they believe the attack could have been motivated by anti-LGBT hate and intended to target Oslo Pride.
Matapour's lawyer John Christian Elden said they suspended police interrogations because Matapour is afraid that the police are manipulating them. Elden told Aftenposten that Matapour is afraid that the police will switch the recorded tapes and demand that everything must be written down. Zaniar Matapour refused to appear for questioning, adding an additional demand—that his interrogation be made public in its entirety.
In February 2023, media reported that on 19 June, an Islamist contacted a person on the chat service Telegram; the person contacted was an undercover agent of the Norwegian Intelligence Service; the Islamist wanted contact with IS and wrote to the agent that some "brothers" were planning an operation in Europe; the Islamist said that the "brothers" had two requests: They wanted approval from IS, prior to the operation, and the "brothers" also requested that the terror organization would take responsibility for the attack afterward, according to the information of newspaper VG. At the same time, the intelligence service knew the identity of the Islamist, even though he was using a handle/pseudonym (kallenavn); the agency also suspected who was pulling the strings (bakmann): Arfan Bhatti. After the attack, the Islamist (but not Bhatti) sent a news article about the attack, to the undercover agent. Shortly after the attack, Bhatti was put into contact with an undercover agent who was posing as "an emir, a leader of the Islamic State"; the contact was established as a result of the dialogue between the (first-mentioned) Islamist and the (first-mentioned) undercover agent; the "fake emir" and Bhatti, kept in touch, for at least 8 weeks after the attack.

== Trial of the shooter (2024) ==

In July 2024 the court handed down its verdict to Matapour: 30 years forvaring; the media called it the harshest sentence in modern times. Earlier (11 March 2024), the trial against Matapour started.
The suspect was identified as a 42-year-old Norwegian Kurd, Zaniar Matapour (born June 26, 1979), who moved from Iran to Norway in 1991 when he was 12. He has been charged with murder, attempted murder, and acts of terrorism. It is still unknown whether Matapour had accomplices.
Matapour had an extensive criminal background from drug and assault offenses, but had received only "minor convictions" prior to the attack, according to a Norwegian prosecutor. His mother said that he had previously been diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia. On the day of the attack he was present and prayed several times at the Rabita Mosque.
According to the public broadcaster NRK, Matapour had been in contact with Arfan Bhatti, an Islamist extremist with several convictions for violence. On 14 June 2022, Bhatti, who has also been represented by Elden in the past, posted a burning rainbow flag with a caption calling for the killing of LGBT+ people on Facebook. Bhatti is a leading figure in Profetens Ummah, which has recruited people for Islamic State. Verdens Gang reported that Matapour had been stopped by police in April when he was in the same car as Bhatti. The police later confirmed that they had known of the suspect since 2015, believing that he had been radicalized into Islamic extremism.
Matapour's trial began on 12 March 2024. In May 2024, Arfan Bhatti [was] scheduled to appear in court as a witness. On 4 July 2024 he was sentenced to 30 years in prison, with a minimum time of 20 years.
Earlier, police arrested Zaniar Matapour, a Norwegian citizen from Sanandaj, Kurdistan Province of Iran, who had lived in Bergen, Norway, since 1991. They later confirmed that they had known of Matapour since 2015, saying that he had been radicalized into Islamic extremism. They also said he had a "history of violence and threats", as well as mental health issues. He has been convicted and sentenced to 30 years in prison for murder, attempted murder, and terrorism.

== 2025 trial of an alleged facilitator ==
A trial against Arfan Bhatti started on 2 September 2025. The trial had not ended (as of the beginning of November).
Zaniar Matapour was put on the stand, as a witness; He was not finished in court (as of the afternoon of September 11).
Bhatti was still testifying (as of the first week of September 2025).
Earlier (August 2024), the court system decided to prolong (by four weeks), his detention.
Earlier (23 September 2022), police stated that Bhatti was suspected of involvement in the shooting, and that an arrest warrant had been issued regarding him.

== Charges against a female detainee in Syria ==
In November 2023, media named a third person that has been charged. Her name, Aisha Shazadi Kausar, was confirmed by other media in March 2024; since 2019 (and before the shooting), she has been detained at al-Roj (camp in Syria). As of 2025, Norway is trying to get her extradited through the new government in Syria.

Aisha Shazadi Kausar; she is charged with having taken part in terrorism; However, she is in Syria (as of 2024).

== Charges being dropped, in regard to two other persons ==
As of September 2025, the government is not pursuing a (judicial) case against:

A 38-year-old Norwegian-Pakistani (norsk-pakistaner); he had been charged with having taken part in terrorism.
A 49-year old Somali citizen; he had been charged with having taken part in terrorism. This person took the stand (during the trial of Matapour), and that person's police interview was read to the court.
Five people were charged for having (at least) some responsibility for the shooting.

== Aftermath ==
The pride parade and related events scheduled to be held in Oslo were cancelled after the shooting. National Police Chief, Benedicte Bjørnland, said in a statement that all Pride events in Norway should be postponed since the LGBT community is considered the "enemy" by Islamist extremists. Police also advised people to celebrate Pride in smaller groups. Despite warnings, several thousand people still attended a makeshift parade, with armed police in the lead, and laid down rainbow flags as well as flowers at London Pub.
The National Police Commissioner Marie Benedicte Bjørnland announced a temporary nationwide arming of police officers in Norway. Additionally, Norway entered its highest terror alert level, although the Norwegian Police Security Service had "no indication" further attacks were likely to happen.
The Oslo Pride organisation organised a "Rainbow parade" walk for 10 September.

== Reactions ==

=== Domestic ===

Norwegian Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Støre called the shooting a "terrible attack on innocent people", and expressed solidarity with the LGBT community. He added that the fight against hate was not over, but that it could be overcome together. Støre reiterated that while the perpetrator had Islamist motivations, the attack was the fault of an individual and not Norway's Muslim community. In his speech on the anniversary of the 2011 Norway attacks, the Prime Minister said that "we know that queer people are the targets of hate, threats and violence. The incitement of hate is especially virulent against trans people. We will not accept this in Norway. We will use the memory of 22 July, in respect for those we lost, to turn our backs on this hate." Støre also called on moderate Muslims to call out homophobic and transphobic attitudes and actions.
The president of the Norwegian Parliament Masud Gharahkhani, a Norwegian-Iranian, stated that it was "sad and unacceptable" that such a brutal attack could occur.
King Harald V stated that the attacks had horrified the royal family, and he expressed a need to stand together to defend freedom and diversity. Similarly, Crown Prince Haakon stated that Norway needed to protect the right "to love whomever we want".
Bishop Olav Fykse Tveit, the Preses of the Church of Norway, expressed his belief that love would gain new strength following the attack.

=== International ===
Many leaders of other countries were shocked, and gave condolences; some, such as French President Emmanuel Macron, encouraged people to stand together. Ursula von der Leyen, president of the EU Commission, expressed that she was shocked by the attack. Finnish President Sauli Niinistö and Prime Minister Sanna Marin gave their condolences on Twitter and condemned all forms of terrorism.
John Kirby, a White House spokesperson, stated that the White House was "horrified" by the shooting and expressed solidarity with Norway and the LGBT community.

== Analysis ==
Gender studies scholar Janne Bromseth said that the attack took place in the context of attacks on LGBT minorities and rights by the anti-gender movement in Norway, noting that "the anti-gender movement has (...) shifted boundaries in the public debate in Norway in recent years," resulting in "a harsher climate of debate where primarily organized TERFs have been given space to set the agenda for the 'debate on gender' and the alleged threat of 'gender ideology' to the natural order, although the criminal was a radical islamist, not a feminist, and his motives were religious." The head of the Norwegian government's Extremism Commission, Cathrine Thorleifsson, as well as Amnesty International, linked the attack to a pattern of increased attacks on LGBT+ people in Norway and Europe, both on extremist online forums and open social media platforms.

== See also ==
2022 Bratislava shooting

== References ==

1975–76 Washington Bullets season

The 1975–76 Washington Bullets season was the Bullets 15th season in the NBA and their 3rd season in the city of Washington, D.C.

== Draft picks ==

== Roster ==

== Regular season ==

=== Season standings ===

Notes

z, y – division champions
x – clinched playoff spot

== Game log ==

=== Regular season ===

=== Playoffs ===

== Awards and records ==
Elvin Hayes, All-NBA Second Team

== References ==

2024 European Parliament election in Germany

The 2024 European Parliament election in Germany was held on 9 June 2024. It was the tenth parliamentary election since the first direct elections in 1979, and the first European Parliament election after Brexit.
The election saw the CDU/CSU slightly increase its vote share, while all three parties comprising the government — the SPD, the Greens and the FDP — earned fewer votes than five years ago, with the Greens in particular suffering especially high losses. Conversely, the far-right AfD surged in both votes and seats, finishing second.
There was a stark regional disparity: The AfD won at least a plurality in all but six districts in former East Germany: Potsdam and Potsdam-Mittelmark in Brandenburg, the cities of Erfurt, Jena and Weimar as well as traditionally Catholic Eichsfeld in Thuringia. The newly formed left-populist party Sahra Wagenknecht Alliance also attracted a significant number of voters, with its support also being highest in the former East German states.

== Background ==
The 2024 European Parliament election was the first national election to be held in Germany since the 2021 federal election, in which former Chancellor Angela Merkel's Christian Democrats CDU-CSU lost to the Social Democratic Party (SPD) led by Olaf Scholz who formed a "traffic light coalition" with the Free Democratic Party (FDP) and the Alliance 90/The Greens. The coalition lowered the voting age for European Parliamentary Elections from 18 to 16 prior to this election.

== Electoral threshold ==
Since the 2014 European Parliament election, Germany does not have an overriding threshold of the vote share required in order for a party to win an EP seat — unlike the 5% threshold in national elections. This has allowed a number of smaller parties to gain representation, since they only have to reach about 0.5% of the vote share needed to get their first seat under the Webster/Sainte-Laguë method.
Germany is entitled to elect 96 Members of the European Parliament.
Although the European Council had recommended that countries with more than 35 MEPs should introduce a threshold between 2% and 5%, the German government abandoned its plans for a 2% threshold in November 2018. In 2022, the government decided to introduce a 2% threshold, but this will not yet apply in the 2024 election. In 2019, the de facto threshold for a seat was around 0.7% of the vote.

== Outgoing delegation ==
The table shows the detailed composition of the German seats at the European Parliament as of 12 March 2024.

== Parties campaigning for election ==

Political parties and other political associations may submit lists for the European elections. The lists must be submitted by the 83rd day before the election. Nationwide lists must be signed by 4,000 eligible voters, state lists by 1 per thousand, but not more than 2,000 eligible voters of the respective state (section 9 (5) EuWG). Parties that have been represented in the Bundestag, a regional parliament or the European Parliament with at least five members since its last election are exempt from the obligation to submit supporting signatures. These are (sorted by election results 2019):

The following other parties are currently represented in the European Parliament with one MEP each:

The federal lists of the following other parties and political associations were accepted:

== Controversies ==

=== Attacks on election campaigners ===
In the last week of April 2024, campaign workers from the Greens, Volt and Left Party were attacked and in some cases injured while putting up posters.
On 3 May 2024, Matthias Ecke (SPD) was attacked while putting up posters for the 2024 European elections in Dresden. He suffered a fracture to his eye socket and had to undergo surgery. State security took over the investigation, as it was assumed that the attack was politically motivated. Shortly before this, a campaign worker for Bündnis 90/Die Grünen had already been attacked at the same location while putting up posters. On 5 May, a 17-year-old turned himself in and admitted to the attack on Ecke. The three other suspects were then also identified. After the incident in Dresden, the alliances "Zusammen gegen Rechts" and "Wir sind die Brandmauer Dresden" called for demonstrations in Dresden and Berlin on 5 May 2024. In Dresden, 3,000 participants gathered to show solidarity after the attack; the demonstration was held under the slogan "Violence has no place in our democracy".
On 4 May 2024, Holger Kühnlenz, an AfD member of the Lower Saxony state parliament, was pelted with eggs in Nordhorn and punched in the face. In addition, an AfD election campaign stand in Dresden was damaged.
On 5 June 2024, Heinrich Koch, an AfD local council candidate was stabbed in Mannheim when "confronting poster vandals." Another knife-related attack took place in Mannheim a few days earlier.

=== AfD leadership change ===
In a May 2024 interview with Italian newspaper La Repubblica, Maximilian Krah, up to then leader of the AfD EP election candidates and already under pressure due to his EP office assistant being suspected of spying for China, argued that not all members of the Waffen-SS should be judged as criminals, citing the example of Günter Grass, a Nobel Prize winner for literature and former member of the Waffen-SS, and added "I would never say that anyone who wore an SS uniform was automatically a criminal. Among the 900,000 SS, there were also many peasants: there was certainly a high percentage of criminals, but not only that". The interview was said to have caused a further decline in already strained relations between the AfD and the French National Rally who both sat within the Identity and Democracy group. In response to Krah's statements and allegations of Chinese influence on the AfD, members of the National Rally followed by Italy's Lega and the Danish People's Party announced they would part ways with the AfD and cease formal collaboration with the party after the 2024 European Parliament election.
After the EP election, the newly elected AfD MEPs chose René Aust as head of the AfD's delegation to the European Parliament. Maximilian Krah was not a part of the EP group. He successfully campaigned for a seat in the German parliament snap election.

== Opinion polling ==

=== Federal level ===

=== Regional polls ===

==== Bavaria ====

==== Eastern Germany ====

==== Western Germany ====

== Results ==

The larger map denotes the results by districts and cities, while the smaller shows results in 16 states, including three city-states.

=== Results by state ===
The AfD and the BSW overperformed drastically in the former East Germany, except for Berlin, where the Greens secured the first place, albeit with 8.2% less than in 2019. Overall, the AfD got the highest vote totals in all five former East German states, while the Union secured pluralities in all eight non-city-states to the west of the former border. In addition to Berlin, the Greens also maintained a plurality in the port city-state of Hamburg, though at a 9.9 percentage points lower level than in 2019, while the SPD came first in Bremen, though with 3% less of the vote than in 2019.

Results for each party by state:

=== Electorate ===

== Notes ==

== References ==

Asahifuji Seiya

Asahifuji Seiya (旭富士 正也; born Seiya Suginomori (杉野森 正也) on July 6, 1960) is a Japanese former professional sumo wrestler from Aomori. He joined professional sumo in 1981, reaching the top makuuchi division just two years later. He reached the second highest rank of ōzeki in 1987 and became the 63rd yokozuna in the history of the sport in 1990 at the age of 30. He won four tournaments and was a runner-up on nine other occasions. He retired in 1992 and was the stablemaster of Isegahama stable from 1993 until 2025. As a coach he has produced two yokozuna, Harumafuji and Terunofuji.

== Early life ==
He was born in the fishing town of Kizukuri in Nishitsugaru District. His father, who worked as an electrician, was a keen amateur sumo enthusiast and Vice President of the Prefectural Sumo Federation. He was determined to see his son succeed in sumo and even built a dohyō in the garden for him to practice. Asahifuji also did well at sumo at school, finishing third in a national schoolboy competition, and later winning the West Japan Student Newcomers tournament while studying at Kinki University. However, tiring of the never-ending training, he gave up sumo for a while and spent his time fishing. Eventually an acquaintance of his father introduced him to Ōshima-oyakata, former ōzeki Asahikuni, who had recently opened his own heya or stable of wrestlers, Ōshima stable.

== Early sumo career ==
Asahifuji made his professional debut in January 1981. He was already 20 years old, considerably older than most new recruits who tended to be 15 or 16 at the time. However, because of his amateur sumo experience he was able to work his way up the ranks very quickly and won tournament championships in the jonokuchi, sandanme and makushita divisions with perfect records. He reached the second highest jūryō division after only eight tournaments, a record that stood unbeaten until 2008. He was promoted to the top makuuchi division in March 1983. He won his first special prize for Fighting Spirit in the November 1984 tournament, where he finished runner-up. He reached sekiwake rank for the first time in January 1986. After regular training sessions at Takasago stable, where he knew Asashio from his university days, he began to develop a more rounded technique, and after three double figure records he was promoted to sumo's second highest rank of ōzeki after the September 1987 tournament.

== Ōzeki ==
In January 1988 Asahifuji won his first top division tournament championship, which was also the first for the Tatsunami-Isegahama icihimon or group of stables in nearly twenty years. In 1989 he won 40 out of a possible 45 bouts in the first three championships of the year and came very close to promotion to the highest rank of yokozuna, but he was defeated by yokozuna Hokutoumi in playoffs in both January and May 1989. His 13–2 record in May was his fifth consecutive runner-up performance, and his seventh overall, but he had been unable to win two tournaments in a row, regarded by the Japan Sumo Association as the minimum requirement for yokozuna promotion after the embarrassment of Futahaguro's brief tenure at sumo top's rank.
After managing only 8–7 in the following tournament in July, Asahifuji endured a long slump. This was partly caused by longstanding pancreatic trouble, which had first been diagnosed in 1984 and had also afflicted his stablemaster during his active days. After a string of mediocre 8–7 and 9–6 scores it seemed Asahifuji would finish his career as an ōzeki. However, by mid-1990 his health began to improve, and after encouragement from his stablemaster, who reminded him that he would soon turn 30 years of age and was down to his last chance, he won consecutive championships in May and July 1990. He scored 14–1 in both tournaments, securing his yokozuna promotion on the final day in July by defeating yokozuna Chiyonofuji for only the fifth time in 28 meetings.

== Yokozuna ==
Asahifuji began his yokozuna career with 12 straight wins in the September 1990 tournament, but he lost to Kirishima on Day 13 and was defeated by Hokutoumi in the championship deciding bout on the final day. In November 1990 he finished runner-up again, to Chiyonofuji. In January and March 1991 he posted reasonable scores of 11–4 but was never really in contention for the championship in either tournament, although he did have a memorable win over the young rising star Takahanada in March. He had to wait until May 1991 for his first title as a yokozuna, when he defeated Konishiki twice on the last day, once in their regulation match and once in the playoff, to finish with a 14–1 record.
This was to prove Asahifuji's only tournament championship as a yokozuna, as the rest of his career was dogged by illness and injury. He managed only a bare majority of 8–7 in July 1991, the last tournament he was to complete. He pulled out of the September 1991 tournament with an injured shoulder on the sixth day, and hampered by the return of his old pancreatic problems missed the November 1991 tournament altogether. He returned in January 1992 but after losing his opening three bouts to Akebono, his nemesis Akinoshima (for the fifth time in a row) and finally Wakahanada, he announced his retirement at the age of 31. Asahifuji's three bout losing streak from the opening day was equal to the worst ever for a yokozuna in the 15-day era until Kisenosato lost his first four bouts in November 2018. He gave the worsening condition of his pancreas as the reason for his retirement. His danpatsu-shiki or retirement ceremony was held in September 1992. There were no active yokozuna at the time, so he was unable to follow the tradition of having one serve as his tachimochi and tsuyuharai for the event.

== After retirement ==

=== Coaching career ===
Asahifuji has remained in the sumo world as a coach. He had married a niece of the former Kasugayama (former maegashira Ōnobori) in 1988, and seemed set to revive Kasugayama stable, but instead he took over Ajigawa stable in 1993 due to the poor health of the previous incumbent (former sekiwake Mutsuarashi). In November 2007 Asahifuji acquired the Isegahama elder name and renamed his stable "Isegahama stable."
Both as Ajigawa and Isegahama, he had a prolific career, elevating several wrestlers to the top ranks of the sport. The first top division wrestler he produced was Aminishiki in 2000, who reached the sekiwake rank in 2007. Aminishiki's brother Asōfuji, who retired in 2011 after a match-fixing scandal, was also briefly a top division wrestler. One of Asahifuji's greatest success as a trainer came first with Harumafuji, who he recruited in 2001 and who initially fought under the shikona of Ama. Harumafuji reached the second highest rank of ōzeki in November 2008 and won his first top division championship in May 2009. Harumafuji took his second championship in July 2011, the same tournament in which Takarafuji, like Asahifuji a Kindai University graduate, made his top division debut. Homarefuji reached jūryō in 2012, and in September of that year Harumafuji was promoted to yokozuna following two consecutive 15–0 championships. Isegahama had motivated Harumafuji by telling him before his July 2011 championship, "If you are content with being ozeki then it is all over. You do not become a yokozuna just by wanting to be a yokozuna." Like Asahifuji, Harumafuji performed the yokozuna ring entering ceremony or dohyō-iri in the Shiranui style. He has continued to produce top wrestlers, with Takarafuji reaching komusubi rank and Terunofuji, inherited from the defunct Magaki stable, being promoted to ōzeki, both in 2015. Terunofuji fell to the jonidan division through injury in 2019. Isegahama refused to accept Terunofuji's request to be allowed to retire, and his faith was rewarded when Terunofuji staged a spectacular comeback and reached the yokozuna rank in July 2021.
In the final years of his coaching career, he continued to nurture promising young wrestlers, with Midorifuji winning promotion to makuuchi in 2021, while Atamifuji and Nishikifuji advanced to that division in 2022. In 2024, another pupil of Asahifuji, Takerufuji, made his makuuchi debut and became the first wrestler in 110 years to win the championship in his inaugural top division tournament.
He has also worked as a judge at tournament matches. In April 2025, Asahifuji was awarded the Order of the Polar Star, the highest Mongolian distinction that can be bestowed on a foreigner, for his success in training Mongolian sumo wrestlers.
Asahifuji turned 60 in July 2020. His kanreki dohyō-iri, originally postponed from May 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic, was held at Ryōgoku Kokugikan on 3 October 2021. Two of Isegahama stable's retired wrestlers, Ajigawa (former sekiwake Aminishiki) and yokozuna Harumafuji, served as his tsuyuharai and tachimochi, respectively. He told reporters shortly after the original postponement that he would need to put on weight to be able to wear his tsuna.
In April 2024, as head of his ichimon, he took on the responsibility of hosting Miyagino stable following the Hokuseihō violence scandal and the subsequent closure of the stable. The merger of the two stables made Isegahama stable the largest active stable in the sport.
Following the resignation and final retirement of former stablemaster Miyagino (the 69th yokozuna Hakuhō) in June 2025, Isegahama was announced as the successor to the Miyagino elder stock after the departure of the former Hakuhō, and would hand over his stable to his pupil Terunofuji. According to the press conference, this choice was explained by Miyagino's desire to see his former apprentices supervised, as they should now belong permanently to the Isegahama stable.
On 9 June 2025 Asahifuji formally took over the Miyagino kabu. At Hakuhō's press conference that same day, the new Miyagino Seiya told reporters that if there was a former Miyagino wrestler who can next take on the Miyagino name, he would do his best to help him revive the Miyagino stable. He remains affiliated with Isegahama stable as a coach, and began his re-employment with the Sumo Association as a san'yo (consultant) upon reaching his 65th birthday on 6 July 2025.
On 10 November 2025, it was announced that the promising recruit to his stable, Mongolian Battsetsegye Ochirsaihan, would inherit his shikona "Asahifuji". This decision was considered unusual, as wrestlers generally receive the names of previous yokozuna after they themselves have gained experience. Ochirsaihan, who has been dubbed "the strongest trainee in history", made his professional debut that same month, defeating fellow Mongolian Tenshoyama.

=== Scandals and board resignations ===
Asahifuji submitted Harumafuji's retirement papers to the Sumo Association on 29 November 2017 after the yokozuna took responsibility for an assault on fellow Mongolian Takanoiwa in a Tottori restaurant and bar the previous month. At a subsequent news conference Isegahama shed tears as he told reporters, "I've watched him grow since he was 16 and have never seen or heard of him being violent before... I can't imagine why it happened." At a meeting on 20 December 2017 the Sumo Association accepted Isegahama's resignation as a director. He was moved to the competition inspection committee as a deputy chairman. He returned to the board of directors in 2020 as head of the judging department.
On 26 December 2022 Asahifuji again submitted his resignation as a member of the Japan Sumo Association's Board of Directors after it was found that two junior wrestlers in his stable acted violently against younger wrestlers, with the victims beaten with wooden beams and burned with chankonabe hot water poured on their backs. According to the Sumo Association, Asahifuji knew about these incidents but failed to report them. When the board concluded that he should be demoted in sumo's hierarchy as punishment, he instead submitted his resignation. One of the wrestlers held responsible was suspended for two tournaments, while the other had already submitted his retirement papers, which were accepted. Asahifuji's resignation from the board resulted in him vacating his position as the head of the judging department. The following month it was confirmed through the Sumo Association's website that he had been demoted two ranks to yakuin taigu iin (executive member) and was appointed deputy director of the guidance promotion department.

== Fighting style ==
Asahifuji's favoured kimarite or techniques were listed by the Sumo Association as migi-yotsu (a left hand outside, right hand inside grip on the opponent's mawashi), yorikiri (force out) and uwatedashinage (pulling overarm throw). However, he was also fond of employing more unorthodox techniques little used by other wrestlers and certainly not taught by coaches. He was criticised for this by his stablemaster, the former ōzeki and noted technician Asahikuni, whose view was that by winning by his own idiosyncratic methods, he would be unable to cure his faults. Asahifuji himself claimed in an interview with Channel 4 television to have no favourite technique, but did say that while "everyone likes to throw an opponent, that's not sumo."

== Career record ==

== See also ==
Glossary of sumo terms
List of past sumo wrestlers
List of sumo elders
List of sumo tournament top division champions
List of sumo tournament top division runners-up
List of yokozuna

== References ==

== External links ==

Article on Asahifuji

2016–17 PSA World Tour

The 2016–17 PSA World Tour is the international squash tour organised circuit organized by the Professional Squash Association (PSA) for the 2016 squash season. It's the 2nd PSA season since the merger of PSA and WSA associations in 2015. The most important tournaments in the series is the Men's World Championship and the Women's World Championship. The tour features three categories of regular events, World Series, which feature the highest prize money and the best fields, International and Challenger. In the middle of the year, the PSA World Series tour is concluded by the Men's PSA World Series Finals and the Women's PSA World Series Finals in Dubai, the end of the world series season for the top 8 rated players. Players performances in the tour are rated by the Men's World Rankings and Women's World Rankings.

== Calendar ==
Categories: International tournaments and more.

=== Key ===

=== August ===

=== September ===

=== October ===

=== November ===

=== December ===

=== January ===

=== February ===

=== March ===

=== April ===

=== May ===

=== June ===

=== July ===

== Statistical information ==
The players/nations are sorted by:

Total number of titles;
Cumulated importance of those titles;
Alphabetical order (by family names for players).

=== Key ===

=== Titles won by player (men's) ===

=== Titles won by nation (men's) ===

=== Titles won by player (women's) ===

=== Titles won by nation (women's) ===

== Retirements ==
Following is a list of notable players (winners of a main tour title, and/or part of the PSA Men's World Rankings and Women's World Rankings top 30 for at least one month) who announced their retirement from professional squash, became inactive, or were permanently banned from playing, during the 2016 season:

Laurens Jan Anjema (born 1 December 1982 in The Hague, Netherlands) joined the pro tour in 1999, reached the singles no. 9 spot in 2010. He won 12 PSA World Tour titles including the Netsuite Open against Omar Mosaad and the Bluenose Classic against Borja Golán. He reached in 2010 the final of the US Open against Wael El Hindi. He retired in July after 15 years on the tour.

== See also ==
Professional Squash Association (PSA)
2015–16 PSA World Series
2016–17 PSA World Series
Men's World Rankings
Women's World Rankings
PSA World Series Finals
PSA World Championship
2016 Women's World Team Squash Championships

== References ==

== External links ==
PSA World Tour

Acinetobacter beijerinckii

Acinetobacter beijerinckii is a gram-negative, strictly aerobic bacterium from the genus of Acinetobacter which was isolated from human and animal specimens and from different environmental sources.

== References ==

== External links ==
Type strain of Acinetobacter beijerinckii at BacDive - the Bacterial Diversity Metadatabase

1993–94 Virginia Cavaliers men's basketball team

The 1993–94 Virginia Cavaliers men's basketball team represented University of Virginia as a member of the Atlantic Coast Conference during the 1994–95 NCAA Division I men's basketball season. The team was led by fourth-year head coach Jeff Jones. The Cavaliers earned an at-large bid to the NCAA tournament as No. 7 seed in the West region. They defeated No. 10 seed New Mexico in the opening round before falling to the No. 2 seed Arizona in the second round. The Cavaliers finished with a record of 18–13 (8–8 ACC).

== Roster ==

Source

== Schedule and results ==

Source:

== Rankings ==

== References ==

1981–82 Luton Town F.C. season

The 1981–82 season was the 96th in the history of Luton Town Football Club. They finished as champions of the Second Division to earn a place in the top flight of English football for the first time since relegation in 1975.

== Squad ==
Players who made one appearance or more for Luton Town F.C. during the 1981-82 season

== League table ==

== Results ==

=== Second Division ===

=== Milk Cup ===

=== FA Cup ===

== References ==

Bibliography
Rothmans Football Yearbook 1982-83 (Editor: Jack Rollin). Queen Anne Press. ISBN 0-356-07888-4.

Abraham Wright

Abraham Winston Wright (born October 15, 1984) is an American former professional football defensive end. He was selected by the Miami Dolphins in the seventh round of the 2007 NFL draft. He played college football at Colorado.

== Early life ==
Wright was a three-year letterman and starter at defensive end and linebacker for Southeast High School in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. As a senior, he earned first-team All-District honors with 110 tackles, including 14 for losses and 7.5 quarterback sacks. In a game against Guymon High School as a senior, he had eight tackles, a sack, and an interception which preserved the close win.

== College career ==

=== Northeast Oklahoma A&M ===
Prior to attending Colorado, Wright played one season at Northeastern Oklahoma A&M College in Miami, Oklahoma. He redshirted in 2002 while he made the transition from linebacker to defensive end. In 2003, Wright had 68 tackles (38 solo), with 14 tackles for loss including eight quarterback sacks and a pass defensed. He helped NEO to a 10-2 record, the Southwest Junior College Football Conference championship and a No. 11 national ranking. In a 34-20 win over Blinn College he recorded six tackles and three sacks.
Wright was named to SuperPrep’s JUCO Top 100 List, ranked as the No. 62 JUCO player overall, and the No. 5 defensive end. Rivals.com named him as the 59th best non-high school prospect.

=== University of Colorado ===
After transferring the University of Colorado in 2004, Wright appeared in all 13 games as a sophomore and started the final three regular season contests. On the year, he recorded 23 tackles (17 solo), tying for second on the team in quarterback sacks with 4.5 and had six tackle for a loss. He also had six pressures, which was good for second best on the team. His first career sack came against Washington State, and his first multi-sack game came against Kansas. He set a season-high with five tackles against Kansas State.
In 2005, Wright started all 13 games including the 2005 Champs Sports Bowl at defensive end. On the year, he accumulated 27 tackles (19 solo), five sacks, two forced fumbles and an interception. He earned CU athlete of the week and lineman of the week honors for a game against Oklahoma State, in which he totaled four solo tackles, a sack, an interception, a caused interception, a forced fumbled and a third-down stop. He reached a season high four tackles on three occasions, and had three tackles in the team's bowl game against Clemson.
Entering his senior season, Wright was on the preseason watch list for the Ted Hendricks Award, given to the nation's top defensive end, and was also on the official preseason All-America watch list by the Football Writer’s Association of America. He played in all 12 games in 2006, taking part in the second most defensive snaps of any player on the team and the most for all non-defensive backs. On the year, he had a career high 57 tackles (39 solo) along with 11.5 sacks, 17 quarterback pressures, a forced fumbled and three pass break-ups. His sack total lead the team and was nine sacks higher than anyone else on the squad in 2006. Wright's season highlights included a six-tackle performance in the opener against Montana State, two sacks against Baylor and a personal best three sacks against rival Colorado State.

== Professional career ==

=== Miami Dolphins ===
Wright was selected by the Miami Dolphins in the seventh round, with the 238th overall pick, of the 2007 NFL draft. The pick used to select Wright had been acquired earlier in the offseason in the trade that sent wide receiver Wes Welker to the New England Patriots.
On November 7, 2007, he was placed on season-ending injured reserve with a knee injury. He was waived by the Dolphins on May 5, 2008.

=== BC Lions ===
Wright signed a practice roster agreement with the BC Lions on October 14, 2009. He was invited to the Lions' 2010 training camp in Kamloops. He was released by the Lions on June 5, 2010.

== Personal life ==
Wright began learning sign language in the summer of 2004, and has a genuine interest in working with the deaf once his playing days are over. In 2017, Abe Wright became the Community Evangelist for Emmanuel Enid, Oklahoma. Abe, along with Wade Burleson (Lead Pastor, Emmanuel Enid, Oklahoma), offer a weekly podcast called The WAbe, which can be heard on all podcast streaming services. In 2018, he accepted a Teaching Pastoral position at Council Road Baptist Church in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.
Abraham is married with 4 children. Named Trinity, Bailey, Isaac, and Jacob
Now he got his PHD at Liberty University.

== References ==

== External links ==
Colorado Buffaloes bio

Benato-Toby

Benato - Toby is a town and commune in Madagascar. It belongs to the district of Betroka, which is a part of Anosy Region. The population of the commune was estimated to be approximately 9,000 in 2001 commune census.
Only primary schooling is available. It is also a site of industrial-scale mining. The majority 50% of the population of the commune are farmers, while an additional 40% receives their livelihood from raising livestock. The most important crop is rice, while other important products are maize and cassava. Services provide employment for 10% of the population.

== References and notes ==

88:88

88:88 is a 2015 Canadian experimental docudrama film, directed by Isiah Medina. A meditation on poverty, the film depicts the economic struggles of a group of young people in Winnipeg, using editing instead of narrative to drive the film in a stream of consciousness manner described by some critics as the filmic equivalent of a mixtape.
The film's cast includes Erik J. Berg, Eliza Bronte, Avery Medina, Myles Taylor and Anna Valencia. The film's title is a reference to the 88:88 that displays on a digital clock after a power interruption.
The film premiered at the Locarno Film Festival in August 2015, and had its Canadian premiere at the 2015 Toronto International Film Festival.
The film was added to the Mubi platform in 2016, and to YouTube later in the year.
The film was named the sixth best undistributed film of 2015 in the 2015 IndieWire Critics Poll. At the 2016 Vancouver Film Critics Circle awards, Medina received a nomination for Best Director of a Canadian Film.

== References ==

== External links ==
88:88 at IMDb

Eivinas Zagurskas

Eivinas Zagurskas (born 9 September 1989) is a Lithuanian professional footballer who plays as a midfielder for AFK Vilnius.

== Career ==

=== Club ===
In the summer of 2010, he joined Bogdanka Łęczna on a one-year contract.
In July 2011, he signed a contract with Wisła Płock.
In January 2013, he signed a contract with Paniliakos.

=== International ===
He was also a part of the Lithuania under-21 team.

== Honours ==
Sūduva

Lithuanian Cup: 2008–09
Žalgiris

A Lyga: 2013
Lithuanian Cup: 2013–14

== References ==

== External links ==
Eivinas Zagurskas at Soccerway
Eivinas Zagurskas at 90minut.pl (in Polish)

1994 Campeonato Brasileiro Série A

The 1994 Campeonato Brasileiro Série A was the 38th edition of the Campeonato Brasileiro Série A.

== Overview ==
The Palmeiras won the championship. Relegated: Remo and Nautico.

== First stage ==

=== Group A ===

=== Group B ===

=== Group C ===

=== Group D ===

== Second stage ==

=== First round ===

==== Group E ====

==== Group F ====

=== Second round ===

==== Group E ====

==== Group F ====

=== Second stage overall ===

== Relegation league ==

== Final standings ==

=== Final stage ===

*Corinthians qualified due to better record.

=== Final ===

== Top scorers ==

== References ==

2010 BMW Ljubljana Open – Doubles

Jamie Delgado and Jamie Murray were the defending champions, but decided not to participate.
Croatian fourth-seeded pair Nikola Mektić and Ivan Zovko won this tournament. They won against their unseeded compatriots Marin Draganja and Dino Marcan 3–6, 6–0, [10–3] in the final match.

== Seeds ==

== Draw ==
Key

=== Draw ===

== References ==
Doubles Draw

1788 in science

The year 1788 in science and technology involved some significant events.

== Astronomy ==
December 21 – Caroline Herschel discovers the periodic comet 35P/Herschel–Rigollet.

== Biology ==
Dr. Edward Jenner publishes his observation that it is the newly hatched common cuckoo which pushes its host's eggs and chicks out of the nest.
James E. Smith founds the Linnean Society of London.
Utamaro publishes Ehon Mushi Erami ("Picture Book of Crawling Creatures") in Japan with color illustrations.
Thomas Walter publishes Flora Caroliniana, the first flora of North America to follow Linnaean taxonomy.
Gilbert White publishes The Natural History and Antiquities of Selborne, in the County of Southampton (dated 1789), a pioneering observational study of English ecology.

== Earth sciences ==
James Hutton's Theory of the Earth; or an Investigation of the Laws observable in the Composition, Dissolution, and Restoration of Land upon the Globe is published for the first time, in Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh.

== Mechanics ==
Lagrange's Mécanique analytique is published in Paris, introducing Lagrangian mechanics.

== Medicine ==
December 5 – Rev. Dr. Francis Willis is called in to advise on treatment of the mental condition of King George III of the United Kingdom.

== Technology ==
February 1 – Isaac Briggs and William Longstreet patent a steamboat in the United States.
October 14 – William Symington demonstrates a paddle steamer on Dalswinton Loch in Scotland.

== Awards ==
Copley Medal: Charles Blagden

== Births ==
March 7 – Antoine César Becquerel, French scientist (died 1878)
March 22 – Pierre Joseph Pelletier, French chemist (died 1842)
April 18 – Charlotte Murchison, Scottish geologist (died 1869)
May 10 – Augustin-Jean Fresnel, French physicist (died 1827)
July 1 – Jean-Victor Poncelet, French mechanical and military engineer and mathematician (died 1867)
July 23 – Prideaux John Selby, English ornithologist (died 1867)
September 12 – Charlotte von Siebold, German gynecologist (died 1859)
October 14 – Edward Sabine, Anglo Irish physicist, astronomer and explorer (died 1883)
December 21 – Thomas Southwood Smith, English physician and sanitary reformer (died 1861)
James Murray, Irish physician (died 1871)

== Deaths ==
April 16 – Georges-Louis Leclerc, Comte de Buffon, French naturalist (born 1707)
May 8 – Giovanni Antonio Scopoli, Italian-Austrian naturalist (born 1723)
October 17 – John Brown, Scottish-born physician (born 1735)
December 6 - Nicole-Reine Lepaute, French astronomer (born 1723)
Lucia Galeazzi Galvani, Italian scientist (born 1743)
approx. date – Moses Harris, English entomologist and engraver (born 1730)

== References ==

2019 European Squash Team Championships

The 2019 European Squash Team Championships was the 47th edition of European Squash Team Championships for squash players. The event was held at the Edgbaston Priory Club in Birmingham from 1 to 4 May 2019. The tournament was organised by the European Squash Federation.
The England men's team won their 41st title and the France women's team won their first title defeating England in the final. It was the first time since 2010 that England had been beaten.

== Men's tournament ==

=== Group stage ===
Group A

Group B

=== Semi-finals ===

=== Third place ===

=== Final ===

== Women's tournament ==

=== Group stage ===
Group A

Group B

=== Semi-finals ===

=== Third place ===

=== Final ===

== References ==

Ahmed Toughan

Ahmed S. Toughan (1926–2014) was an Egyptian cartoonist and artist.

== Career ==
Toughan was born in Egypt in 1926 and raised in Cairo. In 1946, he began his career as a journalist and cartoonist in many of the Egyptian newspapers, journals and magazines. His earliest and most publicized works came during his period at Rose al-Yūsuf, the famous political weekly magazine and in Akhbar El Yom weekly magazine. In 1953, following the revolution that brought President Gamal Abdel Nasser to power, Toughan was one of the co-founders of Al Gomhuria daily newspaper. In the 1980s, Toughan created the weekly cartoon magazine, Caricature, along with his fellow cartoonist Mustafa Hussein.
Throughout his career, Toughan has published more than 50,000 cartoons in daily newspapers, magazines and 11 illustrated books since 1946.
Ahmed Toughan was the recipient of many awards, including the Head of Arab Cartoonists (1987), Human Rights Award (1988), and Grand Medal of Fine Art (1997). Toughan is considered among the most revered of politico-social cartoonists in the Arab World.
Toughan died in 2014, at the age of 88.

== References ==

== External links ==
Toughan & Toughanism

2016–17 ACF Fiorentina season

The 2016–17 season was the 90th season in ACF Fiorentina's history and their 79th in the top-flight of Italian football. Fiorentina competed in Serie A, the Coppa Italia, and the UEFA Europa League.
The club continued its league regression under Paulo Sousa, finishing eighth after an average league campaign, while also being eliminated in the Coppa Italia in the quarter-finals. However perhaps the poorest result of the season was Fiorentina's elimination from the UEFA Europa League in the round of 32 by German club Borussia Mönchengladbach; after winning the first leg 1–0 in Germany and taking a 2–0 lead at home in the second leg, the team managed to concede four straight goals, losing 4–3 on aggregate.
The season was Sousa's second and last in charge of the team, as his contract was not renewed for the 2017–18 season.

== Players ==

=== Squad information ===
Last updated on 28 May 2017
Appearances include league matches only

== Transfers ==

=== In ===

==== Loans in ====

=== Out ===

==== Loans out ====

== Pre-season and friendlies ==

== Competitions ==

=== Overall ===

Last updated: 28 May 2017

=== Serie A ===

==== League table ====

==== Results summary ====

==== Results by round ====

==== Matches ====

=== Coppa Italia ===

=== UEFA Europa League ===

==== Group stage ====

==== Knockout phase ====

===== Round of 32 =====

== Statistics ==

=== Appearances and goals ===

=== Goalscorers ===

Last updated: 28 May 2017

=== Clean sheets ===

* Includes one shared clean sheet against Chievo.
Last updated: 28 May 2017

=== Disciplinary record ===

Last updated: 28 May 2017

== References ==

2020–21 Auburn Tigers women's basketball team

The 2020–21 Auburn Tigers women's basketball team represented Auburn University during the 2020–21 NCAA Division I women's basketball season. The Tigers, led by ninth-year head coach Terri Williams-Flournoy, played their home games at Auburn Arena and competed as members of the Southeastern Conference (SEC). They finished the season 5–19 (0–15 SEC) with a loss to Florida in the first round of the SEC tournament. On March 4, 2021, following a winless SEC season, Williams-Flournoy was fired as head coach.

== Preseason ==

=== SEC media poll ===
The SEC media poll was released on November 17, 2020 with the Tigers selected to finish in last place in the SEC.

=== Preseason All-SEC teams ===
The Tigers had one player selected to the preseason all-SEC teams.

== Schedule ==

== References ==

Bill Eppridge

William E. Eppridge (March 20, 1938 − October 3, 2013) was an American photographer and photojournalist for Life magazine, known for his photography of the dying Robert F. Kennedy, taken in June 1968.
Eppridge was born in Buenos Aires, Argentina on March 20, 1938, and grew up in Richmond, Virginia, Nashville, Tennessee, and Wilmington, Delaware.
Eppridge died of pneumonia caused by a sepsis infection on October 3, 2013, aged 75, at the Danbury Hospital in Danbury, Connecticut.

== References ==

== External links ==
Bill Eppridge at IMDb

Admeto

Admeto, re di Tessaglia ("Admetus, King of Thessaly", HWV 22) is a three-act opera written for the Royal Academy of Music with music composed by George Frideric Handel to an Italian-language libretto prepared by Nicola Francesco Haym. The story is partly based on Euripides' Alcestis. The opera's first performance was at the Haymarket Theatre in London on 31 January 1727. The original cast included Faustina Bordoni as Alcestis and Francesca Cuzzoni as Antigona, as Admeto was the second of the five operas that Handel composed to feature specifically these two prime donne of the day.
The opera was very successful at its first performances. However the presence of two prima donnas in the London operas had created factions of very partisan supporters of either one or the other ladies, and some performances were disrupted by hisses and loud cat calls by supporters of one of the star sopranos whenever the other one was singing, creating public scandal.

== Background ==

The German-born Handel, after spending some of his early career composing operas and other pieces in Italy, settled in London, where in 1711 he had brought Italian opera for the first time with his opera Rinaldo. A tremendous success, Rinaldo created a craze in London for Italian opera seria, a form focused overwhelmingly on solo arias for the star virtuoso singers. In 1719, Handel was appointed music director of an organisation called the Royal Academy of Music (unconnected with the present day London conservatoire), a company under royal charter to produce Italian operas in London. Handel was not only to compose operas for the company but hire the star singers, supervise the orchestra and musicians, and adapt operas from Italy for London performance.
Handel had composed numerous Italian operas for the academy, with varying degrees of success; some were enormously popular. The star soprano Francesca Cuzzoni had partnered with internationally renowned castrato Senesino as the leading performers in a long series of Italian operas by Handel and other composers for the academy, and to increase audience interest, the directors decided to import another celebrated singer from Italy, soprano Faustina Bordoni, so that the operas would have not one but two leading ladies onstage. This was a common practice in opera houses of the day in Italy; Cuzzoni and Faustina (as Bordoni was called) had appeared together in various European cities without incident.

== Roles ==

== Synopsis ==

=== Act 1 ===

Scene:Greece, in legendary times.
In a room of his palace, dominated by a statue of the god Apollo, King Admetus of Thessaly lies dying, tormented by terrible dreams. He is told by a courtier, Orindo, that his brother, Trasimede, is also in a bad way, obsessed with the portrait of a woman. The hero Hercules, on his never ending mission to perform glorious deeds to increase his fame, has come to pay a visit to his friend King Admetus. As her husband the king sleeps, his wife Alceste prays to Apollo to spare his life. The statue speaks and informs her that only if a close relative dies in his place will Admetus be permitted to continue to live. Alceste resolves to sacrifice her life for her husband.
Living in a nearby wood, disguised as shepherds, are Princess Antigona of Troy (which was burnt to the ground by Hercules) and her tutor Merapse. King Admetus had been betrothed to marry Antigona, but jilted her in favour of Alceste. This rejection of her is the reason, Antigona believes, why he is being punished with a mortal illness. She sends Merapse to the palace, instructing him to pretend that he is her father.
In the gardens of the palace, Alceste holds a dagger, preparing to die in her husband's place as she bids farewell to her grieving ladies-in-waiting, and then retires. Admetus, rejuvenated, enters with his friend Hercules, celebrating his recovery. Lamentations are heard from within and Admetus is horrified to see his wife's dead body. Admetus knows that Hercules once descended into the underworld and brought the hero Theseus back to the land of the living and asks him to do the same for Alceste, to which Hercules agrees.
Merapse returns to Antigona in the woods and tells her about Alceste's death and Admetus' recovery. They are glad that now there seems to be nothing in the way of Admetus making Antigona his wife, as he had promised. A hunting party approaches, led by Trasimede, who recognises Antigona as the woman whose portrait he carries about with him at all times, never ceasing to gaze at it. She insists, however, that he is mistaken; her name is Rosilda, she tells him, and the man with her is her father, called Fidalbo. Trasimede offers her a job at the palace, working as a gardener, which Antigona is glad to accept as she will be able to be close to Admetus that way and hopes to teach him a lesson.

=== Act 2 ===

The second act opens in Hades, where Alceste, tormented by the Furies, is chained to a rock. Hercules appears, fights with Cerberus the guard dog of hell, overcomes the Furies and breaks the fetters tying Alceste to the rock. She joyfully looks forward to being reunited with her husband.
Antigona is working at her new job as a gardener at the palace, where she has attracted the unwelcome attentions of the courtier Orindo, whom she spurns. Trasimede has lost interest in the portrait he was so obsessed with now he sees "Rosilda" who so closely resembles it, and tosses the portrait aside, whereupon Orindo picks it up. Antigona / "Rosilda" is not interested in anyone but King Admetus, however, and rejects Trasimede also.
Orindo takes the portrait to Admetus and tells him that Trasimede had not been honest when he had shown him another portrait of the Trojan princess he had been engaged to; Trasimede had obviously substituted a portrait of a far less attractive girl. Admetus is astonished by the resemblance of the portrait to his new gardener "Rosilda"; she tells him that Princess Antigona is dead and asks him if she were still alive, would he marry her. Admetus gives no satisfactory answer, leaving "Rosilda" still very unhappy.
In the woods, Alceste, returned to life, is now disguised as a male soldier, worried that her husband, thinking her dead, may have fallen in love with someone else or even married another woman. When she sees the lovely "Rosilda" working in the palace gardens, she worries her fears were well-founded.

=== Act 3 ===
Trasimede, madly in love with "Rosilda", has abducted her. Merapse tells Admetus who "Rosilda" really is and that she still loves the king. Hercules, not wanting to give Alceste's disguise away, tells Admetus that he was unable to find her in Hades. It seems to Admetus that his duty is now to marry Antigona.
Trasimede, feeling guilty about abducting "Rosilda", has released her. When the disguised Alceste sees "Rosilda" sighing over a portrait of King Admetus, she snatches it from her hand.
Admetus and Antigona make plans for their wedding, watched by the jealous Trasimede and Alceste in disguise. Trasimede decides to kill his brother but Alceste dashes his weapon from his hand, saving her husband's life. When Admetus realises Alceste has been restored to life, he is undecided as to the honourable course for him to take - should he return to his wife, whom he thought dead, or keep his pledge to Antigona? Antigona solves this dilemma for him by taking his hand and putting it in that of Alceste, telling the king to return to the woman who has now saved his life twice. Trasimede begs his brother for forgiveness, which is granted. Alceste rejoices once more in her husband's love.

== Musical features ==
The opening of the opera, with Admeto on his deathbed tormented by a ballet of demons representing his inner physical and mental agony, is very striking in its use of unusual harmonies, dissonance and chromaticism, followed by a dramatic accompanied recitative for the suffering king. 18th century musicologist Charles Burney wrote that he was "told by persons who heard this opera performed when it first came out, that Senesino never sung or acted better, or more to the satisfaction of the public, than in this scene." The opening of Act Two, with an orchestral piece depicting Hercules rescuing Alceste in hell, is also very unusual for Handel operas of the period. Handel's music, according to Jonathan Keates, succeeds in making the character of the king "a fully realised human figure. Handel, as in Alessandro, is careful to give his two leading ladies equal opportunity to shine in their arias, which are, in the opinion of Paul Henry Lang, music of "surpassing" quality.
The opera is scored for flute, two oboes, bassoon, two horns, strings and continuo (cello, lute, harpsichord).

== Reception and performance history ==

The opera was well-received and had nineteen performances in its initial run, a mark of success for those times.
Many audience members were extremely enthusiastic about the singers. One of Handel's most loyal supporters, Mary Delany, wrote to her sister that she had attended Admeto with a friend who "was driven out of her senses" by the singing of Faustina, Cuzzoni and Senesino. At the conclusion of one of Cuzzoni's arias at a performance of the original run, a man in the gallery called out "Damn her: she has got a nest of nightingales in her belly", while one aristocratic patron wrote in her programme beside Cuzzoni's name "She is a devil of a singer".
However, some members of the London audience had become fiercely partisan in favouring either Bordoni or Cuzzoni and disliking the other and at the performance of Admeto on 4 April 1727 with members of the royal family present, elements of the audience were extremely unruly, hissing and interrupting the performance with cat-calls when the "rival" to their favourite was performing, causing public scandal. Cuzzoni issued a public apology to the royal family through one of her supporters:

..Cuzzoni had been publicly told...she was to be hissed off the stage on Tuesday; she was in such concern at this, that she had a great mind not to sing, but I...positively ordered her not to quit the stage, but let them do what they would...and she owns now that if she had not had that order she would have quitted the stage when they cat-called her to such a degree in one song, that she was not heard one note, which provoked the people that liked her so much, that they were not able to get the better of their resentment, but would not suffer the Faustina to speak afterwards.

This sort of disturbance continued however, climaxing that June in a performance at the academy of an opera by Giovanni Bononcini, Astianatte. With royalty again present in the person of the Princess of Wales, Cuzzoni and Faustina were onstage together and members of the audience who were supporters of one of the prima donnas were loudly protesting and hissing whenever the other one sang. Actual fist fights broke out in the audience between rival groups of "fans" and Cuzzoni and Faustina stopped singing, began trading insults and finally came to blows onstage and had to be dragged apart. The performance was abandoned, creating an enormous scandal reported gleefully in newspapers and pamphlets, satirized in John Gay's The Beggar's Opera of 1728, and tainting the entire reputation of Italian opera in London with disrepute in the eyes of many.
After the 19 performances in its first season, over the time from September 1727 to January 1732, the opera received 16 additional performances. Admeto was revived in 1754 and received 5 additional performances. The last, 6 April 1754, proved to be the last opera performance that Handel saw of his own operas in his lifetime. As with all Baroque opera seria, Admeto went unperformed for many years, but with the revival of interest in Baroque music and historically informed musical performance since the 1960s,Admeto, like all Handel operas, receives performances at festivals and opera houses today. Among other performances, Admeto was produced at the Handel Festival, Halle in 2006, at the Göttingen International Handel Festival in 2009, at the Leipzig Opera in 2010, and was performed at the Theater an der Wien in 2014.
The Royal Academy of Music collapsed at the end of the 1728 - 29 season, partly due to the huge fees paid to the star singers, and Cuzzoni and Faustina both left London for engagements in continental Europe. Handel started a new opera company with a new prima donna, Anna Strada. One of Handel's librettists, Paolo Rolli, wrote in a letter (the original is in Italian) that Handel said that Strada "sings better than the two who have left us, because one of them (Faustina) never pleased him at all and he would like to forget the other (Cuzzoni)."

== Recordings ==

=== Audio recording ===

=== Video recordings ===

== References ==
Notes

Sources
Dean, Winton (2006). Handel's Operas, 1726–1741. Boydell Press. ISBN 1-84383-268-2. The second of the two-volume definitive reference on the operas of Handel

== External links ==
Italian libretto
Admeto: Scores at the International Music Score Library Project

Andrew Leipus

Andrew Leipus (born 9 January 1970, Adelaide, Australia) is an APA titled sports and exercise physiotherapist.
Since October 1999, he has worked for the Board of Control for Cricket in India as the physiotherapist of the Indian national cricket team.
Leipus retired from touring at the end of 2004 after over 5 years. He was credited for substantially upgrading the Cricket team's medical conditions and treatment. In addition to improving facilities and treatment options (he legendarily found on his first day that the team's first aid kit did not even have a Band-Aid), he encouraged the team to start strength training in gyms. These training sessions led to a great improvement in the team's fitness level and, eventually, its level of play.
In cricket-crazy India, Leipus became a media fixture whenever key players suffered injuries. Media pressure is said to be one of the reasons Leipus declined to renew his contract. He has since been involved with the Indian Premier League since 2008, winning two titles with Kolkata Knight Riders over 12 seasons and more recently heading up the SSSM department with Punjab Kings for the past six seasons.
Leipus also returned to the BCCI from 2015 to 2017, heading up the National Cricket Academy's Sport Science and Sports Medicine Department as Head Physiotherapist.
He now lives in Ballito, South Africa and owns Move Sports Physio and Rehab, a private practice with a special interest in sports and activity related injuries.

== References ==

== External links ==
ESPNcricinfo page on Andrew Leipus

Alfred Songoro

Alfred Songoro (born 10 January 1975) is a former professional rugby league footballer who played in the 1990s and 2000s. He played at representative level for Papua New Guinea, and at club level for the Wakefield Trinity Wildcats and Union Treiziste Catalan, as a wing or centre. Songoro was a Brisbane Broncos junior, playing for their Colts side in 1993 and 1994. In 1994, he represented the Queensland Under 19 side.

== International honours ==
Alfred Songoro won caps for Papua New Guinea in 2000 against Australia, in the 2000 World Cup against France, South Africa, Tonga, and Wales, and in 2001 against Australia.

== References ==

== External links ==
Rugby League World Cup 2000 - Team Profiles Archived 2001-11-29 at the Wayback Machine
Guisset returns for France
Bennett plays the waiting game
Kumuls unchanged for Wales
Wales win sets up Aussie showdown

Grouper (disambiguation)

A grouper is a type of fish.
Grouper may also refer to:

Grouper social club, a smartphone app between 2011 and 2016 that matched sets of three friends on group dates
In Australia, 'Groupers' was an informal term for members of the Industrial Groups
Grouper (musician), American musician
Grouper, the former name of Crackle (streaming service)

Ambiances Magnétiques

Ambiances Magnétiques is a Canadian record company and label started by Jean Derome, René Lussier, and others, and the artists' collective that preceded it.

== History ==
In 1982, "guitarist René Lussier and saxophonist/flutist Jean Derome presented a few duo concerts in Montreal under the name Ambiances Magnétiques [...] They teamed up with guitarist André Duchesne and clarinetist Robert Marcel Lepage and launched the label Ambiances Magnétiques in 1983". The label was managed by a collective, and its releases were of performances by its members and close associates until the late 1990s. In this initial period, several others were added to the core group: Joane Hétu, Diane Labrosse, Danielle P. Roger, Michel F. Côté and Martin Tétreault.
As a group, they performed together only twice, including for the album Une Théorie des Ensembles. The collective also formed a distribution outlet and production companies that organise events. The label had released 90 albums by the end of the year 2000.

== See also ==
List of record labels

== References ==

== External links ==
Ambiances Magnétiques Official site
actuellecd.com Official site for DAME

Albert Marque

Albert Marque (French pronunciation: [albɛʁ maʁk]; 14 July 1872 – 1939) was a French sculptor and doll maker of the late 19th and early 20th centuries.

== Life and work ==
Marque was born in 1872 in Nanterre, Hauts-de-Seine. He became well-known and respected at the turn of the 20th century, especially for his sculpting of children.

== Confusion with Albert Marquet and relationship to Fauvism ==
Marque is sometimes confused for or conflated with Albert Marquet, a French Fauvist painter born three years later. This confusion of artists with similar name and age and from the same country is compounded by the fact that Henri Matisse often repeated the generally accepted story of the origin of the term Fauvism which involved Marque. According to Matisse's story, art critic Louis Vauxcelles saw a bust created by Marque on display where it was surrounded by the brash Fauvist paintings (including by Marquet) and proclaimed, "Donatello chez les fauves" ("Donatello among the wild beasts").

== A. Marque dolls ==
During World War I, Albert Marque was persuaded by the Parisian couture fashion house of Jeanne Margaine-Lacroix to sculpt one hundred fashion dolls which were then clothed in custom-made outfits. The dolls were exhibited in Paris in 1915. Some were sold and others were kept in the Margaine-Lacroix inventory. The dolls were dressed in costumes, often representing regional French royalty or peasantry. They are considered to be artistic works celebrating France and French culture, particularly as a response in wartime to the popularity of German dolls, and created for adults rather than as toys for children.
These dolls became known as "A. Marque" dolls from the mark placed on the dolls by the sculptor. The dolls have become highly valued in doll collecting. They are generally considered the most desirable dolls by collectors and demand the highest price of any dolls. On March 29, 2014, an A. Marque doll, a boy number 27, set the world record for an antique doll at auction by Theriault's, fetching US$300,000. This broke the previous world record of US$263,000 —- also for an A. Marque doll.
In her work for the Doll Artisan Guild, Ragnhild Margareta Ericson catalogs twenty-five known A. Marque dolls. Stuart Holbrook, the president of Theriault's (the leading auction firm dealing with dolls and childhood ephemera, who have handled the majority of A. Marque dolls that have come to auction), also notes there are only about twenty A. Marque dolls in existence. Michael Canadas of Carmel Doll Shop of Pacific Grove California, who has had five A. Marque Dolls sold through his shop, concurs that perhaps twenty A. Marque Dolls currently survive, although the original number of one hundred may, or may not, be correct. Doll collector authorities refers to the A. Marque as the "Holy Grail of collectible dolls". Holbrook and Theriault's contribute strongly to the allure of A. Marque dolls. Says Holbrook, "The A. Marque has always been a doll of great mystique for collectors. Every collectible category has that "one piece" - the one item, or name, that blends rarity, beauty, and allure; for dolls it is the Marque, and it will perhaps remain so forever."

== References ==

== External links ==
Albert Marque dolls, their original costumes and labeling
Albert Marque in American public collections, on the French Sculpture Census website

Air dam

Air dam may refer to various aerodynamic devices:

Spoiler (car), on automobiles
Spoiler (aeronautics), on aircraft
Trailer skirt, on semi-trailers

Big Time (comics)

"Big Time" is a series of comic book storylines in The Amazing Spider-Man, published by Marvel Comics from 2010 to 2011. It follows the 102 consecutive issues of the "Brand New Day" publishing scheme and is the first shift in publishing for The Amazing Spider-Man since "Brand New Day" began. The frequency of publication dropped from three issues monthly to two issues, but the length of the comic book expanded from 22 to 30 pages. This extra length is sometimes used for back-up stories and sometimes for a longer main story. Concurrently with the story going in The Amazing Spider-Man, Marvel also started the new series Spider-Girl vol. 2, Osborn, and Carnage, which are considered part of "Big Time." All nine issues of "Big Time" have sold out at Diamond Comic Distributors and have a second printing with a variant cover.

== Plot summary ==

=== "Kill to be You" ===
In The Amazing Spider-Man #648 through #651, Peter starts a new job at Horizon Labs after a recommendation from Marla Jameson to the head of the lab gets him the job. Phil Urich takes over the Hobgoblin identity after killing Daniel Kingsley, brother of Roderick Kingsley. Spider-Man is unable to stop the theft because of the Hobgoblin's Lunatic Laugh. Peter uses his new job at Horizon Labs to create a suit that uses harmonics to prevent the Lunatic Laugh from affecting him. Spider-Man and the Black Cat infiltrate the building of the Kingpin to get the experimental metal back.
In the back-up stories in The Amazing Spider-Man #649 through #651 Alistair Smythe breaks Mac Gargan out of prison and gives him a new Scorpion costume. These events directly lead into the "Revenge of the Spider-Slayer" story that follows.

=== "Revenge of the Spider-Slayer" ===
In The Amazing Spider-Man #652 through #654, titled the "Revenge of the Spider-Slayer," Alistair Smythe has created an army of Spider-Slayers by giving cybernetic implants to people with a grudge against J. Jonah Jameson. All of the Spider-Slayers, and Mac Gargan as the Scorpion, have a power similar to Spider-Man's spider-sense that makes them harder to hit and for Smythe to telepathically communicate with all of them. Smythe targets Jameson's family and friends so Jameson can feel the same pain Smythe felt when he lost his father. The New Avengers help Spider-Man fight the multiple threats, but Spider-Man is forced to build a bomb that will destroy the spider-sense of the Spider-Slayers so they can be defeated. Gargan prevents Spider-Man from fleeing after he plants the bomb, so he is forced to set it off while he is still within its radius and he loses his spider-sense as well. After his army of Spider-Slayers is stopped Smythe tries to kill Jameson himself, but Marla Jameson jumps in the way to save the life of her husband.

=== "No One Dies" ===
In The Amazing Spider-Man #655 and #656, titled "No One Dies," a funeral is held for Marla Jameson. Peter has a nightmare where he sees everyone who has ever died in his life (including Gwen Stacy, Ben Reilly, Ezekiel Sims, Frederick Foswell, Bennett Brant, George Stacy, and Charlamange from Spider-Man Vs. Wolverine). When Peter wakes up, he determines to be a better Spider-Man by vowing "as long as he's around no one dies". He then faces off against Massacre, a new villain who has no emotion and more incentive to kill. Without his spider-sense Spider-Man is hit by a bullet shot by Massacre, so he builds a new Spider-Armor to combat Massacre. Using this, he defeats the villain and confronts Jameson about his new stance, who wants to give the death penalty to Smythe for killing Marla and to Massacre for the people he killed.

== Reception ==
The Amazing Spider-Man #648 received an A rating from Weekly Comic Book Review, a rating of 6.5 out of 10 from IGN, and a rating of 4.5 out of 5 from Comic Book Resources.
The Amazing Spider-Man #649 received an A rating from Weekly Comic Book Review, a rating of 7.5 out of 10 from IGN, and a rating of 4.0 out of 5 from Comic Book Resources.
The Amazing Spider-Man #650 received an A rating from Weekly Comic Book Review, a rating of 7.5 out of 10 from IGN, and a rating of 3.0 out of 5 from Comic Book Resources.
The Amazing Spider-Man #651 received a B+ rating from Weekly Comic Book Review a rating of 7.0 out of 10 from IGN, and a rating of 4.0 out of 5 from Comic Book Resources.
The Amazing Spider-Man #652 received a B rating from Weekly Comic Book Review and a rating of 7.5 out of 10 from IGN.
The Amazing Spider-Man #653 received a B+ rating from Weekly Comic Book Review and a rating of 6.5 out of 10 from IGN.
The Amazing Spider-Man #654 received a B− rating from Weekly Comic Book Review, a rating of 7.5 out of 10 from IGN, and a rating of 4.5 out of 5 from Comic Book Resources.
The Amazing Spider-Man #655 received an A rating from Weekly Comic Book Review, a rating of 9.0 out of 10 from IGN, and a rating of 5.0 out of 5 from Comic Book Resources.
The Amazing Spider-Man #656 received a B rating from Weekly Comic Book Review, a rating of 7.0 out of 10 from IGN, and a rating of 4.0 out of 5 from Comic Book Resources.

== Collected editions ==
A comic book reprinting of The Amazing Spider-Man #648-650 was published as Amazing Spider-Man: Big Time #1 in June 2011.
Spider-Man: Big Time Volume 1 (collects The Amazing Spider-Man #648-651, hardcover, 144 pages, February 16, 2011, ISBN 978-0-7851-4623-0)
Spider-Man: Matters of Life and Death (collects The Amazing Spider-Man #652-657, 654.1, hardcover, 216 pages, May 25, 2011, ISBN 0-7851-5102-8)

== See also ==
Spider-Man Collected Editions
"The Gauntlet" and "Grim Hunt"
"One Moment in Time"
"Spider-Island"
List of issues

== References ==

== External links ==
Spider-Man: Big Time announcement at Comic Book Resources

1965–66 Detroit Red Wings season

The 1965–66 Detroit Red Wings season saw the Red Wings finish in fourth place in the National Hockey League (NHL) with a record of 31 wins, 27 losses, and 12 ties for 74 points. They defeated the Chicago Black Hawks in six games in the semifinals before falling to the Montreal Canadiens in the Stanley Cup Finals, also in six games. The Red Wings would not appear in the Finals again until the 1995 Finals.

== Regular season ==

=== Final standings ===

=== Record vs. opponents ===

== Playoffs ==

== Schedule and results ==

== Player statistics ==

=== Regular season ===
Scoring

Goaltending

=== Playoffs ===
Scoring

Goaltending

Note: GP = Games played; G = Goals; A = Assists; Pts = Points; +/- = Plus-minus PIM = Penalty minutes; PPG = Power-play goals; SHG = Short-handed goals; GWG = Game-winning goals;
MIN = Minutes played; W = Wins; L = Losses; T = Ties; GA = Goals against; GAA = Goals-against average; SO = Shutouts;

== Draft picks ==
Detroit's draft picks at the 1965 NHL amateur draft held at the Queen Elizabeth Hotel in Montreal.

== References ==
Red Wings on Hockey Database

1895 SAFA season

The 1895 South Australian Football Association season was the 19th season of the top-level Australian rules football competition in South Australia.
The 'Port' Natives Club (renamed as West Torrens from 1897) was formed as a new Club by a group of players not tied to any District including some periphery Port Adelaide players who wanted more playing time. The club's application to join the Senior competition was approved.
A summary of the 1895 season, including Tables of Games won, goal and behinds scored by each club vs each other club, top goal kickers, and a list of 1st and 2nd places since 1877 was published in the SA Register.

== Ladder ==

Notes: Each club played every other club 4 times. North Adelaide forfeited one match against both South Adelaide and Norwood

== References ==

Alpha, New Jersey

Alpha is a borough in Warren County, in the U.S. state of New Jersey. As of the 2020 United States census, the borough's population was 2,328, a decrease of 41 (−1.7%) from the 2010 census count of 2,369, which in turn reflected a decline of 113 (−4.6%) from the 2,482 counted in the 2000 census.
Alpha was incorporated as a borough from portions of Pohatcong Township by an act of the New Jersey Legislature passed on June 26, 1911, and signed by Governor Woodrow Wilson, based on the results of a referendum held on May 31, 1911. The borough was named for the Alpha Cement Works.

== History ==
Formally known as Vulcanite, Alpha was incorporated on June 26, 1911, but its history can be traced back to a much earlier date. At the time of the Great Blizzard of 1888, there were only seven houses in what is now the corporate limits of Alpha. The exact date on which the first house in Alpha is uncertain. One of the first homes in the community was a two-room log cabin constructed by the Pursel family beside an old Indian Trail on the former property of the Vulcanite Portland Cement Company, now New Brunswick Avenue.
Less than two years after incorporating, the community obtained a continuation of the streetcar line from Phillipsburg and electric street lights were installed.

== Geography ==
According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the borough had a total area of 1.72 square miles (4.44 km2), including 1.68 square miles (4.35 km2) of land and 0.04 square miles (0.09 km2) of water (2.03%).
Unincorporated communities, localities and place names located partially or completely within the borough include Vulcanite.
The borough is completely surrounded by Pohatcong Township, making it part of 21 pairs of "doughnut towns" in the state, where one municipality entirely surrounds another.

== Demographics ==

=== 2020 census ===
As of the 2020 census, Alpha had a population of 2,328. The median age was 44.5 years. 19.0% of residents were under the age of 18 and 18.6% of residents were 65 years of age or older. For every 100 females there were 95.6 males, and for every 100 females age 18 and over there were 95.2 males age 18 and over.
98.0% of residents lived in urban areas, while 2.0% lived in rural areas.
There were 972 households in Alpha, of which 25.9% had children under the age of 18 living in them. Of all households, 47.5% were married-couple households, 18.5% were households with a male householder and no spouse or partner present, and 25.6% were households with a female householder and no spouse or partner present. About 28.7% of all households were made up of individuals and 14.2% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older.
There were 1,047 housing units, of which 7.2% were vacant. The homeowner vacancy rate was 1.9% and the rental vacancy rate was 8.0%.

=== 2010 census ===
The 2010 United States census counted 2,369 people, 964 households, and 632 families in the borough. The population density was 1,417.2 per square mile (547.2/km2). There were 1,032 housing units at an average density of 617.4 per square mile (238.4/km2). The racial makeup was 93.12% (2,206) White, 2.41% (57) Black or African American, 0.00% (0) Native American, 1.52% (36) Asian, 0.00% (0) Pacific Islander, 1.18% (28) from other races, and 1.77% (42) from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 5.28% (125) of the population.
Of the 964 households, 29.3% had children under the age of 18; 47.5% were married couples living together; 12.8% had a female householder with no husband present and 34.4% were non-families. Of all households, 29.1% were made up of individuals and 12.1% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.45 and the average family size was 3.03.
22.7% of the population were under the age of 18, 7.8% from 18 to 24, 26.0% from 25 to 44, 27.9% from 45 to 64, and 15.6% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 40.6 years. For every 100 females, the population had 92.4 males. For every 100 females ages 18 and older there were 89.7 males.
The Census Bureau's 2006–2010 American Community Survey showed that (in 2010 inflation-adjusted dollars) median household income was $63,953 (with a margin of error of +/− $7,724) and the median family income was $73,929 (+/− $6,822). Males had a median income of $49,461 (+/− $3,100) versus $40,859 (+/− $5,262) for females. The per capita income for the borough was $28,567 (+/− $2,455). About 4.0% of families and 5.1% of the population were below the poverty line, including 9.8% of those under age 18 and 4.9% of those age 65 or over.

=== 2000 census ===
As of the 2000 United States census, there were 2,482 people, 989 households, and 688 families residing in the borough. The population density was 1,462.0 inhabitants per square mile (564.5/km2). There were 1,034 housing units at an average density of 609.1 per square mile (235.2/km2). The racial makeup of the borough was 97.06% White, 0.28% African American, 0.04% Native American, 1.21% Asian, 0.64% from other races, and 0.77% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 1.89% of the population.
There were 989 households, out of which 31.2% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 54.6% were married couples living together, 11.0% had a female householder with no husband present, and 30.4% were non-families. 26.9% of all households were made up of individuals, and 13.7% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.50 and the average family size was 3.05.
In the borough, the population was spread out, with 24.4% under the age of 18, 6.0% from 18 to 24, 31.3% from 25 to 44, 20.7% from 45 to 64, and 17.5% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 38 years. For every 100 females, there were 94.8 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 90.1 males.
The median income for a household in the borough was $42,209, and the median income for a family was $45,435. Males had a median income of $39,957 versus $26,576 for females. The per capita income for the borough was $20,104. About 5.5% of families and 7.6% of the population were below the poverty line, including 14.1% of those under age 18 and 9.7% of those age 65 or over.

== Government ==

=== Local government ===

Alpha is governed under the borough form of New Jersey municipal government, which is used in 218 municipalities (of the 564) statewide, making it the most common form of government in New Jersey. The governing body is comprised of the mayor and the borough council, with all positions elected at-large on a partisan basis as part of the November general election. The mayor is elected directly by the voters to a four-year term of office. The borough council includes six members elected to serve three-year terms on a staggered basis, with two seats coming up for election each year in a three-year cycle. The borough form of government used by Alpha is a "weak mayor / strong council" government in which council members act as the legislative body with the mayor presiding at meetings and voting only in the event of a tie. The mayor can veto ordinances subject to an override by a two-thirds majority vote of the council. The mayor makes committee and liaison assignments for council members, and most appointments are made by the mayor with the advice and consent of the council.
As of 2022, the mayor of Alpha Borough is Republican Craig S. Dunwell, whose term of office ends December 31, 2023. Members of the Alpha Borough Council are Council President Robert J. Melick Jr. (R, 2023), Angela Bickar (I, 2022; elected to serve an unexpired term), Louis J. Cartabona (R, 2023), Todd W. Pantuso (R, 2022), Peter Petinelli (R, 2024) and Jodie Smith (R, 2024). Angela Bickar was elected to fill the seat expiring in December 2022 that had been held by Edward Hanics Jr.
Republican councilmember Jack Preiss and Democrat Kathleen Ronan, both serving terms ending in December 2018, resigned from office in September 2016. Preiss cited time conflicts with his work duties, while Ronan expressed her frustrations with working with the rest of the council. Louis Cartabona was chosen to fill the seat held by Preiss. In October, the council selected Jennifer Gable from a list of three nominees submitted by the Democratic municipal committee to fill Ronan's vacant seat. In the 2017 general election, Louis J. Cartabona and Alan Singleton were elected to serve the balance of the two unexpired terms of office.
Harry Zikas became the state's youngest mayor ever when he took office in 2000 at the age of 21. Zikas announced his resignation from office in September 2014, citing his acceptance of a job in Northern New Jersey. With Mayor Ed Hanics casting the tiebreaking vote, Tracy Grossman was selected in October 2014 to fill the remainder of Zikas's term of office.
In January 2014, the borough council selected Millard Rooks to fill the vacant seat expiring in December 2015 of Michael Savary, who had resigned after pleading guilty to disorderly tampering with public records.

=== Federal, state and county representation ===
Alpha is located in the 7th Congressional district and is part of New Jersey's 23rd state legislative district. Prior to the 2010 Census, Alpha had been part of the 5th Congressional District, a change made by the New Jersey Redistricting Commission that took effect in January 2013, based on the results of the November 2012 general elections.
For the 119th United States Congress, New Jersey's 7th congressional district is represented by Thomas Kean Jr. (R, Westfield). New Jersey is represented in the United States Senate by Democrats Cory Booker (Newark, term ends 2027) and Andy Kim (Moorestown, term ends 2031).
For the 2026–2027 session, the 23rd legislative district of the New Jersey Legislature is represented in the State Senate by Doug Steinhardt (R, Lopatcong Township) and in the General Assembly by John DiMaio (R, Hackettstown) and Erik Peterson (R, Franklin Township).
Warren County is governed by a three-member Board of County Commissioners, who are chosen at-large on a staggered basis in partisan elections with one seat coming up for election each year as part of the November general election. At an annual reorganization meeting held in the beginning of January, the board selects one of its members to serve as Commissioner Director and other as Deputy Director. As of 2025, Warren County's Commissioners are:
Deputy Director Jason J. Sarnoski (R, Lopatcong Township; 2025),
Lori Ciesla (R, Lopatcong Township; 2026), and
Director James R. Kern III (R, Pohatcong Township; 2027).
Constitutional officers of Warren County are:
Clerk Holly Mackey (R, Alpha; 2027),
Sheriff James McDonald Sr. (R, Phillipsburg; 2025) and
Surrogate Michael J. Doherty (R, Washington; 2025).

=== Politics ===
As of March 2011, there were a total of 1,441 registered voters in Alpha, of which 548 (38.0% vs. 21.5% countywide) were registered as Democrats, 296 (20.5% vs. 35.3%) were registered as Republicans and 596 (41.4% vs. 43.1%) were registered as Unaffiliated. There was one voter registered to another party. Among the borough's 2010 Census population, 60.8% (vs. 62.3% in Warren County) were registered to vote, including 78.7% of those ages 18 and over (vs. 81.5% countywide).

In the 2012 presidential election, Democrat Barack Obama received 497 votes (51.1% vs. 40.8% countywide), ahead of Republican Mitt Romney with 436 votes (44.8% vs. 56.0%) and other candidates with 25 votes (2.6% vs. 1.7%), among the 973 ballots cast by the borough's 1,457 registered voters, for a turnout of 66.8% (vs. 66.7% in Warren County). In the 2008 presidential election, Republican John McCain received 470 votes (47.7% vs. 55.2% countywide), ahead of Democrat Barack Obama with 464 votes (47.1% vs. 41.4%) and other candidates with 18 votes (1.8% vs. 1.6%), among the 985 ballots cast by the borough's 1,408 registered voters, for a turnout of 70.0% (vs. 73.4% in Warren County). In the 2004 presidential election, Republican George W. Bush received 510 votes (50.1% vs. 61.0% countywide), ahead of Democrat John Kerry with 489 votes (48.0% vs. 37.2%) and other candidates with 12 votes (1.2% vs. 1.3%), among the 1,018 ballots cast by the borough's 1,369 registered voters, for a turnout of 74.4% (vs. 76.3% in the whole county).

In the 2013 gubernatorial election, Republican Chris Christie received 70.0% of the vote (442 cast), ahead of Democrat Barbara Buono with 26.9% (170 votes), and other candidates with 3.0% (19 votes), among the 651 ballots cast by the borough's 1,471 registered voters (20 ballots were spoiled), for a turnout of 44.3%. In the 2009 gubernatorial election, Republican Chris Christie received 334 votes (48.2% vs. 61.3% countywide), ahead of Democrat Jon Corzine with 251 votes (36.2% vs. 25.7%), Independent Chris Daggett with 64 votes (9.2% vs. 9.8%) and other candidates with 21 votes (3.0% vs. 1.5%), among the 693 ballots cast by the borough's 1,397 registered voters, yielding a 49.6% turnout (vs. 49.6% in the county).

== Education ==
Students in pre-kindergarten through eighth grade for public school attend the Alpha School District at Alpha School. As of the 2022–23 school year, the district, comprised of one school, had an enrollment of 179 students and 24.4 classroom teachers (on an FTE basis), for a student–teacher ratio of 7.3:1. In the 2016–2017 school year, Alpha had the 42nd smallest enrollment of any school district in the state, with 194 students.
Public school students in ninth through twelfth grades attend Phillipsburg High School in Phillipsburg, which serves students from Alpha as part of a sending/receiving relationship with the Phillipsburg School District. The high school also serves students from four other sending communities: Bloomsbury (in Hunterdon County), Greenwich Township, Lopatcong Township and Pohatcong Township. As of the 2022–23 school year, the school had an enrollment of 264 students and 22.0 classroom teachers (on an FTE basis), for a student–teacher ratio of 12.0:1.
Students from the borough and from all of Warren County are eligible to attend Ridge and Valley Charter School in Blairstown (for grades K–8) or Warren County Technical School in Washington borough (for 9–12), with special education services provided by local districts supplemented throughout the county by the Warren County Special Services School District in Oxford Township (for Pre-K–12).

== Transportation ==

As of May 2010, the borough had a total of 21.40 miles (34.44 km) of roadways, of which 17.38 miles (27.97 km) were maintained by the municipality, 2.78 miles (4.47 km) by Warren County and 1.24 miles (2.00 km) by the Delaware River Joint Toll Bridge Commission. The main road that goes through is CR 519. Route 122 runs through briefly in the north.
While Interstate 78 passes through the southern portion of the borough, the closest access point is at US 22 in neighboring Pohatcong.
The Norfolk Southern Railway's Lehigh Line (formerly the mainline of the Lehigh Valley Railroad), runs through Alpha on its way to Phillipsburg, New Jersey.

== Notable people ==

People who were born in, residents of, or otherwise closely associated with Alpha include:

Joe Buzas (1919–2003), Minor League Baseball executive who played one season with the New York Yankees
Hector A. Cafferata Jr. (1929–2016), United States Marine who received the Medal of Honor for his actions at the Battle of Chosin Reservoir during the Korean War
Jack Orchulli (born 1946), politician
Jennie Somogyi (born 1977/78), ballet dancer who joined the New York City Ballet in 1993, at age 15, became a principal dancer in 2000, and retired in 2015

== References ==

== External links ==

Borough of Alpha official website

2009–10 Northeastern Huskies men's basketball team

The 2009–10 Northeastern Huskies men's basketball team represented Northeastern University during the 2009–10 college basketball season. This was Bill Coen's fourth season as head coach at Northeastern. The Huskies competed in the Colonial Athletic Association and play their home games at Matthews Arena. They finished the season 20–13, 14–4 in CAA play to finish in second place. They lost in the semifinals of the 2010 CAA men's basketball tournament to William & Mary and were invited to play in the 2010 National Invitation Tournament where they lost in the first round to Connecticut.

== Preseason ==
In the CAA preseason polls, released October 20 in Washington, DC, Northeastern was predicted to finish second in the CAA. Sr. guard/forward Matt Janning was selected to the preseason all conference first team and Sr. forward Manny Adako was selected the second team.

== Roster ==
Source

== Schedule and results ==
Source

All times are Eastern

== References ==

Aeolus (disambiguation)

Aeolus is the name of various figures in Greek mythology.
Aeolus or Aiolos may also refer to:

== Places ==

=== North America ===
Mount Aeolus (Alberta), Canada
Mount Aeolus (Vermont), US
Aeolus Cave, Vermont, US

=== Antarctica ===
Mount Aeolus (Antarctica), Victoria Land
Aeolus Ridge, Alexander Island

== Land transportation ==
Aeolus (motorcycle 1903–1905), a 492cc single-cylinder bike made by Bown in England
Aeolus (motorcycle 1914–1916), a 147cc two-stroke bike made by Bown in England
Aeolus Railroad Car, an early 19th-century wind-propelled experiment
Chicago, Burlington and Quincy 4000, a steam locomotive
Aeolus (marque), a Chinese automotive brand name, originally called the Fengshen

== Ships ==
HMS Aeolus, several ships of the British Royal Navy
USS Aeolus, several ships of the US Navy
Aeolus (1850), a wooden ketch built in Australia
SS Aiolos, a steamship built in Scotland and eventually sold to Liberia and renamed Aiolos in 1959
Aeolus (jack-up crane ship), wind turbine installation vessel built by J. J. Sietas in 2014
Aeolus (flagship) [nl], flagship of Admiral Jacob van Heemskerk

== Arts and entertainment ==
"Aeolus" (Ulysses episode) an episode in James Joyce's novel Ulysses
Sagittarius Aiolos, a character in the Japanese manga Saint Seiya
Aeolus, a boss character from the 2007 game Mega Man ZX Advent
Aeolus, a ghost ship in the 2009 film Triangle
Aeolus, a ghost ship in the 2018 film The Boat

== Other uses ==
ADM-Aeolus, a European earth observation satellite launched in 2018
Aeolus (beetle), a genus of click beetles
Aiolos Astakou B.C., a Greek professional basketball club based in Astakos
Aiolos Trikalon, a Greek former professional basketball club that was based in Trikala
IKZF3, a protein in humans also called zinc finger protein Aiolos
Aiolos (star), HD 95086 in the constellation Carina

1956 Tour de Suisse

The 1956 Tour de Suisse was the 20th edition of the Tour de Suisse cycle race and was held from 16 June to 23 June 1956. The race started and finished in Zürich. The race was won by Rolf Graf.

== General classification ==

== References ==

Ahamus gangcaensis

Ahamus gangcaensis is a species of moth, which is of the family Hepialidae. It is found in China.

== References ==

1999 term opinions of the Supreme Court of the United States

The 1999 term of the Supreme Court of the United States began October 4, 1999, and concluded October 1, 2000. The table illustrates which opinion was filed by each justice in each case and which justices joined each opinion.

== Table key ==

== 1999 term opinions ==

== 1999 term membership and statistics ==
This was the fourteenth term of Chief Justice Rehnquist's tenure, and the sixth consecutive term in which the Court's membership had not changed.

== Notes ==

== References ==

1953–54 NCAA men's ice hockey season

The 1953–54 NCAA men's ice hockey season began in November 1953 and concluded with the 1954 NCAA Men's Ice Hockey Tournament's championship game on March 13, 1954 at the Broadmoor Ice Palace in Colorado Springs, Colorado. This was the 7th season in which an NCAA ice hockey championship was held and is the 60th year overall where an NCAA school fielded a team.
Entering the season, in an effort to more accurately reflect the geographic location of the member school, the MCHL changed the conference name to 'Western Intercollegiate Hockey League'.

== Regular season ==

=== Season tournaments ===

=== Standings ===

== 1954 NCAA Tournament ==

Note: * denotes overtime period(s)

== Player stats ==

=== Scoring leaders ===
The following players led the league in points at the conclusion of the season.
GP = Games played; G = Goals; A = Assists; Pts = Points; PIM = Penalty minutes

=== Leading goaltenders ===
The following goaltenders led the league in goals against average at the end of the regular season while playing at least 33% of their team's total minutes.
GP = Games played; Min = Minutes played; W = Wins; L = Losses; OT = Overtime/shootout losses; GA = Goals against; SO = Shutouts; SV% = Save percentage; GAA = Goals against average

== Awards ==

== References ==

== External links ==
College Hockey Historical Archives
1953–54 NCAA Standings

2025–26 BDFA Super Division

The 2025–26 BDFA Super Division was the 23rd season of the BDFA Super Division, the fifth-tier league in the Indian football system, and Karnataka's top-tier football league. FC Agniputhra were the defending champions, having won the 2024-25 BDFA Super Division. Nineteen teams competed in the league in the 2025-26 season, one more than the previous season.
After being runners-up of 2020–21 and 2024–25 seasons, this season saw Kickstart FC clinching their first ever Super Division title.

== Changes from previous season ==

=== Relegated to A Division ===
Bangalore United FC
Real Chikkamagaluru

=== Withdrew ===
Bangalore Independents

=== Promoted from A Division ===
Bangalore Dream United
Bangalore City FC

=== Direct entrants ===
Bharat Bengaluru FC
United Stars FC

== Teams ==

== Regular season ==

=== League table ===

== Awards ==
Champions Kickstart FC were awarded the George Hoover Trophy while the Runners-up FC Bengaluru United were presented with thw GMH Basha Cup. Individual awards for the season are as follows:

== See also ==
Men
2025–26 Indian Super League (Tier I)
2025–26 Indian Football League (Tier II)
2025–26 I-League 2 (Tier III)
2025–26 I-League 3 (Tier IV)
2025–26 Indian State Leagues (Tier V)
2025-26 Super Cup
2025 Durand Cup
Women
2025–26 Indian Women's League
2025–26 Indian Women's League 2

== References ==

Alpha process

The alpha process, also known as alpha capture or the alpha ladder, is one of two classes of nuclear fusion reactions by which stars convert helium into heavier elements. The other class is a cycle of reactions called the triple-alpha process, which consumes only helium, and produces carbon. The alpha process most commonly occurs in massive stars and during supernovae.
Both processes are preceded by hydrogen fusion, which produces the helium that fuels both the triple-alpha process and the alpha ladder processes. After the triple-alpha process has produced enough carbon, the alpha-ladder begins and fusion reactions of increasingly heavy elements take place, in the order listed below. Each step only consumes the product of the previous reaction and helium. The later-stage reactions which are able to begin in any particular star, do so while the prior stage reactions are still under way in outer layers of the star.

C

6
12

+

He

2
4

⟶

O

8
16

+
γ

,

E
=

7.16

M
e
V

O

8
16

+

He

2
4

⟶

Ne

10
20

+
γ

,

E
=

4.73

M
e
V

Ne

10
20

+

He

2
4

⟶

Mg

12
24

+
γ

,

E
=

9.32

M
e
V

Mg

12
24

+

He

2
4

⟶

Si

14
28

+
γ

,

E
=

9.98

M
e
V

Si

14
28

+

He

2
4

⟶

S

16
32

+
γ

,

E
=

6.95

M
e
V

S

16
32

+

He

2
4

⟶

Ar

18
36

+
γ

,

E
=

6.64

M
e
V

Ar

18
36

+

He

2
4

⟶

Ca

20
40

+
γ

,

E
=

7.04

M
e
V

Ca

20
40

+

He

2
4

⟶

Ti

22
44

+
γ

,

E
=

5.13

M
e
V

Ti

22
44

+

He

2
4

⟶

Cr

24
48

+
γ

,

E
=

7.70

M
e
V

Cr

24
48

+

He

2
4

⟶

Fe

26
52

+
γ

,

E
=

7.94

M
e
V

Fe

26
52

+

He

2
4

⟶

Ni

28
56

+
γ

,

E
=

8.00

M
e
V

{\displaystyle {\begin{array}{ll}{\ce {~{}_{6}^{12}C\ ~~+{}_{2}^{4}He\ ->~{}_{8}^{16}O\ \ ~+\gamma ~,}}&E={\mathsf {7.16\ MeV}}\\{\ce {~{}_{8}^{16}O\ ~~+{}_{2}^{4}He\ ->{}_{10}^{20}Ne\ \ +\gamma ~,}}&E={\mathsf {4.73\ MeV}}\\{\ce {{}_{10}^{20}Ne\ ~+{}_{2}^{4}He\ ->{}_{12}^{24}Mg\ +\gamma ~,}}&E={\mathsf {9.32\ MeV}}\\{\ce {{}_{12}^{24}Mg\ +{}_{2}^{4}He\ ->{}_{14}^{28}Si\ ~~+\gamma ~,}}&E={\mathsf {9.98\ MeV}}\\{\ce {{}_{14}^{28}Si\ ~~+{}_{2}^{4}He\ ->{}_{16}^{32}S\ \ ~~~+\gamma ~,}}&E={\mathsf {6.95\ MeV}}\\{\ce {{}_{16}^{32}S\ ~~~+{}_{2}^{4}He\ ->{}_{18}^{36}Ar\ ~\ +\gamma ~,}}&E={\mathsf {6.64\ MeV}}\\{\ce {{}_{18}^{36}Ar\ ~+{}_{2}^{4}He\ ->{}_{20}^{40}Ca\ \ +\gamma ~,}}&E={\mathsf {7.04\ MeV}}\\{\ce {{}_{20}^{40}Ca\ +{}_{2}^{4}He\ ->{}_{22}^{44}Ti\ ~~+\gamma ~,}}&E={\mathsf {5.13\ MeV}}\\{\ce {{}_{22}^{44}Ti\ ~+{}_{2}^{4}He\ ->{}_{24}^{48}Cr\ ~+\gamma ~,}}&E={\mathsf {7.70\ MeV}}\\{\ce {{}_{24}^{48}Cr\ +{}_{2}^{4}He\ ->{}_{26}^{52}Fe\ ~\ +\gamma ~,}}&E={\mathsf {7.94\ MeV}}\\{\ce {{}_{26}^{52}Fe\ +{}_{2}^{4}He\ ->{}_{28}^{56}Ni\ ~\ +\gamma ~,}}&E={\mathsf {8.00\ MeV}}\end{array}}}

The energy produced by each reaction, E, is mainly in the form of gamma rays (γ), with a small amount taken by the byproduct element, as added momentum.

It is a common misconception that the above sequence ends at

28

56

N
i

{\displaystyle \,{}_{28}^{56}\mathrm {Ni} \,}

(or

26

56

F
e

{\displaystyle \,{}_{26}^{56}\mathrm {Fe} \,}

, which is a decay product of

28

56

N
i

{\displaystyle \,{}_{28}^{56}\mathrm {Ni} \,}

) because it is the most tightly bound nuclide – i.e., the nuclide with the highest nuclear binding energy per nucleon – and production of heavier nuclei would consume energy (be endothermic) instead of release it (exothermic).

28

62

N
i

{\displaystyle \,{}_{28}^{62}\mathrm {Ni} \,}

(Nickel-62) is actually the most tightly bound nuclide in terms of binding energy (though

56

Fe

{\displaystyle {}^{56}{\textrm {Fe}}}

has a lower energy or mass per nucleon). The reaction

56

Fe

+

4

He

→

60

Ni

{\displaystyle {}^{56}{\textrm {Fe}}+{}^{4}{\textrm {He}}\rightarrow {}^{60}{\textrm {Ni}}}

is actually exothermic, and indeed adding alphas continues to be exothermic all the way to

50

100

S
n

{\displaystyle \ {}_{50}^{100}\mathrm {Sn} \ }

, but nonetheless the sequence does effectively end at iron. The sequence stops before producing elements heavier than nickel because conditions in stellar interiors cause the competition between photodisintegration and the alpha process to favor photodisintegration around iron. This leads to more

28

56

N
i

{\displaystyle \,{}_{28}^{56}\mathrm {Ni} \,}

being produced than

28

62

N
i

.

{\displaystyle \,{}_{28}^{62}\mathrm {Ni} ~.}

All these reactions have a very low rate at the temperatures and densities in stars and therefore do not contribute significant energy to a star's total output. They occur even less easily with elements heavier than neon (Z > 10) due to the increasing Coulomb barrier.

== Alpha process elements ==
Alpha process elements (or alpha elements) are so-called since their most abundant isotopes are integer multiples of four – the mass of the helium nucleus (the alpha particle). These isotopes are called alpha nuclides.

The stable alpha elements are: C, O, Ne, Mg, Si, and S.
The elements Ar and Ca are "observationally stable". They are synthesized by alpha capture prior to the silicon fusing stage, that leads to Type II supernovae.
Si and Ca are purely alpha process elements.
Mg can be separately consumed by proton capture reactions.
The status of oxygen (O) is contested – some authors consider it an alpha element, while others do not. O is surely an alpha element in low-metallicity Population II stars: It is produced in Type II supernovae, and its enhancement is well correlated with an enhancement of other alpha process elements.
Sometimes C and N are considered alpha process elements since, like O, they are synthesized in nuclear alpha-capture reactions, but their status is ambiguous: Each of the three elements is produced (and consumed) by the CNO cycle, which can proceed at temperatures far lower than those where the alpha-ladder processes start producing significant amounts of alpha elements (including C, N, & O). So just the presence of C, N, or O in a star does not a clearly indicate that the alpha process is actually underway – hence reluctance of some astronomers to (unconditionally) call these three "alpha elements".

== Production in stars ==
The alpha process generally occurs in large quantities only if the star is sufficiently massive – more massive than about 10 solar masses. These stars contract as they age, increasing core temperature and density to high enough levels to enable the alpha process. Requirements increase with atomic mass, especially in later stages – sometimes referred to as silicon burning – and thus most commonly occur in supernovae. Type II supernovae mainly synthesize oxygen and the alpha-elements (Ne, Mg, Si, S, Ar, Ca, and Ti) while Type Ia supernovae mainly produce elements of the iron peak (Ti, V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, and Ni). Sufficiently massive stars can synthesize elements up to and including the iron peak solely from the hydrogen and helium that initially comprises the star.
Typically, the first stage of the alpha process (or alpha-capture) follows from the helium-burning stage of the star once helium becomes depleted; at this point, free

6

12

C

{\displaystyle {}_{6}^{12}{\textrm {C}}}

capture helium to produce

8

16

O

{\displaystyle {}_{8}^{16}{\textrm {O}}}

. This process continues after the core finishes the helium burning phase as a shell around the core will continue burning helium and convecting into the core. The second stage (neon burning) starts as helium is freed by the photodisintegration of one

10

20

Ne

{\displaystyle {}_{10}^{20}{\textrm {Ne}}}

atom, allowing another to continue up the alpha ladder. Silicon burning is then later initiated through the photodisintegration of

14

28

Si

{\displaystyle {}_{14}^{28}{\textrm {Si}}}

in a similar fashion; after this point, the

28

56

N
i

{\displaystyle \,{}_{28}^{56}\mathrm {Ni} \,}

peak discussed previously is reached. The supernova shock wave produced by stellar collapse provides ideal conditions for these processes to briefly occur.
During this terminal heating involving photodisintegration and rearrangement, nuclear particles are converted to their most stable forms during the supernova and subsequent ejection through, in part, alpha processes. Starting at

22

44

Ti

{\displaystyle {}_{22}^{44}{\textrm {Ti}}}

and above, all the product elements are radioactive and will therefore decay into a more stable isotope; for instance,

28

56

N
i

{\displaystyle \,{}_{28}^{56}\mathrm {Ni} \,}

is formed and decays into

26

56

Fe

{\displaystyle {}_{26}^{56}{\textrm {Fe}}}

.

== Special notation for relative abundance ==
The abundance of total alpha elements in stars is usually expressed in terms of logarithms, with astronomers customarily using a square bracket notation:

[

α

Fe

]

≡

log

10

⁡

(

N

E

α

N

Fe

)

S
t
a
r

−

log

10

⁡

(

N

E

α

N

Fe

)

S
u
n

,

{\displaystyle \left[{\frac {\alpha }{\,{\ce {Fe}}\,}}\right]~\equiv ~\log _{10}{\left(\,{\frac {N_{\mathrm {E} \alpha }}{\,N_{{\ce {Fe}}}\,}}\,\right)_{\mathsf {Star}}}-\log _{10}{\left({\frac {N_{\mathrm {E} \alpha }}{\,N_{{\ce {Fe}}}\,}}\,\right)_{\mathsf {Sun}}}~,}

where

N

E

α

{\displaystyle \,N_{\mathrm {E} \alpha }\,}

is the number of alpha elements per unit volume, and

N

Fe

{\displaystyle \,N_{{\ce {Fe}}}\,}

is the number of iron nuclei per unit volume. It is for the purpose of calculating the number

N

E

α

{\displaystyle \,N_{\mathrm {E} \alpha }\,}

that which elements are to be considered "alpha elements" becomes contentious. Theoretical galactic evolution models predict that early in the universe there were more alpha elements relative to iron.

== See also ==
[α/Fe] versus [Fe/H] diagram
Alpha-enhanced stars with anomalous ages

== References ==

== Further reading ==
Mendel, J. Trevor; Proctor, Robert N.; Forbes, Duncan A. (21 August 2007) [31 May 2007]. "The age, metallicity and α-element abundance of galactic globular clusters, from single stellar population models". Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society. 379 (4) (published 26 July 2007): 1618–1636. arXiv:0705.4511v2. doi:10.1111/j.1365-2966.2007.12041.x.

Chandra dynasty

The Chandra dynasty was a Buddhist dynasty, originating from the South East Bengal region of Indian subcontinent, which ruled the Samatata area of Bengal, as well as Arakan, Tripura, Assam, Nagaland, Mizoram, Meghalaya, Manipur, and Arunachal Pradesh. Later it was a neighbor to the Pala Empire to the north. Rulers of Chandra kingdom were adherents of Buddhism. The Kings of Chandra dynasty were identified as the kings of Vangaladesha in the Tirumulai inscription of Chola dynasty. The dynasty was founded around the 4th century AD.

== History ==
The Anandachandra Inscription (729 AD) mentions that the Chandra dynasty was established by Dvenchandra (or Mahataing Chandra) in 370 AD. He had assumed the throne after the end of the Annaveta dynasty. The ye Dhamma inscriptions of the Queen of Niti Chandra are dated to early 6th century AD based on paleographic grounds.
The Chandra kingdom was one of the last Buddhist strongholds in the Indian subcontinent. The kingdom flourished as a center of the Tantric schools of Buddhism. It played a role in the diffusion of Mahayana Buddhism to Southeast Asia.
During the reign of Srichandra (c 930–975 AD), the administrative centre of the Chandra kingdom was established in Bikrampur in Vanga. He led invasions into Kamarupa. The Chandras played an important role in the regional politics and military history of erstwhile Bengal.
In the reign of King Govindachandra, the Chandras were eventually annexed by the Pala dynasty of Varendra.

== Maritime relations ==
The coastal kingdom had trade networks with states in what is now Myanmar, Thailand, Indonesia and Vietnam. 10th century shipwrecks around the coast of Java provide evidence of maritime links between southeastern Bengal and Southeast Asia. Bronze sculptures may have been imported by the Javanese from the Chandra kingdom in southeastern Bengal. Arab merchants also traded with the kingdom.
King Anandachandra mentions mission he sent to Sinhalese King Silamegha (Aggabodhi IV) (727–766)

== Marital relations ==
According to king Anandachandra's (22nd King of this dynasty) inscription, the Chandra dynasty had marital relations with the Tamralipta royal family (Tamluk Royal Family). The Bengali King Anandachandra of Arakan was married to Princess Dhenda of Tamralipta.

== Archaeology ==
There are numerous inscriptions dating from the period of the Chandra dynasty. The three archaeological sites associated with the dynasty include Bikrampur and Mainamati in Bangladesh and Waithali in Rakhine State, Myanmar.

== Education ==
Chandrapur University in Shrihatta was as large as other religious institutions like Nalanda, Taxila, Mahasthangarh or Odantapuri and was established before Oxford, and Cambridge universities or even the Jagaddala Vihara. It was made by king Srichandra. Its exact location has not been found. Chandrapur university was unique in contrast with other universities and the viharas established by Buddhist kings in India. Its curriculum included almost all of the subjects from the Hindu Shastra except the grammar of Chandragomin who was Buddhist by religion. Moreover, the students of this university were also Hindu Brahmins. The nine monasteries were overseen mainly by Hindu Brahmins. This is because the Buddhist king, Srichandra, granted lands in Paschimbhag in the name of Buddha for nine Brahmin monasteries where the Chaturvedas were mainly taught. Kamalakanta Gupta referred to this grant as "unique among other Buddhist kings" since it implies Srichandra's favouritism towards Brahmins.
Land distribution among 25 classes of people, guests, and students indicates an efficient administration in the universities. According to Zafir Setu, this administrative arrangement is more consistent with the present-day university system.

== List of Chandra rulers ==

*Note- These rulers may or may not be related to the Chandra dynasty.

== References ==

== Further reading ==
Singh, Nagendra Kr. (2003). Encyclopaedia of Bangladesh. Anmol Publications Pvt Ltd. pp. 7–21. ISBN 81-261-1390-1.

1958 Maryland Terrapins football team

The 1958 Maryland Terrapins football team represented the University of Maryland in the 1958 college football season as a member of the Atlantic Coast Conference. They were led by third-year head coach Tommy Mont, who guided Maryland to a 4–6 record. He resigned at the end of the season, and was replaced by Tom Nugent.

== Schedule ==

== Before the season ==
The Baltimore Sun predicted 1958 would prove to be Mont's first winning season because of increased depth, but also noted the difficulty of the schedule, which included six teams ranked in the Associated Press preseason poll. Mont rated Clemson and Auburn as the toughest opponents on the schedule.

=== Personnel ===
The 1958 team consisted of the following letterwinners:

The coaching staff consisted of:

== Season ==
In the season opener, Wake Forest snapped a 12-game losing streak and routed Maryland, 34–0, which "about eliminated Maryland from consideration as a possible Atlantic Coast Conference champion."
Maryland rebounded to defeat the defending ACC champions, NC State, in Raleigh, 21–6. In the first quarter, a 73-yard Terrapins drive culminated with halfback John Forbes scoring on a four-yard rush. In the third quarter, quarterback Dickie Lewis connected with Forbes, who ran without his left shoe, into the end zone for a 71-yard touchdown. In the fourth quarter, Forbes recovered an NC State fumble on the opposing 25-yard line, which set up the third Maryland score. In the final period, Wolfpack back Randy Harrell intercepted a Maryland pass on the Terrapins' 41-yard line, and on the ensuing possession, caught a 15-yard pass from Gerald Mancini for State's lone score.
The following week, tenth-ranked Clemson beat Maryland, 8–0. The Terrapins' first-team defense stood fast on their own four-yard line, but the second team was substituted into the game and forced to punt. On the first play of Clemson's subsequent possession, quarterback Harvey White threw a 30-yard pass to end Wyatt Cox, who then beat two Maryland pursuers and ran twenty yards for a touchdown.
Texas A&M, running its single-wing offense, defeated Maryland, 14–10. Early in an 88-yard Texas A&M drive, Maryland's Tony Scotti recovered a fumble on the Aggie 30-yard line, but it was overturned on an offsides call. Quarterback Charlie Milstead took over, and capped the drive with a three-yard keeper into the end zone. In the fourth quarter, Maryland repeatedly entered Texas A&M territory, only to give up a fumble and an interception.
North Carolina's stout defense "bottled up" Maryland, and its offense scored on several sustained drives. The Tar Heels scored on their first possession with a 60-yard drive. In the second quarter, Tar Heels quarterback Jack Cummings led an 80-yard scoring drive. Later in the period, Carolina end Al Goldstein picked off a pass by Bob Rusevlyan and ran 46-yards for a touchdown. In the final quarter, Carolina scored again on a 70-yard drive for a final result of 27–0.
Fifth-ranked Auburn handed Maryland its fourth straight loss, 20–7, and extended its own undefeated streak to nineteen games. Auburn scored first to take a 6–0 lead, but Maryland quarterback Rusevlyan connected with end Ben Scotti for a 68-yard touchdown pass in the third quarter. With the extra point, Maryland went up 7–6, which was the first time Auburn trailed an opponent since the previous season's game against Mississippi State. After the ensuing kickoff, Auburn scored in the span of two plays, but failed on the point after kick. At the end of the third period, a pass from Rusevlyan was intercepted by back Tommy Lorino, which put Auburn in position for their final score.
Maryland snapped its losing streak with an upset against South Carolina, 10–6. The following week, however, Navy routed Maryland, 40–14. Fullback Joe Matalavage compiled 102–rushing yards more than the entire Maryland team.
Maryland beat an injury-riddled Miami, 26–14. The Miami News wrote, "This MD—home of University of Maryland—produced some mad, unlicensed surgeons, some butchers in the middle of the line, notably guards Rod Breedlove and Tom Gunderman, who chopped up the Hurricanes." Maryland quarterback Dick Scarbath led the team and back John Forbes scored three touchdowns.
In the finale, Maryland routed Virginia, 44–6. The Terrapins set a conference record with 350 passing yards, and tied the records for pass attempts with 40, and completions with 18. Guard Rod Breedlove also intercepted two Virginia passes, both of which set up Maryland touchdowns.

== After the season ==
Mont resigned at the conclusion of the 4–6 season. St. Petersburg Times wrote the resignation "had all the earmarks of having been forced", coming just a day after the Board of Regents concluded its discussions on whether to extend his expiring contract. He said, "I'll never apologize for the performance of my Maryland teams." Mont compiled an 11–18–1 record during his tenure.
NC State head coach Earle Edwards, Oklahoma line coach Gomer Jones, and Maryland assistant Jack Hennemier were considered to be candidates for the vacant head coaching position. In January 1959, Maryland hired Florida State head coach Tom Nugent, an innovator of the I formation.

== References ==

1871 Liberian general election

General elections were held in Liberia in May 1871.
Incumbent president Edward James Roye had been elected in the May 1869 elections and a referendum held on the same day as the elections had proposed extending the term of office of politicians from two to four years. Despite 99% of voters voting in favour, the Senate refused to approve the constitutional amendment required to implement the change. A re-run of the referendum was held in May 1870. Roye oversaw the counting of the votes and declared the proposal had been approved, but the Legislature, which was formally responsible for counting the votes declared the proposal had failed as Roye was not authorised to carry out the count.
The situation led to a dispute over whether the 1871 elections would go ahead or not. Popular opinion had swung against Roye, whose government had been accused of corruption and incompetence. Roye announced that due to an economic crisis, the elections would be postponed to allow him to make reforms to resolve the crisis, and then issued a proclamation banning the holding of elections.
However, the elections went ahead. Roye refused to take part, resulting in former president Joseph Jenkins Roberts of the Republican Party being elected president unopposed. Roye refused to accept the results, with the dispute eventually leading to a coup in October, which resulted in Roye's deposition and eventual death; James Skivring Smith served out the remainder of Roye's term, and Roberts took office as president on 1 January 1872.

== References ==

2020 Pierce County Executive election

The 2020 Pierce County Executive election took place on November 3, 2020, to elect the county executive of Pierce County, Washington. Incumbent Republican County Executive Bruce Dammeier ran for re-election to a second term. He was challenged by former Democratic State Representative Larry Seaquist.
The election took place in the aftermath of the George Floyd protests, and Dammeier attacked Seaquist for allegedly wanting to "defund the police." The News Tribune endorsed Dammeier for re-election, praising him as an "approachable negotiator and savvy deal-maker," though it noted some "disappointing lapses of judgment." The paper praised Seaquist as "a salt-of-the-earth Democrat who, like Dammeier, launched a distinguished public service career in the Navy," but noted that he was "running a campaign largely centered on Trump administration divisiveness and dysfunction," and that "his big-picture thinking doesn't translate as well to immediate policy proposals."
In the primary election, Dammeier placed first over Seaquist by a wide margin, winning 56 percent of the vote to his 44 percent. Dammeier ultimately defeated Seaquist in the general election, winning 55 percent of the vote.

== Primary election ==

=== Candidates ===
Bruce Dammeier, incumbent County Executive (Republican)
Larry Seaquist, former State Representative (Democratic)

=== Results ===

== General election ==

=== Results ===

== References ==

1926 Yale Bulldogs football team

The 1926 Yale Bulldogs football team represented Yale University in the 1926 college football season. The Bulldogs finished with a 4–4 record under ninth-year head coach Tad Jones.
Neither the Associated Press nor Collier's Weekly selected any Yale players for their 1926 College Football All-America Teams. However, Yale guard Herbert Sturhahn was named a first-team All-American for 1926 by the All-American Board composed of three coaches, Knute Rockne, Glenn Scobey Warner and Yale's Tad Jones. Sturhahn was also later inducted into the College Football Hall of Fame.

== Schedule ==

== References ==

Arthur B. Champlin

Arthur Babcock Champlin (February 7, 1858 – January 8, 1946) was a Massachusetts journalist and politician who served in both branches of the Massachusetts legislature, as a city councilor, and as the Mayor of Chelsea, Massachusetts.

== Newspaper career ==
Champlin started out his career in journalism when he became a district reported for The Boston Globe at the age of 16. When The Chelsea Record was started two years later Champlin became one of its managers while still a teenager. In 1886 Champlin became the founder and publisher of The Chelsea Gazette.

== References ==

== External links ==
Mayors of Chelsea 1857 – 1991.

Acropolis of Rhodes

The Acropolis of Rhodes (Greek: Ακρόπολη της Ρόδου) is the acropolis, or upper town, of ancient Rhodes dating from the 5th century BC and located 3 kilometers SW from the centre of the modern city. Situated on Monte Smith overlooking the west coast of the island, the archaeological site includes some of the most important monuments in the ancient city, such as the Temple of Athena Polias and Zeus Polieus and the Temple of Apollo, below which are a stadium, an odeon and a gymnasium. Unlike other acropoleis, no walled citadel was built here.

== History ==
In 408 BC, towards the end of the Peloponnesian War, the three cities on the island, Lindos, Kameiros and Ialysos, combined in a synoecism, building a new city as the federal capital in the Ialysia region of the island. The geographer Strabo reports that Hippodamos of Miletus designed the city, but he would have been very old by that time. At any rate, the design can be described as Hippodamian. The city was planned in grid pattern and the upper town was no exception, though in contrast to the dense lower town there were terraced spaces of greenery according to the orator Aelius Aristides. During a flash flood in 316 BC, the upper town provided a refuge to those fleeing the city center, which was inundated due to the drains being clogged. Another momentous event, the Siege of Rhodes (305–304 BC) by Demetrios Poliorcetes, the "City Besieger," may have had an impact on the architectural history of the Acropolis, as the citizens tore down the theater and some temples to build a wall as an emergency stopgap, "vowing to the gods that they would build finer ones." Later, the earthquake in 228 BC provided another opportunity for rebuilding, aided by donations from the entire Greek world. The temple of Athena and Zeus and the temple of Apollo are hellenistic renewals of their classical predecessors. It is no surprise that most of the monuments date from about the period when Rhodes's political and economic influence was at its peak, lasting until 167BC when Delos was turned into a free trade port by Rome.
Still, long into the decline of Rhodes, the second century AD author Lucian called it "the city of Helius with a beauty in keeping with that god."

== Excavation and restoration ==
The original excavation was carried on by the Italian School of Archaeology at Athens from 1912 to 1945. Following World War II, the Greek Archaeological Service took over excavation and restoration of the ruins. This included extensive reconstruction of the Temple of Pythian Apollo, which was extensively damaged by bombing and artillery installed there during the war. Excavation began in 1946 and continues today in the Acropolis Archaeological Park, which covers 12,500 square metres (135,000 sq ft) and is protected from any new construction. The extent of excavation is quite small and much awaits investigation. Aside from the known buildings, the theater and the Temple of Helios are believed to be located nearby but are not found.

== Site ==
The Acropolis is situated on the highest part of the ancient city, sloping gently toward the east and bounded to the west by cliffs, upon which watch towers forming the city's perimeter once stood. Mostly dating from the hellenistic period, the monuments were built on stepped terraces, with substantial retaining walls. Though moderate in scale, the buildings have a rhythm and symmetry whose harmonious effects would have been enhanced by the natural landscaping typically suited to sacred space.

=== Temple of Athena Polias and Zeus Polieus ===
Located at the northern extreme of the Acropolis in an east–west orientation, this stately temple was dominated by Doric columned porticos on all sides and originally housed the written treaties the Rhodians held with other states. The temple was bounded by a stoa to the east.

=== Temple of Pythian Apollo ===
Smaller than the Temple of Athena Polias and Zeus Polieus, this structure boasts a similar east–west orientation but is located on the southern end, just west of a large rectangular terrace. Part of the northeast side of this porous peripteral temple has been restored and its retaining wall has survived. It was built in the second century BC in Doric style and was situated in an enclosed precinct. Presenting a distinct profile, in the ancient time it was a landmark for the ships sailing to Rhodes, and even today the reerected columns are visible from the harbor.

=== Nymphaea ===
Just southeast of the Temple of Athena Polias and Zeus Polieus are four subterranean structures cut into the rock, featuring entrance steps, passages, a large opening in the central roof, along with water cisterns, foliage and interior niches for statuettes. Referred to as "nymphaea" due to the association of nymphs with caves and water, these grottoes were used for worship and recreational purposes. Local archaeological finds include figurines of Aphrodite or nymphs which are suitable for display in a niche context, but it is not known exactly what deities were worshiped in the grottoes.

=== Odeon ===

This small marble odeon could hold approximately 800 spectators. Situated northwest of the Stadium, it has been heavily reconstructed, as only the orchestra and a few front row seats are original.

=== Stoa building ===
Like the stoa in the acropoleis of Lindos and Kameiros, its design functioned as a reception center for the traffic from the lower town. The impressive façade was visible even from the harbor. Today just one foundation wall remains.

=== Artemision ===
The Artemis cult's place of worship is situated on the northeast side of the hill, amidst the ruins of other structures of similar function.

=== Stadium ===

Located on the southeast side of the hill, the 210-metre long, north-south oriented Stadium was initially restored by the Italians. Dating to the 3rd century BC, its surviving features include the sphendone (rounded end with turning post), proedries (officials' seats), and some of the spectator seating. The starting apparatus used in the athletic events has also been preserved. Athletic events of the Haleion Games, honoring Helios, were held here.

== References and sources ==

=== Notes ===

=== References ===
Berthold, Richard M. (1984), Rhodes in the Hellenistic Age, Ithaca, NY: Cornerll University Press
Bradford, John (1956), "Fieldwork on Aerial Discoveries in Attica and Rhodes", Antiquaries Journal, 36 (1–2): 57–69, doi:10.1017/S0003581500060364, S2CID 162425810
Currie, Jean (1979), Rhodos und die Inseln des Dodekanes : ein Kunst- und Reiseführer mit Landeskunde, Stuttgart: Kohlhammer
Konstantinopoulous, Gregory; Graham, J. Walter (1968), "Rhodes: New Finds and Old Problems", Archaeology, 21 (2): 115–123, JSTOR 41667815
Nielsen, Thomas H.; Gabrielsen, Vincent (2004), "Rhodos", in Hanse, Mogens H.; Nielsen, Thomas H. (eds.), Inventory of Archaic and Classical Poleis, Oxford, pp. 1196–1210
"Rhodes Acropolis", Rhodes Guide, September 2009, retrieved September 28, 2022
Rice, E. E. (1995), "Grottoes on the Acropolis of Hellenistic Rhodes", Annual of the British School at Athens, 90: 383–404, doi:10.1017/S0068245400016269, S2CID 162222722
Wycherley, Richard E. (1976), "Rhodes", in Stillwell, Richard; MacDonald, William L.; McAlister, Marian Holland (eds.), Princeton Encyclopedia of Classical Sites, Princeton, pp. 755–758
Wycherley, Richard (1964), "Hippodamus and Rhodes", Historia: Zeitschrift für Alte Geschichte, 13 (2): 135–139

== External links ==
Media related to Acropolis of Rhodes at Wikimedia Commons
Discover Rhodes
Greeka.com
Goddess Athena Museum
Acropolis of Rhodes Guide
Hellenic Ministry of Culture

AIRR

AIRR may refer to:

Advocates for Immigrant Rights and Reconciliation, a U.S. non-profit organization
Australian Independent Rural Retailers, a former Australian company acquired by Elders Limited
Aviation Innovation, Reform, and Reauthorization Act (AIRR Act), a proposed United States bill
Aviation Rescue Swimmer, a rating in the United States Navy
Average internal rate of return, a measure of Internal rate of return in finance
Airr, son of basketball players Anna Petrakova and Candace Parker

35th British Academy Film Awards

The 35th British Academy Film Awards, more commonly known as the BAFTAs, took place on 18 March 1982 at the Hippodrome, London, honouring the best national and foreign films of 1981. Presented by the British Academy of Film and Television Arts, accolades were handed out for the best feature-length film and documentaries of any nationality that were screened at British cinemas in 1981.
There are no records, and no explanation, showing any nominations nor winner for the BAFTA Award for Best Actress in a Supporting Role at this 35th film ceremony.
The ceremony was hosted by Denis Norden.

== Winners and nominees ==

=== BAFTA Fellowship ===

Andrzej Wajda

=== Outstanding British Contribution to Cinema ===

David Puttnam

=== Awards ===
Winners are listed first and highlighted in boldface.

== Statistics ==

== See also ==

== References ==

1814 in Russia

This article lists notable events from the year 1814 in Russia.

== Incumbents ==
Monarch – Alexander I
Chancellor – Nikolay Rumyantsev

== Events ==

Battle of Paris (1814)
Treaty of Fontainebleau (1814)
Treaty of Chaumont
Eight Articles of London

== Births ==
Anna Davidovna Abamelik-Lazareva, translator (died 1889)
Mikhail Bakunin, revolutionary anarchist and philosopher (died 1876)
Gustav Fabergé, jeweler and father of Carl Fabergé (died 1894)
Ivan Gagarin, convert to Roman Catholicism and Jesuit (died 1882)
Iosif Goshkevich, diplomat (died 1875)
Yelena Hahn, writer and mother of Helena Blavatsky (died 1842)
Jehiel Heller, rabbi (died 1861)
Nikolai Krabbe, admiral of the Imperial Navy (died 1876)
Julia Kurakina, noblewoman and lady-in-waiting (died 1881)
Mikhail Lermontov, poet and painter (died 1841)

== Deaths ==

== References ==

Media related to 1814 in the Russian Empire at Wikimedia Commons

Alpha-toxin

Alpha-toxin may refer to:

Staphylococcus aureus alpha toxin, a toxin
Clostridium novyi alpha-toxin, a toxin
Lecithinase C, an enzyme

Alabama State Route 293

State Route 293 (SR 293) is a 2.5-mile-long (4.0 km) route that serves as a connection between SR 126 east of Mount Meigs and SR 110 north of McDade in eastern Montgomery County. It parallels the future Montgomery Bypass, SR 108 for its entire length.

== Route description ==
The southern terminus of SR 293 is located at its intersection with SR 110 north of McDade. From this point, the route generally travels in a northerly direction before terminating at SR 126 east of Mount Meigs, just south of I-85.

== Major intersections ==
The entire route is in Montgomery County.

== References ==

2017 Alpine Skiing World Cup – Women's giant slalom

The women's giant slalom in the 2017 FIS Alpine Skiing World Cup consisted of nine events, including the World Cup finals in Aspen, Colorado (USA). Tessa Worley of France had never won a season-long championship in the World Cup but this season had reached the giant slalom podium seven times, including three wins, and held an 80-point lead over runner-up Mikaela Shiffrin of the US in the standings before the finals. In the finals, Worley finished fifth (one spot ahead of Shiffrin) and became a first-time discipline champion.
The season was interrupted by the 2017 World Ski Championships, which were held from 6–20 February in St. Moritz, Switzerland. The women's giant slalom was held on 16 February.

== Standings ==

DNF1 = Did not finish run 1
DSQ1 = Disqualified run 1
DNQ = Did not qualify for run 2
DNF2 = Did not finish run 2
DSQ2 = Disqualified run 2
DNS = Did not start
Updated at 19 March 2017, after all events.

== See also ==
2017 Alpine Skiing World Cup – Women's summary rankings
2017 Alpine Skiing World Cup – Women's overall
2017 Alpine Skiing World Cup – Women's downhill
2017 Alpine Skiing World Cup – Women's super-G
2017 Alpine Skiing World Cup – Women's slalom
2017 Alpine Skiing World Cup – Women's combined

== References ==

== External links ==
Alpine Skiing at FIS website

Denis Glavina

Denis Glavina (pronounced [deːnis ɡlaʋina]; born 3 March 1986) is a Croatian footballer who plays as a left winger for Hrvati.

== Club career ==
Glavina transferred to Dynamo Kyiv from Dinamo Zagreb in January 2004, but never appeared in a league match for Dynamo. He spent the 2006–07 and 2007–08 seasons on loan at Dnipro Dnipropetrovsk and Vorskla, respectively, before signing a permanent deal with Vorskla in June 2008. Glavina appeared in 8 league matches during the 2006–07 season and 26 league matches during the 2007–08 season, scoring three goals.
On 7 July 2009 he was loaned back to his first senior club, Dinamo Zagreb. At the start of the season he featured in both matches of UEFA Champions League qualifiers against Red Bull Salzburg.
He signed a two-year contract with Polish club Arka Gdynia on 9 July 2010. He was released from Arka Gdynia on 30 June 2011. In February 2012, Glavina joined Varaždin. In August 2012, Glavina signed a two-year contract with RNK Split. In 2020 he joined Varaždin, a club not associated with the Varaždin team he played with earlier in his career, which folded in 2015.

== International career ==
Glavina represented Croatia at youth international levels, playing for under-17, under-19 and under-21 teams, earning a total of 33 caps and scoring 10 goals.

== Personal life ==
Glavina is married to a Ukrainian woman Kateryna from Dnipro.

== Honours ==
Vorskla Poltava

Ukrainian Cup: 2008–09

== References ==

== External links ==
Denis Glavina at 90minut.pl (in Polish)
Denis Glavina at the Croatian Football Federation
Croatian career stats - HNS-CFF
Denis Glavina at ÖFB (in Austrian German)
Denis Glavina at UAF (in Ukrainian)
Denis Glavina at Soccerway

1898–99 Cornell Big Red men's basketball team

The 1898–99 Cornell Big Red men's basketball team represented Cornell University during the 1898–99 college men's basketball season. The team finished with a final record of 1–3.

== Schedule ==

== References ==

Crenshaw Mafia

The Crenshaw Mafia Gangster Bloods (also known as the Crenshaw Mafia Gang) are a "set" of the Bloods gang alliance. The gang is depicted in several movies, including Boyz n the Hood and Straight Outta Compton.

== History ==

=== Formation ===
There is some disagreement about when the gang formed. According to one source, the gang formed in Inglewood during the 1970s and was named after Crenshaw Boulevard. However, another source claims that the gang was formed in 1981 by members of the Inglewood Family Gang.

=== 1997 injunction against the Crenshaw Mafia ===
On December 17, 1997, the Los Angeles County District Attorney's Office and Los Angeles Sherriff's Office sought an injunction against the Crenshaw Mafia Gangster Bloods, as the gang had been responsible for 19 murders in the preceding four years. In the two years following the implementation of the injunction, the gang committed no murders.

=== Spreading outside of California ===
By the mid-1980s, the Crenshaw Mafia spread to Denver, Colorado. In November 2014, David Scott, a member of the Crenshaw Mafia, killed two Crips in Denver. Scott was sentenced to 30 years in federal prison.
In 2024, two members of an Inglewood Family Gangster Bloods set in Atlanta, Georgia had been arrested for prostituting a minor who also happened to be a missing person.

== Depictions in media ==
In the 1991 film Boyz n the Hood, a student replies "I ain't from Africa. I'm from Crenshaw Mafia!", after a young Tre explains that humans originated from Africa. 7 years later, when a police officer harasses Tre, he accuses Tre of being a member of the Crenshaw Mafia.
In the 1993 song "Piru Love" by Bloods & Crips from their album Bangin' on Wax, the Crenshaw Mafia is mentioned.
In the 2015 film Straight Outta Compton, a Crenshaw Mafia member named OG 2 Tone confronts some students on Ice Cube's school bus, after they display Crip gang signs. He warns "Remember me. OG 2 Tone. Crenshaw Mafia, Blood."

== References ==

1942 British Honduras general election

General elections were held in British Honduras in 1942.

== Electoral system ==
The Legislative Council consisted of six elected members, four members appointed by the Governor, three officials (the Attorney General, the Colonial Secretary and the Financial Secretary) and the Governor, who served as president. The elected members were elected from five constituencies, one of which (Belize) had two seats.
Voting was limited to British subjects or people who had lived in the territory for at least three years and who were aged 21 or over and met one of the financial requirements, which included paying an annual property tax of at least $6, paying at least $96 in rent a year, or being in receipt of an annual salary of at least $300. Anyone who had received poor relief from public funds in the three months prior to voter registration was ineligible. As a result of the criteria, only 1,383 people from a population of 61,723 were registered to vote.

== Results ==

The nominated members were appointed on 27 May, with James Wilson Macmillan, Calvert Milford Staine, Neil Stuart Stevenson and Arthur Norman Wolffsohn appointed.

== References ==

Dominant logic

Dominant logic relates to the main means a company uses to make a profit. In essence, it is an interpretation of how a company has succeeded. It describes the cultural norms and beliefs that the company espouses.
Dominant logic can be useful when applied to corporate diversification. In this sense, dominant logic is a common way of thinking about strategy across different businesses.
Negatively, it is logic which locks a company into thinking about making money in only one way, called as "blinder effect." It is often used when talking about inefficient reasons for diversification of a company. This narrowed approach by a company can prevent a conducive environment for innovating and can stifle creativity. Dominant Logic is antipodal to the idea of using different methods and ways for generating profit. It is similar to the idea of kaizen which focuses on one process.
Recently, the concept of dominant logic is further expanded to overcome its blinder effect, for example, by nourishing dynamic dominant logic (Dwipayana et al., 2021).
Kor and Mesko argue that a firm's dominant logic can be implicit within routines, procedures and capabilities. They distinguish it from the related concepts of the dominant logic of the management team which is in turn influenced by the managerial capabilities. They view this dominant logic as changing over time in response to information in response to its absorbative capacity which is in turn influenced by the orchestration of the decision-making team, feedback and mentoring.

== History ==
In the field of strategic management, C. K. Prahalad and Richard A. Bettis described the concept of dominant logic in 1986. Prahalad and Bettis suggested that the way top managers deal with the increasing diversity of strategic decisions in a company, which are caused by acquisitions or structural changes in the core business, depends on the cognitive orientation of those top managers. Dominant logic consists of the mental maps developed through experience in the core business.

== See also ==
Service-dominant logic

== Notes ==

== References ==
C. K. Prahalad; Richard A. Bettis (Nov–Dec 1986). "The Dominant Logic: A New Linkage between Diversity and Performance" (PDF). Strategic Management Journal. 7 (6): 485–501. doi:10.1002/smj.4250070602. hdl:2027.42/106722.
Bettis, Richard A.; Coimbatore K. Prahalad (1995). "The dominant logic: Retrospective and extension". Strategic Management Journal. 16 (1): 5–14. doi:10.1002/smj.4250160104.
Grant, Robert M. (1988). "On 'dominant logic', relatedness and the link between diversity and performance". Strategic Management Journal. 9 (6): 639–64. doi:10.1002/smj.4250090610.
Kor, Yasemin Y.; Andrea Mesko (2013). "Dynamic managerial capabilities: Configuration and orchestration of top executives' capabilities and the firm's dominant logic". Strategic Management Journal. 34 (2): 233–244. doi:10.1002/smj.2000.
Dwipayana, Chandra; Prijadi, Ruslan; Hamsal, Mohammad (2021). "Bifurcating the dynamic dominant logic: Technical and evolutionary patterns of action". Management Decision. 60 (7): 1813–1851. doi:10.1108/MD-02-2021-0207. S2CID 245498847.

2004 Orlando mayoral election

The 2004 Orlando mayoral election took place on March 9, 2004. Incumbent Mayor Buddy Dyer, who was first elected in a 2003 special election, ran for re-election to a full term. He faced four opponents, including businessman Ken Mulvaney and retired police captain Sam Ings. Dyer narrowly avoided a runoff election and won a full term, receiving 51 percent of the vote to Mulvaney's 31 percent and Ings's 13 percent.
Mulvaney contested the election results, alleging that Dyer illegally paid a consultant $10,000 to collect absentee ballots from predominantly Black precincts. On March 10, 2005, Dyer was indicted by a grand jury for violating state election law, which prompted Governor Jeb Bush to suspend him from office and schedule a special election. On April 20, 2005, the charges were dropped against Dyer, he was returned to office, and the special election was cancelled.

== General election ==

=== Candidates ===
Buddy Dyer, incumbent Mayor
Ken Mulvaney, businessman
Sam Ings, retired Orlando Police Department captain
Sharon Leichering, former city employee, 2003 candidate for Mayor
Alex Lamour, perennial candidate

=== Polling ===

=== Results ===

== Notes ==

== References ==

Cimișeni

Cimișeni is a village in Criuleni District, Moldova.

== References ==

Bid Andar, Shahr-e Babak

Bid Andar (Persian: بيدوندر, also Romanized as Bīd Andar) is a village in Madvarat Rural District, in the Central District of Shahr-e Babak County, Kerman Province, Iran. In the 2006 census the population of the village was 123 people in 28 different families.

== References ==

2023 Asian Athletics Championships – Men's 4 × 100 metres relay

The men's 4 × 100 metres relay event at the 2023 Asian Athletics Championships was held on 12 and 13 July.

== Results ==

=== Heats ===
Qualification rule: First 3 in each heat (Q) and the next 2 fastest (q) qualified for the final.

=== Final ===

== References ==

Al-Awjam

Al-Awjam (Arabic:الأوجام) (locally known as Lājām [laː.dʒaːm]) is a town in the Qatif Governorate, located in the Eastern Province of Saudi Arabia.

== Overview ==
Al-Awjam and, like most cities in the region, is home to a large Shia Muslim population. This contrasts with the majority of Saudis, who are Sunni. As a result, sectarian tensions exist, especially during the Shia holy day of Ashura: however, the conflict has reportedly eased since 2005.

== See also ==
List of governorates of Saudi Arabia
List of cities and towns in Saudi Arabia

== References ==

1978 U.S. Pro Indoor

The 1978 U.S. Pro Indoor was a men's tennis tournament played on indoor carpet courta at the Spectrum in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania in the United States. The tournament was organized by the World Championship Tennis (WCT) and was part of the 1978 Colgate-Palmolive Grand Prix circuit. It was the 11th edition of the tournament and was held from January 23 through January 29, 1978. First-seeded Jimmy Connors won the singles title and the accompanying $35,000 first-prize money.

== Finals ==

=== Singles ===

Jimmy Connors defeated Roscoe Tanner 6–2, 6–4, 6–3

It was Connors' 1st title of the year and the 75th of his career.

=== Doubles ===

Bob Hewitt / Frew McMillan defeated Vitas Gerulaitis / Sandy Mayer 6–4, 6–4

It was Hewitt's 1st title of the year and the 45th of his career. It was McMillan's 1st title of the year and the 50th of his career.

== Points and prize money ==

=== Point distribution ===

=== Prize money ===

== References ==

== External links ==
International Tennis Federation (ITF) tournament details

2022 Coastal Carolina Chanticleers softball team

The 2022 Coastal Carolina Chanticleers softball team represented Coastal Carolina University during the 2022 NCAA Division I softball season. The Chanticleers played their home games at St. John Stadium – Charles Wade-John Lott Field. The Chanticleers were led by thirteenth-year head coach Kelley Green and were members of the Sun Belt Conference.

== Preseason ==

=== Sun Belt Conference Coaches Poll ===
The Sun Belt Conference Coaches Poll was released on January 31, 2022. Coastal Carolina was picked to finish seventh in the conference with 37 votes.

=== Preseason All-Sun Belt team ===

Olivia Lackie (USA, Pitcher)
Leanna Johnson (TROY, Pitcher)
Kandra Lamb (LA, Pitcher)
Jessica Mullins (TXST, Pitcher)
Kamdyn Kvistad (USA, Catcher)
Sophie Piskos (LA, Catcher)
Faith Shirley (GASO, 1st Base)
Kelly Horne (TROY, 2nd Base)
Daisy Hess (GSU, Shortstop)
Sara Vanderford (TXST, 3rd Base)
Iyanla De Jesus (CCU, Designated Player)
Raina O'Neal (LA, Outfielder)
Mackenzie Brasher (USA, Outfielder)
Emily Brown (GSU, Outfielder)
Jade Sinness (TROY, Outfielder)

=== National Softball Signing Day ===

== Personnel ==

== Schedule and results ==

Schedule source:
*Rankings are based on the team's current ranking in the NFCA/USA Softball poll.

== References ==

Bob Hedlund

Robert L. Hedlund (born July 12, 1961) is an American businessman and politician serving as the mayor of Weymouth, Massachusetts. He was formerly a member of the Massachusetts Senate representing the Plymouth and Norfolk District.

== Education and career ==
Hedlund attended Wentworth Institute, Quincy College, and University of Massachusetts Boston.
Hedlund owned and operated Hedlund Motors located in Quincy, Massachusetts a truck and fire apparatus repair business from 1981 -1992.
He was the host of "Monday Night Talk" on WATD-FM 95.9 in Marshfield, Massachusetts, and served as a substitute host on various talk radio shows on WRKO-AM 680 Boston. He served as commissioner of New England Championship Wrestling from 2000-2001.
Hedlund was formerly a member of the Massachusetts Senate who represented the Plymouth and Norfolk District. His former Senate district included Cohasset, Duxbury, Hingham, Hull, Marshfield, Norwell, Scituate, and Weymouth.
On November 3, 2015, Hedlund was elected Mayor of Weymouth with 70% of the vote defeating longtime incumbent Mayor Susan M. Kay. Hedlund assumed office on January 4, 2016.
In November 2019 Hedlund was re-elected as Weymouth Mayor defeating Edward Cowen by a margin of 82% - 18%.
In November 2023 Hedlund was re-elected as Weymouth Mayor defeating Edward Cowen by a margin of 74% - 24%.

== Personal life ==
Hedlund formerly owned and operated the Four Square Restaurant & Bar in Braintree, Massachusetts.

== References ==

== External links ==
Official biography
General Court profile
Appearances on C-SPAN

Azizlu, Ardabil

Azizlu (Persian: عزيزلو) is a village in Ojarud-e Gharbi Rural District of the Central District in Germi County, Ardabil province, Iran.

== Demographics ==

=== Population ===
At the time of the 2006 National Census, the village's population was nine in four households. The following census in 2011 counted a population below the reporting threshold. The 2016 census again measured the population of the village as below the reporting threshold.

== See also ==
Iran portal

== Notes ==

== References ==

315th

315th may refer to:

315th (Kirkcudbright) Field Battery, Royal Artillery (RA) unit of Britain's part-time Territorial Army (TA) during World War II
315th (North Midland) Medium Regiment, Royal Artillery, part-time unit of Britain's Royal Artillery (RA), raised before the outbreak of World War II
315th Air Division, inactive United States Air Force formation
315th Airlift Wing, wing of the United States Air Force Reserve
315th Bombardment Squadron, United States Space Force's space domain awareness delta, headquartered at Peterson Space Force Base, Colorado
315th Cavalry Regiment (United States), cavalry unit of the United States Army during World War I and the interwar period
315th Cyberspace Operations Squadron, cyberspace warfare unit located at Fort George G. Meade, Maryland
315th Engineer Battalion, multi-role engineer battalion of the United States Army based in Camp Pendleton, California
315th Fighter Squadron, active squadron of the United States Air Force
315th Operations Group, United States Air Force Reserve unit assigned to the 315th Airlift Wing
315th Polish "Deblinski" Fighter Squadron, one of several Polish squadrons in the Royal Air Force (RAF) during the Second World War
315th Rifle Division (Soviet Union), standard Red Army rifle division formed in 1942 in the Siberian Military District
315th Troop Carrier Squadron, inactive United States Air Force unit
315th Weapons Squadron, United States Air Force unit, assigned to the USAF Weapons School at Nellis Air Force Base, Nevada

== See also ==
315 (number)
315, the year 315 (CCCXV) of the Julian calendar
315 BC
All pages with titles beginning with 315th
All pages with titles containing 315th

Artmotion

Artmotion Ltd. is a Swiss-based data housing provider. It operates two data centers near the Swiss Alps that are designed for security-seeking businesses, motivated by the country's political neutrality and ironclad privacy laws.

== History ==
Artmotion was founded in 2000 by Mateo Meier, who is also the current CEO of the company. In 2003, Artmotion acquired Cyberhost, a Swiss Cloud hosting services provider. Since 2011, the Swiss data center provider Everyware Ltd. holds 25% of Artmotion's shares. Artmotion increased its capital in 2015.
Artmotion acquired 58% of shares in Citadelo and became a shareholder and board member in 2020. However Artmotion and Citadelo continued to operate as separate companies. Artmotion also owns a stake in Citadelo Switzerland.

== NSA PRISM scandal ==
After the 2013 PRISM leak, several cloud computing companies faced criticism for their lack of security, especially those based in US. Artmotion, among other Swiss-based cloud computing providers gained the most out of this scandal. Mostly due to the country's stringent data privacy laws, their customer base increased and the company had their revenue increased 45 percent in a month following the scandal.
According to the CEO Mateo Meier, except in a few European countries like Luxembourg and Switzerland, personal privacy is difficult to service in this modern world. Switzerland is not a member of European Union, hence it is exempt from pan-European agreements to share data with member states, as well as the United States.

== References ==

Counts of Winterthur

The Counts of Winterthur were a Swabian noble family, a branch of the Udalrichinger dynasty, who ruled parts of Thurgau in the 10th and 11th centuries. They are named for the Alemannic settlement at Vitudurum, but their rule predates the foundation of the city of Winterthur in 1180.

== History ==
The first count of Winterthur was Liutfried II (fl.970s), third son of Udalrich VI of Bregenz (d. 955). This Liutfried likely built the first Kyburg castle in the later 10th century. He was succeeded by his son Adalbert I (d. 8 September 1030).
Liutfried's younger son Werner of Kyburg (d. 17 August 1030, not to be confused with his grandson Werner I of Winterthur) was a friend of Ernest II, Duke of Swabia, who after his failed against emperor Conrad II sought refuge in Kyburg castle. Conrad besieged and destroyed the castle and both Ernest and Werner managed to flee to Falkenstein castle in Schramberg, where they were killed by troops of Warmann, bishop of Constance.
Adalbert's son Werner I (c. 990–1040) (de) was appointed landgrave in Hessengau (Maden) by Conrad II in 1027 before succeeding his father as count in 1030. Werner was bearer of the Reichsfahne (imperial flag) under Conrad II and Henry III and he died in the battle at Brůdek against Bretislav I.
The last count of Winterthur was Adalbert II (c. 1025–1053), the second son of Werner I. Adalbert died without a male heir, and the title passed to Hartmann I, count of Dillingen, who married Adalbert's daughter Adelheid in 1065.

== References ==

1999 ABC Championship

The 1999 Asian Basketball Confederation Championship for Men was the qualifying tournament for the Basketball Tournament at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, Australia.
It was played in Fukuoka, Japan.

== Qualification ==

According to the ABC rules, each zone had two places, and the hosts (Japan) and the best 5 teams of the previous Asian Championship were automatically qualified.

== Draw ==
The draw was held on June 15 at New Otani Hotel in Tokyo.

* North Korea and Kazakhstan pulled out of the tournament, leaving Group C with only two teams. ABC added Malaysia into the bracket.

== Preliminary round ==

=== Group A ===

=== Group B ===

=== Group C ===

=== Group D ===

== Quarterfinal round ==

=== Group I ===

=== Group II ===

=== Group III ===

=== Group IV ===

== Classification 5th–14th ==

=== 13th place ===

=== 11th place ===

=== 9th place ===

=== 7th place ===

=== 5th place ===

== Final round ==

=== Semifinals ===

=== 3rd place ===

=== Final ===

== Final standings ==

== Awards ==

Most Valuable Player: Hu Weidong
Best 3-Pointer: Makoto Hasegawa
Sportsmanship Award: Ali Al-Maghrabi

== References ==

== External links ==
Results
archive.fiba.com

Alexey Vaulin

Alexey Vaulin (born 15 January 1974, Moscow, USSR) is a Russian painter and graphic artist. He is a member of the Moscow Union of Artists and of the Union of Artists of Russia.

== Biography ==

=== Studies ===
Vaulin was born in Moscow. He began drawing before he started school. He attended a children's art studio, and later the Timiryazev Children's Art School. In 1994 he graduated from the Moscow 1905 Memorial Arts School.
In 2000 he graduated from the easel painting department of the Russian State Specialized Academy of Arts. His teachers were Oleg Nikolaevich Loshakov, Aleksandr Vladimirovich Ishin, and Ivan Alekseevich Polienko. After university, he spent two years a non-matriculating student at the department of art history in Moscow State University. At the same time he taught painting in an art school.

=== Work ===
His first solo exhibition was held in 2000 in the Moscow Central House of Artists. Then followed a series of solo exhibitions in the Moscow branch of the Union of Artists, in the "Kino" gallery, in ZAO "Citibank", "Veresov Gallery", and other Moscow galleries.

In 2003 he took part in two exhibitions in the Tretyakov Gallery – "Moscow abstract. Second half of the 20th Century" and "Abstract in fashion", after which the Tretyakov Gallery acquired his work "Black Diamond". In 2013 a joint exhibition between Vaulin and the Japanese artist Naomi Maki, "The unseen world: A view from Moscow and Tokyo", was held in "Veresov Gallery". In 2014 he had a joint exhibition with the Chinese artist Lian Hua "Presentation to the Dragon". In 2015 Alexey Vaulin's work ‘Blue boat, lit by the sun’ was included the charity auction "Dreams 2015", which was organised by the auction house Christie's.
In 2016 at the invitation of the Panama Museum of Modern Art (MoMa), a solo exhibition was held in Panama City (Central America).
In 2000 he became a member of the Moscow Union of Artists. Since 2001 he has been a member of the Union of Artists of Russia.
He is a winner of the International Non-Governmental Prize "Peacemaker in the Field of Art".
Works by Alexey Vaulin are found in the collections of the Moscow Museum of Modern Art, in the State Tretyakov Gallery, in The Gorbachev Foundation (Moscow), in the Museum of Modern Fine Arts on Dmitrovskaya, in the Garden Ring Museum, in the Panama Museum of Modern Art (MoMa), in Luciano Benetton collection (Fondazione Imago Mundi, Italy), in Konstantin Elyutin's collection, and in private collections in Russia, Netherlands, Spain and the US.

== Selected works ==

== External links ==

Official site of Alexey Vaulin
Alexey Vaulin on the official site of the Moscow Union of Artists
Alexey Vaulin on the official site of the Moscow branch of the Union of Artists of Russia

Biography of Alexey Vaulin on the site "ARTREESTR"
Biography of Alexey Vaulin on the "Kino" gallery site
Biography of Alexey Vaulin on the site Luciano Benetton Collection (Fondazione Imago Mundi)
Pavel Fedorov "The sensuous beauty of this earthly life". "Moscow Union of Artists News" newspaper. № 3, 2015
On Alexey Vaulin’s exhibition "COLOURISSIMO: The memory of colour in Alexey Vaulin’s work" on the Garden Ring Museum site
Alexey Vaulin’s work "Other Shores", in the State Catalogue of the Museum Fund of the Russian Federation Archived 22 June 2019 at the Wayback Machine
Biography of Alexey Vaulin in the catalogue of the State Tretyakov Gallery collection. Painting of the second half of the 20th Century. Volume 7, book 1. А – М, 2013. — p. 472. ISBN 978-5-89580-037-9

== Sources ==
Person of the week: Alexey Vaulin
Article by Elena Komarenko "Alexey Vaulin’s space odyssey"
Article by Ilona Lebedeva "Life in Colour" Archived 31 October 2020 at the Wayback Machine
Alexey Vaulin on the Museum of Modern Fine Arts on DMITROVSKAYA site
Photo report from the opening of the exhibition "The pilgrim’s path" on the Museum of Modern Fine Arts on DMITROVSKAYA site
Article by Ilona Lebedeva on Alexey Vaulin’s exhibition "Ten Day Event. 10 years in 10 days" on the "Kino" gallery site

== References ==

Anania explicalis

Anania explicalis is a moth in the family Crambidae. It was described by Harrison Gray Dyar Jr. in 1914. It is found in Panama.

== References ==

Arena Naucalpan 27th Anniversary Show

The Arena Naucalpan 27th Anniversary Show was a major annual professional wrestling event produced and scripted by the Mexican professional wrestling promotion International Wrestling Revolution Group (IWRG), which took place on December 19, 2004 in Arena Naucalpan, Naucalpan, State of Mexico, Mexico. As the name implies the show celebrated the 27th Anniversary of the construction of Arena Naucalpan, IWRG's main venue in 1977. The show is IWRG's longest-running show, predating IWRG being founded in 1996 and is the fourth oldest, still held, annual show in professional wrestling.
In the main event Japanese wrestler MAZADA faced off against the Mexican Dr. Cerebro in a Lucha de Apuestas, or "bet match", where both wrestlers put their hair on the line in the match. The match saw MAZADA defeat Dr. Cerebro, two falls to one. The show included four additional matches and featured a mixture of IWRG and Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL) wrestlers.

== Production ==

=== Background ===
The location at Calle Jardín 19, Naucalpan Centro, 53000 Naucalpan de Juárez, México, Mexico was originally an indoor roller rink for the locals in the late part of the 1950s known as "Cafe Algusto". By the early-1960s, the building was sold and turned into "Arena KO Al Gusto" and became a local lucha libre or professional wrestling arena, with a ring permanently set up in the center of the building. Promoter Adolfo Moreno began holding shows on a regular basis from the late 1960s, working with various Mexican promotions such as Empresa Mexicana de Lucha Libre (EMLL) to bring lucha libre to Naucalpan. By the mid-1970s the existing building was so run down that it was no longer suitable for hosting any events. Moreno bought the old build and had it demolished, building Arena Naucalpan on the same location, becoming the permanent home of Promociones Moreno. Arena Naucalpan opened its doors for the first lucha libre show on December 17, 1977. From that point on the arena hosted regular weekly shows for Promociones Moreno and also hosted EMLL and later Universal Wrestling Association (UWA) on a regular basis. In the 1990s the UWA folded and Promociones Moreno worked primarily with EMLL, now rebranded as Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL).
In late 1995 Adolfo Moreno decided to create his own promotion, creating a regular roster instead of relying totally on wrestlers from other promotions, creating the International Wrestling Revolution Group (IWRG; sometimes referred to as Grupo Internacional Revolución in Spanish) on January 1, 1996. From that point on Arena Naucalpan became the main venue for IWRG, hosting the majority of their weekly shows and all of their major shows as well. While IWRG was a fresh start for the Moreno promotion they kept the annual Arena Naucalpan Anniversary Show tradition alive, making it the only IWRG show series that actually preceded their foundation. The Arena Naucalpan Anniversary Show is the fourth oldest still ongoing annual show in professional wrestling, the only annual shows that older are the Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre Anniversary Shows (started in 1934), the Arena Coliseo Anniversary Show (first held in 1943), and the Aniversario de Arena México (first held in 1957).=

=== Storylines ===
The event featured five professional wrestling matches with different wrestlers involved in pre-existing scripted feuds, plots and storylines. Wrestlers were portrayed as either heels (referred to as rudos in Mexico, those that portray the "bad guys") or faces (técnicos in Mexico, the "good guy" characters) as they followed a series of tension-building events, which culminated in a wrestling match or series of matches.
Alejandro Jiménez Cruz began his wrestling career as the enmascarado or masked character Dr. Cerebro (Dr. Brains), wearing a mask that was decorated to look like his brain was exposed. On July 26, 1998 he won his first ever Lucha de Apuestas, or "bet match", as he defeated Oro Jr., forcing him to unmask as a result. On March 1, 2001 he himself lost his mask as he lost to El Hijo del Santo and was forced to unmask and state his real name. Subsequently, he won two Luchas de Apuestas matches against Black Terry and American Gigolo, in both cases forcing them to have their hair shaved off afterwards. Japanese wrestler MAZADA came to Japan in 2000 as part of a group of Toryumon working and training with IWRG. Since then Japanese wrestlers from Toryumon would make annual trips to Mexico. Between 2000 and 2003 MAZADA lost several Lucha de Apuestas matches, each time leaving the arena without any hair.

== Event ==
In the second match of the night the most recent IWRG "identical trio" Los Comandos (Comando Alfa, Comando Gama and Comando Mega) faced off against one of IWRG's longest established trios in Los Oficiales ("The Officials"; Cyborg, Guardia and Oficial). Los Comandos took the victory in the match, then made challenges to Los Megas once more, but they were not answered on the night.
In the main event of the Arena Naucalpan 27th Anniversary Show Dr. Cerebro and MAZADA split the first two falls between then rather quickly, going to the third, much longer fall as both wrestlers tried to defend their hair. In the end, Mazada pinned Dr. Cerebro, winning his first Lucha de Apuestas match, while forcing Dr. Cerebro to have his hair shaved off for the first time in the eight years since becoming a luchador.

== Results ==

== References ==

== External links ==
IWRG official website

1917 Salford North by-election

The 1917 Salford North by-election was held on 2 November 1917. The by-election was held due to the death of the incumbent Liberal MP, Sir William Byles. It was won by the Independent Labour Party candidate Ben Tillett.

== References ==

1881 Minnesota lieutenant gubernatorial election

The 1881 Minnesota lieutenant gubernatorial election was held on November 8, 1881, in order to elect the lieutenant governor of Minnesota. It was a rematch between Republican nominee Charles A. Gilman, now the incumbent, who defeated Democratic nominee Edward P. Barnum, Greenback Labor nominee Alexander P. Lane and Prohibition nominee George B. Kingsley.

== General election ==
On election day, November 8, 1881, Republican nominee Charles A. Gilman won re-election by a margin of 30,687 votes over Barnum, thereby retaining Republican control over the office of lieutenant governor. Gilman was sworn in for his second term on January 10, 1882.

=== Candidates ===
Alexander P. Lane, Farmer (Greenback)
Charles A. Gilman, Incumbent, former Speaker of the Minnesota House of Representatives (Republican)
Edward P. Barnum, Stearns County Commissioner (Democratic)
George B. Kingsley, Former member of the Minnesota House of Representatives (Prohibition)

=== Results ===

== References ==

Astronomy (magazine)

Astronomy is a monthly American magazine about astronomy. Targeting amateur astronomers, it contains columns on sky viewing, reader-submitted astrophotographs, and articles on astronomy and astrophysics for general readers.

== History ==
Astronomy is a magazine about the science and hobby of astronomy. Based near Milwaukee in Brookfield, Wisconsin, it was produced by Kalmbach Publishing. Astronomy’s readers include those interested in astronomy and those who want to know about sky events, observing techniques, astrophotography, and amateur astronomy in general.
Astronomy was founded in 1973 by Stephen A. Walther, a graduate of the University of Wisconsin–Stevens Point and amateur astronomer. The first issue, August 1973, consisted of 48 pages with five feature articles and information about what to see in the sky that month. Issues contained astrophotos and illustrations created by astronomical artists. Walther had worked part time as a planetarium lecturer at the University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee and developed an interest in photographing constellations at an early age. Although even in childhood he was interested to obsession in astronomy, he did so poorly in mathematics that his mother despaired that he would ever be able to earn a living. However he graduated in Journalism from the University of Wisconsin-Stevens Point, and as a senior class project he created a business plan for a magazine for amateur astronomers. With the help of his brother David, he was able to bring the magazine to fruition. He died in 1977.
AstroMedia Corp., the company Walther had founded to publish Astronomy in Milwaukee, brought in Richard Berry as editor. Berry also created the offshoot Odyssey, aimed at young readers, and the specialized Telescope Making. In 1985, Milwaukee hobby publisher Kalmbach bought Astronomy.
In 1992, Richard Berry left the magazine and Robert Burnham took over as chief editor. Kalmbach discontinued Deep Sky and Telescope Making magazines and sold Odyssey. In 1996 Bonnie Gordon, now a professor at Central Arizona College, assumed the editorship. David J. Eicher, the creator of "Deep Sky," became chief editor in 2002.
The Astronomy staff also produces other publications. These have included Explore the Universe; Beginner’s Guide to Astronomy; Origin and Fate of the Universe; Mars: Explore the Red Planet's Past, Present, and Future; Atlas of the Stars; Cosmos; and 50 Greatest Mysteries of the Universe. There also was, for a time in the mid-2000s, a Brazilian edition – published by Duetto Editora – called Astronomy Brasil. However, due mainly to low circulation numbers, Duetto ceased its publication in September 2007.
The magazine along with Kalmbach Media's railroad interest magazines, was sold to Firecrown Media in 2024.

== Articles and columns ==
Astronomy publishes articles about the hobby and science of astronomy. Generally, the front half of the magazine reports on professional science, while the back half of the magazine presents items of interest to hobbyists. Science articles cover such topics as cosmology, space exploration, exobiology, research conducted by professional-class observatories, and individual professional astronomers. Each issue of Astronomy contains a foldout star map showing the evening sky for the current month and the positions of planets, and some comets.
The magazine has had a number of regular columnists for many years. They have included science writer Bob Berman, who wrote a column called “Bob Berman’s Strange Universe” between January 1992 and February 2024. Stephen James O'Meara wrote “Stephen James O’Meara’s Secret Sky”, which covered observing tips and stories relating to deep-sky objects, planets, and comets from March 2007 until May 2025. Glenn Chaple wrote "Glenn Chaple’s Observing Basics", a beginner's column between January 2003 and December 2022. Phil Harrington wrote "Phil Harrington’s Binocular Universe", about observing with binoculars from June 2005 to May 2009 and from July 2016 to February 2024. As of February 2026 all four authors are listed as contributing editors. The "Observing Basics" column returned in August 2023 under the authorship of Molly Wakeling. "Telescope Insider" interviews people who are a part of the telescope-manufacturing industry.
In each issue of Astronomy magazine, readers will find star and planet charts, telescope observing tips and techniques, and advice on taking photography of the night sky.
The magazine also publishes reader-submitted photos in a gallery, lists astronomy-related events, letters from readers, news, and announcements of new products.
Astronomy may include special sections bound into the magazine, such as booklets or posters. Recent examples have included a Messier Catalog booklet, poster showing comet C/2006 P1 (McNaught) and historical comets, a Skyguide listing upcoming sky events, a Telescope Buyer's Guide; a poster titled "Atlas of Extrasolar Planets"; and a poster showing the life cycles of stars.

== Popularity ==
Astronomy is the largest circulation astronomy magazine, with monthly circulation of 84,490. The majority of its readers are in the United States, but it is also circulated in Canada and internationally.
Its major competitor is Sky & Telescope magazine with a total circulation of 62,234 (2020).

== See also ==
Amateur astronomy
Amateur telescope making

== References ==

== External links ==
Official website

1907 Oregon Agricultural Aggies football team

The 1907 Oregon Agricultural Aggies football team represented Oregon Agricultural College (now known as Oregon State University) as an independent during the 1907 college football season.
In their second season under head coach Fred Norcross, the Aggies compiled a perfect 6–0 record, did not allow any of their opponents to score, and outscored their opponents by a combined total of 137 to 0. The Aggies' victories included games against Oregon (4–0), the Pacific Boxers (49–0), and Willamette (42–0).
Oregon Agricultural's final game of the season, at St. Vincent's in Los Angeles, was a Thanksgiving Day matchup of the "champions" of the Northwest and the "champions" of California, with the winner taking home the "championship" of the entire West Coast. After beating St. Vincent's, the Aggies proclaimed themselves "Champions of the Pacific Coast".
The 1907 season remains the only perfect year in Oregon State history — with the team not allowing a single point scored against them. It remains, with the 1897 team, one of the two best-regarded OAC football squads of the early era.

== Background ==
Oregon Agricultural College (OAC), today's Oregon State University, celebrated its 20th anniversary as a school owned and operated by the state of Oregon in 1907–08. From its pre-history as a tiny religious school, Corvallis College, the school had grown dramatically over the ensuing two decades, with a total student body now exceeding 800 young men and women. The available pool of potential members of the school football team had expanded accordingly as coach Fred Norcross, quarterback and captain of the 1905 Michigan Wolverines team, entered his second season coaching the orange and black.
Norcross, hired as a coach just for football season, left his home in Michigan the evening of Saturday, September 14, and was slated to arrive in Corvallis about September 20.
A team was rapidly assembled for a planned October 12 debut against the Columbia Athletic Club of The Dalles at OAC Field in Corvallis. The main core of the 1906 team would be returning, including fullback and captain Frank Pendergrass, "Smiley" Emily, "Rat" Rineheart, Carl Wolfe, Walter Gagnon, James Dobbin, as well as Sam Bennett, a star tackle from the 1905 team, who was returning to school for the 1907-08 year.
A season finale was planned for Thanksgiving Day in Los Angeles against St. Vincent's College (today's Loyola Maymount University), which was touted as possibly "the only exhibition of the American game" to be played in California during the year, as both Stanford University and the University of California had substituted rugby for American football for the 1907-08 year.

== Schedule ==

== Game summaries ==

=== October 12: OAC Alumni [intrasquad] ===
Although a game with the Columbia Athletic Club of The Dalles, Oregon, had been originally scheduled, unknown circumstances led to its cancellation and replacement with an exhibition game against OAC stars of yesteryear. Making an appearance were Rod Nash, Zophar Tharp, Darby, Swan, Bennett, and others. As less than a full team of former players were present, holes in the lineup were filled by members of the current team, including Rinehart, Emily, Looney, Eventon, Smith, and Dinges — making this essentially an intrasquad contest.
The co-mingled team of veterans and current roster players racked up two quick 5-point touchdowns and one successful goal from touchdown within the first four minutes, with Nash doing honors both times, taking an 11–0 lead that would hold up for the win. In the second half the varsity managed a touchdown of their own after a series of "straight football" running plays, with Carl Wolff crossing the goal line.

=== October 19: Astoria Athletic Club ===
Saturday, October 19 was the season opener for Fred Norcross' Oregon Agricultural College team as they welcomed the Astoria Athletic Club to Corvallis. The Orangemen did most of their damage in the first half, with Carl Wolff opening the scoring with a 30-yard field goal from placement after just four minutes of play. The 4–0 Aggie lead was rapidly expanded with touchdowns by Clarence Jamieson at the 10-minute mark, Roy Cooper at 18-minutes, and Carl Wolff at 23-minutes.
In the second half it took right halfback "Rat" Rinehart just 45 seconds to score the fourth and final touchdown for the Agrics, running the score to 26–0. The rest of the game was a punting duel between fullbacks Hoover of Astoria and Wolff of OAC, with the home team getting slightly the better of the battle.

=== October 26: Whitworth College ===

=== November 2: Pacific University ===

The field was "heavy" and running hampered, but the Aggies handily dispatched visiting Pacific University of Forest Grove, Oregon, by a score of 49–0. Receiving the opening kickoff and taking it halfway down the field, the Orangemen took only five minutes to score their first touchdown, for a 5–0 lead. In their next possession, Samuel Bennett broke free for a 40-yard run for OAC, setting up a 30-yard field goal by Carl Wolff to stretch the lead to 9–0. The home team scored three more touchdowns in the first half against an out-manned Pacific team, taking a 26–0 lead to halftime.
The second half saw more of the same, with OAC spreading out its touchdowns to Finn, Bennett, Looney, and Cooper. Pacific made only one first-down on the day and never threatened to end the shutout, with the ball driven down to their 1-yard line again as time expired.

=== November 9: at University of Oregon ===
Corvallis was in a fever pitch for the 12th annual battle with the rivals from down the road, the University of Oregon Webfoots. A special excursion train of 18 cars was reserved to bring football fans to Kincaid Field to root on the Aggies. "There has never been more whole-souled enthusiasm manifested by the supporters of the Orange than was shown at the train this morning," one participant declared. More than 1,000 fans paid $1 each [$33.50 in 2025 dollars] for a ticket to ride the rails to Eugene — an assemblage which included "almost every student attending the college, the faculty, and many townspeople."
The atmosphere in Eugene was also electric, with a "practice of rooters," featuring a massive bonfire illuminated by a "multitude of Roman candles" and a "serpentine dance" of the Webfoot faithful, held on the eve of the big game. Every store in the city, save four, pledged to close business from 3 to 5 p.m. so that as many people as possible could attend the game's 3:15 kickoff.
The lemon yellow team went into the game with a sacred record: never had the varsity fallen to defeat on Kincaid Field. This record would end on this day. The first half was an even battle, with the teams marching one way up the field and back again, never scoring. Oregon used that new innovation, the forward pass, three times with effect, but the tactic proved the team's undoing on other occasions, leading to costly turnovers.
In the second half, it looked like OAC was going to score on a forward pass play to Coleman, who galloped 35 yards, only to be tackled by the turf monster as he tripped and fell. No points resulted from the drive. The game turned at the 14 minute mark, when OAC fullback Carl Wolff place-kicked a 30-yard goal down the middle of the posts for the 4 points that would both start and finish scoring for the day.

== Roster ==

Charles E. Barber
Samuel Louis Bennett
Ralph Cady
Roy Cooper
James Davis Dobbin
William James Dunlap
Joel "Smiley" Emily
Clarence Jamieson
John Waldo Finn
Walter Clayton Gagnon
Earle Paul Harding
Elton Irwin Kelly
Harold B. Looney
Frank R. Pendergrass (captain)
Harvey Earl "Rat" Rinehart
Carl Wolff (captain-elect 1908)
Benjamin H. Greenshaw (Manager)
Heater (Trainer)

== References ==

2009–10 Barangay Ginebra Kings season

The 2009–10 Barangay Ginebra Kings season was the 31st season of the franchise in the Philippine Basketball Association (PBA).

== Key dates ==
August 2: The 2009 PBA Draft took place in Fort Bonifacio, Taguig.

== Draft picks ==

== Roster ==

== Philippine Cup ==

=== Eliminations ===

==== Standings ====

==== Game log ====

===== Eliminations =====

===== Playoffs =====

== Fiesta Conference ==

=== Eliminations ===

==== Standings ====

==== Game log ====

== Transactions ==

=== Pre-season ===

== Philippine Cup ==

=== Free agents ===

==== Additions ====

=== Mid-season break ===

==== Trades ====

=== Free agents ===

=== Fiesta Conference ===

==== Trades ====

==== Imports recruited ====

== References ==

1611 in Denmark

Events from the year 1611 in Denmark.

== Incumbents ==
Monarch – Christian IV
Steward of the Realm –

== Events ==

April – The Kalmar War begins as Denmark-Norway declares war upon Sweden.
3 May – Danish forces lay siege to Kalmar. The Siege of Kalmar ends on August 3.
26 June – The Swedish Storming of Kristianopel.
3 July – Battle of Risbye.
Undated

A Statue of Leda and the Swan is mounted on a tall column an installed on an artificial islet in the Port of Copenhagen.

== Births ==

2 February – Ulrik of Denmark, Prince of Denmark (died 1633 in Poland)
3 February – Christian Ulrik Gyldenløve, military officer (died 1640)
Undated

12 November – Joachim Gersdorff, statesman (died 1661)

== Publications ==
Caspar Bartholin the Elder, Anatomicae Institutiones Corporis Humani (1611)

== References ==

== External links ==

10 Days Late

"10 Days Late" is a song by the American alternative rock band Third Eye Blind. It was released on April 11, 2000, as the third single from the band's second studio album, Blue (1999). The song peaked at number 21 on the US Billboard Modern Rock Tracks chart. A music video was shot for the single.

== Background ==
"10 Days Late" was written by band members Stephan Jenkins and Arion Salazar. The song is about a friend of Jenkins who had impregnated his girlfriend at a young age; Jenkins was the baby's godfather.
According to Jenkins: "This [song] is more than just a modern rock hit about menstruation. It's sort of acknowledging how life is going to come along, and your status quo will be interrupted. It's gonna happen."

== Release ==
"10 Days Late" was released as the third single from Third Eye Blind's 1999 album, Blue. It was also included on the band's 2006 compilation album, A Collection. "10 Days Late" spent 10 weeks on the US Billboard Modern Rock Tracks chart, peaking at number 21 on June 17, 2000.

== Music video ==
The song's music video was directed by Francis Lawrence and was shot in March 2000. It features the band performing the song in a living room.

== Charts ==

== Release history ==

== References ==

== External links ==
Official music video for "10 Days Late" on YouTube

Ashiq Peri

Ashiq Peri (Azerbaijani: Aşıq Pəri, عاشیق پری; c. 1811 – c. 1848) was a 19th-century ashiq (folk poet) regarded as the first prominent female Azerbaijani ashiq. Her poetry primarily consisted of verbal poetic duels, where she used various folk forms in Azerbaijani. Born in 1811 in the village of Maralyan in the Karabakh Khanate (now in the Jabrayil District of Azerbaijan), she began writing poetry as a child and later moved to Shusha, the capital of the Karabakh Khanate. She often participated in local poetry contests, competing against and defeating her male counterparts, and eventually becoming the first renowned female ashiq in the region. She died young under unknown circumstances.
The main themes in Peri's work are love, the objection to injustices, and the expression of suffering and longing. She employs simple and direct language in her poetry. Being the only female in her artistic collective, she often adopted a playful, mocking tone towards her fellow collective members and conveyed an impression of command and competence. Her poetry is notable for its spirited defence of her independence, using the established structure of the ashiq verbal contest to broaden her expressive potential as a woman. She has been described as "a model of a strong, independent woman from within Azerbaijani culture" because, in her duels with male counterparts, she rebuffed their advances while maintaining her honour and modesty, always performing solo without requiring a man's guardianship.

== Biography ==
Little is known about the life of Ashiq Peri. The majority of the information available comes from the observations of the Russian orientalist historian Adolf Berge who journeyed across the Caucasus for an anthropological investigation in the early 1800s and met Peri. Her real name and precise date of birth remain unknown, but based on Berge's estimation that she was 18 years old in 1829, it is estimated that she was born in 1811. She used the pen name Peri (lit. 'Fairy') in her works. Peri was born and raised in Maralyan, a village in the Karabakh Khanate, now located in Azerbaijan's Jabrayil District. She received her education there and began writing poetry as a child. Some sources suggest that she was apprenticed to Mahammad Bey Ashiq, a famous ashiq (folk poet) of her time.
She began participating in local poetry contests, often competing against and defeating her male counterparts. Eventually, she became the first renowned female ashiq in the region. In 1830, she moved to Shusha, the capital of the Karabakh Khanate, where her reputation continued to grow. She remained unmarried and expressed in her poetry that her life "came to an end with the death of her lover". She died young under unknown circumstances. According to Anna C. Oldfield, a professor of world literature, the majority of references indicate that Peri died in 1848, but do not provide any details on the cause or circumstances of her death. However, some references list her year of death as 1835.

== Poetry ==
Peri is known to have authored between 40 and 50 poems, but the majority of them have been lost. Her poetry primarily consisted of verbal poetic duels, which were transcribed by spectators, preserving an account of the live performances. These duels took place within an artistic collective known as a mejlis. Peri belonged to the Vagif mejlis, named after Molla Panah Vagif, a poet and statesman from the Karabakh Khanate who played a key role in establishing Azerbaijani ashiq poetry as a recognised literary genre. The Vagif mejlis, like Vagif himself, was known for composing and reciting verse in Azerbaijani, in contrast to most Azerbaijani poetry from the 19th century, which was associated with the city elites and written in Persian. Oldfield suggests that this was indicative of a "rising Azerbaijani national consciousness", with Peri being "among those who championed her native language and poetic traditions". Peri used folk forms such as gəraylı (stanzas with four lines of eight syllables each) and qoşma (stanzas with four lines of eleven syllables each) in her poetry, which predominantly explores the theme of love, with its pains and challenges. She frequently alludes to romantic love in her verses, often embracing her femininity, while also reflecting a deep Shia Muslim faith. Another common theme in her poetry is objection to injustice, as well as the expression of suffering and longing. Though she uses simple and direct language, her poems demonstrate a thorough understanding of both folk and high-culture poetic motifs.
Peri was the only female member of her mejlis. Her poetry is characterised by its wit and playfulness, often adopting a mocking tone towards her fellow mejlis members and conveying an impression of command and competence. Oldfield likens her to an "older sister" to other mejlis members, though she notes that Peri "would have been younger than all of them". Other ashiqs dedicated many poems to her, highlighting the prominent role she must have occupied in the mejlis. Her poetry is notable for its spirited defence of her independence, using the established structure of the ashiq verbal contest to broaden her expressive potential as a woman. In her poetic exchanges with male members of the mejlis, she upholds her honour, rebuffs their advances, and maintains her modesty.

== Legacy ==
Tuğba Bayraktarlar, a modern scholar of Turkish literature, describes Peri as one of the most significant representatives of ashiq poetry in the 19th century. Her poetry helped spread women's literature not only in her home region of Karabakh, but throughout modern-day Azerbaijan. Peri is also regarded as the first prominent female Azerbaijani ashiq, and her legacy continues to this day. In 1984, the first association of female ashiqs and poets was established in the Azerbaijan Soviet Socialist Republic and it was named Aşıq Pəri Məclisi (lit. 'mejlis of Ashiq Peri') in her honour. The association brings together over 100 female poets. Oldfield describes Peri as "a model of a strong, independent woman from within Azerbaijani culture" because she upheld her honour and modesty in her public duels with male ashiqs, asserting her dominance over the men she dueled with and performing solo without the need for a man's guardianship.

== References ==

=== Citations ===

=== Sources ===

== External links ==
Azerbaijani Wikisource has original text related to this article: Aşıq Pəri

Anthem of the Armenian Soviet Socialist Republic

The State Anthem of the Armenian Soviet Socialist Republic was the national anthem of Armenia when it was a republic of the Soviet Union and known as the Armenian Soviet Socialist Republic. It was used between 1944 and 1991. Its music was composed by Armenian composer Aram Khachaturian, and the lyrics were written by Sarmen. Along with the Anthem of the Estonian SSR, it is one of the only two SSR anthems without an intro.
Upon independence from the Soviet Union in 1991, the newly independent Armenia adopted its previous anthem "Mer Hayrenik" in its place, though there has been occasional debate about restoring the music of the anthem of the Armenian SSR with different lyrics as the national anthem.

== Lyrics ==

=== Post-Stalinist version ===

=== Original version ===

== Restoration attempts ==
The anthem has always maintained simultaneous public support and displeasure in Armenia. There have been attempts to restore the anthem's melody with new lyrics as the new national anthem of Armenia, similar to the case with the national anthem of Russia in 2000 during the early years of the presidency of Vladimir Putin. Some Armenian composers and artists have long disliked the uncomplicated theme of the current national anthem "Mer Hayreniq", and have expressed a desire for a more solemn tune, while others have stated that singing "Mer Hayrenik" itself has carried too much sorrow throughout the 20th and 21st centuries and that a more joyous alternative should be chosen. In 2019, National Assembly vice-speaker Alen Simonyan claimed that most Armenians do not like the current anthem. Eurasianet reported in 2019 that the current anthem remains unpopular with many Armenians, mainly for aesthetic reasons.
In 2005, the issue of changing the national anthem was discussed in government, which culminated in a constitutional referendum on adopting new state symbols within one year (by 6 December 2006). In early 2006, a competition for a new anthem was held by Minister of Culture Hasmik Poghosyan. The competition received 85 entries, and in August the commission shortlisted five, which did not include "Mer Hayrenik" but included a proposal with the music of the anthem of the Armenian SSR and lyrics by Armen Soghomonyan. This proposal won the competition, but the commission members rejected the submitted lyrics, urging local authors to submit better ones. While several Armenian music and arts figures were indifferent to or supportive of the change to the music, the results of the competition were eventually scrapped in October, after strong opposition from the Armenian Revolutionary Federation (or "Dashnaks"), then a member of the ruling coalition, throughout over the selection of a Soviet-era song. The government instead adopted a draft law that would keep "Mer Hayreniq" as the anthem for at least one more year. The adoption of the law was after the 6 December 2006 date set late the year prior as the constitutional deadline for reaffirming the existing state symbol.
In 2012, actor Sos Sargsyan, writer Levon Ananyan and publicist Zori Balayan sent an open letter with 2,208 signatures to the president petitioning to restore the Soviet-era coat of arms designed by painter Martiros Saryan and the anthem composed by Aram Khachaturyan. Ananyan stated, "... this is an issue that’s always important and has to always be raised, it’s the face of our country, our symbols that have to be representative and impressive." Political historian Shushan Khatlamajyan, the widow of the painter who restored Armenia's current coat of arms, opposed the restoration of the anthem, stating that people were trying to return "symbols of a period when they had a good life" and attributed Russia's Soviet-era anthem restoration to "pro-empire aspirations", stating, "... what do we want to achieve by trying to bring back fragments from our past?" while director of the Martin Saryan House-Museum Ruzan Saryan, Martin's granddaughter, supported it, stating, "... viewing the masterpieces by Saryan and Khachaturyan through the prism of ‘totalitarian past’ is medieval prejudice.”
In 2015, Chairman of the Composers' Union of Armenia Aram Satyan criticised the current Armenian anthem's sad impression and stated that the tone of the music should rise and become upbeat in the process. He stated, "In the case of other nations’ anthems we see some grandeur as it rises to the space, and ours on the contrary is directed to the earth… We can restore Aram Khachaturian’s music or use the Hayastan song composed by Gabriel Yeranyan in 2012."
In 2018, the House-Museum of Aram Khachaturian proposed for the national anthem to be changed to one based on the music of that of the Armenian SSR, composed by Khachaturian. This petition was not supported at the time in Armenia, which was dealing with the 2018 Armenian protests and revolution.
In 2019, another suggestion to adopt a national anthem based on the music of the anthem of the Armenian SSR was put forward by vice-speaker of the National Assembly Alen Simonyan. In a Facebook post, he stated that it is "a powerful anthem that meets all the requirements." His comment received support from composer Ara Gevorgyan, who replied, "It is a great hymn and we look forward to the decision to restore it." Simonyan subsequently created a Facebook poll, in which two-thirds of more than 6,500 respondents voted in favour of the change. Minister of Diaspora Babken Ter-Grigoryan responded by stating that he would survey the Armenian diaspora on the potential change. With Armenia's new parliament under Nikol Pashinyan seated just three weeks prior, many among the Armenian public responded by saying it was not a pressing issue at the time. A member of the Armenian Revolutionary Federation again expressed strong opposition to the idea.

=== Proposed text ===

== Notes ==

== References ==

== External links ==
Instrumental recording in MP3 format (Full version)
Instrumental recording in MP3 format (Short version)
Original version (1946–1956) (Vocal) (archive link)

Bartosch Gaul

Bartosch Gaul (born 5 October 1987) is a German-Polish professional football manager who is currently the manager of J1 League club Sanfrecce Hiroshima.

== Career ==

=== Youth teams of Schalke 04 ===
At the start of the 2008–09 season, Gaul became Dirk Reimöller's assistant coach in Schalke 04 U17s, a position he held until 2010. He then worked for two seasons as the head coach of the Schalke youth team, before becoming Norbert Elgert's assistant coach in the under-19 team in July 2012. In his last season in charge, the youth team led by Thilo Kehrer, who would go on to become a German international, won the German championship in the final against TSG 1899 Hoffenheim.

=== Youth teams of Mainz 05 ===
In July 2015, Gaul joined the youth department of Mainz 05 as a coach and a coordinator. At the start of the 2018–19 season, he was appointed as manager of Mainz 05 II, playing in Regionalliga Südwest. In four years, he oversaw the team in 135 games before leaving in June 2022.

=== Górnik Zabrze ===
On 23 June 2022, Gaul was announced as the new head coach of Polish Ekstraklasa club Górnik Zabrze. On 18 March 2023, one day after leading his team to a 3–2 comeback win against Wisła Płock, which promoted Górnik to the 14th spot in the league table, Gaul was replaced at his post by Górnik's previous manager Jan Urban.

=== RB Leipzig ===
On 1 February 2024, RB Leipzig announced that Gaul would be joining their academy staff as the head of performance division for teams from U15 to U19.

=== Sanfrecce Hiroshima ===
In December 2025, it was announced that Gaul would become manager of J1 League club Sanfrecce Hiroshima for the upcoming season.

== Personal life ==
Born in Bytów, Poland, Gaul has German and Polish citizenship.

== Managerial statistics ==
As of match played 11 March 2026

== References ==

== External links ==
Bartosch Gaul at Soccerway

2015 FIFA Women's World Cup Group B

Group B of the 2015 FIFA Women's World Cup consisted of Germany, Ivory Coast, Norway and Thailand. Matches were played from 7 to 15 June 2015. Thailand became the first Southeast Asian country to play at a senior World Cup (male or female) since Indonesia (played as the Dutch East Indies) in the 1938 FIFA World Cup.

== Teams ==

== Standings ==

In the round of 16:

Germany advanced to play Sweden (third-placed team of Group D).
Norway advanced to play England (runner-up of Group F).

== Matches ==

=== Norway vs Thailand ===

=== Germany vs Ivory Coast ===

=== Germany vs Norway ===

=== Ivory Coast vs Thailand ===
This was the first ever win for a Southeast Asian country (excluding Australia which geographically is not in Southeast Asia) at a senior World Cup (male or female).

=== Thailand vs Germany ===

=== Ivory Coast vs Norway ===

== See also ==
Germany at the FIFA Women's World Cup
Ivory Coast at the FIFA Women's World Cup
Norway at the FIFA Women's World Cup
Thailand at the FIFA Women's World Cup

== References ==

== External links ==
Official website

Anton Breinl

Anton Breinl (2 July 1880 – 28 June 1944) was a medical practitioner and medical researcher, who established the Australian Institute of Tropical Medicine in Townsville, Queensland, Australia.

== Early life ==
Anton Breinl was born on 2 July 1880 in Vienna. He was the son of Anton Breinl, lace manufacturer in Graslitz, Bohemia (now Kraslice in the Czech Republic) and his wife Leopoldine (née Stammhammer). He was educated in Vienna and then took his medical degree at Prague University.

== Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine ==
Breinl worked at the Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine. He was an exceptional medical scientist who had received awards for his contribution to tropical medicine, particularly for his work with Harold Wolferstan Thomas, on a cure for sleeping sickness. The treatment he helped develop, using an organic arsenical "atoxyl", later became a corner stone in the early development of chemotherapy.

== Australian Institute for Tropical Medicine ==
In 1908, responding to the concerns of the medical profession and the community, the Australian Government decided to establish an institute in North Queensland, although some concern was expressed about the distance of the research centre from southern medical schools. While generally the medical profession hoped that the inaugural doctor would be Australian, Anton Breinl was appointed and arrived in Townsville on 1 January 1910.
Breinl and his laboratory assistant Fielding, were the only members of the new Australian Institute of Tropical Medicine. They were housed in a three-room building which had been a wardsman's quarters in the grounds of Townsville Hospital. Part of the work included field work collecting native fauna for examination in the laboratory, examining data for medical practitioners and collection of data.
By 1911 Breinl was able to show the need for more staff and better premises when the Australian Government gave approval for expanded research into physiological and anthropological problems associated with white people living in the tropics. To facilitate this growth in research a new laboratory and animal house was constructed. The new Institute was opened on 28 June 1913 by Queensland Governor, Sir William MacGregor.
In 1912 the staff was increased to six with the employment of a parasitologist, bacteriologist, biochemist and entomologist. The work of the Institute expanded as the scientists investigated diseases such as malaria, dengue fever, filariasis, typhoid, hookworm, many unidentified fevers, amoebic dysentery, tropical sprue, leprosy, yaws and gangosa. During this period Breinl identified amoebic dysentery during one of his research trip to New Guinea.
The outbreak of World War 1 and the loss of hospital staff seriously affected the work of the Institute. Breinl had to assume the role of Medical Superintendent of the Townsville Hospital and Quarantine Officer while at the same time continuing his research at the Institute. During the war years he also treated servicemen sent from New Guinea and from the Middle East who were suffering from malaria. In early January 1916 Breinl resigned from the position of Quarantine Officer after becoming embroiled in a bitter public controversy over his Sudeten ancestry. While many in the community supported Breinl and valued his work, others called for his deportation or suggested that he be confined behind "barbed wire".
Despite his resignation from the Quarantine position Breinl continued his research work in the Institute. However, after the war, the Commonwealth tightened control over finances and the direction of research. Staff were not replaced and by 1920 Breinl was the only medical staff member. Research became impossible because of the lack of funds and staff for field trips. After the Institute was absorbed into the newly established Commonwealth Department of Health, Breinl was no longer able to lead the direction of research. He resigned in October 1921.

== Later life ==

Breinl married nurse Nellie Doriel Lambton on 21 April 1919 in Townsville. Following his resignation from the Institute in 1921, he spent the rest of his life in private practice in Townsville.
Breinl died of renal failure on 28 June 1944 at the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital in Sydney. His funeral was held on 28 June 1944 at Christ Church St Laurence in Sydney after which he was cremated at the Rookwood Crematorium.

== Legacy ==
The Anton Breinl Centre at James Cook University is named after him.

== References ==

=== Attribution ===
This Wikipedia article incorporates text from "The Queensland heritage register" published by the State of Queensland under CC-BY 3.0 AU licence (accessed on 7 July 2014, archived on 8 October 2014).

== External links ==

Harloe, Lori (1 January 1990), Anton Breinl and tropical health, Royal Historical Society of Queensland, retrieved 20 February 2016 — full text available online

Aclytia modesta

Aclytia modesta is a moth of the family Erebidae. It was described by Paul Köhler in 1924. It is found in Argentina.

== References ==

52nd Golden Bell Awards

The 52nd Golden Bell Awards (Mandarin:第52屆金鐘獎) was held on September 30, 2017 at the Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hall in Taipei, Taiwan. The ceremony was televised by Sanlih E-Television. Mickey Huang and Selina Jen hosted the ceremony.

== Winners and nominees ==
Below is the list of winners and nominees for the main categories.

== References ==

== External links ==
Official website of the 52nd Golden Bell Awards Archived 2017-10-05 at the Wayback Machine

Heliekou station

Heliekou Station (Chinese: 河埒口站; pinyin: Hélièkǒu zhàn) is a metro station of Line 2 and Line 4 of Wuxi Metro. It started operations on 28 December 2014.

== Station Layout ==

== Exits ==
There are 9 exits for this station.

== Gallery ==

== References ==

Ahmed Masoud (writer)

Ahmed Masoud (born 1981) is a Palestinian and British writer, theatre maker, and academic based in London. He wrote plays including The Shroud Maker (2017), Camouflage (2020), Passports, Jinn, Mo Salah and Other Complicated Things (2023) and Application 39 (2025) and the novels Vanished: The Mysterious Disappearance of Mustafa Ouda (2015) and Come What May (2022). He founded the Al Zaytouna dance company and PalArt Collective.

== Early life ==
Masoud grew up in Jabalia Refugee Camp. His paternal family were originally from the village of Deir Sneid, and his grandfather had owned a stone house and farms in Jerusalem prior to the Nakba. With an interest in bands such as Queen and writers like Charles Dickens, Masoud learned English at a young age and went on to study English literature at Al-Azhar University. When aged 20, in 2002, he moved to London. He graduated with a Bachelor of Arts (BA) and a Master of Arts (MA) in English literature from London Metropolitan University. He went on to complete his PhD in comparative literature at Goldsmiths, University of London.

== Career ==
In 2005, Masoud founded the dabke dance company Al Zaytouna, partially to fund his studies, through which he directed an adaptation of Ghassan Kanafani's Returning to Haifa (2006) and Unto the Breach (2012), inspired by Shakespeare's Henry V. In 2008, Masoud published a chapter in Britain and the Muslim World: A historical perspective. The following year, he collaborated with Justin Butcher on the play Go to Gaza, Drink the Sea at the Theatro Technis.
On a grant awarded by the Arts Council in 2014, Masoud wrote the play Walaa: Loyalty about the Syrian refugee crisis. The play, directed by Richard Shannon, premiered at the New Diorama Theatre. His following play The Shroud Maker with Amnesty International, a satirical play about the titular woman named Hajja Souad, went on a tour of the UK. Also in 2015, Masoud's debut novel Vanished: The Mysterious Disappearance of Mustafa Ouda was published via Rimal Books. The novel was shortlisted for a 2015 Palestine Book Award, awarded by Middle East Monitor.
To mark the 50th anniversary of Israel's military occupation of Gaza, Masoud reunited with Amnesty International for his dark comedy play Camouflage, which was put on in May 2017.
The Shroud Maker was once again staged in 2017 at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art (RADA) followed by a UK tour in 2018. It was also shown at Liverpool's Arab Arts Festival and workshopped in Manchester.
Masoud has been a lecturer at the University of the Arts London, as well as head of international partnership development at Oxford Brookes University for nine years and, as of 2019, head of Regent's University London's international partnerships office. He joined the University of Plymouth's Displacement Studies Research Network. He was selected to be the writer in residence at the 2019 Bristol Palestine Film Festival.
In 2022, Masoud published his second novel Come What May. He also founded the PalArt Collective and Festival initiative. Masoud collaborated with slam poet Farah Chamma on the experimental show Passports, Mo Salah, Jinn and Other Complicated Things.
Masoud's play The Shroud Maker returned to the stage for the 2024 Edinburgh Fringe Festival. He also contributed to Cutting the Tightrope: The Divorce of Politics from Art, a collection of short plays written in response to censorship surrounding Palestine in the arts. Masoud then adapted his 2018 short story Application 39 for the stage, which premiered at the Theatro Technis in May 2025; the futuristic satire imagines a scenario in which Gaza accidentally wins a bid to host the 2048 Summer Olympic Games.

== Personal life ==
In 2023, the IDF destroyed the Jabalia cemetery where Masoud's father was buried. In 2024, Masoud's brother Khalid lost his leg and eventually succumbed to his injuries, leaving behind his young children. In May 2024, Masoud called on Parliament to offer a visa route for families of British nationals stuck in Gaza similar to the route offered to Ukrainian families. He expressed concern for his sister Hind and her baby. In 2025, Masoud lost his sister-in-law and nephew.

== Bibliography ==

=== Novels ===
Vanished: The Mysterious Disappearance of Mustafa Ouda (2015)
Come What May (2022)

=== Plays ===
Go to Gaza, Drink the Sea (2009)
Walaa: Loyalty (2014)
The Shroud Maker (2017)
Application 39 (2025)

=== Short stories and essays ===
"Race & Identity in Early Palestinian Literature of Resistance" in Britain and the Muslim World: Historical Perspectives (2010) (edited by Gerald McLean)
"Application 39" in Palestine + 100 (2019)

=== Audio ===
Escape from Gaza (2011) for BBC Radio 4

== References ==

1995–96 SS Lazio season

The 1995–96 season was Società Sportiva Lazio's 96th season since the club's existence and their eighth consecutive season in the top-flight of Italian football. In this season, Lazio finished third in Serie A this season and reached the quarter-final of the Coppa Italia and the round of 32 of the UEFA Cup.

== Squad ==

Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.

=== Transfers ===

==== Winter ====

== Competitions ==

=== Serie A ===

==== League table ====

==== Results summary ====

==== Results by round ====

==== Matches ====

=== Coppa Italia ===

==== Second round ====

==== Round of 16 ====

==== Quarter-finals ====

=== UEFA Cup ===

==== First round ====

==== Second round ====

== Statistics ==

=== Players statistics ===

== References ==

48th Fighter Wing

The 48th Fighter Wing (48 FW) is part of the United States Air Force's Third Air Force, assigned to Headquarters Air Command Europe and United States Air Forces in Europe. It is based at RAF Lakenheath, England. The 48 FW is the only McDonnell Douglas F-15 Eagle wing based in Europe which hosts two F-15E Strike Eagle squadrons. The wing also hosts two Lockheed Martin F-35 Lightning II squadrons. The 48 FW was given the name "Statue of Liberty Wing" on 4 July 1954 and remains the only U.S. Air Force unit with both a name and a numerical designation.
The 48 FW operates in support of United States Air Forces in Europe – Air Forces Africa, United States European Command and NATO.

== Units ==
The Liberty Wing has nearly 5,700 active-duty military members, 2,000 British and U.S. civilians, and includes a geographically separated accommodation unit at nearby RAF Feltwell. In total they support two squadrons of F-15E Strike Eagle and two squadrons of F-35A Lightning II fighter aircraft.

48th Operations Group
Formerly the 48th Fighter-Bomber Group. Provides four squadrons of F-35A & F-15E aircraft & personnel in support of USAFE, U.S. European Command and NATO operations.
48th Maintenance Group
includes 48th Aircraft Maintenance sqdn, 748th Aircraft Maintenance sqdn, 48th Component Maintenance sqdn, 48th Equipment Maintenance sqdn, 48th Maintenance Operations sqdn and 48th Munitions sqdn. These units manage and maintain all aspects of the F-15 and F-35 fighter aircraft, including the airframe, Pratt & Whitney F100 and Pratt & Whitney F135 engines, precision avionics, and weapons. However, between October 2022 and June 2023, at least two of these units (48th AMS & 748th AMS) were inactivated and replaced by individual squadron-based maintenance units identified as Fighter Generation Squadrons, namely 492nd, 493rd, 494th and 495th FGS.
48th Mission Support Group (48 MSG)
The 48th Civil Engineer Squadron maintains over 600 buildings, 1300 housing units, regional hospital, five DoD schools, and other infrastructure.
48th Force Support Squadron; responsible for dining, lodging, fitness, honor guard, leisure activities, family programs, and mortuary affairs.
48th Security Forces Squadron; protects & defends USAF facilities, coordinates law enforcement operations with host nation police agencies, operates US Forces Correctional Facility, maintains combat arms training range, provides small arms training, etc
48th Communications Squadron; provide & maintain computer, data and voice communication, and United States Postal Service facility.
48th Medical Group (48 MDG)
The 48 MDG provides healthcare services to over 35,000 eligible beneficiaries at six operating locations across the UK, and in Norway, covering personnel & dependants from 48th Fighter Wing, 100th Air Refueling Wing, 501st Combat Support Wing, and 352nd Special Operations Wing. This includes 67,000 dental visits, 1550 surgeries, and 450 infant deliveries per year. The unit also maintains an Expeditionary Medical Support (EMEDS) capability.

== History ==

On 10 July 1952, the Oklahoma Air National Guard 137th Fighter-Bomber Wing at Chaumont-Semoutiers Air Base, France was redesignated the 48th Fighter-Bomber Wing. The fighter squadrons being redesignated the 492d, 493d, and 494th respectively, the 58 F-84Gs and support aircraft of the ANG were assigned to the 48th Fighter-Bomber Group under the Hobson Plan. The 48th FBW commanded the functions of both the support groups as well as the flying combat 48th FBG. The few National Guardsmen still with the wing departed and the last were released from active duty on 9 July, although a few reserve officers remained on active duty for an additional six to twelve months.
With the F-84, the 48 FBW took part in North Atlantic Treaty Organization and United States Air Forces in Europe (USAFE) activities, participating in exercises with the U.S. Seventh Army. In addition, the 48th conducted operational readiness exercises and tactical evaluations. Honing bombing and gunnery skills. The 48th frequently deployed to Wheelus Air Base, Libya for training.
The 48th Wing served the longest in France, from 10 July 1952 through 15 January 1960. The men and women of the 48th worked hard to develop Chaumont-Semoutiers Air Base into one of the best air bases in Europe. Its squadrons remained unchanged while flying three different type of fighters, the F-84G, F-86F and the F-100D, and maintaining the capability to fight either a conventional or nuclear war if need be.
An open house was held once a year, with great numbers of French civilians in attendance. In 1954, over 15,000 attended the Armed Forces Day event to see static aircraft displays, watch flight demonstrations, listen to a French army band and other activities. In just over three years since construction began, Chaumont Air Base became an important part of the Haute-Marne region.
To bolster Franco-American relations, the 48th Wing Staff came up with the idea of changing the wing insignia. Chaumont AB is located not far from the workshops of Frédéric Bartholdi – the French architect who designed the Statue of Liberty. The new design incorporated the Statue of Liberty, and throughout Europe the 48th became known as the "Statue of Liberty" Wing. On 4 July 1954 the mayor of the town of Chaumont bestowed the honorary title of the Statue de la Liberté (Statue of Liberty) Wing upon the 48th. It is the only USAF unit with both an official name and a numerical designation.
Not long after the wing proudly took on the title of The Statue of Liberty Wing, the wing's comptroller discovered the factory that had produced the actual Statue of Liberty was only 25 miles from Chaumont. In fact, one of the actual molds still existed. The factory agreed to cast a three-meter replica of the statue for $1,700. The wing raised the funds by raffling off a 1956 French Ford Versailles sedan. The statue still stands in Chaumont as a memorial to the service of the 48th Fighter-Bomber Wing in France, with a replica located at RAF Lakenheath.
In November 1953, the wing exchanged its F-84Cs for newer North American F-86 Sabre (F models), receiving 75 aircraft, 25 per squadron. Then word came in late 1956 that the Air Force would exchange the wing's Sabres for a newer aircraft: the North American F-100 Super Sabre. The larger-bodied F-100 was capable of carrying more ordnance than the F-86 and was one of the first fighters designed to operate at supersonic speeds. 90 single-seat F-100D aircraft were received, along with 13 F-100F dual-seaters.
The wing began realigning its units 15 March 1957, as part of an Air Force worldwide reorganization. The 48th Fighter-Bomber Group was inactivated on 8 December 1957 when its component squadrons were assigned directly to the 48th FBW.
As part of yet another organization change, the 48th dropped the "Fighter Bomber" designation 8 July 1958, becoming the 48th Tactical Fighter Wing. The three flying units also changed designation, becoming tactical fighter squadrons.
Despite the close relationship between the wing and the people of Chaumont, international relationships between France and the US deteriorated in the late 1950s, resulting in French president Charles de Gaulle demanding the removal of NATO forces from the country. Under a project known as "Red Richard", USAFE relocated its units from France to other locations around Europe. Simultaneously, the advent of the inter-continental ballistic missile had reduced the United States' dependence on European-based airborne medium-and long ranged bombers.
On 15 January 1960, the 48 TFW redeployed to an empty Strategic Air Command heavy bomber base, RAF Lakenheath, England. In the early the wing's three fighter squadrons lifted off Chaumont's runway and, after making farewell passes over the outlying village, headed toward the English Channel.

=== RAF Lakenheath ===

On 15 January 1960, the F-100s of the 48TFW arrived at RAF Lakenheath. The tactical components of the 48th TFW upon arrival at Lakenheath were 492d, 493d and 494th Fighter Squadrons.
The F-100s arrived from France still finished in bare metal with bright individual squadron markings, subsequently changed to a common tri-colour chevron (blue, yellow, red) flash on the tail (and nose), over bare metal. Around 1966-67 this was replaced with dull green-based S.E. Asia camouflage and no squadron markings. However by 1970 individual squadron markings were re-introduced, firstly with large squadron tail-codes ('LR', 'LS' or 'LT') and shortly after colored fin tips were added.

492d Tactical Fighter Squadron (assigned tailcode 'LR', blue fin tip added later)
493d Tactical Fighter Squadron (assigned tailcode 'LS', yellow fin tip added later)
494th Tactical Fighter Squadron (assigned tailcode 'LT', red fin tip added later)
The wing and its fighters brought a new mission and the first permanent American presence to RAF Lakenheath. The base required a myriad of construction projects to support the mission. Maintenance and flying operations areas required conversions to support fighter operations, and the base needed the creation of a support structure for a permanent host unit.
East Germany's 1961 decision to build the Berlin Wall and the 1962 Cuban Missile Crisis increased Cold War tensions to an all-time high. In response, RAF Lakenheath was earmarked as a possible rotational base for SAC B-47 and B-52 aircraft throughout the Berlin Crisis, although no aircraft were actually deployed. Also in 1962, the 48th TFW came under the operational command of Third Air Force.
Between 1963 and 1972 the wing's F-100 fleet maintained its readiness by participating in a number of USAFE and NATO exercises training to react to possible aggression from the Soviet Union. They underwent a series of NATO tactical evaluations, for which they earned the wing their first Air Force Outstanding Unit Award, for the period from 1 July 1961 to 29 February 1964. The wing conducted several deployments to Turkey, Italy, Spain, and across the United Kingdom

On 1 October 1971, the 492d Tactical Fighter Squadron stood down from its NATO commitments, followed by the 493d on 1 December and the 494th on 1 February 1972. The period between 1972 and 1977 can be described as a five-year aircraft conversion. Beginning in late 1971 the 48th TFW started its conversion to the McDonnell Douglas F-4D Phantom II, with some aircraft being transferred from the 81st TFW at RAF Bentwaters. The conversion to the F-4D took several years, with the last F-100 departing in August 1974. The first F-4 Phantoms to arrive adopted a common tail code of "LK" with a tri-color fin tip, however this tail code lasted only a few months as in July / August 1972 the 48th TFW further recoded to "LN". As the numbers of F-4s increased, they were allocated to individual squadrons and gradually adopted individual squadron identifying fin cap colors of blue, yellow and red (492d, 493d, 494th respectively). The squadron conversion dates were:

492d TFS 1 October 1971 and 31 January 1972
493d TFS 1 December 1971 and April 1972
494th TFS 1 February 1972 and 25 July 1974
The F-4's service with the 48th TFW was relatively short as operation "Ready Switch" transferred the F-4D assets to the 474th TFW at Nellis AFB Nevada. The 474th sent their General Dynamics F-111A Aardvarks to the 366th TFW at Mountain Home AFB Idaho, and the 366th sent their F-111Fs to Lakenheath in early 1977. Unlike the previous F-4 transition, the F-111 change took place fairly quickly and without any significant problems. In fact, the wing received its third Air Force Outstanding Unit Award for such a smooth transition. Almost immediately after changing aircraft, the wing began a series of monthly exercises and deployments that took the Liberty Wing to Italy, Iran, Greece, and Pakistan.
A fourth fighter squadron, the 495th Tactical Fighter Squadron was activated with the 48th TFW on 1 April 1977 with a squadron tail color of green. This was 33 years to the day since the squadron's inactivation. The 495th's mission of functioning as a replacement training unit for the other three fighter squadrons made the 48th TFW unique in two ways. First, it created the 48th the only combat wing in USAFE with four squadrons. Furthermore, it made the 48th the only wing operating with its own replacement training unit. In the same year construction of the airfield's Hardened Aircraft Shelters (acronym: HAS, but commonly referred to as a TAB-VEE) began as part of a wider NATO effort.
By September 1979, the wing had flown the highest number of hours ever recorded in a fiscal year by an F-111 unit. This dedication culminated in the 48th's performance during a joint USAFE Operational Readiness Inspection and NATO Tactical Evaluation in March 1980. As a result, the Secretary of the Air Force selected the 48th TFW for its fourth Air Force Outstanding Unit Award.
In the early 1980s the wing struggled with aircraft shortages. Primarily, this resulted from the upgrade to the Pave Tack, a laser guided weapons delivery system. Each aircraft had to process through the upgrade facility at the Air Logistics Center in McClellan AFB, California. At the same time, the wing had to overcome supply shortages resulting from years of reduced military budgets in the late 1970s under the Carter administration.

=== Operation El Dorado Canyon ===

By the mid-1980s the Cold War was not the only American fear for national security; terrorists struck targets from bombing of US Marines in Beirut to Berlin, from Rome to Rotterdam. Some of these attacks were attributed to the Libyan government headed by Colonel Muammar Gaddafi. In retaliation, U.S. president Ronald Reagan ordered a strike against targets in Tripoli, which were carried out by the United States Navy Sixth Fleet and F-111s of the 48th Tactical Fighter Wing. The F-111Fs from Lakenheath were chosen for their capability to fly long distances and deliver laser-guided munitions with great accuracy.
At about 19:00 the evening of 14 April 1986, 24 F-111Fs departed Lakenheath's runway, six of which were airborne spares in the event malfunctions forced any of the primary aircraft to abort. In flights of four, aircrews flew south through the Straits of Gibraltar and began their orchestrated attack shortly after midnight on 15 April. They were targeted on Azziziyah Barracks, the Sidi Balal terrorist training camp, and Tripoli Airport. With the sky lit up from Tripoli's city lights, anti-aircraft tracers, and brilliant surface-to-air missile detonations, determined 48th TFW crews unleashed 60 tons of munitions, damaging their targets. In spite of the mission's success, the Wing experienced a major loss. As the strike force recovered at Lakenheath, both air and ground crews were given the somber news that Major Fernando Ribas (Utuado, Puerto Rico) pilot, and Weapons System Operator Captain Paul Lorence, were missing.
The grueling 14-hour flight took its toll. "Those guys were so fatigued, the crew chiefs literally had to pull some of the crews out of the cockpits", recalled CMSgt Richard O’Shaughnessy, then a Master Sergeant and weapons flight supervisor. "Most of them actually lost several pounds from sweating so much. When the guys pulled their helmets off, sweat literally poured down their foreheads and necks".
On 8 September 1986, US Navy Secretary John Lehman personally presented the Navy's Meritorious Unit Commendation to the 48th TFW for its participation in the operation. The 48th TFW is the only Air Force unit to have received this prestigious award. Likewise, General Charles L. Donnelly, Jr., commander-in-chief, USAFE, visited RAF Lakenheath on 17 February 1987 and presented decorations to those who participated in the operation. The ceremony ended with a presentation to Captain Lorence's widow Diane, followed by a missing man flyover.

=== To the Middle East, 1990–91 ===
In response to the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait on 2 August 1990, during the first week of August, Col Thomas J. Lennon, 48th Tactical Fighter Wing Commander, received a call from Headquarters, US States Air Force, asking if the 48th Tactical Fighter Wing was ready to deploy. Colonel Lennon built a team of 13 members from wing leadership, known as the "Lucky 13", and preparations began for the eventual movement of personnel and F-111s to Saudi Arabia.
On 25 August 1990, 18 F-111s took off from Lakenheath as the first USAFE unit to deploy. In this first group, nearly 500 men and women of the Liberty Wing departed. The 48th TFW deployed more than 60 aircraft and 1,500 personnel to Taif Air Base, Saudi Arabia. The 492d, 493d and 494th TFSs deployed, supplying 66 F-111Fs, which were in place by December 1990. Some aircrew & other members of the 495th TFS were deployed & dispersed throughout its 3 sister squadrons.
During the Operation Desert Storm air war 17 January-24 February 1991, and subsequent four-day ground war of 24–28 February the wing's F-111Fs flew thousands of sorties, unleashing precision-guided and unguided munitions on Iraqi armor, artillery, bridges, military airfields and command and control centers. The wing's crews even stopped the flow of oil contaminating the Persian Gulf by bombing a pumping installation purposefully damaged by retreating Iraqi forces.
Overall, the 48th TFW flew a total of 1919 combat sorties, totaling 2203 target hits. The Wing returned to RAF Lakenheath 13 May 1991.

=== Post Cold War era ===

Incorporating the lessons learned during the desert operations, the Air Force directed changes that led to the Objective Wing Organization. Beginning in mid-1991, the 48th Tactical Fighter Wing began restructuring under this program, realigning its maintenance-fighter squadron workforce and establishing several command positions to include the 48th Logistics Group, 48th Medical Group, 48th Support Group, and 48th Operations Group (originally designated the 48th Fighter Group).
The program also redesignated many of the Air Force's units by dropping the "Tactical" from their names. Thus on 1 October 1991, the 48th Tactical Fighter Wing was redesignated the 48th Fighter Wing, and the 492d, 493d, 494th and 495th became simply Fighter Squadrons. The 495th FS inactivated on 13 December 1991.
In the midst of the organizational changes, the wing switched aircraft again, exchanging the F-111Fs for the F-15E Strike Eagle. On 21 February 1992, the first F-15E landed at Lakenheath, with the last F-111F departing for units within the US on 16 December 1992. The final F-15E arrived in June 1993 (actually early 2000s), and the wing achieved initial operational capability on 1 October 1993. With this mission change, the 493d Fighter Squadron inactivated on 1 January 1993, only to reactivate again on 1 January 1994. The squadron received its first maintenance trainer F-15C Eagle on 10 January 1994, then its full complement of F-15C & D aircraft by 22 July 1994. This marked the first time that the 48th had flown a specifically air-to-air weapon system, after flying for more than 50 years with an air-to-ground mission.
Since September 2001, in response to the terrorist attacks in the United States on 11 September 2001, various units of the 48th FW have deployed to Afghanistan to support Operation Enduring Freedom and to Iraq to support Operations Iraqi Freedom and New Dawn, and also to various other US allies such as South Korea.
The wing participated in Operation Odyssey Dawn in Libya in March 2011. One of the wing's F-15E aircraft crashed in Libya after an unapproved flight maneuver on 21 March 2011, but both crew members survived with minor injuries.
An F-15C Eagle from the 48th Fighter Wing crashed into the North Sea on 15 June 2020, killing the pilot on-board.
On 1 October 2021, the 495th Fighter Squadron was reactivated as the 48th Fighter Wing's first F-35A unit.
In 2021, the 48th Fighter Wing became the first unit outside of the contiguous United States to operate the Lockheed Martin F-35A Lightning II, with two squadrons based at RAF Lakenheath.

== Lineage, assignments, components, bases, and aircraft ==

=== Lineage ===
Established as 48th Fighter-Bomber Wing on 25 June 1952
Activated on 10 July 1952
Redesignated: 48th Tactical Fighter Wing on 8 July 1958
Redesignated: 48th Fighter Wing on 1 October 1991

=== Assignments ===

=== Components ===
Groups

48th Fighter-Bomber (later, 48th Operations) Group: 10 July 1952 – 8 December 1957; 31 March 1992–
Squadrons

492d Fighter-Bomber (later, 492d Tactical Fighter, 492d Fighter) Squadron: attached 15 March – 7 December 1957, assigned 8 December 1957 – 31 March 1992 (detached 20 November 1990 – 10 May 1991; December 1991 – March 1992)
493d Fighter-Bomber (later, 493d Tactical Fighter, 493d Fighter) Squadron: attached 15 March – 7 December 1957, assigned 8 December 1957 – 18 December 1992 (detached 25 August 1990 – 11 March 1991; March– June 1992)
494th Fighter-Bomber (later, 494th Tactical Fighter, 494th Fighter) Squadron: attached 15 March – 7 December 1957, assigned 8 December 1957 – 31 March 1992 (detached 2 September 1990 – 15 March 1991; September– December 1991)
495th Tactical Fighter Squadron: 1 April 1977 – 13 December 1991
509th Fighter-Bomber Squadron: attached 5 October 1957 – 15 January 1958.

=== Bases assigned ===
Chaumont-Semoutiers Air Base, France, 10 July 1952 – 15 January 1960
RAF Lakenheath, England, since 15 January 1960

=== Aircraft ===

== Awards and decorations ==
Operation El Dorado Canyon
1991 Gulf War (Defense of Saudi Arabia; Liberation of Kuwait)
Kosovo Air Campaign
Afghanistan Campaign
Global War on Terrorism
Iraq Campaign
Operation Odyssey Dawn
Navy Meritorious Unit Commendation
Air Force Outstanding Unit Award with Combat "V" Device
Air Force Outstanding Unit Award (19x)

== See also ==
List of wings of the United States Air Force
United States Air Force in the United Kingdom

== References ==

=== Notes ===
Explanatory notes

Citations

=== Bibliography ===
This article incorporates public domain material from the Air Force Historical Research Agency

Maurer, Maurer, ed. (1982) [1969]. Combat Squadrons of the Air Force, World War II (PDF) (reprint ed.). Washington, DC: Office of Air Force History. ISBN 0-405-12194-6. LCCN 70605402. OCLC 72556. Retrieved 17 December 2016.
Ravenstein, Charles A. (1984). Air Force Combat Wings, Lineage & Honors Histories 1947-1977 (PDF). Washington, DC: Office of Air Force History. ISBN 0-912799-12-9. Retrieved 17 December 2016.

== Further reading ==
This article includes content from United States Air Forces In Europe website, which as a work of the U.S. Government is presumed to be a public domain resource. That information was supplemented by:
Endicott, Judy G. (1999) Active Air Force wings as of 1 October 1995; USAF active flying, space, and missile squadrons as of 1 October 1995. Maxwell AFB, Alabama: Office of Air Force History. CD-ROM.
Fletcher, Harry R. (1989) Air Force Bases Volume II, Active Air Force Bases outside the United States of America on 17 September 1982. Maxwell AFB, Alabama: Office of Air Force History. ISBN 0-912799-53-6
McAuliffe, Jerome J (2005) U.S. Air Force in France 1950–1967, Chapter 9, Chaumont-Semoutiers Air Base.
Rogers, Brian (2005). United States Air Force Unit Designations Since 1978. Hinkley, England: Midland Publications. ISBN 1-85780-197-0.

== External links ==
Official website

1980 Hawthorn Football Club season

The 1980 season was the Hawthorn Football Club's 56th season in the Victorian Football League and 79th overall.

== Fixture ==

=== Premiership season ===

== Ladder ==

Rules for classification: 1. premiership points; 2. percentage; 3. points forAverage score: 105.0Source: AFL Tables

== References ==

Andreas Michael Heiberg

Andreas Michael Heiberg (1 December 1767 – 21 March 1815) was a Norwegian jurist and politician. He served as a representative at the Norwegian Constitutional Assembly.
Andreas Michael Heiberg was born at Straumsnes in Bergen, Norway. His father was a bailiff in Bergen who later served as district governor of Bornholm, Denmark. He grew up in Denmark and took his legal examination in 1789. He first served as a bailiff in the town of Svaneke on Bornholm. He was also district magistrate at Østre Herred in Bornholm. From 1810 he was a local magistrate and town clerk in Fredrikstad in Østfold.
He represented Fredrikstad at the Norwegian Constituent Assembly at Eidsvoll in 1814. At the assembly, he supported the independence party (Selvstendighetspartiet).

== References ==

== External links ==
Representantene på Eidsvoll 1814 (Cappelen Damm AS)
Men of Eidsvoll (eidsvollsmenn)

== Related Reading ==
Holme Jørn (2014) De kom fra alle kanter – Eidsvollsmennene og deres hus (Oslo: Cappelen Damm) ISBN 978-82-02-44564-5

2025 World Rowing Championships – Men's single sculls

The men's single sculls competition at the 2025 World Rowing Championships took place at Dianshan Lake, in Shanghai.

== Schedule ==
The schedule was as follows:

All times are UTC+08:00

== Results ==

=== Heats ===
The two fastest boats in each heat and the fourteen fastest times advanced directly to the quarterfinals. The remaining boats were sent to the Final E.

==== Heat 1 ====

==== Heat 2 ====

==== Heat 3 ====

==== Heat 4 ====

==== Heat 5 ====

=== Quarterfinals ===
The three fastest boats in each heat advance to the semifinals. The remaining boats were sent to the Final C and Final D.

==== Quarterfinal 1 ====

==== Quarterfinal 2 ====

==== Quarterfinal 3 ====

==== Quarterfinal 4 ====

=== Semifinals ===
The three fastest boats in each heat advance to the Final A. The remaining boats were sent to the Final B.

==== Semifinal 1 ====

==== Semifinal 2 ====

=== Finals ===
The A final determined the rankings for places 1 to 6. Additional rankings were determined in the other finals.

==== Final E ====

==== Final D ====

==== Final C ====

==== Final B ====

==== Final A ====

== References ==

Bosara minima

Bosara minima is a moth in the family Geometridae. It is found in Queensland (type locality near Cairns; Australia), Sulawesi, New Guinea, the Bismarck Archipelago, and the Solomon Islands.

== References ==

Bustleton, Philadelphia

The Bustleton section of Northeast Philadelphia, United States is located in the Far Northeast, north of Rhawnhurst and Fox Chase and south of Somerton; sitting between Roosevelt Boulevard to the east, the city boundary to the west, Red Lion Road to the north, and Pennypack Park to the south, it is centered at the intersection of Grant Avenue and Bustleton Avenue (PA-532) and is completely included in the 19115 postal ZIP code.
In the early history of the city, the neighborhood was centered on the Bustleton Tavern, a local bar established before the American Revolution. Pennypack Park is part of the Fairmount Park system and was the site of much industry, including mills. The area was a trading center and had hotels drawing farmers bringing goods for sale via horse and buggy. Much of the commerce was also conducted via small streams and rivers of the present-day Pennypack Watershed. The old Paul's Run waterway once provided navigation from the Bustleton Tavern all the way to the Delaware River.
Bustleton was originally part of Lower Dublin Township, also known as Dublin Township, a defunct township that was located in Philadelphia County, Pennsylvania. The township ceased to exist and was incorporated into the City of Philadelphia following the passage of the Act of Consolidation, 1854.
Bustleton is home to the Lower Dublin Baptist Church, one of the oldest churches in America. Its burial ground contains the remains of many notable Americans and Revolutionary War Soldiers. Another church is the Protestant Episcopal Church of Saint Luke The Beloved Physician. It is the only church in Philadelphia that was designed by the architect Richard Upjohn of New York. It is located on Welsh Road and has a burial ground, now home to the veterans from the Civil War to present. It was consecrated on August 30, 1861.
The 1870 Roman Catholic Church of Maternity, Blessed Virgin Mary on Old Bustleton Ave in Pennypack Park is the large Roman Catholic parish that served as a mother church for most of the parishes in the Northeast section of Philadelphia. Saint Katherine Drexel attended Mass in the Old BVM Church.
One of the early schools went by the name: Bustleton Academy, also known as The academy at Bustelton, not to be confused with Lower Dublin Academy which is an older school, located in the Holmesburg section of Lower Dublin.

== Present day ==
In the present day, Bustleton is largely a residential community with major commercial areas on Roosevelt Boulevard, Bustleton Avenue, Grant Avenue, and Red Lion Road. It has minimal industrial presence. US Census Bureau data show that the community is home to an increasingly racially and ethnically diverse population with many immigrant groups represented; in particular one can see store-fronts, billboards, and newspapers in Russian (especially along Bustleton Avenue) from the many immigrants from Russia, Ukraine, and other former Soviet Republics.

== Population ==

According to the 2000 US Census, the total population was 31,853 of whom 45.9 percent were male, less than the 49.1 percent of the total US population who was male in 2000. Just less than 17 percent of area residents were under 18 years old, compared with over a quarter throughout the US. Nearly 27 percent were 65 years or older, well over twice the rate in the general population; four percent of the total Bustleton population was 85 years or older. Reflecting the large concentration of older citizens, the median age in Bustleton was 46.8 years compared with 35.3 years nationwide, and local residents were somewhat more likely to be disabled, 26.4 percent versus a national average of 19.3 percent.
Whites made up 87.1 percent of the population (US share was 75.1 percent), blacks were 3.5 percent (US share was 12.3 percent), Asians were 7.0 percent (US share was 3.6 percent) with the majority of those Indian-American. Nearly one-third of residents spoke a foreign language at home compared with less than 18 percent nationwide.
Economically, only 53.4 percent of those 16 years or older were in the labor force in 2000, well below the US average of 63.9 percent but the per capita income of $21,540 was nearly identical to the national level. Less than 10 percent were below the poverty level (US rate was 12.4 percent).
Four of every five adults, 25 years and over, were at least high school graduates as of 2000, and one in four had at least a bachelor's degree (slightly more than the US population).

Bustleton is home to many of the city's Police Officers and Firefighters.
By 2022, the neighborhood had a sizeable population from the former Soviet Union. In 1987, Jewish people made up a large number of the neighborhood's residents.

== Transportation ==
Public transportation is provided by several SEPTA bus and regional rail routes, including bus routes 19, 58, 67, 88, and the West Trenton Line and Fox Chase Line regional rail lines in nearby communities. Major roads include Welsh Road, Verree Road, Red Lion Road (PA 63), Bustleton Avenue (PA 532), Grant Avenue, Krewstown Road, and the Roosevelt Boulevard (U.S. 1). Bustleton is home to two of the most dangerous intersections in the United States: Roosevelt Boulevard at Grant Avenue and at Red Lion Road. After decades of complaints due to the large numbers of accidents, these intersections became the first in Philadelphia to have cameras installed which record the license plates of vehicles entering the intersections after the traffic light has turned red. The program has since spread to many intersections throughout the city.
It is bordered on the east by Northeast Philadelphia Airport, a municipal reliever airport that dates to World War II.

== Housing ==

According to the 2000 US Census, there were 13,719 occupied housing units, 62 percent were owner-occupied and 38 percent were renter-occupied; the 423 vacant units were just three percent of all Bustleton-units, a vacancy rate one-third that of the US. There were 7,209 single-family owner-occupied homes with a median value of $120,000, just $400 more than the median for the US as a whole.
In 2007, newly constructed single homes were selling for between $350,000 and $500,000. Average existing home values are approximately $200,000 to $350,000 for single homes and $175,000 to $250,000 for twin homes. There are no row homes in Bustleton, though there are several dozen apartment complexes and condominiums, and a significant number of the homes are side-by-side duplexes, often referred to by locals as "twins".

== Infrastructure and government ==
The United States Postal Service operates the Bustleton Post Office at 9925 Bustleton Avenue. This Post Office serves the communities of Bustleton (19115, 19152) and Somerton (19116).
The 7th District Police Station at Bustleton and Bowler shares the building with the fire station and other smaller municipal offices.
The neighborhood is part of the 10th City Council District, currently represented by Brian J. O'Neill.

== Education ==

=== Primary and secondary schools ===
The area is served by the School District of Philadelphia. The primary public elementary schools are Joseph J. Greenberg Elementary, which is K-8, and Anne Frank Elementary, which is K-5. Most children that attend Anne Frank then attend C.C.A. Baldi Middle School, which is 6–8. The primary public high school, George Washington High School, is located on Bustleton Avenue, just north of the northernmost boundary of Red Lion Road.
Anne Frank opened in 1961 as Bustleton Elementary School and received its current name in 1987. It was renamed at the suggestion of the Anne Frank Institute. The school board decided to rename an elementary school that had a non-person name. The Philadelphia Inquirer stated that it was likely the first school in the United States to be named after Frank, and the first school in the city with a teenager as its namesake.
Maternity of the Blessed Virgin Mary Roman Catholic parish sponsors a large elementary school, of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Philadelphia. There are no Roman Catholic parochial high schools in Bustleton, but many students go to Archbishop Ryan High School (co-ed), Father Judge High School (all boys), St. Hubert's High School (all girls), or Bishop McDevitt High School (co-ed). Politz Hebrew Academy and Lehigh Christian Academy both serve Pre-K to 8th grade. The Politz School occupies the buildings of the former Jacobs and Fayette Public Schools. The Fayette School, a Samuel Sloan building, was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1988 and dates to 1854.
Local students may also attend a variety of academies or prep schools (both charter, private, and parochial) both within Bustleton and in the larger metropolitan area.
There are no colleges or universities in the neighborhood.

=== Public libraries ===
Free Library of Philadelphia operates the Bustleton Branch at 10199 Bustleton Avenue at Verree Road, near George Washington High School, in the adjacent Somerton section of the city.

== Organizations ==

The Greater Bustleton Civic League, originally an alliance of the major local churches but now a neighborhood organization dealing primarily with zoning issues, has served the area for more than sixty years. Youth sports are organized by the Bustleton Bengals which has its home field at Robert Hayes Memorial Playground, named for a slain Philadelphia police officer who was an area resident, though, locals refer to the playground and the surrounding park areas as either Conwell Playground or Five Diamonds (due to its five baseball fields).

== Businesses ==

In 2005, there were 593 business establishments in Bustleton, employing 8,933 with an annual payroll of $244,673,000. There were 120 Health and Social Services (reflecting the large senior population) and 100 Retail establishments. Bustleton is headquarters for the American Heritage Federal Credit Union, the sixth largest in Pennsylvania.

== Notable person ==
John Robbins, member of the U.S. House of Representatives

== References ==

== External links ==

Bustleton Bengals Club
Greater Bustleton Civic League
Maternity BVM Roman Catholic parish
Pennepack Baptist Church
St. Luke's Church
Lehigh Christian Academy
American Heritage Federal Credit Union
Historic Photographs of Bustleton, PhillyHistory.org

A View to a Kill (The Vampire Diaries)

"Stand By Me" is the twelfth episode of Season Four of The Vampire Diaries, premiering January 31, 2013 on The CW.

== Plot ==
The morning after Stefan wakes up to remember he slept with Rebekah the night before. He tries to sneak out of her room without being noticed but before he Could he finds Klaus standing outside Rebekah's door. He is there to discuss how to stop Kol, who has the White Oak stake along with the daggers that Klaus had. He orders Rebekah to hand over the last dagger that is in her possession along with the White Oak ashes that she obtained from Klaus. When Rebekah won't help Klaus stop Kol and save Jeremy, Klaus turns to his old friend, Stefan, for help.
Telling him to talk to Rebekah. But Stefan has other pressing matters like keeping Damon on lockdown after being compelled to kill Jeremy (by Kol). Klaus informs Stefan that this is why they have to find Kol or they could kiss their key to the map goodbye. Klaus reminds Stefan that with along daggering Kol, they end Damon's compulsion. Then Jeremy could continue killing Vampires and they could retrieve the cure for Elena. Which will then be a happily ever after for everyone.
Bonnie has been in charge of taking Caroline's place in the preparations for the decades dance. Elena is at home with Jeremy making sure that he is safe, alongside Matt. Elena informs Bonnie that she wants Jeremy to kill Kol, because she believes that if he kills him then all of Kol's sire line will die and all of the vampires they turned will also die. Making it so that thousands of vampires die at once, thus causing Jeremy to complete the hunters mark. Which in turn gets them the key to the cure. Bonnie agrees to help. While washing dishes Elena's hands are burned and they realize that Mayor Hopkins has put Vervain in the water supply of Mystic Falls. This causes Bonnie to have an angry confrontation with her father. He informs her that he is reinstating the town curfew and canceling all the town events. Which includes the decades dance. Bonnie tells her dad that she had been protecting the town without his help just fine and that it is her job to do so. He calls her home for a family meeting. Kol threatens Bonnie telling her that no one could get to the cure if she is too dead to find it. Bonnie starts to break all the bones in Kol's body until she realizes that she is not in control anymore.
Klaus increases the tension between Damon and Stefan by revealing that Stefan slept with Rebekah and that Stefan is over Elena. Klaus is left babysitting Damon in the basement of the Salvatore house while Stefan goes to retrieve the dagger for Rebekah. Elena calls Stefan and informs him that Kol tried to kill Bonnie and that she doesn't just want to dagger Kol but, she wants Jeremy to kill him. Stefan doesn't agree with her. And he says Klaus and Rebekah's dysfunctional bickering is lunatic, but they stick together no matter what. Elena convinces Stefan that she needs to find the dagger and use it on Rebekah. And Stefan agrees to help.
Elena calls Kol and tells him that she needs to talk to him in person, that she wants to call a truce in the name of Silas. Kol arrives at her house and demands to be invited inside in order to call the truce. Jeremy actually ends up inviting Kol in, but then runs out of the house leaving Elena alone with Kol.
Stefan goes to see Rebekah to retrieve the dagger from her. She asks Stefan if he regrets sleeping with her and he says that he does not. She asks if he would want it to happen again and he replies maybe. She questions him, asking if he would still do it if she would refuse to give up the dagger? He tells her that he wouldn't sleep with her just for the dagger and she replies with, "You have done plenty to me in the name of getting what you want." Stefan takes Rebekah to the dance even though it has been cancelled. Giving her somewhat of a first experience at a school dance.
Klaus blames Damon for all of the failed attempts at making Jeremy complete the hunters mark. Damon informs Klaus that he could have Jeremy wanting to kill Elena every time he saw her. Klaus taunts Damon saying that there has to be an explanation for Elena overlooking all of the horrible things that Damon has done to her and the people she loves. That it couldn't just be the sire bond. And accuses Damon of either compelling her, manipulating her, or maybe even just wilful ignorance on Elena's behalf. Damon is intrigued when Klaus asks for advice regarding Caroline. Klaus is worried because he killed Carol Lockwood, that Caroline will never forgive him. But then makes a comment about how Damon has done much worse and Elena still has feelings for him. Damon informs Klaus that he doesn't mind being that bad person because someone has to fill that role and get things. He tells Klaus that every bad thing that Klaus has done he has done it for no reason other than to torment and piss people off. He tells him that if he intends on being bad, to be bad with a purpose. Otherwise he is just not worth forgiving.
Elena keeps Kol occupied informing him that she has renounced her alliance with Klaus and that she will give up looking for the cure if he promises to leave Jeremy alone. Elena shares with Kol about killing Conner. Kol tells her that over the years you lose track of how many people you kill. Kol tells Elena that he believe Silas exists because he used to run with some witches in Africa in the 14th century, Haiti in the 17th century, and New Orleans in the 1900s and they all knew about Silas and how he had to stay buried.
Kol shares the myth about Silas, that if he was to raise he would unleash hell on earth. Elena refers to it being biblical and Kol tells her that in the process of time people lose faith and they no longer know who they should fear. Jeremy keeps calling Bonnie but has no luck in reaching her. Matt is searching Rebekah's house for the dagger in order to get it to Stefan so he can kill Rebekah.
Bonnie is at home with her father, who tells her about what Shane said about her being a time bomb. Bonnie tells her dad that Shane is crazy. He reminds Bonnie that he lost Abby, Bonnie's mother, to witchcraft and that he doesn't intend on losing her too. Jeremy shows up to Bonnie's house interrupting her conversation with her father and asking her to leave. Rudy tries to stop her so she resorts to magic to allow herself to leave. As she tries to leave, her mother shows up telling her she isn't going anywhere. Abby asks Bonnie about professor Shane and what he has been teaching her. Jeremy tells her that Elena needs her help. Abby tells Jeremy that Bonnie is done helping Elena Gilbert and to get out. Jeremy tries attacking Abby but Bonnie is successful in calming him down and tells him to go.
When Kol tries to cut off Jeremy's hands, Elena intervenes and Jeremy kills Kol with the White Oak Stake. Klaus sees this, and threatens to burn the home to ground and that he is no longer worried about the cure or his hybrids.
Meanwhile, Stefan tells Rebekah that Kol is dead and she is upset. But Stefan convinces her to stay so she can get the cure and be a human as she wished for. Stefan gets Silas’ headstone, and Elena is mad that Stefan did not dagger Rebekah, but rather trusting that Rebekah is on their side. Stefan and Damon gets into argument when Damon reveals that Stefan slept with Rebekah.
After the 1980s Decade Dance is cancelled by Mayor Hopkins, Stefan finds a charming way to make it up to Rebekah.

== Reception ==

=== Ratings ===
When the episode aired on January 31, 2013, the episode was viewed by 2.56 million American viewers.

== References ==

== External links ==
Recap from Official Website

Angel of Mine

"Angel of Mine" is a song by British R&B girl group Eternal from their first compilation album, Greatest Hits (1997). It was written by Rhett Lawrence and Travon Potts, produced by Lawrence, and released on 29 September 1997. The song became Eternal's 12th and final top-10 hit on the UK Singles Chart, peaking at number four. "Angel of Mine" was the ensemble's final single as a three-piece, as after its release, Kéllé Bryan left the group. In June 2019, "Angel of Mine" was ranked at number 91 on the Official Charts Company's "Top 100 Girl Band Singles of the Last 25 Years".
In 1998, American singer Monica released a cover version that topped the US Billboard Hot 100 chart for four weeks and peaked at number two on the US Billboard Hot R&B Singles & Tracks chart. It was certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) in 1999.

== Critical reception ==
Pan-European magazine Music & Media wrote, "With this lush number, Eternal confirm their status as the U.K.'s queens of the R&B ballad, at the same time offering a preview of their imminent Greatest Hits album, which is due for release on October 20." British magazine Music Week rated "Angel of Mine" five out of five, picking it as Single of the Week. It was described as a "lush, touching ballad, highlighting their vocal prowess", and, "It cannot fail." The magazine's Alan Jones declared it as "particularly uplifting and enjoyable."

== Track listings ==

== Credits and personnel ==
Credits are adapted from the liner notes of Greatest Hits.
Studios

Recorded at Sound Gallery Studios (Los Angeles) and H-2-O Enterprises (London, England)
Mixed at Sound Gallery Studios (Los Angeles)
Personnel

== Charts ==

== Certifications ==

== Release history ==

== Monica version ==

American R&B singer Monica recorded "Angel of Mine" for her second studio album, The Boy Is Mine (1998). On her version, Rodney "Darkchild" Jerkins replaced Lawrence as the song's producer. Jerkins also oversaw mixing along with Dexter Simmons, while recording was handled by Rico Lumpkins. Still credited as a songwriter, Lawrence slightly altered the lyrics for Monica at the behest of Arista Records head Clive Davis. Co-writer Potts commented on Monica's rendition: "Rodney [Jerkins] did an incredible job on the production, and then Monica's interpretation, vocally, was incredible as well. She has such a big voice for someone so young." Monica herself, who was unaware of Eternal's original of "Angel of Mine" until she had recorded her own version the song, described the song about "having a friend that she falls in with, which being human is very easy to do." Sheet music for the song "Angel of Mine" is in the key of D♭ Major in common time with a slow tempo of 96 beats per minute.

=== Critical reception ===
"Angel of Mine" was positively received by Chuck Taylor of Billboard, who called the song "unbelievable" and "absolutely stunning." He also noted its commercial potential, claiming "this song has #1 stamped across its heart." In a retrospective review of the song, Tom Breihan from Stereogum called the song "one more sappy ballad from a time that had no shortage of sappy ballads. But the song has stuck in my head a little more than a lot of the other sappy ballads from that time; the chorus melody is strong enough to pop up in my head whenever I see the song’s title." He further added: "Jerkins kept the sleek acoustic-guitar line from Eternal’s version of the song — a sound so clean that it feels almost unreal. [He] also switched the tempo up a bit and added some subtle synth accents and some itchy drum-machine programming. Those touches aren’t enough to keep "Angel of Mine" from sounding sleepy, but they were enough to set it apart from some of the other pop balladry that was on the charts at the time."

=== Commercial performance ===
"Angel of Mine" was released on 9 November 1998 as the third single from The Boy Is Mine after Lawrence and Clive Davis had worked out a deal which would see Eternal release the song in Europe, while Monica would get to release the song's Jerkins-produced version in North America and Oceania. Following the success of her previous singles, "The Boy Is Mine" and "The First Night", "Angel of Mine" became the album's third consecutive release to reach the top of the US Billboard Hot 100 within nine months. It also reached number two on Billboard's Hot R&B Singles & Tracks chart, becoming the seventh domestic top-10 hit of Monica's career. "Angel of Mine" was ranked third on Billboard's Hot 100 year-end chart for 1999 and placed 62nd on the 1990s decade-end chart.
Elsewhere, "Angel of Mine" became a top-10 hit in Canada, where it peaked at number five on RPM's 100 Hit Tracks chart and reached number eight on both the Adult Contemporary Tracks and Dance charts. It also peaked at number 12 on the Australian Singles Chart and reached number 36 in New Zealand. In the United Kingdom, despite the success of Eternal's 1997 version, "Angel of Mine" spent two weeks on the UK Singles Chart, reaching number 55. It also reached the top 10 of the UK Hip Hop/R&B chart, peaking at number ten.

=== Music video ===
The accompanying music video for "Angel of Mine" was directed by Diane Martel and features Tyrese Gibson as Monica's love interest.

=== Track listings ===

Notes

^a denotes additional producer(s)

=== Credits and personnel ===
Credits are adapted from the liner notes of The Boy Is Mine.

=== Charts ===

=== Certifications ===

== References ==

Adıyaman

Adıyaman (Kurdish: Semsûr) is a city in southeastern Turkey. It is the administrative centre of Adıyaman Province and Adıyaman District. Its population is 290,883 (2024). The inhabitants of the city are mostly Kurdish.

== Etymology ==
An unverified theory is that the former name of the city, Hisn-Mansur derives from the name of the Umayyad Emir Mansur ibn Jawana who was killed by the Abbasid Caliph Al-Mansur in this region in 758. Because of the difficulty among the locals in pronouncing Hisn-Mansur, the corruption Semsur emerged.

Various unverifiable theories exist for the name.

== History ==
The first settlement on the site of the city was the ancient town of Perrhe, part of the kingdom of Commagene before it became part of the Roman and later Byzantine Empire.
It was then captured by the Arabs and became known as Hisn Mansur. It became a contested border town between the Abbasid caliphate and the Byzantines and was therefore well protected; a wall with three gates and a ditch guarded the town while in its middle stood a fortress with double walls.
In the early eleventh century, the town formed part of the Byzantine defences in the Euphrates region together with Edessa, Gargar, Samosata and Chasanara. In 1066/1067, the region around the town was ravaged by a Turkish emir called Gümüshtekīn who took booty and captives. By the end of the eleventh century, the Byzantines had lost control of the town and it was now in possession of the Armenian local ruler Kogh Vasil.

== Demographics ==
The population of Adıyaman is predominantly Kurdish. Demographic studies of Turkey's Kurdish-majority provinces have identified Adıyaman as part of the broader region of southeastern Turkey with a substantial Kurdish-speaking majority. Sociolinguistic research has further documented high rates of Kurmanji (Northern Kurdish) language use in the province, alongside Turkish bilingualism among much of the population.

== Places of interest ==

There is some passing tourist trade, the main tourist attraction being Mount Nemrut.

The caves of Pirin (ancient city of Perrhe) are 5 km (3 mi). from Adıyaman. These have been used as a burial ground for thousands of years. The sights include the ruins of the city and burial caves carved into the rock.
The only active church in Adıyaman Province is located here, where it is the center of the Syriac Orthodox patriarchal vicarate of Adıyaman. It was renovated and reopened in 2012.

== Neighbourhoods ==
The city has 33 quarters, including Altınşehir, Yenimahalle, and Esentepe.

== Education ==
Adıyaman University is the sole university in the province. The city's three prominent high schools are Adıyaman Science High School, Esentepe Anatolian High School, and Altınşehir Anatolian High School, respectively.

== Climate ==
Adıyaman has a hot summer Mediterranean climate (Csa) under both the Köppen and Trewartha classifications, with some continental characteristics. Summers are very hot and very dry. Temperatures often reach 40 °C (104 °F) at the height of summer. The highest recorded temperature was 45.3 °C (113.5 °F) on 30 July 2000. Winters in Adıyaman are cool to cold with heavy precipitation. Due to its inland location and relatively high altitude, frost and snow are common. The lowest recorded temperature was −14.4 °C (6.1 °F) on 24 January 1972.

== See also ==
Anatolian Tigers
Kawi (tribe)
Reşwan (tribe)
Commagene
Çiğ köfte

== References ==

== Sources ==
Beihammer, Alexander Daniel (2017). Byzantium and the Emergence of Muslim Turkish Anatolia, ca. 1040-1130. Routledge. ISBN 978-1-138-22959-4.
Strange, Guy Le (1 January 2010). The Lands of the Eastern Caliphate: Mesopotamia, Persia, and Central Asia from the Moslem Conquest to the Time of Timur. Cosimo, Inc. ISBN 978-1-61640-512-0. Retrieved 6 March 2024.

Arreh

Arreh (Persian: اره) is a village in Abravan Rural District of Razaviyeh District in Mashhad County, Razavi Khorasan province, Iran.

== Demographics ==

=== Population ===
At the time of the 2006 National Census, the village's population was 694 in 167 households. The following census in 2011 counted 760 people in 226 households. The 2016 census measured the population of the village as 810 people in 259 households.

== See also ==
Iran portal

== References ==

Echo's Bones

‘Echo's Bones’ is a short story by Samuel Beckett that was originally written in 1933. The Europa Press published a stand alone version of the story in 1935. This edition included 25 copies signed by Becket.
The title is an allusion to the myth of Echo and Narcissus, in the version told in Ovid, Metamorphoses, Book III. In particular, the line "Echo's bones were turned to stone" is in Beckett's Dream of Fair to Middling Women notebook.

== Background ==
Beckett's collection More Pricks Than Kicks, ten stories in the life and death of one Belacqua Shuah, was accepted for publication by Chatto & Windus in 1933. The editor asked Beckett for an additional story to help bulk up the physical book. Beckett agreed, and chose to place the new story after the existing ten, and did so by giving an afterlife to Belacqua.
His editor, Charles Prentice, quickly rejected the story as too strange:

It is a nightmare. Just too terribly persuasive. It gives me the jim-jams.
Beckett later (1962) gave the typescript to Lawrence Harvey. The typescript and a carbon copy ended up in Beckett archives, and has been available for study by scholars.
Beckett rewrote the ending of "Draff", the last story in More Pricks Than Kicks, taking text from "Echo's Bones". The opening paragraph was published in Chris Ackerley's Demented Particulars: The Annotated Murphy (Journal of Beckett Studies, 1998). The title itself was used as the title of a poem, and then for his poetry anthology Echo's Bones and Other Precipitates.
The story was finally published in 2014, by Faber and Faber in the U.K. and Grove Press in the U.S, edited by Mark Nixon, the director of the Beckett International Foundation at the University of Reading. In addition to the story, Echo's Bones contains an introduction, extensive annotations (longer than the text), and the 1933 letters from Prentice to Beckett.

== Summary ==
Belacqua finds himself alive again, and spends his time sitting on a fence, smoking cigars.
After what seems like forty days, Belacqua is approached and ravaged by Zaborovna Privet, and ends up sitting on a fence again.
He is then struck by a stray golf ball, hit by Lord Haemo Gall of Wormwood, an impotent giant,
whose main concern is producing a male heir. Belacqua is kidnapped for this purpose, but the child turns out to be a girl.
Belacqua ends up sitting on his own tombstone. The unnamed groundsman in "Draff" who tended to Belacqua's grave is back, now named Mick Doyle and intending to rob the grave. Belacqua bets Doyle he'll find nothing there. Only stones are found.

== Further reading ==
Campbell, Julie (2001). ""Echo's Bones" and Beckett's Disembodied Voices". Samuel Beckett Today/Aujourd'hui. 11: 454–60. Archived from the original on 2014-07-14. Retrieved 2014-06-29.
Fernández, José Francisco (Spring 2009). ""Echo's Bones": Samuel Beckett's Lost Story of Afterlife". Journal of the Short Story in English. 52: 115–24.

== References ==

Abbas Hall

Abbas Hall is a small country house in Great Cornard, a village located near the town of Sudbury, Suffolk in England, the Elizabethan exterior of which masks a medieval two-bay aisled hall of c.1290, from which two massive oak posts with moulded capitals and two arches of the screens passage survive. The inserted floor in the great hall was put in about 1548–49. The house was originally the house of West Malling Abbey's manorial steward here. The house, from the grounds of which Thomas Gainsborough painted his celebrated view of Great Cornard Wood, was restored by the present owner, Stefan Kosciuszko, Chief of Staff Hinduja Group, and chief executive AMAS-IPS, the project development company for the Group, after 1995.

== References ==
J. Kenworthy-Brown et al., Burke's & Savill's Guide to Country Houses: vol. 3, East Anglia, 1981, p. 212
Sir N. Pevsner & E. Radcliffe, The buildings of England: Suffolk, 1974, p. 69
E. Sandon, Suffolk Houses: a study of domestic architecture, 1977, pp. 44, 127, 306–7, 331

== External links ==
Historic England. "Details from listed building database (1180619)". National Heritage List for England.

2013–14 Hamburger SV season

The 2013–14 Hamburger SV season was the 126th season in the club's football history. In 2013–14, the club played in the Bundesliga, the top tier of German football. It was the club's 51st consecutive season in this league, being the only club to have played every season in the Bundesliga since its introduction in 1963.

== Competitions ==

=== Overall ===

Updated to match played 10 July 2013Source: Competitions

=== Friendlies ===

=== Bundesliga ===

==== League table ====

==== Results summary ====

==== Matches ====

===== Relegation play-offs =====
Hamburger SV, who finished 16th, faced Greuther Fürth, the third-placed 2013–14 2. Bundesliga side, for a two-legged play-off. The winner on aggregate score after both matches earned entry into the 2014–15 Bundesliga. Hamburg prevailed, avoiding their possible first relegation.

=== DFB-Pokal ===

== Squad information ==

=== Squad and statistics ===

==== Squad, appearances and goals ====
As of 15 December 2012

==== Goal scorers ====

=== Transfers ===

==== In ====

==== Out ====

== Kits ==

== References ==

1st Congress of Deputies

This is a list of members of the first Legislature of the Congress of Deputies of Spain. They were elected in the 1979 elections.

== References ==

Jayanti Patel

Jayanti Kalidas Patel (24 May 1924 – 26 May 2019) was an Indian actor, playwright and yogi.

== Early life and education ==
Patel was born 24 May 1924 in Ahmedabad, India. He received his BA from University of Mumbai in 1947, and was awarded a PhD for his work in Natya Yoga from Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan at the Mungalal Goenka Institute in Mumbai.

== Quit India Movement ==
As a young man, Patel joined Mahatma Gandhi and the Quit India Movement in protest of the British rule of India. During one march, Patel was shot in the leg, sustaining an injury that produced a lifelong indentation and limp.

== All India Radio and "Ranglo" ==
In the 1940s and 1950s, Patel portrayed the comic character "Ranglo" on All-India Radio and in subsequent stage and television productions. He took this name also for his cartooning persona, and continued to explore this character throughout his life.

== Travels and work in the West ==
In 1967, Patel was awarded a John F. Kennedy Scholarship and traveled to the US to continue his work in Natya Yoga. While there, he began a long association with the Ananda Ashrama in Monroe, New York and in San Francisco.

=== "Inner Broadway" ===
Traveling throughout the U.S., France, England and Germany, Patel continued to develop his work in theater as a form of yoga.
"He feels that both natya and yoga have a common purpose – to shatter the ego, to experience bliss and thereby universalize the individual person and transcending the limitations of time and space. Natya like any other form of an art is Yoga in Indian thought. It is a transpersonal art according to Jayanti. Instead of Ego, it takes you beyond Ego."
His works included those exploring the modern experiences of time, technology, and alienation, as well as the tools to transcend these challenges and find inner peace.

=== "Transplanation, not Translation" ===
Patel adapted several Western plays and novels for Indian audiences—including a "transplantation" of George Washington Slept Here into "Gandhi Slept Here", a Gujuarati-language Of Mice and Men, Death of a Salesman (especially poignant as India modernized and new ways of doing business emerged), and Harvey.

== "Chaplin, Gandhi and Me" ==
In 2015, at age 91, Patel published the book Chaplin, Gandhi and Me2, exploring the correlation between the teachings of Mahatma Gandhi and Charlie Chaplin.

== Personal life and death ==
In 1944, Patel married Smt. Sharda, and together they had three children: Nivedita, Warsha, and Nilesh. Patel latterly resided in Pune with his daughter Warsha and son Nilesh. He died in Ahmedabad on 26 May 2019, two days after his 95th birthday.

== References ==

Abdulaziz bin Saud Al Saud

Abdulaziz bin Saud bin Nayef bin Abdulaziz Al Saud (Arabic: عبد العزيز بن سعود آل سعود ʿAbd al ʿAzīz ibn Suʿūd Āl Suʿūd; born 4 November 1983) is a Saudi royal who has been the Minister of Interior of Saudi Arabia since 21 June 2017. The position was previously held by his uncle, former Crown Prince Muhammad bin Nayef, whereas his grandfather former Prince Nayef held the position for multiple decades.

== Early life and education ==
Abdulaziz bin Saud is the eldest son of Saud bin Nayef, who is the eldest son of the former Crown Prince Nayef bin Abdulaziz. His mother is Abeer bint Faisal bin Turki.
He is a graduate of the Dhahran Ahliyyah School and King Saud University.

== Career ==
After King Salman came to power in January 2015, Abdulaziz was appointed as an adviser to the Royal Court in various departments, and later served as an adviser at the defense ministry. On 21 June 2017 he was named the Interior Minister.

== References ==

Arab News,"King Salman, Crown Prince thank interior minister for lowering crime", April 2018

== External links ==
Media related to Abdulaziz bin Saud Al Saud at Wikimedia Commons

1975 Chicago White Sox season

The 1975 Chicago White Sox season was the team's 75th season in Major League Baseball, and its 76th season overall. They finished with a record of 75–86, good enough for fifth place in the American League West, 22½ games behind the first-place Oakland Athletics. This was the final season that the White Sox wore their Go-Go Sox-era uniforms. Towards the end of the 1990 season the team reintroduced the Go-Go Sox uniforms (replacing the red hat and pinstripes with black) and have remained the teams main uniform ever since.

== Offseason ==
December 3, 1974: Dick Allen was traded by the White Sox to the Atlanta Braves for a player to be named later and cash. The Braves completed the deal by sending Jim Essian to the White Sox on May 15, 1975.
January 2, 1975: Joe Henderson was purchased from the White Sox by the Cincinnati Reds.

== Regular season ==
The proposed sale of the Chicago White Sox presented opportunities for the Oakland Athletics. A group from Seattle was ready to purchase the White Sox and move them to Seattle. As Charlie Finley had business interests in Chicago, he was prepared to move the Athletics to Chicago. Due to his 20-year lease with the city of Oakland (to expire in 1987), Finley was blocked. In the end, White Sox owner Arthur Allyn sold to Bill Veeck, who kept the White Sox in Chicago.

=== Season standings ===

=== Record vs. opponents ===

=== Opening Day lineup ===
Nyls Nyman, LF
Jorge Orta, 2B
Buddy Bradford, RF
Deron Johnson, DH
Ken Henderson, CF
Bill Melton, 3B
Bucky Dent, SS
Carlos May, 1B
Brian Downing, C
Wilbur Wood, P

=== Notable transactions ===
May 8, 1975: Bill Sharp was traded by the White Sox to the Milwaukee Brewers for Bob Coluccio.
June 3, 1975: Marv Foley was drafted by the White Sox in the 17th round of the 1975 Major League Baseball draft.
June 15, 1975: Tony Muser was traded by the White Sox to the Baltimore Orioles for Jesse Jefferson.

=== Roster ===

== Game log ==

=== Regular season ===

== Player stats ==

=== Batting ===
Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; R = Runs scored; H = Hits; 2B = Doubles; 3B = Triples; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in; BB = Base on balls; SO = Strikeouts; AVG = Batting average; SB = Stolen bases

=== Pitching ===

Note: W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; G = Games pitched; GS = Games started; SV = Saves; IP = Innings pitched; H = Hits allowed; R = Runs allowed; ER = Earned runs allowed; HR = Home runs allowed; BB = Walks allowed; K = Strikeouts

== Farm system ==

== Notes ==

== References ==
Johnson, Lloyd; Wolff, Miles, eds. (1997). The Encyclopedia of Minor League Baseball (2nd ed.). Durham, North Carolina: Baseball America. ISBN 978-0-9637189-8-3.
1975 Chicago White Sox at Baseball Reference

24 Hours a Day

24 Hours a Day or Twenty-Four Hours a Day may refer to:

Twenty-Four Hours A Day, a 1954 book by Richmond Walker
24 Hours a Day, a 1997 album by the Bottle Rockets
"Gotta Find Me a Lover (24 Hours a Day)", a 1969 song by Erma Franklin
"24 Hours a Day", a 1976 song by Triumph

== See also ==
24 Hours (disambiguation)

57 Mnemosyne

57 Mnemosyne is a large main belt asteroid. It is a stony S-type asteroid in composition. This object was discovered by Robert Luther on 22 September 1859 in Düsseldorf. Its name was chosen by Martin Hoek, the director of the Utrecht Observatory, in reference to Mnemosyne, a Titaness in Greek mythology.
This asteroid is orbiting in the outer main belt at a distance of 3.149 AU from the Sun with an eccentricity (ovalness) of 0.118 and a period of 5.58811 a. The orbital plane is inclined at an angle of 15.2° to the ecliptic. The orbital period of this asteroid is close to a 2:1 commensurability with Jupiter, which made it useful for perturbation measurements to derive the mass of the planet.
Photometry measurements made at the Oakley Observatory during 2006 produced a lightcurve with a rotation period of 12.06±0.03 h and an amplitude of 0.14±0.01 in magnitude.
Subsequent observations at Organ Mesa Observatory in 2019 showed this period was not a good fit to a longer light curve. A period of 25.324±0.002 h was adopted; roughly double the original period. It has an estimated span of 112.59±2.8 km.

== References ==

== External links ==
57 Mnemosyne at AstDyS-2, Asteroids—Dynamic Site
Ephemeris · Observation prediction · Orbital info · Proper elements · Observational info
57 Mnemosyne at the JPL Small-Body Database

2002 Vuelta a España, Stage 12 to Stage 21

The 2002 Vuelta a España was the 57th edition of the Vuelta a España, one of cycling's Grand Tours. The Vuelta began in Valencia, with a team time trial on 7 September, and Stage 12 occurred on 19 September with a stage from Segovia. The race finished in Madrid on 29 September.

== Stage 12 ==
19 September 2002 — Segovia to Burgos, 210.5 km (130.8 mi)

== Stage 13 ==
20 September 2002 — Burgos to Santander, 189.8 km (117.9 mi)

== Stage 14 ==
21 September 2002 — Santander to Gijón, 190.2 km (118.2 mi)

== Stage 15 ==
22 September 2002 — Gijón to Alto de l'Angliru, 176.7 km (109.8 mi)

== Stage 16 ==
24 September 2002 — Avilés to León, 154.7 km (96.1 mi)

== Stage 17 ==
25 September 2002 — Benavente to Salamanca, 146.6 km (91.1 mi)

== Stage 18 ==
26 September 2002 — Salamanca to La Covatilla, 193.7 km (120.4 mi)

== Stage 19 ==
27 September 2002 — Béjar to Ávila, 177.8 km (110.5 mi)

== Stage 20 ==
28 September 2002 — Ávila to Warner Bros. Park, 141.2 km (87.7 mi)

== Stage 21 ==
29 September 2002 — Warner Bros. Park to Madrid (Santiago Bernabéu Stadium), 41.2 km (25.6 mi) (ITT)

== References ==

Corseia

Corseia or Korseia (Ancient Greek: Κορσεία), or Chorsia (Χορσία), was town of ancient Boeotia, sometimes included in Opuntian Locris, was the first place which the traveller reached after crossing the mountains from Cyrtones. In the Third Sacred War it was taken by the Phocians, along with Orchomenus and Coroneia. In the plain below, the river Platanius joined the sea. When Pausanias visited in the 2nd century, he found a sacred grove of yews with a small image of Hermes in the open air, half a stadion from Corseia.
Corseia's site is located near the modern Neochori. There are remains of the walled enclosure and three towers that have been studied by John M. Fossey.

== References ==

This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Smith, William, ed. (1854–1857). "Corseia". Dictionary of Greek and Roman Geography. London: John Murray.

1941–42 Chicago Bruins season

The 1941–42 Chicago Bruins season was the Bruins' third and final season of existence when playing professionally for the National Basketball League (though not their third professional basketball season as a whole (and depending on who you ask, not necessarily their final season of existence as a franchise also)), which officially was the fifth season the NBL existed as a professional basketball league after previously existing as a semi-pro or amateur basketball league called the Midwest Basketball Conference in its first two seasons back in 1935. The reason why this is not the third (and potentially final) professional basketball season the Bruins ever had as a franchise throughout their history was because they had originally existed as a professional basketball team in the original rendition of the American Basketball League that had existed from 1925 to 1931 before the Great Depression caused a hiatus on the ABL in order for it to return a couple of years later on a smaller basis (and minus the Bruins) in 1933, years before the NBL or even its predecessor in the Midwest Basketball Conference were even created. As such, if we include their original six ABL years alongside the potential independent seasons of play (including the season where they played as the Chicago Harmons in the inaugural World Professional Basketball Tournament) and their first two NBL seasons of existence, this would, at the very least, be their tenth (and potentially final) season of play (though they could have played more seasons than just ten total, with the potential amount of seasons played going up to nineteen total seasons). Entering this season, both the Bruins and the NBL would have their second straight season without divisional play at hand, as while the Indianapolis Kautskys returned to play in the NBL this season due to them seeing negative results as a barnstorming franchise and the Toledo Jim White Chevrolets would join the NBL following their previous success in the 1941 World Professional Basketball Tournament under the Toledo White Huts name, the Detroit Eagles would leave the NBL to become a barnstorming team themselves following their upset championship winning performance in the same 1941 WPBT event, with the Hammond Ciesar All-Americans also leaving the NBL entirely due to financial issues on their ends.
Originally, Chicago was set to have their home debut on December 17, 1941 against the defending NBL champion Oshkosh All-Stars at their usual home venue in the 132nd Regiment Armory, but due to the Attack on Pearl Harbor by the Empire of Japan that occurred ten days prior to the Bruins' home debut in the NBL (which resulted in the U.S. military needing to utilize regiment armories like the one that the Chicago Bruins were using as a home stadium for most of their existence due to the U.S.A. preparing to enter World War II), the team was forced to scramble to find a new home venue to play in for the rest of this season, which they did utilize with the Chicago Stadium being a very suitable last-minute replacement for the team. While the Bruins would try their best to maintain composure throughout the rest of the season, the loss of their original home venue and the lack of coverage by their local media (primarily with the Chicago Tribune giving less coverage for the Bruins and bringing more coverage to the local Great Lakes Naval Training Station and Chanute Army Air Force Technical Training Command military sports games (such as basketball) by comparison) would prove to be too much for the team to overcome, as Chicago would end their third and final season in the NBL with a very disappointing 8–15 finish that included a forfeited victory and a forfeited loss to the newly created Toledo Jim White Chevrolets, as well as a cancelled season finale game on February 24, 1942 against the newly returning Indianapolis Kautskys due to the Kautskys already solidifying their position as the last playoff team for the NBL by that time and the Bruins already being eliminated from playoff contention in the process. Following this season's conclusion, the Bruins would be replaced by the Chicago Studebaker Flyers (a team owned by Studebaker, with payments towards their players coming from the United Auto Workers Association) for the 1942–43 season that would only last for one season themselves. While the Studebaker Flyers have sometimes been considered a continuation of the Chicago Bruins, they ultimately are not a continuation of the Bruins due to the fact that team owner George Halas always had the option to re-open that franchise again whenever he wanted to do so; he ultimately just never chose to do so due to the greater success he had with the Chicago Bears in the NFL.
Despite the abject failure the Bruins had this season, they would still see Ralph Vaughn make it to the All-NBL Second Team, as well as see a new player from the 1942 World Professional Basketball Tournament in Mickey Tierney (son of head coach Jack Tierney) make it to the All-Tournament Team during that event. In addition to that final World Professional Basketball Tournament that the Bruins franchise would ever play in, the Chicago Bruins also participated in the Cleveland Pro Basketball Invitational Tournament (an alternative professional basketball tournament that was similar to the WPBT, with the inaugural event being won by the Philadelphia Sphas over the Original Celtics in one of their last known appearances as a franchise) as well, with them surprisingly going as far as the championship round there before ultimately losing to the all-black New York Renaissance through a 62–51 loss as the final score of that specific championship match-up (with the Renaissance later winning the next two Cleveland Pro Basketball Invitational Tournaments as well before records for the 1945 event got lost to time as of 2026, with the 1945 event being the last time that tournament ever got played in general).

== Roster ==
Please note that due to the way records for professional basketball leagues like the NBL and the ABL were recorded at the time, some information on both teams and players may be harder to list out than usual here.

In addition to them, there was also another individual with the last name of Morris who played only one game for the Bruins this season that would not have proper credit for his sole appearance on the team there otherwise, though it's considered possible the "Morris" guy in question in this case is a forward/center that went by Edward F. "Moose" Norris and previously attended DePaul University before playing for the Bruins. Alternatively, it could have been George Morse's last name being misspelled as Morris for some odd reason in the newspaper that covered the Bruins during that match in question.

== Regular season ==

=== Season standings ===

=== Schedule ===
Not to be confused with exhibition or other non-NBL scheduled games that did not count towards Fort Wayne's official NBL record for this season. An official database created by John Grasso detailing every NBL match possible (outside of two matches that the Kankakee Gallagher Trojans won over the Dayton Metropolitans in 1938) would be released in 2026 showcasing every team's official schedules throughout their time spent in the NBL. As such, these are the official results recorded for the Chicago Bruins during their third and final season (of existence) out in the NBL.

December 1, 1941 @ Fort Wayne, IN: Chicago Bruins 46, Fort Wayne Zollner Pistons 48
December 4, 1941 @ Sheboygan, WI: Chicago Bruins 51, Sheboygan Red Skins 38
December 10, 1941 @ Toledo, OH: The Toledo Jim White Chevrolets would win their home match over the Chicago Bruins by forfeiture. (As such, 2–0 favoring the Toledo Jim White Chevrolets would be the official recorded score for this match.)
December 13, 1941 @ Oshkosh, WI: Chicago Bruins 46, Oshkosh All-Stars 54
December 17, 1941 @ Chicago, IL: Oshkosh All-Stars 42, Chicago Bruins 29
December 21, 1941 @ Indianapolis, IN: Chicago Bruins 31, Indianapolis Kautskys 38
December 22, 1941 @ Chicago, IL: The Chicago Bruins would win their home match over the Toledo Jim White Chevrolets by forfeiture. (As such, 2–0 favoring the Chicago Bruins would be the official recorded score for this match.)
December 25, 1941 @ Chicago, IL: Chicago Bruins 38, Fort Wayne Zollner Pistons 47
December 27, 1941 @ Akron, OH: Chicago Bruins 47, Akron Goodyear Wingfoots 50
December 31, 1941 @ Chicago, IL: Indianapolis Kautskys 37, Chicago Bruins 33
January 7, 1942 @ Chicago, IL: Akron Goodyear Wingfoots 43, Chicago Bruins 34
January 14, 1942 @ Chicago, IL: Toledo Jim White Chevrolets 31, Chicago Bruins 53
January 21, 1942 @ Chicago, IL: Fort Wayne Zollner Pistons 47, Chicago Bruins 51
January 27, 1942 @ Fort Wayne, IN: Chicago Bruins 41, Fort Wayne Zollner Pistons 40
January 28, 1942 @ Chicago, IL: Sheboygan Red Skins 40, Chicago Bruins 39
January 31, 1942 @ Oshkosh, WI: Chicago Bruins 43, Oshkosh All-Stars 61
February 3, 1942 @ Chicago, IL: Chicago Bruins 52, Akron Goodyear Wingfoots 48
February 5, 1942 @ Sheboygan, WI: Chicago Bruins 40, Sheboygan Red Skins 45
February 11, 1942 @ Cicero, IL: Oshkosh All-Stars 48, Chicago Bruins 38
February 14, 1942 @ Akron, OH: Chicago Bruins 24, Akron Goodyear Wingfoots 44
February 15, 1942 @ Toledo, OH: Chicago Bruins 53, Toledo Jim White Chevrolets 41
February 18, 1942 @ Chicago, IL: Sheboygan Red Skins 36, Chicago Bruins 40
February 22, 1942 @ Indianapolis, IN: Indianapolis Kautskys 58, Chicago Bruins 41
The home game scheduled between the Chicago Bruins and the Indianapolis Kautskys on February 25, 1942 was ultimately cancelled due to the fact that it did not affect the standings of the NBL's season one way or the other since the Kautskys were already confirmed to be a playoff team and the Bruins were already eliminated from playoff contention regardless of what the results would have been that day.

== Awards and honors ==
All-NBL Second Team – Ralph Vaughn
NBL All-Time Team – Mike Novak

== World Professional Basketball Tournament ==
For the fourth year in a row (third (and final) year in a row under the Chicago Bruins team name properly), the Chicago Bruins would participate in the World Professional Basketball Tournament, with the 1942 event taking place in their home city of Chicago (once again) from March 8–12, 1942 that were mostly held by independently ran teams (including the former NBL team in the Detroit Eagles, though excluding the Toledo White Huts due to a unique condition they had where the team that's named the Toledo Jim White Chevrolets could play games under their original Toledo White Huts name from the 1941 WPBT) alongside every NBL team outside of the Akron Goodyear Wingfoots due, at least in part, to World War II in a now-16 team tournament. During this event, the Bruins would add head coach Jack Tierney's son, Mickey Tierney from Purdue University (and later from the Wisconsin State Technical College), Forest Sprawl from Purdue University, Don Blanken from Purdue University, and future NBL/NBA and NFL player Clint Wager from St. Mary's College of Minnesota onto the team's roster. In the first round of this year's event, the Bruins would see themselves go up against the Detroit AAA team, who would be led by Walt Tanana from Lawrence Tech University (and was the grandfather of Frank Tanana) and Bob Roth (who previously played for the Detroit Hed-Aids in the NBL's precursor name in the Midwest Basketball Conference) during that match. While Tanana and Roth alongside former MBC/NBL and future NBL players from the Detroit squad would keep things relatively close with the Bruins, Chicago would ultimately defeat the Detroit AAA team with a 56–46 victory to move onto the second round, thanks in major part to new players Mickey Tierney and Forest Sprowl alongside veteran Bruins player Wibs Kautz.
In the quarterfinal round, the Bruins would see themselves go up against the Long Island Grumman Flyers, who would be an integrated, military-operated independent team of sorts due to the players there all working for Grumman in Long Island, New York (thus being exempt from being called up for military (defensive) purposes during World War II while working there due to them being considered employees for Grumman's aircraft company) who primarily consisted of players that were previously a part of the rivaling American Basketball League's teams, as well as the all-black New York Renaissance and Washington Lichtman Bears teams. While the Long Island roster operated by Grumman was considered an unknown team of sorts heading into the tournament, the Grumman Flyers would continue to stun their competition throughout most of the WPBT, as the Long Island squad would upset the Bruins in a 48–38 victory for Grumman's surprise squad that effectively saw the Bruins play their last games in franchise history by this point in time (despite the best efforts of players like Mickey Tierney and Forest Sprowl); following the Chicago Bruins' exit from the event, they would end up being pulled out of the NBL and never return in any real capacity ever again (despite team owner George Halas having the ability to do so whenever he wanted to at the time), with their place in the NBL later being taken over and replaced by the Chicago Studebaker Flyers (who would not have the same team history as the Chicago Bruins). As for the Long Island squad, they would end up being defeated in a close semifinal round match against the defending WPBT champion Detroit Eagles (who had previously left the NBL this season due to venue issues and later lost the WPBT championship to the two-time defending NBL champion Oshkosh All-Stars, thus making Oshkosh the first NBL team to be dual champions in both the NBL and the WPBT), though they would win the third place consolation prize match in a similarly close manner over the world famous Harlem Globetrotters. After the tournament officially ended, however, Chicago would see one of the Bruins be named a member of the All-Tournament Team with Mickey Tierney being named a member of that All-Tournament Team (which consisted of ten players this time around instead of the more typical five players at hand).

=== Scores ===
Won the first round (56–46) over the Detroit AAA team.
Lost quarterfinal round (38–48) to the Long Island Grumman Flyers.

=== Awards and honors ===
Mickey Tierney, All-Tournament Team

== References ==

David Gorski

David Henry Gorski is an American surgical oncologist and professor of surgery at Wayne State University School of Medicine. He specializes in breast cancer surgery at the Karmanos Cancer Institute. Gorski is an outspoken skeptic and critic of alternative medicine and the anti-vaccination movement. He writes as Orac at Respectful Insolence and as himself at Science-Based Medicine, where he is the managing editor.

== Early life and education ==
Gorski attended a Roman Catholic high school. He went on to study medicine at the University of Michigan, earning an MD in 1988. He entered a residency in general surgery in 1989 at the University Hospitals of Cleveland. Gorski completed a PhD in cellular physiology at Case Western Reserve University in 1994. His dissertation was entitled "Homeobox Gene Expression and Regulation in Vascular Myocytes". Gorski continued his residency (1993–96) and completed a surgical oncology research fellowship (1996–99) at The University of Chicago.
Prior to 2005, he was active on the early internet message boards of Usenet participating in flame wars.

== Career ==
In the mid 2000s, Gorski taught surgery as an associate professor at the Rutgers Cancer Institute of New Jersey and the Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, at Rutgers University.
In 2007 he received the Advanced Clinical Research Award in Breast Cancer from the American Society of Clinical Oncology. He was awarded research grants by The Breast Cancer Research Foundation in 2008, 2009, and 2010.
In 2008, Gorski joined the Wayne State University School of Medicine and became affiliated with the Karmanos Cancer Institute. He is a professor of surgery and oncology at the Wayne State University School of Medicine, whose laboratory conducts research on transcriptional regulation of vascular endothelial cell phenotype, as well as the role of metabotropic glutamate receptors in breast cancer. In 2009, he was appointed the cancer liaison physician for the American College of Surgeons Committee on Cancer.
He became the co-director of the Michigan Breast Oncology Quality Initiative in 2013.
Gorski is listed as a founder of the Institute for Science in Medicine and as a member of the American Society of Clinical Oncology.

=== Research ===
Gorski's 1999 article "Blockade of the vascular endothelial growth factor stress response increases the antitumor effects of ionizing radiation", characterizing the effects of angiogenesis inhibitors on the effectiveness of anti-tumor therapies, has been cited over 900 times according to PubMed. This research has been used in anti-tumor therapeutic research, including an observation that angiogenesis inhibitors enhanced the therapeutic effects of ionizing radiation "by preventing repair of radiation damage to endothelial cells", and in determining the potential of combinational therapies to allow reduction of the dosages in toxic conventional treatments while sustaining tumor regression when combined with specific antibodies and radiation therapy.
Gorski's work with Helena Mauceri and others, published in Nature in 1998 as "Combined effects of angiostatin and ionizing radiation in antitumour therapy" studied the "combined effects of angiostatin" (a protein occurring in several animal species) "and ionizing radiation in anti-tumor therapy" led to investigation into the selective destruction of tumor cells, which according to a 1999 study by Gregg L. Semenza (citing Mauceri and others), "are more hypoxic than normal cells", allowing for "tumor cells to be killed without major systemic side effects".
In 2008, Gorski and Yun Chen published an article titled "Regulation of angiogenesis through a microRNA (miR-130a) that down-regulates antiangiogenic homeobox genes GAX and HOXA5" that investigated the use of microRNA to regulate angiogenesis.

== Skepticism of alternative medicine ==

Gorski is a vocal skeptic of alternative medicine and has criticized pseudoscience.
He has criticized the prevalence of pseudoscience in the medical field including the use of alternative therapies, acupuncture, detoxification, and the use of dietary treatment to manage autism.

=== Blogs ===
Gorski is a prolific blogger. In 2004, he began writing a blog entitled Respectful Insolence at Blogspot under the pen name Orac. Respectful Insolence was then moved to the ScienceBlogs website. Alissa Quart, writing for Columbia Journalism Review in 2010, described Orac as a "self-appointed autism expert" known for attacking the "vaccines-cause-autism set" and who had recently celebrated when an opponent lost their medical license. In 2015, writing for Slate, Jacob Brogan said Orac was a "doctor who blogs about skepticism and medicine".
In 2008 Gorski started blogging at Science-Based Medicine under his real name while continuing to blog as Orac at Respectful Insolence. He was later doxed as Orac. As the managing editor at Science-Based Medicine, Gorski has posted on issues of medicine and pseudoscience, including the anti-vaccination movement, alternative therapies, and cancer research and treatment. In 2010, Gorski recounted how members of the anti-vaccine blog Age of Autism wrote to the board of directors at Wayne State University and asked that he be prevented from blogging.
Writing for The Atlantic in 2011, David H. Freedman described Gorski as one of the more "prickly anti-alternative-medicine warriors" and said he was "among a small, loud band of alt-med critics".
Gorski contributed to the James Randi Education Foundation's series of EBooks: Science Based Medicine Guides. He is a fellow of the Committee for Skeptical Inquiry. He was a speaker at The Amaz!ng Meeting in 2009, 2010, 2012 and 2013 and has been a participant on several panels on alternative medicine. He called attention to a 2005 paper by John Ioannidis on problems with published research.
Gorski has advocated for open research data of clinical trial results and for using only evidence-based medicine to treat disease. He has been critical of Senator Tom Harkin's support of the National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine (NCCAM), which became the National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health. He has criticized the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and NCCAM for funding and publishing research on unproven therapies not supported by science-based evidence, and has commented on medical ethics and methods of alternative medicine.
Gorski has criticized popularization of pseudoscience by the media and celebrities such as Oprah Winfrey, Bill Maher, Ann Coulter, and The Huffington Post. In June 2013, he expressed support for healthcare professionals speaking out against poor medical practices and the sale of unproven treatments. Gorski was interviewed by WPRR in 2012. He criticized the American Medical Student Association for their co-sponsorship of an Integrative Medicine Day.
In September 2014, Gorski and fellow skeptic Steven Novella published an article in Trends in Molecular Medicine denouncing the study of integrative medicine as harmful to science. The following month Gorski also published an article critical of integrative oncology in Nature Reviews Cancer. Several months later, six of his colleagues responded to the editor to express concerns with his view on integrative oncology, arguing that, in their opinion, his "article selectively focuses on practices with the weakest mechanistic evidence base", such as homeopathy and reiki.

== Personal life ==
Gorski is married. Gorski describes himself as an aspiring ally of marginalized communities, and has in recent years begun to identify as a center-left Democrat with progressive views on social justice issues.

== Publications ==
Speyer, Cecilia L.; Nassar, Mahdy A.; Hachem, Ali H.; Bukhsh, Miriam A.; Jafry, Waris S.; Khansa, Rafa M.; Gorski, David H. (4 May 2016). "Riluzole mediates anti-tumor properties in breast cancer cells independent of metabotropic glutamate receptor-1". Breast Cancer Research and Treatment. 157 (2): 217–228. doi:10.1007/s10549-016-3816-x. PMID 27146584. S2CID 23986691.
Welch HG, Gorski DH, Albertsen PC (2015). "Trends in Metastatic Breast and Prostate Cancer—Lessons in Cancer Dynamics". N Engl J Med. 373 (18): 1685–1687. doi:10.1056/NEJMp1510443. PMID 26510017.
Gorski D. H. (2014). "Integrative oncology: really the best of both worlds?". Nat Rev Cancer. 14 (10): 692–700. doi:10.1038/nrc3822. PMID 25230880. S2CID 33539406.
2018 Pseudoscience: The Conspiracy Against Science "Integrative' Medicine: Integrating Quackery with Science-Based Medicine" :MIT Press: edited by Allison B. Kaufman, James C. Kaufman: ISBN 978-0262037426

== References ==

== External links ==
Respectful Insolence, Gorski's blog
David Gorski's articles at Science Based Medicine
Gorski's presentation at National Capital Area Skeptics
David Gorski publications indexed by Google Scholar
Research page at WSU
Department of surgery

2012 Open BNP Paribas Banque de Bretagne

The 2012 Open BNP Paribas Banque de Bretagne was a professional tennis tournament played on hard courts. It was the eleventh edition of the tournament which was part of the 2012 ATP Challenger Tour. It took place in Quimper, France between 6 and 12 February 2012.

== ATP entrants ==

=== Seeds ===

1 Rankings are as of January 30, 2012.

=== Other entrants ===
The following players received wildcards into the singles main draw:

Jonathan Dasnières de Veigy
Romain Jouan
Paul-Henri Mathieu
Guillaume Rufin
The following players received entry as a special exempt into the singles main draw:

Marius Copil
The following players received entry from the qualifying draw:

Adrien Bossel
Pierre-Hugues Herbert
Olivier Patience
Laurent Rochette
The following players received entry as a lucky loser into the singles main draw:

Elie Rousset

== Champions ==

=== Singles ===

Igor Sijsling def. Malek Jaziri, 6–3, 6–4

=== Doubles ===

Pierre-Hugues Herbert / Maxime Teixeira def. Dustin Brown / Jonathan Marray, 7–6(7–5), 6–4

== External links ==
Official Website
ITF Search Archived 2010-02-12 at the Wayback Machine
ATP official site

Colorado Department of Highways

The Colorado Department of Highways is the antecedent of today's Colorado Department of Transportation.
Along with many other functions, it served as a bridge architect and at times as a bridge builder. Many of its bridges are listed on the U.S. National Register of Historic Places.
Studies of Colorado's historic bridges, to assess which ones could qualify for National Register listing, were conducted in 1983, 1987, 2000, and 2011. The latter study evaluated "712 bridges and grade separations" which had been built during 1959 to 1968.
Works (attribution) include:

Big Thompson River Bridge I, US 34 at milepost 65.53, Estes Park
Big Thompson River Bridge II, US 34 at milepost 66.22, Estes Park
Big Thompson River Bridge III, US 34 at milepost 85.15, Loveland
Big Thompson River Bridge IV, US 34 at milepost 86.04, Loveland
Black Squirrel Creek Bridge, built 1935, US 24 at milepost 327.33, Falcon No longer exists. Replaced in 2012.
Bridge over Arkansas River, U.S. Hwy 24, Buena Vista
Cherry Creek Bridge, CO 83 at milepost 46.30, Franktown
Colorado River Bridge, I-70 Frontage Rd. at milepost 62.90, De Beque
Cottonwood Creek Bridge, On Vincent Dr. over Cottonwood Creek., Colorado Springs
Dolores River Bridge, CO 90 at milepost 15.22, Bedrock
Dotsero Bridge, I-70 Service Rd. at milepost 133.51, Dotsero
Eagle River Bridge, US 6 at milepost 150.24, Eagle
Granada Bridge, US 385 at milepost 97.32, Granada
Gunnison River Bridge I, US 50 Service Rd. at milepost 155.41, Gunnison
Gunnison River Bridge II, US-50 Service Rd. at milepost 155.59, Gunnison
Little Fountain Creek Bridge, CO 115 at milepost 36.84, Widefield No longer exists. Replaced in 2004.
Little Thompson River Bridge, I-25 Service Rd. at milepost 249.90, Berthoud
Maitland Arroyo Bridge, CO 69 at Milepost 3.0, Walsenburg
Marble Town Hall, 407 Main St., Marble
Maroon Creek Bridge, CO 82, Aspen
Ohio-Colorado Smelting and Refining Company Smokestack, NE of Salida at jct. of SR 150 and 152, Salida
Plum Bush Creek Bridge, US 36 at milepost 138.16, Last Chance
Rainbow Arch Bridge, CO 52, Fort Morgan
Rio Grande Railroad Viaduct, CO 120 at milepost 0.17, Florence
Rito Seco Creek Culvert, CO 142 at milepost 33.81, San Luis
Rouch Gulch Bridge, US 50 at milepost 230.12, Swissvale
San Luis Bridge, Off CO 159, San Luis
Spring Creek Bridge, US 24 at milepost 430.32, Vona
West Plum Bush Creek Bridge, US 36 at milepost 134.59, Last Chance

== References ==

2012 Tour of Azerbaijan (Iran)

Tour of Azerbaijan 2012 is 27th round of the Tour of Azerbaijan (Iran) which took place between May 11 and May 16, 2012, in Iranian Azerbaijan. The tour had 6 stages.

== Stages of the Tour ==

== Final standing ==

== References ==

Akinlaja Joseph

Joseph Iranola Akinlaja is a Nigerian politician and businessman from Ondo State, Nigeria.

== Early life ==
Joseph Iranola Akinlaja was born on 1 June 1950 in Ondo State.

== Political and career life ==
Akinlaja served as a member of the House of Representatives, representing the Ondo East/Ondo West constituency from 2015 to 2019. He has also held other political positions and is an author.

== References ==

Al-Kum

Al-Kum (Arabic: الكوم, romanized: al-Kūm, officially known as al-Kum-al-Muwarraq-Beit Maqdum-Humsa) is a Palestinian village in the southern West Bank, part of the Hebron Governorate and located 13 kilometers west of Hebron. Its municipal borders stretch from the border with Israel in the west to boundaries of the city of Dura in the east. It had a population of 1,464 in the 2017 census by the Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics.

== Geography ==
From the east is Beit Maqdum, from the west is the Green Line (Israel), from the south is As Simiya, and from the north is Idna.

== History ==

=== Mamluk period ===
A Mamluk endowment record attests to Bayt Maqdum's inhabited status in 1262 CE.

=== Ottoman period ===
Early Ottoman tax registers in the 16th century have Bayt Makhdum/Bayt Maqdum located in the Nahiya of Halil of the Liwa of Quds. It was classified as Mazra'a (=cultivated) land.
In 1883, the PEF's Survey of Palestine found at Kh. el Kôm "traces of ruins and caves on a white hill-top." It further described it as "rather a large ruin."
Khurbet el Murak was described as "caves and two large foundations", while at Beit Makdûm they noted "cisterns, caves, foundations, and walls, apparently an old site."

=== British Mandate era ===
At the time of the 1931 census of Palestine the populations of Kh. el Kum and Kh. Muraq were counted under Dura.

=== Jordanian era ===
After the 1948 Arab-Israeli War, the area was under Jordanian rule. The Jordanian census of 1961 found 247 inhabitants in Kaum and 150 in Muwarraq.

=== Post-1967 ===
After the 1967 Six-Day War, the Al-Kum area (together with the rest of the West Bank) has been under Israeli occupation.
The modern Al-Kum village was formed as a result of a 1995 merger between the villages of al-Kum, al-Muwarraq, Beit Maqdum and Humsa, with al-Kum being the largest and in the middle of the latter three. Al-Kum and Beit Maqdum were founded sometime in the early 19th century during Ottoman rule in Palestine. Most of the residents of the four villages were migrants from nearby Dura or Palestinian refugees who fled there following the 1948 Arab-Israeli War. The principal families are Rajoub, al-Awawda and al-Sharha. Following the founding of the modern village, a six-member village council was established to administer its affairs and provide some municipal services.
The primary health care facilities for the village are at al-Kum designated by the Ministry of Health as level 1. Close by is Deir Sammit where the primary healthcare facilities are at level 2.

== References ==

== Bibliography ==

== External links ==
Welcome to Kh. Bayt Maqdum
Beit Maqdum, Welcome to Palestine
Al-Kum, Welcome to Palestine
Mowaraq, Welcome to Palestine
Survey of Western Palestine, Map 21: IAA, Wikimedia commons
Al Kum-Al Muwaraq-Beit Maqdum-Humsa village (fact sheet), Applied Research Institute–Jerusalem, ARIJ
Al Kum, Al Muwarraq, Beit Maqdum, Humsa village profile, ARIJ
Al Kum aerial photo, ARIJ
The priorities and needs for development in Al Kum, Al Muwarraq, Humsa and Beit Maqdum villages based on the communities and local authorities’ assessment, ARIJ

2013 Chatham Cup

The 2013 ASB Chatham Cup was New Zealand's 86th knockout football competition.
The 2013 competition had a qualification round and four rounds proper, before quarter-finals, semi-finals, and a final. Competition was run in three regions (Northern, Central, Southern) until the quarter-finals, from which stage the draw was open. In all, 132 teams entered the competition.

== The 2013 final ==
The final was played in front of a crowd of 2,000 spectators. Cashmere Technical took an early lead in the 5th minute when Julyan Collett was fouled in the penalty area and Danny Boys sent Waitakere City goalkeeper Eamon Goodin the wrong way. The lead was short lived when just 10 minutes later, Cashmere conceded their first and what would be their only goal of the whole campaign. Waitakere won a free kick 25 metres out and Jake Butler lined up his shot. It went straight into the defensive wall but from the rebound his follow up put the ball past Cashmere keeper Shaun Roberts. It didn't take long for Cashmere to restore there lead when Stu Kelly was rewarded for his hard work, slotting the ball home in the 23rd minute. From there both teams had their chances but the result was finally put beyond doubt in injury time when, spotting the keeper off his line, Dan Ede put in a deft long-range lob and the game finished 3–1.
The Jack Batty Memorial Cup for the final's most valuable player was awarded to Cashmere Technical's Andy Pitman.

== Results ==

=== Qualification round ===
All fixtures, results and dates are taken from the following sources: The Ultimate New Zealand Soccer Website, RSSSF, Capital Football Season Review, and New Zealand Football.

Northern region

Central region

Southern region

All teams listed below received byes to the first round.

Northern: Air Force, Hukanui Rototuna, Navy, Papakura City, Pukekohe.
Central: FC Western, Napier City Rovers, Inglewood, Palmerston North Marist, Red Sox Manawatu, Taradale, Wanganui City.
Southern: FC Nelson, Nelson College, Richmond Athletic.
All teams listed below were seeded to the first round.

Northern: Albany United, Claudelands Rovers, Eastern Suburbs, Fencibles, Forrest Hill Milford, Glenfield Rovers, Hibiscus Coast, Lynn Avon United, Mangere United, Manukau City, Melville United, Metro, Mt Albert Ponsonby, Ngaruawahia United, North Shore United, Onehunga Mangere United, Oratia United, Papatoetoe, Takapuna, Tauranga City United, Waiuku, Warkworth, Western Springs.
Central: Brooklyn Northern United, Eastbourne, Greytown, Island Bay United, Kapiti Coast United, Lower Hutt City, Marist, Miramar Rangers, Naenae, North Wellington, Olympic, Petone, Seatoun, Stokes Valley, Stop Out, Tawa, Upper Hutt City, Victoria University, Wainuiomata, Wairarapa United, Waterside Karori, Wellington College, Wellington United, Western Suburbs.
Southern: Coastal Spirit, FC Twenty 11, Grants Braes, Green Island, Halswell United, Melchester Rovers, Mosgiel, Nomads United, Northern, Northern Hearts, Old Boys, Otago University, Queens Park, Roslyn Wakari, Selwyn United, Southend United, Universities, Waihopai, Waimak United, Western AFC.
All teams listed below were seeded to the second round.

Northern: Bay Olympic, Birkenhead United, Central United, East Coast Bays, Ellerslie, Hamilton Wanderers, Manurewa, Onehunga Sports, Three Kings United, Waitakere City.
Southern: Cashmere Technical, Caversham, Dunedin Technical, Ferrymead Bays.

=== Round 1 ===
All fixtures, results and dates are taken from the following sources: The Ultimate New Zealand Soccer Website, RSSSF, Capital Football Season Review and New Zealand Football.

Northern region

Central region

Southern region

*both sides used unregistered players and were disqualified

=== Round 2 ===
All fixtures, results and dates are taken from the following sources: The Ultimate New Zealand Soccer Website, RSSSF, Capital Football Season Review and New Zealand Football.

Northern region

Central region

Southern region

=== Round 3 ===
All fixtures, results and dates are taken from the following sources: The Ultimate New Zealand Soccer Website, RSSSF, Capital Football Season Review and New Zealand Football.

Northern region

Central region

Southern region

=== Round 4 ===
All fixtures, results and dates are taken from the following sources: The Ultimate New Zealand Soccer Website, RSSSF, Capital Football Season Review and New Zealand Football.

Northern region

Central region

Southern region

=== Quarter-finals ===
All fixtures, results and dates are taken from the following sources: The Ultimate New Zealand Soccer Website, RSSSF, Capital Football Season Review and New Zealand Football.

=== Semi-finals ===
All fixtures, results and dates are taken from the following sources: The Ultimate New Zealand Soccer Website, RSSSF, Capital Football Season Review and New Zealand Football.

=== Final ===
All fixtures, results and dates are taken from the following sources: The Ultimate New Zealand Soccer Website, RSSSF, Capital Football Season Review and New Zealand Football. Team lists and numbers taken from NZ Football on YouTube.

== References ==

== External links ==
Archive of ASB Chatham Cup Website

Angels in Christianity

In Christianity, angels are the messengers of God, and take on varying roles throughout the Bible. They serve primarily as messengers, but also as counsellors and guides throughout the Old and New Testaments.

== In the Bible ==
Psalms 91:11–12 attributes the guardianship of men to the angels.
In Matthew 18:10 Jesus warns not to despise children because "their angels in heaven always see the face of my Father in heaven." Luke 20:34–36 affirms that, like the angels, "those who are considered worthy of taking part in the age to come and in the resurrection from the dead will neither marry nor be given in marriage, and they can no longer die."

== General views ==

=== Antiquity ===

In chapter V of Ignatius of Antioch's Letter to the Trallians, the bishop gives a listing of angels not unlike that later proposed by Pseudo-Dionysius. In his First Epistle of Clement, Clement of Rome exhorts his listeners to join the angels in praising God. Clement of Alexandria wrote that angels "breathe" in men's thoughts and reasonings, and "puts in" their hearts "strength" and a keener perception.
Evagrius Ponticus spoke of the concept of angelic companions and angels as models for behavior.
Augustine of Hippo remarks, the angels were experiencing something new as the creation of God unfolded. Augustine also considers that the 'good' angels seek at all times, to direct us towards the true source of happiness, God; that they encourage us in worship of God.

=== Pseudo-Dionysian hierarchy ===

According to Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite's De Coelesti Hierarchia (On the Celestial Hierarchy), there are three levels ("sphere") of angels, inside each of which there are three orders.
Various works of Christian theology have devised hierarchies of angelic beings. The most influential Christian angelic hierarchy was put forward around the turn of the 6th century CE by Pseudo-Dionysius in his work De Coelesti Hierarchia. He claimed to be an important figure who was converted by Paul the Apostle, and the Pseudo-Dionysius enjoyed greater influence than he would have if he had used his actual name, until Erasmus publicised doubts about the age of the work in the early 16th century.

=== Catholic Church ===
According to the Catechism of the Catholic Church (CCC) paragraph 328, "the existence of the spiritual, non-corporeal beings that Sacred Scripture usually calls 'angels' is a truth of faith. The witness of Scripture is as clear as the unanimity of Tradition." The same catechism states: "The whole life of the church benefits from the mysterious and powerful help of the angels [...] From its beginning until death, human life is surrounded by their watchful care and intercession." It also states, "Christ is the center of the angelic world. They are His angels [...] They belong to Him because they were created through and for Him".

=== The New Church (Swedenborgianism) ===
The New Church denominations that arose from the writings of theologian Emanuel Swedenborg have distinct ideas about angels and the spiritual world in which they dwell. Adherents believe that all angels are in human form with a spiritual body, and are not just minds without form. There are different orders of angels according to the three heavens, and each angel dwells in one of innumerable societies of angels. Such a society of angels can appear as one angel as a whole.
All angels originate from the human race, and there is not one angel in heaven who first did not live in a material body. Moreover, all children who die not only enter heaven but eventually become angels. The life of angels is that of usefulness, and their functions are so many that they cannot be enumerated. However each angel will enter a service according to the use that they had performed in their earthly life. Names of angels, such as Michael, Gabriel, and Raphael, signify a particular angelic function rather than an individual being.
While living in one's body an individual has conjunction with heaven through the angels, and with each person, there are at least two evil spirits and two angels. Temptation or pains of conscience originates from a conflict between evil spirits and angels. Due to man's sinful nature it is dangerous to have open direct communication with angels and they can only be seen when one's spiritual sight has been opened. Thus from moment to moment angels attempt to lead each person to what is good tacitly using the person's own thoughts.

=== Latter Day Saint movement ===

The Latter Day Saint movement views angels as the messengers of God. They are sent to mankind to deliver messages, minister to humanity, teach doctrines of salvation, call mankind to repentance, give priesthood keys, save individuals in perilous times, and guide humankind.
Latter Day Saints believe that angels either are the spirits of humans who are deceased or who have yet to be born, or are humans who have been resurrected or translated and have physical bodies of flesh and bones. Joseph Smith taught that "there are no angels who minister to this earth but those that do belong or have belonged to it." As such, Latter Day Saints also believe that Adam, the first man, was and is now the archangel Michael, and that Gabriel lived on the earth as Noah. Likewise the Angel Moroni first lived in a pre-Columbian American civilization as the 5th-century prophet-warrior named Moroni.
Smith described his first angelic encounter in the following manner:

While I was thus in the act of calling upon God, I discovered a light appearing in my room, which continued to increase until the room was lighter than at noonday, when immediately a personage appeared at my bedside, standing in the air, for his feet did not touch the floor.
He had on a loose robe of most exquisite whiteness. It was a whiteness beyond anything earthly I had ever seen; nor do I believe that any earthly thing could be made to appear so exceedingly white and brilliant ...

Not only was his robe exceedingly white, but his whole person was glorious beyond description, and his countenance truly like lightning. The room was exceedingly light, but not so very bright as immediately around his person. When I first looked upon him, I was afraid; but the fear soon left me.
Most angelic visitations in the early Latter Day Saint movement were witnessed by Smith and Oliver Cowdery, who both said (prior to the establishment of the church in 1830) they had been visited by the prophet Moroni, John the Baptist, and the apostles Peter, James, and John. Later, after the dedication of the Kirtland Temple, Smith and Cowdery said they had been visited by Jesus, and subsequently by Moses, Elias, and Elijah.
Others who said they received a visit by an angel include the other two of the Three Witnesses: David Whitmer and Martin Harris. Many other Latter Day Saints, both in the early and modern church, have said they had seen angels, although Smith posited that, except in extenuating circumstances such as the restoration, mortals teach mortals, spirits teach spirits, and resurrected beings teach other resurrected beings.

== Catholic angel hierarchy ==

=== First Order ===

==== Seraphim ====

Tradition places seraphim in a rank in Christian angelology, based on Isaiah's use of the word. Seraphim angels are the closest to God and lead worship in heaven by singing endless praises to him.

==== Cherubim ====

In the Book of Ezekiel, and in some Christian icons, the cherub is depicted as having two pairs of wings, and four faces: that of a lion (representative of all wild animals), an ox (domestic animals), a human (humanity), and an eagle (birds). Their legs were straight, the soles of their feet like the hooves of a bull, gleaming like polished brass. Later tradition ascribes to them a variety of physical appearances. In Western Christian tradition, cherubim have become associated with the putto (derived from classical Cupid/Eros), resulting in depictions of cherubim as small, plump, winged boys.

==== Thrones or ophanim ====

The ophanim refer to the wheels seen in Ezekiel's vision of the chariot (Hebrew merkabah) in Ezekiel 1:15–21. One of the Dead Sea scrolls (4Q405) construes them as angels.

=== Second Order ===

==== Dominions or lordships ====

The dominions (lat. dominatio, plural dominationes, also translated from the Greek term kyriotētes, pl. of kyriotēs, as "Lordships") are traditionally held to govern the movement of stars, planets, and other celestial objects.

==== Virtues ====
According to The Etymologies of Isidore of Seville, the virtues are known for their control of the elements. In addition to being the spirits of motion, they also assist in governing elements of nature, such as storms. They also assist with miracles, as well as encourage humans to strengthen their faith in God.

==== Powers or authorities ====
In The Etymologies of Isidore of Seville, the powers (lat. potestas (f), pl. potestates; Greek: ἐξουσίαι, exousiai) are given their name because they are angels who have power over evil forces, which the angels are able to restrain to keep them from doing harm. Powers also oversee the power which human beings—such as kings—have been given in the world.

=== Third Order ===

==== Principalities or rulers ====
According to The Etymologies of Isidore of Seville, the principalities (Latin: principatus), also translated as "Princedoms" and "Rulers", from the Greek archai, pl. of archē (see Greek root in Eph 3:10), are the angels that guide and protect nations, or groups of peoples, and institutions such as the Church. The principalities preside over the bands of angels and charge them with fulfilling the divine ministry. There are some who administer and some who assist.
An example of a principality angel with a specific cultus is the Angel of Portugal.

==== Archangels ====

The word archangel is used twice in the New Testament: in 1 Thessalonians 4:16 and Jude 1:9.
In most Christian traditions, Gabriel is also considered an archangel, but there is no direct literary support for this assumption. The term archangel appears only in the singular, never plural, and only in specific reference to Michael.
The name of the archangel Raphael appears only in the Book of Tobit (Tobias).
The Holy See's 2001 Directory on popular piety states: "The practice of assigning names to the Holy Angels should be discouraged, except in the cases of Gabriel, Raphael and Michael whose names are contained in Holy Scripture".

==== Guardian angels ====

A guardian angel is a type of angel that is assigned to protect and guide a particular person, group or nation. Belief in tutelary beings can be traced throughout all antiquity. The idea of angels that guard over people played a major role in Ancient Judaism. In Christianity, the hierarchy of angels was extensively developed in the 5th century by Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite. The theology of angels and tutelary spirits has undergone many changes since the 5th century. The belief is that guardian angels serve to protect whichever person God assigns them to. The watchers were of this class of angels.

== See also ==
Angele Dei
Angelic Hymn
Angelic salutation
Dynamics of the celestial spheres
Fallen angel
Heavenly host
Hierarchy of angels
List of angels in theology
List of films about angels

== References ==

=== Sources ===
Klein, Elizabeth (2018). Augustine's Theology of Angels. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-1-108-42445-5.
Wood, Alice (2008). Of Wing and Wheels: A Synthetic Study of the Biblical Cherubim. Walter de Gruyter. ISBN 978-3-11-020528-2.

== Further reading ==
Patrides, C. A. (1982). "On the orders of angels". Premises and Motifs in Renaissance Thought and Literature. Princeton. ISBN 0-691-06505-5.
Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite (1894). The Celestial and Ecclesiastical Hierarchy of Dionysius the Areopagite. Translated by John Parker. Skeffington & Son.

2023 Maspalomas Challenger

The 2023 Maspalomas Challenger was a professional tennis tournament played on clay courts. It was the second edition of the tournament which was part of the 2023 ATP Challenger Tour. It took place in Maspalomas, Spain from 27 November to 3 December 2023.

== Champions ==

=== Singles ===

Pedro Martínez def. Kilian Feldbausch 6–4, 4–6, 6–3.

=== Doubles ===

Scott Duncan / Marcus Willis def. Théo Arribagé / Sadio Doumbia 7–6(7–5), 6–4.

== Singles main-draw entrants ==

=== Seeds ===

1 Rankings are as of 20 November 2023.

=== Other entrants ===
The following players received wildcards into the singles main draw:

Nicolás Álvarez Varona
Alberto Barroso Campos
Carlos Sánchez Jover
The following player received entry into the singles main draw using a protected ranking:

Carlos López Montagud
The following players received entry from the qualifying draw:

Javier Barranco Cosano
Kilian Feldbausch
Jonáš Forejtek
Vilius Gaubas
Svyatoslav Gulin
Imanol López Morillo

== References ==

114th Grey Cup

The 114th Grey Cup will be played to decide the Canadian Football League (CFL) championship for the 2027 season. The game is scheduled to be played on November 7, 2027, at Mosaic Stadium in Regina, Saskatchewan. It will be the fifth time that Regina has hosted the Grey Cup, with the most recent being in 2022. The game will be televised in Canada nationally on TSN and RDS.

== Date ==
As per the latest Collective Bargaining Agreement, the league had the option of moving the start of the season up to 30 days. The league revealed in the host announcement that this game would be played on the first Sunday of November, instead of the third Sunday of the month which had been used for the previous five seasons. This will be the earliest that a Grey Cup championship game has been played in a calendar year, besting the previous record of the 113th Grey Cup (November 15) by eight days.

== Rule changes ==
Effective for the 2027 season, this is scheduled to be the first Grey Cup to be played on a 100-yard field with 15-yard end zones and goal posts on the dead line. It will also be the first Grey Cup played as part of the league's revised eight-team playoff format.

== References ==

American Academy of Neurology

The American Academy of Neurology (AAN) is a professional society representing over 40,000 neurologists and neuroscientists. As a medical specialty society it was established in 1948 by A.B. Baker of the University of Minnesota to advance the art and science of neurology, and thereby promote the best possible care for patients with neurological disorders. It is headquartered in Minneapolis and maintains a health policy office in Washington, D.C.
In April 2012, the Academy relocated its headquarters to a new 63,000-square-foot building in downtown Minneapolis. The five-story facility cost $20 million to build.

== Activities ==
The annual meeting of the AAN is attended by more than 15,000 neurologists and neuroscientists from the US and abroad.
The American Academy of Neurology has formal policies for avoiding conflicts of interest with pharmaceutical and device industries, and meets or exceeds all recommendations of the Council of Medical Specialty Societies Code.
The journal, Neurology, is the official journal of the AAN. It is a peer-reviewed medical journal which is also referred to colloquially as the "Green Journal" and is published by Wolters-Kluwer. The AAN publishes the bimonthly magazine Brain&Life.
It also awards, in association with the American Brain Foundation, the Potamkin Prize.
Launched in 2003, Neurology on the Hill is an annual event in Washington, D.C., during which neurologists meet with members of congress to advocate on behalf of policies and legislation that have a direct impact on the delivery of neurological care.

=== Top five Choosing Wisely recommendations ===
The AAN partnered with the American Board of Internal Medicine Foundation and Consumer Reports to provide their top 5 recommendations for neurologists. Out of 178 nominations from AAN members, these 5 guidelines were selected by a panel of 4 AAN Staff and 10 experienced AAN members who voted according to a modified Delphi method. The guidelines were published in Neurology on February 20, 2013.

Don't perform EEGs for headaches.
Don't perform imaging of the carotid arteries for simple syncope without other neurologic symptoms.
Don't use opioid or butalbital treatment for migraine except as a last resort.
Don't prescribe interferon-beta or glatiramer acetate to patients with disability from progressive, non-relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis.
Disrecommend for asymptomatic carotid stenosis unless the complication rate is low (<3%).

== See also ==
Potamkin Prize

== References ==

== External links ==
Official website

2026 World Mixed Doubles Qualification Event (January)

The 2026 World Mixed Doubles Qualification Event was held from January 5 to 10, 2026 at the Dumfries Ice Bowl in Dumfries, Scotland. The top four placing teams qualified for the 2026 World Mixed Doubles Curling Championship in Geneva, Switzerland. This event was moved from its usual December date, where it had been held since 2019, to January to accommodate the packed schedule of the 2026 Olympic season. A record 33 teams are expected to participate in the event, surpassing the previous all-time high of 29 teams in 2024. Coinciding with the increase in the number of teams, the playoff field will be expanded from eight to twelve for the first time. This event also marked the debut of Pakistan in a world curling event.

== Teams ==
The teams are as follows:

== Round robin standings ==
Final Round Robin Standings

== Round robin results ==
All draw times are listed in Greenwich Mean Time (UTC+00:00).

=== Draw 1 ===
Monday, January 5, 9:00

=== Draw 2 ===
Monday, January 5, 12:30

=== Draw 3 ===
Monday, January 5, 16:00

=== Draw 4 ===
Monday, January 5, 19:30

=== Draw 5 ===
Tuesday, January 6, 9:00

=== Draw 6 ===
Tuesday, January 6, 12:30

=== Draw 7 ===
Tuesday, January 6, 16:00

=== Draw 8 ===
Tuesday, January 6, 19:30

=== Draw 9 ===
Wednesday, January 7, 9:00

=== Draw 10 ===
Wednesday, January 7, 12:30

Belgium forfeited the game (ran out of time during end 8, 1 stone remaining)

=== Draw 11 ===
Wednesday, January 7, 16:00

=== Draw 12 ===
Wednesday, January 7, 19:30

=== Draw 13 ===
Thursday, January 8, 9:00

=== Draw 14 ===
Thursday, January 8, 12:30

=== Draw 15 ===
Thursday, January 8, 16:00

=== Draw 16 ===
Thursday, January 8, 19:30

=== Draw 17 ===
Friday, January 9, 10:00

=== Draw 18 ===
Friday, January 9, 14:00

=== Draw 19 ===
Friday, January 9, 18:00

== Playoffs ==

=== Qualification Semifinals ===
Saturday, January 10, 10:00

=== Qualification Finals ===
Saturday, January 10, 15:00

== References ==

== External links ==
Official website

Results from the World Curling Federation
"Results Book - World Mixed Doubles Qualification Event 2025-2026" (PDF). livescores.worldcurling.org. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2026-01-12.
"Results Summary - World Mixed Doubles Qualification Event 2025-2026" (PDF). livescores.worldcurling.org. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2026-01-12.

ATC code B03

ATC code B03 Antianemic preparations is a therapeutic subgroup of the Anatomical Therapeutic Chemical Classification System, a system of alphanumeric codes developed by the World Health Organization (WHO) for the classification of drugs and other medical products. Subgroup B03 is part of the anatomical group B Blood and blood forming organs.
Codes for veterinary use (ATCvet codes) can be created by placing the letter Q in front of the human ATC code: for example, QB03. ATCvet codes without corresponding human ATC codes are cited with the leading Q in the following list.National versions of the ATC classification may include additional codes not present in this list, which follows the WHO version.

== B03A Iron preparations ==

=== B03AA Iron bivalent, oral preparations ===
B03AA01 Ferrous glycine sulfate
B03AA02 Ferrous fumarate
B03AA03 Ferrous gluconate
B03AA04 Ferrous carbonate
B03AA05 Ferrous chloride
B03AA06 Ferrous succinate
B03AA07 Ferrous sulfate
B03AA08 Ferrous tartrate
B03AA09 Ferrous aspartate
B03AA10 Ferrous ascorbate
B03AA11 Ferrous iodine
B03AA12 Ferrous sodium citrate

=== B03AB Iron trivalent, oral preparations ===
B03AB01 Ferric sodium citrate
B03AB02 Saccharated iron oxide
B03AB03 Sodium feredetate
B03AB04 Ferric hydroxide
B03AB05 Ferric oxide polymaltose complexes
B03AB07 Chondroitin sulfate-iron complex
B03AB08 Ferric acetyl transferrin
B03AB09 Ferric proteinsuccinylate
B03AB10 Ferric maltol
QB03AB90 Iron dextran complexes

=== B03AC Iron, parenteral preparations ===
Empty group

=== B03AD Iron in combination with folic acid ===
B03AD01 Ferrous amino acid complex and folic acid
B03AD02 Ferrous fumarate and folic acid
B03AD03 Ferrous sulfate and folic acid
B03AD04 Ferric oxide polymaltose complexes and folic acid
B03AD05 Ferrous gluconate and folic acid

=== B03AE Iron in other combinations ===
B03AE01 Iron, vitamin B12 and folic acid
B03AE02 Iron, multivitamins and folic acid
B03AE03 Iron and multivitamins
B03AE04 Iron, multivitamins and minerals
B03AE10 Various combinations

== B03B Vitamin B12 and folic acid ==

=== B03BA Vitamin B12 (cyanocobalamin and analogues) ===
B03BA01 Cyanocobalamin
B03BA02 Cyanocobalamin tannin complex
B03BA03 Hydroxocobalamin
B03BA04 Cobamamide
B03BA05 Mecobalamin
B03BA51 Cyanocobalamin, combinations
B03BA53 Hydroxocobalamin, combinations

=== B03BB Folic acid and derivatives ===
B03BB01 Folic acid
B03BB51 Folic acid, combinations

== B03X Other antianemic preparations ==

=== B03XA Other antianemic preparations ===
B03XA01 Erythropoietin
B03XA02 Darbepoetin alfa
B03XA03 Methoxy polyethylene glycol-epoetin beta
B03XA04 Peginesatide
B03XA05 Roxadustat
B03XA06 Luspatercept
B03XA07 Daprodustat
B03XA08 Vadadustat
B03XA09 Molidustat
B03XA10 Efepoetin alfa

== References ==

2000–01 ARY Gold Cup

The 2000–01 ARY Gold Cup was a triangular ODI cricket competition held in Sharjah, United Arab Emirates from 8 to 20 April 2001. It featured the national cricket teams of New Zealand, Pakistan and Sri Lanka. The tournament was won by Sri Lanka, who defeated Pakistan in the final.

== Points table ==

=== 1st ODI ===

=== 2nd ODI ===

=== 3rd ODI ===

=== 4th ODI ===

=== 5th ODI ===

=== 6th ODI ===

== Final ==

== References ==

Berthun of Sussex

Berthun (died c. 685) was a dux of the South Saxons.
Bede's Historia ecclesiastica gentis Anglorum (book IV, chapter 15) records the invasion of the South Saxon kingdom by Caedwalla of the West Saxons and the killing of the South Saxon king Æthelwalh. Caedwalla was driven off by Berthun and Andhun of Sussex, who then jointly ruled the South Saxons. However, Bede reports, Beorhthun was later killed and the South Saxons conquered by Caedwalla. The Kings & Queens of Britain also states Caedwalla was driven off by Berthun and Andhun, but returned and recaptured the kingdom, killing Berthun c. 685.

== References ==

== External links ==

Beorhthun 1 at Prosopography of Anglo-Saxon England

Charles Davis

Charles or Charlie Davis may refer to:

== Arts and entertainment ==
Charles Davis (saxophonist) (1933–2016), American jazz saxophonist
Charles Davis (flute player) (born 1946), American jazz flautist
Charles Crawford Davis (1893–1966), American audio engineer and innovator
Charles Edward Davis (1827–1902), English architect and antiquarian
Charles Harold Davis (1856–1933), American landscape painter
Charles Davis (actor) (1925–2009), Irish character actor
Charles Michael Davis (born 1981), American actor and model
Charles Belmont Davis (1866–1926), writer, drama critic, and publisher
Charles K.L. Davis (1925–1991), Native Hawaiian opera singer and musician
Charlie Davis, American bandleader of The Charlie Davis Orchestra
The real name of the Scorpio Killer in Dirty Harry (1971)
Charles T. Davis (poet), poet and journalist from Arkansas

== Law and politics ==
Charles Davis (land purchase agent) (c. 1818 – 1887), New Zealand interpreter, writer and land purchase agent
Charles B. Davis (1877–1943), U.S. federal judge
Charles H. Davis (judge) (1906–1976), Illinois Supreme Court and Illinois Appellate Court justice
Charles Russell Davis (1849–1930), U.S. representative from Minnesota
Charles R. Davis (Minnesota politician, born 1945), American educator and member of the Minnesota Senate
Charles Augustus Davis (1828–?), Wisconsin state assemblyman
Charles W. Davis (politician) (1827–1912), Wisconsin state senator
Greg Davis (Mississippi politician) (Charles Gregory Davis, born 1966), mayor of Southaven, Mississippi
Charles Davis (Australian politician) (1884–1959), South Australian politician
Charles Davis (warden), American warden of Sing Sing
Charles Davis (Vermont judge) (1789–1863), Vermont attorney and judge
Charlie Davis (politician) (born 1965), member of the Missouri House of Representatives
Charles J. Davis (1910–1968), Michigan politician
Sir Charles Davis, 1st Baronet (1878–1950), Lord Mayor of London
Charles E. Davis Jr. (born 1932), member of the Florida House of Representatives
Charles H. S. Davis (1840–1917), American physician, philologist and orientalist; member of the Connecticut House of Representatives.

== Military ==
Charles Henry Davis (1807–1877), U.S. naval officer
Charles C. Davis (1830–1909), American Medal of Honor recipient
Charles P. Davis (1872–1943), American Medal of Honor recipient
Charles W. Davis (1917–1991), U.S. Army officer and Medal of Honor recipient

== Sports ==

=== American football ===
Charlie Davis (defensive tackle) (born 1951), former American football defensive tackle
Charlie Davis (running back) (born 1952), American football player
Charles Davis (defensive back) (born 1964), American college football player and television commentator
Charles Davis (tight end) (born 1983), American football player

=== Basketball ===
Charlie Davis (basketball) (born 1949), American basketball player
Charles Davis (basketball, born 1958), American basketball player
Charles Davis (basketball, born 1984), naturalized Azerbaijani basketball player

=== Other sports ===
Charlie Davis (footballer) (1904–1967), English professional footballer
Charlie Davis (baseball) (1927–2016), American baseball player
Charles Davis (sport shooter) (1927–2018), American Olympic sport shooter
Charlie Davis (cricketer) (born 1944), West Indian cricketer
Charles Davis (American athlete) (born 1993), American visually-impaired runner
Charles Davis (boxer) (born 1980), American boxer

== Other people ==
Charles Henry Davis (civil engineer) (1865–1951), American businessman and civil engineer
Charles H. Davis (fl. 1890), gold prospector at Golden Fleece Mine, Colorado
Charles Davis (theologian) (1923–1999), British Jesuit theologian, famous for publicly leaving the Catholic Church in 1966
Charles Till Davis (1929–1998), American medieval historian
Charles Thomas Davis (1873–1938), British civil servant
Charles William Davis (born 1947), American serial killer
Charles Henry Davis (bishop) (1815–1854), English Benedictine bishop of the Catholic Church

== Other uses ==
Charles Davis (department store), a department store company in Hobart, Tasmania

== See also ==
Chuck Davis (disambiguation)
Charles Davies (disambiguation)

80th Troop Carrier Squadron

The 80th Troop Carrier Squadron is an inactive United States Air Force unit. Formed in April 1943, its last assignment was with the 436th Troop Carrier Group, based at Standiford Municipal Airport, Kentucky. It was inactivated on 16 April 1951.

== History ==
The squadron was formed in April 1943 by I Troop Carrier Command, trained and equipped at various bases in the United States for the balance of the year. It was deployed to England, being assigned to IX Troop Carrier Command, Ninth Air Force, 53rd Troop Carrier Wing, 436th Troop Carrier Group, in early January 1944, during the Allied buildup prior to the invasion of France. Initially it was stationed at RAF Bottesford, then moved to RAF Membury 3 March 1944.
The squadron participated in the D-Day operation, dropping 101st Airborne Division paratroops near Sainte-Mère-Église on the Cotentin Peninsula in pre-dawn hours and towing gliders with 82nd Airborne Division paratroops at dusk to drop zones just inland from Utah Beach, then carried out re-supply drops and glider delivery missions the following day. The squadron's aircraft flew supplies into Normandy as soon as suitable landing strips were available and evacuated casualties to England.
From 20 July until 23 August, a detachment from the squadron operated from Voltone Airfield in Italy in support of Operation Dragoon, the invasion of Southern France, releasing gliders carrying 82nd Airborne Division paratroops in the assault area on 15 August. It flew several resupply missions to France and then dropped supplies to Allied forces in Italy. The detachment then returned to Membury airbase in England.
In late September the squadron carried out airborne operations over the Netherlands, dropping paratroops of the 101st Airborne Division and releasing gliders with reinforcements of troops and equipment in missions during Operation Market Garden. In late December, the squadron flew sorties during Operation Repulse, the resupply of Bastogne during the Battle of the Bulge.
The squadron moved to Villaroche (Melun) Airfield, France, in February 1945, and for the balance of the Northern France Campaign and the Western Allied invasion of Germany was engaged in combat resupply of ground forces, operating from Advanced Landing Grounds in northern France. Delivered supplies to rough Resupply and Evacuation airfields near the front lines, returning combat casualties to field hospitals in rear areas. Participated in Operation Varsity, the airborne invasion of Germany, in March 1945. After V-E Day, the squadron continued to evacuate patients and prisoners of war and flew practice missions with French paratroops.
Redeployed to the United States in August 1945, it became a transport squadron for Continental Air Command until inactivated in November 1945.
Postwar the squadron was activated in the Air Force Reserve in 1947, first at Godman AFB, then at Standiford Field, Louisville, Kentucky, operating C-46 Commandos for Tactical Air Command Eighteenth Air Force; activated during the Korean War in 1951, its aircraft and personnel being used as fillers for active duty units, then inactivated.

=== Operations and decorations ===
Combat Operations. Airborne assaults on Normandy, Southern France, the Netherlands, and Germany; relief of Bastogne; transportation of cargo and passengers in ETO and MTO during World War II.
Campaigns. Rome-Arno, Normandy; Northern France, Southern France; Rhineland; Ardennes-Alsace; Central Europe.
Decorations. Distinguished Unit Citation: France, [6-7] Jun 1944.

=== Lineage ===
Constituted 80th Troop Carrier Squadron on 23 Mar 1943
Activated on 1 Apr 1943
Inactivated on 15 Nov 1945
Activated in the reserve on 16 Jul 1947
Re-designated 80th Troop Carrier Squadron (Medium) on 27 Jun 1949
Ordered to active service on 1 Apr 1951
Inactivated on 16 Apr 1951

=== Assignments ===
436th Troop Carrier Group, 1 Apr 1943 – 15 Nov 1945
436th Troop Carrier Group, 16 Jul 1947
434th Troop Carrier Group, 1 Jul 1948
436th Troop Carrier Group, 27 Jun 1949 – 16 Apr 1951

=== Stations ===

=== Aircraft ===
C-47 Skytrain, 1943–1946; 1949
Airspeed Horsa (Glider), 1944–1945
Waco CG-4 (Glider), 1944–1945
C-46 Commando, 1945–1946; 1949–1951

== References ==
This article incorporates public domain material from the Air Force Historical Research Agency

Maurer, Maurer, ed. (1982) [1969]. Combat Squadrons of the Air Force, World War II (PDF) (reprint ed.). Washington, DC: Office of Air Force History. ISBN 0-405-12194-6. LCCN 70605402. OCLC 72556. Archived from the original (PDF) on 20 December 2016.

== External links ==

Division of McEwen

The Division of McEwen is an Australian Electoral Division in the state of Victoria. The electorate is located in the centre of the state, north of its capital city Melbourne. Classed as a rural seat, it includes the towns of Gisborne, Macedon, Whittlesea, and Wallan, though it also includes the newly developed Melbourne suburbs of Mernda, Doreen and Donnybrook.

== Geography ==
Since 1984, federal electoral division boundaries in Australia have been determined at redistributions by a redistribution committee appointed by the Australian Electoral Commission. Redistributions occur for the boundaries of divisions in a particular state, and they occur every seven years, or sooner if a state's representation entitlement changes or when divisions of a state are malapportioned.
When it was first created in 1984, the division covered the outer northern suburbs of Melbourne and a large area of regional Victoria north of Melbourne. For the suburbs, the division included Epping, Greensborough and Montmorency. It also included towns (later becoming suburbs in the future) of Plenty, Doreen, Mernda, Craigieburn, Donnybrook and Mickleham. These suburban areas were previously part of the Division of Scullin and the abolished Division of Diamond Valley. For regional Victoria, the division extended up to Nagambie and Violet Town to the north, and included the towns of Seymour, Yea, Mansfield, Wallan and Whittlesea. These regional areas were previously part of the Divisions of Scullin, Burke, Bendigo and Indi.
Over time since then, it has gained and lost various areas in northern Victoria and the northern suburbs, with some changes to boundaries. Between 1994 and 2010, it also included Healseville and Warburton. Between 2010 and 2021, the division also included Sunbury in north-west Melbourne.
In 2003, the division shifted west into Gisborne, Macedon and Woodend to replace the abolished Division of Burke, while losing Nagambie and Mansfield to the Division of Indi. In 2010, the division also lost its eastern half to Division of Indi, including the towns of Yea, Alexandra and Eildon. In 2018, the division was further shrunk in area by half, losing its northern half (Seymour) to the new Division of Nicholls. In 2024, it lost Kilmore and Christmas Hills to the Divisions of Nicholls and Casey respectively. It also swapped areas with the Division of Scullin, gaining the entirety of Mernda but losing Wollert entirely. It also gained Kalkallo from the Division of Calwell.
As of the 2024 redistribution, McEwen includes the outer northern suburbs of Doreen, Mernda, Donnybrook, Diamond Creek and Hurstbridge, and towns outside the metropolitan area such as Wallan, Gisborne, Macedon and Woodend. Out of these, Doreen, Mernda, Donnybrook, Whittlesea and Wandong have always been located within McEwen throughout the history of the division (as of 2025). A portion of its southern boundary runs along the southern boundary of Shire of Macedon Ranges.

== History ==

The Division was proclaimed at the redistribution of 14 September 1984, and was first contested at the 1984 federal election. It was named after Sir John McEwen, leader of the Australian Country Party from 1958 to 1971, who served as caretaker Prime Minister of Australia after the disappearance of Harold Holt in 1967.
While classed as rural, it is actually a hybrid urban-rural seat. The urban portion is located in Labor's traditional heartland of north Melbourne, while the rural portion votes equally strongly for the Liberals and Nationals. As a result, for most of its existence it has been highly marginal. Unlike most marginal seats with similar demographics, however, McEwen is not considered a barometer for winning government. All but one of its members has spent at least one term in opposition.
The 2007 election resulted in McEwen becoming the most marginal seat in the country. Incumbent Liberal MP Fran Bailey led throughout most of the initial count, and was initially found to have lost to former Labor state MLC Rob Mitchell by six votes. Bailey subsequently requested and was granted a full recount, which overturned Mitchell's win and instead gave Bailey a twelve-vote victory. The result was challenged in the High Court of Australia in its capacity as the Court of Disputed Returns, and was referred to the Federal Court of Australia. Over seven months after the election and a review of 643 individual votes, the court altered the formal status of several dozen for a variety of reasons including that voters putting their initials only does not count as being identifiable and thus should be counted as formal, three votes that were ruled informal due to concerns they were not official ballots and one that had unusual notations resembling Roman numerals in a ballot filed with typical Arabic numerals that was ruled informal but overturned. The court eventually declared Bailey the winner by 27 votes, later amended to 31 votes. Following the resolution of the long-running dispute, Bailey called for a total overhaul of the voting system.
Bailey retired at the 2010 election where Mitchell again stood as the Labor candidate and won amid a considerable swing to Labor in Victoria that allowed Julia Gillard to form a minority government. Ahead of the 2013 election, a redistribution pushed McEwen further into Melbourne, increasing Labor's notional majority from a marginal 5.3 percent to a fairly safe 9.2 percent. However, Mitchell barely retained the seat against former Liberal MLC Donna Petrovich with a majority of just 0.15 percent—a margin of just 313 votes—which made McEwen the second most marginal seat in Australia at the time; the Division of Fairfax, won by Clive Palmer, was decided by a thinner margin of just 53 votes. Mitchell won a third term in 2016 Australian federal election on a swing of over seven percent, boosting his majority to 57 percent, the strongest result in the seat's history.

== Members ==

== Election results ==

== References ==

== External links ==
Division of McEwen - Australian Electoral Commission

2007 Warabi mayoral election

Warabi, Saitama held a mayoral election on June 3, 2007. Hideo Yoritaka, an independent backed by the Japanese Communist Party (JCP) won.

== Candidates ==
Hideo Yoritaka, member of the Japanese Communist Party and former city assembly member.
Shono Takuya, Mayor of Warabi from 2003 to 2007, supported by conservative Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) and Komeito.
The Democratic Party of Japan, the second largest party in Japan, did not support any of the candidates.

== Results ==

== References ==
Results from JanJan (in Japanese)
Japan Press coverage

Adam Fawer

Adam Fawer (born 1970 in New York City) is an American novelist. Improbable, his first novel, has been translated into eighteen languages and won the 2006 International Thriller Writers Award for best first novel. His second novel, Gnosis, has been published in 2008 in German, Japanese and Turkish. His third novel, Oz, has been published in 2016 in Turkish only. Unlike the first two novels, it received generally negative reviews from critics and readers.

== Early life and education ==
Fawer holds undergraduate and master's degrees from the University of Pennsylvania and the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania and received an MBA from the Stanford Graduate School of Business.

== Career ==
During his corporate career, Fawer worked for a variety of companies including Sony Music, J.P. Morgan, and most recently, About.com, where he was the chief operating officer.

== Awards and honours ==
In 2006, Fawer won the International Thriller Writers award for Best First Novel.

== Personal life ==
Fawer lives in New York City with his partner and two sons.

== Bibliography ==
Improbable, 2005 ISBN 0-06-073678-X
Gnosis, also published as Empathy, 2008 ISBN 3463405199
Oz, 2016

== See also ==

Laplace's demon

== References ==

== External links ==
Official Website for Adam Fawer
A review of Improbable by Judi Clark Archived 2008-05-13 at the Wayback Machine
Adam Fawer's backstory for IMPROBABLE

Bayreuth Altstadt–Kulmbach railway

The Bayreuth Altstadt–Kulmbach railway was a branch line in the Bavarian province of Upper Franconia in southern Germany. It was also known colloquially as the Thurnauer Bockela (which roughly translates as "Little Thurnau Goat").

== History ==

=== The first attempt in 1872-1878 ===
On 17 August 1872 the market town of Thurnau applied for the envisaged railway line from Forchheim through Hollfeld to Bayreuth not to be routed to Bayreuth but via Thurnau to Kulmbach, and to extend it via Nordhalben to Eichicht (de) and thus link it with the line to Jena. But after the Forchheim–Plankenfels–Bayreuth railway project went into a concrete planning stage in summer 1877, the towns of Kulmbach and Thurnau modified Thurnau's 1872 proposal in a combined application issued on 18 January 1877. This time it saw the line branching off from a place in the vicinity of Hollfeld from the Forchheim-Bayreuth line and then running via Hollfeld and Thurnau to Kulmbach. The general management of the Royal Bavarian Transport Institution decided on 16 May 1878 to turn these proposals down, however, on operational grounds.

=== The failed second attempt in 1880 ===
After the individual application from the market town of Thurnau, albeit later combined with Kulmbach, foundered, the rural districts under the Royal District Court of Thurnau sent a petition on 13 October 1880 to King Ludwig II of Bavaria requesting the construction of a railway line from Bayreuth via Thurnau and Weismain. This was to form junctions with the Munich–Hof/Saale and Hochstadt/Main–Stockheim–Eichicht railways. The aim was to link Thurnau to the trunk route from Bohemia to Thuringia, that was to run from Eger via Kirchenlaibach and Bayreuth. Ludwig II turned the application down, because the line was not of sufficiently high priority.

=== Third time lucky ===
About 10 years later a Thurnau Lokalbahn (branch line) Committee was formed, that made an application on 14 January 1891 to the State Ministry for the Royal House and Foreign Affairs for a branch from Bayreuth to Thurnau. The Lokalbahn Committee proposed a route through Drossenfeld, Langenstadt, Hutschdorf and Kasendorf. Almost at the same time, the Kulmbach Lokalbahn Committee on 8 March 1891, requested the construction of a Lokalbahn from Kulmbach to Hollfeld, that would be routed via Lanzenreuth, Thurnau, Kasendorf and Wonsees - i.e. through Franconian Switzerland. Since the crown now looked favourably on railway projects, the executive board of the Royal Bavarian Transport Institution, agreed to investigate the construction costs and profitability of both railway proposals. Both routes remained - all in all - in the race. At the instigation of the member of parliament for Kulmbach, Wilhelm Meußdoerffer, the executive board invited the Thurnau and Kulmbach Lokalbahn Committees to a joint discussion at Kasendorf on 20 July 1901. There, the committees were informed that a Lokalbahn from Bayreuth via Thurnau to Kulmbach would be incorporated into the next Lokalbahn law. Both committees immediately agreed. The Imperial (Reichsgraf) Count of Thurnau, von Giech, took over as honorary chairman.

=== Wrangling over the route ===
Nevertheless, there were some changes to the route. At a meeting in Bayreuth on 2 September 1903, to which the Royal Bavarian State Railways had invited interested parties, the course of the railway was finally fixed. The most important changes were:

Melkendorf succeeded in getting the Lokalbahn routed via Melkendorf and not Burghaig.
Count von Giech got agreement for a halt at Krumme Fohre, which gave his chalk sandstone (Kalksandstein) factory access to the railway network. The count donated 43,000 m² of land to facilitate this.

=== Construction ===
After the Lokalbahn law of 10 August 1904 had authorised the construction of the line, along with 29 other branch lines, the first sod was cut on the Thurnau–Kulmbach section on 1 May 1907 and on the Bayreuth–Thurnau section on 1 February 1908.
The Thurnau–Kulmbach stretch was opened on 11 October 1908, and the Bayreuth–Thurnau section on 26 June 1909. The line was opened to the public on 28 June 1909.

== Route ==

(The coordinates in the text are for Google Earth and can be entered using cut and paste. The Drossenfeld–Kulmbach section is still shown as existing in Google Earth.)
The line branched off at Bayreuth Altstadt station (49°56'7.06"N 11°33'0.23"E) from the Lokalbahn to Hollfeld in a westerly direction. Running through Heinersreuth and Altenplos the line reached Neudrossenfeld. Beyond Neuenreuth am Main it descended through the Limmersdorf Forest and ran downhill to Thurnau, the former midpoint of the line. After passing through Krumme Fohre, Katschenreuth and Melkendorf the line finally reached Kulmbach.

Steepest incline: near Limmersdorf 25.0 ‰
Journey time: Bayreuth Hauptbahnhof–Bayreuth Altstadt–Thurnau: 72 minutes

=== Structures ===
Three of the larger structures are worth mentioning:

Kalkbruchstein bridge over the Mistelbach near Bayreuth Altstadt; inside span: 18 m
The Schorrmühl bridge over the Aubach near the mill (Schorrmühle) at Thurnau; a two arch concrete bridge - since torn down (2004?); inside span of each arch: 16 m
Bridge over the Red Main near Katschenreuth; Steel bar design; inside span: 25 m; there are also two smaller 'flood bridges'

=== Private sidings ===

== Closure ==
Passenger service were closed on the Bayreuth–Neudrossenfeld section on 3 June 1973; and goods traffic followed on 1 January 1983. The tracks were completely dismantled by 7 December 1983, and the track system in Thurnau station considerably scaled down. The station building at Thurnau and its associated goods shed were demolished in December 1985, the station building in Drossenfeld met the same fate in 1987.
The two single-arched stone bridges in the city of Bayreuth (over Bamberger Straße (49°56'12.08"N 11°32'49.65"E) directly northwest of Bayreuth-Altstadt station and over Adlerstraße (49°56'20.39"N 11°32'47.87"E)) were demolished by the mid-1970s. The railway embankment was turned into a city cycle route and is partly used as an access path to the houses in Lotzbeckstraße built in the 1980s. The city street map shows the former railway as Thurnauer Weg.
On 3 September 1993 the last section of line, from Kulmbach to Thurnau, was closed for passenger services; the section from Thurnau to Neudrossenfeld having close several years earlier (ca. 1983), not least because of the construction of the bypass around Neudrossenfeld, the B 85. Goods trains still ran to Melkendorf until 31 December 1998; since then only the siding has been served. The only tracks that remain run from Kulmbach station to the level crossing in Melkendorf (May 2007).

== Present-day use of the trackbed ==
The former trackbed from Bayreuth-Oberobsang (the crossroads of the B 85 with Himmelkronstraße) to Heinersreuth (end of Bayreuther Straße shortly before entering the town) was removed in the 1970s to enable the upgrade of the B 85. Today, Drossenfelder Weg and Drossenfelder Straße are on the former base of the old B 85. The level crossing at the end of the present-day Bayreuther Straße was very dangerous because the road ran uphill and cut the trackbed at a very sharp bend.
Much of the rest of the line from Bayreuth to Kulmbach has been converted into the Red Main Cycle Way (Rotmain-Radweg) .

== Nickname ==
Robert Zintl reported that a Lokalbahn line was affectionately called the Bockela or Bockl because most of the trains on these lines "now and then bucked and kicked somewhat obstinately like a stroppy little billy goat" (hie und da etwas eigenwillig bockte und stieß wie ein gereiztes Böcklein).

== See also ==
Royal Bavarian State Railways
Bavarian branch lines
List of closed railway lines in Bavaria

== References ==

Zintl, Robert (1992). Bayreuth und die Eisenbahn (in German). Bindlach: Gondrom. ISBN 3-8112-0780-6.
Zintl, Robert (1986). Das Thurnauer Bockela (in German). Kulmbach: Baumann. ISBN 3-922091-15-6.

== External links ==
1944 timetable extract
The Red Main Cycle Way

Brian Newbould

Brian Newbould (born 26 February 1936) is an English composer, conductor and author who has conjecturally completed Franz Schubert's Symphonies D 708A in D major, No. 7 in E major, No. 8 in B minor ("Unfinished"), No. 10 ("Last") in D major, Piano Sonata in C major, D 840, Quartettsatz, D. 703 and String Trio, D. 471. He was educated at Gravesend Grammar School, and earned a BMus degree with top honors from the University of Bristol.

== Schubert's Eighth Symphony ==
The first two movements of Schubert's Eighth or "Unfinished" Symphony, an Allegro moderato in B minor and an Andante con moto in E major, completed in the Autumn of 1822, were sequestered by Anselm Hüttenbrenner in Graz after Schubert had sent them to him in full score in fulfillment of a commission by the Graz musical society. They were not discovered and conducted until 1865, when Johann Herbeck visited the aging Hüttenbrenner and persuaded him to show him, and lend him, the MS of the legendary rumored missing Schubert B minor Symphony in return for promising to conduct a still unperformed overture of Hüttenbrenner's. The last pages of the Schubert MS contained a sketch of the projected third movement (a scherzo in B major with trio in G major) ultimately completed by Newbould by (1) simply orchestrating the scherzo proper, completed by Schubert in short score, (2) harmonizing and orchestrating the first strain of the trio of which Schubert had written out only the unharmonized melodic line, (3) conjecturally composing the second strain of the trio, entirely missing in the MS, in the Schubert style with contrasting material followed by a return of the theme of the first strain adding slight embellishments in the Schubert manner, and (4) proposing that the large-scale B minor first entr'acte of the Rosamunde incidental music composed several months later in early 1823 by Schubert be played as the likely intended finale of the B minor Symphony since it matched the first movement, and the sketch of the scherzo, in key and style and was composed shortly afterward.

== Schubert's Tenth Symphony ==
Newbould went on to unravel, piece together and orchestrate (following the composer's few notations for intended instruments) Schubert's Tenth Symphony from unsequenced but nearly complete rough MS drafts for a lyrical sonata-form first movement in D major, a monumentally heroic slow movement in B minor and a sonata-form finale in D major dated by him (by the water-marks of the MS paper and by interspersed counterpoint exercises most likely as homework for the one lesson Schubert was able to take from illustrious private teacher Simon Sechter, who subsequently taught the young Anton Bruckner, before Schubert succumbed to typhus a few weeks later, on 19 November) as most probably composed in fall 1828 as his last symphonic work, to be followed only by the song with clarinet obligato, "Der Hirt auf dem Felsen."
Newbould also produced a conjectural completion of Schubert's fragmentary Symphony No. 7 in E major.
Both Sir Charles Mackerras and Sir Neville Marriner have conducted recorded performances of Newbould's conjectural completions of these Schubert "unfinished symphonies".

== References ==

== External links ==
Professor Brian Newbould, Publications, University of Hull. Accessed 9 May 2013.
Personal homepage.

1953 Toronto municipal election

Municipal elections were held in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, on December 7, 1953. Incumbent mayor Allan Lamport won an unexpectedly close race against school board chairman Arthur J. Brown. This election was the first for councils in the municipality of Metropolitan Toronto which would be created on January 1, 1954, and was composed of 14 municipalities: the City of Toronto, the towns of New Toronto, Mimico, Weston and Leaside; the villages of Long Branch, Swansea and Forest Hill, and the townships of Etobicoke, York, North York, East York, and Scarborough.
A Metropolitan Toronto Council had come into being on April 15, 1953, and was made up of the Metro Chairman, Frederick Gardiner, who had been appointed by the province, the Mayor of Toronto, the City of Toronto's two most senior Controllers, nine senior aldermen from each of the City of Toronto (the top finisher in each ward), and the twelve suburban mayors and reeves.

== Toronto mayor ==
Lamport had been elected mayor in 1951, and was expected to face no major opposition to his reelection after powerful Controller Leslie Saunders opted not to run. The final result ended up being closer than expected as Brown, who had never run for city council before, came within 10,000 votes. A central issue of the campaign was the introduction of rent control, which Lamport opposed and Brown favoured. Part way through his term, Lamport resigned and was succeeded by Saunders.

Results

Allan Lamport (incumbent) - 55,064
Arthur J. Brown - 46,080

== Board of Control ==
All four Board of Control members were reelected. Labour representative Ford Brand also campaigned on rent control, and increased his vote to almost win second place. Missing a seat was former Alderman Joseph Cornish on his second attempt for a Board seat. As a result of Saunders appointment as mayor alderman Ross Lipsett was appointed to the Board of Control. The unexpected death of Louis Shannon led to a second board appointment, this time of Alderman Roy E. Belyea. The most senior two Controllers in terms of votes also sat on Metro Toronto Council.

Results
Leslie Saunders (incumbent) - 62,397
Louis Shannon (incumbent) - 57,635
Ford Brand (incumbent) - 54,635
David Balfour (incumbent) - 51,393
Joseph Cornish - 46,701
Harry Bradley - 18,686
Harry Hunter - 14,194

== City council ==

Due to the acclamation in Ward 1 City Council chose William Allen to represent the ward on Metro Council
In each ward, the alderman with the most votes was declared the senior alderman and sat on both Metro Council and Toronto City Council

Ward 1 (Riverdale)
William Allen (incumbent) - acclaimed
Ken Waters (incumbent) - acclaimed
Ward 2 (Cabbagetown and Rosedale)
William Dennison (incumbent) - 4,821
Edgar Roxborough (incumbent) - 4,254
C.M. Edwards - 2,547
George Taylor - 1,761
Ward 3 (West Downtown and Summerhill)
Howard Phillips (incumbent) - 4,016
John McVicar (incumbent) - 3,919
Richard Newson - 1,062
Ward 4 (The Annex, Kensington Market and Garment District)
Allan Grossman (incumbent) - 5,380
Herbert Orliffe - 4,600
Robert Laxer - 1,507
Bernard Levitt - 1,224
Walton Rose - 956
John Anture - 585
Ward 5 (Trinity-Bellwoods and Little Italy)
Joseph Gould (incumbent) - 7,809
Philip Givens (incumbent) - 7,393
Stewart Smith - 3,305
Ward 6 (Davenport and Parkdale)
May Robinson (incumbent) - 9,810
Frank Clifton (incumbent) - 8,382
Lester Nelson - 4,889
Hector MacArthur - 2,437
Patrick McKeown - 1,238
Ward 7 (West Toronto Junction)
William Davidson (incumbent) - 5,837
John Kucherepa (incumbent) - 4,472
John Duncan - 3,670
John Weir - 968
Ward 8 (The Beaches)
Ross Lipsett (incumbent) - 10,470
Alex Hodgins (incumbent) - 9,632
William Probert - 3,149
James Davis - 2,143
William Square - 893
Ward 9 (North Toronto)
Roy E. Belyea (incumbent) - 12,485
Leonard Reilly (incumbent) - 11,261
David Burt - 5,444
Frederick Vacher - 1,314
George Rolland - 802
Results are taken from the December 8, 1953 Toronto Star and might not exactly match final tallies.

== Changes ==
Controller Louis Shannon died on February 16, 1954. On February 23 Controller Ford Brand was appointed Metro Councillor; Ward 9 Alderman Roy E. Belyea was appointed Controller; Ward 9's remaining Alderman Leonard Reilly was appointed Metro Councillor and David Burt was appointed Alderman.
Mayor Allan Lamport resigned on June 28, 1954, to become vice-chairman of the Toronto Transit Commission. Council accepted his resignation by a vote of 19-2 and then unanimously elected Controller Leslie Saunders as Mayor. On July 7 Controller David Balfour was appointed Metro Councillor; Ward 8 Alderman Ross Lipsett was appointed Controller; Ward 8's remaining Alderman Alex Hodgins was appointed Metro Councillor and William Probert was appointed Alderman.

== Suburbs ==

=== East York ===
Reeve
(incumbent)Harry G. Simpson 5,564
Marie Taylor 3,556
Source: "Suburbs Vote Light, Few Changes Result", The Globe and Mail (1936-Current); Toronto, Ont. [Toronto, Ont]07 Dec 1953: 1

=== Etobicoke ===
Reeve
Beverley Lewis - acclaimed
Deputy Reeve
Edward A. Horton - acclaimed
Councillors
Ward 1 (2 elected)

William H.M. Laughlin - acclaimed
Murray Johnson - acclaimed
Ward 2 (2 elected)

Irene Beatie - 1,566
William R. Hodgson - 1,367
Andrew MacDonald - 1,135
Irene Beatie is the first woman ever elected to Etobicoke Town Council.
Ward 3 (2 elected)

Charles Devlin - acclaimed
Gerald Daub - acclaimed
Ward 4 (1 elected)

John M. Allen - 554
James P. Holmes - 353
(source: The Globe and Mail; Toronto, Ont. [Toronto, Ont]08 Dec 1953, pg 9)

=== Forest Hill, Toronto ===
Reeve
Charles O. Bick (acclaimed)
Source: "Last Ballot Dec. 11: No Changes So Far In Metro Council Slate", The Globe and Mail (1936–2016); Toronto, Ont. [Toronto, Ont]07 Dec 1953: 5

=== Leaside ===
Mayor
Howard T. Burrell - 1,694
D.E. Brown - 1,033
Arthur Donahue - 642
Council (4 elected at large)
Joseph Banigan - 2,176
Howard Dickinson - 2,112
Richard Clarke - 1,982
Charles H. Hiscott - 1,956
E. Shipley Birrell - 1,449
Leonard Hart - 1,335

=== Long Branch ===
Reeve
Marie Curtis (acclaimed)
Deputy Reeve
Crawford Bell (acclaimed)
Source: "Suburbs Vote Light, Few Changes Result", The Globe and Mail (1936-Current); Toronto, Ont. [Toronto, Ont]07 Dec 1953: 1

=== Mimico ===
Mayor
Archibald D. Norris (acclaimed)
Source: "Mimico Mayor Sets a Record With 12 Terms", The Globe and Mail (1936–2016); Toronto, Ont. [Toronto, Ont]04 Dec 1953: 4.

=== New Toronto ===
Mayor
John L. (Jack) Strath 1,279
Harold Trickett 574
New Toronto's election occurred on December 12.
Source: "Strath Wins Mayoralty In New Toronto Vote", The Globe and Mail (1936-Current); Toronto, Ont. [Toronto, Ont]14 Dec 1953: 5.

=== North York ===
Reeve
(incumbent)Fred J. McMahon - acclaimed

=== Scarborough ===
Reeve
Oliver E. Crockford (incumbent) - 8,605
George Mason - 4,071
George Barker - 1,673

=== Swansea ===
Reeve
(incumbent)Dorothy Hague (acclaimed)

=== Weston ===
Mayor
(incumbent)Richard C. Seagrave 1,404
John P. Allan 723
Source: "Suburbs Vote Light, Few Changes Result", The Globe and Mail (1936-Current); Toronto, Ont. [Toronto, Ont]07 Dec 1953: 1

=== York ===
Reeve
(incumbent)Frederick W. Hall 9,604
Charles McMaster 3,921
Source: "Suburbs Vote Light, Few Changes Result", The Globe and Mail (1936-Current); Toronto, Ont. [Toronto, Ont]07 Dec 1953: 1

== References ==

Election Coverage. Toronto Star. December 8, 1953

2016 Orange Bowl

The 2016 Orange Bowl was a college football bowl game played on December 30, 2016 at Hard Rock Stadium in Miami Gardens, Florida, played between the Michigan Wolverines of the Big Ten Conference against the Florida State Seminoles of the Atlantic Coast Conference (ACC). It was one of the 2016–17 bowl games that concluded the 2016 NCAA Division I FBS football season. Florida State won the game by a score of 33–32. Dalvin Cook, running back for the Seminoles, was named the game's MVP.
The game was played on the 30th instead of on December 31 or January 1, as the following day's College Football Playoff semi-final bowls were played with earlier kick-off times that intruded into the New Year's Six early-afternoon scheduling window.

== Teams ==
This Orange Bowl game featured the Michigan Wolverines and the Florida State Seminoles.
This was the third meeting between the two schools, with the all time series tied at 1–1; the most recent previous meeting was in 1991, when the Seminoles defeated the Wolverines by a score of 51–31 in Ann Arbor, Michigan. The other meeting occurred in 1986 when the Wolverines defeated the Seminoles by a score of 20–18, a game also played in Ann Arbor.

=== Michigan Wolverines ===

After finishing their regular season with a 10–2 record, the Wolverines were selected to their third Orange Bowl appearance. This was their 45th bowl game appearance, the 11th-highest total all-time among FBS schools.

=== Florida State Seminoles ===

After finishing their regular season with a 9–3 record, the Seminoles were selected to their 10th Orange Bowl appearance, the third most Orange Bowl appearances by any team. This will be their 46th bowl game appearance.

== Game summary ==

=== Scoring summary ===

=== Statistics ===

== References ==

1964 Central African presidential election

Presidential elections were held for the first time in the Central African Republic on 5 January 1964. In December 1963 the Parliament had formally adopted a constitutional amendment that set the presidential term at seven years. The country was a one-party state at the time, with the Movement for the Social Evolution of Black Africa (MESAN) as the sole legal party. Its leader, incumbent President David Dacko, was the only candidate, and won with 99.97% of the vote and a 94% turnout.
After his victory Dacko formed new government on 11 January 1964, in which he kept positions of Head of Government and the Minister of Defense for himself, while former Minister of Justice Antoine Guimali was appointed as the new Minister of Foreign Affairs. Dacko also expressed his intention to keep close relations with France and stated that the military would participate in future infrastructure building projects. In his victory speech to Parliament, Dacko also stated that it was "completely normal for national wealth of the country to be exploited or used by the state, alone or in cooperation with private capital".

== Results ==

== References ==

Bob Brier

Robert Brier (; born December 13, 1943) is an American Egyptologist specializing in paleopathology. A senior research fellow at Long Island University/LIU Post, he has researched and published on mummies and the mummification process and has appeared in many Discovery Civilization, TLC Network, and National Geographic documentaries, primarily on ancient Egypt. He is recognized as one of the world's foremost Egyptologists.

== Background ==
Born and raised in The Bronx, New York, Brier earned his bachelor's degree from Hunter College of the City University of New York. He earned his PhD in philosophy from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in 1970 and began teaching at Long Island University in 1972. He served as chairman of the philosophy department from 1981 to 1996 and has also served as the director of the National Endowment for the Humanities' "Egyptology Today" program. He was appointed senior research fellow at LIU Post in 2004. In addition to his career at Long Island University, Brier has taught ancient Egyptian at The New School and Egyptology at Webb Institute for many years.

== Research and other achievements ==
Brier has worked in pyramids and tombs in 15 countries and conducted research in mummification practices worldwide. He has investigated well-known mummies such as Tutankhamen, Ramses the Great, Vladimir Lenin, Eva Perón (more commonly known as Evita), and the Medici family.
In 1994 Brier and a colleague, Ronald Wade, director of the State Anatomy Board of Maryland, mummified a human cadaver using ancient Egyptian techniques which they noted was the first known effort in 2,000 years. This research earned Brier the affectionate nickname "Mr. Mummy" and was also the subject of the National Geographic television special of the same name, which made him a household name. He is also the host of several television programs for the TLC Network including The Great Egyptians, Pyramids, Mummies and Tombs, and Mummy Detective. His research has been featured in Archaeology Magazine, The New York Times, CNN, 60 Minutes and 20/20.
In 1999, Brier gave a series of 48 specially-prepared lectures entitled "The History of Ancient Egypt" for The Teaching Company. He later did two more series of lectures for them. One focused on "Great Pharaohs of Ancient Egypt" and the other "Decoding the Secrets of Egyptian Hieroglyphs".

== Awards and recognition ==
Fulbright Fellowship to Turkey 1985
National Endowment for the Humanities Fellow, Islamic Science, Columbia University, 1986
David Newton Award for Excellence in Teaching, 1988
Director, National Endowment for the Humanities "Egyptology Today" Program, 1992–94
TASA Award for Lifetime of Scholarship, 2002
Emmy Nomination, Best TV Documentary, Murder of Tutankhamen, 1997

== Published works ==
Brier has also written several articles and books, including:

"Precognition and the philosophy of science: An essay on backward causation" (1974) ISBN 0-391-00325-9
"The Glory of Ancient Egypt: A Collection of Rare Engravings from the Napoleonic Expedition" (1990) ISBN 0-8115-4469-9
"Egyptomania" (June, 1992) ISBN 0-933699-26-3
"Egyptian Mummies : Unraveling the Secrets of an Ancient Art" (March 14, 1996) ISBN 0-688-14624-4
"The Encyclopedia of Mummies" (September, 1998) ISBN 0-8160-3906-2
"The Murder of Tutankhamen" (March 1, 1999) ISBN 0-425-16689-9
"The Daily Life of the Ancient Egyptians" (with Hoyt Hobbs) (December 30, 1999) ISBN 0-313-30313-4
The History of Ancient Egypt (2001, lectures published by The Teaching Company)
Great Pharaohs of Ancient Egypt (2004, lectures published by The Teaching Company)
"The Secret of the Great Pyramid" (with Jean-Pierre Houdin) (October 6, 2008)
"Immunological identification of Plasmodium falciparum and Leishmania infantum in the skeletal remains of the Medici family", Proceedings of the XVIII Congress of Italian Anthropological Association, 2009
"Return to the Great Pyramid," Archaeology Magazine, 2009
Egyptomania: Our Three Thousand Year Obsession with the Land of the Pharaohs (Nov 12, 2013) ISBN 1137278609
Decoding the Secrets of Egyptian Hieroglyphs (2016, lectures published by The Teaching Company, now The Great Courses)
Cleopatra's Needles: The Lost Obelisks of Egypt. Bloomsbury Academic, 2016.
Brier has also written magazine articles for KMT, Archaeology, and others.

== References ==

== External links ==
LIU Post Faculty: Bob Brier
Bob Brier Official Website
Bob Brier at IMDb
"But Is It ESP?" by Bob Brier, 1973 Archived 2019-06-17 at the Wayback Machine
University of Vermont, Fleming Museum: "Egyptologist Presents Case for King Tutankhamen's Murder" (October 4, 2005)

Federal Transfer Center, Oklahoma City

The Federal Transfer Center (FTC Oklahoma City) is a United States federal prison for male and female inmates in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. It is operated by the Federal Bureau of Prisons, a division of the United States Department of Justice, and houses offenders and parole violators who have yet to be assigned to a permanent prison facility.
FTC Oklahoma City is located adjacent to the Will Rogers World Airport, and serves as the main hub of the Justice Prisoner Air Transportation System, popularly known as Con Air. A cadre of low-security inmates are assigned to FTC Oklahoma City to perform food service and maintenance duties.
Piper Kerman, author of Orange Is the New Black stated that circa 2005 the women's section was "spotlessly clean" and "subdued".

== Notable inmates (current and former) ==

== See also ==

List of United States federal prisons
Federal Bureau of Prisons
Incarceration in the United States

== References ==

== External links ==
Official website

1969 Purdue Boilermakers football team

The 1969 Purdue Boilermakers football team represented Purdue University during the 1969 Big Ten Conference football season. Led by Jack Mollenkopf in his 14th and final season as head coach, the Boilermakers compiled an overall record of 8–2 with a mark of 5–2 in conference play, placing third in the Big Ten. Purdue played home games at Ross–Ade Stadium in West Lafayette, Indiana.

== Schedule ==

== Game summaries ==

=== TCU ===
Randy Cooper 23 rushes, 117 yards

=== Stanford ===
Mike Phipps 28/39 passing, 429 yards

== Roster ==

== Awards ==
All-Big Ten: HB Stan Brown (2nd), T Paul DeNuccio (1st), DB Tim Foley (2nd), DE Bill McKoy (2nd), LB Veno Paraskevas (1st), QB Mike Phipps (1st), C Walter Whitehead (2nd), T Bill Yancher (1st)
Chicago Tribune Big Ten MVP: QB Mike Phipps

== References ==

2020–21 St Johnstone F.C. season

The 2020–21 St Johnstone F.C. season was the club's eighth season in the Scottish Premiership and their eleventh consecutive season in the top flight of Scottish football. St Johnstone also competed in the Scottish Cup and the League Cup, winning both competitions. St Johnstone became only the fourth Scottish team, and only the second outwith the Old Firm, to win a Scottish cup double.

== Season summary ==
After the resignation of Tommy Wright, Alec Cleland took over as interim manager. After sixteen years at the club Steven Anderson left before the season began along with Danny Swanson, Ross Callachan and David McMillan. Former player and assistant manager Callum Davidson was appointed manager. Former striker Steven MacLean retired to become a coach alongside Cleland who returns to his former role. The Saints dropped to the bottom of the table after four games without a goal, but after a 5–3 away win at Hamilton they moved off it.
The Saints reached the final of the League Cup with a 3–0 win against Hibernian. On 28 February 2021, St Johnstone defeated Livingston in the final thanks to a single goal from Shaun Rooney. In doing so, the club won their first League Cup title, their second ever major honour, and ended Celtic's dominating run of having won the last 12 major honours at stake in Scotland.
On 22 May 2021, St Johnstone won the Scottish Cup, defeating Hibs by a score of 1–0 in the final, with Shaun Rooney again netting the winning goal. With the victory, St Johnstone became just the fourth club in Scottish history to win the cup double after Aberdeen, Celtic, and Rangers.

== Results ==
Win
Draw
Loss
Postponed

=== Pre-season ===

=== Scottish Premiership ===

=== Scottish League Cup ===

==== Group stage ====

==== Knockout round ====

=== Scottish Cup ===

== Squad statistics ==

=== Appearances ===
As of 22 May 2021

== Team statistics ==

=== League table ===

==== League Cup table ====

== Transfers ==

=== Players in ===

=== Players out ===

== See also ==
List of St Johnstone F.C. seasons

== References ==

Carex hovarum

Carex hovarum is a tussock-forming species of perennial sedge in the family Cyperaceae. It is native to central parts of Madagascar.

== See also ==
List of Carex species

== References ==

2021 Maidstone Borough Council election

The 2021 Maidstone Borough Council election took place on 6 May 2021, in order to elect members to the Maidstone Borough Council. These elections were originally due to take place on 7 May 2020, but due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the decision was taken to postpone them by a year. These elections took place in conjunction with other local elections on the same day. Nominations for Elections were published on 9 April 2021.

== Background ==
These seats were last contested in 2016. These were due for re-election in 2020, but all local elections in the United Kingdom were postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. One of the main issues in this election was housing, and it was reported that Maidstone had built 146% of its projected target, more than any other local authority in Kent. Neighbourhood Plan Referendums also took place in Boughton and Monchelsea and Lenham
These seats are due to be up for re-election in 2024.

== Results summary ==

== Ward results ==

=== Allington ===

=== Barming and Teston ===

=== Bearsted ===

=== Boughton Monchelsea and Chart Sutton ===

=== Boxley ===

=== Bridge ===

=== Coxheath and Hunton ===

=== East ===

=== Fant ===

=== Headcorn ===

=== Heath ===

=== High Street ===

=== Marden and Yalding ===

=== North ===

=== North Downs ===

=== Park Wood ===

=== Shepway North ===

=== Shepway South ===

=== South ===

== References ==

2013–14 Austin Peay Governors basketball team

The 2013–14 Austin Peay Governors basketball team represented Austin Peay State University during the 2013–14 NCAA Division I men's basketball season. The Governors, led by 24th year head coach Dave Loos, played their home games at the Dunn Center and were members of the West Division of the Ohio Valley Conference. They finished the season 12–18, 6–10 in OVC play to finish in fifth place in the West Division. They failed to qualify for the Ohio Valley Tournament.

== Roster ==

== Schedule ==

Peay Nation Sports Television Network (PNSTVN) airs across the state on Charter Channel 99, CDE Lightband Channel 9, and U-Verse 99.

== References ==

Carlos Vecchio

Carlos Alfredo Vecchio DeMari (born 6 June 1969) is a Venezuelan lawyer, politician and social activist, designated as Ambassador to the US by Juan Guaidó in January 2019 during the 2019 Venezuelan presidential crisis. His credential letter was accepted by U.S. President Donald Trump on 9 April 2019. After his ambassadorial term ended, he became Head of External Affairs at the Inter-American Development Bank in Washington DC.

== Early life and education ==
Vecchio was born on 6 June 1969 in Caripe, Monagas state, Venezuela, the youngest of three children, to Maria Teresa Demari de Vecchio, a teacher, and Rafael Vecchio, a political activist and three-term council person for Caripe. He moved to Caracas in 1987, studied at the Central University of Venezuela, and earned his law degree in 1992.
He did postgraduate studies in law at Georgetown University and public administration at Harvard University, where he was a Fulbright scholar at the Kennedy School of Government.

== Legal career ==
From 1994 to 1998, Vecchio was a legal consult for Venezuela's state-run oil company, PDVSA. Vecchio then returned to work as a tax manager for ExxonMobil in Venezuela. After Chávez expropriated ExxonMobil's assets within Venezuela, in 2006 Vecchio's boss offered him a position in Qatar that included a pay increase, an assigned house and car, a company share package and more benefits. Vecchio said he immediately declined the offer and decided at that point to become involved in politics.

== Political career ==

In 2006, Vecchio grew opposed to the economic policy of the Hugo Chávez administration and began to think about being involved in Venezuelan politics.
Vecchio later helped found the political party Popular Will (Spanish: Voluntad Popular) with Leopoldo López and Guaidó. With López imprisoned by the Venezuelan government, Vecchio was serving as leader of the party, when he was charged with incitement to violence. He went into hiding, and later sought exile in the US.
In January 2019, Vecchio was named by Juan Guaidó, and accepted by U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, as Chargé d'Affaires of the Government of Venezuela to the United States. He told the Washington Diplomat that the outgoing Maduro embassy staff had taken all valuables from the Washington Embassy as they left. “They dismantled everything, but we need to recover all of it legally because I want to have in the official record how we received those assets, to show the Venezuelan people what they did.”

Michael Shifter told The Washington Diplomat that Vecchio is "extremely impressive and sharp ... He’s got the background, skills and temperament for the job ... he’s level-headed and realistic, and he’s been in this fight for a long time." The director of the Adrienne Arsht Latin America Center, Jason Marczak, said "he’s eloquent and articulate, and he’s able to maneuver in different circles", and that he will need to educate "folks like Bernie Sanders and others on the Hill who have started becoming critical of U.S. policy there."

== Recognition ==
Vecchio is a 2013 fellow of the Yale University Maurice R. Greenberg World Fellows Program.

== Publications ==
Vecchio, Carlos with foreword by Luis Almagro and introduction by Leopoldo López (19 June 2018). Libres: El nacimiento de una nueva Venezuela (in Spanish). Círculo Editorial Visión Progresista / Editorial Dahbar / Cyngular Asesoría 357, C.A. ASIN B07DVTJCF6.

== References ==

== Notes ==

== External links ==
Carlos Vecchio on X
Opposition leaders at risk, Yale fellows
From Yale to jail? Yale alumni magazine
Wanted in Venezuela, Yale, The Politic

1979 Commonwealth final

The 1979 Commonwealth final was the inaugural running of the Commonwealth Final as part of the qualification for the 1979 Speedway World Championship Final to be held at the Silesian Stadium in Chorzów, Poland. The 1979 Final was run on 1 July at the White City Stadium in London, England, and was part of the qualifying for riders from the Commonwealth nations.
Riders from Australia and New Zealand qualified for the new final through the 1979 Australasian Final held at the Rowley Park Speedway in Adelaide, South Australia in February. Those from Great Britain (primarily from England), qualified through the British Championship final held two weeks earlier at the Brandon Stadium in Coventry.
Michael Lee won the event defeating Australian Billy Sanders in a run-off after both riders finished on 14 points.

== 1979 Commonwealth final ==
1 July
White City Stadium, London
Qualification: Top 9 plus 1 reserve to the Intercontinental Final in London

== References ==

== See also ==
Motorcycle Speedway

Aislinn Clarke

Aislinn Clarke is an Irish film writer and director.

== Life and career ==
Clarke was born in Dundalk, County Louth, Ireland, and was raised in Belfast.
She is known for writing and directing The Devil's Doorway (2018) and Frewaka (2024), and for writing the screenplay for Doineann (2021).

== References ==

1976 Western Kentucky Hilltoppers football team

The 1976 Western Kentucky football team represented Western Kentucky University during the 1976 NCAA Division II football season. Led by ninth-year head coach Jimmy Feix, the Hilltoppers compiled an overall record of 4–5–1 with a mark of 3–4 in conference play, tying for fourth place in the OVC. The team's captain was David Carter.

== Schedule ==

== References ==

1938 World Men's Handball Championship squads

This article displays the squads for the 1938 World Men's Handball Championship. Each team consisted of 10 to 15 players.
Appearances, goals and ages as of tournament start, 5 February 1938.

== Teams ==

=== Austria ===
Head coach: Wilhelm Tolar, Tour guide: Hans Zelinka
Players

=== Denmark ===
Head coach: Aksel Pedersen
Players

=== Germany ===
Head coach: Otto Kaundinya
Players

GK = Goalkeeper; D = Defender; O = Offender

=== Sweden ===
Head coach: Herbert Johansson
Players

== References ==

AdStar

AdStar (an acronym for Advanced Storage and Retrieval) was a division of IBM that encompassed all the company's storage products including disk, tape and optical storage systems and storage software.

== History ==
In 1992 IBM combined their Storage Products businesses comprising eleven sites in eight countries into this division. On its creation, AdStar became the largest information storage business in the world. It had a revenue of $6.11 billion, of which $500 million were sales to other manufacturers (OEM sales), and generated a gross profit of about $440 million (before taxes and restructuring).
To provide additional autonomy—thereby further encouraging OEM sales—IBM established AdStar as a wholly owned subsidiary in April 1993, with outsider Ed Zschau as chairman and CEO. To some observers this appeared to be an admission by IBM that the storage subsidiary no longer provided a strategic advantage by providing proprietary devices for its mainframe products, and that it was being positioned to be sold off as a part of then the IBM chairman John Akers' business strategy. The replacement of Akers by Lou Gerstner in April 1993 changed the strategy from spinout to turnaround, but the disk drive business under Zschau continued to be troubled, declining to $3 billion in 1995.
Zschau left AdStar in October 1995, replaced by IBM insider Jim Vanderslice. The AdStar division was dismembered thereafter; the AdStar Distributed Storage Manager (ADSM) was renamed Tivoli Storage Manager in 1999, and the disk drive business component was sold off to Hitachi in 2003.

== References ==

Abies homolepis

Abies homolepis, also known as the Nikko fir or urajiro momi in Japanese, is a species of fir native to the mountains of Pacific-side central and southern Honshū and Shikoku, Japan. It grows at altitudes of 700–2,200 m, often in temperate rain forest with high rainfall and cool, humid summers, and heavy winter snowfall.

== Description ==
It is a medium-sized to large evergreen coniferous tree growing to 30–40 m tall with a trunk diameter of up to 1.5 m. The leaves are needle-like, flattened, 1.5–3.5 cm long and 2–3 mm wide by 0.5 mm thick, glossy green above, and with two white bands of stomata below, and rounded or slightly notched at the tip. The leaf arrangement is spiral on the shoot, but with each leaf variably twisted at the base so they lie partially flattened to either side of and above the shoot, with few below the shoot. The shoots are yellow-buff, glabrous, and often conspicuously grooved. The cones are 6–12 cm long and 3–4 cm broad, purple-blue before maturity; the scale bracts are short, and hidden in the closed cone. The winged seeds are released when the cones disintegrate at maturity about 6–7 months after pollination.

== Ecology ==
Abies homolepsis is one of the five fir species of Japan, four of which are found on Honshu and surrounding islands. It is most closely related to Abies firma, from which it diverged in the late Pliocene. A. homolepsis, A. firma, and Abies veitchii are separately distributed by geography and elevation, although hybrids of the three have been found throughout Japan where they overlap, particularly in marginal areas.

== Uses ==
The wood of Nikko fir is used for general structural timber, but it is not a popular timber tree because of its limited range and high elevation. Outside Japan, it is grown as an ornamental tree in northern Europe and North America.
It is also a popular forest tree since it is resistant to air pollution.

== References ==

=== Bibliography ===

== External links ==

Conifers Around the World: Abies homolepis - Nikko Fir.

2004 Nova Scotia Sunday shopping plebiscite

A plebiscite on Sunday shopping was held on October 16, 2004 (to coincide with municipal elections) in Nova Scotia. The vote was 54.90% for the "no" side, meaning that a Sunday shopping ban remained in place.
The issue pitted the municipality of Halifax against smaller towns and rural municipalities where many older residents favoured the ban.

== History ==
Prior to the plebiscite, Nova Scotia was the last province to maintain a widespread ban on Sunday shopping. The ban, known as the Retail Business Uniform Closing Day Act, forbade all stores, with the exception of convenience stores, from opening on any Sunday.
In December 1993, the Liberal government conducted an experiment in which stores were opened on several weekends prior to Christmas. On April 13, 1994, then-Finance Minister Bernie Boudreau announced that the government decided against continuing the experiment.
In 2000, lobby groups pushed to end the ban, including the Halifax Chamber of Commerce, which argued that opening on Sundays could bring an extra $21 million in revenue. The Tourism Industry Association of Nova Scotia argued that shoppers should be able to choose when they shop, not the government. Premier John Hamm stated during the 2000 municipal elections that he would like to keep Sundays free for families. According to a survey by the Canadian Federation of Independent Business taken in the spring of 2000, nearly 63 percent of independent retailers across Nova Scotia were opposed to any changes to Sunday shopping ban.
On September 26, 2003, Justice Minister Michael Baker introduced legislation that allowed a trial period for Sunday shopping on the six Sunday afternoons leading up to Christmas. The bill further authorized a binding plebiscite on the issue during the 2004 municipal elections.

== Issues ==
Opponents of the ban said that Sunday shopping should be allowed in order for consumers to have a choice and to keep up with the times. They also argued it would provide a $19 million annual boost to the economy. Supporters of the ban campaigned under the slogan "Dare to be Different" and stated that the province's laid-back character was at stake. They argued the province should take a stand against the tide of materialism they see as sweeping North America.

== Question ==
The first question was as follows:

Should there be Sunday shopping (in retail businesses not now permitted to be open on Sunday)?
The second question was as follows:

If there is to be Sunday shopping (in retail businesses not now permitted to be open on Sunday), should it be on every Sunday or on only the six Sundays immediately before Christmas?

== Results ==

=== First question ===

=== Second question ===

== Later developments ==

Despite the result of the plebiscite, the Nova Scotia government began allowing year-round Sunday shopping from October 2006 after grocery chains won a court case against the government over the Sunday shopping regulations.

== References ==

2018 Shimadzu All Japan Indoor Tennis Championships – Singles

Yasutaka Uchiyama was the defending champion but lost in the first round to Michał Przysiężny.
John Millman won the title after defeating Jordan Thompson 7–5, 6–1 in the final.

== Seeds ==

== Draw ==
Key

=== Finals ===

=== Top half ===

=== Bottom half ===

== References ==
Main Draw
Qualifying Draw

Kidnap Capital

Kidnap Capital is a 2015 Canadian crime drama film, released in Canada in 2016. The directorial debut of Felipe Rodriguez, the film centres on a group of undocumented migrants who have been kidnapped by a Phoenix street gang and are being held for ransom in a drop house in Arizona.
The film's cast includes Paulino Nunes, Johnathan Sousa, Michael Reventar, Michelle Arvizu and Pedro Miguel Arce.
The film was a finalist for Best Picture and Best Director at the 2016 Imagen Awards. It won several awards on the festival circuit, including the "Chairman's Award" at the San Diego Film Festival, "Best Non-European Film" at ECU the European Independent Film Festival in Paris, the "Jury's Special Mention" at the BOGOCINE Bogota Film Festival, and many others.
At the 5th Canadian Screen Awards in 2017, Michael Reventar was a nominee for Best Supporting Actor.

== References ==

== External links ==
Kidnap Capital at IMDb

Cherepanovo, Republic of Bashkortostan

Cherepanovo (Russian: Черепаново) is a rural locality (a village) in Maloyazovsky Selsoviet, Salavatsky District, Bashkortostan, Russia. The population was 54 as of 2010. There are 3 streets.

== Geography ==
Cherepanovo is located 14 km northwest of Maloyaz (the district's administrative centre) by road. Pokrovka is the nearest rural locality.

== References ==

Dikava

Dikava is a village in the municipality of Surdulica, Serbia. According to the 2002 census, the village has a population of 142 people.

== References ==

2006 Hershey's Kissables 300

The 2006 Hershey's Kissables 300 was a NASCAR Busch Series race held on February 18, 2006, at Daytona International Speedway in Daytona Beach, Florida. This was the first race of the 2006 NASCAR Busch Series and was also the 25th season of the Busch Series. The race was the 25th running of the event. Out of the 49 cars that attempted the race, 18 of those drivers were currently running full time in the Nextel Cup Series. Nextel Cup Series rookie J. J. Yeley won the pole but in the race's end, Tony Stewart would win the Busch Series opener for the second season in a row after a spectacular last lap crash as this race became known as a wreckfest.

== Entry list ==
(R) denotes rookie driver

== Qualifying ==
J. J. Yeley won the pole with a time of 49.155 seconds and a speed of 183.094 miles per hour

* – Steve Grissom made the field by owners points.
** – Carl Edwards had to go to the rear of the field for unapproved impound adjustments.

== Race ==
Pole sitter J. J. Yeley lead the first lap of the race. The first caution did not take long as it came out on lap 3 of the race while the moment of silence was happening for Dale Earnhardt when Ken Schrader crashed in turn 2 after he blew a left rear tire. The race would restart on lap 7. On lap 14, Clint Bowyer took the lead. On lap 15, Jeff Burton took the lead from his teammate. Bowyer and Burton swapped the lead on lap 16 and 17 before Kasey Kahne took it on lap 18. On lap 19, Greg Biffle took the lead. Jeff Burton took the lead on lap 26. On lap 29, Elliott Sadler's tire went flat but that did not bring out the caution. The second caution flew for the three car crash on the same lap in turn 4 involving Johnny Sauter, Reed Sorenson, and Aaron Fike. During the wreck, Joe Nemechek had no working brakes and flew by Sorenson who was stopped at over 100 miles an hour and almost hit Sorenson and a lot of other cars who were slowing down. NASCAR black flagged Nemechek and held him for one lap for aggressive driving. Nemechek in the process would get his brakes fixed. Kasey Kahne won the race off of pit road and he was the new race leader on the restart on lap 35. On lap 37, Brian Vickers attempted to take the lead from Kahne and lead that lap but could not make the pass. On lap 39, the third caution flew for another 3 car crash on the front stretch involving Paul Menard and Carl Edwards when Edwards spun down and collected A. J. Foyt IV. The wreck would produce a short red flag. The race would restart on lap 45. On lap 47, Dale Earnhardt Jr. took the lead. On lap 50, another 3 car crash occurred in turn 4 when Paul Tracy got turned by John Andretti while Joe Nemechek and Steadman Marlin crashed behind Tracy. The race would restart on lap 54. On lap 62, Greg Biffle took the lead. On lap 70, Jamie McMurray took the lead. On lap 74, Dale Earnhardt Jr. took the lead.

=== Final laps ===
With 45 laps to go, the 5th caution flew for debris when John Andretti's right front tire blew. Dale Earnhardt Jr. won the race off of pit road and lead the field to the restart with 40 laps to go. With 31 to go, the 6th caution flew for debris. The race would restart with 27 to go. But on that restart, Brian Vickers got hit from behind by Greg Biffle, Vickers went up into Biffle sending Biffle into the wall, and Vickers spun down into Kasey Kahne turning Kasey into the outside wall. Kahne came down and collected Regan Smith. The race restarted with 22 laps to go. But with 21 to go, the 8th caution flew for debris. The race got back underway with 18 to go. With 17 to go, David Green spun on the front stretch but no caution was thrown. With 13 to go, Tony Stewart took the lead from Dale Earnhardt Jr. On the same lap, Kyle Busch got hit from behind by Denny Hamlin and Busch's car came down into Jamie McMurray turning McMurray around and bringing out a caution, the 9th caution of the race. The race restarted with 10 to go. With 9 to go, the 10th caution would fly when David Reutimann blew a right front tire and hit the wall in turn 2. With 5 laps to go, the race would restart for the last time. On the restart, Dale Earnhardt Jr. attempted to pass Stewart for the lead. Michael Waltrip pulled to the outside of the two and made it three wide for the lead down the backstretch. After racing side by side for two laps, Waltrip passed Stewart for the lead with 3 to go but Stewart immeadeatly took it back on the same lap. With 2 to go, Burney Lamar made a big charge from 9th to 2nd and was looking to win his first race in his 3rd Busch Series start. On the last lap, Clint Bowyer pulled to the inside of Lamar in turn 3 and Stewart pulled away. Off of turn 4, Lamar made contact with Stacy Compton and Compton spun around right in front of the field triggering a 11 car crash and bringing out the 11th and last caution of the race. During the wreck, some drivers like Denny Hamlin, Mark Green, and Tracy Hines plowed through and crashed hard into other cars. The wreck collected Jason Keller, Mark Green, Tracy Hines, Denny Hamlin, Kenny Wallace, Ashton Lewis, Tim Sauter, Reed Sorenson, Stacy Compton, Elliott Sadler, and Michael Waltrip. In the end, Tony Stewart won the Busch Series season opener at Daytona for the second year in a row. Despite finishing in second, Burney Lamar was not granted a post race interview by TNT. Clint Bowyer, Jon Wood, and Kevin Harvick rounded out the top 5 while Jason Leffler, Todd Kluever, J. J. Yeley, Reed Sorenson, and Mark Green rounded out the top 10.

== Race results ==

48th General Assembly of Prince Edward Island

The 48th General Assembly of Prince Edward Island was in session from February 21, 1956, to August 3, 1959. The Liberal Party led by Alexander Wallace Matheson formed the government.
Augustin Gallant was elected speaker. Edward Foley replaced Gallant as speaker in 1959.
There were four sessions of the 48th General Assembly:

== Members ==

=== Kings ===

=== Prince ===

=== Queens ===

== Notes ==

== References ==
Election results for the Prince Edward Island Legislative Assembly, 1955-05-25
O'Handley, Kathryn Canadian Parliamentary Guide, 1994 ISBN 0-921925-54-9

1955 NCAA baseball tournament

The 1955 NCAA baseball tournament was played at the end of the 1955 NCAA baseball season to determine the national champion of college baseball. The tournament concluded with eight teams competing in the College World Series, a double-elimination tournament in its ninth year. Eight regional districts sent representatives to the College World Series with preliminary rounds within each district serving to determine each representative. These events would later become known as regionals. Each district had its own format for selecting teams, resulting in 25 teams participating in the tournament at the conclusion of their regular season, and in some cases, after a conference tournament.
The College World Series was held in Omaha, Nebraska from June 10 to June 16. The ninth tournament's champion was Wake Forest, coached by Taylor Sanford. The Most Outstanding Player was Tom Borland of Oklahoma A&M.

== Tournament ==

=== District 1 ===
Games played in Springfield, Massachusetts.

=== District 2 ===
Games played in Allentown, Pennsylvania.

=== District 3 ===
District 3 consisted of two separate 3-game series. The first series was played between Wake Forest and Rollins, with the winner moving on to play West Virginia in a three-game series. The winner of that series moved on to the College World Series.
Games played at Morgantown, West Virginia.

=== District 4 ===
District 4 consisted of two separate 3-game series. The first series was played between Alma and Western Michigan, with the winner moving on to play Ohio State in a three-game series. The winner of that series moved on to the College World Series.
Games played in Kalamazoo, Michigan.

=== District 5 ===
Games played in Norman, Oklahoma.

=== District 6 ===
Games played in Tucson, Arizona.

=== District 7 ===
Games played in Greeley, Colorado.

=== District 8 ===
District 8 consisted of two tiers of play. The first tier was a four-team double-elimination tournament with the winner moving on to play Southern California in a three-game series. The winner of that series moved onto the College World Series.
Games played in Fresno, California.

Games played in Los Angeles.

== College World Series ==

=== Participants ===

=== Bracket and Results ===

==== Game results ====

=== Tournament Notes ===
In 1996, coach Rod Dedeaux of USC was named to the College World Series All-Time Team (1947–95) by the Oklahoma World-Herald as part of the 50th CWS celebration.
In 1996, Tom Borland of Oklahoma A&M, now known as Oklahoma State, was named to the 1940s-50s All-Decade Team by a panel of 60 voters representing CWS head coaches, media, and chairs of the Division I Baseball Committee.
Freed Messner of Western Michigan hit the only pinch-hit grand slam home run in CWS history in the top of the 8th of Game 13 in a 10–7 loss to Wake Forest. It was also Messner's only hit of the CWS (1-12).
Two-hitters were pitched by: Lawrence Bossidy of Colgate in a 1–0 loss to Wake Forest; Carl Thomas of Arizona in a 6–0 defeat of Springfield; Ken Kinnamon and Don Anderson of Oklahoma A&M in a 5–4 loss to Western Michigan; and Sam Frankel and Lawrence Bossidy of Colgate in a 4–2 loss to Oklahoma A&M.
Wake Forest's championship was the last time that a member of the Atlantic Coast Conference won the CWS until the University of Virginia in 2015.
21,843 fans watched the CWS (10 sessions).
The championship game was umpired by Walter Doyle, Walter Harbour, George Hametz, and John Hergert.
The following records were set or tied:
Most Stolen Bases, Team, CWS - 17, Oklahoma A&M, 5 games
Most Shutouts, All Teams, CWS - 6, Arizona (2), Wake Forest (3), Western Michigan, tied
Most Doubles, Individual, Single Game - 3, Jack Bryant, 2B, Wake Forest, tied (6 others)
Most Sacrifice Bunts, Individual, Single Game - 3, Leland Davis, SS, Western Michigan, tied
Most Stolen Bases, Team, Single Game - 7, Wake Forest, tied (4 others)
Fewest Assists, Team, Single Game - 3, Oklahoma A&M, tied (6 others)
Most Errors, Team, Single Game - 9, Colorado State College, tied
Most Shutouts, Team, CWS - 3, Wake Forest, 6 games

== Notes ==

== References ==

Bunch of Seven

The Bunch of Seven was a group of science fiction and fantasy writers who met regularly in Toronto from March 28, 1985, until the early '90s to mutually critique manuscripts with the intention of helping each other turn professional—a goal in which several members succeeded.
The group's founders were Tanya Huff, S. M. Stirling, Karen Wehrstein, Shirley Meier, Louise Hypher, Terri Neal and Lloyd Penney. Later members included Julie Czerneda, Fiona Patton, Marian Hughes, Stephanie Rendino and others. The group became a model for other Toronto writing groups including the Cecil Street Irregulars, the Ink*Specs, and others. The name was invented by Terri Neal as a take-off on the Group of Seven, a group of well-known Canadian artists.

== References ==

Bad Love (Eric Clapton song)

"Bad Love" is a song recorded by English singer and guitarist Eric Clapton, who co-wrote it with Foreigner's lead guitarist Mick Jones. The track was released in the UK in January 1990 as the first single from Clapton's 1989 studio album Journeyman.
The song features Phil Collins on drums and harmony background vocals. It was produced by Clapton's then long-time partner Russ Titelman. At the 33rd Annual Grammy Awards, Clapton won an award for Best Male Rock Vocal Performance. The single release reached various international single music charts and sold a total of 250,000 copies worldwide. A music video was released in 1989 to accompany the single release.

== Release ==
"Bad Love" was released as the second US single from Eric Clapton's 1989 studio album Journeyman in March 1990. However, promotional single releases in the United Kingdom on 7-inch vinyl, and in the United States on a CD single were released in 1989 under license of Warner Bros. Records. For whole of Europe and the United States, the single was released on both 7 and 12 inch vinyl and CD in 1990. The recording was produced by Russ Titelman, who later also produced several albums for Eric Clapton under Reprise and Warner Bros. Records. Other territories in which the single has been released include Australia, Brazil, Japan, Taiwan and Thailand, where it also was released as a B-side to a later single or track of a compilation album.

== Personnel ==
The original recording features Clapton playing electric guitar and singing lead vocals alongside Phil Collins' drumming and harmony background singing. Alan Clark acts as the keyboardist (using mainly a Roland D-50) on the release, which includes Pino Palladino on bass guitar. The publishing rights to both the song and release belong to Unichappell Music, Incorporated. While promoting the album during his two-year "Journeyman World Tour" in 1990 and 1991, Clapton performed the song with a different band line-up including Nathan East on bass guitar, Greg Phillinganes on keyboards, Chuck Leavell on the Hammond organ, Steve Ferrone on drums, Ray Cooper on percussion, Phil Palmer on rhythm guitar as well as Tessa Niles and Katie Kissoon on backing vocals. Clapton released a live interpretation of "Bad Love" on his album 24 Nights with the band line-up mentioned above, released on 8 October 1991. Clapton also released the track on various compilation albums including Clapton Chronicles: The Best of Eric Clapton (1999), Complete Clapton (2007) and Forever Man (2015). In total, the song has been released on over 15 albums.

== Track listing ==

== Credits ==
Eric Clapton – lead vocals, guitar
Phil Palmer – guitar
Alan Clark – keyboards
Pino Palladino – bass
Phil Collins – drums, backing and harmony vocals
Katie Kissoon – backing vocals
Tessa Niles – backing vocals

== Composition ==
In an interview with his official fan club "Where's Eric!", Clapton remembered how the song came about: "Warner Bros. wanted another "Layla". I thought, well, if you sit down and write a song in a formatted way, it's not so hard. You think, 'What was "Layla" comprised of? A fiery intro modulated into the first verse and chorus with a riff around it. I had this stuff in my head, so I just juggled it around, and Mick Jones (of the group Foreigner) came in to help tidy up. He was the one who said 'You should put a "Badge" middle in there'. So, we did that. Although it sounds like a cold way of doing it, it actually took on its own life".
The song consists of two verses and one chorus which is sung between the two verses and three times after the second verse ended. The chorus is in the scale of D Dorian and the solo in D Mixolydian. The verses are played and sung in the key of A major.

== Music video ==
A self-titled music video to accompany the "Bad Love" single release was filmed and released in 1989. The music video was shot in a black and white picture and features Clapton playing and singing the song alongside Nathan East on bass guitar and vocals, Greg Phillinganes on keyboards and vocals as well as Phil Collins, who is on drums and also sings backing vocals. The quartet is shown performing the title on stage while Clapton rehearsed for his, then, upcoming "Journeyman World Tour". The main video action is interrupted with film sequences that show off-stage actions like camera and lightning arrangements and Clapton chatting to his fellow band members. The "Bad Love" video was frequently aired on MTV, VH1, MuchMusic, and Fuse TV. The music video was re-released on 12 October 1999, on the Clapton Chronicles: The Best of Eric Clapton DVD.

== Accolades ==

== Chart performance ==
In the United States, the song reached number 88 on the Billboard Hot 100 singles chart, where it stayed a total of five weeks. "Bad Love" was more successful on the Mainstream Rock songs chart, also compiled by the Billboard magazine, where it peaked at number one and stayed a total 21 weeks on the chart. The song was Clapton's last number-one hit to reach the Billboard Mainstream Rock songs chart. It stayed on top of the chart for three weeks. The single sold a total of 129,482 copies in the five weeks on the Hot 100 singles chart. In the United Kingdom, the release peaked at number 25 on the Official Charts Company's compilation, where it stayed seven weeks and sold 48,272 copies in the country. In Canada, "Bad Love" peaked at number 56 on the singles charts compiled by the RPM magazine, selling 2,001 copies, while on the chart. In Italy, the single release peaked at position 39. In Japan, the album ranked on number ten on the Oricon international singles chart, selling more than 50,000 copies in total and becoming a gold record within a month. In the Netherlands, the single positioned itself at place 83 on the MegaCharts singles chart. According to Clapton himself, the release reached the Top 10 in five countries and was awarded with a Gold disc in Portugal and South Africa. In total, the single release sold more than 250,000 copies worldwide.

== Critical reception ==
Music critic Scott Floman notes that the song "rocked just hard enough while containing catchy choruses" and that "Bad Love" is a "catchy faster paced number which saw Clapton really letting loose on guitar", which to the critic is "not a surprise", because "the song was co-written with Foreigner's Mick Jones".

== Charts ==

== Certifications ==

== Release history ==

== Media appearance ==
In 1990, Eric Clapton filmed a television advertisement for the Japanese car company Honda Motor Co. Ltd. The filming took place in a New York City recording studio. In the commercial, which was shown frequently on worldwide television, the British rock musician is seen and heard overdubbing an extra guitar line, that Eric Clapton improvised, onto the song "Bad Love". For the commercial Eric Clapton brought his famous black Fender Stratocaster, "Blackie", out of retirement at the request of Honda Motor in Japan.

== References ==

== Further reading ==
Shapiro, Harvey (1992). Eric Clapton: Lost in the Blues. Da Capo Press. ISBN 978-0-306-80480-9.
Roberty, Mark (1995). The Complete Guide to the Music of Eric Clapton. Omnibus Press. ISBN 0711943052.

Aerosul Linhas Aéreas

Aerosul Linhas Aéreas is a Brazilian airline based in Arapongas.

== History ==
On February 10, 2021, ANAC issued the concession grant for operating regular and non-regular public air transport services in Brazil. The airline had its maiden flight on June 16, 2021.

== Destinations ==
Below were the destinations of Aerosul. The airline is not operating regular flights anymore.

== Fleet ==
Aerosul fleet consists of the following aircraft (as of March 2022):

== See also ==
List of airlines of Brazil

== References ==

== External links ==

2023 Mogadishu tea shop bombing

On 29 September 2023, an al-Shabaab suicide bomber detonated an explosive belt in a tea shop in the capital Mogadishu, Somalia, leaving 11 dead and 18 others injured. The explosion took place at a checkpoint leading to the parliament and the president's office.
Later that day, al-Shabaab claimed responsibility and a man was arrested who was believed to be a suspect of supplying weapons to the group and to be one main illegal arms dealers in Somalia.

== Background ==
Al-Shabaab is an al-Qaeda-affiliated Somali jihadist group who began their insurgency in 2006. They have carried out many attacks in Somalia, Ethiopia, Kenya and Uganda, most often in the Somali capital.

== See also ==
List of terrorist incidents in 2023
2024 Mogadishu tea shop bombing

== References ==

Apache Cocoon

Apache Cocoon, usually abbreviated as Cocoon, is a web application framework built around the concepts of Pipeline, separation of concerns, and component-based web development. The framework focuses on XML and XSLT publishing and is built using the Java programming language. Cocoon's use of XML is intended to improve compatibility of publishing formats, such as HTML and PDF. The content management systems Apache Lenya and Daisy have been created on top of the framework. Cocoon is also commonly used as a data warehousing ETL tool or as middleware for transporting data between systems.
The project was retired in January 2025 and is no longer actively developed.

== Sitemap ==
Apache Cocoon uses sitemaps to allow users to control a variety of components in the Cocoon software, as well as define the client-server interactions in what Cocoon refers to as the Pipelines.

== Components ==
The components within Cocoon are grouped by function.

=== Matchers ===
Matchers are used to match user requests such as URLs or cookies against wildcard or regular expression patterns. Each user request is tested against matchers in the sitemap until a match is made. It is within a matcher that the response to a particular request is specified.

=== Generators ===
Generators create a stream of data for further processing. This stream can be generated from an existing XML document or there are generators that can create XML from scratch to represent something on the server, such as a directory structure or image data.

==== XSP ====
One type of generator is an XML Server Page (XSP), an XML document containing tag-based directives that specify how to generate dynamic content at request time. Upon Cocoon processing, these directives are replaced by generated content so that the resulting, augmented XML document can be subject to further processing (typically an XSLT transformation). XSPs are transformed into Cocoon producers, typically as Java classes, though any scripting language for which a Java-based processor exists could also be used.
Directives can be either built-in ("XSP") or user-defined processing tags, both of which are defined in logic sheets. Tags are defined using XSLT templates that describe how the tags (represented as XML nodes) are transformed into other XML nodes or into procedural code such as Java. The tags are used to embed procedural logic, substitute expressions, retrieve information from the webserver environment, and other operations.
Note that XSP is deprecated in recent releases of Cocoon.

=== Transformers ===
Transformers take a stream of data and change it in some way. The most common transformations are performed with XSLT to change one XML format into another. But there are also transformers that take other forms of data (SQL commands for example).

=== Serializers ===
A serializer turns an XML event stream into a sequence of bytes (such as HTML) that can be returned to the client. Some serializers allow you to send the data in many different formats including HTML, XHTML, PDF, RTF, SVG, WML and plain text, for example.

=== Selectors ===
Selectors offer the same capabilities as a switch statement. They are able to select particular elements of a request and choose the correct pipeline part to use.

=== Views ===
Views are mainly used for testing. A view is an exit point in a pipeline. You can put out the XML-Stream which is produced till this point. So you can see if the application is working right.

=== Readers ===
Publish content without parsing it (no XML processing). Used for images and such.

=== Actions ===
Actions are Java classes that execute some business logic or manage new content production.

== The Pipeline ==
A pipeline is used to specify how the different Cocoon components interact with a given request to produce a response. A typical pipeline consists of a generator, followed by zero or more transformers, and finally a serializer.

== See also ==
Reactor pattern - the design pattern that Cocoon is based on.
XProc - a W3C Standard for modelising of XML pipeline.

== References ==

== External links ==
The Apache Cocoon Project
Mirror of Apache Cocoon on GitHub

2014 IAAF World Relays – Men's 4 × 800 metres relay

The men's 4 × 800 metres relay at the 2014 IAAF World Relays was held at the Thomas Robinson Stadium on 24 May.
At the start of this race Peter Agaba was caught napping, giving up 20 metres to the field. Ferguson Cheruiyot made it clear it was going to be a record attempt, the Kenyan running off the front and making a clear separation from the pack. Kevin López kicked past Michael Rutt to put Spain in second place at the handoff with a strong finish by Shaquille Dill putting Bermuda into the mix. After Cheruiyot's 1:45.8 first leg, Kenya had a 30 metre lead. Job Koech Kinyor took off with similar intent widening the gap to 40 metres, Aaron Evans running in second place for Bermuda. Towards the end of the second leg, the pack bunched behind Evans, with Robby Andrews kicking past everyone to put the USA in second at the handoff. Sammy Kibet Kirongo continued the effort, for the third consecutive leg, the Kenyans running their first lap in times tickling 50 seconds flat and suffering the second lap. Clearly in second place, Brandon Johnson started to close down the gap. Kibet's second lap was indeed painful, his leg ending in an exhausted standing position. Marcin Lewandowski ran around the pack into a clear third place with 300 metres to go in his leg, the Polish team closing down on the second place Americans, still 25 metres behind the Kenyans. World Junior Champion Alfred Kipketer ran his first lap even harder than his teammates, under 50 seconds as if he had the super human ability of his namesake Wilson, the lead again opening up to 40 metres over Duane Solomon, who had future World silver medalist Adam Kszczot on his heels. The reality of running 800 metres came down on Kipketer, his pace slowed noticeably, his huge lead disappearing. As Solomon gained, Kszczot was on his shoulder and running by. Kipketer was flailing trying to will his body the final few metres to the finish. Kipketer made it, with enough every left to hold up his hand in victory. Kszczot was leaning for the finish but was not close enough for it to be effective, but clearly ahead of Solomon. It was a surprisingly close finish with three teams within 2/3 of a second after Kenya had run a time trial, with a huge lead for most of the race.

== Records ==
Prior to the competition, the records were as follows:

== Schedule ==

All times are local times (UTC-4)

== Results ==

== References ==

1971 Cincinnati Bearcats football team

The 1971 Cincinnati Bearcats football team represented University of Cincinnati as an independent during the 1971 NCAA University Division football season. Led by third-year head coach Ray Callahan, the Bearcats compiled a record of 7–4. The team played home games at Nippert Stadium in Cincinnati.

== Schedule ==

== Game Films ==
1971 Cincinnati - Ohio U Football Game Film

== References ==

1982 European Super Cup

The 1982 European Super Cup was contested between the 1981–82 European Cup winners Aston Villa and the 1981–82 European Cup Winners' Cup winners Barcelona. The tie took place over two legs in January 1983. The first leg was won by Barcelona 1–0 at the Camp Nou stadium, but Aston Villa won 3–0 at Villa Park after extra time to take a 3–1 aggregate win.

== Details ==

=== First leg ===

=== Second leg ===

== See also ==
1982 European Cup final
1982 European Cup Winners' Cup final
1982–83 European Cup
1982–83 European Cup Winners' Cup
1982–83 Aston Villa F.C. season
1982–83 FC Barcelona season
FC Barcelona in international football
Aston Villa F.C. in European football

== References ==

== External links ==
UEFA webpage about the game

Administrative Department of Public Service (Colombia)

The Administrative Department of Public Service (Spanish: Departamento Administrativo de la Función Pública, DAFP) is the Colombian executive administrative department in charge of formulating the general policies of public administration, especially in matters relating to civil service, management, internal control and streamlined procedures of the Executive Branch of Colombia.
In 1958, the Congress of Colombia passed Law 19 of 1958, which created the Administrative Department of Civil Service (Departamento Administrativo del Servicio Civil), in an effort to give the public administration an agency in charge of managing the human resources of the State. On December 29, 1992, the Government issued Decree 2169 of 1992, which dramatically changed the agency, changing its name to Administrative Department of Public Service, and putting it in charge of formulating policies and assessment material in management and human resources to the State.
The DAFP also operates the School of Public Service, ESAP, to educate and prepare the next generation of public servants of Colombia.

== References ==

Bosnia and Herzegovina at the 2013 World Aquatics Championships

Bosnia and Herzegovina competed at the 2013 World Aquatics Championships in Barcelona, Spain from 19 July to 4 August 2013.

== Swimming ==

Bosnia and Herzegovina qualified 3 quota places for the following swimming events:

Men

Women

== References ==

== External links ==
Barcelona 2013 Official Site

Cirque (disambiguation)

Cirque may refer to:

Cirque, an amphitheatre-like valley head
Cirque (album), a 2000 album by Biosphere
Cirque Corporation, a Salt Lake City, Utah-based company which developed and commercialized the first successful capacitive touchpad
Cirque du Soleil, a Canadian entertainment company
Contemporary circus (nouveau cirque), a genre of performing art developed in the later 20th century
Le Cirque, 1891 painting by Georges Seurat

== See also ==
Sirk'i (disambiguation)

2024 Shakey's Super League National Invitationals

The 2024 Shakey's Super League National Invitationals was the second edition of the national collegiate competition organized by the Shakey's Super League and the second SSL tournament of 2024.The tournament began on July 10 at the Ninoy Aquino Stadium. This tournament showcased the top three teams of the recent volleyball tournaments of the NCAA and UAAP, alongside the top two teams from Luzon, Visayas, and Mindanao that qualified on the regional qualifiers.
Defending champion De La Salle Lady Spikers won't be seeing action due to an injury-riddled roster, they will be replaced by UAAP fourth placer FEU Lady Tamaraws.

== Qualified teams ==
The qualified teams for this tournament are the podium finishers of the NCAA and UAAP for Metro Manila, and the top two teams that qualified through the regional qualifiers in Luzon, Visayas, and Mindanao.

Note

a.^ The De La Salle Lady Spikers were initially slated to join the competition as the defending champions,but they begged off due to an injury-riddled roster.

== Pool composition ==
The teams are grouped via casting lots. Each pool will have 3 teams.

== Venue ==

== Format ==
First round
Single-round robin format; 4 pools; Teams are ranked using the FIVB Ranking System.
The top two teams per pool will advance to the second round.
Quarterfinals (knockout stage)
QF1: A1 vs. C2
QF2: B1 vs. D2
QF3: C1 vs. B2
QF4: D1 vs. A2
Semifinals (knockout stage)
SF1: QF #1 vs. QF #2
SF2: QF #3 vs. QF #4
Finals (Best-of-three series)
Bronze medal: SF1 Loser vs SF2 Loser
Gold medal: SF1 Winner vs SF2 Winner

== Pool standing procedure ==
First, teams are ranked by the number of matches won.
If the number of matches won is tied, the tied teams are then ranked by match points, wherein:
Match won 3–0 or 3–1: 3 match points for the winner, 0 match points for the loser.
Match won 3–2: 2 match points for the winner, 1 match point for the loser.
In case of any further ties, the following criteria shall be used:
Set ratio: the number of sets won divided by number of sets lost.
Point ratio: number of points scored divided by number of points allowed.
Head-to-head standings: any remaining tied teams are ranked based on the results of head-to-head matches involving the teams in question.

== Preliminary round ==
All times are Philippine Standard Time (UTC+8:00).
The top two teams per pool advance to the Quarterfinal round.

=== Pool A ===

=== Pool B ===

=== Pool C ===

=== Pool D ===

== Final round ==
All times are Philippine Standard Time (UTC+8:00).
Quarterfinals and Semifinals are single elimination games.
Finals is best-of-three series.

=== Quarterfinals ===

=== Semifinals ===

=== Finals ===

==== Bronze Medal Match ====

==== Gold Medal Match ====

== Final standings ==

== Awards and medalists ==

=== Individual awards ===

=== Medalists ===

== References ==

1971 Astro-Bluebonnet Bowl

The 1971 Astro-Bluebonnet Bowl was a college football bowl game that featured the Colorado Buffaloes and the Houston Cougars.

== Background ==
Colorado finished third in the Big Eight Conference. This their fourth bowl game appearance in five seasons and their first Bluebonnet Bowl since 1967. As for the Cougars, this was their second Astro-Bluebonnet Bowl in three seasons.

== Game summary ==
Robert Newhouse had 35 carries for 168 yards for Houston. Charlie Davis had 202 yards on 37 carries for Colorado.

=== Scoring summary ===
Colorado – Charlie Davis 27-yard touchdown run (Dean kick) – 11:24 remaining in the 1st quarter
Houston – Robert Newhouse 2-yard touchdown run (Terrell kick) – 5:22 remaining in the 1st quarter
Houston – Robert Newhouse 5-yard touchdown run (Terrell kick) – 1:14 remaining in the 1st quarter
Colorado – Larry Brunson 5-pass from Ken Johnson (kick failed) – 13:20 remaining in the 2nd quarter
Colorado – Dean 32 yard field goal – 5:03 remaining in the 2nd quarter
Colorado – Charlie Davis 1 yard-touchdown run (Dean kick) – 1:13 remaining in the 2nd quarter
Houston – Ricky Terrell 29 yard-field goal – 2:16 remaining in the 3rd quarter
Colorado – Ken Johnson 1-yard touchdown run (pass failed) – 3:48 remaining in the 4th quarter

== Aftermath ==
The Buffaloes finished third in the final AP Poll. They went to three more bowl games in the decade, including an Astro-Bluebonnet Bowl appearance in 1975. The Cougars (who finished 17th in the final poll) returned to the Astro-Bluebonnet Bowl in 1973, en route to four more bowls in the decade.

== Statistics ==

== References ==

A. J. Gillbo

Anton J. Gillbo (January 1858 – November 17, 1919) was an American politician in the state of Washington. He served in the Washington House of Representatives. He was elected as a Progressive in 1912, alongside G. J. Langford. He was killed in a car accident in 1919.

== References ==

1916 Texas Mines Miners football team

The 1916 Texas Mines Miners football team was an American football team that represented the Texas School of Mines (now known as the University of Texas at El Paso) as an independent during the 1916 college football season. In their third year under head coach Tommy Dwyer, the team compiled a 2–3 record.

== Schedule ==

== References ==

1885 Mississippi gubernatorial election

The 1885 Mississippi gubernatorial election took place on November 3, 1885, in order to elect the Governor of Mississippi. Incumbent Governor Robert Lowry ran for reelection to a second term.

== General election ==
In the general election, Democratic candidate Robert Lowry, the incumbent governor, defeated independent candidate Put Darden in a landslide.

=== Results ===

== References ==

2016 Women's International Match Racing Series

The 2016 Women's International Match Racing Series was a series of match racing sailing regattas staged during 2016 season.

== Regattas ==

== Standings ==

Source: www.wimseries.com/results/

== References ==

== External links ==
Official website

2022 Myrtle Beach Bowl

The 2022 Myrtle Beach Bowl was a postseason college football bowl game played on December 19, 2022, at Brooks Stadium in Conway, South Carolina. The third annual Myrtle Beach Bowl, the game featured the Marshall Thundering Herd of the Sun Belt Conference and the University of Connecticut (UConn) Huskies, who were not affiliated with a football conference. The bowl game was the final contest concluding the 2022 NCAA Division I Football Bowl Subdivision (Division I FBS) football season for both teams, and ended in a 28–14 victory for Marshall.
The game began at 2:34 p.m. EST. Both offenses started sub-optimally with fumbles on their first drives, with UConn's coming on their first play from scrimmage. Marshall scored the game's first points with a touchdown on the second play of their second drive, and doubled their lead with an interception returned for a touchdown later in the first quarter. After punts by both teams, UConn missed an opportunity to score when a 45-yard field goal was not converted, and Marshall took advantage by scoring a touchdown on their next drive. A turnover on downs and a punt took the game to halftime, though early in the second half both teams scored touchdowns, and UConn scored a second on their next drive to shrink their deficit to 14 points. Their final two drives resulted in another turnover on downs and an interception, though, and the game finished with Marshall defeating UConn, 28–14.

== Teams ==
Reflecting conference tie-ins, the game featured the Marshall Thundering Herd from the Sun Belt Conference. Even though the bowl has tie-ins with the American Athletic Conference and Mid-American Conference, Marshall's opponent was selected to be the FBS independent UConn Huskies. This was the second all-time meeting between UConn and Marshall; the Thundering Herd defeated the Huskies 16–10 in the 2015 St. Petersburg Bowl, their only prior meeting.

=== Marshall ===

Marshall began the season 2–0 with a win over Norfolk State and an upset victory against No. 8 Notre Dame before losing the next two games against Bowling Green in overtime and to eventual Sun Belt Conference champions Troy. Marshall would start October with a victory over Gardner-Webb before falling to Louisiana. The Thundering Herd earned their first conference win over fellow newcomers James Madison before losing their homecoming game against conference powerhouse Coastal Carolina. Marshall would then go undefeated in November by beating Old Dominion in a game that saw the only points scored by field goals, Appalachian State in the yearly memorial game dedicated to the 75 people killed in the November 14, 1970, plane crash, Georgia Southern to earn bowl eligibility, and Georgia State. The Thundering Herd finished the season with an 8–4 record (5–3 in Sun Belt games) to finish third in the East Division. This was Marshall's first bowl game against an independent team and their first bowl as a member of the Sun Belt Conference; they entered with a three-game bowl losing streak dating to 2019.

=== UConn ===

UConn began the season on the road in a loss to Utah State before winning their home opener against Central Connecticut. The Huskies would then lose three straight games to rival Syracuse, No. 4 Michigan and No. 12 NC State. Sitting at 1–4 to begin October, UConn would win their next two contests against Fresno State at home and FIU on the road before falling to Ball State. The Huskies would then upset Boston College at home for the homecoming game and win the next two games at home against rival UMass and Liberty to become bowl eligible before losing the season finale to Army. The Huskies finished the season with a 6–6 record. This was UConn's first bowl game against a team from the Sun Belt Conference and first as an independent, as well as their first bowl appearance since 2015.

== Game summary ==
The Myrtle Beach Bowl was televised on ESPN, with a commentary team of Mike Morgan, Eric Mac Lain, and Tera Talmadge. The game's officiating crew, representing the Mid-American Conference, was led by referee Ron Hudson and umpire John Hanneke. Played at Brooks Stadium in Conway, South Carolina, the weather at the game's kickoff was sunny with a temperature of 49 °F (9 °C).

=== First half ===
Scheduled for a start time of 2:30 p.m. EST, the Myrtle Beach Bowl began at 2:34 p.m. with Noe Ruelas's opening kickoff, which was returned to the Marshall 31-yard-line for the Thundering Herd's first possession. Khalan Laborn earned the first big gain of the day with a 13-yard rush on the game's second play, and he was on the receiving end of quarterback Cam Fancher's first completed pass, gaining nine yards. Laborn rushed for three yards on the next play and the Thundering Herd converted for a first down, but from there gained nine yards on their next three plays to bring up 4th & 1. They attempted to go for it, but Fancher fumbled on the play and the ball was recovered by UConn's Durante Jones at the UConn 34-yard-line. The Huskies offense was unable to capitalize: they fumbled the ball right back on their first play as Zion Turner lost it and Isaiah Norman recovered it for Marshall, returning it to the UConn 16-yard-line. After a 7-yard pass from Fancher to Cory Gammage, the two connected again for a 9-yard gain, this time for a touchdown. Rece Verhoff converted the extra point, giving Marshall an early 7–0 lead. UConn's next drive started at their own 26-yard-line; after losing 1 yard on their first play, they gained 5 on third down but were forced to punt. George Caratan's kick was fair caught at the Marshall 37-yard-line, setting up Marshall's next drive. After an 5-yard rush by Rasheen Ali on their first play, they faced 3rd & 5, but a holding penalty on third down put them behind the sticks and John McConnell was brought on for Marshall's first punt of the day, which went out-of-bounds at the UConn 25-yard-line. UConn earned a first down for the first time on their second play of the ensuing series, with a 13-yard Devontae Houston rush, though the Huskies offense stalled from there and they were forced to punt. Marshall gained nine yards on their first two plays combined and converted third down with a 4-yard rush by Laborn, but they were unable to pick up another one and had to punt again. McConnell's kick was fielded by Cam Ross and returned to the UConn 38-yard-line. Brian Brewton got the carry on UConn's first play of the next drive, but on the next play Turner's pass was intercepted by Damion Barber Jr. at the UConn 34-yard-line and returned for a touchdown, doubling Marshall's lead. After getting the ball right back, UConn was penalized with delay of game before running their first play, and was unable to dig out of the resulting hole, punting on 4th & 12 and downing the ball at the Marshall 41-yard-line. Ali rushed for 11 yards into UConn territory on the next play and the Herd gained six in their next three plays but were forced to punt again on fourth down, allowing UConn to take possession at their own 8-yard-line. Cale Millen rushed for a loss of 2 yards before time expired for the end of the first quarter.
UConn started the second quarter with 2nd & 12 at their own 6-yard-line, and gained five yards on their next two plays to set up another punting situation. A penalty on each team ended up canceling each other out, and Caratan punted for 44 yards; after a return and a penalty, Marshall began their drive on their own 30-yard-line. The Thundering Herd quickly went three-and-out with a gain of 4, loss of 3, and incomplete pass before a punt to the UConn 33-yard-line. UConn's most successful drive to this point then took place with two first downs earned within the first three plays, on a 28-yard rush by Houston immediately followed by a 12-yard rush by Turner, which advanced the ball all the way to the Marshall 23-yard-line. This momentum halted quickly, though; a loss of 4 yards and another for no gain brought up third-and-long, and an incomplete pass prompted a field goal attempt. The kick by Noe Ruelas from 45 yards was missed, keeping UConn off of the scoreboard and giving Marshall possession again. A face mask penalty against UConn on Marshall's first play advanced the ball to the Herd 47-yard-line, and they moved into the red zone with a 38-yard rush by Ali. Marshall scored on the next play, as Fancher passed to Devin Miller for a 10-yard touchdown. After the extra point, UConn received the kickoff at their own 43-yard-line but a penalty for unsportsmanlike conduct moved it back to the UConn 15-yard-line instead. After stalling and facing 3rd & 12, they were given a first down from a defensive holding penalty. The Huskies moved the ball into Marshall territory with a 37-yard pass from Turner to Keelan Marion, and Victor Rosa rushed for 9 yards several plays later to earn his team another first down. Another Turner pass, this one for 12 yards to Justin Joly, moved the ball inside the Marshall red zone, but the Huskies faced 3rd & 6 soon thereafter. Back-to-back incomplete passes by Turner resulted in a turnover on downs, giving the Thundering Herd possession from their own 13-yard-line. On their ensuing drive, Marshall drained all but two seconds off of the clock with a trio of short runs and punted back to UConn with two seconds remaining. On the last play of the half, Zion Turner's Hail Mary pass was intercepted in the end zone by Abraham Beauplan, ending the second quarter.

=== Second half ===
UConn got possession to begin the second half, and started their first drive at their own 27-yard-line. They started with a rush for no gain but got 6 yards on second down, though they were unable to earn more and punted on 4th & 4, downed at the Marshall 21-yard-line. Facing 3rd & 5 early in their series, Payne rushed for 6 yards and the Herd were aided by a personal foul that advanced the ball to the Marshall 47-yard-line. They crossed into UConn territory with a 7-yard rush by Laborn on the next play, and Laborn earned a first down with a 6-yard rush on the next play. After a 10-yard rush by Ali on a later third-and-long, the Herd advanced inside the red zone as the result of a pass interference penalty called against the Huskies. A 12-yard Fancher rush put Marshall in position to score, which they did on the next play with a 2-yard Ali rush and a Rece Verhoff extra point. UConn got the ball back after a touchback and were able to move the ball, converting 3rd & 6 with a 6-yard Turner rush. They spent two timeouts and later gained 32 yards on a pass from Turner to Marion; on the next play, UConn scored for the first time on a 14-yard rush by Rosa. A trio of rushes to open Marshall's next series earned them 12 yards and a first down, though the drive ended shortly thereafter as they gained 1 yard on first down but lost 1 yard on third down, with an incomplete pass in between, forcing them to punt with two minutes remaining in the quarter. McConnell's kick went out-of-bounds at the Marshall 40-yard-line; following a rush by Brewton for a loss of one yard, Turner passed to Ross for 12 yards, after which Rosa rushed for five. On the next play, which was the final one of the third quarter, Rosa rushed for a 24-yard touchdown, bringing the Huskies' deficit to fourteen points with Ruelas's extra point.
The final quarter began with Noe Ruelas's kickoff which was returned to the Marshall 26-yard-line. Fancher connected with Gammage on Marshall's first play, gaining 34 yards, but the Thundering Herd gave up the ball two plays later as Fancher was intercepted by Malik Dixon-Williams at the UConn 17-yard-line. Rosa rushed for 15 yards on the Huskies' second play after regaining possession, and a face mask penalty against Marshall advanced the ball to the Marshall 42-yard-line. After UConn's ensuing first down play, the Huskies were penalized for unsportsmanlike conduct, setting them back 15 yards. They would not be able to recover from this penalty, and ultimately turned the ball over on downs after a failed attempt to convert 4th & 13. Marshall could not extend their lead with their new possession; they went three-and-out with three rushes for a net total of four yards. Another unsportsmanlike conduct foul, this time against Marshall, occurred on UConn's ensuing drive, moving the ball to the UConn 44-yard-line, and the Huskies benefitted again with a defense pass interference that moved the ball over midfield and gave them an automatic first down. A 33-yard pass followed, putting them inside the Marshall 10-yard-line, though they would soon be behind the sticks due to a holding penalty and ultimately Turner threw an interception in the end zone on 3rd & Goal from the 20-yard-line. Marshall started with a touchback with under five minutes to play, and ran exclusively rushing plays in order to drain the clock, as the Huskies had only one timeout remaining. Laborn got each of the first four carries of the drive, gaining a total of 17 yards, before UConn called timeout with 2:43 remaining. Ali rushed for 10 yards before Laborn carried twice more and Payne rushed for 9 yards before time expired, ending the game with Marshall victorious, 28–14. The game ended at 6:05 p.m., after a total duration of three hours and 31 minutes.

=== Scoring summary ===

== Statistics ==

== References ==

1940–41 in Mandatory Palestine football

The 1940–41 season was the 14th season of competitive football in the British Mandate for Palestine under the Eretz Israel Football Association.
During the season, no official competitions were held due to disagreements between Hapoel and Maccabi factions in the IFA, and the teams played only in friendly matches and tournaments.

== Non-EIFA tournaments ==

=== Melchett Cup ===
The annual cup competition for Maccabi clubs was played during September 1940. In the final, played at the Maccabiah Stadium, Maccabi Tel Aviv had beaten Maccabi Nes Tziona 2–1 with goals from Gaul Machlis and Herzl Fritzner, while Avraham Schneiderowitz scored for Nes Tziona.

=== Autumn Cup ===
This cup competition was announced by FA executive Arthur Baar as a way to have the teams playing throughout the crisis in the FA. Most Maccabi teams chose not to participate, instead competing in their own league.
The competition was played as a two-legged knockout competition. Hapoel Tel Aviv and a British military team, named after its captain, Mr. Watson, qualified for the final. The British team won the first leg, played on 18 January 1941, while Hapoel Tel Aviv won 3–1 in the return leg to win the cup.

=== National Shield ===
This league competition, also nicknamed "Ersatz League", was set up by Maccabi as a replacement for the Palestine League.
At the top, 9 teams, from the previous season's top division and Liga Bet, as well as a team representing the Sarona police force, competed for the National Shield (Hebrew: מגן הארץ, Magen HaAretz). The competition was held between November 1940 and July 1941.
The second level was divided into a Samaria (north) and Sharon (south) division, with the winners competing for a prize donated by Palestine Brewery and called Nesher Cup. Maccabi Zikhron Ya'akov won the Samaria division, Maccabi Netanya won the Sharon division, as well as being awarded the cup itself.

==== League table ====

== References ==

Catacombs of Lima

The Catacombs of Lima (Spanish: Catacumbas de Lima) are underground ossuaries in the historic centre of Lima, Peru. The catacombs were built under the Basilica and Convent of San Francisco and currently function as a museum.

== History ==
In 1546, the Franciscan order began construction of the Basilica and Convent of San Francisco in Lima, which included the catacombs, built to support the convent in the event of an earthquake. The crypt's use as a cemetery continued for almost the entirety of the Spanish era of Peru, stopping in 1810 with some 25,000 bodies lying within.
After the Peruvian War of Independence, the cemetery's use was banned by General José de San Martín, with the area being closed off soon after. It would not be reopened until 1950, now working as a museum. It was closed a second time during the COVID-19 pandemic in Peru
The total area of the underground complex is not known, as it does not limit itself to the convent but continues to other landmarks in Lima, connecting the convent to the Government Palace, the Legislative Palace and the Alameda de los Descalzos on the other side of the Rímac river. Other tunnels led to the Puente de Piedra and the Casa de Aliaga.
In 1981, attempts to map the entirety of the complex led to the aforementioned conclusion of the total area being unknown. In addition to the tunnels that led to other points of the capital's centre, a crypt that possibly worked as an ammo depot (although another hypothesis links it to the Desamparados Church, built by Viceroy Pedro Antonio Fernández de Castro, 10th Count of Lemos) was also found. According to experts commissioned by the Peruvian State, the tunnels' likely purpose was protection against piracy of the area's locals and safekeeping of valuables.
The San Francisco complex, which includes the catacombs, is one of the most important heritage monuments in the historic centre of Lima, which was declared on December 9, 1988, as a World Heritage Site by UNESCO.

== Notable burials ==
Constantino de Vasconcellos
Manuel de Oms, 24th Viceroy of Peru and 1st Marquess of Castelldosrius
García Sarmiento de Sotomayor, 16th Viceroy of Peru and 2nd Count of Salvatierra
Fr. Juan Gómez, personal nurse of Francis Solanus, known due to Ricardo Palma's Tradiciones Peruanas
Fr. Ramón y Tagle y Bracho, son of José Bernardo de Tagle y Bracho, 1st Marquis of Torre Tagle
Fr. Andrés Corso, who was born in Corsica and died in the convent on June 10, 1620
Fr. José Francisco de Guadalupe Mojica, O.F.M.

== See also ==

Historic Centre of Lima
List of World Heritage Sites in Peru

== References ==

1945 Kansas Jayhawks football team

The 1945 Kansas Jayhawks football team represented the University of Kansas in the Big Six Conference during the 1945 college football season. In their third and final season under head coach Henry Shenk, the Jayhawks compiled a 4–5–1 record (1–3–1 against conference opponents), finished fifth in the conference, and were outscored by opponents by a combined total of 175 to 139. They played their home games at Memorial Stadium in Lawrence, Kansas.
The team's statistical leaders included Dick Bertuzzi with 360 rushing yards, George Gear with 223 passing yards, Norm Pumphrey with 212 receiving yards, and Leroy Robison with 46 points scored (six touchdowns and ten extra points). Dave Schmidt was the team captain.

== Schedule ==

== References ==

ANZAC Field of Remembrance

The ANZAC Field of Remembrance is an annual event held at St. Andrew's Cathedral, Sydney, which is hosted by the War Widows' Guild of Australia NSW Ltd. The event involves the planting of wooden crosses in remembrance of those who have died due to their involvement in war.

== History ==
The first Field of Remembrance in Sydney was held in 1952. It was an idea that originated from the late Mrs C J Pope, widow of Rear Admiral Pope, after she had visited London and been impressed by the Field of Remembrance held each year in an old churchyard near Westminster Abbey. In 1972 the Attorney-General granted the War Widows’ Guild of Australia NSW Ltd permission to use the word 'ANZAC' in the title, and the Field has been known since then as the ANZAC Field of Remembrance and continues to the present day.

== The Ceremony ==
A non-denominational service is held prior to Anzac Day at St Andrew's Cathedral, Sydney, with a lesson read by the Governor of New South Wales. The service is followed by the Dedication of the Field and the planting of the official crosses. The first cross is planted by the Governor in memory of The Unknown Warrior, followed by crosses planted on behalf of the three armed forces: Navy, Army and Air Force; the citizens of Sydney; New Zealanders and their armed forces; veterans; and war widows. The Field was originally laid out on the lawn adjoining the Cathedral near Bathurst Street. Since 2016 the Field has been in Hyde Park on the Corner of Park Street and Elizabeth Street close to the ANZAC Memorial. The crosses are planted in a set of flower boxes that are periodically used to decorate the City of Sydney.

== The Crosses ==
The small wooden crosses are colour-coded to represent the different armed forces. A sprig of rosemary is attached to each cross which represents a loved one gone but remembered. They are each personalised with hand written names or small messages. After the Field of Remembrance is closed, the crosses are cremated and scattered on the graves of veterans in a memorial garden.

== Duration ==
The Field of Remembrance is open for widows and members of the public to place crosses in personal remembrance, from the day of the commemoration service until the late afternoon on Anzac Day.

== Milestone ==
The Guild held its 60th ANZAC Field of Remembrance on 19 April 2011. At this service, war widows from major and recent conflicts laid sprays of flowers on the Chancel steps of the cathedral. The Governor of New South Wales, Her Excellency Professor Marie Bashir AC CVO unveiled a plaque to recognise this milestone of 60 years.

== Other Fields of Remembrance ==
Following the establishment of the Sydney Field of Remembrance, the War Widows’ Guild has also held Fields of Remembrance in Albury, Newcastle, The Entrance and Tamworth. The War Widows’ Guild in the Australian Capital Territory and Tasmania also hold Fields of Remembrance.

== References ==

== External links ==
War Widows Guild of Australia NSW

1994 in Mexico

Events in the year 1994 in Mexico.

== Incumbents ==

=== Federal government ===
President: Carlos Salinas de Gortari (until November 30), Ernesto Zedillo (starting December 1)
Interior Secretary (SEGOB): Patrocinio González Garrido/Jorge Carpizo McGregor/Esteban Moctezuma
Secretary of Foreign Affairs (SRE): Manuel Camacho Solís/José Ángel Gurría
Communications Secretary (SCT): Emilio Gamboa Patrón/Guillermo Ortiz Martínez/Carlos Ruiz Sacristán
Secretary of Defense (SEDENA): Antonio Riviello Bazán/Enrique Cervantes Aguirre
Secretary of Navy: Luis Carlos Ruano Angulo/José Ramón Lorenzo Franco
Secretary of Labor and Social Welfare (STPS): Arsenio Farell Cubillas/Manuel Gómez Peralta/Santiago Oñate Laborde
Secretary of Welfare: Carlos Rojas Gutiérrez
Secretary of Public Education: Fernando Solana Morales/José Ángel Pescador/Fausto Alzati/Miguel Limón Rojas
Tourism Secretary (SECTUR): Silvia Hernández Enríquez
Secretary of the Environment (SEMARNAT): Guillermo Jiménez Morales/Julia Carabias Lillo
Secretary of Health (SALUD): Jesús Kumate Rodríguez/Juan Ramón De La Fuente

=== Supreme Court ===

President of the Supreme Court: Ulises Schmill Ordóñez

=== Governors ===

== Events ==
January 1
The North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) between Mexico, Canada and the United States goes into effect
The Zapatista Army of National Liberation goes public in response to NAFTA.
January 16 – The Apostolic Nunciature to Mexico, Girolamo Prigione, has a secret meeting with drug lord Benjamín Arellano Félix, who was implicated in the assassination of Cardinal Juan Jesús Posadas six months earlier. He had met with Ramón Arellano Félix six weeks earlier.
March 23 – Luis Donaldo Colosio presidential candidate for the PRI is assassinated in Tijuana, Baja California.
August 11 – Hurricane John starts in southern Mexico
August 21 – Presidential elections
September 28 – José Francisco Ruiz Massieu, brother-in-law of President Carlos Salinas de Gortari, former governor of Guerrero, and leader of the Institutional Revolutionary Party is assassinated.
October 11 – Hurricane Rosa kills four in Nayarit and Durango
December 1 – Ernesto Zedillo takes office as President of Mexico.
December 21 – The Popocateptl volcano spewed gas and ash, which was carried as far as 25 km (16 mi) away by prevailing winds. The activity prompted the evacuation of nearby towns and scientists to begin monitoring for an eruption.
December
economic crisis in Mexico with the peso losing a third of its value
The Fobaproa is applied in response to the economic crisis
El Barzón is created in response to the economic crisis

== Awards ==
Belisario Domínguez Medal of Honor – Jaime Sabines

== Popular culture ==

=== Sports ===
July 5 – Mexico loses 1–3 versus Bulgaria and is eliminated from the Football World Cup 1994

=== Music ===

=== Film ===

June 6 – The XXXVI edition of the Ariel Award by the Mexican Academy of Film takes place at the Palacio de Bellas Artes in Mexico City
El callejón de los milagros of Jorge Fons
Bienvenido-Welcome of Gabriel Retes
Dos crímenes of Roberto Sneider
Hasta morir of Fernando Sariñana
El jardín del edén of María Novaro
La reina de la noche of Arturo Ripstein
Mujeres insumisas of Alberto Isaac
Dulces compañías of Oscar Blancarte
Un volcán con lava de hielo (short) of Valentina Leduc
El árbol de la música (short) of Sabina Berman & Isabel Tardán
Del otro lado del mar (short) of Marcela Arteaga

=== Literature ===

=== TV ===

==== Telenovelas ====
Dos mujeres, un camino, on Televisa
Marimar, on Televisa
Volver a empezar, on Televisa

== Births ==
August 13 – Andrea Meza, model, Miss Universe 2020
October 17 – Alejandra Valencia, archer
November 8 – Víctor Hugo Saldaña Gutiérrez, footballer; (d. 2017).

== Deaths ==
March 23 – Luis Donaldo Colosio (43), candidate to the Presidency of Mexico (b. 1950)
September 28 – José Francisco Ruiz Massieu (48), politician, assassinated (b. 1946)

== References ==

1991 Alpine Skiing World Cup – Men's downhill

Men's downhill World Cup 1990/1991

== Calendar ==

== Final point standings ==
In men's downhill World Cup 1990/91 all results count.

== Men's downhill team results ==
bold indicate highest score - italics indicate race wins

== References ==

== External links ==
Official website

Bernard Chacksfield

Air Vice-Marshal Sir Bernard Albert Chacksfield, (13 April 1913 – 27 December 1999) was a senior Royal Air Force officer in the 1950s and 1960s and later a chief commissioner of The Scout Association and chairman of the Burma Star Association.
Chacksfield joined the Royal Air Force in 1927 as an apprentice aircraft engineer at RAF Halton and later at RAF Cranwell. He was selected for flying training and gaining a commission as a Pilot Officer in 1933. He served on the North West Frontier in 1933 as a Westland Wapiti pilot. By 1944 Chacksfield was in command of No. 910 Wing in Burma operating the Republic Thunderbolt fighter-bomber. By the end of the war he had been mentioned in despatches four times. From 1945 he became an air officer and served in the Air Ministry and later with NATO. He served in a number of senior positions until finally becoming Commandant-General of the RAF Regiment in 1963. Chacksfield retired in 1968 as an air vice-marshal.
With a longtime interest in the Scout movement he was appointed in 1970 as chief commissioner for the Scout Association later being awarded the movements highest award, the Silver Wolf in 1975. Chacksfield was awarded the Bronze Wolf, the only distinction of the World Organization of the Scout Movement, awarded by the World Scout Committee for exceptional services to world Scouting.
In retirement he became chairman on the Burma Star Association until his death from cancer in 1999.

== References ==

Oxford Dictionary of National Biography – Sir Bernard Albert Chacksfield
Air Vice Marshal Sir Bernard Chacksfield (33051)

Abra, Ivory Coast

Abra is a village in southern Ivory Coast. It is in the sub-prefecture of Attoutou, Jacqueville Department, Grands-Ponts Region, Lagunes District.
Abra was a commune until March 2012, when it became one of 1,126 communes nationwide that were abolished.

== Notes ==

1680

1680 (MDCLXXX) was a leap year starting on Monday of the Gregorian calendar and a leap year starting on Thursday of the Julian calendar, the 1680th year of the Common Era (CE) and Anno Domini (AD) designations, the 680th year of the 2nd millennium, the 80th year of the 17th century, and the 1st year of the 1680s decade. As of the start of 1680, the Gregorian calendar was 10 days ahead of the Julian calendar, which remained in localized use until 1923.

== Events ==

=== January–March ===
January 2 – King Amangkurat II of Mataram (located on the island of Java, part of modern-day Indonesia), invites Trunajaya, who had led a failed rebellion against him until his surrender on December 26, for a ceremonial visit to the royal palace. After Trunajaya arrives, King Amangkurat stabs his guest to death.
January 24 – William Harris, one of the four English Puritans who established the Plymouth Colony and then the Providence Plantations at Rhode Island in 1636, is captured by Algerian pirates, when his ship is boarded while he is making a voyage back to England. After being sold into slavery on February 23, he remains a slave until ransom is paid. He dies in 1681, three days after his return to England.
February 12 – The Marquis de Croissy, Charles Colbert, becomes France's Minister of Foreign Affairs and serves for 16 years until his death, when he is succeeded as Foreign Minister by his son Jean-Baptiste Colbert.
February 16 – Rev. Ralph Davenant's will provides for foundation of the Davenant Foundation School for poor boys in Whitechapel, in the East End of London.
February 22 – Catherine Deshayes Monvoisin, a fortune teller in France who organized a ring of killers in what became known as the "Affair of the Poisons" that killed at least 1,000 people, is burned at the stake after being convicted of witchcraft. In all, 36 people are executed for their role in the poisoning.
February 24 – The German Duchy of Saxe-Coburg is divided by treaty among the sons of the late Ernest I, Duke of Saxe-Gotha, who had died in 1675. The oldest son, Frederick, receives Saxe-Gotha-Altenburg. The rest is divided among Albert (Duke of Saxe-Coburg); Bernhard (Saxe-Meiningen); Henry (Saxe-Römhild); Christian (Saxe-Eisenberg); Ernest (Saxe-Hildburghausen); and John Ernest (Saxe-Coburg-Saalfeld).
March 24 – The Earl of Shaftesbury informs the Privy Council of England that the Roman Catholics of Ireland were about to launch a rebellion, backed by France. The investigation leads to the arrest and ultimate execution of the Roman Catholic Archbishop of Armagh, Oliver Plunkett.
March 25 – Troops sent by the Sultan of Morocco, Ismail Ibn Sharif, begin a blockade of the port of Tangier, occupied by the English and located on the North African coast. Palmes Fairborne is dispatched to defend Tangier as the colonial governor and commander-in-chief of English forces.
March 27 – The London Penny Post delivery service begins operations after being created by Robert Murray and William Dockwra, with a policy of delivering letters to any part of London or its suburbs for the price of one English penny.
March 30 – A total eclipse of the Sun takes place and is visible over central Africa, with totality over the Opala Territory in the modern-day Democratic Republic of the Congo.

=== April–June ===
April 21 – Prince Rajaram Bhosle, the 10-year-old son of the Shivaji, the Chhatrapati (Emperor) of the Maratha Empire in India, is installed on the throne as the new Emperor, less than three weeks after the death of his father. Sambhaji Bhosle, the eldest son of Shivaji, learns the news while imprisoned at Panhala and makes plans to escape prison and take over the throne.
April 27 – Prince Sambhaji and fellow prisoners kill the commander of the Panhala prison and take control of the fort, as he makes plans to become ruler of the Maratha Empire.
April 30 – The first French Huguenots in the New World arrive at Charleston, South Carolina, as 45 of the religious exiles arrive at Oyster Point on the ship Richmond, after being sent there by King Charles II of England.
May 6 – King Charles XI of Sweden marries Princess Elonora, daughter of the late King Frederick III of Denmark-Norway and sister of King Christian V.
May – The volcano Krakatoa erupts, probably on a relatively small scale.
June 4 – Tokugawa Tsunayoshi becomes the new Shōgun of Japan upon the death of his older brother, Tokugawa Ietsuna, who had been shōgun for 29 years.
June 10 – England and Spain sign a mutual defense treaty.
June 11 – Elizabeth Cellier, an English Catholic midwife, is tried and acquitted of treason for pamphleting against the government.
June 16 – Sambhaji Bhosle and his troops capture Raigad, the capital of the Maratha Empire and Sambhaji becomes the new Chhatrapati or Emperor. Sambhaji deposes his younger brother Rajaram I and places Rajaram and Rajaram's mother under house arrest.
June 22 – The Sanquhar Declaration, written by Richard Cameron, leader of the Covenanters who oppose the control of religion in Scotland by King Charles, is read aloud by Richard's brother Michael Cameron at the public square in the village of Sanquhar in Dumfriesshire.
June 30 – During the Spanish Inquisition, an auto-da-fé takes place in the Plaza Mayor, Madrid.

=== July–September ===
July 8 – The first documented tornado in America kills a servant at Cambridge, Massachusetts.
August 10 – A Pueblo medicine man named Popé begins an attack by the Puebloans and their Apache allies on Spanish outposts throughout what is the modern-day U.S. state of New Mexico, choosing the campaign to begin before a supply caravan can reach the Spaniards.
August 20 (August 10 Old Style) – The settlement of Karlskrona in Sweden is founded, as the Royal Swedish Navy relocates there.
August 21 – In the Pueblo Revolt, the native Pueblo people capture Santa Fe (now in New Mexico) from the Spanish colonists.
August 24 – Comédie-Française is founded by decree of Louis XIV as La maison de Molière in Paris.
September 11 – Emperor Go-Mizunoo spent his later years in relative seclusion as a retired emperor, continuing to participate in courtly and cultural activities until his passing away.
September 15
A four month truce between England and Morocco expires and the Alcaid Omar, Viceroy of Morocco, begins a bombardment of the English fort at Tangier.
A treaty is concluded between the Dutch Republic and the Ottoman Empire for Ottoman Sultan Mehmed IV and his subjects to apply Dutch law to Dutch visitors to Ottoman territory.
September 21 – Spanish troops make a counterattack on Santa Fe in the modern-day U.S. state of New Mexico, allowing the remaining Spanish troops in the besieged city to flee to El Paso (now in Texas).
September 30 – Robert Boyle, having rediscovered the process of manufacturing phosphorus from bone ash, deposits his summary of the directions with The Royal Society of London for Improving Natural Knowledge. Boyle's assistant, Ambrose Godfrey, later develops Boyle's discovery to produce phosphorus commercially.

=== October–December ===
October 9 – A massive 9.0 magnitude Mw earthquake destroys part of Málaga and other cities in the province of the same name.
October 29 – At the request of King Charles XI of Sweden, the Riksdag in Sweden enacts the Great Reduction, returning fiefs which had been granted to the Swedish nobility to the Crown. The nation becomes an absolute monarchy under the rule of Charles.
November 14 – The Great Comet of 1680 is first sighted by Gottfried Kirch, the first comet discovered by telescope.
November 17 – The Green Ribbon Club, a predecessor of the British Whigs, organizes a procession to burn an effigy of the Pope in London for the second year running.
December 17 (December 7 O.S.) – The trial for treason of William Howard, 1st Viscount Stafford before his fellow members of the House of Lords having concluded after seven days, the Lords vote on whether to convict him of the articles of impeachment. The Lords vote, 55 to 31 to convict him and to impose the death sentence and Lord Stafford is beheaded on 29 December (8 January 1681 N.S.)

=== Date unknown ===
Chambers of Reunion (French courts under Louis XIV) decide on the complete annexation of Alsace.
The first Portuguese governor is appointed to Macau.
Johann Pachelbel writes his Canon in D Major

== Births ==

January 23 – Joseph Ames, English author (d. 1759)
February 14 – John Sidney, 6th Earl of Leicester, English privy councillor (d. 1737)
February 23 – Jean-Baptiste Le Moyne de Bienville, French colonizer and Governor of Louisiana (d. 1767)
April 9 – Philippe Néricault Destouches, French dramatist (d. 1754)
April 23 – Anna Canalis di Cumiana, morganatic spouse of Victor Amadeus II of Savoy (d. 1769)
June 22 – Ebenezer Erskine, Scottish religious dissenter (d. 1754)
September 22 – Barthold Heinrich Brockes, German poet (d. 1747)
October 19 – John Abernethy, Irish Protestant minister (d. 1740)
date unknown – Bulleh Shah, Sufi poet (d. 1757)
date unknown – Julianna Géczy, Hungarian heroine (d. 1714)
approximate – Blackbeard (Edward Teach), English pirate (d. 1718)

== Deaths ==

=== January–June ===
January 2
John Jolliffe, English politician and businessman (b. 1613)
Trunajaya, Maduran prince and rebel leader, murdered (b. 1649)
January 18 – John Hervey, English courtier and politician (b. 1616)
January 20 – Ann, Lady Fanshawe, English memoirist (b. 1625)
January 23 – Capel Luckyn, English Member of Parliament (b. 1622)
February – Ralph Davenant, English rector and founder of Davenant Foundation School
February 11 – Elisabeth of the Palatinate, German princess, philosopher and Calvinist (b. 1618)
February 17
Denzil Holles, 1st Baron Holles, English statesman and writer (b. 1599)
Frans Post, Dutch painter (b. 1612)
Jan Swammerdam, Dutch scientist (b. 1637)
February 22 – Catherine Monvoisin, French fortune teller and poisoner (b. c. 1640)
February 27 – Philippe Balthazar de Gand, French noble (b. 1616)
March 14 – René Le Bossu, French critic (b. 1631)
March 17
William Brereton, 3rd Baron Brereton, English politician (b. 1631)
François de La Rochefoucauld, French writer (b. 1613)
March 23 – Nicolas Fouquet, French statesman (b. 1615)
April 1 – David Denicke, German jurist and hymnwriter (b. 1603)
April 3 – Chhatrapati Shivaji Bhosale, founder of the Maratha Empire (b. 1630)
April 19 – Marie Hedwig of Hesse-Darmstadt, Duchess consort of Saxe-Meiningen (1671–1680) (b. 1647)
April 25
Louise of Anhalt-Dessau, Duchess suo jure of Oława and Wołów (1672–1680) (b. 1631)
Simon Paulli, Danish physician (b. 1603)
April 29 – Nicolas Cotoner, Spanish 61st Grandmaster of the Knights Hospitaller (b. 1608)
May 29 – Abraham Megerle, Austrian composer and organist (b. 1607)
May 31 – Joachim Neander, German Calvinist clergyman (b. 1650)
June 4
Augustus, Duke of Saxe-Weissenfels, administrator of the archbishopric of Magdeburg (b. 1614)
Tokugawa Ietsuna, Japanese Tokugawa shōgun (b. 1641)
June 18 – Samuel Butler, English poet (b. 1612)
June 10
Johan Göransson Gyllenstierna, Swedish statesman (b. 1635)
Louis Moréri, French encyclopedist (b. 1643)

=== July–December ===
July 26
John Wilmot, 2nd Earl of Rochester, English poet (b. 1647)
Sir Hugh Smith, 1st Baronet, English Member of Parliament (b. 1632)
July 30 – Thomas Butler, 6th Earl of Ossory (b. 1634)
August 19 – John Eudes, French missionary (b. 1601)
August 20 – William Bedloe, English informer (b. 1650)
August 22 – John George II, Elector of Saxony (b. 1613)
August 24
Ferdinand Bol, Dutch painter, etcher and draftsman (b. 1616)
Thomas Blood, thief of the English Crown Jewels (b. 1618)
August 25 – Symeon of Polotsk, Belarusian churchman and poet (b. 1629)
August 27 – Joan Cererols, Catalan musician and Benedictine monk (b. 1618)
August 28 – Charles I Louis, Elector Palatine (b. 1617)
September 1 – Anna Sophia I, Abbess of Quedlinburg, Dutch abbess (b. 1619)
September 2 – Per Brahe the Younger, Swedish soldier and statesman (b. 1602)
September 3
Anna Elisabeth of Anhalt-Bernburg, duchess consort of Württemberg-Bernstadt (b. 1647)
Paul Ragueneau, French Jesuit missionary (b. 1608)
September 9 – Henry Marten, English regicide (b. 1602)
September 10 – Baldassare Ferri, Italian castrato (b. 1610)
September 11
Roger Crab, English Puritan political writer (b. 1621)
Emperor Go-Mizunoo of Japan (b. 1596)
September 26 – John Dury, Scottish-born Calvinist minister (b. 1596)
September 30 – Johann Grueber, Austrian Jesuit missionary and astronomer (b. 1623)
October 4 – Pierre-Paul Riquet, French engineer and canal builder (b. 1609)
October 13 – Lelio Colista, Italian composer and lutenist (b. 1629)
October 16 – Raimondo Montecuccoli, Italian general (b. 1609)
October 17 – Charles FitzCharles, 1st Earl of Plymouth, illegitimate son of King Charles II (b. 1657)
October 30 – Antoinette Bourignon, Flemish mystic (b. 1616)
November 9 – Hungerford Dunch, English politician (b. 1639)
November 27 or November 28 – Athanasius Kircher, German Jesuit scholar (b. 1602)
November 28
Gian Lorenzo Bernini, Italian sculptor (b. 1598)
Giovanni Francesco Grimaldi, Italian architect and painter (b. 1606)
November 30 – Peter Lely, Dutch painter (b. 1618)
December 4 – Thomas Bartholin, Danish physician, mathematician, and theologian (b. 1616)
December 8 – Henry Pierrepont, 1st Marquess of Dorchester, English politician (b. 1606)
December 10 – Marco Uccellini, Italian composer and violinist (b. 1603 or 1610)
December 20 – Princess Elisabeth Sophie of Saxe-Altenburg, German princess (b. 1619)
December 29
Arent Berntsen, Norwegian statistician (b. 1610)
William Howard, 1st Viscount Stafford of England (b. 1614)
November 30 – Christopher Sandius, Dutch Arian writer (b. 1644)

=== Unknown date ===
Zhou Youde, Chinese official
Marie Meurdrac, French chemist and alchemist (b. 1610)

== References ==

Allegheny Airlines Flight 371

Allegheny Airlines Flight 371 was a scheduled passenger flight on December 1, 1959, between Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and Cleveland, Ohio with stops in Pennsylvania at Harrisburg, Williamsport, Bradford, and Erie.
The Martin 2-0-2 operating the flight departed Harrisburg with 26 passengers and crew on board and crashed while maneuvering to land at Williamsport Regional Airport in poor weather. A passenger was the sole survivor. Of the 26 passengers and crew many came from Pennsylvania or other Mid-Atlantic states, however there were two foreign nationals on board: one from France and the other from Lithuania.
The crash was the first fatal accident in the history of Allegheny Airlines and was the deadliest until the 1969 crash of Allegheny Airlines Flight 853. Also the crash was the largest aviation incident in county history, and was the only deadly incident involving Williamsport Regional Airport until the Merion air disaster in 1991.

== Background ==
Flight 371 was scheduled from Philadelphia to Cleveland with stops at Harrisburg, Williamsport, Bradford, and Erie. Flight 371 departed Philadelphia at 08:15 and proceeded under visual flight rules to Harrisburg where it landed at 08:51 without incident. Flight 371 departed Harrisburg at 09:06 with 22 revenue passengers, 4 crew members and 598 pounds of baggage, mail, and cargo.

== Crash ==

On Tuesday, 1 December 1959 at 09:06 EST (14:06 UTC) Allegheny Airlines Flight 371 departed Harrisburg-York State Airport with 22 revenue passengers, one additional crew member, and 598 pounds of cargo. The gross weight at time of takeoff was 36,429 pounds, which was 2,081 pounds below Maximum takeoff weight (MTOW).
At 09:23 EST Flight 371 reported to Williamsport radio that it was making 360-degree turns five minutes south of the Williamsport low frequency range at an altitude of 3,500 feet, VFR, and requested an instrument clearance to the Williamsport Regional Airport. Williamsport responded by giving 371 airport weather conditions from 09:17 EST. At 09:27 EST 371 was cleared direct to airport from its present position and was to maintain 4,000 feet. At 09:33 EST 371 was cleared for an approach to the Williamsport Airport and to report when on the ground.
At approximately 09:45 EST 371 was observed over the airport, too high however to effect a landing. After this initial approach to the field, 371 flew over the field and made a right turn for a circling approach to runway 27. As this circle was apparently completed, the aircraft was observed to roll out of its right turn and into a left turn and proceed in level flight, on a southerly direction, disappearing into snow showers and clouds. This was observed by an airport employee and the captain of a Capital Airlines Douglas DC-3 holding short of runway 27 awaiting Flight 371's arrival. At about 09:47 EST airport workers heard 371 crash into Bald Eagle Mountain.

=== Rescue ===

Due to the terrain it was hard for authorities from several local fire departments that responded to reach the site; thus, it took would-be rescuers half an hour to reach the crashed aircraft. The site was so hard to get to that a local doctor, Wilfred W. Wilcox, had to be air lifted into the crash scene via a United States Air Force Sikorsky H-19 Chickasaw helicopter and lowered into the site (as seen to the left).
The crash site was very steep, at some locations the grade was near 30 degrees, making movement around the crash site painstakingly slow. Once authorities reached the site at approximately 10:25 a.m. lone survivor was found and given first aid. By noon, the crash site was deemed secure by fire and police officials. By late afternoon all bodies were taken from the crash site.

== Passengers and crew ==

=== Passengers ===

Sole survivor
Twenty-five people on board were killed, with a manager of a Philadelphia sportswear company who was on a business trip as the only survivor. Two other passengers initially survived but died before they could be transported.

=== Crew members ===
There were 4 crew members on board, 3 pilots and a flight attendant. Captain Thomas Ronald Goldsmith had over 12,000 hours and worked for Allegheny for nine years. Co-pilots George Matthew Bowers was occupying the right hand seat and Donald Winston Tygert was seated in the jump seat. The lone steward was 28 year-old William Thompson Conger Jr.

== Investigation ==

Aviation crash investigators were called immediately following the crash and arrived on the crash site the following day. The Civil Aeronautics Board opened an investigation on December 2, 1959. Possible causes for the crash released in a pre-investigation interview were that of pilot error, inclement weather conditions, cockpit instrumental or mechanical failure.
On November 8, 1960, the board released its findings saying: "The Board believes that this accident was caused by the captain's failure to execute a timely abandoned approach. The probable accidental caging of the fluxgate compass, which would have resulted in an erroneous heading indication, is considered to be a likely contributing factor."
As a result of the crash from 1961 onward the Federal Aviation Administration required all commercial aircraft to adopt suitable guards on all aircraft that have fluxgate compass caging switches located in a position which would permit inadvertent actuation.

== Legacy ==

In May 2014, a Williamsport-area resident, Shane Collins, and his cousin, Mark Avery, re-located the Flight 371 crash site on Bald Eagle Mountain using GPS. Robin Van Auken, an archaeology instructor at Lycoming College and a board member of the Northcentral Chapter 8 of the Society for Pennsylvania Archaeology, led efforts resulting in the state Historical and Museum Commission designating the crash site (about the size of a football field) as an official archaeological site. Recovery of artifacts would be difficult as much of the site is on a 67-degree slope.
In October 2016 a memorial plaque was installed at the crash site.

== See also ==
List of accidents and incidents involving airliners in the United States

== References ==

== External links ==

ASN Accident page at aviation-safety.net
Memorial Facebook page

Eristalis brousii

Eristalis brousii, also known as the hourglass drone fly, is a fly species in the Syrphidae family first described by Samuel Wendell Williston in 1882. The species has become largely extinct outside of Northern Canada. Eristalis brousii are part of the hoverfly family, known for hovering above flowers to collect nectar and pollen.
The larvae are rat-tailed aquatic filter-feeders.

== Description ==
Eristalis brousii is similar to Eristalis arbustorum, but with differing coloration of the mesotibia (middle section of the tibia). E. brousii has yellow coloring on the basal half of the mesotibia and reddish-brown to black coloring on the basal tarsomere of the mesoleg. E. arbustorum has yellow coloring on the basal third of the mesotibia, and brown and black coloring on the basal tarsomere of the mesoleg. E. brousii measures 9–12 mm (0.35–0.47 in) in length.

=== Head ===
The frontal triangle is slightly shiny along the middle. In females, the front is reddish pollinose and shinier above the antennae compared to males. The head is black, covered with yellow pollen and pile while the tubercle, the oral margin, and the cheeks are black. The antennae are black with the third joint (flagellum) being red. The eyes are pilose and, in males, contiguous for only a short distance. The arista is red and briefly pilose near the base. The posterior lateral orbits are white pollinose.

=== Thorax ===
The scutum is black and with a copper luster. Two opaque, lightly colored stripes reach from the front to the scutellum. They are limited by three narrow, opaque, black stripes. The pile of the scutum is light red. The scutellum is subtranslucent yellow or red on the outer part. The pile of the pleura is white.

=== Wings ===
The wings are hyaline with a brown stigma. In females, the wings have a large brown spot. Venation includes the Spurious vein (sv), looping of R4+5 into r4+5, closed cell r2+3, and the Anterior cross-vein (r-m) near or beyond the middle of the discal cell (dm).

=== Abdomen ===
On the abdomen of a male, the first segment is black, the second orange or yellow, broad on the sides and narrow across the hind border, elsewhere black; on the posterior, nearly a third of the width of the segment is black; the sides approach each other towards the front and then at right angles extend outward along the anterior margin of the segment; the lateral prolongations are convex on their hind borders and reach to the lateral margins; third segment with large, similar colored spots, confluent with the yellow in front but rounded on the internal posterior angles and don't reach the yellow of the hind margins; across the middle of the segment a metallic band gets cut across; elsewhere the black is opaque; fourth segment wholly shining, with a yellow hind margin and sometimes with a spot of black in front; hypopygium black. Female abdomens, in contrast to males, are mostly black; the second segment sometimes includes a small, opaque, red spot on the side, as in the male; the third and fourth segments sometimes have small opaque spots in front; on the second, third, and fourth segments, a broad, white pollinose may be located on the hind border; the hind margins are more narrowly red or yellow.

== Distribution ==
The population of E. brousii has suffered a large decline in North America since the introduction of the European species E. arbustorum near Toronto around 1885. As of 2019, E. brousii is only found along the lake margin of Hudson Bay.

== References ==

Cyneheard

Cyneheard is an Anglo-Saxon male given name. Notable people with the name include:

Cyneheard the Ætheling (died 786), the killer of Cynewulf of Wessex
Cyneheard, an 8th-century Bishop of Winchester

2026 United States–Ukraine–Russia meetings in Geneva

The 2026 United States–Ukraine–Russia meetings in Geneva were the third round of trilateral talks between delegations from the United States, Ukraine, and Russia. The meetings took place in Geneva on 17 and 18 February 2026. These meetings followed a trilateral format between the three countries similar to what took place in Abu Dhabi some weeks before.
The Geneva meetings happened as the war in Ukraine entered its fifth year, with fighting occurring on multiple fronts and after numerous negotiation sessions struggling to produce any meaningful results.

== Background ==
The first negotiations in a trilateral format between the US, Ukraine and Russia held in Abu Dhabi ended without an agreement on key contentious points such as a ceasefire, territory, the fate of the Russian-controlled Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant, and security guarantees to prevent a future Russian invasion. These talks were nevertheless described as constructive by the participants and a prisoner exchange took place at the end of the meetings.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said that this round of talks would cover a broader range of issues than the limited set previously discussed in Abu Dhabi. Peskov also said that he did not expect any major developments on the first day, noting that the talks were scheduled to continue on the following day. The Kyiv Independent reported that the talks come after a week of strong criticism from Russian officials, who suggested that only Ukraine's surrrender would satisfy Moscow's objectives. According to the President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenskyy, territory is the main issue to be discussed.

== History ==
On 7 February 2026, Zelenskyy said the US wanted to reach an agreement to end the war by June 2026 and that they invited Ukraine and Russia for talks in the US on the following week, likely in Miami, and he confirmed Ukraine would participate. He added that if the June deadline was not met, the US would likely put pressure on both sides to meet it. However, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said the negotiations were far from finished, rejecting what he called "over-enthusiastic perceptions" of progress, while claiming that the US had backtracked on the terms agreed upon at the 2025 Russia–United States summit, the so-called "spirit of Anchorage". Lavrov also effectively dismissed the US-Ukraine 20-point peace plan, which had been expected to serve as the basis for peace negotiations.
On 11 February, Zelenskyy said the meetings would start on 17 or 18 February and they would be focused on the issue of territory. The US proposal was to set up a free economic zone as a demilitarized buffer zone in the parts of Donbas that Russia didn't control, namely about 20% of the Donetsk province. However, both Ukraine and Russia were skeptical about this. Zelenskyy added that the peace proposal would need to be approved by Ukraine, either through a parliamentary vote or a national referendum. The head of Zelenskyy’s party in parliament, David Arakhamiya, said in the previous month that the referendum should be held together with a presidential election. Though, Zelenskyy said that Ukraine would only hold elections after a ceasefire and security guarantees were in place. On 14 February, at the Munich Security Conference, Zelenskyy said that the US was offering security guarantees lasting 15 years as part of a peace deal, but Ukraine wanted them to last more than 20 years. Zelenskyy later added that Ukraine was prepared to hold democratic elections if the US helped to secure a two-month ceasefire to allow for security guarantees and election preparations.
On 13 February, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov announced that Russia would participate in the trilateral meetings, but that they would be held in Geneva, Switzerland, on 17 and 18 February. He added that the Russian delegation would be led by Vladimir Medinsky. An article in The Kyiv Independent interpreted his appointment as a sign of a potential hardening of the Russian position during the negotiations, given his history of uncompromising rhetoric in previous talks. NATO Secretary General Mark Rutte said that Russia wasn't seeking a peace agreement by appointing Medinsky. However, ahead of the meetings, US President Donald Trump urged Kyiv to move quickly toward an agreement. "Ukraine better come to the table, fast," Trump told reporters aboard Air Force One, appearing to suggest that the US and Russia "are in a position" to make a deal.

== Delegations ==
The US delegation was led by special envoy Steve Witkoff and Donald Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner, and included the US Secretary of the Army Daniel P. Driscoll and the top US commander in Europe and NATO's chief military officer General Alexus Grynkewich.
The Ukrainian delegation was led by Ukrainian National Security and Defense Council Secretary Rustem Umerov and included the presidential office head Kyrylo Budanov, the Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine Andrii Hnatov, the head of the ruling Servant of the People party’s parliamentary faction David Arakhamia, Budanov’s deputy Serhiy Kyslytsia, and the deputy chief of Ukraine’s Main Intelligence Directorate Vadym Skibitsky.
The Russian delegation was led by presidential aide Vladimir Medinsky, and included the Deputy Foreign Minister Mikhail Galuzin, the special envoy Kiril Dmitriev, and the chief of military intelligence Admiral Igor Kostyukov.

== Meetings ==

=== First day: 17 February 2026 ===
The meeting on 17 February took place in the afternoon, after the US delegation met with an Iranian delegation, also in Geneva, to discuss Iran's nuclear program in the morning. The talks lasted six hours and were held behind closed doors in their first day.
The leader of the Ukrainian delegation, Rustem Umerov, said the meeting was "focused on practical issues and the mechanics of possible solutions," and thanked the American delegation for "constructive cooperation". A source close to the Russian delegation reported that the negotiations "were very tense", adding that they would, however, continue in the next day. According to the US envoy Steve Witkoff there was "meaningful progress".
Zelenskyy described the first day of talks as "difficult," accusing Russia of prolonging a process that, in his opinion, could already be nearing its final stage.
A spokesperson for Zelenskyy said the talks had addressed Donbas and the fate of the Russian-controlled Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant, both sticking points since the beginning of the process.
TASS agency reported that according to Italian diplomatic sources, Italian, German, French, and British representatives were also present in Geneva and they were expected to meet with the Ukrainian and US delegations on the sidelines of the talks.

=== Second day: 18 February 2026 ===
On the second day of talks, the talks lasted less than two hours on the morning and ended "abruptly". They were held behind closed doors like in the day before.
President Zelenskyy said the agenda for the second day included humanitarian issues, particularly steps toward a prisoner of war exchange and the release of civilians.
In a sign that the talks had potentially stalled, the two lead US negotiators, Steve Witkoff and Jared Kushner, did not take part in the 18 February meeting, according to US and Ukrainian officials. Other, less senior American negotiators participated in this day's talks.
The leader of the Russian delegation Vladimir Medinsky described the meeting as "tough but businesslike". The leader of the Ukrainian delegation Rustem Umerov reported that "the talks were intensive and substantive".

=== Intermediate developments ===
On 24 February, special envoy Steve Witkoff announced that a bilateral meeting between American and Ukrainian officials would take place in Geneva on Thursday, 26 February. The talks happened in the Four Seasons Hotel. Rustem Umerov led the Ukrainian delegation which included Ukraine's Minister of Economy Oleksii Sobolev. The American delegation was led by Steve Witkoff and Jared Kushner and it included US Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent. The main objective of the talks was the post-war economic recovery of Ukraine, including the so-called "Prosperity Package" to fund Ukraine's reconstruction. Ukraine hoped to attract about US$800 billion of public and private funds over the next 10 years to rebuild the country. Another of the meeting's goals was to prepare for the next trilateral talks with Russia, which could happen in early March, according to Zelenskyy. He said that the US and Ukrainian delegations would discuss the exchange of prisoners of war between Ukraine and Russia. He also said that the military part of the negotiations was nearing completion, saying negotiators were close to a full draft on a ceasefire monitoring. On the same day, Steve Witkoff and Jared Kushner met with an Iranian delegation, also in Geneva, in the morning and evening, for talks about the Iranian nuclear program.
On the eve of the bilateral meeting, on 25 February, Trump told Zelenskyy in a phone call that he wanted the war to end within a month, and discussed the possibility of a trilateral meeting between Trump, Zelensky and Putin. Trump also reiterated his willingness to provide Ukraine with substantial US security guarantees as part of a peace agreement. Later, the Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov replied saying that there were "no deadlines" for the end of the conflict, and that Russia had tasks to fulfill and was working to accomplish them. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov also stated it was too early to make "forecasts" or say at what stage the peace process was at.
On 28 February, the Head of the Office of the President of Ukraine, Kyrylo Budanov, said Russia had agreed to accept the security guarantees for Ukraine proposed by the US. However, on 5 March, Russia's Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov denied this, saying that Moscow had neither seen nor accepted any Western security guarantees for Ukraine.
On 5 March, it was announced that a prisoner of war exchange agreement between Russia and Ukraine was achieved in the negotiations during the first round of trilateral meetings. The first phase of the exchange began on this day when 200 prisoners from each side were exchanged, with the second phase happening on 6 March, when 300 prisoners were exchanged. In total, over the two days, the exchange was of 500 prisoners from each side.
Bilateral meetings between US and Ukrainian delegations were held on 21 and 22 March in Miami, Florida. The focus of the meetings was on issues of reliable security guarantees and the humanitarian track, including the exchange and return of Ukrainian citizens. Zelenskyy said that progress was made on the prisoners of war issue. Ukraine expected these meetings to serve as a preparatory step for future trilateral talks involving Ukraine, the US and Russia.
In the aftermath, several prisoner of war exchanges happened with the mediation of the US and the United Arab Emirates: On 11 April a prisoner of war exchange happened, with 175 Ukrainian soldiers and 7 civilians being exchanged for 175 Russian soldiers. On 24 April, Russia and Ukraine swaped each 193 prisoners of war. On 15 May, 205 prisoners of war from each side were exchanged as part of the first stage of a 1000 for 1000 planned exchange between Russia and Ukraine.

=== Further trilateral talks ===
At the end of this round of meetings, Medinsky said a new round of negotiations would take place in the near future. On 20 February, Zelenskyy announced that another round of trilateral meetings would take place within 10 days, likely also in Geneva. On 25 February, Zelenskyy said that another round of trilateral meetings was being prepared and that it could happen in early March. According to a source cited by Bloomberg, the talks could take place around 4-5 March. On 2 March, Zelenskyy said the negotiations were tentatively scheduled for 5-6 March in Abu Dhabi, but there were doubts as to whether they would happen due to the war between the US and Iran. On 3 March, the Kremlin said that the next round of trilateral talks, originally to be held in Abu Dhabi, was now in doubt due to the war in Iran. On 5 March, Zelenskyy said the next round of trilateral meetings could be postponed "for a while due to the ‌war in the Middle East". He also said he was open to other location for the talks, such as Turkey or Switzerland. On 19 March, the Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov confirmed that the trilateral talks were "on pause", though contacts between Russia and Ukraine continued on humanitarian issues such as the exchange of prisoners and of the bodies of fallen soldiers.

== Reactions and outcomes ==
According to Axios, progress in Geneva was limited. Axios reported that discussions among the military on mechanisms to monitor a ceasefire were constructive and Zelenskyy said Ukrainian forces were now ready to monitor a ceasefire, should there be the political will to enforce it. However, the political negotiations remained "stuck", with the Russian envoys insisting on full control of the Donbas. In the interview with Axios published on 17 February, Zelenskyy said that any agreement requiring the Ukrainian forces to unilaterally withdraw from the remainder of the Donbas they still controlled, about 20% of the Donetsk province, and hand it over to Russia, would have to be approved in a national referendum, and that this would not happen.
In an interview with Agence France-Press on 20 February, Zelenskyy stated that both the US and Russia were pressuring Ukraine to withdraw from the rest of Donbas and cede the territory to Russia in exchange for a quick peace deal. "Both the Americans and the Russians say that if you want the war to end tomorrow, get out of Donbas," Zelenskyy said. Otherwise, Russia vowed to take the territory by force. Ukraine has repeatedly ruled out pulling its troops out of the region, saying such a move would only embolden Russia. The US and Russia were also pressuring Ukraine to hold presidential elections as part of its broader plan for a peace agreement. He also said that he wished that a contingent of European troops to be sent to Ukraine once a ceasefire was reached, and that this contigent would be positioned close to the front line.
On 23 February, the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, who is also the First Vice-President of the European Commission, Kaja Kallas, stated that the European Union was demanding the withdrawal of Russian troops from occupied areas in Moldova (Transnistria) and Georgia (South Ossetia and Abkhazia) in the negotiations for a long lasting and balanced peace agreement in Ukraine.

== See also ==
Peace negotiations in the Russo-Ukrainian war
United States and the Russian invasion of Ukraine

== References ==

2001–02 FIS Alpine Ski World Cup

The 36th World Cup began in October 2001 and ended in March 2002 at the World Cup finals held in Altenmarkt, Austria. The overall winners were Stephan Eberharter and Michaela Dorfmeister, both from Austria.
The schedule for the 36th World Cup season included a nearly four-week-long break in February for the Winter Olympics in the United States at Salt Lake City, Utah.
This was the first season that colored dye was used on the snow to mark the courses.

== Calendar ==

=== Men ===

=== Ladies ===

== Men ==

=== Overall ===

=== Downhill ===

=== Super G ===

=== Giant slalom ===

=== Slalom ===

=== Combined ===

== Ladies ==

=== Overall ===

=== Downhill ===

=== Super G ===

=== Giant slalom ===

=== Slalom ===

=== Combined ===

== Footnotes ==

== References ==

== External links ==
FIS-ski.com – World Cup standings – 2002

2024 Democratic National Convention

The 2024 Democratic National Convention was a United States presidential nominating convention in which delegates of the United States Democratic Party
voted on their party platform and ceremonially reported their vote to nominate Vice President Kamala Harris for president and her chosen running mate Governor Tim Walz of Minnesota for vice president in the 2024 United States presidential election. It was held from August 19 to 22, 2024, at the United Center in Chicago, Illinois. Delegates virtually nominated Harris and Walz the first week of August. Harris is the first Black woman and first Indian woman to be the presidential nominee of a major political party in the United States, and the first Democratic presidential nominee from the Western United States.
Earlier, on March 12, incumbent President Joe Biden became the party's presumptive nominee, running against several candidates, which included an incumbent Democratic member of the United States House of Representatives during the 2024 Democratic Party presidential primaries. Other than Biden, the only presidential candidates who were awarded pledged delegates to the 2024 Democratic National Convention based on the results of the primaries were U.S. Representative Dean Phillips of Minnesota and businessman Jason Palmer. Conflicts with ballot deadlines led the Democratic National Committee to vote on June 20 to allow an early online nomination vote. Following the 2024 Joe Biden–Donald Trump presidential debate and the withdrawal of Joe Biden from the 2024 United States presidential election, Biden immediately endorsed the Kamala Harris 2024 presidential campaign. And though Biden had endorsed Harris as the new candidate at the top of the ticket, there was no obligation for the delegates to follow suit. With the other most viable presidential prospects endorsing Harris, she secured the non-binding support of enough convention delegates to make her the new presumptive nominee the next day, and Harris was the only candidate with enough delegate support to be on the ballot for the virtual roll call. The atypical circumstances were described by The New York Times as starting a campaign "unlike any in modern times". Throughout the fourth and final night, Beyoncé and others were heavily rumored to make an unannounced appearance, leading to rampant speculation on social media that ultimately failed to materialize. Some delegates after the convention said that they tested positive for COVID-19 due to so many people being at the convention. Throughout the convention, protests over the Gaza war took place, including from the Uncommitted National Movement.
Harris and Walz would go on to lose the 2024 election to the Republican Party ticket of former President Donald Trump and Ohio Senator JD Vance, losing all seven battleground states.

== Site selection ==

=== Early developments ===
Amid the downsizing of the 2020 Democratic National Convention held in various parts of the United States, including its main host city of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, in a virtual format impacted due to the COVID-19 pandemic, there was discussion among some notable individuals in Milwaukee about the city pushing to receive the 2024 convention as consolation. Speculation existed that, due to the circumstances surrounding the downsizing of the 2020 convention, Milwaukee would be a front-runner to host the convention if it pursued it. Milwaukee mayor Tom Barrett was open to the city hosting either a Democratic or Republican convention in 2024.
In the summer of 2021, Democratic National Committee Chair Jaime Harrison sent letters to over twenty cities inviting them to bid to host the convention.
Officials in Columbus, Ohio, had, since at least 2019, discussed trying to seek either the Democratic or Republican convention in 2024.
After being one of approximately twenty cities that Harrison invited to bid, Barrett wrote Harrison a letter indicating the city's interest in hosting the party's 2024 convention. Milwaukee was also bidding to host the 2024 Republican National Convention.
Nashville, Tennessee, took action to pursue either party's Convention.
Top Democrats from Illinois, including Governor J. B. Pritzker, Senator Tammy Duckworth, and Mayor Lori Lightfoot, laid the groundwork to host the convention in Chicago. Chicago has hosted the most major-party presidential nominating conventions of any city (14 Republican, 11 Democratic). The 1968 Democratic National Convention was mired in violence between anti-war demonstrators and the Chicago Police Department. The most recent convention (1996 Democratic National Convention) saw the renomination of Bill Clinton and Al Gore. On May 3, 2022, Chicago launched a website to promote the city as a potential host for the convention. Facilities in Chicago mentioned as potential primary venues include the United Center, Wintrust Arena, and Navy Pier.
In May 2022, Atlanta and New York City also announced bids for the convention. New York City had not previously been expected to bid.

=== Official bid process ===

Atlanta, Chicago, Houston, and New York City submitted bids by the May 28, 2022, deadline. In January 2023, Democratic National Committee officials confirmed that the finalist cities would be Atlanta, Chicago, and New York City, with Houston no longer being considered.
Early into Chicago's bid, in addition to proposing United Center as the primary venue and McCormick Place as a possible venue for secondary convention business, Museum Campus, Navy Pier, and Wintrust Arena were also additionally floated as facilities that could additionally be used for secondary convention business. The Chicago bid was chiefly championed by Illinois Governor J. B. Pritzker and Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot. Bid supporters touted the city's large airports, cultural attractions, and the central location of the convention venues and the hotels where delegates and other visitors would stay. They argued that Chicago's location in the Midwest would be wise given the high importance for the Democrats of the nearby swing states of Wisconsin and Michigan. Democratic Party leaders in other Midwestern states threw their support behind Chicago's bid. They also touted that the city's hotels generally employ union laborers. Governor Pritzker, a billionaire who had contributed large sums to the organization fundraising for Chicago's effort, made a pledge to the Democratic Party that the party itself would not incur any financial losses from the organization of the convention. The remaining mayoral candidates in the 2023 Chicago mayoral election runoff, Brandon Johnson and Paul Vallas, vowed to support the city's effort to host the convention. The victory of the progressive Johnson over the more conservative Vallas in the city's runoff election was speculated to have helped Chicago's prospects.
Supporters of Atlanta's bid argued that a convention in their city could aid the Democrats in making political inroads in the South, touting the city's history in civil rights activism and its state's recent ascendence in 2020 to become a key swing state in presidential and U.S. Senate elections. These points were countered by New York and Chicago backers, who criticized the city's lack of unionized hotels and the state's "Right to Work" law as discordant with the party's alliance with organized laborers.
On April 11, 2023, it was announced that Chicago had been selected as the convention's location, with the United Center to serve as the primary venue and McCormick Place to be a secondary facility used for various early-day convention activities. Chicago and the previously selected Republican National Convention host city, Milwaukee, are approximately 90 miles apart on the coast of Lake Michigan. Not since 1972, when both conventions last shared a host city, have the major party convention sites been so closely located. Illinois is regarded to be a solidly Democratic state. No party has opted to hold their convention in a non-swing state since the 2004 election, though Chicago is within a few hours' drive of the swing states of Wisconsin and Michigan.

== Logistics ==

The convention was held on August 19–22, 2024. The United Center, previously the location of the 1996 Democratic National Convention, was the convention's primary location. McCormick Place hosted secondary business of the convention. The convention was attended by between 5,000 and 7,000 delegates and alternate delegates. Approximately thirty hotels in the city provided lodging to convention delegates. The convention was expected to bring an overall 50,000 visitors to Chicago.
There were three funding sources for the convention. With the Pennsylvania Democratic Party donating over 24 million to the convention, the bid committee pledged that the host committee would raise $84.697 million. Through 2024 Democratic National Convention Committee Inc., money was raised in accordance with the Federal Election Commission's regulations. Additionally, $50 million were received in federal funds for security costs, as has been the case for all major party conventions since 2004. Congress was urged to increase this to $75 million. The Democratic National Committee also requested the bidding cities agree to open a $30 million line of credit, which Chicago agreed to do.

=== Convention leadership ===
On August 8, 2023, convention leadership was announced. Minyon Moore was named the chair of the convention. Alex Hornbrook was named executive director, and Louisa Terrell was named a senior advisor. In his role as senior advisor to the Biden Victory Fund, Roger Lau was assigned an expanded role to provide advice to the convention leadership.

=== Security ===
$50 million in federal funding was provided for security spending. As a major party presidential nominating convention, the 2024 Democratic National Convention was designated a National Special Security Event. It was the second such event held in Chicago to receive this designation, with the first having been the 2012 NATO Summit. By June 2023, the United States Secret Service had begun collaborating on preparations for the convention with the Chicago Police Department and other police departments that will be involved in convention security.
Protests and demonstrations related to the U.S. government's support for Israel in their invasion of Gaza emerged while the convention was being held. In preparation for the event, party leaders demonstrated confidence in Chicago Police and federal officials to manage protestors, using such methods as drawing set parameters for demonstrations to take place, as well as initiating mass arrests in cases of these regulations being violated. As of April 2024, organizers expected as many as 30,000 protestors in Chicago during the convention. Commentators have drawn comparisons between the 2024 convention and the 1968 convention, also held in Chicago, in which protests opposed to the Vietnam War turned violent when the city utilized extreme levels of police brutality to suppress the protestors.
In May 2024, Politico reported that party leaders were considering limiting in-person gatherings at United Center to primetime sessions only to reduce the possibility of disruption, which would include holding official business to McCormick Place (and the possibility of the formal certification taking place before the convention due to conflicts with deadline requirements in Ohio), and retaining elements of 2020's convention (including a focus on prerecorded segments such as the virtual roll call).
In light of the assassination attempt on Donald Trump on July 13, the Secret Service secured the United Center and the immediate area surrounding it, and the Chicago Police Department secured everything outside the inner perimeter, with both agencies securing rooftops of all buildings that may have had a line of sight to the United Center.
On August 12, the first round of parking restrictions took effect for the DNC in Chicago. Some residents such as people at a senior living apartment complex near major Democratic National Convention sites in Chicago were confused and frustrated with new no-parking zone restrictions outside the Chicago DNC perimeter. They said that no-parking signs had started appearing on their streets, even though they were outside the convention's car-free zones. These residents found it an unwelcome surprise to lose their street parking, which they claimed interfered with their day-to-day lives.
Organizations such as Samidoun, Code Pink, the ANSWER Coalition and several others demonstrated at the convention.

== Adoption of early virtual nomination vote ==
By tradition, because the Democratic Party held the White House, its convention was scheduled for after the 2024 Republican National Convention, starting on August 19. In April, Ohio officials warned the Biden campaign that they would not delay Ohio's August 7, deadline to get on the ballot, as Ohio had done in 2012 and 2020. On May 28, the Democratic National Committee proposed an early online nomination vote, but its Rules and Bylaws Committee needed to vote on amending the call to the convention, and the full Democratic National Committee needed to vote on adopting the amendment. On June 2, Ohio passed a law delaying its deadline, but because the law was set to take effect at the end of August, the DNC said it would continue with a virtual roll call vote in order to avoid litigation from Republicans. On June 4, the Democratic National Committee's Rules and Bylaws Committee voted to amend the call to let the Democratic National Convention Committee to advance the convention's dates and to allow the convention's committees to adopt the permanent rules and permanent list of delegates early for the virtual nomination vote. On June 20, the full Democratic National Committee voted 360 to 2 to approve the amendment for an official online nomination vote before Ohio's deadline. On July 15, the DNC sent an email asking delegates to indicate on a drop-down menu on who they will vote for: Joe Biden, Jason Palmer (who won American Samoa), Rep. Dean Phillips, or "uncommitted." Answers to that questionnaire reportedly essentially gave the DNC a whip count on how firm – or soft – support for Biden was among actual delegates.
After Biden's performance at the June presidential debate caused concern among Democrats, some House Democrats circulated a letter on July 16 proposing that the "virtual roll call" vote be cancelled, fearing it would occur the next week. On July 17, the DNC decided that the virtual roll call vote should be no earlier than August 1 after concerns from House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries and Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer. On July 19, the Democratic National Convention's Rules Committee met to deliberate on the virtual nomination vote but went into recess without adopting any rules. After Biden ultimately withdrew from the race on July 21 and immediately endorsed Harris to replace him in his place as the party's presidential nominee, Harris said she did not want a virtual roll call and preferred a process that follows regular order. On July 22, the DNC laid out a draft plan affirming a virtual nomination vote in the first week of August. On July 24, the Democratic National Convention's Rules Committee passed the draft rules for the early virtual nomination vote by a vote of 157 to 3.

== Media ==
In addition to traditional journalists, the Democratic National Committee recruited content creators, with large followings on YouTube, Instagram, and other social media platforms and provided them with access to media space at the convention.
The Democratic National Committee also invited hundreds of celebrities to the event to show support of Harris. Some artists, such as Beyonce, spoke on the usage of their music in the convention, saying they gave the party the right to use their music for free as a token of support.

== Abbreviated campaign ==
On July 21, presumptive nominee President Joe Biden announced that he would not seek reelection. That same day, he endorsed Vice President Kamala Harris as the Democratic nominee. Biden dropping out freed the DNC delegates bound to him from their pledge to vote for his nomination. A couple of hours after Biden's announcement, Harris announced her candidacy for the Democratic nomination. The Biden campaign officially changed its name to Harris for President and officially registered Harris as its presidential candidate. Shortly after Harris announced her candidacy on July 21, former President Bill Clinton endorsed her bid, while former President Barack Obama expressed his support for an open nominating process at the upcoming convention. Key progressive voices swiftly rallied behind Harris, with Reps. Cori Bush, Ilhan Omar, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, and Ayanna Pressley, and Indivisible endorsing her. The only member of the progressive group of Democrats known as "The Squad" that declined to endorse Harris was U.S. Representative Rashida Tlaib.
The next day, Harris secured tentative support from well beyond the majority of convention delegates needed to win the upcoming vote and become the party's nominee for president. By July 23, leaders of the party, such as former House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries, and Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer coalesced around Harris's candidacy, including those mentioned as the other most viable prospects such as Michigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer and California Governor Gavin Newsom. Harris received the endorsement of all of the incumbent Democratic members of the United States House of Representatives from her home state of California except for US Representative Josh Harder from California's 9th congressional district. The vast majority of the incumbent Democratic members in the United States House of Representatives quickly endorsed Harris, with notable exceptions being the three co-chairs of the Blue Dog Coalition caucus of centrist and moderate members from the Democratic Party in the United States House of Representatives US Representative Jared Golden, US Representative Mary Peltola, and US Representative Marie Gluesenkamp Perez. Also, Harris received the endorsement of 46 of the 47 incumbent Democratic members in the United States Senate. Jon Tester of Montana was the only incumbent Senator in the Democratic Party not to endorse Harris for President.
Marianne Williamson initially called for an open convention, but eventually declined to file for nomination before the deadline. On the day of Biden's withdrawal, U.S. Senator Joe Manchin, who left the Democratic Party in May 2024, was reported to be considering a presidential run against Harris at the convention, though by the following day, he had ruled it out.
Also, on the day that Biden withdrew from the race, U.S. Congressman Dean Phillips proposed a straw poll of delegates ahead of the Democratic National Convention to determine the party's top four presidential contenders, who would then take part in four town halls outlining their platforms. After the town halls, Phillips proposed the delegates would vote to choose the nominee. On July 24, Jason Palmer released his delegates and encouraged them to vote for Harris at the convention. On July 26, former President Barack Obama and former first lady Michelle Obama endorsed Kamala Harris in her presidential bid.
Candidates were to be formally nominated beginning July 25 and ending at 6pm EDT on July 27. Candidates needed to accrue the support of at least 300 delegates each, with no more than 50 from any one state delegation, by 6pm EDT on July 30. Delegates could vote for any candidate, but votes for candidates who are not Democrats would be counted as "present". Formal requests to nominate Harris and several others (including Ralph Hoffman, Gibran Nicholas, and Robby Wells) were made before the July 27 deadline, but only Harris passed the threshold of at least 300 delegates, gaining the support of 3,923 delegates. There was also an option to abstain from voting, which was chosen by Alaska Congresswoman Mary Peltola, Maine Congressman Jared Golden, and Montana Senator Jon Tester. In total, 79 delegates did not cast votes in the DNC virtual roll call.
The virtual nomination took place from August 1 to August 5. The delegates voted online, through a secure email system, or over the phone. On August 4, twenty-nine Uncommitted delegates from eight states took part in a virtual roll call where they voted for Palestinian victims over Harris. On August 2, Harris earned a majority of delegate votes and became the official presidential nominee when voting closed on August 5.

== Delegate support by candidate ==
The "Pledged delegates by candidate following primaries" table below reflects the delegate count after the 2024 Democratic Party presidential primaries, while the "Final virtual roll call results" table reflects the totals following the virtual roll call that nominated Kamala Harris. Superdelegates were allowed to vote during the signature collection and on the first ballot of the virtual roll call for the presidential nomination, as Harris gained enough signatures to win a majority of delegates. The Democratic National Committee had imposed reforms on superdelegates back in August 2018, barring superdelegates from voting on the first ballot at the Democratic National Convention unless a candidate has secured a majority of the convention's delegates using only pledged delegates, whose votes were earned during the primary process. This rule allowed superdelegates to vote only in a contested convention on the second ballot or vote on the first ballot only in the event of an overwhelming victory for the candidate with the support of pledged delegates that were attained for them in the primaries.

== Vice presidential nomination ==

Some speculated candidates included Governors Andy Beshear of Kentucky, Josh Shapiro of Pennsylvania, and Tim Walz of Minnesota, Senator Mark Kelly of Arizona, and Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg of Michigan. Governor Gretchen Whitmer of Michigan declined consideration for the nomination, while Governor Roy Cooper of North Carolina withdrew his name from consideration during vetting.
Harris chose Walz as her running mate on August 6 and the ticket was certified as nominated on the same night.

== Platform ==
On July 9, the convention's Platform Committee held a hearing in which there was a call for an end to U.S. military aid to the government of Israel. On July 11, the committee held a meeting to draft the party platform. Although it removed mentions of "Black Lives Matter", it included police reform and the studying of reparations. It removed a mention of Medicare for All but called for ending medical debt. On July 16, the Platform Committee submitted the draft platform for the approval of the full convention.

=== Notable provisions ===
The platform was drafted before Biden withdrew and largely refers to Biden's presidency, though it also mentions Harris. There was little disagreement about the platform, unlike in 2016 or 2020 when many provisions were negotiated, instead focusing on the Biden–Harris administration's record and goals.
The draft did not include a call to end military aid to Israel, instead calling for an immediate and lasting ceasefire between Israel and Hamas. It also called for raising a billionaire income tax, lowering childcare costs for low-income families, codifying Roe v. Wade in the wake of the Supreme Court's 2022 decision to overturn it, advancing voting rights, banning assault weapons, and expanding Social Security and Medicare.
The 2024 platform does not call for declaring a national climate emergency or banning fracking. It does support electric vehicles and investing in clean energy.
The 2024 platform opposes defunding the police, and is the first time since the 2004 platform to not mention the death penalty. It does call for rescheduling cannabis at the federal level and permitting states to legalize it. It supports immigration reform and securing the border.

== Schedule ==

There were two official venues for the convention:
The McCormick Place convention center (with lighter security) hosted dozens of exhibitions, meetings and receptions, mostly during the daytime, and the United Center (with heavy security) hosted the official business sessions and the main speakers.
Additionally, on August 20—prior to the start time of the convention's primetime speeches—Harris and Walz appeared and spoke at a related campaign rally inside of the Fiserv Forum in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The Fiserv Forum is approximately 80 miles (130 km) from the United Center, and had weeks earlier been the main venue of the Republican National Convention.
Similarly to the Democratic Party's 2020 convention, each evening's program featured a celebrity host.
Below are the speakers and events at the United Center:

=== First night (Monday, August 19: For the People) ===

The first night was emceed by actor and director Tony Goldwyn and included musical performances by Mickey Guyton and Jason Isbell. It included tributes to president Joe Biden, who delivered Monday's closing address. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, 2016 Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton, and first lady Jill Biden and daughter Ashley spoke. Harris made a brief surprise appearance on-stage to pay tribute to Biden and welcome the attendees. The party platform, drafted by delegates in the Platform Committee, was adopted by the full body of delegates by voice vote.
Main programming began at 5:30 PM Central. Listed below are select speakers in order of appearance.

=== Second night (Tuesday, August 20: A Bold Vision for America's Future) ===

The second night was emceed by television commentator and political strategist Ana Navarro (a Republican Harris supporter), and included performances by Patti LaBelle and Common. Former first lady Michelle Obama and former president Barack Obama, who gave the closing addresses, and second gentleman Doug Emhoff were among those that spoke. Jason Carter, grandson of former U.S. President Jimmy Carter, also gave a speech on this night and honored his grandfather. Another presidential grandson, John F. Kennedy’s grandson Jack Schlossberg, spoke as well.
Described as a "celebratory roll call" or ceremonial roll call, delegates ceremonially reported voting results for the presidential nomination hosted by Secretary of the DNC, Jason Rae. Led by DJ Cassidy, each state's delegation was accompanied by their choice of background music during the roll call of the states, largely consisting of songs from artists from each respective state. The atmosphere of the roll call was likened by many outlets to a dance party, and seen as more exciting than conventional roll calls seen at most previous conventions.
Meanwhile, Harris and Walz held a separate rally at the Fiserv Forum in Milwaukee that was attended by 15,000 spectators. A portion of Harris' remarks there were telecast to the United Center following the conclusion of the roll call.

=== Third night (Wednesday, August 21: A Fight for Our Freedoms) ===
The third night was emceed by actress Mindy Kaling, featuring performances by Stevie Wonder, John Legend, Sheila E
and Maren Morris. Vice presidential nominee Minnesota Governor Tim Walz delivered his acceptance speech. Pete Buttigieg also spoke.
It was confirmed that Speaker Emerita Nancy Pelosi was scheduled to speak. The evening was headlined by Walz and Clinton.

=== Fourth night (Thursday, August 22: For Our Future) ===

The final night was emceed by actress Kerry Washington. Presidential nominee Vice President Harris delivered her acceptance speech. During the fourth night, Vice President Kamala Harris briefly opened up about her past, covering what led her to her career choice. Kamala Harris also spoke about why she does not allow Donald Trump to get under her skin, stating “My mother was a brilliant, five foot tall, brown woman with an accent, and as the eldest child, I saw how the world would sometimes treat her...yet, she never lost her cool”. She focused on inspiration towards the younger female crowd, hoping to inspire a new generation of women in politics.

== Panels ==
The secondary venue for the convention was at the McCormick Place convention center, and here there were a number of panel discussions and rallies.
The first-ever panel on Palestinian rights was hosted by the convention on Monday, August 19. Speakers included Keith Ellison, Uncommitted co-founder Layla Elabed, former Michigan Congressman Andy Levin, Jim Zogby, Democratic Party organizer Hala Hijazi and pediatric surgeon Tanya Haj-Hassan.

== Protests and demonstrations ==

Chicago is home to the nation's largest Palestinian ethnic enclave, also known as "Little Palestine," and Chicago is the largest US city to pass a cease-fire resolution about the Gaza war. One anonymous protester described the choice to bring the convention there as a "slap in the face." In an interview with Mother Jones published prior to the convention, the Mayor of Chicago Brandon Johnson described Israel's actions in the Gaza Strip as genocidal.
The first of seven permitted protests took place on Sunday. Hundreds marched along Michigan Avenue to Grant Park.

=== Monday ===
The protests, organized around a coalition of 200 groups called "March On the DNC", represented causes including reproductive freedom, racial justice and opposition to the US role in the Israeli war against Gaza via an arms embargo, rallied in Union Park before proceeding to march. The Poor People's Army rallied in Humboldt Park.
The crowd remained largely peaceful and was observed to be "significantly smaller than predicted". Organizers planned for over 30 thousand people, but it appeared "only a few thousand showed up at Union Park". Organizers claimed a turnout of 15,000 but according to the BBC, the actual turnout appeared to be lower. Reuters estimated the turnout to be "several thousand". A security gate was toppled. Later, some protestors who returned to Union Park began setting up a tent encampment, but were peacefully dispersed by police.
On the convention floor on Monday, during Joe Biden's speech, delegates from Connecticut, Michigan and Florida unfurled a banner that said "STOP ARMING ISRAEL" and were escorted out of the building. The Council on American–Islamic Relations condemned DNC audience members who assaulted a Muslim woman and other delegates who were holding a banner that read "stop arming Israel". Thirteen protesters were arrested on the first day.
Joe Biden said the protesters "out on the street have a point" during his speech. Chants included "From the river to the sea, Palestine will be free", "End the occupation now!" and "The whole world is watching!": a symbolic nod to the anti-Vietnam protests that occurred when the DNC was in Chicago in 1968.

=== Tuesday ===
On the second day of protest, an additional layer of fencing was replaced overnight. A group called "Behind Enemy Lines" planned a protest at the Israeli Consulate in Chicago. Flyers for the event said "Make it great like '68! Shut down the DNC for Gaza." Police blocked the group from marching minutes into the protest and arrested dozens of protesters dressed in black bloc who attempted to break through the line. More arrests occurred at the end of the night. Some protesters claimed they were arrested as they were trying to leave but Police Superintendent Larry Snelling denied that they had used the federally prohibited kettling tactic. An organizer for CODEPINK unfurled a banner on the convention floor that said "Free Free Palestine."
During the ceremonial roll call of delegates on the convention floor to decide the Democratic party nominee for president, dozens of delegates voted "Present" as a protest vote. Some of these delegates publicly expressed they voted this way to express frustration with the Biden-Harris administration's handling of the war in Gaza. The delegates who voted "Present" had their votes voiced out loud by the state delegations during the roll call. Although notably, the Kentucky Democratic Party was the only state delegation that did not announce their ‘present’ votes in the roll call.

=== Wednesday ===
A breakfast for delegates at a nearby hotel was disrupted when unknown individuals put maggots in food. Organizers from CODEPINK disrupted a luncheon for women senators at a nearby restaurant. A pro-Israel protest occurred at Union Park while a thousand pro-Palestinian protesters marched past it.
An ExxonMobil-sponsored panel hosted by Punchbowl News on climate change at a downtown Chicago hotel featuring US Representative Lizzie Fletcher from Texas and an Exxon executive was disrupted when activists gained access and shouted loudly about Exxon's history of deceit and climate obstruction.
When the Uncommitted National Movement was informed that the DNC wouldn't allow a Palestinian speaker, Uncommitted delegates staged a sit-in outside the convention. The activists again called for an arms embargo on Israel, and emphasized the suffering of children in Gaza. A Michigan delegate said his strategy was to initially work within the Democratic hierarchy from the inside, and that it was frustrating the Harris campaign had denied their requests. The group was joined inside the security perimeter by healthcare workers, members of the Chicago Teachers Union, Muslim Women for Harris, and US Representatives Summer Lee, Ilhan Omar and Cori Bush. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez joined via FaceTime. Among the names submitted as potential speakers were Illinois state Rep. Abdelnasser Rashid and Georgia state Rep. Ruwa Romman.

=== Thursday ===
About 40 Uncommitted delegate sit-in spent the night on the sidewalk outside the United Center and remained there in the morning. Palestinian-Americans were not allowed to speak but the parents of an American-Israeli hostage were. As a result, Muslim Women for Harris-Walz announced it would disband and Uncommitted delegates were seen through Union Center locked arm in arm, wearing Keffiyehs and chanting "Ceasefire now." More protesters blocked roads as attendees left the convention for the night. Some chanted “We’re young, we’re strong, we’ll rally all night long.” Footage emerged of some delegates covering their ears while being confronted by protesters.

== Notable attendees ==
In addition to the notable speakers and performers mentioned above, notable attendees at the convention include Uzo Aduba, Anthony Anderson, Jacinda Ardern, Sean Astin, Yvette Nicole Brown, Don Cheadle, Misha Collins, Stephen Colbert, Jesse Tyler Ferguson, Mark Hamill, Patti LaBelle, Spike Lee, Eva Longoria, Mandy Patinkin, Jason Palmer, Busy Philipps,
Dean Phillips, Wendell Pierce, Octavia Spencer, James Taylor, and Kerry Washington. Political commentator Hasan Piker broadcast his attendance on his Twitch live stream. Conservative internet personality Charlie Kirk and far right activist Jack Posobiec also attended the event, sharing videos of their interactions with other attendees online; Kirk's confrontations with Piker, Parker Short, president of the Georgia Young Democrats, and 12-year-old influencer Knowa De Baraso all went viral on the first day of the convention. Comedic musician and influencer duo A Twink and a Redhead attended, and are cited to have started the viral movement “Twinks for Kamala” on CNN.
In the hours and days leading to the DNC's fourth night, rumors widely circulated online claiming that an unknown "surprise guest" was slated to make an unannounced appearance. This led to rampant speculation on social media, with the singers Beyoncé and Taylor Swift being the most popular guesses. On Thursday afternoon, the tabloid TMZ and the newspaper The Hill both reported that Beyoncé would perform, adding fuel to the rumors. Republican senator Mitt Romney, another popular guess, denied on social media that he was the "surprise guest", while Deadline Hollywood reported that Swift was unlikely to appear. As Beyoncé gradually became the frontrunner, Rolling Stone reported that Chicago officials had begun making preparations for her unconfirmed arrival. Hours after TMZ's initial report, a representative for Beyoncé told The Hollywood Reporter that the singer would not attend the convention, saying she "was never scheduled to be there". Beyoncé ultimately did not make an appearance, nor did any "surprise guest", though her music was heard over the loudspeakers following Harris' speech. Her non-appearance remained a topic of conversation on social media after the event, with some commentators opining that it ultimately benefited Harris because it allowed her to retain the spotlight.

== See also ==
2024 Democratic Party presidential primaries
2024 Republican National Convention
Democratic Party of Illinois
2024 Green National Convention
2024 Libertarian National Convention
2024 Constitution National Convention

== Notes ==

== References ==

== External links ==

Official website Archived August 1, 2024, at the Wayback Machine
The Charter & the Bylaws of the Democratic Party of the United States
Call for the 2024 Democratic National Convention (as amended)
Permanent Procedural Rules of the 2024 Democratic National Convention
Delegate Selection Rules For the 2024 Democratic National Convention
Reports of the Credentials, Rules, and Platform Committees to the 2024 Democratic National Convention Archived August 19, 2024, at the Wayback Machine

=== Videos ===
2024 Democratic National Convention, Day 1 — via C-SPAN
2024 Democratic National Convention, Day 2 — via C-SPAN
2024 Democratic National Convention, Day 3 — via C-SPAN
2024 Democratic National Convention, Day 4 — via C-SPAN

...De la planète Mars

... De la planète Mars is the first album by the French hip hop band IAM, produced by Sodi. The album was well received, but tentatively, due to the few tracks where the rapping was done in English.

== Tracks ==
"Pharaon revient" – 1:06
"Planète Mars" – 4:26
"Jazz" – 0:09
"Tam-Tam de l'Afrique" – 3:51
"IAM concept" – 4:11
"Crack" – 0:04
"Attentat" – 4:46
"Disco club" – 0:32
"Le nouveau président" – 3:27
"IAM Bercy" – 0:25
"Non soumis à l'état" – 4:18
"1 peu trop court" – 3:40
"Do the raï thing" – 1:18
"Red, black and green" –
"Lève ton slip" – 0:26
"Elvis" – 3:46
"Unité" – 4:06
"Kheops € à l'horizon" – 3:35
"Je viens de Marseille" – 1:16
"Wake up" – 4:22
"Crécelle" – 1:02
"La tension monte" – 4:46
"Rapline II" – 0:29

== References ==

Barbara Leigh

Barbara Leigh (born Barbara Ann Kish; November 16, 1946) is a former American actress and fashion model. Her breakthrough role came in 1972 with the film Junior Bonner, in which she starred alongside her then-boyfriend Steve McQueen. She became the first model to wear the Vampirella costume on the cover of the original Warren Publishing Vampirella magazine, #67 (March 1975).

== Early life ==
Barbara Leigh was born in Ringgold, Georgia. Leigh married at age 15. At the age of 17, she gave birth to her first son, Finley Gerald "Gerry" Haynes Jr. on July 8, 1964, in Tennessee. He died on February 20, 1994, in Riverside, California at age 29. Her second child Tony Haynes was born in 1967 and died a few hours after he was born.

== Career ==
She starred in two films for director Stephanie Rothman, The Student Nurses and Terminal Island.
In 2002, she published a memoir titled The King, McQueen, and The Love Machine (ISBN 1401038859), which accounts for her romances with McQueen, Elvis Presley, and Jim Aubrey in the early 1970s.
In January 2014, Leigh retired from Playboy Enterprises Inc. after working with the company for almost 17 years.
She developed hyperthyroidism (Graves' disease) and has been a spokeswoman for the National Graves' Disease Foundation.

== Filmography ==

== References ==

== External links ==

Barbara Leigh at IMDb
Personal Website
Time Machine

Balaclava railway station, Jamaica

Balaclava railway station opened in 1892 and closed in 1992. It served the small town of Balaclava on the Kingston to Montego Bay line and was 70.5 miles (113.5 km) from the Kingston terminus.
It was built of timber in the Jamaican Georgian architectural style. The upper of the two stories has a gable end roof; an adjoining hip roof has a downward fishtail fretwork on its eaves. The building has sash windows and recessed panel timber doors.
It is on the list of designated National Heritage Sites in Jamaica.

== Opening ==
From the Daily Gleaner of March 24, 1892:

The good people of this busy little ... village had donned their holiday attire on Tuesday last [1892-03-15], ... on the occasion of the arrival of the first passenger train, from Kingston, and although the passengers could have been numbered upon the fingers of one hand, they positively beamed upon them, as if extending a hearty, though silent welcome.
There is nothing imposing about the station itself, - it is merely a stucco and wood building, that could be run up in a very short space of time, - but at the first glance it is noticed that it has been constructed with a view to facilitating goods traffic, rather than for the accommodation of passengers.
The better part of the concrete platform is raised on a level with the flooring of the cars, so that as little trouble as possible will be experienced in loading and unloading the goods-vans with merchandise &c. There is a commodious goods repository running parallel with the track, at this point, whilst the part of the platform reserved for passengers is on a level with the rails, necessitating a certain amount of climbing before taking one's seat in the train.
The descent, of some three feet or so, from the goods portion of the platform to the lower level, is not made by steps, but by a somewhat abruptly sloping incline...
If, day after day, the same punctuality be observed in the arrival of the train as took place on the initial trip, no one, however fastidious and exacting, will have any cause for complaint...

After its long and winding course through the parish of Manchester, the railway at this point enters St, Elizabeth, and Balaclava, though but a couple of miles from the imaginary line of demarcation, is an important trade centre in the latter parish...

== Fares ==
In 1910 the third class fare from Balaclava to Kingston was 5/6 (five shillings and sixpence); first class was about double.

== Accident ==
A serious derailment occurred at this station on July 30, 1938 killing 32 and injuring 70.

== Current use ==
Since 1992 the station buildings have been leased to a small, local woodwork shop. In 2003 it was reported as being in "deplorable condition" and "in need of major repairs". In April 2021 a fire destroyed the main structure.

== See also ==
Railway stations in Jamaica
Balaclava, Jamaica

== External links ==
Aerial view.
Photos: Balaclava station (excellent), Balaclava station (small), Accident memorial, Inscription on accident memorial.
Examples of the station's postmark.

== References ==

CSAB (professional organization)

CSAB, Inc., formerly called the Computing Sciences Accreditation Board, Inc., is a non-profit professional organization in the United States, focused on the quality of education in computing disciplines. The Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) and the IEEE Computer Society (IEEE-CS) are the member societies of CSAB.
The Association for Information Systems (AIS) was a member society between 2002 and September 2009.
CSAB itself is a member society of ABET, to support the accreditation of several computing (related) disciplines:

It is leading for computer science, information systems, information technology and software engineering
It is working together with other ABET member societies for computer engineering, information engineering and biological engineering
Who is doing what:

For the disciplines where CSAB is leading, it develops the accreditation criteria and it educates the so-called Program Evaluators (PEVs).
But the accreditation activities themselves are conducted by the appropriate ABET accreditation commission. For computing this is the Computing Accreditation Commission (CAC).

== History ==
The Computing Sciences Accreditation Board, Inc. (CSAB) was founded in 1984, with Taylor L. Booth as first president.
Initially, CSAB had its own accreditation commission called the Computer Science Accreditation Commission (CSAC).
But in November 1998 CSAB and ABET agreed to integrate CSAB's accreditation activities within ABET. The result is that in 2000 a reorganized CSAB became a member society of ABET and that, starting with the 2001-2002 cycle, a merged and renamed CSAC operates as the fourth commission of ABET: the Computing Accreditation Commission (CAC).

== References ==

== External links ==
Official website

Arthur Diemer Kool

Arthur Diemer Kool (30 January 1896 – 3 October 1959) was a Dutch tennis player.
He won the singles title at the Dutch Tennis Championships in 1912 aged 16 and won the title again in 1915, 1916 and 1917. With Gerard Scheurleer he became doubles champion in 1914, 1915 and with Christiaan van Lennep in 1916 and 1923. Diemer Kool won the national mixed doubles title in 1914, 1916 and 1917.
He played in 15 ties for the Dutch Davis Cup team between 1920 and 1933 and compiled a 25–13 win-loss record.
Diemer Kool participated in the 1921 Wimbledon Championships where he reached the third round in the singles event in which he lost to André Gobert in four sets. In the doubles event he partnered Christiaan van Lennep and also reached the third round, losing to Alfred Beamish and Frank Fisher.

== Personal life ==
On 18 July 1918 he married tennis player Marie Bernardien de Bloeme in The Hague and they had five daughters.

== References ==

== External links ==
Arthur Diemer Kool at the Association of Tennis Professionals
Arthur Diemer Kool at the International Tennis Federation
Arthur Diemer Kool at the Davis Cup (archived)

Annik Kälin

Annik Kälin (born 27 April 2000) is a Swiss athlete who competes in the heptathlon and pentathlon.

== International competitions ==

== References ==

== External links ==
Annik Kälin at World Athletics
Annik Kälin at European Athletics
Annik Kälin at Olympics.com
Annik Kälin at Olympedia
Annik Kälin at InterSportStats

2010 WA State Challenge Cup

Western Australian soccer clubs from the top three State-Based Divisions competed in 2010 for the WA State Challenge Cup, known that year as the State League Cup.
This knockout competition was won by Stirling Lions, their sixth title.

== First round ==
A total of 32 teams took part in this stage of the competition. All 12 Clubs from the State League Premier Division and Football West State League Division 1, and 8 clubs from the Sunday League (Premier Division) (the top 8 out of 12 from the previous year's league table) entered into the competition at this stage. All matches were completed by 26 April 2010.
The draw was as follows:

== Second round ==
A total of 16 teams took part in this stage of the competition. All matches were completed by 7 June 2010.
The draw was as follows:

== Quarter finals ==
A total of 8 teams took part in this stage of the competition. All matches in this round were completed on 3 July 2010.
The draw was as follows:

== Semi finals ==
A total of 4 teams took part in this stage of the competition. All matches in this round were completed by 25 July 2010.
The draw was as follows:

== Final ==
The 2010 State League Cup Final was held at the neutral venue of Frank Drago Reserve on 22 August.

== References ==

== External links ==

2003 South Bhutan clashes

The August 2003 South Bhutan Clashes were a series of clashes between ULFA militants and unidentified gunmen in Southern Bhutan. The clashes left at least 11 people dead and dozens injured. While the incidents were scarcely reported at the time, many believe they were the first instances of Bhutanese strikes against ULFA militants in the country's south, and tensions between ULFA, allied Assamese separatist groups, and Bhutan would lead to a full-fledged conflict breaking out just four months later.

== Background ==
In 1990, India launched Operations Rhino and Bajrang against Assam separatist groups, which caused the militants to relocate their camps to Bhutan. In the 1990s, ULFA and NDFB, two groups targeted by the Indian operations, allegedly assisted the government of Bhutan in expelling the ethnic Lhotshampa population and occupied the abandoned land.
In 1996, Bhutan discovered a large number of camps on its southern border with India, which were set up by various separatist movements including ULFA, NDFB, BLTF, and KLO. These camps were used to train cadres and store equipment while allowing militants to launch attacks into Indian territory.
India exerted diplomatic pressure on Bhutan and offered support in removing rebel organizations from its soil. Bhutan initially pursued a peaceful solution and opened dialogue with militant groups in 1998. ULFA agreed to close down four of its camps in June 2001, but the Bhutanese government soon discovered that the camps had merely been relocated.
Furthermore, ULFA allegedly helped to create several militant groups in southern Bhutan with the help of Nepali Maoists, KLO, and the NDFB, including the BTF and BGLF. This caused Bhutan to become even more concerned and further justified an anti-Assamese separatist operation. Bhutanese parliamentarians began to propose raising the number of Bhutanese militia and introducing conscription, motions which were soon dismissed.

== Clashes ==

=== August 3–4 ===
Starting in either August 3 or 4th (reports are unclear), an attack was launched by over 15 unidentified gunmen on a base of the Assamese separatist group, United Liberation Front of Asom (ULFA), in Kinzo, leaving two ULFA members dead. Sometime later on 4 August, between 10 and 12 unidentified gunmen attacked another ULFA hideout in Babang, resulting in the deaths of four gunmen and 1-3 ULFA fighters. Both the Samdrup Jongkhar district officials and the ULFA's publicity department confirmed the attacks.

=== August 10 ===
According to a media report from August 13, a group of approximately 40 unidentified gunmen attacked a hideout belonging to the United Liberation Front of Asom (ULFA) in Tiluka, Bhutan on August 10. The assault resulted in the death of four ULFA cadres and left five others injured, with casualties amongst the unidentified gunmen unknown. Indian authorities confirmed the attack shortly after.

== Identity of the Attackers ==
The attacks sparked controversy over the identities of the armed groups involved in the attacks. ULFA blamed Indian security agencies and surrendered ULFA (SULFA) members for the attacks on their hideouts, believing that the attacks were organized in India. However, Indian officials attributed the violence to infighting within various ULFA factions. Other reports suggested that the attackers could be part of a special force raised by the Bhutanese army under Indian guidance, or even local vigilante groups.

== Aftermath ==
The spate of attacks on ULFA hideouts in southern Bhutan and Bhutanese government reactions to it demonstrated the state of the deterioration of Bhutanese-ULFA relations. While no known clashes occurred after August 10, several reports indicate that violence may have continued throughout the following months. On December 15, 2003, Bhutan would launch a campaign to expel ULFA and other allied Assamese separatist groups from Southern Bhutan, with Indian assistance.

== References ==

== External links ==

2017–18 Club Atlético Lanús season

The 2017–18 season is Club Atlético Lanús' 27th consecutive season in the top-flight of Argentine football. The season covers the period from 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018.

== Current squad ==
As of 7 September 2017.

Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.

=== Out on loan ===

Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.

== Transfers ==

=== In ===

=== Out ===

=== Loan in ===

=== Loan out ===

== Friendlies ==

=== Pre-season ===
Win
Draw
Loss

== Primera División ==

=== League table ===

=== Results by matchday ===

== Copa Argentina ==

Win
Draw
Loss

== Copa Libertadores ==

Win
Draw
Loss

=== Second stage ===

=== Quarter-finals ===

=== Semi-finals ===

=== Finals ===

== Copa Sudamericana ==

Win
Draw
Loss

== References ==

1823 Maine gubernatorial election

The 1823 Maine gubernatorial election took place on September 8, 1823. Incumbent Democratic-Republican Governor Albion Parris won re-election to a third term.

== Results ==

== References ==

1987 Japanese Regional Leagues

Statistics of Japanese Regional Leagues for the 1987 season.

== Champions list ==

== League standings ==

=== Hokkaido ===

=== Tohoku ===

=== Kantō ===

=== Hokushin'etsu ===

=== Tōkai ===

=== Kansai ===

=== Chūgoku ===

=== Shikoku ===

=== Kyushu ===

1986 Bolton Metropolitan Borough Council election

The 1986 Bolton Metropolitan Borough Council election took place on 8 May 1986 to elect members of Bolton Metropolitan Borough Council in Greater Manchester, England. One third of the council was up for election and the Labour Party kept overall control of the council.
20 seats were contested in the election: 12 were won by the Labour Party, 5 by the Conservative Party, 2 by the Liberal Party and 1 by the Social Democratic Party After the election, the composition of the council was:

Labour 38
Conservative 17
Liberal Party 4
Social Democratic Party 1

== Election result ==

== Council Composition ==
Prior to the election the composition of the council was:

After the election the composition of the council was:

L – Liberal / SDP Alliance

== Ward results ==

=== Astley Bridge ward ===

=== Blackrod ward ===

=== Bradshaw ward ===

=== Breightmet ward ===

=== Bromley Cross ward ===

=== Burnden ward ===

=== Central ward ===

=== Daubhill ward ===

=== Deane-cum-Heaton ward ===

=== Derby ward ===

=== Farnworth ward ===

=== Halliwell ward ===

=== Harper Green ward ===

=== Horwich ward ===

=== Hulton Park ward ===

=== Kearsley ward ===

=== Little Lever ward ===

=== Smithills ward ===

=== Tonge ward ===

=== Westhoughton ward ===

== References ==

Rallings, Colin; Thrasher, Michael. "Bolton Metropolitan Borough Council Election Results 1973–2012" (PDF). The Elections Centre. The Elections Centre, Plymouth University. Retrieved 12 July 2016.

Englehart (disambiguation)

Englehart is a town in the Canadian province of Ontario.
Englehart may also refer to:

== Locations ==
Englehart River, in Timiskaming District in northeastern Ontario, Canada
Englehart railway station, in the town of Englehart in Ontario, Canada
Englehart (Dave's Field) Aerodrome, adjacent to Englehart, Ontario, Canada

== People ==
Bob Englehart (born 1945), editorial cartoonist for the Hartford Courant since December 15, 1980
Harry Englehart, former Democratic member of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives
Jacob Lewis Englehart (1847–1921), oil refiner and founder of Imperial Oil
John Englehart or Joseph John Englehart (1867–1915), American landscape painter
Steve Englehart (born 1947), American comic book writer
Steve Englehart (American football) (born 1977), American football player and coach

== See also ==
Engleheart, a surname

Chiefdom of Shuidong

Chiefdom of Shuidong (simplified Chinese: 水东土司; traditional Chinese: 水東土司; pinyin: Shǔidōng Tǔsī), ruled by the Song clan, was an autonomous Tusi chiefdom established by Song Jingyang (宋景陽) during the Song dynasty. After he conquered the Manzhou Prefecture (蠻州, centred on modern Kaiyang County) from the Yi people, Song Jingyang was recognized as the hereditary ruler of the region by the Song court in 975.
Shuidong was one of the most powerful clans in Southwestern China; Bozhou, Sizhou, Shuixi and Shuidong were called "Four Great Native Chiefdom in Guizhou" (贵州四大土司) by Chinese. Shuidong joint the She-An Rebellion in 1623. After the rebellion was put down, Shuidong was annexed and ruled directly by Ming China.

== Origin ==
The Song clan claimed to be the descendants of a Han Chinese named Song Ding (宋鼎) in their genealogy book; however the authenticity needed to be verified. Modern scholars stated that Song Jingyang was a Han Chinese, Bouyei or Miao.

== History ==
In 1303, Song Achong of Shuidong surrendered to the Yuan dynasty, Shuidong came under the Chinese tusi system. In 1371, Song Mongoldai of Shuidong surrendered to the Ming dynasty.
During the Ming conquest of Yunnan, Liu Shuzhen (劉淑貞) was the female regent of Shuidong, while Shuixi (Mu'ege) was ruled by the regent mother She Xiang (奢香). In 1382, She Xiang decided to rebelled against Ming China because she was tortured by the Chinese general Ma Ye (馬曄). Liu Shuzhen persuaded her not to do. Liu came to Nanjing to reported Ma's behavior. An investigation was carried out, Ma was rebuked and recalled in 1384.
In 1413, the province of Guizhou was created. The capital of Shuidong, Guizhou City (present day Guiyang), was chosen the site of the province's capital. Thirty thousand Chinese soldiers were settled in eastern Guizhou Province.
Since 1373, each Shuidong rulers held the title Guizhou Xuanwei tongzhi (貴州宣慰同知); while each Shuixi rulers were granted the title Guizhou Xuanweishi (貴州宣慰使), both were highest aboriginal governors of Guizhou Province. However, the rank of Shuidong rulers were lower than Shuixi rulers'. Initially, the official residences of Shuixi and Shuidong rulers were in Guizhou City, Shuixi rulers were not allowed to go back to his chiefdom freely. This rule was abolished by Ming court in 1479, since then, Shuixi rulers spent most of their life in Shuixi. The power of Shuidong rulers soon expanded rapidly, Shuixi prolonged conflict with Shuidong.
A Miao rebellion against Shuidong ruler broke out in 1513. Song Ran (宋然) of Shuidong was defeated and fled. Though Ming court ordered Shuixi to suppress, An Guirong (安貴榮) of Shuixi was unwilling to do so, because the rebellion was tacit backed by Shuixi. Finally, An Guirong put down the rebellion, since then, Chiefdom of Shuidong went into a slow decline.
The Shuidong ruler Song Cheng'en (宋承恩) was a son-in-law of Bozhou chief Yang Yinglong (楊應龍). When Yang rebelled against Ming China, Song Cheng'en refused to joint the rebellion. He was captured and imprisoned in Hailongtun until the rebellion was put down.
The Shuidong ruler Song Wanhua (宋萬化) joint the She-An Rebellion, he was captured and executed in 1623. His son Song Siyin (宋嗣殷) rebelled against Ming China, but was put down in 1630. In the same year, Shuidong was fully annexed into the central bureaucratic system of the Ming dynasty.

== List of Shuidong chieftains ==
Below are Shuidong chieftains

== References ==

Aquitani

The Aquitani were a tribe that lived in the region between the Pyrenees, the Atlantic Ocean, and the Garonne, in present-day southwestern France in the 1st century BC. The Romans dubbed this region Gallia Aquitania. Classical authors such as Julius Caesar and Strabo clearly distinguish the Aquitani from the other peoples of Gaul, and note their similarity to others in the Iberian Peninsula.
Their old language, the Aquitanian language, was a precursor of the Basque language and the substrate for the Gascon language (one of the Romance languages) spoken in Gascony. Between the 1st century and the 13th century, the Aquitani gradually adopted the Gascon language while part of the Roman Empire, then the Duchy of Gascony and the Duchy of Aquitaine.

== History ==
At the time of the Roman conquest, Julius Caesar, who defeated them in his campaign in Gaul, describes them as making up a distinct part of Gaul:

All Gaul is divided into three parts, one of which the Belgae inhabit, the Aquitani another, those who in their own language are called Celts, in ours Gauls, the third. All these differ from each other in language, customs and laws. The river Garonne separates the Gauls from the Aquitani
Despite apparent cultural and linguistic connections to (Vascones), the region of Aquitania extended only to the Pyrenees according to Caesar:

Aquitania extends from the river Garonne to the Pyrenaean mountains and to that part of the ocean which is near Hispania: it looks between the setting of the sun, and the north star.

== Relation to Basque people and language ==
Late Romano-Aquitanian funerary slabs and altars contain what seem to be the names of deities or people similar to certain names in modern Basque, which has led many philologists and linguists to conclude that Aquitanian was closely related to an older form of Basque. Julius Caesar draws a clear line between the Aquitani, living in present-day south-western France and speaking Aquitanian, and their neighboring Celts living to the north. The fact that the region was known as the Vasconia in the Early Middle Ages, a name that evolved into the better known form of Gascony, along with other toponymic evidence, seems to corroborate that assumption.

== Tribes ==

Although the territory originally inhabited by the Aquitani came to be known as Novempopulania (“province of the nine peoples”) in the late Roman Empire and the Early Middle Ages (up to the 6th century), this administrative designation does not reflect the earlier ethnic diversity of the region.
Ancient sources indicate that the number of Aquitanian tribes was considerably higher. Strabo mentions about twenty peoples in his Geography.
The lists provided by Pliny the Elder and Ptolemy, supplemented by scattered information in the works of Julius Caesar, allow the identification of more than thirty distinct ethnonyms.
By comparing these classical sources and incorporating epigraphic evidence, modern scholars generally estimate that pre-Roman Aquitania comprised approximately thirty-two or thirty-three tribes.

=== Aquitani tribes ===
Apiates or Aspiates in the Aspe Valley (Gave d'Aspe Valley)
Aturenses in the banks of the Adour (Aturus) river
Arenosii or Airenosini in Aran valley, (high Garonne valley), part of Aquitania and not of Hispania in the Roman Empire
Ausci in the east around Auch (Elimberris, metropolis of Aquitania)
Benearni or Benearnenses/Venarni in and around low Béarn, Pau, Pyrénées-Atlantiques
Bercorates/Bercorcates
Bigerriones or Begerri in the west of the French département of High Pyrenees (medieval county of Bigorre)
Boiates/Boates Boii Boiates/Boviates in the coastal region of Pays de Buch and Pays de Born, in the Northwest of Landes
Camponi (may have been the same tribe as the Oscidates Campestres)
Cocosates or Sexsignani in the west of Landes département
Consoranni in the tributary streams of the high Garonne river in the former province of Couserans, today's west half of the Ariège department and extreme south of Haute-Garonne
Convenae, a “groupement” in the southeast (high Garonne valley) in and around Lugdunum Convenarum
Datii, in the Ossau Valley, high Béarn
Elusates in the northeast around Eauze (former Elusa)
Gates between the Elusates and the Ausci
Iluronenses in and around Iluro (Oloron-Sainte-Marie)
Lactorates or Lectorates in and around Lectoure
Monesii, Osii, or Onesii in the high Garonne river valley (Louchon), only mentioned in Strabo's Geographica
Onobrisates in Nébouzan in the high Garonne river valley and its tributaries, possibly the same tribe as the Onesii, Osii, or Monesii.
Oscidates in several valleys and slopes of the west Pyrenees, high Béarn, south of the Iluronenses
Oscidates Campestres
Oscidates Montani
Ptianii in Orthez
Sassumini/Lassumini/Lassunni
Sibyllates or Suburates probably around Soule/Xüberoa and also Saubusse; the same of Cæsar’s Sibuzates/Sibusates?
Sotiates in the north around Sos-en-Albret (south of Lot-et-Garonne department)
Succasses
Tarbelli or Tarbelii/Quattuorsignani in the coastal side of Landes, with Dax (Aquis Tarbellicis)
Tarusates in the Midou, Douze and Midouze valley, east of Cocosates and Tarbelli
Tarusci in the high Ariège river valley in the former province of Foix, today's east half of the Ariège department
Umbranici
Vellates in high Bidassoa river valley
Venami/Venarni in and around Beneharnum (modern-day Lescar)
Vasates/Volcates in the north around Bazas (south of Gironde department)

=== Aquitani related peoples or tribes ===
In the southern slopes of western Pyrenees Mountains, not in Aquitania but in northern Hispania Tarraconensis:

Iacetani in high Aragon River valley, in and around Jaca, in the southern slopes of western Pyrenees Mountains in today's northwestern Aragon, Spain
Vascones in the southern slopes of western Pyrenees Mountains in today's Navarra, Spain

== See also ==
Aquitanian language
Gauls
Novempopulania
Gallia Aquitania
Duchy of Vasconia
Vascones
Iberians
Gascony
Late Basquisation
Pre-Roman peoples of the Iberian Peninsula

== References ==

== External links ==
https://penelope.uchicago.edu/Thayer/E/Roman/Texts/Caesar/Gallic_War/home.html - Julius Caesar text of De Bello Gallico (Gallic War).
https://penelope.uchicago.edu/Thayer/E/Roman/Texts/Pliny_the_Elder/home.html - Pliny the Elder text of Naturalis Historia (Natural History) - books 3-6 (Geography and Ethnography).
https://penelope.uchicago.edu/Thayer/E/Roman/Texts/Strabo/home.html - Strabo's text of De Geographica (The Geography).

Brad Meyers

Bradley Meyers (born 5 January 1980), also known by the nicknames of "Big Red", or "Two Step", is an Australian former professional rugby league footballer who played in the 2000s and 2010s. A Queensland State of Origin and Australian national representative forward, he played his club football in the National Rugby League for the Brisbane Broncos and the Gold Coast Titans, and in the Super League for the Bradford Bulls, with whom he won 2005's Super League X Championship.

== Background ==
Meyers attended school at Villanova College where he initially played rugby union. While attending Villanova College, Meyers played for the Australian Schoolboys team in 1997. While with the Brisbane Broncos, he also played for the Past Brothers in the Queensland Cup.

== Brisbane Broncos ==
Having won the 2000 NRL Premiership, the Brisbane Broncos traveled to England to play against 2000's Super League V Champions, St Helens R.F.C. for the 2001 World Club Challenge, with Meyers playing from the interchange bench and scoring a try in Brisbane's loss. He made his début for the Broncos in the Australian National Rugby League competition and later was picked for the State of Origin series in Australia where he represented the Queensland Maroons in their triumph over their fierce rivals the New South Wales Blues. The big redhead then went on to represent Australia in two tests against New Zealand and Great Britain on the 2001 Kangaroo tour. He played 102 games for the Brisbane Broncos before signing for the Bradford Bulls in 2005.

== Bradford Bulls ==
Meyers had two seasons at the Bradford Bulls and played in the 2005 Super League grand final-winning team that beat Leeds 15–8. As Super League champions Bradford faced National Rugby League premiers Wests Tigers in the 2006 World Club Challenge. Meyers played at second-row forward in the Bulls' 30-10 victory.

== Gold Coast Titans ==
On 1 July 2006, it was announced that the new NRL franchise, the Gold Coast Titans, had signed Meyers on a two-year deal. Meyers stated, "I am really looking forward to playing with the Titans. It's a new challenge for my career and I couldn't think of a better place to be." He did however explain that he "really enjoyed playing here at Bradford. It was a change I needed but now it is time to head back home. I have a few goals I wish to achieve within the NRL and feel that these last couple of years have given me a solid background on which to make my return." In May 2011, Meyers announced that would be his last year in the NRL.
Myers only managed to play two games for the Gold Coast in the 2011 NRL season as the club finished last and claimed the wooden spoon.

== Personal ==
Brad is an Australian Apprenticeships Ambassador for the Australian Government.

== References ==

== External links ==
Brad Meyers Official Player Profile
2001 Ashes profile Archived 17 July 2009 at the Wayback Machine
Brad Meyers at the Former Origin Greats website.

Buenos Aires, Nicaragua

Buenos Aires is a municipality in the Rivas department of Nicaragua, located on the western shore of Lake Nicaragua.

== History ==
The municipality of Buenos Aires was founded as a pueblo sometime between 1820 and 1838.

== References ==

2016 Richmond Football Club season

The 2016 season marked the 109th season in which the Richmond Football Club participated in the AFL/VFL.

== 2015 off-season list changes ==

=== Retirements and delistings ===

=== Trades ===

Note: All traded picks are indicative and do not reflect final selection position

=== Free agency ===

=== National draft ===

=== Rookie draft ===

== 2016 squad ==

== 2016 season ==

=== Pre-season ===

Source:AFL

=== Home and away season ===

Source: AFL Tables

== Ladder ==

== Awards ==

=== League awards ===

==== All-Australian team ====

==== Brownlow Medal tally ====

==== Rising Star ====
Nominations:

==== 22 Under 22 team ====

=== Club awards ===

==== Jack Dyer Medal ====

==== Michael Roach Medal ====

== Reserves ==
The 2016 season marked the third consecutive year the Richmond Football club ran a stand-alone reserves team in the Victorian Football League (VFL).
Richmond senior and rookie-listed players who were not selected to play in the AFL side were eligible to play for the team alongside a small squad of VFL-only listed players. The team finished ninth out of 15 participating clubs, with a record of nine win and nine losses. Each of the club's nine home matches were played at the Punt Road Oval.

=== Playing squad ===

== References ==

== External links ==
Richmond Tigers Official AFL Site
Official Site of the Australian Football League

Alena Wagnerová

Alena Wagnerová (born 18 May 1936) is a Czech author and journalist writing in both Czech and German.
She was born in Brno and studied biology at Masaryk University. Wagnerová went on to study teaching, theatre, German and comparative literature. She taught at the Dům pionýrů in Brno, then was head of the Veterinary Faculty laboratory at the Agricultural University and later was a playwright at the Divadlo Julia Fučíka. From 1968 to 1969, she was editor of Studentské listy. She went to Germany in 1969 and was married there. Wagnerová also worked on the Paměť žen (Women's Memories) project in Prague.
She has written about German authors from Prague such as Franz Kafka and Milena Jesenská and Bohemian cultural figures such as Sidonie Nádherná von Borutín. In both her fiction and non-fiction, she explores issues such as the status of women and Czech-German relations.

== Selected works ==
Milena Jesenská, biography (1996), Czech
Die Familie Kafka aus Prag, biography (1997), German also translated into French as La famille Kafka de Prague (2004)
Milena Jesenská: Biographie, biography (1997), German also translated into Italian as Milena Jesenská: Una biografia (2004)
Das Leben der Sidonie Nádherný, biography (2003), German
Helden der Hoffnung : die anderen Deutschen aus den Sudeten, 1935-1989, history (2008), German
Sidonie Nádherná, biography (2013), Czech
Bol lásky prodejné (2013), Czech

== References ==

Anti-nuclear movement in Canada

The anti-nuclear movement in Canada is a social movement comprising environmental organizations, citizen groups, and indigenous communities that oppose the use of nuclear power and nuclear weapons. The movement includes major organizations like Greenpeace and the Sierra Club, as well as specialized groups such as Energy Probe and the Canadian Coalition for Nuclear Responsibility.

== History ==
The movement emerged from the broader peace movement during the Cold War, fueled by concerns over nuclear arms proliferation and the perceived ineffectiveness of international institutions in resolving geopolitical tensions.

=== Early organizations (1958–1960) ===
Edmonton Committee for the Control of Radiation Hazards (ECCRH): Founded in 1958 by Mary Von Stolk, it was Canada's first anti-nuclear organization. It focused on public education about nuclear fallout dangers rather than disarmament.
Canadian Committee for the Control of Radiation Hazards (CCCRH): Evolved from the ECCRH to reflect its national expansion. It advocated for the rejection of nuclear weapons in the Canadian military.
Voice of Women: Established in 1960 after the U-2 Affair, this group lobbied politicians and built international grassroots networks. It gained endorsement from Maryon Pearson, wife of opposition leader Lester B. Pearson.

== Public opinion and context ==
A 2006 BBC poll revealed that 91% of Canadians were concerned about energy-related environmental issues, including climate change. When asked about nuclear energy:

52% supported building new nuclear plants to reduce reliance on fossil fuels.
43% opposed nuclear expansion.
91% favored tax incentives for renewable energy development.

=== Nuclear industry performance ===
As of 2007, Canada’s 22 nuclear reactors had a lifetime load factor of 68.5%, below global standards. CANDU reactors have faced technical problems with safety implications.

=== Uranium mining ===
Canada is the world’s second-largest uranium producer, generating hundreds of millions of tonnes of radioactive waste and contaminated water.

== Activist organizations ==

=== Indigenous opposition ===
Algonquin Tribe: Since 2007, the Algonquin have blockaded uranium mining operations on sacred lands near Kingston, Ontario.
Indigenous groups in Saskatchewan have a long-standing tradition of opposing uranium mining.

=== National advocacy groups ===
Campaign for Nuclear Phaseout (CNP)
A coalition of over 300 public interest groups advocating for nuclear power phaseout. In 2003, it published Phasing Out Nuclear Power in Canada, outlining a transition to renewable energy and efficiency.
Canadian Coalition for Nuclear Responsibility (CCNR)
Founded in 1975, it focuses on education and research related to nuclear energy. Headed by Gordon Edwards.
Energy Probe
A consumer and environmental research group opposing nuclear power. Its policies influenced Ontario’s Liberal, NDP, and Conservative parties.
Greenpeace Canada
Advocates for halting nuclear expansion and shutting existing plants, promoting renewable energy instead.
Pembina Institute
A non-profit environmental policy research organization. In 2006, it published Nuclear Power in Canada: An Examination of Risks, Impacts and Sustainability.
Sierra Club Canada
Active since 1963, it argues that nuclear power is plagued by cost overruns, accidents, and unresolved waste issues.

=== Regional and local groups ===
Energy Quest 4 Nanticoke
Opposed nuclear development in Haldimand/Norfolk/Brant/Hamilton, Ontario.
Inter-Church Uranium Committee Educational Co-operative (ICUCEC)
A Saskatchewan church coalition opposing uranium mining and nuclear development.
Nuclear Free Great Lakes Campaign
A cross-border coalition seeking to eliminate radioactive contamination in the Great Lakes Basin.
Peace River Environmental Society
Successfully campaigned against Bruce Power’s proposal to build a nuclear plant in northern Alberta (2007–2011).
Port Hope Community Health Concerns Committee (PHCHCC)
Researches health impacts of long-term radiation exposure in Port Hope, Ontario.
Port Hope Families Against Radiation Exposure (PH-FARE)
Monitors nuclear industry activities in Port Hope, opposing uranium enrichment.
Safe and Green Energy Peterborough
Received federal funding in 2009 to review the Darlington Nuclear Power Plant expansion.
Save Our Saskatchewan
A local group opposing nuclear development in Saskatchewan.

== See also ==

Canadian Voice of Women for Peace
Energy policy of Canada
Gordon Edwards
List of anti-nuclear groups
List of Canadian nuclear facilities
Maisie Shiell
Nuclear power in Canada
Ontario Sustainable Energy Association
Renewable energy commercialization

== References ==

== Further reading ==
Harding, Jim (2007). Canada's Deadly Secret: Saskatchewan Uranium and the Global Nuclear System.
Mehta, M.D. (2005). Risky Business: Nuclear Power and Public Protest in Canada. Lanham, MD: Lexington.
Pembina Institute (2007). Clearing the Air About Nuclear Power
Pembina Institute (2007). Uranium Mining: Nuclear Power’s Dirty Secret

== External links ==
Tritium Leak Protests Prompt Canada to Suspend Discharges – Nature
Canadians Join International Plutonium Protest – Campaign for Nuclear Phaseout

Eustala rosae

Eustala rosae is a species of orb weaver in the spider family Araneidae. It is found in the United States and Mexico.

== References ==

== External links ==

1814 in the United Kingdom

Events from the year 1814 in the United Kingdom.

== Incumbents ==
Monarch – George III
Regent – George, Prince Regent
Prime Minister – Robert Jenkinson, 2nd Earl of Liverpool (Tory)
Foreign Secretary – Robert Stewart, Viscount Castlereagh
Home Secretary – Henry Addington, Viscount Sidmouth
Secretary of War – Lord Bathurst

== Events ==

=== January ===
14 January
Treaty of Kiel cedes Danish Heligoland to the United Kingdom.
Troopship Queen, newly returned from Spain, is driven ashore and wrecked on Trefusis Point near Mylor, Cornwall with the probable loss of at least 300.
The third-coldest month in the CET series with an average of −2.9 °C or 26.8 °F allows the last River Thames frost fair in London.
26 January – Actor Edmund Kean makes his London debut in an adult leading role as Shylock at the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane.

=== February ===
12 February – A fire destroys the Custom House in the City of London.
21 February – Great Stock Exchange Fraud in London.

=== April ===
1 April – The Gas Light and Coke Company begins the world's first permanent public gas lighting of streets in the parish of St Margaret's, Westminster, extending to other parts of London by 25 December.
10 April – The Duke of Wellington wins the Battle of Toulouse, ending the Peninsular War.
24 April – Allied sovereigns' visit to England concludes with naval review in Portsmouth. Wellington joins the foreign dignitaries.
28 April – First running of the 1,000 Guineas Stakes horse race at Newmarket, won by Charlotte.

=== May ===
5 May – War of 1812: The British attack Fort Ontario at Oswego, New York.
30 May – Treaty of Paris: the United Kingdom takes control of Malta, Tobago, Saint Lucia, and Mauritius from France.

=== June ===
22 June – First cricket match is played at Lord's Cricket Ground in St John's Wood.
23 June – After five years away, having led Allied forces to victory in the Peninsular War, the Duke of Wellington arrives in Dover to a rapturous reception.

=== July ===
5 July – War of 1812: Battle of Chippewa – American Major General Jacob Brown defeats British General Phineas Riall at Chippewa, Ontario.
25 July
War of 1812: Battle of Lundy's Lane – Reinforcements arrive near Niagara Falls, Ontario, for General Riall's British and Canadian force, and a bloody, all-night battle with Jacob Brown's Americans commences at 18.00; Americans retreat to Fort Erie.
George Stephenson puts his first steam locomotive into service, the Blücher for Killingworth Colliery on Tyneside.
26 July – Opening of Ryde Pier on the Isle of Wight, the first pier in the United Kingdom.
28 July–13 September – Poet Percy Bysshe Shelley abandons his pregnant wife and runs away with the sixteen-year-old Mary Wollstonecraft Godwin, accompanied by her stepsister Jane Clairmont (also 16), to France and Switzerland.

=== August ===
1 August – The Grand Jubilee of 1814 is held celebrating the hundredth anniversary of the Hanoverian Succession.
12 August – The last hanging under the Black Act in England is of William Potter for cutting down an orchard; the judge petitions for reprieve.
13 August – The Anglo-Dutch Treaty of 1814 is signed in London, returning most possessions of the Dutch Empire acquired by the United Kingdom since 1803 to the Netherlands, although the United Kingdom retains the Cape of Good Hope and the South American settlements of Demerara, Essequibo and Berbice (later consolidated as British Guiana). In addition, Britain cedes the island of Banca off the island of Sumatra in exchange for the settlement of Cochin in India.
24 August – War of 1812: The Burning of Washington: British troops burn Washington, D.C.
28 August – Alexandria, Virginia, offers surrender to the British fleet without a fight.

=== September ===
10 September – The last recorded duel in Wales is fought at Newcastle Emlyn: Thomas Heslop of Jamaica is killed; a local landowner, Beynon, is found guilty and fined one shilling.

=== October ===
17 October – London Beer Flood: a large vat of porter in Meux's Brewery bursts, demolishing buildings and killing nine.
18 October – British troop transport Sovereign is wrecked on St. Paul Island (Nova Scotia) with the loss of between 199 and 212 of the 237 people on board.
23 October – The first plastic surgery carried out in England by Dr Joseph Constantine Carpue.

=== November ===
29 November – The first edition of The Times to be printed using a steam press.

=== December ===
24 December – Treaty of Ghent signed by the United Kingdom and the United States ending the War of 1812, however due to the time it takes for news to reach America, fighting continues for weeks.

=== Ongoing ===
Napoleonic Wars, 1803–1815

=== Undated ===
Jeremiah Colman begins making Colman's mustard at Stoke Holy Cross mill near Norwich.
James Purdey establishes his gunmaking business in London.
John Abernethy appointed lecturer in anatomy to the Royal College of Surgeons.
John Keats leaves apprenticeship to become a student at a local hospital.
The Benedictine monastic community is established at Downside in Somerset.

== Publications ==
Jane Austen's (anonymous) novel Mansfield Park.
Fanny Burney's last work, the historical novel The Wanderer: or, Female Difficulties.
Lord Byron's tales in verse The Corsair (sells 10,000 copies on publication day (1 February) and over 25,000 in the first month, going through seven editions) and Lara (sells 6,000 copies on publication in the summer).
Henry Cary's blank verse translation of Dante's Divine Comedy (complete).
Walter Scott's (anonymous) first prose work, the historical novel Waverley (sells out within 2 days of publication (7 July)).
William Wordsworth's long poem The Excursion.

== Births ==
7 January – Robert Nicoll, Scottish radical journalist and poet (died 1837)
21 April – Angela Burdett-Coutts, philanthropist (died 1906)
8 June – Charles Reade, novelist and dramatist (died 1884)
28 June – Frederick William Faber, poet, hymnodist, theologian and Catholic convert (died 1863)
28 August – Sheridan le Fanu, Irish-born writer (died 1873)
3 September – James Joseph Sylvester, mathematician (died 1897)
7 September – William Butterfield, architect (died 1900)
28 December – John Bennet Lawes, agricultural scientist (died 1900)

== Deaths ==
27 January – Philip Astley, circus promoter (born 1742)
12 April – Charles Burney, music historian (born 1726)
12 July – William Howe, 5th Viscount Howe, general (born 1729)
19 July – Captain Matthew Flinders, explorer of the coasts of Australia (born 1774)
25 July – Charles Dibdin, composer (born 1745)
31 August – Arthur Phillip, admiral and first governor of New South Wales (born 1738)
18 November – William Jessop, civil engineer (born 1745)
22 November – Edward Rushton, abolitionist and pioneer of education for the blind (born 1756)
9 December – Joseph Bramah, inventor and locksmith (born 1748)

== References ==

1975 Sugar Bowl

The 1975 Sugar Bowl was the 42nd edition of the college football bowl game, played at night in the new Louisiana Superdome in New Orleans, Louisiana, on Wednesday, December 31. Part of the 1975–76 bowl game season, it matched the fourth-ranked Alabama Crimson Tide of the Southeastern Conference (SEC) and the independent #8 Penn State Nittany Lions. In the first Sugar Bowl played in the recently completed Superdome, favored Alabama won 13–6.
This was the last of four consecutive editions played at night on New Year's Eve; it returned to January 1 1977, as a day game.

== Teams ==

=== Alabama ===

Alabama completed the regular season as SEC champions with a 10–1 record. The only defeat was a 20–7 non-conference loss to Missouri in week one. On November 17, bowl officials announced that Alabama would face Penn State in the Sugar Bowl. It marked the seventh
appearance for Alabama in the Sugar Bowl and their 29th bowl game.
The Tide entered the Sugar Bowl as a thirteen-point favorite but had not won in its last eight bowl games.

=== Penn State ===

Penn State completed the regular season with a record of 9–2. Their only defeats were a 17–9 loss to Ohio State in week three and a 15–14 loss to North Carolina State in week ten. On November 17, bowl officials announced that Penn State would face Alabama in the Sugar Bowl. The invitation to Penn State was controversial as Alabama's Bryant personally selected Penn State as their opponent instead of the Big Eight runner-up (#6 Nebraska), ranked higher than the Nittany Lions. Bryant was miffed that the Orange Bowl, which was committed to the Big Eight champion (#3 Oklahoma), had snubbed the Crimson Tide in favor of the Big Ten runner-up, #5 Michigan (the Big Ten (and Pac-8), allowed multiple bowl teams for the first time this season). In Bryant's view, this effectively killed Alabama's chances for a national championship. It was the second appearance for Penn State in the Sugar Bowl and their fourteenth bowl game.

== Game Summary ==
The game kicked off shortly after 6:30 p.m. CST on New Year's Eve, televised by ABC.
After Penn State's Chris Bahr missed a 62-yard field goal, Alabama scored on a 25-yard Danny Ridgeway field goal. The second quarter was scoreless, and the Crimson Tide led 3–0 at halftime.
Penn State tied the game at three on a 42-yard Bahr field goal in the third quarter. Alabama responded on the following drive with the lone touchdown of the game, a 14-yard Mike Stock run, to take a 10–3 lead.
A 37-yard Bahr field goal reduced the lead to four points with under twelve minutes remaining. The Crimson Tide responded with an extended drive, resulting in a 28-yard Ridgeway field goal to push the lead back to seven at 13–6, the final score. For his 210 yards passing after completing ten of twelve pass attempts, Alabama quarterback Richard Todd was named the game's outstanding player.
It was Alabama's first bowl win in nine years (since January 1967) and started a string of six straight bowl victories.

== Statistics ==

Source:

== See also ==
Alabama–Penn State football rivalry

== References ==

Adria Media Balkan

Adria Media Balkan (Macedonian: Адриа Медиа Балкан) is a publishing company stationed in Skopje, North Macedonia. They publish the daily newspaper Sloboden Pečat.
Adria Media Balkan is owned by Adria Media Group from Serbia that is owned by Gruner + Jahr from Germany. Gruner + Jahr is a subsidiary of the biggest conglomerate in Germany, Bertelsmann.

== References ==

Aleksandar Tsankov

Aleksandar Tsolov Tsankov (Bulgarian: Александър Цолов Цанков; 29 June 1879 – 27 July 1959) was a leading Bulgarian politician during the period between the two World Wars.

== Biography ==
A professor of political economy at Sofia University from 1910 onwards, he took a leading role in the coup that deposed Aleksandar Stamboliyski on 9 June 1923. The coup succeeded when the Bulgarian Communist Party took a neutral attitude towards the Agrarians rather than supporting Stamboliyski. He was chosen to head the coalition that succeeded the deposed premier, and became Prime Minister of Bulgaria the same day. He continued in this role until 4 January 1926. During that period, he was the leader of the Democratic Alliance. Tsankov's premiership was marked by deep internal struggles with the Bulgarian Communist Party, which he repressed mercilessly, declaring martial law and outlawing the Communists in 1925 following an attempt on Tsar Boris's life and a bomb attack on the St Nedelya Cathedral. His actions led to the Comintern denouncing his government as a "victorious Bulgarian fascist clique"; he later turned his attentions to the Agrarian Peoples Union, which was also suppressed, albeit less ferociously.
A brief invasion by Greek troops followed, and although they did not stay long following condemnation by the League of Nations, the country was left crippled by debt. Tsankov was removed from office after failing to secure a loan for the country. Support for him had dwindled as the people tired of his reign of terror.
After being removed from the political mainstream, Tsankov began to develop an admiration for Fascism and soon became a supporter of Adolf Hitler. In 1932, he set up his own National Social Movement mainly in imitation of the Nazi Party. The movement proved relatively unimportant (although it did represent a further fragmentation of the governing coalition), lacking the support of Zveno and failing to secure Nazi approval, which was primarily reserved for the Union of Bulgarian National Legions. Nonetheless, Tsankov was appointed by the Nazis in 1944 as prime minister of the Bulgarian government-in-exile set up in Germany in response to Kimon Georgiev's Fatherland Front government. This was even though Tsankov had been a signatory, one of only two from the right-wing opposition, to Dimitar Peshev's letter calling for an end to the deportation of Jews. Tsankov fled to Argentina after the Second World War, and died in Belgrano, Buenos Aires, in 1959.

== See also ==
White Terror
Red Terror
The incident at Petrich
European interwar dictatorships

== References ==

== External links ==
Newspaper clippings about Aleksandar Tsankov in the 20th Century Press Archives of the ZBW

1883 Penn Quakers football team

The 1883 Penn Quakers football team represented the University of Pennsylvania in the 1883 college football season. Penn finished with a 6–2–1 record. The team played its home matches at Recreation Park, the Philadelphia Phillies' first ballpark.

== Schedule ==

== References ==

911 Fire Rescue

911 Fire Rescue is a 2001 video game from WizardWorks. The player takes on the role of a fire-fighter and has to save victims and extinguish several different types of fires in 17 levels. The player must manage their character's health, oxygen and heat levels to avoid dying.

== Gameplay ==
911 Fire Rescue casts the player as a frontline firefighter, tasked with extinguishing blazes and rescuing victims across 17 escalating missions. Using a first-person perspective and traditional WASD controls, players navigate smoke-filled environments—homes, offices, and vehicles—armed with a variety of tools: truck hoses with unlimited water, portable foam sprayers, CO₂ extinguishers, and more. Each fire type—Class Alpha (wood, paper), Bravo (oil, grease), Charlie (electrical), and Delta (metal)—requires a specific suppression method. The Prism3D engine renders dynamic flames and thick smoke that obscure vision and deplete oxygen, encouraging players to crouch low to conserve air. Realistic audio cues include crackling fire and dispatch chatter. Success depends on speed and thoroughness: extinguish all fires, rescue all victims, and avoid injury or suffocation.

== Reception ==

911 Fire Rescue received "generally unfavorable" reviews, according to review aggregator Metacritic.
The Leader-Post said "Still, the game plays well enough; the higher level fires are involving, exciting and challenging enough to make this title worthwhile, just not exceptional"

== References ==

== External links ==
911 Fire Rescue at MobyGames

1988 NCAA Division I men's lacrosse tournament

The 1988 NCAA Division I lacrosse tournament was the 18th annual tournament hosted by the National Collegiate Athletic Association to determine the team champion of men's college lacrosse among its Division I programs, held at the end of the 1988 NCAA Division I men's lacrosse season.
Hosts Syracuse defeated Cornell in the final, 13–8, for the first of three straight NCAA titles for the Orangemen.
The championship game was played at the Carrier Dome at Syracuse University in Syracuse, New York, with 20,148 fans in attendance.

== Overview ==
Syracuse's 1988 team is noted for finishing undefeated, 15-0, and featuring the Gait brothers, Paul and Gary Gait. Syracuse was ranked number one in the nation for most of this year, averaged just under 18 goals a game, and had only one close game—an overtime win over North Carolina—during the regular season. They had also defeated the second seed in the tournament, Johns Hopkins, 19–7 early in the season.
This NCAAs is also notable for being the tournament where Gary Gait took his famous "Air Gait" shot in a close semi-final game against Tony Seaman's Penn team. Penn played a tough zone defense to try to contain the Gaits and Syracuse. Gary Gait saw a way around the zone, by running directly at the goal from behind and slam dunking the ball into the goal past the shocked goaltender. At that time, a player was allowed to both touch the goal and land in the crease, provided the ball had first crossed the goal line. Gait scored on two "Air Gait" plays in that game. The NCAA outlawed that type of play a short while later. Syracuse won this semifinal game against Penn on a goal by Paul Gait with three seconds left in the game.
In a 23–5 quarterfinal win over Navy, Gary Gait scored a tournament record 9 goals.

== Bracket ==

(i) one overtime

== Box scores ==

=== Finals ===

=== Semifinals ===

=== Quarterfinals ===

=== First round ===

== See also ==
List of undefeated NCAA Division I men's lacrosse national champions
1988 NCAA Division I women's lacrosse tournament
1988 NCAA Division III men's lacrosse tournament

== References ==

== External links ==
"Air Gait" original Air Gait compilation on YouTube
"Air Gait" on YouTube
1988 Semifinals Syracuse v Penn "Air Gait" game, full game
"Air Gait" Writeup

Ad Swigler

Adam William "Ad" Swigler (September 21, 1895 – February 5, 1975), nicknamed "Doc", was an American professional baseball pitcher. Swigler played for the New York Giants in the 1917 season.
In 1 career game, he had a 0-1 record, with a 6.00 ERA. He batted and threw right-handed.Due to an arm injury, he did not return to professional baseball, but did continue to play semi-professional ball.
He was an alumnus of the University of Pennsylvania School of Dental Medicine.
Swigler was born and died in Philadelphia.

== University of Pennsylvania ==
Swigler received a baseball scholarship to attend the University of Pennsylvania. While there, he lettered in baseball, track, football, and basketball.
After his professional baseball season, Swigler served as the Freshman baseball coach at Penn.

== References ==

== External links ==

Career statistics from Baseball Reference · Baseball Reference (Minors) · Retrosheet · Baseball Almanac

Canadian House of Commons Standing Committee on Human Resources, Skills and Social Development and the Status of Persons with Disabilities

The House of Commons Standing Committee on Human Resources, Skills and Social Development and the Status of Persons with Disabilities (HUMA) is a standing committee of the House of Commons of Canada.

== Mandate ==
The mandate and management of Department of Human Resources and Skills Development Canada and its subsidiary agencies:
The Canada Industrial Relations Board
The Canadian Centre for Occupational Health and Safety
The Canadian Artists and Producers Professional Relations Tribunal
The Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation
The study of topics relating to the Department, including:
Employment insurance
Employment benefits and support measures
Income security programs
The Canada Labour Code
Post-secondary education and training
Social programs for seniors, families, children and persons with disabilities
The study of recommendations to shorten the foreign qualification recognition process
Skills development in remote rural communities

== Membership ==
As of the 45th Canadian Parliament:

== Subcommittees ==
Subcommittee on Agenda and Procedure (SHUM)

== References ==
Standing Committee on Human Resources, Skills and Social Development and the Status of Persons with Disabilities (HUMA)

1981 Tel Aviv Open

The 1981 Tel Aviv Open was a men's tennis tournament played on outdoor hard courts that was part of the 1981 Volvo Grand Prix. It was played at the Israel Tennis Centers in the Tel Aviv District city of Ramat HaSharon, Israel and was held from October 5 to October 12, 1981. It was the third edition of the tournament. First-seeded Mel Purcell won the singles title.

== Finals ==

=== Singles ===

Mel Purcell defeated Per Hjertquist 6–1, 6–1

It was Purcell's 3rd title of the year and the 3rd of his career.

=== Doubles ===

Steve Meister / Van Winitsky defeated John Feaver / Steve Krulevitz 3–6, 6–3, 6–3

It was Meister's only title of the year and the 1st of his career. It was Winitsky's 3rd title of the year and the 6th of his career.

== References ==

== External links ==
ITF tournament edition details

Bahmanyar, Iran

Bahmanyar (Persian: بهمنيار), also rendered as Bahman Yari, in Iran, may refer to:

Bahmanyar-e Gharbi
Bahmanyar-e Sharqi

Dan Ackerman

Dan Ackerman (born March 13, 1974) is a former radio DJ turned technology and video game journalist. Ackerman resides in New York City, and has written about video games and gadgets for publications including SPIN, Blender, WWE Magazine, and The Hollywood Reporter.
He has been editor-in-chief at Micro Center since 2023, where he started a tech publication called Micro Center News. He is also a regular TV pundit on outlets such as G4TV, CNN, MSNBC, Fox News and CNBC.
Before joining Micro Center, Ackerman was the senior editor of Gizmodo in 2023, and had a long career at CNET, from 2005 to 2023, where he co-hosted CNET's weekly Digital City and CNET Labcasts video podcast. Before CNET, Ackerman was the editor-in-chief of Clubplanet.com from 2001 to 2005, and a senior editor at UGO.com from 1999 to 2001.
He has released four albums on the Helper Monkey Records label, including 2008's "Tales Out of Night School" and 2012's "The Futurist". He also appeared on a web show called, "Play Value", along with his wife, and other people in the video gaming industry. The show talked about the history of gaming such as "The Rise of Atari", or "The Death of The Arcade".
In August 2023, Ackerman filed a copyright infringement suit against the Apple TV 2023 film Tetris, for allegedly taking from his book The Tetris Effect: The Game that Hypnotized the World. The case was dismissed in 2025, though Ackerman stated he will seek an appeal.

== References ==

== External links ==
CNET profile page
Digital City Podcast Archived 2003-10-10 at the Wayback Machine
Dan Ackerman Official website
Official website for Tales Out of Night School Archived 2009-01-24 at the Wayback Machine
Appearances on C-SPAN

Anthony Tucker

Anthony Tucker may refer to:

Anthony Tucker (basketball) (born 1969), American basketball player
Anthony Tucker (American football) (born 1976), American football player and coach
P. J. Tucker (Anthony Leon Tucker Jr.; born 1985), American basketball player
The Beat Bully (Anthony Tucker; fl. 2000s), American record producer

== See also ==
Anthony Tucker-Jones (born 1964), British military analyst and author
Tucker Anthony, American investment banking firm

6th Canadian Screen Awards

The 6th annual Canadian Screen Awards were held on March 11, 2018, to honour achievements in Canadian film, television, and digital media production in 2017. Nominations were announced on January 16, 2018.
Emma Hunter and Jonny Harris hosted the ceremony, which was held at the Sony Centre for the Performing Arts in Toronto. The awards in many of the technical and craft categories were presented in a series of advance galas throughout the week, promoted to as Canadian Screen Week, leading up to the main televised ceremony. Anne with an E received the most nominations, with 13 in total.
In the film categories, Maudie won the most awards, with seven, while Alias Grace, The Amazing Race Canada, and Cardinal all tied with six wins each in the television categories.

== Film ==
Nominees and winners are:

== Television ==

=== Programs ===

=== Actors ===

=== News and information ===

=== Sports ===

=== Craft awards ===

=== Directing ===

=== Music ===

=== Writing ===

== Digital media ==

== Multiple nominations and awards ==

== Special awards ==
Several special awards were given:

Lifetime Achievement Award: Peter Mansbridge
board of directors Award: Margaret Atwood, Jay Switzer
Earle Grey Award: Clark Johnson
Fan Choice Award: Elise Bauman
Gordon Sinclair Award: Karyn Pugliese
Margaret Collier Award: Denis McGrath
Outstanding Media Innovation Award: Pat Ellingson
Icon Award: Rick Mercer Report
Humanitarian Award: Bell Let's Talk

== References ==

2020 Scottish Cup final

The 2020 Scottish Cup final was the 135th final of the Scottish Cup and the final of the 2019–20 Scottish Cup, the most prestigious knockout football competition in Scotland. Played on 20 December 2020, the final was won by holders Celtic in a penalty shootout to beat Heart of Midlothian after the match ended 3–3 after extra time, claiming an unprecedented fourth successive domestic treble. The same teams had contested the 2019 Scottish Cup Final.

== Seven-month delay ==
The match was originally scheduled to take place at Hampden Park on 9 May 2020, but was postponed before the semi-finals being played with no alternative date proposed at that point, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic in Scotland. On 21 July, the final was rescheduled for 20 December.

=== European place ===
On 1 May 2020, UEFA confirmed that the final would have to be played before the end of the 2019–20 season in early July in order to activate the usual place in the 2020–21 UEFA Europa League for the winners, with the qualification spot instead going to the team finishing fourth in the 2019–20 Scottish Premiership (either with fixtures completed or placings declared). That would adversely impact Heart of Midlothian or Hibernian who were due to meet in one semi-final and had no other route to European football, whereas in the other semi-final Celtic were certain to qualify for Europe from their position at the top of the league table, and fourth-placed Aberdeen had possibilities to do so either if the league continued and they climbed to third, or if Celtic won the Cup and its entry passed to the league. On 22 May, the Scottish Football Association indicated their preference to complete the competition but to wait until such a time as spectators would be allowed to attend, primarily for financial reasons with three large attendances expected at the remaining matches. The Premiership standings at the time of postponement were declared final and three Europa League places, including one for Aberdeen, were duly allocated from the league.

=== Hosting ===
On 9 December 2020, an offer by Inverness Caledonian Thistle Chairman, Scot Gardiner, to host the final at the Caledonian Stadium in then, Tier 1 Restriction, Inverness, in order to allow 150 fans from the Highlands and Moray of either club to attend, was rejected by the SFA on the basis the Scottish Cup has a commitment to be held at Hampden, and that Celtic and Hearts, as well as broadcasters BBC and Premier Sports wouldn't be accepting of the change in venue. Had the offer been accepted, it would've been the first time since 2014 that a final had been held outside Hampden, and the first time since 1896 that the tournament's final would've been held outside Glasgow.

== Match ==

=== Summary ===
Before the game, Hearts announced they would honour their former Cup-winning captain Marius Žaliūkas after his untimely death by having every player wear his number 26 on their shorts. The match was played behind closed doors due to the COVID-19 pandemic. After a bright start by Hearts, Celtic began to create more opportunities, and in the 19th minute Ryan Christie scored with a curling left-footed shot from outside the penalty area, very similar to the goal he scored against Aberdeen in the semi-final, and occurring at nearly the same time. As in that match, Celtic scored a second goal fairly quickly, via a penalty converted by Odsonne Édouard in a Panenka style, after an accidental but clear handball by Hearts captain Christophe Berra.
Facing a tough task to get back into the contest, the Edinburgh side pulled a goal back early in the second half through Liam Boyce, and pulled level on 67 minutes from another header, this time by Stephen Kingsley; the ball crossed the line in mid-air by a matter of centimetres before being cleared by Christie, and the point was awarded by the referee via his wrist-worn goal detection device.
In the final moments of the first period of extra time, Celtic captain Scott Brown's header was parried at close range by Craig Gordon and Leigh Griffiths turned the ball home to give the Glasgow side the lead again. With nine minutes remaining in the second period, Kingsley sent the ball across the Celtic goalmouth and Josh Ginnelly, who had chances to score earlier, found the net to square the contest at 3–3.
In the penalty shootout, Christie was the first player to fail, veteran goalkeeper Gordon diving to his right to save, but inexperienced counterpart Conor Hazard then stopped attempts from Kingsley and Craig Wighton. Kristoffer Ajer converted the last kick for a 4–3 outcome from the spot, sealing a historic fourth consecutive Scottish Cup and a twelfth domestic trophy in succession for Celtic.
All six goals and the shootout took place at the same (west) end of the stadium. The six goals scored tied the highest total since seven were scored in 1991; the two others both involved Hearts: a 5–1 loss to Rangers in 1996 and a victory over Hibernian by the same scoreline in 2012. No losing team had scored three times since Dundee United in 1991. Celtic manager Neil Lennon became the first person to win the domestic treble in Scotland as both a player and coach, having first achieved the feat with the same club in 2000–01. Celtic became the first team to use six substitutions (five under temporary COVID-19 regulations and one additional change in extra time which was widely adopted two years earlier) in a major competition in Scottish football.

=== Details ===

Match rules

90 minutes
30 minutes of extra time if necessary
Penalty shoot-out if scores still level
Nine named substitutes
Maximum of five substitutions in normal time (a sixth substitute is permitted in extra time)

== Media coverage ==
BBC Scotland and Premier Sports had the rights to broadcast the final, in what was the second season of a six-year deal in the United Kingdom to broadcast Scottish Cup matches from the fourth round onward.

== See also ==
Finals played between same clubs:

1901 Scottish Cup Final
1907 Scottish Cup Final
1956 Scottish Cup Final
2019 Scottish Cup Final

== References ==

Ai River (Gifu)

The Ai River (相川, Ai-kawa) is a river in Japan which has its source in the city of Sekigahara, Gifu Prefecture. It drains into the Kuise River, and ultimately flows into the Kiso River.

== History ==
The river originates near Mount Ibuki in the northern part of Sekigahara and flows through central Tarui. The post town of Tarui-juku, a stop along the old Nakasendō trading route, used to sit along the banks of the river.

== River communities ==
The river passes through or forms the boundary of Sekigahara, Tarui, Ōgaki, and Yōrō in Gifu Prefecture.

== References ==

1st Alabama Cavalry Regiment

1st Alabama Cavalry Regiment may refer to:

1st Alabama Cavalry Regiment (Confederate)
1st Alabama Cavalry Regiment (Union)

== See also ==
1st Alabama Infantry Regiment, a Confederate regiment

1969 European Indoor Games – Men's 800 metres

The men's 800 metres event at the 1969 European Indoor Games was held on 8 March in Belgrade.

== Medalists ==

== Results ==

=== Heats ===
First 4 from each heat (Q) qualified directly for the final.

=== Final ===

== References ==

Ageratella

Ageratella is a genus of flowering plants in the family Asteraceae.
Species include:

Ageratella microphylla (Sch.Bip.) A.Gray ex S.Watson
Ageratella palmeri (A.Gray) B.L.Rob.

== References ==

Dasania

Dasania is a genus in the phylum Pseudomonadota (Bacteria).

== Etymology ==
The name Dasania derives from:Neo-Latin feminine gender noun Dasania, named in honour of Dasan, a Korean scientist in 18th and 19th century and after the name of Korean Arctic research station, Dasan Station, in Ny-Ålesund.

== Species ==
The genus contains a single species, namely D. marina ( Lee et al. 2008, Latin feminine gender adjective marina, of the sea, marine, referring to the environment where the type strain was isolated.)

== References ==

Beyond the Veil (album)

Beyond the Veil is the second full-length album by the Norwegian band Tristania. It is the last album to feature the band's former vocalist, guitarist and core songwriter, Morten Veland.

== Background and influence ==
Tristania stood apart from the other bands of the genre with their use of three distinct vocal styles in the "operatic soprano Vibeke Stene, clean-singing counter-tenor Østen Bergøy, and harsh, black metal-style shrieker Morten Veland". Beyond the Veil made use of a ten-member choir and featured violin passages from Pete Johansen of The Sins of Thy Beloved, earning "rave reviews" across Europe. By then, the band had risen to "the top of the gothic metal heap" with their "lush, symphonically enhanced" approach. The album features "tender ethereal female voices" and "the brutality and harshness", making it a promoter on the gothic metal scene. They were "dealt a potentially crippling blow" when singer, guitarist and principal composer Veland left the group to form Sirenia. Tristania has continued to prosper with subsequent releases and has since been "regarded as one of the world's premiere goth metal bands".

== Track listing ==

== Personnel ==
Tristania
Vibeke Stene – lead vocals, backing vocals
Morten Veland – rhythm guitar, harsh vocals, backing vocals
Anders H. Hidle – lead guitar, backing vocals
Rune Østerhus – bass
Einar Moen – synth and programming
Kenneth Olsson – drums, backing vocals
Additional musicians
Østen Bergøy – clean vocals
Pete Johansen – violin
Jan Kenneth Barkved – clean vocals on "Heretique", choir
Hilde T. Bommen Rasmussen, Maiken Stene, Sissel B. Stene, Jeanett Johannessen, Rino A. Kolstø – choir

== References ==

1973 New Zealand Open

The 1973 New Zealand Open, also known as Benson and Hedges Open for sponsorship reasons, was a combined men's and women's professional tennis tournament held at the Stanley Street grounds in Auckland, New Zealand. It was an independent event, i.e. not part of the 1973 Grand Prix or 1973 World Championship Tennis circuit. It was the sixth edition of the tournament and was played on outdoor grass courts and was held from 8 to 14 January 1973. Onny Parun and Evonne Goolagong won the singles titles.

== Finals ==

=== Men's singles ===
Onny Parun defeated Patrick Proisy 4–6, 6–7, 6–2, 6–0, 7–6

=== Women's singles ===
Evonne Goolagong defeated Marilyn Pryde 6–0, 6–1

=== Men's doubles ===
Brian Fairlie / Allan Stone

=== Women's doubles ===
Evonne Goolagong / Janet Young defeated Pat Coleman / Marilyn Tesch 6–1, 6–3

=== Mixed doubles ===
Evonne Goolagong / Ross Case defeated Janet Young / Dick Crealy 6–1, 6–3

== References ==

== External links ==
ATP – tournament profile

Amateur

An amateur (from French 'one who loves') is generally considered a person who pursues an avocation independent from their source of income. Amateurs and their pursuits are also described as popular, informal, self-taught, user-generated, DIY, and hobbyist.

== History ==

Historically, the amateur was considered to be the ideal balance between pure intent, open mind, and the interest or passion for a subject. That ideology spanned many different fields of interest. It may have its roots in the ancient Greek philosophy of amateur athletes competing in the Olympics. The ancient Greek citizens spent most of their time in other pursuits, but competed according to their natural talents and abilities.
The "gentleman amateur" was a phenomenon among the gentry of Great Britain from the 17th century until the 20th century. With the start of the Age of Reason, with people thinking more about how the world works around them, (see science in the Age of Enlightenment), things like the cabinets of curiosities, and the writing of the book The Christian Virtuoso, started to shape the idea of the gentleman amateur. He was vastly interested in a particular topic, and studied, observed, and collected things and information on his topic of choice. The Royal Society in Great Britain was generally composed of these "gentleman amateurs", and is one of the reasons science today exists the way it does. A few examples of these gentleman amateurs are Francis Bacon, Isaac Newton, and Sir Robert Cotton, 1st Baronet, of Connington.
Amateurism can be seen in both a negative and positive light. Since amateurs often lack formal training and are self-taught, some amateur work may be considered sub-par. For example, amateur athletes in sports such as basketball, baseball, or football are regarded as possessing a lower level of ability than professional athletes. On the other hand, an amateur may be in a position to approach a subject with an open mind (as a result of the lack of formal training) and in a financially disinterested manner. An amateur who dabbles in a field out of interest rather than as a profession, or possesses a general but superficial interest in any art or a branch of knowledge, is often referred to as a dilettante.

== Amateur athletics ==

== Olympics ==

Through most of the 20th century the Olympics allowed only amateur athletes to participate and this amateur code was strictly enforced, Jim Thorpe was stripped of track and field medals for having taken expense money for playing baseball in 1912.
Later on, the nations of the Communist Bloc entered teams of Olympians who were all nominally students, soldiers, or working in a profession, but many of whom were in reality paid by the state to train on a full-time basis.
Near the end of the 1960s, the Canadian Amateur Hockey Association (CAHA) felt their amateur players could no longer be competitive against the Soviet team's full-time athletes and the other constantly improving European teams. They pushed for the ability to use players from professional leagues but met opposition from the International Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF) and the International Olympic Committee (IOC). At the IIHF Congress in 1969, the IIHF decided to allow Canada to use nine non-NHL professional hockey players at the 1970 World Championships in Montreal and Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada. The decision was reversed in January 1970 after IOC President Avery Brundage said that ice hockey's status as an Olympic sport would be in jeopardy if the change was made. In response, Canada withdrew from all international ice hockey competitions and officials stated that they would not return until "open competition" was instituted. Günther Sabetzki became president of the IIHF in 1975 and helped to resolve the dispute with the CAHA. In 1976, the IIHF agreed to allow "open competition" between all players in the World Championships. However, NHL players were still not allowed to play in the Olympics, because of the unwillingness of the NHL to take a break mid-season and the IOC's amateur-only policy.
Before the 1984 Winter Olympics, a dispute formed over what made a player a professional. The IOC had adopted a rule that made any player who had signed an NHL contract but played less than ten games in the league eligible. However, the United States Olympic Committee maintained that any player contracted with an NHL team was a professional and therefore not eligible to play. The IOC held an emergency meeting that ruled NHL-contracted players were eligible, as long as they had not played in any NHL games. This made five players on Olympic rosters—one Austrian, two Italians and two Canadians—ineligible. Players who had played in other professional leagues—such as the World Hockey Association—were allowed to play. Canadian hockey official Alan Eagleson stated that the rule was only applied to the NHL and that professionally contracted players in European leagues were still considered amateurs. Murray Costello of the CAHA suggested that a Canadian withdrawal was possible. In 1986, the IOC voted to allow all athletes to compete in Olympic Games starting in 1988, but let the individual sport federations decide if they wanted to allow professionals.
After the 1972 retirement of IOC President Brundage, the Olympic amateurism rules were steadily relaxed, amounting only to technicalities and lip service, until being completely abandoned in the 1990s (in the United States, the Amateur Sports Act of 1978 prohibits national governing bodies from having more stringent standards of amateur status than required by international governing bodies of respective sports. The act caused the breakup of the Amateur Athletic Union as a wholesale sports governing body at the Olympic level).
Olympic regulations regarding amateur status of athletes were eventually abandoned in the 1990s with the exception of wrestling, where the amateur fight rules are used because professional wrestling is largely staged with predetermined outcomes. Starting from the 2016 Summer Olympics, professionals were allowed to compete in boxing, though amateur fight rules are still used for the tournament.

== Contribution of amateurs ==
Many amateurs make valuable contributions in the field of computer programming through the open source movement. Amateur dramatics is the performance of plays or musical theater, often to high standards, but lacking the budgets of professional West End or Broadway performances. Astronomy, chemistry, history, linguistics, and the natural sciences are among the fields that have benefited from the activities of amateurs. Gregor Mendel was an amateur scientist who never held a position in his field of study. Radio astronomy was founded by Grote Reber, an amateur radio operator. Radio itself was greatly advanced by Guglielmo Marconi, a young Italian man who started out by tinkering with a coherer and a spark coil as an amateur electrician. Pierre de Fermat was a highly influential mathematician whose primary vocation was law.
In the 2000s and 2010s, the distinction between amateur and professional has become increasingly blurred, especially in areas such as computer programming, music and astronomy. The term amateur professionalism, or pro-am, is used to describe these activities.

== List of amateur pursuits ==

== See also ==

== References ==

Podnieks, Andrew; Szemberg, Szymon (2007). World of hockey : celebrating a century of the IIHF. Fenn Publishing. ISBN 9781551683072.

== Further reading ==

Bourdieu, Pierre; Whiteside, Shaun (1996). Photography: A Middle-brow Art. Stanford University Press. ISBN 978-0-8047-2689-4.
Fine, Gary Alan (1998). Morel Tales: The Culture of Mushrooming. Harvard University Press. ISBN 978-0-674-08935-8.
Goffman, Erving (24 November 2009). Stigma: Notes on the Management of Spoiled Identity. Simon and Schuster. ISBN 978-1-4391-8833-0.
Haring, Kristen (2007). Ham radio's technical culture (Online ed.). Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press. ISBN 9780262083553.
Jenkins, Henry (1992). Textual Poachers: Television Fans & Participatory Culture. Routledge. ISBN 978-0-415-90572-5.
Stebbins, Robert A. (6 April 1992). Amateurs, Professionals, and Serious Leisure. McGill-Queen's Press - MQUP. ISBN 978-0-7735-6334-6.

1TAF

1TAF may refer to:

Australian First Tactical Air Force
Desert Air Force, also known as the First Tactical Air Force

1988 in architecture

The year 1988 in architecture involved some significant architectural events and new buildings.

== Events ==
Hawkins\Brown architectural practice established in London.

== Buildings and structures ==

=== Buildings opened ===

March 13 – Seikan Tunnel beneath the Tsugaru Strait in Japan.
May 9 – Parliament House, Canberra, Australia.
September 25 – Aalto Theatre, Essen, Germany.
October 10 – Cairo Opera House, Egypt.
November 2 – Immaculate Conception Cathedral, Dili, Indonesia.
December – Torre Picasso, in Madrid, Spain, by Minoru Yamasaki.
date unknown – National Union of Mineworkers headquarters, Sheffield, England.

=== Buildings completed ===

March 11 – Sultan Salahuddin Abdul Aziz Mosque, Selangor, Malaysia.
July – 108 St Georges Terrace in Perth, Western Australia.
Scotia Plaza in Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
Bell Media Tower in Montreal, Canada.
Canterra Tower in Calgary, Alberta.
Wells Fargo Center in Minneapolis, Minnesota, United States.
Pitampura TV Tower in New Delhi, India.
Washington Mutual Tower in Seattle, Washington.
Central Plaza 1, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
One Kansas City Place, in Kansas City, Missouri, U.S.
Bellevue Place, Hong Kong, designed by Rocco Design Architects.
Richmond Riverside development in London, England, designed by Quinlan Terry.
ERCO Technical Centre (Technisches Zentrum ERCO-Leuchten) in Lüdenscheid, Germany, designed by Uwe Kiessler.
Storm water pumping station on the Isle of Dogs in London, designed by John Outram Associates.
Causewayside Building, National Library of Scotland, Edinburgh, designed by Andrew Merrylees.
Clovelly Visitor Centre in North Devon, England, designed by van Heyningen and Haward Architects.
House for Janet Street-Porter, Clerkenwell, London, designed by Piers Gough of CZWG.

== Awards ==
Alvar Aalto Medal – Alvaro Siza
Architecture Firm Award – Hartman-Cox Architects
European Union Prize for Contemporary Architecture (Mies van der Rohe Prize) – Alvaro Siza for Banco Borges e Irmão, Vila do Conde
Pritzker Prize – Oscar Niemeyer and Gordon Bunshaft
RAIA Gold Medal – Romaldo Giurgola
RIBA Royal Gold Medal – Richard Meier
Thomas Jefferson Medal in Architecture – Romaldo Giurgola.
Twenty-five Year Award – Washington Dulles International Airport Terminal Building

== Deaths ==
March – Tom Ellis, English architect (born 1911)
March 12 – Bernard Rudofsky, Moravian-born American writer, architect, collector, teacher, designer, and social historian (born 1905)
August 21 – Ray Eames, American architect and designer, partner of Charles Eames (born 1912)
November 22 – Luis Barragán, Mexican architect (born 1902)

== References ==

12th Wing

12th Wing may refer to:

CFB Shearwater (12 Wing Shearwater), a unit of the Canadian Air Force
F 12 Kalmar, a unit of the Swedish Air Force
12th Flying Training Wing, a unit of the United States Air Force
Ala 12, a unit of the Spanish Air and Space Force

== See also ==
Twelfth Army (disambiguation)
XII Corps (disambiguation)
12th Division (disambiguation)
12th Brigade (disambiguation)
12th Regiment (disambiguation)
12th Battalion (disambiguation)
12 Squadron (disambiguation)

1889 Atlantic hurricane season

The 1889 Atlantic hurricane season featured the first known tropical cyclone in the basin to attain hurricane status in the month of May. Of the nine known tropical storms, six intensified into hurricanes, but none of those strengthened into a major hurricane. However, in the absence of modern satellite and other remote-sensing technologies, only storms that affected populated land areas or encountered ships at sea were recorded, so the actual total could be higher. Therefore, an undercount bias of zero to six tropical cyclones per year between 1851 and 1885 and zero to four per year between 1886 and 1910 has been estimated. The first system was initially over the western Atlantic Ocean on May 16, while the ninth and final storm transitioned into an extratropical cyclone just prior to striking Nova Scotia on October 7.
Neither meteorologists José Fernández-Partagás and Henry F. Diaz in 1996 nor the Atlantic hurricane reanalysis project in the early 21st century added or removed any previously undocumented storms from the official hurricane database (HURDAT). However, both modified the tracks of several cyclones. Additionally, a damage study conducted by Cuban meteorologist Ramón Pérez Suárez in 2000 led to the second system being reclassified from a tropical storm to a Category 1 hurricane on the present-day Saffir–Simpson scale. More recently, a 2014 reanalysis study by climate researcher Michael Chenoweth recommended the removal of the ninth storm and the addition of four cyclones not currently listed in HURDAT. However, these proposals have not yet been approved.
The most intense tropical cyclone of the season, the six system, peaked as a Category 2 hurricane with maximum sustained winds of 110 mph (175 km/h) in September. Passing through the Leeward Islands and then striking Mexico's Yucatán Peninsula and the Gulf Coast of the United States, the storm left destruction in many places, including about $40,000 (1889 USD) in damage and one death in the Jacksonville area of Florida. Also that month, the season's fourth system, which also peaked as a Category 2 hurricane, severely impacted the Lesser Antilles and the Northeastern United States, despite not making landfall in the latter. The United States reported almost $2.36 million in damage and 40 deaths. In June, the second cyclone of the season may have also caused fatalities in Cuba.

== Season summary ==

The Atlantic hurricane database (HURDAT) officially recognizes that nine tropical cyclones formed during the 1889 season, six of which strengthened into a hurricane, while none of those intensified into a major hurricane. Neither meteorologists José Fernández-Partagás and Henry F. Diaz in 1996 nor the Atlantic hurricane reanalysis project in the early 21st century added or removed any previously undocumented storms from HURDAT, though both modified the tracks of several cyclones. A damage study conducted by Cuban meteorologist Ramón Pérez Suárez in 2000 led to the season's second storm being retroactively upgraded to a Category 1 hurricane. However, a more recent reanalysis by climate researcher Michael Chenoweth, published in 2014, adds four storms and removes one – the ninth system – for a net gain of three cyclones, although these proposed changes have yet to be approved for inclusion to HURDAT. Chenoweth's study utilizes a more extensive collection of newspapers and ship logs, as well as late 19th century weather maps for the first time, in comparison to previous reanalysis projects.
Tropical cyclogenesis began by mid-May, with a tropical storm first detected north of the Lesser Antilles on May 16. Reaching hurricane status, this storm became the first Atlantic cyclone to reach hurricane status in the month of May and one of only four on record. After it became extratropical on May 21, no further activity is known to have occurred until June 15. Striking Cuba likely as a hurricane and Florida as a tropical storm, the system was last noted on June 20 south of Nova Scotia. Another lengthy period of dormancy then occurred, with the season's third system not being observed until August 19. The storm crossed the Dominican Republic and the Turks and Caicos Islands and continued northward before being last noted on August 28 offshore the Northeastern United States. September featured five cyclones, three of which became hurricanes. The season's fourth system caused 40 deaths and almost $2.36 million in damage in the United States despite not making landfall there. Later that month, the sixth storm of the season peaked as a Category 2 hurricane with maximum sustained winds of 110 mph (175 km/h). Passing through the Leeward Islands and then striking the Yucatán Peninsula, Louisiana, and Alabama, the storm left destruction in many places, including about $40,000 in damage and one death in the Jacksonville area of Florida. One additional cyclone, which peaked as a tropical storm, moved rapidly northeastward, crossing Cuba and Florida before becoming extratropical while approaching Nova Scotia on October 7, marking the end of known seasonal activity.
The season's activity was reflected with an accumulated cyclone energy (ACE) rating of 104, the fourth highest total of the decade. ACE is a metric used to express the energy used by a tropical cyclone during its lifetime. Therefore, a storm with a longer duration will have higher values of ACE. It is only calculated at six-hour increments in which specific tropical and subtropical systems are either at or above sustained wind speeds of 39 mph (63 km/h), which is the threshold for tropical storm intensity. Thus, tropical depressions are not included here.

== Systems ==

=== Hurricane One ===

Based on the Monthly Weather Review reporting a disturbance of "moderate intensity" to the north of the Lesser Antilles beginning on May 16, the Atlantic hurricane database initiates the track for this system on that date about 190 mi (310 km) north of the British Virgin Islands. The cyclone strengthened slightly but remained a tropical storm for the next few days as it headed northwestward, until turning northeastward by May 20. Several hours later, the storm intensified into a hurricane and reached sustained winds of 80 mph (130 km/h), based on the schooner Joseph W. Fish observing sustained winds of 58 mph (93 km/h) and another ship recording an unspecific hurricane-force sustained wind speed on the following day. However, the system weakened to a tropical storm early on May 21 and soon transitioned into an extratropical cyclone about 270 mi (435 km) east of Nags Head, North Carolina.
This cyclone was the first May hurricane on record in the Atlantic basin, and remains one of only four such systems known today. Climate researcher Michael Chenoweth's 2014 study indicates that this system developed as a tropical depression just north of the Mona Passage on May 16. Other significant changes include that storm intensifying into a hurricane on May 21, as opposed to becoming extratropical that day, a transition that instead occurred on May 22. The extratropical remnants later struck Nova Scotia.

=== Hurricane Two ===

Maritime observations indicated the presence of a tropical storm over the northwestern Caribbean as early as June 15. Moving north-northwestward, the cyclone struck the Guanahacabibes Peninsula of Cuba several hours later, likely as a minimal hurricane with sustained winds of 75 mph (120 km/h), according to a study of wind damage conducted by meteorologist Ramón Pérez Suárez in 2000. However, the hurricane weakened back to a tropical storm shortly after reaching the Gulf of Mexico on June 16. Gradually curving northeastward on June 17, the system made landfall near Cedar Key, Florida, with winds of 50 mph (85 km/h) around 14:00 UTC. After emerging into the Atlantic from the First Coast on the following day, the system remained closely offshore Georgia, South Carolina, and North Carolina. The cyclone was last noted on June 20 about 115 mi (185 km) southwest of Sable Island, Nova Scotia.
Chenoweth's study suggests that the storm did not strike Cuba and instead moved through the Yucatán Channel before striking Florida farther south, near present-day Sarasota. Heavy rains fell over western Cuba, inundating many streets. Walls and house collapsed, particularly in Batabanó and the Vuelta Abajo region. Several vessels also capsized. The Daily Inter Ocean noted that no deaths occurred, but Spanish meteorologist Simón Sarasola reported that "lives were lost". Although the highest recorded sustained wind speed in Florida reached only 43 mph (69 km/h) at Cedar Key, heavy precipitation fell across the state, causing several washouts along the South Florida Railroad. Additionally, a tornado in Lake Mary downed some trees and destroyed a large packinghouse.

=== Hurricane Three ===

Land-based weather stations first reported this storm about 100 mi (160 km) south of the Dominican Republic on August 19. Several hours later, the cyclone made landfall in the country near Baní with winds of 60 mph (95 km/h). Santo Domingo observed a barometric pressure of 996 mbar (29.4 inHg). Due to moving across rugged terrain, the system likely weakened to a tropical depression, but re-intensified into a tropical storm after emerging into the Atlantic near on August 20. The storm then passed through the southeastern Bahamas and Turks and Caicos Islands early the next day while moving northwestward. By August 24, the cyclone curved northeastward while well offshore the East Coast of the United States. Based on the Monthly Weather Review noting that various ships recorded hurricane-force winds, the system intensified into a hurricane on August 26 and peaked with winds of 80 mph (130 km/h). Turning northward, the hurricane began weakening on August 28, falling to tropical storm intensity before being last noted approximately 160 mi (260 km) east-southeast of Atlantic City, New Jersey.
Chenoweth could not confirm the existence of this cyclone, citing "unreliable" reports from the Dominican Republic "and absence of evidence from daily weather map series". In the Greater Antilles, the storm caused falling barometric pressures and increased wind speeds from the Dominican Republic to as far west as Havana, Cuba. Santo Domingo in the former recorded sustained winds of 60 mph (95 km/h). The cyclone and its remnants produced gales along the coast of the Mid-Atlantic and New England. On August 29, sustained winds reached 40 mph (64 km/h) in Asbury Park, New Jersey.

=== Hurricane Four ===

Hurricane San Martín of 1889
A tropical storm was first reported about 300 mi (485 km) east-southeast of Barbados on September 1. Moving northwestward, the cyclone strengthened into a hurricane on the next day, shortly before striking Guadeloupe. The storm intensified into a Category 2 hurricane on the modern-day Saffir–Simpson scale over the Anegada Passage on September 3, based on Saint Thomas observing a barometric pressure of 981 mbar (29.0 inHg). Shortly thereafter, the cyclone crossed over the Virgin Islands and re-emerged into the Atlantic. Beginning on September 5, the storm switched course a few times, before resuming its original northwestward motion by September 7. As the cyclone approached the Northeastern United States, it slowly weakened, falling to tropical storm intensity by September 11. The system then turned southwestward and was last noted late the next day about 80 mi (130 km) east-northeast of Virginia Beach, Virginia. Chenoweth proposed that this storm moved in a similar trajectory to that shown in HURDAT through September 5, when it instead turned north-northwestward. The cyclone also became more intense, holding major hurricane status from then until September 7. Chenoweth's study also indicates that the system persisted until late on September 14, hours after making landfall near present-day Sandbridge, Virginia, as a tropical storm.
Barbados, Montserrat, and Saint Lucia reported heavy rains but little damage. However, torrential precipitation on Martinique flooded Lamentin and Rivière-Salée. Rough seas capsized a schooner and damaged two others. On Guadeloupe, floodwaters inundated Grande-Terre, carried away a few bridges, and damaged numerous roads. Several homes, plantations, and fences suffered damage on Barbuda. Crops and vessels on Saint Kitts were significantly impacted. The hurricane damaged many homes, plantations, and vessels in the Virgin Islands, particularly on Saint Thomas and Tortola. Winds of 48 mph (77 km/h) were measured on Puerto Rico. In North Carolina, the northern half of the coast experienced rough seas, including cutting a new inlet at Nags Head. Winds downed communication wires to Hatteras. Farther north, abnormally high tides and severe gales were reported from Virginia to New York. In the former, the cyclone flooded low-lying areas and wharves, ruined crops, carried away bridges, and toppled telegraph wires. A steamship was beached near Cape Henry, causing almost $12,000 in damage. In Delaware, rough seas washed away a telegraph station, damaged a marine hospital, and flooded a life-saving station 40 ft (12 m) above high-water at Lewes. Nearby, abnormally high tides forced 200 people to flee Hugheyville. Along the coast of Delaware, the hurricane wrecked or beached 31 vessels, leading to 40 fatalities. Severe damage occurred to crops and fruit trees in the Egg Harbor City area of New Jersey. A few cities in the Northeastern United States reported sustained tropical storm-force winds. Overall, the hurricane caused nearly $2.36 million in damage.

=== Hurricane Five ===

Meteorologist Charles J. Mitchell noted in 1924 that this system was first observed about halfway between the Cabo Verde Islands and the Lesser Antilles on September 2. The storm travelled to the northwest and increased in strength, reaching wind speeds of 60 mph (95 km/h) by September 4. The storm continued at that intensity on the same track for a further two days. The cyclones became a Category 1 hurricane as it gradually began curving northeastward on September 7, based on the Monthly Weather Review noting that ships reported a disturbance of "great violence". By September 8, the storm turned eastward and then to the northeast on September 10. Weakening to a tropical storm on September 11, the cyclone passed through the Azores and was last noted several hours later. The study by Chenoweth extended the storm's duration back to September 1. Later, Chenoweth also shifted the track to the west of the Azores and added an extratropical transition on September 10.

=== Hurricane Six ===

Guadeloupe observed stormy conditions on September 12. Consequently, the track for this system begins just east of the Leeward Islands that day. After passing between Guadeloupe and Dominica later on September 12, the cyclone moved west-northwestward to westward across the Caribbean. By September 17, the storm intensified into a hurricane over the northwestward Caribbean, based on conditions reported by the steamer Mascotte. The system strengthened further, likely to a strong Category 2 hurricane with winds of 110 mph (175 km/h) prior striking Mexico near Felipe Carrillo Puerto, Quintana Roo, several hours later. Late on September 18, the storm emerged into the Gulf of Mexico near Campeche after weakening to a tropical storm. However, the cyclone quickly re-gained hurricane status and curved northward on September 19. The hurricane turned northeastward by September 22 and then made landfall near Buras, Louisiana, as a Category 1 hurricane with a barometric pressure of 982 mbar (29.0 inHg). Later on September 23, the system struck near Gulf Shores, Alabama, likely as a strong tropical storm. After crossing the Southeastern United States, the storm emerged into the Atlantic from the Delmarva Peninsula early on September 25 and crossed far eastern Massachusetts before becoming extratropical over the Gulf of Maine.
The 2014 study by Chenoweth proposed that this storm did not pass through the Lesser Antilles and instead formed on September 14 near La Blanquilla Island. More intensification occurred than shown in HURDAT, with the cyclone holding major hurricane status for about 18 hours. The storm also underwent extratropical transition earlier, on September 24 over North Carolina.
Only minor impacts occurred in the Lesser Antilles. Heavy rains overflowed a few rivers on Martinique, causing flooding at Les Anses-d'Arlet. However, this precipitation may have been as a result of a low-pressure area unrelated to the cyclone.In Mexico, the states of Campeche and Tabasco reported a few days of heavy rains, overflowing rivers, causing mudslides, and destroying some homes. Additionally, strong winds toppled trees and damaged crops, especially bananas and corn. Many of these trees fell onto dwellings, demolishing more than 100 and destroying some 250 others in Carmen. In Louisiana, the hurricane produced beneficial rainfall in the Buras area. Although the storm remained far south of Florida as it headed towards the Yucatán Peninsula, a few locations observed tropical storm-force wind gusts, including up to 60 mph (95 km/h) at Key West. Many communities across the northern portion of the state reported some damaged homes and downed trees, with damage totaling approximately $40,000 in the Jacksonville area alone. A tornado at Pablo Beach damaged or destroyed a few buildings near the Murray Hall hotel, damaged the hotel itself, and tossed a freight train car, buggy, horse, and boy, killing him after he struck the ground. Several locations across Georgia observed at least 1 in (25 mm) of rain, including 1.93 in (49 mm) in Smithville. Although the storm crossed the interior portions of North Carolina, wind gusts reached as high as 70 mph (110 km/h) along the coast, likely at Frying Pan Shoals. Some wind damage was reported over the western part of the state, mainly downed telegraph wires in Asheville and a hotel partially deroofed in Swannanoa.

=== Tropical Storm Seven ===

The 1924 report from Mitchell noted that this storm was first observed near the Cabo Verde Islands on September 12. Initially moving northwestward, the storm curved north-northwestward two days later, but then resumed a northwestward course by September 16. The cyclone is estimated to have peaked with winds of 60 mph (95 km/h). By September 18, the system turned north-northeastward and was last noted on the following day about 290 mi (465 km) southeast of Cape Race, Newfoundland. Chenoweth's study indicates that the cyclone developed as a tropical depression on September 14. An extratropical transition on September 19 has also been proposed.

=== Tropical Storm Eight ===

As meteorologist Ivan Ray Tannehill in 1938 documented this storm as far back as September 29, the official Atlantic hurricane database initiates the track on that date about 425 mi (685 km) northeast of Paramaribo, Suriname. Moving northeastward, the storm struck Dominica late on October 1 with winds estimated at 50 mph (85 km/h). The storm passed through the British Virgin Islands on the following day. After re-emerging into the Atlantic, the system curved north-northwestward on October 3 and then northeastward on October 4. As the cyclone neared Bermuda on October 5, it nearly became a hurricane, peaking with winds of 70 mph (110 km/h). On October 6, the storm was last noted approximately 270 mi (435 km) southeast of Sable Island, Nova Scotia.
The 2014 study by Chenoweth indicates that this cyclone on October 1 and did not cross the Lesser Antilles, instead moving remaining northeast of the islands. Chenoweth also proposed that further intensification occurred than shown in HURDAT, with the storm maintaining hurricane status from October 3 to October 5. Antigua experienced severe squalls and rough seas. The captain of a ship anchored at Parham reported winds reaching force 11 on the Beaufort scale, indicating near-hurricane conditions. On Bermuda, the storm capsized a few sloops and damaged a dinghy, unroofed one home, and downed some fences, trees, and telephone wires.

=== Tropical Storm Nine ===

Although reports suggest the presence of a tropical depression over the northwestern Caribbean starting on October 4, the official track begins on the following day, when the existence of a closed circulation could be confirmed. Moving quickly northeastward, the depression struck the Zapata Swamp of Cuba and entered the Straits of Florida less than six hours later. Intensifying into a tropical storm late on October 5, the cyclone made landfall near Marathon, Florida, around 23:00 UTC. A second landfall occurred in Florida around 01:00 UTC the next day near Flamingo, about five hours before the storm emerged into the Atlantic near Stuart. Because ships recorded barometric pressure as low as 1,002 mbar (29.6 inHg) on October 7, the storm is estimated to have peaked with winds of 60 mph (95 km/h). The system transitioned into an extratropical cyclone later that day, just prior to striking near Northwest Cove, Nova Scotia. After crossing Nova Scotia, the extratropical remnants turned northward over the Gulf of Saint Lawrence, crossing far eastern Canada before dissipating over the Labrador Sea on October 11. Chenoweth also proposed the removal of this storm from HURDAT, finding "No evidence in land-based reports or from ships".

=== Other storms ===
Chenoweth proposed four other storms not currently listed in HURDAT. The first such system existed in the northwestern Gulf of Mexico by August 8. Moving generally west-northwestward, the system struck Texas as tropical storm near Crystal Beach on the following day and dissipated several hours later. On September 8, the next proposed new system formed over the central Atlantic. The storm crossed through the Azores before becoming extratropical on September 11. Chenoweth proposed that about a month later, another system formed on October 8 over the Atlantic well east of the Lesser Antilles. The storm moved northwestward through October 12 and then continued northward until transitioning into an extratropical cyclone on October 16. A fourth and final proposed new storm formed over the Caribbean near Honduras on October 15. The cyclone trekked northwestward through October 19, at which time it curved in a generally westward direction. Early on October 20, the system struck British Honduras (present-day Belize) at Ambergris Caye and southern Corozal District, before dissipating several hours later.

== Season effects ==
This is a table of all of the known storms that have formed in the 1889 Atlantic hurricane season. It includes their duration, landfall, damages, and death totals. Deaths in parentheses are additional and indirect (an example of an indirect death would be a traffic accident), but were still related to that storm. Damage and deaths include totals while the storm was extratropical, a wave, or a low, and all of the damage figures are in 1889 USD.

== See also ==

Atlantic hurricane reanalysis project
Tropical cyclone observation

== Notes ==

== References ==

== External links ==
Monthly Weather Review
Atlantic hurricane reanalysis project page for 1889
HURDAT Data for the 1889 Atlantic hurricane season

2026 FIFA World Cup Group A

Group A of the 2026 FIFA World Cup will take place from June 11 to 24, 2026. The group consists of Mexico (co-host), South Africa, South Korea, and Czechia. The top two teams, possibly along with the third-placed team, will advance to the round of 32.

== Teams ==

Notes

== Standings ==

In the round of 32:

The winner of Group A will advance to play the third-placed team of Group C, Group E, Group F, Group H, or Group I.
The runner-up of Group A will advance to play the runner-up of Group B.
The third-placed team of Group A might advance to play the winner of Group E or Group G (if one of the eight best third-placed teams from the group stage).

== Matches ==
All times listed are local.

=== Mexico vs South Africa ===
The two teams have faced each other four times, most recently in a 1–1 draw in the 2010 FIFA World Cup opening match, with South Africa as the host nation. This match coincidentally will take place exactly 16 years after.

=== South Korea vs Czech Republic ===
The teams have played three times, most recently in a 2016 friendly, a 2–1 victory for the South Koreans.

=== Czech Republic vs South Africa ===
The teams have only played each other in the 1997 FIFA Confederations Cup, where the teams drew 2–2.

=== Mexico vs South Korea ===
The sides have previously met 15 times including twice in the World Cup, with Mexico winning both matches: 3–1 in the 1998 tournament in France, and 2–1 in the 2018 edition in Russia. Their most recent meeting was a 2–2 draw in 2025.

=== Czech Republic vs Mexico ===
The teams only played each other once in 2000, a 2–1 win for the Czechs. Czech Republic predecessor country Czechoslovakia played Mexico at the 1962 World Cup in a game in which Czechoslovakia scored after just 15 seconds, the second fastest goal in World Cup history, however Mexico came back to win 3–1.

=== South Africa vs South Korea ===
This will be the first time these two teams meet.

== Discipline ==
The team conduct ("fair play") score will be used as a tiebreaker if the head-to-head and overall records of teams are tied. It will also be used as a tiebreaker for the third-place ranking between groups if the overall records of teams are tied. The score will be calculated based on yellow and red cards received by players and team officials in all group matches as follows:

yellow card: −1 point;
indirect red card (second yellow card): −3 points;
direct red card: −4 points;
yellow card and direct red card: −5 points;
Only one of the above deductions can be applied to a player or team official in a single match.

== References ==

=== Reports ===

== External links ==
Official website

17th Corps (China)

The 17th Corps (Chinese: 第17军), later the 17th Army Corps, was a military formation of the People's Republic of China's People's Liberation Army from 1949 to 1950 and 1968–73.

== 1st Formation ==
The 17th Corps was activated in February 1949 from 11th Column, Zhongyuan Field Army. The Corps was composed of the 49th Division, 50th Division and 51st Division. It became part of Yang Yong's 5th Army of the Second Field Army.
The Corps took part in the Chinese Civil War, especially the Huaihai Campaign.
In March 1950 the corps was inactivated and converted as Guizhou Military District (later Guizhou Provincial Military District).

== 2nd Formation ==
On August 26, 1968, 17th Army Corps(Chinese: 陆军第17军) was activated in Huayuanzhen, Xiaochang, Hubei province. Army corps commander: Zhang Zhiyin(Chinese: 张治银), commissar - Zhang Zhaojian(Chinese: 张昭剑), who was the divisional commissar of 29th Army Division during the Wuhan Incident of the Cultural Revolution.
As of its activation, the army corps was composed of:

29th Army Division;
1st Independent Division of Henan Provincial Military District, which redesignated as 50th Army Division;
Independent Division of Hubei Provincial Military District, which redesignated as 51st Army Division.
The formation of the army corps was a result of Wuhan Incident. After the incident, the mutinous Independent Division of Hubei Provincial Military District was quickly disarmed and taken control by 15th Airborne Corps of the PLAAF and affiliated 29th Army Division that under great influence by Lin Biao. The formation of 17th Army Corps was to "strain" the "rogue" independent divisions with "modest" 29th Army Division, and was a footstep forward by the PLAAF to further Lin's influence to the PLA ground force.
In December 1969, 29th Army Division became 49th Army Division.
After the Lin Biao incident, all of Lin's "janissaries" were quickly put under arrest or investigation, including the corps commissar Zhang Zhaojian. In March 1973 the army corps was formally disbanded.

49th Army Division maintained in Xiaochang. Some sources declared that the division was renamed as Independent Division of Wuhan Military Region before it moved to Gansu and became 56th Army Division;
50th Army Division was reorganized as 1st Independent Division of Henan Provincial Military District;
51st Army Division was reorganized as Independent Division of Hubei Provincial Military District.

== References ==

中国人民解放军历史上的70个军及其简史, https://web.archive.org/web/20170729094201/http://www.360doc.com/content/06/1128/16/13961_275728.shtml

Aitor González (cyclist, born 1990)

Aitor González Prieto (born 5 November 1990 in Ermua) is a Spanish cyclist, who last rode for UCI Professional Continental team Euskadi–Murias.

== References ==

== External links ==
Aitor González at UCI
Aitor González at ProCyclingStats

Auguste Dupont

Auguste Dupont, full name Pierre-Auguste Dupont, (9 February 1827 - 17 December 1890) was a Belgian pianist and composer.
A laureate of the Royal Conservatory of Liège, where he was a student of Jules Jalheau, he travelled for a time as a musician in Germany, England and the Netherlands. While performing in Berlin, he was introduced to Giacomo Meyerbeer who gave him work for a time and who often mentions him in his diary. In 1850, he became a professor at the Royal Conservatory of Brussels. He composed several major pieces for concerts and pieces of chamber music. He was also the editor of the series École de piano du Conservatoire de Bruxelles, forty booklets of classical masterpieces. He became a teacher of chamber music in 1886.
His brother was the violinist and composer Joseph Dupont.

== Works ==

== Honours ==
Chevalier de l'Ordre du Lion (1856).

== References ==

== External links ==
Free scores by Auguste Dupont at the International Music Score Library Project (IMSLP)

Acinetobacter puyangensis

Acinetobacter puyangensis is a Gram-negative, rod-shaped and non-motile bacterium from the genus Acinetobacter which has been isolated from the bark of the tree Populus x euramericana.

== References ==

== External links ==
Type strain of Acinetobacter puyangensis at BacDive - the Bacterial Diversity Metadatabase

Caprice (1913 film)

Caprice is a 1913 American silent film directed by J. Searle Dawley and starring Mary Pickford. Daniel Frohman and Adolph Zukor produced the film for Famous Players Film Company. It is now lost.

== Background ==
A young Minnie Maddern Fiske performed the story on stage in the 1880s, one of her earliest successes as an adult actress. The film adaptation provided Pickford with the opportunity to demonstrate her dramatic range beyond her popular screen persona.

== Production ==
Although Adolph Zukor helped finance the film, it was distributed through an arrangement with State's Rights primarily because Paramount Pictures did not yet exist.

== Cast ==

== References ==

== External links ==

Caprice at IMDb
Caprice at the AFI Catalog of Feature Films
Caprice at Silent Era
Lobby card at Women Film Pioneers Project (archived)
Lantern slide at Mary Pickford Foundation

Banu Masala

Banu Masala or Aws was an ibadi Hawwara dynasty that split off from the Rustamids and formed a small state which controlled L'Hillil and al Jabal (around 15-20 kms from L'Hillil).

== Establishment ==
The Rustamid imam, Abd Al wahhab married a young girl belonging to the Luwata tribe who was promised to the Aws chief, upon hearing of this the Aws chief marched with his tribe to Wadi huwwara (about 20 kms west of Tahert) where the battle of Nahr ishlan against the Rustamids was fought however they were forced to retreat after suffering heavy losses. Despite this however they were able to maintain their independence. The Banu Masala then established Al Jabal as their capital.

== Capture of Tahert ==
Around 871/872, the Rustamid capital Tahert was occupied by a coalition of Hawwara and Luwata troops under Muhammad ibn Masala forcing the imam Abu bakr to leave. Soon however divisions arose between the two tribes and the Luwata were forced to leave the city and settled in a fort named Hisn Luwata south of Tahert after which they allied with Muhammad Abu l-Yaqzan.* Around 878/879 the Huwwara left Tahert after concluding a treaty with Abu l-Yaqzan.

== See also ==
Rustamid dynasty

== References ==

Blue Plate Special: An Autobiography of My Appetites

Blue Plate Special: An Autobiography of My Appetites is a 2013 memoir by Kate Christensen from when she was a girl growing up in Berkeley, California and Tempe, Arizona in the 1960s, to Paris, Oregon, Iowa, and New York City to the present-day in Maine, New England.

== Reception ==
The New York Journal of Books, in a review of Blue Plate Special, called it "remarkable" and compared it to the writings of Laurie Colwin: "If Colwin is the All American Girl Cook, Ms. Christensen is more wild, plunging into worldly episodes from Bedouins baking dough disks on hot rocks for breakfast in the desert to daylong meals during a cold Maine winter." The New York Times found it "a paean to cooking and food, from the homey to the haute" and "a toothsome blend of personal and social history."
Blue Plate Special has also been reviewed by
Publishers Weekly, Kirkus Reviews, The Wall Street Journal, Library Journal, Booklist, and The Christian Science Monitor.

== References ==

Asher Winkelstein

Asher Winkelstein (October 15, 1893 – May 30, 1972) was an American gastroenterologist who first described gastroesophageal reflux disease in 1935. He was a native of Syracuse, New York. He founded the gastroenterology clinic at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan.

== References ==

2025 in Italy

The following is a list of events from the year 2025 in Italy.

== Incumbents ==

President – Sergio Mattarella
President of the Senate of the Republic – Ignazio La Russa
President of the Chamber of Deputies – Lorenzo Fontana
Prime Minister – Giorgia Meloni
President of the Constitutional Court – Giovanni Amoroso

== Events ==

=== January ===
8 January – The Iranian government releases journalist Cecilia Sala from prison, with Sala arriving back in Rome later that day.
12 January – Three skiers are killed in an avalanche at the Punta Valgrande in Piedmont.
13–23 January – The 2025 Winter World University Games in Turin
19 January – Ossama Anjiem aka Ossama al-Masri, a Libyan warlord wanted by the International Criminal Court for war crimes during the Libyan Civil War, is arrested in Turin under the ICC warrant but is released and deported to Libya after a court declines to approve his arrest.
30 January – The European Court of Human Rights rules that the Italian government had violated the right to life of residents living near the Terra dei Fuochi area between Naples and Caserta due to neglect of the site, which was contaminated by the disposal of toxic waste by the Camorra since 1988.

=== February ===
5 February – A helicopter crashes in Castelguelfo (it) near Parma, killing three people including Lorenzo Rovagnati, the CEO of the salami and prosciutto maker Rovagnati (it).
11 February – Tuscany becomes the first region of Italy to legalize assisted suicide.
15 February – One person dies and one is seriously injured after a mass shooting at Piazzale Gambara in Milan.
23 February – An American Airlines passenger aircraft flying from New York to New Delhi is diverted to Rome Fiumicino Airport following a bomb alert that turns out negative.
26 February – The Naval Air Station Sigonella is placed on lockdown following a car bomb alert that turns out negative.

=== March ===
8–17 March – 2025 Special Olympics World Winter Games
11 March – The investigation into the 2007 murder of Chiara Poggi is reopened.
13 March – A magnitude 4.4 earthquake hits Naples, injuring 11 people.
17 March – A boat carrying migrants sinks near Lampedusa, killing at least six people and leaving 40 others missing.
21 March
The Constitutional Court of Italy overturns a 1983 law that restricted international adoptions to married couples.
The Ministry of Education, University and Research orders a ban on the usage of gender-neutral symbols in schools, citing violations of Italian language grammar.
31 March – Sixteen Tesla electric vehicles are destroyed in a suspected arson attack on a car dealership in Rome.

=== April ===
8 April – The Italian Competition Authority imposes fines of up to 20 million euros ($22 million) on six ticketing agencies for unfair business practices regarding admission into the Colosseum.
17 April – A cable car carrying tourists crashes after its cable snaps at Monte Faito in Castellammare di Stabia, killing four people.
18 April – Three people are reported killed following flooding caused by heavy rainstorms in Piedmont and Veneto.
26 April – Funeral of Pope Francis at the Basilica of Santa Maria Maggiore in Rome.
27 April – Three people are killed and two injured in a mass shooting following a fight outside a pizzeria in Monreale, in the province of Palermo.

=== May ===
9 May – A diver dies during preliminary salvage operations for the sunken superyacht Bayesian off the coast of Porticello, Sicily.
17 May – Italy's Lucio Corsi finishes in fifth place at Eurovision 2025 in Switzerland with the single "Volevo essere un duro".
22 May – The Constitutional Court of Italy rules against limiting the recognition of parentage of children born to same sex-parents to only the biological mother.
23 May – Napoli wins the 2024–25 Serie A after defeating Cagliari 2-0.
25–26 May – 2025 Italian local elections (first round)

=== June ===
8–9 June –
2025 Italian referendum: Proposals on reforming regulations on labour and citizenship are voided due to 30% turnout.
2025 Italian local elections (second round)
12 June – The European Court of Human Rights absolves Italy of liability over the response to the 2017 sinking of a migrant trafficking vessel in the Mediterranean Sea and the subsequent abuses by Libyan authorities on survivors held in Tripoli.
17 June – Sixteen ultras from Inter Milan and AC Milan are convicted and sentenced to up to 10 years' imprisonment for multiple criminal charges including murder and conspiracy.
18–29 June – EuroBasket Women 2025 in Czech Republic, Germany, Greece and Italy.
20 June – The wreckage of the yacht Bayesian, which sunk off the coast of Porticello, Sicily in 2024 killing seven people, is raised.
28 June – A radar failure at the Milan Control Center in Linate Airport blocks air traffic over northern Italy for hours, causing the cancellation of over 300 flights.

=== July ===
2 July – 2025 European heatwaves: Two people die from heat-related causes in Sardinia.
3 July – Nicola Borrelli resigns as head of the film department of the Ministry of Culture amid criticism over the agency providing nearly $1 million in tax credits for an American film director wanted for a double homicide in Rome.
4 July –
At least 45 people are injured and one is killed in an explosion at a petrol station in Prenestino-Centocelle, Rome.
Bruno, a sniffer dog who had been recognized by Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni for his service to law enforcement, is killed in his kennel in Taranto after having been deliberately fed sausages filled with nails.
8 July – A man dies after being sucked into the engine of a departing Volotea aircraft on the runway of Milan Bergamo Airport.
11 July – Giuseppe Palermo, a suspected leader of the 'Ndrangheta, is arrested in Colombia following an Interpol red notice against him.
13 July – The Domus de Janas of Sardinia are designated as World Heritage Sites by UNESCO.
17 July – Austrian parachutist Felix Baumgartner dies in a paragliding accident in Porto Sant'Elpidio.
21 July – The Constitutional Court of Italy rules that the non-biological mother in a same-sex union is entitled to the country's mandatory 10-day paternity leave.
31 July – The Italian government signs an agreement with the Holy See to convert the 430-hectare rural site of Santa Maria di Galeria (it) north of Rome into a solar farm as part of efforts by the Vatican City to generate its energy needs and become a carbon-neutral state.

=== August ===
1 August – The Court of Justice of the European Union imposes restrictions on the Italian government's policy on fast-tracking deportations of migrants to "safe" countries by subjecting the latter designation to judicial review.
6 August – The government approves a 13.5 billion euro ($15.5 billion) project to build the Strait of Messina Bridge, connecting Sicily and Calabria.
13 August – Two boats carrying migrants sink off the coast of Lampedusa, killing at least 26 people and leaving at least 12 others missing.
15 August – A Palestinian woman suffering from malnutrition dies at a hospital in Pisa after being brought there from the Gaza Strip in a medical evacuation organized by the Italian government.
17 August – Pope Leo XIV holds a Mass and lunch with refugees, homeless, and poor people, and church volunteers at the St. Mary sanctuary in Albano Laziale, Province of Rome.
21 August – A Ukrainian national is arrested in Misano Adriatico, province of Rimini, on suspicion of co-masterminding the Nord Stream pipelines sabotage in 2022.

=== September ===
3 September – Two armed Turkish nationals are arrested on suspicion of plotting an attack on the feast of the Macchina di Santa Rosa in Viterbo.
7 September – Carlo Acutis of Milan and Pier Giorgio Frassati of Turin are canonized by Pope Leo XIV as saints of the Roman Catholic Church.
19 September – Three workers are killed in an explosion at a silo operated by waste management company Ecopartenope near Caserta.
22 September – A nationwide general strike is called by grassroots trade union USB to protest the genocide in Gaza and end the government's complicity, causing massive disruption to ports and public transport in major cities like Rome and Milan.
24 September – The Italian Navy deploys the frigate Virginio Fasan to assist the Global Sumud Flotilla on its way to the Gaza Strip after the convoy is targeted by explosions off the Greek coast.
28 September –
Italy wins the 21st FIVB Volleyball Men's World Championship in the Philippines after defeating Bulgaria in four sets (25-21, 25-17, 17-25, 25-10).
2025 Valdostan regional election: The Valdostan Union retains its majority in the Regional Council of Aosta Valley.
28–29 September – 2025 Marche regional election: Francesco Acquaroli is re-elected President of Marche.

=== October ===
1 October –
The Carabinieri Art Squad seizes 21 paintings by Salvador Dalí suspected of being forgeries at an exhibition at the Palazzo Tarasconi in Parma.
A SIAI-Marchetti SF.260 of the Italian Air Force crashes in Circeo National Park near Sabaudia, killing the two crew members on board.
3 October – A nationwide general strike is held in solidarity with the Global Sumud Flotilla.
5–6 October – 2025 Calabrian regional election: Roberto Occhiuto is re-elected President of Calabria.
7 October – The European Parliament narrowly rejects to lift the immunity of Italian MEP Ilaria Salis with the majority of a single vote (306 to 305).
12–13 October – 2025 Tuscan regional election: Eugenio Giani is re-elected President of Tuscany.
14 October – Three Carabinieri officers carrying out an eviction order are killed while 15 others are injured following a deliberate gas explosion at a farmhouse near Verona.
15 October – The Supreme Court of Cassation rejects the extradition of a Ukrainian suspect in the 2022 Nord Stream pipelines sabotage to Germany and orders a reassessment.
16 October – A bomb attack is carried out on a car belonging to Rai 3 journalist Sigfrido Ranucci in front of his residence in Pomezia. No injuries are recorded.
19 October – Pope Leo XIV canonizes Italian religious Vincenza Maria Poloni, Maria Troncatti and Bartolo Longo at an open-air mass in Saint Peter's Square.
20 October – A driver is killed in a rock-throwing attack on a bus carrying Pistoia Basket 2000 players by supporters of rival club RSR Sebastiani Rieti (it) near Rieti following a match between the two teams.
29 October – The Court of Audit rejects the government's proposal to build the Strait of Messina Bridge.

=== November ===
1 November – Five German climbers are killed in an avalanche on the Vertainspitze in the Dolomites.
3 November – The medieval Torre dei Conti in Rome partially collapses, killing one person.
19 November – The Supreme Court of Cassation approves the extradition of a Ukrainian suspect in the 2022 Nord Stream pipelines sabotage to Germany after rejecting an appeal by the defendant. The extradition proceeds on 27 November.
23–24 November –
2025 Apulian regional election: Antonio Decaro is elected President of Apulia.
2025 Campania regional election: Roberto Fico is elected President of Campania.
2025 Venetian regional election: Alberto Stefani is elected President of Veneto.
25 November – The Chamber of Deputies votes unanimously to recognize femicide as a crime punishable by life imprisonment.
28 November — A nationwide general strike is called by several trade unions, including, USB, CUB, COBAS, USI‑CIT, FLAI and FNSI against the government’s 2026 budget.

=== December ===
10 December – Italian cuisine is recognized as intangible cultural heritage by UNESCO.
12 December — A nationwide general strike is called by the Italian General Confederation of Labour against the government’s 2026 budget.
22 December — The Italian Competition Authority imposes a 98 million euro ($115 million) fine on Apple Inc. for violating privacy regulations for third-party developers.
23 December — The Italian Competition Authority imposes a 255 million euro ($300 million) fine on Ryanair for abusing its market position to hinder travel agencies from combining Ryanair flights with other services from 2023 to 2025.
27 December – Mohammad Hannoun, the president of the Palestinian Association in Italy, is arrested along with eight others on suspicion of raising funds for Hamas.

== Holidays ==

Source:

1 January – New Year's Day
6 January – Epiphany
20 April – Easter Sunday
21 April – Easter Monday
25 April – Liberation Day
1 May – International Workers' Day
2 June – Republic Day
15 August – Assumption Day
1 November – All Saints' Day
8 December – Immaculate Conception
25 December – Christmas Day
26 December – Saint Stephen's Day

== Art and entertainment ==
List of 2025 box office number-one films in Italy
List of Italian films of 2025
Sanremo Music Festival 2025
List of Italian submissions for the Academy Award for Best International Feature Film
2025 Rome Film Festival
82nd Venice International Film Festival

== Deaths ==

=== January ===
1 January
Nora Orlandi, 91, musician and film composer (The Strange Vice of Mrs. Wardh, Johnny Yuma, Clint the Stranger).
Rosita Missoni, 93, knitwear designer, co-founder of Missoni.
2 January
Aldo Agroppi, 80, footballer (Torino, national team) and manager (Fiorentina).
Italo de Lorenzo, 85, bobsledder.
Roger Mantovani, 58, radio presenter and actor.
4 January – Arigo Padovan, 97, road racing cyclist.
6 January – Aristide Gunnella, 93, politician, deputy (1968–1992) and minister for regional affairs (1987–1988).

=== March ===
1 March – Fulco Pratesi, 90, environmentalist, journalist and politician.

=== April ===
5 April – Antonello Fassari, 72, actor.

=== June ===
22 June – Arnaldo Pomodoro, 98, sculptor.

=== July ===
1 July – Marco Onado, 84, economist.
11 July – Goffredo Fofi, 88, essayist and cinema critic.
31 July – Jesto, 40, rapper.

=== August ===
10 August – Paola Mauriello, 44, basketball player (national team).
12 August – Mattia Debertolis, 29, orienteering athlete.
17 August – Sergio Pollastrelli, 90, politician.
19 August – Salvo Vitale, 82, poet and writer.
23 August – Giuseppe Maggi, 95, archaeologist.
29 August – Giulia Barone, 78, historian, medievalist and paleographer.

=== September ===
4 September –
Giorgio Armani, 91, fashion designer (Armani)
Pia Velsi, 101, actress (Parenti serpenti, ...And the Wild Wild Women, L'uccello migratore)
8 September – Hugo Valentin, 87, politician and Ladin language advocate
15 September – Matteo Franzoso, 25, alpine skier
23 September – Claudia Cardinale, 87, actress (Once Upon a Time in the West, The Leopard, 8½)
25 September – Ada Becchi, 88, politician and economist.

=== October ===
7 October – Aldo Morelli, 75, politician, president of the Province of Pistoia (1990–1999).
8 October – Paolo Bonacelli, 88, actor (Salò, or the 120 Days of Sodom, Mission Impossible III, Midnight Express).
12 October – Cesare Paciotti, 67, shoe designer.
13 October – Dolly Van Doll, 87, trans vedette.
17 October – Gino Pivatelli, 92, football player (Bologna, national team) and manager (Ravenna).
18 October –
Martine Brochard, 81, French-Italian actress (Paprika, The Nun and the Devil, Eyeball).
Sofia Corradi, 91, pedagogist, inventor of the Erasmus Programme.
19 October – Mauro Farina, 68, singer, songwriter, and producer, founder of SAIFAM.
20 October – Edoardo Menichelli, 86, Roman Catholic cardinal, archbishop of Chieti-Vasto (1994–2004) and Ancona-Osimo (2004–2017).
23 October – Franco Reviglio, 90, politician, minister of finance (1979–1981, 1993) and senator (1992–1994).
24 October – Giuliano Besson, 75, Olympic alpine skier (1972).
25 October –
Mario De Grassi, 88, footballer (Triestina, Potenza, Casertana).
Mauro Di Francesco, 74, actor (Attila flagello di Dio, An Ideal Adventure, Chewingum) and comedian.
Franco Mari, 83, actor (All the Moron's Men, Italiano medio, Omicidio all'italiana) and comedian.
27 October – Mimmo Jodice, 91, photographer.
29 October – James Senese, 80, jazz saxophonist (Napoli Centrale), singer-songwriter, and actor (No Thanks, Coffee Makes Me Nervous, Zora the Vampire).
30 October – Enea Piccinelli, 98, politician, deputy (1963–1983).
31 October – Francesca Duranti, 90, writer.

=== November ===
2 November –
Giovanni Galeone, 84, football player (Udinese) and manager (Pescara, Napoli).
Guido Venturoni, 91, naval officer, chief of staff of the Navy (1992–1993) and the defence staff (1994–1999), and chair of the NATO Military Committee (1999–2002).
3 November – Giancarlo Pasquini, 88, politician, senator (1996–2006).
4 November –
Ada Feinberg-Sireni, 95, Italian-born Israeli politician, MK (1969–1974).
Giorgio Forattini, 94, political cartoonist (La Repubblica, La Stampa, Il Giornale).
Giuseppe Nocco, 86, politician, senator (2001–2006).
5 November –
Andrea de Adamich, 84, racing driver (Surtees, Brabham).
Annibale Marini, 84, member (1997–2006) and president (2005–2006) of the constitutional court.
6 November –
Anna Laura Braghetti, 72, political militant (Red Brigades).
Giulio Sanguineti, 93, Roman Catholic prelate, bishop of Brescia (1998–2007).
21 November – Ornella Vanoni, 91, singer.
25 November – Lorenzo Buffon, 95, footballer (AC Milan, Genoa, Inter Milan).

=== December ===
1 December – Nicola Pietrangeli, 92, Hall of Fame tennis player.
4 December – Paolo Nuvoli, 90, president of Molise (1985–1988).
12 December –
Amato Berardi, 67, Italian-American politician
Franco Vaccari, 89, artist and photographer.
15 December – Anna Rusticano, 71, singer.
26 December – Maria Sole Agnelli, 100, philanthropist and politician, mayor of Campello sul Clitunno (1960–1970).

== References ==

== External links ==
Online calendar

1959 Kansas City Athletics season

The 1959 Kansas City Athletics season was the fifth for the franchise in Kansas City, and its 59th overall. It involved the A's finishing seventh in the American League with a record of 66 wins and 88 losses, 28 games behind the AL Champion Chicago White Sox.

== Offseason ==
October 2, 1958: Chico Carrasquel was traded by the Athletics to the Baltimore Orioles for Dick Williams.

== Regular season ==

=== Season standings ===

=== Record vs. opponents ===

=== Notable transactions ===
May 2, 1959: Harry Simpson was traded by the Athletics to the Chicago White Sox for Ray Boone.
May 26, 1959: Ralph Terry and Héctor López were traded by the Athletics to the New York Yankees for Johnny Kucks, Tom Sturdivant, and Jerry Lumpe.
August 20, 1959: Ray Boone was selected off waivers from the Athletics by the Milwaukee Braves.
August 20, 1959: Ray Jablonski was selected off waivers by the Athletics from the St. Louis Cardinals.

=== Roster ===

== Player stats ==

=== Batting ===

==== Starters by position ====
Note: Pos = Position; G = Games played; AB = At bats; R = Runs scored; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in

==== Other batters ====
Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; R = Runs scored; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in

=== Pitching ===

==== Starting pitchers ====
Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts

==== Other pitchers ====
Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts

==== Relief pitchers ====
Note: G = Games pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; SV = Saves; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts

== Awards and honors ==
All-Star Game
Roger Maris appeared in his first All-Star Game

== Farm system ==

== References ==

== External links ==
1959 Kansas City Athletics team page at Baseball Reference
1959 Kansas City Athletics team page at www.baseball-almanac.com

BL 12-inch Mk XI – XII naval gun

The BL 12-inch Mark XI and Mark XII gun were British breech loading (BL) naval guns of 50-calibres length mounted as primary armament on dreadnought battleships from 1910.

== History ==

In an effort to increase the armour-piercing capability and range of a 12-inch gun, the 50 calibres/600 inches Mk XI's barrel was 5 calibres/60 inches longer than the previous Mk X gun's 45 calibres. As a result, muzzle velocity increased from 2,700 feet per second (820 m/s) to 2,825 feet per second (861 m/s), but bore erosion, which led to short barrel life, and poor accuracy due to inconsistent cordite propellant burning, hampered the gun. The Mk XII derived from it suffered from the same problems.
Instead of attempting to improve their 12-inch gun, the British developed the 13.5-inch Mk V gun of 45-calibres, which could achieve greater range at lower muzzle velocities due to its larger shell.
Mk XI guns were mounted on:

St. Vincent-class battleships laid down 1907, commissioned 1910
HMS Neptune laid down 1909, commissioned 1911
Mk XII guns were mounted on:

Colossus-class battleships laid down 1909, commissioned 1911

== See also ==
List of naval guns

=== Weapons of comparable role, performance and era ===
Obukhovskii 12"/52 Pattern 1907 gun Russian equivalent
30.5 cm SK L/50 gun German equivalent
Škoda 30.5 cm /45 K10 Austro-Hungarian equivalent

== Notes ==

== References ==

== Bibliography ==

Tony DiGiulian, British 12"/50 (30.5 cm) Marks XI, XI* and XII

2002 World Figure Skating Championships

The 2002 World Figure Skating Championships were held at the M-Wave Arena in Nagano, Japan from March 16 to 24, sanctioned by the International Skating Union. Medals were awarded in the disciplines of men's singles, ladies' singles, pair skating, and ice dancing.

== Medal table ==

== Competition notes ==
It was the first ISU competition after the much publicized 2002 Olympic judging controversy. Neither pairs gold medalists chose to attend. Both went pro soon after.
2002 Worlds was the first time Israel had ever won a medal at Worlds.
Due to the large number of participants, the men's and ladies' qualifying groups were split into groups A and B.
The first compulsory dance was the Golden Waltz. The second was the Quickstep.

== Results ==

=== Men ===

=== Ladies ===

=== Pairs ===

=== Ice dancing ===

== References ==

== External links ==
2002 World Figure Skating Championships Archived 2019-11-05 at the Wayback Machine
https://web.archive.org/web/20120324011920/http://ww2.isu.org/news/fsworlds1.html
https://web.archive.org/web/20120324011925/http://ww2.isu.org/news/fsworlds2.html
https://web.archive.org/web/20120324011934/http://ww2.isu.org/news/fsworlds3.html
https://web.archive.org/web/20120324011944/http://ww2.isu.org/news/fsworlds4.html
https://web.archive.org/web/20120324011948/http://ww2.isu.org/news/fsworlds5.html

Albertus van Raalte

Albertus Christiaan van Raalte (17 October 1811 – 27 July 1876) was a Dutch Reformed clergyman who moved to the United States with a group of Dutch emigrants and founded the city of Holland, Michigan, in 1846. In 1851, he was involved in founding the school that would become Hope College.
He joined the Reformed Church in America, which had existed since 1628, and was the spiritual leader of the Protestant Reformed Dutch Americans in Michigan In 1857, van Raalte disputed a number of issues with another reformed minister, Roelof Smit, and led a secession from Smit's congregation.

== Early life and education ==
Van Raalte was initially attracted to medicine, but enrolled in the theological school at the University of Leiden to please his father, who was also a clergyman. After being spared by cholera, which ravaged the Netherlands, van Raalte was inspired to devote his life to preaching.
Following van Raalte's theological training in Leiden, he preached in Genemuiden, where he was banned from preaching in 1835 because he did not recognize the regulations of the Dutch Reformed Church. He was ordained in the Secession Church in 1836, following the split of the Dutch Reformed Church. Van Raalte preached in the province of Overijssel and elsewhere, and was arrested more than once.

== Emigration to America ==
In 1846, van Raalte moved to the United States along with a group of Dutch followers largely from Overijssel, and founded the city of Holland, Michigan. At the time, Dutch farmers were burdened by the European potato failure, high taxes, and a scarcity of land; many farmers' sons did not inherit sufficient land to make a living.
Initially, van Raalte considered immigrating to the Dutch East Indies or South Africa, but ultimately chose the United States for its freedom and space. He visited the Lower Peninsula of Michigan and was encouraged to settle by William Montague Ferry, a missionary who had founded the city of Grand Haven. Van Raalte found the area ideal for farming, and along with fellow minister Anthony Brummelkamp, he wrote and distributed a pamphlet for his followers in the Netherlands that described West Michigan. Between 1846 and 1848, several groups arrived in his new colony of Holland, Michigan including from Zeeland, the County of Bentheim, Groningen, and Friesland. The first years were difficult for the new colony, and many emigrants died from hardship and disease.

== Religious career ==
In the United States, van Raalte joined the Reformed Church in America, which had existed since 1628, and was a spiritual leader among Protestant Dutch Reformed immigrants. In 1857, van Raalte had disputes with another reformed minister, Roelof Smit, which lead to the secession of Smit's congregation.
In addition to settling Holland, Van Raalte later started a Dutch colony in Amelia Court House, Virginia.

== Personal life ==

Van Raalte married Christina De Moen in 1836. He was the father of ten total children; seven of those ten children survived into adulthood: three boys and four girls. One of these children was future Union soldier and politician Dirk Van Raalte.

== Legacy ==
Van Raalte's personal papers are housed at the Heritage Hall Archives of Calvin University.

== References ==

== External links ==
"Heritage Hall"

== Further reading ==
"Memory and the Myth of Albertus C. Van Raalte: How Holland, Michigan, Remembers Its Founding Father". Michigan Historical Review. 36 (2): 37–61. 2010. doi:10.1353/mhr.2010.0039. ISSN 2327-9672.

Dayville, Oregon

Dayville is a city along U.S. Route 26 in Grant County, in the U.S. state of Oregon. It was incorporated in 1913. The population was 149 at the 2010 census.

== History ==
Dayville was named for the John Day River. The original site of the Dayville post office was 3 miles (5 km) west of the city's current location. In the mid-19th century, Dayville was along the route of a wagon road, renamed The Dalles Military Road in about 1870, that connected The Dalles on the Columbia River with gold mines near Canyon City. Dayville was incorporated in 1913.

== Geography ==

The city is 125 miles (201 km) east of Bend and 233 miles (375 km) southeast of Portland, at the confluence of the John Day River with the South Fork John Day River. U.S. Route 26 runs east–west through Dayville, and South Fork Road, which runs north–south along the smaller river, meets the larger highway in the city. Murderers Creek State Wildlife Area, the Aldrich Mountains, and parts of the Malheur National Forest are slightly southeast of Dayville. Slightly southwest are the Black Canyon Wilderness, the Ochoco Mountains, and parts of the Ochoco National Forest.
Picture Gorge, named for Native American pictographs painted on the canyon walls, is 6 miles (10 km) northwest of Dayville at the intersection of Route 26 and Oregon Route 19. The Sheep Rock Unit of the John Day Fossil Beds National Monument, including the Thomas Condon Paleontology Center and the James Cant Ranch Historic District and museum, are 2 miles (3 km) north of Picture Gorge along Route 19.
According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 0.53 square miles (1.37 km2), all land.

=== Climate ===

== Demographics ==

=== 2010 census ===
As of the census of 2010, there were 149 people, 72 households, and 41 families residing in the town. The population density was 281.1 inhabitants per square mile (108.5/km2). There were 93 housing units at an average density of 175.5 per square mile (67.8/km2). The racial makeup of the town was 96.0% White, 3.4% Native American, and 0.7% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 0.7% of the population.
There were 72 households, out of which 19.4% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 47.2% were married couples living together, 9.7% had a female householder with no husband present, and 43.1% were non-families. 38.9% of all households were made up of individuals, and 15.2% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.07 and the average family size was 2.68.
The median age in the town was 50.8 years. 14.8% of residents were under the age of 18; 8.1% were between the ages of 18 and 24; 16.1% were from 25 to 44; 38.3% were from 45 to 64; and 22.8% were 65 years of age or older. The gender makeup of the town was 53.7% male and 46.3% female.

=== 2000 census ===
As of the census of 2000, there were 138 people, 59 households, and 36 families residing in the city. The population density was 269.5 inhabitants per square mile (104.1/km2). There were 77 housing units at an average density of 150.4 per square mile (58.1/km2). The racial makeup of the city was 96.38% White, 2.17% Native American, 0.72% Asian, and 0.72% from two or more races.
There were 59 households, out of which 27.1% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 49.2% were married couples living together, 11.9% had a female householder with no husband present, and 37.3% were non-families. 32.2% of all households were made up of individuals, and 10.2% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.34 and the average family size was 3.05.
In the city, the population was spread out, with 24.6% under the age of 18, 5.8% from 18 to 24, 24.6% from 25 to 44, 23.9% from 45 to 64, and 21.0% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 42 years. For every 100 females, there were 89.0 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 96.2 males.
The median income for a household in the city was $30,893, and the median income for a family was $33,438. Males had a median income of $27,083 versus $25,417 for females. The per capita income for the city was $18,319. There were 12.2% of families and 16.1% of the population living below the poverty line, including 26.5% of under eighteens and none of those over 64.

== Economy ==
Dayville is home to Dayville School District, a K−12 system with a total of about 50 students in 2007. As of 2002, the five largest employers in Dayville were the school district, the Dayville Merc (groceries), a cafe, a lounge, and a gas station.
The Dayville Presbyterian Church has since the 1970s offered hospitality to bicyclists journeying along the TransAmerica Bicycle Trail.

== References ==

== External links ==

Entry for Dayville in the Oregon Blue Book
Dayville page at Grant County Chamber of Commerce

1927–28 Georgetown Hoyas men's basketball team

The 1927–28 Georgetown Hoyas men's basketball team represented Georgetown University during the 1927–28 NCAA college basketball season. Elmer Ripley coached it in his first season as head coach. Georgetown was an independent and played its home games at the Arcade Rink, also known as the Arcadia and as the Arcade Auditorium, in Washington, D.C., which it had also used for home games from 1911 to 1914.
Ripley played professional basketball, including with the "Original Celtics," from 1908 to 1930, coached for three seasons from 1922 to 1925 at Wagner College with an overall record of 23–22, and was being pursued by George Preston Marshall's Washington Palace Five team of the professional American Basketball League in 1927 when Georgetown hired him as head coach. He immediately showed great talent for coaching, leading the Hoyas to a 12–1 record. During three separate stints as head coach, Ripley would coach Georgetown for a combined ten seasons between 1927 and 1949 and lead the school to its first post-season tournament appearance when it advanced to the final game of the 1943 NCAA Tournament.

== Season recap ==
On-campus Ryan Gymnasium, where the Hoyas had played their home games from the 1914–15 season through the 1926–27 season, had no seating, accommodating fans on a standing-room only-basis on an indoor track above the court. This precluded the accommodation of significant crowds, providing the self-sustaining Basketball Association with little revenue with which to fund the team's travel expenses and limiting Georgetown to an average of no more than three road games a year from the 1918-19 season through the previous season. Georgetown Athletic Director Lou Little allowed Ripley to schedule home games off campus this season for the first time since the 1913-14 season in order to generate greater revenue to pay for travel expenses; although this season the Hoyas continued the pattern of playing virtually all of their games at home, they would finally begin to travel more regularly again the following season. It was the Arcade Rink's last season hosting Georgetown men's basketball games, but it was only the first of 22 straight seasons of off-campus home games for the Hoyas, who would not have an on-campus home court again until the opening of McDonough Arena for the 1951–52 season.
Senior forward and team captain Bob Nork was the team's leader for the third straight year, playing in all 13 games, scoring 97 points, and averaging 7.2 points per game. He averaged 8.8 points per game over his collegiate career.
Sophomore guard Fred Mesmer joined the team this season and immediately became a starter and one of the team's leaders. He was an important defensive presence for the team during the season and a skilled passer. He scored in all 13 games, averaging 7.1 points per game.
Sophomore center Don Dutton, Mesmer's high school teammate, also joined the team this year. He started every game and was a strong rebounder and offensive player. His average of 8.8 points per game was the highest for a Georgetown center since the 1907-08 season.
The team's 12–1 record was the best Georgetown finish since the 1919–20 team's 13–1 season. Its only loss was to nationally renowned New York University, and its February 14, 1928, victory over Navy was Georgetown's first win over Navy since January 23, 1909, bringing to an end a 15-game Hoya losing streak against the Midshipmen.

== Roster ==
Sources
Georgetown players did not wear numbers on their jerseys this season. The first numbered jerseys in Georgetown men's basketball history would not appear until the 1933–34 season.
Sophomore guard Fred Mesmer would become Georgetown's head coach for the 1931–32 season and coach the Hoyas for seven seasons.

== 1927–28 schedule and results ==
Sources
Georgetown's victory at Navy this season was its first over the Midshipmen since 1909. In the interim, the Hoyas had lost 15 straight games to Navy.

== References ==

37 mm Infantry Gun Model 1917

The 37 mm Infantry Gun Model 1917 was a light artillery piece produced in the United States during World War I for the French Army. It was adopted by the US Army when it entered the war on the side of the Allies.

== History ==
The design was a private venture by Bethlehem Steel and was offered to the French in 1916 under the designation One-pounder 37 mm Semi-automatic Gun, Mark C on Carriage Mark A. It was intended as an infantry support gun or as a landing gun for amphibious operations. In the infantry support role, it would have been used in loopholing operations to neutralize enemy machine guns in pillboxes.
It is believed the French ordered 200 guns in 1916, 100 during 1917 and another 1,000 during 1918. However, the exact number that were delivered or how many entered French service is unknown. The first 15 entered service in October 1917 and 80 were in service in January 1918. They were used as anti-tank guns in dedicated batteries (several German ex-British tanks were destroyed by such batteries).
In July 1918 the US ordnance department accepted an offer from the French to sell 200 guns produced by Bethlehem Steel to the US Army. The US Army agreed to take over the French order assuming they would be receiving the Canon d'Infanterie de 37 modèle 1916 TRP which the US Army had already accepted for service. However, when the first batch of 75 was delivered to the AEF in France it was discovered that it was a completely different gun which used its own incompatible ammunition. The AEF agreed to accept the next 110 guns that were in the process of being completed and gave them the designation of 37 mm Infantry Gun Model 1917. The AEF may have not used the M1917 in action. So the 185 guns the US Army acquired were the product of an administrative error.
The Army couldn't envision a use for them and since few were acquired they were declared obsolete in 1921 and retired from service. However, their light weight, low profile and high velocity would have made it a useful anti-tank gun.

== Design ==

The Model 1917 featured a forged one piece nickel steel barrel with a semi-automatic vertical sliding wedge breech. The split-trail carriage had a hydro-spring recoil system, two wooden spoked wheels and fired Fixed QF ammunition. The gun was light enough that traverse and elevation could be controlled from a stock attached to the breech of the gun. There was also a seat attached to the trails for the gunner.
The French realised that its Gun laying system was defective and had to use the sight of the 37 modèle 1916 TRP.

== See also ==
37 mm McClean Automatic Cannon Mk. III - A similar American made infantry support gun produced in limited numbers for the Imperial Russian Army.

== References ==

== External links ==
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=abEq7bWROwA - A video of the gun.

Camera (magazine)

Camera is a photography review that began its life in Lucerne, Switzerland, later distributed in many countries and languages. The magazine grew to its greatest international influence towards in latter half of its life of sixty years; on the leading edge of almost every important period in photography, Camera was often among the first publications to show the first works of now well-known photographers such as Edward Steichen, Robert Frank and Jeanloup Sieff.
Adopting the name, design and spirit of the magazine's most successful years, in a venture independent of its former publishers, editor Bruno Bonnabry-Duval and journalist Brigitte Ollier re-launched Camera as a quarterly review: the first edition appeared in kiosks on 17 January 2013.

== The early years: 1922-1947 ==
The first German-language issue of Camera was published by the engineer Adolf Herz and book-publisher C. J. Bucher in June 1922. Making clear its aim to aid the development of the still-fledgling art photography movement, this issue began with the following statement of intent:

With this issue we introduce ourselves to the public for the first time. We would like to say a few words about our aims. Our magazine will support artistic photography. We thought it expedient to show our readers an artist's work through ample selections of good-quality reproductions. Artists from all countries will be sharing their pictures. Hereon in every issue we will present eight pages of good reproductions. Participating artists will present their art styles in original essays. Articles on technical photographic subjects, written by authors the best in this field, will appear in the technical section. In brief reports we will comment on all new developments so that our readers can obtain an up-to-date view of photography. We invite all photographers and researchers of all countries who would like to bring technical information to our readers, to submit their articles. We will periodically conduct contests to encourage developing artists, and the best entries will receive a monetary award.
We hope our efforts will be conducive to the high aims of artistic photography and that our readers will support us.

Adolf Herz first made the magazine's 'high-quality prints' with a dull-finish semi-matte paper that gave a result only mimicking the still-new sheet-fed gravure system, but eventually moved to the latter technique when the Bücher publishing company adopted the technology from 1925.
The publishing half of the partnership had changed after C. J. Bucher's stroke in 1941: from then his wife, Alice, unofficially took over the direction of the publishing company, and she would become the official director upon her husband's death in 1950.
Herz's period as editor of Camera, ending in 1947, was marked for its focus on Pictorialism. Contributing photographers from this period and style were Heinrich Kühn, Léonard Missone, Hoffmeister, Craig Annan, Edward Steichen, Kieghley and Demachy.

== 1947-1965 ==

The post-war period was an important one for Camera, with the publication of the earliest works of photographers Jakob Tuggener, Gotthard Schuh, Henri Cartier-Bresson, Robert Capa (and Magnum), Bill Brandt and Robert Frank.
Walter Läubli became chief editor, or 'art director' as the position was called then, from January 1948. The 1949 special issue featured Robert Frank's first published photography, and was Camera's first important mark on international photo-journalism. To better expand the Camera readership, Läubli introduced articles translated into English and French from their native German, making the magazine a trilingual one. He also re-looked the magazine and graced it with a new logo that would remain practically unchanged until the magazine's 1981 demise.
The graphic designer Hans Neuburg succeeded Läubli from 1952, and led the editorial board until 1954. He was unofficially succeeded for two years by Imre Reiner, then Romeo Martinez appeared as the next editor in chief from July 1956.
From the March 1957 issue onward, Martinez transformed Camera from a trilingual magazine into three separate English, French and German editions, and returned the magazine to a purely photographic one. As Martinez was not a photographer but a journalist with an acute knowledge of art and the history of photography, the magazine under his direction was able to reach an unforeseen larger readership.
Camera from 1960 entered an association with Europhot, an organisation of European Professional Photographers, from when four issues a year, labelled "Camera EUROPHOT", under the direction of a special Europhot panel, would treat subjects of concern to the professional photographers of their usual audience. Romeo Martinez left the magazine without a replacing editor after the May 1964 edition, but the magazine continued under Bucher and the remaining Camera staff.

== The Porter years ==

Allan Porter first appeared from December 1965 as a guest editor, but became the editor in chief from January the following year. Mrs. Bucher's choice of Mr. Porter, an American citizen with few connections to Europe, was a hard sell, but it was thought that his talent for design and 'foreign touch' could be a great aid to a magazine then in difficulty. Under the direction of Allan Porter, Camera was marked not only by its search for talent in the leading frontiers of modern photography, but for its examination, from a modern viewpoint, of the works of past masters.
Camera's 1965 circulation was at 9,300 copies, all languages combined. Porter had promised an 8% circulation increase over a period of nine months, but through an active effort to increase subscriptions (namely through long-term contracts with libraries and other institutions), an increased American circulation through an agreement with New York City-based Acme Publications, and a new approach to the magazine's advertising department and ad sales, circulation had risen by 20% by the end of the year. Allan celebrated his 100th issue with the April 1974, Vol 53, No. 4 edition showing his favorite genre, landscapes. It featured the works of Don Eddy on the cover and inside. Other photographers in the issue were Vincent Vallarino; Charles H. Caffin; Klaus Ott; T.C. Tilney; David Bayles; Carl Georg Heise; Léonard Misonne; George A. Tice; Sadakichi Hartmann.
C. J. Bucher AG was taken over by the Ringier printing company in 1973. The new owners saw no interest in Camera, yet instead of ending the publication altogether, Ringier thought that by withdrawing all but a minimum promotional support, readership interest would dwindle and the magazine would find a natural end on its own. One of the first limitations Ringier would impose was a switch to the faster and cheaper lithographic offset printing system rather than the slower and more expensive sheet-fed gravure technology used until then. Porter, having reservations about how Camera's readership would react to the drop in printing quality, with the help of technicians from the still-functioning gravure department, managed to develop a two-colour duplex offset system that would at the same time cut costs and maintain quality.
After eight more years of production Ringier decided that Camera was not in the company interests, and marked December 1981, a date a few months short of the magazine's 60th anniversary, as the month of its final issue.

== Camera as a reference ==
Camera was a longtime reference for all things photographic, and was among the first to publish many works from today's great masters. Some of the world's biggest libraries, such as the National Library of France in Paris carry hard-bound editions of Camera as reference works.

== See also ==
List of magazines in Switzerland

== Bibliography ==
Book

Porter, Allan (1982). Camera, Die 50er Jahre (in German). C.J. Bucher. ISBN 3-7658-0399-5.
Web

"Designonsense" - Allan Porter, "Camera, the History". Retrieved 13 August 2006.

== Notes ==

== External links ==
Allan Porter and Camera - documentary on the magazine's Editor in Chief between 1965 and the magazine's 1981 demise.
Media related to Camera (magazine) at Wikimedia Commons

Abd Rab el-Nabi

Abd Rab el-Nabi Hafez (1930 – March 23, 2022) was an Egyptian military officer known for his role in conflicts in the Middle East, June 1967 War, the War of Attrition, and the October 1973 War. He served as the 11th chief of staff of the Egyptian Armed Forces from 1981 to 1983.
Born in 1930 Cairo, Egypt, he obtained a bachelor degree in military science from the Military College. Throughout his career, he assumed several positions, including director of the Infantry School, secretary general of the Ministry of Defense, deputy director of the Intelligence and Reconnaissance, and commander of the 2nd Infantry Division at the Second Army.

== Biography ==
El-Nabi's military participated in several conflicts throughout his military career, including in the June War, 1967 Arab–Israeli War. Following this, he commanded 16th Infantry Division of the Second Army during the October War in 1973. He was actively involved in the War of Attrition (1969-1973), a prolonged conflict aimed at wearing down Israeli forces through strategic engagements along the Suez Canal.
He participated in the October 1973 War, also known as the Yom Kippur War between Egyptian and Israeli forces in the Sinai Peninsula. El-Nabi played a central role in planning and executing military operations that temporarily shifted the strategic balance in the region.
In 1981, El-Nabi was appointed chief of staff of the Egyptian Armed Forces. During his tenure, he focused on modernizing the military, including operational capabilities. El-Nabi served in this capacity until 1983.
After retiring from active duty, he remained engaged with military affairs and national defense strategies.
Abd Rab el-Nabi Hafez died on March 23, 2022.

== References ==

Caribbean sharpnose shark

The Caribbean sharpnose shark (Rhizoprionodon porosus) is a requiem shark, and part of the family Carcharhinidae.

== Distribution and habitat ==
It is found in the tropical waters of the western Atlantic Ocean and the Caribbean, between latitudes 28° N and 40° S, from the surface to a depth of 500 m.

== Description ==
The maximum reported size for the Caribbean sharpnose shark is 110 cm (43 in). The average adult size appears to be about 80–89 cm (31.5–35 in). Both sexes seem to reach maturity at about 65–70 cm (25.5–27.5 in) in length, and just over 2 years old. The life span is estimated to be about 8–10 years old.

== Taxonomy ==
The species was once confused as being the same species as the Atlantic sharpnose shark - however difference in vertebra counts indicate that it is a separate species.

== Breeding ==
Reproduction and litter size is similar to those of the Atlantic sharpnose shark.

== References ==

== External links ==

Froese, Rainer; Pauly, Daniel (eds.). "Rhizoprionodon porosus". FishBase. May 2006 version.
http://www.flmnh.ufl.edu/fish/Gallery/Descript/CSharpnose/CSharpnose.html

Abuzar Ebrahimi Torkaman

Abuzar Ebrahimi Torkaman (Persian: ابوذر ابراهیمی ترکمان) (born: in Tehran), is the current Iranian ambassador to Bosnia and Herzegovina since October 2023.
He was the head of "Islamic Culture and Relations Organization" from 2013 to 2021. He has a doctorate-degree in private law as well as having seminary education. Ebrahimi possesses the following positions in his executive record:

The cultural attaché of the Embassy of the Islamic Republic of Iran in Ankara (Turkey), the cultural attaché of the Embassy of the Islamic Republic of Iran in Ashgabat (Turkmenistan), a member of the "Editorial-Board of the Journal" in the field of "International-Culture".
Ebrahimi's other record positions are as follows: deputy of general directorate of "Asia-Pacific Culture" in the "Organization of Islamic Culture and Communication"; general manager of Asia-Pacific Culture in the "Organization of Islamic Culture and Communication"; cultural adviser of the Islamic Republic of Iran in the Russian Federation since March 10, 2008, and so on.
Abuzar Ebrahimi's scientific/religious works include:

Quranic-Latifehha,
Scholars in Russian story,
Russian culture through customs
Three cities (about the Islamic cities and celebrities of Greater Khorasan (story)),
and more than one hundred scientific articles in Persian, English, Russian, Turkmen and Istanbul Turkish languages which have been published in the press inside/outside Iran.

== See also ==
Mohammad-Ali Taskhiri; a former head of "Islamic culture and relations organization"

== References ==

1979 Portland State Vikings football team

The 1979 Portland State Vikings football team was an American football team that represented Portland State University as an independent during the 1979 NCAA Division I-AA football season. In its fifth season under head coach Mouse Davis, the team compiled a 6–5 record. The team utilized the run and shoot offense popularized by Davis. On the field, the team was led by junior quarterback Neil Lomax. Lomax became the all-time leader in college football history with a career total of 13,200 passing yards.

== Schedule ==

== Roster ==

== References ==

1717 Arlon

1717 Arlon, provisional designation 1954 AC, is a binary Florian asteroid from the inner regions of the asteroid belt, approximately 8.5 kilometers in diameter.
It was discovered on 8 January 1954, by Belgian astronomer Sylvain Arend at the Royal Observatory of Belgium in Uccle, Belgium, and later named for the Belgian town and provincial capital, Arlon.

== Classification and orbit ==
Arlon is a member of the Flora family, a collisional family of S-type asteroids asteroids, and one of the largest populations of the main-belt. It orbits the Sun in the inner main-belt at a distance of 1.9–2.5 AU once every 3 years and 3 months (1,188 days). Its orbit has an eccentricity of 0.13 and an inclination of 6° with respect to the ecliptic. First identified as A915 CC at Simeiz Observatory in 1915, Arlon's first used observation was taken at Lowell Observatory in 1930, when it was identified as 1930 YU, extending the body's observation arc by 24 years prior to its official discovery observation.

== Binary system ==

=== Primary ===
A large number of rotational lightcurves of Arlon were obtained from photometric observations, giving a well-defined rotation period between 5.1477 and 5.1496 hours with a small brightness variation of 0.10 magnitude or less (also see infobox).

=== Secondary ===
During one of these photometric observations in 2006, the binary nature of Arlon was revealed. The discovered asteroid moon orbits its primary once every 18.2 hours, at a distance of 16 kilometers. The moon itself measures approximately 4 kilometers in diameter.

== Diameter and albedo ==
According to the surveys carried out by the Japanese Akari satellite and NASA's Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer with its subsequent NEOWISE mission, Arlon measures between 8.48 and 9.15 kilometers in diameter and its surface has an albedo between 0.167 and 0.315. The Collaborative Asteroid Lightcurve Link agrees with the revised WISE-results by Pravec, adopting an albedo of 0.225 and a diameter of 9.15 kilometers with an absolute magnitude of 12.43.
1717 Arlon has been observed to occult two stars, in 2021 and again in 2023.

== Naming ==
This minor planet was named for the Belgian town, municipality and provincial capital, Arlon. It is located on a hill above the source of the Semois river. In ancient times, Arlon was known as Orolaunum by the Romans and served as a station on the Antoninian way linking the cities Trier with Reims. The approved naming citation was published by the Minor Planet Center on 22 September 1983 (M.P.C. 8150).

== Notes ==

== References ==

== External links ==
Asteroids with Satellites, Robert Johnston, johnstonsarchive.net
Asteroid Lightcurve Database (LCDB), query form (info Archived 16 December 2017 at the Wayback Machine)
Dictionary of Minor Planet Names, Google books
Asteroids and comets rotation curves, CdR – Observatoire de Genève, Raoul Behrend
Discovery Circumstances: Numbered Minor Planets (1)-(5000) – Minor Planet Center
1717 Arlon at AstDyS-2, Asteroids—Dynamic Site
Ephemeris · Observation prediction · Orbital info · Proper elements · Observational info
1717 Arlon at the JPL Small-Body Database

Arthur A. Cohen

Arthur Allen Cohen (June 25, 1928 – October 31, 1986) was an American scholar, art critic, theologian, publisher, and author.
Scholar David M. Stern has written of Cohen: "Though he was best known as a novelist and theologian, he also pursued successful careers as a highly regarded editor and publisher, as an expert collector and dealer in rare books and documents [of] twentieth-century art, and as a man of letters and cultural critic who wrote with equal authority on modern European literature, medieval Jewish mysticism, the history of Dada and surrealism, and modern typography and design."

== Biography ==

=== Early life and education ===
Born in New York City in 1928, Arthur Allen Cohen was the son of Isidore Meyer and Bess Junger Cohen, both second-generation Americans. Though he would not publish his first novel until the age of 39, he told Thomas Lask in 1980, "I've actually been writing fiction since I was very young. [...] I always wrote stories." Cohen entered University of Chicago at the age of 16, where he received his B.A. in 1946. It was during his undergraduate years at Chicago that Cohen had an intellectual crisis, which he would later describe in the widely anthologized essay, "Why I Choose to be Jewish" (1959), and that marked the rest of his life. Confronted with the thoroughgoing Christianity of Western culture, and reading highly influential Christian literature, Cohen considered becoming a Christian. However, he was soon put in contact with Milton Steinberg, a leading Jewish thinker, who set him on a course of Jewish education which brought him to a deeper relationship with his heritage and ended his interest in converting.
In 1949 Cohen earned his M.A. in philosophy at University of Chicago with a thesis on Kierkegaard and Nietzsche. He then briefly studied at both Hebrew University and Union Theological Seminary, before beginning doctoral work at the Jewish Theological Seminary of America, where he studied medieval Jewish philosophy. In 1951, however, Cohen, "who found it insulated and unexciting compared to Chicago," left the seminary without completing his PhD. Overall, during his university years Cohen was taught by many intellectual luminaries of the mid-century, including Joachim Wach, Paul Tillich, E. K. Brown, and Richard McKeon.

=== Publisher, editor, bookseller ===
Though his intellectual legacy rests on his books, Cohen never earned his livelihood in academic settings, nor did he support himself on his writings alone. In 1951, after leaving the Jewish Theological Seminary, he and his friend Cecil Hemley co-founded Noonday Press. Small as it was, Noonday Press soon had a backlist of world-class authors, such as Karl Jaspers, Louise Bogan, Machado de Assis, Sholom Aleichem, and Isaac Bashevis Singer. Then in 1955, Cohen established Meridian Books, "a quality-paperback list," which, notably, published Hannah Arendt's revised edition of Origins of Totalitarianism. Mainly focusing on reprints, books like Jacques Maritain's Creative Intuition in Art and Poetry and Constantin Stanislavski's My Life in Art sold especially well. Yet the 1950s were the heyday of quality paperback presses, and Meridian competed fiercely with larger presses in the field, notably Doubleday and New American Library of World Literature. In 1960, Cohen sold Meridian Books to World Publishing, where he was also, briefly, an editor.
In the early 1950s, Cohen met the woman he would later marry, Elaine Lustig (née Firstenberg). She and her husband, the graphic designer Alvin Lustig, had moved to New York in 1951. During this time Alvin taught at Yale University and designed covers for New Directions. Following Alvin's death in 1955, Cohen, a close friend of the couple, "suggested that [Elaine] design the book covers Alvin had originally been hired to produce" for Meridian. It was through this working relationship that they became more involved. In 1956, Elaine and Cohen married; they remained married until his death in 1986. The couple lived in Manhattan during these years.
Cohen served as an editor for several publishers over the years, including his own. After working as an editor for World Publishing, he was hired by Holt, Rinehart & Winston in 1961 as "religious-books editor," and then became editor-in-chief in 1964. In addition to his publishing and editing work, Cohen collected rare books. He and his wife founded an antiquarian bookstore named Ex Libris in 1973, which "specialized in books and documents of twentieth-century art, particularly Dada, Surrealism, and early Russian Constructivism." The business was initially run from their home, but by 1978 Ex Libris had been "moved to the ground floor of the Upper East Side Manhattan townhouse where the couple lived." Elaine finally closed Ex Libris in 1998.
The combination of Cohen's multiple lines of work and Elaine Lustig's extensive connections in the art world resulted in their home in New York being a gathering place for influential artists, critics, scholars, and writers of the era. Among the pair's frequent guests were Robert Motherwell, Richard Meier, Michael Graves, Cynthia Ozick, and Yosef Hayim Yerushalmi.
In 1968, he signed the "Writers and Editors War Tax Protest" pledge, vowing to refuse tax payments in protest against the Vietnam War.
On September 30, 1986, Cohen died from leukemia at the age of 58.

== Writings ==

=== Fiction ===
Cohen wrote six works of fiction, including The Carpenter Years (1967), A Hero in His Time (1976), Acts of Theft (1980), and An Admirable Woman (1983), the last of which won the National Jewish Book Award. Many consider In the Days of Simon Stern (1973) to be Cohen's flawed masterpiece. Cohen's final work of fiction was Artists & Enemies (1987), a collection of three novellas published posthumously.

=== Non-fiction ===
Cohen's non-fiction, in addition to his study of Buber, included The Natural and the Supernatural Jew (1962), a book which traces the history of Jewish theology from the late 15th century, through the German Jewish renaissance, and into what he saw as a hopeful yet troubled American Jewish scene. Cohen also edited a popular reader on Jewish thought, Arguments and Doctrines. One of his posthumous publications, the immense anthology Contemporary Jewish Religious Thought (1987), which he co-edited with Paul Mendes-Flohr, was very well received when it was initially published. The anthology was even reissued in paperback by the Jewish Publication Society in 2009 with a new title, 20th Century Jewish Religious Thought. In his review for the Journal for the Study of Religion, Bernard Steinberg wrote, "Cohen and Mendes-Flohr have succeeded admirably in gathering and collating a series of challenging and provocative viewpoints which in sum depict the condition of contemporary Judaism and Jewry in a most vivid manner. The daunting and ambitious task that they undertook has surely paid off." In The New York Times, Alfred Gottschalk wrote, "The publication of this scintillating book is a major achievement and deserves commendation."
Of all his writings, it is perhaps Cohen's theological work which remains the most influential. His theological reflections were expressed through both his fiction and his non-fiction, his essays on Judaism and those on literature and the arts. However, his most definitive theological statements may be found in texts like The Natural and the Supernatural Jew, If Not Now, When?, The Tremendum, and his essays in Contemporary Jewish Religious Thought. "Death of God" theologian and friend Thomas Altizer has said of his theology, "Cohen is a pure expression of the solitary theologian, and he is certainly one of our most important theologians; indeed, there are those in the Jewish world who think that he simply created Jewish theology, or if not Jewish theology, then an American or postmodern Jewish theology." More concretely, Geoffrey Hartman comments in his memoir A Scholar's Tale: "At that time [in 1957] I also met Arthur [A.] Cohen and envied his commitment to have German Jewish thought inspire (perhaps even create) a modern Jewish theology."

== Major works ==

=== In the Days of Simon Stern ===
As with all of Cohen's novels, the initial reception of In the Days of Simon Stern (1973) was mixed. However, in subsequent years there has emerged a consensus that it is Cohen's most significant work of fiction.
Cynthia Ozick wrote in The New York Times in 1973, "For a small mountain of reasons, this book ensnares one of the most extraordinarily daring ideas to inhabit an American novel in a number of years." Referring to the novel's eponymous main character, Melvin Maddocks wrote in Time, "It is one of the most venerable axioms of writing—certainly as old as Moll Flanders (1722)—that novels should be about sinners. Saints are difficult enough to deal with in real life, let alone in fiction. [...] Yet [Cohen] has taken on a saint and a fable in fiction, and won—apparently by sheer moral passion." The novel deals with Jewish life in the United States before the Second World War as well as the ramifications of the Holocaust.
Scholar Ruth Wisse has deemed In the Days of Simon Stern an example of a "midrashic mode of writing" in Jewish American literature, "one in which a familiar story or theme is given a new reading." Thomas Altizer said in his memoir, "I believe that [Cohen's] novel, In the Days of Simon Stern, is our richest Jewish theological novel, and one of our most profound responses to the Holocaust."

== Selected bibliography ==

== See also ==
Holocaust theology
Jewish philosophy
Jewish American literature

== Notes ==

== References ==

== Further reading ==
Cole, Diane. "Profession: Renaissance Man: Profile of Arthur A. Cohen." Present Tense 9 (Fall 1981), pp. 32–35.
Levinson, Julian. "Arthur A. Cohen's Resplendent Vision". Prooftexts 23.2 (2003), pp. 259–67.
Satlof, Claire R. "Arthur Allen Cohen". In Joel Shatzky and Michael Taub (eds.), Contemporary Jewish-American Novelists. Westport, CT: Greenwood Press, 1997, pp. 46–53.
Stavans, Ilan. "Arthur A. Cohen: Reader." 1998. Inveterate Dreamer: Essays and Conversations on Jewish Culture. Lincoln, NE: University of Nebraska Press, 2001, pp. 43–47.
Stern, David. "Cohen, Arthur A." In Lindsay Jones (ed.), Encyclopedia of Religion. 2nd ed. Vol. 3. Detroit: Macmillan Reference USA, 2005, pp. 1848–1850.
——. "Theology into Art: An Appreciation of Arthur A. Cohen". Response 21 (Spring 1974), pp. 63–71.

== External links ==
Arthur A. Cohen Papers. Yale Collection of American Literature, Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library.

Anthony Trentacosta

Anthony Trentacosta (September 12, 1940 – December 25, 2005), also known as "Tony Pep", was a New York mobster and Caporegime with the Gambino crime family who headed one of their factions in South Florida.

== Moving south ==
In March 1999, after the death of caporegime Anthony "Fat Andy" Ruggiano, the Gambino family allegedly transferred Trentacosta to South Florida to lead Ruggiano's crew. Along with representatives of Leonard "Lenny" DiMaria, Trentacosta joined a crew that was conducting loansharking, extortion and bank fraud. The crew operated out of a pizzeria known as "Beachside Mario's" in Sunny Isles Beach, Florida. By 2000, Trentacosta had become the caporegime of the South Florida crew.
In 2001, Trentacosta was indicted on federal racketeering charges in Miami. In May 2002, Trentacosta pleaded guilty to lesser charges and was sentenced to eight years in prison. As part of his plea bargain, Trentacosta admitted that he belonged to the Gambino family, in what used to be a major breach of Cosa Nostra protocol.
Trentacosta died in prison in December 2005. He is entombed at Saint Charles Cemetery in Farmingdale, New York.

== See also ==
Leonard "Lenny" DiMaria
Gambino crime family

== References ==

Diego de Aguilar

Diego de Aguilar (active 1587) was a Spanish painter, of the Renaissance period, active in Toledo. He painted mainly devotional works.
Surviving information on the Toledan painter Diego de Aguilar is both scant and confused. With regard to his own artistic activities, his first documented work dates from 1597 when he was commissioned to paint and gild the monstrance in the parish church in Magán (Toledo). The Baptism of Christ in the monastery of San Clemente is Diego de Aguilar's earliest known painting. Diego de Aguilar deployed an archaic style in his paintings, including the application of gold leaf to the figures’ clothing. Works such as The Baptism of Christ and Saint John on Patmos (Toledo, monastery of San Clemente) reveal the influence of his activities as an illuminator and decorator in the careful rendering of details and precise technique. This is also evident in the taste for detail evident in his still lifes, explaining the comparison that has been made between him and Juan Sánchez Cotán. All these characteristics are clearly evident in the paintings for the Franciscan convent of the Conception in Toledo.

== References ==
Bryan, Michael (1886). Robert Edmund Graves (ed.). Dictionary of Painters and Engravers, Biographical and Critical. Vol. I A-K. London: George Bell and Sons. p. 9.
Diego de Aguilar scholarly articles both in web and PDF @ the Spanish Old Masters Gallery

2017–18 Northern Iowa Panthers men's basketball team

The 2017–18 Northern Iowa Panthers men's basketball team represented the University of Northern Iowa during the 2017–18 NCAA Division I men's basketball season. The Panthers, led by 12th-year head coach Ben Jacobson, played their home games at the McLeod Center in Cedar Falls, Iowa as members of the Missouri Valley Conference. They finished the season 16–16, 7–11 in MVC play to finish three-way tie for seventh place. As the No. 7 seed in the MVC tournament, they defeated Evansville in the first round before losing to Loyola–Chicago in the quarterfinals.

== Previous season ==
The Panthers finished the 2016–17 season 14–16, 9–9 in MVC play to finish in a tie for third place. As the No. 3 seed in the MVC tournament, they lost to Missouri State in the quarterfinals.

== Offseason ==

=== Departures ===

=== 2017 recruiting class ===

=== 2018 recruiting class ===

=== 2019 recruiting class ===

== Preseason ==
In the conference's preseason poll, the Panthers were picked to finish in second place in the MVC and received eight first place votes. Senior forward Bennet Koch was named to the preseason All-MVC first team while senior forward Klint Carlson was named to the second team.

== Roster ==

== Schedule and results ==

Panther Sports Network (PSN) Cedar Falls Utilities Ch. 15/HD415; KCRG-TV Ch. 9.2; WHO-DT Ch. 13.2; KGCW Ch. 26, Time Warner Cable KC Channel 324, (NBC Sports Chicago or NBCSC+)

== References ==

1971 Rothmans International Vancouver – Singles

The 1971 Rothmans International Vancouver – Singles was an event of the 1971 Rothmans International Vancouver tennis tournament played at the PNE Agrodome in Vancouver, Canada from 3 October through 11 October 1971. Rod Laver was the defending champion but lost in the semifinals. Ken Rosewall won the singles title, defeating Tom Okker in the final, 6–2, 6–2, 6–4.

== Draw ==
Key

=== Finals ===

=== Top half ===

=== Bottom half ===

== References ==

== External links ==
ITF tournament edition details

Dominican Republic at the 2008 Summer Olympics

The Dominican Republic competed in the 2008 Summer Olympics, held in Beijing, People's Republic of China from August 8 to August 24, 2008.

== Medalists ==

== Athletics ==

Men

Women

== Boxing ==

The Dominican Republic qualified six boxers for the Olympic boxing tournament. Nunez was the only boxer to qualify at the World Championships. Payano became the second to qualify for the nation, doing so at the first American qualifying tournament. The remaining four boxers qualified at the second American continental qualifying tournament.

== Judo ==

== Sailing ==

Men

M = Medal race; EL = Eliminated – did not advance into the medal race; CAN = Race cancelled;

== Shooting ==

Men

== Swimming ==

Men

== Table tennis ==

Singles

Team

== Taekwondo ==

== Weightlifting ==

== See also ==
Dominican Republic at the 2007 Pan American Games
Dominican Republic at the 2010 Central American and Caribbean Games

== References ==

Arthur, Ontario

Arthur (population 2,628) is a community located just north of Highway 6 and Wellington Road 109 in the township of Wellington North, Ontario, Canada. Formerly an independent village, Arthur was amalgamated into Wellington North on January 1, 1999.

== History ==
The village was named after Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington. Settlers began arriving in 1840. The area was first surveyed in 1841 by John McDonald and then officially in 1846 by D.B. Papineau. During the first survey in 1841, the population of Arthur was 22 people. Over the next 15 years, this number rose to 400, and by 1900, the population had risen to just over 1500. The saw and grist mills on the Conestogo River encouraged people to settle here. In 1851, a post office, church and school were organized. Development increased in 1872 when the train line of the Toronto, Grey and Bruce Railway reached the village, which was incorporated in that year.
The Arthur Enterprise News, established in 1863, was one of the few non-syndicated weekly newspapers in Canada. By 1890, a high school had been opened.
In 1897, Arthur was one of the first villages in Ontario to be connected to an electricity line; power was only available in the evenings.
In 1942, it was reported that one out of every seven Arthur residents fought in the Second World War. By the end of the war, 338 Arthur residents had enlisted, and 25 were killed in action. In 2002, David Tilson, MPP for Dufferin—Peel—Wellington—Grey stated the community was being recognized as "Canada's Most Patriotic Village".

== Demographics ==

As of the 2021 Canadian Census, Arthur's population was 2,628. This represents an increase of 72 people, or 2.8%, compared to the 2016 Canadian Census.
Arthur did not appear in the first Canadian census in 1871.
Arthur's population was 1,257 in 1881, and the total population grew to 1,296 in 1891 before a slight drop to 1,285 in 1901.
From 1901 to 1941, Arthur's population dropped significantly, to a low of 937 in 1941.
Following World War II, Arthur saw a lot of growth. Between 1951 and 1991, the village's population more than doubled, going from 1,088 in 1951 to 2,123 in 1991.
The village has continued to have steady growth since the turn of the century, as Arthur's population has grown from 2,284 in 2001 to 2,628 in 2021.
As of the latest census in 2021, the median age in Arthur is 37.6 years old. There are 1,043 private dwellings in Arthur, with 1,007 of them occupied by usual residents.
The median total income for a household in Arthur was $88,000 in 2020.

== Arts and culture ==
Festivals include:

Arthur Fall Fair.
Arthur Lions Duck Race and Horticultural Plant Sale.
Arthur Opti-Mrs. Santa Claus Parade.
Artur Optimists Canada Day Weekend.

=== Public library ===
There is a branch of the Wellington County Library system in Arthur.

== Attractions ==
Parks and recreational facilities include:

Arthur Community Centre Fairgrounds Park, featuring baseball diamonds, a splash pad, pool, playground, and track.
Arthur Community Park, located along the Conestogo River.
Arthur Lions Park, featuring a river trail.
West Luther Trail, which is approximately 11 kilometres (6.8 mi).

== Sports ==
Arthur and Area Community Centre is where local teams play their home games, including baseball, ice hockey, lacrosse, pickleball and softball.
The Arthur Tigers of the WOAA Senior League operated from 1985 to 1999, and won the 1990-91 WOAA Grand Championship.
The Arthur Area Curling Club is hosts bonspiels from October to March.

== Infrastructure ==

=== Transportation ===
Highways include Ontario Highway 6 and Wellington Road 109.
Arthur has five private aerodromes, including Arthur South, Damascus Field, Metz Field, Peskett Field and Walter's Field. The closest major airport is the Region of Waterloo International Airport in Woolwich.
Guelph Owen Sound Transit provides regional bus service, and Ride Well is an on-demand, publicly-funded, rural transit service throughout Wellington County and Guelph.

=== Fire and emergency services ===
Ambulance is provided by the Guelph-Wellington Paramedic Service.
Fire services are provided by the Wellington North Fire Service, a volunteer fire service with approximately 50 volunteer fire fighters.
The Ontario Provincial Police provides service for Arthur.

== Education ==

=== Upper Grand District School Board ===
Arthur is served by the Upper Grand District School Board as Arthur Public School is a K-8 school located on Conestoga Street. Local high school students in the UGDSB are bussed to Wellington Heights Secondary School in Mount Forest. French immersion students from Arthur are assigned to Palmerston Public School in Palmerston, Ontario when in K-8. French immersion high school students attend Norwell District Secondary School, which is also in Palmerston, when in grades 9-12.

=== Wellington Catholic District School Board ===
Arthur is served by the Wellington Catholic District School Board as St. John Catholic Elementary School is a K-8 school located on Tucker Street. Local high school students in the WCDSB are bussed to Saint James Catholic High School in Guelph.

== Media ==
Arthur and area print media coverage comes from The North Wellington Community News and the Wellington Advertiser.
CIWN-FM from Mount Forest serves the Wellington North area.
CKCO-DT provides local news for Arthur and area.

== Notable people ==

=== Athletes ===
Chad Culp (1982 – ), professional lacrosse player in the NLL from 2003 – 2011
Matt Disher (1976 – ), professional lacrosse player in the NLL from 1999 – 2010
Jamie Rooney (1984 – ), professional lacrosse player in the NLL from 2008 – 2014
Dave Smith (1968 – ), professional ice hockey player in the ECHL, IHL and AHL from 1992 – 1998; former head coach of Canisius Golden Griffins and RPI Engineers

=== Health care ===
Andreas Laupacis (???? – ), awarded the Order of Canada for his contributions to evidence-based medicine and for fostering public engagement in health care

=== Politicians ===
Ted Arnott (1963 – ), member of Legislative Assembly of Ontario from 1990 – 2025, and the 42nd and 43rd Speaker of the Legislative Assembly of Ontario
John Knox Blair (1873 – 1950), member of the House of Commons of Canada from 1930 – 1945)
William Aurelius Clarke (1868 – 1940), member of the House of Commons of Canada from 1911 – 1921
James J. Craig (1855 – 1929), member of the Legislative Assembly of Ontario from 1905 – 1911
Joseph Driscoll (1876 – 1942), elected to Edmonton City Council from 1912 – 1914, also President of the Edmonton Eskimos
Frank Gainer (1888 – 1975), member of the Legislative Assembly of Alberta from 1955 – 1967
Rae Luckock (1893 – 1972), member of the Legislative Assembly of Ontario from 1943 – 1945, also one of the first two women, with Agnes MacPhail, elected to the Legislative Assembly of Ontario
Dorothy McCabe (1969 – ), Mayor of Waterloo since 2022
John Patrick Molloy (1873 – 1948), member of the House of Commons of Canada from 1908 – 1921 and served in the Senate of Canada from 1925 – 1948

== See also ==

List of unincorporated communities in Ontario

== References ==

Albert van Raalte

Albert Bernhard van Raalte (21 May 1890, Amsterdam – 23 November 1952) was a Dutch conductor, the son of Izak van Raalte and Carolina van Engel. He began music studies at age 7, from such teachers as Herman Meerlo and Arnold Drilsma (both violin), and J.W. Kersbergen (piano).
From 1906 to 1909, van Raalte studied at the Hochschule für Musik Köln, where his teachers included Fritz Steinbach (conducting), Bram Eldering (violin), Lazzaro Uzielli (piano), and Waldemar von Baussern (harmony and counterpoint). He later pursued further studies in music theory with Max Reger and in conducting with Bruno Walter and Camille Saint-Saëns. His conducting career began with a 1909 concert at the Musikalische Gesellschaft in Cologne. In 1911–1912, he was a répétiteur at La Monnaie (Brussels). He worked as an opera conductor in Germany and the Netherlands from 1912 until the outbreak of World War II.
From 1928 to 1940, van Raalte conducted concerts on Dutch radio (AVRO), until his dismissal during World War II. After the war, from 1945 to 1949, he served as the first principal conductor of the Radio Filharmonisch Orkest. He also undertook guest conducting opportunities, such as with the Scottish [National] Orchestra.
Van Raalte married Helena Wilhelmina Sophia Horneman on 23 July 1918. The couple had one son.

== References ==

== External links ==
Biography of Albert van Raalte from the Huygens Instituut voor Nederlandse Geschiedenis

1770 in music

== Events ==
January 20 – The new Théâtre du Palais-Royal (rue Saint-Honoré), the first purpose-built opera house in Paris, designed by Pierre-Louis Moreau-Desproux, is inaugurated with a performance of Rameau's Zoroastre.
May 16 – The new Opéra royal de Versailles, designed by Ange-Jacques Gabriel, is inaugurated.
Ballet is performed in Oslo for the first time, by Madame Stuart.
Musikalisches Vielerley is published; a collection of pieces from various composers, edited by Carl Philipp Emanuel Bach (Hamburg: Michael Christian Bock).

== Classical music ==
Carl Philipp Emanuel Bach – Fantasia in D minor, H.224
Johann Christian Bach
6 Keyboard Concertos, Op. 7
6 Quartets, Op. 8
Luigi Boccherini – Cello Concerto in D major, G.479
Joseph Haydn – Baryton Trio in A major, Hob.XI:2
Gabriele Leone – Six sonatas for mandolin and bass marked with signs according to the new method, Op. 2
Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart – Symphony 11
Pietro Nardini – Sonatas for 2 Flutes/Violins and Basso Continuo

== Methods and theory writings ==
Johann Caspar Heck – The Art of Playing the Harpsichord
John Holden – An Essay Towards a Rational System of Music

== Operas ==
Christoph Willibald Gluck – Paride ed Elena, Wq.39
André Grétry – Les deux avares

== Published popular music ==
William Billings – The New England Psalm Singer, featuring the song Chester.

== Births ==
February 18 – Christian Heinrich Rinck, composer (died 1846)
February 20 – Ferdinando Carulli, composer (died 1841)
February 22 – Jan Matyas Nepomuk August Vitasek, composer (died 1839)
February 26 – Antoine Reicha, composer (died 1836)
May 19 – Antoine-Charles Glachant, violinist and composer (died 1851)
June 4 – James Hewitt, composer (died 1827)
November 8 – Friedrich Witt, composer (died 1836)
November 29 – Peter Hänsel, composer
December 13 – John Clarke-Whitfeld, composer (died 1836)
December 15 or December 16 (baptized on December 17) – Ludwig van Beethoven, composer and pianist (died 1827)
December 17 – Johann Friedrich Schubert, composer

== Deaths ==
February 26 – Giuseppe Tartini, violinist and composer, 77
April 19 – Esprit Antoine Blanchard, composer, 74
May 9 – Charles Avison, composer, 61
October 1 – Louis-Gabriel Guillemain, composer, 64
December 9 – Gottlieb Muffat, organist and composer, 80
December 13 – Johann Heinrich Hartmann Bätz, organ-builder, 61

== References ==

Borisovo

Borisovo may refer to the following places:

Orekhovo-Borisovo Severnoye District, Moscow, Russia
Orekhovo-Borisovo Yuzhnoye District, Moscow, Russia
Borisovo (Moscow Metro), a station of the Moscow Metro, Russia
Borisovo, Russia, the name of several rural localities in Russia
Borisovo, Novo Selo, a village in North Macedonia

Boëthius family

Boëthius is a Swedish clerical family descended from Herr Anders, the first Protestant vicar of Sidensjö in Ångermanland (early 16th century). His grandson Boëtius Olai Moræus (died 1628) took his surname from Mora, where he served as vicar. His given name Boëtius was a latinization of the Swedish name Bo and was assumed as a surname by his grandson Jacob Boëthius (1647–1718) who was vicar of Mora and spent ten years in prison as a political dissident. Later notable members of this family include the following:

Daniel Boëthius (1751–1810), enlightenment philosopher
Jacob Edvard Boëthius (1789–1849), jurist
Simon Boëthius (1850–1924), historian, political scientist and politician
Bertil Boëthius (1885–1974), historian, head of the Swedish National Archives 1944–1950
Axel Boëthius (1889–1969), classical archaeologist
Gerda Boëthius (1890–1961), art historian
Maria-Pia Boëthius (b. 1947), feminist writer and journalist

== References ==
Svenskt biografiskt lexikon, vol. 5 (1925), p. 117f.
Nationalencyklopedin, s.v. Boëthius (accessed 31 March 2006)

Barry McSweeney

Barry McSweeney (died 22 October 2014) was an Irish scientist who was the first Chief Science Advisor to the Government of Ireland.

== Education and career ==
McSweeney was born in Cork, Ireland. He attended University College Cork, graduating in 1972 with a BSc Honours degree in Biochemistry. Subsequently, he obtained an MSc in Clinical biochemistry at Trinity College Dublin. In 1994, he received a PhD degree in Biochemistry and Biotechnology from Pacific Western University, an unaccredited institution in the United States.
From 1987 and 1995 McSweeney was founding director of BioResearch Ireland, an organization focused on establishing Ireland as a location for biotechnology investment. He also worked as Director of Medical Business for Biocon Biochemicals in Cork and Sées, France, and as European Product Development Manager for the American Hospital Supply Corporation. He chaired the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Working Party on Biotechnology in 1994-1995 and served as a member of the Advisory Committee on Biotechnology in Science Foundation Ireland in 2000.
From 2000 to 2004, McSweeney headed the Directorate-General Joint Research Centre of European Commission, an organisation of 2,400 staff and with a budget of 340 million euro. He was responsible for the development and expansion of the European Commission's Marie Curie Research Mobility Scheme to provide research and employment opportunities to young scientists.
Ireland established the office of Chief Science Advisor to the Government in 2004 and McSweeney took up the position on 1 September 2004.

== Diploma controversy ==
McSweeney was forced to resign from his position as Chief Science Advisor after the Irish Independent discovered in October 2005 that his Ph.D. degree was from an unaccredited institution that had been "the subject of numerous official investigations, state bans and media exposés" in the United States, and that it had been obtained after just 12 months of study. The opposition political parties, the Labour Party and Fine Gael, criticised the government for failing to properly assess McSweeney's qualifications.
After leaving the science adviser position, he was appointed to a position as research coordinator in Ireland's Department of Communications Marine and Natural Resources.

== Recognitions ==
In 2003 he received the Great Gold Medal of Comenius University in Bratislava for his contributions to European Union enlargement.

== References ==

2010 St. Louis Film Critics Association Awards

The 7th St. Louis Film Critics Association Awards were announced on December 20, 2010.

== Winners and nominees ==

=== Best Actor ===
Javier Bardem – Biutiful
Jeff Bridges – True Grit
Jesse Eisenberg – The Social Network
Colin Firth – The King's Speech
James Franco – 127 Hours

=== Best Actress ===
Nicole Kidman – Rabbit Hole
Jennifer Lawrence – Winter's Bone
Natalie Portman – Black Swan
Noomi Rapace – The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo
Naomi Watts – Fair Game

=== Best Animated Film ===
Despicable Me
How to Train Your Dragon
Legend of the Guardians: The Owls of Ga'Hoole
Tangled
Toy Story 3

=== Best Director ===
Darren Aronofsky – Black Swan
Danny Boyle – 127 Hours
David Fincher – The Social Network
Tom Hooper – The King's Speech
Christopher Nolan – Inception

=== Best Documentary Film ===
A Film Unfinished
Restrepo
The Tillman Story
Waiting for "Superman"
Waking Sleeping Beauty

=== Best Film ===
Black Swan
The Fighter
Inception
The King's Speech
The Social Network

=== Best Comedy ===
Easy A
I Love You Phillip Morris
Jackass 3D
Micmacs
Scott Pilgrim vs. the World

=== Best Foreign Language Film ===
Biutiful • Mexico
The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo (Män som hatar kvinnor) • Sweden
Micmacs (Micmacs à tire-larigot) • France
North Face (Nordwand) • Germany
A Prophet (Un prophète) • France

=== Best Music ===
Black Swan
Burlesque
The Fighter
Inception
The Social Network

=== Best Original Screenplay ===
Biutiful – Alejandro González Iñárritu, Armando Bo and Nicolás Giacobone
Black Swan – Mark Heyman, Andres Heinz and John McLaughlin
The Fighter – Scott Silver, Paul Tamasy and Eric Johnson
Inception – Christopher Nolan
The King's Speech – David Seidler

=== Best Adapted Screenplay ===
127 Hours – Simon Beaufoy and Danny Boyle
Scott Pilgrim vs. the World – Edgar Wright and Michael Bacall
The Social Network – Aaron Sorkin
True Grit – Joel and Ethan Coen
Winter's Bone – Debra Granik and Anne Rosellini

=== Best Supporting Actor ===
Christian Bale – The Fighter
John Hawkes – Winter's Bone
Jeremy Renner – The Town
Sam Rockwell – Conviction
Geoffrey Rush – The King's Speech

=== Best Supporting Actress ===
Amy Adams – The Fighter
Helena Bonham Carter – The King's Speech
Barbara Hershey – Black Swan
Melissa Leo – The Fighter
Hailee Steinfeld – True Grit

=== Best Visual Effects ===
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1
Inception
Kick-Ass
Scott Pilgrim vs. the World
Tron: Legacy

=== Moving the Medium Forward ===
(for technical/artistic innovative that advances the medium)

127 Hours
Inception
Kick-Ass
Scott Pilgrim vs. the World
Toy Story 3
Uncle Boonmee Who Can Recall His Past Lives

=== Best Artistic/Creative Film ===
(for excellence in art-house cinema)

The King's Speech
Micmacs
Scott Pilgrim vs. the World
Trash Humpers
Winter's Bone

=== Special Merit ===
(for best scene, cinematic technique or other memorable aspect or moment)

127 Hours: the zoom-up scene which begins with a tight shot on Aron (James Franco) as he is screaming and pulls out to a wide shot of a large land area, showing how isolated he was from other humans.
Easy A: the John Hughes tribute near the beginning.
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 1: the “obliviate” scene in which Hermione erases her parents’ memories of her.
Inception: the zero-gravity hotel fight in the tumbling hallway scene with Joseph Gordon-Levitt.
Kick-Ass: the Hit-Girl kill spree.

== References ==

== External links ==
Official website

Adam Kleeberger

Adam Kleeberger (born 2 March 1984) is a Canadian rugby union player. Previously, Kleeberger had played for Canadian clubs University of Victoria and Bayside as well as Rotherham Titans of the RFU Championship. In 2010 he joined Auckland in the ITM Cup. Kleeberger played two matches with Auckland before an injury forced him to return to Canada to join the University of Victoria of the British Columbia Premier League.
Adam made his Canadian national team debut against France in 2005.
On July 8, 2011 it was announced that Kleeberger will represent Canada at the 2011 Rugby World Cup.
In Canada's opening game of the 2011 Rugby World Cup against Tonga, Kleeberger started at blindside flanker and played the full 80 minutes making 24 tackles along the way. Kleeberger was awarded Man of the Match honours for his efforts in the 25-20 victory.
Adam Kleeberger was known for having had an epic beard during the 2011 Rugby World Cup, which was inspired by the substantial growth of fellow Canadian, Andrew Cockell. On October 17, 2011 as part of the Shear the Beard campaign Rick Mercer shaved Kleeberger's beard for two causes; The Christchurch rebuild for New Zealand's hospitality during the tournament and Movember for prostate cancer research.
It was announced on 19 December 2011 that Kleeberger will join London Scottish FC until the end of the 2011-12 RFU Championship season.

== References ==

== External links ==
Adam Kleeberger at ESPNscrum (archived)
Adam Kleeberger at ItsRugby.co.uk
Adam Kleeberger at the World Rugby Men's Sevens Series (archived)

Anxiety dream

An anxiety dream is an unpleasant dream which can be more disturbing than a nightmare. Anxiety dreams are characterized by the feelings of unease, distress, or apprehension in the dreamer upon waking. Anxiety dreams tend to occur in rapid eye movement sleep, and usual themes involve incomplete tasks, embarrassment, falling, getting in to legal or financial trouble, failed pursuits and being pursued by another, often an unrealistic entity but other human beings can also be the pursuer. Anxiety dreams may be caused by childhood trauma, or an adult dealing with conflict. Though they create anxiety in the dreamer, anxiety dreams also serve as a way for a person's ego to reset.
In contrast to the supernatural and somatic origins for dreams proposed in classical dream theory, anxiety dreams were considered to be continuations of the thoughts when interrupted by sleep. Such references are found (cryptically) in Greek authors, including the pre-Socratics and Herodotus, and (more explicitly) in Ecclesiastes 5:3 and Ecclesiasticus 34:1-7 (Book of Sirach). Aristotle confirmed in the Problemata that waking thoughts are continued in sleep, and that even some prophetic (normally divinely inspired) dreams may result from anxiety continued in a dream.

== Classification and provenance ==
Most individuals, when woken by a disturbing dream, would label it as a nightmare; but dream classification is not that simple. Anxiety dreams, punishment dreams, nightmares, post-trauma dreams, and night terrors are difficult to distinguish because they are commonly clumped under the term "nightmare". The different types of dreams, however, have different qualities. The stage in which the dream occurs is key. Anxiety dreams, punishment dreams, nightmares, or post-trauma dreams occur in the REM stage of sleep, while night terrors will occur in the NREM stage.
Ernest Jones, author of On The Nightmare, states that the characteristics of a nightmare are: "Intense or agonizing dread; the sense of oppression or of weight on the chest which dangerously threatens the continuation of breathing; and the dreamer’s conviction of being helpless or paralyzed." Published in 1911, these characteristics lasted sixty years until American sleep researcher, Charles Fisher, and his colleagues recognized that they were too broad. Fisher concluded that distressing dreams in REM sleep will contain the feeling of weight on the chest and sense of helplessness, but the intense or agonizing dread is a characteristic of NREM dreams. These dreams are more commonly known as night terrors.
The division of distressing dreams within REM sleep is subtle. The distinction between an anxiety dream and a nightmare comes down to what, contributing author of The Nightmare, Ruth Bers Shapiro calls the "profoundly disturbing" content that distinguishes the nightmare from the anxiety dream.

== Common themes ==
Common themes in anxiety dreams involve incomplete tasks. These can include such things as a suitcase that has not been packed or an exam that has not been taken. Another common theme is the loss of a family member. Freud places these dreams into two categories: "those in which there is sorrow attached to the death and those in which there is no grief." Other themes can involve embarrassment. The dream of falling or being chased is also prevalent in anxiety dreams. These usually take place at the onset of sleep during pictorial consciousness and have little structure or plot.

== Pre-Freudian explanations ==

=== In literature ===
Anxiety dreams have a long tradition in (Western) literature, beginning with Homer, who describes in Book 12 of the Iliad how Achilles is unable to catch up with Hector, "As in a dream a man is not able to follow one who runs from him, nor can the runner escape, nor the other pursue him, so he could not run him down in his speed, nor the other get clear." This anxiety of not being able to escape (or catch up) was borrowed from Homer by Virgil in Book XII of the Aeneid, where Turnus is unable to catch up with Aeneas; subsequently the dream is found (always in simile, never reported directly) in Oppian's Halieutica, in Torquato Tasso's Jerusalem Delivered, and in Phineas Fletcher's Locusts and Purple Island, to be "burlesqued" in Samuel Butler's Hudibras. An anxiety dream related more directly is Eve's in Books 4 and 5 of John Milton's Paradise Lost, who dreams prophetically that she will eat of the fruit of the forbidden tree, an event that will take place in Book 9. Other such anxiety dreams are found in the Anglo-Saxon elegy "The Wanderer" and in Arthurian romances such as Wolfram von Eschenbach's Parzival and Sir Gawain and the Green Knight (ll.