

=== sim_new-york-times_1916-04-26_65_21-277 (NYT 1910) ===

) “All the News That’s EE
|. -Fit-to Prin sta ¢

| peaeFer tui! weather report see-Pire 2 |

NEW YORK,’ WEDNESDAY, APRIL 26, 1916——TWENTY-TWO PAGES.

“BACK 10 KAISER

Strong Hint in Berlin That Ger-
oo _many Will Offer: Modus Vi-
' vendi on U-Boat War,

_ WISHFORANUNDERSTANDING

3 ‘Bethmann _ Hollweg ‘Confers
> «with. Envoy - to Sée What:
Terms Will Satisfy Us.

PRESS WANTS SETTLEMENT

. Gontinues to View Situation Grave-
dy—Washington Awaits Word

‘yes from Gerard.

Exodus of Americans 3
From Germany Begun:

: GENEVA, Wednesday, April 26,.
(via Paris.)—An ‘exodus of Amer-
icans from Germany has begun. Sev-
eral of them have already arrived at
"Basle.

They are convinced that a rupture
betweén Germany and the United
States is inevitable.

BERLIN, April 25, 3 P. M., (via Lon-
don, Wednesday, April 26.)—Prior to his
departure for headquarters tonight to
consult with Emperor William, the sub-
Marine.issue and Germany's relations
with the United States were again
under discussion today‘ by Dr. von
Bethmann Hollweg, the Imperial Chan-
-eellor, alid James W. Gerard, the Amer-
ican Ambassador.

No definite decision in the premises
apparently has yet been reached, and
one probably will.not be arrived at un-

. til the Whancellor reaches headquarters
temorrow afternoon. :

All the surface indications, however,
point more and more to the probability
that an arrangement regarding the Sus-
sex “and a modus vivendi on the sub-
marine problem will be offered to the

‘United States, and that a sincere. en-/.

@éavor to reath’ an understanding wil
be made from this sidé, putting-the de-
Cision regarding the future status of
relations up to Washington. ay
The public and. the press continue to
view the situation gravely, but calmly,
and for the greater part with a desire
that a way out of the controversy may
be found.
~The Wolf Bureau today circulates an
appeal from the German University
ue of America to the rector of Ber-
University for a dispassionate con-
gidération of the American position.
At the. Foreign Office ay the cor-
ndents were informed that the
Chanceilor was devoting the holidays to
conferences on thé submarine issue with
. the departments concerned.
- “The iain purpose of the Imperial
Chanceilor’s fiying trip to Berlin, which
invoives twenty hours’ travel in each di-
rection, has been, as is evident from his
otracted conferences with Ambassador
rard, the desire to obtain as clear an
idea as possible of the attitude and *pol-
jey of the American Government; what,
if anytning, lies behind and beyond the
American note, and what measures are
ssary to satisfy the American de-
mand, before the momentous decision is
taken by the Emperor and his advisers

‘headquarters. 4
‘: ‘the cointe has come to a head in the

t of the Easter holidays—a _ sea-
gon playing a highly important rdéle in
German life, when public men are
widely scattered’trom Berlin, and their

. views, which the Emperor would nat-
urally wish te ascertain feré reach-
ing_a decision, not quickly, assembled.
Thas the formulation of a reply to the

| American note, which presumably would
gpell peace or war, cannot be rushed.

Still Hope for Settlement.

So far as Germany is concerned there
ip still a possibility of a settlement, and
hope has not been abandoned here. But
the Germans, as is apparent from many
conversations which The ~ Associated
Press correspondent has had with

prominent men ‘since the beginning of

this-crisis, wish to know. before giv’ng

r answer, what sort of answer

would - satisfy the United States,

whether assurances of a properly con-

ducted submarine campaign would be

adequate, and whether concessions

now. would be the prelude to further’

later.

Wat con be stated positively that .Dr.

von Bethmann Hollweg. and his ad-

visers lize fully the disadvantages

of a presk with the United States, and

that they do not desire it: if it can be

’ avoided, but they feel, if a breach must

come ultimately, it-would be useless to
.. §ndu in concessions and compro

‘now, and that they might as well have

_* the matter settled. :

e Am! or Gerard conferred on Mon-

day with the-Imperial Chancellor alone,

- nore of the Chancellor’s adyisers par-

ticipating in the inierview. He was able

to give the Chancellor little positive or

z ritative information ‘on ‘the ‘limits

beyond the notes

93 asnington. policy,

- #0 far as it was indicated in the various

tes: to. Germany, it is understood, was

Hons to the questions which have

se to the crisis were consider in

long and confidential interview,

ncerning which the Ambassador natu-

llydeclined to talk to the correspond-

engl eee ee Sees

NARS LS nee OR

Ate Ras a Sn Fae
sy aye

ven

Gerard Cables to Washington. |

_. Mfr, Gerard immediately cabled a long
'gecount of the conversation to Secre-
ary Lansing, and ‘the feeling here is
“if it were possible to obtain “an
er from Washington before the

n Council were concluded. and a

n adopted it méght aid materially
solution. There is little ¢xpecta-

of Pet, however. r rR
re has been a distinctly better at-
in Berlin o: . On the day
publication of the American note
or e time afterward: an. air of
prevailed regarding future Ger-
an-Americun relations, and many men
2 of a rupture as inevitable... The
now is t a settlement is within
ach of .possibditity, — although
uld ss TORE Paint e_
at least the spirit of
otably aba , ana everywhere one
| the query: * t dees America
in we sa ‘Witson

|| Mexican Officials Expect

| General ‘Gavira Takes Steps to

at length, and possible solu-|:

i his officers around him‘and gave them

'} full’ investigation had been made in or-

These stories were either

Recalt, of American Troops

Special to ‘The New York Times.

SALTILLO, Coahuila,»Mexico, April
25, (en route with General Obregon.)
—General Obregon, Minister of War
of the de facto Government, .arrived
here today on: his way to 'a confer-
ence with Major. Gen. .Scott, Ameri-
ean Chief of Staff, and Major Gen.
Funston in. Juarez or El Paso. Offi-.
cials. hére are -stf that American
} troops will be withdrawn from
Mexico within two weeks, as they
contend that American officials-agree
with Mexicans that the campaign
against: Villa has: resolyed itself into
a ‘pursuit of one man, the Villa bands
’ having been broken up. The Mexi-
cans ‘also assert: that -with the im-
‘pending surrender of General Canuto
Reyes at Torreon and the loyalty to
Carranza pledged by the Aerie
‘brothers in: Durango, the Villi
have no hopes of procuring a follow-
ing, as all the Carranza Generals
have demonstrated their fealty.

SG0TT AND OBREGON
“TO MEET IN BL PASO

‘Suppress Any Disturbance
During Conference.

REASSURES GENERAL BELL

New Plot to Selze Chihuahua City
and Kill De Facto Authori-
ties Is. Unearthed.

Special to The New York Times.

EL PASO, Texas, April 25.—It was an-
nounced officially here tonight that the
conference between Major Gen. Hugh
L. Scott, Chief of Staff. of the United
States. Army,.and General Alvaro Obre-
gon, Minister of War of the de facto
Mexican Government, would be held in
El Paso, and would start.as soon as
General Obregon reached the border.

General Carranza, in an official state-
ment, declares he has fully approved the
plan for having the meeting at El Paso,
and announces that he is especially
pleased atithe assurances given by Gen-
eral Bell and: the .announcement..that
General. Scott will call.on General Obre-
gon in Juarez first. 7
« While. the eonfererce \is caused. by-
the. American expedittcn’s -pursuit « of |
Villa, there is much spectfation as* to
just what will be discussed.’ Mexicans
profess to ‘beHeve that 4t-da:details of
the withdrawal of the Americans which
will be considered. That is not the view
expressed in other quarters. It is gen-
erally., regarded ag more likely that
General Scott. will urgs increased co-
operation by Carranza troops in the pur-
suit of Villa and the stamping out of:
brigandage along the border—or, at
least, increased dcetivity by the de facto
Government's forces on their own ac-
count to accomplish the same object.

General Gavira. Carranza commander
at Juarez, was advised by télegraph this
afternoon that General Obregon was
leaving San Luis Potosi for Saltillo, and
was expected to reach Juarez be Satur-
day by way of Torreon and Monterey.
He will establish: his headquarters in
Juarez in the fine home which Villa
seized from old General Ochoa, and
where William Benton, an English-
man, was killed. He will then confer
with General Scott through his aids and
arrange for the first meeting to be held
in the Juarez Custom House, probably

Sunday or Monday, if his arrival‘is not
delayed.

Gutierrez May Attend.

Since it became known that General
Funston would. accompany General
Scott, General Gavira has wired to Gen-
eral Obregon advising him to have Gen-
eral Gutierrez, Commander of the
Northern Division}; accompany him to
the border in order that he may have
a man on his staff who will be of equal
rank with the American General, as
both General Scott.and General Obregon
will be an as diplomatic representa-
tives of the State Department and For-
eigh Ministry of Mexico. -

A big reception and celebration is be-
ing planned for General Obregon’ in
Juarez. This will be patterned after the
Taft-Diaz celebration, including the dec-
oration of the streets .with flowers and
arches and the-holding of a public re-
ception in the 6ld Custom House, Gen-
eral Scott will; be invited to participate
in. this reception .and will be asked. to
make his first formal ‘call on General
Obregon at that time. - Subsequent meet-
ings will be held in the Federal Building
in: El Paso. ~ 7

General George Bell, Jr., and General
Gavira discussed ay the proposed
conference with a view toward «the
closest co-operation to prevent any dem-
onstrations. ;

“I want you to feel reassured, General
Gavira, that if there 1s any indications
of trouble along this part of the border
the trouble will be started on your side
of the line,’ General Bell said. -

“There will be-no trouble,’ General
Gavira replied. ‘‘I can assure you of
that. My men are too well ‘disciplined
and too well trained to attempt such a
thing, and we have shown by the rigid
use. of aur authority that we deal hard
with enemies of the Constitutional Gov-
ernment who seek to cause trouble be-
edo us and our good friend of the

orth.” ~

Gavira Instructs Officers.

FoHowing out General -Bell’s sugges-
tion, General Gavira then called all of

orders that if there should be any firing ;
across the line of whatever nature there
should be no return of the fire-until a

ROOSEVELT LOSES.
INTHE BAY STATE

Massachusetts Elects an Un-
pledged “Big Four” to Head. -
Chicago Delegation.

TWO DISTRICTS FOR T. R.

This Gives Him Four Delegates
—Other Thirty-two from the
State Are Unpledged.

COLONEL’S MEN UNDAUNTED

Regard the Result as Not a. Fair
Indication of Massachu-
setts Sentiment.

Special to The New York Times.

BOSTON, Mass., April 25.—Unpledged
delegates-at large to the Republican Na-—
tional Convention were elected at the
Presidential primaries today over four
candidates pledged to the nomination of
Colonel "Kheodore Roosevelt.

Returns from 1,120 out of the 1,140

districts of the State show that the
Roosevelt delegates have been defeated
by an average -majority of 15,000.. Gov-'
ernor 8. W. McCall, ‘the highest man on
the -unpledged delegation, runs nearly
17,000 above the highest man among the
Roosevelt candidates, Charles S. Bird.

The indications are that. ‘* unpledged,”’
or anti- Roosevelt, delegates will be sent
to Chicago from fourteen of the sixteen
Congressional districts of the State.
That will give Colonel Roosevelt only
four of the thirty-six delegates from
Massachusetts.

While the ‘‘ straight goods’’ Repub-
lican leaders, heaced by ex-Senator W.
Murray Crane, have been confident for
some days ‘of victory in the primary
fight, the majority rolled up for the
unpledged «delegation of which ex-Sen-
ator Crane himself is a member ex-
ceeded their expectations.

While Governor McCall or Senator
Weeks and possibly both may receive
complimentary. votes from the delega-
tion, few heré believe they have a
chance of being nominated. ‘With favor-
‘fté sons ‘barred, tt f¥ said that the dele-
gation will show an impressive majority
for Justice Hughes.

The totals in the 1,120 districts as re-
ported at a laté hour are:

Unpledged Candidates.

Governor, Samuel W.. McCall..........
Senator Henry C. Lodge

W. Murray ne

Senator John W.

Candidates Pledged to Roosevelt.
Charlies Sumner Bird
Grafton D. Cushing.
Augustus P, Gardner
R, M. Washburn

Of-the district dele dica-
tions at midnight were that the follow-
ing had been elected from the Congres-
sional districts:

Delegates Unpledged.

- William H. Brooks, Charles R. Hull.

. George A. Bacon, Alexander McCallum.

. Herbert E, Cummings, J. Lovell Johnson.

. W. A. L, Bazeley, Charles G. Washburn,

. Herbert BH. Pietcher, John N. Cole.

John L, Saltonstall, Edward R. Hale.

. Eugene B. Fraser, A. N. Frost.

George B. Wason, Wilton B, Fay.

a B. CR. gliey, Abraham cC. Rat-
schesky. :
11. Charles H. Innes, Warren F. Freeman.
12. J. Waldo Pond, Walter B. Grant.

rge H. Doty, Martin Hays.
15. Edward Thurston, Joseph Martin, Jr.
16. Charles L. Gifford, Tho F. Gi

\ Pledged to Roosevelt.

9.. Fred P. Greenwood, Alvah T. Fuller.
14. Henry L. Kincaide, C. Chester Eaton.

The showing made by the unpledged
forces in the campaign for district dele-
gates came as a complete surprise to the
other side. The defeat of the Roosevelt
delegates in the Sixtn Congressional
District represented by Augustus P.
Gardner, one of the Roosevelt delegates
at large, came as a stunning blow to
the managers of the campaign for the
pledged delegation.

Congressman Gardner when asked to
comment on fe victory of the “ straight
goods ’’ delegates over those pledgeq to
the Colonel said:

“It was a pity the vote was so light,
but I suppose 4 majority of 15,000 would
have been too great to overco even
with a bigger vote. Of course “there js
this to consider that the candidates on
the ‘“‘ unpledged ’’ ticket were the most
prominent Republicans in the State,
while those pledged to Colonel Roose-
velt were not of first presiornes. I be-
lieve the result would have been very
different had We used a ballot by which
the voters could have cast their ballots
directly for the Presidential nominee of
their choice. Under said circumstances
I firmly believe Colonel Roosevelt would
have defeated anv other candidate, not
aveg, excluding Justice Hughes, by 15,-

Commenting on the primary results
Governor McCal]l said tonight: “I am
naturally gratified that the unpledged
delegates were elected. The campaign
has been conducted without rancor, and
I feel sure that it will have no ill et-
fects upon the party.”’

here was one candidate for’ district
delegate in the field pledged to the
nomination of Justice Hughes. He was
Charles H. Brown of Medford, runnin
in the Eighth Congressional Districe
Returns indicate his defeat.

der to avoid friction at a time when a

peaceful solution of the troubles of the’
two countries was so near at hand.
Mexican officials in Juarez may make
recommendations to General Carranza
asking that the conference -between
General Scott and General Obregon be
held at some other point than Juarez or
El Paso. ‘This move, if it is made, will
onthe strong interventionist
eeling here ‘and in the fear that in-
luences adverse to the de facto Gov. |!
ent might be brought to bear on’
the . erees. Interventionists have .
eaused friction by circulating rumors,
of outrages committed on Americans by ;
Mexicans and of the destruction by |
Mexican mobs of American property.
asly ex-.
aggerated: or -purely im nary. and
have caused deep resentment on the
part of the Mexican officials in Juarez.
-~Dhe__‘* Rumorists’* have fought san-
guinary Patties in. the last few days at
atevo, San Antonio, Samiqus a, Parral,
and points east and west, but every re-
report received here from the in-

No returns indicating even approxi-
mately the vote cast for the Democratic
delegates at large were available up to
midnight. There was no contest, all
the delegates at ee ge being pledged to
the renomination of President ilson.
There was little interest and a very light
vote in the Democratic primaries.

Apathy in the Campaign.

Despite ideal Spring weather that
shgyld have brought the voters. out: in
great numbefs the vote throughout the’
entire State was very light. From the
edrly returns {t would appear that less
‘than. half the’ vote. of four years ago
was cast. The lack of interest was
particularly marked in this city, where
every district,.except those in the’ Back

:Bay district, fell far behind the vote of

other years,
Generally the light vote is regarded
here as reflecting the apathy which has

‘been noticeable tnroughout the. carn-
‘paign,-which was in marked contrast to

fen!

| apparently

Eight British Airmen Rout Turkish Force
. Near Suez Canal with a.Shower of Bombs,

LONDON, ‘April 25.—Hight © British
aeroplanes: bombarded-the hostile camp
at Quatia in Egypt, near the Suez
Canal, it was. announced officially to-
day. The camp. was destroyed, and the
hostile troops, the aviators reported,

: began to withdraw from that
district, - ©

“The statément on the recent operations
in the vicinity of Quatia says:

,* With reference tothe fighting in the
Quatia district on April 23, the general
officer .commanding in Egypt reports
that it was of a more severe character
than at first intimated. The defense_of
Dueidar. was gallantly. maintained by
one company of Royal Scots. The enemy
cagualties amounted to seventy killed,
and he left-behind twenty-eight prisoners
taken by us, and war material amount-
ing _to5,000. rounds of small-arm am-
munition, four machine-gun belt boxes
full, twenty-eight shells, and . eighty
rifles, ‘

*‘The pursuing column mentioned in
yesterday’s report took several .more
prisoners,, Our aeroplanes effected se-
vere casualties with bombs and machine
gun fire. Ore of our mounted: brigades
Was engaged’all day with the enemy.

“On April 24 eight aeroplanes took
part in an attack on the eneniy camp
near Quatla, effecting a complete sur-

prise. The hostile camp was destroyed.
The enemy suffered severe casualties
from bombs dropped and from machine
gun fire. ;
“There was no further fighting on
the 24th, and the enemy appeared to be
withdrawing from the Quatia district.”

In an official statement, from London
yesterday it was said’ a hostile: column
8,000 strong had attacked the. village
of Quatia, compelling the withdrawal of
the defending small force after a-severe
engagement.
battle an action occurred in the neigh-
borhood of Dueidar, which: was attacked
by 500 men. This force was beaten off

after British reinforcements had been

brought up. It was said the known cas-
ualties Of ‘the hostile \. detachment
amounted to forty killed, in addition to
which thirty men were .m prisoners..
The presence-near th
hostile organized forces.in such numbers
had not been disclosed préviously.
Quatia is twenty-five miles east of the
canal, on a road to El Kantara, where
the Turks made their previous unsuc-
cessful attempt to reach the canal. This
attack was made in November of 1916,
and since that time, so far as has been
known, no-organized efforts have been
made by the Turks to invade Egypt.

MORGENTHAU QUITS
AS ENVOY 10 TURKEY

Will Take Active Part in Presi-
dent Wilson’s Campaign
for Re-election.

WILL ‘ORGANIZE LEAGUE

Of Nonpartisan Supporters of Ad-
ministration—Elkus Expected
to be Sent to Turkey.

Special to The New York Times.

WASHINGTON, April 25.—Henry Mor-
genthau of New York ,nas tendered to
President Wilson his resignation as Am-
bassador to Turkey. No action has Been
taken on the resignation, but it is as-
sured that the President will accept it.
Mr. Morgenthau has been credited with
an intention to leave the Diplomatic
Service, and, according to gossip here,
Abram. I. Elkus of New York will be of-
fered the Ambassadorship to Tu-key.

The purpose of Mr. Morgenthau in re-
signing is to enable him to take an ac-
tive part in the forthcoming political
campaign in behalf of President Wilson.
When he -eturned to the United States
from Constantinople last February he

close friends and supporters of the Ad-
ministration a plan for the formation of
a league in the interest of Mr. Wilson’s
re-election, this league to be composed
of ‘business men and others, and to in-
clude in its membership independents
and. persons formerly affiliated with
other political parties who were willing
to support the Democratic cause this

ear.

7 While Mr. Morgenthau was willing to
take charge of the formation of- the
league, he felt that he could not: remain
i this pit A engaged in political work
while he retained his Ambassadorial of-
fice. Men. prominent in the Adminis-
tration urged him not to resign, and
expressed the opinion that there would
be no fmpropriety in his remaining in
the Diplomatic rvice.

At Mr. poramorness home last night
it was sgid that no statement could be
made. on the subject of his resignation.

rters were told to call the Ambas-
sador'in the morning, that he would see
no one until then.

DR. STEIN FALLS DEAD
TALKING TO DOCTORS

Brother-in-Law of Henry Mor-
genthau Stricken on Rostrum
at Academy of Medicine.

Dr. Richard Stein, a prominent physi-
cian and a brother-in-law of Henry
Morgenthau,, Ambassador to Turkey,
dropped dead last night of apoplexy
while reading a paper before the Metro-
politan Medical Society at the New York
Aéademy of Medicine, in West Forty-
third Street. “

Dr. Stein was apparently in the best
of health when he ascerided the rostrum,
shortly aftet 10 o’clock. He had been
reading possibly for fifteen ‘minutes
when he suddenly let go his hold, on the
desk before him and fell backward. The
thirty physicians present gathered
around him. Several applied artificial
respiration ‘and powerful heart stimu-
lants were used, but death had been in-
stantaneous, for all their efforts failed
to bring a trace of life. ~
“The: body was left on the platform
where he had fallen pending the action
of Coroner Feinberg, who: gave permis-
sion at. once for its removal: In the
meantime Mr. Morgenthau had been
notified and he went first to the Acad-
emy building and’ then to the home of
Dr. Stein, at 79 East Seventy-ninth
Street, where he broke the. news to Mrs.
Stein, who isa sister of-Mrs. Morgen-
thau. The agi nl Stein was still

lemy a night, w

his diese friends fn the qooleenen att
"*Dr. "stein was born fifty-five years
ago in. Bohemia. He was a graduate of
the College of the City of New York,
and his medical degree was from the
University of.Berlin. He stood high as
a generul practitioner and gave special
attention, to. diseases of the heart.

- Dr, Stein was visiting physician to
the German andthe Lebanon Hospitals.
He was a member of the American Med-
ical. AssociatiOn,. the New York Acad-

Medicine, the County Medical

my of
Boclety, the Pathological Society, and
the etre itan Medical ety, the
last of ch he. was addressing at the
time of his death. Figs
The society, whose. meeting was
brought to an abrupt close, was to have
been enter ed. by Drs. J. ‘Peschner
and P. Fridenberg. The members of
the organization, several of.whom were
seen last night at the Academy, ex-
pressed their deep sorrow over the death
of their coll ée.. They said, however,
that, as his life had. been so given to
the advancement .of peeere Medicine,

it -w: n ing wi
rol sion that he s

laid bafore Secretary McAdoo and other |

, American « Revolution.

evotion to
: : ad to t

BERNSTOREF MUST
IDENTIFY PAPERS

Lansing Decides Envoy Can
Have Only Those That He
Declares Official.

PRECEDENT FOR DECISION

Washington Sees Possibility of a
) Diplomatic Snarl Qver the
von Igel Documents.

Special to The New York Times.

WASHINGTON, April .—Secretary
Lansing has decided to give to Count
von Bernstorff, the German Ambassa-
dor; only those documents which the
Ambassador identifies as ‘official ”’
from among the papers taken from the
raided New York office of Wolf von
Igel of the German Embassy staff, who
was arrested by Department of Justice
agents in connection with the plot to
destroy the Welland Canal.

It ‘Was learned today that the Secre-
tary of State is determined in the stand
he has taken not to authorize the re-
turn of any of these papers until and
unless they are identified by the Am-
bassador as. being ‘' official,””. which
means that they must be claimed as
Embassy records. Officials of the Gov-
ernment will not attempt to identify
any papers as official. The identifica-
tion must be made by the Ambassador

or someone designated to represent his

Embassy. Papers not identified as of-
ficial will be held by the Government.

Should some documents be claimed as
official, such identification is expected

to prove embarrassing to the Embassy

because it would be regarded as linking

the Embassy with knowledge of illegal

activities covered by these Particular

documents,

The fact that the- Administration is
determined to make an issue over the
return of the papers is likely to pre-
cipitate a stiff diplomatic row unless
the German Ambassador should with-
draw his demand for the return of all
the von Igel papers. There had been in-
timations during the past few days that
this Government might be willing to
permit the return of all the von Igel
documents. The fact that only such doc-
uments as Count von Bernstorff may
identify as ‘‘ official’* may be claimed
indicates that the Administration has
decided to take a firm stand in the
matter.

It became evident today that this Gov-
ernment is prepared to resist Count*von
Bernstorff’s claim that all papers be-
longing to diplomatic agents are im-
mune from seizure. . ;

An interesting precedent that may,
and probably wil!, be 'nvoked during the
consideration of the claims made on
behalf of the German Embassy for the

réturn of ‘the papers Was discov. is
ay. he Prussian Gdvernment. rates
than a century ago virtually acquiesced
in a pr ch ag | of (American diplo-
matic papers by British diplom
had been sent to Bertin’ nol oa

pobre gM dect Sa wie Erpies of thank tees
made by the Britis’ iniste
ve _ “4 oo + Same
Trederic e reat, then
Prussia, despite the fact that iene one
pers were taken by the diplomatic repre-
sentative of a nation with which the
American colonists were then at war
Prussia having recognized the belliger-
ency of the colonists, did not demand the
recall of the British Minister
charged with having planned
fected the seizure. The United States
Government has never torgotten this
rifling of an American diplomatic agent’s
‘‘red box ’’ in Berlin, and is expected to
renort to ews ners Sa precedents
n its treatment of the diploma t
of the von Igel case. 3 He Ce

ASK TRUCKMAN ABOUT PLOT.

Grand Jury Hears from Men Dr.
Schule Employed.

The Federal Grand Jury, which is con-
tinuing the investigation into alleged
German bomb manufacturing plots,
strikes at munition plants’ and steam-
ship piers and the expenditure. by Franz
Rintelen. and other German secret
agents . of money. in. propaganda work,
had before it yesterday afternoon three
Hoboken truckmen—E: Hiney, Frederick
Rittman, and Frederick Conway... They
were interrogated by Assistant United
States District Attorney Wood regardin
their employment. by. Dr. Walter
Scheele, the chemist. who Operated the
factory of the New Jersey cultural
Chemical Company at Twelfth and Clin-
ton Streets, Hoboken. ‘

. Mr. Wood said yesterday that. among
the papers found in von Igel’s office
were some which illuminated evidence
already in Ln (soe > of the Govern-
ment concerning the first Welland Canal
lot. These papers indicéte, he added,
hat the plot to destroy the canal did not
necessitate an expenJitu,e of more than
$1,000, and out of this came the money
used te purchase 300 pounds of dyna-
mite, and to pay the expenses of the
t to Niagara Falls, N. Y::
gel’s arraignment is. now set for
next Monday morning before Tose Har-
iend B. cba the United States Dis-

who was
and per-

Suez Canal of

during the

Simultaneously with cae Sir Roger Casement in London for Trial : ; "sp

|<  . -He is Detained. in Military Custody

The announctment follows:

in military. custody.

_ LONDON, Wednesday, April 26—It was announced officially. yes-
terday that Sir Roger Casenient had ‘been brought to

_Sir Roger Casement, who was arrested in connectiog with
an abortive attempt to land’ arms in Ireland from a German
vessel, was brought to London’on Sunday morning.. He was met
at Euston by officers from Scotland Yard, and is now detained

It is understood evidence of his proceedings

‘London ‘for trial...

in Germany

since the outbreak of the war will be produced at his. trial.-

‘BRITISH HOUSES
IN SECRET SESSION

Curzon and Rosebery Resume
Their Seats in the Lords for
the Momentous Occasion.

GREAT PRECAUTIONS TAKEN

Even Ventilator Sealed to Pre-
vent Eavesdropping—Recruit-
ing Plan to be Made Public.

LONDON, Wednesday, April 26.—The
most crowded houses since the war be-
gan were drawn to Westminster Palace
yesterday by the excitement attending
the secret session of Parliament,

coupled with the news of various
stirring incidents. ° Earl .Curzon made
his first. appearance in the House of
Lords since his illness. The Earl of
Rosebery, who had not been seen there
since the commencement of the war,
‘also was in his seat.** The interest of
the public was shown by -the large
crowd which assembled to watch the
atrival of the Ministers and members. »

Extraordinary precautions were taken
to prevent unauthorized persons. over-
hearing the proceedings. All. the doors
leading to the House of Commons not
only were locked but secured by pad-
locks which had been specially pro-
vided, while the police searched every
nook and cranny. of the great building,
scoured the vaults and underground
cotridors, and even. sealed the grille of
the ventilator in the floor of the cham-
ber so that nothing said could by any
chance reach the éars of any one below.

Traditional customs were followed in
the House of Commons. which was open
asp usual to attachés, representatives of
the press, and spectators until the ‘end
of the question period. At that time
Premier Asquith observed the ancient
practice of taking notice that strangers
were present. The question was put
that strangers myst be ordered to with-
draw,.which does not permit of. debate
or amendment. Beforé the house was
adjourned at night it was arranged that
the sitting should be resumed today
under similar conditions,

In the House of Lords the only pro-
cedure was to give notice that no one
exvept members would be permitted in
the Chamber.

The Marquis of Crewe, Lord President
of the Council, in moving that the sitting
be in secret, made.a statement on behalf
of the Government why this course
should be adopted. Although the mem-

the Cabinet. were all set on the
pc Paar dlbewec of a victory, the Marquis
said, they did not agree concerning the
number of men or the kind sf men who
were available-for service‘in the army
and navy, nor did they agree as to the
proper means for securing those who
were available.

The course which the Government Le
posed to recommend to Parliament might
not meet with.
of either extreme views, and therefore
it was the Government's duty to récom-
mend it.as far. as possible to the opinion
of Parliament as a whole, which neéces-
sitated the making of a statement. con-
taining confidential information. Hence
the Government had decided to hold.a
secret session, ‘‘ publishing at an early
date a considered description of. ‘the
proposal which the\Government in due
course would make ‘to Parliament and

ountry.’’
thene Marquis of Lincolnshire as Lord
Great Chamberlain explained that, in
accordance with the hereditary duties
of his office, he had taken steps to see
that the secrecy would be “‘ most strict-

d solemnly coeerves He had, he
said caused a search be made “of
the whole -House, the lobbies, and the
vaults below.”’

Special Cable to THN NEW YORK TIMEs.

LONDON, Wednesday, April 26.—The
Daily Chronicle's Parliamentary corre-
spondent says. this morning of yester-
day's secret-session:

“The stringent and comprehensive
second paragraph of the néw Order in
Council, forbidding ‘ any person or news-
paper publishing any report of or pur-
porting to describe or refer to the pro-
ceedings at any Cabinet,’ pleases nobody
but its authors, and the» House may
have something to say on.the subject:
To a question by Sir H. Dalziel-as‘to
whether the House would have an early
opportunity of discussing it, Premier
a replied with a request for a
notice.

‘*At 3:12, Asquith, whose rising was
a signal for a cordial outburst of ap-
plause,® addressjng the Speaker, said:

‘fact that. strangers are présent.’ The
use of this formula precluded the possi-
bility of debate, ‘the tty Magne i> 4 that in
these circums s the Speaker has ‘to
(put the question forthwith without dis-
cussion, <A tj

“On -Mr.. Lowther putting it>to the
House; that strangers, be .ordered’ to
withdraw, there were many. cries of dis-
sent, and it seemed as if the opponents
of a secret session would challenge the
division. After ‘a lapse of a few mo-
'ménts the Speaker again put the ques-
tion, and.the dissentients were now less’
pi hag f one solitary Voice eaainian ~

in Thereupon. th tion wag!
y. Seneral 8 da. oe eta

oral an

ith the full desires of persons |’

“severely. The British flagship’ Lion was

Sir, I beg‘to call your attention to the || 1914.

‘and -sank.

‘ ough, and

SEA AND AIR RADD
ON ENGLISH COAST

Two Zeppelins Driven Off
After Brief. Fight.

SHIPS BOMBARD LOWESTOFT

Four Persons Killed on Shore—
Three British Vessels: Hit
and Aviator Lost.

LONDON, April 25.—German warships
and Zeppélins attacked fhe east coast of
England early today, but were’ driven
off after a brief engagement. by. British
warships and aeroplanes.. One English
air pilot was wounded and another As
missing, with his aeroplane.

The German naval fleet—battle cruis-
ers, light cruisers, destroyers, and sub-
marines—appeared off Lowestoft at 4:30
A. M. Local: naval forces and British
light cruisérs, with aircraft, engaged the
raidérs. The Germati warshiptifetreat-
G8 ih twenty minutes. ae

The German warships opened
the coast before departing. ’
one woman, ands child were killed. The
material damage done -apparently was
small. Bee ,

In the engagement two British light

cruisers and a- destroyer were hit, but
none of them were sunk. :

The Official Reports.

The. following official announcement
was made:

At about 4:30 o’clock this morning
the German battle cruiser squadron,
accompanied by light cruisers.and de-
stroyers, appeared off Lowestoft. The
local naval force engaged it and in

. about twenty minutes it returned to
Germany,: chased by our light cruisers
and destroyers.

On shore tWo men, one woman, and
a child: were killed. The material dam
age seems to have been insignificant,
so far. as is known at present. Two
British light cruisers and a destroyer
were hit, but none were sunk.

A later official statemént contained
this information: *

During the operations against the
German battle cruiser squadron off
the east coast two Zeppelins were
pursued by nayal and land machines
over sixty miles out to sea. Bombs
and darts were dropped, but apparent-
ly without serious effect. .

An aeroplane and a’ seaplane at-
tacked the: German -ships.off Lowe-
stoft, dropping heayy» bombs. Four
enemy submafines also were attacked
by mbs. One seaplane came under
a heavy fire from the hostile fleet, but
the pilot, although seriously wounded,
succeeded: in bringing his machine
gis ey * back be eg F

S regrette at one pit, is Te-
ported missing. He ascended uring
the Zeppelin raid earlier, in the :morn-
‘ing and appears from reports to have
attacked a Zeppelin off Lowestoft at
ahout 1:05 A. M. He has not: been
heard from since,

PREVIOUS NAVAL RAIDS.
Several Since the War Began—in
.Ones130 Persons’ Were ‘Killed.

Lowestoft, bonibarded yesterday by at
German fleet, is on‘the’North’Sea ocest
of England; to the northeast of London..
It is ‘almost opposite. The Hague and is
the most easterly town in England. It is.
a fishing station and a fashionable sea-
shore resort. Its population -is about

On previous occasions during the war
attacks on the English coast have been
made by German warships. ‘The most
important raid was made on Dec. 16,
1914. The towns of Scarborough, Whit-
by, and Hartlepool, about 150 miles
north of Lowestoft, were bombarded and
about 130 persons Wwére killed. Aided
by fog, the German vésse’y escaped.

On Jan. 24,1915, a further atzempt of
the kind Avas. made, but the German
squadron.was. met, off Dogger Bank by
the British battle cruiser squadron
under Vice Admiral Sir David Beatty.
On being sighted the Gérmans made for
home at high speed. Theis rear ship,
the Bluecher, was sunk, and two other
cruisers’ were set on fire and damaged

disabled by a&° shot in one of fer feed
tanks and was towed home. ’

The first German naval raid on the
British coast. was made on Nov. 3, |.

Three. battle cruisers. the. Seyd-
litz, Moltke, and Von'der Tann, the ar-
mored:cruisers Bluecher and. Yorek,; and
the protected. cruisers Kolberg, Grau-

denz, and »
evenkne of

mouth and Lowesto:
minutes . and Wek

submarine—the D-
sue, thé, Germ

for about
returned. A

Britek
» but struck ;
. The » Yore cute
as by bier ows. bea Nara om
n e@..9 cn, Hartle 3 arbor-
Whitby, the: German. cruisers

poured ‘a hail of snhels into the ‘towns
for an hour and a half, and in addition

also struck a)

ia shy Targe

MILITARY LOSE 12° KIGLES

British. Government only Dublin is.sfs.

ing. trouble have been current in London,

and the Irish pa) ;

mation of an a

Strassburg, left rt, a frai

Nov. 2, and at dato ap) ve =

off, Yarmouth. The A bombarded. Yar- | da
half-column report from its

5—attempted to pur- «there.

ped the earl
y York

But Government . ! é

Trouble Is in Hand al
~ Has Not Spread,
SINN FEIN SOCIETY.
Outbreak Is Almost . :
_with Casement’s <Attem
_ to Land German Arms,”

aoe

Score of: Regulars, V

and Police Wounded—Losses
of Rebels Not, Given) © ~

LONDON, Wednesday, April 26.—Al<

most coincidental, with the capture of

Sir Roger Casement, leader. of the :

Separatist faction in. Ireland, w

break of considerable proportions. ©. | As
So far as has been announced’ by. the

feeted.- Here serious fighting took
Meifaay . be ¢en regular troops, : y
teers, an@ policemen: against m
bers of the Binn Fein Society who 1
captured the Post Office’ and: Stephe:
Green and nimerous houses in™
Parts of the city. a em
‘Three of the officers of: the troops, ;
four or five soldiers, two. volunteers; °
and two policemen were killed, and
about a score of others wounded. ‘The —
losses of the revolutionists have not _
been made known... .. . gs Poe!
, The Government last evening 4
that the military. authorities: had
situation well in hand.: »The?of;
statement. said: eS ot
_ances ‘proke out-in Dublin.
party 2 men’ identified

with the

foreibiy’ of the Poane
orcibly o © Post Offic
cut the telegraphic and om
wirer. Houses also were
Stephens Green, Sackville §
bey Street, and along the quay
In the course. of: the . day - sole
arrived from the Curragh
situation is now well in hand.-
as is known here, three military
wre. Feel or ag soldiers, two 0}
olunteers an ° licemen' ‘ha
been killed and four or five sailiters ©
officers and seven or eight idiers~
and six volunteers wounded.:
~act information has been receiv: }
the casualties on the side of the Sta
Feiners: :
Reports received ‘from Cork,
ick, Ennis, Tralee, and both ridi
of Tipperary show that no disturb-
ances of any kind have occurred in
these localities. '

The first announcement of. the trouble 2
was made in the House of Commons —
yesterday by Augustine Birrell,. Chief -
Secretary for Ireland, who said that the
situation was well in hand,* but’ that
communication with Dublin was still. dit-
ficult. There had been several arrests __
there, but he could not give the names,
he said. ~ 4 eee

While the only details surrounding the
situation are the meagre ones contained | :
in the official announcements Govern-

pole

ment .officials expressed the opinion that — ti

with Sir Roger Casement and‘ two’ot —
his aids in prison in London the troops
were in’control of ‘the situation. ' :

The arrest of Sir Roger Casement. was
dealt with by The Pall Mall Gagette:yés-
terday in an editorial which is exttemely
significant at this’ moment, but which,
for obvious reasons, ca-inot: be ate:
upon, sseuaeh

‘‘ Before Germany took the trouble: te
send arms to Ireland,” says the’ news- ~
paper, “she must have been satisfied
of the existence of agents in that. coun-
try who were prepared to: receive‘and
use them in her interests. That is te
say that there must have been active
communication between Irish: traitors
and their. confederates in Berlin despite *
all existing precautions of cerisoyship
and. supervision. tot eee

“‘ When-we find a force devoid of.arms
undergoing military training in Iréland
and a cargo of arms from our enemies _
seeking a landing place in that ‘country.
it. becomes highly desirable. that the —
connection, if any, betweeh these-two ~

striking phenomena should be more-fully

explained.’’ “+> ar %

LONDON HAD HEARD RUMORS. _

Failure to Avert Outbreak May Lead :
to Official Investigation. .: .
Special Cable to Tom NEw Yor~E Trima
“LONDON, Wednesday, April 26—The
bulk of informed. comment in London in’
regard to the outbreak. in Dublin was ex-
pressed in terms of astonishment that, in
view of the information which must have ~~
been in the possession of the authori-
ties as to the preparations for a rebel=.
lion, ‘which -was known -to bein mak-_
in, oO. preca nary adeq :
tor crush peyynemrnned Ser in its pre ros
were taken. ; eae
For some time past rumors of ‘impend<

rint. news of this nature, from Dubl
he Times about ten ‘ fay
bliin |

of the seditious

Birrell’s replies
tain Craig. ~

respondent

in Commons, to:
Kdward Carson and §
nh Crawford were described. by ~
bers of the Commons as brisi

‘pislnasane there

fata Sac a au ct

sua Not Entirely 2 Saingrtee:
RDND Cable to Tum New YORK Times
NDON;. Wednesday, April 26.—The

y, Chronicle’ this’ morning says: .
“The: ‘Sith Fein outbreak in Dublin
will not come quite as a bolt from. the
“Bite to atiy ‘one who has béeén keéping
~ dni touch ‘with Irish affairs. Ever since
volunteers under-Sir Edward

“os ay n’s leadership sét: the deplorable

. example of open lawlessness and armed
_ defiance of the Crown in the months

» ~ before the war thestemptation to all ex-

* ot te

“tremists on the other side of Bt. George's
_ hanna has been to preach violerice as
one. argument to which English Tule

# aunt ljsten.”’

-* Less than a month ago the Ulster
_ volunteers perpetrated a sénsational act

wiessness at Breagh, “néar Porta-
dawn. . ‘A~ large detachment of ‘them
with, rifles and ammunition marched. to

@ hall. which was being built for the| French Ar

~: Miberntans, utterly demolished it, and

subjected the houses of‘ local Roman
Catholics to a fusilade of phots. With
@uch provocation in the ‘North the
{@rmied strength of the Sinn: Fein must
have grown easily further south. The

# forces of disaffection seem, only to:have

* House

‘ be ell Ireland.
‘ bitter memories which last to this day..

hed, a. stage of rebellion.in the cap-

itself, where, as the Larkin strikes

"showed not long before the war, there

is aed deal , Men re asMaeer which
rk m

official co nt yoy

ve. the
number of casualties on the side

of the
Government as about a dozen killed and
«about twenty more wounded... zhey do
cRatieb, ner te -give- the
e ; nor pe MD they Fg omg ‘Sia we ‘{m-
n -sejzed ‘by, the rebels has
2 Mierinitaly recaptured. from them.
os th of these reticences papwest that
Sinn Feiners may still be holding
te, - We are also left in Sater dark as to
ether any connection hds been traced
etween the unsuccessful descent of
asemént.and his:Germans’on the Irish
coast on or about Good Friday morning
‘and poids Pr ole outbreak on Easter Mon-
rnoon. TM SY

ey, The whole business suggests an
ominous parallel to the aren’ of 1798,
with Casement inthe role of Wolfe
Tone. The 1798 om oy ion gave, the ene-
mies of Irish libe le which
enabled them to gh Ags in the Act of
Onions and stamp out home rule. It was
of the greatest disasters that ever

a harvest of

What must be dreaded now is that even
if order be s ily - red it may be
et a .cost in bleodshed which may
_rankle for er cannot =p
ng. too, a reaction}. illogical > ate! 9
‘would be, * azad nst the prospects of
eohstit tutional home rule.

. NEWS SURPRISES COMMONS.

ieianinds Over Birrell’s Statement
_—Sympathy Felt for Redmond.
Special Cable to THE New York Timss.
~* LONDON, Wednesday, April 26.—The
‘Dally Chronicle's Parliamentary corres-
- Pendent, discussing .the Dublin uprising
» a@nd-the Parliamentary session of yester--
day, says: —
““Not since the memorable occasion
«when Sir Edward Grey addressed the
of Commons under the grim
shadow of the impending war, on . the
. fret <Monday. in August; 1014, has the
House heen so crowded as it was "yes-
‘tefaay. -The members overflowed into

“athe; side galleries, and after the order
‘went forth for strangers to withdraw,

“Patches of them took up places in the

* @istinguished strangers’. gallery and

even invaded the emptying. press gal-
“lery, a part of the house from which or-
dinartly they are rigidly excluded.

, “The startling surprise was the news

> Sotmianicated bythe: Chief Secretary for

Ireland of the rebellious’ uprising in
‘“ublin: on Sunday; “which apparently

6iweasiptearranged to synchronize.- with

2‘ Cagement’s’ traitorous’ +aic:

een Nt aN TEN ATR SES

aerial eee Ca Sree ting 9 heart wae momen eee eer

. to indicate that any one

_Birreil’s
‘‘prief statement created an immense sen-
gation in the crowded house, and the
“members heard with relief his confident
aasurance that the situation in Dublin

* now is well in hand.’ ©

** Deep sympathy is felt for Redmond
ard his Ne tionallet colleagues on ac-
count of this deplorable affair in the
Irish capital. Ever since the outbreak
of the war he has played a noble
often in circumstances of great diffi
culty. ¢ Some implacable extremists In
Trelan ave pursued him with rancor-
ous hostility for his action in supporting
Britain in the war and for his wisdom
and foresight in linking the Irish cause
with that of the British democracy. But
when ee miserable authora of this ris-
ing in Dublin are forgotten time will as-
suredly vindicate the statesmanlike at-
titude of Redmond at . ae critical

that those who k know Ireland
well take 4 Hopeful view ofthe situa-
tion. A yast majority of the Matepel-
ists in Ireland’ stand achly by

ners have not
mtg ag rural
Bie 42 ne not enor
of w as no’ -
since the act of the nnion

IRISH ADVICES HERE
SAY REVOLT HAS SPREAD

But Local Irishmen Assert Noth-
ing Was Known of It Before-
hand in This Country. ©

_ pros
ence

nent leader in Irish-American affairs
last night, the revolt in Ireland has
spread to far greater extent than has
been given out by the British authori-
ties. It was affirmed that the news had
come from private sources in Ireland to
private individuals in Brooklyn here,
but no information could be obtained as
to the source of this information.

Genefal reluctance to express views as
to the uprising was manifested among
prominent Irishmen with few excep-
tions, and all united in declaring that nod
word of what was going to happen had
been known to any loyal oe seal e this
country beforehand. 2% + *

Federal officials, faritar “erie the
activities of German agents in this coun-
try, and of Irishmen who thave, been

identified with those activitiés,: said that A

there was no evidence in the possession
of the Federal authorities in New York
in America

© ‘Wes connected with the enterprise which
' hes landed Sir Roger Casement in the’
. Tower of London as a British prisoner.
* Assistant United States District Attor-
i mey Roger B, Wood, who has directed
.' the greater part of the Federal investi-

gation of alien activfies in this coun-

-. try, said that Ireland had hot figured in
+ those investigations up to the. present

thme.

Percy Alden of, London, who repre-

' gents one of the ‘London districts in the
> House of Commons, who is at the Bilt-
‘more, said that -he was inelined to think

|} that the affair was ‘not'.so sefious as |,

* gome of the reports indicated.

Jeremiah O'Leary, President of the

iy Anierican Truth Society, who has car-
’ ried on an active propaganda in the
/ United States against the British, sald:

“1 believe that Irish-Americans aré

be. as much in the dark about thé revolt as

other American pitizens, My attention
has been called to « Washington dis-
published last night in The Eve-

Post in which it has been stated.
‘eértain Irish-Americans were in-

4 in the papers that were seized in

‘ic * Bialer By entonagan 5 S08. sPhy

According to a statement of a promi- Germ

vementa in the
br being abst any pt ae

Precedent of Tore. et

“ Awto Sir Roger Casement, his exploit: bag Yo

Pita

NaI with: as much surprise.as ‘his| ~

et departure trom.the United States.

We have heard from the press of hig ef-
forts to enlist Irish soldiers: among the
Trigh prisoners. in Germany's hands
We have received from time to ‘time
pamphiets that aré the products of his
pen. Reports have reached us that’ he
renounced his British citizenship and
became a subject of Germany. We

Goubt this, but if it is true, the fact}. .
may change his whole status as..a- "Ros

litical prisaner In the hands of ‘Great:

‘Britain.

“ His case is an exact ‘parallel with

was devoted to Irish liberty.: He was
expatriated from Ireland in 1794, -and,.
like Casement, spent two yecx8 in the
a Eat dened t i. pee aes for
ance and u he ni vern-
ent to undertake an invasion of Ire-
fand just as Casemént’ has done today.
Hé was appointed an. officer in the
my.. It may very. wel be that
Sir Roger Casement — accepted a
commission in the German Army,

** Tone started for Ireland with, an ex-
pedition from France and was taken
prisoner by the British after.a skirmish
at Lough Swilly. He was tried. by court-
martial at Dublin, convicted of treason,
and sentenced to be hanged in forty-
eight hoursf. The French Government
imtervened, assertin ¢ ‘that he was a po-
litical prisoner, and the. Wa a rt-
; Great Brit Britain sent @ stay
ecution r en the.s ne ar~ |
rived Tone was Sound dead in his cell, 4
his captors easorting that he committed
sulci, while pis riends- ave ways
conten he was murd r

The Directors of ,the tepolag  ESR
Societies in New York City after a
meeting last night authorized the state-
ment that Casement was not a renégade
any ry than George Washington.

ey .Ba

.* Several metropolitan newspa era
have referred to Sir Roger Casement as
a ‘traitor’ and ‘ renegade.’ We desire
to call to the attention of the American
——_ that. the only crime Sir Roger

asement has commited has been that.
me loves his country evé nto death, if

ecessary; He did what Washington and

the American patriots did, and now,

+ > strange colncidence, ‘their foe is

° The United States was created b
revolution. ow that the nation is tic
and great, is is no: time to asperse
the motives and conduct of men that
are ly following our noble example.

eel confident that the American

people, exclusive of interested eleménts,
not approve of: the attempts to be-
Sirs the patriotic efforts or Sir Roger

Casement and others to obtain the lib-
erty of Ireland.”*

Crazy Man, Says Crimmins.

John D. Crimmins saw in Sir Roger's
act only the deed of a crazy man.

* It is all rot,"’ said Mr. Crimmins, “ to
class Casement with a man like George
Washington. Sir Roger is crazy. Some
who are‘concerned believe him a real
hero; that’s what he hag tried to make
of himself. There were no reasons for
that expedition to Ireland. The ‘revolt
which it caused jig greatly to be de-
plored. . It is-q terrible shame.”

Magistrate McAdoo: declined to ex-
Press his opinions, saying that a man in
his position had to keep out of politics,
either international or local.

“You can say for me,’’ he said, “ that,
as the head of twenty-eight Magistrates’
Courts; in which come every day people
of every country of Europe, I can
scarcely, \with propriety, say anything
On.this subject of a revolt in Ireland.
But I will tell you this much: Like
every other man, i have my convictions,

even though I don’t feel it proper to
express them.”’

nis Spelissy, a lawyer of 256 Broad-
way, e Chairman of the Executive
Committee of the United Irish-American
Bectetias said .
Sir Bacmng Casement's activities
exposing) cruelties in Brazil ~ 9 th
ee £ ow a strong. feelin ‘sym-
soe ‘for his fellowmen. Ry not
islike the Bri tish ,to any such extened ti
as they hated him

Robert Ford, managing editor of .The
Irish World, said: serge

“*T can’t see now how any real. Irish-
man can help rejoicing that the step has
ee: taken or hoping that it will suc-

Justice John W. Goff and former Su-
preme Court Justice Mo = . O’Brien
refused to discuss the matt

IRISHMEN MINIMIZE REVOLT.

Chicagoans Assert Dublin Uprising
Will Be Quickly Crushed,
Special to The New York Times.

CHICAGO, April 25.—That the Dublin
rebellion jis only a futile attempt by a
small mijpority, aided by outsiders,
fomented by a paid group of agitators,
and is foredoomed to failure, is the
opinion of Chicagoans of Irioh birth or
descent.

“It’s bound to fail,’’ declared P. T.
Barry, local represeritative of John Red-
mond and the Nationalist Party. ‘‘ It
cannot possibly succéed, for the great
majority of the Irish ‘people are
against it.

“This. talk about Ireland being. in
sympathy with Germany is false. The
Irish people have long ago cast their
lot on the side of the Allies and are
fighting for them.

“The reportéd uprising ia Dublin is
not an expression of Irish sentiment.

It’s the sentiment of a few professional
Irishmen who receive. compensation for
their’ ees It is Irishmen of. this
kind “who are fomenting the present re-

beltion in Dublin.”
with the

fs Sat not in William 3.
Ona han.
“Let it’ ten ~ Hd mber that 200,000

len og are at the front fighting Ger-
man

“TI don’t believe ‘the’ Dublin outbreak
will amount to much,” declared Will-
jam Dillon, brother of John Dilion,

GIFT OF JAMES STILLMAN.

He Sends $20,000 to Ald Widows’
of French Soldiers.

NICE, April 25.—Jamés Stillman, the
New York banker, has sent a check for

‘100,000 francs tO ‘the Prefect of -the

Alpes-Maritimes Department, to be
shared among: the widows of soldiers
killed; in battle who have at least three
young children.

James Stil man has m made several gitts
Me A pone ‘in France. - One of

t recent benéfactions was a ai

merican Relief Clear-
ing House, with

eadquarters in Paris.

EXTEND LINE ON TIGRIS.

British Drive tn Turkish Advance
Pickets Before Sannayyat.

LONDON, April 25.—The following of-
ficial communication concerning the
operations in Mesopotamia was made
public today:

Porcnee Gen. Sir Percy Lake, in a
tch dated Monday, says:
rs th 22! Rag oe no important wr

right
fgria we “ i hold ithe ‘itty run-*“

‘weletions

tom B
ged ee morning to
Gavin — the cnemy’'s -

left. bank we -
Pike "bansé ine as before fac-

nayyat position.”

CONSTANTINOPLE, ‘oti 28, (via
London.)—The official communication
rete here Monday night says:

front: Owing to the
the" is at some points we were
ble to al aoa e the enemy who were
be ipeffecuvely. bouiearded. Our pos!
tions near fee hie. pos

ome of our tr6o) 3 ag
med wi

we in” and
th southward
advance D
aa ll hol
ing

diers |

ft} a “belligerent is entitled to detain

rishik” ot |

Based on Admitted Principles of

International Law, Says- -
"+ Latest Note.

Als a a

PLEADS: ‘MODERN CHANGES |=

{that of\Theobald Wolfe Tone, the Irish |.
patriot of the days of 1788. Wolfe Tone.

Its ‘Enforcement Held “to be

Carefully Adjusted to New

Conditions of Warfare.
STRIVES TO AID NEUTRALS

Government Said to be Doing All in
Its Power to Limit incon-
veniences to Trade.

WASHINGTON, April 25.—The latest
British note in answer to Amierican
protests against allied interference with
neutral trade, made public tonight at
the Staté Department, contends that the
practices complained of aré ‘ juridical-
ly’ sound and valid” and that the re-
lief which neutrals seek is rather to be
obtained by. the mitigation of necessary
hardships than by “abrupt changes
either in the theory or application of
a policy based upon admitted princi-
ples of international law carefully ad-
justed to the altered ee of mod-
ern warfare.”

It discloses that ‘‘an:impartial and
influential commission” has been ap-
pointed to find ways to minimize de-
lays, and pledges the Allies to make
their restraints on trade as little bur-
densome to neutrals as possible. The
note, in which the French Government
concurs, reiterates the military necessity
of regulating commerce to neutrals
contiguous to Germany, and justifies the
effectiveness of the blockade which was
challenged by the last American note.
More diplomatic correspondence over the
issue is expected to follow.

Neutral Rights in Balance.

The unanimity of sentiment among
the world’s neutrals for the protection
of neutral rights is recognized in the
British note,..which refers to the sub-
ject in terms embracing not the rights
of trade alone, It saya in conclusion:

‘““His Majesty's Government have
noted with sincere satisfaction the inti-
mation contained in the concluding pas-
sages of the United States note of the
intention of the United States to un-
dertake the task of Senanoning the in-
tegrity of neutral rights.

The first act of this war was the
unprovoked invasion by the enemy of
neutral territory—that of Belg!
which, he was solemnly pledged by
treaty to protect. The disregard of neu-
tral righ has since been extended
to naval warfare by the wanton de-
struction of neutral merchant ehips on
the high seas, regardless of the lives

those on board. Hib Majesty's Gov-
ernment welcome dny. combination of
neutral nations, under the lead of the
United States, which would exert an
effective influence to prevent the wie-
lation of neutral rights, and. they
not believe that ey

ve much.to fear from an
‘tfon for thé protection of t
hich kes an impartial con's com mare

hensive view of the conduct, of this wa

hd tudes Jey it"by: aa tay ereenied é interpreta-

ye rareted sw
ea s of Antderath i t
rules ‘of htimanity that have “hi erto
been approved b the civilized world.”’

At the outset the note suggests that
the American ym is not so much
that shipments in ercepted really were
intended for usé in the Buropean neu-
tral countries to which they were dis-
patched as that the dispatch of goods
to Great Britain's enemy had been frus-
trated by a né& hitherto employed
by belligerents

“It would seem,’ says the note, “to
be a fair reply to bale a contention that
new devices for dispatching goods to
the me must be met by new methods
of appl he ng the fundamental and ac-
nowle ghee a of the right to
Mtercept e such tra

Sea Search Difficult. .

At some length the note argues the
impossibility of making searches at sea
for various reasons, among which are
weather, the size of modern steamships,
and the manner in which contraband
has been concealed. A report from Ad-
miral Sir John Jellicoe, commander of
the grand fleet, based upon his ex
riences of eighteen months, is inclu ed
After, summing up the circumstances
which it is contended work for less

hardship upon trade by sending ships
to port for search instead of searching
them at sea, b danger
of subinarine attack while search is in
progress, Admiral Jellicoe’s report con-
clu “ by saying:

e difference between the British
and. a A German. procedure is that we
have — in the.way which causes the
least discomfort to neutrals. Instead of
sinki neutral ships 6 in t le
with the enemy, as the Germans have
done in s0 many cases, in piven con-
travention of their own requis.
tions, we examine them; rae as
inconvenience as modern naval condi-
tions will allow, sending them into
only where this becomes necessary

The note adds that a fu ar reason
for taking ships into harbor is th
necessity for ¢lose oe of al
suspected 8, which has been made
necessary by ‘ the German practice of
spteueing United States passports to pro-

ré a safe conduct for military persons
and agents.’

Proofs of Destination:

At great length the note discusses the
question of proofs of the destination of
contraband.

“The right of a belligerent to inter-
cept contraband on its way to his en-
emy,’’ it says, ‘‘is fundamental and in-
contestablo, and ought not to be re-
stricted to intercepting contraband which
happens: to be accompanied on board
the ship by proofs sufficient to con-
demn it. at is essential ig to deter-
mine whether or not the roods were on
their way to the enemy. If they boat

and having seenre to the nature of the
struggle in which the Allies are engaged,
they are compelled to take the most
effectual steps to exercise that right.”
In a long discussion of Prize Court
ro oe ne ote gives assuran
he Orders in Couneil do Randy overrt
ternational law, and that the
Court has full power to decide that caer
given act under those orders is illegal
and to entertain any claim for compen-
sation on that basis. That assurance
seemingly is borne out by the recent
decision of the Privy Counoil in the
case of the Zamora, handed down since
the note was drafted, which secures to
neutrals the right to invoke interna-
sioner law. before. the ritish Prise
| Court as: re the orders of the Brit-
ish Governm

As ina ppavious note in answer to the

{Biates ts being that posmeneree of the Un

stroyed by the B
United. 8 States  hrares f ay
oe at uoted to show that pk ve erce
ane $0700 wo es arid Molla’

siaaeed in IAs te
o < the
the note, “ it
the contention
Sees he seeks |

pod such f

8 impossibl
at ene Pr

: : ines. yo mould

port

‘Administration. at Wash-
ex ey ‘ema-
ongage tn e Teguine, with,

¢ 1 countries, but CoE

esired. to Sood to the
under cov a, neutral destination
who. ‘ound it, mons ae con¢éal
the real facts. from t
der the new p

,At this point the note takes up the
American contention that goods com-
stock of
= which they are

intercepted. It

portarn,

the common
ntry
i not be

atched to a neutral port, were
@ become part of the mass of
sale in. that country is

ouses of Gothenbu were
gested with cotton, there was none avail-
able for th inners: in

contracts falling falling

were: not intended for the eameuebeice '

of neutrals to whom they were con-
signed, but were bound to Germany.

Consigned to German Agents.

“However sound the principle that
goods intended for incorporation in the
common stock of a neutral country
should not be treated as contraband may.
be in theory,’’ says the note, ‘it is one
that can have but little application to

the present’ imports of the Scandinavian
countries,

“The circumstances of a large num-
ber of these shipments negative any con-
clusion that they are bona-fide ship-
ments for the importing countries. Many
of them are made to persons who are
apparently nominees of enemy agents,
and who ‘never figured befere ‘as im-
porters of such articles. Consignments
of meat produ@® are addressed to light-
érmen and dock laborers. Several thou-
sands of tons of such goods have been
found documented for a neutral port
and addressed to firms which, do not ex-
ist there. Large consignments of simi-
lar a tw were addressed to a baker, =
the r of a small private hotel
to a maker of musical instruments: will
it be contended that such imports ought
to be regarded as hona-fide shipments
intended to become part of the common
stock of a country?

“In the presence of facts such a those
indicated above, the United States Gov-
ornunen will. it is believed, ee with

ty’s Government tha:
ligerent could in modern times submit to
be bound by a rule that no goods could
be seized unless they. were accompanied
by papers which: established their desti-
nation to an enemy country, and that all
detentions of ships ands goods 1
formly on proofs obtained at
the time of seizure. ‘© press + such
theory is taritamount to asking that all
trade between neutral ports shall be
free, and would thus render nugatory
the exercise of sea Fy antp ant and destroy
the pressure which command of the
sea enab the Allies to impose upon
their enemy,
‘It is, of course, Inevitable that the
exercise of belligerent rights at sea,
however reasonably exercised, must in-
convenience neutral trade, and eat
is being put upon the United
vernment to urge the technical
theory that there should be no interfer-
ence at all igo 8 passing between
neutral ports, thus to frustrate the
measures which the Allies have taken
to Intercept commerce on its way to or
from the enemy.’
Civil War Precedent.

The note refers to the action taken by
the United States during the civil war
to stop such trade, and to the Supreme
Court’s doctrine of continuous voyage,
given to cover all cases where there
was an intention to thwart the block-
ade by ‘‘ whatever means, direct’ or in-
direct.’’

“His Majesty’s Government desire to
assure the United States Government,”’
the note continues, ‘‘ that eve effort
is being made to distinguish tween

na-fide neutral commerce and hae

which really is intended for the enem
The task is one of exceptional difficulty,
and the statistics show that a at vol-
ume of imports intended y ay the enemy
must have passed through adjacent neu-
tral countries during the war. As an
instance, the imports of “ard into Swe-
den pete the year 1915 may be taken.
year the total imports of lard
into Swanton from all sources was 9,318
tons,.of which no less than 9,029 tons
came from the United States. In the
three years before the war the average
‘annual import of the same article was
only 888 tons, of which 6388 came from
the United States. It is difficult to be-
lieve that the requirements of Sweden
in respect of lard, even when every al-
lowance is made for possible diversions
of trade due to the war, could suddenly
have increaned tenfold in 1915. The in-
ference, indeed, is irresistible that the
eater part of these imports must have
od another and an enemy destination.”’
The note argues at length to justify
the effectiveness of the blockade and
contends that the passage of commerce
to a blockaded area across a land gt 7
tier or across an inland sea, never has
been held to interfere with the effective-
ness of a blockade.

“The objects with which the usual
declaration and notification of a block-
ade are issued,’’ says the note, ‘‘ have
been fully achieved. Again, the effect-
iveness of the work of the allied fleets,
under the orders referred to, is shown
by the small number of vessels which
escape the allied patrols. It is doubt-
ful whether there ever has been a block-
ade where the ships which slipped
through bore so small a proportion to
those which were intercepted. The best

roof of a thoroughness of a blockade
8s to be found in results. The great
Tise in price in Germany of many
articles most necessary to the enemy
in the prosecution of the present war
must be well known to the United States
Government.”’

Cotton Used for Army.

Putting cotton on the contraband list,
the «note says, was forced by the accu-
mulation of evidence that it was being
used only for military - purposes in
Germany, and that its use for other
purposes was prohibited.

To the American contention that
“the curtailment of neutral rights by
these measures, which are admittedly
retaliatory and therefore illegal, cah-
not be admitted,’’ the note replies:

** Although ‘these measures may have
been provoked by the illegal conduct
of the enemy, they do not in reality
conflict with any general principle of
international law, of humanity, or of
civilization; they are enforced with
consideration against neutral countries
= are therefore juridically sound and

val irinally, his Maj
desire to assure the Un
ernment that gs /
= to make the exercise of what
aif conceive to be their belligerent
tie ts ted They little burdensome to neutrals

“inten, pin to ‘steps taken to ex-

pedite examination of ships and car-
goes, the note says:
‘It is to fuch” mitigations that the
Allies and the neutrals. concerned
should look for the removal of difficul-
ties now encountered rather than to
abrup either in the sacory
or application of a licy. based upen
admitted principles o international joy
carefully adjusted to ne ,aitered con-
ditions of modern w:

The note is about 13,000 words long
and contains some appendices and a
ype ged from the French Minister: of

taining the view expressed
-- Admiral Jellicoe.

Brings War Films Here.

Arthur K.. Bartlett arrived yesterday
from England with several war films,
which he said he had ordered to be
shipped before the embargo was placed
on them by the Government. The pict-

ures include the capture of Erserum
scene at Fort Vaux near Verdun, tne
| ere mess of Sebastapol, an Italian
cine § Turkish n

German
nglish "atlas

Siaet uni-

’s Government
ted States Gov-
will continue their

men Eng ieny ehel
i dete near

ee Spockl Shampoo One Dollar.
Special nese for treating
dry, scaly and greasy con-

es ~ditions anes ‘alling hair

the French at
erdun,

tog |

er acanae ‘Coare un-}

the question of whether |,

SISRVERE FIGHTING

M DEAD MAN HILL

Paris: * and Berlin Report the
. Other Side Engaged in,
_. Fierce Assaults.

BOTH CLAIM THE VICTORY

Hill 304, West of Meuse, and Mou-
lainville, In the Woevre, Pound-
ed by German Guns.

LONDON, April 25.—Three successive
attacks were made py the Germans last
night on the new French positions in
the region of Dead Man Hill, on thé
Verdun front.

The French War Office bulletin of
this ‘afternoon says the first two as-
saults failed completely, and that thé
third attack, although assisted by the
use of gas, also broke down. The Ger-
mans are said to have sustained heavy
losses.

German troops also attempted last
night to carry an advanced post at the
redoubt of Avocourt, but were unable
to’ achieve’ their object, according to
Varis. :

The same report of heavy fighting at
Dead Man Hill is made by Berlin, but
the German official bulletin says it was
the French who made the attacks, ad-
vancing in waves against the German
trenches and suffering repulse as a re-
sult of-the infantry fire,

The night bulletin of the French War
Office reads: ee os oe hee

sne, er. a
wiabloniian. coe troops captured this
morning a 8 1 wood south of the

Bole des Buttes, (region of Ville-au-

anne our heavy batteries
uclicved re. German ost aot Rp geno
trench to the ex o

> mek In sector of Four-de-

285, the Germans. ex-

Our barrier fire pre-

i, from eta | hue the

crater, * southern edge of which
we organized.

West of the Meuse there was an in-
tense bombardment at Hill 304, in the
région of Esnes and Cumierés.

t of the Meuse the day was rela-

ren oevre a very violent tom-
rdment occurred in the sector of
oulainville, but there was no in-
fantry —— during the course .of ne
day. One our long-range gun
effectively bombarded the Heudicourt
Btation.

In Lorraine, to the southeast of
Badonvillers, the Germans, after an
intense bombardment, delivered about
noon a strong attack against a salient
which form our line at La Chape-
ee = attack was completely re-

. Some enemy groups, which
ey ge gained a footing in the northeast
part of the salient, were driven out in
the afternoon, and in part exterminat-
ed: by our fire. We took about fifteen
prisoners, one of them an officer.

The day “bulletin of the French War
Office reads:

To-the west of the River Meuse yes-
terday evening German forces, after a
violent bombardment, attacked on sev-
eral different occasions our new si-
tions in the region of Dead Man Hill.
The first. two assaults having failed
completely, the enemy start their
thi attack with the employment of
flaming liquids.
tains of fire and the fire of our in-
fantry, the Germans were compelled
to return to their lines after having
suffered important losses.

There has been great activity on the
part of the artillery in the region of
Avocourt. Some time during the night
the enemy . endeavored, but without
success, to. Occupy our advanced posts

To the east of the iRiver Meuse
there has been a fairly spirited bom-
ae of our first and second
nes.

In the forest of Apremont there has
been fighting with hand grenades.

In Lorraine we have dispersed a
strong reconnoitering force of the en-
emy which was endeavori to occupy
one of our smaller positions to the
east of Neuviller.

The German Headquarters bulletin
reads:

There has been very lively activity
VA the artillery and aviators on both
sides.

West of the Meuse hand-grenade at-

tacks developed during the night
northeast of Avocourt.

An attack delivered in several waves
against our trenches east of Dead Man
oo broke down under our infantry
The Belgian official communication
reads:

In the sector of Dixmude there was

animated artille acti
“-_ and morning. we one =

fooke prevailed on the rest of the

SPIES SEIZE LETTERS
IN BRITISH CONSULATE

Athletic Clerk Prevents Theft. of
Documents Laid Oat Ready
to Be Sent to London.

Three men, believed to be German
spies, made an attempt last Friday
night to steal from the ‘British Con-
sulate in State Street some important
mail which was laid out on the clerk’s
desk ready to be placed in the Foreign
Office bags for Lonaon to go on the
American liner Philadelphia next morn-
ing.

Consul. General Bayley,
Vice Consul, and the staff of clerks
have all been working late at night re-
cently to get through the immense
mass of business connected with the
trade department.

Shortly after 9 o'clock on Friday
night two men entered the long officé
of the consulate, where the passport
and other Husiness is carried on. This
department has four doors and is nearer
to the elevators leading to the street
than any other office in the suite. A
third man obened the end door, nearest
the desk on which the mail was Placed,
and held it open while one of his
complices: rushed down the office -
seized several letters containin
qoetant' as rena written by wt

At the tee The men entered the oon-
sulate ono of the clerks was in a tele-

one h at the rear and did not

ear them. Another clérk came to look
for some reference Pe ers and saw the
man dashing Ny e door with the

letters in his
waar’ bad happened, th

- of the Avocourt redoubt

Cleve’ the

1 ealizing “wh
clerk vau over the counter an
grabbed the man in the corridor as he
yee FR yy for bod staircase leadl
Pearl The other two ha

ot away, and, aR. himeelf left alone,

he captive sropyen the her ga Bra the
floor and wrenched himsel the
grip of the clerk. While t 4 a arete ston
stooping to pick up the mail the last. of
the three men also got awa

Consul General Bayley paid -yeat rday
that an. attempt had bee ree Agi to 1 steal
letters from the cohsulate. Since Fri-
day night ‘extra. precat ons Va Be ge

is have been
arent gr 5 nin attempt. ?

Exhibition of
Recent Portraits

EMIL FUCHS
April 5th to 30th, inclusive,

AT THE. GALLBRIES OF

Messrs, Jacques Seligmann& Co.

besarte A
ae ats oe

Checked by our cur- -

“ARRIVES IN FRANCE}

First Contingent, Which Came}
Last Week, Is Now Camped —
at Troyes. ~~

MARSEILLES, April 25.—Another con- | ~“:

tingent of Russian troops arrived here
this morning. They were received with
all military honors and debarked amid
énthusiastic cheers.

The contingent arrived at 10 o'clock in
the morning, their coming being greeted
by the flying of flags. and blowing of
whistles from’ the craft of many nations
in the harbor and by a large crowd
tnassed on the quay. A regiment of
Hussars acted as a guard of honor, and
General Minissier, the Governor of
Marseilles, accompanied by his staff,
welcomed the commander of the Rus-
sian force.

The Russian: aioe! assembled on the
decks, replied to the greeting from the
shore and harbor with hearty cheers,
and after landing marched through the
streets on their way to Camp Mirabegu
amid a tumultuous welcome from crowds
on the street, in balconies, and on house-
sone They occupy the same quarters,

did the Russians who arrived last
pen dit and are now at Camp Mailly, near
Troyes, on the Seine, ninety miles south-
east of Paris.

The Russian and French troops
mingling at this camp in a genera epirit
of good-will.

PUT BULGAR LOSSES LARGE.

Newspapers Figure the Killed In

ATHENS, April 25, (via Paris.)—The
losses of the Bulgarian Army. during

the war are estimated by Bulgarian

, received here, to amount to
BLU) killed. and 50,000 wounded or
missing.

These figures are as received by cable,
but the vent ORS ce app a the | fi
number repor -
ed wounded or Bendy ndicates a seri-
ous error somewhere.

Reports Danish Steamer Seized.
BERLIN, April 25, (by Wireless to
poral ape }—The Overseas News Agency
ys: “It is reported from Copenhagen
that the British Ptook into port the Dan-
ish steamer Gullfoss, Bound son, Ice-
land for Denmark, and removed all th
first-class mail, , parcels, and basuese t+)
the passengers.”

“CONGRESS BY RR z

More Than 20 ,000 Telegrams of if

Protest, All in Set: Forms,
‘Are Sent ina Day.

ALL MAKE PLEAS FOR PEACE |<

Gormard-Ametican Society Backs the ,

Plan, According | to prapohait
Few Messages Are Read. '

rr ers

Spectal to The New York Times. |‘ -
WASHINGTON, April 25.—More than

20,000 telegrams, in four different forms Chicas

and nearly all signed by German names,
were received by age ees today, . pro-

toasters Bthtea Inte war’ Mout of
came froin seat, aed wired

State.

ia we Phe Sissourt age ‘yale "oo on
ituents. Many similar telegrams came
to members of the House from the same

Both h ies
Gable tise hans see ae
e telegrams io

Re identiogt torr "Seem the forme
numbers were

a8 & code, to atvoid sending the

t to handle

coming ine
were numbe
used

< on. aa
; TPRRE ner
a wig. \telegrap!
that
The Tl R.. iat others wa be Ba ae

n— fener Saas

text, pos nasnee and addresses passing : 3

over the
It is estimated that thé day’s propa-
ganda directed to the Senate ee. cost
nization about $15,000. vow,

inte Congressional Record.
This is oes vy four pov

t you to

Another form of th
Senators that ‘e e majority
stituents stood for peace.

bdo RA, Tilt, April
sént
protestin 3 nst °
tions Guin Germany,

n-Am
bP own which D1 Dr. Cc. J.

tches told}
‘their con-

'25.—Telegrams
to Senators in Washington tod y.
agai reans a ah oH

National Fund,

Hexamer of Philad el-

didpa'

American Truth

|/AIR RAID’ ON- SALONIKI ¢

German — Aeroplanes Drop

Bombs, but Do ‘Little Damage.

PARIS; April iA squadron: of |
man aeroplanes has delivered ¢
attack on the intrenched camp of
Entente Allies at Saloniki, poorer

a o, ares tog Ofer
se Fisker’ ieee

various
wae ous pea

pnd b

nts.
the raid

atc
Aside trom. th
‘was calm along

SBA AND AIR RAID
ON ENGLISH COAST

Continued from Page 1.

rsons were wounded. News of the
Paid produced: the greatest excitement
in England, where it was thought for
time that an attempt at an invasion 0
the country might be be under way.

ALLIED AIRMEN BUSY
ON WESTERN FRONT

British Fliers Drop Bombs Behind
German Lines in Belgium—
Battle Over the Sea.

LONDON, April 25.—Activities of the
aviators on both sides are becoming a
feature of, the fighting on the western
front. ;

An official bulletin, issued here to-
night, besides. telling of the co-opera-
tion of airmen in the chase of Zeppelins
and German cruisers which raided the
east coast of England last night and
today, discusses these other recent ex-
ploits:

On the morning of the 23d, in spite
of most inclement weather, a bornbing

attack was carried out by our nava
aeroplanes upon an enemy aerodrome
at Mariakerke. The machines were
heavily fired on, but succeeded in ~
turning safely. As far as could be
observed, good results were obtained.

One of our fighting machines at-
tacked an enemy aeropiane and drove

it down. The hostile machine was last
seen close to the ground and out of
control.

The morning of the 24th a further
attack was carried out against the
en objective in co-operation with our
Belgian allies: A large number of
bombs were dropped. A heavy fire was
encountered by all of the machines.
There were no British casualties. The
results obtained appear to have been
very good.

The same day a British aeroplane at-
tacked an enemy seaplane about five
miles off Zeebrugge. The ey pilot

was ki he machine dro

enem: observer falling out While the
machine was still at a height of 8,000

feet. The hostile eepisee crnahed
into the sea and san

The night. report “s the War Office
had this to to say of air. fighting on the
battle lines
Youeaans there was considerable
aerial activity. ty-nine combats
took place. One pe 3 our. .reconnois-
sances was persistently. attacked, but
all .the attacks were \dfiven off, and
pot poste . German ie fell of. the
nD an lines. r ma-
chines returned a aateiy

From Paris -comes aie reports of
*| the dot of French airmen. The
night bulletin has this to say :

Near Menger e an enem aeroplane,
compelled to land inside his lines after
a Senits wea destroyed by our cap-

In the region of Verdun one of our

ursuit aeroplanes brought down a

aeroplane, which fell on Cote
os eves about fifty meters from our

= va thir acting, braves ow down! by
of our pilo: 'e e Forges
ood, Finally, a Fokker, fired at .
pointblank by one of our aviators,
uaa down in the region of Hatton-

an night one of our dirigibles
ereppes on shells ‘of gt mmilimeters
8 of '220.‘on the. Conflans
Stations

The Sia bulletin eye: t
rman aeroplane
8 oe ong chad

Hed
were woun ed. The material aesuaaen
were in cant.

BRITISH FLEET SHELLS
BELGIAN COAST HEAVILY

Great Damage Reported at Zee-| 3*
bragge, a U-Boat Base—Ger-
man Destroyers Hit.

LONDON, April Pe RA positions
on the Belgian coast were attacked yes-
terday by British warenine. 200 according
to an Exchange Tel ——
Amsterdam, whi ch honeriven Song
bardment as one oe the eee. alter in raat

aege. has’ been" receiv ea i

Amsterdam from Flushi 24

** Several British wa
nied by. destroyers and ahr . Venenin.
yesterday bombarded eebrugge and the
German her yet = FE ae cree
berghe, and Kn baram
was one of the eaviest a mings t th ne
ning = | Be war, and also of the longest

Trhe “Jamége done at Zeebrugge is said | call

that t tases

to hate. béed:

the ritian 'y wareht ge ap the. fire

sorts Bit were driven.
ANOTHER ARS Rap

to gt

Mach fuck Damage.

“ LONDON, Weanesd » April '26,~Hos-
tile aircraft raided the ‘Counties of. Es-
sex and Kent last night, according to.
an official statemént. . .

“ The number of raiders is uncertain,”

| the communication adds, “ but they did

hot exceed four. Fhe raiders. were met

treated.-after achieving little . or. chothe

Seventy:. bombs . were. désopsa during

eo ee
night’s ait raid over the ies
folk snd Suffolk coasts appears to
nm carried out by four or five
bE meg only two of. erate iota es a
pn attempt to pene
About seventy bombs erg to
been dropped. One man is
seriously

of o tenaitpe une ta

the bom. | én

men on. night
ph the: y+ ye telipho ex ee
my ak thete is threats

caljed out..
t. of the girls
an hour of the

naa

“YI * SEATON A AAMAS WN: AGT 0 APO UAGL YN ik TRAD TD lit IM
pa 6 me Fae 0 an 6 ae Cae O Se 6 Se Se 6 = 8S SF = See

You owe your wife a necklace of:

Tecla Pearls

From: time immemorial the peoples of the
world have expressed their affections in pearls
—men by giving them— women by. w

them—poets by making them the theme

LAMA

story and song.

The pearl is essentially a woman's gem, em-
blematic of feminine attributes, at its best on
a -woman’s shoulders, and prized- for ten
thousand years as the most.romantic of jewels.

The choice rests: between Oriental Pearls,
fabulous in cost, and Tecla Pearls,
which have the. soft sun-and-shadow radi-
ance, the texture, tint, and temper of Oriental

which are

gems—at a fraction of the cost.

Give Her a Necklace of Tacla Pearls

iil

iff ff

Ceol

398 Fifth Avenue

} ‘ Dems
tia i a SS a aan

AA ASNAA Qn WN UDA NW

Wty

VNU

fil

Tal \b iit WAY iit mn it ai

XK XOX KER $C I =

—o- oe Ser OO - Cas Oe Oe Ome ae Se Sm & ane |
' j " ii | HEWN

os Oe SO ae @ ae om &) an & ae

> am a) ae CF oe

ox Mo

‘by. a brisk anti-aircraft gunfire and re-

can

r PN

LSS ‘

Leading Editors of ‘the Basatry
Pledged to Sentiment. That
Each Is a Loyal American.

““OUR'SPOKESMAN TO WORLD’

ered—New Directors Elected
and New Membérs Admitted.

- At the annual luncheon of The Asso-

* elated Press at the Waldorf yesterday,

Frank B. Noyes, President of the or-

~ ganization, proposed a foast to Presi-
dent Wilson, saying: :

“On similar occasions in past years I

- have dwelt on the heterogeneous char-

tsacter of the membership of The Asso-

- Giated. Press mainly for the purpose of

* emphasizing the fact that, varied as are
.. our opinions,

on one subject we all
agree: That each and every one isa
* loyal American.
“The 900 who compose our member-
» Ship exercise their inalienable rights of
holding an opinion on every conceivable
subject, including the relations of this
Government with foreign powers, and
this right they hold and exercise in
“common with the restvof the 100,000,000
Americans. i
-‘* This, broadly, does no great harm
because, however unwise the opinion
thus individually held, no one else .is
committed by its. expression. :

“Our form of government provides
that the duty and obligation of voicing
the opinion of this nation in its inter-
course with foreign ‘nations rests with
our Chief Magistrate.

*“ When) he speaks for us in the course
of that ‘intercourse he speaks for all
of us.

“It is a very great— indeed, a terri-
ble—responsibility for a man to bear at

any time. \

oe Tcday, with a world. drenched in
blood, writhing in anguish for those al-
ready dead or maimed, fthe responsibil-
sty is immeasurably great, immeasurably
terri

“So in this hour of uncertainty as to
what the immediate future may bring
to-us, we tender our affectionate sym-
pathy and our loyal support to the man
who by virtue of his great office is our
spokesman to the world, and who
speaks for ovr rights and our honor as
: gives him to see our rights and our

onor.

“Tt is our custom at these annual
gatherings to bring but one toast. 1
offer it today’ with a full heart.

**L give you the. health of our "resi-
dent—Woodrow Wilson.”’

President Noyes. then introduced. Dr.
Nicholas Murray Butler, President of
Columbia University, whose speech is
reported in full elsewhere in THE TimMBs.

Henor Memory of Knapp.

The membérs of The Associated Press,
at their morning session, adopted -eso-
lutions on the death of Charles W.

. Knapp, a Director, who resigned as
publisher of The St, Louis Republic to

become Treasurer of THE NEW YORK
Times. The resolutions follow:

The sudden and tragic death of Charles
W. Knapp, one of the most active founders
-of a co-operative system of news gathering
and for many years one of the most use-
ful, inspiring, and notably efficient mem-
bers of the Board of Directors of The As-
pee gn Press, evoked a profound sense of

Mr. app’s long and faithful activity
fin the d&@zelopment and maintenance of an
impartial and «accurate method for the col-
lection and distribution of information de-
ferves the gratitude of every citizen of the

country.

His” sterling integrity, superior intelli-
~ gence, judicid] temperament, and high pur-
Pose, in every phase of the responsibility
attached to the work of the organization.
challenged the admiration and affection of

his associates.

The Associated Press has suffered an ir-
reéparable ‘oss, We deeply mourn his taking
off and tender his Pereaved family our
sincere sympathy. ,

Following the adoption of the reselu-
tions, Victor F. Lawson, publisher of
The Chicago Daily News, eulogized Mr.
Knapp. He said:

** He was conservative in judgment and
opinion, but open to the light of new
thought and action, and always had the
‘courage of his convictions. He was a
fearless, outspoken,.sincere man.

“The American press must ever re-
main his debtor for the years of able
and faithful service which he devoted to
the organization. and establishment of

e Associated Press.

“A review of the earlier years of the
absociation reminds how large and con-
stant a contribution-he made to, the con-
atructiye work of that period of basic

evelopment, and how many of those

verning principles of The Associated

ess, ich the course of the years has
stalliized into the axioms of its ad
ministration, were suggested and formu-
lated by his judicial mind. ~The history
- of The Associated Press is in no small
part a history of Charles W, Knapp.”

A resolution also adopted on the

of Herman Ridder, publisher of
the Staats-Zeitung, and anothér upon
the death of William R. Nelson of The
Kansas City Star.

‘During their deliberations the mem-
bers of The Associated Press were kept
informed of the day’s news by bulletins
from THE New Yor« TIMEs, printed by
the National Electric Bulletin Corpora-
tion on an electrically operated machine
similar to those THE Times has used.

Four Directors whose terms expired

this: year were re-elected for terms ex-

They were Charles A.

spatch; Charles

Courant; Clark

fowell, Atlanta Constitution; V..S. Mc-

latchy, Sacramento Bee. A new mem-

ber, Elbert H. Baker, Cleveland Plain

Jealer, was elected to this group, which
formerly included Charles W. apne

Oswald Garrison Villard, New York

Evening Post, was elected to the va-
cancy caused by the death of Herman
Ridder of the

also W

1918 term, which includes
. H. Cowles, Spokane Spokes-
man-Review; Victor F.’ Lawson, Chi-
ca Daily News; D. E. Town, Louis-
ville Herald, and R. M. Johnston, Hous-
ton Post. gsi

The Directors whose terms will expire
in 1917 are Frank B: Noyes, Washington
Star; W. L.-McLean, Philadelphia Bulle-
tin; W. Y. Morgan, Hutchinson Newm
Adolph S. Ochs, THp NEw YorK TIMEs,
and A. C. Weiss, Duluth Herald.

The following advisory boards and
committees were elected.

EASTERN DIVISION.

ADVISORY BOARD — Theodore Boden-
Wein, New. London Day; G. Edward Bux-
ton, i vidence Bulletin; George L.

New York Evenin

Walter F. Dumser, Readin,
Times; Jogeph Bancroft,
Every Evéning.

NOMINATING COMMITTEH— A. P.
Moore, Lt ier gar, Leader; William H,
Dow, Portland (Me.) Express and Adver-

“AUDITING COMMITTEE—Z. E. Smith,
Meriden (Conn.} Record.

SOUTHERN DIVISION.
“ADVISORY BO. ames R. Gray, At-
ta Jounral; H. C. Adler, Chattanoog:
1 ;_M. B. r, Houston Ch
Bruce Haldeman, Louisville Courier-Jour

Telegram;
(Penn.) News-
ilmington (Del.)

icle;

"> ~* Mal; Robert Ewing, New Orleans States. —

“NOMINATING COMMITTEE—F. G. Bell,
mnah News; J. M.. . New -Or-

Item.

we “AUDITING COMMITTEE—Frederick I.

Thompson, Mobile Register. .

ee CENTRAL DIVISION.

* “ADVISORY BOARD—E. P. Adler, Daven-
% Cowa) Times; J. L. Sturtevant, Wau-
(Wis.) Record-Herald; A. C. Keifer,
‘erre, Haute (Ind.) Tribune; P. E. Burton,
lin (Mo.)* News-Herald; J. C. Seacrest,

TTEE — H. V.
. C. Marquis,

Bran-

a WESTERN DIVISION.
ADVISORY BOARD—M. H. De Young,
; h ‘Francisco Chronicle; A. N.
: t Lake City Tribune; 8.
facoma Ledger; J. . Know f
8; t . Bone, Seattle

IOMIN A’ G COMMITTEE-—E. H. Cal-
, Balt ge City Tribune; C. B.

n, Seattle Times. j
DITING COMMIT TEE—John F. Car-
1S. organization elected a ney

|WILSONVOTES ATPRINCETON

| Plants ‘Tree on Lincoln Highway—

_, Greeted by Governor.
PRINCETON, Ni J., April 25.—Presi-

dent Wilson, who, accompanied by Mrs.

naval aid, came here today to vote and

to plant atree on the Lincoln Highway,
plant «5 Es ishway

necessity of preventing -one’s judgment
being Warpéa~by one’s heart. He de-
clared that the Lincoln Highway woulda
do much to bring’ people in all parts of
the country. together in clocer sym-
athy. He was int ced by Governor
ielder of New Je who had just
plant? .a tree-in his:honor. The Presi-
ent said he would watch the tree grow.

The President: cast the first vote at
the polling place, gw! opened at
1P. M. “ I'm the first man to vote for
myself,’ he said smilingly. It took him
less than a minute to vote.

This was Mrs. Wilson's first visit to
Princeton since she married
dent. , He introduced her to a group ot
his od friends in the university Saentty.

largg crowd of students was at the
station to cheer Mr. and Mrs. Wilson.
The President walked from the station
to vote, but Mrs. Wilson did not go to
the polling booth.

The reception accorded the President
was the -most®* pretentious given. ‘him
here in two years. Governor Fielder ot
New _ Jersey, ward Grosscup, Dem-
ocratic State Chairman, and a company
of National Guardsmen met him at the
train. Cheers greeted r. Wilson as

he stepped from the tr. and again

the polling place. ae

Senator: Is Willing to Continue. in
the Upper House..

INDIANAPOLIS, April 25.—If Senator
Thomas Taggart is nominated for
United States Senator for'the short term
by the Democratic State Convention
tomorrow, he w'll accept the honor. He
made this statement tonight:

‘‘If the Democrats tomorrow decide
I shall make the race for United States
Senator, I shall accept with pleasure.
However, I have not given up hope that
I may yet persuade them to heed my
ooh wishes and nominate some one
else.

Senator Taggart some time ago stated
that he was not a candidate. Indica-

tions are that his nomination will be
made by -agclamation.

Dr. Armstrong Tells the Cost of
Wage Earners’ Iliness.

Iridustrial preparedness was empha-
sized yesterday at the Health Depart-
ment in a talk before the staff of the
Bureau of Communicable Diseases by
Dr. Donald B. Armstrong, Director of
the Department of Social Welfare of
the New York Association for Improv-
ing the Condition of the Poor. ° Dr.

Armstrong pointed out the tremendous
waste that occurred annually in indus-
try as a result of unnecessary sickness
and accident.’ He said the 33,000,000 in-
dustrial workers in the United States
lost about 284,000,000 working days each
year as a result of sickn alone. This
meant financial loss, including wages,
loss to industry, and medical cost, of
nearly $500,000,000, a very serious symp-
tom of industrial preparedness and
inefficiency, the sapfeaker said, in view
of the fact that at least one-half of
this sickness was from strictly prevent-
able causes.

_Of the relation of industrial effi-
sancy. to national safety Dr. Armstrong
said:

‘‘ The European war has demonstrated
that a large army and navy are effec-
tive only if backed by an efficient in-
dustrial. organization. As a matter of
fact, the war is largely a struggle be-

cratic inefficiency. The great problem
which the United States shares in com-
mon with other democracies is that of
making democracy efficient. Any pro-
gram for preparedness which leaves
‘out of account unnecessary industrial
wastage is futile and infantile, if it is
not selfish and prejudiced.”

GET THREAD FROM LUPINE.

Germany Finds New Use for a Com-
mon Plant.

BERLIN, April 5, (Correspondence of
The Associated Press.)—Thread and fila-
ment of a practical, usable kind can
be made from the stalks of the common,
and in Germany very plentiful, lupine, a
legume belonging to the alfalfa family.
Two men who made the discovery and a
Captain who has perfected a machine
for.the process have taken out patents,
and the Prussian Ministry of Agricult-

@e has issued an appeal to farmers to
plant as much lupine as possible this

e discovery is especially welcome at
this time, when thread is scarce. Ex-
periments have proved that the best
thread from the lupine comes from the
mature ,plant, which means that lupine
culture will not have to be checked, at
the expénse of the seed, in.order to ob-
tain thread. Nor does thrashing injure
the thread part of the stalk in the least.
Captain von Bluecher’s machine, just
invented, can be moved ‘from farm to
farm, much as a thrashing machine is
moved, so that the lupine can be handled
without any transportation difficulties.
The two kinds of lupine prevailing in
Germany will grow in almost any fina
of soil, but especially in sandy, dry
Places such as’ abound in the eastern
eng of Germany, which can be used for
ardly anything else. Beside the thread
material from the.stalk, the plants’ seeds
yield oil, and its roots nitrogen.

FOR TARIFF ON OUR GOWNS.

London Newspaper Advocates a
Duty, Conceding We Dictate Styles.

LONDON, April 15, (Correspondence
of The Associated Press.)—England hae
at last awakened to the fact that Amer-
ica hus become a’ great. power ih the

orld of fashion, and that many ideas
for women's apparel which formerly
came from France now emanate from
New York.

A London \ morning newspaper pub-
lishes a long editorial appealing to the
Government. to protect home industties
by clapping a heavy duty on styles im-
ported from New York. It says, in part:

“* Mepecially should we come down hot
and strong on American fashions. Our
French allies are concentrating their
energies on the war so closely that Paris
fashions have aimost ceased to exist,
and America is making frantic efforts
to establish herself as the maker of the

“'¥his is natural, but she may well be
made to pay for her opportunity. She
has always made France and England
pay tor dresses imported into the States,
and this is a very legitimate ocasion for
retaliation.

“It is hardly decent in war time for
women to wear fashionable dresses at
all, yet if the fashions came from Paris
we should find it difficult to place an
embargo on them.”

FRUIT STEAMER SEARCHED.

Boarded by Crew from the Cruiser
Sydney in the’ Atlantic. ©

MOBILE, Ala., April 25.—Captain
Knudsen of the United Fruit -Com-
pany’s steamer Fort Gaines, up today
from Central American ports, said. his
vessel was stopped on her last outward
trip and searched off the Island of
Cozumel by the Australian cruiser Syd-
ney. The steamer was allowed to pro-
ceed after a short halt.

Information. has been received here
by shipowners that a special boarding
procedure has been opted by the
British Admiralty, ‘‘ as.a means of safe-
guarding neutral, British .or allied
cruisers from German commerce raiders,

ADVERTISEMENT,

A summer vacation trip via the North-
ern Pacific to Yellowstone Park, North
Pacific Coast or Alaska will be enjoyable.
Additional mountain scenery ‘at no addi-
tional expense. Low R Trip Fares in
effect May to September, Secure informa-
i booklets F.. Mershon,

Rit

bios ad. tooklans news. W.
awn Agent, 1244 Broadway, New York.

yp Bhie f a

sp Re + oy we Pe

Witson and Dr. Cary T. Grayson, his.

tween monarchical efficency and demo- |°

‘DR. BUTLER PLEADS

Tells of Disintegrating Elements
That Weaken Unity at Home
and Force Abroad.

MUST SET HOUSE IN ORDER

Editors at Meeting of Associated
Press Urged to Work for Free,
Powerful, Just America. *

Dr. * Nicholas Murray Butler, Presi-
dent of Columbia University, was the
principal speaker at. the annual lunch-
eon of The Associated Press yesterday
in the Waldorf. His-address in full fol-

Mr. President and Gentlemen of the
Associated Press:

For the honor of the invitation to be
your. guest . am deeply sensible, and
for that honor I wish first to express
my, grateful appreciation.. It is no
small compliment to be permitted to
speak at a time like this to a great
company of me drawn from all
parts of our nation, representing
every shade of opinion, who are sin-
gle-minded in their devotion to truth,
and to its interpretation as they seek
and understand it, and to our common
America. Mea

In this presence of men of affaits,

so closely in touch with the move-
ment of opinion all over the world,
accustomed to guide, to express, to
formulate it, there is nothing that I
can possibly say that you do not ai-
ready know. But I reflect that it is
out of the a geo of individuals,
and out of. their reaction to the chang-
ing course of events that first public
opinion, then history, is made.
- If any significance be attached to
what I shall briefly say in your pres-
ence, it can only be because it repre-
sents the attempt of one American
who feels keenly the responsibility of
his country and of the enwire citizen-
ship at this moment when the world
stands at a crossroads in its path of
progress.

If we stand at the crossroads ir-
resolute, paralyzed of will, history
will have one story to tell. If we turn
to the right and take the path that
leads upward to new achievement and
to lasting honor, it will have a very
different story to tell. If we should
turn to the left and follow the wind-
ing and rocky road that leads down
to a darkening gloom—we know not
where—histdry will have yet another
record to make of the American
people and of their capacity to repre-
sent civilization.

Leaders of Civilization.

It is just abot twenty years ago
since George Meredith, writing to The
London Daily News, said that since
the fortunate outcome of the greatest
of civil wars we have come to look
upon the American peopre as the lead-
ers -in civilization. That is a proud
and ennobling judgment, and we may
well search @ur minds and our hearts
to ascertain whether it be true, and
whether we are bey 3 mt for the
high honor that so distinguished an
observer of his kind proffered to us
as his personal judgment.

The question which I ask in your
presence this afternoon is this: ave
we an American nation? If ,so, is that
nation conscious of a unity purpose
and of ideals? If so, what is to be
the policy of that nation in the imme-
diate future? .

It must not be forgotten that na-
tions are comparatively new in human
history. There were no nations in the
ancient world. Men were grouped in
empires, in races, as followers of a
religion, as clansmen owing allegiance
to a chief, but not as nations as we
use the word. There were no nations
until the dream of a universal political
empire had passed away; until the
stately magnificence of Rome had
broken into a hundred fragments. It
was then and only then that a new
organizing force made itself felt in
the thoughts and deeds of men.

This new consciousness of unitv was
in part the outgrowth of unity of race
origin, in part the outgrowth of unity
of language, in part the outgrowth of
unity of institutional life, in part the
outgrowth of unity of military and
religious tradition. It seized hold of
the m‘nds of men in most practical
fashion. The result is that from the
time of the death of Charlemagne to
the time of the present German Em-

eror the history of the world is the
ters of nation building and the by-
products of nation building. A nation
is scientifically defined as a popula-
tion of an ethnic unity inhabiting a
geographic unity .under a common
form of government. The exceptions
are quite numerous enough to prove
this rule.

As the centuries have followed one
another it is not difficult to see how
the several nations have endeavored
to possess themselves of territory that
is a geographic unit. They have
sought natural boundaries, whether of
high mountains, cr of broad rivers, or
of the sea. itself. One War after an-
other is to be explained in terms of a
nation’s definite purpose to possess
itself of a geographic unity as its
home. ‘There has been by no means
equal care taken by the nations to es-
tablish and to protect an ethnic unity.
A strong~people has usually felt con-
fident that it could hold an alien ele-
ment in subjection and yet preserve
national integrity and unity of spirit.
So one after another of the greater
nations of the world has, in seeking
for geographic unity, insisted on in-
corporating in its own -body_ politic
alien and often discordant elements
and holding them in stern. subjection.
The examples are too familiar to be
recited here.

Nemesis of Nation Building.

This process of nation building has
gone on until the nation has come to
be conceived as an end in itself, as
superior to the law, to the conyentions
of morality, and to the precepts of re-
ligion. A form of patriotism his been
developed all over the world~ which
finds in the nation itself the highest

human end. The logical result, and
indeed the almost necessarv result, of
this type of thinking is the war which
. is now cremate over the world’s civ-
ilization and destroying it with the
sure pitilessness of an Alpine glacier.
This war is the nemesis of nation
building conceived as an end in itself.
Unless a nation, like an _ individual,
have sonie purpose, some ideal, some
motive which lies outside of and‘ be-
yond self-interest and self-aggrandize-
ment, war must. continue’ on the face
of this earth until the day when the
last and strongest man, superb in his
mighty loneliness, shall look out from
a rock in the Caribbean upon a world
that has been depopulated in its pur-

suit of a false ideal, and be left him- |

ILD IDBAL NATION,

_ the

‘hearts clean an

before us today is to make it.
; tak

Self to die ‘Alone with none to “mourn |

y. of nations the sto:
a base, Sone et fe 1
The American: nation. came.

in* response to a clear and”
Durpose.. A»theory’ of é

of ‘human government was
conceived and put: into: execution on
a remote and mae se 6 part of the
earth’s surface, The oving “cause
of the American nation was i B8-
pirations for civil and political ‘liberty
and for individual freedom which was
already stirring in the minds of west-
ern Europe’in the sixteenth and sev-
enteenth centuries. These aspirations
gained in force as the art of printing
aultiplied books and as the Samp =
press came into existence. e high-
mindec, the: courageous, ‘the venture-
some were drawn across the wide
ocean toward the west, careseng, with
them for_the most part the liberal
ideas and the advan thought that
were steadily increasing their hold
upon e people of western’_Europe.
Great Britain, Holland, France, were
responding in ‘steadily '. increasing
measure to the same ideals that led
the Puritan to Massachusetts Bay and
the Cavalier to Virginia. .

America Not Yet a Nation.

On this Atlantic :shore distances
were great and communication *diffi-
cult.’ In addition there were social,
economic and religious differences that

kept the .struggling colonists apart.
The result was ‘that there grew up
heré: not a nation, but the ~material
out-of which-a nation could be made.

’ There is a-sense, a deep and striking

sense, in which the same ‘remains ab-
solutely true today: There is not yet
a nation, but the rich and fine ma-
terials Sut of which a true nation can
be made by the architects with vision
to plan and by the builder with skill
adequate to execute.

hen a common oppression forced
the separate colonists together they
still sadly lacked that devotion toa
unity higher than any of its component
parts, which would have saved so
much loss and ~ much suffering dur-
ing the days of revolution and of the
first steps toward a National Govern-
ment. An enormous step forward was
taken when the National Government
was built. In the adoption of the Con-
stitution of the United States the cor-
nerstone was laid for one of the most
splendid .structures in all the ‘history
of all nations. Then followed sharp
political divergence. There ‘were
those who wold iay stress upon the
new national unity; there were. still
more whe thought it important to em-
phasize the separate elements out of
which that unity had been composed.
The judicial logic of Marshall and the
convincing eloquence of Webster were
the chief unifying and nation-building
forces in the generation that followed.
Meanwhile sharp differences of eco-
nomic interests were manifesting
themselves, and the fatal question of
slavery pressed forwdrd both as an
economic and as a politf€al issue. The
new nation, which had already made
such progress upon the foundations
laid by the fathérs, feil apart, and
only after one of the most terrible
and destructive of civil wars were the
ruins of the disaster cleared away and
the ground prepared for the next step
in construction. Here mistakes were
made so numerous and so severe that
unifying and nation-building
process was checked and held back
for years. :

Then two sets of separating and dis-
integrating forces began to make
themselves strongly felt First, the
economic differences which must of
necessity manifest themselves over so
large and so diverse a territory now
reveal themselves in new force, in
part as a result of the industrial revo-
lution and in part as a result of pure-
ly American condition, as involving a
class conflict between capital and la-

r. Soon there were signs that citi-
zenship, with its compelling allegiance
to the common weal, wak to be subor-
dinated in discouraging ‘fashion, not
once but often, to the immediate in- .
— and policies of an economic
class.

Echo of Old World Feuds. /

Second, the immigration from all the
countries which had been for a long
time substantially homogeneous be-
came increasingly and rapidly hetero-
geneous. New nationalities, new, lan-
guages, new racial affinities were
drawn upon for the recruitment of the
population of the United States. The
hopes and the ambitions which 100

and 200 years before had been the pe-
culiar property of the people of West-
ern Europe had now spread far away
to the East and to the South. With
this heterogeneous immigration there
came, in no inconsiderable measure,
the echo of the Old World anizmosities
and feuds and hates. These did not
manifest themselves in any direct
sense as anti-American, but they did
manifest themselves with sufficient
strength to deprive America of a unity
of attitude, of feeling, and of policy
in dealing with international relations
which every day grew in importance
and in significance.

Se it is that at this moment, with a
world war raging about us and a
Presidential campaign openin in
front of us, with years full of fate
stretched out for us to'walk in, we
are not sure of our national unity of
thought and tectias and purpose be-
cause of the preSence of disintegrat-
ing elements and forces which weaken
our sense of unity at home and which
deprive us of the influence abroad
which attaches to unity at home. The
grave problem before the American
people today is that of completing the
process of nation pbuilding. It is the
bt of setting our house in order.
tis the problem of integrating Amer-
ca. It is the problem of subordinat-
ing every personal ambition, every
class interest and policy, every race
attachment, to the one dominant idea
of an America free, just, powerful,
forward facing, that shall stand out
in the history of nationg as the name
of: a people who conceive the mission
and their true greatness to lie in ser-
vice to mankind. We are the inher-
itors of a great tradition, What poets
and philosophers have eamed, that
we are trying day by day to do, our
stumblings, our blunders, our short-
comings are many; but if we keep our

our heads clear he

who a thousand years from now writes
the history of liberty and justice and
a eT among men will be able to
tell to those far-off generations the
story of the rise and influence of the
American: nation.

We find here everything. which -is
needed for a great nation. The. _

before the American people is

thing more nor less than a speed
continuation, and, if it be pra
the completion. of the proc
nation building. It is a problem of
the integration of America, about
those great fundamental principles
and purposes which the* very name
itself brings to our. mind and which
gg flag stirs to expression on every

Feel America in Our Hearts.

We know ‘in our hearts what
America means. The problem is to
teach it to our fellows; to share with
them an understanding and apprecia-
tion of it; to unite with them in an

expression of it that shall. give us an
America free, just, powerful, for-
ward facing; that shall conceive itself
as a nation fit to 'serve;-a nation

STETSON
HATS

~ERIRIPIER RL?

SPRING SUITS

THE “HARVARD”
A YOUNG MAN'S MODEL

Patch Pockets *
Half Lined

FOULARD
“NECKWEAR

42ND STREET AT MADISON. AVENUE.

HOSIERY

dias mot 5a Hl ont great that
ich. cannot. find . its 0

to nd of.
what has le on this con-

tinent. Saxon and. -Celt,-Teuton and |:

Slav, Latin and. Hun, all here not as
aliens but as citizens; not as emb-
grants but.as members of a body ©
politic-which is new in conception, in
human. history, as it is new in its
own thought: of ‘its Perna: Can
America integrate itself at this crisis;
can it show that nere is a. nation
which ‘out of various and vari
ethnic elements can be created into a
genuine unity by devotion to high
principle and by moral purpose in the
face of all mankind? Can we have an
America that shall go down the cor-
ridors of time with a proud place on
the ‘pages of history?

We must remember that the greatest
empires have fallen as well.as risen.
We must remember that the most

‘ powerful dynastiés have passed away
as well as come into existence. There
is no reason suppose..that our
America is going to escape the ever-*
lasting law of change. e' know its
history and its origin. We have seen
its rise. We know its present state.
Who can predict how eer, hundreds
or thou ds of years it will.take be-
fore. the \forests will be felled and
the streams will dried, and this
great fertile continent of ours, like
the plains of ancient .tran, where
civilization began, become a ‘desert,
fit ‘only for ‘the surveying: parties of
the archaeologist?) When that time
comes, what do we want to have
written on the. pages of history of
, those who lived for “hundreds or per-
\haps-thousands of years on this con-
tinent? What do we want to have said
about the way in which America met
the greatest crisis of the world’s his-
tory in modern times,:in 1916? Do we
want a nation weak, broken to pieces,
irresolute, filled with conflicting and
discordant voices, or do We wish for
a nation unified, strong, sympathetic,
‘and ready to respond to the cause of
a common purpose. to serve all hu-
manity, even though the rest of hu-
manity be at war with itself?

Opportunity Knocking.

The year’1916 is but one member of
an infinite series. Countless aeons
have gone before it and countless
aeons will come after it. The. phy-

sical forces of nature will go their way
through indefinite time, performing
their alloted functions, obeying their
peculiar laws and undergoing those
manifold changes and transmutations
which make up the heavens and the
earth. Not se with the reputation
and the influence of a nation. Oppor-
tunity will not knock forever at any
door; it is knocking now at the door
of the American people. ;

If they are able to rise to a
ciation of their own part—of fits own
controlling principles and. pglitics, to
put aside every self-seeking, every
distracting, every brutal appeal—no
one can tell what lights will illumine
the page on which the history of our
nation may yet be written.

It is nearly sixty years since Abra-
ham Lincoln in his debates with Sen-
ator Douglas made mention of the
Scriptural sayi that ‘‘a house di-
vided against itself cannot stand,’’ and
he added, ‘‘ I do not expect the house
will fall, but I do expect the house
will cease to be divided."’

So Mr. President, I say today to this
influential company of Americans, we
do expect, every one of us, that our
house will cease to be divided. We
do expect that our America will come
to full consciousness of its purpose;
that the serene courage of Washing-
ton, the constructive genius of Hamil-
ton, the keen human insight and sym-
pathy of Jefferson, the patient pathos
of Lincoln, shall not have been in
vain in teaching us what our coun-
try 1s.

Shall we catch sight of that some-
thing higher than selfishness, higher
than material gain,-figher than the
triumph of brute force, which alone
can lead a nation up to those high
places that become sacred in history,
and from which influence descends in
a mighty torrent, to refresh, to vivify
and inspire all mankind?

It is as true today as it was in
ancient times, where there is no
vision the people perish. We can
make an America with a vision. We
cannot make it without. [Applause.]

FACES PRISON FOR A.KISS.

When Girl Screams Police Find
Counterfeiting Outfit.

Special to The New York Times,

PASSAIC,-N. J., April 25.—John Kupic,
28 years old, of 115 Tenth Street, at-
tempted to break into the apartments
of Miss Rose Somday at the same ad-
dress early this morning.

“Oh, Rose,’’ he is alleged to have
said, ‘‘ why can't you love me. I have
loads of money and we could be happy
together.’’

@ woman screamed for help, and
Policeman John Callahan arrested him.
Callahan found a trunk filled with fifty
counterfeit silver dollars and tools for

anufacturing counterfeit. coins in

ic’s room.

‘How. about . this?” the officer
asked, as he opened the trunk. ' “ Is-this
the source of your wealth? ’’

**A friend who collects such stuff gave
it all to me,’’ he answered.

In the City Court before Judge Thomas
P. Costello he pleaded guilty to the
charge of annoying Miss Somday, and
told the court that he only wanted to
kiss her,

He denied that he had made the cétun-
terfeit dollars, but he was turned over
to the Federal authorities. The police
think he is a member of a band of coun-
terfeiters.

CUMMINGS NOT IN RACE.

Does Not Want Chairmanship ~ of
“Democratic National Committee.
Special to The New York Times.
STAMFORD, Conn., April 235.—That
the Democratic. -National Committee
will solicit suggestions from President

appre-

|. Wilson relative to -the selection of a

stecessor to William F. McCombs as
Chairman was a statement made here
today by Homer’ S:. Cummings, Vice
Chairm ef the committee, who also
said that he was not to be considered a
candidate for the place.

“I know of no position so exacting
as the Chairmanship of either of the
great political parties,’’ he said. ‘‘ The
strain is enough to tax the vitality of
any man to the danger point. No one
familiar with the duties could by any
possibility covet the appointment.”’

A Metric Shirt That

“‘Means Business”’
| ERE’S a business
man’s Shirt that
will give you eight
hours. a day. of desk-
scuffing service; that
you can wear with your
brightest’ scarf; that. is
made and stitched. with
mother - like .thorough-
ness; that. won't. turn
yellow in the laundry.
It’s my ““Oxrweave” (White
Oxford Cloth) in Metric
Shirts —a beautiful. basket-
weave that will keep soft,
fresh and lustrous, no. matter

how often washed. $1.50.

end. in. its “own |

utter absence of unfriendly

for the
-an  Underats
the vossische Zeitung reviews |

ed to all submarine warters,

volves at. once sensitive appreciation

these qualities may

ay eaders, who must solve the prob-

part of its leader to an attack on the |
German

“ inces of Ger- |
ipewatlon that ‘there ip’ to

ny and
‘create the

no. clash>- ~i “i

it while ‘the optimistic tone is prevé-

icial quarters here, it is ad-.
sh ‘ n

‘Continued -from Page 1.
demonstra- | ™itted that
tion against Americans. * The downtown 1 Dicey hers Mig
streets for three days have been Jammed source bycaveid
wit“ holiday crowds, but there has not
been the slightest intimation-of any de- | 2);
sire to organize a\demonatration. nst |.
the American Embassy, or even of pop-~
ular curiosity regarding the . doings
there, and the big square ‘between the
embassy and the Chancellor's ‘palace
has been left to the undisturbed and
lary tenancy of. one ‘policeman and one /
‘“plainclothes man,’’ whé for months:
have been posted before the embassy. —
The widely differing Vossische
and Tages Zeitung seem ta
ef that an sae
tween Germany and the’ Gn
vo be arrived at. Under-
*« Possibilities -.of t

wer, this | Ch
on is based on the attitude of the | turn .
Pp sand does not arise from any direct | respo
mere eres pen le
ms rnstorff is to see.
La tomo: v. The stated ob-4~
ject his visit to } at this

‘of ‘as
time is

he Zeitung ' sel in. York
ind peeres pgs Ae lc raided the offices |
ie Rates of. von ‘Igel, an Attaché of the Ger-.
*}man Embassy, but: there: is, tion’! the A
Aas | that his real purpose is to. make some} - +

4+communication to roma >| i
antees which Germany, rea to» ~ Wik cot ce o e. their.
United States in the case of the sbiDi sion of. the merits of the’ controversy,
William P. Frye, and witths, endfor the President and. the Secretary. of
Peper.) State have determined that the time for
believes: would satisfy Am el such discussion has eee Soon
indie te pony ys peagdl es Los eet only answer desired’*from Germany is an
the assurances in our January note were yar it or rejection of the American
considere: at by’ no one., At. this)” Re Bato .
moment it is impossible to say Shother Sade pot Se See oe
thig "way {0 An understanding “can, be |iientenment will be made. clear by Att
that’ its feasibility. will be examined | /2"Sing. but it is known that at a pre-

"} vious. meeting the’ A jor was in-
In Opening, the Vossische Zeitung de-

y 1S “ whoa Y
formed by the Secrétary, of te of the| Eleven Membe . rs of the Ross's: wf

clares that no matter what differences | SX4ct meaning of the Awierican attitude. Sts ve \

of opinion exist among Germans no-one j{

Nothing was left unsaid then that might. x
capable of serious thought can regard a ay

mba Sto tenitont of tae Govern

8 to the intent o 8 ernment |. ' :

break as either desirable or asa Matter /to ‘break relations if Germany. did not | steamship” Ress, 2,006 toni sgfo

can exist regarding the question a8 to| Tine wee present methods’ of ‘sub-| owned at »Cardiff, has “been

whether the note leaves Germany the|" wettare rs. fe gts Eleven ‘members: of ithe. crew
osdibitity of yielding without logs, of saved, ee Pest tie ‘
onor and one of its best wea rhe! =
To answer sweepingly in the

‘his .responsible "ad
‘also’ the, leadership>-.of “our.
BRE es eae ee

ANOTHER BRITISH SHIP:

No News of Conepuatedh. Sat Gen renee anne
Pcp ge mae pepty ce ms
ON WASHINGTON:

newspaper correspondents ‘deprecat

the publication of . that official i

dispatches to the State partment from po. Sere wie TiS fare
Seventy-n'ne Customs Officials G

to Hoboken for an-Inspectio

of the Liners There.

Ambassador Gerara indicated that Ger-
Actirig on ihstructions from the’

many might make -concessions ‘to the.
ury’ Department: at -Washington,

United States in repiy. ‘to. tne note de-
manaing the immediate abandonment of
enty-five Customs Bispectors, under
direction of four Acting: Deputy Su

present methods of conducting subma- }:
rine warfare. He said official dispatenes
to the department frem Berlin contained
ors, left the United. States“ Barge Offic
at. ne geet pepe ot mace Is ’
Unite es * CO rd. | E
Hoboken to make: a thorough ‘search®

only’ quotations of newgpaper- apinions,
simiJar in many cases*to .the itoriat..
excerpts cabled to’this country.in press
the German steamships which have t
up at their piers ih bgt ys
: inning of-the war iin 1
After landing Aga ane i
2, belonging.to the North Ger n )
Steamship Company, the customs :offi
cials went on board the liner George
‘ict

atfirma-
tive,"’ continues the paper, * involves. no
smaller degree of responsibjlity than in
the negative. To answer properly or

the national dignity ana a cool grasp of
the. facts, uninfluenced by - emotional :
temperament. The gqree tise of both .of |
e confidently looked ;
for the responsible political and mili-

erm.

“The chief question is whether’ in’
America good-will and the desire for an!
understanding still exist at, all, or;
whether the White House is determined I
to aire marae all rg sage ee toi
a break. ccording to the wording of} . ‘ —— cin
the note, the President is willing to re-| Gartnl” Weeiore Pocecee a ban Es
ceive proposais from Germany. At least, ! dated before the Imperial Chancellor
this conception is gained from American | Dr. von. -Bethmann Frouwe ad re-
newsapepr comment. iturned.from a visit to the or: at

The Tagesgeitung devoted the greater the front.

It is understood here that one of the
objects jof the various conferences
known to have taken place- between of- I
ficials of the Berlin Foreign Office and |
Ambassador Gerard,has. been to make
it plain to. the Ambassador that there
would be no avoidable delay in respond-
ing to the American note, ‘demanding
immediate action. Soon after the: note
wus dispatched from Washinstom, Sec-
retary Lansing said he expected a reply
by the énd of last-week. The note ‘was
sturted on its. way to Berlin last Tues-
day. Press dispatches from Berlin have
since indicated that a reply would not be
mage until after the Chancellor had‘an-
other .opportunity to confer with the
Emperor at the headquarters,

Ambassador’ Gerar conferred with
Foreign Minister von Jagow on two oc-"
casions last wéek. é
It igs-felt here that stories indicating
os armas Fe aed ee reek con-
'cessions an a e rman’ vern-
but German Press Comment. ment was hegre so, to great tenets

Special to The New York Times. to preserve the friendly relations w.

. Ph the United States might find their way

WASHINGTON, April 25.—Mr. Ge- | back to Germany in distorted férm-and+
rard,. the American Ambassador at Ber-; have such an effect upon the»German
lin, continues to send to the State De-; People as to make more difficult the

: announcementyof en lic f concilia-
partment by cable extracts from the Ger- | tion ae ad dition aay aatrietions

dispatches,

pers that have oe hope-
fully of a{peaceful outcome of the crisis, |
and reiterates.that the Sussex casé by
itself is not responsible for the present
situation, but rather only a_ pretext
seized by the United States.

““Such papers as are favoring .a set-
tlement of the case,’’ the Tages Zeitung
adds,’ ‘‘ appear to prefer te renounce an
effective military and. economic war
rather than to give up -German-Amer-
icgn relations.’’

he entire two columns of Count Re-
ventlow’s editorial. breathes the fear
that an understanding will. be reached ‘in’

contrast to the other papers, which hope
that it may be.

AWAIT GERARD’S REPORT.
Washington So Far Has Nothing

Washington, and commenced’ 4 str
examination of the ship from: hér &
upward-to the eck." é

t d ae
No: information could be obtained.

the. inspectors except that. they. were
obeying orders received from) Collector |
of the Port. Dudley Field jegrene =
understood, However, that thet
ae Lang seer Mr Bay ol to make.
that no -ex ‘were’ cons
, but also to ascertain that
machinery was in.good order, and
it had not been tampered with in.
way by theycrew to prevent the»
putting to ° ee
The last-search of the.Gérman |
ships in this port >was made by-
‘of the Collector of the Port: on
five days after the torpedoing: of thi
Lusitania. At*that time the-
tion. was .compieted in three days by
seventy Inspectors and Acting | ;
Surveyors, who were instructed té |
chiefly for bombs on board, as it
been reported that the Germans’
blow up their-own vessels to
them falling into the hands iitee
United States in case of war F
out between the two countries. ©
The search started then at: both
of the Hoboken piers, one-half of :
Insy on the
burt
othe

man press, in order that the Admin-/ upon ‘th [) A =
istration may judge of the state of B eet ae —
opinion concerning the American demand
that the Imperial Government abandon
submarine warfare against vessels of
commerce, and those that reached the
department today were construed as _—
ing additional grounds for the optimis
that prevailed yesterday over the situa-
at Publicly, _ t Fe not i ¢
menting on the calm and conservative
Serene ot Semen ee, beat pri- Avoid Real Issue with Us.,
vately ey have indica at the :
chances seem to faver a response from}. FARIS, April 25.—The Temps, dis- |.
Berlin that will prevent a break in, the;Oussing Germany's military. and /politi-
relations. of the t

‘©. countries, i :
Another favorable sign was tound in a | cal situation, internal and external,

says:
cabled message from Mr. Penfield, the! “The American issue now adds an-
American Ambassador in Vienna, in other dilemma which the German m=
ee “e said the attitude of the Aus- peror seeks in vain to avoid. He is face
e an an eerie press was opposed to face with two alternatives, each
o a sev seg of relations between Ger- equally formidable, either to humiliate
many and the United States. Taken in himself before the world, or -else to

ternal litical situation in Germany
always has n extremely delicate
when questions involving submarine
policy were under consideration.

SAYS KAISER IS IN DILEMMA.
The Temps Says He Is Seeking. to

Washin LO}
it. was expected that it would be full;
a week before they had eS mined. the -
thirty-two German and Austrian steam- —
ships lying at. Hoboken and . ;
Brooklyn. 28

The search will be continued toe
and will be carried on until ali-4
ships have been inspected.» . eg

Modern Dry-Cold-Air Fur Storage Vault on Premises Rate
FURS STORED : FURS REMODELED: \.
Telephone 7300 Murray Hill Estimates Su itted :

BONWIT TELLER & CO.)
FIFTH. AVENUE AT 88™.STREET. ;
Important Sale Today and Tomorrow e

Women’s Tailleur Suits
Specially Priced at.‘

Smart belted coat effects with button trimmings
and pongee collars. Flare skirts.
Made. in navy blue serge.

Special Attention Is Directed to
An Extraordinary Diversified Collection of

‘Women’s Failleur Suits:

BRAIDBOUND, WAISTCOAT and)CAPE style —
~ Reproductions: of Lanvin, Drecoll, Bernard & Cheruit Models _

Made of serge and gabardine in navy blue, black,
dove gray and tan with exquisite decorative linings.

Important Sale Today and Tomorrow : | x
‘Women’s Daytime Coats. |
_. Specially Priced at ; |

i rat

Included are six distinctive styles in navy blue and black, serge:and gabardine | -
in belted, cape and button - trimmed. styles—tan velour » A

_..- checks with brown velvet-collars and strap belts—

: large checks and plaids in:pastel colorings.

Soy Eresg tthe , ds . x 1h Staaweas

MANUFACTURER
* TRUE EFFICIENCY
2 When, buying your raw .
aterials you deal on the
- basis of high quality and
Tew-cost... Why not. garry
that idea throughout your .
, bhsiness?. Degnon Termin-
effers great efficiency .
manufacture ai low cost ©
or rent, power, insurance,
_ labor and trucking which,
coupled. with low cost: for
materials, mean large
profits to-you. Is:this.not a
business proposition worth
| investigating >
Res For lilustrated Booklet

Write 30 E. 42d St.. New York
k Phone Murray Hill 7509. +

i DEG

thin

In the office— :

Office men, who Wear Balbrig-

- gan, do not think of underwear
during business hours—they are
so cool and comfortable,

KAVANAUGH
BALBRIGGAN

fills every summer underwear re-
Guirement—tfree from pinch or that
Sticky feeling, yet a garment that
protects. Many men who buy under-
Wear regardless of price insist on
KAVANAUGH KNIT at only
50c a garment.
Hygienic Lisle, $1.00.

KAVANAUGH
KNITTING CO.,
INC.,

Makers

Waterford, N. Y.

JUST PUBLISHED

They of the
High Trails

Romance runs high
in these pages, full of
the charm of. the
Rockies. ‘“‘They of
the High Trails” -is

By | — ap and sim-
y pie, but there is a
HAMLIN splendid reality about
GARLAND it. | Mr. Garland has
always excelled in
making vividly alive
to the reader this life
of the far border he

knows so’ well.

HARPER & BROTHERS

Established 1817. °

(RUBINAT)

Natural Aperient

Water from Spain

Approved by Academy |
Of Medicine, Paris -

Indispensable for all whe
lead a sedentary life

Small quantity suffices.
Wineglassful only

Ask Your Physician

Sold by all Druggists
Leok ror the Yellow Label

LUYTIES BROTHERS
« New Yo

Yof the World Alliance,

oho

DENOUNCE GERMANY

President of Brown University
» Startles Alliance for Inter-
national Friendship.

WANTS WAR FOUGHT OUT

Asserts: Sinking of Lusitania Was
‘Worth a.Dozen New Ships and
100 Regiments te England.

Special to Thé New York Times.

MRdDEN CITY, N. Y., April 25.—Ger-
man methods of warfare received strik-
ing comment from President W. H. P.
Faunce of Brown University in an ad-
dress delivered by him tonight at the
-Garden .City Hotel at the opening ses-
‘sion of the First National Conference of
the American Council of the World Alli-
ance of Churches fot the Promotion of
International Friendship.

|" More ‘than .150, clergymen from all

parts of the’ United States, many of
‘them former délegates to the World Al-
liance of Clergymen at Constance, Ger-.
many, on Aug..1, 1914, and many promi-
nent workers in societies to promote
peace, attended the meeting, which will
last three days and was called to extend
the membership of the American Council
so that the
United States can be more effectively

suture wars.

President Faunce's speech, which was
anything but a plea for
peace or unpreparednéss, was more
vigorous than many of thosé in attend-
ance had expectéd, and gave the Con-
acest a dramatic opening. He said in
part:

‘All arsund u& men: are believing
that the law of the jungle is the founda-
tion Of national life, and that might
is the only final sanction of right. ‘They
offer us the gospel of ‘Treitschke and
the code of Bernhardi as the last word
of modern wisdom, arid proclaim that
military force is the ultimate and only
reliance of the nations. But the dan-
ger of our time is that we of the
Churchés shall tose faith tn the moral
torces Which create physical forcés, and
are far more powerful than any physi-
cal forcés ever’ ¢an be. The. sinking of
the Lusitania weakened England by the
loss of one ship and 1,000 lives, it
strengthened England as much as the
building of a dogen ships and the arm.
ing of a hundred Engiish regiments.

‘*How to stop the war we do not at
present inquire. We do not want the
war stopped until péace can be estab-
lished on the basis of justice. For my-
self I betieve it must be fought out.
Our task is father to understand the
war, and to work for the prevention of
such folly and stupidity in the future.
When the typhoid fever is raging in a
patient’s blood, the doctor may recog-
nize that it must run its course with
whatever alleviations he may suggest.
Not the cure, but the prevention of war,
is the task that summons today the
Christian forces of the world. We do
not need to come togéther merely to
déscribe the beauty and desirability of
peace. In fact, peace as sometimes pic-
tured, as the mere negatisn of strife, is
not in its@?if desirable.

“One of the curous psychological
; facts of our time is the poptilar revoit
| against mere peace. It m.ght bé@ well to
drop the Word peace from our further
| discussions provided we could find some
positive and constructivé word to replace
it. Peace that is a mere’ vacuum no man
desires. Naturé itself abhors a vacuum.
I myself believe in adequate defense of
the fiation, éven though I may not be
able to define the word adequate in a
rapidly changing environment. I believe
as the nation grows its police power
must grow, that its increasing numbers
and. wealth demand increase of pro-
tection again&t burglary, . cannot for a
moment accept the doctrine of Tolstoy
80 long as I follow a Christ whose whole
life was a resolute resistance to evil.”

The congress in Garden City is part
of a worldwide campaign of ¢hurches
how actively under way in nine European
countries for the éstablishment of an
internatidnai league of peace and the
ereation of a werid supreme court.

The Rev. Dr..J. B. KRemensnyder of
New York, ex-President of the General
Synod of the Evangelical Lutheran
Church in the United States, and Chair-
man of the Commission on Peace and
Arbitration of the Federal Council of
the Churches of Christ in America, pre-
sided at the first meeting tonight.

John R. Mott of New York, General
Secretary of the International Commit-
tee of the Young Men's Christian Asso-
ciation, and the Rev. Charles 8S. Mac-
Farland, General Secretary of the Fed-

eral Council of the Churches of Christ’!

in America, also spoke. The Rev. Dr.
J. Ross Stevenson, President of Prince-
ton Theological Seminary, led the devo-
tional exercises.

Some of those in attendance at the
Congress are the ev. Dr. Cernelius
Woelfkin, the Rev. Frederick Lynch,
Professor Benjamin F. Battin of Phila-
delphia, the Rev.8Dr. William P. Mer-
rill, the Rev. Dr. James L. Barton of
Boston, the pee Péter Ainslie of Balti-
more, Robert Spéer, the Rev. Arthur
J. Brown, the Réy. Frank Mason North,
the Rev. Dr. Nehémiah Boynton, Bishop
Luther B. Wilson, Talcott Williams,
Professor William J. Hull of Swarth-
more, Penn., the Rev. Plato T. Durham,
the Rev. Gaius Glenn Atkins, and Bishop
Edwin H. Hughes.

répresented in the movement to promote |
+ international understanaing and prévent

immediate |

CHESSMEN OWE BOARD BILL.
Central Trust Co. to Auction Ivory

Set for 30 Years’ Storage.

Down fn the darkness, of a yault be-
néath Wall Street lie jumbled together
the kings and quéens and pawns and
knights of a precious chess set. On the
ivory pieces lies the dust that has gath-
ered for the thirty years they have been
untouched by players’ fingers while the
courts of law“have tried to decide to
whom they belonged. With them in the
vault is the ivory-inlaid chessboard, also
a set of carved boxwood draughts.

But though the Central Trust Company
is an indulgent landlord to these aristo-
écrats of the ¢hessboard, it ipists on
payment of a thirty-year board ‘bill of
$560, and so on May 3 auctioneers will
stand on a table at 14 Vesey Street and
ask some one to pay the board bill of
the kings\and queens and knights and
pawns, However, before the purchaser
can take home the set he must pay
$111.50 on a ‘claim by Tiffany & Co.

Accérding*to Jotine, Larkin & Rath-
bone, lawyers, who yesterday advertised
the sale, Tiffany's in 1887 held the set
on a claim against John T. Howard,
Lyman B. Bunnell, and Moses Wiseman,

who, the lawyers said, were all dead
now, and when the three wished to
claim the set Tiffany’s found ;
claims against it, and refused to hand
it over. Mr. Howard bégan suit, which
resulted in the ¢ourt’s ordering Tiffany’s
to store the chessmen in a vault in the
then new building of the Central Trust
Company in Wall Street.

It was said yesterday at the offices of
the trust company that the chessmen
had remained isturbed in the same
vault since 1887. There has beén much
oe over who owned them, but in

ébruary of this year the Supreme
Court authorized the trust comeasy to
sell the royal echessmen for the thirty-
year board bill.

| XANZAC DAY” IN LONDON.

| King, Queen, and General Birdwood
at Services in Abbey.

| LONDON, April 25.—The anniversary
of the landing of the AuStralians and
New Zealand Army Corps on Gallipoli
Péninsula for the unsuccessful attempt
to capture the Dardanelles. was cele-
brated in London today by a parade
of Australasian soldiers and a memorial
service in Westminster Abbey. which
was conducted by the Dean of West-
minster. °

‘Dispatches from New Zealand and
Australia indicate that “Anzac Day,”
as the occasion is known, was celebrated
generally there by memorial and patri-
otic services.

The service at Westminster Abbey
was attended by the King and Queen
and by General Birdwood, who com-
manded the Australians and New
Zealanders throughout. tne campaign,
being described in an official dispaten|
as ‘‘the soul of the Anzac.” Official
representatives of Australia and New
Zealand also were in the audience, which
filled the great cathedral.
‘The parade to the Abbey gave Lon-
doners their first opporturfity since the
beginning of the war to cheer troops
safely returned from the front.

Two thotisand soldiers from the Colon-

other

jes, who have been convalescing and re- |

organiging in England after their cam-
paign on the Gallipoli Peninsula,

main streets of London to the Ab
The soldiers, who have seen some of the
hardest fighting of the war, made a
good appearance.

GERMAN PLANT BLOWN UP.

Lives Lost In. Powder Factory Ex-
plosion at Dedeagatch.

ATHENS, (via Paris,) April 25.—A
largé German powder factory at De-
deagatch has blown up, says a dispatch
‘from Savs ey weve

The explosion Killed a large numbér
of persons, among ape ge grandson of
Premier Radoslavoff of Bulgaria.

HOLLAND EATS WAR BREAD.

Submarines Cause Scarcity
American Wheat.

LONDON, April 25.—War bread ap-
peared on breakfast tables in Holland
for the first time this morning.

An Exchange Telegraph dispatch from
Amsterdam says that Dutch bakers
have been ordered to sell war bread on
account of the difficulty of procuring
American wheat. The scarcity is due to
submarine warfare and the. recent loss
of Dutch ships.

Jail Contractor on Alimony Decree.

An ordet for the arrest and commit-
meént to the Union County Jail of Henry
MeéCandléss of Elizabeth, a contractor,
for noh-paymént of alimony, was made
yesterday by Vice Chancellor Vivian
Lewis in Jersey City. McCandless’s
wife sued for separate maintenance last
Fall, and in December Vice Chancellor
Lewis ordered the husband to pay her
$20 a week alimony pending the trial
of her case and a counsel fee of $250,
but McCandless, it was said, paid no
alimony.

CHARGE PURCHASES MADE BETWEEN

feature

Q Special Group of

Yashionable.

NOW AND MAY IST, BILLED JUNE 1ST. _

— today

“10 MEBT IN BL PASO

Continued from Pege / 1.

State Government has been discovered in
-Chihuahua. City, with ramifications in

Juarez, Casas
Villa Ahum .
discovered by a
ernor Géneral

enter

Grandes, Pearson, and
The plot, which was
rivate secretary to Gov-

Bar mez, who was 4an-

all of
za commanders who have been
ro-Américan in their staternents or ac-

ons.

General Gavira was notified today ot
the discovery of the new plot, which is
thought by him to be a recrudescence o1
that of April 2, in: which Juerez and
Chihuahua .Citty were to have nm
seized and all Americans driven out.
Another movement <again
Government was discovered on | od
and fifteen men were shot in Chihuah
City after General Gavira had shot si
in Juarez, : .

Arrests have been made in the new
plot and executions are expected to fol-
low. As in the other plots, the i nee
of the peons was played on to incite an
anti-American outbredk, and it ‘was
found that men ‘had been stationed in
each of the barracks. There are now
more than 100 alleged plotters in the
Chihuahua prison, and wholesale exe-
cutions are expected, unless Genéral
Obregon orders the prisoners sent south
to get them out of the disturbed zone.

The Sixth Cavalry passed through here
today from Hari! m, Fexas, on the
way to Columbus, N. M. Colonel Joseph
A. Gaston was in. command.

SCOTT WILL START TODAY.

Funston to Accompany Him to Con-
ference with Obregon.

SAN ANTONIO, Texas, April 25.—
Generals Scott and Funston planned to-
day to leave tomorrow night for El Paso
to discuss with General Alvaro Obregon,
Secreta of War in the de facto ve
ernment Cabinet, the situation created
¥ the presence of American troops in

exico.

Whether General Obregon, who
reached San Luis Potosi today on his
way north, will go to Juarez, opposite
El Paso, or to some other int on the
border has not been definitely stated,
and late today the War Department was
requested to ascertain and advise Gen-
eral Scott when the conference would
take place.

General Obrégon could get to Laredo
gr Bagle yf more quickly than to El

aso, but dispatches from Mexico City
and from Washington indicated that he
was going to, El Paso. To get there he
will have to pass through the United
States after entering either at Laredo
or Eagle Pass, or go through a district
between Torreon and Chihuahua that is
infested with Villa’s men. While Villa
followers are not in actual control of
any great part of that district, they are
so numerous that the ge of Car-
ranza’s Minister of ar might be
dangerous unless he carried with him a
strong escort.

General Scott was advised by the War
Department today that specific in-
structions concerning the character of
the discussion he is to have with
Obregon will be forwardéd to him to-
morrew.

General Pershing’s troops now occupy
Fositions along a shortened line, with
strengthened centres at Namiquipa and
Casas Grandes, from which supporting
forces can be dispatched Aang | to any
point required. he de facto forces in

Northern Mexico were estimated at not |’

fewer than 40,000. This estimate in-
cluded those troops in and about Tor-
reon.- Military men realize that Gen-

| eral Obregon's disposition of his north-

ern troops has been such
marched from the barracks through the} p;
bey.

as to make
s position remarkably strong.

More détailed information regarding
operations of the picked squadron under
Major Howse reached headquarters to-
day. ‘It became known for the first
time that the minor engagements of the
command were with Carranza troops.
Mention had been made of the clashes
in earlier dispatches from the field, but
it was the belief at headquarters that
bands of Villa followers had offered re-
sistance.

Private Eichenberger'of the Thirteenth
Cavalry is still missing. It is thought
he may have lost his mind after the Par-
ral fight and strayed away. <A reward
of $50 has been offered for his dis-
covery.

VILLA CLUE SENT TO PERSHING

General Expected to Pursue ‘B:ndit
if Opportunity Arises.

Special to The New York Times.
WASHINGTON, April 25.—The State
Department today received a_ tele-
gram from Marion Letcher, the Amer-
ican Consul at Chihuahua City, stat-

ing that he haa been reliably in-
formed that Villa had been located about
sixty miles west of Satevo. The mes-
sagé was turned over to the War De-
partment and the information it con-
tained was telegraphed to Major Gen.
Funeton to be relayed to General Persh-
ing’s headquarters. Major Gen. Tasker
L. Bliss, Acting Chief of the General
Staff of the Army, in the absence of
Major Gen. Hugh L. Scott on the bor-
der, said that if it was true Villa was
west of Satevo, troops would be sent
after him, but that probably nothing
would be done unless more definite con:
firmation of the report was received.
General Fershing is at liberty to send
forces into the region west of Satevo

of.a specially trained staff
of rental, experts working
exclusively with business
buildings. Our complete
record of expiring leases is
invaluable in keeping build-
ings fully tenanted. Let us
help make your building pay
better. .
M. & L. HESS, Inc.

007 Broadway, cor. 20th St.

Telephone Gramercy 6052.

HIGHEST
GRADE
TURKISH Say

Vian

MORR

tte

to capture Villa. The plans for the re-
disposition of the American forces in
Mexico aré being carried forward under
orders from the War Department which
in no way tie the hands of General
Funston or General Pershing, and the
latter is at liberty to utilize any part
of his command at any time, in his dis-
cretion, éven while the Obregon-Scott-
nston conference is in progress,
pet Villista bandits or against Villa

Gratified over the fact that the Car-
ranza Government is sending General
Obregon to the border for a conference
with Major Generals Scott and Funston,
officials here appear to have high hopes
that the. meeting will result in a com-
plete and successful agreement for. co-
operation between thé forces of both

Governments.

Inasmuch as General Scott will be
accompanied into the conference by
Major Gen. Funston, who has chargé
of the work of the American punitive
expedition, it is expected that General
Obregon will ask General Luiz Gutier-
rez, chief of operations for the de facto
Government in Chihuahua State, to ac-
company him from Chihuahua City to
the meeting. It has not yet been de-
cided whether the conference will be
in Juarez or in El Paso.

There were no developments here to-
day either in the military or diplomatic
aspects of thé Mexican situation. Ad-
vices to both the State and War De-
partments were meagre. General Fun-
ston forwarded delayed messages tellin
of the killing of a trooper of the Tenth
Cavalry by a sniper at La Jolla, near
Parra!, nearly two weeks ago, but giv-
ing no details. He also sent routine
messages as to supplies, but no new re-
ort on the redisposition of his forces
n Mexico, now well in progress.

It was announced officially today that
the forces in Mexico and on the border
noW were amply provisioned with stocks
on hand large enough to carry them up
to May 15 at least.

AVIATORS PROTEST
AT NEW MACHINES

Four Aeroplanes At Colambus
. Found to Be Like Those
Wrecked In Mexico.

From a Staff Correspondent.
Special to The New York Timea.

COLUMBUS, N. M., April 25.—After
all the risks they have faced in the
last month while trying to drive aero-
planes of inadequate power over moun-
tain pksses in Mexico, the American
army aviators on duty here have re-
turnéd to Columbus, only to discover
that four of the new aeroplanes pur-
chased for them under appropriation of
Congress are of the same type as the
ones that went to pieces in Mexico.

Machines of the sort used in Europe
were ssked for. Word was received
that eight new machines “‘ of the latest
type ’’ were to be sent. “The four unh-
packed today, however, are tractors of
‘the Curtiss N-8 type, with engines of
the same horse power as the ones that
have been wrecked. The engines are
rated at 90 horse power, and are said
to develop less. The new machines have
greater wing surface than the old, but
this is said to be a drawback in this
counsy of tregcherous air currents, as
it diminishes speed.

Four of the Curtiss R-2 machines, with
smaller wing ry than the new ones
here, but with 160 horse-power engines
are expected next month, and four 140
horse-power Sturtevants, with steel
framework, are due heré soon. These
last eight aeroplanes are of types that
the aviators think necessary for their
work here.

If can be said that while the aviators
are obeying the rule against talking for
publicatio#, they express very strongly
among themiselves their reluétance to
fly in the four new chines—even a
determination not to 4° 80, although
that may be merely an phatic sort of
protest. No one here will discuss the
question of who is to blame for the

resent situation. The aeroplanes were

ought by officials in Washington,

The protest of the airmen against the
new machines came at the same time
as details of the destruction of the sixth
machine oe to pieces In Mexico. Lieu-
tenant H. A. Dargus, whose home is in
Ridgewood, N. J., and Captain R. H.

ONE
DAY

SALE

PIANOS.

TO-DAY
ONLY

NEW

ing on a mission requiring them to cross

miles south of the border.
plane was buffeted about in the treach-

peak,
denl
on the side of the mountain.

Lieutenant Dargue was knocked un-
conscious. Captain Willis was badly
cut and bruis and was buried under
the machine. They were sixty-five miles
from the nearest American camp and
they had only two partly filled can-
teens of water, containing about a
quart each, and a fers emergency ra-
tions, consisting of a cake of choco-
late, a small portion of bread and meat
compound which swells when water is
added, and one box of hardtack. ;

When Lieutenant Dargue recovered
consciousness he got Captain Willis out
and used part of the water in dressin
a acalp wound the Captain had quitered:
During the long walk back to camp the
aviators alluwed no time to sieep, but
how and then fell asleep for ten or
fifteen minutes while resting.

It took the two officers forty-five
hourg to get back to camp. They had
to cross two mountain ranges and were
obliged to walk cautiously around vil-
lages to avoid hostile natives. Near
the camp they found a water hole, and
though it contained alkali water it made
the rest of the trip possible. Both men
teached Columbus by automobile last
night, Captain Willis with a heavy
bandage about his forehead.

This made the second narrow escape
for Captain Willis. On a previous oc-
casion he had to walk back thirty-five

the so ie stopped and it su
plunge

ing daylight to keep from being at-
tacked and walking by compass at
night, after an aeroplane had been
wrecked heyond Casas Grandes early in
the present campaign.

Officers here are looking forward with
great interest to an experiment with
motor trucks here, Two trucks with a
capacity of three tons each are to be
equipped with steel casings fitted over
the rubber tires. he are intended
to fit railroad rails and make it possible

Willis wére dispatched. Wednesday morn-

a jagged mountain top more than 300
The aero-

erous air currents of the mountainous
region until, too weak to clear the ony

down and was smashed

miles to camp, hiding in the brush dur-.

to use the steel tracks or by detaching
the tireg to use ordinary roads.

Raoul Madero Not on Border.
Raoul Madero, brother of the as-
sassinated President of Mexico, denied

Columbus, N. M., on Monday, that he
had visited the bordef to atténd a con-

home, Central Park est, Mr.
Madero said: ‘I have not been on the
Mexican border, and though I_ have
many’ relatives now living in Texas,
I don’t think any one of them was mis-

en for me, as they would hardly
be found as far west as’ Columbus.”

ALASKA TROOPS CALLED OUT

Ordered to Anchorage In Connection
with Strike of Government Help.

VALDEZ, Alaska, April 25.—Company
A of the Fourteenth United States In-
fantry stationed at Fort Liscum, near
here, hat been ordered to Anchorage
for patrol duty in connection with the
strike of laborers employed in the con-

struction of the Government railroad.
The soldiers will sail. for Agchorage
Wednesday on the steamship Alaska.

United States District Judge Frederick
M. Brown and Assistant District At-
torney Munley have gone to Anchorage
in response to a telegram from Lieu-
tenant Frederick Mears of the Alaska,
Engineering Commission, requesting
their presente in connection with the
strike. situation. .

WASHINGTON, April 25. — Secretary
Lane requésted the War Department to
dispatch the troops to Anchorage. to
protect the Government railway, at the
suggestion of the United States M
in that jurisdiction. No serious trouble
has been reported to the War Depart-
ment, however, and it was believe the
troops were requested as a precaution-
ary measure. ‘

Significance of
the Saks Label
in Men’s Clothes

{. The label is about the only thing we don’t

{ Whenever you buy:

the product of some w

§ There are two kinds of. Labels—one identifies
the name of the maker, and the other conceals tt.

{| The responsibility of most clothing shops is
confined to the label—ours extends to the clothes.

make—but the balance is exclusively our own.
label on it, you are buying. Saks workmanship

and all that it implies.

{ You are buying the original work of the
author, with the author’s name on it, and not

facturer, burdened with two separate profits,
one for the maker and one for the middle-
man who sells it to you.

a garment with a Saks

holesale clothing manu-

Spring Top Coats... ..$15.00 to $35

. Saks &Company

Broadway at 34th Street.

Outfitters to

yesterday the report which came from {

ference of prominent Mexicans. At his.

Gentle Art
of j
Giving Advice

First find out the kind. of
For oftentimes people ask | _
advice,—when what they real- |
ly want is approval.

lig ‘i

Wikia ald

Envelope Purse (at left)—-Of mo-
rocco, in colors, enamel and gold
plated medallion mounting, silk lin-
ing, fitted with attachéd purse, ex-
tra pocket, strap handle at back;

Hand Bag (at right)—Black Doric
morocco, with colored stripes, “‘en- |’.
velope” design, silk lining, framed | ..
silk-lined coin compartment, mir-
ror, one tight and one extension |:
pocket, handle at top. Bag meds-| —

to BD!

Drinking Cup, collapsible design, in
case of glazed calfskin, pastel
hades, gold border tooling, 2 a
inch dlateter =... $2.80 |

Photograph Case (at right)’ — Of:
glazed. calfskin, pastel shades, ¢x-
posed gilt corners, moire silk lin-
ing—oblong or oval opening, 2% |

“Hasty Line” Portfolio (open and.
closed)—OF glazed calfskin, pastel:
shades, with gold border design, |
fitted with blotter pad and twe
quires of colored combination pa-
per and envelopes; loop for foun- |

call

To those purchasers who Young Men

thay desire a piano of more
moderate price than the

1 > Sohmer, we Offer this in-

strument as the most worthy piano ever sold at
. its price,

Adaptations and reproductions of late French models

from Cheruit, Bernard, Callot, Lanvan and Doeuil-

let—in tailored, belted and slighily trimmed effects—

of imported gabardines, twill-weaves, fine French |
serges, velour checks and other smart suitings, many

of which cannot be duplicated later.

Smart. J

Sole Agents U. 8. aud Canada

OFailored Quite

(for women and misses)

tit i

Cross Upright Steamer-Wardrobe. é,
Trunk, for men or women, three- |
ply veneer construction, black fibre
covering, green fibre binding, 6
hangers, velour plush pad at top: }
Top drawer with three compart.
ments, upper drop. tray for hats,
Young Men lower drop tray. with removable

. partition; brass mountings, bolts
Clothes with those patent Hi || and spring lock, green cloth lining: |
marks of the gentleman for $26.50 |
young men from eighteen to
thirty.

Sack suits for business, or uni-
versity, and for country wear,
and every Summer sport suit
and garment—all of English
cut and the imported materials
correct-for each use.

presenting exceptional

VOMMP Ot! Sica cee

An unusual opportunity to procurea dependable
piano backed by the protec-

tion of an honored name.
Monthly
Payments

Try this easily | digested,
sustaining food. Now pre-
pared by special procéss in
a most delicious, appetizing
form. ‘

AT YOUR GROCER’S.

‘Purchasers may éxchange
at any time within a year
for any new Sohmer Piano
with full allowance of all
money paid:

Meeting Approval from-

New Sohmer Pianos $450 up

ecially featuring fashionable Georgette Sailors— Soh mer & Co.

mart wing-and flower turbans—ostrich edged satin ree FIFTH AVENUE at 32d STREET
hats and . de ae -

a> eg

_ CHICAGO LIMITED
y @ New York2P.M. Arrive Chicago 2 P.M.
j a Lackawanna-Michigan Céntral. :

Alb steel, electric
lighted sleepers...
Ticket Ditlcos:
“Cor. wit St Cor. pth Si.
Cor. Park P1,° Cor. St,
Brookiyn—505 Fulton St.

é Thee age Pe ty

rege, t rooms, with all, modern
uipments, to rout in t ‘Bulla:
“the centre of Néw York's peer

tivities, 2,050 square féet On eac
, making six’ or more rooms, Suit |.
rs; physicians, real estate mi

tects. Building open day

. Blevators always running. Trains
cars in all directions... Subway —
“in buliding. pe Building,

ent Room -}-}

cackawanna |
Hatlroad

World’s Greatest Leather Stores

New-York ; 4
404 Fifth Ave.

(at 37th, Street)
253 Broadway ae ve

Boston
145 Tremont §

z Young men are invited to ins the’
College Lounge on the mezzanine
floor as they would their club,

ore
ie apt ee ~

SPORT SHOP

Joe Ware
CLeblabl Clg
Se Qu aiMle

7 Maabils Je en
‘ies 2 and Uj {Yachting Su “7

Sinai ‘Gages and

othez sacar lo
the wardiobe of th e-

pottswoman

omenr\ |

Makers of Smart Hats
Soe Oilen, ard Women

Etna venue at40% Street
fown 16l Boadway Sige Biey

ROBBER KILLS POLICEMAN.

Two Others Badly Injured in Pistol
Duel Fought in Cincinnati.

CINCINNATI, Ohio, April 25.—In a
desperate pistol battle in the heart. of
Cincinnati’s business district at noon
today, Patrolman Samuel Robbins was
shot and killed, a pawnbroker named
Louis Katz was probably fatally shot,
while William Groendike, 20, of Car-
thage, Ohio, accused by the police of
doing the shooting, was in turn shot
and probably fatally wounded by De-
tective Albert Wegener.

The police assert that Katz was shot
when Groendike ettempted to hold up
the pawnbroker in his shop, that Groen-
dike opened fire when Robbins hurried
to aid Katz, after the latter called for
pelp. and that Wegener, seeing his fel-
1 Fain fall, immediately shot Groen-

ADVERTISEMENT.

Scoflissue
Toitet Paper

Be a wise buyer when you
purchase toilet paper. Size of
the roll or the
number of rolls
you get for so
much does not
signify the
quantity of
paper you get.
Settle the qual-
ity first—then find out how
many sheets there are in the roll.
**It’s the Counted Sheets
that Count’’
ScotTissue has 1000 sheets to the roll, 10c

—that settles quantity. It is soft, white and
absorbent—that ‘settles quality.
Sani-Tissue:* Very soft and clothlike.
Treated with Canadian Balsam.
sheets in carton of 3 rolls, 30c.

A our dealer.
SCOTT. PAPER CO.
New York peer oe Rea tn ng

AMEaICa's Ouv SIC

PLUTO

CONCENTRATED
SPRING gles WATER

PRICE CONTENTS
_ SS CGNTS IPL9S5NS
peemteeny date orev
FRENCH NIC ick SPRINGS NOTED 2

A Majority’ of Those Accepted

| will be outlined to the jury this morn-.

“FOR VIEWS ON WAR

Openly: Voice Sympathy
with the Allies.

FAVOR SHIPPING MUNITIONS

Defendants Go. on Trial
Charged with Conspiring to
Blow Up Vessels Here.

ebinaa tidy ctneianearemepiiagemnee

Three:

War . sympathies were rigidly in-
quired into tn -the Federal District
Court yesterday in the selection of a
jury to try Lieutenant “Robert Fay,
Walter Scholz, who is Fay’s’ brothér-
in-law, and Paul Daeche, charged
jointly with conspiring _to destroy
munition ships by secreting bombs on
them.

Just after ~ the twelfth man was ac-
cepted. by. both .sides and sworn in,
Judge Harland Howe adjourned court
for the day. The Government’s case

ing and the trial will proceed.
To the Question, ‘‘ Do you sympathize

with either side in the war now going |

on in Evurope?’’
twelve

a majority of the
men finally accepted admitted
leaning toward the Allies. Every
one of the twelve expressed himself as
without prejudice against the shipping
of munitions from this country.
The list of jurors follows:
HOWARD M. PATTERSON, a printer, 201
Alexander Avenue, the Bronx.
JOSEPH LONDON, an egg dealer, 316 Wash-
ington Avenue, the Bronx,
MAITLAND B. SLOAT, an officer in a paper
manufacturing concern, Mount Vernon.
HOWARD LEITCH, Assistant Superintendent

of a power and light company, 346 West
12lst Street.

THOMAS J, TAYLOR,
facturer,
Bronx,

FREDERICK. B.. SEWALL,

dealer, Mount Vernon.

A. SHAUGHNESSY, a teller at the Union

Trust Company, 234 Central Park West.

WILLIAM E. UTTER, retired express agent,
2,228 Seventh Avenue.

JAMES C. McSHANE, manufacturer of un-
dérwear, 335 West Twentieth Street.

MATTHEW G. ELY, real estate operator, 310
West Seventy-ninth Street,

EDWARD J. MATTHEWS, a retired Fire
Captain, 348 West Fifty-sixth Street.

JOSEPH A. DAVIS, milk salesman, 263 East
125th Street. :

a@ paper box manu-
1,120 Washington Avenue, . the

a furniture

Henry T. Draper of 245 East 128d
Street, was born a British subject and
became a citizen of the United States
in 1890. He was asked by Henry M.
Unger, of Fay’s counsel, whether his
sympathies were with either sidé in the
war. He promptly replied that the out-
come of the war was immaterial to him
as he was now—‘thank God’’—an
American citizen. He said he had never
dealt in ‘* war brides,’’ and that he had
read about the Fay case in a Harlem
newspaper. Mr. Draper occupied seat
1 in. the box until late in the afternoon,
when he was retired on a challenge by
Addison -S. Pratt, former chief of the
Civil Branch of the United States Dis-
trict Attorney's office. He is counsel for
Darche.

H. B. Jones, an artist, of 307 West
Ninety-eighth Street, was the first tales-

man’ to be asked the direct question}.

about his war sympathies. He replied

that he favored the Allies. The ques-
tion brought an objection from Assistant,
District Attorney Knox. Attorney Pratt
argued that men were human and that}
prejudice as to the war might warp!
impartial judgnrent in the case at bar. |
Judge Howe admitted. the question and/
after that nearly every talesman was
asked his sympathies. ,

The first juror accepted by both sides
was Leitch. His leanings were toward
the Allies, but he said that that would
not influence him in passing impartially
upon the case.

The second juror selected was Sewall, '
the Mount Vernon furniture man,. an
American with no opinions about the
case. to be tried. He had formed an
opinion as to the war, and it was for the
Allies, but he was not pefmitted to tell
just how strong that opinion was, be-
cause he said it was not strong enough
to influence his judgment. The defense
wished to learn particularl from
Shaughnessy; the Union Trust Company
teller, whether any of the powers had
deposits with that institution. He
thought that Greece only had money in
the bank.

‘**T am strictly neutral,’’ was the an-
swer of Utter, the. retired express
agent.. Mr. Utter was one of several
talesmen' who said he gathered his war
news from newspaper headlines. »-He will
occupy seat Sin the jury box.

Matthew G, Ely, who became Juryman
10, said he favored the Allies, but con-
sidered himself.a neutral because he
had not cnough knowledge of conditions
to form a real opinion. Davis, the
twelfth juror, said he took his seat
without prejudice and that several
months ago he had stopped reading the
war news.

Opinions held by a majority of those

examined were not shared by Charles

‘| wendt,. Nast Was: born in

has ‘li here -almost./
| He ‘Gia hot bal believe 2 she. ibaa af

arms to the Allies,’ a
Well

a question; . *

thicker than water.’”®
. the. oes

box.
Unger remarked- that ey muslin. un=}
derwear would hardly. be a busi

would affect an opinion’ *r) to the’ war.

It was late the t jury

was accepted, and. both sides anreat to:
await until toda
Judge’ Howe cautioned

in reply to
se> bl is.
me was Mcnate|

ben Albert. "Robin-
hé' had relatives | ”

hallenges followed” ‘each: other until
McShane, the. muslin underwear manu-
facturer, was accepted: ‘This filled the

There was a laugh’ when Attorney

when

ness that
man

to en the “case,

e ‘jury not to

disc mss the case with any one and not
to Sahain where they could hear it dis-

cussed by others.

GUARD PORTO RICO RADIO.

Explosive Is Reported to Have Bean

station of the United S

ment.
finding of a quantity of explosive near
the radio station.

Authorities here,

Found There.

“Special Cable to THE.NEW YORK TIMES.
‘SAN JUAN, P. ‘R., April 25.—A_ guard

from ‘the Porto’ Rico” Regiment was sta-
tioned this afternoon at the wireless

$his action follow

tes Govern-
the reported

while denying that

the explosive was found, have assigned
no reason for the stationing of the

guard.

= CHINESE WOMBN GIVE |

A RECEPTION HERR):

Members of -the . American
Oriental Club Entertain at.
Columbia: University.

FARCE .CLOSES © PROGRAM

“Spanking the Village Gods” Trans-
lated and ‘Presented In ‘English
—Eastern Music Heard.

' What is said to. be the first reception
ever given in this city by Chinese. wo-
men to their American sisters was held
last night at Earl Hall, Columbia Uni-
versity, with the Chinese: members of
the. Women’s ‘American Oriental Club,
an organization fermed to promote’ as-.
sociation between women of the two
hemispheres. acting as hostesses to
their American colleagues. Most ot

those who |

f the
pes ee charge of the > atfair

dents ‘in idee, of PSaumbia.

‘About thi % of each race pers: vara
whe. est besa with
pa - Shen ng, arias oy
lowed a prograny. of Chinese m
other forms of entertainment. A Gn.
nese forms of. the flute and violin was
3 irls, 7 and 9 years old, with Miss Emily
hu at the plane. A duei on the Chi-
nese forms of the flue and ir was
played by, C. C. Bau and P u,
and. Miss C.°W.' Kuo played a’ piano
solo. The ete Mca with a farce,
“ Spanking. the Hage Gods,” which
te resented the teoutlen of three thieves
© disguised themselves in the robes
of some local deities-in- order to esca:
the police who had got on their trail,
and ‘then had ‘to ‘sit still at the shrine
while. the detectives prove ed for divine
assistance. * eh enw y police be-
Senne angry at the gods aoe’ their failure
to bring about the capture of the thieves:
and the course of events ended with the
three “‘ gods’ being severely beaten by.
the police, who were ‘determined to pass
the responsibility for their failure to
eatch the. criminals to somebody.
play’ was Beye staged, and acted
¥ members of the Chinese colony of
Columbia.
Athos we pr ogrem refreshments were
served in the gchow style, which is
eait to represent the highest ~point of
Chi pave B geemyg! art. «Real Hangchow
cooks been discovered by the host-
esses one prepare the food for the occa-
sion. The evening ‘ended with ani en-
tirely American dance, in which Chinese
women whose feet had never been bound
waltzed and one-stepped as well as their
American guests.

witch fal fel |

_ Some of those. present were. -Y.' ¥.

Consut ‘Génerat®’ “nisi
Po mes beg ye
, cigs 4
‘ . Mrs. i URE.
A. peat ¢. Hule, Mr: and
: Dr, and Mrs. Louis Livin -
ston Seaman, Mr. and
Bw" “Miss E:
E. W. Dodg

HALTED BY RADIO CENSOR.

Dr. Mueller Complains Regarding
Delay to German Message. —

Special to The New York Times,

WASHINGTON, April :25.—Secretary
Lansing and. other State Department
ae said today they had n yg so

tion of: receiving a letter which. D
leered Mueller, a patent attorney of 36
a New York, says he wrote
Mr. Lansing Friday, complaining
Seer delay to which.a radio message ne
sent to Berlin was being. subjected. be-
cause of the censor’s alleged ignorance

MH was’ learned, however, that -Mr.
Lichtenstein, Government censor at the
tadio sending Pa tation. had made a full
report to the Navy Department, which
controls wireless communications with

he | of the German language.

aerny for the period of the European

Acconiiad to what was said here ‘to-
day Dr. Mueller’s message contained,
when translated into ,English, the
phrase “make or raise complaint
good.’’ As this phrase did not appear
to make sense, and might have been a
code’ expression, which is forbidden “by
the Government regulations, Mr. Lich-

OPPENHEIM: CLLINS & GC.

Announce for Wednesday, April 26th

34th Street—New York

Women’s and Misses’ Suits

A Carefully Prepared Offering of

Women’s and Misses’ Suits, in belted,
flare, plain tailored,
braid-bound models of Serge, Gabardine,

Pencil Stripes and Shepherd Checks.

At a Very Attractive Price.

Exceptional Val

None Sent on Approval.

silk trimmed and

No Exchanges or Credits.

set Rdeaegseteseesengrtteabavnagtents 08

esesseenaetetacs

ee ee

seecuneeteeataaetde es aas *

Roomy,

The only Trunk with a removable garment rack.
Sold by all leading dealers.

EVERBREAK
~ HUNDRED
WARDROBE TRUNK

Guaranteed 5 Years

but not Bulky.

Manufactured by

Neverbreak Trunk Company, Newark,N.J.

s. Masters the Mountain Barriers

One of the most

icant
has been the mountains. To lift the tremendous ton
the transcontinental, trains over the mile-in-air crests

problems of western railroad

the

continent is a herculean task under the most favorable con

ditions. And

when. snow fills the passes and. cold be

the fire boxés of the steam locomotive, the difficulties eo
mountain operation become well-nigh insuperable.

le; therefore, was.the recent record of “ The St.

Lodge,

and arrived Three Forks, Montana, on scheduled time.

Remarkab!
Paul's” new Electric Locémotives pulling the all-steel

” over the Rockies—receiving the train at Deer

ontana, forty-five minutes late, and having to traverse
the mile-high .pass

of the Great Continental Divide in the
dead of winter, it i made up the lost time in a run of 115 miles,

This astounding record shows that the Electric Locomotive
has proved itself ‘‘Master of the Mountain Barriers.” Fed

with the tremen

dous en

ergy of the mountain ‘streams —

making an ally of the cold weather, which aids in keeping

the motors cool—it
parative ease—hauls

etrates the snow drifts with com-
eavier loads with greater dispatch,

and with a pronounced saving in cost, and makes mountain
travel clean and mountain views clear.

Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paut

“RAILWAY

of your. ‘next trip to the Pacific Northwest take either

the superb all-steel trains —“‘The

Olympian”

“The Columbian” and enjoy the advantages of electric
jurpassed

travel combined with uns

data oe

scenery and service.

giving full particulars of **St. Paul

Sree on request.

Bi it com S.A. ED
Sig'akpascan late icy iccihaty eae

Se NE

qeenetd

The very accessible location, the

the Haberdashery of today

Men's “Rendezvous of Fashion

5b cAwenue at 4.016 Street
OUR EXCLUSIVE: MEN'S WEAR SECTION
venient arrangement of stocks, the efficient service, are a few of
the attractive features of this department.
also the mode of tomorrow, for we aim to fore-
cast the future in Fashion, rather than help

to over-popularize

Of Special Value for Today

handsome appointments, the con-

Hese is always
in gratifying assoriments—

the present.

Four-in-Hands

Pure Silk Crepe Meteor

Twenty Newest Shades

Probably the most popular and most serviceable of all Spring
and Summer cravatings of a standard dollar quality silk. A\ll
shades and tints of the following: colors:
Greens—Browns—Reds—Greys—Pastels—and black and white.

and Bat Ties

Blues—Purples—

Four-in-Hands
Regularly $1.00

Bat Ties >
Regularly 75c

> Mrs.
Cutting. "and “Miss, gag

near winning, the national coumes cham-

Uprights $500
; Convenient Pay

Ghildhood’s ears trained to the faultless voice
en oe

develop that refined discrimination in judging musical ©
values that is really the basis of true musical culture.

Grands $700
ments if desired

Players $825

Lord & Taylor

38th Street

Chickéring, Vose,

» Autopiano, Brambach,

Nlustrated booklets on request.

: Soe

FIFTH AVENUE
_ Pianos and Player Pianos
Fischer, Marshall & Wenaell,

39th Street

Wendell, Pianista.

Broadway. at 34th

Saks & Company

Street.

ha the Saks Motor Shop today

‘\ Men’ s Motoring Top-Coats at $28

Aquasrutim, London
| Showerproof

@ They are made of

ings and patterns.

@ These coats are in typical English styles,
being London-made and designed.

and have been properly showerproofed by
the well-known Aquascutum process.

@ Shown in New York only by ‘Saks &
Company, in a large variety of new color-

soft, all-wool cloths

Sixth Floor.

pata 1% Fa apd Sh deed edadnan ddl

ie eet ‘eae eae 7) alg ,

c ae
response to this Dr. Mueller,
cording. to oe Navy j

Tin Wich he aeecrted tliat the an
Stele in wh fitch iat the
e was pred but” averthaloes he

would insert another word for’ the ‘cen-
kor’s benefit. Mr. Lichtenstein there+

tipon, sent a report and the corre .
avy: Department, Ritch

ence to the
has the matter tip aed consideration,

It was Said at the depa t today
that it was idle to charge that te
Lichtenstein. did not: un eratand the
‘German language.

Harold H. Hackett Weds vebais
Harold.) Humphries © Hackett, . tennis}
player, and Miss Maude Adams Dema-|#.*
rest of 167 West Fifty-seventh Street
are to be married today in the Collegiate
Church of St. Nichoias.. Mr. Hackett as

a Yale indergraduate was Captain of the
tennis team, and with J. A. Allen-came

lonship, and in 1907-8-9-10 he and F.
Alexander won the uationat doubles
championship of the United States. He
was also Ca Bptain of the team of- 1913 | #
that, captured the Davis Cup at hey :
bledon,. London.

Gimbels..

New York papers have been
telling in full page .advertising.
the insistent, need for PYRENE
in every home and on every auto-
mobile. Now—

See the
Demonstration .

TO OPERATE
TURN HANDLE TO LEFT

of Pyrene Products in our Fifth
Floor Housefurnishing Sections
—a striking evidence of Gimbel
co-operation with the best adver-
tised Products.

We 4re Headquarters for Pyrene

) yee BOR HAOLIIN TOIVE eu wy YN@A!! ROT E BZ HACANACANS PATA a Jai \WO/N\e) UP dK Dy

ON. Macy & Co.’s Altrictions Are Their Low Prices.

Chauffeurs’ Suits

Pevenells Proofed

A trim looking suit, with long
trousers, of a water proof
gray serge, cut in half Nor-
folk style, as shown in the
illustration. Two. box pleats
and belt .in the back,: front
plain with two patch pockets.
The coat is half lined. .
These suits embody the three
qualities éssential in chauf-
feurs’ suits; they are smart in
style, able to stand, hard
wear, and, finally,
CGasenelle CGarencile Proofed
protecting the:man in front
against wet weather. Alto-
gether these Chauffeurs’ Suits .
are most desirable, — selling

for a very reasonable price,
Other suits up .to’ $29.75.

Macy’s—Fifth Floor, 34th Street

ORO BOTORONK

TOY

THE PEOPLE’S RELIEF COMMITTEE
announces the following prize winners at the recent Jewish Bazaar:
Studebaker Auto: $1, pa ea S. Raveck, 344 West T2nd St.
Maxwell Auto Mr. M. Simon, 595 Lexingtcn Ave.
Piano ‘Mrs. Cohen, 2.123 67th St.
Piano (Pearlman). 400... .J. Schmol, ‘116 Nassau St.
Parlor 300....Miss B. Cohen, 558 West, 165th. St.
Bed Room: Set 250....Mrs. L. Rosenberg, 65 East 97th St.
Mosler Safe....... vite 7D....Mr. Korchman, 306. West 116th St.
Victrola , Bed Mayerison, 250 Eas’ ey
Antique — Vase. -Hy Mayer, 16 West 67t t.
...Mr. F. .Gouled; Bretton. Hall —
...Miriam Cohen, 29 East. 129th S
a ...Charlotte  Yonnle es West Jaren St.
200. ...Miss: C. Epstein, 1350. 45th et. Brooklyn
60. he ge Miranz, 59 Morningside Ave.
160... Freedman, Prospect Ave.
100:<. Mrs a TTT West End Ave.
Paes S. Rosen, 226 West 14ist St. ;
55....Mr. Liliput, 158 Bast Broadway, New: York
150....Dr. M. Rabinowitz, 1,261 Madison A
60....R. Lazarus, 1,321 Franklin Ave.
150. ...8. hanes Hotel Cumberland -
75..,.E. Ridder, 480 Lexingten Ave. Se
60... -B: Schwan teate 69 Johnson’ Ave., ‘Brooklyn
Cc. Berry, paetek purer Bi Ronee ies
‘ ‘Miss Greenwood,” a. pia St. g- 4

.Mrs. Girstanzag. 1 e090
..Mrs. 8. V. Steiner, 17 vnttiny. Place
nox Ave.

..Dr. H, Ettenson, 26 Le
70....1. Goldberg, 171 Hast Broadway /
co eis E, Mendes, 678 West. Pd Ave. ‘ ,
..Mrs. H. Angerman, 49 No, Junction Ave., Corona
90... rs. Hershenstein, Ne psc Pri Sttseney : s a“
75....Mrs, Eddie Beer, 38
= ..Mr. ag iored 9 West 57th St.
»+.»Dr. N. Halpern,-16 East 96th St.

Sewing Machine
Remington Typewriter
Underwood. Typéwrit.
Corona Typewriter...
Encycl.. Britannica; ..~
Book of Krowledge..
New. International...
Bronze. Bust.:.......
Marble Bust.......:.
Chocolate Set........
Lady’s Fikes >
Lady’s Eve. Dress...
Bear White Rug.....
Floor ug

Diamond Watch.

Seal Coat...:...
Spangled Robe.

Real Venice

Real Lace Collar....
Jap. Hand Emb, Kim.
Linen Chest

Elect. Floor Lamp.,

‘Oil ~Painting.-

Oil Painting...

Settee 5
Victrola
Fan

Statue....... a Me S. R
“In  aibhtion: there were. 200 nae prizes et ve Be in. vatu
be get Sea ie A he

ee tl Wi figuass i Rei

1| PRESIDENT. ASKS. Epes BUSINESS MEN WANT |Sasireg suangrs'asct] save On, woes onan.

of arms, and army and camp life

‘BUSINESS MEN'S AID = ec |ALL TRAINED TO WAR piesa hee

ose : ) 1 7 PHILADELPHIA, April 26.—The brain
“© TOKEN ay | ; The camap site ay gua with » : | yeioate aur yesterday ws remorse Otay 3 | "the question: among

ae: ea TI | Issues Appeal for Co-operation view to o illustrate the strat Chamber of Commerce Com- 1 nations in a con-|and taken to the Wistar Institute of - men was: “What a vi

ead, & Minin eli ents of ours-||. 3 is ‘ gut, Rerbor defense, and wil be situated ad to peace of the civ-/ Anatomy of the University of Pennsyl- j b " ;

7 thought a long time. before ||| With Naval Consulting Board | fope"* ‘8*S* Plateau directly Dehind *he) mends Swiss and Australian criticised the | Vania, where it will be képt in the , rdpiabe§

alt < NM eu) Bangi SS The drilling and lecturing will largély : the millen- {laboratory for scientific study in ac- "ee ae NOW— :
a aging Aa ok ee : in Defense Plans. Pe 08, by the | sixty officers of the Systems to the President. was @ forward pre age Wwaite's wit, By the fos _ > the question is: ‘Which one o
‘ ; ttsb las i th o and not t t out | /abora are rains - ; ~

Ae results are anything . to* Winter these. 0 fictats nave helivered a away ee ee é Addi ng- ~ the 35 styles of Portable

entists, including Dr. Joseph Leidy, Dr. ie -
|GREAT INVENTORY IN HAND | Course of lectures to the men in every supported My. Cowperthait and | William Pepper, and A es rs Sncatigs .BARRETT Machines will we
Racine sccally long te poaadialle PERRIN oP A or ng | PUT BLAME ON GOVERNMENT | spins, dacsnded the resoluilzs, in oanee | Wistar een - bisting- buy 7

jointly by the city and Federal Govérn- | ¢ bag LL, Sea aoe mage gg ie tan wana with “those Of 6 ater 2 Bo to ne Leadin
future before they pass us. up. Corrhlites: Headed: by Coffin, Rap- |e Pe The ¢ food will be supplied by the biiseie Abbas ak Aatee peor Nace the tFegolutio nm for wa, worlds Lig agreers rent Pe the at Sas “3 wi Computi ne _ Bava cs + agoring in. every line
THOMPSON-STARRETT _ bdly Gathering Data on Indus- AL DERMEN ST. ‘A ND Experts Should Be Taken on. | “™mittee. and the ashes buried aonine ARRE 3
COMPANY trial Preparedness. MAYOR CALLS OUT FLAGS anlly Gnnounces that oat fe- . AreagBicrnc ry Satisfied

4 ; Needs of Those Arms. - * farm h which aajoine ty it lunive
| FOR NATION’S HONOR |Get Sect || | he sentonets, Said
=o. Cocmnarien:. O. Eee. FF The national défense was discussed} Urges All Citizens to Show. @tarat ; 5 them

paredness of the Naval . Consulting Pledge Support to Mayor In Aid- by thé Chainber of Commerce at © sig-| and Stripes on Preparedness Day. Wee FOR WIFE’S DEATH . ' . by + a the BARRETT Portable Desk

Board made public yesterday a letter és 1 t in a way that : . ae ‘Machine is the most useful
from President Wilson, addressed to the ing President and Urge seeaten’ thar erece ten “ Mayor Mitchel issued a proclamation or ee . and economical machine on the
F indicated that many leading business Florid Physiél .
m | business men of the country, In. which ; i 5 vaiilie yesterday calling upon business men to orida ysician Charged with j market.
Preparedne men were convinced that universal mit | display on thelr places of busin Killing Aute Ri :

the President asks the business men epa S$. eded ess g Her on o Ride. A
‘ to eo-operate with the Consulting Board tary training for young mén was ne flags on May. 13 to aid in the celebra- TAMPA, Fig., April 2%.—BState At ‘ : 4) j ‘ BARRETT Portable Figuring ;
- tion of “ Preparedness-Day.’’ T a is * ; ;
B).* for Publio service in national de-| me Board of Aldermen passed a res-| an outgrowth of the large gathering of |), mation rb fy a — ey torney Gordon announced today he Would vas see Machines are_ priced from
gj fense.” The Committee on Industrial olution yesterday pledging to the Mayorja féw weeks ago when General Leonard! Guy of New York, Office of an ask that the body of Mrs. J. Meriin|’ eau $75.00 up.

Preparedness i now organizing the in-| its unqualified support in any action by! Wood and éther speakers aroused much! Mayor, Achor, who bled to death after an guto-
H| dustries of the country for uge in case

in the United States. The meeting was

him in aid of the President of. the enthusiasm. At the end of a long de« Aree £6, 1916. mo ile accident here Sunday, be ex- ‘ ‘
of war, and it is in support of that

: ; To the Citizens ‘of New Y for a demonstration or write
‘ ©] United States or Congress that may “be ted which, humed for examination. Dr. J. Merlin t ’
work that the President addresses the "§ 7. oj vate @. yesclutiqn was edopte On May 18 more than 100,000 citi-

necessary to maintain the honer of the| while not prescribing the form which] gens of this city will express their | A®hor, her husband, is in jail charged a 'Tes. for our latest book * * Your Bus-
business men of the nation. country, and also declaring for preé- military instruction should take, rec~ conviction that this country should be wih age ner. -jness an d Barrett’ ;.”
The White Hous paredness., The resolution was intro-| ommended tacitly that the Swiss and Prepared for defense by marching in rs. Achor was found unconscious,
e e Hous

a@ great preparedness parade. wing across the windshield. of the aute- Model 12 , Harris Sales
Washington, ‘April : 21, 1916, duced by, Alderman Curran, and while| australian methods would be excellent very trade, ore. rofession, eve Bled: to ‘dea yen it ned Sirus a tree. e . , only desk John J. Mgr.

The President's letter is as follows:

it was passed without a dissenting vote, élement in our v. ifitizens ip will |. tin her throat. calculating machine
‘Seopene Busines Men of America: in Alderman McGarry of Brooklyn said he 4° = — s embodied in. @ ré- be representéd in the e Bate vcharwen the t iy, Achor struck that prints ? BARRETT MACHINE.
the patriotic service undertaken bid vot neo’ thie necessity. of it. aa: thd The proposal was embo “y . it, snot. SAEues: therefore and I bis bes on : ead, ren ‘the Satan:
‘ - 7 the engineers and chemists of this Sednla ot tha city knew that: (té: Alder port prepared by the Executive Commit- es ak <4 Bi roruies bpd ta Oe ene — wiindonteha and thréw th y : , SALES CO.,
he umiantiar CHIT] “country, under “the . direction’ of he |men would, of course, support, the |e headed by E. H. Outerbridge, on the} Boy Dr. Herbert Shipman of the | Dr. Achor, it reporting thh accidéat, fs ‘TheR ized Standard’ 156 Broadway, N. Y
aeapge ghee gh om ag of the Mayor or Congress tn ‘any such case.|common defense. clergy section of the parade — that I | said to have told the authorities that € Necognize ar Ys NN. *
Cult

2 pee

“ A ll upon all citizens to display the | $4,500, which his wife had in her hand-
United States. The resolution read: Developments since the meeting on fia r
~ pees ss ty ile & both at their places of business | bag when they started for a ride, was
you are asked. to supply ie. intended Fgh ah a BO cree in Sp. selasions wae Ree ite ae ed and their homeg on the day of the gga Ol oe Wes reputed to
: e a na- arrie
ane bp Boy Sr erorinanta ea ein he tions was disclosed by the recent ad- -jin the publi¢ mind, but in Washington. (Signed) about six months. Dr. Achor formerly
used in ‘aronnia zing the ‘industrial re- — _~ — the tenn of hen gone The peoplé naturally enough have not JOHN PURROY MITCHEL, lived at Indianapolis.
si ates before the joint session of Con- .
To-night at 8:10 aoe public Sarees 3 —. and Whereas the condition of | within fifty years given any consistent,
At my request the American Boclety ee at ae — et thought to the problems of our common | iE. seeeeeeeeseaeaeneeesseereeememmemmmmermmr
CARNEGIE HALL of Civil Engineers, the American {R, | make action necessary on the part of defense. Unfortunately, neither has :
American Society of Mechanical En- oe “~ we upholding the nation’s | Congress. js :
neers, the American Institute of onor, i “Only recently have we learned that e °
Slectrical Engineers, and the Ameri- Resolved, That the Board of Alder- has pertiitted provision in
Last men pledges to the Mayor its unqual- | the Government has permitted p
Merting and Concert uae the aeoet Cones peuatously ified support in any action by him, in | for the common defense to lapse into a

f the President and Congress, i inst the advice .
ot the Beano. in the work of collecting this data, t a at be necessary to maintain distressing condition, agains t hi
ll Rn wag 2o the scogie | that honor; and that this board will | of trained and capable experts of both e€rso TUSTEES pS
and Government of the United States. Support the Mayor in any exercise of |our army and our navy. Under the

authority for that purpose to the full . blic concern
Absalutely Bree! Faithfully TORTS. LON. extent of its powers, and further pressure of an aroused public ' oe ; ™
wigs thee kes scm dBel SON. |_| | Resolved, That the Representatives | most, if not all, of the recommendations HIS is the age of specialization, and banking

of this city in the Houses of Congress | of these military experts are now avail- ‘ . ;
tee, of which Howard E. Coffin is|-are earnestly requested to redouble | apie. Attached thereto are important institutions are no exception to the rule.
Chairman and W. S. Gifford Supervising their efforts to the end of securing ‘

i 1 -o- | proposals of the army and navy staffs.
Director, is to make, through a field legislation that will immediately pro

: ‘i vide for the country the greatest | Congress has preférred substantially to The or T sone
A gold medal of honor will be organization of more than 30,000 trained ee Sonne. 36 military pre- gnore these proposals and to develop eur id al, rust Company, aiming to serve
E: engineers, members of the -American| P&redness; and further its own plans and to frame legislation the individu
presented to the one who has ren- Society of Civil Engineera, the Ameri-| , Reselved, That a copy of, ante Fite in harmony therewith, °° Oe apecaenes in Personal Trustee-
dered greatest service to humanity | can Institute of Mining Engineers, the| United States, to each of the Re a ete yaaa ge ne igh cg pea ships.
in 1915 American Society of Mechanical Engi- sentatives and Senators represen ing violent resentment. To ignore the ad-

neers, the American Institute of Bléc- bmg amet _ “mises Stele alte. vice of our experts, and at the same time

: ~ to assure the people that there is no The all-important feature of that service’is that
g, trical “Engineers, and the American} aAiderman Kenneally said it was time! danger, when the people have appalling
Chemical Society, sweeping inventory of | for the people of the country to declare} evidence that a very grave peril exists, is

‘ it rovides the financial strength an rpo
4a American industry. The purpose of the their Bee agg Alcs an they were|to create a ment unhappy ares e- P d — rate
3 d Vy B&O.
~All seats left over will be at. | i@ventory is to find out just what the | “™mérican® They BION DNs awa. ee experience of a sound institution, at the cost of

box office at 7:45 P. M. ein cell ude te tie clear [OnE t Sar 87,206 for Child's Keep. | "The committee is of the opinion that an individual trustee, with none of the individual

secneee

Switzerland: and Australia have given aes Ag hs
5 The second step in the plans of tne Justice Hotchkiss of the Supremé/ the democratic world an example of trustee s limitations and dangers.

> > that Edwin| methods which provide by the simplest
committee is to apply in a practical| Court decided yesterday tha

@| way the knowledge gained and to ¢s-| Fitzergerald, better known as Eddie herdinnch MeDte aim matabrcie of hl
tablish a system of annual, educational] Foy, the comedian, would have to pay/| tional expense. These systems have

Collertinus, contributions or | 04ers in small quantities to manufact-| pis sister, Mrs. Mary A. Doyle, $7,235.82 proved as helpful in the development of

urers of the thousand and one commodi- he moral, strength, and character of the Asto ) rust : : = A, head
Donations uot perutitted. We tics necessary for modern warfare which, for caring for Catherine Stanzy Fitzer- | poopie of rte en Bowe i as they have I ( A.
they do not now know how to. produce. | gerald, his daughter by his first wife, 4

een effective in military results. An DENTAL CREAM
haue nothing for sale. A well- seaulpped motor car plant, fot| who died in 1894. Mrs. Doyle said her] « your committee offers the foregoin

instance, will in days of peace pfoducé|prother had asked her to care for the] reflections in the belief that some for! ,

ten three-inch shell casings a year, andj c¢hiid and that she had been a member | of universal physical and military train- Trustee for Personal Trusts LBODON i ot st h

even 2 aeee Oe Fag teach the |}of her household sincé ane wee ee ing of the youts of pais courtesy, adapted FIFTH AVENUE AND 36 . ; 18 a cream, ni a pa e, hence
manutacturer an he jaborer the va- ths old. Her brother, she sa adj} to our conditions of life and not incon-

peg rege et ee ee of —— caede her a few payments a qregating sistent with oe een nie es would TH STREET the stri can be easily distributed over
ar e etalis snl in ad

and o pping and de about $700, but had scmaaly nothing since | contribute to national virility, to moral | the s aces of all the teeth.

vhs

with which they were totally and physical discipline, to a better -
unac quainted. It is known that many 1912 phy 2 SP
high-class American plants that accept-

wu od sear orders eighteen months ago have — —————SS—————— —[—[—S= ———— : =| It 18 men not a germicide, henoe
ver j ¢

a] Se eXperlanee if" carning sue masntons || | oe DarOSe REED, TO TNS PMS D ORO CE Cane anne

The ‘third step is hg keep skilled work=}tt = _ . ; ; h vg
men on the job in times of war by i HA. - it
the formation at an industrial reserve : } .

in time of pea

| | It contains therhighest percentage of actualicleansing
4. fea . } end polishing properties of any dentifrice on the market.
on ag 1, will Ps under the direction 0 °
State boards of five men é¢ach in every . . It 1s always uniform, smooth and ee:
lumbia. ‘These ‘boards. in. turn are at- | | It has no trdve-of grit; it neve
4 um es oa n urn are (di-
FROM INSIDE WITH | Tected. by Mr. Gifford, who is chief * . . pete

F T statistician of the American Telephone colors, melts or hardens, soak ea spate hg
CEL [ A RS SMOOTH: ~ “GN made footloose Sy bia Ganpany for tote ‘ : can opener ts.not inclosed i in _ package.

The work of the Committee on Indus-
IRON CEMENT No 7 | trial Preparedness ts receiving the sup- |,

It is cream-white and does not contain
earite for Cataioous, military heeds at Washi ington, ana the : i ) ® [ 1( val \ Cc \ N 7 S a aftificial coloring, peroxide; carbolic-acid or
Jersey City. N. J, Staten "In edition a Anuoctased ae chlorate of potash.

Baa a

vertising Clubs of the World have un-

c dertaken, ithout t to th - ” :
Cheap and ment, a nation-wide "iene shane The distinotive ‘smack”—which. leavesithe mouth

peign in support of the committee’s e so cool — eit ¢ hag ang ALBODON an

Good plans ; . article childsen rea take to.

- Slightly used cars at mod- | 5,000 POLICEMEN TO CAMP. Py i blis | ' Crs | It comes in a liberal tube—a better andemere
; erate prices may be picked | Woods to Send His Men to Fort economical

preparetion at no‘increase in price. ee
up in the Automobile Ex- Wadsworth in Relays.

change of The New York Police Commissioner Woods announced » " . . . Buy Albodon —You Will Not. Be Tene

A yesterday that a Summer camp for the Price 25 ‘cents
Times. Telephone 1000 training of f yelicamen in military usages

Bryant—Advt ln cote - is ae on May 28 at Fort 7 : At all drug: stores and wherever toilet articles— pa
ag "Soe toe 5,000 members of the Caper’ l YO RK W O RLD : j

C_ . 3 | . .. Free Samples for Hesitaters
| : . | . —— : best advertisement is the free sample.

¢ are glad:to send it to anyone looking fer

better than the one new
Established 1860

| | : In its business office has
125th Street, West — | ee r adopted —
Koch “Lifetime’’ Furniture a Bei UNDERWOOD

THE ALBQDON- COMPANY, 184 Weet 16th St, DeptA-
Excels in Beauty, Design and Construction.

BOOKKEEPING | nee
MACHINES Sirs e

My address is
druggist’s name is
Their use has demonstrated: i
how ideal these mechanical
bookkeepers are for record-

ing newspaper business, You
Writes and adds all-bills, carries a total

want to see these “watch-
4-piece Queen Khe Dining t $189. 00 : ‘Gace a ee dogs of the treasury.” | TT
° Suite | a be cae 2 | :
Solid American walnut or antique mahogany. Buffet 60 inches ; i daily, weekly and monthly, 8 i a * he 6 a oR

long; China Closet 42 inches wide; Table 48-inch top, 6 ft. extension;
Serving Table 38 inches long. Au kage cr: interior; dust. proof.

MADISON AVENUE AT FORTY FIFTH
NEW YORK

An Unusual Sale

THE WORLD
ESSRS. AIMONE having decided to discon-

Invites you to practical demonstrations daily of these machines in its counting room, : a. eA and high fy hs a
eT ce Ais Pye et . {n ted a Sale of their entire collection in the Aimone
: Me Da eRe st cam gedy ae or they may be seen at the offices.of the - Galleries thet these they devote thelr uitivided date to
| 2-piece Living Room Suite, $96.50 Ik a thelr Wholesale Shops and Studios. he
Upholstered ‘in h d ; . ,
Lipa ea obit wey Oo gen Riera Redaction ot alae Fr

Arm Chair to match, 84 inches wide, 3¢ inches deep, 836,75. | * _ From Present Wholesale Prices
The Koch Club Plan of Deferred Payments UNDERWOOD. TYPEWRITER COMPANY. (Ine.) | Fine and unusual Engligh and Italian Furniture.and Furnishings;

; imported. Terra Cottas and Garden Marbles.
. Recommends itself to those who prefer to - | a Underwood Building, No. 30 Vesey St., New York City. The Aimone Galleries are the Largest in New York
purchase on a partial payment basis. Sen ere si

_ Inquirles cheerfully answered by Club Manager, Ste floor, |

4 Court Expedites Trial of Woman
_ Who Poisoned and Killed Her |
| + Baby Boy and Girl.

EXPERTS CALL HER INSANE

But Other Physicians, Testifying for
_ the State, Assert She Was: Ra-
tlonal on Day of Tragedy.

Ncelerity is the keynote of the trial
for child murder of Mrs. Ida Sniffen
“Walters Rogers before the Supreme
Court of the County of the Bronx. Yes-
‘terday, the second day, saw all the evi-
‘dence and the case ready for the sum-
ming up by counsel this morning. Be-

~ fore sunset today, it was expected, the
fate of the defendant would have been
decided by a jury which has keenly
followed every detaileof testimony.

Although much of the session was
taken up by the opinions of alienists as
te the sanity of Mrs. Rogers, and long

* Knypothetical questions were unlimbered,

’ by the prosecution and defense, not a
moment was wasted.

‘Instead of permitting involved. ques-
tions to be umwound anew, Justice
Tompkins asked the alienists if they
had not heard the questions when they
were propounded to preceding witness-
es, and, getting their assent, the court
@irected the doctors to answer. Rep-
ftitions by counsel were elided and
questions which the court deemed to

m already answered were dis-
Genel. The veces of this trial was
edited as it was made.

The experts had. before them the
blem of determining ee * pet
a. Rogers was sane Or insane
she killed on Dec. 29, 1914, her baby
boy and girl with bichloride of mercury
and su ly tried to commit suicide
by a dose of the deadly chemi-
cal herself.

Dr Hammond Testifies,
Dr. Graeme M. ‘Hammond, a well
‘ anown alienist, was called by the de-
‘fense and said. at once he considered

/Texas aloné.

‘him something

HUSBANDS AT FEDERATION.

Many Are Expected to Attend
Women’s Clubs Convention.

Mrs. Percy V., Pennybacker, Presi-
dent of the General Federation of Wo-
men’s Clubs, who was in New York
yesterday, was enthusiastic over pros-
pects for the federation biennial which
has been called to meet in this city
from May 24 to June 2.

““A great mahy husbands are.com-
ing,” sai Mrs, Pennybacker, talking to
the reporters at the biennial convention
headquarters on the mezzanine floor of

the Hotel Astor, ‘and I think it is|®

beautiful, Why, the President of the
State Federation in Texas is bringing
not only her husband, but all her chil-
dren and some of her grandchildren.
There are 150 women coming from

*‘{ find great enthusiasm all over the
copes as I have gone about making
my pa&storal calls, aska will be rep-
resented at this biennial for the first
time. Yes, indeed, I .have been in

k traveled more than

IT have
100,000 miles by whe | the four years that
it was

I have been President, an
through my visit that Alaska came into
the federation. . Alaska will. send three
dele ‘ates to New. York.

‘We will have delegates from Cuba,
where the clubs are federated, and the
Cuban women know more about New

York than man of th
United States.” € women in the

RECOVERS LOST SAPPHIRE.

Slipped from Mrs. R. V. Webster's
Ring at Blind Fund: Benefit.

Workers for the British, French, and
Belgian Permanent Blind Relief Fund
aoe congratulating Mrs. R. Valentine

ebster, one of the honorary Secre-~
taries, on her fortunate recovery of a
large sapphire which slipped out of its
ring setting on Sunday night when Mrs.
Webster was supervising the groups of
society women who were selling pro-
grams at the gala performance given at
sue Tivpodreme for the benefit of the
und.

The jewel was lost in@the earlier part
of the evening, but Mrs. Webster was
too busy to start a hunt for its recov-
ery that night. It was valued even more
for_its personal associations than for its
intrinsic worth. The next morning one
of the private Secretaries of the fund
went to the podrome, called together
the ‘women who were cleaning out the
auditorium, and told them of the loss.

Hardly had he spoken when a woman
working in the rear of the house showed
she had just found
among the sweepings. It was identifica
as Mrs. Webster’s sapphire. he wo-
a wae found it-has received a re-
war

Court Lets Unnamed Attorney Off
with Mild Condenfation.
Judge Julius M. Mayer filed yesterday.
in the Federal District Court a memos
randum in a proceeding entitled -‘‘ In the
Matter of an Attorney.’’ His action fol-
lowed the recéipt by him of a report
from Samuel Owen Edmonds; Chairman
of the Committee of Discipline of the
New York County Lawyers’ Association,
on charges lodged against the unnamed
attorney. ‘
’ gone dl to this report the defendant,
man. experience and of . mature
tely violated a stiputa-
* him with the court
and opposing counsel with the view of
ting before the jury the facts which
‘court had ruled to be inadmissible.
‘The committee that investigated: re-

“It is the opinion of your sub-com-
mittee that a st Loge breach of. obliga-
tion, undertaken by an. attorney to the
court, such.as is here disclosed, is a
serious dereliction and should not pass
uncondemned, . The circumstances 6f
the case, however, aré such as to impel
your sub-committee to the conclusion
that the measure of the penalty that
shouldbe inflicted and the method. of
its infliction should be left entirely to
the court.’’* :

In the memorandum Ju Mayer
says that, as the case seems to be the
first of its kind and as the attorney has
suffered a considerable strain and his
record has been without fault, he has
decided that no further action is neces-
Bary except that the memorandum be
published under the titte given to it.

Gold Watch for Vasari’s Captain.

The Lamport & Holt steamship Vasari,
which. arrived on Saturday from Buenos
Aires, left yesterday for Liverpool with
40,157 quarters of Argentine beef in her
refrigerators. On the voyage up from
South America the passengers collected
a purse of $250 to present Captain Oscar
Penrice with a gola watch and chain
on his fiftieth birthday, which was yes-
terday. As they could not purchase a

ld watch and chain on the Vasari the

"sun carved one out of a Bahia ivory
nut, which was handed to Captain Pen-
rice-at dinner-on Friday night, and the
real watch was presented to him yester-
day by a committee of the passengers
just before the Vasari left her pier\near
Montague Street, Brooklyn.

Calvary Church Elects Vestry.

The vestry election held yesterday in
the Calvary Episcopal Church, Fourth
Avenue and Twenty-first Street, re-
sulted in the selection of George Za-

briskie and W. irvieg Clark ag’ Wardens
to serve with the following vestrymen:
Spencer -Aldrich, Charles Boutillier,
Frederick W.~° Rhinelander, William
Moore Carson, and Gavin Hadden.

NO PUNISHMENT FOR MR. X.|

FFANY & Co.
_ PEARLS —
FOR NECKLACES

FRANK BROTHERS

‘Announce the opening
of their New Boot Shop

588 Fifth Avenue

Between Forty-seventh and
Forty-eighth Streets ~

You are cordially invited to
call and see the New Shop and
the New Spring Footwear.

Mrs’ Rogers a victim of depressive. in-
ganity.  Cross-questioned by District
Attorney Martin he declared she had
not been capabie of realizing the quality
vane in lienist if h

. Martin: asked the alienis' e
Jace not paid for testifying, and
geemed taken aback when Dr. Ham-
mond replied that he was not receiving
any fee at all. It was explained later
that the noted expert on mental dis-
eases had congénted to testify without
a@ fee on being convinced of the honesty

efendant.

bie testified at the trial of Harry
K. Thaw,’ said me. se and you

id that he was insane ¥
ee IT testified that Thaw was sane, an-
swered ey st rye Se DEV? always

in hat he was E

ae antmond insisted that the selec-
tion of the tablets for killing her chil-
dren was an alitomatic act on the part
of Mrs. Rogers, h she Th
dissolved one of thé ta s in water
for the baby and had given the boy half
a tablet mixed with sugar. He was of
the opinion that even if she did

stairs to the neighburs and tel
tragedy she was not’ necessarily of
gound mind. Her actions, he said. had
included exercise of the, will directed by
an insane impulse.

Dr, Henry A> Dodin, an éxaminer in
lunacy, who is also jail physician in the
Bronx, testified that mm everything the
conduct of Mrs. Rogers, whom he had
had under observation when she was in
prison, appeared entirely rational.

Doctors Call Her Sane.

Dr. Frank W. Robertson, a State ex-
pert, said Mrs. Rogers was perfectly
sane, and that she had known well that
the act she committed was wrong. He
declared her mental processes had shown

@ cohesive mind, and that in preparing
the poison she had exhibited seiective
Judgment.
Dr. Max G. Schlapp of the Post-Grad-
~ wate Hospital, the second of the alien-
fats for the State, testified that, in his
» @pinion, Mrs. Rogers was sane at the
é e she killed her children, but Dr.
S. Gregory, in charge of the
* psycopathic ward at Bellevue Hospital,
who had examined Mrs. Rogers shortly
_e@fter the murder and again recently,
was of the opinion that she was insane
when she committefi the act. Testi-
mony that Mrs. Rogers was irrational
.Was given at the morning session by
sMiss Theresa Gallagher, foreman a
murse at Lebanon Hospital, where Mrs.
aogers was taken after the death of her
dren.
“ She was nervous and excited,”’ testi-
owe the nurse, ‘‘ and told me frequently
at she wanted to fly. She’ would ask
Mme to braid her hair and then unbraid it
and scatter it over her face.’’ On cross-
She was no" the witness admitted that

eyen

@ was now in the employ of Mr. and
rs. Rogers, and was a witness to their

oe mpsriage last July.

. prosecution introduced evidence to
show that Mrs. Rogers did not actually
| take poison. Dr. William Woeschéin, a
’ physiological chemist at Lebanon Hos-
pital, said he had detected a trace of
poison through a physical test performed
on the defendant. He admitted on cross-
inetion that on the first test he had
‘ound no trace of bichloride of mercury,
but said he did detect it later, and hence
era3ed the words ‘‘ Not found” and
substituted ‘“ Found.”’
“Did not the District Attorney,” de-
manded Mr. Chanler, ‘“ threaten to in-

dict you because of those erasures? ”’
e objection of the District Attorney
to this question was sustained. ‘
In support of the theory that Mrs.
Rogers at least had attempted to swal-
léw bichloride in solution was the testi-
mony of Dr: Dodin, the jail physician,
who had prescribed for her sore throat,
. Dr. Herman T. Radin of Lebanon Hos-
ital testified that when he examined
Mrs. Rogers her throat was sore and
inflamed, indicating that it had come in
contact ‘with some corrosive substance.

SUE MARQUIS FOR ALTAR.

Carvers Allege That Maloney Can-
celed $12,000 Contract.

Asserting that’ he had been unable to
Serve a subpoena upon Martin Maloney,
a Papal Marquis-and President of the
‘Maloney Oil and Manufacturing Com-
pany of 50 Church Stree Meyer Boskey,
af attorney of 209 Broadway, represent-

the McBride Studios of 4] Park
, asked b creoon Delahanty in the
Supreme Cou
Ma for examihation. before trial of
is Maloney, in a suit. brought for
*) breach of oral contratt. Marquis
ey is a resident of Philadelphia.
nis H. and Edith C: McBride allege |.
the Marquis employed

them to

we and build the altar in the Church

thé Nativity of Our Lord, in ‘Scran-
Penn., at a cost of $12,000, and that
the contract was ‘canceled through

fault of theirs.

ce Dalahanty reserved decision.

Li ADVERTISEMENT.
Is Your Stomach |
| a ‘‘Mollycoddle’’?

Do. you Nave to pamper your ,
on a, tedious diet, avoiding a lot of

, ordinarily wholesome foods that
iy will not agree with youf And every
you yield to temptation, are you in
until you have dosed yourself with
atives that weaken your stomadh. still

ther? *,

Cut loose from ali this nonsense—try
® more good man-s dinner, sippin;
bh ita #8 or two of Man-a-cea—tha’
good, réfreshing mineral be nagep ay

ae Cc 8 ch an n-

Phy ama) fa

esterday to appoint a/|-

Dear Sirs:

* sonal sacrifice.

taken, '
I attribute such of
to the general fund of

of contact.

handled,

. larger books,

- $1 Down Brings You the
Complete Work

This great work, that Mrs. Barrett pur-
chased at great personal sacrifice and that
proved to bé of such great benefit to her
children, can now be owned by anyone.
The publishers have brought out a wonderful
new issue, with smaller page and smaller
print, but containing every word, every
map and every illustration that is in the

You can obtain this new “Handy Volume”
issue. for a little while, at one-third the
price of the “Cambridge University” issue,
and for a first payment of only One Dollar.

Over thirty years ago I. bought an
Encyclopaedia Britannica at great per—
I have never -re«
gretted doing so, because it his
formed the basis of the education of
my six children, all of whom have been
graduated with distinction and have
never failed to take first honors in
any competitive examination they have

their success
information

which they gathered from thé constant
perusal of the Encyclopaedia as well .
as to the stimulating effect it had
upon them, inspiring in them an inter=
est in subjects outside the lines
presented to them by. the usual points

The new photographic edition seems
to me to be even more valuable than
the old edition because of the handy |
form and the ease with which it cah be

If my financial resources permitted
me to make but one purchase beyond
the necessities of life it would be a
copy of the Encyclopaedia Britannica.

.Make it your business to see it to-day.
Help your children toSuccess.

YOU MUST ACT
QUICKLY

This very remarkable bargain can be
offered only a little while longer. The pub-
lishers notify us that after the sets now
on hand are exhausted they cannot sup-
ply any more at the present prices.

The contracts for the “Handy Volume”
issue were made before the war began,
The drastic increase in the cost of raw
materisls makes it impossible to renew
them. Paper has advanced over 25%,
leather more than 28%, binder’s boards

What her children did-
yours can do-: is give them the chance

The President of the National Council of Women writes

MRS. KATE WALLER BARRETT
President of the National Council of Women; Special Representative
from Georgia to the Chicago Exposition; Member of Women's
Philanthropic Board, St. Louis Exposition; Special Representative
of U. 8. Gov't to investigate European immigration; Member of
President Wilson’s Special Commission on Child Welfare.

Richly Illustrated Book
of 130 pages about it

You won’t put it down till you've
finished it.

If it is not convenient to go and see the
volumes for yourself, the publishers have
prepared a wonderfully interesting book of
180 pages, entitled “‘A Book of 100 Wonders”
—over 200 pictures—giving you curious
bits of information which reveal the Ency-
clopaedia Britannica from 100 points of
view—and how it may be useful to you.

Send your name on a post card, or cut
out and mail the coupon below and it will
be sent to you at once. Send now, for the

SETS OF THE HANDY VOLUME ISSUE
MAY BE SEEN AND ORDERS LEFT AT

GIMBEL BROS. |
Broadway & 33rd St... .

MALKAN’S

Do not delay a day in sending for
particulars of our offer. >

present low price can last only a little
while longer.

SEND TO-DAY

COUPON 83-W
Sears Roebuck and Co.

Chicago, Ill. /
Please send me your 180-page
“Book of 100 Wonders,” de-
scribing The Encyclopaedia
Britannica.

Name.

_ SCRIBNER’S
597 Fifth Ave.

HWiH UTOMTUTOTUGOUAUTAUNATOULUVULSUQ U1

1 iii

MAND

a} {iii

Save Me Money?

Well, unless we can prove to our-
selves that it will save you money we
do not want to sell'you a G, V: Elec-
tric Truck.

Cost ,igures show that
85% of all city and. suburban truck-
ing can be done miost. economically
with electric trucks. That's a big
field. It isn’t ttecessary for‘us to go
after logical gas truck business—which
is the Jong haul with few stops.

But if you.have short. hauls: with
many stops, G. V. Electric Trucks
will save you money.

G. V.’s will do’such work far better
and much cheaper than gas or horses.

You can estimate accurately before-
hand just what a certain trucking cost
will be with G. V.’s,

You can cut down on your stable
space, your insurance, your tire bill,
your upkeep—and you can cut your
lost running time at least in half.

Horse drivers make good G. V.

drivers, with a few hours’ instruction.

Accidents in which electrics figure
are few indeed.

The life of the average G. V. Elec-
tric Truck is more than double that of
the average gas truck.

Why not get some definite: figures
on your own specific trucking
problem?

We've got 2179 G. V.’s riinning in |
New York City alone.

We have put trucks into more than
100 different kinds of business—and

our records of their operation cover

fifteen years,

In our files we probably have dollars

and cents figures that apply to your iy
trucking. They’re youfs—for the ask-

- ing—and without obligation.

The question is: do you want these
figures? They can’t cost you any-
thing and they may save you money.

GENERAL VEHICLE COMPANY, INC.

General Office and Factory: Long Island City, New York
New York Sales Office : 30 East 42d Street—A. P. BOURQUARDEZ, Dist. Mgr.

: Telephone, Murray Hill 7386.
Siz Medels: 1,000 to, 10,000 pounds capacity. Dealers in open territory are invited te correspond. ~

TTT MD Qivevnnarnpenatieanei cette) Etna) | reinvents aca ET |i

Pee

eae

GEE SEES SS

Fish See

| / other make.

the beginn ‘ing. .
White Truck

also assure White T:

Years of use, therefore,

White Truck Record for. 2
Performance Unbroken,

Trucks predominate over any

give universal satis- -

faction; and that satisfaction has resulted from
a mechanical design fundamentally right from

not merely demonstrate
tformance in the past; they

performance in the

future. Whatever itnprovements and reéfine-
ments have been made, the

product has had a

Continuous development of its original design.

NEW —

‘THE WHITE COMPANY, Gleveland

Broadway at Sixty-Second Street

‘The Anheuser-Busch Brewing Association now own a total of 15 White Trucks 653

os AT BIG mae

Sbanut Surprise Added to the

- Myriad Delights to Rouse the

7 | Poor Little Folks’ Wonder.

A KISS FOR MR. RINGLING

Only One Child Wept, and She Was
Piqued Because She Could:r¢ see
it All with Two Eyes.

@®mall boys who have never walked
@ithout braces or crutches, little fel-
lows with hunch backs and other de-
formities that make them almost help-
less, deaf mutes who didn’t even turn an

- ear when the calliope played or get a

thrill of terror from the roars of ‘‘ Ooola
Bam Oola,” the sacred and scared
gimian with the cross eyes, saw the per-
fect-bodied athletes and riders in the
Barnum & Bailey circus do their feats
@t a special “‘ kids’’’ performance yes-
terday morning.

Whatever their other defects the 6,000
orphans and cripples who made up the
most appreciative audience of the sea-
gon had active minds and good lungs.
When the ‘‘white statues’’ toppled
about into. heroic groups and when the
bareback riders turned the curves and

} weemed about to fall off the small spec-

\tators were all eyes.
é > trained dogs

%. the Original What-Is-It ’’ were the least !
. bit grouchy.

PEMTRIAR aeinysen

Page

Syrasckle

Soe

peseapgrt ye RENEE TRS,

But when the
came out yipping and
+ frolicking and ran four times around
* the arena and when Lord Blimey, the
, funny clown, struck his partner just
\ eff the Virginia Capes with a paddle
that had a stick of dynamite in it—well,
you may imagine for yourself what
went on then among the little folk,
many of whom have seen more of the
gseamy side of life than most grown-ups
re ever fated to discover.

It was all free; even the peanuts, and
there were more than 6,000 bags of
them, wholly unexpected.

One little fellow from the Seaside
“Home had been waiting for a long time
gee the show, and thinking of cir-
4ses made him think of peanuts, and
thinking of peanuts made him hungry.

eats to a companion who had two
One on each leg

“ Golly, <t wisht I had a nickel. I like

And he gazed at a huge

Baty of peanuts moving around the

=: ay e children appeared to be

ust as the big circus husky came

within hem the lad with the braces

Well, we can’t have any.

onder where they got ’em.’’
The husky took two bags from the
ene andedropped them into. the boys’

Re Hey, Mister, we don’ t want ’em.
We ain’t got no nickels.’

* 5 ned s all right. Keep ’em,”’
the h

ag Bue
one boy.

“Ah, pay me when you get rich. This
is on the _ Coe

But boys still wondered till the
me an to play the pageant
music and the show was on.

Before the first act was half through,

little girl from the Little Missionaries’

ay Nursery began to cry. tears

ed down her face, but she did not

cover her eyes nor bow her head. Asked

for a reason for tears in the midst of
wonders of the circus, she said:

** Well, I’ve tried and I can’t. I want
to see the funny men over there and
I want to see the dogs over here and I}
Want to see the lady on the horse way'
over there, but I can’t look at ‘em all,
and I can come here only once.’”’ Soon ali
Were gone, and she began to cry again.
Then came the elephants and she wept
no more.

It was a gala day among the perform-
ers, too. mly Baron Paucci and “ Zip, !

replied
t don't you want no pay?’ asked

Press agents have always
told the Baron he was the smallest man;
in the world, and he has come to believe |
t. But yesterday his heart was almost
roken. A little ag came in to
visit him, and the visitor was just a bit
tinier, The Count flew into a rage, and
fh net to kick Fanny, the giraffe,
ear.
Then Zip, who can only make a noise
Ifke two Chinese chop suey cooks talk-
litics and talks mostly with his
8, was playing the violin. Two lit-

Sites

ot no nickel like the other kids |

came up and began to

5 music, I'll es said
‘ooula ph viol ling “opal

Been, looking at his

i ag -
s re-
; Usual lunch of ‘beled

for the

t comes

Paul Jerome, Ernest

erson, oF Lord Blimey, and Pat Val-

do, the funny clowns,. had taken. off
their suits and washed off the grease
pee when:someone told them a pair of
ttle on ea wanted to- have their -pic-
tures en with the clowns. So f ey
put all their clown suits and red paint
rae back on and missed their lunch to

One of the proudest men at the circus
was Andrew Sturtz, the tattooed -boy,
who ran his moving picture show for the
kids. He nee Bore use they followed
him_ evyeryw He told one ne Sow of
boys that it me Gout him_ $4,000,000 to have
pans painted up like a whole art

“Td. like to have ictures
too,” said a small bey from the Mission

of the Immaculate Virgin, and to a
chorus of ‘. Whys”’ replied:

“Well, I guess if a feller pad $4,000,-
000 worth of paint and pictures on him
the Sisters ‘wouldn’ t dare make him
take a bath.’’

Then Mr. Ringling ‘was a source of
wonder, too

“Who's that man?” queried a Meso
miss whose only affliction is that she
has neither father nor mother, pointing
to a tall man standing» -right under the
overflow peanut shells. ‘'He can go
right in wherq, the lions are. I know
I saw him,”

at's ’ Ringling,”’ said a by-
stander. 4 owns the circus, all the
elephants, ‘eon everything, and: he said
you could come here to Ay

“Does he own all owna, and
Shetland ponies, too? I'd. Sine to have a
circus. e can come in without a
ticket any be can’t he, and he doesn’t
have & for peanuts either, does
he? fice to kiss. him.: Won't you
carry ae down? Well,; take one-to him
for me, will you? Please!

And here it is, Mr. Ringling!
FOULED W. U. CABLES.
Stockholm. Obeyed Strange Tig-
boat’s Order to Anchor.
Obeying an unauthorized order from
an unidentified tugboat Captain to
anchor his ship instead of proceeding to
the pier in Jersey City, Captain. A. E.
Hakanson of the Swedish-American
liner Stockholm, which arrived -yester-
day. ftom Gothenburg, fouled three
Western Union cables off Pier B, Jer-

two hours in the North River.. The
cable repair steamer Western Union
was sent for and her crew managed to
get the cables clear from-the flukes of
the liner’s anchor.

The Stockholm left Gothenburg on
April 11 and was taken into Kirkwall
by a British cruiser and detained three
days. Her 485 bags of mail were taken
ashore for examination and. brought
back and then taken ashere a second
time and returned.

' On Palm Sunday, April 16, in the
midst of a westerly gale, Mrs. Bertha
Bjorkman gave birth to a baby girl in
the third-class, who was christened
Stockholmina after the ship. It was
the first birth on’ the Stockholm, and
the Captain had mother and child re-
moved to a cabin de luxe in the first-
class, and presented her with 300
kronen on behalf of the rr: The
passengers added another ronen,
which made up a purse of $216 for Mrs.
Bjorkman to receive when she is able
to leave the ship and start to join her
husband at 1,639 Ballou Street, Chicago.

The agents of the line have not been
able to identify the Captain of the tug-
boat--which gave instructions, to the

Stockhoim off Liberty Island not to go
to her plier.

To Debate Preparedness Problems.
Mrs. Bertha H. Mailly, Secretary of
the Rand School of Social Science, last
night denied that the National Security
; League had turned down the challenge
to debate a Socialist on the question of
preparedness at the Labor Pageant to be
given at the Central Opera House for
four days beginning next Friday night.
A similar denial was made by Robert
Grimshaw, Chairman of the Speakers’
| Bureau of the National Security League,
inc. Mrs. Mailly said that the commit-
tee had agreed to have a preparedness
speaker meet a Socialist in debate on
: question of the ‘* Relation of Prepared-
‘ness to the Cause of Labor.”’ In a letter
| to Mrs. Mailly yesterday Mr. Grimshaw
accepted the challenge and stated that
the league would gladly furnish speakers
in any language desired.

‘Pickwick. Club,”’

sey City, and was entangled. there for :

GEO. D. SMITH PAYS
$5,350 FOR PICKWICK

First Day of Coggeshall ‘ Book
Sale at Anderson Galleries

RASE!VOLUMES OF DICKENS

Presentation Coples, with Author’s
Signature, Stimulate Lively Bid-
ding—Out-of-Town Buyers.

The sale of the Dickens and Thack-
eray collections and other rare books
and. autographs from. the library of
Edwin’ W. Coggeshall, President of the
Lawyers Title Guarantee “and Trust
Company, was begun at the Anderson
Galleries yesterday. Collectors were
present from Chicago, Philadelphia, and
other cities. The bidding was spirited
and. high prices were realized. The
Dickens collection has long been rec-~

ognized as one of the best in the world.

aan Stak for the day was $37,189 fur
ots

The h eet Fe rice of the session, $5,350,
was pai George D . Smith for a fine
copy of ** rhe 8 dip to Papers of the
logue No, 82,
twenty parts in ninete een, with forty-
three first. impressions of the orginal
plates by Seymour, Buss, and “‘
with a page of original manuscript,
containing a part of the humorous
chapter eocribin the wedding break-
fast and Pickwick. listening to the
reminiscences of old: Mrs. Wardle. This
book. was obtained- by Mr. Smith from
Robson in London and was sold by him
to Mr. Capers for $5,520.

Mr. Smith also gave $3,950 for a vol-
ume, catalogue No. 15, containing six-
teen autograph letters moe by Abra-
ham Lincoln, Ulysses S. Grant, Admiral

in M. Stanton, H.

. ragut, Edwin
Ww. ‘Halleck. s C. Palmer.
Four ef the Lincoln letters.are written

from the enema ye:
to Major
Other. items, with catalogue numbers |
and prices, were as follows:
22—*' Battles and Leaders’ of the Civil
War,’’ extended from four to certs
five ‘yolumes by the insertion of 1,7:

dressed

engraved
921 watoginnb letters,
uments,

of the

ae to John P. Harley,
r of the St. Tamnes’s Theatre, in
re ai

90-" Oliver’ Twist,” ‘original “edition, ‘a
presentation copy
. Thomas Hill, with autograph letter of

Dickens

108—*‘ The: Old Govisatey Shop,” presen-

tation

Smithson;

omas

nant

130—‘** Pictures ffom Italy,’’
tion copy from Dickens to Douglas
Jerrold; Charles Sessler
139—‘‘ The Haunted Man,’’
tion, presentation copy from Dickens
to Thomas Beard; Gabriel Weis
144—Original

Cha:
Hou

&c.; from the neti’ aes A
sale, but revised by .Mr. Sy 5
Ep many additions made;

bit tary or ‘autograph * manuscript

insert! abriel
100—‘‘ Nicholas Nickleby,” first edition, i
_ in binding by R

‘*Charles Dickens, Jr., from his
affectionate father '’;
paid Mr. Smith $1, 060 for
George D. Smith
, 127— “The Cricket on.

» re copy from Dickens to

practice i

about

Colonel Samuel HB. Allen, commandant
of Fort Hamilton,

| warning will offer ample time for the

opening of all windows and the securing
of bric-a-brac
heavy detonations.

practice.

vray. 4

eorge D. Smith.

111—“* American Notes,’’ first "edition,
presentation copy from Dickens to

Carlyle, with Carlyle’s name

on flyleaf, (Mr. Coggeshall paid Mr.

peng $1,200 for this book;) E. P. Dut-

n Co L
118" A ‘Ghristmas Caroi}* first ‘issue,
presentation copy from Dickens to

Albany “Fonblanque, (Mr. Cog

paid Mr, Smith $450. for this

Dickens's
Kensington,
George D. Smith

The sale will be continued today.

To Warn Residents of Gun Practice.
A special
morrow morning will notify all residents

in the Bay Ridge section that Fort
Hamilton’s

Sportsmen Hold a Barbecue Near a
Movie Studio. ;

traits, views, oe with The Hunters’ Fraternity of America,

» doc
to supplement its threescore members,
Striel held a barbecue last night at the stu-
- -$3,800 | dios of the Mirror Film Company, ig
dale, Long Island, as the g of A.

A. Anderson, ‘President ‘of the frater-
and. <4 Hage ot he Board of

Dedication Rd the Vilisge./
a of t
otion picture organi-

handwriting; Georgé’ D..

wore huntin dress, assembled at Mr.
anderson, g studios at 80 West Fortieth

treet
bile
‘y. Mou anain at wi
the pen, air while the hunters sat about
pugs" 6 amptires and *tol tales of how

he had ‘shot ats tWice as big as
that y lightsome leap from cae to

es ‘hunt supper was served in a

oom of the studio plant which was
fitted out like a lodge in the Rockies,
and a vaudeville show was given. Mayor
Mitchel, Nat Soatem, Irving Bachelier
and Clifford Harmon were the chief
speake Theodore Roosevelt pnd
sent a telegram of regret on bea E green
that he wag ‘’ too hoarse to tal

Dickens to

eres

from Dickens to Mrs.

HUNTERS ROAST A GOAT. -
with perhaps a hundred and fifty guests |

e members, many of whom

on YEAR

Netting about 534%

Secured by our Capital,
Surplus and Profits of
deposit of first mortgages
on improved oR real,
- estate.

THE MORTGAGE-BOND co.
. OF NEW YORK

GEORGE A. HURD, President

55 Liberty Street

“ MORTAAGE-BONDS

—eemneneel

In the Grand Ball Room of the =

Fifth Avenue, 58th to 59th Street —
(Admission by card to be had

Primitives and Other Old Masters”

belonging to -

Nicolas Riabouchinsky —

OF MOBOO
On Exhibition et Until Noon
at the American Art Galleries
MADISON’ SQUARE SOUTH
The sale will be conducted by Mr. THOMAS E. KIRBY of .

AMERICAN ART ASSOCIATION, Managers f

Madison Sq. South, Entrance 6 E, 23d Street, New York.

"at ths vadieee.

presentation copy
Mr: Coggeshall '
this book;
eveVesccsdecectieper see 1
the

La ‘Rue; Dr, A.

presenta-
first edi-

autograph manuscript of
speech at Gore

signal of three guns to-

quarterly big gun

target
8, about to commence.

from the shock-of the

Practice will begin
o'clock Thursday morning.

will supervise the

Astomobilists 3,

Baggagemen 4, 5

Gueenics: aeruntin paced
Natural.Alkaline Water

Gaswestind for table use.

Standard remedy for Dyspepsia, Stomach
Troubles, Gout and Uric Acid,

-Ask your’ Physician, *%

Boat Owners 12, 13
Bricklayers 6, 5, 3
Businessmen 1, 2, 3,10

Carpenters 5, 6,1
Chauffeurs 13, 12, 1
Conductors 1, 2

Cooks 12, 9

SATE RSA DING EERE ThE SF ROH Be be

Bottied at the Famous Spring at VICHY, France

CELESTINS CELESTINS

doctors 7,331,

Drivers 7, 5

Bisecizicions 5, 6

We are now filling rd
HUMP HAIR PINS

An immense stock on hand enables
us to fill all orders promptly in rota-
FREE SAMPLES and DISPLAY

for distribution.

tion.

STAND read

*Phone Spring 8700, or address

SAMSTAG & HILDER BROTHERS,

Engineers 9, 1, 2, 5
Expressmen 5, 4

F actory Men 5, 6,

Farmers 7, 5, 1
Firemen 5, 3, 2
Fishermen 6, 5, 2
Foundry Workers 5,

Only

First Get the Free Samples

Try

‘why we say:
itself.

“Try the samples first.”

headachy feeling of the old common wire or shell hair pins.

WRAY

“looks.”
looks.

Hair Pins—the

beautiful satin enamel fin-

ish—the
oints —the
MP that

clever rounded
wonderful

keeps. each

hair pin where you want it
—the ease with which you

can take it out.

And one

package of HUMP Hair Pins
Outlasts three packages of any
other kind.

This Big Package,
assorted sizes, 10c.
Single packages,

“LOCKS

THE LOCKS”

H ousekeepers 10,

Them in Your Hair

Before you've worn them an hour you'll go back for the big package. That’s
The HUMP Hair Pin truly sells
Every woman is amazed at the wonderful improvement it makes in
her looks. She can shop all day, work, drive, dance for hours, and keep her
hair in place—without losing a single pin and without any of the pulling or

HUMP Hair Pins

are the greatest invention of the age to help —- keep their

The strongest power in the whole world
And her hair is her greatest concern.
she had a real hair pin.
UMP

Never before has
That’s why every one is talking about

Hunters 9, 4

Laboratory Workers

Laboring Men 5, 6

Lumbermen 5, 1

Machinists 12, 5,2

MunicipalEmployees

Nignt Workers 7

is a woman’s

Ofice Workers 10,

Prciipers 1, 7, 2,°6
Professional Men 1,

Roaitread men 1, 2

Siitors 35:3
Salesmen 3, 12
Shoppers 8, 9,
Sportsmen 9, 5, 1

Telegraph and
. Telephone Operators ‘

First, find yourself on this’

—then the numbers will tell you which

of these Ingersoll watches are best suited —
to your needs. ’

(Illustrations are two-thirds actual size of watches )

1 T Il slips into the
Seeing
. Made by Inger-

TRIUMPH $1.25

A brand new Ingersoll, just out thi: ae A
oe highs b-priced eck

peop!
women—who are without convenient pockets,
and who want the time quickly and easily.

‘As a man’s watch it is not in the least effem-
inate—soldiers, pol

ers, policememy surveyors, farmers,
hunters and other hardy men wear them. More
soldiers in the European trenches wear the
wrist watch dunn aniy Gtieer style tende. s

e _ WATERBURY $3

Mone pes nowadays want a led ra-size
war i is, a little mayne ss ordin-
ary men's size. new Waterbury i
pA it is thinner than the Reliance. . Sac te
Reliance it is an enduring time-piece.
zoe the watch for daspenten us rt of men
pat hey be yok eosinee snd poten
men.
deater's abeet May ch At IO

DOLLAR WATCH

“The Watch that Made the Dollar Famous.”
Everybody knows the Dollar Ingersoll. It
is boagin, aad need by. ail. Helena her's Oe
watch’’"—the watch for workin; nd mill-
harm It's field of service is by os rape 8
limited hich it is

in w

~ “TWO-IN-ONE”.
ene 2<. the tone ) hese i
‘cases that look like ivory. — can be re-
pocat and carried
le rea for 5» ne
ne or

pst or te as or ceernter sohnat teach-

JUNIOR $2.50

Like the Waatbors the Junior is the popular
ra-size watch, t has an antique bow and
crown and its Rus is solid nickel (gun metal
and gel plate Eeteeess tee) It combines these
features of good looks with a sturdy Jngersoll

a traveling men, business men, and others
the. style of the Waterbary, but
en Si Junior sturdiness at 0 cents less

RADIOLITE $2

Shows the time sight and day. The hands
and the figures on the dial are coated with a
luminous substance containing radium, which
shines in the dark more brilliantly than
um would, For campers, ors, night
watchmen, and other nightworkers. An ideal
“‘ander-the-pillow” watch, At your dealer's
about May rs.

SIMPLEX $1.25

The Vankee Watch in a metal holder that can
be fastened anywhere—beside the bed in the
bedroom or the stove in the kitchen, infront
of the workman at his bench, in the ‘elevator
and on the telephone switchboard in ooo
on the dash of automobiles and the side o
boats—in hundreds of otherplaces that will
readily suggest themselves. _.

Though thisis r
ise only to opecal clasen, i

watch that can be used by all.

MIDGET $2.50

It is becoming a national habit among women
freee the sin — handbags—especial-
when shoppi Can also be worn on ada or
chainia the way. It’s a splendid watch
fr fie ot toerarecs tu boepleale like i
. urses in t;
so do school teachers; small also like: a
small watch of this kind.

clocks with the
~~ stands

AUTOTIMER $2

Many automobilists will | replace their auto

Watchmen 7

Interesting lustrated catalog describing Ingersolls mailed free on vague Write at tt; — the actual

watches at your dealers.

Lf he is out of any models, they will be sent prepatd on receipt of price.

ROBT. H. INGERSOLL & BRO. ars Fourth Ave.; New York Fig

ie to Police Justice’s Ei-
ployment by National Con-
. duit and Cable. Company.

TROUBLE SOON MAY BE OVER

= Many Men Leaving Town to Work

in Other Munition Plants—will-
ing Now to Cut Demand. |

/ Special to The New York Times.
HASTINGS, N,. ¥., . April | 25.+The
. réle of. Police Justice William Cullen,
© first as an employe of the National
Cable and Conduit Company and sec-
ond as the presiding officer of the
court in which seven men who are on
‘strike at the cable plant were com-
mitted to jail for alleged disorder last
night, is stirring the strikers. They
complain that there is no place where
they can get a fair hearing, inasmuch
as Cullen is bound to be prejudiced
against them.
Cullen’s job as Police Justice is only
@ side issue, it was explained today.

He gets $35 a month as head of the
court, but the principal part of his in-

come is derived from his work as ship-
ping clerk at the National Cable and
Conduit Company plant, The strikers
complain further that Justice Cullen
has not clearly informed the strikers

» of their right to counsel. Most of the

strikers, it -is complained, were not
represented by lawyers. ~

In Hastings is no feeling among
most of the yvillyge people that there is
any improprietY in Justice Cullen's
double job. “ He is a square man,” said
one. ‘‘ The voters of Hastings elected
him. Hegs looking out for the interests
of the people. What difference d6es it
make whether he works for the com-
pany or not? ’’ P

It was suggested by one of the
strikers that unconsciously he might
be a little. prejudiced.

** But who else can try the case?” the
Hastings man asked. “‘ Every one here
is more or less affiliated with the in-
_ terests, as they are called. There is
hardly a person ‘here who does not get
his living, either directly or indirectly,

from the National Cable and Conduit
beg oe

as said yesterda: yeguaies © that the stfike
eneha “pe ended in a days anyway
because the men were being hired by
agents of munitions factories to go to
work out of town. The strilftrs, at a

meeting yesterday, decided to modify |the
' their demands

for a wage increase from
5 cents an hour to 4 cents an hour. The
. employers have offered them 2% cents.

piace at his office at
Those

“MAYOR LABOR PEACEMAKER.

Calls Conference to Avert Strike tn
Cloak and Sult Industry.

A threatened ‘lockout or strike in the
cloak and suit ifidustry which may re-
sult.in the unemployment of from 60,000
to 70,000 men and women caused Mayor

pen a yesterday to call a conference
Tepresentatives of bei sides to take
10:30 o’clock this
asked to meet him are
J. Wile, President of the Cloak and
Sait Manufacturers’ Association, repre-
senting the manufacturers; Benjamin
Schlesing@, President of the Interna-
pocorn Garment Workers: Union, repre-
sates oe workers; the members of
ouncil of Conciliation which he
epebated in’ July last, and several rep-
resentative citizens, potas, Jaeob H.
Schiff, Oscar. §. Straus illiam C.
Breed, and eT, Moskowitz. The
Mayor wrote follows to Mr.

Schlesinger and Mr. Wile:

Last Summer, at the request of both the

Manufacturers’ Association and .the union,

I appointed, as Mayor, a body of citizens

to help you reach a working arrangement.

On the suggestions of this body, an agree-

ment. Was. reached and accepted by both
partiés. It would be an extreme misfor-

tune for either party now to take steps to
frustrate what was then accomplished,

Last aay the Council of Conciliation
sat twelve days and made recommenda-
tions which were accepted by both sides.
The industry-operated under these terms
for two seasons. New differences arose
in March, and recently, according to in-
formation latd before the Mayor, the
situation became such as to indicate

that the lockout | and strike were immi-
nent,

STRIKERS ATTACK PLANT.

Smash Iron Gates at the Entrance
of the Westinghouse Factory.

PITTSBURGH, April 25. ety e's that
the National Guard might be called out
to preserve order, owing to the strike of
18,000 employes= of the Westinghouse
Etectric and Manufacturing Company,
did not prevent an attack on the plant
of the Westinghouse Air Brake Com-
pany in Wilmerdjng late today. Strik-
ers smashed their’way through big heav-
ity chained fron gates at two entrances
rushed past private guards, and entered
the plant in an effort to persuade work-
men to join the strike. The men. left
before the guards could be reinforced.
No arrests were made.

Pickets at the electric plant this morn-
ing attempted to prevent several thou-
sand workmen from entering. A clash
with Deputy Sheriffs and railroad de-
tectives followed, but no one was seri-
ously hurt.

District Attorney Jackson tonight or-
dered saloons in East a haf
merding, and Braddock closed for
indefinite period. Wholesale liquor Geni.
ers throughout Allegheny County were
also instructed not to sell any liquor
in the Turtle-Creek Valley, in which the
bey mag oP plants are located. .

Fred H. Merrick, former editor of a
Socialist. newspaper in Pittsburgh, end
two foreigners were arrested today.
Merrick was later released. The other
two were fined.

gem

Suffragists Give Baby Pins.
Gold bowknot pins, made by Gorham

Co., -are to be presented by the
Woman's New | ,_ York/ State Suffrage
Party to the “best baby” in each
borough in the Mayor’s Baby
eelebration. On the pins are engraved
words: ‘* Presented by the Woman's
N. Y. State Suffrage Party to —-,’’ and

Week

there is a blank s for the child's
name to be filled in.

man,
“his lot with Tanner.

STATE'S DELEGATION

Chairman Tanner’s Announce-

ment Follows the Anti-
Barnes Alignment.

COUNTS 12 VOTES FOR Ty R.

Middle West Leaders Here Promliée
to Swing. to. Hughes If He Shows.
Strength at Chicago.

Governor Charles 8. Whitman will
be made Chairman of the New York
State delegation to. the Republican..Na-
tional Convention, it was announced
yesterday by State Chairman Frederick
Cc. Tanner. The decision was arrived
at, Mr. Tanner said, after several con-
ferences between. State leaders and
membérs .of the delegation. °

The
grows out of the fight for control of
the State Committee a few weeks ago.

Before that time Chairman Tanner was
opposed to Governor Whitman, although
both were in favor of ae nomination
of Justice Charles E. a by the
= ublican Convention. William Barnes
United States Senator Wadsworth
tried to depose Tanner as State Chair-
and Governor Whitman threw in
Since then the
Whitman and Tanner forces have been
working together.
A report was received at State head-

Selection of Governor Whitman

} b ersgty of Avrecuee Hopton fea leader “et i

Onendaga C
lot with ‘Colonel Yin ceewelt. Mr, Hen —
dricks is said to. control. two
pmonel Convention, eet oven oven

that the Colonel would not have more
than 12 of the New York delegation | w
font “Whe re olenel oe Fahy was Gov-
on en. Me
ernor he appointed Mr. Hendricks State
Supt iatats ent of Insurance, and the
two have-been warm friends ever since.
Genree Ww. sAldiags ‘ef Monroe. ‘snd
2. oO onros
‘William. ‘L. Ward of Westchester wis
ye = Hughes ‘campaign.
Middl owe arg eg gee ke ote
t conte W:
Suiey Raster d members of the

‘Chairman ‘Tanner an
State ; Committee for several days. Eo agai
‘| have. told Mr.. Tanner, it is

the delegates from their state aah S
for ‘‘ na a sons” first, but uitinsately
will switch to Justice Hughes if be
develops Shy strength in ee one
Plans ‘for the the New

Housing: of
A ig Statedelegation Chicago’ have] gs

ompleted. The delegation

ew York at noon on

Many of them will stay rs the

Teave 4

airman Tanner announ

would not appoint the State Executive
Committee or the Treasurer of the
State’ Committee to succeed Alexander
M. White of Brooklyn, who
until after the adjournment of the Na-
— Gonvention. _This is to head oft

possible factional fights isaatore the
Presidential candidate is ne is na

‘SEREMIADS,’ SAYS DU PONT.

Presidential Aspirant Pooh-Poohs
Preparedness Arguments.

T. Coleman du Pont, who is a candi-
date for the Republican nomination for
President, ts conducting his campaign
on a platform against militarism and

extravagant. expenditures for national
preparedness, according to a statement

th ‘styling, value giving and tailoring effici-

ency,. our clothes assume an _ initiative

that

distinguishes them as unusual. ,

' Extremes ‘are taboo, but the touch of smart-
ness in their general appearance makes them
desirable when men of correct dress seek their

ideals.

Our patrons are safeguarded by the many fun-

damental

principles of clothes

‘construction

and selling that have come down to us through

three
tomers.

generations of

wholly satisfied cus-

BROKAW BROTHERS

AT FORTY-SECOND STREET

The Best Built
Truck |

in America

IKER Trucks rated at three
and four tons are showing
every day nearly the same ton-
mile per hour capacity as the
average truck rated at four or
five tons.
See the Riker Truck yourself.

Now on display in the Lacomibile
Branch House in this City.

NEW YORK BRANCH HOUSE
61st Street next to Broadway

LOCOMOBILE COMPANY OF AMERICA

BRIDGEPORT. CONN.

Chairman 1 Tanner saia | ti

and} sl

Saiacialiitiesdhaeaniatettamabetia

BILL HITS CHARITY & SHC

Theatrical Performances, .
A resolution introduced in the Board

Mr. aS Pont on: said thee what 9 was need-
a. business administration of mag Bd po the
the ‘Government. 4 within ten days after the e

Managers in Saine Class as ‘Those ot t

STOR. ints
WAREHOUS

“Cold Dry Storage for Furs

TRUSTEES

ADRIAN ISELIN. €. OD: ISELIN R. FULTON
T i, WELLS ERNEST ISELIN

Seventh Ave. and S24

-—Telephone—.

Royal Master Model 10.
Price $100

Settle it right nov
Royal demonstration coded ;

F we can give youa typewriter that isn’t going to scrap
itself in a year or two; so that you'll have to go
through all that trading-in nuisance again—you want it.

If we can give you a typewriter that will turn out letters of
perfect presswork—the kind of letters that breathe “class”
and “up-to-dateness”—you want it.

If we can give you a typewriter that not only writes but
bills and charges and writes cards for indexes and files—
writes anywhere and everywhere on the card—and does
all this without a single extra attachment—you want it.

If we can give you a typewriter that will help. your ste-
nographer to do more work, do it better, do it easier—a.
typewriter that will bring sunshine into your place—

you want it. .

If we can give you a typewriter that stands up to its work
hour after hour, day in arid day out, and doesn’t go to the
bad and blockade things because the repair man has to

come—you want tt.

If we can give you atypewriter that is -built not only to
do its work better and do more of it, but built to live for

years and years—you want it.

We can do that very thing. Weare doing 1 it. We've been

doing it.

That's the reason for Royal leadership. today.

We're ready any minute to show you and prove to you

that the day you Royalize your office you are spending .
the wisest money you ever spent.

Telephone us right. now, if you’re in + iets office. If
you're not, make a note /of.it, drop us a postal card and. -
we'll come. Not the slightest obligatiom in the world on»
your part—we’re more thari s@fisfied to demonstrate the <~

Royal and let it sell iteelf.

‘ROYAL TYPEWRITER COMPANY, INC.

Royal Typewriter Building, 364 Broadway, New. York. City.

i Telephone Franklin 4409.
; Branches and Agencies the World Over

) was “Home Run” Baker.

Nak

Bie

iN ‘BLD 10
BD SOX IN TENTH

van’ s Men Come baie Be-

aw Four Slashing Hits in Four
-Times Up, but Baker Disappoints
the Fans in a Pinch.

Two full-grown chances presented

themselves to the Yankees at the Polo

‘Grounds yesterday to defeat the world’s

_‘thampion Boston Red Sox, and-in each

His - chiet
opportunity came in the eighth with the

* Yankees one run behind, two men on the

bases, and two out.

@ stage on this momentous occasion

vo Ee for a gorgeous clean-up, and the

gathering which braved the cold
weather was worked up to a high pitch
of excitement. (Baker had two strikes

end Was swinging in his home-run style

Babe Ruth, the Boston’ pitcher,

co a low curve on the far side of the

Ruth

. and Nunamaker

. Baker made a vicious lunge at

his club and struck out.
e ninth inning the slashing stick-
of Nunamaker dreve in a run
pow tied the score for the Yankees,
nd the catcher was perched on thira
“with two out. But the Yankees’ vest
chance was gone and while the crowd
inwardly hoped that Caldwell might
_@rive Nunamaker home. there was none
of the wild demonstration which greeted
Baker's huge chance. Caldwell struck
@ut and then the Red Sox finishet
oengly in the tenth inning and won

e by a score of 4 to 3.

e ravages of the weather have hit
‘ Yankees hard. Manager Bill Dono-
Van was unable to get into uniform, and

yed the doctor’s orders wren he
attended the game wrapped up ip his
Winter ulster. Lee Magee and Frank
Gi moony, are also laid up with the grip,
allie Pipp was benched because
is a left-handed pitcher. High,
~Cook, Hartzell, and Mullen got into the

e, but none of the old players could

anything with Ruth's pitching.

lie Nunamaker had the great day
Be his career at the bat. The big Boston
oe og oa pitching was pie for him

in four times up he got a three-
Dagger, a double, and two singles. It
isn’t every day that a catcher bats 1,00u
in the major Jeagues.

When one considers that the day was
as cold and dark and dreary as the one
of which the poet sang, it omes sur-
prising that the players did so well. The
umpires vo to wave their arms to keep
‘warm. spectators could not
k warm ‘at all. The only warm touch
of e whole afternoon was furnished
by the new coats of the Boston players
which were fiery red.

total receipts of yesterday’s

are going to be used by Secretary

Trow to
ankees.

It was no day for any one to ventrre
out of doors without a foot-warmer.
A vender with a basketful of mittens
would -hhave made a young fortune. As
it is too early for the girls to t out
their Summer furs, they suffered more
than ‘tongue can tell.

Ruth and Caldwell pitched air-tight
ball for five innings. en the bats of
the Beaneaters began to flay the Yankee
aes tangents. Olaf Henriksen start-

ed _ the soiree with a double to left. He
went to third when Hal Janvrin poked a

tte. the infield. Hooper, the hitting
hevd “ef the ast world’s series, was
tossed out at first, and it was plainly
up to Hoblitzel. He was a good man
to put it up to, for he whanged a hit
straight down the alley and sent Hen-
riksen and Janvrin home.

The Yankees got one of these back in

the same session. Nunamaker smashed
a two-bagger to right, but Caldwell
and Maisel showed no fellowship for him
and both popped out. was safe
when Hobliteet dropped Gardner’s low
throw, and Paddy Baumann was rushed
in a pinch hitter. Paddy rolled -a
hopper through Ruth and galloped safely
to ha Nunamaker scoring.
r here had his first fine chance.
but instead of doing something for home
and country, he lined to Ruth without
a@s much as a struggle.

The Red Sox got another in the sev-
enth when Barry was hit and Thomas
sacrificed him to second. Barry went
to third on a wild piteh and scored on
Ruth's sacrifice fly to right.

e*Yankees’s glorious « ee came in

the sighth: when they- had Ruth on the
run. Nunamaker Sinaied and went to
third on Caldwell’s single. Maisel got a
pass and filled the bases. High struck
out at just the wrong time. Roy Hart-

li rolled. a hot ounder to Larry

ardner, who touched third, forcing

arry
buy a new bat for the

~ Caldwell. He flashed the ball home for a

but the throw was
scored, Ma and
“Hartzell moving up a base. With the
ers perched on second and third,
Baker's club pawed the air. Twas
than words can ex

double play, bad

press.
In the ninth the Yankees tied the score

- ‘@n Mullen’s single through second and

-» Left on

Nunamaker's triple. At this point Cald-
well contributed another heart-breaking
strike-out.

Henriksen opened the tenth with a
single and Janvrin singled. “Henriksen
went to third on Hoopér’s out and scored

Hloblitzel’s single to right centre.
score:
OSTON. al NEW YORK.

0 Maisel,

COroco9°orNn
Crmoohonen
DAA IOP LWO
Re RwWOoOmNwS
wemoooooor

2 Mullen, 1b. 7
Peck., ss...4
j}Calidwell.p.4
‘tAlexand’r.1 1

tted for Cook in sixth inning.
an for Baumann in sixth inning.

a SOS A

bl Om moncoworsoo
* Bloman
wi One

latted for High in tenth Inning..
‘ors—Gardner, Janvrin, Hoblitzell.

* Two-base hits—Henriksen, Nunamaker. Jan-
¥rin.> Three-base hit—Nunamaker. Sacrifice
tgcrnomnes, Janvrin. Sacrifice fly—Ruth.
Double play—Wunamaker and Peckinpauga.
fame ttew York. 6; Boston, 8 First
base on errors—New York, 2. Bases on
lis—Off Caldwell,- 3;
rned runs—Off Caldwell.
mee, Caldwell,
; by Ruth,

minut es,

Stevens Blanks Connecticut Aggies.

Special to The New York Times.

WILLIAMANTIC, Conn., April 25.—|

Stevens Tech baseball team defeat-
the Connecticut Aggies here today
‘score of st 0. The feature was

b unas isted dduble play by Hopwood |
Stevens had the bases full ‘with
out in the seventh inning. The
teries were Struppman and ntlie
Stevens, and moore: and Lee for
icticut.

fumbia-Penn Game Postponed.
» Columbia and Pennsylvania base-
‘game scheduled for this afternoon

sae se was postponéd : yester- |.

n account of the death tn Phila-
of Dr. J. William White. An
1 be made to play this game on
y. Pennsylvania will visit Colum-
‘the annual commencement day

on South Field. .

“London ‘Buys Pitcher Hearne.
’ LONDON, Conn., April 25.—An-
ment was made here today that

London Club of the Eastern

had purchased Pitcher Hearne
pronto BP o e Internationa:
te at, tt sate

Ai nee

tts-

SAMOAEL)

. Vesterday’s Results.
€ AMERICAN LEAGUE.
Boston, 4) New York, 3,
j (Ten innings.) »
Philadelphia at Wanshington,

(Postponed, rain.)

Detroit at St. Lowis,
(Postponed, rain,)

Cleveland, 9; Chicago, 2.

NATIONAL LEAGUE,
Boston,: 3; New York; 1.
Brooklyn at Philadetphia,
(Postponed, rain.) :
Pittsburgh at Chicago,
(Postponed, rain:)

. Cincinnati, 11; St. Louis, 3. |

Standing of the Clubs.

AMERICAN LEAGUE,

Won. Lost. Pet.

“ote iE
OG tees soi 6.56.05
GF iaule -- si digs netdio
Cleveland

Chica
Philadelphia °.
NATIONAL LEAGUE. :
Won, Lost.
Eattadcighin eer
Chicago Rs Gas das

St.. Louis
Sierianet!

Pitteburgh <b Sooo
New York ..

Pet.

; rey

PAA Ti Cor

Where They Play Today.
AMERICAN LEAGUE.

Boston at New York.
Philadelphia at Washington.
Chicage at Cleveland,
Detroit at St. Louis,

NATIONAL BAGS.
New York at Boston.
Broeklym at Philadelphia.
“St. Louis at Cincinnati.
‘Pittsburgh at Chicago.

INTERNATIONAL LEAGUE.

Montreal at Baltimore.
Buffale at Richmond.

INDIANS BEAT WHITE SOX.

Five Chicago Pitchers Sacrificed on
Dunn Day in Cleveland.

CLEVELAND, April 25. — Cleveland
defeated Chicago here today in the
opening game of the series, 9 to 2. Chi-
cago used five pitchers and the two
left handers, Russell and Williams, were
the only ones to show any effective-
ness. Coumbe, who pitched for Cleve-
land, held Chicago to six hits, three of
which were made by Fournier. He gave
‘passes to the firat two batters in the
fourth, and the recipients of those
favors were the only Chicago men to
gcore.- 2
“The Woodland Bards of Chicago were
present in honor of their fellow-mem-
ber, James C. Dunn, President of the
Cleveland Club, the day being desig-
nated as ‘‘ Dunn Day.’’ The Bards were
guests of the Cleveland Chamber or
Commerce at luncheon, which was fol-
lowed by an automobile parade to the
baseball park. Two bands of music
were on hand and Dunn was presented
with a large wardrobe trunk by the
Cieveland Fire Department. Among the
well-known men present were Secretary
of War Baker, B. B. Johnson, President
of the American League; Charles Comis-
key, owner of the Chicago White Sox,
and Charles Weeghman, owner of the
Chicago Cubs. The score:

Lert nat

ky, tf.2

wooce™

OuUnOomROOwH
coccocorcuamasHseo

Or NH HRS He
ecosoooornco®

Genz,

orcososcorosro

oscoso

W'ms,

*Batted for Murphy in sixth inning.
+Batted for RAnihg in eighth inning.
Error—E. Collins
Chicago 2

Two-base hits — Graney,
Speaker, ne. ree-base hit—Roth.
Stolen base—Turn Sacrifice hit—Chap-

Sacrifice fiy—Gandil, Double piys—
O'Neill and Chapman; Coumbe,
ganss = Gandil;.Chapman, Wambs-
ganss and Gandil. Left on bases—Cleveland,
1; Chicago, 2,’ Bases = balle—Oft umbe,
2; off Cicotte, 1; off Russell, 1. its and
earned runs—Off Cicotte, 2 hits, 2 runs, in
2-3 inning; off hb ar og 2 hits, 2 runs, in
no inning (pitched to two batters in first;)
off Russell, - hits,.1 run, in 6 1-3 Innings;
off Benz, hits, 3. funs, inno Inning
(pitched to Seur batters in eighth; ) off Will-
liams, no hits, no runs, in 1 innirg: ott
Coumbe, 6 hits, 2 runs, in 9 innings. Struck
out—By Coumbe, 2; by Rusgell, 2. Umpires
—Messrs. Evans and Chill.. Time of game—

One hour and fifty minut,

HARVARD TROUNCES BATES.

Maine Collegians Contribute
Their Defeat by Errors.

Special to The New York Times.
CAMBRIDGE, Mass., April 25.—The
-Harvard. nine‘played its first home ball

O'Neill, Roth,

game since its return from its Southern.
trip today, beating Bates by a score of ry

The Maine collegians used two pitch-
ers. Harvard amassed a four run lead
in the second inning against ‘ Harvey
and added seven runs; with at least one
hit in every inning against Purvess, a
left hander. Garritt dnd Cummings
worked for Harvard, three hits being
bunched against the former for Bates’s
first run. Passes and two hits against
Cummin 44 ee the visitors two runs

in the fit
money. ar the game, Coach Mitchell
sent in five substitute gis levers for Har-
vard, The Crimson play an errorless:
game, but on the scattered hitting would |
ave had a hard time to roll up mucli'
of a score had it not been for errors ‘on
the part of Bates. The score:
HARVARD. BATES.
ABRH POA! AB

Cool'ge, r1.8 2 Sep, ab.3

aud

pos

arte 4a! 3

ro ma, e:
Abbot,

Percy, be
Beal, 3b.
Mur’y, 3

Gar’tt, p.
Cum’s, p..

_ *Batted ‘for Purvess in ninth inning.
Errors—Duncan, (3,) Logan, Dayis,
vess, Hall. ’

CooQronce

Ge) eT

cooocHoHHOS
conHerHo

53 dite cee

ORO Or ONOCOrKSS
MOOCSCHOHRNOKHENHO

Pur-

fe Harb,

$ innings. First |

rv: ee

Sn Galion by
arvey, 2; by
ruck out “By

rvess, + fe

ven,
fish; tora ra an Be oer

[RUDOLPH A Tm

> THAT STOPS GIANTS

Braves’ -Little Pitcher Holds
New York to Four Hits
and One Run.

Special to The New York Times.
BOSTON,: Mass., April 25.—John Mc-
Graw sent out Bill Perritt against the
eres today, hoping that he would be
‘able to start the Giants on their way out
of last place. Perritt did a- good job
except in two innings, but two little
clusters of hits ih the first and fourth
sessions provided the Braves with two
runs, which were enough to beat him.
The Giants generally, not Perritt, were
at fault, for they failed to come through
after an auspicious start against Dick
Rudolph, who pitched a great game after
the opening inning, allowing only one
hit from the second to the ninth, inclu-
sive. The Braves eventually won the
game 3 to 1, scoring an extra point in
! the seventh against Schauer on a wild
throw by Bill McKechnie, but it was a

> game the Braves were entitled to take on

the merits of the play, the Giants lack-
ing run-producing punches.

The New Yorkers started as if they
meant business, but\ failure to wait for
passes doubtless cost them a good start-
ing margin. Burns led off with a fine
clip .to right field for a base, and al-
though Doyle sent out a fly to centre,

| Fletcher drove out another right field

single which put Burns on third. © It
was then up to Kauff, who did not take
pains to look Rudolph over even for a
moment. Dick sent up a wide one, and
Benny punched the ball down to Red

Smith, who very easily nailed Burns at
the plate. Then Merkle took his time
and waited for a pass, the Giants’ soli-
tary run of the game coming over when
Konetchy and Rudolph got mixed up on
Roush's infield roller. McKechnie also
had a chance to hit, but let three good
balls go by. The Giants really had only
one good chance after this. In the sixth,
when the Braves were leading 2 ‘to 1,
Kauff. tried Rudolph out and then
slammed a double past > Merkle
sacrificed, but when the ‘‘ squeeze’

play was tried Roush pushed the ball
straight down to Rudolph, and Benny
was an easy mark at the plate. Except
in these innings only two of the visitors

Saw second base, Burns stealing in the
second inning, and Fletcher landing at
ae station with two out in the
nin

The Braves made up the Giants’ open-
ing run in their hal¢é of the first inning
on the gerne yg ae of doubles Dy Ma-
ranville and Wilh In the fourth
they broke the tie, Collins getting a hit,
one to get in front of Konetchy’s sin-

Konetchy raced to third on Smith's

Teft, field single and scored when Roush
made a hair-raising catch of Compton's
long fly. The Braves’ point in the sev-
enth came easily against Schauer when
McKechnie threw past Merkle after
Compton had beaten out a hit, the run-
ner reaching third and scoring on Gow-
dy’s sacrifice fly to Burns.

On the defense the Giants played high-
class ball, but it was very plain that
they have not yet. developed their bat-
ting eyes. Rudolph really pitched mid-
Summer ball after his poor start.

Near the finish of the game Schauer
looked particularly good. The Braves’
one hit against him was a_ scratch,
while he fanned three of the last five
men who faced him. The Giants did
not make the least sign of a slip-up
except for McKechnie's wild throw, and
passed up the chance to win a bali

ame because of their overanxiety to

it the ball out of the lot.

The Rosia ho were keen to get their
tirst_ impr of .Kauff .today, and
are atntete “0 Pint ‘tonight because he
missed the opportunities to set e
Bostons back. he score:

BOSTON '

AB RH POA!

M’ville, ss.4 1
Evers, 2b.3
W'hoit, rf.4
Collins, / if.4

es BS gr <

8 1:Burns, eat

CCOPCOMHHONRMSP

COonsHSSoS
COM RR RH Ors
ONASBONN
COS MHONE HOKE

2 Rariden, c.2
Perritt, D.. 1
iScha’ur, p.0
\tR Rob’son .1
tKelly .. st

Total..
*Collins out, hit by batted ball.
+Batted for Rariden in seventh inning.
tBatted for Perritt in Seventh inning.
Brrors—McKechnie, Maranville, Rudolph.

Two-base hits—Kauf, Maranville, Wilhoit.
Stolen base—Burns. Sacrifice hit—Merkle.
Sacrifice flies—Compton, Gowdy. Double
play—Rousch and Doyle. Left \on bases—
New York, 6; Boston, 5. First base on errors
—New York, 2. Bases on balis—Off Perritt,
2; off Schauer, 1: off Rudolph, 8 Hits and
earned runs—Off Perritt, 6 hits, 2 runs in six
innings; off Sclauer, 1 hit, no runs in two
innings; off Rudolph, 4 hits, 1 run in ning
innings. Struck out — By Perritt, 1: by
Schauer, 3; by Rudolph, 5. Timg of game—
Two hours and thirty-eight minutes. Um-
pires—Mesars. Klem and Emslie.

ST. LOUIS PITCHERS ROUTED

Reds Bat Hall and Sallee Out of
Box In First Inning.

CINCINNATI, Ohio, April 25.—Cincin-
nati knocked both Hall and Sallee out
of the box in the first inning today, and
won easily, 11 to 3. Griner likewise was
hit hard, but Doak retired the side with-
out trouble in the final two innings.

Groh, Chase, and Griffith carried off the
batting honors. The score:

Ce ST. LOUIS.
BRHPOA ABRH P
pil’ fer, t 22 B’cher, - 2

Cocco oOHommon™

ccecseseoence”

Swowso

Soooooreeoron

OH’ sby, 9s..

1)Snyder,

0/ Brot’n,

2|Hall,

1|Sallee,

1/Griner, - p
Doak, sa es
3\*Corhan °
8 Wilson :

Total.

*Batted for Beck tn ninth tening.

+Batted for Miller in ninth inning.

Errors—Beck, Louden,
Cincinnati
St. Louis

Two-base hits—Beall,
hits—Groh,. Killifer,
bases— Beall,
baie
fly—Snyder.
|and: Chase;

eee

FPROONSRRONMROe

Total. .541

cosoroococOorrFroSoOSO

SOSH OOSCOMNHSOBHHH
SOTK HHH ENOMONOOF

Griffith. Three-base
Bétzel, Wingo. Stolen
Smith,” Herzog (2:) Sacrifice
Griffith, Hornsby. Sacrifice
Double plays—Moseley, Wingo,
Betzel, Miller; and Brottom;
Williams and Mollwitz. Left on bases—St.
Louis, 10; Cincinnati, 3. Basés on balls—Ofrf
Hall,\1; off Sallee, 2; off Griner, 2; off
Doak, 1: off Moseley, 4, Hits and earned
rons—Off Hall, 2 hits, 3 runs in 1-8 inning;
off Sallee, 3 hits, 4 runs. in 1-3 inning: off
doe 9. hits, 4 runs in 51-3 innings: off

Doak, 1 hit and no runs in 2 innings; off
Moseley; 11 hits, 8 runs in 9 innings. Hit
by pitcher—By Griner. Louden. Struck out—
By ° 1; by Moseley, 5. mpires—
Messrs. O'Day and Eason. Time of game—
Two hours and ten minutes.

C..C. N. Y. to Play Manhattan. |
‘The C. C. N. Y. baseballteam, which
has won two of the three”’games that

they have played this season; will play
the: Mauhattan College team this after-
noon, in the C. C. N. Y. Stadium.

Southern Association.

» At Atfanta—Atlanta. 9; Birmingham, 1.
At Memphis—Nashville, ‘i ae, 0.
At Mobile—New Orleans, 5; Mobile, 2.
At Little Rock—Little Rock, 7 ; Chatta-

nooga, 2.

American Association.

At Toledo—Kansas City, 2; Toledo, 1.

At Louisville—Louisville, 4; St. Paul, 1

At Columbus—Columbus, 2: Milwaukee, 1.

At Indianapolis—Indianapolis,, 1; Minne-
epolis, 0.

aE. a

ns ai

CORNELL CREW. SHAKEN UP.

Courtney Makes First Changes Since
Oarsmen Started Work on Inlet.

Special to The New York Times.
-ITHACA, N. Y., April 25.—For the
first time since the Cornell crews went
out on the inlet a month ago a shake-
up was made today by’ the coaches.
Morgan, who has been rowing bow ‘in
the ’Varsity, was transferred to No, 7
in the junior eighi, and Fernow.was
transferred from bow to No. 7 in the
‘Varsity boat. Brower, a powerful ju-
nior ’Varsitye oarsman,. was moved to
No. 7 in the ‘Varsity.

Fernow was bow oar in ‘last year’s
"Varsity, but was tried out at No. 7 when
practice .began this year. The experi-
ment did not prove satisfactory. tahl
was moved from No. 5 to stroke in the
junior eight. The first ’Varsity crews
under the new arrangement maid row-
ing as follows:

*Varsity—Fernow, bow; Bird, 2; poe 3;
Andrus, 4; Worn, 5; Cushing, 6; "Brower, i
Collyer, stroke; Chandler, coxswain.

Junior 'Varsity—Othus, bow; Courtney, 2;
nae; i 3; co tye 3 4; Farnsworth, 5; Kings-

land, Morgan, ; Stahl, stroke; Perry cox-
pty ag

CHANGE IN COLUMBIA BOAT.

Sengstacken Displaces Trowbridge
as Bow Oarsman in First Boat.

Coach Jim Rice of the Columbia trews
made another change in the boating of
the 'Varsity shell at practice yesterday.
6; Sengstacken, who has been row-
ing in ¢ghe junior combination, was
transferred to the bow position in the
first boat, displacing J. Trowbridge,
who advanced to. this position three
weeks ago when R. K. Munroe resigned
from the squad. Sengstacken rowed in
the junior boat in the Poughkeepsie re-

gatta last June.

HONOR TWO TRAPSHOOTERS

Local Marksmen Bid Adieu to Laca-
telli and Yule.

Lieutenant Ercole H. Locatelli, an: im-
porter of this city, who has two broth-
ers serving in the Italian Army, is to
sail on May-17 to join his regiment.
During his twelve years’ sojourn in New
York he has made a record at the traps.
and the White Plains Gun Club arranged
in his honor a farewell testimonial
shoot, which was held yesterday at the
Gedney Farms traps. Tom Davis, on
behalf of the club, gave Lieutenant Lo-
catelli a souvenir in the shape of a wrist
watch, which he will wear at the front.

The New. York Athletic Club tra
shooters also gave Locatelli and W.
Yule, another crack shot who won the
championship at Boston last week, a
farewell dinner at the club last night.
Mr. Yule is leaving New York for Ohio.
Each guest of honor received a dia-
mond-studded mercury foot, presented
by Danny McMahon. Mr. Yule’s souve-
nir from the White Plains Gun Club was
a shotgun case.

Forty-four men faced the traps in
yesterday’s shoot, and they made some
remarkable scores. Thirty of them re-
turned scores of 90 or better, and ten
others did better than 80.

Ralph L. Spotts, in winning the high
scratch prize, made a_run of 75 clean
breaks. In the next 25 he missed only
one target. The high handicap prize
was won*by D. F. McMahon with a
total of 100 on his handicap of 4. He
made a straight run of 54. There were
six handicap prizes, and they were won
in the following order: Captain W. H.
Dreyer, 8S. P. illiams, J. Schirmer, B.
E. Eldert, Dr. G. H. Martin, and M.
MecVoy, Jr.

NO FREE GOLF TRAIN.

Amateurs Who Play in Western
Tourney, Must Pay Their Fare.

SAN FRANCISCO, April 25.—No spe-
cial train wall carry Eastern golfers west
‘free of ¢xpense to compete in the West-
érn amateur championships tournament,
to be held at Del Monte, Cal., in July, it
became known here today. The Cali-
fornia Golf Association has sent a com-
munication to the Western Golf Associa-
tion stating that it agreed to abide by
the decision of the latter organization
not to accept the free train which was
offered by the Californians. The train
was declined because, it was held, its
acceptance would constitute a violation
of the amateur rule.

NO MORE CUSHION FIGHTS.

Hurlers of Mats at Chicago Cubs’
Park Will Be Arrested.

CHICAGO, April 25.—Patrons of the
Chicago National League Park who en-
gage in cushion fights will be arrested,
it was announced today ,by Charles
Weeghman, President of the club, after
a conference with police officials.

Several.women have been injitred as
a result of being struck by cushions
hurled over the crowd by enthusiastic
spectators. Damages have been sought
by the victims. Sufficient police to ar-
rest all cushion hurlers henceforth will
be stationed at the park, Mr. Weegh-
man said.

Union Ties In Practice Game.
As aftermath of the Columbia-
Union baseball game on Monday on
South Field, which was won by Colum-
bia, the two teams met again yester-
day in a practice ¢ontest. At the end
of five innings of listless playing, the
score stood a tie. Coach Coakley did
the pitching for ‘Columbia for the first
four sessions ,and after alléwing two
Gaceseguere in the opening he tight-
ened and kept the Union batters down
to a few scattered singles. No scores
were made off these triples, but wretched
slelding in. the latter part of the game
gave the Schenectady players the op-
portunity to cross the home plate three
Fnem: ‘olumbia’s tallies were made in
the first and second innings.
R.H.E.

Smith, Goodman, and
Knight and Beyrl. Umpire—Tom

Columbia

r Batteries—Coakley,
Clute;
Thorp.

Neyland to Try Again. Today.
Special to The New York Times. :
WEST POINT, N. Y., April 25.—Cadet
Neyland, Captain of, the army nine, will
make another attempt to go on the
mound for his team’ tomorrow, when

ithe army is scheduled to meet Seton

Hall. Neyland came out of the hospital
tén days ago to go in against Mahan of
Harvard, but was in such poor sfape
that he withdrew after the fifth inning.
He re-entered the hospital that day and
has just been discharged, greatly im-
proved in condition. Seton Hall's entire
student bedy is expected to accompany
the team here tomorrow.

Georgia and Trinity Tied.
Special to The New York Times.
DURHAM, N. C., April 24.—The Uni-
versity of Georgia and Trinity, College
baseball nines, battling through thirteen
innings, were unable to break a tie
here this afternoon, the game ending
{n darkness with a 6 to 6 score. The.
game was tied in thé sixth andthe
seven other innings, failed to break the
even chances. Thomas Philpott, twirl-
er for the Georgia Crackers, pitched
nineteen innings in two days for his
team. His work saved the game for
Georgiu yesterday.

Illinois Shuts Out Ohio State.
COLUMBUS, Ohio, April 25.—The Uni-
versity of Iljinois baseball team defeated
Ohio State University 3 to 0 in the open-
ing of the conference season here today.

Gunkel, pitching for Lllinois, had nine
strike-outs and went through the game
without giving a pass. Score: -

R.H.E.

Batteries—Gunkel and Bradley; Wright and
Jones.

seed

ADIUM A.<C., MANHATTAN OPERA HOUSE,
Spal FRED FULTON vo. aL REICH Adwe ’|ing match here tonight, a

1 College gymnasium was opened to the

.| that it was decided to form *the Inter-

PLAN SPORTS =

COLLRGE met |

Association Formed to Provide
Athletic Facilities for Many
_ Busy Women.

More than 200 college women met last
night in the assembly hall of the Met-
ropelitdn Building to launch the first
Intercollegiate Alumnae Athletic Asso-
ciation, the object of which is the fur-
nishing of exercise and recreation to
college women iff and near New York
under inexpensive and congenial con-
ditions. The new association is really
an outgrowth of the activities carried
on among college. women by the Alum-
nae Committee on Athletics of Barnard
College. It started in 19183 with a mem-

rship of twenty-five women, and now
the figures show 975. enrolled members.

Those who were actiye in college ath-
letics during their undergraduate days
felt, after many of them had entered
upon business careers, that some plan
might be arranged whereby their leis-
ure hours could be devoted in part to
athletic exercise. In furtherance of this
the original organization was formed.
Outdoor and indoor sports were featured,
horseback riding, basket ball, swim-
ming, folk dancing, gymnasium work,
and the like being taken up. Teachers’

women one night weekly,
riding occupied another, and hockey,
tennis, baseball, yachting, &c., also
played a part in the ee ce
The organization became

horseback

popular

collegiate Alumnae Athletic Association.
Miss Lillian Schoedler, a Barnard grad-
uate of 1911, who was prominent in
athletics as an undergraduate, has been
one of the prime movers in bringing
cbcut the formation of the new asso-
ciation,

*Miss Schoedler was Chairman of. the
meeting last night.. Among the speakers
were Miss Constance Applebee, head of
the Physical Education Department of
Bryn Mawr, and Dr. Kristine Mann,
head of the Department Store Educa-
tional Association.

Following a dinper last night the fol-
lowing officers were elected : President—
Miss Elsa Alsberg. Barnard; First Vice
President—Miss- Elsie Detmold, Smith ;
Second Vice President—Miss Margarette
Dainels, Mount Holyoke; Secretary—
Miss Agnes Morrow, Bryn Mawr; Treas-
urer—Miss Lucille Cochran, ‘Vassar;
Auditor—Miss Susan Van Wert, Cornell ;
Executive Secretary—Miss Katharine
Ecob, Bryn Mawr; Chairman of the
Committee on Indoor Athletics—Miss
Marion Halsey, Smith; Chairman of the
Committee on Outdoor Athletics—Miss
Edith Cassett, Mount Holyoke; Chair-
man of the Committee on Horseback
Riding—Miss Margie Hoffman, Barnard;
Chairman of the Membership Committee
—Miss Elizabeth Meigs, Purdue.

The colleges represented in the new
association are Barnard, Smith, Mount,
Holyoke, Vassar, Wellesley, Brown,
Goucher, Bryn Mawr, Oberlin, Wiscon-
sin, Elmira, Adelphi, Cornell, "Randolph
Macon, Wells,. Iowa State. Bates, Maine,
Florida State, Ohio Wesleyan, Boston
University, Minnesota, Dickinson, Prince
of Wales, (Canada.) Swarthmore, Cali-
fornia, Bucknell, Radcliffe. Cincinnati,
New ‘Brunswick. Des Moines, Texas,
New. York University. Purdue. Illinois,
Milwaukee Downer, Wesleyan, Syracuse,
Kentucky, Rochester. Montana, Denver,
Iowa. Chicago, Teachers’ College. Hun-
ter, Leland Stanford, Wooster, Kansas,
Northwestern, and Colby.

WIN INCREASE IN PURSES.

Horsemen Racing at Havre de Grace
Placated by Management.

Special to The New York Timea.
BALTIMORE, April 25.—The threat-
ened strike of the horsemen racing at
Havre de Grace was called off late to-
night, according to a telegram received

from Manager Burke, who — the dif-
fers »rees had been patched u

‘ne purses will be eae “same on
w eine sday and Thursday, but on Fri-
day and Saturday the lowest will carry
a value of $000.

DILLON DEFEATS LEVINSKY.

Indianapolis Boxer Outpoints New
Yorker in Kansas City Ring.

KANSAS CITY, Mo., April 25.—Jack
Dillon of Indianapolis defeated Battling
Levinsky of New York in a fifteen-

round bout here tonight and was award-
ed the referee's decision.

WEINERT TO BOX KEATING.

Heavyweights to Clash In Stadium
A. C. Ring Tonight.

Jersey boxers will hold the centre of
the stage at the Stadium Athletic. Club,
West Thirty-fourth Street, this evening.
In the feature contest, scheduled f_r ten
rounds, Charlie Weinert, the Newark
heavyweight, will oppose Jack Keating
of Brooklyn. The Newark boxer is one
of the cleverest of the big men in the
ring, and he also has the ability to de-
liver a ‘knockout blow, as he demon-
strated recently when he stopped Andre
Anderson of Chicago. In Keating, how-
ever, Weinert meets-a worthy opponent,
who, while claiming no great cleverness,
is nevertheless aggressive, and can as-
similate considerable punishment.

In the semi-final ten-round bout
Banty Lewis, who @isplayed his ability
some time ago by knocking out ‘‘ Knock-
out ’’’ Brown, and Mickey Donnelly will
be opponents. Both boxers come from

Newark.

The New Polo A, A. in Harlem -will
hold a special show this evening, Bar-
ney Smith and Fighting Billy Smith
being the principals in the main ten-
round encounter. In another ten-round
bout Georgie Mass, the former amateur
boxer, will meet Eddie. Fletcher. One
six and three four-round bouts complete
the programme.

WANTS NAME CHANGED.

Boxer Charlie White Asks Court for
Privilege to Drop Anchovitz.

CHICAGO, April 25.—Charles Ancho-
vitz, known in the boxing world as
Charlie White, asked the Circuit Court
today to change his name to Charles

White. His petition states he is 25
years old, was born in Liverpool, Eng-
and, and has lived in Iilinots eighteen
years.

Brown to Referee Fulton Bout.

Fred A. Wenck, Chairman of the State
Athletic Commission, announced yester-
day that Bill Brown had. been selected
to officiate at the Fulton-Reich bout at

the Stadium Athletic Club Friday night.
The selection was made from a list
which also included Kid McPartland,
Charley White, and Mass Henkle ot
Cleveland.

Welsh Fractures Right: iand.
MILWAUKEE, Wis., April 25.—Fred-
die Welsh, lightweight champion. boxer,

who was defeated by Ever Hammer of
Chicago in a ten-round contest here
last night, is suffering from a frac-
tured right hand. The champion says
he fractured his hand during the second
round and that the break is-a repetition
of a previous fracture.

Wills’s Turn to Beat Langford.

ST. LOUIS, April 25.—Harry Wills of
New Orleans defeated Sam Langford of
Boston on ao in an elght-round box-

SLOOP PAULINE SAILS WELL.

Nat Herreshoff Gives New 40-Footer
a Spin Off Bristol.

Special to The New York Times,
BRISTOL, R.. 1, April 25.—Swinging
full sail in a grayback southwester this
afternoon the sloop Pauline, the second
of the New York Y. C. forty-foot class
yachts Jaunched at’ Herreshoff's, re~
ceived a searching test today from Nat
Herreshoff,, the designer. Pauline left
her mooring with club topsatl and jib
topsail spread over lower gails, Herre-
shoff holding the wheel as the craft
Sathered headway and heeled gently

. Passing Poppas Quash with wind
abeam, Herreshoff jammed the Pauline
sharp on the’ wind when she began to
show gratifying speed. The sails were

a elose haul. The sloop behaved ~ better
in consequence, held a course very close
to the wind, and legged it across Narra-
gansett Bay in fine “ye to ‘sands Point
Light.

Herreshoff imancateeed the bias toa
reach without starting the main sheet.
A close search of the hull and. top~
hamper for weak s was made, but
none was discovered.

After a run up the bay to Providence
Point the designer threw out more kinks
by jibing ‘with sheets aft. In each
manoeuvre the Pauline behaved finely
and stood firmly to the breeze. It is
doubtful if three professionals will be
sufficient to handle these craft, which
go in ateye like. machines.

SOCCER PROTEST REJECTED.

Continentals Not Upheld in Matter
of Eligibility of Swords.

T. W. Cahill, Secretary of the United
States Football Association, announced
yesterday that the Natiorlal’ Challenge
Cup Committee had not sustained the
protest of the Continental Football Club
of New York against the Fall River
Rovers, the winners of the recent @natch
in the semi-final round of the annual
cup-tie competition at Pawtucket.

The Continentals protested on the
ground that T. Swords was ineligible to
play. From evidence submitted it ap-
peared that Swords had been stfispended
from playing‘in league games, but, un-
der the rules of the Southern New Eng-
land Association, was still eligible to
play in cup-ties. While their claim was
rejected, the Continentals got back their
protest fee, while the Fall River Rovers
were fined $25 for infraction of Rule
7 of the U. S. F. A. by-laws in not
furnishing a complete list of their play-
ers ten days before the semi-final game.

The Fall River Rovers will now meet
the Bethlehem Footbail Club in the final
round for the cup at Pawtucket, R. I.,
on Coates Field, on May 6. The follow-
ing officials have been selected for the

ame: Referee, David M. Whyte of

rooney linesmen, aes Mitchell of

New Bedford and J. Booth of Bridgeport ;

delegates, George M. Collins of ton
and Andrew M. Brown of New York.

HORSE SHOW AT DURLAND’S.

Annual Exhibition W Will - Have
First Session Tonight.

The_ twenty-first annual New. ‘York
Spring Horse Show “will open tonight at
Durland’s Riding Academy; and con-
tinue tomorrow night and Friday. Two
cups, given by John A. Hartford and
S. P. Allen, have been added, to be
competed for on the closing night. One
is a championship trophy for undocked
and the other for docked saddle horses.
Eack contest will be a post entry class

for all the horses placed first and sec-
—, in any saddle classes during, the

Miss Lida Fleitmann will make her
first appearance in the ring asa jud r
since her accident last Spring at t
Piping Rock Horse Show, where she
‘sustained’ a fracture of the leg through
the fall of her mount. Miss Fleitmann
has made entries in the class for hunt-
ers and jumpers, her nominations being
Cygnet, a gray hunter, and Secuga, a
noted cross-country performer.

Other prominent horsewomen have
made entries for the special cup, the
gt of the American Committee of

ofels for Refugees at Paris. They in-
clude Mrs. Robert E. Tod, with Seeptre;
Miss Alica A. Dodsworth, ‘who will show
Lady MacDonald; Mrs. John Gerken,
Miss Josephine Reynolds, Miss Mulford,
Miss Josephine Beck, and Mrs. S.
Harbison.

Its

Max Gans to Compete in East.

Max Gans of the Morris Athletic Club
of Chicago is expected to make a. hit
with the wréstling and boxing fans when
he competes at Newark in the A. A. U.
wrestling champiogships on May 4 and 6
and the 250th anniversary celebration
boxing championships on May 18, 19, and
20 if he can perform as he has done in
the West. Gans is a bantamweight, and
has defeated all of the best boys in the
Middle West. He is the mt dis-
trict champion of a class in both box-
ing and wrestlin, He is only a young-
ster and his club mates, who average
— seventeen years of age, are Lago

1 of his expenses from Chicago an

o his three weeks’ stay in Newark.
Gans has never been defeated on the
wrens mat or in the boxing. ring, it

Weights for Cedarhurst Cup Race.

Weights were: announced yesterday
for the Cedarhurst Cup, the big handi-
cap steeplechase, to be run on the first
day of the Rockaway Hunting Club
racing, which will be held on Saturday,
at Hewlett Bay Park.

The place of honor is given to Cherry
Malotte, the six-year-old mare, who will
carry the colors of the Greentree Stable.
Two more entries from the same stud,
Ben Wyvis, an imported horse, and
Roval Amber, come next 4h order, with
Abdon, the entry of the Milltown Stable,
fourth. The course is about tyo miles.

The weights follow: Cherry Malotte,
158; Ben Wrvis, 148; Royal Amber,
mask, 141; Primbutton, 138 ; Beile of

yn Mawr, 188; Dixon Park, 187; Crest
i 1, 185; Fashion Wing, 184; Otto
Floto, 188; Overseer, 183; Burgrave,

Entries Close se for Whitney Race.
Entries closed yesterday, with Frank
J. Bryan, at the offices of the Piping
Rock Racing Association, for the Whit-
ney Memorial Steeplechase Handicap,
which is one of the features of the
racing meet to be held by the Locust
Valley club this Spring. This event
is for four-year-olds and upward, by
subscriptions .of $25 each, starters to
ay $100 additional, with $8,000 by
arry Payne Whitney. .The distance
is about two and a half. miles. A
cup valued at $500 will be presented to
the owner winning the race twice, not
pi erp! consecutively. A list of

elgg will be announced in a few

High Run ‘Made by Isaacs.

M. Isaacs, playing 180, defeated J. P.
McGown; playing 160, by a score of 180
to 127 in the, second game of the Man-
hattan 18.2 billiard tournament at the
Morningside . Billiard Academy last
night. Isaacs:closed the game with an
unfinished run of 56 and made an. aver-
age of 6 24-26. McGowan’ - hi oo run was’
23 and. his average was =.

rage was 5

Naval Militia Celebration Ptanned.
The twenty-fifth anniversary of the
Naval Militia of New York will be cele-

brated jointly by the First and Second

attalions, located in’ Manhattan and
Brookiyn, respectively, on June 28 and
24. It has been decided by the authori-
ties of the two battalions to have a din-
ner at the Hote! Astor on Friday even-
ing, June 23. ind all- day outing, with
various athle’’ emoeitions, at Duer’s,
Whitestone iL, on the suc-

under the impulse of the steady breeze. |

Sweated up soon after the boat came to}

| Huszagh, the

disaster.

tes knows: ‘i oer ade watt |

‘Andociei arefel not to siieasd
Rani tet life.

“mellow
—Real Wilson—That” s All!

The Whiskey for ehich we inoened the Non-Refillable Bottle

FREE CLUB RECIPES—Free booklet - famous ak: veined
mixed drinks. Address vy 313 Fifth Ave., N.Y. me. At

HUSZAGH SWIMS TO FAME.

Wing All the Races in Dual Meet,
and Chicago A. A. Beats Yale.

Special to The New York Timés.
DETROIT, Mich., April 25.—Kenneth
** human halibut’’ from
Ckicago, turned what was designed to be
a dual swimming meet between the Chi-
cago A. A. and Yale University teams
into an exhibition of: personal prowess
this evening.

There were four raha’ on the program,
and Huszagh could only win three of
them. . The other: was a relay in which
he was allowed to swim only one lap.

The Chicago A. A. team won the meet
by a score of 34 to 27, but had to put
forth its best efforts to do so in spite of
Huszagh’s penchant for winning. all the
firsts in sight. In the reiay race, which
was the last event on the program, Yale
put up such a plucky fight that the Cher-
ry Circle Boys were almost shorn of
their laurels. In fact.if Mayer, who
swam the second lap for the Elis, had
steered as well as he swam, there would

have been a difterent story to tell.
Yale’s best work was done inthe
lun: for distance, which Bright won
or the collegians, with Rosener, a team
mate, secon
The Blue took second oo third in the
50-yard event, and also in’ the 220. One
of. the prettiest races of the Shigrhen
developed in the course! of a fights
tween “Ferguson and Hopkins for the
place 4nd show money in the furlong
contest. The summaries:
50-Yard Dash.—Won by K. Huszagh,
A.; Rosener, Yale,. second: Schlaet,
third. Time—0:26.
ae Yard Swim. ae. ve K. Huszagh,
R. Hus J a
Yate third. mS fttime—1:00
220- Yard Swim.) aa by ra iibseeti: C7.
Ferguson, Yi _- Hopkins, Yale,
third, Time—2
200-Yard Relay. one “by Chi
(Harless, Huszagh, W
agh;) Yale, (Ferguson,
and Rosener,) second. Time—1;:
Plunge for Distance.—Won by B
Rosener, Yale, second: Burton;
third, Distance. 64 feet 6 inches.
Fancy Diving.—Won by W. P. Heyn, C, A.
A., 135.5 points: Benjamin, Yale, second,
eo A points; Scobie, Yale, — 112.6
poin

TAKES POUNDING AND: WINS.

Meyers Comes Back Gamely in Ama-
teur Boxing Bouts.

The feature of the amateur boxing
bouts, preliminaries to the intercity
matches, held last night at the Crescent
Athletic Club, -was the come-back -per<
formance of B. Meyefs;. an unattached "
éntrant who, on two occasions, -re-
covered from a severe beating and won
his fight.

In the first trial of the 130-pound class
Meyers was confronted by A. Schick of

Clark House, who cut him to pieces in
the first two rounds, only to lose when
Meyers drove him all around the ring
in the third session with a series of
hard rights to the head and stomach.

The second bout was even more spec-
tacular.in its ending. Meyers’s gpronentt.
H. sonngs of the Trinity Club, ap-
peared to have the fmateh- well in hand
in the first two rounds. He had Meyers’s
face”’cut to ribbons and his right eye
nearly closed. ane Meyers was so
nearly out that he could hardly hold his
feet in the last round, he. weathered the
storm and landed a hard right on the
chin of his opponent, putting down Jen-
nings for the count and winning the
bout amid a storm of cheers:

Another. double winner of the sree
was Hugh Burke of St. Anselm’s.A. C.,
who has an artifical foot, but even with
this disadvantage his tremendous hitting
ability drove his two opponents, N.
Burke, unattached, and W. Silverman of
the Educational Alliance, to cover in
short order. The summaries:

110- A Class.—T. Eisenstaad, New West
Sid . C., defeated H. Sloan, Bronx Church
ag gxtre round; H. Burke, St. Anselm's
A. C., defeated N. ‘Burke, unattached, bout
etopped in
Jerome's C. C.,
tached, three rounds, referee’s decision: 8S.

Lockwood, una defeated T. Marcus,

Trinity Club, bout stopped in first round.
130-Pound Class.—L. 8. Brownstein, Cae

House, defeated J. Lewis, unattached,

rounds; S. Kaminskey, Ozanam A. \A., ay

feated G. Glickstein, unattached,~ bout
= ped in first round; B. Meyers, unat-
ched, defeated A. Schick, Clark House,

‘ieee rounds.
180-Pound Class.—J. O’Brien, Bronx Church |

House, defeated W. Rano, Union Settlement,

three rounds: W. Bandler, Kast Side House,

po ser ag A. Brasso, Ozanam A, A., three
roun ‘

Cc. A.
Yale,

second; Howe,

t, Yale;

An A. ©., defeated W. Silverman,

Bducational Alliance, three rounds: T.

Guigan, St. Jerome’s A. C., d efeated S.
ckwood, unattached, stopped in third

round.

Second Trial, 180-Pound Class.—B. Meyers,
unattached, defeated H, Jennings, Trinity
Club, stopped in third round: 8. Kamin-
skey, Ozanam A. A., defeated L. S. Brown-
stein, Clark House, three rounds,

HERRESHOFF TO PLAY: AGAIN

Star Golfer, Long Ill, Sends Entry
for Lakewood Tournament.

The Country Club of Lakewood has
already received more than eighty en-
tries for the annual Spring: golf tourna-
ment, which is to begin theré tomorrow,

names are old standbys who make the
visit to the Lakewood pines an annual:
pilgrimage, but the big surprise of the

tournament developed when it was an-
nounced that Fred Herreshoff was en-

ered.

Herreshoff ‘was seriously ill last Fall,
and was forced to recuperate in a Phila-
delphia sanitarium ere it was said
that he would probavly not be able to
compete in golf tournaments this Pg od
His reappearance will be hailed with joy
by\veteran golfers.

Greatest Furnishing Store

Open Mesh Underwear|
Coolest & Healthiest __|
Importer’s discontinued Line -
PRICES ABQUT HALF :
London Aertex, ve

Regularly ly $1.50

Wool Open Sed.
reason? 2.

The Largest Assortment
Ever Presented

Striped Madras & Nainsook, 4c. ;
Madras Union Suits, 59c & 85c

Becont, Tytal. 110-Pound Class.—H. Burke, St. }

Most of those ,who. have sent in ‘their [

BIG AUTO RACE ENTRY.

Twenty-one. Cars ‘Already “ens
for Sheepshead Bay Event. ti

It was announced . yesterday thet
twenty-one. entries had been received!
for the Metropolitan Trophy Race.
new auto racitw. event, which will
contested at the Sheepshead Bay peg
way on May 18 over a 150-mile ro
There will und¢abtedly be a number of
additional entries received within -
next few days and the prospect is thi
a record-breaking fiela wilt face ret
starter. te

Thus far the Delage cars have |
largest representation. Harry 8:
ness has entered four whish wi
driven by Carl Limberg, Jack Le
and two drivers as
fetSsar* ail pita S
ast year, will pilot a Peu
Aiken will also drive a ‘Beugg si
O'Daniell, -who was
Eddie Rickenbacker, ar

as a driver in February, 1915 1 be d
the wheel of a Dusenberg, Since he t
came a O'Donnell Nee had ma
success. Rickenbacker, who a finis
third in the Astor Cup race, will > e
one of the Maxwell entries, een :
Henderson will drive another. e ligt
of cars thus far’ ente
drivers. is as follows:
ty, gene Stécher! Peugeot, alg Bu naar

Crawford. Billy “Chandler; “Gra ae
Lewds; Crawfos: unnamed . Bencuie
die O’Donnell; Dusenber 7 Delvin
try; ‘Maxwell, Peter "Henderoea: Maxwi
Eddie Rickenbacker; P Dario Re
Peugeot, John ge Delage Carl Lim

we, Jack 5,
Delage, ps SS dix,
Christians; Sunbeam Six, Aldo Franchi
fort Special, WJ. Miter entry, M Rt
pe Bert Watson. ‘ ,
Resta and. Thompson to Compete os

Sheepshead Bay Speedway. .

Dario Resta, auto racing champion of
1915, and De Lloyd Thompson, the sen-
sational ‘air pilot, were matched yes-
terday afternoon to meet in an earth-
and-air contest at the Sheepshead Bay
Spestway on the afternoons of May 6

The race will be part of the Aero Club
of America’s aeroplane fund benefit that
Thompson is promoting to show what
a an 4 the flying machine is in war.

It will be the first earth-and-air speed
contest that has been staged at the

way, and many of the auto and
aeroplane fans are interested to know

5 hy bing eon pad of cD org sig

esta .ne no ion to the
speed fans of “this Mateo) white Thom =
son’s flying oath have made him e
‘most talked of man in the game today.

Elaborate Celebration Planned.

The United States German Societies
and Austro-Hungarian can. Sodie-
ties of New York and .New Jersey will
celebrate ‘‘American Liberty Day" at
the Sheepshead Bay Speedway on June
4. The advance folder shows an elab-
ordte* program, which’ includes a
variety of activities, including Mievele
races, motorcycle races, balloon ascen-
sions, historical floats, a polo match,
and track and field sports,

Heilbron Wins at Yale Club.
G. A. Heilbron advanced to the final
round of the Class C squash tennis

tournament, at the Yale Club, yester-
day afternoon, when he defeated: Wille ~

Of course, no one buys a hand-
some Spring suit just to snooze

But if caught napping, isn’t it
comforting to know that it won "t
look as if it had been slept in.

We have in mind one of the —
serviceable pin-check grey wore
steds. . They stand for more ~
abuse and look well longer with- —
out pressing than any suit we
know. Being “hard-finished,”
they’re more or less immune to
wrinkles.

In all sizes from 32 to A
chest.

“Solo” socks are so-called for &

‘three reasons:

(1) They're * low in price
for such good quality

(2) They're ao solely by us.
(3) We can sing the praises

of every number.

“No. 393 for example—the bese
50c. lisle we know. Absolutely —
fast color.

ine Peet ComPANy —
Broadway
at 18th St S.

Proadway
at Warren:

ceeding day, °

| Balbriggan & Lisle Thread, 49¢ Each

wide ~

he or. Ay ae ANS
ah ees ex

TEAL DL

ibia’s First- Day of Inter-
~ Class Games Won by
1917 Athletes.

President Rea Asserts Long Island
Directors Planned 50 Years Ahead.

Samuel Rea, President of the Penn-
sylvania Railroad, testified yesterday
before JusticesLehman of the Supreme
Court in the suit brought against that
company by E. R. Dick of Dick Brothers
&: Co. and other minority - stockholders
of the Lon Island- Railroad Company
for an unting of expenditures
amounting’ to about. $28,000,000, The
Le pe Company controls the

Island road, and the plaintiffs

mat to know whether the large sums

yd re aeghonaw swt a Pade up against

the latter com d not really been |

epent for ee: enefit of the Pennsylva-|

road, and whether the expenditures
had been a erne: ot G

Mr., Rea stated he was a Director of
both companies, ahd that when he! at-
tended a meetin ng of the Long. Island
Directors he voted and acted in the best
interests of that company, and. not for
the benefit ‘of any particular‘ group of
stockholders. -He explained that for

many years before the successful elec-
trification of railroads within commut-
ing distances of large cities the Pennsyl-
vania had sought an entrance into this
city because it was necessary to have a

Ne “Wrack athletes of the junior class
@Pened a wide lead yesterday in’the first
‘@ay of the annua! interclass track games

Hudson River Railroad Company. He
asserted that as soon as practica je the
{dea of tube connections with the city
was carried out.

“These tube connections,” he_ said,
‘* will eventually be just as profitable
to the Long Island road as to the Penn-
sylvania. The mistake the minority
stockholders of the Long Island road
make is in thinking that a railroad can
remain PE a ai In spending, that

000 the Directors, were planning
at ‘least fifty years ahead, as all good
railroad Directors ought to do, It was
only a question of time when_improve-
ments would have to ‘be made or the
Lane Island road be sent to the scrap

eap.”

Mr. Rea added that in five years the
road’s revenues increased $6,000,000. He
said that the improvements ‘at East
New York and Bay Ridge made it neces-
sary to buy much property, which would
be very valdahis in the future. The trial
| will be resumed today. Mr. Rea will be
cross-examined tomorrow.

RUSH NEW SUBMARINES.

Division of Five Boats Soon to Join
Atlantic Fleet.

The Navy Department has issued or-
ders for the immediate organization of
a new division of submarines for the
Atlantic fleet, to be made up of vessels
just completed or nearing completion.
It will be known as the Fifth Division
and will. comprise the M-1, which is the
largest submarine ever built for the
navy, and four of the ‘new boats of the
L class. The L boats in the division

* at Columbia University on South Field| station here in order to compete suc-
ag and left the seniors, sophomores, and| cessfully with the New York Central &

’ freshmen trailing in the order named.
~. Nine events were contested yesterday,
f= and in addition three heats of the 220-

' Yard dash were run off. Finals in this

_ Wace and the mile run, pole vault, and

". broad jump will be contested this after-

"moon. The standing after yesterday's

)  @yents was: Juniors, 52 points; seniors,
22; sophomores, 16; freshmen, 7.

Cc. T. Armstrong, a novicé, entered the
shot-put and discus-throw yesterday and
to the surprise of the spectators won
> keth handily. Coach Bernie Wefers has
= ‘ween sizing up all prospéctive candidates

for the weight events because of the

absence of veterans from the squad this
year, and the work of Armstrong. yes-
terday served to ter up confidence

~. Columbia’s ack - prospects this

» Captain A. Harvitt finished first in the

yard dash in 102-5 seconds. Al-

ough Harvitt had been a ten-second
Man jin the last two seasons, his time
yesterday was very good considering the
beor condition of the South Field track
‘and because of the cold wind that swept
over the field. Tom Black, amateur 100-
metre champidn of France in 1914, was
second in the 100-yard dash. The sum-
maries :

190-Yard pigh Hurdles. —Won by D. W. Voli-

Ripin, ‘18, third. Tine Uz ae

L-1, which, was commis-

Ee Le teh Bd R. ¥. Shepard, °17; oily Th god the L-2, ordered an
"17, third: J. O. Og gg RS Ward, | commission on Monday last, and the
10:17, Time—| 7-3 and L-4, which are ready to be

Yard Dash.—Won by A, Harvitt, "16; T. | turned over to the Government.

Black, ‘17, second; E. D. R ll, "19. The- new division gives to Admiral
ae oy F. R. ‘Whelan, "16, B. Russell, "18, Fletcher twenty-one submarines. Of

this number sixteen are attached to the
active fleet, the other five being On
duty -in the Panama Canal. A sixth

“ado-Yara” Run. —Won by F. R. Whelan, ‘16;
‘C. Fowler, °17,° second ; H. C. Munroe.

if, third; H.'A. Ashley, '19, fourth. Time—| division, to be made up entirely of 1.
ane es. boats, 5, 9, 10, and 11, is soon to be
a20-Yard Low Hurdles,—Won by H. Com organized. Work on these boats is be-
wey. "17; D. W. Vollmer, 16, second; M.| ing. rushed day and night by order of
fourth Te ee MS. Scheviin, 18,| the Navy Department. L-9, L-10, and
880-Yard eon Wen te A. I\ Huelsenbeck, L-11 are about 9 per cent, completed,
‘18; C. D. Schiffman, "16, second; = oy while 5 and 8 are more than 80 per cent,

finished.

L-6 and L-7, both of which are under
construction on the Pacific Coast, are
about ‘80 per cent. completed. The N

Yreeland, * third; A, Turner, 18, fourth.

Jump:—Won

by H. A. Schul ,
5 feet 8 inches; i ak eh ee

Katz, ’ 17, second,

with 5 feet 5 inches: "L. C'Bradies ir, | boats, of which there are seven, are

third, with 5 feet 4 inches; F. C. Nolie, '18,| also well along, while work on the six-

fourth, with 5 feet 1 inch teen O boats, now under construction,
@hot Put.—Won by C. . Armstrong. "17; is being pushed with all possible speed.

A. Schulte, *17. seco Cc. Bradley, WT

third; L. Ww dyebiineki.. °18, fourth. ' Dis-

tance—38 feet 8 inches.
220-Yard ee —First heat won by ® Be
Ashley, "19, ited for second, Time—0:24 3-5.

WILSON WIRES RED CROSS.

Sends Greetings in Campaign for

Second heat won by J. A. E :

H. Buermeyer, 10, wesead: x a Bee 100,000 Members.

taf Fag: ayy a a prnira Ly ‘9. Seward Prosser, President of the
ssi V, F. Nakarda, '17, third, Time—| Bankers Trust Company and Chairman
’ of the Executive Committee that is try-
"17; L we pf ich Re gE 18, + Aone ing to obtain :100,000 members the
Wilber, "17, third. H.-C. “Semoie "i? | metropolitan district. for the ‘American
fourth. Distance—1i3 feet 2 inches. = ross, announced last night that

Red
the following’ telegram was received
yesterday from President Wilson:

- Please ‘express to the citizens of New
York metropolitan district my confidence
in the success of their movement to enroll
100,000 rs for-the American Red
Cross, It is. doth a patriotic and humane
service that is rendered by every citizen
who becomes a member. A large, well
organized, and omnes Red Cross is es-
sential WOODROW WILSON,

Prestébat American Red Cross.

The committee has established head-
quarters at 289 Fourth Avenue, and it
was said great.efforts would be made
in the next six weeks to get the mem-

N. Y. U; SOPHOMORES LEAD.

Class of ’18 Has 16 Points in Inter-
class Games.

Three events of the annual interclass
track and field meet were run off yes-
terday afternoon at the New York Uni-
Versity athletic field. At the end of
the first day’s competition the class of
1918 led with a-score of 16 points. The

freshman class ranked next with 8 | bers desired.

points, the seniors were third with 5 j

points, while the juniors brousnt up| MARINES IN HAITI IN FILM.
the rear with 4 points: The events run

eff were the quarter-mile run, the mile Battle Pictures Shown Under Au-

+ yun, and the shot-put.

Captain Lent of the track team capt-
ured first place in the quarter, and thus
made the only score of the day for the
> seniors. All four places in the mile run

* were won by members of the sophomore
class. Muvoney led most of the way,

--. but at the finish the winner Schleicher,
was _ es rds ahead of the other con-
Ow, ward Cann, football star

of next year’s basket bali

spices of American Defense Society.

A special showing of motion pictures
of the United States Marine in Haiti
was given under the auspices of the
American Defense Society yesterday aft-
ernoon in the Candler Theatre. The
society has indorsed the film, and will
exhibit it throughout the country as a
part of its propaganda for preparedness.

The pictures were taken by Carl D.

field in the sho Pryor, ‘who spent several months ‘in
feet 6 6 inches. ‘ the — Haiti when the United States Marinés
landed there to birt ane —_—- __ a

Quarter Ate egg by Lent, ‘16; sec-| UTS Show the mé@rines under: fire, a
: ourt some of the scenes, particularly one in
i. Ti Thin hers, on ‘19; fourth, which two of a group of our men fight-
Hua.—Won. Oy 8 Schleicher, 18; second,|ing from behind sandbags are hit by
oughton, 18: fourth, | enemy bullets, are most realistic.

The theatre was decorated with flags
for yesterday's showing, which was seen
by invited audience. There was a

pa of marines from the Wyoming
under Sergeant BE. P. Oliver and Cor-
as ushers, and

Shot Pu Caan, 18, 6
pes second, ialey, 19, 35 eet? 3 a
an, 83 feet 3 inches; fourth,
ae 81 feet 10 inches.

grosterday Dr. Frank Cann, coach of

ral C. R. Call acting
team, announced that the a the. officers in the audience
ving. would represent New .York| were Lieut, Col. Fuller, Captain Sibley,
next Saturday at Philadel-

and First Lieut. Tibbs of the Wyoming,
Captain. Bootes, Captain Purcell, and
Captain Hopkins of the Marine Bar-
racks, and Captain Kipp of the
Arkansas.

Frederick H. Chase of the Defense
Society made a preparedness speech be-
fore the pictures were thrown on the
screen.

in the Intercollegiate Relays: Lent,
att ‘17; Waugh, ‘17, and Mc-

phia

BEATS STEPHENSON IN DASH

Protest Against Foster’s Spiked
Shoes Holds Up His Prize.

About 2,500 youths took part in the
parade and athletic meet of the New
Jersey American Guard, held last night
in the Fourth Regiment Armory, in Jer-
@ey City. An exhibition of skill on the
@sat was given by a wrestling team

the Hungarian-American A. C. of,

Lambs Prepare for Their Gambol.

The Lambs are getting ready for their
annual gambol. The first of three per-
formances to be given in New York: will
take place, at the Metropolitan Opera
House Friday night, May 19, and will
be followed by two performances the

next day. The next Monday the gam-
w York, and John Cahill of the Mill- | bol will be repeated in Brooklyn. More
A. A. gave an exhibition of shot | than 140 prominent actors will take part

ytting.
erman Foster of the Salem-Crescent

se in the entertainment. An auction sdle

of seats will be held a week from Mon-

nel of this city won the fifty-yard A.| day at the Hudson, with David War-
is U. dash. He had a handicap of five | tjeld, Nat Goodwin, Frank Tinney, Fred
8, and covered the distance in 61-5|Niblo, John rrymore, George Ade,
ti, ee Ban gam rag of uw — and other actors and dramattsts as the
u rooklyn, was secon rom rs.
eo tch, and J. Pendleton, unattached, auetopes
ith a handicap of eight yards, was THEATRICAL NOTES.

4 rizes were held up pending a de- “8g

x ‘ y the Registration Committee of Sientela'a ‘Follies’? will end its ninth
A. A. U. ona

rt. The company
and its members
ball above the New

- Ab ypc mo peg against rn foment ot ora
wea) w return
ee wing OF. SPINES ahnwe allenic will be the guests at a
be Amsterdam ‘Monday hight
Leslie Stuart arrived on Sunday on
my 4 Louis from London to join her father,
lie Stuart; the composer, who is here
working on two musical plays. She was ac~-
companied by her brother, Leslie Stuart, Jr.,
who was recently wounded atthe front in
~ ity <- Field Artillery. ¥
e Mack Berlein has been engaged by
cherles Dillingham 2 beg in Marie Dress-

id Ross, who has been at Engle-
for the last three days planning
ie _Feconstruction * ‘of the course, has
ished his work and will set. out for
a pastures. He has added 125 yards
res to the playing length of the Jersey

; Genevieve,’” James

° y and has rebuilt nine greens. ee yn Si he produced short-

; slo ing of greens are to be recon- ly for @ brief Sp: wil b It will not be
old a pitch-up shot, and S till next Fall.

more bunkers and traps will be presented in New ‘Ye

Players tock company that
é ae on the god Sreens. e twelfth sitios re Sunmmer: season at. the Royal
Y made -shot- hole to @| Alexandra Theatre, Torontd, left yesterday
Pag with formid le traps on the|lfor the. Canadian city. The company.
a i ‘and left. Many of the other holes | which is under the management of Edward
uf also be radically changed Mpeg the a. Robins “of: ‘includes Pr a Ry pies
Mi ** co! Fran ’
ve of reconstruct On are carr ot into Rena Car ruthers. ¥ jen Travers, Vivian Laid-
ee law, a sampt ll, Vera Marbury, and
f Thomas Me night
Ra gad Ne AA MCLEE Reed de
de ng oO ng W nn “ae oon young vin w
ed speci meneting. “4 dle States is a program ‘¢ enes frowr Shakespeare

Agsociation has been called for

{morrow ate = the 5 Mot 1 Biltmore. car
8 at. the New York . Athletic | program wet eles, sesnee Hoty So ~
Club. This meeting will take the place chant sot a i aa Othello’

‘the annual meeting, the date having

m ch because of a conflict with
me ting of the American Rowing As-
‘ e officers for the coming
will be gg the events.for the

"5 The Huc siebe Indians, who are not really
Indians at all, but a group of New York

thieti Cp members, will see th ors
formance Ai RP

mance “|The Heart of Wetona
the poe Hs Theatre tonight and Ape
ahd a> supper in honog of William Court-

enti and tee ho wiht present a new
rhe Ma *

fast

rom Montana," at the

J first three

ARNOLD DA YIN
MANSFIELD'S SHOES

He Presents at the: ane a Re-
. vival of Clyde Fitch’s
“Beau Brummell.”
wo dlecihiges

THE PLAY WEARS WELL

But This Gifted Player | Himself Is
Disappointing and Unimpress-
jve as the Béau.

BEAU BRUMMELL-—Clyde Fitch's play, re-

vived by Arnold Daly. At the Cort,
Prince of Wales.........+. ....E J. Ratcliffe
Lord Manly.....-s.eeceeeees «+. Stanley Dark
Beau Brummell.........+.s+++0: Arnold Daly

PRichard Brinsley Sheridan. Herbert Percy

Reginald Courtney......... ‘William Raymond
Oliver Vincent........++: Rowland Buckstone

Mr. Abrahams...... Soeced awe Roland, Rushton
Se scccaceensehens Ray Brown
SEMEN < u0 0.6 cUbd uO eevee’ ponee een George Leach
Mortimer............ ehecccssver Edgar Norton
» PE ae Serre Seer ee ys T. Vail
OE eee eee See E, V. Coleman

Duchess of eo gadaean :-Vurenne Whittaker
Lady Farthingale.. Gladys Morris
Mrs. St. Aubyn..
Mariana Vincent.
Kathleen.........

oma June

Arnold Daly, a gifted player and a

bold one, has launched at the Cort
Theatre, in: West Forty-eighth Street, a
revival of ‘‘ Beau Brummell,’’ the youth-
ful work of Clyde Fitch of which the
central and all-obscuring réle made a
fortune for Richard Mansfield and is
more closely identified with the popular
memory of that great actor than any
other of the many parts he played. The
play, which has been.vigorously brushed
up in preparation for its reappearance
on the stage, wears surprigingly well,
and would provide a highly entertaining
evening in the theatre if Mr, Daly him-
self were to gi 2 a more digtinguished,
delicate, and 4maginative’ performance
as the ultimate dandy.

Mr. Daly is an actor of too keen in-
telligence and too considerable skill to
make an utter botch of any part, but his
playing as the Beau is disappointing to
his admirers, doubly disappointing, of

pared it must be, with the long-familiar
playing of Mansfield in this part, which,
ordered liké a coat, was cut to his meas-
ure, and which fitted him like a glove.
The playgoer is a creature whose memo-
ries grow distorted and half obliterated
as season succeeds season, and Mr. Daly
would be challenging a phantom if Mans-
field had merely played ‘‘ Beau Brum-
mell’’ twenty-six years ago and passed
on to something else: But he played it
up to the year of his death, and his de-
lightful performance in the part is
among the ‘‘ memories and portraits "’
of the last ten years.

Mr. Daly's Brummell would more pro-
foundly impress a bling playgoer. His
voice is a highly effective instrument,
and its William Gillette-like note of
world weariness, of elegant boredom, is
ever so helpful in the politely contempt-
uous speeehes of the fastidious Beau.
But his appeararce in his present make-
up is most unfortunate. He is quite hor-
ridly bewigged, and even in his most
gorgeous raiment gives rise to faint and
disturbing meniories of marked-down
Hamlets, of comic-paper tragedians
walking wearily on the ties.

All this makes his way harder in the
acts, where he is iess ef-
fective and, thus handicapped, he plays
the Beau without enough of that grace,
elegance, and supreme distinction which
would lend plausibility to the comedy
and add laurels to his brow. Arnold
Daly has so far departed from his prac-
tice as to do a piece of work in a quite
commonplace manner.

He jis not buoyed up by a brilliant and
well-directed company, although Stan-
ley Dark and William Raymond givé
good accounts of themselves. It was Mr.
Dark who staged the revival and, ac-
cording to the program, prepared the
text for performance in the year of
grace 1916,

The process of revision has been vijt-
orous. Gone are the old asides ar
soliloquies, and the alterations hav
not stopped there. The first act has
been split into two scenes, the last com-
pressed into one. Mariana is on her
way to him when he dfés; but the King
and his friends at Court never visit
him at Calais. They enter the last act
only us spectral memories of the grand-
eur that was Brummell, appearing only
in his vision when, in the midst of his
pathetic phantom supper, the wall of
his garret in Calais grows suddenly
transparent, and he. sees them all (as
you do) at table, and hears them toast-
ing him. These revisions are all for
the better, and as the dying Beau, Mr.
1. strikes fire.

eau Brummell ”’ shows its age, but
time has dealt gently with it, and its
slignty farchaic structure seems now,
75 uaint, scarcely distinguishable,
and rather pleasing part. of its own
backward glance to the leisurely days
of a hundred years ago. This whet
too, will blend pleasantly w that
pleasure of memory which, Tor many
playgoers, | will be part of the pleasure
of seeing ‘‘ Beau Brummell ”’ at the Cort
—to see the Beau walk in the Mall and
hear him say once more, ‘‘ Wales, will
you ring the bell’’ or “Sherry, who’s
your fat friend? ’’ Certainly the audience
which filled the Cort ‘last evening
seemed to be having a good time. There
was much applause, and, in his fashion,
Mr. Daly made @ little speech.

NUINSKI SLIGHTLY HURT.

Ballet Russe Star Ran a Nail Into
His Foot, but-Danced Later.

Warslav Nijinski, the star of the Diag-
hileff Ballet Russe, suffered a trifling
injury during the performance at the
Metropolitan Opera House yesterday
afternpon.. After dancing in “ Narcisse,’’
the first ballet, hé ran a nail into his

foot while walking to his dressing-
room. <A physician was ¢alled to dress
the slight wound as a precaution against
infection. Nijinski danced later in ** La
Princess Enchantée.’’ and. showed by his
marvelous agility, that he had suffered
no. ill effects fram the accidént.

Besides the ballets already. mentioned,
the works given yesterday afternoon
were ‘‘Thamar’’ and the dances from
** Prince Igor.”. The principal. dancers,
in addition to Nijinski,. were mes
Lopokova, Ravalles, Tchernicheva, and
Sokolova and Mr, Bolm,

FIANCE SUED JED FOR LEGACY.

Mrs. Postley’s Will, Le: Wiill, Ledving $90,000
to Robertson, is Contested.

Trial of a suit to have the will of Mrs.
Mary Postley of Glen Ridge, N. J., set
aside was started yesterday in Newark
before Judge. Osborne in the Orphans’
Court. Mrs. Postley’s estate, valued at
about $90,000, was left to James A.
Robertson of 260 Clinton Avenue, New-
ark.

The action was brought’ by Mrg.
George F: Cornell of Montclair N. J.,
me¢ther of Mrs. Postley, and aires _Anna
| Brindley’ of rg +> bof L. r sis-
| ter, who were left $1 each by bm will.
They charged that Robertson influenced
Mrs. Postley unduly in the freking of
her will while she was_a pe atient in the
Germans Hospital in Manhattan,
cording to the testimony of Mrs. Rose

Mckeon, a nurse, of 328 West 129th
Street, the testament, which bore no
date, was. executed Jan. 17 last. She
t,|) and another nurse, Miss Anna E. Main,
were the witnesses.

Mrs, Postley was engaged to be mar-
ried te Robertson. She explained in her
will that her mother and her sister had
already been provided for and that wags

each $1.

one only reason she left them

|-sistent popular demand.”’

course, when it is compared, as com- |.

Beatrice Herford, Nora Bayes, and
Jasper Stopping There Now.

Beatrice ‘Herford, the monologist;
Nora Bayes, who isthe favorite singer
of songs for the two-a-day, and the in-
comparable Jasper, late dog star of
“* Young America,’’ these three, each the
best of her. kind or his, make amends
at the Palace this week for some num-
bers’ on the program that are scarcely
triumphs, Another bright star is little
Florence Nash, retained for another
week in Willard Mack’s sketch because
of what the Palace likes to call ‘* in-
This means
it found favor the week before.

There’ is. not likely to be any in-
sistent demand, popular or otherwise,
for the second-rate pc agg called “ Justi-
fied,’’ with which Helen Ware struggles
valiantly. It has undergone overnight
a. proqcess of revision akin to. that which
befell poor ‘‘Pay Day.’’ Here again
was a brief melodrama so very bad that
the audience laughed at it, ‘whereupon
the unabashed management promptly
added a facetious ending and pretended
it was @ satire. By the same token,
any piece that is very bad of its kind
can be called a satire-on all its fellows.
And there you are.

Elsie Pilcer, (sister of Harry,) do@s
some indifferent dances, aided an
abetted by Dudley Douglas and by man
gowns and hats which provoke the sus-
picion that she has been rifling the oft-
sung trunks of Mile. Deslys, late of these
parts. Also you may see at the Palace
this week Kate Elinore, who cracks such
Jokes as these: :

“* Are you a vegetarian? No, I’m an
Irishman.”

‘Is your husband congenial? No, he's
a Hungarian.”

And many more of the early Sam and

Kitty Mgrton period period.

MME. FARRAR HAS QUINSY.

Confined to Her Home Here—Gatti-
Casazza May Not Go Abroad.

‘Geraldine Farrar, instead of being
with the Metropolitan Opera Company
in Atlanta, Ga., this week, as was in-
tended, is at her home in New York,
suffering from quinsy sore throat.
is confined to her room and under a
physician's care, Mme. Farrar's illness
first became known to the public last
week, when a performance of ‘‘ Madama
Butterfly,” scheduled for Wednesday
evening in Boston, had to be postponed
on her account. She came home then
and has been there ever since. Her
candition is not regarded as_ serious

ee: the viewpoint of her general

General Manager Gatti-Casazza is now
in his office at the Opera House every
day for the first time eke the Russian
Ballet took possession there. It is very

robable that the director, for ‘the first
irne since he has been connected with
the institution, will not go abroad dur-
ing the Summer to hear singers. He
found it very difficult last Summer to
make arrangements for meeting artists,
as even with headquarters in neutral
Switzerland there were difficulties
about artists and director reaching each
other. This Summer the situation is
more complicated than before, and it is
doubtful as to how much could be ac-
complished by Mr. Gatti-Casazza leav-
ing the United States. He has not yet
decided positively.

On Mondey he will make known the
personnel of the company for next sea-
son, with whatever has been. definitely
decided already as to new productions
and other plans for the next season.

3 PRIZE CANTATAS SUNG.

Paterson Music Festival Opens to
3,000—Anna Case a Soloist.

Special to The New York Times.

PATERSON, N. J., April 25.—Three
thousand lovers of good music crowded
the Fifth Regiment Armory here tonight
at the opening ‘‘ American”’ night of
the Paterson music festival.“ Miss Anna
Case, soprano of the Metropolitan Opera
Company, was heard in several num-
bers, among them “ Sacred Fire,’”’ by
Alexander Russell; ‘“‘ A Hindu Slumber
Song,”’ by Harriet Ware; MacDowell’s
‘* Slumber Song,” ‘‘ That’s the World in

June,’’. by Charles Gilbert Spross, and
*“ Bird of the Wilderness,” by Edward
Horsmaan.

The festival chorus of 1,000 voices ren-
dered three prize cantatas, written espe-
cially for the festival. hey were
* Onowa,” first prize, by Franz Born-
schien; ‘‘ America,’’ second prize, by
Carl Busch, and “‘ Miracle of Time,’’ by
W. Franke Harling. In the latter num-
ber 500 school children sang in the
chorus.

Merle Alcock rendered several con-
tralto solos, her best being the prologue,
‘* Iphigenia in Aulis."’
‘* Love’s Anguish,’’ by Mary
Brown; ‘‘ Unremembered,”’ by F. Morris
Class, and ‘‘ Flower Rain,” by John
Adams Loud. Anton de Vally, a Bel-
gian tenor, who lately artived in_ thi
country, pleased. C. Mortimer Wiske
conducted the several orchestra num-

bers.
The festival will continue’ with
night tomorrow evening and

Helen

opera "’
ri-City ’’ night Thursday evening.

EMBARGO ON NEW HAVEN.

Situation Less Serious Than
March, Officiale Assert.

The New York, New Haven & Hart-
ford, on which a freight embargo was
lifted recently, has again accumulated
on its tracks more cars than can be
profitably handled. As a result an em-
bargo was declared yesterday, effective
at midnight Thursday, on all bituminous
and anthracite coal, upon lumber and
cement consigned to Waterbury, Hart-
ford and Torrington, and, to a limited
extent, to all other places, and: on all
less than cargo freight, with the excep-
tion of foodstuffs for human consum
tion, printing paper, household goods,
and freight for the United States Gov-
ernment.

It was.officially declared, however,
that the situation is by no means as
acute as it was during March, and that
measures have been taken whereby the
situation may be,kept well in hand
through the loading of cars to the
maximum capacity. The number of cars
held py other roads for New Haven a
ritory has been reduced from 25,000 t
9,000 since the organization of the Con-
ference Committee.

Harkness. Estate Hearing June 9.

An application made in behalf of State |
Controller Travis to have Lamon V.
Harkness, who left an estate of an es-
timated valife of more than $100,000,000,
declared a resident of the. State of New
York at the time of his death came up
yesterday before Surrogate Cohalan, and
the hearing was adjourned until ‘June
9, upon the request of William W. Win-

ate, special attorney for the Controller.
The’ Controller will try to show that the
estate is taxable in this State under the
transfer tax law.

Tree In ‘Henry VIII.’ Another Week

Sir Herbert Tree is to extend his en-
gagement in ‘‘ Henry VIII.” at the New
Amsterdam another week. He had an-

nounced ‘‘ The Merchant of Venice,"’
with himself as Shylock\and Elsie Fer-
son as Portia. for next Monday night,
ut the popularity of his present offer-
ing continues.

LEARN TO CONCENTRATE

50 Regents counts.in a single exam-
ination by a boy of 15; 87 Regents
counts in one examination by a boy of
15; these are some of the results of the
January examinations by students who
have taken our 8 months’ course in
bp coy ete

course may be = eae by adults

individually or in classe
e ‘School

for Concentration

yey ho dressmaking, millinery taught;

and even! classes; visitors welcome:
ate jogues sent. cDowell Dressmaking and
Millinery School, 25 West 35th st.

INSTRUCTION—Swimming,

She };

he also sang f

= yen if >, Be 4 i Eat Bie Ft RR ff Bo Leute * ed fary es a Es ty
~TCONSTELLATION AT PALACE. NEW YorK's taastae Bi oaiin 71) }
Broadway & 40th St. | Event ening G0

Matinees TODAY &

RIO GRANDE

B’way, 451 8 Evenings
LYCEUM ‘th Unees Tomorrow. & & "tases aleyg

' The Heart
of Wetona _

Blin mn

erry

NEW AMSTERDAM. West: <20: street

MATINEES TODAY & SAT. AT 2.

Sir Herbert Tree’s Shakespeare Featival

a fine a tribute.as ‘has been
to “william ‘Shaheagoure
mye three peers years he

- has been dead.” .

Special Notice

Owing to Public Demand

THERE WILL BE

ONE MORE WEEK
TREE in HENRY Vill

“Most Magnificent Spettacle Ever Seen”
with Edith Wynne Matthison, Lyn Harding,
Charles Dalton, Willette Kershaw & Co. of 185,

" POSITIVELY TERMINATING —
SATURDAY EVE., MAY 6TH.

MISS anny V. STALLINGS

In the
_ VOCALION SALONS

AEOLIAN HALL |
29 West 42d Street

PROGRAM

“DAILY AT
Eleven, Two; Three
‘and Four

prane
MISS RUTH CRAMER
Danseuse ;

1, Spanish Dance No: 2
2. ANGEL’s SERENADE *
.MISS STALLINGS

3. ‘*Paimrose’’

Petit Balletin Three Episodes

_ MISS CRAMER

Admission Without Charge

reyes NIGHT, May 8, “THE ME

RCHANT
OF VENICE,” with SIR HERBERT TREE,
ELSIE FERGUSON, LYN HARDING.

After-the Play Visit

ZIEGFELD
MIDNIGHT

LIBER Matinees TODAY & Sat.
JULIA | DONALD
SANDERSON

in the. Triumphant
Musical Comedy,

ey COHAN’S “a aa tconat bi 2:30.
Mitzi

Atop New Amsterdam Thea.
MEETING PLACE
OF THE WORLD

2FROLIC

West 42d Street.

brette on our stage.’’
—Telegraph.

Eves. 8:15 “Sharp

Evs.
‘Foremost Operatic Sou-

in ‘Pom-Pom’

with MM.
Mmes.

urs.

Mats. Today & Sat.2:20
MRS.

FES KE

{t’s All About the Pennsylvania
Dutch in the aad Little Tewn
of Relnhartz,

“ERSTWHILE SUSAN

Lopokora,
lova, |

4 Sat. Ev

herazade’’
Zverew ;

FULTON THEATRE '!¢Hts

Estate Henry B. Harris........ No
oA MATINEE TODAY AT 2 50.

-LENTEN TREAT ”

~—~taL pens

Margaret

Anglin-Blinn

IN OSCAR eee SATIRE,
Woman «0 Importance

TIMES “Acting of a high or-

a der.”

SUN “An evening of pure

——> pn no $a and amuse-

HERALD “Unmatched

»>——>>_ flamed ,in Lap eeisrenis
beauty.” -

TRIBUNE “Miss Anaha. Mr. Blinn

> _ and the assoc

bring out ith gee bril-
liance of the

SEATS 4. WEEKS IN ‘ABVANCE.

DRAMATIC TRIUMPH!

Wasilewsk

METROPOLITA

Tonight

Tchernitheva, Sokolova, Wasilewska, Bewicke;
Massin, Bolm, Idzikowski,

Mmes.
Prices—$i, $1

“OPERA
HOUSE

Evs. at 8:30. Mat. Saturday a

RUSSE.

“Scheherazade,” “‘Soleil- de ult,"
‘*‘Le Spectre de la Rose,’’ ‘‘Cleopatre,’’
Nijinsky, Massin, Bolm, Gavriloff. Zverew ;

Lopokova, ' Revalles, Tehernicheva, - Sokojova.

“L’Oiseau de Feu,” ‘‘Carnaval,”’. **
herazade’’ with Mmes. Lopokova, R

Nes,

Cecchetti.

Fri: **Petrouchka,””' ‘‘La Princesse Enchantee,”’
* “Les Sylphides,”*’ ‘‘Prince Igor’’ with Mmes.
Lopokova, Tchernicheva, Wasilewska, Sokolova; MM.

‘Massin. Bolm, Gavriloff.
Sat. Mat. “

Massin, Bolm, Gavriloff, Idzikowski, Cecchetti ;

‘Cleopatre,”’
*“Carnaval’’

*‘Le Spectre de la Rose,”’

with MM. ~ Nijinsky,
Mmes.
Revalles, Tchernicheva, Wasilewska, Soko-

e “Les Sylpltides, - Prineesse

* chantee,”’ ‘Soleil oe Nuit,” ‘gche-
with MM. Nijinsky, Masstin, Gavriloff,
Lopokova, Revalles, Tchernichera,
a, Sokolova, Bewicke.

HARDMAN PIANO USED.

Amy Grant

Presents PARSIFAL,
Circle 457.

Sunday

Assisted

Tickets

DIRECTION

_Recitation of text with 7
ans Elliott’s Thea., St., nr. B’way.

Last Recitals of: the Season.

Yvette Guilbert

‘ONIGHT AT 8:15.

The recital wit M, SULES wo an address of

T REC

NBX ALS
Eyes, yt see

EMILY GRESSER, Violin.
WARD STEPHENS at the Piano.
Now at Box Office. Knabe Piano.
CATHARINE A. BAMMAN.

“ «NO CHILDREN ADMITTED

AND

BixSeiketon one to

WASHINGT:
Age ef Reason.

Children.

Bs 4 a ey
Bwayk rT
rand mates rt
' Next Week, Dustin Farnum ‘iu “!

a crew’ deal

TRO

more

nna

rete ewneee

Every evening a cérbaret of twenty
worthwhile features—seven to one.

| SHAN

Broadway45" to 44*S te

it’ is jee as convenient ‘6 Tunch ji
at Shanley’s as elsewhere and
" enjoyable.

Each course is griesistibly good—there are’
seven—75c (Music) From 12 to 2.30 P.M.

BROADWAY AND FORTY-THIRD STREET
Positively the Best Location and Values in New York

| And ‘a Restaurant That’s Known from Coast
to Coast for Quality at Moderate Prices.

. THE DAY OF A DEBUTAN TE” |

4A DRAWING ROOM ENTERTAINMENT

Something new and different, and, as the name implies,
wholesome, beautiful and entertaining.

_ MAIN DINING ROOM
Weekdays 11:20 P. M.—Sundays 8:00 P. M.

HUDSON

Tickets $2

THEATRE, Tuesday, May 2, at 3:30

Ratan Devi

Second a « East indian Songs.
to 50c. t. J. B. Pond Lyceum Bureau

HIT ere

Mats. TODAY ‘& Sat. 2:20.,
John Galsworthy’s Masterpiece

« JUSTICE y

eae

Macmillen

Last y on RECIFAL Sat. Evg.

H U D S on )N y FAREWELL CONCERT OF SEASON.
77 CANDLER "22,23 2 % McCORMACK

iurropRome, NEXT SUNDAY NIGHT

215. Tickets Now at Box Office.

RD BIG
MONTH

Shakspere’s 4 E M P

Superercellently acted.’ Sun.
POPULAR PRICES. ‘250 TO $1.50,

HIT-THE-TRAIL HO! AY

With Fred Nible as ‘Biily Holliday.”

Mats. Tom'w, Sat.

EXTRA MATINEE NEXT TUESDAY 2:20.

~ LEO DITRICHSTEIN will

pen in “THE GREAT

OTHE LONGACRE THEATRE

NEXT MONDAY NIGHT, MAY ‘Ist.
BOX OFFICE NOW OPEN.

ASTOR B’way, 45th St. |

Matinees TODAY & Sat. 2:10.

ELTINGE

Matinees TODAY & Sat. 2:15

CRITERION B'way at 44th St. Evgs. $:15.
Mats. TODAY (Pop.)&- Sat.2:15,
POPULAR 50c TO $i. - esuaen” ie i EOPAX.

ROMANTIC. TRISH, “COMEDY,

The Melody of Youth
EOF

“Worthy of the great naire celebration.

HARRIS» WEST 42D 8T. ~. Evenings at 8:15.

Mats. TODAY (Pop.) & Sat. at 2:15

BE] ASCO WEST 44TH ST. Evenings 8:30.

The Boomerang

positively a

EVES 8:10 SHARP.

The COHAN REVUE 1916

West 42d Street. Evenings at 8:15.
200th TIME THURSDAY—SOUVENIRS

FAIR AND WARMER

XEOLIAN HALL, Sat. Aft.
SECOND 'CELLO RECITAL—BORI

HAMBOU RG

Mgt. Haensel & Jones.’

- KNABE PIANO,

Bandbox Theatre—Fri. Aft., Apr. 28, at 8.

mira. MONA DOWNS

CENTU RY Theatre, 62 St. & 8 J Ave.}| Tickets, $2 and $1. Steinway Piano used.
[ Evenings 8:15. rene
vig 3 Theatre, Sun. Eve., April RF a. twee

Mats. Tomorrow & Sat. LK SONG RECITAL WITH NA

EDITH RUBEL TRIO PIANO, VIOLIN,

Seats now at Theatre Box “Srtice.

VERDI'S

Admission

West 42d Street.

REPUBLI

Evenings 8:20.
Mats. TODAY (Pop.)& Sat.2:20.

COMMON CLAY]Ir

on every
Commerce,

AND THE NEW SPEC-
TACULAR PAGEANT,

Everything,
Lavi E Box Seats, $2. &

aftern
toad TicKet Offices:
B’way, 42d St.; Gimbel
Central’ Ticket Off., 125th St.

REQU eh rehearsals from now
Thursday M., h School of

155 West "eth St. Singers wishing to

participate should apply there.
FINAL PERFORMANCE NEXT SAT. NIGHT AT

MADISON SQUARE | GARDEN

Twice Daily,

2:15 and 8:15. Open Hour ‘Parlier.

PERSIA
GGEST AND BEST-

CIRCUS EVER EXHIBITED

NSTER be & 50 CONGRESS.

oon performances, except Saturday.
Lehigh Valley Ticket Off.,
Bros. ; R. acy & Co.;

rad 7th Avy.

Mats. Today (Pop.) & Sat.2:15.

CORT iss, teres, Pon setatie
Arnold DALY

SCORES DISTINCTIVELY AND AR-

eT a IN Lg PAR mn 2
CLYD wi eee -

Beau BRUMMEL

SUN—“A charming and attractive
personation.”—Lawrence Reamer.
AMERICAN—‘‘Arnold
an artistic triumph.”’—Wesley Hamer.
HERALD—“ Witty,

fully sentimental.”
PRE < oe ‘Triumph for Daly. Strong
suppor
EV TELEGRAM—“ Audience
my BUN to ee. fla onnrone
— “Mr. Daly was admirable.”
—Stephen Rathbun, ~~ DE
EVE. ORLD—“ This revival is as
welcome as spring, and once ain
Arnold Daly proves himself — ” ea

fine actor.”’—Charles Darnton

Hipp

Met. Charles. Dillingham.
“IT’S A WHALE.”

Hip Hip Hooray. }2%

People

His|Sensational
Sousa ¥ Band | Ice Ballet Set thonsice
ged by R..H Burnside.

Sta
Runiey, 8: 15— Farewell John McCormack.

STANDARD 20.
TWICE.2:15} INCE.

W. 48th St. Bryant 46. Evys.8:15

Daly enjoyed
, absorbing, delight-

odrome

Matinee Daily BEST, $1.00

DAILY 8: 15| SUNDAY
ALL MATS. 25c &'50c

Thurs.
& Thur,

Friday
ats

Sat.

Saturday
Matinee
Night
Gala F

well Night

19 Wes
Theatre Francais }9,Wst

Phone Bryant 9059. Eves. 8:20.

This, Gala Farewell Week

SPECIALLY SELECT ED PROGRAM,
Tonight,

ngrenage.
E. Brieux’s Masterpiece.
Mon Amr with Edgar

man and Yvonne Garrick.
{ “La Petite. Choclatiere”
with Lillian Greuze.
“La Petite Choclatiere,”

With all the Artists and

Eve. {
Mat.

WOLF HOPPER |
in “Sunshine Dad”
pe ce vanwow) ihe %

number of additional acts.

BROADWAY & 81ST ST.
PHONE 3980 SCHUYLER,

ist Exclusive Uptown 8 Showms
oOo ‘TRIANGLE FILM PLAYS
& A New Key-f
stone Comedy }

WHO

HUDSON

TRAVELOG ON ROME

PROF. C. T. EVERSON,

THEATRE, Broadway and fur si
SUNDAY, APRIL 30,°8 P.

LIVED MANY YEARS IN ROME.

Beautiful Views, Exceptionally Interesting L
Box Office.’ Orchestra $1.50, Bal. $1, D. Cirche Boe

See Them

ies OF VERDUN and

pan

lin Raids on London

DIFFERENT FROM ANY-
THING et ou VE SEEN
Today—Noon te ti P. Mise. te Be

Shubert Theatre “EXT SATURDAY. EVE.

Triangle Film Corp. ‘presents

Jouglas Fairbanks

Good Bad Man’’—*Fatty’’
“The Other a

B’way. Asbackie in

SOTHERN pe ae

2 Weeks for BENEFIT ACT

ATS ALL

Pai A C Eigs Eisle, Pion

KEITH'S

ae qk:
Dudley

aiken

Al ] ET RUSSE RESERVED ‘st st “way
yer TICKET -OFFICC, 1988 Broadiony, ba rte ~ uJ Rasy & & CO.
GusscniPTiONS BOUGHT. an “Gneecty. CLUN way. Bryant 7292. \ Phong PRS sharp
LYMPIC | mir. Matinet Daily | SINEMA PR AM O N A stony’or
“BLUE RIBBON BELLES” BROADWAY. THEATRE Beira
L Bway Twice D aily Pop. th nae
eee gag a a JOHN BARRYMORE THe wep

*{IRVING PL. THEATRE | 2rer Evening
Dalton S$ ing School get RR
to os g eg )

Sat. Mat. **

et OD Prinzessin vom Nil”

TREASURE ISN”

Cont. from Noon Dally, 15-25-50c |

RIALTO fo

The NEW SPRING é6
BEAUTY REVUE

DORALD
Continuous Baer eases,

No Admission Charged.

REISENWEBER’S ex

ZL hhh

CLL

SPECIAL DINNER, $1) '

w EVERY PORTION COOKED TO wae

SERVED DAILY ¢€
AND SUNDAYS NOON T To. ie.

BEEFSTEAK DINNER $1,251" |

hhh

MILELLOLEL LLL

HELLO! HOW ARE Youry

7:30 in Grill and Midnight i in Ball Room with
INA in Marvelous Dan

Soe

GREATEST LUNCHEON a. IN- NEW YORK

(Aline funnte 2 ie

AT THE FAMOUS

HOFBRAU HAUS

BROADWAY AND

EXCELLENT TABLE D’HOTE DINNER $1.00
’ Dancing and Refined Cabaret Every Evening.

A la Carte Specialties
DINNER ONE DOLLAR
Luncheon Fifty Cents

‘CAFE BOULEVAR

Broadway
& Alst St.
After Theatre Supper Dances

Brazilian Nut, Senor Arboz

and Other Feature Acts

ROOMS FOR PRIVA' ANB
SUNDAY MID-DAY DINNER ONE DOLLAR| once? Ouse TRIYATE

. 4220 Bryant

«| Brince Genrge Matel ™

e ‘of the most beautifuliy
pointed hotels in New York.”
800 Rooms with Bath. .

In Philadelphia,

Hotel Adelphia i Boom |

Fifth Ave. and ~ Rates $2 and up. was = 7
11 EAST 22ND ST. ra

BEST DINNER IN TOWN, 50c., 5:30 ta 7:30 ee
SOUTHERN COOKING—COBN MUFFINS AND BEATEN BISOUITS. | - .

an te

Chestnut & 13th.
READ THIS ~Y

Z APARTMENTS, 2, 3 & BATH, 9 outside ;
Gg windows, 3 exposures. Newly and beau-
Gen ig vm and decorated wt hotel
yervice; ‘phone; Maid service; an gd
| ad up per room; meals optional, a
Z subway ex-

week; one block from “L” an
press. cars and bus lines; special induce-

apres fi for leases; ER soph a red iw com-

plet very exception opportun:

CUO NOB BLETON, 1 26 West 7 73d. St.
Missi gtd

Cuchow's

14th Street, near Fourth Ava
HOTEL EARLE

. Washington Square, at Waverly Place
All the comforts with none of the worries
nor expenses of home
Suite of sitting ne bedroom and bath,
with meals, for two, $30 to $35 per week;
single room, wit beth, with meals, $16 to

Hotel Brolin Hall

Broadway, 85th to 86th St. -
xargest & Most Attractive Uptown Hotel
Offers all the Advantages of the Best New |‘
-York City Hotels at One-Third Less Price.

HOTEL LE MARQUIS
ye ST aint Ay’ t Just Off Fifth Ave.
I1CAN PLAN ;
Parlor, Bs Soe and bath, $35 per. f-.
week and up,
Under same management as
Knott Hotels on Washington Sa.

BOSTON

Bade ake need

40 WEST FORTY-FIFTH st.
'  Qjust off Fifth Avenue) -

Within a block of Shecry’s
and Delmonico’s, the Har-
vard and Yale Clubs, and a
block and half from Times

Square. ‘

The transientclientele isfrom
the bese families of Enrope, «
Canada and America.

Service and cuisine

able with the best

clubs,

with the advantage of hotel.
privileges and conveniences,

Moderate pri

Bilin

tention. We have been made to feel| any means, was the beginning of. in- parts of an enemy's territory is never-| words, “ A dismal clangor heard from C 1
the weakness and the danger of divid-|tervention. CamRanzA and his officers| theless binding and to be respected. | far,” that is the choral consonance of
Led loyalty, of Mp service to our Gov-| all know that the Administration at] Thatis a matter, we imagine, for the|Cook County's immeasurable, in-
ernment and our institutions rendered} Washington has ‘never thought of consideration ‘of some future inter- | numerable noises, “I do not with-|-
‘by those whose acts bespeak another| armed intervention in Mexico, and| national conferénce. A much stronger|out danger walk these streets,” is Fs aw
fealty. President BuTLER could have| that the sole object of the expedition | point is made when the note cites con-|every man’s thought, be he resident Gh Sao’ situa "acide ce ths eney naa ee eee oe
lchosen no. other theme at. once so} was to put an end to the depreda-| ditions. of short supplies and highjor outlander, in the Windy City—“ the : SE M Ks : ; sage 4 r nD Pie a Sagas Be Oi pe ee
timely or of such weight and moment. | tions of Vina. The course of Canmanza| prices now known to prevail in Ger-|wind is loud”—no matter: who ts House. Avoids Test Vote on Big ahr wiser i oe eae Seven Prelates Assist the Ri
He addressed an audience that was in} has been influenced by his obstinate} many as proof of the. blockade’s ef-| Chief of Police. “ Repair to Pomprr’s Army Issue as Speaker Clark | pitched next Monday.” The official name Rev. Dr. Greer im an Im-
Yn .... Room sia oar Fon ae ha very peculiar sense representatively | notion that he must continually assert | fectiveness. ~ Effectiveness As first|Porch,” is a hit at the inveterate Outwits Re hia e , [of the. camp is “The National Serviee , SHR A aE.
Island..93 Stuyv. Pl., N. Brighton) american, and it is most gratifying to| his dignity in dealing with the United| among the conditions that make a/| “porch climbers.” Finally, “I will,” re- oe P ahd

7 Ful treet,» ay Te
as vee ~~ 61 Second’ Street know that his words were acclaimed | States. With trained and well-dis-

¥ All the News That's Fit to Print.”
NEW TOR AMEE

‘Mise

Preparedness and First Aid Will Be]

INTO CONFERENCE Taught Near Washington. |

Special to. The New York Times,

School of the Woman’s Section ofthe

es eae

a une
Lour Globe-Democrat oes

Postage free
} Mexico, Panama,
{ Rico, Hawaii, Philippines, Guam, Samoa,

erson.

City. 051i ee Mi

-»Pul

wr esccccesee ese Bi

‘ 742 Market Street
-+.Marconi House, Strand, W. C. |-

New

Subscription Rates:

in United States, Canada,
Canal Zone, Cuba, Porte

York, Jersey City, Newark.
where Two Cents. Five Cents Sunday.

Bharighai, with the exceptions noted.

DAY, with Picture and Maga-
ne Secti

Boo
der fi

ard Review

der

Daily an

ons and Review of
." Picture Section, $1.75. e

of Books,

| , Sunday only...
> Stier countries Pm AR
Dally, without Sunday...
ey. onl
Can:

Section

crivcese GSO

wae eee 5.00

ada, $4.50; other countries, $5.
for 26 issues, (one vol.,) $1.25.
BOOK

NEW YORK TIMES
oH éekly,) per year, $1; Canada, $1.
~ countries, $2.

NEW YORK TIMES MID-WEEK PICc-

SRIAL, (Thursdays,) three months,

-months,

NEW RK T
TORY, Hlustrated Monthly M

; —Full Cloth, per copy, $2; per year, $8.
. Entered as eecotd-clads mail matter.

monthe,

T5e.; six
mont issues.

months, $1.

ST, (Mondays,) per ‘year,

REVIE

other countries, $6.50. Binder for 52 issues,

25. Bound volumes, ten numbers, Cloth, $1.
YO ES CURREN

; one
ES INDEX, Quarter-

have the country over.
- —SSEEwo ee

HE DEMANDS HIMSELF. -

ne, | tion from the Colonel. >
No, no!

WEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, APR. 26, 1916.

THE BUILDING OF THE NATION.
The public services of NicHOLas
MouRRAyY BUTLER have been many and
great, but pe never -performed one
fore useful and more timely than
When he addressed the members of
Whe Associated Press at their annual
'. Jumcheon in this city yesterday upon

fhe present state of this nation.

It is
fortunate that President BuTLER’s
@udience was made up of men in

else than himself.

Me or WILSON.
The primaries are almost over.
Colonel’s patience is gone.

any other candidates than Me?
Me or go to smash. And ina few

with an enthusiasm and a complete-
ness of unanimity that left no doubt
of the welcome and assent they will

Mr. RoBERT Bacon’s eirenic luncheon
was in danger of misinterpretation.
Reactionaries misinterpreted it. Mr.
Root, whatever his enormities in 1912,
would be permitted to support Mr.
RoosEVELT in 1916, but of course Mr.
RoosEVELT could never support Mr.
Root. He would do so exuberantly if
Mr. Root were Chief Justice of the Su-
“| preme Court or bedridden, but too
many persons want Mr. Roor-nomi-
nated. It is therefore Mr. RoosEvVELT’s
duty and pleasure to declare by the
w,| mouth of a Missouri Progressive that
— Mr. Roor is on the blacklist, intolerable
and impossible because of his hand in
the Crime of 1912, when the Repub-
lican malignants “ stole” the nomina-

The Colonel’s good nature
has. been abused. The notion has been
propagated studiously that he was so
eager to beat Mr. Witson that he

to the nomifation of
cakabat dat ss there be anybody the arrival of a second contingent in
The illusion which
Nuded nobody is dispelled. Either the | ¢*Pected, a8 fast as Anglo-French in-
Republicans must nominate the Colo- dustrial .resources are found equal to
nel or there will be a separate Pro-
gressive Party and 1912 over again.

The
Why go on cf the enemy on the western front

pretending that there are or can be | Quite misses th@boint, or pretends to

ays have called on Russia for men it is

ciplined American. soldiers working
to help him by capturing the one man
who has been most powerful in block-
lag his plans forthe pacification of
tze country, he has maintained a
‘haughty and suspicious attitude
toward our too patient Government,
and) demanded the withdrawal of our
soldiers with their task unaccom-
plishedand at the very moment of an
unéxplained outbreak against them by
his own soldiers. The prospect of a
conference between Scott and OBREGON
on the frontier, however, is most en-
couraging. General Scott has a fine
record aS a peacemaker. He is by
far the most competent agent’ Presi-
dent Witson has yet employed in his
various Mexican negotfations. We can
see nothing significant in the reports
of the continued massing of Mexican
troops near the frontier, although it
seems that CaRRANzA could find plerity
of employment for his forces in other
parts of the country. 4

TIME AT VERDUN.
Hard on the heels of the first, an-
nouncement that Russian troops had
appeared in France comes news of

the same way. Repetitions may be

the task of clothing and equipping
the Czars contributions of human
material. German comment on this
unexpected addition to the strength

From the fact that the French

Command of unequaled facilities for
publicity, for his words ought to have
puch place_in the minds and ‘hearts
df all Americans that they will be-
fome* memorable as an expression of
“the one dominant idea of an
* America free, just, powerful, for-
» ward-facing.”’ :

President BuTLteR spoke of the
pelfish materialistic form ‘of patriot-
sm which conceives of the nation as
an end in itself, ‘‘superior to the
* rules of law, to the conventions of
“morality and to the precepts. of
™réligion.”” That conception of na-
Qional grandeur through ruthless
&getandizement has its Nemesis in
the war now ‘raging in Europe. It
leads logically to the war of all
Bgainst all, to virtual extermination.
fhe higher idéal, the nobler aim, the
true eonception of nationality and of
patriotism Dr. BuTLer presented in
®loquent words as the aspiration
Americans should cherish. And that
brought him to the consideration: of
our present condition, one out of
which the loftier ultimate ideal can
mever be evolved. unless we take seri-
bus thought of our national failings
Bnd weaknesses.

With an all-embracing immigration
Where has come into this country “in
no inconsiderable measure the echo
*“of.the old world animosities and
“feuds and hates.” While perhaps
MMot in the direct sense’ anti-Ameri-
can, they have manifested ¢hemselves
“with sufficient strength to deprive
* America of a unity of’ attitude ‘of
feeling and of policy’ in dealing
with international relations which
* every day grow in importance and
™ significance.” Then Dr. Butter
pointed out the true path, the only
path to the attainment of the high
hational ideal:

So it 1s that at this moment, with a
world war raging about us and e
Presidential campaign opening in
front of us, with years. full of fate
stretched out for us to walk in, we
a@re not sure of our national unity of
thought and feeling and purpose be-
cause of the presence ofdisintegrat-
ing elements and ‘forces which weaken
our sense of unity at home and which
@eprive us of the influence abroad
which attaches to unity &t home. The

5 = ty problem before the American

. ‘pécple today is that of completing the

process of nation building. It is the
problem of ‘setting our house jn order.
Its the problem of integrating Amer-
fea. It is the problem of subordinat-
ing every personal ambition, every
Class interest. and policy, every race
attachment, to the one dominant idea
of an America free, just, powerful,
forward-facing, that shall stand out
¥ the history of nations as the name

® people who céncefve: their mission
and their true greatness to lie in serv-

Without union, withont an American
ponsciousness unmixed either with
* old-world animosities and feuds and

ites” or with any fealty or cleaving

‘a? -old-world aims and interests op-

to our own, we can never at-

} to nobility and power as a nation.

en we speak of the animal king-
hom we use an empty phrase adopted

the Colonel will invade the Middle
West and seek again something of the
excitements of 1912. Wherever he is
there is the seat of. war and navel of
the universe. Also a “ bully” time.

“It is needful,” says the Roosevelt
Non-Partisan League, with a humor
that makes radiant these overcast
days; “‘to convince the National Con-
“ ventions, and ROOSEVELT himself, that
“the country demands him.” There
may be -some pigheadedness on the
part of the conventions, but the Colo-
nel is always open to conviction, when
it is his own. He doesn’t wait for the
country to demand him. - He demands
the country.

MANN THE OBSTRUCTIONIST.

The belief of Mr. Mann of Illinois
that we should have a regular army
of 250,000 men is of less importance
to the country than the fact that, by
obstructive tactics, he succeeded in de-
laying action on the Military bill a
whole week. The Senate passed the
bill on Tuesday of last week. Con-
ferees should have been appointed at
once and the work of the Conference
Committee might have been finished
in less time than was required to
overcome Mr. MANN’s opposition to a
special rule by which to expedite pro-
ceedings. Yesterday his resistance was
thrust aside.

We cannot fairly accuse Mr. Hay or
the Democrats of adopting obstruc-
tionist tactics because they would not
assent to a final vote on the bill with-
out a conference. The eminent par-
liamentarian’ who lately disgusted
even his own party by his injudicious
and entirely partisan criticism of
President Witson’s speech to Con-
gress on the German situation was the
obstructionist. He knew perfectly well
that his proposal would be rejected by
the majority. He is strong for pre-
paredness, but he wants it to bear an
exclusively Republican stamp.

EEE

SCOTT AND OBREGON.

If CaBRANZA is really anxious to have
the American punitive expedition with-
drawn from Mexico, he can accom-
plish that object by capturing VLA
and eliminating the danger of fresh
attacks on our’ border by the ban-
dits of Northern Mexico. This might
be done, if the Carranzista forces keep
up the .pursuit of VILLA, by the time
General -OBREGON meets Generals
Scott and Funston at Juarez. The
acceptance by the de facto Mexican
Government of the invitation to the
“conference is encouraging, but it was
simultaneous .with a renewal of the
request for a reply to CaRRanza’s note
of April 12, declaring that the timé
had come for the withdrawal of our
troops. . CABRANZA must understand
that we cannot withdraw our troops
while VILLA remains at large, a
menace to him as well as to us. His
commander at Juarez, General Gavin,
understands our position. He realizes
that “the intention of the United

inferred that their losses at Verdun
have been so great as perceptibly to

might be true and still there would
be thin comfor®Bin it.
source can Germany replenish her
man power or make good the greater
losses she has suffered at Verdun?

If the German General Staff hoped
hammer blows at
Verdun ultimately to exhaust the de-
fense, and oblige the French Staff
either to yield there or weaken its
line at other points, it must now be
Against ,the French
alone the Germans have gained a
little more than 100 square mites of
strategic ground, including one out-
lying fort, in two months; ‘and now
that the cost of
gallant defense is being made up in
the form of Russian accessions, it
cannot be hoped on the German side
that the resistance will be less, It is
likelier to be more.

Time again has baffled Germany
and strengthened her enemies.
German General Staff could hardly
have expected on Feb.
launching -the attack on Verdun, that
at the end of April, having advanced
less than five miles on the road to
Paris, it.would begin to meet Rus-
Its dilemma now may
be not how to take Verdun, but how
to discontinue trying.
abandon an offensive that had been
built upon so much would be certain
to have a disagreeable effect upon
Perhaps it will be
allowed to flatten out very gradually,
if the enemy will allow
enemy may not. There-are already
signs that the offensive at Verdun
may pass to French hands.

maintaining this

public sentiment.

THE BRITISH BLOCKADE AND
NEUTRAL RIGHTS.

We have pointedly refused to mix up
the two unrelated questions of Ger-
many’s slaughter of American citizens
and England’s hampering of American
trade when the Berlin Government
made a suggestion to that effect. It is
plain, therefore, that we cannot act
affirmatively upon the proposal made
.by the British Government in the note’
published this morning, that we join
with other neutral nations in an effort
“to prevent the violation of neutral
rights,” since such a joint commission
would nattrally have to concern itself
first of all with the gravest class of
offenses, those committed by German
submarines, and then with blockade
These are questions which
‘we must take up separately, in our own
time and in our own Way.

The spirit of candor and friendliness
in which the London note discusses
interferences with trade is manifested
in the declaration, now made to us for
the second time, that the Orders in
Council. do. not control the British
prizé courts. | Those tribunals are free
to declare illegal acts in contravention
of internationa]. law, and aggrieved

blockade binding upon neutrals.

The figures of our greatly swollen
exports to neutral countries from
which Germany is supposed to receive
goods that thus evade thé blockade
are too convincing to admit of much
dispute. Besides, in the packers’ cases
it was openly admitted in the prize
court that goods shipped to Sweden
and Denmark had Germany as their
real destination. Once more England
cites in justification of her acts our
own blockade procedure and the de-
cisions of our courts during the civil
war. Like cases call for like law. All
will be diligently scrutinized for un-
likeness. We have.as a present re-
lance for freedom from molestation
for our commerce the announctd pur-
pose of the Allies to minimize delays
and “make their restraints on’ trade
“as little burdensome to neutrals as
“ possible.” Beyond that is the appeal
to international iw in prize court ad-
judication of acts done under the
municipal law of Great Britain and

France.

THE KAISER’S CAPSTICK.

The Fifth New Jersey District is
represented in the Sixty-fourth Con-
\eress by JoHN H. CapsTicK, Repub-
lican. It should be-represented in the
Sixty-fifth Congress by an American.

Mr. CapPsTicK has just received from
the loyal subjects of the Empire in
Union County and way stations this
testimonial to his-sacrifice of mere
American rights to the German vote:

Honorable Sir: At the regular meet-
ing of. the German-American Alliance
of Elizabeth and vicinity, twenty-
four societies, consisting of 2,300 vot-
ing members, a resolution was passed
to offer you a vote of thanks and
sincere appreciation for your action in
voting for the McLemore resolution,
by which “we are convinced you are
intent upon retaining friendly relations
between the United States and Ger-
many.

“ Retaining friendly relations” is the
Elizabethan translation of _“ meekly
“consenting to the murder of Amer-
“ican citizens.” The German-Amer-
ican Alliance pledges itself to support
heartily the Kaiser’s faithful CapsTIcK
in his campaign. “ We are all of opin-
ion,” says an official of the New Jer-
sey German-American Alliance, “ that
“the Administration wants to,have war
“with Germany.”

In 1914 Mr. Capstick got 16,951
votes, the Democratic candidate 15,718,
the Progressive candidate 2,218. The
district \was, and ordinarily is, Repub-
lican. There used to be a number of
Americans in it. They must be proud
of CaPSsTICK.

RNC ie EEDA n Nt
A GAMMON 0’ BACON.

With utmost deference to Judge
TUTHILL, the plays of the so-called
SHAKESPEARE were written in Chi-
cago. The local allusions throng.
“On the forefinger of an Alderman”
is a palpable reference to the greatest
statesman of the First Ward, the
Hon. Hinky Dink, ard his eye-
offending “sparkler.” ‘As true a
“lover as ever sighed upon a mid-
“night pillow” is a frank plagiarism
from the Hon. Bath House JOHN’s
famous lyric, ‘Dear Midnight of
Love.” To whom but the Hon. CARTER
HARRISON and his ‘“ brown Fedora”
and Presidential longings could apply
the line: “And with his hat, thus
“ waving it in scorn, I would be Con-
“sul, says he.” ‘“ Your straw-color
“beard, your orange-tawny beard,
“your purple-in-grain beard” is an
unmistakable reminiscence of Sena-
tor JaMEs HamiItTon Lewis and his
auroral streamers; and that amiable
citizen is distinctly sketched as “‘ the
very pink of courtesy.” ‘ Your Ger-
man’ may be either . Representative
BUCHANAN or Senator SHERMAN. “It
did me good to brave The Tribune”
points to a personal acquaintance
with the Hon. WILLIAM LORIMER.
“Mayor, farewell!’’ might be the very
answer of the Chicago voters to the
Hon. WILLIAM HALE THOMPSON at
the municipal election the other day.
So, too, “almost all repent in their
election.” ;

Old Chicagoans who recall the Chi-
cago River in its most high and
balmy days (it was usually or often
on fire) can have no doubt as -to
“T’ll-jump into the burning lake.”
“ There's pansies, that’s for thoughts,”
takes us inevitably to Mr. FuLLER
and the Chevalier of Vain Thoughts.
“She taketh most delight in music)
instruments, and poetry” means un-
mistakably Miss HARRIET MONROE
and her admirable endowed maga,
zine of minstrels.

“Follow me into the pit!” How
many Chicagoans have obeyed that

peated again and again, is the motto
selected for Chicago, if we are not
mistnken, by our sometime esteemed
contemporary, The Inter Ocean,

Why multiply proofs? The case is
more than established irrefragably.
It may be added that the Chicago
SHAKESPEARE Was familiar ayith
Fabyan’s Chronicles, and that “ Tit”
and “ Hill” are inserted, with evident
design, in the same scene of the Third
Part of “ Henry VI." wee.

TOPICS OF THE TIMES.

Charity, seeking, as
charity must, an ex-
Sir Roger planation that will
Casement. serve as an excuse
for a crime as ab-
horrent to all the world as treason,
finds first and only the possibility that
Sir Roger CaskMENT was a victim of the
neurasthenia that so often diminishes or
destroys the moral responsibility of men
who stay too long and work too hard in
the tropics. That he was in some degree
a sufferer from that dread malady is,
indeed, more than a _ possibility--it is a
probability, as much of Sir Rogsr’s time
for twenty years had been passed in
parts of the world where men of his
breed and type can remain with im-
punity only when they carefully refrain
from exhausting activities of mind and
*body.

However, the desire for the sake of
humanity's self-respect to palliate this
man’s treachery is weakened by the
knowledge that, throughout his career
in the Consular service, though he was
living on British pay and had accepted
a title and. other honors from the
British Government, he had always been
a bitterly hostile critic of the’ Empire
that employed him, and his principal
and doubtless congenial achievement was
the conduct of an investigation the re-
sult of which brought deep and deserved
humiliation on all Englishmen.

The Germans, with characteristic in-
ability to understand the state of public
sentiment outside of their own country,
seem at first to have expected him to be
La useful tool for use against their most
hated enemies. His complete failure to
accomplish anything of value for them
soon made him almost as coldly viewed
in Berlin as at home, and his condition
for months past has been one of tragic,
almost pathetic, loneliness. What his
position was in the absurd and inevitably
disastrous expedition that ended in his
capture is not revealed, but it could
hardly have been one of more than con-
temptuous toleration. For him, with his
knowledge, to take part in such a futile
scheme hints at desperation. It was a
sort of suicide, for the plea of insanity,
the only plea his friends can make, is
unlikely to save him.

Fate of

A new definition of
what constitutes hon-
esty in advertising
has been provided by
the United States Su-
Preme Court in a truly interesting case
that came to it from Southern Florida.
There, it seems, a real estate company
had been sefling land to more or less
guileless investors, presumably North-
ern. It had charged them prices that
appear to have been reasonably, or at
least decently, near to what the land
was worth for the uses to which it
could be put. This, a Florida court held,
.made the transactions legitimate, but the
Wise Men in Washington gave a considy
eration that had been refused by their
humbler brothers to the fact that though
the buyers of the land got their money’s
worth, they did not get land valuable in
the ways that the company’s advertise-
ments had promised and justified them
in expecting.

Therefore the Supreme Court held the
tfansactions to be, not legitimate, but
fraudulent. ,

It is interesting, and even a little
amusing, to notice that in the opinion
as rendered there appears, incidentally,
a kindly concession to human nature as
it is, and a truly judicious recognition
of a weakness in it too nearly universal
to be condemned. The decision, to be
more explicit, refrains—and carefully
says that it refrains—from declaring
fraudulent the high-pitched praise by
the seller of wares with which all men,
since men began to barter together, have
been accustomed to meet an opposite
tendency of buyers toward depreciation
of the other fellow’s goods,

Of course exaggeration of merit, from
the standpoint of the strict and rigid
moralist, is not right, but, whether nec-
essary or not, the world’s experience
has shown it to be inevitable, and im-
memorial custom gives it a sanction
which the law does well not to deny. If
hard pressed, the Supreme Court would
probably say that the exaggerating done
by the seller, to escape the taint of
fraud, must have a certain sincerity and
be done.with a certdift moderation. As
it was, *however, the court didn’t go even
that far; it was content to say. that ex-
aggeration was one thing and lying an-
other, though the two are near neigh-
bors and close acquaintances, and to let
the sleeping dog of a question lie undis-
turbed.

Drawing a
Fine
Distinction.

More comment than
it has yet received: is
deserved by HENRY
Forp’s recent state-
ment of what he did
to find out whether or not the sinking
of the Lusitania should have been re-
garded in this country as a cause. for
war or even one for preparing for it.
He said that he asked five boys for their
views on the subject, and every one of
them replied with a profanely emphatic
inquiry as to what business Americans
had to be on: that ship. 9)

This makes it painfully evident. that
Mr. Forp, like Henry James’s elder

Mr. Ford's
Boys
Are Queer.

rblood later.

MEYER LONDON A MINORITY

Technical Parliamentary Ruling De-
nounced ‘by “Mann. as Unfair—
Conferees,for Preparedness.

Special to The New York Times.

WASHINGTON, April 25.—Ending the
fight of the-Republican minority to in-
struct the conferees of the lower cham-~
ber to accept the Senate amendment
for an army of 250,000 men, the House
today sent to conference the Army Re-
organization bill and failed to record
itsef on the “big army ’”’ issue. :

A peculiar parliamentary situation,
wherein Representative Meyer London
of New York, the lone Socialist mem-
ber, was recognized to. make a motion
to recommit the bill, ‘was the undoing
of the Republican plans for a record
vote on the big army amendment, Rec-
ognition of Representative London. by
Speaker Champ Clark at a time when
the Republicans were seeking to recom-
mit the bill and instruct the Military
Committee to accept the Senate amend-
ment so displeased Representative Mann,
the Republican floor leader, that for the
first time he seriously questioned a rul-
ing by Speaker Clark.

‘““That is an unfair ruling,’’ said Mr.
Mann, when the Speaker held that Mr.
London was the only House member
entitled to make the recommittal mo-
tion. The rules require that a mem-
ber moving fo recommit must announce
his unqualified opposition to the bill.

Representative Julius Kahn, ranking
Republican of thé Military Committee,
had demanded prior recognition to move
to send the Army bill to the committee
and instruct it to disagree to all Sen-
ate amendments except that relating to
the army of 250,000 men. Representa-
tives Harrison, Foster, and CNsp, Dem-
ocrats, raised the point of order that
Mr. Kahn was not entitled to make a
motion to recommit. The Californian,
they said, could not be opposed to the
entire bill, and therefore did not come
within the rule. The speaker decided
that Mr. Kahn did not bring himseif
within the rule and that Mr. London,
opposing, as he did, all forms of army
legislation, should be recognized.

‘‘The minority is entitled to move to
recornmit,”’ said Speaker Clark, ‘‘ and
Mr. London is a minority party all by
himself.’”’ ‘

Mr. London’s motion to recommit
made no reference to the 6ize of the
army. He wes the only member to vote
for his motion, the vote being 248 to 1.

Conferees for Big ,Army.

The Speaker named as_ conferees
Chairman Hay and Representative Dent,
Democrats, and Répresentative Kahn,
Republican, of the Military Affairs
Committee. Subsequently the Senate
named as conferees Senators Chamber-
lain, Beckham, and Broussard, Demo-
crats, and Warren, ex-Chairman of the
committee, and du Pont, Republicans.
On the whote, the Conference Commit-
tee is regarded as favorable to a big

rmy.

*'The House adopted the rule sending
the army bill to conference 208 tod 146.
This was not generally regarded as a
test vote ag between the ‘“ big army
and “small army” adherents. Both
sides expected later to have a show-
down vote on the Senate amendment,
and this failed to materialize.

Debate preceding the disposition of
the army bill developed tharp differ-
ences over preparedness. The greatest
ovtburst of applause came when the
Republican leader, Mr. Mann. said:

“T want the United States to keep
out of the war. I am opposed even to
breaking off diplomatic relations with
any of the countries at war in Eu-
rere would rather spend a little money
on the army now," Mr. Mann continued,
“than to spend oceans of American
I think we ought to pre-

re for the worst now. .
Pe We are sitting on top of an
earthquake in the world. We are the
only great, rich, powerful country not
engaged in the war and the only one
without a method of defense. We may
become involved in war at any time
through our notions of the rights we
have or because of the cupidity of other
nations.

“I think we ought to remain at peace,
to stand even insult and injury, but
there is a limit beyond which no gne
goes. While in my. opinion we have hot
reached that limit, and while I hope we
shall be able to restrain ourselves so
that we shall never reach that limit, we
should prepare men to fight before we
pour out the blood of the volunteers,
unpr ed and untrained. An army of
250, men is not excessive. We should
be foolish not to provide it. When the
war clouds pass away we may reduce it,
but now we should prepare.”’

Representative Kahn, in urging the
— of the Senate amendment,
said:

“The time has come when the United
States should say to the world that we
are prepared to protect American life
and property in ‘every quarter of the
globe.’’ :

, Predicts Enlistment Failure. ~

Representative William D. McKenzie,
an Illinois Republican of the Military
Committee, said it would be impossible
to enlist 250,000 men: under present con-
ditions, ‘‘and all this talk of an army
of this size is buncombe.”’

Referring to the call for recruits un-
der the resolution passed at the out-
treak. of the more recent Mexican
troubles, Mr. McKenzie said:

““The City of Boston furnished. just
one recruit last wéek. Congress au-
thorized an increase of - 20,000 men.
Only, 717 were taken in last week, and
there have been but 4,069 enrolled in
“ae Meicanle surreaoa

r. cKenzie sugges ayin: ri-
vates $30 a month. ” ne

“If you are sincere about.an army of
250,000,’" he. said, “issue*the call and

then draft the men if Ahey do not
come.”*

Representative Hay assured the House
that if the army bill were sent to con-
ference without instructions ‘“ we will
bring back a better preparedness meas-
ure than this Senate bill.’

Members who. voted for an army of
250,000, he argued, know that such anj{
army cannot ‘be gaised without com-

pulsory. service. f war comes, he

Navy League,” and it will be running
during the entire month of May., In ad-
dition to the resident campers there will

dent in Washington. and vicinity who
will be day students in the camp.

The camp will be occupied by tw@
classes of National Service students, each
having two weeks’ routine of study and
drill. The classes include “ Elementary
Hygiene and Home Care of the Sick,’
under the direction of Red_Cross nurses;
“‘ First’ Aid to the Injured,” under Red
Cross doctors; ‘‘ Preparation of Sick
Diets,’’ under Red Cross nurses; and the
making of standard surgical dressings,
also under Red Cross nurses. A skilled
seamStress will.instruct the young wo-
men in making Red Cross relief gar-

There also Will be classes in signal
work, including wireless and plain teleg-
rdphy, heliographing, and wig-wagging,

d instruction in junior section work
and military calisthenics. Delegations
of students interested in these braneh
schools are coming to Chevy Chase to
study the methods of the pioneer school.

Under the direction of Mrs. Sidney
Ballou, Chairman of the Committee on
Lectures, a program for the afternoon
lecture course—open to the genéral pub-
lic—has been arranged on ‘ National
Defense,’’ ‘‘ Good Citizenship,’ ‘‘ Food
Conservation,’’ ‘‘Americak History,’’ and
“ Americanization of the Foreign Born.”’

The routine will be carried out between
cevellie at 6:30 A. M. and taps at 9:30

To facilitate the camp routine the res-
ident students, numbering 200 in “each
course, will be divided into four com-
panies of fifty women each. Construc-
tion of the school is going forward rap-
idly under the direction of a committee,
of which Mrs. Hugh L, Scott. wife of
A ey 3 of Staff of the Army, is the

ead. .

SEEK $250,000 FOR WELLS..

Ecstern Alumnae Begin Campaign
to Complete Endowment Fund.

More than 100 members of the Eastern
Association of the Wells College Alum-
nae met at Sherry’s yesterday for their
annual reunion and luncheon. The chief
object of interest among the friends of
the institution {s the raising of a half-
million-dollar endowment fund, toward
which the Rockefeller Foundation prom-
ises $100,000, provided $400,000 is raised
by June 16 ;

A report was made that $150,000 had
been pledged, and the Bastern Associa-
tion resolved on an energetic campaign
to obtain the remaining $250,000. For
that purpose a committee was appointed,
composed of Mrs. William Fellowes: Mor-
gan, Honorary Chairman; Miss Mary
Eustis, Acting Chairman; Mrs. Walter
Sullivan, Publicity Chairman; Miss Bess

the following as Captains: Mrs. Henry
Davenport, Miss Amelia Goodlatte, Mrs.
William Hasbrouck, Mrs. Richagd Hun-
ter, Mrs. Owen B. Huntsman, Miss Mar-
garet Moore, Miss Mildred Patterson,

Mrs. G. S. Tyson, and Mrs. Charles
Herrmann.

Mrs. Dion W. Kennedy, President of
the Bastern Association, presided, and
among the speakers were Dr. John H.

missioner; Edward S. Martin, and Dr.
Kerr D, Macmillan, President of. Wells
| College. Mr. Martin presented to Misa
Caroline Roe of the class of.1916 the
prize of $50 given annually by the East-
ern Association for the best English es-
say by an undergraduate. Miss Roe ts
the great-grandniece of the late E. P.
Roe. Mr. Martin was one of the judges.

“* One of the great needs of the hour is
to save paper,’’ he said. ‘‘ We write too
much, we print too much, we advertise
too much. What with war and our im-
mense addiction to print, the forests are
fast bea ge into the boilers of the
pulp mills and the price of paper. has
gone up tq a point that makes publishers
ve gloomy. It is a question with me
which does the most harm, newspapers
or rum. Being aware of the danger of
intoxicants, I have allowed my children
to know the works and taste of them,
especially in, respect to paper: and ink,
and one result is that not one of them is
thus far addicted to the intoxicating ef-
fect of writing.’’

Mrs. Kennedy read a letter from ex-
Senator Elihu Root regretting his inabil-
ity to attend.

HEARS STATEN ISLANDERS.

Mayor

Receives Committee with
Garbage. Plant. Protest.

Six residents of Staten Island who are
opposed to the establishment there of a
garbage reduction plant made their
complaint to Mayor Mitchel at the City
Hall yesterday. The committee pre-
sented the. Mayor with a copy of the pro-
test and resolutions passed at a mass
meeting last Thursday, and -after. the
conference went back to report to a
Vigilance Committee at a meeting to
be held on Staten Island last night.

.The committee said after the con-
ference that the Mayor had explainéd
in detail what led up to the present
attitude of the city, in selecting Staten
Island as the garbage disposal site, and
that the Mayor expressed his willing-
ness to work with the committee to
find a satisfactory solution of the prob.
lem, The committee made several sug-|
gestions to the Mayor, but it could not
be learned what they were. It was
said, however, that the suggestions

would be taken up for action by the
Vigilance Committee.

Mayor Mitchel explained that he told
the committee that he would be glad to
do what he could to help the peopk of
Staten Island. He said he had suggested
that a committee go to New Bedford
and examine the plant now in operation
there, but that his suggestion did not
seem to meet with favor.

The committee that waited on the
Mayor included the Right Rev. Mer. C.
A. Cassidy, rector of St. Peter’s Church,
New Brighton; Edward C. Bridgman,
President of the Staten Island Savings
Bank, Stapleton;. William S. Van Che,
lumber -dealer of rt Richmond; Dr. L.
A. Dreyfus, chemist of Rosebank; An-
ning S. Prall of West New Brighton,
and Robert T. Cone of: the-Civic League,
Woodrow. ; . é

Another conference ‘will be held. with
the Mayor next’ Tuesday.

be several hundred young women resi- |’

Williams, Correspondence Chairman, and

Finley, New York State Education Com-| b

pressive Ceremony.

Crowded: Fifth Avenue Pauses
Watch the Procession of Dis-
tinguished Clergymen.. -

Fifth Avenue and Fifty-third Street
consecrated yesterday by Bishop LD
H. Greer of the Diocese of New ¥
assisted by several visiting Bishops ar
with more than 100. members of t
clergy of Protestant Episcopal Church
of the East in attendance. The congre-
gation witnessing the service was &
large one. It marked the final actin the —
which replaces the former building de
stroyed* by fire in 1905. Every cent of ”
the large amount required for the great:
edifice, which: is one ofthe noblest and”
most artistic church buildings in this: —
country, has been paid and St, Thomas's
Church begins another chapter in its
long career of usefulness in New York
City free from debt. <a
The procession of the visiting clergy
and vestry, which formed in the parish
house on the Fifty-third Street side of
the building, was’ per the most iny>
teresting and decidedly ‘the most spec® _
tacular feature of the sefvice. It was
an unusual sight for the Fifth Avenue
throng on a business day, and a large
crowd assembled to watch the church
dignitaries enter the great door of the
new edifice. Led by Bishop Greer, who
was accompanied by the ' Sufffagan
Bishop, Charles S. Burch, the clergy, in ~
their robes of office, left the -parish
house .door a little before 11 o’clock,
The great doors wére locked, only the
side doors being used for the congréga-
tien.. As Bishop Greer reached the —
closed door he knocked loudly, A. ves- :
tryman on the other side turned the key,
the great door swung open, and the
clergy passed down the long aisles to the
chancel, which was magnificently deo-
crated with massive banks:,of simple
ne daisies, lilies, daffodils,and. ~~
onquils, given, ; . Stires,
rector of! the churcteira S rae al
ce Sa ane . te Pe seing of former work-
rge
warden of ae Toa Drecsnten oe
instruments of donation to Bishop Greer
and the sentence of consecration. was
pronounced by Suffragan Bishop Burch,
eee this solemn act of consecration
ae ing Greer offered a short prayer,
sag nt that all who sh ;
Fe age Me — ious work iat aaa
Tight use of it.” wenre *,

r: Stires read the first lesso
others who assisted in the service. oon
a Lloyd, President ‘of. the Board
of Missions; Bishop Coadjitor Brown
of Virginia, ishop
ony tee at aCe
or 0 it. James’s Episco
Church of this city. In attendances also
were Suffragan Bishop Atcheson of -
Conhecticut, and Bishop Nelson ef At-.
rie gp making J Bishops. of- the
ure 5
at the i" m — who were present
shop Greer took for the tex
sermon | the motto of the Bra gee os
ook, Knowledge and Conduct.” He
spoke of the danger of too. much in--
tellectualism in ous life, often
for goodness and eae
morality ntellectu: for
“The age demands that the ¢
be consistent and sincere,” <" ie
and square its conduct with its creed, -
whatever the creed may be. I have
brought this message to St. Thomas's
cause it is a great church and @
great people. This building stands on_
one of the main thoro ntared of the ~
metropolis of this continent; It can.
“ — ~~ eg oad a city that is built

should gy EER ore your example

e cises clo; mm ;
service: ne Ne ee union

St. Thomas’s Church was
ninety-three years ago, in 1828 ead the
present. edifice is the fourth in its
history. The first was at- Broadway
and Houston Street, which was burned
in 1851. The second was erected on
the same site in.1852. That was left
for the Fifth Avenue site in 1867, and
the new church there was opened in
1870. That was burned on Aug. 8, 1905.
Work on the present edifice was begun
in a the_ architects. being Cram,
Goo@hue & Ferguson. »Mesers: Cram.
and Goodhue were present the con-
secration service and had #™® place of

honor in the. procession.
McADOO THANKS PERU:

Republic’s Spokesman Regrets Inter-
ference with Entertainment Plans.
LIMA, Peru, April 25.—The newspa-
pers here publish a wireless. mes-
sage from William G. McAd Secre-.
tary of the United States Treasury, ad-.
dressed to Foreign Minister de la Riva.
Aguero, thanking’ him for the cordial
welcome extended during the Secretary’s
recent brief visit-to Peru. With this

is printed a A oy from the Foreign Min-
ister, expressing regret that © pro-
gram for the entertainment of the Sec-
retary and his party was upset. :

had been arranged at Lima to take place.
during the expected visit of
McAdoo and eeathe fhe Tate

panied him on.the cruiser Tenne dee
frome Chile, but according toa Lime dias ne
patch of April 23 the delegates decided
not to land at Callao, because of re-

ports of bubonic plague in Peru. ;
Secretary McAdoo went ashore om
the cruiser, returning on board after
visiting President’ Pardo for a quar
ter of an hour.

ART NOTES. 2

Oriental Collection of General Hwang
Hsing on View. pe:
At the American Art Galleries

May 1, the date of sale, the Oriental cole
lection of General Hwang Hsing will be
on view. General Hwang Hsing was the
first President of the Chinese’ Republic.
He is a modern of the moderns, and has —

former’s career with .an ardent spirit.
An extract from John J, ™ wney’s

‘sone through the vicisgitudes of a re-

An extensive program of festivities

tary © age
rs of the Interna=
tional High Commission;-.who accom-

neutrals may appeal to the law, of na-
“States Government is only for the|tions against seizures and condemna-
“best,” and finds tangible proof of | tions in violation thereof. This makes
that in our proposal to have the Chief | it evident that when our shippers ‘can

lor its conveniencé, not for its descrip-
retruth. That kingdom 1s not unity,

t complete disparity. There is no
consciousness common to the

“A” Revelation of the Chinese rolit=
tion” is prefaced to the catalogue ps
the ‘present exhibition, and {its lavish ap-
preciation will prove, perhaps, as in-
teresting as the treasures displayed in —

ril fa argued, the volunteer will again f
oscometegy pera be the pit of wheat! brother, “play# with Mttle boys that|the Backbone of the netinodt tee
or what not? Where’s Bohemia?/ swear.’ It also discloses where he goes escribed

Mr. Hay d as ‘fairy tales”
Speak. Here in your city:” proofs} for information when grave issues come

‘whe

according to members of the comifatttee

the rumors that a German sy, might
inexpugnable. “The nature of our| UP for settlement.

at least one definite: suggestion’ wi
presented as an alte ‘

landed -6n these shores within two

weeks after a declaration of war He
of Staff of our army treat with the

and the wolves, the sheep and
DO The animals are too much
uM strife against themselves ever to
a thought of. uniting for any

Soa nation united by no
hon sentiment will never take the

Mexican War Minister

ous activities.

regarding
future plans. CaRBANZA must wait
upon the outcome of the conference,
unless in the meanwhile he cgptures
VILLA and puts-an end to his murder-.,

make out a good case they -wil<not be
made to suffer wrongs without’ re-
dress. That puts a world of difference
betweén w: seizure of goods.and the
killing of passengers.

Further, evidence or-argumenit. will

In that case the con-4 be required to convince our Gévern-

people, our city’s institutions”:
isthe very voice of J6éHN MayYNakD
HARLAN. ‘Shall I keep your hogs? ”
And we call Judge TuTHILL’s atten-
tion especially to this last clinching
nail: “‘Hang-hog’ is Latin for
‘Bacon.”. The

it To believe, however, that five Ameri-

can boys did make that answer to that
question puts a severe strain on the av-
erage credulity, but of. course it must
be done, since Mr. Forp said so, and
even ‘the severest of his critics accept
his word without ‘affidavits or corrob-
orative testimony—when it is as of fact

resented a sug by: Representative
Lenroot that if the conferees. were nut
instructed . they might accept the
Senate amendment for a nitrate plant
*cesired by the Water Power Trust,
which is maintaining a lobby here.”
Mr. Hay said that as the House had

voted against the original nitrate pro-

vision, “‘the House conferees may be
depended upon not to disobey the Wishes

SURE WAGNER WON'T SERVE

And -Johnson «le Still’ O’Gorman’s
Candidate for Postmaster.
Special to The New York Times.

WASHINGTON, April  25.—Senator

O’Gorman; who returned. to Washington

today, said that he was confident that

the upper gallery and in the small room
of ithe second gallery, Among the lat-
ter are a number o@ screens to which
attention may especially be called.

is an important carved Coro
screén in twelve leaves, forming a com-"
plete picture of a Visit thade by a royal
personage and his

Chicago- mystifier of the House. haye never broken the

peror, who is seen

room of the Summer. Palace. Gra’
color and finer in tone, although
‘what ruder in workmanship, is anoth
Coromand

and not of opinion. Still, it is impossible

‘ trust of 0 on a conference
not to suspect that he selected those} committee, and I will not accept the
five boys with great care—that they|nitrate amendment unless “I rective :
were hand-picked, so. to speak. The further instructions from th not know what would be the next de-
American boy, taken as he runs, does ate conferees on the army: velopment. He said that thé:only name

e te 8 and .re rosentine : ny
not swear when addressed by eminent i rs Seniors rig the ‘Commnitine “ont he: had *ecommended for the place was ore gp Pie lhe ‘Buadhics
me who Wear it. ‘ millionaires, nor does he worry much | Military Affairs had-to be disregardcd | that of Joseph Johnson, and. that, as| “ne collection includes . ri
6 who ¥ r hay Bes ) about when or where he shouldn’t stand | t© them. It is understood that if| he was still convinced that there was} snuff bottles. in porcelain and
Nis is immeasurably the greatest} for the alleged apprehension in Mexico | sea from Scandinavia or across a land| wheréas at present one has to carry|up for his indubitable rights. He is Plate thik eee dre oe bl ek aks ee Ste: open: atones;, \yerieue tee: ee rae ‘
lem that that the movement across ‘the border, | frontier, as from Holland, a blockade| stocks. “’Tis hot, it smokes"; the 2B nt op ey svete, panies to a spnder {> so i aga eee eae int in oan added that he helievea: Postmaster Ree tiak Sea in hinge wd
Ags : apgeD 5 / : ) e because ‘avor of keepin rev: -Bui fay , ‘
whieh amt ide herent mate by hat tlt to tncote auch Inacommbe Chicago aster rendered tm fou |i aston Pee Hn Fans Me PSTR Sorta ee ns eS | ae

oad to assured greatness until it has} ference between the Generals wit! be

aénded that defect. The bond of politi-|iittle more than an interchange of

al citizenship is an empty form if it] courtesies, followed by a prompt with-
@ not bind the minds and hearts of drawal of General PEasuina’s force.

rc Ms There was never the slightest excuse

Robert FE. Wagner’s declination of the
New York Reitenas yastership “was final.
Mr. O’Gorman/indicated that he did

ment that the blockade.is impartial in| jeered the mystified. ;

its application. The note makes the|~ ‘“MineAkmour!” —‘Like a rich
point that since it is manifestly im-| Armour”: Does Judge Turmiu need
possible to put a stop to. Germany’s|any more evidence? “A Morris!”
importation of goods across an Inland|‘ The Yards,” “The stocks carry him,”

e House.”

picted by Miss Rutherfurd, Cyril
Hatch, and Dudley Morgan—Nijin-
ski, Carpaccio’s Gondolier.

Fully $5,000 was cleared last night by
the tableaux: given at the residence of
‘Mrs. W. K. Vanderbilt, Sr., for the
War sufferers of Venice. The tickets sold
for $25 each, and not one was left by
Tuesday noon.
Twelve paintings of the Venetian
~gchool were posed with skill. The light-
ing effects were wonderful. No, 1,
_ “Tobias and the Angel,” by Cima, waS
“posed by Miss Maud Kahn, W. Forbes
Morgan, and Harry Cushing, 3d. No. 2
* Carpaccio’s Dream of St. Ursula,’’ was
posed by Mrs. Arthur 8. Burden and
-Mrs. Henry Worthington Bull. No. 3
’ was Giorgione’s ‘‘ Madonna Enthroned,”

showing Miss Barbara Rutherfurd in
old Ttelian blue seated, with Dudley

Bc Morgan at one side and Cyril Hatch, as

- the saint, in ne Bae tones, on the

other side. No. 4 itian’s ‘‘ Educa-

» tion of Love,”’ in which Mrs. Sidney W.

’ Fish and the Misses Mary Kernochan
@nd Mary Hoyt Wiborg posed. Th

Mantegna’s ‘“‘ St. George and the

fon,” revealed Miss Edith Deacon in

@ suit of armor, brightened by deep

cords and crimson sword scab-

with the stricken dragon behind

©. 6 was Bellini’s ‘Madonna and
d,”’ ed by Miss Dorothy Bigelow,
granddaughter of the late, ohn Bige-
No. T was Veronese’s “* The ge

and Mercedes
Allori’s ‘* Judith,’’ Bano
oe tt in cream= A
pee ocees with a 6 sword, an
pein oatg head—a Metropolitan
.property—dangling from one

No. 9 was Tiepoli’s ‘‘ Embarking of

Cleopatra,” posed by Mrs. Archibald
. Alexander, the former Miss Helen

ey, Whose gorgeous gold and cream

and curious royal headdress set

her unusual type; her_ brother,
. Barney, F. Burrall Hoffman,

Robert Locher, and Mr. Raimon

with her. o. 10 was another
sede “Al Fresco at the Villa

and showed Miss Gabrielle

heer a pastel-tinted gown, with

. Howard G. Cushing brilliantly ¢os-

ed and showing her red-gold hair,

and Francis Roche presenting a tray of
Summer fruit to Miss Warren.

No. 11, Loughi’s ‘‘ Showing the
Rhinoceros, ey with the — a
Metropolitan pera pro e
foreground, while Mrs. Newbold Le Roy

ar, in an eighteenth century cos-

Seager *holding @ small fan, surrounded

rs. Ralph Sanger, Mrs. W. Astor

by Mr er, Miss de Wolfe, and Miss Diane

del Monte, some in masks, looked over
the edge of the arena.

The twelfth tableau, and one at
elicited much applause, was Warslav
gr me of the Ballet Russe, posing as

Gondolier in Carpaccio’s painting.

The waits tween the pictures were
broken by Misuel Llobet, the Spanish

itarist, who meres Italian and Span-

ih music, Tom Dobson, who
pang a series of'Italian songs. Vecsey’s
orchestra also played.

The tableaux were Posed by Baron de
Meyer, and the etropolitan Opsrs
Company looked after the ne Meaty. oe
expenses were paid Mrs. Van erbilt.
Mrs. W. K. Vanderbilt, Jr., Mrs. James
A. Sae Mrs. A. D. B. Pratt, Mrs.
Otto H. Kahn, Mrs. Harry Payne ‘Whit-
bey. Mrs. rerke Whitney, and Miss Bar-

ra Rutherfurd.

The fg a in charge was.

posed oO
M. Ty aig Mt

com-
. Delano, Mrs. Philip
Fe . Walter E. Maynard, Miss
d a iach, Rawlins L. Cottenet,
W. Crowninshield Serge de
Diaghilett and Baron de Meyer.
oO t Maynard had charge of the
ckets.
Among those present were Mrs. Rob-
ert Bacon, Mrs. John MacCullough,
ts. Henry Clews, Mrs. Otto Kahn,
Ss. Vincent Astor, Mrs. Ogden Goelet,
HB, P.
hitney, Mrs.
N, Breitung, Mrs.
ae Wilson, Mrs. Cc. N. Bliss, Mrs.
Yohn Magiem, Mrs. George von L.
eyer, Mrs. Whitney Warren, Mrs. W.
by w, Mrs. Francis_ Burrall
offman, Mrs. W. K. Vanderbilt, Jr.,
Rutherfurd Stuyvesant, Mrs. Stan-
Mortimer, William Salomon, Clar-
Mackay, and Lloyd Warren.

Mrs.

_A. Dance for Miss Elizabeth Wyeth.

Mrs. Stephen G. Williams was the

is last evening at a small informal

for her youngest daughter, Miss

th Jarvis Wyeth, who will make

début next inter. e guests,

who numbered perhaps 100, included

fext year’s buds and a few older girls,

the Misses Alice Lawrence, Clare Lee,

ura Lorillard, Annette Moran, Char-

_ ure. Nina Paris, Margaret Chis-

aret Schroeder, Frances Field,

siaide Landon, Helen Hoadley, Jane

e Geer, Leslie re gy ee

4 Th nt hg ‘Rosalie Bloodgood, Amy

Johnson, ro actly Trevor, Penelope

, Charlotte Stron Mary Francke
tharine Morgan, y

e Wyeth. ‘

Wiggin-Brooks Engagement.
‘Mrs. Arthur S. Brooks of Indian-
@polis, Ind., announces the engagement
of her daughter, Miss Helen Bennett
' ks, to Lewis M. Wiggin of New

ork. The wedding is set for October
t. Mr. Wiggin is a member of the
le Club of s city and also a mem-
of the Seventh Regiment and is

Post, an

the insurance business at 55 Liberty®

, Miss Marie L. Perin Engaged.
Special to The New York Times.
BALTIMORE, April 25.—Announce-

ent was made today by Mrs. Nelson
erin of the engagement of her daugh-
, Miss Marie Louise Perin, to Will-
Whitridge. Both Miss Perin and

r. Whitridge are prominent in Balti-
society. Miss Perin is a sister of
Oliver Perin of New York. zne wedding

Bf will take place in the Autumn

_ HALL’S BEDDING

_ The Standard of Quality

fe manufacture all our goods.

; materials and workmanship |

re second to none.
A large variety of Springs,
Aattresses, Brass and Iron Beds,

Comfortables; etc. at

en conoitie
f ae Rote ESONE,

Harold Pittis.

MISS E..R. BROWN A BRIDE.
Daughter of Mrs. Howard McwWiill-

-lams Weds Edwin Muller, Jr.

‘The wedding of Edwin Muller, Jr:, of
Laidnicead: Ky... and Miss Bleanor Ryck-
man Brown, a daughter of Mrs. Howard
McWilliams of New York and Plainfield,
N.-5., took place last evening at 8
o'clock at the Central Presbyterian
Church, at Madison Avenue and Fifty-
seventh Street. The wedding ceremony
was performed by the Rev. Edwin

‘| Muller of Lexington, the father of the

bridegroom, assisted by the Rev. John

.| 8. Zelie of Plainfield, N. J.

The bride walked with her stepfather,
Howard McWilliams, who gave her in
marriage. Her frock was white tulle em-

} broidered in seed pearls, and the court

train was corded silk. The tulle veil
was held at the back of her blonde
coiffure with bands of silver and orange
blossoms, and her flowers were vane
lilacs and orange -blossoms.

Miss Marjorie Walbridge Brown, whose
marriage to Kenneth H. Condit will
take place June 1, was her sister’s maid
of honor. Her frock of wedgwood ‘blue
tulle was touched with silver and showed
a silver lace underdress, and she carried
pink roses’ and lavender sweet peas.
The bridesmaids wore frocks of wedg-
wood blue and mauve tulle over flesh-

and silver lace on the corsage, and all
of them carried wedgwood blue feather
fans, These girls were the Misses Helen
Harrington of Plainfield, Dorothy Tuttle
of Brooklyn, Katherine Mayer of In-
dianapolis, Frances Walbridge of
Springfield, Mass. ; Margaret Mears of
Poreland, Ore., ‘ana Sarah Washburn of
Evanston, Ind.

Mr. Muller had his brother, Mortimer
Glover Muller, for his best man, and
the ushers were Charles Bates Hunter
of Cambridge, Mass.; James O. Murray
of Plainfield, Kenneth H. Condit of
Princeton, Robert Lynde of Louisville,
Ky., and Charles Bann of St. Paul,
Minn.

The wedding reception was held in the
0 sar Nes sacar which was decorated

wedding

oe welding’ ieee 2 Mr AMtall "

will live in Garden City. . a,
OTTO P. HEYN MARRIES.
New York Lawyer Weds Miss Ethel

L. Just In Scarsdale.

The marriage of Otto P. Heyn, son of
Mrs, O. P. Heyn of Staten Island, and
Miss Ethel Luise Just, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. George A. Just of Scaredale,
N. Y., took place yesterday noon in the
Church of St, James-the-Less, Scars-
dale, the Rev. William O. Jarvis, the
rector, officiating. Pink roses with
Palms and smilax formed the decora-
tions.

The bride wore ivory white satin and
tulle with rose point, and carried
orchids and lilies. Miss Alice Van Horn,
the maid of honor, was in green taffeta
and silver lace, and carried American
Beauty roses. Miss Dorothy Just was
her sister's flower girl. William Ehler
Heyn was his brother’s best man, and
the ushers were George A. Just, Jr.,
F. A. Borgemeister, George O. Castell,
and Edwin Stumpp. The wedding break-
fast was served at Beaupel, the coun-
try home of the Justs.

-.Mr. Heyn is a son of the late Otto P.
Heyn, Vice President of William Stake|
& Co. He was graduated from Prince-
ton in 1912 and from the Columbia Law
School in 1915, and is a member of the
bar, Phi Beta Kappa, Phi Gamma
Delta, the Arch Club of Princeton, and

of Troop E. On their return from a

brief honeymoon they will live in New
York.

Pemberton-Tower Wedding Date.
The wedding of Miss Katharine Tower,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Edward M.
C. Tower of 611 West 145th Streét, to
Murdock Pembcrton of this city, will
be celebrated on Saturday afternoon at
5 o’clock in St. Luke’s Church. The
Rev. G. Ashton Oldham, rector of the
church, will officiate. The bride will be
hunattended, and Mr. emberton will

have as best man his brother, Brock
Pemberton. The .ushers chosen are

Join B. Reynolds, Irwin Wheeler, B. F.
Cornelius, Jr., and Alexander H. Wooll-
cott. Mr. Pemberton is the press repre-
sentative for the Strand Theatre.

Bloomingdale-Goodman Engagement

The engagement of Miss Rita Good-
man, a daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Leo-
pold Goodman of 555 Park Avenue, to
Samuel J. Bloomingdale, a member of
the firm of Bloomingdale Brothers, is
announced. Mr. Bloomingdale is a son

of the,late Lyman G. Bloomingdale and
of Mrs. Bloomingdale. No date has been
mentioned for the wedding.

Tourists for Bermuda and Panama.

Some of the tourists booked to leave
today for Bermuda on the Bermudian
are:

of and Mrs. C. A. feerene, Cc. R.
Charles Bleasby, B. L. Barwell; Miss L.
Bri rilt, Mr. and Mrs. Brnest Clark, Mr. and
Mrs. Vernon R. Dunlap, Mr. and Mrs, Frank
Gordon, Mr. and ay T. Hoey, Mr. and Mrs,
Thomas Heath, Dr. and Mrs, E. Ingersoll,
Mr. and Mrs. William Jordan, . and Mrs.
M. H. Johnson, Mrs. C, A. Jackson, Miss BH.

D. Kellogg, Mr. and Mrs. ee Miller, Miss

E. F. Moore, the Rev. C, Stuart, the Rev.

and Mrs. C. M. Turnell the Rev. M. B. Wil-
son, Cadwallader Washburn.

ZACAPA, (Colon)—D. Ba and E.

. M,. E. Connor, Mrs. D. Baker, Miss N.C.

~. Whitney,° Mrs.

raday, Miss M. A. Faraday, Mr.

F. J. Elliott, Bae’ Haliqck, BE

M. Johnson, A. C, Gardner, Luis D. rrero,

Jones,

Passengers from Gothenburg.

Among the passengers arriving yes-
terday from-Gothenburg on the Stock-
holm were:

Oscar Eklund, Mrs. Edith Eklund, G, Ead-
wards, K, Fredin, Mrs. E, Fredin, Gustav
Hagstrom, un Larson, C, F. Nilson,
Ivar Nilson, Wickman, Mrs, A. Swanson,

A. Rosell, Bo Dahiman, ‘Mrs. Maria Ander-
son, Oscar Grain, K. S. Rydell.

‘For pleasure or
‘profit, the best
is the cheapest,
good ones require
no more space,
ante mpre care.

OF WAVED SPE NCERS

wn “BUTTERFLY”

tinted satin, with silver-lace petticoats.

ALFRED 0, BEDFORD
WEDS MISS KALLEY

Son of Standard Oil Official’
Marries Daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. F. D. Kalley

IN HOLY TRINITY, BROOKLYN

Palme from Collection of. Late King/
Leopold in Church Decorations—
John D. Rockefeller a Guest. +

The wedding of Alfred Clarke Bedford,
a son of Alfred Coffin Bedford, lirst
Vice President of the Standard Oil Com- |
pany of New Jersey, and Mrs. Bedford,
‘and Miss- Beatrice Sherman Kalley, a
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Frederick
Draper Kalley, took place at 5 o’clock
yesterday afternoon in Holy Trinity
Church, Brooklyn, the Rev. J. Howard
Melish, the rector, officiating, The
church decorations included some of the
huge palms imported from the collee-
tion of the late King Leopold of Bel-
gium, which formed a_ background,
while pink rambler roses and pink and
blue hydrangeas completely masked the
chancel and pulpit, and the nave was
festooned with white roses.

The bride, who walked with her
father, wore whité tulle over silver lace,
a court train of white satin, and a tulle
veil held with natural orange blossoms,
and carried lilies of the valley and

Soule, was matron of honor, and all of
the attendants wore costumes. having
skirts of different shades of violet tulle
over lavender taffeta, and having side-
hoops wound with old blue. The white
tulle bodices had silver lace shoulder
straps and tulle sleeves gathered at the
elbows with old blue ribbon. Their wide-
brimmed hats were trimmed with pale
violet tulle and faced with silver and
blue, with long streamers of violet tulle.
‘hey carried lavender pansies and apri-
cot-colored sunrise roses.

he bridesmaids were the Misses
Frances Bedford; Agnes de Selding,
Aline Block, Helen C. Kerr, Del a
Bowen,. and ;Ruth Hutchinson. Miss
Frances homing of Richmond, Va.,
was the flower girl.

Henry G. Hotchkiss was Mr. Bed-
ford’s best man, and the ushers bape
Dean Bedford, Arthur Turner Soule, E
Livingston hort,, Richmond Ware,
Rodney C, Ward, Edward F. de Seld-
ing, and John Martinez. The wedding
reception was held at the home of the
tride, 10 South Portland Place.

The wedding guests included John D.
Rockefeller, who had just returned
from the West; Mr. and Mrs. John D.
Rockefeller, Jr., Mr. and Pas John D,
Archbold, Mr. pe. Mrs. E. Bedford,
Mr. and Mrs. W Bonbrighi, Mr. sand
Mrs. Omri Fond ‘Hibbard r. and Mrs,
Lewis Cass Ledyard, Mr. and Mrs. John
penne Kerr, Mr. and Mrs. Charles

tt, Mr. and Mrs, F. B. Pratt,
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert L. Pratt, Mr. and
Mrs. George D. Pratt, Mr. and Mrs.
Herman de Selding, Mr. and Mrs. Joel
de Selding, Mr. and Mrs. Francis L.
Hine, Mr. and Mrs. Walter Jennings,
and Mr. and Mrs. Preston Davie.

MARRIED AT THE ST. REGIS.

Clifford Hemphill Weds Miss Mary
A. Tripp—The Attendants.

The marriage of Clifford Hemphill, a
son of Mr. and Mrs. Alexander J. Hemp-
hill of New York, and Miss Mary A.
Tripp, a daugtiter of Mr. and Mrs. Guy
E, Tripp of 677 Madison Avenue, was
solemnized at 4 o’clock yesterday after-
noon in the Louis XVI. Room of the
St. Regis, the ceremony being performed
by the Rev. William L, Sullivan of All
Souls’ Unitarian Church, New York, un-
der a canopy of lilies and other Spring
flowers. None except relatives were
pretens at the ceremony, which was fol-
Llowed by a reception for 200 guests.

The bride, whose father gave her in
marriage, wore a white satin gown, with
a train forming part of the skirt, and
over this a tulle train. The tulle veil
w held with a bandeau of pearls,
which crossed the forehead. The upper
pert of the coiffure was uncovered, and
he veil was caught by sprays of orange
blossoms over each ear. e corsage
was heavily embroidered in pearls, and
her flowers were lilies of the valley.

The bridesmaids were the bride’s sis-
ters, the Misses Olive A. and Adah R
Tripp. | They wore robin’s-egg blue taf-
feta ffocks, brocaded with silver roses
and having silver lace and blue tulle
posstenete. Their natural leghorn hats

d blue taffeta crowns, touched with
silver, and a mauve orchid on each
brim. They carried clusters of mauve
orchids. Alexander M. Swain of Phila-
delphia was best man. There were no
ushers.

Pa their honeymoon Mr. and Mrs.

cay: oy | will go to Spring Lake, N. J.,
me e Summer, and in the Autumn will
make their home in Montclair, N

MISS ASPINWALL’S WEDDING.

Attendants for Her Marriage to
Chester C. Graham on May 20.

The marriage of Miss Emily Woolsey
Aspinwall, a daughter of Mrs. George
Snowden Redfield of 25 West Eleventh
Street and granddaughter of the late
John Lloyd Aspinwall, and Chester
Campbell Graham of Philadelphia is to
take place on Saturday, May 20, at
4 o’clock, in the Church of St. Mary
the Virgin, West Forty-sixth Street, and
the Rev. Dr. J. G. H. Barry will offi-
ciate.

Miss Emily Shirley Wilmerding is to
be the maid of’ honor, and the Misses

Maria Lawton of New York and Eleanor
Stewart of Bloomington, IIl., will be the
bridesmaids. Mr. Graham's brother, Ro-
land Graham, will be the best man; and
the four ushers are to be Breck Aspin-
wall, G. William Breck and E. L. Tevis
of New York and William H - Gardiner
of Philadelphia.

The reception will be held at the
Buckingham. ‘

A DANCE FOR DEBUTANTES.

Mrs. T. H. Talmage a Dinner Host-
ess Before Event at Sherry’s.

A costume dance for débutantes and
older girls was held in Sherry’s large
ballroom last night. It was a subscrip-
tion dance, and those-in charge of it
were Mrs. Francis McNeil Bacon, Mrs.
R. Fulton Cutting, Mrs. Frederick Fos-
ter Carey, Mrs. Carl de Gersdorff, Mrs.
Charles Dana Gibson, Mrs. Russell H.
Hoadley, Mrs. Thomas H. Howard, Mrs.
William P.. Hamilton, Mrs: Alvin w.
Krech, Mrs. James - Markoe, and
Mrs. Charles Merrill Chapin.

A number of ee took piace before
the dance, and Mrs. Thomas Talmage
gave a dinner of forty covers at the
Ritz-Carlton and took her guests to the
dance. The girls included. the Misses
2, ep eda a and arate Bristed, Marion
Dinsmore, 'Madelei Carey, Elizabeth
Schuyler Howard, rene LL. Gibson,
Louise Hoadley, Helen M. Hamilton?’
Jane. and ances Morgan Sngeiinn:
Krech, Elizabeth and uth Cutting,)
Pauline Bacon, Anette Markoe, and’
Mary Stevens Chapin.

GORDON JONES INJURED.

ph ce
Son and Son-in-law Killed In Same
Automobile Accident.

DENVER, April 25.—Gordon Jones,
Denver banker and member of the Fed-
eral Reserve Board of the Kansas City
District, was seriously: injured today in
an antomobile accident, in which his
eee Gordon Jones, Jr., 21, and his son-
in-law, -Turner Jones, 26, were killed.
Mrs. Gordon Jones, Sr., s. Turner
Jones, their daughter, and their five-
year-old son were also injured. :

.The,. accident, caused by a: tire ex-

plosio rred near Bennett, thirty-
en iniles east of Denver. ee

orchids. Her sister,-Mrs, Arthur Turner | Ge

oria, Ill
ange, N.

FOR BELGIAN REFUGEES. »
Sidney Brooks, Sir Charles Allen,

and Mrs. Loeb Speak.

Sidney Brooks, the British writer;
Sir Charles Allen, here ‘‘on his Maj-
esty’s service,” and Mrs. William Loeb,
made stirring appeals for the Lady
Lugard Hespitality’ Committee, which
has for its object the care of the form-

erly well-to-do Belgian refugets in the

United Kingdom, at.a meeting vester.
day afternoon in the home of De
Lancey Nicoll, 23 East Thirty-ninth
Street.

August Belmont, who presided, told
the gathering that the condition of these
Belgian refugees was identical with
what would be the pught of those of
the same class in this country, if the
United States were overrun as Belgium
was. H® said that this relief work was’
atarted by the British Government,
which turned it over to Lady Ligard
as soon as it was realized that it was
a difficult and delicate task.

en Mr. Brooks was introduced he
said that while the relief of the form-
erly well-to-do Belgians. was a small
problem, it was a pressing one

“Europe is Le arf to pieces,”’ he said,
“and these ns are some of tne
fragments that have PO pete blown to
England. We intend to preserve then
until we can replace them in their own
place in the new Belgiwa which will
arise after the war.

He oe ay by saying that it was neces-
asf — American aid be ee:

ngland had already given $150,

in charity since the et aes hae of
the war, and had also absorbed more
England was sending aid to Poland,
Serbia, Northern France, and the other
war-stricken countries of her allies, he
said, and he characterized his appeal as
‘*the invitation of the aristocracy of
England to the aristocracy of America
to —, Pa! the salvation of the aris-

ayy, M2 f Belgium

harles ‘Allen paid that the
of England owed the Germans
for ong thing, and that was that the
rman Government provided free trans-
portation for the passage of the food}
sent from England to the English pris-
oners now held in Germany. ‘* Without
this,”’ he said, ‘‘ our men would starve.”

After giving a vivid picture of En
land in wartime, and telling of how e
various English gentle sox ies are tak-
ing care of-numbers of Belgian families
as guests, he said: ‘‘ This is your battle
also. If we go down to defeat—as I
am sure we cannot—you will have to
protect your borders from Germany, and
will have to inaintain a tremendous
army and navy for your own salvation.”

Mrs. William Loeb, who has. worked
with the committee in England and
Scotland, gave several incidents of her
personal =o eriences, and said that she
was now taking care of several Belgian
families at her castle in Scotland.

Mrs. Cornelius C. Cuyler, sister of
Mr. Nicoll, was hostess in the absence
of Mrs. Nicoll, ncw recovering from an
automobile accident abroad, and it was
unofficially announced that more than
$5,000 had already been received here
for the committee.

ong those who attended were
Thomas F. Ryan, Mrs. Bernard M.
Baruch, Mrs. Jules 8. Bache, Mrs, Mor-
timer L. Schiff, Benjamin Nicoll, Mrs.
Charles H. Marshall, Mrs. John ‘Dyne-
ley Prince, Louis Wiley, and Mrs. Ma-
rion Lindsay of London.

Theatre Party for Miss Helen Geer.

Mrs. Mark W. Potter entertained last
evening for Miss Helen Geer, the débu-
tanté daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Walter
Geer, with a theatre party, followed
by dancing, Mrs. Geer and Mrs. Potter
being the chanerons. The guests includ-
ed the Misses Marion Becker, Kate and
Helen Griffin, Marie Thayer, Esther L.
H. Tiers,- Glory Thomas, Katharine
Lyon, Augusta Geer, Prudence Sterry,
Gertrude Carrere, Lorraine Allen, and
Pell Foster, Jr.; J. Berry Underhill, Jr.;
J. M. Forbes, Jr.; Rodne Williams,
Hen I. Wilson, Edwar Martinez,
Freeman Smith, Fg J. Hilliard,
Leonard Jacobs, Danforth Geer
Nelson Shields, midney Gould, an
Charles and Dana Wyman.

Lanahan-Bonsal Wedding.

Special to The New York Times.
BALTIMORE, April 25.—The first of
the Easter weddings in Baltimore so-
ciety was that. of Miss Margaretta
Pleasants Bonsal and William Wallace
Lanahan, which took place today at

] Eltham, the country home of the bride’s

parents, Mr. and Mrs. Leigh Bonsal,
near Ruxton, Md. The ceremony was
performed at 12:30 o'clock by the Rev.

William J. Ennis, S. J., President of
Loyola College, and Cardinal Gibbons
pronounced the nuptial blessing.

The bride was attended only by her
two sisters, Miss omg Camilla Bonsal
a débutanté of the last Winter, an
Miss Frances Leigh Bonsal, who will
make her début next season. Walter
R. Abell was best man to the bride-
groom.

Obituary Notes.

vy. GILBERT F. GERVAIS, pastor
of the ran Catholic Church of Our Lady
of Lourdes at Schuylerville, Saratoga County,
N. ¥., died there yesterday. He was 40 years
old.

P. TOOMEY, 54 years old, pub-
whee Tel ohe Columbian, the organ of the
Knights of Columbus in the United States,
died at his home, 183 North Walnut Street,
East Orange, N, J., last night, of blood
poisoning. eTrhe bursting of a varicose vein
started an infection which progressed rapidly
a E RT, f thirty years

RGE Ss. STEWA or y
o senaent of ‘Mountainaale, Sullivan County,
Y., and at one time a Justice of the
Peace of that place, died there on Sunday
in his sixty-third year. Mr. Stewart was
born in old Greenwich Village in Manhattan
and left a widow ned two stepsons, Charles
B. and John B. Campbell. a i
MAS STACKPOLE, [i7 years 0 a
véctioat of Brooklyn for naff a centyry, ‘died
at his home, 217 Bergen Street, on Monday.
NNA L. WENTZ died yesterday at
Peng: of her brother, Herbert L. Wentz,
2,023 Bedford Avenue, Brooklyn, aged 43
years. The interment will be at Meadville,
Penn.

ADOLPH WIMPFHEIMER, 65 years old,
a prominent business man of Canarsie, and
an active member of the Grace M. E, Church
there, died at his home on Avenue L and
Railroad Crossing on Monday. He was @
member of Tyrian Lodge, F. and A. M., and
left a widow, two daughters, and a son.

TERENCE F. DOYLE,
years in the employ of the B. R. T.,
Sunday at his home, 244 Madison Street,
Brooklyn, from pneumonia.’ He was 55. years

old.

RANK THOMAS DUTTSON, 68 years old,
a wae known resident of Bath Beach, and
a member of New Utrecht Council, R. A.;
Aerie No. 406, #. and B, and of the St.
George Society of Manhattan, died on Sun-
day at his home, 60 ‘Bay Twenty-fifth
Street. He is survived by his. wife and three
daughters.

CHARLES AUGUST PRELLER, for many
years with the Mutual Life Insurance Com-
pany and an active member of St. Luke’s P.
E. Church in Brooklyn, of which he was @
member of the Board of Vestrymen, died
from heart disease on last Saturday at his
home, 152 Lefferts Place, Brooklyn. Mr.
Preller was born in’ Liverpool, Bugiand,
sixty-seven years ago, and was a son 0 e
fate Williann and Olivia Land Preller. He
was a charter member of the Apollo Club of
Brooklyn, and left a widow and three sisters.

Mrs, ELEANOR BURNS, wife of Captain
James Burns of the Montauk Steamboat
Company, died from pneumonia on Monday
at her home, 888 Lefferts Avenue, Richmond
Hill, in her twenty-seventh year.

OSEPH B. VAN .NOSTRAND,. 60
old for many years in the carriage bui ding
business in. Flushing, L. I., and a lifelong
resident of that place, died at his home, 67
Farrington Street, cn Monday. He is sur-
vived by his wife and a daughter.

GEORGE B. MICELE, who was appointed
Chief Inspector of the Sewer Department in
1898, nap 8 on Monday at his home in Fiush-
ing, L, I., in bis fifty-sixth year,

e ELISHA W. SWEET, a physician who
whe noted for ine treatment of strained
muscles and tendons, died on Sunday at his
home in Worcester, Masé., in his seventy-
first year.

SAMUEL T. H. ALLMAN, for eleven years
a member of the Rhode Island slature,
died on Monday at his home in Newport,

JAMES JOHNSON, a distant relative ‘of
President Tyler, died on Monday | in Packer-
ville, Conn., in his seventy-fourth year,

Mrs. CAROLINE pause. one of the oldest
residents of Worcester Count ty, =. * Mon-
day at the home of 8 dauahter ‘oseph-
ine Rabie, in Scareda Y., ‘in eee Tineo.
Me, SRABOIB ‘7, CH DWIOK,

Dr. FRANCIS T. A

and drug of Asbu: ry Park, N. a
Monday ye saventy-third ‘y

eg na bg
a for many years, on Monday
22s Name ti ss
tieth year.

for twenty-five
died on

a 5, Daraictan

et Orange. N. J

Laan ati
J. in dle.

F yeni

nth Be elbe

TIFFANY STOCK HELD

AT PREMIUM OF 668%

Shares of $1 000 Par Value
Listed at $7,683 in Appraisal
‘ of Chas: M. Moore’s Estate.

HEARNINGS $1,077,759 A YEAR

Late Paris Manager’s Estate, Taxa-
ble in New York, Valued at

Stock of Tiffany & Co., the par value
of which was $1,000, has been valued at
$7,653 a share in the appraisal of the
estate of Charles M. Moore, the man-

r of the Paris branch of the house,
who died on March 30, 1914 in Algiers.
The net estate taxable in New York
was valued at $1,350,252 in the report
filed yesterday by Transfer Tax Ap-
praiser Charles Eweeney.

In the distribution of the estate Mrs.
Louise Harjes Moore, widow of the de-
cedent, received $795,151; Agnes Moore
Alaux, Millie Moore Caudoray, Louise
Moore and Hilda Moore, thé four daugh-
ters of the decedent, each received
passes to the decedent’s trustees for the
benefit of the widow and two brothers
of the decedent.

Affidavits submitted by Harry H.
Treadwell, Secretary and Assistant
Treasurer of Tifany & Co., were the
basis on which the valuation of the
stock was made. They showed that
the dividends for the years 1908, 1909
and 1910 were 25 per cent.; for 1911 they
were 85 per cent.; for 1912 and 1913 they
were 40 per cent; for 1914, 35 per cent.;
and for 1915, 25 per cent.

The highest known price paid for the
stock of Tiffany & Co., was $6,000 a
share when ten shares were bought by
the company itself in 1913. In 1914 one
share was sold for $5,700. There were
2,400 shares originally issued.

The assets and liabilities as shown by
Mr. Treadwell’s affidavit of April 30,

ASSETS.

b tan, © assets,

"ioe, ry ebiesedncetdcse aces > 12,171, 488.71

Land, buildings, yen and ma-

Accounts payable $601,299.17
Dividend declared = 2, .207 shares 772,450.00
Reserves agajnst depreciation o

inventory, bad debts, losses, &c. 4,402,463.45

The aggregate net earnings for seven
years preceding April 30, 1914, were
$7,544,319, or a yearly average of $1,-
077,769.88. The net earnings for the year
capital losses in the Paris and London
offices during 1915 owing to the war
were not ascertainable, but will be in-
cluded in the statement of business for
the fiscal year ended April 30, 1916, The
appraiser, however, did not take this
condition into consideration.

The statement also showed that the
salaries paid to officers of the company
e year, and that in 1915 they were

The assets in the estate of Mr. Moore
were: Bank deposits, $28,986; accrued
dividends from Tiffany stock, $17,500;
United” Stites “Steel, .common, $333,900;
700 shares United States Steel, pre-
ferred, $76,650; 2,860 shares General
Electric Company, $413,270; 320 shares
Lag ay ph ap ane ‘ —
$36,320; shares Grea orthern
way Company, preferred, $40,320; 400
shares Union ot aga Railway Company,
preferred, $33,550; 800 shares Pormutet
Company, referred, $27,000, and several
sme bincks of ‘other stocks.

DAVID H. KING’S WILL FILED.

Estate Divided Among Builder's
Daughters and Son.

The will of David H. King, Jr., who
laid the base of Liberty Statue and
built Madison Square Garden and many
other of the important buildings and
who died on April 20, was filed yesterday
for probate. Jeanne King, his daughter
living at 512 Fifth Avenue, is to re-
ceive an annuity of $5,000 and the de-
cedent’s automobiles and household ef-
fects. William Watson, 512 Fifth Av-
enue, a friend, gets "$5,000 in recog-
nition of services ‘‘in doing personal
work for me.’’

The income of the residuary estate is
to be divided in three equal shares
among his other children, Ruth King
of 512 Fifth Avenue, a Van Re King
Flagg of Philadelphia, ‘and bee ensse-
laer C. King of Wilmington, N

Widow Gets Estate of Roosevelt
Hospital Suicide.

An appraisal of the estate of Robert
Lincoln Lee, a member of the New
York Yacht Club and the Tennis and
Racquet Club; who shot himself while in

Roosevelt Hospital on Feb. 7, 1915, was
filed yesterday by Transfer Tax Ap-
praiser Frank M. Bowers. The net es-
tate amounted to $321,346. Mrs, Jo-
sephine Claiborne Lee, the widow, was
the beneficiary.

The realty assets of the estate were
Six lots at Long Island City, $1 3.000:
one-half interest in fourteen lots Long
Island City, $7,704; ewuity, $8,465, oA
acet lots Lon, Island City, appraised at

ne-fifth interest in Sec-
cad tees, $3,250; one-fifth interest in
178 Allen Street. $2,550. The deduction
against the realty for dower was

Other assets were bank deposits,
stocks and_ bonds, S288, Lyd interest in
estate of Louise M. oan .
$4,194; interest in estate of fir erick H.
Lee, deceased, $10, ; accrued income
from trust created under the Pg of
Frederick H. Lee, deceased, $1,600. The
largest holdings of stocks were 625
shares sn end Railroad Com-
pany, $32,812, and 93 shares General
Blestrie “> ompany, $13,

Ex-Police Lieut. Tims Dies.
Oliver Tims, a retired Lieutenant of

which he retired under the age limit
ten years.ago, and for years known as
a Shakespearean lecturer and scholar,
died yesterday at his home, 365 West
Twenty-fourth Street; in his seventy-
fifth year.

Only last Monday he was elected a
vestryman of the Protestant Episcopal
Church of the Holy Apostles, , Ninth
Avenue and mig ro ny Street, after
a hot election, d I sa which the rector,
the Rev. Henry K. Denlinger, headed
the opposition ticket.

gas ase Tims was known years ago
tor active work under Inspector
Willian Riley in the cleaning-up of the
old Tenderloin.

Sven Magnus Gronberger.
Sven Magnus Gronberger, one of the
[ibrafians of the Smithsonian. Institu-
tion at Washington, D. C., since 1907,
died on Monday in his fiftieth year. He
was a — of Sweden, and a graduate
of the Gymnasium Norrkoping there.
Mr. Gronberger was studying zoology
and geology at George Washington Uni-
ah aA at the time of hts death, and had
punt lished several papers on those top-
hei ieustive works of his wire pn Po
u 4 mon on‘ ea. Cc
a Pre ty ian a review of

Ree bow te

the New York Police Department, from |

‘FORTUNE'S FETE’ FOR BLIND

Dances Illustrative of ‘Fantasies of
' (Chance. at Astor Benefit. :

efit of the New York Association for the
Blind was entitled ‘‘ Fortune's. Féte ”
and took place last night at the Astor.
It was the ninth in the series and was
opened by special dances illustrative of
the fantasies of Dame Fortune- and
Chance.

Edward N. Oren. opened the program
with a hariequin number. Miss Lydia
Lopokova yg tk Alexandre Gavrilov of
the ¢ Serge ge iaghileff Ballet appeared
in’ Russian dances, and Miss Ina Kis-
sell gave a gypsy ‘solo dance. A Bum.
ber of societ amateurs presented “‘ The
Wheel of ortune,”
ranged by Mrs, Bertha Ware Cady to
music by James M. Beck, Jr... Among
them were the Misses Eva~ Ingersoll
Brown, Genevieve Clendenin, Katherine
Colby, Mercer French, Louise Gilder; }
e rances. Haney. Dorothy James, Abby

P. Morrison, Florence Rising, Katherine
Satterlee, ‘Elise Rice,
Claire van Lennep
Mrs. Lyle Evang

Frances pe mag
Baroness de Ro
‘Mahan, Mrs. C.*

| Vaughan, and Mrs, Frith.

Booths ‘were erected around the ball-
room and in tke lounge where, by -dim
and mysterious lights, the fate of the
curious was told by veiled oracles,
palmists, -crystal gazers, and other
readers of the past and future. ‘Amon
these were a number. 6f well known
amatetr fortune tellers, who by means
of cards or magic wands were able to
tell the past of zome surprisingly well.

The affair was given under the patron-
age of the President and Mrs. ilson,
Pegg and Mrs, Hughes, Governor and

. Whitman, Mayor and io ay mee
Mra: Otto H. Kahn, and oth

Joseph H. Choate is the President of
the association, which: for eight - years
has worked in the interest of the blind
through its headquarters, The Light-
house, at 111 East Fifty-ninth Street.

Willlam Henry McDoel.

CHICAGO, Ii., April . 25.—William
Henry McDoel,. President of the Chicago,
Indianapolis & Louisville Railway, ‘‘ The
Monon Route,” from 1899 to 1909, died
at his home here today in his seventy-
sixth year. He was porn in Goffstown,
N. H., and after receiving a common
school education entered the railroad
business in 1861 agent of the
Great Western Railroad. of Illinois.

This year’s entertainment for the ben- |

which wags ar-*

Si! father being a~banker of. ‘that ‘city.

SPECIAL FEATURES” 5 HE
-“Phey” ‘are ‘secured. by ‘het ergo oi. property worth at “

; reed

» 50% more than-the amount lo
2. # revision is..madey for installment” payments: on- “every mo
us. gradually. eee the. ‘margin of security.
oe principal and {nte rest. guaranteed by this ‘Compatly with:
capital and surplus of '$2,500,000..
Issued in amounts of $100 upwards—Interest st Sh lt sins ad are
Write. tor “The Ideal Investment.”

New York Mortgage &

CAPITAL. AND SURPLUS ‘$2,500,000 ‘
135 Broadway, New York. 203 Montague St., Brooklyn,
menennareennnannnnceaeecnnicceincsnemnatao

Bushrod-R. liaiveitis pa
Bushrod Rust Bayne, one of the
founderg of the Calumet Club, and wide- | COLG.
ly known, during the eighties and. nine- | ,,.%Uneral today, & 90 A
ties, died yesterday at his home, 106: Ho-

DOUGLAS.—Auna C., fi Ten <
Fun-ral , P.

bart Avenue, Summit, N. J., in his six- DRAUGHL Peter

ty-ninth year. "

He was born in’ Balttmote, Md., his DUTT

thie
f. i nee as

BURNS ‘S.—Eleanor, 888 watt a
AN.—Ca' Inala 6 ;

Starting in business with Ross Camp-

1.& Co., one of the largest whdlesale
pe goods’ houses in the Sou he was
associated with. that firm for. many
years in Baltimore dnd later in this
city, where it was finally located after
the death of its founder.’ After - leaving
the firm Mr. Bayne, or ‘‘ Bush Bayne”
as he was known, became a stock broker
in Wall Street, «

a? Re ee ae P.M a
JANTZEN,—Harry.. Nassap AY.

28, Funeral today, 1P.M. = .
SE rent tae 696 Bergen &t., AN
Mother Hermina, Sister Superior of St. | SOPSTNER. "Nicholas, Olas, 12 ~~ st
James’s Hospital,:..Newark,: N.-.J., died ee Frederick, | 4
yesterday after an illness of two days|- Place, April
of angina pectoris: Shé was 45 years
old and had been a member of the Sis-
ter8 of St. Francis for.twenty years.
Sis a amen. ss, Sisters
who incorpora Osp: n
The funeral services will be held in St.
James's Church Thursday, and the body
will be taken to Syraneen.: the head-
3 uarters of the Sisters of St. Francis.
ime burial will take place Friday morn-

Mother Hermina.

pesos.

{ 24.. Funeral tomorrow, .9:80 A.
Mc GOMBER.—Joeeph. 2 2,916 Fuiton St.,

pe.— Charles Ww. Jn, 641A
POEHLMANN.-Christopher, 625 Park a

Marriage and death notices intended
for insertion in The New York Times
may be telephoned to 1000 Bryant.

- Born

BERKOWITZ.—April 25, 135 West 130th 8t.,
to Mr. and Mrs. §. Berkowitz, a daughter.

LARKIN.—At Syracuse, N. Y., April 24, a
son to Mr. and’ Mrs. John C. Larkin, nee
Eleanor Grant,

Engaged
JENSEN—BROWN.—Mrs. B. C, Brown of
1,643 Nelson Av., New York City, an-
nounces the engagement of her daughter,
Blanche L., to Walderf V. Jensen of Mor-
ris Heights, N. Y.

Se ee Young to George

FORD—HAZEN.—Mildred J. Hazen to Law-
rence D. Ford.

MAHONEY—DAVIES.—Cora
David J. Mahoney.

MOE—HAMBLIN.—L. Worse Hamblin to
Frederick W. Moe, Jr.

ei NP ag — Katherine
Philip H. Zornow.

Rea Davies te

Crean to

Married.

BARLOW—BROWN.—At 471 Park Av., in
the City of New York, Samuel L. M. Bar-
low to Evelyn Harris Brown on April 25,

BEDFORD—KALLEY.—On. Tuesday, April
25, 1916, Beatrice Sherman Kalley to Al-
fred Cldrke Bedford, at Holy Trinity
Church, Brooklyn.

CARR—PHAIR.—April 25, at the Cathedral
of St. John the Divine, Dorothy, daughter
of the late William Byron Phair of Fred-
ericton, N. B., Canada, and Walter de
Lancey, son of Mr. and Mrs. Arthur W.
Carr of New York, were married by the
Rev, Frederick, E. Mortimer.

DAVIS—DUCEY.—Tuesday, April 25, 1916, at
Church of St. Paul the. Apostle, by the
Rev. Johu J. Hughes, L.

Agnes Ducey,

J. Davis.

GIFFORD—MARSH.=Mr. ana Mrs, William
Y. Marsh of Williamstown, Mass, an-
nounce the marriage of their daughter,
Frances Lewis, to Benedict Gifford of

‘, Hudson, N. Y., April 25, 1916, by the Rev.
Dr. Herbert Sh!pman, at the Church of
the Heavenly Rest, New. York.

HEYN—JUST.—On Teme. April 25, at the
Church of St. Jamesg-the-Less, Scarsdale,
N.Y., by the Rev. William Oscar Jarvis,
Ethel Luise, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
— . Just, to Otto P. Heyn of New

STARKBDB — DUSENBURY. — April 25, 1916,
Pauline Sears Dusenbury to Dr. ‘George
Soames Starke, at West End Presbyterian

urch,

Brooklyn.
HARBECK—CALLAGHAN.—April 25, Agnes
R. Callaghan to Harry Harbec
RUGER—BEASLEY.—April 24, Bessie Beas-
ley to George A. Ruger.

Long Island.

ZIPF—SMITH.—April 23, Nenteesyome, Helen
F. Smith to Oscar P.: Zipf.

Died.

ABRAMS.—Harry, beloved husband of Jose-
phine, April’ 25. Funeral ‘private. ,
BAYLASS.—Charles D., beloved husband of
Alice J. Baylass. Services at Walter H.
by ow’ ungertaking parlors, 62 West
Thursday, at 9 P. M. Members
or Gerda Lodge, 1738, Order Sons of St.
George, requested to attend,
BAYNE,.—Bushrod Bayne, husband of Clara
RB, Bayne. neral private. Please omit
flowers. Funeral service Friday, April
28, 10 A®M., Christ Church, Short Hills,
N. J. Baltimore papers please copy.
BPRNER.—On April 24, 1916, George F.
Berner, beloved husband of Belle Mighton
Berner. New Haven papers please copy.
BIGELOW.—At Groton, Mass., April 24,
Charles Edwin Bigelow, 73 years, Funeral
at his late residence Wednesday, April
26, at 2 o’clock P. a
BROWER.—On —. April 28, at ove
Lake, N. J., in th year, “ie
Brower, daughter ne the late ae and
Ann Van Wagenen Brower of Brooklyn,
N. Y. Funeral service to be held at the
Saint Uria Church at soagirt. N. odes
Wednesday, April 26, at 11:45 A. M. |
BRUNTON.—On April 23, Lydia Mary Brun-
ton, beloved wife of John Brunton and
mother of Robert Brunton.
ing in state at “T
CHURCH,” 241 West 23d St., (Frank E
Campbell Building,» till 10 o "clock
Wednesday morning. Funeral and inter-
ment private,
CHAPMAN.—At the residence of sister, Mrs,
Ada C, Riggs, 140 Wadsworth Av., on
April 25, 1916. William Hoyt
nterment at Palmyra, N. Y
at convenience of family.
LARK.—Charles' A., aged 77 years, April
25, 1916, at the tesidence of. his son-in-
law, Henry F. Clark, Simonson Av., Clif-
ton, S. IL Funeral services at Buffalo,

COGGIN.—On_Tuesday, April 25, 1916, at New
Canaan, Conn., James Bolitho, beloved
husband of Mary E. Coggin, after a short
illness. Notice of funeral arrangements
later.

DOYLE.—On Sunday, April 23, 1916, Terence
F. Doyle, beloved husband of Mary Ker-
ney Doyle. Funeral on Wednesday, April
26, at 9 A, M., from his late residence,
244 Madison St.; thence to Our Lady of

Victory R. C. Church. Interment in Holy
Cross Cemetery. ‘

FLOYD-JONES.—On April 24, 1916, at Riv-
erhead,.N. Y., El:zabeth M. Floyd-Jones,
widow of Elbert Floyd-Jones. Funeral
services at Grace Church, Massapequa, on
Thursday morning upon arrival 8:36 train
from New York,

FLOYD-JONES.—The Colonial Dames of the
State of New York announce, with re-

gret, the death on April 24, 1916, of Mrs.
Bivert Floyd-Jones, a member of the s0-
ciety.
ELEANOR VAN RENSSELAER FAIRFAX,
President.
THERESE K. THORNE, Recording Secretary.

FORSHAY.—Suddenly, on Monda: » April 24,
1916, at his residence, 178 West oath ae
George W:, beloved son of the late Jacob
and Esther Forshay. Funeral services
will be held at his late residence on
Thursday evening, April 27,:at 8 o’clock.

GERHARDT.—April 25, 1916, Frederick Ger-
hardt, beloved husband of Louise Gerhardt
and father of Emma, Frederick, William,
after a long illness. Services Thursday at
his residence, 346 Hast 188th

GODDARD.—Robert Hale Ives, sealisiand at

’ Hopeton House, af hls pes on thé even-
ing of Saturday, April 22.’ Funeral serv-

‘ esday April at 12 o'clock,
at St. Stephen’ s Chure yy: is

Bly, Jr., son of eodosia. snd the late
“David E, Gr at Llewellyn k, West
J., in hi, eral

Christ C n= 8

Wednesday, April 26, at 11 A. M., on ar-
yea of train leaving Hoboken at 10:80

HUNT.—April + 1978 wiets B, Hunt, Fu-
neral. servi at his late residence, Ke

~ West 70th St., Werdn

daughter of the late John Ducey, to Frank,

GREEN.—On Sunday, Apri 28, 1916, David,

April 23.
REILLY —Patriok, 186 Bainbridge St., Apt “a:
y: Sigil
REINHEIMER.—Jacob, 360 Gold St., April
RYAN, .—Patrick, 5,6il 34 Av., April 26." Bus"
eral 't tomorrow .

a Eee —Nathaniel wanes pe ay
April 24. Funeral tomorrow, 9:80-A, ug ey

WIMPFHEIMER. TAdoiph A. a East st Oh Bt
and Avenue L, Apri *
in, taicier ae
Hi en, J City, and Ni

ALLEN. —John, 161 Bayview Av.; Jersey >
City, apn 1 24.

BANNISTER. — Elizabeth, 578 Summit Av.
r 40. Palisade Av., Jeraey
City, April 22.

COGA ie Ee 73 Jefferson . 8t.,

ken, A: aged :
ORBY. ms Catherine, 28 gay Mine Newark,
i a Funeral tom

Died,

JUERGENSEN.—On Sunday, Apri] 23, at her
Eo Sanat 4 roe John, Juergensen.

er’ Inte NaC at 10
Gg ednesday, April 26,

KELLY. » ioe lien. Funeral from THE
FUNERAL CHURCH, 241 “West. 234.,
(Campbell Building.) , Time later.

KRAMER.+Mrs? Max J. Kramer, (nee Yetta
pe Sateetay evening, April 22, at
9 o'clock, Funeral services were held
Sunday afternoon, 2. o’clock, from her
residence, Arverne, LL

LITTLEJOHN.—At White Plains, N. p oh
April 24, Elliott, Littisjonn, in his 85th
year. neral service private. New Ha-
ven ‘papers ‘please copy.

LOEWL—On April.3, at -8t.. Biasien, Ger-
many, after a lingering omen o Emma
Siegman, widow of Edgar. Loew

MAXFIELD,—Sudaeniy, on April 2. 1916,

Traverse Rocke Maxfield, 2 ed RICK. — George, 837 Warren st,
us 0! ce elle Maxfield.’ Ser ices

of Antiquity Lodge; -F. and A; M., at h his iiePaal, 76 Garden 8t., a Wis ie: %
late ftesidence, 412 8th AV., 1 ril 24, Funeral tomorrow, 8:30 Rees,
Tuesday, April 25, at’8 P.*M.\. Funeral —Max, 76 Jefferson St., Hobokemy,
services at Park Co Qorit "23, a 2,

Church, 8th Av. and St. nesday, MIN.

April 26, at 3 P.M. Interment private.

MEHEGAN,—Tuesday, April 25, 1916, after
a short illncss, Mrs. Hannah Mehegan.
a ae from her late residence, 98 Wall
St. ¥., thence to Holy Rosary Church,
7 State St., where.a solemn requiem mass

will be offered for the happy repose of

rah aaa Fricay, April 28, 1916, at 10

MICKLE.—At - Flushing, N.
April 25, 1916, George B.,

, 374 Webster AY...
‘Eperal private. $
Pavonia Av., Jer-. a

—Mary E., 319 Lafayette Bt:
Newark, April 24.
MeO ALE, ir eoab 458 South 19th Sts Mewes
ar’ AS
MARINO.—Magdalena, 301 Newark -Av., Jer-< a8 ‘an
son kURRESS saaware if. Newark, “April,

M 24, aged 4.. Funeral priva' ¥
SCHNACKENBERG.—Anna. er) Adams 8t., ?-
ee April 23, aged 2.| Funeral to-.)
ar. Newark, April 28, aged ee
Catherine, 93 Webster At Me

i Waatnem St, apie

oie

Isabell Beare and George 'B, Mickle. Rel-

atiyes and friends are respectfully invited

to attend the funeral services at St.

George’s Church, Flushing,

Thursday, April '27, 1916,

Jffrain leaves Pennsylvania

minal at 1:22 for Main St.
ER.—Suddenly,, of spinal meningitis,

April 25, Dwight Dana Miller, Jr., oe

son of Dwight Dana and Bisie Burt Miller.

Interment private.

PETERSEN. —Ssuddeniy;’ ‘on “Monday, “April
24, Hans, béloved husband of Mary Peter-
sen. Funeral from his late residence, 342 s
West 30th St., Wednesday, 26th inst., ati
10:30 A. M. Solemn requiem mass at
Columba’ urch,: West 25th St. 11
o'clock. I ent Calvary.

ROTHBART.—Maurice, ‘son of Isiahia and
the late Gennie Rothbart, suddenly, at

ad fice yport. Burial Wednesday, Apri] 26,

7 Zion Cemetery, Maspeth, L. I., 11

son @

GIBBON.—Ann w.,
neral today, 3 P.

— HN.—Louisa, Eimburst, teen asigi
Fitneral today, pa yo

LEVEEN- ie Be Richmond ond Hitt,
segs tod y 3:80 P. es
nochin.~pifricke J tt 0 Vn
ici, yore,

aged 26. ‘Funeral today, 10 A; en
Oldest Establish cs tae
John W; Lyon $40"; Satan Pheos 1333

THE WOODLAWN CEMETERY —

"334 Bt. By Harlem Train avd ae
Gttics, 20 Rast 260 Bt. Ne a

Late af

Rand t —Charles P., late Duryee Zouave
in his 8ist year. Services Thursday, 12: :30
P. M., Church of Intercession, Broadway,

SAYER.—Edmund Sears, «suddenly, 2 April |

24, at his late residence, 684 St.
Avy., New Y ork, Edmund Sears Woda son
of the late William M. and Jane Sears
Sayer. and beloved husband of Mary Dick
Sayer, in the 72d year of his. age. Fu-
neral private. |

SUFFERN.—At Bloomfield, N. J.,_0n April
28, 1916, Julia 8., wife of the late John
C.’ Suffern. Funeral services from her
late home, 861 F in ges on Wednes-
day at’ P. M.

TATUM.—John C., of pibeuneiia: Monday.
April 24, 1916. Funeral services a
late residence, peeve Neck, L. L, Wednes,
day, Apri] 26, at 2:30 P. M. Train leav-
ing Pennsylvania Station, New York, 1:18
will be met at station.

TICE.—April 24, Maria L, Tice, aged
Fune Chapel Stephen Merritt Stal
and Cremation Company, ty 8th Av.,
corner 18th St., Thursday, clock,

TINKER,.—At New London,’ eee April 25,
Augusta R., widow of Géorge ’F. Tinker
gS mother of Mrs. S. E. ‘Stone and Rev.

Tinker. Funeral services at her late
a a. . Thursday afternoon at 2 o'clock.

TIMS.—Ex-Police Lieutenant Oliver Tims, on |.
April 25. Funeral service at the Church
of the Holy Apostles, 28th St. and 9th‘
Av., on Thursday evening, at 8 o'clock.
Interment Friday morning at 10:30. Rela-
tives, and friends are respectfully invited.

THOMPSON.—April 2), Abraham Kelly, aged
87 years. Funeral services Tine,

+ at 2,025 Matthews Av., “airs

TOWNER. —April Santa Fe; N.
Charlotte, widow of Henry Towner ond
beloved mother of William. §S. Towner.
Interment Woodlawn Cemetery, New York

: City, Thursday, April 27, at 3 P.

WEITLING.—At College ote N. Y., on
Tuesday, April iso Weltiing, be-
loved wife of William W. Weitl Fu-
neral private. Please omit ewan

WHEELOCK.—On April 25, Annie I. Wheel-
ock, (nee Platt,) age 59, beloved wife of

_ the late Joseph Henry Wheelock, at home

' of H. D, Wheelock, Cedarhurst, L. I. Pu-
neral Wednesday: service private.

wore —At her home, Braewold, Mt, Kisco

¥., on Monday, April 24, _ Emily
Hoilisesworth Wood, wite James
Funeral from her ‘heen on

Woduesdon April 26, at 2:30 P. M;

HATS, GOWNS,

WAISTS, VEILS, +]

NECKWEAR, Furs |_*t 35th St.
Bosten—Copley Square ;

Fresh flowers—floral tributes

Stee he cede
q ‘¢ lorral Flo
way, N. ¥. City. Te — ci eae

sili on es fol
Subjects will be sent

OLD AND RARE. NO. 30.
RECENT WAR BOOKS.”

PHILOSOPHY, PSYCHOL- |
OGY and NEW THOUGHT.

BRENTANO’S
5th Ave. & 27th St., New York

BLUM.—Paul, April 23, aged 47. Funeral
tomorrow, 2,315 24 Av,
CORNELIUS.—Thomas C., a 8 Eo Fu-
neral 10 Greenwich Av., teday, 2
CRAMBR.—Louis, 114 East 62a ey April
24, Funeral today, 1 P. M.
CUDDY.—Mary, 468 West _ St., April 24.
Funeral today, 9:15 A
DRUMM.—Charles F., 408 gts gn St.,
April 24. Funeral today, 6:30 A
FAIR.—Thomas H., 1,113 2d Av. Aion 23,
aged 39. Funeral today, 2°P. i.
GARRETSON, “ee D., 620 Riverside
Drive, April 23, 68.
GRAHAM,.—Ellen, Est East 57th St., April
24. Funeral today, 9:30 A. M,
GRIFFIN,—Michael, 335 wast 87th St., April
HARVEY.—James B., ee “24.” Funeral 861
West 17th St., today, 2 P.
KUNSTMANN.—Otto, ‘339 ap 43a St., April
April |.

New Galleries 1
estate a aa

co on 0!

of Art, chiding ee be

24. Funeral today, 1:30 P.
McCARTHY.—John, 171 East 92a St.,
24. Funerai notice later.
McNAMARA.—Mary, 3871 East 138th St.,
ee I 24, aged 63.° Funeral today, 8:30
Mariner’s

Mowe e —James, Harbor,
Funeral today, 9 A. M,

I,, April 24,

MURRAY. —John P.
ee today, 2 & M,

O’CONNOR.—Nora, 210 East 90th 8t., April
24. yinaeet today, 2 P. M,

ROBERTS. > mag 1 Wee April 24, aged 54, Fu-
neral today, 10 A

RYAN.—Norah, 269 West 118th St., April 24.
Funeral tomorrow, 9:30 A

SIMPSON.—Mary, 492 9th i. April 24. Fu-
heral today, 2.P. M.

STAPLETON.—John, 676 a Av., April 24,
Funera] today. 9:30 A

hire ka te, Teatation Trt aes 24,

.. Funeral today, 10
BTRAN EWAY.—George I., 179 West 1024
April 24, 24, aged 61. Funeral service to-

SULLIVAN.—Patrick J., 348. East a ye St.,
’ April 24. Funeral Sapte 1:30 P.
WA Ne eae M., 2,980 Hask

Goupil &Co-. .|

EXHIBITION OF

Oil Paintings

Paul Phiispeteia

Until May 2 Inclusive,

24. tomorrow, .2 .P,
WINFIELD. —Sarah, OTT. ‘Weet 1024 St. April
24. Funeral today, 2 P. M.:

9 PART IlJ.—Ransom, J.—Hel in Brownstone | Tilley< ‘ers Rty Co, ; < : :
AND DECISIONS } Blue," (Chambers Sij—at lo A. Moons Moldanon Eastern’ As: Clouse ea | SHIPPING AND MAILS. ILLINOIS LEADS IN_CORN. ,
‘© ae Cee Ht. 2 to team BELOW. oe te Gromér<Cohn. pivan-Supt of a) Saltaman<Eisenstatt. Miniature Almanac for Today. | Government Crop Statistics Show
ae sae m Brew. <Daadik. | Carroll<Blum, iain, aocB bn ne Sadye<Pe}- | Sun rises..5:02|Sun sets..6:46|Moon riges..2:00 Changes in States’ Production,.
FEDERAL, ’ PART Il].—Newburger, J.—At 10:15 A, M, ‘| Hudson Brass Works<| Beck<Danaher. ey<Test Boring | oyger, Dani THE TIDES. y
Motions: a _. | Minskott, . | Cohen< Walworth, Bee ae ei Mergen otal. | WASHINGTON, April 25.—tlinois has
._ Bpecial.to The New York Times. Foregte aN? 18 int, B. Ludwi <a Bachman<Mandits, ‘> oe sie |plezeeu., Arthur. Sandy Hook....... 2:29 g:18  “#: 6:03 | Miler corn-producing State, North Da-
WASHINGTON, Aptit 25.-330-Seaboard Gutterman<Gutterman| RC Blanckd & Co< Renischmidt <Seriven, : Hell Gre, land. 2:58 8:50 9:86 10:08 kota took Kansag’s place as first
‘Line Ry. v. the City, of Raleigh et al. Encawe 4 id . ‘ : enmu wheat- duct State, Mi ta took
° y < Lucey, : . The ‘following cases will be called, but will Katzenmuller, int< . |K Arri T April 25 ‘
ued. et Shenk<Kissel M C. Co. Sch “C be passed for the day as of course if coun-| Sturm, eKenna<Levy. rrived—Tuesday, pr . from New York the first Place’ as po-
ee Mts. Co. v. H. &.. Myers Mfg. McGrann<McGrann, +o on_ either side so requests. Applications | We i :

ber< Weber, e<Koenig, - . “€ be +
C San? Cronk «Crna Shoe _ : yi davis tesa on oy Anderson<Penobscott ; Juniper, (Has- ss hee “Gioealeage ane hag boabea ne State, -P teticvasy cise , f’
~  {810—~The Jand Dredging & Contracting | © . Rooseve 0 m affidavit in strict compll- inger. ipril 18 : La
OE ams Pe 6! road a. Cohen<Cohen. Ostroff<CNY the rules of the court: & é
9 Spy Argu Dem oJ

AXA)
LOY

; y ¥ captured her place as first buckwheat-

coke <Colse trot . . | ance sith. the ru he cout rare “it—Crane, J.—Ex parte business at Virgnicook, Tampico, April 18. producing State, which was takentrom

: ale & ‘Zing’ Mining| Cari<NY ‘Times Co. : ‘Kohn<Alva Carpet & j Undefended divorces: Ta am, Bt. tone her by New York in 1914, and. North

# io hall Aree ie eis. ek Schmigrets pee $ Hahne Rug Co, - A ; Stempel Gere - M, Guffey, Port Aj Dakota took from Calif, the ban-

poe gy gs ‘W, Ryan gUndeferded divorces: OocKelsey. sy eand eter ent hage ty Bari, Sid * ca, 8S Rid Grate rida = } 22. ner for first barley-producing State, ac-
argue orall herman ‘= < . hitman mhison _ e ws - iionaidanmidindemes cord

Hayward, Mtg Co<Defiance | PART VI.—Zeller, J.—Case un. Weiland, ree eults of crop production

; ‘ Crawford, : : Incoming Steamships. last season. Statistics just announced
Buaree, Caatidceenini PART VII.—La Fetra, J.—Ciear. Dal ;
Daniel,
Land of G

e, ‘ DUD TODAY. b C)
i PART VIII.—O’Dwyer, J.—Case on. : Be ‘ ante lighten. nt To tive meat of Crop Estimates ave

Scie ea i Re es ol ays to Japan
‘ied " i e five leading Producing States for 7
Southern”District. move pty ee Referees Appointed. Rookasin : Brunew YOK s4eeeee severe Rotterdam |. A\

r (2.) , Vosberg: veveuss | each of. the principal crops as -follows:_| : eishas Flowers ‘(Round Trip Now $300
DISTRI RT—Augustus N. Hand, J.—| Vivelo. | Doob<Rothschild Rty. | suprewm COURT—Delehanty, J. — pinkel- | SPECIAL TERM FOR TRIALS—Garretson, J, lan : . Bordeaux .... April fom rs
Room S70. O. Bidg., at 10:30 A. M.— Case on. tht Ms Si No day calendar
Case on yn R Abelson<New

: speil<Altson ecm? a ‘ 3 nae 8

Jury calendar. I s + re : a
5 Lo naire ge ie as i : :

0, producing «
ville RRCNY. 8 4 De —Chas. -| Finkelstein¢N ¥ Cong! Di Mattei<Lioyd Ital he
RR. : fano SS Co.
Orati cases.

enry . ey _ mm B Pril RN.—Illinois, Iowa, N ‘Missouri .
PART IV.—Greenbaum, J.—At 10:30 A. M sanoe—Philip J Dunn, Ne ye we iI pyianning, J.; Part a Shields‘: : and\ Indiana, producing 42% per cent oe ks
Johnson<Bast Coast Broénner<NY, NH RR . » JAC 10: - M.— * z ke a
‘Transp Co. Clear. \ 3 j : % :
,045,000-bushel crop. (Round Trip Now $337.50) ne
RR RING WHEAT.—North Dakota, Minne-
James A, Lynch, ery

ucing 42,
we, part VI, Clark, J.; Part ynesia.... Ps WINTER WHE
Lorion’’...:: April 11 With éptional overland tour throngh Japan and Kores via Mukden to Peking,
Ser . Bk. RourkecB H RR, || Warne<B HR R et al | Quenvert.. ‘TADHIL I | tang, producing “Spot ston ae Nanking and Shanghai, or Vice vereay Sor SOepld extra:

‘ ee on: PO sol ? ‘ James F, Egan. Senff<Barclav—Hyacinthe DavisCNY, / |Itzkowitz<Rose Land. fate +“ Zow uda.. 2 tana, Lat =) per cent. of the ~ ; - Be

B Riv Gas Co<Com’rs ¥ Ringrose.
SOURT—Hough, J. Taxes & Assess (3.)

‘ ushel crop, ky ee 2
: Levin<Nassau RR, Gregg<Simmons Tran, } bh ; ALL WHEAT.—North Dako: Kansas, \ , : ‘
—Room 3, & 8.) | SUPREME COURT — Cohalan, J. —Casteiic | Fontano<Bulkley” Kopzenski<Meserole — | sees BOrry .5.....A Minnesote, Wisconsin, and South * ta, a Ss Oo an
th floor, Woorworth Bldg., at 10:30 A. M. Purdy, (3, Castelli—John L. O’Brien. ' CirritocWeil— Krejsvogel<B RR,| Trucking Co, Laura Maersk... ...~\" Palermo 1 9 | producing 42.2 per cent. of the 1,011, 505,000-
as calendar, f Case on. Santiago P. Cahill. t Williams<Haff, (Round ) j
~ Motion: neral calendar:

et ‘al. ; scans Semis coat ‘ bushei crop. Trip New $337.50
mi De “ s Wonnberger<Bkin Un |Ditmas<Ditmas. Ha ; 123| OATS.—lowa, Iilinols, Minnesota, va Jeg
NY ‘Trust -Cocmnter (rennoiasctS, OO | ferm. VA and VEIL—Agjourned: tor ¢ne | SUPREME COURT—Bijur, J.—Re Down—Cari Maniac Randers: He RR, Ko ar.

Mere Mar Co. . < ee

iscon- :
B Un Gas Oo,| Nace Rodgers *Ora DUE TOMORROW. eid “of the I S40 eae as producing 47.2 per Uncle Sam's Greatest and most progressive Colony by Canadian Pacific luxurious
. eks. J. os <B H RR, < EL u TOUNB...s0....eceees LIVE: -+.-April 18 | cent, 862, shel crop. :
DISTRICT COURT—Mayer, J.—Court room| TRIAL TRRMS —Part Il. — Weeks, 3. — at - Receivers Appointed: TaubecC_1 & Bit R. Sremetheeeee . Madonne....,.......... Bt. Wasaire, Aut ae RYE.—Wisconsin, " Mich Minn
3 Wootwortn Bidg., 12th floor, at 10:80 A.|_ 10:30 A. M Madonn

is +dhipenl ‘ a ies Murphy<Tfaft Co. Wicks Co, “Tirpiesses+s +s Santa Marta. april 17 | Pennsylvania, and’ Nebraske, producing 67.1 ress of Russia— i
—Equity calendar. Ge. | ecisiumenstiel< ‘| Jacobsohn<Sotomon, “Ramsey CElla, Le Bainptiaee en oy Breas: | Keane’ Natice Sate Getchell<Nassau RR, | Creole... Garvececans-ADril 22 | Der FE ATORS M1 90:000-bushel crop. ab :
ba <7 ou vecnam Cleaner .Co<Innov Blea Ce heck innle. ~ Connelly O'Brien: John W. Fick<Bernard Wierlenker—Joseph | _, Service Co, Portlerey< Maurer, Sass vedelse veston ...April POT. esota, i

Phil delphi York, Mai d Michig roducing 83.6 Quickest Time Acvoss the Pacifia
: Blum<Gilman, Mirabelli<CNY. adelphia........... San Juan....April 23 | York, ne, an c. nm, producing . e Across
B, Cunningham. . a i ;
Prec, RUMEN pee my | suenente GUT comian  2sumey vy |EERETTE Era ee nuie saeees aorta | gata iae ma tata curepe Is Closed, but the Orlent Is Open 1
J.—at 10a. m.. | S.1 Bridge CocPrice. Morgan Morgan. Simonelli<Alfred Bertoncin! et’ at,—Joseph Orrecchiuto<Chit-s “ “|Reisenburger<Otte et Pannonia.............. Liverpool ....April 17 ee 3 ont Virginia, and Virginia, pro- One Tay vis Honolulu, if i ea ES
ag at Foe uilding—Aamiralty A, pelt sHurtig. Socye’ | Clear x = Bertoncini. : ae YX Consot {ras a ai Sibert <fUhs Vem ses piverpoo! ry ee 5 sae Der cont. Of the 15,769,000-bushel oe meedtng ree rd ve travelers every assistance in planning itineraries . ff
; ..O .—Ad . acobs otterdam .., ~ : é
Bicedakiyn ‘tan Ne- |cariszcas Meuecny- | Sherman Nat Bi, . BRONX COUNTY. RR. Rariley<Transit’ Dev. | Zealandia.....<. 7.) pote ABFHLS | ¢HAY-—New York, ows, atissourt, Call Full information cheerfully given. Phone, call ar write
ees AED Virdee COS | PART tir—vorg, 3.—At 10:86 'Aside : Wrightes Aor,  |Roth<Empire Holding DUE SATURDAY, : cent. of the 85,228,000-tom crop. =e Der ¥. R. PERRY, SH Agent Passenger Department,
SS. Vigilancia. Dressler< Tishman. " "| Kosoffsky «Connelly, Supreme Court: Pauli(B H RR.” IGateie Hest FR Alfonso XIII........... Barcelona ... BARLBY.—North Dako Sittiieobin. «Cais, : EN » 1231 Broadway, New York City
Casieon<F'rince Line, Cretgner Ridgway Co.) Feldman<NY. Rys, SPECIAL TERM (Chambers)—Mullan, J.— Cooper<N Y Ryg Co. pi Stefano<Eppig. bane SHigk sree O A fornia, South Dakota, an Wisconsin, pro- ¢ : i : P ; Cl i
US<Joseph Davies. Bobyock (NY rece ‘RR Aaron tae o Sgelyg ang Sd = ra jen cal be pamea ten the dane it marked wait Ue eo Socony hur, : April 20 em | ous roar ede abe. ios cer S Mes
4 F Bo ae 1 TERM—Mu » J.—Motion calen- : © cause w set ni le i
Rat a Neds | lnlengy Ea" can. [pmeesceionensom, "| SERCIAL, TERA dow for day ape ini 2 ct ot a SS
Hand /

; FLAXSEED.—North Dakota, Minnesota, f £ SERVICE s 3
ms Ciancinino< Ebling Th <M DUE SUNDAY. Mon a, South Dakota, and Kansas, pro- , . ?
pXtliers eal. Nelson et al<Str Jas pitiand te Gawian<McNulty + - pall< Herrman, Preioe ce. Rorewing Co. Biechuentdeots. et Begonia hintes S sha se tse Llverpoo} P proving 9¥.1 per cent. of ‘the 18,845,000-bushol ay eae

m. a ! ck, ros. é av hs : uttger< Andrews. al. Sb we oes 62h 4 Mire ¢ ;
Union Whart Co<ss | White et’ al<Upper Risen eoagns. Clear. SPECIAL TERM FOR TRIALS—Mullan, J Muller<C I & B RR, Brennan<Carpenter, - y “RICE.—Loutsiaha, Texas, Arkansas, Cali-
Eretria. ~ Hudson Stone Co, Rizzo< an (2), Benedict< Benedict. Diamond<Diamond. Bernstein< Buchanan, ‘Boxley & Herrick. +e ++eeee Rotterdam ... fornia, and South Carolina, producing 99.6
¥ ~ pee Coc cOty.. os & Son<Jamgs PART IV.—Donrell J.—At 16:9 A” 3a. Maldansky <Maidansky tery Breasiin<German Lovdall<Clinton Point Esperanza......: teeeee Vera Cruz.... "| per cent. of the 28,947,000-bushel crop.
: “ * lariaging, ".&ocmaware Duchemin <Consol Gas} Dugan chase Silverman<Silverman. |Elser<Dlser '(2.) vy Sa Stone Co. os pra ZOBACC

“ cadets ACCO, — Kentucky, North Carolina,
as i Seaman<Smith. Johnson< Mattson. Virginia, Ohi

ac < Moore. : Keeler<Int RT Co, < 1. Kraemer<Kraemer.

Tyingston ot nS cs Guatine Reedy Elev, |Maetonnts Seibel<Seibe Pearsall<C [I ‘ Ry. |Of,

mined x

ng<Mfrs Citizens’ | Portland * per com of the 1,060,581, 000 perenne =
tus Hoke | gilant. Goimnelm<Knick Ice. |MoorsteincX Y Rys, | Highest number reached in regular order, 618, | McBride<B_H t Co COTTO: Georgia, South Carolina,

. rus ‘ D Z xas, a,
Finkle<Chicago. Golden<Bradiey, Cont.| Drothleff<Int R T Go, | TRIAL TERM—Part I.—Tierney, J Rankin<L I RR, Broseint Ren Ville du jTamative..... Marseilles ..April 16 | Alabama, and Mississippi a aye 78.6 per

ey, J.
qua, Walsh< . <Silbe Branagan<same, Bresslin< Ben N cent, of the 11,183,000-bal
‘Cases will be tried when reached. alsh<sam Tucker<Taylor, (2, on: |Same<Sil . Powers<Liebler Luskey <Fir en Nevis... -+-April 16 183, @ crop.
: Maneésowitz<Int R 7,j <Fet Burke<Higgins, No day calendar, : pcvitth Avenue 1 paehdigns
DISTRICT _COURT<Chattiela, ~J.—at 10} MeneayS!! Murphy Scere (2) | Burke <Higg 7 Coach Co.

Suspatiteat

<B H RR,
] hwarzstein. | Murphy<Scgnoder Same<Higeins & Faehner
A. M.. in Room 823 P. 0. Building. f BalleycB H RR Clear. if Stan Chame<Scher. , . ne.
“4 , ; Hartard<Sheffets et al) tary Utilizatio saps baderss - Apri After fourteen years’ service Pau
Shaw edshuae So SAE, 20:80 A. iitieis ann co MajinownklcKinat co,| at asrn< Van Hagen | MrazOBes cess cos. Ba
haw< Vv S—Schulz, 8, alinows n 0.| et al, tA
Cee at SR Halpern<int BF &) Wills for probate Elizabeth Reigle, Me rney<Higgins, |Craft<Knass et al. [mera ton Be tioomes at 17 State Street, mone yeu
Wilkes-Barre Coal. ‘ ; Anna M Rice, Henrietta Robinson, Casamassima< Whit- Flood<Peterson, Savanna °°? terday that he was retiring from the
& |Rust (F Dodd) et al< Shoppan eine et Ite me Max M Schwarzott, [Vincent Mati Murphy <Lincoin Dye Horkey Acre ance 3
ic op Co] -Co, Inc, x warzott, Fincen atire, urp é r z Co.
es-Barre Coal. orhueni cea Carroll<Otis Elev be. Cassman< Bernstein, Conrad Frickel, Lillian MoManus, Works, L renson, *Carries mails. +Carrios German mafis, day by the Rochampeau to spend the
i : Charlotte FE Yorke, {Philip Freudenmacher, ; Pharo<B H R R. McCarthy< Williams pote remainder of his days in France. Em-
PART v : Anna Siegel. Edwin H Collett. Schalow<Lockwood et| Auto Service Co. Outgoing Steamships. pl t =
A. M Room 312. P. o. ‘ Tf.—Clark, J.—At 10:80 A, M. al. SAIL TODAY with a loving cup ANDANIA. -- 2 : Y
18 Sai TRIAL TERM—Schulz. S No day calendar, | “ackintosh<Hadson & England<Tucker. bd ¥3 ALAUNIA - . AT., MAY
Bame<Angelo Centico. | enbrand. wmhoane S B Co.” | Beiw een hetmer. & ies el eR wr) ian RR MP ainan et al< At, Tie ea 21-24 STATE ST.
; Wood<Cady, Korona, St. Thomas..11:00 A.M. 2:00 P.M, |NEW YORK SUPREME, GOURT, COUNTY = -
Sulmonetti< Maillard. SPECIAL TERM (Chambers)—Gibdbs, J.—Ex Tpikowski< Hayes, ¥ olf< Johnson. Canopic, Naples 8:30 4M. 12:00 M. of New York.—THOMAS M, BIDDLE and
PART VIII.—Pendleton, J.—At 10:30 A. Mm, | parte business. Mighes: amore. pce se Savarese. Zaca 9:00 A.M. 12:00 M. | BIDDLE and GRACE St BIDDLE, individ-
1 Inq—Silverman< Rourk Weinstein<City &@ SPECIAL TERM FOR MOTIONS—Gibbs, J. Highest number reached on regular call, pa, Cc : -M. : . yt os
Court of Appeals. Fexon<Ho Shelburne. Suburban Homes. Hart<Smolen. 4417, { ayra 9:30.4.M, 1:00 P.m, | ually and e Temporary Administrators &c., . Z *, 8
Hall, apit., v. O’Brien.—Judgment affirmed, raub<Park bP) Res,. Levinson<Samusch, Equity cause: | Day calendar: CHAMBERS—Keteham, 8.—Day calendar at City of Méico,  Gai- - In pursuance of an interlocutory judgment PO Fe
th costs. > Schmidt<¢ Vincent. Ginna<CNyY, Hupfel’s Son Co< Coucassiosort, : 10 A, M. ‘ barien .., Caverns—Nat
Barnes< Edison Light Woessner, - |Bonaparte< Podvin, Wills of: Jeanette T. Leitch, San Jacinto, Galveston in the above. entitled action, and bearing EA : Trips—California—et
Co., et al., apits; Walters, by John D, | Bialkin<Hepner & Power Co. ‘ew Grfeans date the 14th day of April, 1916, I. the ane

ins & Antonella <Goldfarb, mache: Paul Faguet Leaves French Line.
‘ ton Con Co. s . oeeee
— Re er Strongin<Kivowitz, | shies Tynn< Palmer Garalekicny ty ——
he $eD | Morro Castle......... + Havana . -Faguet, agent gen of the French
Harris<¢ Hote) Astor,
Charles W Gareiss, Motions: post and will sail for Bordeaux on Satur-
Sakm<So
‘ i Beirne<C E Reiss & | Case on ft ] h d hi PANNONIA
° haga! _— 10: th ine hav resente
DISTRICT COURT—Veeder, J.—At A Papin tether. Doyle<Greenhut do. ves oO e lin e p m
in Olswang<Turk. Vitele<NY Rys. 1
US<Giuseppd Bello. th¢ : 3 : nornistiny. Biba nclose. tCalling at Halifax.
a k hwartz P B Co, yinkel< Fairb ermudian, Bermuda.. 9: -M, 00 A.M NEW
Alkoff<Schacht. (2:) Base on. ; County Court. Pepe vinket B H Rj} Fairbanks Co. A. 30
STATE. Minas Geraes, -..12:00 2:00 P.M, | another, Plaintiffs, against ALBERT N
: N . and others, Def, mdants.—County Clerk’ In-
DECISIONS, Minners<Bradi Ballweber<Mandie. TRIAL TERM—Niemana J. Surrogate’s Court. 9 Seahuengamon re . s 8 ats ae
ashington—Old Point—L
of partition and sale, duly made and entered a Bridge—Short Sea
Young, Jr., v. Shults, as Co-Treas, of Steu- Fisher< Kessler. ' x
. ; / Gallins< Deutsch- Mary S Waldron, kmma neem, Momus, New
ad litem, apit., v. | Bernstein<Columbia Same<N Y Edison Ce. utchinson,

But

o Rates, Literature, Information FREE.
man, (2.) Leon Rosenblatt, Elizabeth dersigned, ‘the Refora yr By BK,
mn it, as Cont. City of x > ap- Petite regret Co. Mocarthssy ne, Referees Appointed. Alfred Symonds, Charles Goldberg, SAIL TOMORROW. vif
-re for a writ of man us| Pe ohen. cCarthy<J New Rty. dgm
Puication of MéGuire fo dam hy

judgment named, will sell at public auction D E LL E VI E’S TO URS
Luhr Horstmann, Mary Costello, e the Exchange Salesroom, Nos. 14-16 J : = : es
Wm. A. Prendergast, as Cont. City SUPREME COURT—Mullan, J.—Schumann<| Sabastain Valimuth, /Ardreas Andrews, en 10:00 : and Tickets

net fast, a on ity Vesey Street, in the Borough of Manhattan, Tours Bverywhere.
mM. x. aplt.—Orders affirmed, w costs. 1476 B’way, N. -E.: Cor. 8t., N. Y¥,
y. Broad 4906 |] Longacre Bidg. Telephone trssat 7170,
premises in New Yor

. ee j lette. Pines<Far-| Henry smith, Estates of: Honorius, Argentina, .10: City of New York, on the 10th day of May. R INFOR
PART IX.—Benton, J.—At 10:30 A. M Schumann—J. Ward Fol William B A Jurgens,|Mary A> Dil Highland Prince, Santos. 12 ’ ’
kw U. 8. Steeb Corp., apit.—Order ? : rington—Edward D. Dowling. Smith<Jan- am Tgens,/Mary , id d io 1916, at 12 o'clock noon on that day,
1 ne with costs, and question cértified | D@ngler<Egar Imp Co.) Ins Go of State of Pa< : ANY’S 0 : y

said judgment to be therein de- Am i
scribed as follows: erican ; ne
All that certain. lot, piece or Parcel of

Sapienza< obson Est N J Ry & Ter pole & Werner Hidg. Co.—Louis J. shy bn Sa Within Ro 5 ane + nat ag Pa He = Bryan L. Kennelly. + Auctioneer,
Ssie tad vy. Metropsiltan Surety Co. Meyers<Shipway &  [Frankel<Kupfer- | Schwartz. ; parti :
People, pitt., v. DP >| _ Bros, schmidt :80

land, situate, lying and being in the Fifteenth c 3 a
Gate Ninth) Ward of the City of New York Under the .

George H Bartlett, Henry Hamm El Mundo, Galveston. .
Geft.; re application for the payment of in-
terest
on the Northerly side of Twelfth Street, be- pote": 4 Flag
tween the Fifth and Sixth Avenues, N. Y. Liverpool, Flac pa. R., Noon

toes

Kk! Ex’ Ke

lodleot
boo bono

) iS Reots Root Of 09 oy on

RURRP Ry

0 BRYA

. . Receivers Appointed. William “McKee, Matilda Lennon, Allianca, Cristobal... .11:
&c., by Title Guaranty and Surety Co, | Fishman<Gruberg. Popkin<Nas RR, (2.) =e BP
April Most Delightful Month in Bermude.
St. Louls. . ... April Sa :

Zipper<NY Con RR. |King<Hhent SUPREME COURT—Mullan, J.—Germania| 30%) Haves, Tultee were maTnem, FFePSR ones
Aen ” r m ng ret. sU » J —Mu , ‘ ay utner ullus Wallace.
et al., aplts., Yawger as rec’v'r of the Met % . , ere. ,
litan Surety Co., respt.—Order affirmed. Gelmang Ee eae Qupchnotsky <Sanitary Life Ins. Co.<Mary A. Mooney—Isadore
Whit Si i inc ‘ All Outdoor Sports and
City Surveyor, protracted from a surv 4 € P. F ne 4
Bridges and Poppleton, late City Serveyors, | N. Y.—Liverpool, Pier _< N. Noon
bd a May 6/ Bal

Gelman ge telin : , ng Maz . _ — Fronare, Sweeney, caranefer, tax of: Cyinrte Saeko FRIDA
an o waundry.| Silver. Joy _, Strassburger ma Holl—/| Jaco oller, -aroline Spiess, . F

- Bag ope oon question certified — Sub RR. m se on. Arthur C, Sheridan. Joseph Littau<Bar- Katharine Winter, [ Schmidt, Manzanillo, Nassau...
_ “proving last will of Seaman mde Heiman<Kiddlé, wood Realty Co.—Bernard J. Isecke, Adolph | Jacobshon, ' (Theodore Voorhees, Wgium: Cienfuegos. .

dated December 23, 1815, and filed in the of. Finlan lay 10

fice of the Register in and for the City and “Under the American Fia,

County of New York by Flamen Ball, Office, § Broadway, N. Y. Tel. 9000 Rector.

in Chancery, as lot number fifty-ni

eee cae ae et al; re claim of! panp X.—Finch, J.—At 10:30 A. M. CONTESTED CALENDAR— ao we.
for compensation, respt., v. Saunder Sharet<CNY.

J ; City of St. Louis, Sa-
Marctano< Horatio Rty KINGS COUNTY. Kate Rich. y h
Bros., employer, &¢., aplt.—Orders affirmed, Reilly<US R_ & Imp. Scheichterman< Born
With costs.

e County Coaurt.
Rosenthal<Horton I C, Clarkin<42d St, M & Supreme Court

SAIL SATUR
P CIVIL CALENDAR—Part IV,, Dike, 3 i
estate of MacMillen, dec’d, &c.—Order L Boisset<Butten- St Nich Av Ry, APPELLATE DIVISION — SECOND DE-| Part V., Fawcett, J.—Calendar called in | St- Louis, Liverpool.. 8:
affirmed, without costs to either party in weiser. Moore< Block, PARTMENT—DECISIONS. Part V. The following causes are consid. | Rochambeau, _ Borde’x..
this court. M Boisset<same, Lubel<O Daniels Co, W. Allan, respt., v. H. M. & W. Downing,| ered ready and must be disposed of ‘when | Calamares, Havana...
Peo. v. Sineee, aplt.—Judgment of convic- Trem ret c Staaphece a artes respts._Motion for leave to appeal to the reached or ma ked over to tue Fall term: Prakedcn Be ess

m affirmed. ilverman<B, 0, o<L, & W Coal. ls denied. Inq—Howard< Wir x. , ital

mon, apit., v. Kaiser.—Judgment RR Q A Coust of Anges -

a GottesinaN(B, Q Co &
f . Medici<NY Rys. T. Baker et al. its.. v. BE. H. & C. E.} Inq<Bordort<sh iro. | Sub RR. Vauban, Buenos Aires.
s; ec by ‘striking out the provision there- | Heliérman<NY Rys, Moehan<same a“ + aD q ap uu
; the’ effect that the 4d

latent
NINO Wes bo

wan cach

THE PUBLIC BE PL)

Sai ee 2 |
LEASED — West I © mq Delightful cruises— aba? 4
each twenty-five "hoot, on the Hasterly eide j E Boat se yg yo Mer Be tt ee, Nyaa
one hundred and thirty feet. and on the PROVIDENC Difect $1.60 in > Raymond & Whitcomb, Sth Av.;
Westerly side one hundred and twenty-three - E. Marsters, 1,246 Bway: Frank Tourist.
feet, be the same more or less, together with COLONI AL y, ‘| o.,. 396 Bway; Gillespie, Kinports Beard,
the tegniidings and improvements thereon : 309-11 5th Av.; McCenn’s Tours, tr} B'way,
erec ° ERO . -
Subject to a certain agreement in writing UTsIDE gt ey Gg

Giiffith, respts—Motion for leave to appeal | Gonzales< Boyce, Bernstein< Mohr. 5 Coamo, San Juan
and ne Be nine | Bowden<NY Rys. Fields<Taub, to the Court. of Appeals denied. Tuckley<Clancy et al.|Rawitz<Bklyn Milk Co Hiavana, Havana.
l@int is upon the merits, and as So mod- Contielly <NY Case on. M. J. & D. Buckley, Infants, &c., respts., | Griffin<Utility Co, Connolly< umacher, | Verona, } aples seen Oo
sted affirmed without costs. n< : Lotagrett® Buckley et al., respt., A. J:| Mendalisch i SR. Pinterwerb<Kalberg, | Crofton Tene os
“Re claim of Wilson v. DowPisger & ce S./ Springs Co (2. Hofacker, applt.—-Motion for resettlement of | Colgan<same. Fells<Smith. bday I i. a
Aid Srosdway Co., anploser, “ae ton %e| Pan stu cer 3 ~At 10:36 order /granted. Lindsey <Cordes. Merendiess<Press- | Sama, Jamaica. <--- 1:
- aiky Of Sheridan 'v. PP 3. ‘Groll Const. Co., | Pavano<N. Y. Rys, \Needleman<Thira st. cmnleag Ont seth tek ae phen Bey ‘on Harristbriece GuarinocR RR. Algonquin, Santo Do-
Seta, and claims ies oraer® Feversed,” with |i douse Milk Ca RevallstChaves, "| conaitien aT the ence perfect his appeal | Kahan<Nas Eiee RR. |Dombroski< karin. Pinar del Rid Havang: 120 A-™
Sie Uaneter tax on entry of al reset, | SohersBenenson. |S. Marshall<PreumadPand place his case.on the Mog cab dee et Tockerth Oe ew Co Bratoc res: Bayamon. Ponce......
po hg sed. withot perpen Scimethissg i Re oy Ee 1 Bee aye Ege v. F. A. Stokes Drusewicz<B H RR. ; Damm<N¥ Con RR, ea a > pres
. Div. reve , ww a me<Rizzo. a n. a an oe ’ +e : - n Marcos. G
aud order of Surrogate’s Court monition ty | Sue REEO. n, Q.|schwabcesime Co. et al., appits.—Métion denied, "without wneecinetan coves. Bing tiarcos. Galveston ————
striking therefrom all tyit that portion there-| Co. & Sub, R ‘Mahoney <Kroehle, costs.
se on.

Polichfoni:

REP > R> SUK

Rys.
Bear “Lith

KKEKKEXEER’ & %

BEEBE

nl et
mb ma BD eho PD ED C9

Week days and Sundays at § P, ;
made by Horace Holden and John S. Bussi ;
bearing date the 24th day of September. 1846 for So abi’ fot West Houston st. eam it SPRING
rille..
¢ » respt., v. 8. Hirschman, appit, Apache, Jacksonvil

and cepertes) * tetereb.to a : J + gg al. defts.—Motion for re- Supreme Court.
and rt PART XII.—Platzek, J.—At 10:30 A. M, eves sniod
wel

CURVE REO RRR

Spring 9491.
and recorded !n the office of the Register of a
ies pay «Ad County - Row Fock a "Bey : TOURS TO 4 : 4
———. ° onveyances at rage on the 26t ;
c le — - — : da. ft tember, 184 ° fi ae Vv R 4 i Enj the refreshin trip
judicial settlement of accounts of Max- Wigmore<Cny. Hochman<Cohen. . Pe eas applt., v. Knox Hat Mfg. weet Tener weet 1, Plats, Sat "6 City o Stl, MONDAY, ait eae right title F. LL ¥ E : E 4 ¢ ‘ & sea to
ooprell ae ay ‘lin, Sasol an oom | retcara, & taylor. [Dinacenys "| SEB. "Griesamr, appt, v, Kor Hat ty Kappuscschulees ame Morrie<Rosenstein, | CLL. of 2 Fatore:tiegsteqttie Setion. whether TO BOSTON $3.00 _| |i °° 2h7eound of ‘the great Southwest
: ; App. Div. reversed, with ag ene MeGitachey Fcensthe and proposed resettled order as modified by . otherwise, and the rights to Whion « V
of County Court modified | 0.
fro

the court and signed PARR Piste y PART it we h: TY. ri ight hereirafter be titled) in TER 14 Ful
ealty Co. Bath C {cGinniss, an attorney.—Matter | PA o,f tatt, J.; P. 9:46 ee User, | Dante Alighieri, Naples 8:30 A.M. persons mig ereirafter become en Ly. P | NR, tt ton St. Daily
striki m the allowance of oy r Re J. J. McGinniss, ; } said premises. , hlee >
wink Si pambine<shme. a Being the same Property conveyed to Theo- oth iether

there - Official réferee. J.; PART IIl., Keogh, J.—At 9:45 A. M. Orduna, Liverpool
000, Without prejudice to an application Con referred to J. I. Marean as official Bucciarelli<Rinehart Cahill<Segschneider N ‘
the County Court on Draper proof for an “Sera” * No Oe ion eae NY. (Ropte ne Deets Ce. emt ge Boniface, Pave -—— Deed seer gend Annie “tedt ee hls P Robert | | oR eae Cte eg at
“allow the committee to indemn m NO. 09. )—— . . oode<Union Ry. Seaman<N. Y., N> H. r i deere ‘ st, +made by Robert || N. * lo » Wee! ays on 330.
ogee ethene and. counsel fees, f PART XIII.—Adjourned for the term. Re H. Stengel, an attorney.—Motion Morris< Wett. | & H. RR. Co. ~ \y ithelmina, Catbatren. . Shepard’ and Harriette W. Shepard, his P. M.; Pier 70, E. B., %. E. 224 B8t., 08 M
h ¥. R. R.'Co., apit., v. Sohmer PART XIV.—Giegerich, J.—At 10:30 A, M.—| granted. wife, and ee tee in Liber 2049 of Convey-

Alamo, Tampa........

MERU MM

lend
mb wee

| “ Mohawk, Jacksonville, ———_
Tutino¢Pennell. |Keating<Alex Smith & .
c 4 j 5 . . Sisto, appit.— zs 24 sidan vex dae
ont.—Motion for reargument denied: $16) Case on—20th St Garage Co<Moore, People, &c., respt., v. M Ross<Rodgers & i. Sons Carpet Co, ances at pase i as | si
costs, Motion to dismiss appeal + Mted and{ No day calendar. Motion to dismiss appeat seg py Nag Be —egge Lovallo¢Matturano. |Pine<Ring. (2) tCarries German matis. ' Sala. pre — historic -peiaia, Abe selliia fey
3 Vv. Friedman apt. ; Ma Faree ee bawn cnkias,. 5, ro Mn ‘ Osen., Gar aabeiee te eoeeelle order denied. Promewor of so Ree ee nokerite, By Marcon! Wireless. ¢ POR TLA West, Tampa and Mobile.
Mek : Yes yes< Pasquini, Pp Featcheste t. v. T. B. Mc- ‘Conduit | : : y STEAMS
° d Trim .Co., Inc., Westchester Mtg. Co., respt., Lehman¢Nat. Conduit SCOTLAND LIGHTSHIP, N. Y., APRIL 26, ‘
et al., Splts., “the Aetna Accident Oelaniat denas Ce. { rady. Intire et al., defts.. W. H. Foster, on gn & Cable Co, \ ss morn pcan Balboa to New York, was | 4: S York. as EASTERN STR aEee MALLORY HIP CO...
and Liability Co., Ce ea ee pismice Turtel< Friel. Bayer<Kamperdyck, Perma vi a ay granted ‘, aa ae remainder of the calendar goes over 549 miles N.'of Colon at 8PM. gach. j po pZudiect to =e ——$—$$__— chest a 2. Worth River, ea O ork. ;
peal_granted, and appea ssed, Nielsen<Century Liebler< Hellenberg. down for May 4. e term, - vale tae to New York wes 27 ccurate survey wou cke ces, an ’ Way,
Osts y + Vv. Acheso arden Co., shagnatdiaenintaie 8 El Valle, Galveston to Ne ork, wa ;
Swartwood as ie eaux, &e., aplt., v. tharpectentral Ver- Gant Trust a ory 6% sgeie-—<tipeer reve with $10 costs and QUEENS COUNTY. miles 8. of Jupiter at 7% York. © Deed, New York, April 18th, 1916, Al y Boat : :
Leh Valley R R. Co.—Motion to add to re RR disbursements, and defendant’s motion for 8s Illinois, Port Arthur to New ork, Was EDWARD FE McCALL, Referee. Leaves N. ¥., Pler 82°N. R foot. Ci st
payee an ~ . . Guaenaitions & Co< Gallin¢Allenania Fife | judgment on the pleadings granted, with $10 Supreme Court. 118 miles 8. of Jupiter at noon, Tie FOLEY & MARTIN, Attorneys tor Piaintitts, | + a 7 . eae 9B. M Bhaker eg «
DAY C NDAR. Wood & Selick. ns Co costs. - Y epeit SPECIAL ves FOR TRIALS—Blackmar, | 8S pang Ge mie yp aaed to New York, Wall Street, New York Cire wee! ; . M. ; 1824
Appleton<CNY, . Van Antwerp ét al< Myer _ Strassburger & Casé on, P. J. Boy

ROUNDS, SCHURMAN & DWIGHT at-| @ F380 . M. week ave, 0:00 5. M. Sundays,
Johnson <same. State of NY. . Co< Bonwit. Judgment and order affirmed, with costs. Platt<Platt et al (to SS Creole, New Orleans to New York, was : >

Gas Eng & Pow<same|CNY

Gat: <same.

5 round Sailing under American Flag to
; Co., réspt.— Gusa<Riclardson, 286 miles 8. of Diamoad Shoals at noon. den ak erceatante Albert N.’ Bid-| 9 Be $9. Per yy '
enccny. . | PART XVI.—Adjoumed for. the term. Causen| tye Sresslth, ppit.,'e- Sear Gor Pitan swat ct |icigane="” [88 Bi Aint Giteean anew Rec mening | Se Tbaiigatrmege’s albert Bi rishi tie ss wha nies ashe .
O’ Brien<CNY. 3 - | Order a Pha dog 1 oN e Py» , r. of Di d Shoals at 6 P. M. WERN : elephone or ng. S th A
Dempsey ‘same. Weisman<same, ferred tO Part XV. for trmav® been trans inashaiig Gest unt’ uateer tar abel Tha Poon onntinded. Bettie Geis et a+ win: | 88 Cheromee, "Gosrucamene, Shoals st 6 P.M. TERRY A. WERNEDRG, dale. tnattuene: | __HUDBON NAVIGATION Conse any, ou merica
PAing—Dill Balt CoeBtions hage8t,& M- | Inent aftirimed, ty his guardian ad item, ‘T, | be passed a day on this cases ill Be set | ne Ee gol Gcivetnt ic ew York, wee iRs Iyny Nay. eh S07 Rulton street, Brook: | CATSKILL EVENING LINE Diviek: Seshivenis”taacdlas cet
% —Dill- . . Cc. T. Cooper, by his ¢ ‘| down for a day on this call: 38 até@P.M : ae gx? ; Pi N Pp
> . NEW YORK counNTry, Cee Rn TaaOr, J.—Ab 10:80 A, M.| 7 Cooper, redbte ¥. Me. Vietenate ethic: Schmidt<Schmidt. Renibt<Rembt. Bees Bat 6 P.M. : WIRLIAM T. QUINN, Special Guardian tor | From Pler 48, oF er a Mon. | . . Montevideo and Buenos Aires
: Supreme Court, Cragin< Berkeley. FS Garlock < Kuhne Order affirmed, with $10 costs and disburse. Schrader<Schrader et {Liltenthal<Lilientha), ss en an gi Scteanyilie teNew York, was Pefendant Daniel G, Biddle, &c., 49 Wail | Wed., Fri, Kill, Hudson, Co _ “Crofton Hall,” Apr, 2

; US. Wood Preservg Co! bby. Co. ments. ~ al. | Hurwitz et al<Copp. 56 ir to } : 3 5 +e A

H DIVISION—First Depart <ONY, , Young<Tomlinsen, Margaret Defflay, respt., v. M. Martin, Prendergast et al< =| Hill< Regan. SS Larimer, Port Arthur to New rote, was |GEORGE V, A. McCLUSKEY, Attorney for | T bring 1097. New 12,000-ton
APPELLATE D partment— ¢ 250 miles E. of Sabine Bar at noon. ts Mary Eli , steamship
Recess Weil<Globe Ind Co hier¢ applt.—Judgment and order affirmed, with | Degnon Reaite Bauer< Bauer, ‘ : k, was thecn ants Mary Elizabeth’ Faulkner and BAY STATE LINE

. Heilbronner ¢ Fidelity r< W jn Terminal Improve- |McGahey, as exctrx< | | 58 Georgia, Port Arthur to New York, w others, 64 Wall Street, Ci !
APPELLATE TERM—First Department— & Casualty Co. Le k Co< ce

: 7 . a 06 miles EB. of Sabine Bar at noon. WARREN J, ELDREDGE
- Itschner, respt., v. C. G. & L. C. Nuna ment Co, McGahey et al. 3 V uN J.
. \ Mack<Field. Sheepshead Bay. Sp. Be SB, appits., and R, Wilson, deft.—Judg- Steiner<Steiner. SS Camaguey, Cienfuegos to New York, was

’ 808 miles N. of Watlings Island at noon. 64 W. 4 Cit Temporarily Discontinued. : Norton Line
entral Brew Co¢ | Manhan<Lewis, t affirmed, with costs. Hagle Savings & Loan : $ ‘ y.
L b age aa AH I.—Delehanty, J.— Camppell. Eckhardt<Eckhardt, . ig > judicial settlement of the account of A. Co<Lichtman et al, . | 88 mavens, of haat | onaged HS cee 203 the property |. Norton; Lilly &@ Ce
$ 10:30 A. M.—Lit ited motions, O’Toole<Hammer. CNY<Bradley Cont: ~. Gwynne, as exr, of John A. Gwynne, Highest number on the calendar is 2 0. 8 Apache, Jackeorvinis to Maw "feex; wae 12th Street, SA i ‘ - General .
E eS n. Sans ee és Case on. gecd., D. T, C. Gwynng, as admx., &c., appit. | pRIAL TERM—Van Sicien, J.—At 10 A. M. pears $5 on BAXKRUPTCY LES | gna Gen Agen oe tae
16< Litwin. Bat Wk roe if Surrogates’ Court. etiee as the ‘Surrogate : pig of Westches- FesplntClire sa penthiots a SS Philadelphia, La Guayra to New York, N/ In rig 8 pissnicr gover CS Pia \ hee Bay oe
k<Cons Tel & Prendergast. CHAMBERS—Cohalan, 8.~-At 10:80 a. w—| ** Kotick, as admr., &c., of Michael Ko- Civil: ° Dolan<same. was 516 miles 8. at noon. at United States for the Southern District o
Subway Co (2.)/Re Redw | Wills for probate: Dora Sickel, J: See

ivil: i
SS Moreni, Kirkwall to New York, was 196
lacki, decd.. respt., v. Amer. Sugar Refining | webster<Indian Ret / Williams<McLoughlin, jles E, of Ambrose Channel at’ noon.
oly Poets Mefcourt. LF Gais-|Samuel Horowitz, : an mt and order reversed and 30 et nwick<Cypress Hill a ,

ny Sha RR-(2.) | Postal Tel-Cable €o< Christian Garrison Franker Co., applt.—Judgment a Co et al Fenwic ypress 9

i T } N York © SAVERIA - NO, Bankrupt.—Ch: *
¥ SS Trinidadian, Tampico to New York, wa as
sert, lal granted, costs to abide the event. | schmitt, as admr< Cemetery et al. , x

Pirie<Pir e. Assoc 88, August Rapp. Christian D Schaffner. | FQ va sia Moscato, as admx., &c., of Calogero| Auer et al Greenberg, as adinx< 0 miles Bet 7 P.M.

oes Sante Os. a tenananae County |Augusta Goebel, |

Em ng Co. ;

I ah

Shongood, U. S. Auctionéer for the South- ~
ern District = New York : ——_ bf Be.
Moscato, decd., v. Prince Line, Ltd., applit.— | y Albert Johntra Coc] B, Q Co & Sub RR. fells Monday, May 1, 1916, by order of the

<niieentincanallatits inca
’ mi ‘ Court, at 2 F. M., at 307 Pleasant Ave Bor- Swedish F of War
J os<Duval.| United 1 TRIAL TERM—Fowler, 8.—At 10:80 A, M.— Judgment and order affirmed, with costs. : Clark, as admx<CNY F oreign P orts. 7 < ough of Manhattan, assets of the above bank- 35 STOCKHO °HLO10 tone:
ger Bros f bes wh ressed Beef No day calendar, Y W. T. Nickerson, resp¢., v. Blectro Silicon Nelson<B, Q Co & . Fe ; Tupt, consisting of Groceries, Canned Goods, | “* “+ displacement.
<Dahigren, Co< Wild, , Co., applt.—Reargument ordered and case set| The following causes, if marked ready, will | 3 Bottled Goods Desk, Counter, Fixtures, etc Largest steamer to SCANDINAVIA.
inaski< Harrower. Reltman< Prospect City Conrt, down Por May 4. be passed for the day. No cause will be But Arrived. 25 175 MATTHEW A. HENKEL, Receiver. {> Leaves New ir k . 3d. oe:
k< Morris, pe Hospitat & . ERMS — Part 1 J Kathi Paffen, indiv. and as exrx., &c., of down for a day on this call: Roma, at Lisbon, April 24. . 12th Breet LEON DASHEW, Attorney for Receiver, $20 ‘DIRECT
: <same. oe lyn Maternity. | s ECIAL T — Part Il — McAvoy, J.— J. A. Paften, decd., appit., v. C. N. ¥. & | O' Neill<Hopper, Naumann<Huripurt § rton Hall, at Suez, April 21. = treet, Broadway, New York.
<Rubin Rty Co.) Neu lorf<Furgatch, Litigated motions, at 10 A. M, Cc. I. & B. R. R., respts.—Judgment and order | MacCary< Weiss, Motor Truck Co. ristol City, at Glasgow; April 24, Out of the purchase money received from Si Secmtiiioen. HE
<Corcoran- Re Hammerstéin, Empire State 8 P | Telescope Cot Bed Ce< reversed and new trial granted, costs to abide y<R Hoe & Co, |Pelletier<John ‘Wane- 88 Cufic, at Liverpool, April’ 29, - such sale the Referee will pay all expenses; IN THE DISTRICT COURT. OF THE dations in pifes
1d Co. . |GOotid<Toxas & Corp<Fradus, Steinfeld Bros, the event. cCorty< Wiarda, maker. §8 Trinidad, at St. Kitts, Aprii 24, of the sale and all taxes, assessments and United States for the Southern District of Fassage tates 18 Ey Set-o; 2D OL. m5
Pacific Ry, Harris<Kennedy. és Christatos<New Eng A. Perreto, applt., v. Ma Ennis, respt.— | Anderson<L I RR Co. Shakovitch< Kovacs SS Bergensfjord, at Christiania, April 17, water rents which are liens on the premises | Now York.—In Bankruptcy.—In the matter of SH-AMERIOAN 24 State Bt,
Benedict “Benedict. Newman<Czarnicki, Cas Co, (2, Judgment and order affirmed, with costs, Clark<CNY. et al. SS New Sweden, at Ghristiania, at time of sale. te BESSIB KLING, Bankrupt.—Chas, Sh ‘ood,
Brown<Mitchell Lewis! Milano Film Co< Weingarten<Kahn. R. S. Brewster et al., respts., v. J. J. Sink | Higtiest number reached on the general cal- SS Harpathian, at T ' Dated, is Yor! e Apert 18th, 1916, U. S. Auctioneer for the AN CHOR
Motor $4, Ghaniun y or. sakes Bera uneon 88 I. nott et al., as members of the Board of Su-| endar is 898, . 88 Gorredyk, at Rot . AD DWARD E. McCALL, Referee. New York in Bankruptcy “ b
Bavier<McBride. Toland Tithe on © CocNaeen,| pervinors. of Weatehente; County, appits., et County Court. SS City of Delhi, UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT, | 1, 1916, by order of the Court, at 10:30 A. M., Royal Mall Twin-Screw Steamships
‘ fierzog< Bell. H aonanthi nas Waterhouse Roakas °lal., defts.—Order affirmed, with $10 costs and TRIAL THRM—Humphrey, J.—At 10 A. M. Sailed. Southern District of New York. at 40 Ludlow Street, Borough of Manhat : pains
Shalokicirie an: Le Ca, at Sd a J ‘Werner & CotMunn.) Co<jano,” dishuggetents. iw tee ‘a A, | Beebach<Dare, nee Ry, : 8S Invrian, from Bordeaux April 16. vont ine wats of Of eased, States Gomanding Gnoneien is hg Jooda Bo egomating 0 NEW YORK to
See } Cc. W. Brown, respt., v. Genera corge A. | Polfs<Rolfs. athan<Harrisun, 85 Mae, from Lisbon Aprii 1 : rtelture thereof under Tovisions o » Goods, ~ Goods,
itable Life Assur-| yea Ity Co, Lembart<Mirror Cameron Mach Ce< Custer Garrison No. 2, &c., applt.—Order re. Carney<B H RR Kaye<B H RR. pea ery ack di ae Beos. 8,400 and 8.453, R, 8 th 8., I have| Coffee Mill Desk, Counter, Scale, Fixtures; Calling at rerpool,
ance Socy<Donley. eiss<Stegeltuch, Films, Inc, Tiedemann. versed, with $10 costs and disbursements, and Clemens<same. Kulis<same 88 Ryndam, trom Falmouth, April 23, seized and hold 100,425 cigars, ped; | etc. GEORGE W. MARTIN, eiver. + TUSCANIA .,.......8AT.,
<Homestead Natl Surety Co< Rosenheum< Burts Gobunnn. motion deried, with costs. : Saraito et al<Monaco.|Cutler<same Sa Vouldrecht, trom Rotterdam, April 20. Ibs. stemmed tobacco, 530 Ibs. unstemmed; TOBIAS A. KEPPLER, Attorney Re-| © TA ......8AT., MAY
alentce. : c achohett <Globe Tire. hy: ors Sal. D. J. Callahan, relator, v. Robert Adamson, | Feehan<«B H RR, Bennett<Bennett, - SS Montanan: from ser eserouah., April 21. tobacco, 1 balance scale, 2 1 showcase, ceiver, 288 Broadway, New York. CAMERONIA +++++SAT., MAY 27,
pt petd M Eisen. J Werner & Co<Munn. Urso<Guerrteri as Com., &c., respt. — Determination con- | McCauley<same. Sharpe<Sunswick Blég ie Pass a. 10 screens, 1 rubber blanket, 1 lamp, books, T tee ee +, JUNE 10,
Brison<Fiynn. Bmith, Gray & Coc Meyer<Roosin.” firmed and writ dismissed, with $50 coste and | PegicinicD. Q Co & |Britton<Rosenthal, assed. ie) Ry ee ‘ h U, 3. DISTRICT COURT, SOUTHERN Dig«| COMPANY'S OFFICE, $1
Sarkay One eee | ore Goodman<Seidmann. | disbursements. ne tollowing causes, if marked ready, wit | 8S Midland, New York for Viadivostok, einted tor nen, © the the eee caUee $8] inet of New York. —Bankrupte —No, 21
rkay<CNY. Pollak<Austro-Am 88.|\Meyer<Bachrach ta, “aon eet: relator, v. same. — Deter-| pe passed forthe day. .{° cause will be set passed St. Helena. cliaine ttan, Nowrt, 204 | —Noties ig given that JOSEPH L, PL » BARBADC
Us creat Co<Marting mination confirmed and writ dismissed, with down for a day upon this call: “ 9 ETT, rupt, has applied for a dis- pn ,
dale R E Co. PART IL~Smith, J.—Hx parte business at $50 costs and disbursements. Aulick<O’ Leary. Goldberg< Magiel. Transatlantic Mails. h 4 th . mtn from all his debts. Creditors and Ss WENOS CS ponte
Finchley coe es Gee 10 A. M. Queeng Villa Const, Co., appit., v. 8. o Bambatier<Schtetder, a<Schwaner, Sweden, Denmark, Nether- and defend their interest, if eny ie parties interested are ordered to attend be- i [
uc! aw. ernbacher, TRIAL TPHRMS—Part L-Schmuck, J.—Aat] Shields, respt. — Judgment affirmed, with| Kearns<B H RR, Chimelowski< | jJands, Germany, Austria, ‘Hungary goods. All not appearing ‘will be defaulted, | fore this Court in Pest Office Building, - Hi A } | hat
, malmkow<CNY, 9:45 A. M. - | costs. | Haselbacher< ski. Luxemburg, Igaria, Serbia, and Dated April 17. 1916 *| hattan, New Yi ,on Monday, May 29th, : =
i cals Av, Crowell Pub Co<gouth Hatrison <Repettt, Realty Associates, a corpn.,, respt., v. T. Schwendler (8.,) Turkey, via Christiansand and ris- ~- THOMAS 1916, at 10:30 A. M., there to show cause | Ahame IT TY-y
Artes Beles Brawer. Surety: Co. ~~ Tling< Moscowitz. Londrigan, appit.—Judgment affirmed, with Lapp<L-I_ RR, uber<Gor nia, at 10 mentary, 8. Marshal, | Why discharge should not be ted. a o- o
érvinc Cost | dah Krauss<Otis Elev Co. | costs. Donohue<B, Q Co & -|Harpell<N ¥ & North ‘asiria P27 | wt. SNOWDEN MARSHALL U5 Attorney. Raters oe 18. & YAUBAN pe sens..
Reryin<Cunningham, be Mieth<Goldman, | C. A. Starbuck, piff., v. H.W. Smith and Sub RR, Shore Traction Co, ept Austria, : , .___ Referee in . VOLTAIRG. .. 7.
Re Goldstein<Met “doy Millers 3 M. ¥. Monk, defts.—Motion for new trial dis- Hoover<C I & B Ry, » Bulgaria, U, 6. DISTRICT COURT, SOUTHERN Ges. BUSK & DANINLS, Gen. Agta,
Trwimtarce fos j acicengy ©) |Abromowita< Jab. missed. without costs. toy Fenn in | eee gt als bin key i away ~—_ BANKRUPTCY SALES, trict of New York -Beckrigy by
pr: Ousky, - ‘ ompson, applt., v. C. I, Epste: . ?
shine Co, matdeccNy) | Jacoba< Greenhut « . H.R. R., reepte.Judemens order Highest number reached on general calén. and a ta Ned Bot STRICT COURT OF THB UNI-|—Notice is iver that mo
Mc » Jr<Postal iolow Bb) Siegel-Cooper Co, - affirmed, with costs. dar, 181,
he Wein, Service Co, : echanic< Karfinkel, L, Treem

New York.—In Bankruptcy.—In the matter of

6th Avenue.
5th Avenue,

iv 1, at 8:30 A ‘ ted States for the Southern District of New| a bankrupt, has applied for a
er ° Dp J. Frank ae pO A. M.,) “(sea pos oF a yeti Hires Bankru tc re nek matter of ane debs Be pon oe gerne _
R Gps HS . uis.. 7 “. RAH Pe it.— Chas. | es are order o e this o:
Madden<Schottel, Srey ale n s E Fowherceenne® G0.) al., respts elds apple ys reese gets. Transpacific Malls. Italy, Rumania, "Switzerland, * ‘ana | Shongood b, ‘s. Auctioneér for the Southers | In Peat Gone Building; Manhattan, ;
Weeks¢ igen Am SS Co, |Goodman<Bway ‘Taxi. | ot al respts., (Action 1.)—Order affirmed thaws baieene islands, Aner” via Gaeret as AM (auppie. posed 348 May 2, 1016, by order of the Cone ait thee ry Sate oy ai tome :
ox<Mu n. idburger<Maas, Wolansky<Weissberg. with $10 costs and disbursements. es >t West,) and New alan 10 A. M.,)—88 vi i - 90-8’ ‘ 4 SD cheese? , . . ; J.
<Dempsey. Bankcsenmont (2) |Ryan<Greenhut-steg- | “Ww. ns, reept., v. W. H. Freeman,| {except r ie nonee ia, 8 aly, Ouigh of Miniettatt Of Division Street, Bor- | should’ not be Sranted. #
j f . - Vv. W. via San Francisco)—Ventura,....., i France, Rumania, + Italy, ough of Manhattan, assets CGRANE xB, -
Ppennmerican Sav Tattcgecurity Bank | ¢l-Cooper Co. ttt, Ot Mls detts.—Judg- Hawail (via. San eR Ee IT tic 95 ENS poain, Portugal, | Reypt Gree rupt, consisting Cf ladies cloaks and suits, * eferee in Bankruptoy, - Azores & Lisha
<Sullivan,. - G. Wilson, appit., v. Giitet i hina, and Phitppine Ita, Gib: safe reteetel, wax figures, mac :|.U, 8. DISTRICT COURT, SOUTHERN DIS. ABR [ N TON ples. ‘na
Moythan Machitie Co. rept. Order affirmed, with $10 | “Apes, Korea “Vancouver impress, if traltg- lines utch Hast 1 safe, ihee ie seis, toe recetver srg  tetet of New York. —Bathira =No dans. Al arseilies
* eee ewe ee eeeee ee oe 1 ’ * e 3
| SPeeuLaAre DIVISION—Second Department | Japan ieores, and China (vin Beatties via, B t ert REMBAUGH, Recetver. Peditone anguscharee from | 28%. W. Elwell & Co. G. A, If state Bt, RB
—Recess. j avoma Maru.......... seeseess. ADI 80 . ISAAC STHINHAUS Attorney for Receiver “Sreditons and inter- A A ‘
APPELLATH THRM—Setond Department— << weet tei ig DOM soso she tseeceees s ADEE OQ 283 Broadway, New Yorke *| ested are to attend before this, Cour eG ILERe sorted Tou
Recess. , . is) * eee - 1 ORT:
1 Hawall, Fij ds, New Zealand, Transatlantic Parcel Post Mails. Mon ‘eid. 10:80 | 800 S11 FIFTH AVE. (Bet. 81
1. . 1<Katz,” - nett? . 8P L TERMS—Part I.—Benediot, J.~At and Australia (except West) (via . : nited for So D A. M., there: to show cause N.Y. OFTy.
splencavne AS nmekin Chas ee Pines<Con Briarwood stoouyer)—i na Pritigniggta™ § Crees. Api ao "Be dn tonin ae t8 4. cain Bankeng soutnern Distes wid not be granted. MACG + td ia NDE
of Yucatan< end, . Ince |-Fra t Bs' bo ety | Vansant reese a ppine France—Close at 6 A. M. April 29, gg Ro.| ARTHUR J LEW Bankrupt. Referee-in: itcy.
; of Asia ‘

chambeau,
- TEASE COS eee see v selon erees MAY ig Belgium Service suspended.

cy, sells y a

-| as assignee, &c.,
ment affirmed, w

eeeseee

uA A Block ¢Blook,
Re th me, Erlchara raves

A (Maisner. ’ mberger<Muir Land
Pe neni sect Mn. | SHORT CAUSE CALENDAR—Casea will be} Madden: at

- M., ‘ -| a bankrupt, has a plied for a diac .
» (Be ning. + Postmaster announces Germany, Austria, and Hungary—Service sus- Borough
n Séc, Singer<St James t, ( are.) Oran ainettl Grandh f ihe rouowing dates—Melbourne,
tz<B Kuppen- Amuse Co, __ : Stone iiler< rickson, bya 5 March 30—which arrive ickets, | on. Monda:

helmer f 5 Boloiian eW ete ky ; HN L. LYT? } there to pan
te at’ ES » Ks

Hellig: Olay... Aprit
orti<King Raiph 3 ee . the} all his de! Creditors and parties interested
eauh on: Ap anc ann rant, Ap oe Re enatleeds BLAU, ZAis N outa mip, aie i.
[orion tie orale of thursday, Spel ie aes ss Sh Satria te iat

beria— h Wednesday », PY order | —Notice is given that FRANCIS B. Woon A.'&, JOHNSON & +
; ~~ Pacific Maile, Nethariande Surtos suspended. f th :30 A. M., at 1,440 Broad Sram
Duke eMohegan Tube, TDiamenia ee rial Toy| Fe People< ermal |
: “ fg Co. . Boulevard, (Burke. Auckland, Ma: N Lo Sweden and Denmark—Close at .9 | Paintin 3. Sho M Post “Orne Borkit agree 40 gy tag
a8@ On, <Stone, hi at ean’ . April 27, SS. Hellig Olav, and at | Typew ter, Office Pawn A. M.
rona,

: . mee Pet, agate.

ee ee

Buyers’ Wanta

ie en, gertion

agate to

dito BRE ERGES,—W
; peue

34 | Broadway. ne
roaagway. city.
pate 4. eo cae *

ILDPREN’S COATS.—Jobber will 1 i‘ at
‘ed Y Re een 3 Fall eoata. ie

Bre iotbe tman. & “Fein, Fall we Re 4
© Bee Oppentelm a Colling Butldl Py

.—Jobber looking Fall junfor 1-
| RK aS conte: ith floor, 120 West Seth St.

COATS AND SUITS,—Jobber looking 7 Fall
‘@uits and pile Sabrick ceata will x stock
erders. Rothenstein & Nelsen, 129 W

COATS AND SUITS. —Jobber looking at Fall

samples, Nh all week, ater, 4
AN apse) woe tt eek, rear elevator, 4th

COATS AND SUITS, Palm eres alan silk;
looked at‘by exclusive jobher. M, J. Rubia,

COATS AND SUITS.—Will look at

bett
‘ line coats and sults, 11 West 25th St., 7th

DRESSES.—Jobbers looking at children's
white and colored; also middy bleuseg; ali
we week; write for appointments. R 89

PRBS. heap; also skirts; te les
w' ednesday A, M. M,. Milder, care ef
N. Vun Buren, 1,140 Broadway.

eee: —Western' jobber looking at Fall
dresses only; stock orders placed. Room

DRBDSSES.—Looking at Silverbloom and sport
dresses. 7th floor, 137 West 35th.

PALM BEACH SUITS. — Jobber looking at
samples. 12 West 27th, 8th floor.

_B8ILK SWEATERS.—Wanted, line of silk and

fiber sweaters; just in from the road and
know where I can place quantities at popu-
lar prices; want house that can deliver. M
60. Times. a

SUITS WANTED,.—Jobs men's bes aot

$3.50 and children's suits $1.50 an-
-tity « fer ae) cash. pone Fn 0051.
Call Mann, Weak

SUITS.—Cash buyer wants to buy ladies’
Wash suith 15 East 26th. Room 1,911.

WASH DRBSSES.—Jobber ready to place or-

ders for immediate delivery on snappy
styles: sub it samples. 38-40 West 334d,

ING APPAREL—Ladies’
s. Cash for jobs. Jaco
penard. Frankiin 2950,
WOMEN'S APPARDL.—Joba wanted cheap.

Call, between and 10 A. M., Royal Spe-
Clalty Hat Ce., 59 East 8th St.

‘and chil-
vitz, 10 Lis-

OFFERINGS TO BUYERS.
BOYS’ WASH SUITS for immediate deliv-
@ry; 2,000 dozen fresh from the tailors.

Greenberg-Marcus Co., 458 Broadway,

BOAS of ostrich and marabou for immediate
delivery. Deutsch, 501 Broadway.

COATS.—To close out at reduced prices. Joe
Korostoff, 36 W. 20th.

SEATS ae SUITS. —500 latest designs. to
W. Cloak & Suls Co., Inc.,
118 West. Sea St.

COATS AND SUITS at a‘price for immediate
delivery. Eis@nberg & Waldman, 115 West
h St.

COATS AND SUITS.—Also jobs at a price.
Stein & Knobel, 36 West 20th St.

CLOAKS AND SUITS.—Origina! samples. B.
W. Wise, 22 West 27th St.

CCATS, SUITS.—Jobs to close out.
Shapiro, 18 West 27th St.

Simon

COATS, suits, closing out; smart styles, low
prices. Talbot Company, 114 West 27th.

GOATS, SUITS.—Immediate delivery; job to
close out.

CREPE DE CHINE.—4,000 yards flesh, good
quality; bargain; 85c. cash. Stuyv. 1682.

DRESSES.—White, children’s, misses’; lace,
embroidery, net, organdie; styles, values;
mmediate delivery; also jobs. “Subin, 32
est 24th St.

DRESSES.—Lot 60 dresses,
vofle dresses, close out ata
<4 aaa and Costume iene

DRESSES.—Cheapest silk Jersey dresses in
the country. elephone 3847 Stuyvesant.
Sam Englander, 32 Union Square.

DRPSSES.—Job and wash dresses at sacri-
fice. D. & E. Dress Co., 151 West 25th St.

FASTENERS.—Sonomor 000 black, 0 white.
Fishman. Phone 4530 Morningside.

FURS.—Popular priced Summer furs for im-
mediate delivery, A. Reichbart & Son, 148

LYMANSVILLE, 2038, all shades; opening
_ price. Adolph Schneider, 17 W }_ West lsth.

PIN TICKETS, LABELS,—Best and cheap-

est, quickest/ delivery; gummed sealing
tape, moistening machine; send for samples,
Chasseaud Co., 39 East 28th.

RUGS, CARP£TS.—Trade only;

ites; Smyrnas, ingrains,
stair, matting; beauty,
rect from mill.

SERGE.—12 pieces 45-inch white
serge, sponged and shrunk, at
Dicker & Ginsberg, 142 West 26th St.

SEVPRAL HUNDRED SILK AND COTTON
dresses for immediate delivery; good as-
Sonat J. Glockner & Co., 115 West

2 we a he
181 Weat

fibres, gran-
rags, runners,
Chasseaud, 37 East 28th.

French
75ec. met.

SILK JERSEY SPORT COATS.—Shown by us
exclusively; something entirely new; very
practical, not expensive; a variety of sport
Gresses and various up-to-the-minute sport
materials; also silk, street, and afternoon
in stock, for immediate deliyery.

Tip Top, 184 West’ 37th St.

SILK DRESSES, 100, to close out.
Shulder Co., 188 West 17th 8t.

SNAP ¢ ingg gg white, black.
6th Av. floor. Telephone

Square ase,

SNAP-FASTENERS.—Lowest prices. Order
now, Greeley 3606. 47 JV. 34th, Suite 609,

SUITS.—1,200 cloth and taffeta; closing

Madison

out;
newest 4 les; greatly reduced prices. Louis
Ginsberg Co., 28 West 27th,

SUITS. —800 poplin and taffeta, to ciose B see
20 per cent. off regular price. I. C. Cloak
and Suit Co., 45 West 34th St. Greely 304s,

SUITS AND COATS for immediate delivery;
thade in the latest styles and material. M.
& H. Gordon, 22 West 26th St.

SUITS, white braid trimmed;
livery; cheap.

immediate de-
Kaplam & Alper, 51 West

24th St.

TAFFETA.—Good quality, black, lower than
mill prices; also all colors soiree. Farra-

COMMERCIAL PAPER.

Yesterday. .3@3 per cent. for the best names
The quotations are for six ‘nentiie? paper.

Color Cards Arrive.

The Claude color card for the silk
trade and the syndicate flower and
feather card arrived yesterday from Eu-
rope. Both were very favorably com-
mented on in the_trades that will use
them. The Claude card snows sixteen
ghee featuring blues, grays, and a se-
ries of old rose shades. The flower and

ther syndicate card shows twelve
lor ranges, which start with gerani-
blues, and grays. The novejties on
card are pastels and dark gl cés.

% Desire to Place Orders.
Although prices show a tendency to

‘weaken in silks, many of the munufact-

- wrers find buyers just as eager to place

peers. as they were when the market
risi Many of the factors in the
do not think it wise at the present
to accept these proffered orders,
to the fact that avers may repent
oir action and seek to cancel in case
a decline. To protect their customers
the policy adopted by the representa-

houses at present.

Hard Coal Trade Slumps.
The Coal Trade Journal will say today

teen of a nature to help the anthra-
market, which is at a low ebb of ac-
wity, ow! owing to price uncertaintics. Buy-
ged entirely by the current re-
m m= of the retail trade, and these
become smaller as as t an me 9

The tonnage al for Api
1 for Fo il. ‘The

Paes oie ven moteaned
Ww anys, wing

about
" to ‘the fast that m

Bernstein & Co., 118 West 27th St.,

"rhe tidewater wiuningus is in
stagnant and. pveretgcked ndition, the,

ap week Thi orein the dullest ex
rienced so far this Spring. <a

Large, Advante Orders on Ribbons.
The ribbon salesmen now on the road

wits pint lines Peg Swasing is wer te ore
y, August,

an ad roars, Oe lens ieee peal bein, + age ted
_ | popular fade wih he muiners’ trad trade
<een favor He ers

, taille, and the
striped oles.
consi relat

moires and Sim

~printa are not

is the shade in

most demand, Quite a demand °has

ung up from the malllinery trade for
black Swatp erete.

Shoe Sisginaes Is Good.

In spite of the bad weather expert- | son
enced during part of the time, last week
is gaid to have been the best that retail-
ers of shoes in the metropolitan district
have had for some time. Thuse who
were well supplied with the Pie iy de-
mand broke all records, and good busi-
ness is expected to continue for a long
while... Large buyers are said ta be
watching their stock records carefully
now in order to determine which styles
in women’s shoes to buy for Fall. It is
more or less of a settled fact that colored
kid and dark Russia ealf, in solid colors,
are here to stay, as are well-matched
combinations of colors, but it is an open

uestion as to which of them will pre-

ominate. The demand for dark A a
pos ja growing, especially in men's
goods.

Sees No Place for It.
According to the credit manager of a
prominent lecal wholesale house, what-
ever advantages the so-called trade ac-
eeptance may have in other lines of
business there seems ta be no place for
it in the transactions between jobbers
and their customers. ‘*Take our house,
for instance,’’ he said. ‘‘ We have 10,-
or mere aceounts on our books, and
the credits run so small that $1,000
represents a heavy one. Quite a few of
the credits we carry do not exceed $100,
and there are many under.that amount.
To go in for trade acceptances with such
small ameunts would be a virtual revo-
lution in business methods, and I con-*
fess that I de not want to be the first
te da it. I believe that other-credit men
in the jobbing busineas fee] the same
way about it.

Holiday Hurts Cocoa Trade,

The celebration of the Easter holiday
in various Latin-American _ countries
caused’ a suspension of forward business
on raw cocoa in the last several days,
and spot business with buyers in_ this
country has been none too active. There
has been no real change in the export
situation as it affects shipments to Eu-
ropean countries, and the trade has
about given up hope of one for the bet-
ter until peace is declared. Despite the
quiet of the market and the fairly full
condition of stocks, prices hold up very
well. Those current yesterday showed
no great change for the worse when coni-
pared with quotations in force three
weeks ago. Some of the more important
prices fo low: Bahia, 15@16\4c. ; Caracas,
Maracaibo cocoa is held at 2(@21 cents a
pound.

Will Not Stop with_the Parade.

The Executive Committee of the silk
industries’ branch of the preparedness
enterprise does not intend to let its part
of the project die with the complétion
of the parade that is to be held here
on May 13. In a letter sent out to mem-
bers of the various branches of the silk
trade yesterday, William Skinner, Treas-
urer of the Siik Men’s Committee, says,
among other things: ‘‘ Your Executive
Committee does not expect to let this
good work stop with the parade. It will
endeavor to make use of the interest
manifested in the citizens’ preparedness
mévement by encouraging enrollment in
the citizens’ training camps and the
militia.’’ With the letter was Sent a list
of subscribers to the fund needed to de-
fray the expense incurred.in relation to
the parade. It showed that, up to April
P22, forty-eight individuals, firms, and
corporations had made contributions,

No ‘Cheeii to Decline in Rubber.
«Priceg.in the loeeal ‘market for crude
rubber continue to show the gradual
decline that has featured them for sev-

eral weeks past, and which is said to be
due to lack of buying interest on the
part of the larger users of this com-
modity. In spite of the steady easing
off there continues to be no ev ident sign
of selling pressure. Or, the other hand,
dealers are quick to raise prices when
the opportunity for a good sale is af-
forded. Practically all of the traders
in the market are wondering when
prices will again reach levels at which
big buyers will be interested, for no
hope of an immediate upturn is extended
by the condition of the English market.
Up-river fine was quoted yesterday at
71% cents, spot, while coarse was priced
at 55% cents. For spot and near-by de-
livery pale crepe was listed at 80 cents
and smoked sheets at a cent less. For
May-June délivery about half a cent a
pound lower could be done on both
grades,

Gray Goods Inquiry Fair.

There was a pretty good inquiry for
gray goods of one kind or another in this
market yesterday, but business was

hampered to a considerable extent” by
the difficulty encountered in getting
goods out for near-by deliveries. How-
ever, sales for such delivery were made
of 39-inch 68-728 at 8% cents, while simi-
lar business was done on 38%-inch 64-60s
at 5% cents. Some mills are asking
55g cents for the latter construction. For
39-inch 80 squares 7% cents was paid,
h some sellers asking 7% cents. Five
cents was the asking. price for 88%-inch
60-52s, but it was said that some doubt-
less could be had still at a sixteenth
less, There were further reports of
sales of 3844-inch 60-488 at 4% cents. In
the sheetings some good business was
told of on 48-square, 3 yards at 7%
cents. wn printcloth prices were;

DUTY ON SILK CRAPES.

Court of Customs Appeals Settles
a Test Case on it.

The United States Court of Customs
Appea}s has settled under the present
tariff ‘the classification of silk mourn-

ing crapes in the piece, varying in
width from 19 to 42 inches. The test
case stood in the name of Auffmordt &
Co., this city. The wide goods were
assessed for duty as veilings, while the
narrower. fabrics were taxed as trim-
mings, both at 60 per cent. -

Both classes of goods were claimed by
the importers to be dutiable at 45 per
cent. under the general provision for
woven fabrics of silk. The narrowér
widths of crape in question. are used
chiefly in making trimmings. In this
use the goods as imported are first cut
on a bias and then usually hemmed
and 5 ae to the garment, or it may
be a hat, the bias pieces being usually
folded and sewed together before being
applied. There axe also plaited crape
trimmi made from the samé mate-
rial, which in like manner had been cut
on thé bias and the pieces sewn to-
gether.

The Board of General Apprainors held
all the goods .to be trimmings dutiable
as assessed. The importers then went
before the Customs Court with the con-
tention at the goods were not trim-
mings, but cuatertal for trimmings, and
that the rule had ‘been established that
material for trimmings was not trim-
menee within the tariff sense. Presiding

Judge Montgomery, in his decision for
thé court, reversed the board and adopt-
ed the importers’ view.

Will Go to South America.
Within the next three weéks the
Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Com-
merce will start special agents for
South America to make eh acgpe grt

studies of the fart there. Two of t
investigators, William A. Tucker Bs
Philip 8S. Smith, will be at the New
York office,, Room 408, Custom House.
today and tomorrow. They are to in-
vestigate, réspectively, the. textile and
electrical s markets. They expect
to be gone a year or more. Herman G,
Brock: another special agent, will in-
quire into the opportunities existing in
uth America for American boots and
ave mal @ Ww! at the oyreas foi
ays bes nning Fri All

will to co er with

~NEW INCORPORATIONS.

Special to The’ New Ye York Times. :
ALBANY, N. ¥,, April 25. — Twenty-four
corporations, with aggregate capitalization of
~~ 200, were chartered today. They include:

eS ke v ralahes, Ma Ta sawn.
oo Hi tiareth a ete ene, 6:
Owilien J. Ward , Ino, #00, silverware,

leath .
lent nag Roats, jereirg, 880 2 ge

Caer Rubber Co., Inc., ae @ . sur-
gical, pharmaceutical suppHes to tubés,
tires, toys, druggists‘ sundries, N.
Naeman, A, Weiss, A, Feldman, at Wil-
loughby Av. AR gaps.
Riverside Pulp ong r Corpn., Balisten,

pa r, pile rae 000; R, W. Ave
CH Z Tr Kneeland, Rochester, mh

cteeeeek Farm, Ine,, Millerton, — realty,
farm property, pquitry oattle, livestock, $25.
poo Ww. eat eat’ a Mu unnell, C. M. fatter -

Faultless” Ww fat Co., Ine, ladies’, misses’
waists, $25, ¥, Manchel, ‘anders, A.
@uttman. 1.893'Crotona Ay., Bronx, t
Horwitz & Arbib, Ine., Gloversvilte, hides,
orwitz,
Gloversville. ey TO

Aetna Steel Products Ce., Inc.,-iro
other metals. boilers, ravers, $20, 000; py:
Arcona, J. D. Newbold, H. Linioomas. #0

PRvitare St,
rit Tobtshing Inc., publighing,
keeling. $10. Ga, Scheuber, Xt Nehe i
or Cc. Hi, Hastings 610 Eastern Parkway. |
International Carousel Co., Inc., roller
bag ‘sopra Ruscha amusement. de-
olzad. 51 Chambers St » beri geben ee
avono Construction Co., Inc,, Brooklyn,
realty, agency, . brokerage, $5,000; M. was:
Donovan, J. Warnock, 60 Cole &t., Brooklyn,
Great Eastern Elevator Corpn., Buffalo, ators
we; w yar tage, warehousing, pforwardin ;
fe Branigan, R. we |
Tome. Naan “Brogdway, fF Ps
Taylor Bon Ton Works, Inc., hat trimmings,
ppriere’ supplies, $10,000; M. Walfish, F. L.

Hu oe
Flushing, Linder, 265 Barolay ‘st.,

William Zitenfield
Fs: wearin apparel, $10,000;
pect
Kinshi Engineering Co.,\In
construction, $5,000; H.R. Sites. Cc. Schlies- |
inger, A. W, King, 1,511 Bryant Avy., Bronx.
‘opp Foundry Ca. Inc.; Rochester, iron,
genet, metal castings, $10,000: 3) C. Stewart, G.
i offman, C, P
Waseeeae. ‘opp, 182 Conkey
Jacksen Co.

Noble

candy, confectionery, Junch, . tea, coffee,

rooms, hotels, $10,000; L. W. ‘Killeen. M.

and N. Jackson, 405 Hudson Av. Albapy.
Scout Masters Publishing !

Ine

Me “ay cloaks,

King,

Bronx, realty,

Inc., Sohenectady,

Miaheieton
Association, Inc,, Newark, N. J., magazine.
periodicals, newapapers, $100,000, Representa-
tive, John Henecker, 17 Park Row, Man-
hattan.

ital increases: Tacajo Sugar
Theatre Co., Breoklyn, 350 to —. shares,
working capital $35,000 to $86,000; Kerr;
Adjustable Strap Co., Ine., Manhattan, $250, -
000 to $280,000; Wolf Safety Lamp Co. of
America, Inc., Manhattan, $10,000 to $15,000.

Capital reduetion: Hudson River Aniline’
Color Works, Manhattan, $41,000 to $820,

Corp.,

i New Jersey Charters.

Special to The New York Times.

TRENTON, N. J., April 25.—Charters filed:
The Rdgewood Co., Allendale, deal in real
estate, $2,000; A. B. Sullivan,
lin, and Charles F. Smith of Allendale:

Piscataway Realty Co., New Brunswick,
deal in real estate, $25,000; J. H. Conger and
R. E, Watson, Highland Park, and W. A.
Harkins, New Brunswick.

Commonwealth Realty Co., te! wf City,
deal in real estate, $125,000: J. A. Welch,
New York; M. J. Currie, Jersey City,
Cc... Hi. Hack, New York,

National Lineleum Co.. sau 4
manufacture linoleum. oileloth,
Witliam E. Bissell, Jr.,
Walter M. Cougie, all ef Trenton.

Delaware Charter.

Special to The New York Times.
DOVER, Del., April 25.—Charter filed:
Potash ‘Aluminia Co, ‘a America, deal in}

potash aluminia and aikalines, earths, chemi- |
nee «&e., bay ; Herbert E. Latter, Nor-
offin,

an P, Clement M. Egner,
Wilmington, Del., parties. * local

7 Hershfield, C. Romagnoli, 2,421 Pros: '

Arthur Toma-!

and;

Williams “A, Moore, '

LATEST CUSTOMS RULINGS.

A Technical Point Arising in the
Importation of Orchids.

The. Téxas. &' Pagifie Railway Coms
pany will have to atand full duty on
forty. gallans of wine not arriving. It
claimed before the Board of General
Appraisers that the Collector at New. Or-
léans should have made an allowance
for the shortage when taking duty, He
refused tq do so, however, Judge Hay
overryjed the:/eontention and affirmed
the Collector, saying it was not clear
that the affidavit required as to allow-
ances had been filed. within the five-
day limit provided by law.

Simon Brothers, San Francisco, pro-
tested the Collector’s action in levying
40 per cent, duty or earthenware syphon
closets which were printed . with the
‘naime and address of the importer ‘or
consignee, and also the badge ‘“* Veri-
i vest."" The Collector held the merchan-
| dige to be printed earthenware, but this
was denied by the importers, who
claimed that the marking on the goods
was burnt in and not printed. Wudge
im affirmed the Collector.

The Toledo Seed and OH Company
| protested against an assessment on cer-
; tain screenings or waste in linseed. oil
under the provision for ‘‘ linseed,’’ call-

i! for duty at the rate of 20 cents per
| bushel of fifty-six pounds, The claim
; was for entry at 10 per cent. as an

** unenumerated unmanufactured prod-
‘ uct.” .When. the issue came to trial it
was discovered that the merchandise in
the case had been assessed as.claimed by
+ the’ protesting company. The protest
was accerdingly averruled without af-
. firming the action of the Calleetor,
{ J. Tower, Buffalo, was sustained
| oa ‘to merchandise invoiced as furnace
| Waste and entered as such. It waa
‘taxed 20 per cent, as an earthy or min-
‘eral substance, The board decided that
| the commodity fell under the provision
; for ** waste not specially provided for,’
; and upheld the claim for entry at 10 per
cent.
| Guy B. Barham, Los Angeles, won in
the claim that dressed bass fibre was
' properly dutiable under the tariff at the
‘rate of 15 per cent. as a manufactured
‘article not enumerated. ‘The Collector
| was reversed in classifying the mer-
| CHaNeiEe by similitude as istle or tam-
| pico fibre at 20 per cent.
Altheugh the Customs Court in a ree
icent decision was understood to have
| settled the classification under the pres-
‘ent tariff of orchids or wild orchid
plants, the issue came up again yester-
day before the board on a new_ point.
| The protestants yesterday were Maltus
i& Ware and F. B. Vandegrift & Co
| As in the earlier cases, the merchandise
vas assessed at % per cent. ag
‘ orchids,’’ while the importers claimed
free entry under the provision for “ all
‘mature mother flowering bulbs import-
i ed exclusively for propagating pur-
' poses.’’ The court in the test case held
: that the orchids there in question were
of the propagating species and directed
| free entry. Collector Malone reported
‘that in the latest cases he did not fol-
low the court's ruling because the im-
| porters failed te prove by affidayit that
®'the piants were imported exclusively
for propa ating purposes. Judge Waite
: indorsed fre Collector's stand and held
that the finding of the court on the
point of use was not conclusive. The
General Appraiser said the  orchida
, might very well be imported for both
flowering and propagating purposes at
the same time. It was therefore neces-
sary for the importers in all cases to
prove that the orchids were for propa-
‘gating use in order to obtain duty ex-
' emption.

a BUSINESS

RECORDS

BUSINESS TROUBLES.

In Town. ’

L. & M. WOLLSTEIN, INC.—John L, Lyt-
tie has been appointed receiver for L. & M.
Woilstein. Inc., smelter and refiner of sweeps
and dealer in gold and silver at 16 Jona
Street and at Newark, N. J., by Judge Hand
of the Federal Court, bond $10,000, in an
equity suit brought by Dayid BEitsenhardt, a
creditor, for $1,000 and artha Wollstein,
+4, . Isaac Wollstein, the President of the

rporation, consented to the receivership.
Floating liabilities are $29,500.

JOHN ROSENSTEIN, wholesale dealer in
novelties and proprietor of a cafe, 938 Worth
Street and $35 Broadway, has made an as-
signment to Maurice P. Davidson, who said
that the liabilities are about §7, 000 in both
businesses fend a assets $500.

YORKVILLE GLOBE ROOFING
NY, 208 East Bighty-ninth Street,
an assignment to Benjamin Berger, . Satie
Silverman is President and Samuel Silvar-
man [tg Secretary.

SIMON SCHENDEL, cigars,
Street, has filed a petition
with liabilities $1,276,
No assets.

KARPF & HILL, manufacturers of wo-
men's hatg at 22 Bond Street, have filed
schedules showing liabilities $16,489 and as-

EQUITABLE CLOTHING COMPANY, 44
West Fourth Street, has filed achedules show-
ing liabilities $9,049 and assets $2,418.

SAMUEL WEISINGDR, furrier of 153 West
Twenty-seventh Street, has filed schedules
showing liabilities $6,323 and assets $1,150.

Jeo”

COMPA-
has made

in bankruptcy,
to two creditors, and

Out of Town.
Special to: The New York Times.
UTICA, N. Y., April 25.—Charles A. Don-
nelly, a printer of Boonville, filed a petition
in bankruptcy’ today,

JUDGMENTS.

The following judgments were filed yester-
day, the first name betng that of the debtor:

In New York County.

Amounts of $100 and over.
A. J. resis Co.—New Netherland
Adam, Rislestiiak “Goldstein. beets
Co., ImGeccvccececsce
Aldhous, Herbert—M. LJ Ernst et al.
Associated Properties, Inc.—8,
Davis
Alsberg, Harold—S nith, “Gray & oo ive. 66
Berger, John—J. H. Schreimer 120.28
Beymer, Lillian C.—A. M. Shields..
Bohnet, Herman—F. Forman
Breskin, Benjamin—J. Aronstein 20
Bonstead, ccounee ACA opiate Reaiiaasion -

Bittar, Lucy A.—F. J. Bischoff
Cohn, Jacob, and Harmony Construction
Co., Inc.—Yonkers Woodworking Co. “eer
Inc.

mond—W. T. Bra 2
Canuaity oo of America call: Nicholas
Jeffries—People,
Cushman, Robert
Ban

Same—Sa
Carroll, Aitred T.—M. H. Cohen

sack, James H.—R. Kinzinger

h{ll, Thomas T.—A. E. Hartcorn.
Gernoch, Oldrich, Vaclav Brandac,
Marie Brandac—A. Jarabek
Des Lauries, John L.—M. Popyer.. - 150.00
Dutcher, Fannie OB. Altman & Co. .250.19
Dougherty, Russell—Moffett Studio... .157.46
Dittrich, Emma B. R.—R. E. Lundi. 4,181.51
Diamond oar: S Co.—Samuel
Envelo;
gheseuess, 2 Jonas—J Ro Clarke et al.
Efficiency Society, ine. —J, J. Little &
Ives Co
ye aah B. I.,

- chwenge
Focaccl, Carolyn—ahetticid Farms Slaw-

son Decker Co 112.65
Fusco, Giusenge-F rer:

ot ged Degg and E. lllo—M

Fernandez, Celestino,

Ame
Graves, Glad s—N. Y. Telephone Co,
Greenberg, x D.—A. G. Aylwin. we, 507
Hopkins, George A.—C, R. Allen..... od
Hayman., Mon E. W. Barnes

iocke, Julius G.—Owéns & Co

arrison, Carpiine — Wiliam J. iicwe

Jonine. Michael—People, &c
Kinetophote Corpotation—French Co..
K. GC. Booking Co., Inc.—S«

Koos, Solomon—People, &¢

Kolodin, Louis—Katches Dairy Co.
Levenstein, Jacob—People, &c

Lorelli, Saivatore—People, &c

Lindweit, Martin and Thora—J. W. Cee:

lin
Lincoln, “Franklin BF: Burglund..
Lichtwitz, Max, or owe Martin, and
National Surety Co. aneerayy &c....1,000.00
ae Ignatius T. T. — I, Loven-

Pilgram, Louis—Calla phan & Rouiet. "71178:15

Mu 4 ae AF:

costs

Morgan, |

Frar. ‘

Marmo, Carle; “Jacob Keller,

Keller Contracting Co, Bh Abas Seee

OFFICES FOR RENT.

Floors in tower of Times Building,
Tjmes Square; vacant; area over 2,000
square “feet. All modern equipments,
éplendid natural light, elevators run-
ning day and night. Suit. lawyer,
tty cathe architéct. . Telephone 1,000
Bryant.—Advt, sce y

with Habilities of $10,- |

Miller,
et al. .
McCay, Ww m. J.—A, U. Siillmaz, costs,
(correction)

Mitchell, Robert J., rec’r-—Burns Bros. .419.41
Meacham, Geo. W.—Smith, Gray & Co.1090.%4
MeMahon, James—lIilinois Surety Co. a
Miniature Building Co.. Inc., and War-

ner 8, Sterling—45th St. Realty Co. ‘1,004.14
Municipal Asphalt Co., Inc. —Warner
Quinlan Asphalt Co, 2,855. 87
Mackenzie Schoql—Schilling Pad Inc.316.00
Ortese, Vincenzo—Piazza M. migo,2, pond 18
na mg = a pe ¥. g
Reiss, 8.—H. W. Sy Fi
Ryesdale "Estate—Westchester tfastng

Samuel A.—H, G. Huntington

Raleigh, W alter ¥_ R. Kunzinger....:
Ryan, Bessie J.—W. E. Getchel........
Smith, Gearge P.—P. Conroy s
meee, Ffederick M.—F. C,

P.M Lawrence N.—R. Greenbaum. .,1,
Sass Elizabeth—J. Rosenberg

Schell, Philip G., David Grand,
George J, Potter—F.
Siegel, Jacob—M. Salit
Strunsky, Louis—S. Lipschitz

Sklar, Joseph—Maasachusetts Bonding

and Insurance Co.

Stallo, Edmund K,—Continental

praisal Co.

Sozio, Alfonso and perabinemabierenn” so
Elias Brewing Co.

Smith, Henry C.—Oriental

Sash and Door Co.

Sherman, Stanley B.—Willlamson Law
Book Co.

Trouville Hat Co., Morris Janos, and
Jacob Janos—S. Weinstock et al.....1,001.00
Wilcox, Alice eae, H. Upperman... ..553.07
Werba, Louts —M. nger, Hughes

Manger

Williamson, George—
Zlotnick, Rose, or Ro
Bank

Schuler

Drahouzal
Spotewita-- Shake

In Bronx County.
Aronowitz, Morris—B. SteinBeng et al. “i 79
Buckee, George—David Miller Co
County Engineering Co.,
Walter J. Clarke—H.
Drucker, Harry—L. Rowner et he
Lustgarten, Jack—A. Kocke.
Morgan, Th»omas—T. R. Thorn

} Ritchie, James—John

Reid, Pierson A. —City ot N.

Sanders, Mark—lI,

Thompson. Brainard— Sanitary Brass
Works ‘Co Ine

Walsh, Alex—T,

SATISFIED JUDGMENTS.

The first name is that of the debtor, the
second that of the creditor, and date that
when judgement wag filed:

In New York County.

Gottlieb J.—B. Laks, Dee.
Barnet or Bernhard—M. pane
Fitkin, Walter R,—

x" Ss. oa & Co.—M. Tarullo, arch

Kevil, George W. and Kate—M, Roth

Kass, Abraham L.—J, Kasketnik, Dec.

American Pastry and Manufacturing
Co,, trading as Knickerbocker Biscuit
Co.—N. Ralsky, meen y 1
Arnold, Hastinzs—E.
Arnold, Helen—Same, April 13, 1916. .209.81
Bockhaus, ree ep pric Waskowsil, April

tes

Keller,

June 22, 1914, vacated
Rauch, Samuel, ag Charles L,
People, é&c., ie ee

Naseau Electric me

Miller, Hanna

Sheiner,
Co. venee Bressler,

ARRIVAL OF PALL

Arriving Buyers may Fogister in he a column by y Selephoning 1000 Bryant. —

AKRON, ~ Ohio—M. O’ Neill
umbrellas,
‘Rich, dtons trimmings; “ilo "5th Av.;. Bt,
Denis,

Anan: N.. ¥.—J. Muhifelder: millinery;

Marks, cloaks, sults, walutet Flanders,
NTA, Ga.—pavison, Paxon, Stokes; 4.

w re at
ALBA

ANSTERD Ant,

Weliborn, women’

BAL
é x 'G TEMORE~Hachschi

nev:
Grand ‘5

vie, ilk
Are 5 Yay Mane Ra

ety 7B tak
BINGHA

th Av,
BIRMI NGHAM, Ala.—Pizitz Carpet Co.; L.
Piaitz, carpets; 1,161 Broadway.
—L, Levenson’s Sons; J. Levenson,

OSTON:
Ba esenting; Navarre.

OSTON—Jordan Marsh Co.;

*Neihing: B,J

“alot ing; W, M. Lich
@ ng; W, chte:
goods, hosiery; G. Lee.
“ie ns, handkerchiefs;

BOsSTO

Philipes
made
wear;
Miss

White

* ladies’
Te@Sse8 ;
Mrs. Milliken,
Griffon, ladies’

coats;

ieee dresses; Mr. Hunting, misses’ ¢oats;

Mooers, leather
Mr, Raphael,
coats? dresses,
dresses; Mr. Fanning,
ing goods; 116 W W. oad,

BOSTON-—Jordan-Marsh

met

men’s hosiery, underwear; G. A. Hitchcock,

men’s clothing; J, A.
ing, basement; C. H
knit underwear;
cotten underwear;
hosiery,
boys’ clothing; A,

wear, basement;
Kelley, art

housefurn. goods, har

representing; Miss Snelling,
Miss M. J. Kelley, trimmings;

ment;
M. G. Cronin, infants’
echeau,
Mies F. M. White,
basement; Miss C.,
suits, dreases; Miss
piothing; 432 4th’ Avy,

ee Petticoat Ge,; H. Aron-

ttieoats,
BOST N—Gilchrist Co.
elry, silver, leath
BOSTON, Mass.—
don, :mfrs, silk waists,
BOSTON, Mass.—J. N
Norton, mfrs, furs;
BOSTON, Mass.—R:
‘Theall, ‘upholstery; 47
BOSTON,
A. 58. Blood, misses’
Sth Av.
bOSTON—
notions, leather goods;

BRIDGEPORT, Conn.; Smith, artes & Co,;
E wool,

. M. Lampson,
Sth Av.

BRIDGEPORT, Conn,—Leon’s Bargain Store;

J. B. Lederer, men's,
Broadway Central,

BRISTOL,
King, 8. H. King, dry
BUFFALO, N. Y.—Wm
Mutter, domestics, w

ing; 18 West 35th.
BUFFALO, N. Y.—Hen
Looby, jobs coats, guit
lace curtains; 31 Unio
CHATTANOOGA--R,
Schwartz,
CHICAGO,
Philipsborn, ladies’,
coats, also sine and
CHICAGO—D. = “Fisk
flowers, feathers; W.

Spring.

CHICAGO—H. Schuman
1,133 Broadway.

cloaks, suits;
CHICAGO—E. Eisinger
fancy dry goods, furn.

CHICAGO—Carson, Pirie, Scott & Co.; J.
115 Worth.
CHICAGOQ—Marshall Field & Co.;
ready-to-wear,
104 Worth.

Rogers, buttons;

chester,
infants’ wear;
CHICAGO—Sears-Roebu
domestica, 115 5th Av.

Cc HICAGO—Rothschild & Co.;
er, Women’s coats, suits, “dresses; Miss 5.
misses’ coats, suits, dresses; 215 4th

CHICAGO—C, A. Stevens a Bros. ;

Rosenthal, millinery;
CHICAGO—Siegel,
ty, corsets; 15

tag, millinery; 95 Ma
CINCINNATI—Model S
Jacobs,
Cc INCINNATI-—Original
Suit Co.; EE, W.

dresses; New Strand.

CINCINNATI—Lauterbach Cloak & Suit Co.;
I. Lauterbach, cloaks, suits; 1,133 Broadway.
CLEVELAND—TI. Lefbel;

1,138 Broadway.

CLEVELAND, Ohio—Wm., Taylor Son & Co.;
draperies,

M. J. Rogers,

4th Av.
bw Sl pan tha a Brothers Co. ; ; W. Weis-
basement; 220 5th AY.

OL. TE VELAN ND “Halle B
Sots ladies’
Sth Av.

COLUMBUS, Ohie—M.
anson, notions, ladies’
son Av.

COLUMBUS,
F, Bannon.
Collingwood.

DALLAS, Texas—Higgi
gan Co.; J. B.
yools: 43 Leonard.

DANVILLE, 11).—Emer;
E. *Emery, representin
coats, suits, dresses,
Great Northern.

DENVER

domestics,

J. Alexander,

DETROIT

heim, waista; 200 5th

DETROIT—Kline Garment Co.; Miss M, Bu-
uvenile wear; 85 Madison Av.
OIT, Mich.—H. Wallace Co.; H

ell
DET
lace, mfr,
coats, robes;
DULUTH,
tenbach,
Algonauin.
GLOVERSVILLE,

overcoats,

GREEN BAY, Wis.—J
Miss N, Cooney,
perial.
GREFNVILLE, Miss.—
8. Blum, ladies’, child
ments, millinery,
HARRISBURG,
ya Store; Mr.. Lioy

WI ERK IMER, N.

mdse,: 8t5 Gth Av.:
HOLYOKE, Mass.—H.

Miss Ducharme, corsets, muslin underwear,

néckwear, furs; Murra
HOLYOKE,
Cc, . Bunyan,
dresses; Murray Hill.
INDIANAPOLIS,

INDIANAPOLIS,
Fr. M. Ayres,
general mdse.;

. suits, .

KANSAS CITY, Mo.—Emery-Bird-Thayer D.
Ww. Kennedy, dress goods, Silks,
Talees: 25 Madison Ay.
KANSAS CITY, Mo.—Smith, McCord, Towns-
Miller, notions,

end D. G. Co.; M.
goods; 72 Leonard.

art embroideries; 4

BALT. MORE—Goldenberg
uti miele underwear;
Miller ber be Schaeffer,

set ;

Onn Caren Di eberee os
potions; Imp
2Ben n, Coble
1, 1198 Bway; Gregorian,

. Pendergast, silks; T, Tyrie,
OBTON Re i 432 wht AV f

Mass. AWim. Filene’s Sons Co,; Mr,
Misa Geokigy,

petticoats;

. Hurd, women's
5, E. Emery,

F. E.- Ruggles, children's
knit underwear;
G. Sanborn, silk waists,
sweaters; R. J. Trimble

pak Re

women's coats,
misses’

goods; 105 Grand.
orden Mfg. Co.

Mass.—L. P. Hollander & Co,; Mrs,

Shepard-Norw

Tenn.—H. P.

wash goods, blankets; 18

Taylor, laces, neckwear; E, E, Goode, cloth-

Schwartz
ready-to-wear; Aberdeen.
lll. — The Catalogue House;

Beckman, laces, ornaments; 29 W. 38th.
CHICAGO—E, Exsinger Co.;

wholesale fancy dry goods, furn. goods; 117.

Cosper f “Co.;

CINCINNATI—Kline C soak Co.

women’s, misses’ ready-to-wear;

Wise, sujts, coats,

garments,

Ohie—F. &

Donovan,

. Col.—Dantiels & Fisher Stores Co.
Miss B, lynn, ready-to-wear; 71 W. 23d.
DETROIT—Emporium World Millinery Co. ;
millinery;
DETROIT—Himmelhoch Bros, saat
melhoch, clothing; 1,133 Broadw
T—Newcomb-Endicott Co. : em Me-
Carthy, muslin water weer i Miss E, Oppen-

Minn.—I. Freimuth; E. W.
ready-to-wear;

J. Lurie, jobs coats, suits;

ladies’ ready-to-wear; Im-

shoes; 353 4th Av.
Penn.—Kaufman’ "s

H. G, Munger, dry goods, carpets,
Murray Hill,

Mass.—Bunvan & Dowling: Miss
millinery,

Ind.—Wiliam
M. 8. Block, Mme. Jeanette, réady-to-

Ind.—L, yre
_Topresenting; Vv. C, Kendall,

JACKSON, Mich. Tbieencs Seaman Co.; 8. L,
' Seaman, ready-to-wear; Breslin Hotel.

KANSAS CITY, M>.—G,
Schiff, w
wash dresses,

leather Bi) 8.

arks Sons;

8 ready-to-wear; O | be
ld, Koehn. Co,; is

Bron. Miss. K.

eslin.

woolens: Grand. *

. Sauer,

= Co.; Miss

R, Swartz Co.;
cudder, ladies’ ready-

D, Rabillard,

‘bo: & Falk, boys’
netein, men's furnish-

a laces, neckweor,
H. Noyes, mil-

Mr, King, machine
ladies’ under-
coats, caps;

Miss Nelson,

infants’
waists;

goods, jewelry

infants’ § children’ 8
Mr. ‘Levinson,
men’s; boys’ furnish~

Co,; J. T. Donovan,

bage-

Keough, menis cloth-

‘hosiery,

ticoats,

F.° Varnum,
petticoats, under-

“tal hty, laces;

Gd. H

dware; Mr, :

wear; Miss

skirts, basement;
coats, skirts,
Sweeney, misses’
M. Spencer, girls’

F, J. Smith, jew-
dresses; Remington
orton’s Sons; 8. M
oztell,
White Co.; D.

dresses,

ell Co.;

suite; 530
ant Stewart,

wash skirts;

women’s furn, goods;

King Co.; A. W,
goods; 1,178 B'way.
Hengerer Co

s & Kelly Co.; J. M.
S, dresses; W. Bader,
mn Square.

misses’, junior Fall
children’s dresses for

Jackson, mfg, dept.;

W. Brodkoeb,

& Bros.; S. Hecht,

goods;

Wm. Brodkorb,
117 Spring.

muslin underwear,

ck & Co.;"O. J. Falk,
A. C. Behwan-

Miss Garet-

Ll. E. Son-
dison .. York.
kirt & Suit Ce.; Mr.

and
skirts,

Sample Cloak

C. Benjamin, skirts;

rugs, carpets; 470

ros. Co.; F, Lz

(basement)

Har-

J. Federman; C. Mel-
garments; Madi-

R, Lazarus Co,;
linens; 220 Sth

nbotham,
linens,

Ealley, Lo-
white, wash

y Dry Goods Cor; W.

e: Mra. Cc. R. Reed,
waists; 315 Bth Av.

. Him-

Wal-

fur
Kal-
1,170 Broadway;

mackintoshes,

-Tarie 6 Co.;
orge¢nson- Bleisch Co.;

Nelms & Blum Co,
ren's dry goods, gar-

Under-
d, skirts; 72 Madison

G. Munger & Co.:

general

P. Ducharme Co.

y Hilt.

silks, neckwear,

H. Block

S. Ayres & Co.;

Bernheimer Bros. &
omen’s Palm Beach
linen dresses; 7

fancy

R MONEY ADVANCED
CHARLES. SHONGOOD, Auctioneer,
Will Sell This Day, Wednesday, April 26th,

AT 639 BROADWAY, New" ‘YORK CITY,
& Very Fine Stock o

Oriental Rugs
and. Carpets

on Anatolians, rp 1
Cc ylonians, Cir-

canslann, eccas, Kur "Mat
Cache, Maeourian "Agia
* orassans,

Dosars, Durbe

Hotel in fase
60 Rooms

Charles Shongood, Au ctr.,

Will geil, ONTENTS Next,
THE eerie. © S OF ABOVE.
we her later.

ARL HONGO
° frice tae" Broadway, N
elephone, Spring

abe™

nds, edule ata

WILL. CLOSE OUT
Entire Stock of SUITS

. AT REDUCED PRICES,
COOPER AND GRAPES, 145 West 28th St.

DAVID W. BIOW CO

Merchandise iguarant

Regul ar Wee
Gen
Wearing

Ladies, Misses
Fur Coats

Every Taedas and Friday
eral Merchandi
Apparel for
Every Wednesda
Clo ing for .
Men, Youths & Children.

Ofhice and Satestoom

5202 BROADWAY:

terd a8
one a8 represen 5
"§ ogg ii

ise,

& Children,
& Sets.

PRIVATE OFFIC
SALESROOM
- (Burnished)

TO RENT|

With or Tiehout
service. 2 fiver
jou Bu

KANSAS CITY=O, L, Chase

Chase, lng:

Go. ~y
ye LLE, Sreena erapiay

ys Co.; G, Cresby, yn ceweny, oat ya
415 5th Ay. ki enquin, :
TANGA ASTitk, & Bro.; BE.
Law Shine lothing; 76 Spring
VREN Mass. — Robertson-Sutherland
“Cou: iss at, L, Snow, ready-to-wear; 432

yy pPentim i—Smith = Baud L. A

Rt uphalatery “Aifonnibe. ’
‘OLN, Neb.—Miller & Paing; D.
Dodge, Rouse. furn, goods, ereckery. toyai

LOS ANGELES—B'wa. Stere; J,
Haberborch, flannels, Tia is Madison ‘ay

LOS ANGEL ie Bool; G, E, Craw

ruge; e J. Williams, dry goods; 95
UISVILLE,

pat, pholatery Eo on 8 bene:
bv bHis. Teun. ~4. Lowensteij B
Ge Ged. 8, Reeder, cheap wash: "Grseecnt "63
MIDDLETOWN, Conn,—J, +H, Co. ;
,Sehaatter, general Bees Se: 16
iB meet Con me.I. H. Buneg ‘Oo. ;
A ree white goods;..76 ng.
MiboieTG N, seals Press; "Sahin
weunes Apparel Co,;. H.

iiveukes Apperet

toy ‘Baer, millinery; 5th
NABHVITLLR enn.—Neeiy, p as & Co;
i ie ypiornburs dry goods; Grand.
‘AGHVI LEK, Tenn. Neely, Harwell & Go.;
Hotel Granne®: netiong, furnishing me

NE aw HAVEN, Conn.—®. Mall
yo goods, Neaite?.

bh, men’s fu
pores, ofp rgilas:

. Conn,  Retan ‘t > ES Co. ; W.
‘fete ehank, ,inerehandive manager; 75
ae aes yo VA.—The Willts-Crall-Smith Co.;

‘ Smith, big aed furniture; York,
NORTH ADAMS Mass.—M. Lurie & Ce.; E.
Ferber, conten waists, dresses; 18 W. 27th,
OGDENS Gee N, an pathan, ¥rank gh
ion, cloaks, suit:

PuiLapen ‘PHIALangyien & gg ag

eck
PHILADEL PHT AS oe Wanamaker; Mi
M. McMgzhon, Mi N. d 4
Mh ey S.. ot Nafer, misses’ coats,

PHILADELP PHIA—N, wnellenberg & Co.,;
Miss ss A. M. Day, laces, hdkfs., ladies' neck-
Ben Miss H. Darmstadter, jewelry; 1,261
PHILA DELPHIA—L, W,. Hirsch Co.; Miss
arate, jobs children’s Spring coats; 116
PHILADELPHIA—Blauner’s; H. Blauner,
jobs coats, sults;15 E. 26th.
PHILADELPH HIA—C. §. Tanquay & Co.‘ C.
8, Tanquay, manufacturers of cloaks ‘and
sults; Imperial.
PHILADELPHIA—Paris Cloak and Suit Co

8. Kolinsky, Palm Beach suits, wash, eor-
furoy skirts: 1,270 Broadway, Room 6u2,
>HILADELPHIA — Gimbel Brothers; Miss L.
Avery, ribbons: Miss A. Gu enneimn. um-
brellas; Borm, leather § Soett,
furnishing goods; Mies Gorietess. mil-
inery; Rg 3, E. Ramsey, infants’ wear;

Broadw 32d, /
PHILA DELP IA—Jobn Wanamaker; J. J.
Sullivan, dress goods, silks: Broadway and

PITTSBU Bae Prank & Seder; L. Ferber,

Epillinery: 364 Sth Av.
PITTSBURGH J. Horne Co.; L. 4, Hubach,
Co.; Miss I, F.

rugs; i 4th Av.
PITTSB URGH—J,

is edrowe, jewelry,
Penn.—L. ~“Neim

Roessler,
4 Miss
oO y at song ehildren’s coats, dresses, skirts; 40

PITTSBURGH—Kavfmann Dept. Store + A.
B. Kuehn, Mise M. Ward, misses’, chil-
dren's, juniors’ ready-to-wear: Mrs. M. Nu-
gent, toye: 8S. A. Leyy, basement ready-to-
PITTSBU RGH—N. ready-to-wear;

PITTSBU RGH—M, Friedman & Co.: H,
Friedman, men's furnishing goods;
PITTSBURGH—McCreery & Co.;
pin, ready-to-wear; Mrs, S&S.
dresses; 23 East 26th.
PITTSBURGH, Penn.—Berkman
Berkman, cioaks, suits: Latham.
PITTSBURGH, Penn. —Boggs & Buhl;
1M. G. Carton,
Tin underwear; 1,140 Broadway,
PITTSBURGH, Penn. —McCreery & Coa,; F.
W. Smith, shoes: 23 E. 26th
POTTSVILLE, Penn. an ng Pomeroy &
Stewart; B. N. Eckenrode, men’s furnishing
geeks, hosiery, gloves; 230 Sth Av.; Herald

quare.
PROVIDENCE, R. I.—Callender, McAuslan
EB. Cole, millinery;

: A ; Miss M.

RIC HMOND, Va.—The Weisberger Co.; Mr.
Weisberger, jobs of silk dresses, wash

akirts; 72 Madison Av,
ROCHESTER, N. Y.—R. Goldstein & Co. ;
L. Goldstein, weoolens; Breslin.
noch TER, N. Y.—Hickey, -Freeman &

J. G. Hickey, romlens: 260 Sth Av.

ROCHESTER. N. Y.—Duffy- -Powers Co.; W.
T. Mitchell, pictures, ig bags, stoves,

housefurnishin goods;
Gariiney Co.; ; BL.

Horne

Bagran;

L. Benner.

Miss

Bros, ;

SAGINAW, Mich.—E, L.
Gardiner, gen. mdse.; Wallick.

SAN FRANCISCO--O’Connor, Moffatt & Co.;
F. W. Warren, dress goods; cloths, silks;

114 Sth Av,
SHAMOKIN, Penn.—Shapiro Brothers: I.
auapee. B. Shapiro, general merchandise;

SPRINGFIELD, Mass.—A. Steiger’ Co.; Miss
5. C. Smith, muslin underwear, infants’
wear; 3525 Sth Av.
SPRINGFIBLD, Mass.—Forbes
Miss S. Reilly, coats; F. M. Spear, ready-to-
wear, merchandise manager: 230' Bth Av.
SPRINGFIELD, Mo. —Nathan Clothing Co.;
P, L. Nathan, clothing, 200 5th Av
SPRINGFIELD, Mass.—Haynes & Co.; T. F.
McNamara, children’s clothing; Breslin.
ST, LOUIS—Ornstein & Rice; L. Schoenfeld,
mfrs. neckwear; Wallick.
ST. LOUIS—Frelich Suit & Skirt Co. A.
skirts; 1,138 Broadway.

Frelich, suits,
ST. LOUIS, Mo.-—-L. Herzog Bro. D. G. Co.;
F. J. Herzog. Fall cloaks, furs; 874 B'way.
8ST. LOUIS, Mo.—B. Nugent & Bro, D. G.
Mrs. M. Brinton, coats, suits; 470 4th

ST PAUL—J. Rethschild & Co.;
child, hats, 581 B'’way.
SYRACUSE, N. Y.—Dey Bros. &
Russell, cloaks, suits, furs, nt,
Av.; Park Avenue.
TUSCALOOSA, Ala.—Rosenau Bros,;
Rosenau, general mdse.; 71 W. 23d.
WASHINGTON, D. C,—R. Jelleff: R. 8. Shel-
ton, furs; Herald Square.
WASHINGTON, C.—Woodward & Lao-
throp: Miss f, “Steagall, wraseee, furs,
sweaters, bathing suits; B34 4th A
WASHINGTON, D. C.—J. Sporkin & Son; N.
seer jobs, cloaks, suits, dresses; Room
WASHINGTON, D, C.—M. Goldenberg; D. H.
pte men's clothing, | trunks, bags; N.
man, ny Ay clothing; Martinique.
WASHINGTO D.C. armond Co.; A. Sig-
mund, looking at wash dresses, ekirts Palm
Beach , suits, velour check skirts; 3b3 5th
WHSTERLY, R. I.—H, B. Gavitt Co.: F. L.
Gavitt, glassware; Continental.
WILKES-BARRE, Penn.—Geddes & Bennett;
H. P. Geddes, women’s garments, hosiery,
gloves, laces; Gregorian.
WILKES-BARRE, ’ Penn.—Fowler, Dick &
Walker. M. Burnside, Gress goods, silks,
laces; 212 5th Av,
WILMINGTON, Del.—R. Topkis| gar C.
re McKay
boys} clothing,

& Wallace;

8. Roths-

© joy’ sth

Topkis, ready-to-wear: 1,270 B'w
WORCESTER, Mass. —Denholm
Co.; C. B. Hubbell,
furnishing goods; 230 5th Av.
WORCESTER, Mass.—G. R. Bliss & Son;
W. S. Bliss, feng goods; Algonquin.
WORCESTER, Mags.—E. Elias; men’s, wo-
men’s ready- to- wear, millinery; 1,261 B’way.
WORCESTER, Mass.—C, T. Sherer Co,; .,
Allen, ready-to-wear; 1,270 B’'way.
YORK, Penn.—J. McLean & Sons; A. E,
Mclean. dry goods, 482 4th Av.
a ra his Ohio—H. Weber, Sons, & Co.:
. Weber, ary goods; 334 4th Av,
BUSINESS NOTES.

men’s,

The Textile Alliance, Incorporated, has been
officially informed that it is not the intention
to resume the H@ensing of merino wool at
present from,Great Britain.

In the list of officers and Directors of
Henry Glass & Co., published yesterday, the
name of Walter S, Herman, Vice President,
was inadvertently omitted.

DISASTROUS fire completely
destroyed our factory at 511
East 72nd Street on Satur-
day night, April 22nd.
We have already secured a tempo-
rary factory which we will have in
operation this week.

Our entire stock of ribbons and
trimmings was completely  de-
stroyed. ; :

Dur ability to make deliveries will
lepend upon the time it will take
‘o replace these items.

We ask for your co-operation.
The Wolf Company,
364 Fifth Ave., New York.

UNIFORM.

Chauffeurs’ and Military

CLOTHING

At ee ey Auction Sale, ay ah
at salesrooms, Broadway, New York City,
comprising the entire balance stock of a well-
known specialty convern. This large and val-
uable stoc ock includes quantities of Motor-
men’s, Conductors’, Letter Carriers’, Chauf-
feurs’, Policemen’s and Military Suits, Coats
and Vests, Single Coats and Trousers and
Overcoats; -also quite an assortment of
Equestrian Suits and Trousers, We take
pleasure in.announcing that a stock as good
as this is- rarely offered at public auction,
as the materials contained In the garments
comprise the very best and latest productions,
and the workmanship is of the finest.
Live dealers should not fail to be present

‘Bet. a

SCHAAP &
re pon ae on

at this sale
e, $itks BRM

infants’ wear, corsets, mus-"

1231 Broadway
1 Broadway

thet ge WEG mie aetp: 4 Aker

Races 4 pale a

BRANCH TICKET OFFICES;

ive ‘
TA Alli by
rege il NE Ali

and

oe European iaictag More ,

The

Canadian Pacific “Princess” L

Ineluding the

S.S. “Princess Charlo

Sail 1000 sigh branlinee es 7 %
luxury along the sheltered “ingide route.”

For full particulars, call or write about Tour No. al
F, R. PERRY, General “Agent, Passenger Dept.

CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY.

‘Ss ao i

ner. York

Briarcliff. Lodge
AT BRIARCLIFF MANOR, N, Y.
OPENS MAY 11TH

BOOKING OFFICE AND
FULL INFORMATION

402 MADISON AVE., N. ¥.
TELEPHONE 7070 MURRAY HILL.

The Hotel of Distinction,

BLOCK ISLAND, RHODE ISLAND
Rates—Daily, “ Fi with lees 3 & fd Hy

$25 ou New
at :* Bist aad

LANSING, ‘Grand Hotel ‘Bro
BARTLETT INN

Bo AND BUNGALOWS

UPPER SARANAC, N. Y¥. (on Bartiett Carry)

Attractive bungalows, beautifully situated,
electrically lighted. Bathroéms, firepleces.
To rent with hotel service. Excellent goif
rourse. Splendid trout and basa fishing.
For information apply to

H. REARDON, T &
t 40th Street sie Coy S ork

GRAMATAN

28 minutes from, Grand Central.

Country resting place for city

phe All Y re Pe s
ontessori

rates for Sp “ag Fe —_ "guinmer.
HOTEL AM

Lawrence Park, Beeoxvil N.Y

& Wes

PAVILION BW HOTELS in Dane ar ite

ia ty = Sprin
WHITE SULPHUR SPRINGS AND
Be HING ESTABLISHMENT OPENS
May “22. zreiters a on application.
‘ W's ARDNER 4 SON,
ee RATA. Tersee.

MOUNT PLEASANT HOUSE

noonad Atteee Renn

coms W

nificent and ‘se nce in Quality, of oh,

cooking =" se) portend

SARANAC INN

For rent, Markham Point, one of the most
beautifully located camps in the Adirondacks.
Address HARRINGTON MILLS,
Hotel Graften, Washington, D. C.

A Strictly Family Resort.

AVON-BY-THE-SE A
Distinctive in Every Respect.
Cottages, Hotels. Full information from
Chexies D. Snyder, Martin - Murray,
R. C. Love, Coles,

On Ot
Coeperstown. ‘N i <a
S Sshdiece
Roane Bog lstan'sle

TW tt BU. Nee Che
—Whi CAN
SPRUCE CABIN INN= Where you CAN
én suite with bath. eset Saddle hofses. All

amusements. Bkit. Cresco station, Lack. R. B.
W. J. & M.D. PRICE, Cobedenmts. Pa.

TRAVEL BUREAU, Grand Central Term-
inal, New York, or call at New York Cen-
tra) Lines City Ticket Offices.

JAC HALT
Dansville, Witte

WESTERN STATES,

Mount Clemens}
OPEN ALL § at ease ee

THE YEAR
World Revowned 3A Mp INS
RHEUMATIS

for Treatméne of
And all Nervous and Blood Disdases

Mount, Clemens is only 20. miles from De-
troit. Through Grand Trunk trains, Detroit
suburban cars every twenty minutes. Write
for illustrated book and full information.
C. W. Waring, Business Men's Association,
28 Chamber of Commerce, Mount Clemens, Mich

of. for oF iterature |

SOUTHERN §& STATES,

The GREENBRIER

White Sulphur Springs,
- West Virginia.

Open All. the Oe Plan,
Finest math, TH she etsy oe ae America

killed A
oer od stendgnts,
Managing

NEW CLARION

ms nsieg ake Hote Gireatty
With every vettrestion | for the
Summer

Dally Coneerts tnd D
Palm and Tea oo over}

Tennis, Gat Motori, nig ‘a '
abe eet se 1%
Booking re :

N. Y. OFFICE, eee BILTMORE,

LACKAW,

"wal Se er
a or. Pa 1
28th St.; Cor. 42d St. ‘New Yo

NEW PARK HOUSE...

BEST HOTEL SUMMIT, N. J.. B. HOW

~ PUDDING ‘STONE }

Large Rooms, Winter Rates.
NEW JERSEY—Atlantic City.

HOTEL |
_, CHELSEA.

tae eetion

h-class orch
ol dak

present

Cor.
Cor.

LEADING RESORT HOTEL OF THE

Fireproof. es oie Alwa.

In_ the Heart of- Atiaatin
oivtel European p! hot
water baths; capacity | 400; Bi ri ‘ochesirw dy

garage attached. ca,”
HOT LOCA
Sea water baths. Srebesan, Butlding op
tions not ene comfort of

ALBE -class Moderate Rate.
BS Cans = s, AB0b! near
up ALBED $10 up’ west gf heat—

ths, eleyator, sun parlors; excellente
(evening dinners). Book ooklet. J.

THE LORAINE Bo sean

Reduced early season
A. E. WAGNER, Bag

HOTEL ARLINGTON
QuicH oe NEAR BEAC
R. J. OSBORNE AN AND RON.

OSBOR
SPECIAL MAY. AND JUNE RAT!

ISLESWORTH

‘BERKSHIRE INN 21°" ,2- a
io farrece ey st epelays a DIC KIN 3
Kentucky Ay.. and

Elevator to
open. Garage attached. 8. K, ‘Bonar. o

TIC CITY,

eens hic ane Resort.
_ NEW SEROET_ Lames,

LAUREL-IN-THE-
LAKEWOOD, N. J.
An Ideal Resort for Spring Se

America’s

Ten earliest available numbers of !
New York Times Mid-Week Pictor
_ containing vivid scenes ofthe wa:
duced by the new rotogravurg pr :
bound in one volume and gent. to:

address in the United States fers

. The. New York age

PINANGAL MARKERS) SEV Fons

$9900 edie siakie vs

BER.

oe EE
teen eerste . SOnV 4%s - i

ves eeeeet's oo + EEE ees |

SB Ben

dsacee chs RMA

Thee eeeees OOK
CoS

ishgezss

RSs.

"te ee esewe

$s swceds's

ici 8
oan

rin er: | Argentine Gov sa
Am. ’ ai : | Clty of Tokio is : ied Rak ea
Am. “Woolen ey hee 46%, ‘ 000 8%) C, RE&P gen Kana & M ‘ist ds

- KC FS é& Mis
Bt. rae 1%

BBs

Sek
seessses

GE | TOPICS IN-WALL STREET,
TUBSDAY, APRIL, 25, 1916, _ Stocks, (Shares,) ” Steel = Prince, Indeca, | ‘Total sales Aprit 25.2: ate oK ccc ae ene oe eae
Se. z 1 Tae coat hr eI : 836,411 Steel, so often berated as a pauper by Bame day last: ye hgh ss certevevcse stipes,
i a year. .... investors and Speculators, o¢ < Me period tah we
ee Carried Further—Interna- period last’ year. .""*'"* “Se setv eww Mehbunenin ts iit 050 * | Fred. in princely garb’ in ‘the statement “an
ises-j Average price and change 50 oot * IPR PO TRS Se eda sine Noh oa soc ‘ ‘ a ' 5 teed ewwees
tional Crises in.the Market— Same day last pipet a renee TEMES cob ateriaed - the commissjon-house : eee IT eh ted 8
‘ Hig) . Low. **p ay, before the earnings Ff a EE en ae ea Feb. 4
oy 72.96 99 3 were made public, bet that moré -than| ear 87.62
5 Oct. 22 000,000 net would be: reported. no : Weta ees on. urch 7onas
year 1913.” sich hese eas Mana — Seach ae a — | tenet om: ie
‘ = : coupon: )). ; ‘ps0 giittess IO L0be 2 ”
of id ¢ OD. ve cecece SE Pe: 20, a 1 bs Ge ae * f >. % Pr
4 1,500 Al ka: ld Mines. . 19: , . f 79 ws ews-e~ 9% . Ay WOO veieccecs. * | Lee 50% j sified list te) ce In MOLT
ene the 9 800 | Alaska Junsannne™ . 8% ie seers es 92%], . 12000. re ae ce os | bonds suitable for conse
: Mfg. ae oe , : y 5 y. f W & B 4s oh é tive investment incl oa
‘ Agriéul.. Chem’. he aS 8 by a
93: ) - Beet Sugar pf... ae ee ree
he ont . hat hose i ask. to have t ar
Am. Oar & ¥ary..”"’ Wee ciceees BO ame placed on our m
. ING BROTHERS & C0., LTD *eeereere 92%
Tone
R con 4%s Ot

eee ee : ares
bebe 7S °
35 +" .90 for the last quarter.” Whilé most. of
Record Steel Earnings. pasan nie aie aay 91. ra dies Teer ecw he esas eb0 a. A r. 19
\ ct. Feb Pape:
“at the best pric LT AS aR : rsnsese seep eese F850 ‘ 3 July 80 aint was ay 01 Year
ecline it u - —— Ce 000 ; rit ee bo. oor! a;
Me ve sles esa. 4% ‘
halmers aes,
hal. ey f .
, Beet Sugar...... Bie dadh BM : and trust: companies,
m= con 4s ,
; Ba ale : Coal Products. || 7
Correspondents of 400 | Am: gotten, Oil... secrets ae

eek cer

gees

26 os BF
oSSeseese

Northern States

ower Company

7% Cumulative merehrcaathen

ferred Stock Meena on the pena whe reat Bons

; @ grave crisis had passed and that op-

Preferred as to assets and
dividends. sre so highly ‘favo
caapende are. enterprise. :

riy since t This view was not adopted universally,
tion of the Company. however, for there were many : who

The Northern States “Power
Company renders Public Uti). doubted the advisability of going the

ity service to about 100 cities whole length ‘in assuming that the dan-
and towns, including Minne- break with Germany had
apolis and St. Paul, located ,

in five states.

Earnings for 1915 were more

‘than 2 times annual divi-
dend requirements. was unavoidable,

who did not take t
Send for full information
contained in Circular No. 117,

i P. B Bonbright & Co,

“sy N . Something of
14 Wall Street, New York

Philadelphia Detroit reflection in the later
Lenten Paris trading yesterday, when there was a
William P. Bonbright & Co. Bonbright & Co, Setback from the rise which was under

asi 2
altimore
Baltimore @

Commerce. .
Mining. ...
Steel......

+ beens sss 100%
ean lat bs

cues) eT Bt Rep Ini atsei
x rites 9 1 Os 98 The House

00 | California etrol.... 2 nother Spurt in Marine, 600 eo : bed Bye shad <a The Railroads Built j
California Pet, pz 46 46 + es N. Wallace, Cumberland ei ba? ; if
Canadian Pacifi> %| 1 committee which represents the pre. 000. 86%) 1,000
ferred stockholders of Internationa? 1964 : SF Rs | ie. the. title of @ pam.

Mercantile Marine and which upset the Or iaba’ 20%! 30 quip: 445° 4s, 1928 nian Bey _ . Phlet we have Prepared |
annard ; Hrs ri og tae TH . Which describes in a
100i! 2,09 Woot 7 al way the
BLO wbhe sapien 004° St. r con i

Lorillard

stay
ise

C Tet)

oats

Sege.¥s

e Re,

b sad

=i wee eeres

sess 8

al oda

75 ae 4h mie
: nese

Adams Express 45.

eG ae

We invite requests for a
complimentary copy of
this pamphlet No. 30.
Y ih
Den. & Rio Ge ys: -| 934 o| + ; 4,000. °°" nhats ony, Spattotes Hemphill, White
Detroit United Ry.” % | . Po ‘ 1,000 : hamber! ain
° eet (Arbor Ist 4s Members New York Stock Eachange °

Dome Mines
crie :
37 Wall Street, New York

Erie 1st
Telephone Hanover 1530

ssSsiSeSes

eet:

Ltt

parRe
caleeatatarts

Ray

{ General 98
eneral ‘
General Aten &8 yp 8%
Goodrich % . buoyantly again. Fen r+
ranby : i he common sold as high as 25%, the 000 ;
ax certa.ore Des. | 40 : 4 cent red UP to 84%, and the 4% per Oo ood * 000 |
| Greene-Cananea >”: cent. bonds to 101%. though there were
| INinois Central...../° declines later to closing Prices at D5,
Inspiration Copper... 814%, and 991, More than

$ 0, eaction was not based
° e : entirely on considerations connected
Minneapolis, Sault with the international Situation, for

Some part was Played in t

te. Marie & iment by the
A ti Interbore <Gontel; =
tlan c in the day that the after, I P

of the Steel c tion Di a sue | | Int. Agticultural ;
Irst Oortgag: ds nema, orporation Dir v1 7 | Int. Agricultura pf:,
F M e bring news_of the declaration of a divi- o4 oat -00 | Int, warvester, J. 4
DUE JAN. 1, 1926 dend on the common stock in excess of | 2 | S182 I16 "100 * scr. Mar. t. r

. - Mer. Mar.pf.t.r. |
Secured by an underlying closed the ordinary rate of 1% per cent. Ni 1

Ot pe

asee

Ahead |

Control of the Marine Board. son Mo Pacific 4s

g ba /g ..000 pi 2,000 on Best City Realty
Tn addition to other reports of buying : 8,000 66 2,000 %! 1,000, + 82%
for account of the American Interna. Hen Biss You can get
tional Corporation, | i000 won A tom ; 1000 se -
og as : Sa ge
aes, , 1gony os 2.000 96 return on the most con-
a 00 eI, F Geni dei 6s . ae Servative investment,
Municipal Bonds
which are a lien,
the levy of taxes on all
_ Property real and Personal,
ead of even first mort-
. ages. es
me..." ea List on’ request for Circular B-116,

Sista | deo: Spitzer, Rorick & C
00 Ieee in digas 8|Va-ter € pitzer, Roric 0
: mee Py - 24 | oe ise Successors to f
holders have the ability to Senn 88 _—_ . ITZER & CO

ry in the property ang Pay off the Cent Leather 5s bike 113,000 ; a 1,009

3, ei ¢ 13% ob 5 Nassau Street, New Yo
S—an ability which has never been 4,000 101%! 8 9% |v $8 mm 1 00 98 Toledo " Chic ”
Professed by the common stock holders. 9.000 89 | 000 ! Ate

BARRE GX

cke
of those who gave currency to the ru-| 1 11 100) Int. Paper
ne fe6 pement* ate — be nat some additional dividend wong | “46 os Sop KenscsP et bt a: an
line from Minneapolis Minn., to be announced voupled it with an ex-
Sault Ste: Marie Mich " bt that the rumor would

Legal investment for Savings Banks }j | Prove true, but

Trustees in New York, Massa- oe ff 513% |: 10,200 ~— “Rubi
» Connecticut and other States, Sivity onty | BY | ‘ 800 Lehigh Valley

Price to Yield 4.30% Max” Motors iat 52°

Ask for Circular 7-187

Remick,Hodges&Co.

Mexican Petroleum.
Members New York Stock Eachange

| Miami Copper
Minn. & 8t. Louis... .
14 WALL 8T., NEW YORK
Correspondents:

Mo., Kan. & Texas. .
Mo. Pacific t¢ j

i record.
R. L. Day & Co. Boston by yesterday’s statement the Steel Cor-

poration wag running practically at fx]
Capacity, but owing to the higher prices
n the latter Part of the quar-
arch earnings were nearly $4,-

° ° greater than the Jan
Special Circular Recently prices have

- at the high level established some weeks L +34 |

ite ago and the company’s output continues 40% 41 | pa

Southern Pacific to be limited enly by its manufactur- Oy | >

ing capacity. Orders have been booked 98 ;

ib] ' far ahead, as far ahead in fact as manu-

Converti e 5s facturers have been Willing to commit

themselves. This picture has been ex-

e ¢ ° ; nough to have become a
We review in this . cir- but it was thrown inte

cular the Position of the still clearer relief by yesterday's state-
% Convertible Bonds ment.
of the Southern Pacific This showing by the Stee!
oo At which is
mpany, as indicated
by present earnings and
future Prospects,

= ORS,

REPRa soe

& Fee

pepe

sPebet'et:

Qn co IPERS
aon J)
“PET SES

war

Sug88

D> sm hen fh ta

FRR SER

ies

Pacific Mail aw cow bc
Pacific Tel. & Tel
enn. R

PRE

Philadelphia Co
Pittsburgh Coal
Pittsburgh Coal pf...
Pittsburgh Steel pr. .|
ressed Stee] Car.,..
ilman Co, .
Quicksilver

FH PHT et

cv deb 6s, reg

se5ezy5

that is, the payment of due interest and 90 000 | N Y¥. On

discharge of the receiver, the preferred le ref. 4s
as exclusive votin Power as long as 2,000 ‘ 5. 2,

back dividends are due. The amount of

the back dividends, including the July

‘| Maturity, is 8114 per cent, Analysis

Weakness in New Haven, : : Denver &
In a buoyant market for most of the Cleats ; , °
industrials and a steady market for ernment pecgtationa for United States Goy- Bau eet Bid. Rio Grande R. R.
most of the rails New Haven broke
badly. After selling at 6156: in: the morn- ze r,
ar . ing, the stock declined to 57% in the Se,
covers trom: temic Stud ar Co... 29 +. er ne rm ee at 58%, with a net rg
. as was believed to be | e- Studeb: - Df... Teen ee, 2 Points, 4s, 0, 1925"
Send for Circular 1562 et <7 | Texas en ct a 47 x } Pep 2s, r, a :
9 T ‘Pacitic::2.1] 784? 9 9 r Closing quotations for stocks | which there
Spencer Trask & Co f ig 8 roe By | i wt et Steals, "808 wl
INVESTMENT SECURITIES : nion Pacific” Pt ‘ : 34 ; 1 . | Ade 744 [Cleve & P. soy.”

J ¥ 30! wee bes Am Ag CH Do, ‘spec’i 46°"
| 82% | Ros 200) Union Pacific 47 DE os. OT 9B. Loman eee +3
25 Broad Street, New York ; | 825] “is Don caeific p am Bis g °7% 0 De 1OKK Lazy
BOSTON  CHICAGU ith yey. %
Members New York Stock Exchange,

I+tt:

Rae

. Iron & Steel....
Rep. Iron & S. pf....
Ts, Roeb. & Co
Shattuck-Arizona

Sloss-S. g
Southern

ees

BERRIES

tal

ROS

Particularly of First & Ref. 5s, 1955,
which ‘are listed on the New York
Stock Exchange. We have prepared
es me _ comprehensive Analysis of this sys-
120% |Prad 8 Gay ; tem, together with suggestions coy-
Big (Pan gx 320% tring 40 other bonds, which will be
91 Quicksilver mailed on request:

cae W.C.Langley&Co.

Investments
115 Broadway, New York ‘City

pyudy

ere

La are

Do pf...

was pre the in- Goal... --. [Con
Come account for the month would show Pr tae

and not until
Government in

DEEEy

Let

Cont Ins... 53
another deficit after charges, Pf. io. Cree war g bo
. *,¢ t Cripple Creék
A Quick Return, Tego" "292 = Do ge.7: 23
Considering the fact that the German
. reply to the Sussex note is still being i £141 4 so Ry, &
l mA awaited, the activity of the stock mar- A 2 : 225 i-:: 30 Oo ctfs, 61
wm P Ber ae 80 ket yesterday was remarkaBle, Do pt B85 gs eS i Jee ll. 92
atash so. oe 14
abash pf. A
7abash pf, 3. a0
Tells Fargo

a od

week’s note to
erlin has definitely passed.

$16,000,000 OIL BONDS SOLD

The Sinclair Co.’s Issue Taken by a
Syndicate of Bankers.

Harry F, Sinclair, ,star backer of the
ill-starred Federal League of Baseball
Clubs, made his advent in Wall Street

yesterday. The advent was propitious.
it Was jn the same business in which
Mr. Sinclair made the money which

| mt! 2 f ARE AS heres ot | |
: WF 28g | HBG | were at the rate or mo i eg t pas te Typ. 90 5g Mem his Tenn
hel keep the Federal ° ; se seces] 124 124 124 % |shares for the day: ‘The: pace slack- |, PF... .1 : PE. ... 36 . Do pt.) 94 . eae
it w rH we tases nt 2 $* * - cee ened later on, but the total for the day te 183 ax Ch pf. Do*pr.. ‘ ey
ee ie we 5:5 i
; é ON Rs st pce was nevertheless 876 000 shares, the
bond .

"gest. since March 16, whe e turn- "+ 40. 1G. Mote. bres En pt. oe : C Mfra. 60 AES -
Ww. 'seiig-| BIG WAR TRADE DIVIDENDS. | STOCK MARKET AVERAGES, | over was vi5,n46°C" 18, when the't ? ae 145 | Nae HG, bEus rs, | Be pet 4% % Bonds

"/Guir Be iseittg™
Wie f ‘ be :
man & Co., White, Weld & Co., Mont- *,.* Do 98 Da

IEP c0
etobanas

Lea!

feats,

Stet

PE Ist pt 85 De SPF iy BPE 3 ‘3 D i
| te ue serially 1939 to 49 0, in-
Frask & cgthier & Tyler, and Spenecr Greene Copper and. Other Concerns YESTERDAY’S RANGE. no Leave Reserve System. B. OR & Pp: | Padres of & - Ns Clusive < BA
The Sinclair company is a ork Increase Disbursements, igh Net It is understood that the Seacoast Na % ae 33

25 raflroad ae . le onal B Helme (Gw)

The O’Bannon Corporation, the Scovill astris ery 90.0 i +, 09

Manufacturing Company,and the Greene | 50 stocks 7 82.58 83°35 A
Consolidated Copper Company, all con- FIFTY sTocks,
0 1,000,000 | Cerns which have profited from war de-
of which 500,000 mands, increased their dividend dis.
; bursement esterday. .
nds taken by the bankers were The O'Bannon Conn any paid a regu- 22 82.95 80 , g , trict. All of tions which
@ first an ee, on property valued at/ jar 11 per cent. on the common stock 20 83.89 have been liquidated or converted into
more than $50, 000 and with a current of Per cent. extra. pos > + Be . 08 State b
earning power. of $10,000,000, according declaration of . ‘ ; ,
mpany's estimates, They -bear of 10 per i §
at 6 per cent. run for ten : ith an extra rate of |
and are convertible into common 8 J
Th vides for a 2 per cent. a month ago a an extra April, Lo t.
wee oon. a ae cene divine ee, that. 1 eo 1e2e mpelsoka cemeaee 3 . 83.85
o e@ Greene e S @ quarte 15. ence eee. 73.36 80 :
after de- declaration of $l a share, whith com. 1914 +++ 79.66 83 ; e720

; strenuous: ‘that: vacations ‘have. not} ap : SPARK BH ; al RRANCHES: sé 5 na
: ; 2 ; 10) s ations : : a Grand Central Terminal { East 45th ;
um sink-/ pares with 60 cents three months ago. Pt en: | a a ’ 56.68 seemed to be. in order. One of the prom- GeoD TONE IN LONDON. Robert C, Watson, Mesaget :
FINANC| AL N OTES THE TREASURY STATEMENT. THARLY 2 See a aE TOCRS. changed to Sta ae as bee from an extended ‘outing, saia yesterday | Money In Light Demand and Dis. *5 West 83rd Street
, : Special to The New York Times, '' “ts 282 3 80.01 “Apr. 22 83.35] large that from now, on the..man who boast- count Rates Are Quiet. Amsterdam -
Farson, Son & Co, and J. 8. Bache & Co, WASHINGTON, April 25,—R, r d ex- +94.13 Oct. 22 58, b. 24 91.50 |isys fore: rdina: ed that he‘had gone the twélve He ngs
mF si aeO w | hres" A tea Be Ge Fae Re Bo cei oats | Hiei ohana aioe weal 3 reopened toy ity eta mare
aPce at a 3.95 per cent. Dasis. , Ord: int. rev. receipts... 24,162,568 300/890/174 | 1912....2" 82 Sep. 30 75,24 Feb, 1 78.99 from State t fona: .| ma en death which hay though busi was not fi I 2 [ C > -
United ine Insome tax Lore 40.076 Wh a: SAL June 26 69.57 Sep.’ os Fae Hat theraselvew to iene! charters wheal Poses # off men in the midst of their | Git-eaged sen. then: clay ae MEGARGEL & (0.
s : ‘ d + 888, pS ne ee : *,* ‘ . ; i vO or. issues, : and Gran a /j New Y¥ k Ex hay
Total receipts $44;108,661 $596,900,895'| Prices Firm on Paris Bourse. © Strain That Tetis, resentine' me pee @06d eg TT UT | T timed : Botton “Stock Pc ange.
—— ot ord. disburse, ; PARIS, April 25,—Prices were firm on

} se ; ares vanced on qose traffic re.
Mor nk nd cor Careful examination at. the h turns. Argentine rails rdened and oil,
e tal sects, 90011 - 64,027,866, | © Bourse today. Three pee yet founkers. end corporation heads! their:

; moeee 08: to : have found time realize that. it See ttle differents tive denna! nee aitigines) & investment Seeuri

sof the $3,000,000 orer, otal disburse... 211 585 serees [Pentes, 62 frances 50 Sentimes for cash. a eeks whether American ‘securities Were dull: 35 Pine.

cent. notes, due July i. rs pees A dis. ease Bive pene ol Lily 3314 by | ° y fag: ; qoing © bring .n | dian’ Pacific closed firm and the. me
bonds 1 . ered 4 total rets. * ‘ senting 4 ‘per 3 oo an, fran ics | ee ~ . \ a t 1 ‘start: to: anaes e ® - Money: Was in

Prices to yield 4.25%

R. M. GRANT & co”

31 NASSAU ST., NEW YORK

BOSTON 7 CHICAGO. ;
A. A. Housman & Co.

pt. New York
80 Witlys-h'a Members { Now York
ork Coff,

. ASE eR
98 Wis Cent.- : 5 20 Broa Bia ig

fas

regular quarter] RAN

: actine fee P
BN ia Stee ai

ae aint ae oe ad

eee"

|| HOLMES, BULKLEY

~TMERBEN.

aes

10 Am. Thermos Bottle... ..@° 77
100 Diehl Mig.Com ......@ bid
40 Steinhardt Bros. Pfd.. ...@ bid

| U.S. STREL'S RECORD

Revenue _of Corporation Ex- Ad

ceeded: Best Previous ‘Three

‘DECLARE USUAL DIVIDENDS

Considered by Exetutive Commit-
tee, Chairman E. H. Gary Says.

The Steel Corporation earned in- the.
first quarter of 1916 an.income of $60,-
718,624 after providing for repairs and
maintenance t6 plants and interest on
bonds of subsidiary cOmpanies. The re-
port issued yesterday showed the great-
est quarter in the corporation's history,
the best previous record of earnings.
being exceeded by about $9,500,000. The
last quarter of 1915 stood in second
place, The earnings by months were
never before exceeded, and the lowest,
January, made a return $6,400,000 larger
than the entire first quarter of 1914.

The progress made month by month
was- decidedly impressive, representing

STAND)
STOCKS

‘BOOKLET ON APPLICATION

Atlantic Refining
Buckeye Pipe Line
Illinois Pipe Line
Indiana Pipe Line
Northern Pipe Line
Ohio .Oil
Prairie Oil oo ;

so oO. i eeitornia

Ss. O. ~~ Indiana
Ss. O. of Kansas
S. O. of New Je
Ss. O. of New Yor
’ Vacuum Oll
on eee ane

Private wires to
HARTFORD MONTREAL
TORONTO

Hanover CWYNNE:
NY. STOCK EXC’

Real Merit

Investors should be most care-
ful to confine their selections to
securities that possess real merit. |
What is back of a security is
sometimes difficult for the lay-
man to ascertain.

This is where our Department
of Service can you. We
believe +. we ~ have say i

facilities for supplyin in-
vestor with currenf in SomresP st

Send ad

ent 21

| FS Snilhrshile

19 Nassau Street

| memouns of New Dock. rec excnanet

Panhandle 41/23

Eastern Steel 5s:

Buff.-& Susq. Iron Deb. 5s
Youngst’n Shar. Ry.&Lt.5s
Bell Tel. of Canada 5s

& WARDROP

poem embers New York Stock Exchange.
bers Pittsburgh Stock Exchange.

ONE EArs at. UNION BANK B
New Yor Pittsburgh,
Telephone Rector 8166,
Private Wire to Pittsburgh,

be Established 1865

Hambleton & Co.

Investment.

Bonds

10So.CalvertSt. 43 Exchange Pl.
-’ Baltimere New York

largely the effect of increasing prices
as shipments were approximately on
the same scale in each month, In March
the balance of earnings after costs «as
$22,723,316. If this .pace should be con-
tinued throughout the remainder of the
year, Wall Street figured yesterday, the
corporation’s total earnings would
amount to more’ than $260,000,000° in
19!6.. The best:year so far experienced
by the organization brought in $160,-

At last quarter’s rate of earnings‘ the
corporation is piling up a revenue equiv-
alent to 80.84 per cent. a year on the
$508,400,000 common stock after making
allowances for all charges and reserva-
tions and the preferred stock dividend.
In the precedios quarter the rate was
equal to slight! rae § less than 24 per cent.
a annum, in the whole of 1915 a
ittle less than 10 per cent. was earned
for the junior shares.

Counting in Sundays, the coupanetion: s
net receipts in the three months ended
March 31-were about $674,590 per day,
compared with $569,250 daily in the pre-
ceding quarter and $1 38,420 a day in
the initial quarter of 1915. The record
of the quarter’s earnin; with compar-
isoms is presented in this table:

Income Account.
Quarter _ ~~ d

Quarter
Ended

The Directors yesterday declared the
usual quarterly dividends of 1% per cent.
on the preferred and 1% per cent. on the
common stock. Chairman BD. H. Gary
said after the meeting that the matter
of an extra payment on the common had
not been considered by the Executive
Committee, and, therefore, had not been
discussed at the full board meeting. He
declined to discuss iy rospect for ex-
tra disbursements in e future, and
Was adverse also to making an estimate
about ie current quarter’s earnings.

“The figures speak for breast -”
‘said “he, re ofeertug to the quarterly re-
port. “ Business ‘is: Lp sage pons well,
prices advanced during th thres
months, but I would not dertabe te
say how much the present quarter's in-
come should a gain over the last quarter,
The cor on is practically booked
full for the year. Substantial orders for
1917 delivery have been taken, especially
for rails. would not say that buying
is still increasing, for manufacturers
are nearly all sold out as far ahead
as they care to accept contracts, and
this condition necessarily restricts pur-
chases. Prices had not moved upward
in the last few. weeks, at least, not
greatly.

In response to a question, Mr. Gary
said that the Directors. did not consider
at yesterday’s meeting the establish-
ment of a permanent dividend fund
from which yments could be drawn in
times of indifferent earnings.

The preferred stock dividend will be

May to stockholders of

1. Holders of common stock
will get their dividend on June 29, the
books closing June 1,

PUBLIC UTILITY SECU revi ES.
: Asked.

Saprentoes Electric Light pf....
irondack Electric Power

can Gas
*American Gas & Blectric

American Light & Traction 370

Américan Light & Traction pf....11

American Power & Light 65

American Power & Light pf.. ®

American Public Utilites <a

American Public Utilities pk tivae

, American Waterworks & Electric.

hawaii can we Ww. -

Associated _ * ayerteie .

Atlantic P.

Carolina | 3 -

Carolina Rower & Light “pt.

Citi®s Service

Cities Service pf......e-ee. oon

Colorado Power ...... eC ovevcecsoce

Colorado Power pf 100

Commonwealth Pr. oan’ eu pt. 84

Consumers P, 5s, 1

Consumers’ Power thie.) pt

Denver Gas & Electric ond prada oT

Electric Bond Deposit pf. 78

Electric Bond & Share pt.. ‘1

Empire District Electric pt. x

Federal Light & Traction..

Federal Light & Traction pt.

Gas & Biectrio Securities........ gh

Gas & Hlectric.Securities p&

Northern Ontario Lt. & Power...

Northern Ontario Lt. & Powe ae

Northern States Power. ‘ .

Northern States Power be

Ozark Power & ee. oe

Pacific Gas & Wlectri

Pacific Gag & Electric,

Pacific Gas & Blectric

Republic Ry. & Light egies dn tende

Republic Ry. & Light Co. pf

Southern California = 0 dvie'Bete 90

Southern California eer pf.. -102%4 105

Southwestern Power & Light pf.. 87% 100

*Standard Gas & Wiectric Re | 12%

*Standard Gas & Electric pf.. . 87

Tennessee Ry., Light & Power.... 11%

Tennessee Ry., ineet & Power e.. on

Toledo Trac., Tight & Power

Toledo Trac., ee & Power pf..

United Light & flways ..

United Light & Rys. ist cess

Western Power ...

Western Power

SSFRSa085 33

Ln a
ite

Bag

: Son8

WANTED
» Tract. Co., N. J. 5s
‘Hob. & Pat. St. Ry. 4s
& Calif. f. 5s|

“7 & F. W. PELZER

embers N. Y. Stock Exchange. | j:

+ Breed, 6087. 12 Broadway, N. Y.

*Par, Value, seo }Ex dividend:
STANDARD OIL STOCKS.
Yes eaterdny, Ponda A
Bid. Ask Asked,

Theodore €. Corwin

BLE & CORWIN

New York

com Co. Stock |

Viet Lin LLL

Standard Oil of ‘Kan:
Stand. Oil of Fer + +6 ¢
Stand, Ofl of Neb... .350
Stand. Ofl of a FR?

Cleveland

Extra Payment. on Common Not] at

MONEY AND EXCHANGE.
RESERVE BANKS eta RATES,

Lass, sae ahs Ss

hia,

New
Phil o
Richmond ...
tlanta ....

a= eee? pee

er. a

Trade Acceptances.

Agricul. Gouek auee Com-
Over90, Up to60, 60to90. modity.

Kansas
ant es eco Ch + % 4
“0p to 30 days; over $0 to 60, 4 pe een:
over) 60 to 90, 4% per cent., and over P00, D per

cent.
BANK ACCEPTANCES.

Sixty days ......... Wo é codach peaks bgsand
Ninety days pent ve sss estaeh isonet hae

COLLATERAL LOANS,

Low. Last,

*TIME LOANS, -
SHG 6 months. -3%

*Regular mixed collateral; all industrial, %

R ral
High, "Rate,

per cent, higher.
COMMERCIAL PAPER, ~
Best Known Names,
se 3 MONTHS ......ccccccccsceceresS GSK
BO tO 00 GAYS 6. veneevccssessvccesees SHG
Other Names,
4 te 6 MOMthB,.... 5.62... cece eens ees + BKOSY

FOREIGN EXCHANGE.
mange of a
igh. Low. . Change.

et Mm cee

Berlin—

Closing Rates.

Following are yesterday's closing rates,
compared with the normal rates of exchange

on the mint par of exchange adapted
to the customary way of quoting the several
exchanges. Sterling is quoted at so many
dollars to the und; German exchanges so
many cents to four marks, and French, Ital.
ian, and Swiss exchange so many francs or
lire to the dollar.” The. other exchangés in
this list are quoted so many cents to the units
of currency in the several countries
Normal ~Yeaterday’ s Close—,

Rates Demand

of Exch.

95.28 Berlin

20.20 Austria

26.70 Scandinavia .
19.20 Spain
5.1826 Switzerland

Sterling—

eevee Hongkong ...scesee
Shanghai
India—
82.44 Bombay ....seceees
32.44 Comte
pan—
49.84 Yokohama
Philippine Islands—
50.00 Manila
South America—
42.44 Buenos Aires
TIME. BILLS ON LONDON,
Bankers. —Commercial.——
60 Days. 90 Days. 60 Days. 90 Days.

Clearing House Figures.
New York Clearing House Exchanges,
reasury credit balance, $1, 215, 861,
Demestic Exchange.
Exchange on New York at domestic
centres: Boston, par; Chicago, 10c dis-
ceunt; St. Louis, 10@15c; discount; San
Francisco, 30c — premium; Montreal,
$4.375 premium.

eeee eeeeeesers

Stlver.

Bar silver in London, 82d, up 18-16d;
Néw York, ane up 1K0; Mexican dol-

CONSOLIDATED EXCHANGE.

While the general market on the Con-
solidated Stock Exchange reacted some-
what from its best in the closing .deal-
ings, the tone throughout the day was
strong. Prices in the early dealings es-
tablished further substantial rscoveries
from their recent low levels. The crea-
tion of a more cheerful sentiment was
aided by additional reports that Germany
would make important’ concessions to the
United States in the submarine contro-
versy.
Sales.

250 Alaska Gold...

Open. High. Low.

60 Allis-Chaimérs.

ret

780 Am. Locomot’e.
2,790 Am. Smelting...
40 Am. Woolen ..
te * Baldwin Loco.. 87
sto Butte ri Sup... 92%
210 Cent. Leather.. 51%
80 Cc, & O. rights.
110 Chino Coppet
4 Col. Fuel & I.
0 Corn Products.
14,580 Crucible Steel..
0 Dist. Sequrit’s.

“80 Erie

60 Erie ist pf..

420 Goodrich Co.
170 Gt. North. Ore.
20 Greene-Can ...
110 Insp. Copper...

“2 Kenne. cnr:
Lack. Steel;...
400 Maxwel) ee

10 North. Pacific. 110
= Pacifie Mail... 26
40 Ray Copper... 22

10 Sloss-Sheff ™

& Iron
170 So. Pacific..
10 Southern Ry.. 1
pa Studebaker we a ti rin
‘enn. ee, 7
440 Union Pasitic.. brig ge

rte

tah Copper. . 56% 5B

1,000 Seieeee Jack.
800 G’dfield Mer..
500 Isabella ...... ot
200 Jumbo FExt.... .

METAL MARKET REPORT.

These prices were ica on the looal Metal
Exchange yesterda aes

Asked.

Gai
was quoted

open Tharkat. ns

7m, saat seed
RP co Shas
Aniittony

Tumint «se UB. 00

tt ees 20.25 Reg
Reerteet Je
yr ge Aor ate
quotations were: .

Sopper, ‘epotevescvescns 38 tb
Pper, spot.....ceses-
Tin, spot ppseeseasoes oes

Bpeiter raED 603

seb eeeees

Peewee eter eee

Net paid circulation of The

The
New ‘York

tae Le et Htareh Es, in” Te wes |

reps

Sears-R
0 | 250 Becett ‘Watner..

Collection of Assessments. al Source
Goes Into Effect July 4,

; Speoiat to The New York Tees,

WASHINGTON, April 25. —After hear-
ings in protest against the new regula-
Aion requiring. the taxatge | of income at
the’ source the case of nonresident
etiéne, intermai Revenue Commissi

Gabor. with ene, Spero of Aci

rétary of th Newton, has
decided to nae may = . na as
time the collection o tax

shall go into effect.

The date is changed’ from May 1 to
July 1, The text of the order issued to-
day is as follows:

The provisions of Treasury Décision
2,313 of March 21, 1916, relati bg to
withholding the normal ‘tax ee

a’ io

e first p
ury Decision. 2, 317 of
ereby amended according

SHORT TERM NOTES.

Government and Municipal Issues.
aegly Rate. Bid, Ask. Yield.

SSSSSSSSGRE STATINS

rgen. Govt.
Argen, Govt..6
City of Mont.5
City of Q’b’c.5
Dom. of Can.5
Dom,
Dom,
Dom,
Dom. o n.
Italian ‘at's
Norweg. Govt. %
Norweg.Govt.6

orweg.Govt.6
Swedish Govt.6
Swiss Govt...6

FAO be ETAT

wiss Gevt.. Ad Mar., 1920
any Issues.
Ae Sak re onl-g “Rov. 7 91 1

Am. ae Ti Gore Tay 1

B’klyn R, 5 July, 1918
Can, North. 5 Sep., 1917
Can. Pacific..6

BSZSsusnasse

TARSSSSSSsA

Hocking val..
Int. Haiv..

ass

§Nor. S. Pow.G Junel, '17
Feb.,
Mar.,
June,

2 AARSOASS ow GAPVPRHSnTBMe arora nwasr oper BROOMS
BnsoSuss: 3: F

Southern Ry.5
Sulz. & Sons.6

United Fruit..
tUnited Fruit.6
W’ house El. &
W. P. Trac. 6
Win. R.Arms.5
tt West. Pow.6 1917
*To be called June, 1916, at *
101 for 1918. tTo be called May, 1916, at
tTo be called June, 1916, at 101, fale oo

AyAgke MAAN AS
PASSSZESa Skasssse

wie co

Boone

redemption June, 1916, at 101. Called for
redemption May 1, at 100, **Called for re-
demption June 1, at 101. tfCalled for re-
demption May 3, at 100%.

INCOME TAX RULE DELAYED,

Satlparticke aia ns
MAY RESUME DIVIDENDS.
American Hide &.Leather Manage-
ment Talks of Payment.

The management of the American
Hide and Leather Conmipany issued a

statement to stockholders yesterday
which indicated that a dividend might

er be paid on the preferred stock after the |
next meeting of the board, in July. The

company paid 2 per cent. on its -pre-
ferred in 10905, but has paid nothing

since, and there is an unpaid accumula. |'

tion of about 113 per cent. in dividends
on the 7 per cent. cumulative preferred.
The Directors authorized a resolution
stating that {t is not the settled policy
of the : ae ~ > pay y off the eee sae
mortg etore considering
ments on ee heey and thet whet, Pt 6
earnings for the year ending haope 80
are known the question of a disb
ment on the shares wil be considered.
Far ter agae yo wi added, however:

declaration should not be un- |-

derstood as necessarily implying that
the Directors are at the preseht time
committed to the payment of dividends
on the pret ferred. The published earn-
ings statements clearly indicate that the
profits: of the business in which the
company is engaged are subject to ex-
treme fluctuation. The large earnings

during the last eightee
resulted to a considerable extent om
the abnormal conditions brought about

by the Buropean war. How long present
conditions will continue is a question to
which no one can give a definite an-
swer. It is sible that at any. time
they may suddenly change in a manner
which would oe, affect earnings

even for the c
Pron, Tuy 1. WIS, Xe Ataroh 81, 1916,
the company earned a surplus of $1,-
,000, against $852,000 a year ago and
$156,000 two years ago.

GETS INTERNATIONAL PUMP.

Worthington Corporation Declafed |:

Owner of Property.

The Worthington Pump and Ma-
chinery Corporation, recently. organized
under the laws of Virginia, was yester-
day declared the successor in ownership
of the properties of the defunct Interna-
tional Steam Pump Company, the plan
of the joint reorganization committee
having become effective. Securities of

the new company. will be exchan for
certificates of deposit of securities in
the old on and after today.

The new company has souutred direct
ownership of the properties owned by
the International and its subsidiaries
with the exception of Henry R. Worth-
ington, In that it owns practicall all
of the cOMmon and more than per
cent, of the prerertea: ie only outstand-
ing liens are r cent. bonds
of the elite. ron orks and 7
‘aactrins Demeieee ei ao
ufacturing Co will gs jusi-

All of tite new oP aca stock has
been placed under a voting trust, to
continue for five years from April p
1916. The voting Trustees are Lewis L.
Clarke, Geofge G. Henry, Percy a J
mn. R. Walter Leigh, and Charles H.

abin.

TOBACCO STOCKS.

Closing quotations of stocks
elsewhere were: Yesterday.

Bid.
American Cigar 2
American Cigar pf...100
oe, Foil
J. Young 55
MacAndrews & F.. er
MacAndrews & F.
Porto-Rico-Am, nbs. 213

not quoted
Monday.
agate. ced Asked.

R, J. Réynolds Tob. .470,

OUT-OF-TOWN MARKETS

BOSTON.
MINING.
Open. High. Low. Last,

Sales.
845 Adventure ....
155 Ahmeek .

1,445 Alaska Goid:.
215 Allouez

— hl Com.,.

10 Centennial ... 16
Chino 63
Copper mnet. 61
East Butte.
Franklin .....
Greene-Can...
Hancock
Inspiration ...
Island Creek..
Isle Royale...

cO Kerr Lake....
a eee
Lak
Tenn’ Vv alley.

Michigan .....
5 Mohawk
5 Nevada Con..
5S New -Arcadian
60 New Idria .
Nipissing ...
North Butte. .
00 Old Colony.
, Old Dominion.

wB2R2
TFS FRR SE
SSSa8ae—

110 South Lake ..
255 Sup. & Boston

Pads

Smelting 69%
20 Utah Copper..
1,435 Utah Metals.. 9%
400 Victoria 3

155 Wolverine ..

RAILROADS.

Mass. 8

Elec.pf. 34

hae ig ee

3 Am. Sug. ots ayia

1 oan

45 Nipe Bay

10 Reece ge ape 16
16 Swift & Co.

Pond

jee

~ CHICAGO.
STOCK
Sales.

Open,
90 AM Ship Bldg... ag

2 Diamond Match,. ite,

5 Deers 9
6 oh iinet Fi oo 19

ise Tineey Light f. 10
16 Bont, “carbon ae

Ba a rg hee hy pesca
vant Serv. rts.. i
® Guaicer Oats. . 8
Roebuck . A
deb. pf...

Boise Carbide...

Ene Com, : Fg
Bs Peep ae 2 + 94

ONDE.

an ari pi

BALTIMORE.
STOCKS,
Sales.
50 Balt. Tube..
65 Bait. Tube pt.

PHILADELPHIA.
STOCKS,
en. HS h. Low,

Cambria Iron.. 45
29 Blec.Stor.Bat..
60 Keystone Tel..
200 Lake Sup. son
70 Lehigh Nav..
115 L.V.TAran.pf..
16@ Nor. Central. oes

17 Ph.Co. cum.pf. 42
831 Phi o a ye oe 2

ies 2

fora

osposerore

DPT ad

aoe

n.Rys. nee 71

ssseeesses $23

geroe*

PITTSBURGH.
STOCKS.
Be ge

A ‘in

1,085 Pure OB sce.
Riverside o® ees
Riverside pf... 20
Ross Mining.. 15
530 Westing. Blec. 56% set
BONDS.

BOSTON CURB.
Bid. ASE,

Asked,
“aie

Alvarado..
Bay 8 Gas

Bohemia... i 154

Be tea is 80 M :
utte ines of A :

Bolie,his oes a
Bost Corb. .54 ; U Bin . aa :

oelaversn: Nev D

véeras.. @)
Chief Con.. Ohio =

Cortez
lpnondhen

Con Cop... -
Con Ariz..

Tono Belm

Tono Min.
U ie BH

cea?

months have ’

ass ti}
.| Bingham... 12 |Majestio .” . ie

To Yield —e
Public Utility
First Lien'Bond

owned more than 21/2 times an-
nual bond interest.

Surplus earnings tabec\ intial
controlled through stock owner-
ship approximately 2% times an-.
nual’ interest charges on first Hen
bonds.

Circular A-I! will be sent those
desiring complete information.

F.M. Dyer & Co.

24 Broad nat New York City:
Telephone 3620 Rector

Boston Baltimore

Net earnings from properties |

city ofPaterson,N.J:
Alps .
fe naaae

Jj. S. Bache & Co.

42 Broadway New York

Cities Service 7s

We recommend the exchange
of these notes which are to
retired for

Empire Gas & Fuel 6s

Details on Request.

Herbert M. Solomon,

68 Broad St, New
Telephone Bro 4467 bbe ys 3752.

Cities Service

Moore & C9

25 Broan St.NX 2850 Broan

United Drug Co.

Com., 2nd Pfd., Ist Pfd.
Bought—Sold—Quoted

WEBB.LEVETT &CO

43 EXCHANGE PLACES, NEW YORK
Tel. 1641-7 Hanover

Republic Ry. & Light

Common & Preferred
Berdell Brothers

Public Utility Securities
Picete Phadss to Phitadeaaen and Boston,

Eastern Steel
J.K.Rice,Jr.& Co.

Automatic Elec. 6s, 1928
Pacific Gas & Elec. Com.
National Surety Company
Home Insurance Co.

John Burnham & Co.

Private Wire te All Markets.
115 Broadway. Tel. Rector 9876. New York.
_ ene eeieeE AG er Eee Se rane

U.S. Light & Heat

Inquiries Invited.

S.L. Waitzfelder & Co.

25 Broad Street, New York |

Oil Stocks

Our weekly letter on above
furnished Investors on request

Douglas Fenwick & Co.

Standard Oil Stocks
34 We Wall St. Tel. 4220 John

Municipal Bonds
STACY & BRAUN

Nassau Street, New York
Toledo = «Buffalo —=-Cihoinnati

Yale & Towne Mfg. Co.
Central Foundry
Atlantic, Gulf &' West Indies
Crocker-Wheeler Co.

Salisbury and van der Kief?
54 Pine Street- NewYork - Radenanoantatte

WE ‘SPECIALIZE. IN

LEONARD SNIDER & CO.

ECTOR 496 62 BROADWA

‘Kean, Taylor & Co.
Investment Securities
New York

_ loans on city real estate

examine

Ravntiee of ‘property,

Property

Plan,”

power.

the “Straus Plan.

How Amor-
tization Is.
Effected

‘erty.

emeaco._. NV

The one sient fandssipeeal “in eae .

is—not\value or. —

but: -earnings.-:In_considering a loan, we first
the earning..power pater:

phic

because it, ie

> ings that must meet the est |
) charge and reduce or amortize the principal. :

This. is one of the chief polite: in the. “Straus
and is one which should commend itself |
to all conservative investors. The equity; of.
“course, must ‘receive proper consideration, but.
the chief emphasis" should ‘be laid: on earning

Amortization’ is another: important: factor »i “ine
We require that about 4
of the principal of the loan be
‘out of the earnings .of the
‘Our plan has been i
cessful operation ‘for thirty-four —
years, without loss ‘to an investor.
You, as-a conservative investor, s
tigate the merits of the sound:5 Y6% 1 onds issued.
under the Straus Plan.”

‘Call or write for Cirewlar T-126

-SW.STR

150 BROADWAY. YAY, conven I. NER LIBERTY

be:paid off each yeu’

PIOPY:
in: suc

10uld inves-

Aus & Co.

K_oceteon

i CorTLaNn 8064
MINNEAPOUS

Mi us

jonas Merrall & Condit 6s -
American Tube & Stamping 5s

Adams. Ex 4s
i pe Founders 6s

American Water Wks. & Electric 5s

Aurora, Elgin & Chi

Beech Creek R. R. Ist 4s
Clearfield Bituminous Coal 44
Glosdhaed "ties, Meminathig inating 5s
Clyde Steamship 5s -
Consumers Power 5s

Denver Union ee 6 Yards 5s

Fg Ss
Genesee River .
Great Western Power Se
Hecker-Jones-Jewell 1st 6s
Hocking Valley Prodécts 5s
Hadson Navigation 6s
International Navigation 5s
International Salt 5s
Kansas City Railway & Light 5s
Leavenworth Term. Ry. & Bldg. 5s
Lake Su Corp. 5s
Mallory Steamship 5s
Milwaukee Elec. Ry. & Light 5s
‘Mason Valley Mines 6s
Metropolitan Street Ry. CK. C.) 5s
New Jersey Steamboat Ss

Quotations

30 BROAD STREET

NEW YORK TELEPHONES {

>>} BROAD

INCLUSIVS) ih

St. Louis, Spri

BONDS

Northern pi Rive
Pacific Gas &« Elestric Ss:

Park & Tilférd 6s
Pennsylvania Water & Power 5s

Ey. eS DF 2 ER as

ele tA eae

Retsof (Salt) Mining Ss
Roches, Srna & Eaters S
Remington. T} 6s 5

Southern <
id & Peoria Se

South Pittsburg Water 5s

Sierra & San Francisco Power 5s

Syracese, Lake Shore & North’ So

St. Louis Transit 5s -

ee Northern Rc R.-5s

Oe 5s

Se Tobde'T R. R. 4igs

Uaned States Finishing Cons. Se
United Léad Deb. 5s ‘
Wichita Falls & Northwestern Ss

Yale & Towne Manufacturing Se:

Zanesville Electric Ry. 4s

on Request

FredericH.Hatch & Co.

ESTABLISHED 1888

Bonds and Inactive Secupities

NEW YORK "
BOSTON
Telephone: 7088 Main.

PHILADELPHIA
Telephone: Market 800

New Issue

DODO
n=Sse

0 Go G0 Gp .On Ge.G0 OD.Oo

J. S: Bache & Co.
we ret Rs Stock Exo

Syracuse, N. Y.,44% Bonds

MATURITIES

stsesese83¢

Prices on:unsold maturities 3.95 Basis ..

Farson, Son. &. Can:

Members N. Y. Stock. EB wet bd
118 Broadway, New Yorks.

SSS

' SAVINGS AND. LOAN ASSOCIATION.

Save and Be Safe

Accounts of $10 or afore opened on or
before April 29 eatn from May |.

Begin now. or write for Booklet A.

The Franklin Soclety

FOR HOME BUILDING eg SAVIN
38 Park Row, New York. City. py

T lor-Wharton Trén ‘Steel Crain,
plage pea oe 2, ci on
jar Vv
the outstandin a Pret. sd sted EE tthe fay:
lor-Wharton Iron = ae

iheen aclarod papabie.s6- fet
n able 0
the closing: of the books Saree

on April
The Preterted Stock books will
until 9 A, M a ai ist, 1916,

oe tary and ayoaneret,

i i Ty) a

sora ‘eek April 20th
LEAN, ‘Treasurer.
THE Fut ce

a. valeidend af two dollars

eek

fer Sone
isth, inetualvs,

sane wi
pers rr

American Zinc, Lead ESmetingto

DIVIDEND. ce

The Directors of the Aasertons ‘Binoy:
and Smeifing ‘Company ~ have decitared @
dividend of $12.50.per share, payable in de:

new” preferred stock of the Company at

par, to wit: ene-halt of 6 prolenrel eiamae: |
of the par value of $25 per share, te

‘qhare of common stock now issued

outstanding; payable on June 15,:
common atockhofders of record at the
of Masizviess: May! 16, 1916;

8. B. FARWELL, ‘Tremont, :

WABAS RAILWAY ComPs
cou ewe fading those, rosae) how due}

Bieeoiee hes Sa

aecared the| ae

Wabash  Ratiresa Sk *

Div. ae ft Mor, ds.
The W:

» Dette Si

ort

WWISIDE SBCURITIES|,

Curb Stocks Continue ‘Their Up-
ward Trend in a Quite
Active Market.

Motor Company Stock

The Company’s present schedule’
_@alls for, an output of. 96,452 cars.
in 1916, and to date this. schedule
has been easily maintained. With
this production, the  ccmpany
or about $40 a share on the stock.
Already orders are being received
from agents for 1917 deliveries, and
‘invariably they call for larger al-
lotments than 1916. It 1s estimated
that 150,000 cars will. be needed to
supply next year’s demand, and on
this output the company should

earn close to $70 a share in 1917.

Circular on request.

J.K.Rice, Jr.& Co.

Business ‘Courtesy

Ta the offices of this Trust Company! business
‘ courtesy ‘goes hand in hand with: safe and pru-
dent banking practice. The steady patron or the.
casual inquirer feels that he is dealing with hu-
than beings like himself, for this spirit of cour-
tesy. permentes every department of its service.

nance Stocks

American Brass
Carbon Steel
Colts Arms
Driggs-Seabury -
E. W. Bliss
_ Hopkins & Allen Arms
- Niles-Bement-Pond
Winchester Arms

Gilbert Eliott & Co.

27 Pine St., N. Y. Tel. John 6210

Transactions in the outside security
market yesterday amounted to 498,240
shares of stocks and $116,000 of bonds.

The‘ sales of. stocks were divided as
follows: Industrials, 93,660; oil, 72,435,
and mining, 332,145. The range of prices
of. alk issues in which. transactions were
recorded was:

INDUSTRIALS,

Sales f Ope by og
va.doar G. & W.

360 {Butler Chem. %

usniginmaeuieaanh
Trust Company of Bulizio for
Holly Manutacturing

The undersign

6 ee SUNS RT

In addition to the Banking and Trust Depart-
ments, the centrally located Safe Deposit Vaults
may be found of interest and value, especially to
families leaving town for the summer and desir-
ing this best and cheapest. form of insurance for
their jewelry, silverware and. other valuables.

22,917 Joint Boos + ray ion Committee,
856,201 and Agreement dated August 5, 1815, for the. peaealttee.
Steam: Pump. Company, stop ty that “said Plan of.
consummated and that holders of the above mentioned perce of ;
may now recéive the new securities and cash (if any) ee which agg are oF
ye under the Plan by surrendering their certificates of ‘on or, ee
F yt A ieee a c umnbia T cious represent-
IRS olders of certificates of paneer of Col ‘ :
ing preferted and caedinte stock of International ‘Ste aicuee idee Company will”
they have. eiprs

Inquiries invited.

Brooklyn Trust Company
Chartered April 14, 1866
Member of the
New York Clearing House. Association

177 Montague Street, Brooklyn ©
-Bedford Branch Manhattan Office
Fulton St, & Bedford Ave. Wall St. & Broadway

Total Resources as of March 17th, 1916, $44,305,890.78

not ‘be entitled to receive either cash or new stock oe Aral on
instalments of the payments required by ‘the Plan of tion
spect of their old stock: :

certificates of di ean o Fai Fram Geman seth
AD certificates, except cbrtificates of Frankiin Soca ;
sented to Guaranty Trust Company of New York, at its office,
way, New York, whether issued by ene of ‘ee

ficates of rg, all
Ww ‘Trust ~

AL CT

20 Davidson (h.
325 Driggs-Seab 5140
500 {Electric Gun. 14%
.200 Emerson Pho.. 18%
500 Grant M. Car. 9%
60° Hask.-Barker.. 40
100 Int. Arms F,
500 Katho. Br. pf.

800 Kenefick Z t. a
+400 tLake Tor. Bit 9
1,000 t{Lynn Phonog. 9%
2,650 Man. Transit... Bt

National Surety
Continental Ins. — il) 39° Marc. of Ane

| Amer. Graphophone if) 2° i=
ii Am. Sumatra Tobacco!) 33° ®

ferred Stock of Henry R.
Conspany at its office, No, 46 Wall

HE record high prices for
raw sugar would seem to in- =
dicate much higher prices for 3
stocks of sugar growing com- § 2
panies.

ARTHUR B. HATCHER, Secretary
We buy, sell and quote all these = ; 140 magne! “psy York."
stocks, and suggest especially

GUANTANAMO
SUGAR

Slattery & Co.

SPECIALISTS
oO Exchange Place, N. Y.

Telephone 4361 Broad.

ANN ARBOR RAILROAD
i Increase got
24 week April... 5 fare
7 ye hoe ROCH STER & PITTSBURGH

CANADIAN PACIFIC—
DENVER & a GRANDE~ |
Mea aoc hb ANPA® & TEXAS—
rease.
ST. ate SOUTHWESTERN—
TEXAS & PACIFIC—
8d week April 334,431
WESTERN MARYLAND—
ISON, PEKA-& 8S. F, for March—
Miscellaneous ate
AMERICAN HIDE &. LEATHER CO. for
the quarter ended March 31—
Jan. 1 to March 31:

July 4 to March 31:
*Deficit. :
CENTRAL LEATHER CO. for the quarter
ended March 31—
Gen, exp., loss . e

Eastern $ Steel

WESTERN sede 7~ GAS & ELECTRIC for
March— 916. 1915. Increase.
Sur. aft. chgs. 24,551
Net after tax. 584,252

wey DeLic RAILWAY

March—

ate 7

AND LIGHT for

Healthy Business Growth
depends largely on a good banking con-

nection. Intelligent handling of financial LIMA LOCOMOTIVE CORPORATION

problems and the experienced advice and To the Stockholders: :

service rendered by our officers have All the preferred stock and a very large majority of thé common .
proven of great benefit to many of our stock of Lima’ Locomotive Corporation having been deposited, the ©
clients in their commercial undertakings.

Readjaeierar Committee has this day declared operative the Plan
- . : d Agreement of Readjustment dated. March 15th, 1916. “In
May we explain this service to you?

atdie to afford the remaining holders of common stock who-have ,
Bor Metropolitan Trust Company

not deposited an opportunity to participate in the, benefits of the
Plan, the time for receiving deposits and for receivin subscriptions
. Of the City of New York
Preferred Stock George C. Van Tuy! Jr., President

for preferred stock of the New Company under the Plan, is hereby
extended until the close of business on MONDAY, MAY Ist, 1916.
All depositors who have hitherto subscribed for such referred stoc
and have made the first payment thereon-are hereby*required to
pay the balance of — pote ey, By gerd vend r mare. 2 the -
3 x , epositary on or before said date stockholders. who deposit
United Light & 49 Wall Street 716 Fifth Ave. their shares and subscribe in respect thereof during the time hereby °*

Railways Co.
Diversification of service and
breadth of territory afford every
opportunity for the ‘continued
growth of this Company’s busi-
ness.,

20) tP’lman Rim...
200 Sp'field Body..

St. Jos.-Lead. 15%

ubmar, . Boat,

4,000 Tob. Products 40%
1,600 rer Film, ey

Tel. 5441 John Hl 350 Un: ioe

Yukon-Alaska |
Trust

STANDARD OIL SUBSIDARIES.
(Guggenheim Exploration Co.)
Bought—Sold—Quoted
E. BUNGE & CO.

Net
High.
Investment Securities

Low. Last. Ch’

44 Broad St., New York
Telephones Broad 6951-2-3-4-5-6,

Bankers Trust|"
Company
Stock

CLINTON GILBERT

2 Wall St. Tel; 4848 Rector.

bier

STANDARD
WE WILL BIly 0 WE WILL SELL

ae Geebertand ?. % j

50 Geten Task Line L

ISSUES.

CARL H.PFORZHEIMER&CO
Dealers in Standard Oil Securities.

Dawson & Lyon

Increase.

Gross earnings.
Exp. & taxes.
Net earnings...
Other income.
Gross
Int.
Net
Pf. stock divs.
Balance 36
Three months ended
Gross earnings
. & taxes..
Net earnings..
Other income.
Gross income.
Int. & discount
Net income... 99
PUBLIC Soi CORPORATION tur
March—
Gross increase
Balance for dividends and surplus.
Inc, in surplus. available for divs.
aie. months ended March 31,

We Recommend for Investment
First and Refunding
5% Bonds

OTHER OIL STOCKS.

Sales. Open. High. Low. Last.

Sa mg

Tig

extended, are required to pay: the full amount of the ys ge enemy
for new preferred stock; namely $90 per share, at the time of deposi

ing. Ali payments will be noted by. the Depositary-upon the Contiti.
cates of Deposit, and all deposits.and payments must be made before
the close of business on the said first day of May, 1916.’

Dated, New York, April 14th, 1916.

ROBERT H. COX, araets. J. 8S. COFFIN, '
FRAN

140 Broadway, N ’ KLIN Q.- BROWN,. $
CARY & CARROLL, SAMUEL G.

Counsel. : Readjustment n

Sesguesusssgeseshes =

Gross increase
Balance for dividends and surplus..
Inc. in surplus available for divs..

THE CLEVELAND ELECTRIC
NATING for March— saan

Depreciation .. 44,211
Applic. to com.

Twelve months ended March 31:

ILLUMI-

Increase.

CREDIT
SERVICE

\ Midwest Oil:
Mid. Oil pf.
idwest Ref.
usk, Ref. ..
Okla. Oil..
ae won i pe.

is in the care of a special department of
this bank, and its facilities for procuring
information at home or abroad are free- GUARANTEE Te atin tae city Denertieny,
ly at the disposal of present and pro-

spective banking and mercantile cus-

NOTICE TO HOLDERS O
1 8 22,23 6,27) ‘ i tomers. THE CHICAGO. JUNCTION. RAIL-

. *»\Baldwin Locomotive The Mechanics & Metals National Bank

First Mortgage 5% 20-Yr. Real Estate
Improvement Bo
An interesting analysis of the
Baldwin Locomotive ' appears in OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK
20 NASSAU STREET

nds.
HEREBY GIVEN,
the current issue. It is a stddy

Send for circulars.

H.F. McConnell & Co.

25 Pine St., New York.

BEE:

cofoes wo S00 bow

Ras

voy 2 ee
en, Con. Ol
Victoria. Oil...
MINING
tAl.-Br.- Coil &

aoe

com Oo
avSes

THE. LOCOMOBILE MPANY

First Mortgage. Ten-Year Sinking
Fund Six Per Cent. Gold Bonds.
Pursuant to Article VI. of the ‘Mortgage, |
dated June 1, 1912, Bankers

STOCKS. Depreciation ..

Applic. to com-
mon stock...

we: OF

Sri

RAILWAY EQUIPMENT BONDS.
The following are quoted on a percentage
basis: Maturity. Rate.
Atl. Coast Line...1916-'23 - oe
Canadian Pacific. .1916-'28

Chicago & Alton.
Hocking Valley ..1916-'23
Illinois Central ..1916-"23
Missouri Pacific ..1916-'22
N.Y.Central Lines.1916-'28
Seaboard Air Line.1916-'23 5

Stanton” Fund Six Per Cent. *
the. Locomobile Company-of

ons maturing sub: be on,
He deat

ace. value: 0! ;
should: be enclosed in sealed
reg be delivered ‘to the’

as -pro-
vided in Article VIII. of the tgage and
deed of trust, date& March 1, 1908. securing
by a financial writer who has de-
voted considerable study to in-

the issue of Three Million Dollare ($3,000,000)
first mortgage 5% 20-year real estate im-
provement .bonds of the ‘Chicago Junction
dustrial corporations. It is well
worth reading. *°
Send for Copy

Railways and Union Stock Yards om any,
The Financial World

that Guatanty.Trust Company of
29 Broadway, New York

successor to Standard Trust Company of’ New

York, as trustee, will redeem ‘Seventy Thou-
sand Dollars ($70,000) par value bonds bear-
ing the a oo serial numbers which have
been drawn for redemption by the sinking
fund on and after May 12, 1916, at 105% of
par and accrued interest, upon presentation
at the TRUST DEPART of the
undersigned, No. 140 .Broadway, New York
City. After May 12, 1916, interest on these |,
bonds will cease: ’ '

to the extent of funds then, hands
availably therefor, ae on rg Rs
putchase the bonds. so offered and

ps —— and in the manner provided in’

“BANKERS TRUST COMPANY,
in at New York this 19th day of April, -

O00 {Ely Welch.
,000 +tEmma Cop..
600 First Nat. Cop.
Fortuna M. C,
Goldf. Cons..

The Union Trust Company of New York has two well- | i
equipped Branches for its uptown business—the 38th Stree: Branch in
the heart of the busy Fifth Avenue shopping district, and the Plaza

Branch at Fifth Avenue and 60th Street, just opposite the entrance to
Central Park.

The facilities of all the ities of the Company re
offered to depositors of either Branch or of the Main Office at 808 way.
The Union Trust Safe Deposit Company, entirely owned

by the Union Trust Company, conducts modern safe deposit vaults at

both Branches.
UNION TRUST CO., 80. Broadway
CAPITAL AND SURPLUS - $8,162,000

eae

ree Set PEA
besercksenssz

- RICE BELT ype” Soe COMPANY =>

EET bebo gm

rst Mortgage 6% Bonds of
a6 Company of New Or-.
drawn

50 Buckeye P. L.
25 Continental OW
25 New York Tr.

O. of Indiana one Iron Blossom
‘700 #tJim Butler. .
6,500 7Jumbo Exten.
300 Kerr Lake....
500 tt{Kewanas ...
ttLa Jara Gold
La Rose Cons.
Magma Copper
Majestic Mines

NEW O
The ag day

AAD A AAAS SSAA LARISA EDP!

HESSRRERaZebiye
Ressen

Southern Pacific ..1916-'23
Southern Railway.1916-'24

AAASLASAAS AT ARS ARSE AS SPS ee PS

Eastern Steel

Bought—Sold—Quoted

C.C. Kerr & Co.

15 Wall St..N. Y. ‘Phone 6780 Rector

GUARANTY TRUST. COMPANY OF NEW

By CHARLES H. SABIN, President.
THE HOLDERS OF FIRST _ MORT-

NEw YORK CITY BONDS,

Yesterday. Monday.
wig 100% Bid. :Asked.

00; McK. Was
= tMojave T’gs'n
000 {Monitor Silver
5 ,000 + 7tMother Lode
500 IN. Butte Dev.
E 000 +N Sorth Star..
400 Oatm. B. Jim.
(a Prospect)
1,400 Oatm, - Nellie,
(a Prospect)
2,000 t{Oatm. S’th’n

Sept.,
Sept.,

NOTICE IS HBREBY GIVEN that, pur-
suant to the provisions of the . mortgage
made, executed and delivered by the Pike's
Peak Hydro-Electric Company to Continen-
tal Trust Company of the City of New York,
as Trustee, dated January ist, 190%, the un-
dersigned will purchase, redeem and pay off,
on the first. day of July, 1916, all of the
outstanding issue of First Mortgage Five
Per Cent. Sinking Fund Gold. Bonds issued
under the aforesaid mortgage at the rate of
One Hundred and two nd one-half rer
centum (102%%) of their’ par value and in-
terest to the ‘said first day. of July, 1916, ‘ 5
upon presentation of the bonds, together hy
with coupons maturing July ist, 1916, and 14
all unmatured coupons thereto attached, at
the office of The New York Trust Company ;
{successor to’ the Contmmental Trust Com-
pany of the City of New. York) in the City
of New York, N. Y, aid bonds shall cease :
to draw: interest from the said first day of ust. Company, » ;
July, 16. San at 110 a) interest on
TERR” ORE. ARMA Say cn | Beso og a la a
H as

Successor to the Continental Trust Com- Street, in “the Borough of Manhattan, ‘City ot
pany of Ene City of New Work,) ork, =< ane ae thereon will

By HORNE, Vice President. Dated, April *10, 1

HE COL ABO CODA EY ton Boden | ea renereas Feaas Com
i as essor
to the Pike's: Péak’ Hydro-Electric Com- niece —_ af Show York
o ic
ates a

Atlas Powder
Stock & Rights

Bought & Sold

i Gaon |
SPECIALISTS
Phone 9717 Rector, 120 Broadway.

+ SACL xe ere
OS eva 4 said bonds ceases on and after
WHITNEY-CENTRAL TRUST & SAVINGS
ANK, Trustee, New Orleans, Louisiana.
FHE COLORADO FUEL COMPANY |

Holders of Seertenes Sinking Fund
Per Cent. G hereby notifi
Bonds Nos. : ae

NEW YORK PRODUCE EXCHANGE BANK

Northern StatesPower|]
1st & Rfdg. Mtg. 5% Gold Bonds ||| SURPLUS AND UNDIVIDED PROFITS - 5.

Due 1941 10 Broadway
Price 961 & Interest” New York City

Circular on request

General

old Bonds

have in accordance with the terms
Section 4, of ated
c= "by ‘The Gotorade

And Branches Throughout
Manhattan

3, 000 tisitver Bick
100 Stand, 8.-Lead.

2,500 Sresans Puke }

7,600 +tSuccess Min.. 70
300 tTono. Belmont aif

@ percentage

. | Theodore L. Bronson

10 Wall St., N. Y¥. Tel. Rector 9925

Can Prosperity Keep Up?
Prepare now to offset any business
effect of the ending of. war.

‘Keep posted on what's happening to-
day as a guide to the future.

For particulars, which will .be sent
gratis,

Credit is a merchant’s most prized possession.
We do all in our power to protect that credit
when an account is entrusted to our care.

Cities Service Co.
COMMON & PREFERRED
United Let. & Rys.

COMMON & PREFERRED

EBERT, MICHAELIS & CO.) ;

3,000 Tonopah Ext... 5
a Teperen | Min... 6%
#100 Tintic Copper.. ‘1
1 09 Tri- vee
600 Unity Gold M.. i,
White Oaks M. ‘3314

Allentown a eashane Gecbeat
Am. La France Fire Engine
Associated Merchants Ist Prd.
Atlas Portland Cement Com.
Augusta ye mr R. R.
Brooklyn. Ferry 5s

Buffalo City Gas Ist

REGAS

: & SBSRRES: :

slgtatabatatal abel otetate

any.)
¥ By GEORGE BULLOCK, President. Rv BEVERLY

WEST KENTUCKY COAL COMPANY | NOTICE.” a
First wanreees Five Per Cent. Thirty.
Year. Gold- Bonds,

Apes ee
So feeesee

We Buy—Sell— Quote

Allentown Portland Cement
American Finance & Securities

esas

The Bristol County yates Bank, 1¢

at Taunton, in the Sta’
American

Specialists in Public Utility Securities
Tel. Rector 6220.

Tonawanda Iron
& Steel

‘Bought—Sol d-Quoted_

Gwynne Bros.

25 Broad St., N. Y. Phone 3232 Broad

Colambia Gas & Elec. Deb. 5s
Utah» Securities ‘Corp’n 6s

Lake Shore Elec.,Gen: 5s

St: Louis, Springfield & Peoria 5s
-Central Trust Co. Stock :
Del., Lack. & Western Coal

BEVERLEY BOGERT & CO.

25 BROAD ST.

vy s ‘We particularly
4 invite i inquiries on‘

In: ractive Securities

“pen which you cre not able
: ohtain a close market.

AIbSON G. WALL & SONS

-10:Wall St.,N.¥. Phone Rector 77.

Wiams Toth Golem
WALL ST., NEW YORK

Tel. Hanover 5980.

300 Yustaran Con,
BONDS.
$10. pg Cerro de Pasco

*Odd ‘lot,
ote. —Mo
Guilt & “West Indies at.32,

t8ell, cents per

on the ,Curb .recard. we:

Brit/:Am,Tob., ord:
Curtiss; Aeroplane.... 44
Lima Locom.,,new.. 39
Marlin Arms ctfs. pf. 78

Pierce Oil

Pierce Oil 6s

Aetna Explosives Pt. 76.
Brass 1262

(Can, F’dy & org
Canadian - xplos

Can. Explosives pf
Co Arm

It's
Du Pont Powder,n sw 830.
Du Pont Powder
Hercules .Powder
pera ow eee: ‘yh

Series. ay: e 69%

, INDUSTRIALS. ; }
Stecks in which no transactiéns were shown
quoted;
esterday.
EB fee = Ane

oiL, STOCKS. ,

MINING STOCKS,
Int. ae Inter, M. & R.

shafe Tyaitates.
nday, not fe orted, “50 tlantic,

Monday.

MUNITIONS STOCKS.
epeterday.
Asked. Bid Asked.

seoner

MINING STOCK QUOTATIONS.

. SAN FRANCISCO.
.05; Justice
-01|Kentucky
07/|Mexican

lerra. Nevada.... .
Thion Con........ P
Jacket Com....... <
2) Utab F

D'dfield B. B.... .0
60] D’dfield - Daisy..
G'dfield Cony... .85
Grar'd Kewanas, ,
G’df’d Merger... .1%
Lone Star..

Red Lion...

Silver Pick,

Spearh

OTHER DISTRICTS.

Nevada Packard. .42
Rochester Mines. .62

6)Round Mount.., .70
White Caps..... -20

Tonopah’ “Ext: e
Ey org SND Neyada..

ve aoe ;
. Fraction... °.
COLORADO SPRINGS.

Bid. As
Dry oS 10

Findlay.
Gold

Gold” 57S)

ked.| - Bid. Asked.
ney.

Cy, 228% ooay;lrertions ‘
3% 4 |Vindicator.258

‘Cotten Solicitor. Wanted

Excelleht opportunity in long-estab- .

lished Cotton Exchange firm of large

capital, for solicitor controlling good

cotton business. Partnership possible

.for right man, Address, in confidence,
, G. 266 TIMES DOWNTOWN.

Addfess Pepartment Y 32

Babson Statistical Organization,

Wellesley Hills, Mass.
Largest Statistical Oreastention of Its
Charac ter im U. 8.

WE_ SPECIALIZE IN

Public Wiility
Stocks & Bonds

iranshan’s & Co. |

120 BROADWAY TEL. RECTOR 4787 |
South Pacific Coast 4s 4
Peerless Truck & Motor 6s
Argentine Govt. 5s, 1909
National Surety.

ge C. PERPALL & ‘AA
50 BROAD 8ST. ~ Tel. 1630 Broad

\Cleveland Automatic Mach.
Sts. & Bds.

IDRICHSEN&(G

IDRICHSENS. TMENT SECURITIES

HARRIMAN NATIONAL BANK

Fifth Avenue & Forty-fourth St.
New Yor.

BANKING HOURS FROM 8 A. M. TO 8 P. M.
E DEPOSIT. NAULTS 8A. M. TO MIDNIGHT.

Hudson Navigation ai stock

Iron Steamboat bonds

get Central Tract. “Gen. 58
& Taylor Ist Pfd.

Mid vale Steel old stock

National Casket

National Properties

Pabst Brewing

Pacific Coast * piscuit Ist 6s

Peoria Water Works bonds

Remington Typewriter

Royal Bakine Powder Pfd.

Stern Bros. Preferred

Thomas Iron Co.

Geo. S. Crav & Co.

Established 1888
25 Broad St.

AMERICAN CYANAMID COn.
N.Y. & HONDURAS ROSARIO MNG.

| AMERICAN SUMATRA COM.

NICHOLS COPPER COM.
HOTCHKIN & CO.

. Incorporated,

84 Pine St., N. Y¥. 58 State St., Boston.
Phone 4161 John. Private Phone to Boston.

' CONSULTING and
‘CONSTRUCTION ENCINEERS
| PUBLIC SERVICE PROPERTIES
|} FINANCED and MANAGED
\ 50 Pine Street,

Drugeists’ Syndicate
guacate

American Telegraphone }
American Tclegraph-Typewriter
Atlantic, Birmingham & Atlanta Bonds
Canadian Marconi
Colorado ue Marble (all issues)
Carolina & Yadkin 5s, due 1962
English Marconi
ore Mendelsohn

Dodge, Des Moines 4 South. Ry. Co.
Ghkeohnine Reduction & Mining Co.
yao gr a ‘extbook
Long Co., J.
Mexican Milling £ Transportation Co.
Miller Train. Control
New Jersey Steel Co. 6s, due 1925

*Phone 1560 Broad.

c Steel Co.’s Ctfs. of Deposit
tion Tire & Rubber

illita,
Waite & So ine. 2 J. G.
‘ Youngstown "& Southern Railway

HarveyA. Willis &Co.

(Established 1901)

WESTERN UNION

Since the war opened the Western ‘Union
has enjoyed a large measure: of prosperity,
and for the calendar year 1915 practically
doubled its net- profits.

What. has been the cause of. this vast
expansion in business? Are the earnings
likely to continue at the present.rate after
the war is over? These and other impor-
tant questions are answered in an analysis
of the property which we have just’ mailed
to our clients. ~

A few extra copies are reserved for the
first inquirers,

MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE

JOHN MOODY, President,
85 Nassau Street, New York ape!

New York

_ Telephone, 1390 Cort.

face

The Equitable Trust: Company of New
York, successor by merger to The Trust
Company of America’ as Trustée under
the mortgage of.the West Kentucky Coal
Company,. dated. July. ist, 1905, herehy in-
Vites propésals for the sale to it, under
the provisions of said mortgage, of as
many bonds secured thereby as- will ex-
haust the sum: of Thirty-four thousand,
three hundred. twenty-four and 78-100
Dollars, ($84,824.78) at a price not to
exceed 106% and‘ accrued interest; -bonds
to be presented for payment: on July’ ist,
1916. Sealed: proposals. will be opened at
the office of ‘The Equitable Trust Com-
ex of New York, No, 87 Wall Street,
Tew

29th, 1916, and should be endorsed, “Pro.
posals for the Sinking Fund. of the West
Kentucky Coal. Company.” “The right is
reserved to reject any and al! tenders,

Dated New York, N, Y., April 10th, 1916,
THE meh ANEW TORK, COMPANY Or

Successor, Trus
| By LYMAN RHOADES. “Vice President.

TO THE HOLDERS OF ate MORT-
GAGE rah PER _CENT. NKEING
D re mone. OF Ta BOCK

Oo AL & IRO COM-
PANY, DUE MAY IST, 1951

Notice is’ hereby given» thar nine (>

bonds of the above described issue of the

value of One Thousand Dollars

($1,000) ween Ff eT Tay te eee

have been drawn by lot. for redemption
the amount to. the: credit of the
Sinking Fund; and will be paid for at the
rate of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000) per
bond, at the office of: the: -undersighed,
Trust Desertment, 60 Broadway, New York
ity, on the first day. of May, 1916, after
hich date said bonds shall cease to
da 2 interest.

COLUMBIA ping COMPANY,
uccessor-T

By GEORGE E. WARREN. Vice- Bresigent,
Dated, New York, April 3rd, 1916.

Cedar s and Missouri River Railroad
vision ist Mortgage Bonds.

Ths above-na maturing May 1
es will be po ar te ween S due wy
ny eg F of Bl
and North W New Yor

. Interest. on ‘heeft

estern Railway the, Chong

end ll

fore
other claims for

York City, at ‘12: o'clock noon April’

A ae iy! va iN

is closing its rg. All
oth reditors of the association are tk
hereby notified to. present. the: notes

SHMAN,
‘Dated March 27,- 1016. Preeident,

NAPLES et Napiea,

LOST.—Southern Pacific |

Company stock
tificate No. G53656 fo: shares in”

name.“ Jennie E. Berinett.” “Notice is h

given to show cause why’ a- duplicate:
not be issued. Townsend Scott &-Son,

THE PYFTSBURGH. FORT W
CHICAGQ RAILWAY erat
‘NOTICE The fk M

eet Sy.

fursh, on “Wotntetin

WESTERN POWER CORPORAT
‘The Annual ba tga of

this C ae will be held on the

day of "Bde Fak 12-o0’clock fon, 2

oa ott the

pe Pp a
lawfully come
WILSON

other business as
the; meeting.
_ Dated ‘April 12th, 1916.

BLACK, brio aa ®
The annual meeting “o
of the Black, Starr and Prost |
for the ‘election of Directors
Rensacsing of i ae other” z will

Sag
Mey wba vie a

a Nee
| by the mtemies dere to

Sioa

grote the websites of the Corpo-

t the term of the. exist of .
aX he timé
eg of in-

Boats of paceman ee. of the Comp
changed from the rou
ot New York, in the County
to rough of Manhattan, City
New york. & the County of New. York;
such action. in regard’ to
Opes! sara or any of them, and in
i to matters germane thereto and n
ry: ad ee out such propositions, or any

4 ay be deemed advisable and
ent by the Stockholders.
, ALD CAMMAN

Respectfull
N, President.”
. ROBERT 8. GILL, Secretary,
NOTICE or —- MEETING -

: ers Manufacturing Com-

van ai

ohne of the stockhold-
ration will be held on the
a at twelve o’clock

electing a

eiving and acting upon the reports
officers, and for the transaction of
. ot er business as may properly come

‘ the meeting.
a0 lance with the laws of the State
i ware no stock can be voted on which
b transferred on the books of the
on ‘within twenty days next preced-

election
aad 13th, we.
. BOWER, Secretary.

THE NEW oo AND HARLEM
; es COMPAN
IBY GIVEN that the
Annual Meeting of the Stock-
ed The New York and Harlem Rail-
the » for the election of Directors
Pan ~~y x. hag 4 geen toe ggye
as broug ore e meeting, w
tay. at the office of the company, in
Central Terminal, in the City of New
on Tuesday, the 16th day of May,

clock P. M., on Wednesday, the 26th day
Wednest : ws the. teh ae on ey tut
ay, t ay 0 J.
me ud W. PARDHE. Secretary.

Kennécott Cop “re t, Songer tiem
120 Broadway,

AIUAL 1 MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS,
‘otice hereby given that the Annual
aeeene 0 or the Stockholders of the Kenneéott
Corporation will be held rt the prin-
gw: of the Corporation, Hoom 3,548,
Giger way, New York, N. Y., on the

i618, at pa o'clock noon, for
the ele sigetion of D Me? pir
—_ the transac

eo ectors for the ensuing yéar
nS tion ed eave other business
Ae coms ‘ore the Meeting.

k transfer books of the Corpora
“tien will i be closed on April 17, 1916,-.at 3
P. M., and will be reopened immediateiy
‘after the final adjournment of sald meeting.
T. ULRICH, Secretary.

New York, N. S. April 7th, 1916.

& Lake Erie Railroad
NOTICE ANNUAL MEETING.
The Anfual Meeting of ~~ stockholders of
the W. & L, E. R. R. CO. will be. held at the
1 Offices of said company in the Elec-
Building, Cleveland, vem Wednesday,
& 1916; at 2 o’clock P. M., for the pur-
electing five Directors for the ensuing
ear a and , og transaction of such other
come before the meeting.
nastier Booka cicae sth et 10 o'cl = A | 8
. 4th a o’ cloc
D Secreta
1 gage: SEY, JR., President.
Broad i? “New York City.

° ‘DE PASCO COPPER CORPORATION
eSunes! —* of the stockholders of
held. Mine the orth fri Rye t \ Coment wis
a e office o e Company, No.
eS Seana. ian ack nee
e at o’cloc -» soe
ectihg Directors for the en-
, eens; “? of transacting such other
may, erly come before the
MOLLER, Secretary.

cers Or BC S
NTENDENT OF PUB-
. ORKS,
i: : Ampang, April 14th, 1916.
Ss proposals “will, be received by the
ete = -his office in the Capitol at
aay pou twelve o'clock noon of
1916, at which place
hour they wit: "be publicly opened and
the New York State
rovisions of Chapter
. and of the acts
thereof and supplementary there-
5, seesgeuad 570 of the Laws of 1915, as

CONTRACT NO. -28-A,
Brie’ Canai—Section 9.

6.18 miles, Sheets 1 to 40, inclu-

conTRACT NO. 27-B.

ifica-

ties, p
bonds re-
—— information for proposers
C) mee g et Mon Su nten-
aga bany, N. Y.,. at
8u ntendent
i get tor th the atladie {vision at
.. ¥., et the office of the As-
‘gn rey bs Sec rls ... Works al
estern vision Roc
at oy off:
jans or drawings may
se ja ohare and
—- ment to

Peavenie A sight to 4074
lepaent Public Works for five per
per cent.) of the amount of the

ze Dereon whose ggg shall be ac-
d be required to exacete & con-

rac fornia bo within ten Ways

, y= he notice of award delivered
mn in person or mailed to th

Ssloes of the contract and ap-
mas, _ ern check or dra’
ed he propo:

Vem present
h time, in which case the
Will. be refunded by
Public Works.
ders other than the one
ot Soe 7s haga shall be made
ly after the award

“amount of bond ‘required for faithful
will be ten soe ee centum OS per
of the estimated cost

» known as the la
ot per contain ae per
ae on. Seer

t eat the os con

es wettat| sed by map the
ec! ae te bs an mirect.

aia ‘bonds

to the
Maa gay ook Albany,
Tsed the en-
og soneer uation for

go wn ne mote ie fe the per-
fs be lowest | 5
p oing the provisions

pata che
eat KR

red 16 Bons ars all pee

ae ie” sre the sudgment ot Pe)
sh interests of

[COTTON ADVANCES
é= ON LIGHT DEL

{Market Displays ‘Gyingtonis of

stock dividend and }/

ice, Spaulding’s a Se

aes

FATES em NS

— orhnilgae! Mable 6

VERIES

‘Buoyancy, on Notices for
_ Less Than ‘2,000 Bales.

ttn |WEATHER © NEWS’. BEARISH

Liverpool Reports Tell of Further
Restricticn of Imports for Lack
of Bottoms to Carry It.

4o{ Although it may be too early to as-

sume that cotton has broken out of the
rut in which it has been moving for
such’ a long time, theré was'a notable

the fincrease yesterday in activity, and at

times the market displayed symptoms
‘of buoyancy. .The immediate influence
prométing activity ang strength was
the small amount of cotton delivered on
May. contracts. The volume of -notices
Was estimated at less than 2,000 bales.
It had been éxpected, héwever, that very
little ‘cotton would be, tendered, but as
soon as the impression was confirmed,
prices shot up rather sharply. The May
option opened-around 11.77, but before

jthe end of the second hour had sold as

high at 11.98. The close wag steady at
an advance of 5. to 7 points.

Otherwise, the news was rathér bear-
ish. The weathér was quite favorable,
although little or no rain was reported
in the Southwest.

Buying of May was\on a heavy scale
during. the forenoon.: . Purchases of this
option by half a dozen trade houses
were éstimated at trom 40,000 to 50;000,
while another broker brought about
10,000 bales of July.

A Liverpool cable dispatch says there
are strong indications of further restric-
tion in cotton imports owing to the di-
version of tonnage for the conveyance
of troops, munitions, and food. The
stock of cotton in Liverpool is consid-
ered fairly large, but the amount is not
sufficient to stand continued withdraw-
als for consumption without early re-
plenishment.

New Orleans showed a good deal of
strength during the day in apite of the
fact that deliveries in that mafket on
May contracts amounted to about 20,000
bales,

Southern. spot markets, as officially

acd

advance; pean, & advance; Norfolk

18 advance. ‘he local market for spot
cotton was quiet, 10 advance. Middling,
12.15. Futures closed steady.

July ...

Jan. eee Ys iS iz:
Total port receipts, 29,150 et last weék,

INTERIOR RECEIPTS.

hosunse silky wloce aa’ 5), ee 27:
BE LORIE ooo seccece 1,820
Memxporta,. 24.000" bales:
season, 4,849,247 bales;

SOUTHERN SPOTS AND STOCKS.

total thus far this
total last season,

Sales.:
Galveston

—— BSt. Louis
1,046 Houston

The Liverned “ara opened easier.
There was ood business in spot cot-
ton, ber h mid ne unchanged, at 7.82d.

es, 6, A af receipts, 21,000 bales;

Rinatiegat bales. Market close
quiet.
Weather In Cotton and Grain States.
Special to a New \York Times.
Df oh ae . C., April 25.—Forecast:
and Ga.—Probably fair

Car.
Wea, and “cht: ‘ligne to moderate w. winds.
Fia.—Fair Wed. and Thura.; light variable

ane Mise. TE Aoi a fair Wed. and

; Nght variable winds.

and Ky. ~Oeereant and cooler Wed.
os “cloudy and cool.

Ohio—Overcast and 2 continued cool Wed. and
Thurs.; moderate w. and n. w. as, prob-
ably becoming fresh Wed, night. ¢

Ind., Lower Mich., and Upper Mich.—Over-
and continued cool ed. and Thurs.;

fresh n, Ww. winds.
Til.—Ungettied Wed. and Thurs., with show-

with
ly showers;
Wis.—Showers Wed. ‘Thurs. cloudy; con-
tinued covl, fresh to strong hn. winds,
Minn.—Cloudy Wed. Thurs. probably fair
and not so cool; ds.
. and Thurs. probably
showers in e, Wed.: continued coo!
‘ N. ee. .—Cloudy ‘Wed. and Teese; warmer

8. Dak.—Cloudy Wed. and Thurs.;

Neb. —Cloudy Wed. Thurs. probably show-
ere.

Kan.—Unsettled, with probably showers by
Wed. night or Thurs.

La.—Fair Wed. Thurs. cloudy and prob-
ably unsettled.

Ark. and Okla.—Unsettled Wed. and Thurs.

E. Tex.—Cloudy Wed. Thurs. unsettled.

W. Tex.—Cloudy Wed. and Thurs.

warmer

| COMMODITIES MARKETS | |

WHEAT.
A more optimistic feeling regarding the in-

gloomy reports from the Spring wheat belt
regarding the delayed seéding operations re-
fulted in more aggressive buying in the
wheat market yesterday, and prices respond-
ed with a nét upturn of 1% to 2%c. In the
local cash market No. 1 durum was quoted at
Duluth, $1.31, and No. 1 Northern, Mani-
toba, $1.30%, all free on board, New York,
NBW YORK PRICBS, *

Prev.
ae —— ieee, Close,
rr a pases s°

” CHICAGO PRICES.

Sentember ae 9 Lis Loe 13 ioe 2 1. aH t BB iy

CORN.
The corn market was moderately active, and
prices weré firm, closing with net gains of
%@%c. Thesaction of wheat had a stimu-
lating influencé on the market, and there
was further talk of export demand, although
no actual sales were confirmed. In the local
cash market No. 2 yellow corn was quoted at
90%c, cost, insurance, and freight, New York.

CAGO PRICES.
Prev.
High. Low. Close. Close.

oH TT vi
OATS.

The oats market was firm on export sales
6f about 600,000 bushels; but price changes
Were comparatively narrow owing to in-
crease country offerings. The local cash
market was steady; standard quoted at 50}@

48%@49%c; fancy clipped white, 52%@53%o;
ordinary clipped white, 49%@50%c, all ele-
vator.

CHICAGO PRICES,

Prev. Last
High: Low. ber Close. Year.

PROVISIONS.

The prevision market was again strong and
higher, with aggressive buying of lard on
the recént improvement in the export demand
and on evidéhoes of a better cash trade. Re-
ceipts of hogs at Chicago were 12,000; esti-

mated for Wednesday, 28,000. Kansas City
received 14,000 and Omaha 9,600.

CHICAGO PRICBS,
Prev.

High. ey Close. Close.

Pork—

COTTONSEED OIL.

The cottonseed off market was firm and
higher early in the day, with some of the
active positions again making new high
tecords. The advance was due largély to the
strength in the lard market in the West,
which was expected to stimulate a better
consuming demand for oil products. On the
a&dvance, however, there was active profit
taking, and late in the day the market de-
veloped an easier tonefand at the close prices

r ints net lower to 6 points higher.
MI Ronee of pricks , sane Brev.

Last.

Last
Year.

Socher ow 79%

Suly.scrirs °&
September. 30%

Close. Close.

eicitindinteandin
COFFEE.

The coffee market developed a firmer tone
yesterday and prices regained practically
that was lost under the liquidation move: t
which occurred last week. The market ap-
péared to be in a sold-out position, and when
shotts attempted to cover they fotind com-

Mttie coffeé for sale. This en-
ee ae ‘ re aggressive een by bulla

HOPOSALS WILL BE RECEIVED AT
oft Bureau of Sereiee and Accounts, Nav lhe
Washington, D. C., until

, on the dates. specified for de-

i p16, toned paparagus, 7 fubber buttons, Mark

t’ tlour in bags.
bie Sire es, sin Bag
pomew coal,
to the supp’
GWAN, Paymas er
hy & S16 Ay
races

ali an

G nb Mall UI.
ice shed De Suaes

ternational political situation and some very | Th

Year.
1.81t March

rent

F cone late in the day the market was distinctly

closing néar the top with net gains of 9
points. Total sales were 88,500 bags.
© spot market was quiet, but _prices were
steady and unchanged, with Rio 7s quoted at
8%c. Range of prices:

Prev.

Lkebekeke

Futures continued to make new high rec-
ords today under the support of ‘Wall Street
and Cuban interests. The advance in both
refinéd and Cuban raw sugar influenced trad-
ing on the Exchange, and after opening un-
changed to an advance of 8 points, values
made further gains under new outside buying,
with the market showing a decided broaden-
ing tendefley. Late in the afternoon realiz-
ing sent prices off a little, the market clos-
ing steady, net unchanged, to an advance of
® points, with sales for the day 14,950 tons.
Range of prices:

ARAAR
sees

eos
SRE =

SABESSS:

SRoatSs

et aaeaeee

lolnal-al-abal-aab cabal ab ahah
Seseusass

Further advances were " made in refined
sugar prices today, with all refiners now
listing on the basis of 7.40 for fine granu-
lated. ere ‘Was a moderate inquiry re-
ported even at the advance. and withdrawals
on of contracts were of fair volume. No
further export business came to light.
local market for raw sugar was firm and
rices were higher on sales of 15,000 bags of
‘ubas to a local refiner for prompt ship-
meént, equal to 6.89 for centrifuggl. .
constituted _, ores ao
rumors ope’

for
Subas for May. shipmen t, but this latter deal
could not be con firmed.” The undertone was
ittle sugar, if any,
ices, holders in most
Closing prices
gal, 5.€2 for molasses,
ana’ 6%c for Cubas, cost and freight.

BUTTER AND EGG MARKET.

BUTTER.—Receipts for week, 40,604

ages, as compared with 88,889 package
week. Exports for week to tropical coun-
tries, 344 packages. Increasing supplies have
caused jower values for nearly all grades.
Business has been fair, and there are evi-
Gences of an expanding consumptive demand
a@s retail prices are reduced. At the close
the tone was about steady, with extra fresh
creamery selling mainly at 35c, and some of
the fanciest lots bringing 4%@ic more, The
secondary grades have been very active, and
prices keep unusually close to the best; the
range of 88@84%c covers ordinary seconds to
fine firsts. Old creamery about out of first
hands. The scarcity of renovated has made
ateet on the basis of 88 for the
finest. Ladies and packing stock have ruled
very firm, with continued areal supplies.
Creamery, oe ae score,) 880; gher
“a ag yore

; soasie: Se hairy,
ah Seat Me vane ong extras, 88c ;

ira 8 y sogite; te imi: |

eur-
firsts, ;

eat,
moh to fair
firsts, asd
tation creamery,

make,

ales,
coal, eur-
276; lower

grades

BGGb.—Rece for week, 219,884 cas
heosints have heavy, but there is ies a

consumptive nanan, a good deal of
arehouses sveahien
mm markets has
Toward the
ened a lit-

i heret od a tee. tag 4

rices eretofo uo °
Rg rete he e storage
packed firsts from favorit a pat pe have
oe is reall a a hi

rime stook wy"
food | qualities

nave sold bv
passabl |
fia af cy stock have lately been
h as 22%c, wer grad oe Bae og
nigh agi ee
down te
Ay ed fairy” ‘welt
a th “comparatively

ners
wore m talon 8 and
e —e extreme,

of very

. on n yy
with some very
ool a Bouthern sections ob-
Current

been dependent upon stor-

"y ae for an rate te outlet; bulk
the ‘anies haa | from 28@S40, lange:
occasional pulbctions "oe

out in a

@: <r atoraue

; atrtiss,

her

seconds,

fenter checks, Hothie? at State,

pod 78 Si is@ise,

Ba isiae! tne

nie pe vol to Gathered
rae
Binney AN

april ad and. rt

eae

the. REAL | PSTATE FIELD

Jadies J. Van Alen Beers Residence Near Kiso Mansion—Deals i in

Harlem—West Side Garage Deal—Brooklyn and Sub-
urban Buyers—Good Commercial Leases.

The upper Fifth Avenue residence zone ; $
was the centre of interest in the realty
market yesterday. A deal of interest was
the purchase by James J. Van Alen of

8 Newport of the four-story residence at
15 Bast Sixty-fifth Street, a few doors

east of the Astor mansion, on the Fifth
Avenue -corner. The house was pur-
chased from Mrs. Edward J. Brown. It

2| covers a plot 31 by 100.5, and has been
owned by the seller since 1900. It was
798 | held at $150,000. The firm of Worthing-

ton Whitehouse acted as brokers.

The four-story, residence at 48 Hast
Hightieth Street, between Madison and
Park Avenues, on a plot 23 by seated
was sold by John J. Kavanagh for
estate of Sarah Frank to a client, w .
will.alter the house for occupancy.

Sales in Harlem.

Shaw & Co. have sold to Daniel H.
Jackson for Lydia P. Steel the three-
story dwelling at 124 West 119th Street.

William M. oe Company has

sold for Berry B. Simons the three-
rad Pullding, 188 East ia Street, on a
8 by 1 situated 82 feet west of.

hire Avenue.

Cherry Street Sale.

The five-story loft building at 246 and
248 Cherry Street, on a plot by 138,
near Rutgers Street,, has been sold by

Nicholas F. Walsh for the Liquidation
Committee of the National Nassau Bank
to the Jacobs Woolen Company. The
building will be altered for business
use, ‘

Third Avenue Investment.

The two four-story tenement build-
ings at 715 and. 717 Third Avenue,

twenty-five feet south of Forty-fifth
Street, on plot 387.6 by 80, have been
sold by Henry Hoff for Terence J.
Lynch to an investor,

West Side Garage Deal.

The two-story garage 218 and 220
West Sixty-fifth Street has been sold

by Peter J. Devine to Rose Weber. The
structure occupies a plot 50 by 100.5,
located 250 feet west of Amsterdam
Avenue,

Buyers of Seventy-first Street Site.

Interests identified with Bing & Bing
were the buyers of the plot at 228 to

232 West Seventy-first Street, reported
sold yesterday through Slawson &
Hobbs for improvement with a twelve-
story apartment, hotel.

Bronx Sales.

Christian Sailer sold to H, Henry 896

Eagle Avenue, a four-story dwelling
on a lot 19 by 100. J. F. Feltzer nego-
tiated the sale.

Brooklyn.

The Alco Building Company, associated
with Realty Trust, sold the one-family
corner brick and stone residence, 6,302
Twenty-first Avenue, on a lot 24 by 100

feet, Mapleton Park, Brooklyn, to
Alexander Géiger, for immediate occu-

pancy.

“Charles Buermann & Co. sold for the
Greene estate, 296 Marcy Avenue, to
Morris Kaplan the property which has
been held by the family for almcat a
century.

Sales at Mineola.

The William B. McLain Realty Com-
pany has sold at Mineola a cottage, on a
plot 50 by 100 feet, on Dow Avenue to
R. B. Phillips; a house, on’a plot 50
- feet, on Jerome Avenue to J. K.

st; a house, on a plot 200 by 100 feet,
= Jerome —— to A. Lucchesi of
; a plot 150 by 100 feet to A.
Bont ield fon improvement.
New Jersey.

At Mountain Lakes, N. J., J. 8. Maurer
purchased house No. 249, with two ad-
joining plots, on Ball Road; Joseph J.
Keegan bought house No. 226 on Mor-
ris Avenue, with large, well-wooded

lot, and Adele M. Morgan purchased

ouse No. 134, with three adjoining
plots. :
Westchester County.

Harry J. Robinson, Jr., sold to Dr. F.
E. Williams a plot 75 by 150 feet, and
to Dr. 8. J. eer View Pace bose
150 feet, at Sound View Park, Rye, N.
Each buyer is to erect a $6,000 Colonial
house.

J. Drexel Biddle, Jr., Leases Julien
A. Ripley Estate.

Clifford van Schurman has leased to
Anthony J. Drexel Biddle, Jr., the |
Julien A. Ripley estate of 70 acres, at |
Brookville, Lj I., which was held at
$10,000, for the season. There is a
large Hnglish manor house in brick
and stone, from the plans of Guy
Lowell, on the property.

Commercial Leases.

The United Stores Realty Company
has leased the building, 1,489 Broadway,
adjoining the southwest corner of
Forty-third Street, to the Coddington
Restaurant Company. It will be altered
and used by the lessees in connection
witn their et restaurant in ‘the
ad pining | bu eee:

. Henry H as leased for the J. M.
Horto ite. 5 Se Compan:

story oiding | a Ry P crne

Street to the

The Ticchaxes Fy lipse Sionsing
Corepany, Inc., has leased the store
and basement at 48 to 54 West Twenty-
fifth Street, containing 20,000 square

feet, for a term of years at a rental}

aggregating This
been located for some
45 to 51 Hast Bleventh

Sidney L. Warsawer leased for Annie
Gould Patterson, for a term of years,
the store at 625 Eighth ‘Avante, to
i Reeves, Inc.

J. B. English leased to Mrs. Florence
8. Martin, for a term of years, ‘the
three dwellings, 238 to 287 West Forty-
ninth Street. The tenant will make
extensive alterations in the premises.

rr. & Pflomm have leased for
Isaac Walker the store, 2 East Thir-
tleth Street, to J. R. Jones Company,
wholesale dealers in toilet pre ations.
Leo Hess has leased for Cha
Johnson and 27 West Thirty-fourth
Riremt, a five-story building by 100,

J. B. Orkin, cloaks and suits, for
2 long term of years. The present
leases still have two | ane to run, and
upon the anety tion of these leases Mr.
Orkin will make extensive alterations
Ay, occupy the entire buildin F.

& G. Pflomm represented the ow

‘Loans Placed.

The New York Title Insurance Com-
pany has made a building loan of $385,-
000 to the Creston Building Company,
August Busch, President, for a six-
story apartment house at the northeast
corner of 108th Street and Creston Ave-
nue, and also two loans. aggregating
$75,000 on the two five-story apart-
ments recently compieitd by the St.
Nicholas’ Avenue onstruction Com-

pany, John Norton, President, at the
southeast corner of Buchanan Place and

Grand Avenue.
pS is eases Dayies has placed for The;
arceau a first mortgage of

and 540 Fifth Avenue, The pro
yonsists of a five-story structure, Bs ty by

} ne southwest corner of

eet, occupied by Maison
anc oh a long-term lease.

Westchester County Sale Today.

A number of properties in Westches-
ter County will be sold at public auc-
tion in tee Vesey Street Salesroom to-
day by Bryan L. Kennelly.
Apartments in Greenwich Village Sec-

_ tion.

Plans were filed yesterday with -the

Bureau of Buildings for three new

firm has
ars past at
treet.

“ag ie. architects, ‘WwW. lL. vane

rah take vocal
‘A meeting e the Harlem Property
Owners’ Association has been called for
Sh gad evening at 147 East 125th

meeting of the Bronx _Board of
Trade has been called for this eyening
at is7th dep and Lincoln as ue.
ph meéting of thé ry Hill Taxpay-
on will be held ae at
the office of Henry. Hoff, 567 Third
Avenue:
The residence of Thomas S. Dolan at
Pelham Manor will be sold at auction
n the premises by H. HE.
’ This property includes about
one and a half acres.

‘RESULTS AT AUCTION.
. AT 14 VBSEY ap eae \
By Joseph P.

. 10K22, 11, five-story tenement 77)
stores; Lena’ Hoehn ét al.

Morasco et al.;
Thomas F. Gilroy, Va ogc due on suag-

for eae
Lawrence 8t, 81 w corner of Amsterdam.

two- Me gi tenement and

Rivi

against Rosa
Henry P, Botty, attorney;

stores; adjourned to May 2.
By Charies A, Berria
Willett St, 8, e s, 125 ft n of Gtand St, 25%
00, five-story tenement os stores; Fred-
Wes = Weeks, trustee, inst Aberman
y Co. et al.; Weekes Tos., ~ e 8;
ba aot "Boyle, referee: scrh, og juegeeens
taxes, &c., 50; to the plasntit4

A Daniel Greenwald.
22. .9, four-story tenement; Emigrant In-
dustMal Savings Bank against Ellen
ae bag hh ny oe and as executrix, et a
O’Gorman, attorneys; Millard “a
Eintom RA due on judgment, $7,779.17;
one &e., $1 (568,24; to the plaintiff for

ae 8,208 THIRD AVENUB.
y Herbert A. Sherman.

Cortlandt Av, . 100x100, two five-story tene-
ments and stores; N. Y. Title Insurance Co,
ae Aloha Realty Co. et al.; Henry M.

ellinger, Jr., attorney; William Bonay,
adjourned sine die.

By Joseph P. Day.
McClellan St, s w corner of Grant Av, 100x
156.6, vacant; Abraliam C, Rothstein agains
Kovacs Construction Co. et al.; eae ge
& Silverman, attorneys; Enos 8. Booth, ref-
eree; due, $3,500; taxes. &c., $75; subject to
first’ mortgage of $6,000; to Morris Selvin
By Charles J. Dunn.

Glover St, w s, 175 ft s of Lyon Av, 265x100,
vacant; Anna C. Wildey against Harry
Arnold’ et al.; om Swain, attorney;
Matthew P. Bree Jr., referee due,

TODAY'S AUCTION’ SALES.

AT 14 VESEY STREET.

By Bryan L. Kennelly.
Sixty-seven acres at Rye, Mamaroneck,
Pleasantville, Mount Vernon, Port Chester.
Yonkers, Larchmont, and White Plains;
public _—

Day.
ith 50x100.11, eg apartment;
United “tates Trust Co. of N.

** substitute

nst_ Fleischmann Bios. Co. Ay
Willson M. Powell, attorney; Charlies P
Robingon, referee; due, $60,974.43; taxes,

three-story dwelling; Emigrant
Industrial Savings Bank ainst Charles FE.
Hutchinson et al.: . O'Gorman,
attorney; Isidore Cohen, referee; due, $6,-
AT 8,208 THIRD AVENUE.
By Jameés J. Donovan.

vacant; John A: Bruckner et al. against An-
thony "Reale et al.; Oliver EB. avis, at-
tg AR , J. Brady, Jr., referee; due, §7,-

chester Av, 40x100;° five-story tenement;
Frank H. Patterson et al., ‘trustees, against

Berney Lemons A Co. et al.; Sullivan & Crom-
well, attorneys; 7a J. ig =
eree; due, *

Aco Aw 1 , o s, 125 tt a of Libby St,
50x105.8 to Pelham Road, x54,.3x
; Mary J. Cookingham et al.

James bee. od executor,

Westlake. Coons, attorney;

STi: referee; due, .074.50; taxes, &c.,

THE BUILDING DEPARTMENT.

15th St, n s, 93 ft e of Sth Av, for a six-
story tenement, q ve Rubinger,
220 Broadway, owner; Rouse & Goldstone,
88 West 324 8S architects; cost, $50,
15th St, s s, 168 ft e of 8th Av, for two six-
story tenements, 48x90; Charles Rubinger,
220 ab gy A owner; ‘Roure & Goldstone,
38 West 32d St, architects; cost, $100,000.
Tebour Ay, hog ‘s, 94.06 ft'n of 183d 8t, for
two five-story brick tenements, 50.7x90. Sand
60.7x87.2; Grand T Mg alg me Co.,
Harry Gillman, 2,406 Crest President,
anere Moore & Landsiedel, 2 3a ‘Av and 148th
architects; cost, $100,
stebbina Av, © 8, 108.79 ft n of Freeman 8t,
for a one- story ‘prick ice plant, size } -
lar; Community Ice Co., Iph Horton, 524
West 57th St, President, owner; Samuel J.
Keesler, 232 East 165th St, architect; cost,

King Av, w e, 75 ft s of Sutherland St, for a
ene and a half story frame dwelling, 18.2x
86.2: Robert 8. Beattie, 4,426 Matilda Av,
owner; George W. Kibitz, 800 East 175th St,
architect; cost, $2,500.
Alterations.
Items ane $5,000 omitted.

624 St, 16 me o ‘ six-story dweiling; B.
L. Baylies, te St, owner; Hi A.

Jacobs, 820 S Av, architect; cost, ,
62d St, 14 eg | toa five-story dwelling; B.
L. Bayli Pee st, ge Ha A.
Jacobs, sth architect; cost, $30,
Sist St;'19 and 21 West, toa aine-atery store
and bachelor a) ment; Life Publishing

Felson,

17 West Sist St, owner; J. M. 1,188
Broadway, architect; cost, $6,000.
Sth Av to a four-story store and dwell-
ing; Erim ‘ Realty Corporation, 188 East 14th
St, owner; M. Schwarts, 194 Bowery, archi-

tect; coat 000,
80th St, 4 st, to a four-story Gupiting, T
e, premises, owner; : F’. Kelley,

487 Sth Av, architect; cost, $5,000,

REAL ESTATE TRANSFERS.

TUPSDAY, APRIL 25.

With name dnd address of purchaser and
attorney. When attorney’s name is omitted
address party of the. second part,

Manhattan.
ALLEN ST, w 8, 1608 ft s of stanton St,

of street xn 24.6 to

Bessie*Corsun to Bessie

way, Brooklyn, mtg $19,000
aonb Sternberg, J.

AUDUBON AV, nw ooeene. be eae 8t, 100x
100, foreclosure Feb. 8. Demo-
vitch, referee, to Ion C. s bottn $15 8th Av,
Brooklyn, April 24; attorney, Title ‘J10i 000
tee and Trust Co., 176 Broadway...
Sonre Pog * t, n 8, 7% tte of
es LB BSE Hg ER ye GR _
ning, one-twentieth part; Jos. Em.
Reversionary Estates Co. at Nyack,
J. Re

. April 22; Ew g mapd,
‘Williams FY Broadw:

COLUMBIA ST, [8 o & idGii ft not De-
lancey St, 28, 6x100; Benjamin and Moeges
Aufses to Samuel Aufses, 118 East 734 St,
pril oa “hone aroha slg » LAORGNED, 100,

roa dw:
COLUMBTA ‘st, 53," e 2. “paeit ten of
lancey 8t, 26.6x100; Paeve and Benjamin |
Aufses, 118 East 784 St, to Samuel, Ben-
jamin, and Moses ‘Avion, 118 Past 73a Bt,
all title vf Baas 18; Attorney, — B, Lilien-

*pearl Sty runs n w 21.6x s w
ne— S beginning: Pegs agg M., beet of Edw,

Cc. g, to Whi
Plains, N. Y., to oc all ail atthe, we
re at Aizaady

weny.: George | =
MADISON" AY, t s Bot idise
St, Charon les ‘G. welch
St er Hsien "S . Gaivin 8 Promises, al
See ; address, all
AV, 'w 8, 60 ttn of pea ag
x S10, Charies Clitirch to
‘south 1 Wreck Ww 7"

petrick, liéns, Jan. 5, 1918; attorn Da-
vies, A. & C., 82 N bape A

Rr Abeer ST, 23. Bar rs cy
Bert, § St, Space Fite 1:
see sos ge

MOKTGAGE LOANS,

——MORTGAGES—
___ “TAKEN
\BY. ASSIGNMENT

Paria, 13

eFevns

ti; 11 25; attorneys, Dos

Broadway ‘

msterdam AY, 60x100.5; Peter J. ge
ote] Ther oe AV and 126th St,

“Rose Weber, est 100th St, ail 1g

bo "and ‘ay, guitelalm, April, 24; attorney,

Title Guarantee and Trust Co., 178 Broad-

ST, 14% aa, 488 wot Column
sada

bed Ay, ey. grass oe * at
on aes ore
y, Title Guaran and tube Go, ab

eri

Broadw: ‘

dam Pie: Sages Joseph A. Mulholla

J wife, Great Neck, Le Lan
title "april s: attorney, William F.

BAME PRO! ITY: Alice L. Gi

trix of Jane » to J A
land, 218 West

Title eae 1

ISTH ST, as, 171 tt w

Maren 30; th. Hy
‘ust and

veer?

8 West ‘Toth Bt, to Florence 2.108
ee tg $23,000, all tute. Maton 26

Y wonton G. Kremer, 100  srenantys
Goodkind,

Lester H. By
as. Gronich, 1,043 Ti
— Av, all title, all liens, April 21; éktor-
eys uremia & rite tpn 1
1ateE st

Raa referee, to Commonwealth Insurance
76 William St, rag 24; 3
114TH 8ST, $21 Bast no ash tha ol Sa “Av,
25x100.11, foreclosed March 14; Edward Dd:
Dowling, , aca to same, April 24; attor-

pki nt ta and Jemima Gaul] and another to
Hermann H. pipes. 112 North $th St, Mount
Vernon, N. ¥., April 17, 118 sreate attor-
ney, Title Guarantee Co., Broadway. fF
160TH 8 8, ft w of Broadway, 1
125; The eresa Bernstein, individually, exeeu-
trix and trustee; Isaac M. Pernstein to Con-
Pigg Im Beton nit 33 i: Sd East pm
Dp attorney, w-
oe thie $50,008, "Ap Co., 160 Broadway.. Yai seb

hopes:
Ea a AV; es aes s_of Garrison Ay,
20x100; rtin Pletse r Construction Co.,.
Ine., te Ghatice 0 ron Willer, 318 4th Av,
Co Nov. “15, Bet Ss  aeey he

COMMONWEALATS Vv, Ww Bs,
Bacon Av, 25 ft front; Hudson P.
Charies J. McDermott, 295 Henry St, Brook:
lyn, ape 21; attorney, Charles J. M
Dermot 2 Rector St.
Salil * red Joseph F. Henry — another, .792
East 156th St, mtgs $9, April. 24; at-
Naya A Title Guarantes an ‘Trust Co., ib

100: Sarah Leifert t ieee a! as
West 94th St, mtg $26, ADT 19; Posy 2
ney. P. H. Leifert, 44 Court St, Brook!
GRAND BOULEVARD AND CONGO

nw 197 ft ne of 1834 St, 179 to Creston
: h. M. Bliiott to Kaye-
y _ Corporation, tk Row,
; attorney, H. S. Cook, 38 pee

LOT. 244, map of part ot Hunt estate; ‘lenry
Reichert to Loufs Reichert, 1,722 Holiand
Av, April 24; attorney, Charlea H. Baech-
LOTS 168 to 170, Pro of Samier estate;. J.
Romaine prey te ret J, Carter, Roms
Chelsea Av, gr Rh ranch, N. J.,
5,000, April 24; attorney, Néw York nee
nsurance Co., 135 Broadway 100

Dash estate: Bowie Dash Realty Co,
Tibbett Avenue Realty Co., Inc., 31 Nassau
a Nov. ee 1915; attorneys, Sayers Broth-
1 Nassau st

PASSAGE AV,

referee, to
. ril

Petermann to Lucy J. Duffy, te Past orth
St, mtg §2,500, April 21; attorney, Title
Guarantes and Trvst Co.. 178 Broadway.$100
ZEREGA AV, w 26x11
Cahn et al-to Ida ‘G. 1 Heima
Delaware County, N. A

m Aprii
Lf pererney, “ Hubbard,

ite Piains

irregular; Charles A. Flammer to. John
Gerosa, 2,453 $d Av, et al., mtg
April 19; attorney, + ~ fabs cir Title and Trust
149TH ST, n 8, 250 tt w of Courtlandt Av
25x80; M. Baldwin Fertig, referee, to David
Lippmann, 50 Central Park West, A eat 23;
attorney, Lawyers Title and Trust . 160
Broadway °58,
1518T ST, n &, 400 ft w of Courtlandt Av,
50x116:7; Benedicta Sueee to John .P.
Binzen, 2,755 Bainbridge’ Av, and another,
mtg $ April 21; attorney, Title Guar-
antee and Trust Co. ire Bro: w 100
ST, s %. beng Lo

George
furgy, White hy oe

Reaity Co,, Inc., to Ida ’G.

Hamden, Delaware: County, N. Y¥.
‘April 19; attorney, Hub

a oe fe Rivet oe

, year;

sh fart

torney, I. N. Tompkins, White Plains, N. & :

. , sBehmiman, 140 Nassau

| Be at’ ‘Flea

gen’ Av, “dbx 1:
to Gertrude ‘Deseur, * 8
Ww: h St, cg 24, prior mtg $44; :
_ Sue So bond; attorney, F. ri
oor ss , 818 ft 'w of sessate! 10x"
Botietein, exe “execu saad) Riverside Co. to Coren
ril 24, oui Om
Ri te and bee ie
173D sr, Yous: Wisk ieee. n of Au
¥, 100x100; Jon Im to Lawyers Mort-
ba, Aree ang. ‘Trust
Bronx;
CROTONA AV, e s, 234.8 ft n of 18ist
84.8x111.10; ae L, Siedenberg to «
> Ala Bast 219th St, vise # m
as oot ae
‘Schaefer ‘a Bon, 7 ‘ourtlandt A’ +. $1,
ee PLACE 7 Muleany w o ere

Title
‘Guarantee and Trost Co,
‘Aprit 26, yA per:

"pdoadway,
Oe i oy
, Gu tee and t Co., “tte wars

JACKSON ‘AV, w 50 ft n ot ar
977.9; Frank D. Wagner

Feuerbach, 506 Hast 87th st July 10, t013,
demand, 6 p. c.: ‘attorney, ‘John, GC.
meyer; 5 Bee nm St..
LOT 155, map of Dash Mstate; Tibbett
nue Realty Som Fe to Bowie FR or heals

due Nov. Py eis; attorneys, Gaives othe
. ers, 31 Nagsau sou
LOTS 282 to 284, celclaae same to same;
pis deh 20, Siig due Nov, 29,°1918; same at-

LOT: u

© iad

Lots ay and 222, same masps game to same,

same ‘to ‘same, ° Nov.. 20,

same attorneys os
LOTS 110 and 111, sam 6 ‘map ‘name to same;
same: attorneys < ‘ $1,84

‘‘samé attorneys ;

sax % rT a samé,

same attorneys Sie

LOTS 114 and 115, same map; same té game,

Nov. Be Peal due Noy. 29, see 8 oe

eae, ®

SB John Gerosa et al. Iharlés A.
Piammer, 247 West 1024 St, April 20, 1
attorney, or a i Title and Trust

» £00 ‘t 7 of Courtiandt Av,
Binzen and another to
Benedicta: Vetter, 2,261. Washington Av,
April 25, installment ; attorney. Title
Guarantee and Trust Co’, 176 Broadway

178TH ST, s 9, 123 ft wof Prospect Av, "23x
143; Emile N, Vallance to Eureka Co-opera-
tive Savings and Loan Association, 6553
Courtlandt "At April 24, installments, 6 p,
¢.; attorney, Title Guarantee and

174 Broadwa

235TH ST, ft

Jacob* Marx; 170 West 74th & prior mtg
$9,300, April 26, due as per bond; attorneys
Cohn & P., 406'EHast 149th St

238TH ST; n 8, ft w of Martha Av,
25x100, two" mtgs, $3,200 each; Erich
Peterson to Central Mtg Co,, 60 Wall St,
Jan. 1, 3 een 5% Dp. yy attorneys,

RECORDED LEASES.
Manhattan.

With name and address of lessee,
AMSTERDAM AV, n e corner 1284 St, corner
store; Mornin ide View Co, to Conrad von
Lange, 1,798 ick Av, 10 years, from
May 1, 1916; attorneys, Bhiland & H.. 149
Broadway. $1,500
ate nue A 20 ears Vv. » stor to Way, 1. Bd
venue years, FP Ages $1,

LEXIN AV, to 433,
oP atrick J: Piashnecs to the 7
usd Co., 5 fs, fro

; Charles i A
. ai hey -
mv. & Me ae Broad va, i

oe tee add 40 oa 3900
‘om May “age 140 8d Ay,.

TH ST, ns, Lot 346, » of estate of
Ray, all; Marie M. Sa Cone
Sain . Badie, 555 West 15ist St, 4-13
years, from Noy. 1, 1915; address, 191

~American
salty Go. to Max Nydic 108 1st

ti 16; attorney, Harry
Ete cane beens $1,900

wis
vee meiner iar -*

AV, iiamet

ae a? pene
Baie G4;
berg, oinet!

inc Sin ae eg
tant wari hat ner
armstein & sane contractors.
rg hat * F
AUGUSTA bate © & 2 tt woe)

Boulevard,
against George ‘Mack, pe.

tavdieckaes. vee
: ‘Antonio

aeeiaes Davidson Avenue Realty Co» 9

and contrac

TREMONT AV,

eee eee ee

‘Avenue Realty Co., oe ok ka
TREMONT AV, 5 8, "128 te of Anthor
67.8x139.9; Harlem River Lumber a
working - Co, Devideden
Reatty Co., Atyws de rg

vis, owners; Realty

and’ Henry Cle nnd, Guntractort.. ol
176TH ST, n w corner of Anthony AV, 70.4% © 5
98.4;: Murray & Hill Co, against Cjelax
Reaity Co., Abraham Davis and a

xiey owners; Cleland i eeateg Co., ci
I76Tie St. nw cater 60 Anthony? Ae,
98.4; Antonio Suseahans aguinnn” ¢
Realty Co., owners and contractors...

100; Cc. Edmonds &
Cleiahd Teaitt Co,, Clelan

ham Davis, a Dane a:
land Realty A oo
176TH ST, n_w corner
100; Norwa Lock
Davis, Louis Davis, =
H.. Cleland, Inc.,
Co.,° contractors

Real

eeeeeee Ce eee eeeweesnas

SATISFIED MECHANICS’ LIENS,

Manhattan.
81ST ST, 156 to 160 West; Ferdinand
Geilér against Wesley Realty Co. et

Florence Kovner et al., March
VALENTINE AV, @-w corer ry I
ate ti % tte wa"
ruction . al, -) + ae

SAME PR game agai

136TH ST, “343 and Bertha
Rouch against John/ x a. et al.,

eee ee eee ee eee

pace ate ator
LIS PENDENS,

Manhattan.
Sigmund Ashner agai ut voddtekey
al, foreclostre of mortgage; attorneys. pie

aS La an ‘fer.

B26 West; Jeanie L. Ford
‘Cadena: Mende son et st al, Pag - re
~~ : attorneys, ‘Osborn ars

Wap 8 . Fe sis by ice weictaie
Jeanie L. Ford egainst Robert "oy Roa

et al, foreclosure of mortgage
Dexter, Osborn & Fieming.

Brsceay sr
A an J. ‘Bonher’ bal

wo’ attorney, G. A here,
PROSBECT AY, e V.¢ 4, 35 ft n of
MeCaughan

thet Cedar

of mortgage; attorneys,
PROS sf 1 AV, 2,678; ee A. Powers, M ..

executor, Giosue Gall-
BI Ss ftn mm t Barretto

Sr ag oe hy ee 126 ttn Pied
retto St, : Louts #1)
Hibbard Holding Corporation ng
closure of ee ioly attorneys, Goldtels &
ree

WEBSTER per 210th Bt, Sox
Srenlanh nt eek Ssive-

Walshhort,

tore M. de Pa
- gage; attorney,

White Plains, N. a

a ee eo feevede

RECORDEW MURTGAGES.

With name and address of lender and lend-
er’s attorney. Interest is at 5 per cent. un-
less otherwiss specified.

Manhattan.
rear ST, 52, s w 8, 90 ft n w of Pearl St,
21.6: 8; Cornelius S. Morrell to Bmily M.
Hogg, 124 rior mite #000 ay due as per bond,
5 Mw April a attor-
MB PE . Irs
wan et al., aah Brookline, sma April
-~ due as per bond: attorney, Title G
tee and Trust Co., 176 Broa $5,
MADISON AV, w a. 83.4 ft s of 13ist St,
10.7x25; Helen E. Galvin to Mary E. Gal-
yin, 2.066 Madison Av, Match 25, due March
25, 1917, 6 ; attorney, Charlés 8. Welsh,
49.5 ft n of deck "St,
- 73 Park AY enue Co. to Mutual Lifé
Gecesnaes- Co., 34 Nassau St, April 25, due
as per bond; attorney, Lawyers Title Co.,
160 Broadway
38D AV, s e corner of 22f1 St, 22x75; Patrick
Kiernan to Bowery Savings "Bank, ‘April 25,
due April eS Pa 4, «6 Wail de = attorneys, Caa-
walader, W +eoe+ $15,000
fase Alchemist Realt; c ration to Nora
due as per bo A, Api 17; atherney, S100
geeren o., 176 ge

50x 1 the Pu

Nellie Eilgore’ et al.,

= magento William C.

Amsterdam AY, 00.5; Rose Weber to

Title Guasogsee and Trust Co., 176 Broag-

ork April 24, due as per bond. «$22,000
H $T, s 8, 433 ft w Columbus Av, 17x

Joo. : Frederic de Kraft to Title Guarantee
and Trust Co., 176 Broadway, April 24, due
10TH ST. s s, 483 ft w of Columbus Av. 17x
100.5; Frederic de Kraft to Margaret Bess-
ler, 403 West 48th St, due as per bond, April
24. prior mtg $15,000; attorney, Title Guar-
antee Co., 176 Broadway $3,
Amsterdam Av, 35x100.5; shine Mulhol-
land to Rebecoa 8, Mills, Grate town, N. Y.,
due as per bond, April 25; attorney, Title
Guarantee and Trust Co., 176 Broadway.

85TH ST, ss, 825.5 ft w of West End Av,
40,7x102.2; Fg ng Co. to Jane B, Stout-
wet West 7ith St, Maroh 1, due
May "191 Pe P. oY ; attorney, William W.
Bliven, iw ‘Nassa t ,000
112TH ST, s 5s, 110.3 ft e of Madison Av,
408x100; Sarah Finkelstein to Saul Singer,
Far Rockayay, April 24, 5 years, 6

attorney, M. B. Blumenthal, 38

120TH ST, n s, 98 ft e of Pleasant Av, "25x

’ - NOTICE To TAXPAYERS,
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT thé
assessment rolls of real estate and ertens
roperty in the City of New York for

910 have been delivered to the moans of
Taxes and that all taxes on sald assessment
rolis shail be due and payable at his office
in the respective boroughs of said city, &s |)
follows:

All taxes upon personal property and one-
half of all taxes upon real

4 Y, 1916, and the remaining and final me.
half of taxes on real estate shall be due

able on the FIRST DAY OF Ovempar ;

All taxes shall be and-hecome liens on the
real e&tate affect epg & end
construed as and deemed
on on the become
due and pa e as hereinbefore provided
and not earlier, and shall remain such liens
aay oo 4 half of the tax oh real

e secon
due as heteinbefo

f May or at any time thevanttne
i the first half shall, have been paid
r shall be paid at the same time,
such payments of the second
made in such manne
first a discount shal
date Sa t -. Age pe first at the
rate of r centu
The stom of he hwy Reoabver
respective ‘ollows :
hee of Saonattea. Room 200 ustcivat
Barcuth ‘of ‘The Bronx, 177th Street and

Arthur avers
Bervere Brooklyn, 286 Duffield Street.
Borough of Richmond, Borough Hall, 8t.

: ier ween, oe" i Long
Deputy and, Acting Recetver of i
Av, nom
sie Geen, hen et
anal

Leconte Par!

ets pet ot os a doe :

At 12 o’clock noon

Special

at the

Dwellings, Lots, ae

RYE.
YONKERS
LARCHMONT
PLEASANTVILLE

BRYAN L. KENNELLY, Auctioneer,

BRYAN L. KENNELLY, INC., WILL *SBLI. AT AUCTION

change. Salesroom, 14-16 Vesey 8t., N. ¥. City,

sihoas gprs a
Auction Offerings ©

G OF ann Gone

(aL at
MT. VERNON
WHITE PLAINS
MAMARONECK -
PORT CHESTER

BOOKLET AT AUCTIONEER’S, OFFICES, 156 BROADWAY, NEW YORK.

REAL ESTATE AT AUCTION.

Gentleman’s Country Residence
- and Magnificent Furnishings
at PELHAM MANOR, -N. Y.,
soup Ar ~ AUCTION

Thereiag, ril fh! 1916,

and residences of quality

Le grounds, 187x270 (about 1%
acres), and fine oid trees.

House, of old English architecture, has
17 rooms, billiard room and 3 tiled bath-
rooms, hot water heat, and elec-
tricity. The entire house is @ model in
elegance, comfort and conveniences; Nes
parquet floors on ig Seed There
iarge reception hall, ceiling ‘An
hangsome fireplace. aouieiaee =

room for sév-

dini room, &c.
Large garage, 2 stories;
housekeeping
ae * tie
aitle On
Shine.

eral cars; chauffeur’s’
apartments.

Terms, 10% cash gh
Deskest raarnteer ba"

Sik SITY E—

The Complete Furnishin
WILL

FT. seuss PaaLE, CO TiN NG

O DAYS, APRIL 27 27TH AND 28T

NTIL ALL I8 8

Weber mahogany grand piano, Victrola
and records, antique mahogany hall clocks
Oriental and Turkish Chinese an-

bronze hall lamps bronze statues,

paintings, engravings, exquisite tapes-

drawing furniture, mahogan
te les and seoken oak dining, yoo pe f

ogany and birdseye maple ieiroon
sulten library of books (de luxe editions),
rock cut crystal =" cut glags, port-
feres, lace. curta bookcase’, mat-
tresses, couches, porch f ture, chairs,
andirons, refrigerators, ‘

Property can be séen at any time ahd
inspection of a aad up to com-
mencement of

Catalogues a full particulara of
H,.. E. COLWELL, Auctioneer,
204 Main St. Tel. 409 New Rochelle, helle. N.Y.

QUEENS—FOR SALE OR TO LET.

‘Forest Hills Gardens

“A Forward Movement in
Suburban Development.”

15 Minutes from Penn, Station.
Houses and Villa Plote For Sale.
SAGE FOUNDATION HOMES CO.,

47 W. 34th St., or Forest Hills, 1. 1.
K Send for Booklet T..

MANHATTAN—FOR SALE OR TO LET.

NHORGENTHAU JR (0
REALESTATE ~: INSURANCE

BROOKILYN—FOR SALE OR TO LET.

SEA BEACH ' Avena. .
Rasa OWS pen,
$4.5 7 rooms, all latest impro M

Sa ake = —

mei Ave. Owner, J.
CK, 1 * Phone, Midwood 4504.
FoR saLe OR TO LET FOR BUSINESS,

SINGLE OFFICES AND SUITES
FOR RENT IN THE

HAVEMEYER BUILDING ©

26 Cortlandt ate 25 Church st. and 25
Dey st. tire spe ape! nee biock front,
from Dey to Cortland Rentals much
lowér than othér oftice spuildings of equal
poorntg io wa 9 town. = Pega: on and
one fr elevator. rvice of the high.
est standard. : pest
W. B. DUNCAN, Agent.

Room 10T, Telephone '8516—Cortiandt,

Corner West 20th St. & Neptune Ave,

. opposite ge a oe canal, Cohe is
re. Ci ‘ err

Brooklyn, F Brick b
176 feet, suitable tor; an

ing business. Contains

about 3, square feet, ras
vator,

| Also, West 5th St., Coney Island, lar,

¢reted floor with sion sheds, large con
shop and large .

Satisfactory lease on [onsen ble 4
esirable tenants. Inguire Edison era | ae

147 TWO FLOORS,
Grand Central Sta., ;

then (rates new and old..
a Block (Queensboro Tube,

Worth 256aR. W. REALTY CO., 121 Duane
Sixth Ave., S. c. Cor. 39th

TO 1s ASE
Strictly. fi four-sto
psa gam 2 with two elevators,

feet frontage on tmpe Avenue. Low
Tight tenant. Apply to

F, & G. PFLOMM, 1333 reabeat

UNITED STATES - DISTRICT COURT). :
Southern District of New York.—At the euit
ef the United States 4 ft
thereof ander the ee ke ee 8855,

tobacco,
ceo, “10,200 pounds; ii
Notice ee sit nk ne

fice Building, - ee

May 916, at
a Sn Sat

| and Trust it Company
Mary

‘under

‘Beereed, Trustees

will and testicinenk of

eS to be sold at auction

“Wednesday, May 3,16

hairon o'clock noon, atthe Rcikinad Sales-
reom, 14-16 Vesey St., N. Y, City, by

_ Bryan L. Kennelly, Auct’r,
| The “se oy Valuable Properties:

Southwest Corner Jane S$

637 HUDSON ST.,

> Northwest Corner -Horatio St.

Near Third Ave.

Near Third Ave.

484 NINTH AVE.,

Northeast Corner W. 37th St.

Near Second Ave.

1402 SECOND ‘AVE.,

Southeast Corner ‘E. 73d St.

1438 SECOND AVE.,

Southeast Corner E. 75th St.

Near, Lexington Ave.

Near Seventh Ave.

Northeast Corner E. 124th St.

Near Third Ave.

Northeast Corner E. 124th St.

Near Madison Ave.
Near -Fifth Ave.

Northeast Corner 133d St.

Adjoining Madison Ave.

2135 MADISON AVE.,

‘ Southeast Corner E. 134th St:

Adjoining Madison Ave.
MOSHOLU PARKWAY
ENTIRE BLOCK FRONT
Between Marion and Decatur Avés.

SAUGERTIES, N. Y.

S$. E. Cor. Clairmont & Partition a.
with dwelling.

GELLER, | ROLSTON £& HORAN, Attorneys |

nge Place, N. Y. City.

OLCOTT. G GRUBER. ‘BONYNGE & McMANUS,
17 New York.

way
BATTLE & VANDIVER,
37 Wall Street. New
ATTORNEYS as nos sant: sacl PARTIES IN oNTEREST.

BAECUTORS” and TRUSTEES’ SALE

By order of’

The Farmers’ Loan and Trust Co.

NATHAN A. \. SEAGLE, Es -» Trustees
der

CAROLINE ‘A. BRUNDAGE, Dec’d.

Near Tenth Ave.

511 WEST END AVE.,

Near West 85th St.

Near Seventh Ave .

Near Fifth SN OKL:

BOROUGH OF BROO
64 SOUTH 9TH ST,

Near Wythe Ave.

80-82 SOUTH 6TH ST.,

S. E. Cor. Berry St,

GELLER, | ROLSTON & HORAN, Fiennes

ey York

Kennelly,

Inc.,
ey 156 Broadway.

Auc-

BENS. S

IE, Auctioneer,
ee W

5. sToRY. HiGH ‘BOX. ‘STOOP,
16 ROOM “PRIVATE. DWELLING

859 St. Mark’s Place,

Near Brooklyn Ave., BROOKLYN.

House contains bay windows up to gs
story, has ag neg light on three sides.

h all improvements and is or
Bey the Pog ge section of Brooklyn.

on dbove prémises

Today, ‘Weilnesday, 11 A.M.

WESTCHESTER—FOR SALE CR TO LET.

Dieaker iilen. a

In the beautiful hills of Westchester &
County; distant 50 minutes from City
Ball; Bungalow Sites, Villa Plots; prices &
will make you buy; our, building depart- S
ment can design, construct and finance
your home, and refer you to over 100

ie who have entrusted their home &
‘building problems to us. Send for illus- §
trated booklet. N

‘COOLEY REALTY CO.,

‘MOUNT tis stl se ¥. Bniessemsts #490. :

‘Delightful all year home on large
grounds, with 100 ft. frontage, in most
select neighborhood... Large living room,
with old fashioned open hth en dini:
room, butler’s pantry and — fitt
kitchen on the first floor.

th on the second floor; separate
nce porch; large veranda. an
terrace. Every modern = convenience ;
electric light, parquet floors, beamed ceil-
ings; walls beautifully panelled in hard
woods ; convenient to country club, golf,
ideal outdoor and water sports. Send
fr photograph.

sa tiled ba fine master bed chambers and

SACRIFICE $6,200

Terms to Suit Reisonsiite Purchaser.

Beautiful Colonial Home

BEST: OF COMMUTATION TO THE CITY.

open |;

ATTORNEY, Box 310 Times Downtown.

WESTCHESTER—FOR SALE OR TO LET

NEW JEKSEY—FOR SALE OR TO LET, |

NMA AATR Naa WN

This house now buildj g at Darwood,
at Columbus Avenue Station on N. Y.,
House and plot, $9,250. $1,000 cash re-
quired.

se > sien —
We have five other. types, from $9,000

If you desire your own specific ideas worked
into a home our architectural a will
design house and sell it on $1,000 cash

Ask. for further information.

Cooley Realty Co.:

MT. VERNON, N. Y. Phone 3400

Sacrifice Near Water

Must Sell Now. Mer a Own Terms.

English HomeNear Water

A beautiful property;
grounds with fine old trees.
fine condition—contains 10
baths, butler’s pantry and every mod-
ern convenience. Spacious veranda

beautiful
House in
rooms, 3

SQ. AAA

Plots of Varying Size at Reasonable
Prices and at Exceptionally Attrac-

tive Terms to Home Builders.
Overlooking Bronx Parkway and within
For Particulars Apply

STATION PARK

Two houses, both new—stucco—one
furnished—at Orienta, Mamaroneck, New
Sound; all water privileges,. Furnished
house has garage, 10 rooms, 3 baths, 4
furnished house has 10 rooms, 2 baths,
servants’ br and lavatory, and is on a

minutes’ walk of station.
Scarsdale Offices
FOR SALE OR OR RENT.
York. Pt peewee d on deep~ water, L. I.

toilets, and is on a plot 75*x 135’ Un-
plot: 100’ x 11 Both bargains. For fur-

LONG ISLAND—FOR SALE OR TO LET.

.| Water;

Motor Out Today

or ‘take a train from the
Pennsylvania Station to

Kensington

Great Nerk.

Kensington contains 46 ideal country
houses, constructed at a cost of more
than one million dollars.

er four hundred thousand dollars
has been expended for landscaping, a
sanitary sewer system, water, gas, elec-
tric light, park drives and walks, and
a ten-acre waterfront park, containing
a swimming pool, bathhouse, bathing
beach, a dock for yachts and motor
boats, and tennis courts, in all of which
every purchaser becomes a part owner
absolutely without cost.

Our plan for building and financing

your home will be sent on request.

Rickert-Hinlay Realty Co.

Tel. 5600 Greeley. 1 West 34th St.

QUALITY

~ BUNGALOWS:

$4,300 Fit for a Queen
Overlooking Great South Bay.

Ten beauties now ready, all different
models; 6 and 7 rooms and bath, open
fireplaces, steam heat and gas, large ver-
andas, delft shelf, china closet, beamed
ceiling, decorated, shad es; 50 minutes out,
5 ‘minutes’ walk station; homeseeker’s
Opportunity to purchase the. best all-yedr
home at real bargain prices and easiest
terms.

A. B. McCORD, Owner and Builder,

Room 515 World Blidg., or Bellmore, L.I.
*Phones $154—Beekman and 118—Wantagh.

PLANDOME

MANHASSET BAY.

An Ideal Home Community.
30 Minutes Electric Train.
A olf Club—Tennis.

Bathing—Boating—Fishing.
SEVERAL NEW HOUSES FOR SALE.

ECLUSE, WASHBURN & CO.,
18 EAST 34TH ST. Tel. 4030 Murray Hill.

IDEAL BUNGALOW

Five rooms, bath; combination gas and elec-
tric .fixtures; hardw trim; up-to-date: in
every detail; large plot, overlooking ocean;
5 minutes to water; boating, fishing, bath-
ing; great bargain for §2, ; Tesponsible
party can take possession for $350
pay off balance’ $18 monthly; only 40 min-
utes from city. D. Hughes, 349 E. 14th St.

ACTUAL WATER FRONT:

*Beautiful plot of four lots right on the

restricted locality; gas, electricity,
water, sidewalks, &c.; 40 minutes from city;
wiil dispose of considerably less than their
es for cash if bought at once, Bald, Box
157 Times Downtown.

cash and

ther particulars apply to E. M. HYDE, 120
Broadway, Room 1747. Tel. 8390 Rector. :

across entire house. Ideal sailing,
bathing and fishing. Most select
neighborhood. Will sacrifice at a bar-
gain price to effect quick sale. The
house alone could not be built at
price I am willing to let the entire
property gofor. Fuil information from

-Tel. 1523 Cortlandt.

M. KELLY, Room 619,
170 B’way, New York.

A Real aie
LOCATED oo. PRETTY LAKE
HIGH UP THE MOUN-

LESS. THAN HOUR
NEW YORK~ CITY.

HALF ACRE NEAR WATER FRONT

House built of concrete and
stone. Tremendous veranda
facing water. Huge living
roonft with immense fireplace.
Main rooms, There are 10 big
rooms, 3 baths, laundry in
basement, porte cochere at en-
trance, parquet floors, running
water, electric light. Superb
scenery, fine environment, no
mosquitoes. buys it,
on easy terms, like rent;
ance can remain on mortgage.
R. F. BARNES, 170 Broadway,
New. York City. Tel. 152

1 Cort.
GREAT BARGAIN :

House is new; has every con-
venience.

Electric light, beamed ceilings, walls

—. six large bedrooms, huge liv-

ng room with open fireplace; neigh-

borhood tennis club, golf, large lakes

near by; easy commuting ; near ex-

Tess station. Post Office Box 1248,
Yew York.

WY Ma

In the Hills of New Jersey, with 15-mile
views; very delightfully located in’ purely
residential town, 6,000 population; every best
living condition and environment; corner plot,

Not an ordinary house; built days’ work;
every detail high grade; superior stucco ex-
terior; charming color schemes; drawing
room, 18x25; steam-heated conservatory; liv-
ing porch, 14x28; artistic-overhanging eaves;
Colonial entrance porch; open, equare porch,
facing flower gardens; dining room, 14x20;
kitchen is a dream; large bedrooms, 2 bath-
rooms; best system steam heat; all parquet
floors; heavy, beamed, hardwood ceilings,

and decorations and. fixtures are unusually

fine; throughout a very superior house; hollow
ache garage; see this if you want the, best
in the land at a right price.

JALLABOUGH & SON 1 xascav sr.

I dee Sipe Lots

up to a value of
$1,000°as first pay-

ment on this at-

tractive new house,

8 rooms, 2 baths;

all modern improve-

ments; in attract-

ive Northern New

Jersey art: half hour out; no cash re-

quired; balance like rent: title guaranteed.
E. B. Box 119 N. Y. Times Downtown.

Home Sacrifice on Lakes

A BEST BARGAIN NEAR N. Y. CITY.

Za Fine commutation; low fare; superb

Za water views; fine bathing, sailing, golf;
select country club; new house, 16
rooms, 3 baths, immense veranda; ex-
clusive locality; express service; sacri-
fice, easy terms.

Fine Little Waterfront ‘Cottage

6 eer ge and bath; plot _ improved;

‘@irectly on the water, moderp sina 9 bed-
4 egg garage; acres. Price
furnished, $2, 2,000. Complete

20 Nassau St., 41 East 41st St., or Rye, N. Y.
COLONIAL HEIGHTS.

rent,. furnished, $100 monthly; unfur-
. ; 11-room Colonial house, with

‘lew Boulevard,
station,

twenty. -acre
City of New Roc!
a quick buyer.

ot of gee in ~
ye ea.
eed wslgnbor

try ‘com. |<
PANY, Mount Vernon, N, Y. Phone

“ALONG THE SOUND. ©
FOR SEASON

aft Mn 5 servants’

wen fag

PcBeckers | °

., spacious porch; wre

a and
Efjgebecious patch: ot Boe

t sidewalks; perfec t dr eee. bathing

beach; good fishing near by; full Oper 2,200;
will take $250 cash, balance penta er, ets:
aly 40 minutes out. B. 349 Eas

SACRIFICE BUNGALOW

At Brentwood in the Pines, L. I.—Six
Rooms, tiled bath, ot-water heat.

electricity and water; lendid - ear
home;\five minutes from p! ation @ ee
cash, balance easy.

GUL

YOU CAN COUNT

on your dividends reaching you regularly

when your money is invested in our guar-
anteeed mortgages. We specialize in Ber-
en and Rocsland County titles; Write
or Booklet A.

North Jersey Title Insurance Co,

HACKENSACK,

Addr

LONG ISLAND
THE BEST
_,SUBURBAN HOMEPLACE.

Modern Bun; Bungalow in the Woods
5°rooms and. bath; modern improvements; 55

minutes from 83d St. and 7th Av.; 5 minutes
to station; cash, balance as "rent; good
title. North Shore, Box 112 Times Downtown.

NEW JERSEY—FOR SALE OR TO LET.
rooms and tiled

STUCCO HOUSE °° aS large. living

room with tapestry brick fireplace; artistic
Craftsman finish; modern pl ing, steam
heat, asbestos shingle roof, oak . parquet
$5,800 meer rag and te troll ween he price only
large plo
WER OR A172 28 BROADWAX;

ehentiee” eatans 6984, -
AT MADISON, NEW JERSEY

pia wonton 6 tine erate we: ‘roome, hengtion

Tasco a |

lewn; D, L. &

N. ¥. Rep., Glenn K. Carver, 61 Fans

LAKE HOPATCONG.

ELEVATION, 1,200 FEET.

Mount oon on Lake Hopatcong; hand-
some Residence, 12 rooms, two. baths, four
Zofteta ; oy improvements ; electric light; fine
sh 100x400 gk Sg for two cars; scene
pur paseed ; la 10 miles long, "with
miles. shore ;'55 minutes Hopat-
cong egoa it? commutation, siziio: cost
reer, 500; your terms.

ISON ALEXANDER, 503 5th Av.

waxed finish; ivory white or-mahogany finish |~

Now in Course of Completion,

N. W. Cor. oisst. eWest EndAve..

Noth Cor.

& Riverside Drive
-5 6&7 ROOMS 2&3 BATHS

Moderate Rentals.

We are offering a number of very desirable furnished
and unfurnished Apartments in the most exclusive local-
ities on the west side at very attractive rentals.: For fur-

ther particulars consult

PATERNO BROS.

Tel. 1114 Morningside.

THE MONTANA REALTY COMPANY
. (&.CLIFFORD POTTER, PRESIDENT)
QFFER FOR RENT
FROM NEXT OCTOBER A FEW'APARTMENTS AT

375 PARK AVENUE

APPLY TO
RICHARD C. VOTH, MANAGER.
ON PREMISES

Rea} Bstate, 46 CEDAR STREET. Tel. JOHN

“CITY. ‘PR

hirty-five cents an agate line.

OPERTY

Par. OR Real Ket ‘Beteee,
ene JOHNSON, 3R., sR. CO., AUCTIONEERS,
Montague § | oS ae

Bronx—For Sale or/To Let.

Private house, 175th St., near Bérbushs: Batis!"

‘Surrogate, Comins, Courts; particularly suit-
ed for lawyer, doctor, private +. Tent,
$45 monthly, Matthies, 506 Bast 175th St.

,Mortga age Loans
Ann Loraine conta am agate tine:
Owner desires to place first ‘mortgage, valu-
abl De

le troit property. Gehring, 1,480
Broadway.

pretty aor poet We |

Headquarters for Flatbush
Westwood Realty Cotapany, 685

> Quecne—For Sate or To Let.

Beautiful T-roe room Queen . Anne couage, newly
decorated, with.

will sell cheap to” ck buyer’

and $18 mantniy. ‘ 1. P

Place, Brooklyn; 1 fight. up. =). 9 7%

Littlé home near, Jamaica Bay, house and big
ground ;~ grape arOrs.. M cs of fruit trees,
egetable patch, lg er cannot occupy,

nn 3 will sell 1 for $1,650 oe onar terms. J. Baas,

/Box 108 Times Downtown. :

Can‘ furnish. $15,000 on apartment, tenement
BS on ide Apply . Frank n, 809 Broadway.
anhattan.

For home sites at Little Neck ine: see.
JOSEPH P. DAY, 31 Nassau St, oa

Soe

TO LET FOR BUSINESS -

Thirty-fwve.cents an agate line.

ess

52d -ST., s. w, cor, SEVENTH AVENUE,
corner STORE and BASEMENT, $75. Ap-
ply to SUPT., or to WM. A. WHITE & SONS

LEXINGTON AV., 985, ne cor. Tist St.,
BASEME 1% $20; possession May ist. WM.
| A. WHITE & ‘SONS, Real Estate, 46 CEDAR
ST, Telephone JOHN 5700.
LOFT, 11 EAST 22D ST.

Light; 27x190; adjoining Broadway; $1,300.
Ames, 26 West 3ist.. Brokers protected.
Subiet.—Light lott, 42x100; suitable manu-

facturing or salesrooms; immediate posses-
sion; agent on premises. 36-38 East 2Uth St.

Private office, furnished; $20; desk room,
0; mail privilege, $2 monthly; telephone

Skylight studio, with kitchen, to let, near. Sth

Ay. an‘ subway; modern imp ments;
decorated, 82 East 28th St. .

Paton, | ge Pmt

no reasonable 6:
Agency, 1,285. Bed

rete twin ce

Will sublet part of well-furnished office suite;
separate entrance if desired. Room. 1,901,
No. 1 Liberty.

Parlor floor for dentist or other offices, near
5th Av, ard subway; improvements, 32
East 28th St. ee ‘

Loft to sublet: ternts very reasonable; imme-
diate possession. Apply 11 West lith- St:
first floor.

Desk.and Sample Room to Let—309 Canal St.,
2 doors west of Braadway. M. & L, Radin,

service, Apply 309 Broadway. Suite 807.

Latge, light loft for rent reasonable. 15 Hast

Thirty-five cent

PROPERTY OUT OF THE CITY

8s an agate line.

Westchester—For Sale or To Let.

Most comfortable and complete small. house

in New Rochelle for sale at a bargain;
seven rooms, sun parlor, screened porch, two
large cellars, two attics; all modern improve-
tments; electric light and gas, up-to-date fur-
nace; newly decorated; restricted park; lot
agents. S. oH. hy 44 Broad 8t., N. ¥.
City. Tel. ft Broad One

Cozy nine-room house, two baths; hot water
heat; stable, chicken house, garage; vege-
table garden; tennis court; truic and shade
trees; beautiful shrubs and. flowers; large
plot of ground; .one mile west of Scarsdaie
gtation. Db, M, R., owner, 712 Madison Av.

YONKERS.—14& and.152 Robert Lane, North
Yonkers, 6 and 7 room dwellings; new and
up to date; very attractive; high-class lo
tion; moderate prices, terms to suit; broke
rotected. River View Building Co., on pre
ses, and 713 North Broadway, Yonkers.
oe AND ESTATES
FO ALE OR RENT.
ANGELL ry O., SCARSDALE, N., Y.

SALES AND RENTALS.
Anderson Realty Company, Mt. Vernon.

New Jersey—For Sale or To Let.

Attractive bargains offered by De-

partment State of New York: to builders,
investors and prospeetive homeseekers. -A
large number of ee lots. at Grantwood,
Morsemere, Leonia. dgefield,- and Tean
N..J.. at one-half of former owners’ pri
Also a large number of two-family houses. at
Hudson Heights, Cliffside, and zune
Park. N. J., at about one-half. of eageowd
prices. All of. the dbove pro ies
within a five-cent fare zone and within “38
remy of hattan. These properties
moust be sold quickly to close the. business
of two corporations now being liquidated by
the Banking Department and = offered at
real sacrifice prices. Special inducements te
contractors 2 builders who bg purchese
va id ber of For further
particulars pos Boe Benj. D. Haight, Special
Deputy Supt. of Banks, care Banking pt.,
61 Broadway, New York City. .

BUNGALOW SITE,
100x100: a remarkable bargain, conveniently
located to New York; dry, rolling und ;
plenty of trees, beautiful scenery; $100 down,
rest in convenient payments. A! 8. Parker,
5 Little West 12th St., N. Y., Cor, 9th Av.

Write for list of attractive homes.
Hastings Homes Co.. Hastings, N. Y.

NEW IJ£RSEY—FOR SALE OR £ TO LET.

APARTMENTS TO LET—Unfurnished.

IF. YOU HAVE $175,

ociajly eligible |

for membership in:

Country Club, can}

pay $50 for 2 months |

and then easy month- '

y payments like rent, |

ot. can own this}

Dutch Colonial house

now building; ready to occupy May Ist; 6

rooms, bath; near Club House and Golf

Course; only 3 houses on these terms. Sec-
retary, P. O. Box 416, N. Y. City.

COMMUTER’S OPPORTUNITY

Three minutes’ walk Madison express sta-
tion, Lackawanna Railroad; 70 dally trains;
50 minutes Broadway; ideal town, finest
echools, churches, stores; no factories; high
elevation; views; charming nearly new house;
entrance hall, 6 fine rooms, and large attic:
every modern improvement; spacious porch;
well built; nice plot; finest neighborhood;
| penal immediately; owner sacrifices; $6,-

150 NASSAU ST.,

ALLABOUGH & SON. Se

For sale, attractive new Suburban Homes,
surrounded by Nature's Resetital Soros ie
Lincoln Heights Park ew Sensey
Modern, all-year home comforts, conven-
fent to transit. For details address
S. R. DROESCHER, 79 Warren St., | N.Y. 0.

14 BLOCK FROM BEACH, —

BOARDWALK AND PIER, ON BARNE- |
GAT BAY. v

Bungalows at $1,675;

Wonderful chance for
Beckhardt, Suite 408, 45

terms convenient.
uick buyer. A. L.
Vest 34th St.

NEW JERSEY SUMMER HOMES.

Elberon, West End, Deal.

WEST END is nearest station to President
Wilson’s Summer Home. Chpice furnished
Cottages for rent near Summer Capitol.
Large grounds, tennis courts, trees. “On
the Spot Agents.”’

DELL & BURKE,

Phone 636—Long Branch. West
TRAINS MET BY APPOINTMENT.

SUMMER HOMES

HOTELS AND BOARDI HOUSES
FOR KENT OR SALE.

Allenhurst, Deal, Asbury Park.
ALBERT T. ROBBINS,

Asbury Park, (Opp. Depot,) Allenhurst, N.J.

AVON-BY-THE-SEA, N. J.

Furnished cottages in the most healthful,
gg toe resort on the oe Coast, near
he *‘ Summer D. MU " Send for List.

“MARTIN D. MURRAY “Acency.”

MAIN 8ST.
CONNECTICUT—FOR SALE OR TO LET.

To Suburban

Real Estate
Acents and Builders

I own three beautiful large water-
front building plots on Shippan Point,
Stamford, Conn. “Would like to ex-
change same for a aisable cottage or
bungalow, $1,500 value, in any nice

suburb of New York City. ‘
Address Owner, 428 4th Ave.

MANHATTAN—West Side.
NON-HOUSEKEEPING APARTMENTS

SPENCER ARMS

S. E. Cor. B’wa 69th St.

or larger combinations—maid service
included, and meals served in apart-
ments. Every room with permanent
ose , cone so6 large closet Paes

t Location OF
Cc. F. beg Casanova, Agt., on premises, or
your own broker. Tel. Columbus 3996.

NEW HIGH-CLASS APTS.
Southwick The Loyal

674 W. 16ist St., | 894 Riverside Drive,
at Riverside Drive corner 16ist St.

RENTS $456 TO

Long Island—For sate or To Let.

Ocean bungalow of 5 rooms and th, block
from private bathing beach; go boating
and the best of fishing; burigalow is finished
in latest style, paneled walls, beamed ceil-
ings, connecting bedrooms with bath, modern
kitchen, umobstruct view of ocean from
porch; $2,950 complete, on easy terms. B,
Murphy, 105 Flatbush Av., Brooklyn.

WRITE ME for full description of beautiful

new house in nice residential section of
Rutherford for sale; if seeking a home you
will b pleased; ‘no obligations incurred. 8.
SMITHSON, Owner, 184 ——— AV.,
Rutherford, N. J

ACREAGE, CASH BARGAINS,

114 1-3 acres; 22 wood and pasture, bal-

ance tillable: 30 acres rye, wheat; creek
through pasthre; finest springs imo country:
soine buildings; ong tiae ag $1,000; price,
3,500. Owner, Box M 63 Times. °

at tsiaaae laatge ot See

as | Tepeer ee 4 touring hed a

For sale at bargain.—Stevens- D
touring, 54.H. P.; thore ©

st of. $1,200. Call: Hudson Mi
1,800 Broadway.

in. ever offered ‘aoe .

Br eliee ae et Sos le
equipment: cash or inatel Soa
berland 8t.. Brooklyn, N. Y.

passenger ike new;
kam-Scott ‘ate 1,896.

Packard 1915 Phaeton, sive
ing; bargain. Coo ik
Broadway.

1914 MERCER TOURING;
fully equipped. Roskam
Broadway.

Mercer, 22-70 touring; brand new car; -
saving. Schoonmaker, 1,700 _ Broadway.

RENAULT for sale; limousine; newly”
ed;-good condition, - 108 West ‘pad baad

Automobiles f for Rent.

Packard. —Beautiful. seven seven

car; monthly, reasonable; 1
erences, Carleton, 186 West
lumbus. 8564.

Renault landaulet,
ly solicited.
Columbus 3258.

Beautiful, new Packard six touring
ly; owner . drives; ae eA
Audubon,

NEW TWIN-SIX PACKARD | camel
or 1914-1915 cars: by month or. year
able. Karp, 1, Broadway.. .Colum
For Rent—Packard. 18 landaulet,.
sha ‘ate model; to ble
$300-$325 month, . Telephone. cle ais.
Automobiles—Renaults, igh
monthly. basis preferred
Columbus 2008;

Packard touring cars, ree ag service;
sotiable. -C. Ortenned. 220: West ost =

Columbus 3258.

New Packard ‘: Six’’ touring,
‘orig? wire

experienced owner ‘drives; ret
nger :
month, Lenox 38603.

tive:
-Scott

low area ™m

Garford six, .seven-passe
wheels; hour, week,

BUNGALOW, $1,325, COMPLETE,
with a beautiful plot of ground, shade trees,
&c., near station and Sound; abundance of
boating, bathing, and fisning; makes an ideal
Summer and all-year. home; bungalow well
built, roomy, with spacious veranda; easy
terms. B. Jones, 105 Flatbush Av., Brooklyn,

An Opportunity Seldom Offered.—Plot 34.6x
165, with frame .building, main street,
Flushing; 3 minutes to railroad station; car
passes door; will sacrifice. Investigate.
Parker, 200 West 54th 8t., New York.

10 acres in heart of beautiful Long =
village, ripe for cutting into lots;

right; mortgage for 50 per cent. can LER wi-og

= liberal release clause. R 18 ;Times
nnex.

AGENTS WANTED to sell lots, plots, =
acreage in heart of Long Island town;
advances; liberal commissions; easy gelling
proposition, R 17. Times Annex.

Open evenings. Renting Agent on P: i
ings. F Audubon—-9282. :
Friedman Con. Co., 189 Broadway.

CORNER LIVING ROOM
With southerly and easterly exposure.
Five other rooms, two baths and large
foyer. Gan be seen at 251 West 92d St.
LEWIS B. PRESTON, INC.,
165 Broadway. Tel. Cortlandt 7475.

THE HILLCREST

430 West 116th St, Facin« Columbia

University Grounds
MODERN ELEVATOR APARTMENTS

8-9 Large Sunny Rooms & —
Rents

8 ROOMS, 2 BATHS.

, Exceptional Apartments and arrangement of
rooms, all large; abundance of closet room;
monet? in every detail; first. class in every
respec Z
ELEVATOR. ALL NIGHT mead sear
805 St. Nichclas Ave., 305.
Ww. D. Morgan, Agent, 3,578 B’way, 147th St.

Bedrooms

New seven rooms and bath, newly furnished

bungalow, among pines, overlooking lake;

bathing; $375. Owner, Apartment 1, 6
West End Av. Telephone 2336 Riverside.

Three lots, Rockaway Park, on Lincoln Av.,

tween Washington Av. and ocean; no ex-

E, E. Schlesier, 18 West

EXCLUSIVE HEWLETT PROPERTY.
Two acres, accessible, house, improvements;

pa fruit. Bruce Belmore, Lynhpeok, New

Real Estate—Out of City.

Chicken farm witk 6-ro poultry

house, &c., best soil, all under cultivation;
ready home markets for chickens and eggs;
commuting. distance; will sell cheap to re-
sponsible party on easy terms. A. Schmidt,
110 Times Downtown.

Real Estate Wanted,

Near South Norwalk, Conn., about mile from
express station, farm, with large house; im-
provements; fine barn buildings; 50 to 100;
acres; rent, option buying; price, terms, full
eaeeotion first letter. Farm, M 62
mes. ‘

om house,

HANDSOME COMMUTER’S SHORE wets S|

to settle estate: bp tg ae ewage os, yong
ft. shore front; 6 master’s rooms; Louls
Lou 8

ingside 8833."
Beautiful five- Packard;
Brooks, 182 Fog Phone Loner S100, x

Automobiles for rent. For aie es .

inaji cost. (i. J. KUERBACH)

KAMM, Inc., 16 Clinton St., Newark,

Glen Rock, N. P 2 the borough beautiful, @d-
joining Ridgewood; Erie R..R.; 57: trains

daily; send. for booklet; full information;

houses and bungalows, large plots; restricted.

Smith-Singer Compgny.

Far. Rockaway.—Fourteen-room private house,
ths; all improvements; large «grounds,

with garage; sacrifice to quick purchaser;

suitable terms. . Wolfe, 225. West 39th,

Nutley.—_The Oranges and suburbs; homes,
cottages, and bungalows; send for booklet.
T. Orben, 786 Broad a Newark, N. J.

PLAINFIELD, N 4

arvey R. Id ubarger, fer, ib? North rare

Saree Depot, Plainfield, N.

NUTLEY IN A NUTSHELL.”
1916 facts about the “‘ Ideal Home Tewn,.”
ECRETARY. NUTLEY, 'N. J.

T ORANGE, N. J.

Free Booklet of *‘ New. Homes’’ mafied,
PHILIP T. BOWERS & CO., Newark, N. J.
MONTCLAIP—Réal Estate—sale or rent. Ap-

ply to Simpson Merritt Co.

New York State—for Sale or Teo Let.

Furnished bungalow,. om Lake ‘Champlain; 8

rooms; charming location; moderate price;
might exchange for cottage near water
within commuting «distance of New . York;
references. Address Champlain, X 280 Times
Annex. {

Connecticut—For Saie or Yo Let.

For Sale—10-room house, large s, 45 acres
river bottom; High state of cultivation;
buildings in excellent prguition: one-quarter
mile centre of town of 2,000 inhabitants; sev-
eral building lots; fine’ property in growing
town: Wallace Canfield, Canaan. Conn.

Modern house, 10 or 12 rooms; with 5 to 10
acres, North Shore, not over 25 miles out.
Heitman & Co., 55 Liberty St.

Connecticut Beach, hour out: large, small

cottages, furnished; all improvements; hotel,
club; bathing, tennis. Owner, 825 Marcy AV,
Brooklyn.

APARTMEN

Thirty-five cents an agate line.-

TS TO LET

THE MIDLOTHIAN

Near Morningside ‘er
Elevator, steam heat, hot water, tiled bath;
uniform . service; electric light; all outside
rooms; fine light and air. Apply janitor.

MAN HATTAN—sast Side.

995 Madison Ave.
Stuti O| racraras

BEDFORD PARK
MOSHOLU ARMS APTS.

a St., Briggs to Bainbridge Ave.,
% Minutes to Botanical Gardens.
.N, Y¥.. Central Sta., 4 minutes 198th St.,
8d Ave. “‘L” Express Station.

° Furnished—East Side.

A furnished apartment, seven rooms, three
baths, east side, in the 60s, June 15 to Oct.;
$200 a month. Owner, L 93 Times,

Madison Av¥., 222.—Handsomely furnished
parlor floor, three rooms, th; $150
monthly.

Furnished—West Side.

Hotel conveniences, apartment house rates.

Unfurnished—East lak.

Corner 92d St.
12 rooms and 4 baths;
Yearly rental, $3,100.
Ready for immediate occupancy,

MADISON AV., 712, adjoining n. WwW, cor.

63d St., all of third floor, two large ms,
bath and nena +50; open for inspec-
tion. HITE & SONS, Real Estate,
46 CEDAR Sr. Telephone JOHN 65700.

kInspeq our specially attractive apart
CATHEDRAL PLAZA,
100 CATHEDRAL PARKWAY,
110TH ST. ay ues eee AY.
We have 1, 2, 3, 4 roo; menta,

Full furnished, dishes, silver, cooking
utensils; maid service optional; apartment
has private bath and kitchenette; concessions
lease or unfurnished; near subway and “.L"’;
must be seen to appreciate. Phone Academy
613. Sth Av. bus stops at door.

An -Exeeptional Opportunity.—To rent for

Summer season on West End Av., beautiful
apartment, luxuriously and completely _ fur-
nished, for housekeeping; may by
appointment. Address M. F, ‘walter, "1,180
Broadway, N. Y. City.

FOR SALE
A Factory Situated at

Thompsonville, Connecticut,
on the main line of New York, New Haven &
Hartford Railroad’ Company, fully equipped
and now running; suitable for the manufact-
ure of: iathes or machinery.
pid to settle an estate.
ormation will be furnished on

application. to
ILLAAM H. LEETH, Administrator.
State Street,
HARTFORD, Conn.,

THOMPSONVILLE, Conn.

« AT RIDGEFIELD, CONN.

Country Estates, Farms and Rentals,
Make appointment with
THADDEUS CRANBD, Tel. No. 1,

REAL ESTATE—OUT OF CITY,
Borders Arm of Ocean.

Dandy for Aummer home or poultry farm;

borders on salt water 40 rods; ‘enjoy boati ng,
bathing. fishing, clams and lobsters; only 1
mile to steamboat landing; variety of fruit ;
plenty of wood; excellent 6-room house with
Piazza and spring water; workshop and

ultry house.. Owner has other business call-
ios him away, makes low price #1.
good farm of 90 acres for wn same
trip. For detalis ig Page 9, oNgtrout's
Maney eet Farm just out; copy free.
E.. A. STROUT FARM AGENCY, Dept. 1093,
150 Nassau St., New York.

CLUY HOUSES TO LET—UNFURNISHED,

Lake Hopatcong.

Summer cottages, furnished, at Mount
pln elevation. 1,200 feet; lake 10 miles
lo miles shore.

Co age, 10 rooms, use of boathouse, $750.
‘Cottage, 9 rooms, use of boathouse, $600.
Cottage, 9 hone bath R

“ Bungalow, 8 roo hoathous e, $550.
:  ALANSON “ ALEXAN IR,

“BEAUTIFUL NEW HOUSE.

1 | zooms: tiled bath, front and rear porches;
ot/60x120; large trees, park approach; fine
treet; 2 minutes to depot; easy commuting,
80 month’ b price, $4,500. Phone an: Orn
M.; on ita after . M,

nae
: Lis

jGanindon SABO’ ad .

? ‘Morningside

, $720 and upward.
DWELLINGS CONCESSIONS.

TO LET. All offers submitted. §

BRONX.

A . Mansion in New York City...
vat pve easy Avenue and 176th Street.
Exceptionally esirable

NEW JERSEY.

Montclair, N
Hight-story, fireproof, iaresae finest
Apartment in State; beautiful view and
surroundings; city iife in the country ;
6, 7 or rooms; low rent; immediate .
possession. Apply on the premises, 57
Union St., or any real estate agent.

APARTMENTS TO LET—Furnished.

APARTMENTS; 2, 3 & BATH, 9 out-
side windows, 3 exposures. Newly and
beautifully furnished and decorated.
peg 9 Lape BAL “phone; Tgp Role a per
ion: a
week; .oné Bloke from i oe 3° subeay ex-
ress, cars and bus special inducements
‘or leases; references; “aes completed; very ex-

ceptional 0; moi.
OBLETON, 126 West 73d St.

HOTEL

COUNTRY HOUSES TO LET—Furnished.

TO RENT FOR SUMMER,
MY HOME —

in Great Neck. New house,. completely fur-
nished. Three large bedrooms, two baths,
two anlan’ rooms. open fireplaces; sleepi
porct garage; close to depot and privace
athing a“ 2 zone ist to Ovtober $200
month. mes.

NORTH SHORE, L. L.,

\on-Port Jefferson Harbor,
to rent, furnished, 7 master’s bedrodmis and
8 baths; 400 feet actual shore Sets, rfect
house and a perfect location;.rent $ for
the season; photographs and ‘parti Mi

Stephen Yates, 243 W. 34th St., Ne ¥. Cc.

COUNTRY HOUSES TO LET—Unfurnished

DOBBS FERRY, N. Y.

11 and 7") room Cot on a3 errace over-
the poaaee lyer. Comfortable

ana read ration it poistee walk from

per year,
Street

Ot NY glk

menauttel six-room apartment in the ‘‘Chats-

rth,’’ iverside and 72d, for Summer
raontha: exposure north, east and south; rent,
$85 per month. Phone ‘Apartment 6-L or ad-
dress X 246 Times Annex.

hall, 3 baths;
' ideal location;
Summer or longer.

(Corner.)—6 rooms, foyer
all iarge outside .rooms;
immediate possession;
Dick, 4837 Schuyler.

114th.—Beautifully furnished 5-room apart-

ment, ninth floor, southern exposure, $75
month; paying $100, unfurnished, Telephone
Vanderbilt 1450.

Well-furnished four-room apartment; light

outside .rooms; desirable location, near
Dyckman subway; references uired. Cail
between 9 and 6 o’clock. Loomis, Nagle Av.

Exceptional furnished four-room Dilber Hehe

pianola, arty linen; near rive;
airy; May 1 to Oct. 1; Th tg only. iy
erside—4987. Squire.

Well. furnishei, six rooms, high class ele-

vator apartment; can be seen by appoint-
ment, Greenthal, 605 West 115th St. Tel.
3673 Morningside.

47th, 182 “West, (Felix-Portland.)—Select

suites, two rooms and bath, extremely rea-
sonable; special monthly rates; Southern
cuisine.

180th.—Five outside south rooms; beautifully
furnished; overlooking river; sublease whole
or part at sacrifice. R 51 Times,

Attractively furnished modern five-room-two-
baths apartment; large light, airyS $65.

Tyler, 241 West 108th. 396 Academy.

sublet pp = tng

Furnished J. Wickliffe
Gray, Specialist, 269 West 734 St. Colum-

West 180th St.—Six rooms, ocdrner apart-
ment; reasonable; exceptional references.
*Phone 9681 St.»Nicholas. aap

Oceanic ‘Apartmegts.—Handsémely furnished ;
3-4-@ rooms, kitchenette; piano, linen, silver;

Summer’ rates. Coyle, 137 est 82d,

A20th, 423 West.—Four rooms, complete house-
keeping; very desirable; $75. Apartment 56,

86th St., 50 East.—Ground floor, 8 large,
light rooms and bath; electricity; all im-
provements,

86th St., 50 East.—Third floor, 8 large,
rooms and bath; electricity;
ments.

86th St., 50 East.—Ground floor,

light
all improve-

7 large,

phone Lenox 8767. John ag
soit %

For Hire—1916 or-1915 Packard
month. Wilmarth, Schuyler ate

BROOKS-OSTRUC “West. Séth St.
cess aaa
re; r 8) es

Opp. ‘Automobile Club of

Automobile Storage.
P. BRADY & SON CO,
Dead storage of Automobiles. “Autemdaiiels |
boxed for export, 552-556 W. 58th St. Col, 83440
ra ge
Automobiles Wanted. OU 4
er na gee :
WANTED, , ¢
PIERCE-A > ae
LIMOUSINE BODY, - 1914 2h 1915. ie
Model for 6-48 chassis. Times, ..
WANTED. 1015- 51016 ROADSTER wR

Autemodtie Instruction,
BEDFORD BRANCH

' STEWA RT Booklet
AUTOMOBILE coer is B

SCHOOL. plant and be
225 W. 57th St. jes’ Classes,

ae ae and
¥ gv ie SIDE U. 8. Send

A... Pass to

Country: Board
Thirty-five cents an agate line.
Ovechobion tnisy Caen tees fs

erlooking Jy, un >

Charming Family House of High Standard.
20-Min. Delightful Sail Manhattan.
excellent chef; all comfarta.

Weekly, $10-$16 per ‘adult, ‘with meals. —
71 CENTRAL AV., ST. GEORGE, 8. 1."

THE WILLOWS, HUGUENOT PARK.”
Superior accommodations,
fences; ng, sea breezes;

moders—conven=—
braci ‘un
one hour Wall Street; excellent chet’ Tele
phone 907 Tottenville. .

Lovely rooms;

HIGHCLIFFE -HALL H
Yenkers.—Unexcelied home
view. W. E. Robinson. Phone

Sane Beene:

Refined couple or two senslenen have aB
portunity of securing

tions, with board, $20 w weekly a

vate house of high stan

from Penn.

eeerae

168 Kilburn Road, Garden

Island.

Park

light rooms and bath; all improv

Unfurnished—West Side,

SEVEN ROOMS, I BATH, $30.

430 St. Nicholas Av., (facing St. Nicholas
Park, near 130th St. ‘‘L’’;) steam heat;
yoga plumbing; refrigerator; location first-
class.

PICKEN COURT,

706 Riverside Drive, Cor. 148th 8
10-story fireproof apt. house, 4-5- o. all
outside, sunny rooms; rent, $720-$1,800.
Nassoit & Lanning, B’way, Cor. 89th St.

136th St., 615-621 West, (adjoining Riverside

Drive.)—Bright 5 and 6 room apartments;
hallboys, electric light, telephone; Al service;
to lease to responsible Cénants only by owner;
rents $36 and up.

Sublet, 157 West 79th.—8-room apartment, 3
baths; lease expires Sept. 30; rent $1,800
r year; will sublet for $75 a month. Apply

Lewek, 93 Sth Av. 7

STUDIO APARTMENTS,
180-132. West 34th St., 2 rooms bath; every
improvement; kitchenette: rent $85-$45.

SOTH ST., 129-31 WEST.—Second and third
floors, six rooms and bath; od ce;

owner has charge; rents $36-$38; concession

to good tenant: references required. 2

EIGHT ROOMS, CORNER, $70.
408 West 152d St., (St. Nicholas Av,)
W. D. Morgan, Agent, 3,573 B'way, (147th.)

162D, 530 WEST, (near Broadway.)—Ten
rooms and two baths, very attractive

ar pee eee eal 7 rooms, one ek
29; hall service.
188th St. "Wileox & ee 2; 1 t i Pog

elevator, all improvements; at £510 to $720
cterenethe; southern ex-

per year. Apply t
Sublet—Two-toom,
posure, Agent, on premises, 435 West 119th
St. Tel. Morningzide 8200.
Riverside Drive, 264.—Four rooms, three over-
looking Drive, to sublet until Oct. -1; will
sell garaltnrs cheap; afternoons.

Beautiful nine-room apartment, overlooking
Hudson. Wellesley, Thortheast corner Sist

Bt, West End Av.

Sublet, ‘chea aix rooms, unfurnished.
est 79th St. Quinn. Inquire of hallboy.

84th, 145  West!—7 large, Hght rooms, bath,
all improvements, $40-$45.

Morningside. Drive, 200, Apartment A-5.—
Five rooms, furnished, $60; unfurnished, $50.

Sublet, sacrifice, high-clasa .five .rooms;
southern exposure, 219 West ae 12D.

Furnished three-room apartment; outside
rooms.. Telephone St, Nicholas 9818. Rice.

For sublet apartments of from’ 5 0. rooms
consult Paterno Bros., 601 West 1 113th St.

Six rooms, 2 baths; Riverside; Tt view;
handsomely furnished; sacrifice, - . BOT4,

4TH ST. 18 WEST— ] aFee, Het reo
and bath, $5) and 860. ers

| "erecmg, bath Yoko, Beh too,

Mas0 weekly bowel tte waa .

- THE HALL, GLEN COVE, T.
Within commuting distance of
@ beach; no mosquitos; tenhis,

17: references. Tel.

New York ‘Xorm State.

Beautiful residence and farm , excellent ts
healthful, mountain. location ; 86 miles;
Spindler, Lefever. Falls, Ulster Coun’ .

New Jersey. —
THE MARLBOROUGH,

45 North Arlington Av., East
* 30 minutes from Broad:

South Orange, N.. Ju, ‘
Refined family, beautiful -home,
and’ location, near Lacka

wanna; -¥
private bath and good Bee ‘references.
Excellent home near New
sonal care for aged ply
women; best references. FR
Pennsylvania.
Mount -Pectas:
The Pennhurst, Mount
open; unexcelled view; Sones al
cial Spring rates; bookl klet. iss Mary F
Graduate nurse,

large experience '
in open, hilly country, wae ae
four tubercular patients. X 265 Times

UNITED STATES

foot teak Semon and alle
se vr
pe he defaulted and

“April WR, 1016

NOW

ge eee

ames 5 incoee es - F

INGTON, “April 25.—ow tempera-
pntinue general east ofthe Rocky
minsexcept in the Gulf ‘States, and
‘weather  prévails over~ the “western

a and the Pacific Coast States. Unset- |
ither with local rains continued dur:
‘last. twenty-four hours in the Mid-

ippi Valleys, and the lake region. ~ Show-
‘also fallen in Kansas, Oklahoma,
“Northwestern Texas.: Fair. weather pre-
in all other regions. ~

ther will continue Wednesday and Thurs-
‘fn New England and the Middle ' At-

@ States,. Tennessee, the: Ohio Valley,
egal ape om ela
i showers in those regions. In the
Atlantic and Hast Gulf States the

r willbe fair Wednesday and Thurs-

Winds for Wednesday and Thursday along
}. North Atlantic Coast will be light. to
saoderate variable; Middle and South Atlantic
a moderate variable, mostly west.
pmoasts ODay AND THURSDAY.
| Bastern New ’ York.—Overcast: “Wedriedday | §
Thursday; cooler: in north.
ern New . England, New ° Jersey,
; weien New. York, and Eastern. Pennsyl-
Overcast and continued cool Wednes-
and Thursday,
Northern New England—Overcast Wednes-
% and Thursday; cooler in the interior
‘Thursday

‘The. temperature record for the twenty-four
ended at midnight, taken from the
. (po sale ta the local office of the United
- fitates Weather Bureau, is as follows:

ident piper
iE: ee
This gaara ig 414 feet above the
Street level. The average temperature yes-
sterday was 47; for the corresponding date last
Year it was 67; average on the corresponding
@ate for the last thirty-three years, 52.
‘The temperature at 8 A. M, yesterday was
_* 46; ‘at 8 P. M. it was 45; maximum tempera-
fare, 52 degrees at 11:45 A. M.; minimum,
degrees at 12:50 P. M. Humidity, 8&8 per
. pent. at t8 A. M., 8 per cent. at 8 P, M,
‘The barometer at 8 A. M. yesterday regis-
oS BT inches; at 8 P. M. it stood at
FIRE RECORD.
x ® ers. I
WF ss Lawrence St.; Empire Carry-

Ay St; Schmidt,

eee eee eeerereseeneree

7 woos: ot: not sive. . Unknown
oar 2 St.; Chas. Katz....None
i tometer St.; N. Ambrosino. phd
St. Fred Miller Siig

hob 10. Av.; Gustave Seig.....-..Slight
‘THE CIVIL SERVICE.  —

City.

bopltcations will be received until May 5
ester. The pega and: wens 2
are:

Nae perience, 5;
rill be gi
a tet hey

anes ae ee

one

ite

Van Bure

5.: A quali physical Siamination

ven. The duties are to plan and

- work of planting, rentee.

d protecting trees and plants in

arks and pen Candidates must be

4 years of age.on the closing date

eendint of ications. The salary is

- @ year. ‘Thera is one vacancy in the

! ént of Forks, Boroughs of Manhat-
tan and Richmond

Usiteoa States.

The commission announces for May 17 at
New ‘York ery House hong a.

tion for oil gauger,.for men only, to six

» cwageucles in the office of Indian Affairs,

4 ment of tbe Interior, for service in
ye a salary of $1,200 a year. The
d will be those ordinarily performed by

rs o on oilfield, including measuring

f £04. oil ©, water detector, &c., the
amount oi ie ar fin the oil tanks under
barge, L irage a Sree mah ine

methods of devepulon oli tanks @ applyin:
formulae. fcr ‘computing r capacity. He
_— the amount. of

“water, sediment, &c., in crude oils, and to
- compute changes in Tolaaie dué to variation
in pomoeet urg. . Competitors will be exam-
spelling, afithmetic, périmanship, re-

must. have reached
twenti nae but ot their torty-fitth birth-
on the date of the examinat Fur-

day ion
information may be a 9 from the
ef . Washington, D.

| _ THE UNITED SERVICE.

£ Special to The New York.Times,
Army.
Ae ASEINOTON, April 25.—1st Lt. H. ¥F,
A. d., upon relief from duty at
Carolina College of Agricults»

tus

nae

upon relief

taf’ in Ordnance about June

mand. up a) expiration of any leave of abs

wil]. report to commanding

ot. er the coast defenses indicated after

for assignment to a company: Ist

| Miles, Jr., (Capt.,; Ord. Dept.,)

‘enges. of Sandy Hoo and C. M.

(Capt, Ord. Dept.,) coast defenses of

Lt-J. R. Ellis, C..A, C., upon arrival

du--Pont,. Del., report to commanding

, coast defenses. of the Delaware, for
t to staff duty.

from staff

Delaware, ef-

fpetive  uven arrival of lat Lt. J. R. Ellis,

£: wiviger, retired, is detailed for duty
bak ia of California.

L. J. McNair, 4th F. A., 2

. B. Winship, 10 days’ extension,

Sees wa’ Marvine, C. A. 1

TPT dacanente of Naval Vessels,
ved-—Stewart at San Pere, f pply at
vand the Tonopah at Block I fen.

ham, Whitestone tanding for

Colorado, San Francisco, for San

aco Pout au Prince, for Guanta-

can, Hampton Roads, for Rose-
tune, Hampton Roads, for

New ampshire, Hampton Roads,
*Gnarl les City, via the Southern drill
and the Vermont, Hampton Roads,

Porte was placed in. commission at

alt Lage ase 17.
: a een assigned to pas
ag 2 eh flotilla, Atlantic fleet, an
ry duty with the Third Division of
tion.

EDUCATION NOTES.

first meéting of the Interscholastic

aaeqve reater New York
on April 21 at Bast Fourteenth
Committee

on Finance has voted tor
some for alterations and FE gre mah at
furniture for new Public

ort of Teachers’ Council on unfit
ations. in elementary schools and their
cael Seales aton to the Committee on

d of Bastetntsindente has requested
of Hducation to approve a course
and sylisbus for the Schoo] of the
} said that ¢ wi be litigation to
vd of Education a
foe surplus of $800,000 ‘in
irement fund,
schéol oF pg o wilt be g ndor "the se
tslegrap) under
occoerntive plan y.

pa FOR PROBATE.

MARY (Jan. 19;) left

Elizabeth A.

speci

a and charities have ean distributed,

@ States, the Ohjo and upper Mis-| J: -

on ‘AND FIRE NEWS.
| eth a Pc x ba Wath NK Sh bY 9 . ile
es. . grades: Patrol. ‘i 1,400

5 at ay aad is; B. bP
rt °C. DFS
ae G, F,

Catt, ae Pe
se Naighten, ay Backer,
170; . Ahern, Traftic B;

tersoh, 42;

Ted

1 ; J. Pape, 61; H, N. Stevenson,
152; H. cv, " Peterinann, 6 ot Ww. x Randolph,
D, bgt C, B, Montanye, D. B.

Kiause, age oe Bs Baliey, #* Ir. W. Conklin,
‘Mul ligan, 683; P.

3. Brawley, 68; RK. J. "Honea, Aas; A. J, Sieg-

Ki N. ye Nelso!
A al 3 ‘n Pepper,

ad, A a
54; B Dougherty, 185; 163; F ‘watcoim:
we #1480 grade Mar o.'.
b, Mbton », Mey 6:

oloney, 25
Jon a pe K ped
: pes Ph . J. is: ak

tic
Meg Nell 15; EB.

Me Reith Finken,
Reilly, “3; P..

B,C. daiughey, 300:
thiele
D. B.; aa ok: W. V. Hughes, 26;
Sag Bs - r _ adunvill 143: J. A. McFall, 68;
Mcica 152; I. C. Christie, 150: G
Weatetee 163. ‘a. T. Valentine, C. 0.5. Cc
L. Winter. 34 Dist.; L. Barbieri, D.
Transfers and gee Se 4'P. M. April
eS Unbekaat, 2T¢, assign. to 290 sub-
prect. discontd.
To take effect 8 A. M., April at; : Patrol.
P. P. Core t ™m,

i. eo

86; J. Gillooiy, 28 to 42; M. megs a
oe 36 to 48; Sullivan, 48 to”
M. Eichstaedt, wT h 153; G. Chaffers,
Brown, ido i tq H, juewie, 149 to’ 165; E.
heuser, 3 to 153} J. McKillop, 172 to Il
At & M., Apr. oy Prob. ‘Patrol.
prects. indicated from ‘Training School,
duty in uniform: F. J.

wv. PR, Six p _MeNulty,
Wohlfart, er Ti. %. °c
Carlson, 26; x A. Cronin, ec ro Cc, fporbtar,
26; B. a Moorehouse, 26; R. Swift, 28; R:
K, Herr 29; H. J, McArdle, 20; M
itchell. meas "Ww. Delahunty, 32;
oder, : I. P. Moriang, Jr. 35
cManus, 42; J. J. Gordon, 145; J.
Best, .1 I. Summergrade, 148;
Greeley, 14 ; N, Serere,.. 153;

for

ey A Swan, 147; H. Seinsot
Basel, 149;

Temporary assignments:: gay .
Dwyer, 2 I. D., to command a .
tion to his own, 5 days, 2
Patrol.—E. C. Buchman, 164 a 18 : D.,

A. Heidt,

> addi-

ith-

Patrol.—

with full pay:
or—J. lan, 3 1. yak ml days, 2
8, to Pulte B98 ng 3
» noon, April
it walle ae “get reper:

Gisability; e 08 ten hman,

Fire Deipaviiinduee,

Advancements in grade, to take effect at
net M. on the dates specified:
George, En, Hahn, ng. 10; J.
tek ‘No. 2 2, Big. id. 12; ‘J. Far jane a

ne veian ng a4 “H. x “Grelt Bee

33. G Petermhn, ;

bo; H. Ceccarelll,
Ee ie

Kennedy, No. 2,
ie, Eng. 72; W. J. Doug
be we Shanley, Pi
anew ing. 209; b apenal
aes SS mot, ene. 212;
ner, ey ‘ne. 237; - Donovan, H. &
holrn, = ‘e Ba my A ge” ess H.
Yrenk. at & A. stuith, N
& lL. : Ww. re Dorritie, Rescue 1
ae ist, May 5: H. F. A. Tabiee, H, &
84 to Mey Os J ay 5: A- yee Eng. 6; A,
Taylor, Eng. ss: x
Garn

re B

Kellermas,

44: G. H. Hammond, Jr.,

2d, May " Big Bitter, H. & L. 38.
24 to ist, May li: . Killen, ens.” 203;

The following will report to Fire. ist Gr.
W. H. Breuer at the 7th 5 ar ty he Park
Av, and 67th St., for practice, at 10 A. M.
A. Hetnetéell

he ae Eng. 31

J. J. D’Azevedo, Eng.

96; B. J, Donovan, Eng.

Ens. A, Dam-

. § Richards,

s Murray, H. &

"A. M., April 26: re. ist gra.

Cc. O. Decker, Eng. 32, (physically ty alebiea)

abied,) on annual penston of
Special leaves of absence: Fire. ist gra. J.
M. McCue, Eng. 84, 12 hours, 8 P. M., April
; Eng. of Str. T. J. McLaughlin, Eng. 138,
ig hours, 8 A. M., April 30.

ESTATE APPRAISED.

SENN, Mrs. MARY E., (March 17, 1915.)
Net estate, $83,041. The beneficiaries were:
Minnie Walli, not related, a life estate D-.

25,000 and personality valued at $954 o
rahe: Edwin D. Moore, cousin, $10,000; ei.
ward Senn, brother-in-law, life — in
$6,000 and personalty valued at $953 out-
right; Mabel W. Harvey and Louis F. Moore,
second cousins, each received $5,953; Emeline
Greenleaf, not related, $3,062; and several
minor legacies to Fe a not related to de-
cedent. Assets: ank, $43,857; mortgages
oer: $18, ete and stocks and bonds,

BOARDERS WANTED

irty cents an agate line.

. East Side.
34TH ST., 117-119 FAST, (Near Park Av.)—
Large single rooms, with board.

45TH, 8 BAST.—Large and small rooms, with
private bath; table board; references.

. Rooms with board; 2B ood table guests.

IRVING PLACE, 71.—Large rooms, with pri-
vate bath; also small. rooms, 1978 Gram-
ercy.

MADISON “AV. 218.—Rooms with and with-
out bath; cuisine excellent; references.

West Side,

serif - 20-22 . WEST.—Large, reg dh bas
well furnished; unexcelled board

West Side.

62D, )—-New, attrao-
tive an@ modern;
beoklet.

pow rh pba table guests;

STTH, 138 WHEST.—Pleasant with

first-class table; references.

90TH, 312 WEST.—Large and medium rooms,

private bath; excellent table; delightful and
convenient. location; table guests; Summer
tates.

rooms,

92D, 638 WEST.—Front room; southern expos-

ure; couple or gentleman; ri reference.
A0?7TH, 322 WEST, (Riverside Drive, near
Broadway.)—Modern private residence ,of-
fering luxurious ecenomy; very large rooms;
every convenience.

70TH, 127 WEHST.—Attractive redecorated
room; private bath; exceptional table; fine

4 service; references.

roundings;
Spring rates.

72D, 253 WHST —Tares, attractive,
rooms; excellent table; table guests;
reasonable.

WEST.—Refined Hebrew svr-
most excellent table; special

double
prices

606 WEST. —Room,

113TH, board; refined
Jewish family, board optional.

Apt. 6W.

115TH, Corner Manhattan, near Park. —Fam-
ef 1; pleasant rooms, suites;

social surroundings; $8 up. 4021

116 WEST.—Ei egant, very large
room with beuutiful private bathroom; ex-
ber vagy = ». Saas cooking. Toeneye Morning-
side 5

board
ringside.

73D, 142 WEST.—Exceptionally attractive,
high-class furnished rooms, with board;
unequaled French guisine: references.

73D, 256 WEST,—Large, attractive rooms
unsurpassed table; Southern cooking; table

guests.

T7TH, 301 WEST, (Pension Lu
Attractive accommodations, bat
home table; electricity.

78TH, 115 WEST.—Beautiful, large front
room with bath and board for couple or
two gentlemen; eléctricity, telephone.

78TH, 256 WEST.—An unusual house
unusual people, at usual prices.

79TH, 114 and 132 WEST.—Unusual and at-

tractive ‘‘ pensions,’’ with large parlors,
tea room, and lounge; steam feat; private
telephones; booklet on request.

Large rooms, single or en suite; very ren-
sonable rates to permanent guests; delight-
fully iccated for Summer living; references.

80TH, 123 WEST.—Comfortable and attrhct-

ive rooms; continuous hot water; excellent
home. table.

uelle, )—

for

1 , 156 WEST.—Comfortable rooms; re-
ined neighborhood; home cooking; refer-

ence; table guests. j

149TH, 544 WEST, (near Broadway.)—Health-
lest seetion; the Audubon; bright rooms or

suites; e@xcelient meals and services; hote

accommodations, boarding house prices. 2757
udu

H LA PORT, 117th St. and Amsterdam

Av. rer overlooking Columbia Univer-
sity; large and small rooms; home cooking;
hotel service; reasonable rates,

RIVERSIDE aye, 549.--Exceptionally at-

om. ecting rooms, with superior
senna. ‘8 ty ana Fibs weekly, Telephone 4960
Morningside. Payne.

WEST END AY. 279, (corner 73d.)--Hand-

some private corner house, with elevator;
will rent large, handsomely furnished toom
with private th; connecting single room if
desired. . ;

WEST END AV., 531, (86th St.)—Large and
small rooms, with excellent board, in well-
vi house; references exchanged.

Eng."
Fack-

7 aie Laginki Caetled wae

eae Sydnee! resinicld Shh tile Nad ilove eae

eg ve Tonga oP ae

“HELP WANTED, FEMALE , ui

Wanted.—Ps ro) who =f an a

iam, we a few dew ibetenied

& rare op. y.

lished shirt business; ¢ ation and
reason

ating’ conditions; and ill.
at retiring. Address Shirt Mfr, this ¢
parti rs of experience
qualitieat O18, whieh will be held in confi-
xX 450 ee Annex.

sire an
loos

A physician with. in Bulle
wae eh first-c ise health pt in

wai igtt al Sh one capa re
ate © an PD 5. woo . nd
uested 000. 4a, "ot Bast

47th St.

Pat tents secured, trade-ma
tect your oa ask bn
free Baene ae

wanted: a
ren Wool:
idg., ;: Phohe Barclay ti
NAVESMAN Win ey AN
INVEST N ustab SHED, GOOD-
PAYING GuoAR AND SUIT MANUFACT-
RING BUSINESS. IF INTERESTED AD
L:63 TIMES

HAVE. sobs UPWARD WITH SERVICES

ee paying, established business; am tired

ers; only parties ha

4 th. in their business to
béfore investing, write.

ve fair a
es Downtown,

nfidential,

Weng

alesis eek

Larayerta ee 4th aos

Partner with —— wanted In waist and
dress mig. established ten years.
M. 58 Tienes.

Business Notices

Business Loans.
DISCOUNTING

or accounts and

Tgently reawent

can use additional — to
Dur liberal, our

sag neice ogg ta

‘AgDIy "300

~ AYn

jag See ee
Printing ana Multiz-aphing.

RUS) PRINTING | A
most iar hia, ge etvtopeh Bo
réduction in, qonr ; ee hall ord ting rea-

bie; catal order it.
ona a. is Oc, Witinde vy gg

WONDERFUL tga a sell
room house; fifties; filled
Don lol oe monthly; price §2,

Times.
Capital wanted to ma rket an exceptional
utility; cost $40, will sell for $100 or more;
unlimited market. Model at Room 239, 17
Battery Place, Wednesday.
Treasurer wanted in enlarging manufacturing
business; Bradstreet’s references; invest-
ment required. X 227 Times Annex,

Fifty cents an agate line.

EGON EBERT,

4 Bast 28th St., N.
TO wHom IT MAY CONCERN.—TAKE NO-
tice, that my wife, Mrs. Egon Bbert, has
left my bed and board and that I am mir re-

sponsible for her debts or obligations

” HEL

ABRAHAM & STRAUS,
FULTON S8T,, BROOKLYN.

Per Ate OF Dene took Require
ber of girla parce!
certificate ack proof of wren:

tant el.

with working
A peri
one saben Viece Floor,

ADMINISTRATIVE H ggg rey ee wan’
ed by gen’ residing in Oyster Bay

déonoas highést references Ad-

dress, with fullest particulars, R 4 Times,

- Bonwit ‘Teller & Co.

Sth Ave. & 38th St.,

Require the services of
High-Claas

SALESWOMEN

for their LINGERIE ‘Department.

Only those accustomed to the highest
class of patronage need apply. .

Employment Department,
wae x hy Entrance,

COOK.—Experienced, to sleep at home; ref-
erences necessary. Apply for apbointment
at 45 East 84th St., or telephone Lenox 7611.

COMPANION for elderly lady in suburbs.
Call from 9-12 A. M., 87 West 127th St.

HELP |W

ED, MALE

ents an agate line.

AN_ OHIO CORPORATION HAS OPENING
ON ITS NEW YORK SELLING FORCE
FOR TWO MEN CAPABLE Ste BARNING
5,000 YEARLY CN STRAIGHT COMMIS-
ION’ BASIS; APPLICANT MUST STATE
PAST EXPERIENCE, AGE, AND WHETH-
ER OR NOT EMPLOYED AT PRESENT;
FIDELITY BOND REQUIRED. M 30 TIMES.

ARMATURE WINDERS wanted on direct
current work. Apply Electric Operations
Company, 254 36th 8t., Brooklyn.

AUTOMOBILE . MECHANIC.—Abraham &
Straus, Fulton St., Brooklyn, an ge me-
chanic with a thorough knowledge of
ws must competent ve do fepair work
a large fleet of cars. Aon, to Superin-
tendent. Subway Floor, East lding.

AUTOMOBILE A cage rage an opening for
one man of pr ability, for the metropol-

itan district; give Zull information rr

Re connections; commission. T. 41
imes.

BOOKKEE
MUST READ, WRITE, dy TALK ITALIAN
Young man ‘under 30 years of age, one W

is thoroughly familiar with double entry
system, who has had experience ip opening
and closing sets of ks. Must be first-
class penman and f ish A-1 references,
which will be thoroughly investigated, State
age, experience, nationality, references, and
salary expected. ‘Position to be in new com-
pany just being organized, and offers very
good opportunity for advancement. Address
Chihuahua, N aks Times Downtown.

BOOKKEEPER.—A prominent fire insurance

company requires bookkeeper who is thor-
oughly familiar with the checking of agents’
accounts, synopsis work, &c.; apply in own
handwriting, stating age, experience, and sal-
ary expected. N 2380 Times Downtown,

BOOKKEEPER AND CASHIER.—Must be
thoroughly experienced, accurate, and un-
derstand loose-leaf system; exceptional op-
portunity in office of fast-growing manufac-
turing concern; bond veneers § give full par-
ticulars and & walary desired. 37 Times,

BOOKKEEPER. — Assistant; double entry;

typist; good future; location Bush Terminal,
Brooklyn; state fuil fculars, includiag
salary. G 265 Times wntown,

Y.—An opportunity js afforded a bright
at 5 with Ren school education, living ‘at
home with parents, to enter employ of large
fire insurance company, where application
and ability recetve recognition. Address P.

BOYS, by large insurance company offering

opportunity to learn business; good future
for bright boy; must be willing, educated, of
good address, and ambitious, give informa-
tion regarding age, nationality, education, ex-
perience, salary expected, &c., G 263 Times
Downtown.

BCY wanted in law office; must be at least

16 years of age end reside with parents.
Apply in go nenen s own handwriting. Ad-
dress N 234 Times Downtown.

BOY wanted in architect's office; must be a

worker. Apply in own handwriting, stating
references and salary expected; school u-
ate accepted: M51 Times.

BOY of ability and some experienge in —

of importing grocery conce -
ences required. Address in own ‘handwriting.
N 239 Times Downtown.

BOYS for office work; must be over 16; good

promotions for the right boys. Apply 9:30
A. M., Western Electric Co., Inc., 463 West

ROY.—Wanted, by wholesale woolen house,
bright, gentlemanly bey; just from school
preferred. Address M 57 Times.

BOY, 15-16, for office. Apply in own hand-
writing, stating references and salary ex-
pected, R 60 Times.

BOY for downtown office; must be intelli-
gent; good opportunity for advancement.
G 268 Times Downtown.

BOY for publishing house, quick, neat, and
intelligent; — opportunity; $5 to start.
Apply 389 5th Av.

BOY (16 to run errands in an automobile
factory; $4.50 a week. Apply 549 West
59th St.

BOY, 16-18, stock, ladies’
Chelsea, Box 17, 352 6th Av.

undermusilins.

“FURNISHED “ROOMS

y cents an agate line.

East Siae.

11TH ST. & B'WAY, (Estate of Renwick.)
ST. DENIS Hotel, Facing Grace Church.
REVISED RATES $4, $5, $6 Weekly a Up,
Monthly Rates to Teachers and Students.
Special Courtesies'to Ladies. Club Broskfasis.
SENSIBLE RESTAURANT P: PRICES.

28D, 20 HAST, (Madison “Square South.)—
Suite, two rooms and bath.

45TH, 16 EAST. —Handsome room,
bath; room with piano; single toom,

EXINGTON AV., 642.—Bachelor or business
agent 8 wishing superior accommodations can
have elegant room, bath; private house;

owner.

LEXINGTON AV., 265, (36th St.)—Doct6r’s

office; modern conveniences; single rooms,
bath. Murray Hill 728,

, 220, (86th St.)—Large and small,
A uned and. unfurnished rooms, bath,
suitable for oftie8, studios or

West side.

private

TH ST., 126 WHST.—Large room, attractive
by running water; closets; telephone.

82D ST.—Large roo! with hot and celd run-
ning ee

pit'to $1 18; dias rate tor “two perso

some rooms at §7 weekly. Hotel

at Broadway. |
te beth, §10
ern a sath gle

28 -WEST.—Handsome

a ag spent ngisctvilty, nitchenet tier
Zondheaes + Poched

vOTH ST. 63 WEST.—Hall room, bath on
oor; gentlemen,

contin-
uous hot water er euppiyY sect , tele-
phone; references

h room;

—Rooms . with
ie 57 Deahiy: pastor,

. Reteke owner; near 1

West Side: A

102 West.—Attractive, pledsant front
lavatory; all conveniénces; references.

78TH, 115 WEST.—Beautiful suite of rooms,

with bath, for voteguerdl a rivate home;
electricity, tel subway,
elevated, and

78TH, 212 WEHEST.—Nicely furnished rooms;
running water; Summer rates; gentlemen
preferred.

78TH, 136 WEST.—Attractive, large front
rooms, adjoining bath; conveniences; light
housekeeping.

Attractive room, adjoining bath; apartment;
bachelor.

Tith,
room ;

hone ;
1 rs an ioe

897TH, 145 WEST.—Unusually attractive, well
:fummiahed front room, bath, telephone; gen-
emen.

102D, 302 WHEST.—Private “hous, Riverside
Drive; attractively -furnished room, bath;
telephone; subway.

ap om 229 WBHST.—Lady, alone, offers $6

$2, business woman; 7 weeks, In-
quire  alavater mén.

112TH, 11 WEST.—Comfortable outside
ny sf rae near subway; private fam-

118TH, 541 WEST.—Two rooms sqjoining,
. suitable one, two gentlemen. Apt.

me 5641_West.—One, two beautiful
adjoining; elevator a

wee aie

A homelike,
~guite
over!

hart’

ae Seder slaotrie e light
‘erences, "Audubon ight;

sunny, rage prod furnished
with weeis bath and ig balcony

verside Drive, can had in
strictly private residence, occupled
St. subway. Telephone,

AL PARK WHST, (68th.)—Couple
rip Ma rent deligh ng
me 7015 bites” sys

pentitul epesterd 14 Lak See
wit Hawhtan’ ay te
Houses” na

(oF ,unturntined | ees el

five ecige| eg

ook, fat AGN a |
ences.
cs ge ag

venience;

a path. kitchenette, 88; ingle, $3.50.

studio, it .
ter; conve

Bite} Bt. 206 Wear. crest Desiaie |

LADY, Teer handsome Columbia Heights

apartment, will -” suite or single room

te a desirable party; references. L. -C., Times
rle

LADY would

attractive room in her ele-
gant home,

i clapiens 8698 Schuyler.
room with bath,

ONE and one suit h
bath; loca’ in the fifties, near Bth tc.
for gentleman only; references. Times.

BT. NICHOLAS TERRACB, 25, Corner "128th

St.—Couple in modern elevator apartment

b t tside room, adjoining bath;
ndings. Apt. 54.

- Rooms Wanted

BURROUGHS adding machine repair man
desired. John E. Ranson, auctioneer, 30
Church St.. New York.

CABINETMAKER. — Foreman for cabinet
shop; must have thorough knowledge of

machinery, experience in fine cabinet work,

and be able to handle men. R 67 Times.

CHAUFFEUR.—Experienced, careful chauf-
feur for a Cadillac car. ddress, with ref-
erences, Punctual, X 263 Times Annex.

CIVIL ENGINEER, experienced combination

tile and concrete floors, wanted at once for
field job outside of cit Apply, 9-1 o'clock,
National Fireproofing 3o., Flatiron Building.

CLERKS.—Two exfertenced clerks for large
manufacturing concern about fifty miles

from New York. Write, giving experience,

Manufacturer, Box N 233 Times Downtown.

CORRESPONDENT by large Baltimore

wholesale tailor to trade concern; only
those with actual tailor to trade experience
and knowledge of —— follow-up,
and advertising need apply ress, statin
experience, roferences, and salary,. Box R
Times Annex.

LE wanted; janitor and chambermaid
oe tien 220 Madison Av., near 36th St.

FARMHANDS, married couple, and single

man; wife cook, general housework; men
thoroughly competent workers; all branches;
references. Apply Hotel Irving, East 20th, 8
evening.

ARNESS AND SADDLE MAKER.—Ap)
geudebaker, 445 Broadway, Wednésday,
tween 9 and 10 A. M.

INSIDE SALESMAN for large’ New York

wholesale paper and cardboard house; give
references and salary. N 222 sa wn-
town.

LACH STOCKBOY, OE experienced,
capable taking charge; references; salary.
Steinfeld Co., 99 5th A

MAN, experienced, to operate wee ia,
tles manufacturing glacé pinsepaies
glace cherries; out-of-town position; ents
ctor mees. Address K 153 Times.

MECHANICAL DRAFT mid wanted bag
experience on  switchboards, Adarebs Chiet

witches, circuit mea e &e.
Clerk ng Departmen
fg. Co., Bast’ Pitupurnh,

Clerk, Engineer!
house Electric &

MILLINERY BUYER.—Wan
110,000 popalesics.¥ hag

York, a hustler to ta

ment doing a popular-pr

277 Times Annex. ae

OFFICE ASSISTANT.—YOUNG MAN, WITH
NOWLEDGE OF BOOKKEBDPING AND
STRNOG HY AS OFFICE ASSISTANT;
SPLENDID CHANCE; STATE AGE, SAL-

ARY, AND REFBRENCBS. R 60 TIMBS.
inion

paper og BOY Agee about 15
a be neat, he rows os Saas bo
ector
nish Thaee 2B Sth Av. art con
desires expert otographer;
ce In this business need apply; state et expe-
Hence, salary, and references. R 58 Times

ed, in a cit
miles of

business: x

, Times, 2
salthe B
position: only those with professional expe:

TWA Rao HL

SALESMAN. —Experienced clothing salesman

Wanted to managé a clothing store in a
near-by city of 150,000 population; only a
first-clasy man with executive ability need
apply; to a live, hustling young man we of-
fer a aplendid opportunity; straight salary or
salary and comimission. Levy & Nathan, In-
corporated, 114 Sth Av.

SALESMAN wanted familiar with jobbing
and retail tobacco and confectionery yer

for Long Island; one who can furnis'

car te cover territory; salary, Call r 0

A. M., Room 819, 405 Lexington Av., New
York. 9

SALBSMAN.— erianget shoe salesman
wanted for h: ling fine trade; neat in ap-
pearance; weeny. ei must know window
trimming; salary $20 t per week, Ap-
ly to Il. L. Kleban & 27 Walker. St.,
ednesday, 12 to1 P. M.

SALESMEN.—Two young men with trade to

call on small dry goods stores with waists,
intiadiin underwear, etc.; one New York City,
Bronx, and vicinity ; one for New Jersey and
Won Tint drawing account and commission.

CORSET BUYER.—Wanted, a city of 110,-

000 population,) within 125\miles 62. New
York, a hustler to take chargé of an up-to-
date corset department; onl
stands fitting required. X.276 Times Annex.

GENERAL HOUSEWOQRKER.—To go to the

country, one hour from New York; four“in
family; no ba as a ran ‘improve-
ments: wages $30. Mrs. 421 West 119th
St., (near Columbia University)

GIRL Suar's Bi oe eg housework

in cook no washi
have city reierences. partment 15,
100th St., city.

good
must
§ Weat

HOUSEW ORKER.—Competent, neat, white

general hovseworker; apartment; family of
2 and child® after May, seashore; $30; no
washing; city references. Stockard, 71 Cen-
tral Park West, cor. 67th St.

MILLINERY BUYER.—Wanted, in a city of
40,000 population, within 125 en s of New

York, a hustler to take cha:

ment doing a popular-pri

depart-
ptisihens. x

¥ man of cultura

‘| commission.

ui pe Work ;

Ope til wandreds of —$10-$15; we are unable
desirab

| Sante

one who under- |

MAN.—Prominent spat

Lis, 220° West ug She St.

Aor i es education for
arsnce, state, rt

alesse
light office be ggi
mer; nea state
sa wanted. Ly snag Dawnsowe,
STENOGRAPHER wanted 2 hours itt day;
ie Fi eee) preferred » who practice
r than oe ite “quilt, 564

Riversian

eet tn, writer Wishes
steni i Se Sunday afternoons; hours,

| ans

SUPERVISOR. Fath bene of refinement to re-

ide in and .mother groups of
boys, 6 to yee old. Apply Thursday and
Monday morning, Ralph Av. —- Pacific.
8t., Brooklyn }

NG: LADY, bright; wanted
need not be a pine ih “but

that she be able to operate t writer.
1 Times Downtown. ree

. .Employment
Fifty cents .an

gencles,
be line.

fill hundreds o le positions owl
pontoity, of " above the. average.’’. apple

¥PIST.—Able to do billing; must be good

at figures; “ah
ge A, Se Rr
A ONGLISH STENOGRA-

PHER —Must
both languages, Son ely experienced in
1 between 9 a

Cali nd 1

NATIONAL EMPLOYMENT EXCHAN
80 Church 8t., City. ”

STENOGRAPHERS, So tespapente

ings fot eR a

kkeepers, and
typists. Call hill,»
Building. (Agency,) Flatiron

BCOKKEEPERS, SPSNOGRAPHERS, - _
‘lerical;- weitercus

istration... "Van tym ‘Kéenet. 1 T West bit 34th Fal

also key No:
et ET

N’ oct

as ‘Bin, on ean
bg i a

Times

ort th § Se
Return

LOST — — Meclum-aeed racial

reasons big.

‘Wwalter B, 5 1% Sroadw

ring on

LOST.—Diamond solitaire subway ©
Fale 1 Pe er 50th St.. Aprit as =

a. Caanfers ti Giitmor

ye mi pa Sunt Biltmore nk paar
bese rade. ny

-ward if

mUurned te Allos O. De Duttey one

Lua. fae:

LOST—Pin. 7 stones;
ward; no » e-~ or ma B’ way or
St. Clair, 2121 Circle,

5 sapphires

way;
ive.

LOST—Brown maribou boa in Broadway

suitable reward. 87, 440

5th Av.;

me eee

LOST.—Sapphire a ring, Here
reward; ms

Winslow

—. PP Be Ht

¢ * Instruction -
Thirty-five cents an agate Hine,
A.—THE U. 8. SECRETARIAL’

642 Hifth Av.. 48th Bt.--Pre-eminentiy ome
most’ succéssful training institution ot its

king m the country; prepares a limited num«
ber for social, professional, and 5

LOST.
ward.

arty
Til Woot 88

aa oe or =

eiss, 772 Park Av.

REWARD FOR-RETURN
Lost on Sth Av., between 43d and 58th

brown velvet purse, gold top and chain, -
stones in c

tial secretaries; excellent positions. Day and

evening courses, ly for logue. Prof,
Meagher, M. A., ( Ft aigsotan, '

between

gton

REWARD.—Gold bracelet, on East T2d4
reen Lexin Av. and Park
April 20, Raymond J. Schweizer, : 150 Ba

A.-A.—A_ SPECIAL COURS
FOR TRAINING SECRETARIES
at a — ere stered
he Regents of ng

atate or New” ork. Individual
PRATT SCHOOL West 4505. ot gut,
throughout the country for thorough work.
A.—A.—THE NEW a, K scH
py al rahe SCHOOL OF

Three months’ alncedy of atv ual fnstruc-
tion; students on_ probation; g¢ tort resis.

277 Times Annex.

ter Acolian Hall, 35 West 42d St,
Vv. M. La el ok

SITUATIONS WANTED, FEMALE

Twenty ci ents

an agate line.

SALESMAN. — Well-established house, han-
dling line with big demand, requires man of
dress, can sell on commission

sis; very profitable proposition and perma-
nent. M, L, Co., 110 Madison Av., near 29th,

SALESMEN. — Opportunity for big money -

making now to handle large variety of easy-
selling suburban properties; plenty of good
leads; liberal commission. Apply, between 2
and 4, Stephenson, 243 West 84th St,

SALESMAN.—Experienced man to sell large

variety houses, lots, and shore fronts every-
where on Long Island; easy selling plan; big
commission; good leads furnished. T. J.
Browne, 349 East 14th St.

AN INTELLIGENT YOUNG LADY, good

writer, university graduate, desires position

in publicity department of aap cumonem sal-
$20 at the teg:nning. K 52 Times.

BOOKK EEPHR’S* ASSISTANT, "graduate
businees <chool, willing, ambitious, desires
ition. Sarah Chodas, 87. East S8th St.
hone, Plaza 2993. .

BOOKKEEPRR. —Long experience: familiar
af ae” detalls; trial balance; saiury, $18-$20.
N 216 Times Downtown.

BOOKKEEPER.—Double entry; eight years’
experience; entire charge; Christian; $165.
N 213 Times Downtown.

SALESMEN, stationery, paper, and twine;
only those of experience and established

territory will be considered; salary and com-

mission. Frank Levy, 9 East Broadway.

SALESMAN for an out-of-town book store;

young, energetic; good education; salary
and opportunity; write full particulars, cdu-
cation, experience, and salary expected. R
66 Times.

STOCK CLERK, thoroughly experienced in
a _- line. Wertheimer Bros., 19 East

SECR RY. ~

An experienced secretary to act' for an as-
sociation of ‘manufacturers to compile statis-
tics and take full charge of office; give ref-
erences of former Sie ae and salary
desired. Reply Sevi, ox N 211 Times
Downtown.

SILVERSMITHS, e
TIFFANY & CO.

Require first-class Silversmiths,

Tiffany & Co., Forest Hill,

Newark, N. J.

SOLICITOR.—Middle-aged man of g00d -ap-

pearance to call -on wealthy Fen Sno men;

ore = a from wealthy peo-
future; commission, Call Room 1,1

80 Maiden Lane. ergot al

SPECIALTY SALESMAN. —Higk class, to
call on delicatessen, butcher, and grocer

trade in exclusive territory; commission basis,

American Slicing Machine Co., 9 West 14th.

BOOKKEEPER, experienced, desires position
with progressive concern; highest cre-
dentials, N 235 Times Downtown.

BOOKKEEPER.—Capable taking full charge;
any system; knowledge stenography; Chris-
tian. K 142 Times.

Emplo: Agencies
Fiiy pa dary gen an agate line,

COLORED HOUSEWORKERS.
soot, inveeae
Col us 51
Ww 69th,

experienced girls, cncalient”
| Fated references. phe wag
est,
chambermaids,

mestic Service Ag
(couple German,)
butlers. Domestic Exchange, 324 C
Av., (%5th St.) Schhyler 9186. my

BERTHA CARLSON’S AGENCY,
Broadway, corner 89th S&t.,
servants. 9463 Riverside,

nurses, 9 ne Mo

Tirst-ciass

mark,
ward.

bull pur

puppy,
spot on

Lost and Found, Cats and Dogs.”

LOST—Boston

about
oe old; white

ed also oh face d beets Hib
° and c

iberal Pes

-five

cents an

rrent; two phase,

One ‘Crocker-Wh ler 10 ag 1% Motor;
C. Current; 500 V: rol tor >
starting box, :
Motors are: in excellent con Gitien and sub-.
ject to Sone
COOK

at ony ge

‘Athonis i 6

For Sale, Miscellaneous

For Sale.—One Westinghouse reg 5 a

P. M.; also

& SON,

INC.,

Made to
prices;
MARTIN
oe eae

order;

superior tailoring;
no security; confidential. HAMILTON:

co,, tailors, Wl Bw:

MEN’S credit tallors—$i2 waite $1 down,
weekly; men’s snappy clothes, ready-m: i

low:
ahaa §,.

fie ot

eg ag
rs all makes

- ig machines, mae :
Ban ioe taeate a, ae pin As be gh? ng . Wats

desks. chalet

Downtown

no fgg,

inowaerat os in.—Mosler safe, practically
new, value $175, for sale, account of en-
larging offices;

248 Times:

ay Se ERD EMPLOYMENT. —Hel

supplied
» month. 107 West Pools

Morningside.

70 Times.

Manufacturer's sam
silk and cloth su

ts for sale

ples of high- -grade Tadieg’
at retail.

COLUMBIA STUDENT, experienced, desires
part time clerical or secretarial work. K

COMPANION.—As useful companion, pnd
lady, 20; Protestant; teach drawing

water color; read well; reference exc

M 85 Times.

COMPANION or attendant to invalid, by wo-
man) of refinement, education; age, 83; ex-
perienced; city or country. M ‘29 Times.

COMPANION.—Colle:
sition; would trav
quired.

graduate desires
; references given,
X 278 Times Annex,

ot sorter

She

tween

COOK.—A lady would place her cook of
months’ experience asf second coo

can be seen at 18. West i7 St.

COOK.—A lady wishes to r@commend her

colored cook for the Summer] Can be seen
at 10 Washington Square North from 1 until
2 o'clock until Friday.

DRESSMAKER, — Cut,
finish them yourself;
Times Downtown.

fit, start dresses;

DRESSMAKER; $2.50 daily; gowns, remod-
eling. Hensley, 3,117 Broadway. Phone
5805 Morningsiue, A. M.

SUPERINTENDENT.—Pharmiceutical house

wishes Superintendent for manufacturing
department; young man, aggressive, experi-
enced, and reliable; must understand phar-
maceutical line throughout, and also com-
plete manufacture of tablets, including coat-

ing, &c. Apply, stating references, X 273
Times Annex

TOOL and GAUGE MAKERS.—Wanted, a
number of fa grade tool and gauge mak-

ers; best p work under best of condi-

tions in ideal location. Apply by letter or in
rson to the Greist Manufacturing Co., New
aven, Conn.

WAGON HELPERS.—Young men, age 18 to
28, for wagon helpers. Write, giv ng age,
experience, &c., Experience, Box 450 Times.

YOUNG MAN Wanted.—In a large bank in

lower part of city, young man as messen-
ger; must*be a fair penman and have a
grammar school education.
age and salary expected, Box 297, Times,
Rector St.

YOUNG MAN wanted as messenger, down-

town banking house; neat appearing, good
penman; must come well recommended, N
206 Times Downtown.

YOUNG MAN for mail and an or
state-experience and salary. G 26
Downtown,

clerk;
Times

Employment Agenctes.
Fifty cents an agate line.
NATIONAL EMPLOYMENT EXC
80 Church Stree made abeie
MECHANICAL DRAFTSMEN on steam
power plant design, piping layouts, etc.
Salary, $25 to weekly.
MECHANICAL DRAFTSMAN on chemical
plant layouts. Salary, $30-$35
SEVERAL MBCHANICAL DRAFTSMEN on
boiler settings, coke ovens, tools, jigs and
fixtures, automatic machinery, piping lay-
outs and seeret heavy machinery, repairs,

etc. Salaries,
DESIGNERS,
CER

building oe 5 office building all NB. oe

Call perwenn 9 and 2 o'clock.

Willis Hawle: a ay 50 Court St., Brooklyn.
At least fi rtunities for young

men as Gockasiont’ draftsmen, order clerks,

stock mie bank ¢lerks, book at teepers, ad-

renorraphera #8, 10903, G8 gLEESS, BS

8 graphers

select office boy, $ #8 aaah
BOOKKEEPER yt TE PNOGRAPHER

Private cunen oben Bt
Ebony ribten Shane
man sy
Credential ‘Agency, eg

258 Broadway.
IMMEDIATE OPENINGS. — B
clerks, stenographers, salesmen -dvattamen,
pete ne ae
other opent:
Bui wide

ne atenogra
Mighill, aaerapher Pe nan

EFFICTH P coy? OYMBENT EXCHANGE,
.—Steno

Agen hers, clerks,
steck stork aaee r, rfc : 2
ers. Miss "Bedembenten Phas Rec en ee
STENOGRAPHER. pe Soa bout 25;
good address. and education; $100 monthly ;
also gpenins. $12, Clark Agency, 5 Beek-
map

everal eee,
t| Eonocls 96 ‘Clark Agency, 5
tion.
Thirty-fien eens an agate line,
A.—A.—-THE NEW BS SCHOOL OF
the’ course of individual instruo-
a ats Tall oe weataae ae? ee
Vv. M. WHEAT Birsetor
Bagot ror egy COURSB; al
ration by penmanship ae:
Inseruction ps Bb yma Sar or

Sen iivaasioney ten eaten ae
nstitute, (founded 1858,) Broadway at

16; grammar
Beekman St,

individual
night;
invest!
worth

; Pleagant
evening
side oh. b0k Weet Sith.

WANTED NOW.—40 Men to Train for Guar-
an Out-of-door

ene te

Address, stating |

GOYERNESS,—Young lady desires position
resident governess; teaches German, Eng-
lish, kindergarten; highest references as to
loyalty and ability; country preferred. B. H.,
160 East sith. Murray Hill 3390,

GOVERNESS, teaching English, German,
physical care to young children; best refer-
ence. LL. M., 160 E. 37th, 3290 Murray Hill.

GOVERNESS.—German, experienced, wishes
position American family; kindergarten.’ P.

GOVERNESS, nursery, North German, de-
sires position; experienced; music; best ref-
erences. M 44 Times.

GRADUATE of high school,

School of Business, capable and efficient
stenographer, with 6° months’ experience in
office of a prominent C. P, A., desires em-
ployment. K 50 Times.

LADY, thoroughly efficient and trustworthy,

w ishes position in club, institution; charge
invalid; widower’s home; refined, intelli
knowledge languages; good cook; wi ag
worker. X 281 Times Annex.

MAID, &c.—Young girl
maid, seamstress; sleep home. Podelins, 236
West 70th St, Phone 7 Columbus,

MASSEUSE.-—Danish girl, graduated mas-
seuse, position in sanatorium or as nurse,
companion. M 48 Times,

NORTH GERMAN, experienced in the care
of children; ay "French and English; city
MAK » 160 Hast 37th St, Murray

also of Eagan

wishes position as

reference.

SITUATIONS WANTED, MALE

Twenty cents an agate line.

ABLE ACCOUNTANT ap -
TEMATIZERS ; - pian: 8s 7

financia’
sennbie, Commercial, a Wail 8t. Ysnever

ACCOUNTANT,
PB ag vm clused,

tai

$3.50 weekly. Accountan'
eom 01. "relephone Cortlandt

ACCOUNTANT installs ae syste
stopping gen “ne as statements 0!
information

inteliiaer tly dev
business; Lnbabtainty en Busini
run like a bank. Fleming, 30 Bast 12d Bt
Prone lurray oe 1 2696. a

au ae 7, “~t, P, A., audits, systems,

financial hooks opened, closed,
written up; career -~ preety ees and loss
statements

repens lance shee ges
moderate. g A., Room 761, y Sth Av.
1611 Gramercy.

ACCOUNTANT, CHESTER N.
131 West 3ist St. Madison Sq. 3780,
Books opened, written up, closed and sys-+
tematized. Periodical audits, financial state>

ments, investigations; terms reasonable.

ACCOUNTANT.—Socoks opened, kept part
ume, closed, audited, systematized, finan-
cla} statemonts rendered. Srowndorff, 300
Broadway. Tel, Worth 1626.

ACCOUNTANTS. Salances,
monthly, - upward; books
Friedlander,

ed si lines, books
ted

ss ai

ROGERS,

audits, §
ayetematized,
opened, cl le 19 Cedar
Telephone John
ADVERTISING MAN of ability and excep-

tional experience offers services as adver-
tising manager of a large bank, high-class
investment or real estate company, or book
publishing house in New York. For interview
address M 7 Times.

ADVERTISING SOLICITOR.—Have_ earned
over $100 a week for years. M 50 Times, i

ASSISTANT OFFICE MANAGER, (24,) uni-
versity graduate, seeks position requiring an
poco i 2 8 years’ public accounting experi-
ence, 2 gears office manager and credit man;
salary $25 to $30. N 237 Times Downtown.

CHAUFFEUR.—Neat;
preciate; 9 years’ experience.

uss Times

good future;
Times Annex.

COST ACCOUNTANT, 26, single, five
Present position, wants connection oxfering ri
high! y recommended. es

ENGINEER, draughtsman, Superintedaale
construction work, general manager;
years’ experience.

N 236 Times Downtown.

ment;

Times Downtown.

could

efficiently

EXECUTIVE OR ASSIST)
Energetic and alert;.
initiative, and demonstrat
fective work;
Partment or prove valuable ag “* ri

fifteen’ years’ experience by o
motion, advertising, purchasing an
excellent petereniete:

éxecu
ed capacity for ef-.

‘ e abflity, ij '

Possessin;
perienc

enographer,
N Ti

EXECUTIVH SECRETARY, ee
wea

requisite qualifying attri
office m ;

Share vee
imes Downtow

hest credentiain

lines;
sion
methods,
local buye

on gy Prep ne :

desires manage

concern where 1B x0

long experience buying and sel

America and other Latin countries,’ spec

ing electrical machinery, supplies and Kindred
ersonally acquainted leading commis-

sources of supply,

and principal

K 141 Times.

erchants,

large foreign

departm : moe *
Seca te businiens’ pe.

M 46 Times.

HEAD WAITER, 29, married; 12 years’ ex-

perience in hotel and club line; good ap-
pearance and good penman, desires position;
best references.

MASSAGE,
men’s resi
Murray Hill

~ ees
dence,

hha 4 A gentle-
Jam AnBers . Phone

Sales,

ability desired;
qualified record. R 52 Times,

Position wi

OFFICE MANAGER, ACCOUNTANT, eb
six years in charge of credits,
supervision of books,
wide accounting experience;
future for conscientious man of; executive
university Sees

ollections,
unusuall

A YOUNG MAN WISHES POSITION. IN
LAW OFFICE; FURNISH REFERENCES.
M 39 TIMES,

BOOKKEEPER.-—-Expert mathematician, con-

trol all accounts, trial balances, financial,
business statements; willing, responsible,
loyal; small remuneration. M ¥ Times.

BOOKKEEPER, stenographer, (26,) 8 years’
experience, desires position with a house
where ability is appreciated; $18. M 295

Times Downtown.

BOOKKEEPER and cashier; commercial and
Wall St. experience; good correspondent,

typist; exceptional references. N 215 Times

Downtown,

books, -c

mes.

redit,

financing,

OFFICE MANAGER, thorough snowielae 2 of
and ‘ matiufactur-
ing, desirous of connecting with oreming con-
cern; high-grade references; age 26.

Downtown

POFFICE WORK.—Young man, 19, ineat pen-
man, accurate at figures, can o

perate
writer, desires position in office.

type-
N 214 Times

University

John M.

RELIAGE AGENT, with thirty-five
experience renting,

years’

collecting, and man-~ ©
aging ‘real estate and taking entire charge of
properties, is looking for new clients; best of
references or: bonds.

Bronx,

BOOKKEEFPPER and office assistant; 4 years’

experience; accurate at figures; "moderate
salary; age 24. C. R., 216 Johnson Av.,
Brooklyn.

BOOKKEEPER, stenographer,
controlling accounts;
ence; Christian. M 61 Times,

27; competent;
eight years’ experi-

NURSE for elderly lady; city or country;
references, 112 East 106th St.

BOOKKEEPER, 23; at present. employed;
capable to take full charge;. excellent ref-
erences; salary $16. N_ 220 Times_ Downtown.

OFFICE ASSISTANT.—Quick, accurate fig-
urer; good penman; néat appearance; $10,
M 231 Times wntown.

PROOFREADER wants position,
part of time; experienced in all
reeding, ut

preferably
kinds of
but aely fitted for final book
Times.

SECRETARY.—Stenographer, (Christian,) re-
fined, intelligent, seeks high-class posi-
tion; ten years’ engineering, financial, com-
mercial experience; ee ania, ac-
curate; highest references. $4 Times
Downtown,

SECRETARY.—Confidential;

ing tewn; un uestionable references; age
25; ten years’ business ee M 52
Times.

SECRETARY, Stenographer,
sires position writer’s country place for
Summer. N 219 Times Downtown.

STENOGRAPHER,~—Fast yrs |
achool education; accurate, neat;
thy Mellor, Stenotype Company,

employer leav-

educated, de-

high
Doro-
West

BOOKKEEPER. — Systematizer, executive
ability, broad experience; can take complete
charge. 218 Times Downtown.

BOOKKEEPER.—Thoroughly reliable; consci-
entious; moderate salary. D, C., Box 68,

BOOKKEEPER, experienced, controlling ac-
counts; balances, financial statements; com-
petent and reliable. M 27 Times.

BOOKKEEPER and cashier; familiar, with
BR amt work; 5 years’ experience. K 111
imes

BOY wishes position with a reliable cohcern

where there is a chance for advancement;
has also had one year’s office experience, N
232 Times Downtown.

CAPABLE young man, educated, varied
business experience, salesman, office, cred
its, correspondent; any reasonable proposi-
tion. X. ¥., 1,284 Boston Road.
CARETAKING. —Couple wishes caretaking for
Summer; 3 years’ reference. Mrs. Kelly, 301
Bast 48th S

CASHIER @nd cigar clerk, live wire, desires
position; éxcellent credentials. M 56 Times.

STHBNOGRAPHER-SECRETARY.—Six years’
OO imal experience; good penman; thor-
coughs | reliable » familiar Beneral office work;
N 226 Times Downtown.

ah SOA pia goers TYPEWRITER. — Good
education; 5 vere an times thoroughly
competent; $15. wntown.

STENOGRAPHER.— Thoroughly "i competent;
‘our ars’ experience; . accurate
worker; 2. N 217 Times’ Downtown,

STENOGRAPHBR-SECRETARY. — Broa
practical experience; highest ehauantinas:
$18. N 208 Times Downtown,

STENOGRAPHER.—American, 3% years’ ex-
perience; reliable; best references; $10,
2038 Times Downtown.

STENOGRAPHER, General office assistant;
good education; t worker; 224
Times Downto eyn.

SWITCHEOA D

with ten rs’
where abiutty will
salary $15; references
board, ress A 800
phone Flatbush 7364—

‘OPBRATOR.—Young lady
waenes seeks position
to advancement;

ai cah handle a busy
Times Annex, or tele-

ox crn Ser,

: HOUSEWORKERS. —Neat ris,
4, Rood references, th bent in-

cron
vee

AUFFEUR, — Twelve years’ experience;
mechanic; able to‘drive American and for-
cars; good appearance; road experience;
speaks German and lish: excellent refer-
ences; single. Address Wm. Lucke, 208 West
54th St. Tel. 1033 Circle.
CHAUFFRBUR.—Mechanic; Swedish, mar-
ried; nine years’ experience with private
families; very careful driver; sober, reliable;
have driven Pierce Arrow, Packard, Thomas,
Stearns, Mercer, Cadillac and Chalmers cars;
arti yg references. Streyffert, 145 East

CHAUFFEUR.—German,
years’ experience; ’'
careful driver; good. ref:
osition.
uttel,

CHAUFFEUR, with many years’ experience,
Wants good position; references Write
Paul der, care Society of Professional
Automobile Engineers, . 1,947 Broadway.
Phone Columbus 4056.

CHAUFFEUR, 8 years’ experience, wishes
position private family; willing and oblig-
ing; can ie best references. Charlies
Sandquist, “Out Fiateaah Av., Brooklyn.

CHAUFFEUR.—Young American, well edu-
eated, desires outdoor Work; best references;
me go anywhere; careful driver, R AT tog

good mechanic,
rences; wishes steady
Kushnick, Lis West 90th St,, care

single,
Ronn tok

CHAUFFEUR, 35; married;-16 years’ experi-
ence; expert driver; mechanic; excellent ref-
erences, Mau, 56 West 93d. Riverside T239W.

Dace: oo Southern hel
it at

cots a

CHAUFFEUR,—Japanese; eight years’ ¢x-
; moderate. ‘ Geta:

SALESMAN.—BUSINESS GETTER WIS ae
€ PON Oe Pant WITH RELIABLE H 13
mes,

references;

SOUTH AMERICA

(Brazil,

Young mag, (age 28,) just returned pay, a
long stay in South America,’
tina, &c.,) seeks position as salesman for. one
of the South American countries; first-class

Argen-

speaks perfectly the Pertuguese,

phage eg and the French languages.
to Box.M 38 Times.

bien >

concern,

go rere “Biles Sood SECRETARY, age 22, pos-
z college education, three years’ > ex-
perience ds secretary to manager of la
desires position where ability will
mean promotion;

capable stenographer

splendid correspondent; highest reco

tions; salary mes Downtown. .”

sistant,
ences,

iat Fines we

experience; ;

wntown,

STENOGR APHER, typewriter, and office as-

good refer-

gif oar a te gg and dictaphone ope
neat, ; references:
209 Tt Times Downtown.

turn;
monials;

matic agents replying; o
good executive. Address

nt and

WELL-KNOWN THEATRICAL MANAG
AND. PRODUCER SEEKS POSITION w.
New York house; experienced fro
as have been running own completely
cessful shows,.in Europe; war compel
clean ‘record and exceptional

stage,
tate

request application be Nee gees

confidential by pr

Is or r

© dta-

Rigs poss de A to secure
M 45. Times,

or longer;

YOUNG MAN,
paper experience,
typewriting, desires pos ition

knowl

(24,) eee 4 hapa hag news-
few pe .

secretary, ' correspondence,
lator, tutor, or other lines; highest references. a
R Times Harlem. 5

day-

ial

father 9 children,

YouNG MAN, clean cut, age 85, married,
15 years’ business, ex-
perience, American, willing to take any pos
sition offered; can furnish the best reference,
Orrick, Bergen Post Office, Jersey City, N,

dence ¢ are essential

office experience,

seeks position where a Times

YOUNG MAN, 22, progressive ability, .5 y
capable corr i
and xg

ment.

YOUNG MAN,

Times,

(25,) well aia uae i
enced office details and salesmanship, de-
sires connection with firm offering advance-_

YOUNG MAN,

. Goorowich,

22, high school an, ce
sires position = law, bankt

commercial house.

Av., Brooklyn.

YOUNG MAN, well educated, clerical,
ence, capable, ambitious, desires a
with a progressive firm. M 41 Times, poet

YOUNG MAN, salesman’s experien:
work inei
line; salary. commision,

YOUNG MAN,
pertence, desires
50a, Willoughby Av.,

Brooklyn.

intelligent, with ae
reliable position,

future;

YOUNG MAN,

reference,

ires

Pe tee

Ree)

i ho

is always an
event. T hel

| *M: Britling Sees: |

~American,

_And there is

~. and workmanship

ete

as the men’s.

‘A new H.. G.
Wells: novel

FINAL MEETING TOMORROW}¢*

Conferences. of Anthracite =

erators and Miners, ane
withDeadlock.

ells serial,

It Through,” has’ a
Meaning for every |
It \de-

cts graphically, hu-
b. orously, seriotsly, the
transition from peace to
war of a peace loving
_ Anglo-Saxon nation, be-
ginning in this week's:

Joint Session of General Committees.
to Hear Report—Split on Closed:
“Shop and“ Gheck-Off.” 4 ts

A ‘great coal strike involving mony
than. 170,000 miners may<sweep the an-
thracite region within -three weeks.
Negotiations between sub-committees of ;
miners and operators broke down finally ;
yesterday on the demand of the miners '
fora complete recognition of their!
union, with a ‘closed shop”’’ and a
“ check off.”
Following a conference in the Union
League Club which” lasted; ‘four: hours,

Colli iers
1er's Thoth sides decided tney could. not: agree.

THE NATIONAL WEEKLY Although the operators were willing to |
hee some ground in the matter of

¥ * 2 : ours and wages, they uncompromising-
STRIKE TIES UP FOUR SHIPS.

ly rejected the demands of the mine’
workers considered of supreme impirt-
200 Longshoremen Quit When Wage
Increase Is Refused.

ance to their organization.
The concessions which the operators
; Four steamships loading .cargoes for
Europe are tied up at the American

offered included a 5 per cent. increase
o Tompkinsville, Staten Island, as

in the wages of contract miners:and the.
reduction of the working day’ for the

others from nine to eight -hours with

nine hours’ pay. Thé operators said the

reauit of the strike of 200 long-

shoremen, who demand an increase from
22 cents*to 30 cents an hour. -
The men made the demand for more

eight-hour day with nine hours’ pay

would be equivalent to an increase of
Wages at 1 o’clock yesterday morning,
and when it was refused they quit work.

124%..per cent. No concessions would
satisfy the miners so long as the yee

At the office of the American Dock

Company, 17 Battery Place, New York,

tors would not grant the demand. that’
none but union men be employéd-. and
one of the officials said that the strike
Was not looked upon as serious.

the arrangement whereby the era’ S
would collect from their mine Sd
ine
At the same hour yesterday morning,
the deckhands employed on the Totten-

dues as members of the United
Workers of America.

ville-Perth Amboy ferry boats quit work

because the compan refused to in-
crease their wages from $55 to. $65 a
month. The places on the boats were
taken by negroes, who had been sent to |
Staten Island by thé company, which
was ready for the emergency.

CITY BREVITIES.

The City Olub will give a dinner to the
members of the Commission on Building Dis-
tricts and Restrictions next Monday in the
clubhouse at 55 West Forty-fourth Street.
The speakers will be George McAneny and
Edward M. Bassett, Chairman of the. com-
mission. 4

There will be a Spring dance tonight at the
Catholic Club, 120 Central Park South. Ar-
thur J. Morris is Chairman,

O. P. Austin of the foreign trade depart-
mrent of the National City Bank addressed
the Men’s League of the Madison Avenue zi
ee riat Church last night on the prospects

e American young man who goes to
South America to establish himself in buéi-

wning,Kin
& Company

Our suits are made
for men who know
good values.

* Seven Weeks of Conference.

The negotiations in this city lasted
seven weeks. Even until the close of
yesterday’s conference at the Union
League Club it was_expected that the
differences would be settled to the sat-
isfaction of both sides and ‘a disastrous:
strike avoided,

Those present at the final conference

4 representing the operators were 8S. D.
Warriner, " Beeabtent of the Lehigh Coal
4 and Navigation Company; Morris ‘Will-

iams, Binsin of the Susquehanna
Coal Company; W. J. Richards, Presi-
dent of the Philadelphia Coal and Iron
Company, and W. L. Connell, President
of--the Green Ridge Coal Company.
Representing the miners were John P
White, President of the United Mine
Werkers of America: John T. Dempsey,
President of District No. 1; Thomas
Kennedy, President ‘of District No. 7,
and James Matthéws, President of Dir-
bi No

Tomorrow. -the subcommittees will pre-
sent to their general committees at a
joint meeting in this city a: report of
esterday’s proceedings. This will be
the last opportunity for any possible
agreement. At the headquarters of the
fmnraaee operators in the Hotel Seville
last night it was frankly admitted that
suey cat make tae = gp ne
Loy BP € proposal, o closed. shop
and at eck are and that a strike
was mney ble unless’ the miners them-
selves 44 willing to withdraw their
demands oh these particular points be-
fore the close of tomorrow’ s conference.

Operators gre Firm.

So uncompromising was the position
assumed 'by the operators that they even
revoked the agreement which they’ made
with the miners prov:ding for a retro-
active effect of any new wage scale that
they might adopt as the result of their
negotiations. According to this arrange-
ment, the new wage scale was to go

ea ees Phen vane

THE. NEW. YORK TMS

rt ima Aprii 1; no matter how
shat’ te-the ne eee |

woe
traction of. this. ~agreement: in-
resentment among the

Feoseeetativs of the union. “According |

corridor
» them iners, had ~their Meader.
the ‘withdrawal of the retroactive
agiement” would only serve. to widen

i pe ag is ched tonictfow;
the neral cornniittee’ of the union will
ttalio a complete report of their ne-
zoe tions for a convention of 600 dele-!
gates, to be held at Wilkes-Barre, Penn.,
on May 2. Definite arran ments for
her ke ab a or ‘ By 2 will then
th¢re- be decid

Ds Wartziner, Keaton of the Le-!
H Navi gation Company, on

frph ttee, gers out the following statement

eR ne eatge’ of the disagreement be-
the miners. and the operators: at
tne r paseting today was the demand of
@ miners’ for a closed shop and the
| oommpyleery collection b y the operators
:of all dues and assessments the United
Mine Workers see fit to levy against
| thefr members, This demand by the
comers collection by the operators
serie, er the operators had offered
SN ecmaae giving the miners a5 per
sont. increase in wages and giving to
men now .wdrking nine hours an ei ht-
hour day with nine hours’ pay, equiva-
e to an increase of 12% per cent.
This offer is in excess of the settlement
recently made with the same’ organiza-
tion in the Central Pennsylvania bitu-
minous field, which is Competitive with
anthracite,

Call “ Check-off ” Un-American.

‘The operators maintain that the in-
sistence by the miners.on their demand
for a closed shop is un-American, and
that’ the forced collection of dues by the
employer, known as the * check-off,’ is
against the practice of every other
labor organization in .the country, and
is, in effect, a demand on, the part of the
officers and organizers of the United
Mine Workers of America for a guaran-
teed income, collected by the o ‘ators
and to be used by the organization in
any way it desircs. Much as they realize
the. responsibility of the step they take,
the operators beliéve that in rejecting
the demand for a closed.shop and the
“check-off’' they are protecting the in-
stitutions of the country as well as the
public without in any degree desiring to
antagonize the interests or the principles
of organized labor.

** This attitude on the part of the oper-
ators is in absolute accord with the de-
cision of see Anthracite Strike Commis-
sion Meg ed by the President of the
United States in 1902. On. this same sub-
ject of complete recognition of the union

thre’ commission found as follows:

‘The commission adjudges and
awards: That no person shall be refused
émploxyment or in any way discriminated
against on account of membership or
noen-membership.in any labor organizsa<-
tion, and that there shall be no diserini-
ination against or interference with any
employe who is not a member of any
labor organization by members .of such
organization.’ ’’

When shown the féregoing statement,
President White of the union declared
that the contention of the operators

N with reference to conditions in central

Pennsylvania did not harmonize with
the facts because the operators and
miners. of that district, known as Dis-
trict 2, only last week entered into a
contract wherein the operators granted
the advance set forth in the New York
egreement.

Minor Points in Demands.

Aside from the three principal.. de-
mands, for an increase inthe -wage
rate, an eight-hour day, and a. complete
recognition of the union, the miners
wanted concessions on seven minor

points. Both sides. admitted that an
agreement could have been reached on
all of the minor propositions if the de-
mand for a closed shop and a “ check
off ’’ had been conceded.

In their answer to the demands of the
miners the operators at the opening of
the joint conference said that to grant
the demands would mean to eliminate all
profit from the mining industry. They
said that the 20 per cent. wage increase
alone which the miners demanded would
cost the companies $23,000,000 in four
years, and that this increase would raise
the oe of coal to the consumer and

oy ase P -tataa thus fal] upon the

lf ‘pf the operators'on the sub-com- | Oni spee

BY 000 VOTES 8 cae

Coutinho from Page : 1.

the stru uzgle was WeEteen, Colonel Roose-
velt an illiam H.
The only réal a tty: of the ‘cam-
aign.was due to the efforts of. the
oosevelt candMates for places on the
ig Four ag oto the unpledged Pea
di es y made.a@ speaking cam
paig yg th -. opponents, conducted
a aulet house-to-house canvass, with no
speech ang = stpeines mentioning... ‘The
any of e. unpledged
idates which receiv per
mention at all.was delivered . ee over-
nor age a weer ago at a small din-
ba 5 this city.

The friends of Colonel Roosevelt in
Massachusetts will not accept the defeat
of the four candiaates for delegates at
large pledged“to his*nomination either
as a personal defeat for the Colonel or
qf gy Roosevelt sentiment
in-the State. t is known that thou-
sands of Republiiens who are ready to
support the, Colonel. on election day
should he win the nomination at Chi-
eago. went to the. primary polls today
and voted for thé unpledged delegation,
which will be headed by Colonel Se-
velt’s. warm personal friend, Senator
Henry Cabot Lodge.

In this conn ioe it is pointed out by
oliticians on both sides of the factional
ence that the Colonel. never put the
stamp of his approval on Seg activities-
onducted .on his behal the ..candi-
tes for placeson the Bis ‘our pledged
to his nomination. °

It..is generally recognized . that. one |.

factor in the small vote was a new
primary” ballot. The .‘' preferential”
ballot with the nome of the Presidential
candidates printed on it has been abol-
ished. Massachusetts has discarded the
Massachusetts ballot, at least so far as
primaries are cor:cerned, The ballot’
used today was rere on the party
column - principle, with voting cl He
where the voter could make his, ‘
mark to vote a “ straight ”’ ticket. The
Roosevelt delegates led the Republican
column, and thus had an advantage,
but the grouping of delegates and
ternates was so confusing that a good
many of the illiterate voters cast bal-
lots which subsequently were voided,
for both groups of Delegates at Large
instead of for the delegates and the al-
ternates of the sdme group. ~Similar
confusion, according to many reports
from the rvral districts, obtained in the
voting for district delegates.

BURTON EASY VICTOR
"OVER FOES ‘IN OHIO

Ford and Roosevelt Vote Small) ™;
Throughout the State—Some
Democrats Scratch Wilson.

Special to The New York Times.

COLUMBUS, Ohio, April 25.—Only or-
ganization voters went to the polls to-
day in the State’s first Presidential pref-
erence primary. Senator Theodore 3B.
Burton won in the Republican primaries,
and the Democrats voted.for President
Woodrow Wilson. Senator Burton won
by a vote of 2 to 1.

An attempt to form a State organiza-
‘tion’ to, write in the name of Henry Ford
both as Democrat “and Republican can-
didate for President amounted to little.
Ford may receive 5,000 votes in the en-
tire State. Ford was the choice of a
combination of single taxers, extreme
pacifists and single taxers: They en-
deavored to dhe his mantillesy by
the endless chain letter plan.

While the Ford vate was ‘small,
written-in vote of Colonel
Roosevelt was even smaller.
and Roosevelt vo in’ many districts
was ignored by election officials,
acting on advice from the Secretary of
State.

In German dtstricts in some of the
Jarge cities the name of President Wil-
son was scratched from the ballots, and
in many cases no. other name was writ-

ten in.
Vice President gThomas R. Marshall
was the choice Ohio Democrats for

the
Theodore
The Ford

vote of. rour to to five.
See Monnett, former
Genera rind ane ran

— at ca be de-
by a ecb ‘vote
ic™ ‘iagns at large

udson Ha:
BE. Canipbell, and James M.

ames Cox
and Senator Atlee Pomerene.. On the

f pea rly 8 ale pare org was running ahead

t. The vote, it is be-
jodiontes that Cox will.be nomi-
“py t he> Democrats for Governor.:
yp coed ce mtered in the: Republican
contest. for Gel tes at la e Senator
Warren G. Ha g lead in re-
turns, with Govertior Frank °*s. ilis
second. Governor Willis’ was cut in
many publican districts, but William
Cooper Procter, a soa manufacturer of
Cincinnati, and John J. Suflivan, former
a essive, were also “*heavil cut.
vote for wae 5 ere it sure that
he will be ‘acandi renomination
and 1s hailed ht friends as a vindi-
eation of his ministration, which was.
cevpuety: attacked by his party asso-
ciates.

000 in the Sta y
LIGHT VOTE IN NEW JERSEY.

‘Wilson Delegates Chosen, Republi-
cans Are Unpledged. .

Special to The New York Times.

TRENTON, N. J., April 25.—Today’s
Presidential primaries in New. Jersey
were featured by a light vote and gen-
eral lack of interest. Unlike most elec-
tion nights, none of the State officials
Was at the Capitol this evening» and
none of the County Clerks arranged to
receive returns. |

There were no contests for the dele-
gates at large on either’ ticket. David
Baird of Camden, Newton A..K. Bug-
kg this city, Hamilton F. Kean of
Union County, and Ira Kip, Jr.,‘of Es-
sex, will go to the Republican National

nvention. Governor James F. Fielder,
United States Senator William Hughes,
State Purchasing Agent Edward E.
Grosscup, ‘and Representative Thomas
J. Scully constitute the Democratic “Big
Four.’’ The Republicans are unpledged,
but the Democrats all ran as Wilson
men and are bound to vote for his re-
nomination.

Interest in the election of alternate
delegates at large on the Republican
ticket centred in the candidacy of the
Rev. Dr. I. W. L. Roundtree, a negro

of this city. That he was defeated was
a foregone conclusion here late tonight.
The Democratic alternatea will be John-
ston Cornish, Robert D. te, William
A. Logue. and Richard Stockton, and the
Repudlicane will be C. Ledyard Blair,
Pierre P. Garven, Myron W. Robinson,
and Bloomfield H. Minch.

While the Republican ‘‘ Big Four ’’-is

unpledged, Mr. Bugbee has announced
his. opposition to Rooseyelt. The other
three are &nown to prefer some one else
than the Colonel, but are <a to
support him if his strength should de-
velop sufficiently-

In the Second Congressional District
the ae candidates unpledged
appear at a late hour to have won
over the Roosevelt meh, while returns
from +100 out of 123 p nets in the
Ninth Congressional District gave the
unpledged candidates 1,714 and _ those
pledged to Rooseveit 1,489. Partial re-
turns from the Tenth District gave 2,131
for the unpledged and 966 for the Roose-
velt men.

Atlantic City for T. R.
Special'to The New York Times.
ATLANTIC CITY, N. J., April 25.—Out
of twenty-five precincts_in thig city, two
negroes, James A. Lightfoot, a lawyer,
and W. F. Cozart, a beach-front head
waiter, carried twenty-one as district
delegates~to the Republican National
Cogvention. The other territory in the
Second District will probably show the
defeat of the negroes.
In expressing a choice for President,
Roosevelt supporters gave him a big

majority. Ford, Burton, Root, Taft and
Hughes were named, but Roosevelt had
more than their total vote. The same
story is told in the returns from the
eounty received up to midnight.

The Democratic vote was solid for
Wilson.

ENS e he ban BR eR tO e888 Oe

We count on

OSOSOS SOS CSOS CE SCS S Eee eee ee

232 he ta tah tak tae tal tak tak tak tal tab tak tad tat tah tad tak tak tak tae tal Dhak tat tah te) tat ta ta tee ta eat tat tah toh tat tat tat

ORO ROSSER O
OBOSO8O C8680

their trade

season after season
and good service
brings them back.
The cut’s the same
whether you buy

3SOSOOD

Ree

at te

POS .

“eat tat tat tah tat tat tat fa

POG OBC

eee t eo:

joes a

extra value here
in materials

"ets,

Oe Sa

Peg tee tet

woes

at, either price.
Our

boys’ department
is as complete

in its way

Oe o ees

Spring furnishings
are in

full bloom.

POO +
Reo SOSOSO

rat

Manhattan Shirts
and Stetson Hats

Sone

bos

Broadway near 324 St.
Cooper Square at Sth St.
Mankattan
_ Fulton St, at DéKalb Av,

Brooklyn

POR ye

ceces

POC SOR

ROSS

Megt teh tah be

PoeDs

World ....
American .
Times “~.
Press .. .W +
Tribune .
Herald ...

Totals. ‘ |

Page,

ese tat tat t,:

sooo ens

PODS OOS
FOS OBOGO

Pp OSOeO

bined.

OPS es

the LILY CUP co

equitable buil

en Broke” call on “Uncle Ben”
BENJAMIN FOX
Reliable Pawnbroker,
2 foe Are, near 14th St.

ae mes

7 four years ago.

New York City Morning

Newspapers

Daily Average Circulation, 1,420,077

During the four years in which circulation reports have
been required by the Federal Government the combined
circulation gain of the seven morning newspapers was

this. total The New York Times alone

Official Record for Four Years

Four years’ cireulation record of New York City morning newspapers, as
reported to the Post Office Department:

April 1st, 1916—Total GOMGUIY  B5 o58 Fe EET ee 1,420,677
October Ist, 1912—Total PONE is a ace k & Gh vlna ae's 00's 1,235, 947

Total gain of all New York morning newspapers in four.years... 184,730
The New York Times gain. .....). 00.06... ge eee e et eens

‘ Total gain of six other New York morning newspapers.
Reports to Post Office Department Required by Law

Average Daily and Sunday Circulation

Aprill, . October 1,

April 1,

October 1,

April 1,

October 1,

April 1,

October 1,

htt

‘aah tat te

Fe 88 OS Oe es

The New York’ ‘Times recorded greater circulation ‘growth in four
renee He OER 7ENAe. all other New York

The circulatinn imcrease of The New. York ‘Times in the last six
months—16,470—is the greatest gain” reported to
_ Department hy any New York ‘morning newspaper.

In the first quarter of 1916 The Times printed 2,591,742 lines of wehn
yvertising, a gain of 463,39] lines over the corresponding period

It leads all other New York. newspapers in —_.
of advertising, help and sitnetiqns wanted eeereter ,

morning newspapers com-

the Post Office

Pah te ae tee te tee

Seb 1S OSS SO SOSOSOOOSO

OOO

The vote ha prey net exceel 200,-

Sir Herbert Tree Believes-Stoek
Companies Would Make
‘Money in That Way. .

NOYES .READS A NEW. ODE
Sothern, Marlowe, Migs “Matthison,
\Drx Butler, and Others Attend:

a Civic Forum Meeting. ~

Sir Herbert Tree, Edith Wynne. Mat-
thison, ‘Julia’ Marlowe, EB. H.. Sothern,
Alfred Noyes, Nicholas Murray Butler,
President Mary E.: Woolley .of Mount
Holyoke’ College, ' Dr. James J. Walsit,
Frank Lascelles, and» WiWiam 'G.; Will-
cox joined in a ‘Shakespeare celebration
last night at Carnegie Hall: under ‘the
auspices of the Civic Forum.

Sir Herbert, Miss Matthison, and Miss
Marlowe gave selections from’ Sha
speare. Alfred Noyes read an ode writ-
ten for the occasion. The others praised
shaxpeneate from many different view-
points.

‘“7~he schoolhouse..owes a debt to
Shakespeare, the artist: and teacher,’’
President Woolley said. ‘It also owes
a debt to Shakespeare, the preacher.
His sermons are’so interwoven with the
warp and woof of our moral life that
they. have become a part of ourselves.
The quality of mercy, the power of cow-
ard conscience; the vain. pomp and glory
of this world, the fiendishness of in-
gratitude, the beauty of constancy, are
more real because of his. vivid genius.’

‘*To a great many people probably tiie
greatest surprise of this: Shakespeare
celebration was the.fact that he should
have died’so long’ ago;’’ “Dr. Walsh said.
‘““We have grown so accustomed to
thinking -of- ourstives ;in this: generation
as the heir of all the .ages-that the fact
that our greatest*poet should Have lived
and died 300 years. ago seems incredible.”

Mr. Sothern spoké in favor’of a Shake-
speare theatre, where low-prices should
be: the rule. Such a venture, he said,
would-be a financial and popular suc-
cess, even at ‘‘ movie ’’ ‘prices: Every
city would have its Shakespeare stock
company in the near future, . Sothern
asserte

Readings and dancing and. games in
Shakespeare’s honor were held yester-
day afternoon in’ several of the parks
for the \school children. A similar. pro-
gram,is planned for tomorr:w afternoon.

The last free performance of-‘‘ A’ Mid-
summer Night's Dream ”’ w.ll be held in
the, hall of the City College,on Saturday
night at 8:30. o'clock. An’ orchestra -of
100,, under Professor: Henry. T. Fleck,
will play Mendelssohn's music to Rob-
ert Stuart Pigott’s reading of the play.
No tickets are needed for admittance.

COLONEL SECOND IN IOWA.

Cummins Wins Pritingy Vote;
Hughes. in Third Place. _

DES MOINES, Iowa, April 25.—Colonel
Theodore Roosevelt, whose name “was
not on the ballot, ran second’ to Senator
A. B. Cummins of Lowa in the Iowa pri-
mary, according to returns Canvassed
today. hy the Executive Council.

Partial returns indicate that Cunrmins
probably will poll between 16,000 and
20,000, and. Roosevelt 3,500 Justice
Charles EF Hughes ran third. Only a

wae BARD'S PLAYS
-ATPRICE OF MOVIES ff

-RYZON, The Perfect Baking ~
- Powder, is. made ane’ ma
—_ Meter: pioephate, a ie .

eat ae

littleless of we N
than required of
other baking pow-

yery light vote was polled for Henry
Ford.

COL LAR
spting ‘aekae two heights

ASHBY- kin: LEXICON-akin.:
CLUETT, PEABODY & CO. INC. MAKERS

REMEMBER ~—

Tu rkish

the world’s most fa-

nt ee ee

delete

an eee

ARON eS

tobacco for

cigarettes

eo en

Cveaywhere.

ii ( InN feu a

Mn et

Makers on i Turkish
Gnd be emieiet!

THE TURKISH CIG,;

EERE SSS ER GE:


=== sim_new-york-times_1922-07-21_71_23554 (NYT 1910) ===

- Special compartment sleeper daily.

“All the News That's
Fit to Print.”

VOL. LXXI....No.

HYLAN OUT OF RAGE
AFTER HEARST VISIT
BDITOR STILLIN FIGHT

Mayor Announces _ Definitely’
That He Will Not Seek Guber-
natorial Nomination.

THEY DISCUSS CAMPAIGN

Agree to Build Up-State Ma-.
chine to Restore “Govern-

ment to the People.” |

TAME COMMITTEE MEETING

Lasting Only Fifteen Minutes, Its |

Activities Are Confined to
Convention Cal.

While Democratic leaders from up-
State here to attend yesterday's meeting
of the Democratic State Committee
almost to a man declared that there was |
mo Hearst sentiment in their political |
bailiwicks, developments of the day |
atrongly indicated that William R.
Hearst had finally determined to go
through with his fight for the Demo-
cratic nomination for Governor.

That impression gained strength when |
Mayor Hylan, after a conference with
Mr. Hearst, who called at the City Hall,
took himself definitely out of the |
Gubernatorigl race. Questioned by
newspaper men,
had discussed with Mr. Hearst. the ne-
cessity of building up without delay
fn the up-State counties a Democratic
organization strong enough to insure
the election of a Democratic Legislature
pledged to redeem the State Government
from the grip of the public utilities cor-
porations and restore control to the
people. Mr. Hearst, the Mayor said,
had fully agreed that this was essential
and to a further suggestion that dis-
cussion of. candidates should be deferred
until such an organization had _ been
perfected.

The tenor of Mayor Hylan’s talk to
the newspaper men was identical with |
that of a letter sent by William J.
Conners, chief promoter of Mr. Hearst's
Gubernatorial ‘‘ boom,’’ to State Com-
‘mittee men not already on record as
bitter-enders against Hearst on the eve
of yesterday's meeting of the committee.

“fhe -epistle from Mr. Conners bore Mon-

—Omy’s: dates me oe ans

“Hearst the Man, Says Conners.

** Mr. Hearst alone of: all the prop¢sed
eandidates,’’ Mr. Conners wrote, “has |
the means and organization to bring
the issues before the people. He alone
has facilities for creating and maintain-|
ing an effective organization in the up-|
State counties. Who else besides Mr.
Hearst is in a position to make a cam-|
paign which will insure the election of
@ Democratic Legislature In the next
place, because Mr. Hearst has no en-
tanglements whatever, he could bring
more Democrats into the State Govern-
ment and turn more Republicans out
than all the Democratic Governors com-}
bined since Flower. He isn’t afraid.
For five years he has been 100 per cent.
efficient in aiding and building up the}
New York City organization.

‘Will It pay to throw away an op- |
portunity for a real Democratc Party
organization up-State, a Democratic
Legislature and a 100 per cent. Demo-
cratic State Government to gratify per-
gonal antagonisms and promote personal

Mayor Hylan said |

| will be ready Monday or Tuesday, and

| with the plans there outlined.

|; monthly reparation payments in the im-

ambitions? Any one who knows New
York City conditions will tell you that |
Mr. Hearst and Mayor Hylan are the
only ones who can carry New York City
by a plurality large enough to make suc- |
cess in the State possible.’’

In other parts of his letter Mr. Con- |
mers said that *“‘ the vote-getting power

of Mr. Hearst is far greater than that |
of any Democrat in the State,’ that be- |

cause he personified the issues he would |

be suré of election if nominated, and |

that he was the only Democrat who had |
a chance of carrying the State.

It was learned from Mr. Conners who,
while not holding a proxy at the State
Committee meeting, hovered about the
meeting room and the corridors of the |
Hotel Commodore, where the committee
met, that the organization work was al-|
réady ‘under way»in certain localities |
up-State. As yet, Mr. Conners said, not |
a cent of Hearst’s* money had been in- |
vested in this undertaking or in any pre-
convention activity.

Committee Is Tame.

The meeting of the State Committee
was tame. Before it was called to order
word had gone out “ from
ters’ that any
Hearst resolutions were to be killed and
that the committee must confine itself
to issuing the official call for the State
Convention,

a keynote orator and a permanent
Chairman of the Convention was left to |
the’ Executive Committee. Herbert C. |
~Pell Jr., State Chairman, was author-
ized to appoint a committee of nine to
draft a tentative.platform for submis- |
sion to the Convention Committee on

Regolutions. That was practically all
the business done. The meeting lasted
only about ten minutes and was marked
by complete harmony.

The general impression about the
committee room appeared to be that the
Mayor’s announcement that he would
not be a candidate had been prompted
by Mr, Hearst and was an indication
that the former Independence League
echieftain-was determined to carry his
fight into the convention.
™ Mr. Hearst spent about fifteen min- |
utes with the Mayor. After Mr. Hearst
had left, Mayor Hylan made his an-
GBouncement.

“IT will not under any circumstances
be a candidate for Governor,” Mayor

Continued on Page Two.

The . Greenbrier,

White Sulphur Springs,

| ig only unofficial.

headquar-
pro-Hearst or anti- |

W; Va. Just overnight fvom New York.
Ample
wpplies drawn from surrounding countr
tisures splendid quality food. Perfect golf,
the saddie, tennis, big swimming- pool, mov-
ing pictures and dancing nightly. Cool
nights. Bookings The Plaza.—Advt.

Living Costs 55.4 Per Cent.
Above the 1914 Levels

The National: Industrial Conference
Board, 10 East Thirty-ninth Street,
reported yesterday that the cost of
living among wage earners’ families
on June 15 last was 55.4 per cent.
higher than in July, 1914. But since
July, 1920, when. the peak of the rise
in the cost ofgliving since 1914 was
reached, price levels decreased 25
per cent., it was added.

Between May ‘15 and June 15 of
this year there was “a general in-
crease of threé-tenths of 1 per cent.
Clothing . prices dropped, which the
board thought was due to seasonal
variations, while food costs increased,
Decreases and increases in that
period apparently: balanced one an-
other, the board reported, so that the

GERMANY AGREES

TO SUPERVISION

This Includes Budget, Foreign
Trade, Recovery of Evaded
Capital, State Statistics.

MORATORIUM SEEMS SURE

British and French Members of
Reparation Board Are Divided
on Duration of Relief.

By EDWIN L. JAMES,
Copyrisht, 1922, by The New York Times Company.
Special Cable to Tur New York TiMEs,
PARIS, July 20.—It is now certain
that some sort of moratorium on rep-
arations payments will be. granted to
Germany. The duration of this mora-
torium and the terms Germany will be
asked to accept in return for it will be
determined, probably next week, by the
Reparation Commission and then re-

viewed by the Allied Governments.

It is the idea of the French Govern-
ment that if Germany is aided by an
easing up on the part of the allies, Ger-
many should be induced or obliged to
make use of the improved situation to
put her fiscal affairs in order in a way
to assure the resumption of reparation
Payments on a sure scale.

The Committee on, Guarantees, which
has been for some weeks in Berlin
working out a methog for allied super-
vision of German. public ‘finances, re-
turned to Paris last night and informed
the Reparation Commission. teday that
the German Government ‘had agreed to
its projects looking to supervision of
the Gefman budget, also supervision of
exportations and importations, the re-
covery of evadéd capital and the publi-

net result showed little change. |
cation of reliable German Government
statistics.

The committee is now engaged in

drafting a full report for the Repara- |
tion Commission, which, it is expected,

when it goes formally @efore the com-
mission it will be accompanied by a let-
ter from Chancellor Wirth _ stating
agreement of the Getman Government

Split Over Duration of Relief.

It is believed the Commisxsion on Rep-
arations will decide that if Germany ac-
cepts allied supervision relief from the

mediate future. should be granted her.
As to the length of the time of this re-
lief sentiment among’ the members ts di-
vided. The English seem ‘to think that
two years would be proper, while the
French, going to the extreme, suggest
two or three months. It is also the
French suggestion that the length of the

| moratorium might. be made’ indefinite,
| leaving it to the allied supervisors in

Berlin to recommend when the German

| Government is again in position to re-

sunte payments.

So much for the question of a mora~
torium, which, after all, is only part,
and perhaps a minor part, of the rep-
aration situation as it appears today.
Something more radical than a short-
term reparation vacation for Germany
is required.

First in attention is the mooted proj-
ect for cancellation by England of |
France's debt to her, representing a
new phase.of the large project for gen-

| eral readjustment of international in-

debtedness. America having refused to

| make sacrifices for the general cause,

English opinion seems to be. drifting to-
ward England taking: the initiative.

A good many Frenchmen are chary
of the English suggestion, which as yet
Of course,. they ex-
pect England to ask France to give up
part of her reparation claim in return
for cancellation of what. France owes
Great Britain, but they fear England

| will impose other conditions of a gen-
| eral political nature;
| that France must pay. for. English re-
This, as already told, will |

meet in the Arena at Syracuse on Sept. | sponding remission of credits on Ger- |

In view of the uncertainty as to the |
candidate for Governor, the selection of |

in other words,

mission much more than the corre-

However, the majority of opinion in
France receives with great pleasure the j
unofficial British proposal, for this is

| just’ what the French nave been asking

for more than two years now. And,

Continued on Page Twelve.

| Brandegee,

REPUBLICAN BOLT
GUTS GLOVEDUTIES
BY VOTEOF387017

Twenty, Including Lodge, Join}
Democrats to Reduce Maxi-
mum Rate to 75 Per Cent.

CONTROVERSY WAXES WARM

Wadsworth and Calder Defend
and Vote For the “ Glovers-
ville "’ Schedule.

BILL MAY PASS IN AUGUST

Robinson Declares for Early Action
on Remaining Amendments
and Final Vote.

Special to The New York Times.

WASHINGTON, July 20.—By a ma-
jority of more than two to one the Sen-
ate, late this afternoon, administered a
severe rebuke to the Committee on
Finance when, by a vote of 38 to 17, it
refused to ratify the high duties the
committee had recommended for the
protection of the cotton glove industry.
Some of the duties proposed represented
ad valorem equiv@Ments of the specific
rates as high as 119 per cent.

An amendment proposed by Senator
Lenroot and adopted by the Senate pro-
vides that in no case shall the duty on
gloves of the kind covered by the sched- |
ule exceed 75 per cent. ad valorem. The |
revolting Republicans numbered twenty.

The repudiation of the committee foi- ;
lowed a debate that lasted more than |
four hours, the high duties proposed by |

the committee being defended by Sen-|
ators McCumber and Smoot and the New ;
York Senators, Wadsworth and Calder. |
This is the schedule popularly referred |
to as the ‘‘ Gloversville, New York,’’ |
schedule, because the principal advocate
for the rates was ex-Representative |
Littauer of Gloversville, one of the lead- |
ing figures in the American glove in-
dustry. The assault on the committee
was directed by Senators Lenroot and
Simmons.

Even Senator Lodge refused to vote
for the high duties proposed. He told
the Senate that in his opinion. they were
entirely too high. |

New York Senaters Defend Rates.

Senators Wadsworth and Calder de-
clared abate at . present the glovemakers
of Gloveraville were idle as a result.-of:
compétition from abroad and that jf the
factories were to be again operate at
full capacity the rates approved by the
committee were necessary.

‘*I dislike very much," said Senator
Lodge, ‘to disagree with the Committee
on Finance, but I have looked into this
matter and have been unable~to find
any comparison of the differences in
cost of production in this country and
abroad that would justify the imposition
of a duty as high as 119 per cent. ad
valorem. I think the amendment of the
Senator from: Wisconsin, which provides
a maximum duty of 75 per cent. ad
valorem, is ample."’

The ad valorem equivalents of the spe-
cific rates as proposed by the cammittee
began at 20 and 50 per cent. and then |
jumped to 84, 92 and 119 per cent., ac-
cording to the vaiue of the article.

The vote on the Lenroot amendment
was as follows:

FOR THE AMENDMENT—3s8.
Republicans—20,

Keyes,
Laud,
Lenroot, ,
Lodge,
McCormick,
Jones (Wash.), Moses,
Kellogg, Nelson,

Democrats—18,

Kendrick,
King,

Overman,
Heflin, Pomerene,
Hitchcock, Ramsdell, Walsh (Mont.)
Jonés (N, M.), Robinson, Walsh(Mass ),

AGAINST THE AMENDMENT—17
Republicans—16.
Ernst, McNary,
Gooding, Oddie,
Johnson, Pepper,
MeCumber, Smoot,
McLean, Spencer,

Borah,
Capper,
Cunimins,

ewverry,
Phfpps,

Rawson,
Warren, |
Willis. e

Ashurst,
Caraway,
Dial,

Sheppard,
Simmons,
Smith,
dtanley,

Bursum,
Caider,
Cameron,
Curtis,
Wadsworth.

Democrat—1. |
Broussard.

There were indications today that the
final vote on the tariff bili might be
reached by. the time the House recon-
venes on Aug. 15. Senator Robinson of
Arkansas, after again calling attention
to the fact that much time is being lost
as a resylt of Senators making speeches
on subjects other than the pending tar-
iff bill, said: that as soon as the woot

“schedule was out ef the way he would

be ready to support a motion to limit
debate and fix a date for the final vote.

“If this tariff is a measure of such
great importance that it must be kept
before the Senate. to the.exclusion, if
possible, of all other business,’ said
Senator Robinson, ‘‘ then let us confine
our debate tothe bill, except, of course,

Continued on Page Four.

De Wolf Hopper’s Fifth Wife Seeks Divorce;
Suit to Begin Today; No Contest Expected

Mrs. Elda Furry Hopper will begin an
action for absolute divorce against her
husband, De Wolf Hopper, the comedian, |
in the Supreme Court of Queens County |
in Long Island City today. Mr. Hopper,
who is now playing in Baltimore, {s not
expected to be present or to contest.the
suit.

Although the divorce will be asked for
on statutory grounds, there will be no
mention of a corespondent by Mrs, Hop-
per, She will ask for the full custody of

her son, De Wolf Hopper Jr., who is 7
years old. Mrs. Hopper lives at Douglas
Manor, L. 1. She was married to the

BELL-ANS FO ESTION. KEEP
TT HANDY. "bows" DORGRT,—Advt..

dian's fifth wife. His first wife was Ella
Gardiner, a second cousin on the. mother's
side of the family: The second was Ida
Moscher. Edna Wallace was the third,
in the days of ** Wang."’ Nella Bergen
was his fourth wife, Mrs. Hopper said
last night that if ‘her, suft should . he
granted. she would ‘keep her stage name
of Hedda’ Hopper. 3

Mr. H6pper, who is playing a four
weeks’ ement ina. revival. of -Gil-
bert and fivan’s operas in Baltimore,
was served with papers in the action a
few days ago. The attorney representing
Mrs. Ho is
laston,

whén it may be necessary to consider
matters of an emergency nature. Let
us stay with it and get a final vote, and
either pass it or defeat it. \
There ig a growing element on the
comedian on May 8, 1913, at Riverside,

The present Mrs. Hopper is the come-
Benn Barber of Doug-

NEW YORK, ‘FRIDAY, JULY 21,

President May Spend Week .
In August Near Chicago

Special to The New York Times.

CHICAGO, ‘July. 20. — President
Harding may pay a week's visit to
Chicago late in’ August, Tentative
plans have been .made, with the pro-
gram-in the hands, of, Frederick W.
Upham, Treasurer of: the: Republican
National Committee and Charles -G.
Dawes, ‘whose guests: the President
and Mrs, Harding are to be if they
come. :.Continuation of the coal and
railroad strikes another month might
prevent the visit.

Presidént Harding -accepted long
ago an invitation‘of Secretary Davis
to. be present Aug. 24 at Moose Heart,
near Aurora; where a Moose celebra-
tion is to take place. After that Mr.
Harding hopes: to. have a week. of
rest in. and near Chicago without
entertainment of any kind.

FREE STATE GUNS |

BATTER WATERFORD

Heavy Bombardment of the City
Begun From Across the River
by Irish National Force.

20 ARE DEAD IN LIMERICK

Attack Developing. on Whole
Rebel Front—Government Re-
jects Compromise Peace.

Copyricht, 1922, by The New York Times Company.
Special Cable to TH» New York TIMES,

DUBLIN, July 20 (Passed by Military
Censor).—A few days ago the boast was
made on the irregulars’ behalf that de
Valera was with’ the Director of Oper-
ations in Limerick, but now irregular
headquarters are transferred to some
safer spot. Doubtless the capture of
Limerick is in sight and it means the
collapse of the citadel/ which the irreg-
ulars had persuaded themselves ren-
dered their left flank impregnable and
defied any possibility of a successful
turning movement against their main
positions. But the guns have opened. on
Waterford, rendering the right wing's
position. extremely critical.

Today. Waterford City is the great
military objective. National troops ‘are
bombarding it vigorously. Machine guns
send messages of death over the waters
of-the River Suir. The broad and rap-
idly flowing tidal river with its famous
tcll bridge prevents the troops for the
moment from coming-into close :
with the ¢r¥régulars. ane

The attack began at 7 o'clock on Tues-
day evening when the almost deserted
eity awoke to thé cracking of rifles and
rattling of machine .guns heralding the
bursting war cloud overhanging it three
weeks. The national forces from Kil-
kenny under command of Col. Com-
mandant Prout who laid siege to the
city and coulda have entered it twenty-
four hours ago but for the raising of
the drawbridge between the city proper
and the.majn roads and railways emerg-
ing from the Kilkenny side of the river.
The ferry ‘bark district and all the
north bank of the river facing the city
are in the hand of nationals who from
concealed positions in the ‘woods of
Mount Misery rising over the railway
terminus rain showers of lead on the
irregulars’ positions along the quay from
the hotel opposite the drawbridge to
Reginald’s tower, that dark old castle
dating back to Danish times.

It is a great military operation, and a
splendid prelude to certain and final
restoration of the whole of the southern
province to the poople whose overwhelm-
ing verdict established their right at
the election.

On the march from Kilkenny the
troops bivouacked ‘in the meadows of
Kilmacow, and before resumption re-
ceived: general absolution from’ Father
Greene. The picture of the men with
Colonel Prout.at their head kneeling
en masse before the vested priest is not
easily forgotten.

Waterford’s inhabitants have fled for
the moment, while deliverence of the
city is being secured, though at frightful
cost of shrapnel and high explosive
shells.

Compromise Peace Rejected.

The report that the irregulars of Cork
went to Southern headquarters of the
national forces to discuss peace finds no
confirmation in Dublin. No verification
is possible, as no news is coming. from
the South today. Peace talk-or peace
moves don’t seem to be* practical. poli-
tics at the moment. . There was a. very
poor. response today to. the summons by
the. Labor Party executive .to all Dail
members to meet in the Mansion. House
to discuss the position of the country
in the light of the experience ofthe last
three weeks ‘' and consider certain pro-
posals which’ may, perhaps, “lead to
peace.” s pote

In-an official ‘statement, this. morning,
the Government, apparently anticipating
this meeting, reviewed the:general situa-
tion and the behaviog of the forces ‘op-
posing the national’ troops, and .con-
cluded :

Peace’ built upon a cornpromise with
forces that behaved» as ‘the irregulars
have Would be a peace. too costly tothe

nation.” e ;
That. statement, ought> to’ have .been

sufficient indication to the Labgrites
that no meeting, such as they contem-
plated could accomplish anything un-
less they had concrete unconditional sur-
render ovértures. from. the irregulars.
Yet the Labor men, not reckoning ‘that
way, attempted to hdld the. meeting,
which proved abortive, as no. treatyites

nor anti-treatyltes, turned up, except the,

ty Lord. Mayor /of,Qublin, who: lives
a tee Mansion Howse... Kleven Labor

Deputies out.of sixteen attended.
Labor's. move .is . considered » mis-
chievous, especially in the light of hor-
rible outrages by the trregulars over the
entire south and west,. Even at Dublin's
own door this. morning a ‘goods train
crew was taken off at Clontarf and the
train sent headlong a coupié ‘of umiles

Continued

en Page Twe.. a

| OHIO

‘| night tonight when Senators Cummins,

leaders that if the strike could not ‘be
adjusted otherwise, the difficulties

eens ~

not much change in temperature.

Temperature Yesterday—Max., 74; Min., Ti.

gar For weather report

TWO CENTS

New

see next to last page.

York | Within 200 Miles nt

HARDING PLEDGES A COAL COMMISSI

eee a

| SENATORS CALL EXEGUTWE

Loree, Pearson, Alfred,|
Cuyler and Atterbury
Answer Summons.

“FOR INFORMATION ONLY”

“All | Can Say Is,” Says One
Senator, “It Ils a Damned
Serious Situation.”

RAIL CHIEFS UNYIELDING|

They Refuse to Consider Board |

of Adjustment and Are Firm,

on Seniority Question.

Special to The New York Times.
WASHINGTON, July 20.—Hope that |
the way might be cleared for immediate
settlement of the railway strike was |

dashed to the ground soon after mid- |

Kelfogg and Watson of the Senate: In-
terstate Commerce Committee emerged
from a conference with five of the prin-
cipal Eastern railway executives whom
they had asked to come to Washington
for a free and frank discussion of the|
situation.

Besides the Senators named the con-|
ference was participated in by Thomas}
De Witt Cuyler of Philadelphia; a di-|
rector of the Pennsylvania system and |
Chairman of the Railway Executive |
Committee; L. F, Loree of New York,
President of the Delaware & Hudson;
Wiliam W. Atterbury of Philadelphia,
Vice President of the Pennsylvania
system; E. J. Pearson of the New. York,
New Hayen & Hartford linea and Frank
Hy Alfred. of the Pere Marquette sys-
tem, om,

present. f
The raf! heads who were summoned
to Washington by the spokesmen for the |
Senate Interstate Commerce Committee
arrived just before 9 o’clock, went at
once to a hotel, were closeted with the
three Senators until midnight and im-
mediately after the conference all but
Messrs. Cuyler and Thom hurried to the |
Union Station and teok trains back to |
New York and Philadelphia.
None of the railway executives would |
discuss the conference. On their dae-
parture from the hotel they said: that
Senator Cummins would have something
to say.
Statement by Cummins.

Soon after midnight this statement
was issued by Senator Cummins:
‘“‘Senators Kellogg, Watson and my-
self had a conference with some of the
Eastern railroad Presidents this eve-
ning for the purpose of talking over
the strike situation and of ascertaining,
if possible, the exact issues between the
roads and the strikers.

‘““We wanted to discover whether
there is any explanation that would re- |

move the difficulties in the way of an
adjustment.

*““We discussed the whole
freely and frankly.

““The views of the shopmen have al-
ready been fully disclosed at Chicago.

““The object of the conference was
solely to secure information upon this!
very vital subject.’’

Senator Cummins could not be per-
suaded, by questioning to add to the}
statement. He would not discuss the
details. of the conference. Nor would
he discuss future developments.

Despite the reticence of Senator Cum-
mins and others participating in the con-
ference it was ascertained that no -real
headway was made toward an adjust-
“ment. One of the Senators present,
however, without allowing his name to
be used, said:

‘“All I-care to say is that it is a
damned serious situation.’’

The conference came as a surprise to
the few in Washington who were first
advised of it in dispatches from New
York, saying that a delegation of Hast-
ern rail executives was coming to Wash-
ington. for a midnight conference with
Chairman Cummins and other members
of the Senate Finance Committee.

situation

Senators Reflect Failure.

It was learned from one of the partici-
pants in the conference that’ the free
and frank discussion held open no pros-
pect for immediate settlement, and the
failure of the conference was reflected
in the countenances of the Senators who
participated.

Prior to the break-up of the meeting. {
which had been hurriedly called, hope
had existed in Administration circles
that means might be found for a prompt
settlement. During the last twenty-
four’ hours the belief had been growing
that some kind of an adjustment of the
rail strike was imminent.

it was’ the hope of -the Senatorial

might be removed by legislation satis-
faciory .to: the rail heads and strike
leaders. But. this idea vanished after
the Senators went into the situation
with the rail. heads.

Senator Cummins has.-been in touch
with. President Harding almost . daily
relative to the railway situation. He
will acquaint the President with latest
developments: in tonight's conference,

The President has been reluctant to
intervene in:the rail strike, holding that
thé Railroad Labor Board, as the Fed-
eral agency authorized by law to deal
with ‘the situation was the logical Gov-

Centinued en Page Three,

| back today . as

Text of President’s Reply

to Governor Sproul

Promising Appointment of Commission on Coal

Special to The New York Times, '
WASHINGTON, July 20.—Telegraphic correspondence between
President. Harding and Governor Sproul of Pennsylvania was made
public tonight at the White House as follows:

The President:

Harrisburg, Pa., July 20, 1922.

I wish to report strong public sentiment supporting your invita-

tion to operators and miners to resume production.

I trust, however,

that you are merely withholding the appointment of your commis-
sion long enough to determine whether satisfactory production will

result.
fully urge the prompt creation of

inally proposed or in modified form.

If this does not occur within a reasonable time, I respect-

your commission, either as orig-
If voluntary production fails,

Pennsylvania will welcome exercise by you of full executive author-

ity.

Meanwhile I renew my pledge of hearty co-operation.

WILLIAM C. SPROUL, Governor of Pennsylvania.

Washington, D. C., July 20, 1922.
Governor William C. Sproui, Harrisburg, Pa.:

Your telegram relating to appointment of Coal Commission,
notwithstanding mine workers and a minority of mine operators

declined to accept such an arbitration,

is received. Matters are

temporarily in suspension because when arbitration was denied there

was but one consistent thing to do,
production.
America’s welfare will not permit
deny for any reason the supply

as I saw it, and that was to invite

You may expect the selection of a commission, because

those who assume to serve it to
of such a necessity as fuel and

thereby jeopardize American life and health and happiness... More-
over, there was a third party to submit its case to the commission—

the great American public. The

and just ending of a dispute.

primary object was the prompt

The broader purpose was a searching

inquiry into the coal industry, to learn all the causes of dispute and

find & way to avoid them in the future.

It may be desirable to

modify the form of the commission as originally proposed, because

it was first designed to meet most
ing. I wished a settlement at the
be heard and all be represented on

promptly the exigency then exist-
conference table, where all could
the commission.

It has seemed to me that time to appraise the situation, the oppor-
tunity to measure the unquestioned fairness of the proposal and
sense the obligations involved, and a period in which to resume pro-
ductién, would either avoid drastic steps on the one hand or clearly

justify thém on the other.

The commission will come in due time.

There is an authority above all workers and operators, and that
authority—the American public—must have an agency of effective

expression.

Thank you for your renewed pledge of co-operation, and be as-

sured of like cordial pledges from
ducing States.

Against Old Comrade for |
Defying Industrial Law. |

| VOWED LEANINGTO SHOPMEN | PROCLA

State Is Startled by Row Be- |

tween “‘ Henry and Me,” Fel-
low-Tourists Abroad.

TOPEKA, Kan., July 20.—Governor
Henry J. Allen tonight authorized the |
arrest of William White, editor of. the |
Emporia Gazette, for alleged. violations
of the anti-picketing proviston of the |

|Kansas Industrial Court.

The Governor issued a long statement |
on the subject. In it he says that after |
the shopmen's strike began, the strikers
tried various methods of picketing, only
to have these declared violations of the
law. Then he relates how: finally the |
strike leaders provided themselves with
cards containing a declaration of sym-
pathy for the strikers and induced mer- j
ehants in two or three shop towns toe put)
these in their windows.

This the Attorney-General held to be
another violation of the law. . Most
merchants, on request, says the Gov- |
ernor, removed these cards and no.ar-
rests were ordered.

The statement goes on:

‘‘ William Allen White, of Emporia,
who has: been one of the strike sym-
pathizers from the beginning, is the
first man to openly defy the law offi-
cers in this matter and to declare his
intention to display the slogan of the
strike leaders in his shop window and
to continue this form of encourage-
ment to the men who are now’ violat-
ing the law of the State.

‘“*Mr. White is a man with a poten-
tial following in the State, and his
declaration that he. did not intend to
@bey this law has aroused a sympa-
thetic response among. other strike
Sympathizers. Cards that were taken
down yesterday in. obedience to the
request of law. officers are being put
the result. of Mr.
White’s action, and a new spirit of
hostility and determination has been
aroused in the minds of the strikers,
who believe that in Mr. White they
have secured a champion whose ex-
ample will justify them in new ‘acts
of disobedience to the law. ~

Will Make No Distinction.

“It is now apparent that we are not
going to be able to stop this, practice
in Kansas without arrests and prose- |
cutions. No distinctions will be. made
as to individuais, no: matter what. their
standing may be'in the State .or nation
Certainly we cannot’ make any excep-
tion of Mr. White's case. ;

‘The case has nothing whatever to do
with any man’s right of free spéech. It
ig @ simple concrete question. as _ to

whether a citizen is going to obey the
law of his State, both as to its spirit
and its letter, or be permitted to-buast- |
fully encourage others in the |

Continued on Page Threa.

OF W. A. WHITE) AND PE

the Executives of most coal pro-

WARREN _G. HARDING.

- GUARD OUT IN-OHI0_
YLVANIA

‘Governor Allen of Kansas Acts/ Governors of Both States Detail

Troops to Duty of Protect-
ing Mine Operations.

MATION BY SPROUL

HIO AND PENNSYLVANIA TROOPS |
RAIL CONFERENCE IN WASHINGTON F:;

COMMISSION ‘IN DUE TIME?

Seg

President Planning Body

Which Will Represent

the Public.
ACTION IS EXPECTED SOON

Failure of Miners to Return to
Work Will Cause Appoint-_
ment of Body. .

ROADS TO GET FUEL SUPPLY

Hoover Prepares to Issue Priore.
ity Orders for Non-Union Coal
—Rationing Considered.

Special to The New York Times. :

WASHINGTON, July 20,—The appoint-
ment of a Federal Commission to arbi-
trate the issues of the coal strike was
forecast tonight when telegraphic corre=
spondence between. President Harding:
and Governor Sproul of Pennsylvania.
was made public at the White House,

The President intimated that such a
commission would be composed solely
of representatives of the American pi ;
lic and would be vested with 1
authority. The original commissién pro=
posed by the President would have béem
composed of three representatives of the
operators, three of the miners and
representing the public. :

Action will be taken by the Presid
it is understood, if it develops within
a few days that the operators are unable ;
to resume production.. The indications —
up to this time have been that the
miners would hold firm, and that with
out Federal intervention production om
a basis sufficient to prevent a1
coal famine next Winter would be

“It has s¢emed to me,” said the Presale
dent in his*message to Governor Sproul, _
‘that the time to appraise the situa-
tion, the opportunity to measure the un-
questioned fairness of the proposal an@ —
sense the -obligations involved,, and ®&
period in which to resume production,
would either avoid drastic steps on the
one hand or cleafly justify them on
the other. The commission will. come
in due time. There is an authority
above all workers and operators, and
that -authority—the American public—
must have an agency of effective ex-
pression.’’

[The text of President Harding’s and
Governor Sproul’s messages will be
found in an adjoining column]. ;

Cavalry, Infantry and Machin2-| Government seizure and operation of
| the mines, it is understood, is.not con-

Gun Units in the Field—
Others Are Mobilized.

Special to The New York Times.
HARRISBURG, Pa., July 20.—An
order was signed this evening by Gov-

; ernor Sproul, detailing the 104th Regi-

ment of cavairy, the Fifty-second Ma-

chine Gun Company and Motor Trans-
port Company 110 of. the Pennsylvania
National Guard to active service in the

templated in the plan under considera~
tion, the belief being that when the
miners and operators are called on to —
submit to the Federal authority and —
deal directly with the Government
through the medium of & Federal come
mission they will aceept. Representa-
tives of the miners Have indicated that —
this would be so, although they would —
expect to have certain terms met as to
working conditions and “wages under ~—
which they would return to work pend-  ~
ing arbitration. i ds
The President, it is said, has in mind

bituminous coal district of Southwestern | the selection of a commission repre-

Pennsylvania.

““I have received so many requests
from coal operators for protection when
they resume operations of their mines,’
said the Governor, “ that 1 believed it
necessary to act promptly before any
trouble arises. .I do not want to see

{a recurrence of the troublesome condi-

tions other States have had.’’
A proclamation was
same time he signed’ the military order,
and this calls
authorities and all citizens ‘‘to give
full support agd aid in meeting the
situation confronting us and to be alert

and vigilant in the discouragement of |

all lawlessness.’” The action by the
Governor is in keeping with the plans
of President Harding.

Believes Situation Threatening.

He issued a statement tonight saying
he believed the situation to be threat-
ening, and in his proclamation deciared
the whole National Guard would be
used if necessary to uphold the law.
Marches and assembling of large
crowds were forbidden by the proclama-
tion, which stated that the peace of
the commonwealth and the rights of its
citizens would be preserved.no matter
what the cost.

General Beary in his orders to the
troops said ‘conditions of . unrest ”’
prevailed and told them their duty
would be the maintenance of peace and
order in the communities concerned.

- There are approximately 1,100 men
in the National Guard units ordered
out and they are now prepared for
service, for the, Guard tomorrow opens
its ‘annual encampment at Mount
Gretna. Adjutant -General Beary has
issued orders to the various com-
mands to entrain tomorrow. The
troops) will be under command of
Colonet E. J. Stackpole Jr. of the
104th Cavalry, Harrisburg, who was
wounded in France. He received ver-
bal orders relative to the disposition
of. the troops... The State police force,
consisting of 450 men, has many of
its troopers. in the .western part of the
State, and they will act as Maison offi-
cers between the National Guard and
the county authorities. All are mounted

' Gentinued on Page Twe.

and New England
general ra
ees
the p’ ry’
is in- the

‘{merce, for which
railroads obt:

sentative of the American public and

composed of men of prominence in pub- —
lic and private life. _Administration
leaders, the understanding is, feel that
miners or operators would forfeit pub-
lic confidence and support by refusing”
to enter such negotiations for the set~-
tlement of the strike. However, Gov-
ernment control of the mines, pending —

issued at the | arbitration and a sweeping investiga-

tion of the coal

mining industry, is

upon the constituted | within the range of possibility.

The commission now proposed would
not only endeavor to settle ‘the im- -
mediate wage and working ¢ ;
at issue, but determine upon 4 con-
structive program for the reorganiza- |
tion of the inaustry so that ‘the evils

which threaten to bring about future
strikes may be cured. = ic i
The communication of President’
ing was in reply to a te t
Governor Sproul in which.
promised full co-operation in the ]
effort to reopen the mines, _ Gover

Sproul expressed the kh 5 a
mission would be, named be oh,

dent if voluntary production f, and -
added that Pennsy abgames fmt Be

exercise of full Executive authority.
Skeptical About Production Gain.
The tenor of Governor Sproul’s.
munication and President Harding’s re-
ply left the impression here that neither
was confident that sufficient voluntary’
production could be obtained to avert a
coal famine. A number of the operate:
who returned to their mines after
recent conferences here, promising to:
their best to carry out instructions. to re-
sume operations, were skeptical of ‘their
ability to accomplish much production
the closely unionized fields. —
i eee eee a
eect te test to be made, ar
he will name the Federal |

within a very few days. Ss
The Administ Pu
ing plans to direct the «
the available coal stvo.ly so.
ee need gat cont con
me ' h
fi ax sa t Go aot
or the presen not ¢
tioning of coal
terest of tn
tenance of i
it is es:

Attorney Ge

to‘ meet the demand under present con-
ditions and that a coal shortage next
Winter was probable. (he effort will be
to avold’a famine in any ofthe consum-
ing districts which would be attended
with suffering and acrious crippling of
industrial activity.

Secretary Hoover had a conference
today with Commissioner Aitchison of
the Interstate Commerce Commission
and other officials
in the situation. He said
hecessary to devise rome machinery to
errange for proper distribution of the
fuel supply and that a definite announce-
ment of the Administration's program
would probably be made tomorrow or
Saturday.

It is hoped that a’ general rationing
plan will not be necessary, as the Gov-
ernment is. anxious to avoid uny move
which smacks of I‘ederal control. It is
believed now that the most serious
phage of the situation can be handled by
arranging to kecp interstate transporta-
tion-in operation and also by directing
the distribution of coal from its sources
in sufficient quantities to meet in part
at,least the needs of the great North-
western territory.

Lewis Threntens Fleoding of Mines.

President Lewis of the United Mine
Workers said teday that all his reports
were that the ranks of the union miners
Were standing firm. He was convinced,
he said, that the operators
unable to get miners to take the place
of the union workers and that the Ad-

ministration’s plan for the mining of
sufficient coal to prevent a_ serious
famine would fail, if continued on
prezent basis.

Maintenunce men of the union, Mr.
Lewis added, would remain in the mines
to prevent their flooding until strike-
breakers were employed. ‘The appear-
ence of strike-breakers ih the mines,
or the calling out of troops, he-~ said,
wouid be the signal for the union main-
tenance men to leave their posts. They
would not, he said, work with strike-
breakers or under the dfection of the
bayonet.

Attorney
esked

would

General Daugherty was
the Government, if the
ranks of the union miners remained
solid, had any definite plan to
men to take their places.

‘It is reasonable to assume,” he
lied, ‘‘ that when the Government
aken steps to reopen the mines it
in mind obtaining workers. If it
such a plan, it is also reasonable to
sume that it would not be
until it becomes time
into effect.’’

Mr. Lewis went to New York this af-

whether

has
has
has

terncon and will remain there for a few|
Wash-|

days.
ington.
cperators
the city
tricts.

He expects to return to
Practically all the
1na labor leaders have

return to their mining

of leading
left
to dis-
To Import English Coal.

Commerce

was indicated

today

at the Department
more of shipping would be
ployed in importing ab
communities. Most
come from England,
mate was made o quantity
mifght be obtained, wes felt that
tonnage niight be sufficient to help ma-
terizlly. This coal is obtainable at from
$6.50 to $7.75 a ton at the ports. Phy-

ms or

ard

soon
coal t )
this
while

Os coal i
no esti-

which

and
the

sical conditions, nowever, will keep thls]

movement down.

The price situntion is
cern. An Aciministration
that operators controlling about 85 per
cent. of the entire tonnage in the non-
union fields were abiding by the agree-
ment to make $5.50 the mreximum. West-
ern Kentucky mines, which
enter the informal agreement,
charging $7.50 a ton,

also giving con-

official said

refused
were
pro luec-

although
tion costs we nm more than
ton... There h: been many ¢
from public utilities ang ther
ers Ixentuck I the

re rt
ymplaints
consuim-

pr ices

e is certain to hamper
movement ]
shipment
n if it
of tre
field.
operators +
the situati
d vic

to UU
boat
is und

mines of

of cor

the Northwest,
sible to reopen so
central competitiv
at f the
oncerned over
fill face in the unionizé«
endeavor to reopen the mines
Btrikebreakers was emphasized
when resolutions demanding an immedi-
ete Government investigation of
cent outbreak at Herrin, Ill., where :
score or more of strikebreakers were
killed, were made public in behalf of the
bituminous coal rs who were it
conference here.

The operators believe that
Federal investigation would
good effect and tend to lessen e dan-

er of repetition a happen-

some a re

with

the -

operat :

thorough
have
t} ts

api il

Will Use Prierity Orders.
WASHINGTON,
Press).-
today tha
Commerce

Department

July 20 late

Hioover

Secretary

t within a day or two the

terstate ‘ommission and

Commerce

operation a

sential tran

coming from non-unio!
« that may be opened i
b by use of priority
“transportation.

Next in
the diminished output
would be the no
ports, 2nd should
le to avert a shortage
tribution plan might’ be
become complete rationing of sup-
ply to industries and territories,
as their might appear.

wouid 1

sct ri

diverting t«
lines the
mines ar
union

orael

1eme of
portation

rning
rom

ated,

Lakes

oradet f

Great
found
the coal
expanded

lis-
ais

other
necessities
the railroads varied from three months’
gupplies on some roads down to
eufficient only for a week or two
others. These latter roads he
would have to be supplied first.
The White Hous: made
Fponses recs
of Marvland, McMast of
kota and Kilby of Alabama and
Governor Crockeit of Utah.
Governor Kilby of Alabama said:
‘Your teleg n 18th is received.
strike order does not
13 in Alabama. All Alabama mines
gare being operated at full ca eXx-
cept as limited by shortage of cars re-
eulting from strike of railroad shopmen.
Nevertheless, I appreciate your terder
of assistance in of its need. Your

pubiic re-

r South

Acting

The

pacity,

case n

proposal for the resumption of coal pro- |

cuction and your plan of arbitration are
eminently fair, just and wise, and offer
means of relief to the couniry that chal-
lenge the commion sense, honesty of pur-
pose and patriotism of every coal opera-
tor and striking miner in the affected
distriets. The country is to be congratu-
lated upon the firm and vigorous stand
rou are taking for the maintenance of
iw and order and the security of men
who are willing to work in this emer-
gency and for the progr of industry.”

loffects of industrial disorder had been
noticed in a slowing up of the business
gituation in recent weeks, the Commerce
Department noted in a periodic review,

though actual coal shortage had not been !

occasioned.

In reccnt weeks some of
industrial planis have begun
ence a fuel shortage. ‘* This, with the
realization that even after the mining
has begun it will be some time béfore an
even distribution can be established, has
had a deterring influence on industry,’
said the review.

Unofficial reports from the West Vir-
Binia coal fields, where’ the bulk of
astern non-union coal has been pro-
duced, indicated a steady decrease in
production, due to railroad service dis-
abilities. Officials considered it sig-
nificant evidence of the relationship
between the coai and rail strikes that
clerks and freight nandlers on the Ches-
apeake & Ohio and the Norfoik & West-
@érn roads should be called out, since
these two roads serve the greater non-
union coal fields. Some West Virginia
mines have not had more than a day’s
supply of coal cars in the four working
days of the present week.

the smaller

to experi-

AWAITS OPERATORS’ ACTION.

Indiana Governor Has Pian Ready |
~ | which comprice the district.

When Mines Reopen.
Special to The New York Times.

INDiANAPOLIS, Ind., July %%0.—A
plan having beer completed by Governor
MeCray for State action in the coal
strike, he said today that he was await-
ing, before acting, a move by operstors
fin response to the Federal and State
Governments’ rcquests fcr ther te re-
open their mines. He did not wish to
disclose his plans at this time, but said
steps would-be taken #00n to carry out
details which have not been put inte op-

eration.
Concerning a report that the State

Ley ia

ee aad

directly interested |
it would bej

the |

obtain |

divulgea
to put that plan

the};

today

nnounced

into

impossi- {| ‘©

stocks |

sived from Governors Ritchie

embrace op-,

first would take over a group of mines
near Terre Haute, now in receivership in
a Federal Court, the Governor said
had received such a suggestion, but did
not wish to discuss it. le report was
that work would be offered to miners at
the old wages and that if they would not
work then the State would call for vol-
unteers.

It is known that the Governor has his
eye on some of the big strip mines, one
particularly, in Greene County, where

‘volunteers could work and get out coal

better than in shaft mines. Fred Rob-
inson, Secretary of the State Purchasing
Committee, has been neégotiating wih
mine operators and miners along this
line with a hope of getting union mén to
agree to work a mine to supply coal to
State institutions.

The Operators’ Scale Committee will
meet in Indianapolis tomorrow to con-
sider plans for reopéning mines, M. L.
Gould, President of the Indiana Bitumi-
nous Coal Operators’ Association, an-
nounced. It is expected this will be one
of a series of conferences, some of which
may be held with State officials, for
finding some way to comply with the
appeal of President Harding and Gov-
{ ernor McCray.

CLEVELAND FACING DARKNESS.

Lighting Plant Can Run Only Three
Days, Says Director.

CLEVELAND, July 20.—Cleveland's
municipal light plant will be forced to
shut down within three days and 32,000
|consumers will be deprived of electric
eurrent unless the city’s coal supply is
replenished within that time, the Public
Utilities Director, Mr. Roberts, declared
|} today. ‘
| The plant has only three days’ supply
of coal on hand and all hope of oper-
ating its generators with natural gas
fuel has been abandoned, he said.
| ST. LOUIS, July 20.—A majority of
{the cities in Missouri will be without
|running water, electricity, gas and
| street railway and telephone service un-
{less the coal strike is ended by Oct. 1,
1B. R. Locke of Mexico, President of the
| Missouri Association of Public Utilities,
| asserted here today.

'PLEDGES STATE TROOPS
FGR ILLINOIS MINES

to Send Needed Cars to
Non-Union Fields.

(Associ-
protection by

SPRINGFIELD, Ill., July 20
ated Press).—Promising

Illinois troops if Illinois mine operators | as it does a challenge of Governmental
work |

obtain sufficient miners to

mines.

late

| can
| their
Sterling

today dispatched his

ing that Illinois mines be reopens. His
promise of co-operation was qualified by
en expression of doubt that any of the
would attempt to reopen because
jac workers.

Asking that he be not regarded
‘“* presumptuous,’ Mr. Sterling recom-
mends that the President turn his atten-
tion to the non-union fields in Kentucky
and that they
sufficient cars
handle the output. or
| vVised,”” he wired, ‘‘ that
| Hazard Field, Kentucky,
ated for the last two weeks.”

Headquarte of illinois

mines

of the k of

jand elsewhere

provided

see
coal

have
the

with

mines

the

Acting Governor Fred E.} and run them until differences are ad-
re- } justed and legislation
| sponse to the request of President Hard- | lated to prevent recurrences of present

were

been ad-

have not oper-

mine |

; workers was silent today regarding the
possibilities of the conference which the
| Acting Governor said he intended _hav-

District President, Fra

his arrival here

With the
ington, or

ing

row.
i{thorized by his executive
| gotiate for a separate wage contract
illinois, it is reported that ne does
intend to attempt a separate agreement
It is und od, however, that Mr. Ster
i] will ask Farrington’s help in t
t the miners back to work.

board to

rst
ng S'
July 20 (Associate

HILLSBORO, lli.,

mediate resumption of coal
} in Illinois, Rice Miller,
' Illinois Coal Operators’ Association, tol
| The Associated Press on arriva

his

home today from Washington, where he,
conference.
Harding's

the coal operators’

not believe President
operating the mines
in Illinois.

} attended
| He did
plan
feasi

would be

CALLS ON IGWA MINERS

District Leader Declares Presi-'

dent’s Meve Is Attempt to
Disrapt Union.

ALBIA, Iowa, July
Press).—Declaring that
ment’s plan to operate
of the iry is

United Mine
President
returned from the
last night, in
|; today appealed to every

the

the coal
coun

Workers, Jor

of the

the
Merrie, Iowa
| who

| conference a

| the strike is settled.

"The Government will find very

tomor- |
Altnough Farrington has been au- |

not |

| Press).—There is no prospect of an im-
production |
‘resident of the

_ TO FIGHT HARDING PLAN:

ssociated
Govern- |
mines
attempt to disrupt}

district,
Washington

statement
member of the
Mr. Hoover said coal stocks held bY/ ynion to refuse to enter the mines until

: r few
j j Union men who will be willing to enter |
said,! the mines and play the part of traitors

!in a project which is intended to disrupt

unio
will have

|} the miners’
Government
250,000 men at work in
turn out any coal at ali.
found utterly impossible
}men remain loyal to the
Farmers at Eddyville,
mining coal in the
farnmis under armed
to a report received

| headquarters. ‘The

said.
put at
the mines
This will
while
union,’”’
near here,
pocket mines on
guards, according
by State union
move was decided

| on after they had tried without success }

}to obtain coal for their thrashing.

| DES
{ sociated

reluctant

MOINES,
Press).—lowa
to attempt
| PEseeertOn, will insist
j; tection of Federal
| National Guardsmen before responding
| to the appeals of President Harding
j}and Governor Kendall, according
;expressions of opinion by local
{tors today.
| The traditional antagonism between
|the guard and the union men, which
}has been materially lessened since the
| World War, still prevails in sufficient
| Strength, where strike duty is involved,
; the operators say, to make the experi-

Jowa, July 20
coal
resumption
upon the

troops rather

pro-

opera-

;ment of reopening the mines with State
| troops a hazardous one.

hat Snicieeinctioal

District Chief Alleges Violation
of Agreement Providing Fuel
for Public Utilities.

MUSKOGEE, Qkla., July 20.—Six hun-
dred coal miners in Oklahoma, Arkansas
and Texas who have been permitted to
work since the strike began on April 1,
were today ordered out by John Wilkin-
son, President of District 21,
Mine Workefs. These men have been
working at mines engaged in supplying

hospitals, ice companies and public
utilities witnm fuel in the three States

Wilkinson's order camé from Indian-
apolis to Secretary-Treasurer ,Bugene
toss, and was immediately communi-
cated to all members of the District
Executive Board. It was not accom-
panied by an explanation.

INDIANAPOLIS, July 20.—Suspension
of work in the Arkansas, Oklahoma and
Texas coal fields, which ‘were working
under an agreement to provide coal for
public utilities, hospitals and schools
was ordered because of a violation
that agreement, John. Wilkinson, Presi-

* The
least

the | prison

are both.

operators, |

than }

CALLS OUT 600 MINERS : and Two Others Meet Death
WORKING IN 3 STATES

United |

‘Acting Governer Advises Harding |

ASKS HARDING HELP
IN MINE REOPENING

Governor Groesbéck of Michigan
Urges immediate Resumption
Under Public Control.

LEWIS REFUSES ASSENT

President’s Intervention in the State
Is Not Expected at ‘This
Time.

Special to The New York Times.

LANSING, Mich., July 20.—Governor
Alex J. Groesbeck met with his first set-
back today in his plan to open the coal
mines in the Saginaw district and oper-
ate them as State institutions.

Following a conference in Saginaw
yesterday with miners and mine owners,
ithe Governor announced that he was
prepared to, take over and operate the
coal mines for the good of the public.
Today John L.~Lewis, President of the
United Mine Workefs, wired the Gover-
nor from Washington that if the State
desired to operate the coal mines the
Governor also would have to make terms
with the mine employes now on a strike
before opening the mines.

This was taken to mean that the min-
ers would not go back to work even
though the State did take over the oper-
ation of the mines. The question is to
be taken up this week with the mine
workers’ officials. The Governor de-
clares the mines must be worked.

The following telegram was sent by

_ Governor to President Harding to-
jay:

“ Mr. Lewis wires refusal
sion to district miners in Michigan to
meet operators and resutne work under
agreement in force previous to April 1.
As matters stand now, no coal will be
produced unless properties are placed
under public control.

“‘In view ‘of extraordinary emergency
throughout the nations public and pri-
vate industries being paralyzed ~ and
consumers being mulcted, constituting

of permis-

authority and power, would suggest that
{steps be taken at once to open mines

is adopted calcu-

{trouble and establishing equitable rela-
tionships between owners and workers
and likewise protection of the public
interests.

‘Please advise further
wishes in matter.’’

decision or

Special to The New York Times.
WAoHINGTON, July 20 (Associated
Press).—There was much interest here
jin the telegram sent by Governor Groes-
beck of Michigan, in which he sought
the approval of the President to a plan
/to take over and operate the Michigan
mines under State contrel. There
statement made at the
today concerning this request,
is not belleved that the
interfere one

coal
was

| House

; and
; Government will
the other.

Way or

tives f the United Mine Workers of
America said that the union miners
i would not have dealings with the State
officials of Michigan, and for that inat-
would not negiotiate except on the
competitive fle!d basis or some
basis which fixed a boosie wage
for a majority of tonnage. The
| miners, Mr. Lewis said, were deter-
mined to continue the strike until the
| principle of collective bargaining and
| procedure in the indusiry was rec-

| ter
central
other

| scale

past
ognizer

DEATH PENALTY PAID
BY TWO AT SING SING
Brooklyn Youth Host to Japa-
nese at Farewell Prison
Dinner.

| Two men put to death at Sing

last night for murders committed
the sake of robbery. They were
| Peter Nunziata, 19 years old, of Brook-
i lyn, and Salta Taizo, 21, a Japanese,
| who lived in Manhattan.
entered the

were
Sing

| for

th chamber
shouting ‘’ Good-bye,
pronounced dead at
brought In at
lie waiked quickly to the chair,
be agitated than the

Nunzfata dea

boys!”’

| seeming

o'clock,
Tle

The Japanese was

was

to more

stolid Nunziata, but shouted the same|—At a workmen's meeting today Presi-|¢or the next four years, and I am going

lfarewell. The doctors pronounced him
idead at 11:21. One of the official wit-
| nesses of the execution was W, C. Ross
}of Peekskill, a Wiind man,
wanted to ‘‘ sense the feeling
execution.

The men had their last meal in sepa-
Ordinarily the prison supplies
the condemned man wants to
expense of the but

of the

jrate cells.
fanything

leat at the State,

|Nunzieta insisted on standing treat for)

self and his comrade. |
I appreciate the kindness
officials,” he said,
like to pay for the dinner for
It would make me feel as if
were free and could go intoa restaurant |
land order anything I wanted. Ask |
Taizo what he'll have. This is on me. |
i Pay for it out of the money my folks |
‘sent me. It’s down in the office. }
Nunziata and three other young men |
lwaylaid Professor Whifred Kotkov of |
‘the Jewish Theological Seminary at
Woodhaven, L. ., when he walked
lacross a field at Woodhaven, and at-|
|} tempted to rob him. He was shot and
killed during a struggle. Joseph Alfano |
now in the death house because of
same crime. Taizo was convicted
of strangling Mitaro Hara, another
Japanese, with a cord and to have
l robbed him of $200 in a New York hotel

SEVEN KILLED IN AUTO,
| INCLUDING FAMILY OF 5

Mr. and Mrs. Fretz, Their Children’

him of the
‘but

i would |

ihe

at Stevensville, Ontario.

White |
Tederal |

President Lewis and other representa- |

who sald he}

RAIL GUARDS SHOOT ~
THREE IN BUFFALO

Fire Into Mob at Erie Yards and
Wound Two Boys and
a Woman.

BUFFALO, N. Y., July 20.—Two boys
and a woman were shot tonight when
two railroad detectives fired on a mob |
of 500 persons in the Erie yards in!
Seneca Street. The boys, eleven and
seventeen years old, will die, surgeons
say. The woman was slightly injured

GOAL SCARCE HERE:

UTILITIES SUPPLIED

Only Transit, Light and Power
Companies Well Stocked,
Reports Show.

OTHER CONSUMERSMENACED

by a stray bullet which passed through| Facing Serious Shortage Because of

the door of her home.

News of the shooting spread rapidly
through the district and when police
reserves arrived at the scene they found
a crowd of 2,000 persons besieging a
shanty in which the two railroad detec-

Strike—Reduced Output of
Anthracite to Be Felt.

While domestic consumers-are faced

tives were being guarded by two city; with a serious coal shortage due to the

policemen. Threats of lynching were

made by the crowd.

nation-wide miners’ strike, there is no

The police reserves ,immediate danger of subway, elevated

finally got the mén to a place of safety,|or surface lines or any public utility

but only by free use of their clubs.

such as light, gas, heat or power com-

The railroad detectives had been acting | panies shutting down because of a fuel
as guards for strikebreakers working in | famine.

the Erie shops, which are near the scene
of the riot.

This was learned yesterday from re-

They were returning to the | ports of these companies filed with the

shops when attacked by the crowd of Transit and Public Service Commissions,

500 men and women.
Stones were thrown at them, and, ac-

cording to their story, the mob made a
rush for them. Then they fired.
The boys, Walter Millas, 11 years old,

and confirmed by C. H. Lesher, editor
of The Coal Age, who said:

‘* New York is in no immediate danger
of having the subways and other utili-
ties shut down for lack of coal, for

and Stephen Warhol, 17, were shot in| stocks are far from being exhausted and

the head with slugs from the shotguns
fired by the detectives. Surgeons say
the woman, Mrs. Katherine Strabel, was
struck by a revolver bullet.

The mob scattered at the first volley,

quantities of English coal are on the
way.”

predicted short rations of
chestnut coal this Win-

Mr. Lesher
stove, esg an
for any one who uses anthracite

ter

leaving the wounded boys lying on the] coal.

ground. They were picked up by police-
men and taken to the hospital.
A few minutes later the mob, greatly

The Public Service Commission an-
nounced that on July 7 it canvassed the
coal situation and found that all con-

reinforced, returned to the attack. Twoj;cerns had from one to four months’ sup-

city policemen just had time to put the | ply.
Frederick Hollenback andj diction over the
inside the flag shanty | COmpanies,

detectives,
Walter Kemp,

and mount guard outside with drawn! small

The commission, which has juris-
light, heat and power
reported that only a few
companies in the outlying dis-

revolvers when the place was besieged |tricts of Long Island were running short

by a crowd of
With cries of
Give up the boy killers!’’ the mob
surged around the Httle shanty. The
two policemen kept the throng at bay
until the arrival of reserves from Police
Headquarters, who fought their way
through the crowd and fought their way
back again with the two detectives. As
they put them into the watting patrol
automobile a shower of bricks and
stones came from the mob.
the policemen were hit, but
seriously injured.

Hollenback and Kemp were held on
an open charge tonight pending an in-
vestigation by the District Attorney’s
office.

none was

SQUAD AWES TROLLEYMEN.

Minor Outbreaks Occur

State Troopers Arrive.

BUFFALO, N. Y., July 20.—While
State troopers were being rushed into
Buffalo from four of the six headqumr-
ters of the State Constabularv. the
International Railway Company was
preparing tonight to extend service on
its trolley lines tied up for nineteen days
by the strike of motormen, conductors
and barnmen.,

No serious trouble occurred today, the
appearance of the city police riot squad
with sawed-off shotguns and the ap-
proach of the State poliee apparently
putting fear into the hearts of the dis-
orderly element that led the east side
rioting for two days.

Several minor outbreaks occurred
while the limited number of cars were
making last trips for the day on the
east side lines about 6 o clock this eve-
ning. A car was derailed at Seneca and
Spring Streets and the crew was stoned.
Other cars were bombarded on Walden
Avenue and Genesce Street, the scene of
vesterday’s disorders.

A few State troopers reached the out-
| skirts of the eclty late this afternoon,
but did not go on patrol duty. They
will be housed at a State armory. Major
Chandler has established headquarters
a atavia, thirty-seven miles east o
t Batavi thirt l t of
| Buffalo, where his forces are concen-

| trating.

Only as

Equipped with steel helmets, rifles and
100 rounds of ball ammunition each,

| forty-five members of Troop K, State] in the way of supplying fuel if the rail- | Weiss to

White
morning,

Plains for
for strike

| Constabulary, left
| Buffalo vesterday
} duty. Under command of Captain

Warner and Lieutenant Roberts, they
; were loaded in large motor trucks under
jorders to proceed without a halt. They
lure expected to reach Buffalo early
| today.

A reserve force of fifteen troopers will

jremain for police work in Westchester
}County and Long Island Their patrol

work will be done entirely wiih motor
| vehicles,
| Says Lenin Is Almost Well Again.
| MOSCOW, July 19 (Associated

Press).

| dent Zinovieff of the Central Committee
of the Third Internationale made a de-

;cidedly reassuring announcement a:
jthe condition of Premier Lenin. ‘ The

almost completely recovered,’’ he said.
Loud cheers and applause greeted the
announcement,

‘GUARD OUT IN OHIO

Continued from Page t, Column 7.

have been on service
fields for weeks.

The troops will be stationed at
strategic’ points In Washington, West-
morland, Cambria, Indiana and Somer-
set Counties, the largest of \the bitu-
minous-producing counties.

Ohio Troops Sent Into Field.

COLUMBUS, Ohio, July 20 (Associated
Press).—Governor Davis late today
ordered National Guard troops now
mobilized to proceed immediately into
the coal mining districts, and also
ordered additional units mobilized.

Three infantry companies, one machine

fun company and one motor transport
company began entraining immediately
for Cadiz, Harrison County, for duty in
the Fastern coal fields. Another com-
pany of infantry at Lancaster will be
held in readiness for, operation in the
Southern fields.

By stationing troops at Cadiz, Gover-
nor Davis said, they would be within
easy reach of Belmont, Jefferson and

and in the coal

BUFFALO, July 20.—A whole family
of five and two other persons were
Ikilled and one other was severely in-
jured in a grade-crossing accident on
the Michigan Central Railway, six miles
west of Bridgeburg, Ontario, this after-
noon,

An automobile, owned and driven by
Daniel Fretz of Colorado Springs, Col.,
was hit by a Toronto, Hamilton & Buf-
falo passenger train, running on the
Michigan Central tracks.

The dead are:
Daniel Fretz, his wife and their three |
Harold, |

children, Ethel, 18 years old;
5 and Carl, & and Robert Baker, 11-}

year-old son of James Baker of Bertie,
Ontario. All were killed outright. |

Mrs. James Baker, sister of Fretz, died |
a few minutes after reaching a hospi- |
tal here. 1

Tne daughter of Mrs. James Baker,
Selma, 8 years old, probably will re-
cover.

Fretz and his family motored to Ste-
vensville, Ontario, from Colorado to}
spend a month with the Bakers. A party
was made up this afternoon for a trip
to a near-by beach. Fretz had just
driven out of the Baker yard and upon
the tracks, whieh cross the highway
there, when the fast-moving passenger

of; train crashed into his machine,

Baker, who had been standing in the

dent of District 21 of the United Mine| yard, waving .good-bye to the family,

Workers, said here today,

witnessed the accident.

tioning them at Laneaster they would
be readily accessible to Perry, Athens |
an Hocking Counties in the southern |
ield,

The troops are not to be sent directly |
to the mines, but are to be held at
Cadiz and Lancaster for quick move-
ment to points where they may be re-
quired, Governor Davis said. In direct-
ing the movement the Chief ISxecutive
said urgent appeals had come to him
from both the Sheriff and Prosecuting
Attorney of Harrison County, as they !
considered local means inadequate to!
insure order in that territory,

Besides troops affected by today’s
order, there are already mobilized and
awaiting orders one Infantry company,
one machine gun company, both at
Zanesville, and a@ wagon company at
Columbus,

The Consolidated Coal & Coke Com-
pany, to which miiltary protection by
Governor Davis had heen refused on
several previous occasions, and also the|
protection Federal marshals by both!
Judges Slater of Columbus and Peck of!
Cincinnati, again appealed to the Gov-
ernor for military protection in load-}
ing slack at New Straitsville, Perry!
County, asserting that if protection!
were again denied direct appeal would:
be made to President Harding for Fed-
eral military protection. The Governor.
made no statement relative to this, but’
it is generaly construed that his order;

" Lyneh them!’”’ and j|commission.

AND PENNSYLVANIA

| that the time
| representing
| ougthy

of coal, and these were aided by the

Light Companies Well Stocked.
The Consolidated Gas Company
ported that it had 164,392 tons of an-

thracite coal and 112,562 tons of bitum-/}

inous, sufficient to meet the companies’
hard coal demands for 115 days and soft

Several of | COal needs for 43 days.

The New York Edison Company, which
has a pool including the United Wlectric
Light and Power Company, New York
and Queens Gas Company, Bronx Gas
and Electric Company, Yonkers Bleectric
Light and Power Company, Westchester
Light Company and Peekskill Power
Company, reported sufficient hard and
soft coal 1 hand to run all concerns

Mr. Lesher said that the strike would
result in ‘‘ a lot of New Yorkers burning
soft coal this Winter instead of anthra-

“The loss of production of anthracite
cannot be made up were the anthracite
miners ready to go to work tomorrow,”’
he added.

The Transit
the Interborough

Commission stated that

Rapid ‘Transit

supply,
Brooklyn

sixteen days’
while the

storage about
normal reserve,

Rapid Transit has seventeen days’ sup-
companies said
these figures did not represent, by any

ply. Officials of both

means, their total coal resources, as they

had thousands of tons additional in sight |

or contracted for.

The New York gas and electric
panies and other public
tions are well supplied with coal,
cording to information received by
W. Saward, editor of Saward's Journal
a coal trade publication.

“The coal situation, however, is
serious one,’’ he said. ‘and the public
should exert such influence as it may

possess to impress upon the mine work-

rived and they should be willing to sub-
mit their case to an arbitration tribunal ; afternoon, Louis Weiss, 33 years old, of
| 484 Centennial Street, Los Angeles, Cal..
for

ers that the time for deflation has

with a
should
Effect
‘“‘ Wholesale and retail

that

prevail.

of Traffic Conditions.

the progress of the railroad strike,

the mines could accomplish very

Continued from Page 1, Column !.

bans eth
reasor

peeple of
work for them

City

id. ‘‘ One important is

Hylan
that
York

the

promised
that I would

Another reason
‘afford to go
wanted

to keep that
{is that I could
Albany even if

promise.
not
people me,

the

Premier is not only recuperating but has| The salary of the Mayor is $15,000 aj,
year and I can live at home here in my}

Avenue. If I
he State,
like to—lI

Bushwick
Governor

live

little home on
was elected

honestly—much
cowd not afford
telve Mansion. I
a hotel or a furnished

would

room,
isit of Mr. Hearst, Uylan said:

‘*Mr. Hearst asked me
definitely to him what I
ought to do to the
people from the vicic eontrol
porate interests.
do as Samuel J. Tilden did to help tre
Democratic organization, and to go into
every county and Senatorial district and
organize them so that Senators and As-
semblymen may be nominated whose
sympathies are with the people and who
are not c@ntrolled by the public utili-
ties corporations of the State.

‘“‘I told him it looked to me as if the
public utilities corporations control the
Republican organization and are hav-
ing men nominated who would do the
bidding of those corporations, I thought
that the people are hoping to have a
candidate nominated by the Democratic
Party who will stand by the people and
has come for some one
the people to
organizing up-State

Ma yO)

Restore State to tne Peopic.

to point out
thought he
State to the
of cor-

restore

to guard against improper and incorrect
returns from up-State localities on elec-
tion night.”’

Mayor Hylan said that Mr. Hearst
had thoroughly agreed with his views.

‘“‘Mr. Hearst also agreed with me
that the question of a candidate for
Governor and for other ices should
not be considered until a thorough or-
ganization of up-State localities was
well under way,’ said the Mayor.
“ Then a candidate for Governor and all
other offices and particularly candidates
for Senator and Assemblyman can be
pledged to support the people when
elected.”"’ ’

‘‘ Did Mr. Hearst indicate that he was
seeking the Democratic nomination for

Governor?’ Mayor Hylan was asked.
‘No, he didn’t,’’ said the Mayor.
‘“*He said he was anxious to see the
control of the State taken from public
utility corporations and returned to the
people. He indicated to

support any man who is nominated and
who will stand after election for the
principles enunciated by the women who,
met and laid down certain fundamental
principles a few days ago.”

The women referred to are those or-
anized as the Women’s Democratic
rogressive Alliance. This organiza-

directing troops into that territory was tion, while not as yet openly out. for

his answer.

| Mr. Hearst, is regarded as part of the

Com-
pany has In bunkers, docks and near-by
the

com- |
service corpora- |

view of having a determination
made as to the extent of the reduction |

dealers inter-
ested in coal are watching very closely

they realize that resumption of work at
little

YLAN QUITS RACE
AFTER HEARST VISIT

in the Execu- |
would have to live inj}

When asked to shed some light on the}

I told him he ought to}

begin thor- |
localities |
Guernsey Counties !n addition to Harri- |and to have the voting lists purged of | the convention.”
son, in the eastern field, and by sta-/ names not properly on them, as well as|

me—alt.ough |}
he didn’t say so—that he is willing to}

roads Gontinue to go from bad to worse.
Some soft coal lines have difficulty in
transporting coal now offered them for
shipment and the unsettling traffic con-
ditions will have an effect for several
weeks to come.”’

A survey of the coal. situation in
Brooklyn by Samuel Drummond, secre-
tary of the Brooklyn Coa] Exchange,
made public yesterday by the Brooklyn
;Chamber of Commerce, said that the
| fuel shortage was already apparent, and
a severe Winter would
siderable suffering.’’

‘If mining is resumed within the next
week," he added, ‘*‘ the mines worked to
capacity, and we have a comparatively
mild Winter, it is probable we will get
through without suffering, mainly be-
cause, last Winter being an open one,
there were about 8,000,000 tons of do-
mestic sizes of anthracite on hand at
the mines, in transit and in retail deal-
ers’ yards when the suspension became
effective on April 1. It must be re-
membered, however, that over three
months idleness means a loss of produc-
tion of all sizes of anthracite of about
20,000,000 tons, and this loss cannot pos-
sibly be made up.”’

McClellan & Junkersfeld, Inc., ‘engi-
neers for the Union Electric Light &
Power Company, announced their de-
cision to burn powdered coal] in the new
$6,000,000 power plant this company is
building in St. Louts.

Declaring this one of the most impor-
tant forward steps in engineering, they
said that ‘‘ extensive tests and investi-
gation by the engineers on stoker equip-
ment and pulverized fuel equipment
proved that coal in powdered form was
a most desirable fuel, giving more eco-
nomical results than any other type of
combustion equipment and permitting
the use of mining sweepings, low grade
and non-marketable coals, which are
often wasted.

‘‘The burning of powdered coal is as
simple as the burning of fuel oil,’’ it
was stated, ‘‘ and hag many of the ad-
vantages of this fuel, and in an emer-
gency due to miners’ strikes, or other
unforeseen causes, fuel oll may be used
in the same furnaces without change.

\FREIGHTERS COLLIDE
IN GRAVESEND BAY

Both Outward-Bound Vessels
Lose Plates and Must Go to
Drydecks for Repairs.

bring ‘* con-

The steamer Union City of the United
States Navigation Company, shortly be-
fore 6 o'clock yesterday afternoon, ran
| into the steamer Coeur d’Alene of the
Bull Line in Gravesend Bay, a half
mile north of Norton’s Point. The
| steamers, both freighters, were outward
bound. Four plates above the
and stern superstructure of the Union
City were carried away. The Coeur
d’Alene lost a plate on the starboard
side near the bow and had its stem

the impact.

twisted by

While the damages in both cases was |
aaGc- |

above the water, it was thought 2
visable to return to port. The Union
| City put in at Tompkinsville and the
; other vessel at Stapleton. It was said
that both vessels would be put into dry
dock for repairs. ; -

| The Union City and the Coeur d'Alene
| left port about the same ume, the
| former leading down the bay
Kach had a
of the

latter fifteen yards behind.
pilot on board. Because
tide they

until a half mile from
wnen it wus necessary to cnange
course to westward. The Union
turned first and it was expected that
the Coeur d’Alene would follow.

| out of order and the two vessels collided

used.

BRIDGE JUMPER SAVED.

meena

| not

After Fighting Rescuers.
promenade on the New York
the Williamsburg bridge

the

was taken to Belleveue Hospital
observation.
Two men, whose names the
the guard rail of the promenade
dragged him back. Patrolman Kelly
of the bridge police,
and placed him under arrest. Dr
f Gouverneur Hospital
sellevue.

ers,
Schobel

campaign machinery

Conners.

| pre-convention
| erected by Mr.

See Machine for Hearst.
at the
not slow

Democratic leaders
mittee meeting were
alizing how well the proposal
| Statewide organization would
| with the plans of the Hearst
te Tt work would be in the

ine
of agents for the MUearst
who

ties,

for
fit

the boom,
either
acting

and would be financed
Hearst ov some one

him. They concluded that an
| zation of that sort would end by be-
coming the tool of its creator.

| been expected, at the meeting of
| State Committee was apparent.

call had enjoined a full attendance, and
there had been a general response. In
} many instances the State Committee-

| mem. had been superseded by the real

| leaders of the districts they represented, |

| who were armed with proxies.

Many apprehensive glances were cast
in the direction of, William Church Os-
born and Winfield S. Huppuch, who had
| injected into the deliberations of the re-
cent Syracuse conference a note of bel-
| ligerency through their spirited fight on

the pretensions-of Mr. Hearst. Both had
| come prepared to renew the fight, should

occasion arise, but had finally been pre-
| Vailed upon to maintain an attitude of
| neutrality.
|} Practically
who attended

leaders
sought

up-State
the meeting had
}to learn from persons close to
i’. Murphy where he stood on
| pirations of Mr. Hearst.
up-State leader declared that as a re-
sult of what he had learned since he
| reached the city he was convinced that
| the Hearst boom was dead.

; ‘‘ Hearst is a dead cock in the pit,”
|was the way he expressed it. ‘‘ Keep
goes eyes on Mayor Lunn of Schenec-
tady.”’

all the

the as-

Denies Conners Claim.
William H.
Democratie leader
;most influential of

} Fitzpatrick,
of Brie

County and
Murphy’s up-

| State HNeutenants, took occasion to refute |

| the claim of Mr. Conners that the Erie |
convention |

;County delegation to the

| would be for Hearst.

| ‘My position was clearly
!in a statement which I issued
|falo yesterday,’’ said Mr.

set
in Buf-
Fitzpatrick.

candidate; that they were waiting for

favor of ex-Governor Alfred E.

William H. Kelley,

| is “in
| Smith.

Democratic
Farley. and

Former

Governor Miller.
| State Chairman W.
| Michael J. Walsh,

j converts to his cause, declared that they
| had been misrepresented and would be
jfor any candidate the
| wanted. Tammany scouts sounding the

| Visiting leaders from up State declared |
that they had failed to find any one who!

reported Hearst sentiment to any extent
in his district.

Chairman, Edwin S. Harris and a score
or more agents fur the Hearst boom

committee members from up-State. Mr,
Conners shook hands with members as
they came out. He said he was well

satisfied with the way the meeting had |

been conducted.

** Not a mother’s son of them dared
atert anything against Hearst,’’ he
said.

Conners shook hands with Tammany
Leader Murphy, who smiled, but did not
appear over-cordial nor inclined to con-
verse with the Hearst promoter for long.

Mayor Lunn of Schenectady, whose

water |

with the |

flood |
took a course to the eastward |
Norton’s Point,} was announced today
Lite
City

that moment, eccording to a report, tne
steering gear on the Coeur d'Alene got

| Los Angeles Man Taken to Bellevue)

Frustrated in an attempt to jump from
side |
yesterday

| police
| failed to get, saw Weiss clambering over
and

helped to subdue | pletion and m
Weiss as he struggled with his rescu-|visit of the diplomatic mission, headed by

took

State com-

promo-
hands

now are swarming up-State coun-

for |
organi-

That developments of importance had
the
The

Charles |

One prominent |}

powerful |

forth
|‘ said in brief that the Erie County |

delegation wes not for or against any |

Democratic |
leader of Onondaga, said Smith was the}
one available candidate who could beat |

the leader of West- |
chester, both of whom have been repre- |
sented by supporters of Mr. Hearst as}

organization |

Mr. Conners, former Democratic State |

were about in the corridors buttonholing |

FREE STATE GUNS-
BATTER WATERFORD

Continued from Page 1, Column 4.

when it toppled over, tearing up the line
and blocking the whole Northern system.

DUBLIN, July 20 (Associated Press).—
Reports from the fighting area received
today indicate a pressure by the national
army forces on each extremity of the
insurgent line, developing powerfully
and extending roughly from Limerick to

Waterford, thereby cutting off practi-
cally the whole of Munster Province.

At Limerick fighting was progressing
last evening. The National troops
launched a heavy attack with bombs on
the O’Mara factory, but as far as is
known the irregulars are still holding the
position. In the centre of the city; where
the insurgents are strongly fortified, the
firing was particularly heavy. The cas-
ualties are estimated at twenty. killed
and forty wounded, a considerable por-
tion of these being civilians.

BELFAST, July 20 (Associated Press).
—The Irish Army bulletin for this after-
nooh says that it is reported the irregu-
lars retreated from Tullamore at 4
o'clock this morning after burning the
barracks, the courthouse and the jail.

They left in several lorries in different
directions. A

Alarming accounts of the situation in
Kings County, or County Offaly, as it is
now known, reached Belfast in dis-
patches received today. Tullamore and
Birr are described as in a pitiable plight
with those of their inhabitants who are
able to do so taking flight in fear of
starvation.

One party which volunteered to go
from Tullamore to some of the outlying
villages to procure food and milk for
the women and children was held up by
the Republicans on the way back, the
messages state, and the supplies com-
mandeered.

A new order has been issued at
Tullamore that any motor car arriving
in the town must be kept for military
purposes, and according to The Belfast
Telegraph correspondent all males from
fourteen years upward in the region
between Tullamore and Birr are being
conscripted. A large section of the con-
scripts, however, is reported to have de-
serted and joined the national forces,
some of them arriving in the neighbor-
ing villages wearing only their trousers
and shirts, having left their various
barracks during the night.

Dublin -wag again isolated from Bel-
fast today, both as regards railroad and
|} telephonic communications.

D. C. COLLIER EXONERATED.

Commissioner to Brazil Fair Freed
of Harrison Charges.

Special to The New York Times.

WASHINGTON, July 20.—The complete
exoneration of D. C. Collier, Commis-
sioner General of the United States to
theBrazilian Centennial Exposition, from
charges made by Frank A. Harrison of
Nebraska, whose resignation from the
commission was accepted by President
| Harding after his removal had been de-
manded by his fellow Commissioners,

by the State De-
partment after a detailed inquiry lasting
several weeks.

et tt ene esses senses *

Pe coceencammeieiaienenaenill

Ice on the Shares
of the Arabian Sea

A wonderfully interesting letter
tells Knickerbocker about ice
in Cochin, on the coast of sun-
baked India: “In the club at

ochin, when you get a cool drink
you sign a chit for the drink and on
the chit is an item for the few tiny
crumbs of ice that _ the liquid a
faint refreshing chill. One afternoon
i wasin the spacious dnd really mag- .
nificent old house of one of the -
Englishmen. Lemonade was
around and the lady of the house
followed up the servant and fished
up from the depths of a wide-
mouthed thermos bottle a bit of ice
apiece. She apologized for the tiny
ration of ice. telling us that the
supply had not come over from Mad-
ras that day and until it came we
should have to put up with what
ice was left.”
Mr. George Rouschline, Knickerbocker’s
expert on Scientific Ice Plants, built the
first successful commercial Ice Plant in.
India. The plant is located at Calcutta...

Knickerbocker

ICE

Company

ONG ISLAND
DUCKLINGS,
a surprise for

guests, a treat for

the family. Easy to
cook. Ask your

butcher.

The official statement of the depart-

ment reads:

““The charges which have been pre-
ferred against D. C. Collier, .Commis-
sioner General of the United States to
Lifeboats were lowered, but they weré/the Brazilian International Centennial

Exposition, have been examined by the

| Department of State. No

corrupt or

| illegal conduct has been established, and
; there appears to be no basis for any
| charge of dishonesty or moral turpitude.

| ticipation of the United States
‘exposition.’’

J. Butler Wright of New

the resignation of Mr.

Mr. Wright will
| to iRo de Janeiro.

will rush the

rive

exposition, Sept. 7.

| followers of Al Smith would be for him
|} as &@ compromise candidate. In his own
} county of Schenectady, however, he

organization as a
| made by him to have George W. Cooper,
| State Committeeman from the First As-
;sembly District, superseded by a
| friendly Democrat. Cooper is opposed
' tc Lunn as a candidate for Governor.

Democratic State Chairman Peil
;calling the committee meeting to order

| Said he regarded the prospects bright for |

{a Democratic victory.

| ‘*T have been in most of the counties
;of the State in the last few months,”’
he said. ‘‘ I have invariably found the
|same situation. One County Chairman
| after the other has told me that in his
} particular county everything was look-
ing well. We are entering this cam-
|paign with every hope of success.

‘““ The community at large is disgusted
|} with the inefficiency of the Republican
| Congress, its inability to redeem even a
|fraction of the promises which were
}made by the Republican Party two
|years ago and its disgraceful surrender
j}to every organized group of the com-
j munity, whether rich or poor. The State
jadministration has contributed to the
(popular distrust of the Republican
|organization. Here, again, we see the
| same reactionary spirit.

} ‘** There will be involved in the fight in
this State this Autumn one thing far
more important than the temporary ma-
terial interest of individuals. The
;publican Party. in this State stands |
ready to surrender to various groups }
| organized, usually honestly, by fanatics |
|} to mechanize the American people to |
|regulate the lives and activitles of our

citizens. Our fight this year will be for

the fundamental principles of the Demo-

cratic Party which have kept it alive

in success and failure for over a cen-

tury. We stand flatly for the freedom

| of the individual to lead his own life.’’

Mr. Collier will proceed at once to Rio
;}de Janeiro to take charge of the par-
in the

Announcement of the appointment of
York to the
}position on the commission left vacant by
Harrison was
|made at the department at the time
|Mr. Collier’s exoneration was announced.
proceed immediately

|. Mr. Collier left Washington tonight for
| New York, from which port he will sail
| Saturday for Rio de Janeiro, where he| fj
aye buildings to com- |
ake preparations for the

opposed by a faetion of the Democratic |
result of attempts)

| Secretary of States Hughes, due to ar-'§
there on the opening day of the

crganizations were already committed |

to him; that he had not antagonized any | #
other candicate, and had reason to hope
that im the end both Hearst and the/

STAN DARD
EIGHT

The Car With Airplane
Lubrication

See the new model 98
Standard Eight. Ride in it.
Know what real motor car
efficiency means.

Closed Types $2759 to $3350
i: IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
} FACTORY SALES BRANCHES:

1920 Broadway, New York
1127 Atlantic Ave., Brooklyn

Newark:
F. C. Huff Motors Company
The Standard Motor Car Ga.
Pittsburgh, Pa.

“Quality Supreme”

CP Soaps

# IGHER Education.”

This term can be ap-
plied to the habit of using super-
fatted soaps in preference to the
ordinary kind.

Erasmic, Litd., of Warrington,
England, speciahze on the pro-
duction of quality soaps which
are famous in every civilized
country in the world.

Erasmic bath soaps will sur-
prise and delight the user. The
difference in quality will be
instantly recognized and the
ECONOMY feature will be valued.
One cake will outwear a dozen
cakes of ordinary soap.

large Generous Sired Cakes
Perfumed With

Lemon, Verbena, Violet, Carnation, -
Rose, Eau de Cologne, Lavender.

ON SALE-AT GOOD DRUG AND
DEPARTMENT STORES.

SOLE AGENTS & IMPORTERS

RENKEN & YATES SMITH Corp.

35 WEST THIRTY-NINTHM ST., N. ¥.

it is understood that sentiment in Erie |

gubernatorial boom of late has grown
more robust, had many friends at the
meeting. He attended the meeting. His
supporters declared that twelve county

CARMA es OER

ere

Avenue

cA frank bid for
your shoe business!
Finest Oxfords —
Tan or Black, All
wanted leathers.
Brogue tips or
plain soft toe. *12

quality. $ 7 50

=~ en Om oe athe

- seneeeee

Pod

BOTH SIDES DECLARE.
POR LONG RAIL FIGHT

““Obeying Government,” Say
Rail Executives—" Trying to
'. Kill Unions,” Strikers Retort.

HYLAN DRAWS LABOR’S FIRE |

Refusal to Meet Committee De-
nounced—Minor Disturbances
Still Continue.

Hope of a peaceful settlement having
, Vanished with the announcement of the
‘United States Railroad Labor Board
jthat it had abandoned its attempt to
(end thé shopmen’s strike, railroad ex-
ecttives and union leaders in the metro-
‘politan district yesterday began girding
,for a finish fight.

Announcement of a decision of East-
ern railway executives reached in con- |
{ference attended by thirty-seven in the |
, Bankers Club here yesterday to “ fight |
it out,’’ was met last night’ by the union
'Yeaders with the declaration that if the
i** executives want a fight we are

) ready,’’ and the “ striking shopmen will |
fight, like the miners, indefinitely if |
;Mecessary to secure justice.’’ |

he strike committee declared the con- |
| ference represented a ‘‘ small clique of
hard boiled railroad executives backed |

rejected it. The strike, by their own
statements and by the declaration. of
the Labor Board, is not a strike against
the railroads but a strike against an
order of a Government tribunal—a
strike against the Government of the
United States itself, The issue, and
the whole issue, at the present time
is ‘shall the just authority of the
Government be defied and the Govern-
ment rendered hélpless to’ protect its
citizens in their peaceful and lawful
pursuits?’”’ \

Replying to the rail executives state-
ment the central strike committee
charged that violations of the Labor
Board’s ruling. It added:

‘*These violations both destroyed the
workers’ confidence in the prestige and
power of the Labor Board and aroused
them to the pitch of strike. Even today
the Erie and Western Maryland still
refuse to obey the board‘s ruling on
outside contractings. These two roads,
together with the Pennsylvania. and
New York Central, have been the worst
offenders in violating Labor Board rul-
ings. For over a year these roads
have installed their own rules reducing

| the pay of some of the men as much

as 20 cents an hour below the wage the
Labor Board said they should pay,
‘““The installation of the company
union by the Pennsylvania Railroad and
the installation of piece work by the
New York Central Railroad as well as
the farming out of work and the sub-
contracting the work by the Erie. and
Western Maryland show a conspiracy
to defeat the labor provisions of the
Transportation act.’’ ,

See “ War on Unionism.”

In commenting on the refusal of the
railroads to meet the union’s terms in
Chicago, the Strike Committee said the

| railroad executives have now, “ declared

war upon American labor unionism,’’
and also had ‘* declared open war upon

|the Railroad Labor Board and the

Transportation. act.’”’

Practically all railroad companies
gave out statements reporting , their
freight and passenger service normal.
The New Haven road, however, admit-
ted that train 825 from Berlin to New

‘by the most -powerful financial inter- | Haven had been annulled as a passen-
, ests in the world,” who had blocked| ger train on account of ‘‘delays en
peaceful settlement of the strike in Chi- | route.’’

, cago. The executives were charged with| ‘‘ Since July 1 various wrongs have

‘attempting to force the ‘‘ open shop” |
; Upon the railroad workers and destroy |

been committed ’’ against the road, pre-
vention of which is sought in a tempo-

American labor unionism. | rary injunction asked and issued
| Declaring thé shopmen were striking | Wednesday ~ in the. Federal Court

against the Government, Mr. Loreé said |

in New Haven, officials of the company

| “* the position of the railroads is one of announced yesterday in a _ statement
patriotic and loyal obedience to Govern- | which in part said:
ment authprity, and they are proceeding | Since July 1 various wrongs have

| with all diligence to fill the strikers’ |

been committed in violation of the law:

places and to perform their duty to the | equipment has been tampered with,

) public.’”’
The railroads were in accord with the |
;@nnouncement of the Labor Board on |

July 4, said Mr. Loree, that the men |

itaking the strikers’ places were not

strikebreakers, and were “entitled to/|

‘the protection of every department and

| former employes have forced their way

into employes’ houses shouting threats,
other strikers have followed employes
on trolley cars shouting threats, em-
| ployes have been assaulted by strikers
and numerous other acts have been com-
mitted,’’

, branch of the Government, State and{ At the Grand Central Terminal a

national; and, as railroad employes,
, these men are entitled quite as well to
the protection and consideration of the
railroads.”’

Mayor Angers Strikers.

Members of the strike committee ex-

pressed great resentment against Mayor |
' Hylan because he refusd to grant them |

| audience this week. Williams K. Kehoe,
: Secretary to the council, tried to arrange
an appointment for the committee to
present to the Mayor charges of alleged |
) Violation of ordinances by the railroads. |

He refused to grant an appointment, re- }

| ferring the committee to the Department
of Health. Committeemen said the

| Mayor’s action was being discussed ad-

, versely at every strike meeting in the

' city.

| Despite reiteration that passenger and

' freight service is about normal, investi- |}

j@ation showed yesterday that the strike |
Was causing manufacturers and business |
‘men in’ New York considerable incon-|}
venience. Traffic managers of various |

|industries reportéd that fast freight}
, coming into New York from the West,jcials when questioned
and North has been uniformly twenty-|

four to forty-eight ‘hours late. They

4 ‘ iths ay on arriving fra thica o }
said that up to the present time no} that have been arriving from Chicago on |

, crisis existed.

Because of delays in milk shipments,
it<was learned, representatives of rail-|
,roads and mili companies conferred at
the offices of the New York Milk Con-|
, ference Board in the Fuller Building in}
‘regard to the situation. Railroad offi-
iclals, it was stated, assured the milk}
companies that ‘‘ conditions will not;
grow worse.”’

Besides the delays in milk long delays}
in the movement of meat and other
foddstuffs were reported. Passenger
train service instead of improving was
declared by the strikers to be getting
worse, the Pennsylvania Railroad for)
; the. first time showing delays, aver-
aging from fifteen to forty-five minutes
iJate. Through trains on the New York}
Central also were running from fifteen}
‘minutes to two hours late, according to}
. bulletin boards.

Will Fight toe the End. |

Practically all of the big Eastern rail- |
ways were represented at the conference

| Statement was given out showing that
in the last 24 hours a total of 555 trains
had moved in and out carrying a total

’ passenger cars, and the aggre-

lay to all trains combined was
174 minutes.

“ There were no delays in‘commuting
service, either in arrival or departure,”’
it was added, ‘* the minor delays being
; on through trains on the main line of
; the New York Central and New Haven
railroads. Ninety-six per cent. of all
trains ran over the electric division on
time, practically all of the time being
| lost on the ‘more distant divisions.
| ‘“* Only two trains were delayed in de-
;Parture from Grand Central terminal,
one being delayed four minutes, due to
j;adaition of an extra mail car at the last
;}moment on train No. 43, and one five

moment on train No. 61.”
Tell of Freight Delays.

“Few freight arrivals are on time,’’

of the strike on meat shipments. Meats

| the third morning: are not getting here
now until the fourth morning, according
to the officials. The company would not
be embarrassed even if the shipments
were delayed to the fifth morning, save
in the extra expense of re-icing, it was
said, because reserve stocks would

nerely be placed on a five-day basis, |

instead of the present three-day basis.
The General Electric Company has had

| seers on oe frrort freight. _ At the
tavenna (N. Y.) yards, he Jest |
R ) ya on the West ployed by the Boston & Maine Railroad,

| was shot while swimming in the Connec-
\ticut River near this town last night.

Shore Railroad 800 cars of freight are

{now “ buried,’’ according to R. Todd, a

traffic official of the export department.
Mr. Tood said only four switch engines
were available in the West Shore yards
at Weehawken yesterday, where usually

| there were at least eight. He said the}

company was not being slowed up by
these conditions. ‘‘ We feel that the
railroads are in good shape, everything

considered,” Mr. Todd added, ‘‘ and will 1

continue to be.’’

Lackawanna officials in Hoboken said
the service was normal and there had |
jbeen no locomotive trouble in :the last
| sixty hours. -Strikers and officials of |

of the Eastern executives at the Bank-/the Central Railroad of New Jersey is-

ers’ Club, at which time the situation
‘iné the Eastern district was canvass¢
All of the railroad chiefs, it was state
' reported they gradually were filling the
i gtrikers’ places and were prepared to
continue the fight to a finish with the}
.Bhop crafts. ;
“We have decided to go through with
ltnis fight,’’ said Mr. Loree after the

conference. ‘‘ There will be no backing |

down on our part. The withdrawal of

the Labor Board has cleared the issue, |

and B. M. Jewell, head of the striking
; Shopmen, will no longer be able to dan->
gle hopes of peace offers before the |
‘men. We intend to protect the new men
and cannot concede restorations of se-
‘niority rights to the striker

‘“* Phe roads here in the East are hay-
!fng no real difficulty in getting me-
chanics to take strikers’ places because
| of proximity of the labor market’s prin-
| cipal reservoirs. In the West the situa-
tion is somewhat different because of
ithe shortage of help.’’»

Mr. Loree made public a formal-state-

;sued conflicting statements regarding

-d. {the condition of locomotive equipment
jin the railroad yards at Elizabeth.

Strikers said fifty engines needed re-
pairs, with no one to do the work. C.
H. Stein, General Manager of the rail-
road, said engines were being repaired
and there had been no interference with
train service.
Minor disorders continued throughout
the strike zone, where Federal marshals,
ic and private guards remained on
J. Sprout, a Pennsylvania Rail-
shop worker, of 666 Westfield
Avenue, Ilizabeth, was severely beaten
by three men as he left the Waldo Ave-
nue yards after work yesterday. He was

| unable to identify his assailants, and no|

arrests Were made,

A committee of strikers, headed by |
| John J. Dowd, Chairman of the Central |
Strike Committee, presented to the regu-}

lar meeting last night of the Central

| Trades and Labor Council alfégations of
| violations of city ordinances by rail-

road companies operating within the!

} ment from the conference reviewing the | city limits. Mr. Dowd read affidavits

issues in the strike and pointing cut
‘the refusal of the shopmen to accept
the wage cut ordered on July 1.

‘*When the decision of the Labor |
Board,” he added, ‘‘ran in the em-|

‘ploye’s favor, they accepted it; now
that it runs against them they have

perenne genesrentingeeenan ome

ORDERS ARREST

OF W. A. WHITE

| and presented photographs purporting to

breakers in buildings and cars at vari-
ous points, and the operations of loco-
| motives menacing life, owing to defective
| equipment.

| tion. ““Tf he insists on being funny we

will have to do something about it.’’

| But Attorney General Hopkins said:
_’ One who encourages lawlessness in

Kansas by advocating it, is himself vio-

lating the law and therefore is subject

to arrest. Mr. White has jumped at a

| conclusion without realizing the funda-

Continued from Page 1, Column 6.

of the law at a moment when the situa- |
, tiém is tense with danger to Govern-|

ment.’”’

Before allowing the information for
the warrant to be drawan up tonight
: the Governor asked several times if the
arrest of White. would hurt “ Bill

{standing with the people of Kansas,’’ |

, Governor Allen appeared more worried
*than he has at any time during his ad-
, ministration.

A dispatch from Emporia says that
, impending arrest for defiance of the in-
dustrial court law had no terror for

; White tonight. He is quoted-as saying!

to a friend, “I won’t take down the
isign. It is going to stay there in’ my
window.’’

' The action of the Governor came
as the climax of hostilities between |
'“ Henry and Me,” which had Kansas |

“, gasping for breath today. The spectacle |
of two ‘“‘ musketeers,’’ veterans of as-

j fields of France, torn asunder by the

;ehild of one and godson of the other, |

| the Industrial Court law, caused a gen-
. eral furor.

| White, who is the author of a book,
, “ The Martial Adventures of Henry and

Me,”’ telling of his travels in France
, with Governor Allen, defied prosecution
‘for placing a sign in the window of his
mewspaper office, announcing: ‘‘ 49 per
cent. sympathy ’’ with the striking rail-
} men. He also carried an editorial |
on the front page of The Gagette yester- |
| day inviting Governor Allen to prosecute |
him,

Governor Allen, the ‘‘ Henry ’’ of the
book, has since been consulting Attorney
' General Hopkins and Judge A. J. Mc-
Dermott of the Industrial Court.

‘The Emporia eattor has given “aid
‘“;and comfort” to the enemy, according

to the view held by Governor Allen,

Judge McDermott and the Attorney Gen-

eral, the “enemy” in this case being

those who are held to be violating pro-
visions of the Industrial Court law
against picketing. intimidation, &c. Re-
ports from Emporia say that many mer-
chants, following the lead of White, put
“@ympathy cards” in their windows to-

é a We all know Bill," said Governor
‘Allen-soon after he heard of White's ac~

mental principle involved. It is not a

| matter of free speech or free press, It
| is a question of obedience to law.”’

The striking shopmen are elated and
declare that Mr. White’s stand for
“free speech” and a “free press” is a
|help to their cause.
| W. L. Huggins, presiding Judge of the
| Industrial. Court, who has taken issue
| with Governor Allen on other occasions,
| Stepped in again today, declaring that
the State’s Executive was wrong in
j} asserting that the ‘‘ sympathy cards ’”’
| ‘were in violation of the law.
| He also suggested that Mr. White was
jin error in-stating that ‘*‘ the order of
| the Industrial Court is an infamous
| infraction’ of the right of free press and
| free speech."’ He is going to Emporia
| to talk with the editor.

““He is allowed to be either 49 per
cent. or 99 per cent. in sympathy with
the strikers,’’ declared Judge Huggins,
‘‘and in my opinion displaying a poster
indicating one’s sympathy for the strik-
|ers is not a violation of the Industrial

| Court act.”
, saults upon strongholds of predatory in- |
'terests, brother adventurers on the}

White States His Case.

EMPORIA, Kan., July 20.—That no
feeling of personal bitterness is con-
nected with the present controversy was
declared by Mr, White before he went to
his home tonight.

‘“Whatever happens, my personal
fecling for Governor Allen remains un-
changed,’’ Mr. White said. ‘ We dif-
fer over the advisability of permitting
free speech in the present industrial
controversy. Free speech is never in
question except when opinions clash.
fF is the only time freedom is use-

““T am not for the striking railway
men 100 per cent, They have a just
cause, but have taken a foolish time
for fighting for it, so I have put in
my window a card from which I have
erased ‘100 per cent’ and put ‘50
per cent.’

‘The Governor thinks that 50 per cent.
is an incendiary amount. of sympathy.
I do not, and I regard the right to utter
opinions in industrial controversies as
one of the fundamental liberties which
Americans enjoy. So I feel inclined to
keep the card up and to change. the per
cent. from time te time as the situation
changes,”

minute delay due to emergency repairs |
to the electric light required at the last |

was the answer of Armour & Co. offi-|
as to the effect |

| show violations of the sanitary code in|
the feeding and housing of strike-|

STATE TROOPS OUT
AT CONCORD, N. H.

Governor Acts Following the
Attack on Rail Workers—
East Deerfield Man Shot.

GEN. EDWARDS IN TOUCH

Reports Disorders to Washington,
Stops Federal Troops’ Leave and
Confers With Governor.

CONCORD, N. H., July 20.—A detach-
ment of artillerymen, sixty strong, in
charge of Captain Arthur L. Smith, ar-
rived here from Portsmouth at 10
o'clock tonight in response to Governor
Brown's order late today calling out
State troops to protect railroad property
and workers here. The station was al-
most deserted when the troop train
pulled in,

The men marched immediately to the
Boston & Maine Railroad yards, where
they will be quartered. ;

Harley C. Brown, an employe of: the
Boston & Maine Railroad, reported to
the: police that he had been taken from
an electric car by about twenty. men
late today, and beaten with fists; and
clubs. He exhibited severe bruises.

Officials of the Federated Shop Crafts
today urged members of the union or-
ganizations who are special officers of
the police force to tender their services
to the City Marshal for police duty
during the present strike situation.

Strikers Deny Responsibility.

BOSTON, July 20.—Mobilization of
two companies of the New Hampshire
National Guard for strike duty at Con-
cord and the shooting of a Boston &
Maine machinist’s helper near Hast
Deerfield were leading events in the
railroad situation in New England to-
day,

Governor Albert O. Brown of New
Hampshire directed the calling out of the
troops in the State capital following a
conference at Manchester with Adjutant
General Howard, at which the request

of Mayor Henry Chamberlin of Concord
for protection was considered. The

Mayor, in a letter to the Governor, said
that in his opinion the police force was
“insufficient to afford the protection
now required if the authority of the law
is to be maintained and anything like
normal railroad service is to be con-
tinued.”’

Special to The New York Times.

BOSTON, July 20.—Major Gen. Ed-
wards, commanding the First Corps
Area here, is keeping the War Depart+
| ment in Washington fully informed con-
cerning the strike situation in this
territory.

Governor Cox of Massachusetts and
General Edwards held a long conference
| at the State House here this afternoon,
All leave ror officers and men in the

| First Corps Area has been canceled.

| Wholesale vioience and sabotage all
| over New England were charged today
|by the managements of both the New
| Haven and the B. & M. Railroads as a
| result of the strike.

East Deerfield Man Shot.

EAST DEERFIELD, Mass., July 20.—
James Rago, a machinist’s helper em-

He was taken to a hospital in Green-

i field with a bullet wound in the hip.

After companions had taken the man
from the water, shots were fired from
the bushes on the opposite bank of the
| river.

‘Two Attacked at Stamford.

Special to The New York Times.
STAMFORD, Conn., July 20.—Edward
| Guisel, a striking electrician of the New
| Haven Railroad, was arrested here to-
lnight for alleged assault on Ogden
| Nickerson, son of the local freight agent
lof the New Haven Railroad and a
| strike-breaker.

Nickerson and George Larsen of 110
William Street told the police they were
| followed from the local railroad yards
|to Hawthorn Street and there set upon.
| Nickerson identified Guisel as his as-
sailant, but Larsen could not identify
lthe accused man as having hit him,
| Both Nickerson and Larsen were badly
| beaten. Their assailants were a group
'of men. Guisel denied having hit Nicker-
| son,

Rioting in Worcester.

WORCESTER, Mass., July 20.—Riot-
ing and violence in the railroad yards in
Worcester developed to such a magni-
tude during the night that extra police
guards were detailed to the various
| railroad properties here.

The Boston & Maine Railroad was
made to bear the brunt of the trouble,
and men hired to take the places of
striking shopmen, stationary “engineers
and oilers were stoned, and freight
trains held up for hours by the slashing
of airbrake hose.

Four Shot in Pennsylvania.

MONONGAHELA, Pa., July 20.—Two
Pennsylvania Railroad patrolmen, a car
inspector and a constable were shot
early today after their gasoline speed-
ster had been wrecked on the Ellsworth

branch, south of Bentleyville, Pa. Three
of the men were seriously wounded,
while the other was hit by a number of
buckshot. The officers were On railroad
strike patrol duty.

North Carolina Treops Move.

ROCKY MOUNT, N. C.. July 20.—Two
companies of National Guardsmen, con-
sisting of 140 infantrymen and artil-
lerymen, arrived here late today for

duty in connection with the strike of
railway shopmen,

Atlantic Coast Line Railroad officials
announced that the Hmmerson shops,
which have been tied up a8 a result
of the strike, would be reopened to-
morrow. .

RALEIGH, N. C., July 20.—Governor
Morrison today ordered State troops to
Rocky Mount and Aberdeen for duty
in connection with the raiway shop-
men’s strike. j

Disorders at Several Points.

CHICAGO, July. 20.—A boiler foreman
was threatened with lynching today if
he continued work on the Santa Fe at
Fresno, Cal., a car inspector at Ft.
Worth, Texas, was lured from home last
night and flogged.

Continued disturbances at Pittsburg
and Hoisington, Kan., caused Governor
Allen to issue authority for mobiliza-
tion of the National Guard. -

At Fort Worth a car inspector of the
Texas & Pacific was lured from his
home by a false report of a wreck,
taken several miles into the country
and flogged by unidentified men. \

An attempt to assassinate a general
yardmaster of the Chicago & orth-
western Railway and attacks on five
non-union men were reported from
Sioux City, Iowa.

Two cases of violence were reported
at Waycross, Ga., where State troops
are doing guard duty.

CHARLESTON, W. Va,, July 20,—
Thirty-two Deputy United States Mar-
shals were sworn in today by Judge
George W. McClintic and sent to points
along the Virginia Railway. The pur-
pose, it was announced, was the pro-
tection of mails and prevention of in-
terference with interstate commerce as
a result of the strike railroad

SENATORS CALL EXECUTIVES

Continued from Page 1, Column 6.

ernment method of approaching the is-
sues between those on strike and their
employers.

Way Open for Harding to Intervene,

Since the Railroad Labor Board has
exhausted its efforts, it is now possible
for President Harding to.consider the
situation without seeming to encroach
on the functions of that body.

A prominent member of thé Cabinet
declared today. that the Eastern rail
heads were not responsible for the hitch
over the seniority question. He as-
serted that not all the Eastern execu-
tives were standing out, but that some
Western executives were more deter-
mined in their opposition to restoration
of seniority. ‘This official said he ex-
pected some Eastern executives would
make settlements of their own with their
men,

‘I have been informed,’’ he said, ** by
the President of one of the leading
Eastern roads that he will make his

own settlement with his men if a gen-
eral settlement is not reached by the
rail executives collectively. He informs
me he knows how to make such a ‘set-
tlement with his own men and. will do
so if the executives fail to agree. I
know some other executives feel the
same way about the matter.’"

Won't Yield. on Senority,

“WASHINGTON, ;July, 29 (Associated
Press).—An effort’ ta‘gettle the railroad
strike at @ suddenly, arranged confer

ence of heads of lea railroads and) th

members of the Benata Interstate Comes
merce Committee here tonighiterasaina,
derstood ta have failed,

Those attendipg’the conferencesqlaay
appeared that a ore “pation
much tmore distant expressed pose
simism over thé immedia
viewingthe coal and oa
gether,

The rail executives,
were insistent upon es
the unions are deman Bs ap
to mae the —. wae Wo
are the senio rule,
of the pension status the qu 2
of “boards of cine sateen tee
employers and employes. ‘

Refuse Board ef Adjustmep

The rail executives were sald tq have
declared they could not and. ‘would not
yield to the union demand for-@-national
board of adjustment.

They also were said to be insistent
upon refusing to restore the status quo
of employes on strike with respect to
their seniority and pension rights.

Earnest efforts were said to have been
made by the Senators present to obtain
modification of the executives’ position.
It was said that the possible menace to
the public from the railway strike, com-

bined with the coal strike, was stressed
by the Senators, but the attitude of the
railway executives on the three main
points regarded as necessary precedence
to the return of the men to work was
said to be unyielding.

No further conferences in Washington
were said to be planned. Some of the
conferees said it was apparent that such
efforts would be fruitless.

Persons well informed said that Pres-
ident Harding did not contemplate call-
ing the executives into conference him-
self, and that apparently any further
moves must come through the Railroad
Labor Board, the railroad executives or
the union representatives. One of the
conferees said that. the future part of
the Government now appeared to be the
task of maintaining. order on the strike-
affected rail lines and at the same time
in the coal fields.

RAIL BOARD IS UPHELD
AGAINST PENNSYLVANIA

Federal C enit Réleerses Order Re-
straining Criticism of Road
for Ignoring Decision.

Special to The New York Times

CHICAGO, July 20.—The claim of the
Railroad Labor Board to possess the
power of criticising those who ignore
its decisions appeared to be upheld to-
day in a judgment rendered by Justices
Baker, Altschuler and Evans in the Fed-
eral Court of Appeals, reversing the de-
cision of Federal Judge Page in the
test case of the Pennsylvania Road in
connection with a decision of the board.

The decision, in effect, not only re-
stores props that had been knocked from
under the labor unions, but it removes
a grievance that railway shopmen have
nursed for months.

In a controversy between the board
and the Pennsylvania Railroad, Judge
Page had ruled that the board was not
an integral part of the Government, was
a corporate body, and therefore could
sue and be sued.

The decision has an important bearing
on the present railroad strike inasmuch

as the original dispute involved the
forming of a ‘* company union ”’. by the
Pennsylyania, which refused to meet
unions of the federated shop crafts.
The railroad insisted that it had the
right to deal with its own employes and
Judge Landis supported this contention
by granting a_ temporary injunction
restraining the Labor Board from criti-
cising the actions of the railroad in con-
nection with the company union matter.
Later Judge Page made the injunction
permanent.

In his decision Judge Page ruled that
the Railroad Labor Board had exceeded
its authority and had jurisdiction only
in cases directly concerning wages and
working rules. :

The decision was appealed by Solicitor
General Beck, who contended that it
would invalidate hundreds of the board's
rulings. Today’s action of the Court
of Appeals, it was predicted, will invali-
date the wage agreement which the
Pennsylvania Railroad recently an-
nounced it had made with its shop em-
ployes, because the Labor Board found
that the road was dealing with repre-
sentatives of less than 15 per cent. of
its employes, without considering the
sentiments of the remainder of the
workers. Officials of the road this week
announced that the new wage agree-
ments affected 14 ),000.

Reversal of Judge Page’s rulings Is
held to mean that the Pennsylvania,
the most prominent carrier fostering
the open shop, will be compelled to meet
with shop crafts representatives in se-
lecting employes to méet with its of-
ficials.

Promoters of peace in the railway
strike, recovering from +» Wednesday
night’s announcement that all negotla-
tions here’ were at an end, gained new
hope today from an. overture by the
Baltimore & Ohio Railway.

Cc, Galloway, Vice President of
the road, announced that since the
peace movement undertaken by Ben W.
Hooper, Chairman of .the board, had
failed, the company is*~‘‘ now ready to
econfér with its men ”’ on the question of
settlement.

Superintendents over the entire system
were instructed promptly to notify the
men that the company desires to deal
with them.

ee eee en eg flit seaihineade

Trucks Adequately Supplant
Rail Service Wherever Trains
Have Been Canceled.

NO NEED OF TROOPS SEEN

Annulments to Continue on Several
Roads, the Wabash Canceling
Six More Trains.

WASHINGTON, July 20.—Announce-
ment was made today by Postmaster
General Work that ‘“‘any menace en-
dangering the delivery of mails arising
out of the strike of, railway shopmen
had passed.” ’

The announcement was made in the
face of reports from divisional’ officials
of the mail service that additional trains
were being annulled in various parts of
the country. but Post Cffice Department
officials explained that the situation
now was so well in hand that in prac-
tically all instances where the railroads
were unable to carry out their mail con-
tracts other means of moving the mails

were found, either tnrough the attach-
ing of mail cars to other trains, or
rough motor truck delivery.
Coincident with the Pustmaster Gen-
eral’a announcement Attorney General
Daugherty said reports to the Depart-
a oS Moi C Denison, ber
ount, N. C,, scenes recently
of strike disorders, showed an improve-
ment in the situation, but that the de-
t-had received information of
utbreaka in several localities in Mon-

and Idaho,
perintendent Var der. Voort of the
way Mail Service at Seattle advised
@ Office Department of the annul-
ment of a total of ten trains in’ Wash-
State and Montana. Reduction of
th RB servi etween Belhaven and
#4. ween Columbia and
Mackeys, North Carolina, also was
reported to the department, but an-
nouncement was made that motor truck
service probably would be installed.
General Manager Whitenton of the
Missouri, Kansas & Texas Railroad tele-
grathen Postmaster General Work that
e road could inaugurate no train ser-
vice between DeLeon and Cross Plains;
Texas, unless protection was afforded
the employes working at DeLeon. He
added that the ‘‘ United States Mar-
shal is not furnishing deputies to pro-
tect our workmen at DeLeon,” and
further said that unless protection was
liven service between Stamford and
otan, Texas, could not be resumed.
Superintendent Cisler of the Railway
Mail Service at St. Louis submitted a
report saying that the Wabash Railroad
had only twenty dgys’ supply of coal
on hand,

Denison Labor Leader’s Charges.

DENISON, Texas, July 20.—Charges
that railroads are purposely delaying
the mails in an effort to bring about
the calling out of Federal troops were
made today by E. M. Wilson, Chatrman
of the Federated Shop Crafts on the
Missouri, Kansas & Texas Railroad. In
a statement given out here Mr. Wilson
asserted that mail and express trains
are being sidetracked for less important
trains so they will be delayed.

ST. LOUIS, Mo., July 20.—Deniai of
charges made at Denison by E, H. Wil-
son that the railroads are delaying the
mails in an effort to bring out Federal
troops was made at the general offices
of the Missouri, Kansas & Texas Rail-
road late today.

The statement declared that the road
was running its trains ‘‘as fast and as
closely on schedule as possible."’

Wabash Cancels Six Trains.

CINCINNATI, Ohio, July 20.—Superin-
tendent R. N. Bird of the Government
mail service announced here today that
the Wabash Railroad has taken off six
‘‘important trains,'’ due to the railroad
and coal strikes, and that it would ‘‘con-
siderably slow up the mail service in
this division.”’

The trains annulled, according to Su-
perintendent Bird, are Train 9,  be-
tween Detroit and St. Louis, Trains 18
and 28, between St. Louis and Detroit;
Train 19, between Toledo and Fort
Wayne; Train 18, between Fort Wayne
and Toledo, and Train 6, between St.
Louls and Decatur, Ill.

ST. LOUIS, Mo., July 20.—Denial that
discontinuance of six trains would inter-
fere greatly with the movement of mails
was made this afternoon by E. J. Taus-
sig, President of the Wabash Railroad,
Mr. Taussig asserted that the Wabash
was operating more trains at present
than when under Federal control, and
that. the annuliment of six tyaihs was
due to lack of passenger travel.

More Cancellations in Chicago,
CHICAGO, July 20.—Railroads enter-

ing Chicago today canceled a number of |

trains to save fuel.
The Chicago & Northwestern took off
fifteen suburban trains, discontinued one

Miiwaukee train and reduced another to
a Saturday only basis. Curtailment of
service on branch lines in Illinois, Iowa,
Wisconsin, Minnesota and the Daxotas
was also ordered.

The Baltimore & Ohio canceled two
trains each way between New York and

Chicago and dropped a local train to |

Garrett, Ind,

CLERKS ON TWO ROADS OUT,

Strike Is Expected to Slow Up
Southern Coal Shipments.

CINCINNATI, Ohio, July 20.—E. H.
Fitzgerald, Grand President of the
Brotherhood of Railway and Steamship

Clerks, Freight Handlers, Station and |

Express Employes, said that unofficial
reports reaching his office indicated
that the strike on Western railroads
called for 10 A. M. today on the Chesa-
peake & Ohio and Norfolk was 100 per
cent. effective at many points,

After a personal canvass of the Cin-
cinnati terminal today Mr. Fitzgerald
said that 327 freight handlers and clerks
here had walked out.

With clerks, freight handlers and sta-
tion men going on strike, union officials
here today predicted a further tighten-
ing up of the available supply of coal
of the nation.

FOR 35 YEARS THE
BEST QUALITY OBTAINABLE
There Is No Substitute’

“Franklin 6030”——daytime
“Murray Hill 3030”——nighttime
To every man who owns property these two tele-

phone numbers are significant. Through them, you
can summon a trained'Holmes Patrolman for any

emergency.

HOLMES PATROL PROTECTION

66. West 89th Street, New York City. Day and Night Telephone Murray Hill 3080

MENACE 70 MAILS |
TS THOUGHT ENDED <¢

STORE

TOROS

BOUIN

ROTOR)

ORS

BOI

BES

OTERO

BOOTIE

Dee

BOE

OB IBOT

ROMO I

BUR

OORT

UOT?

Clearance

Men’s Bathing Suits

Included are assorted colors and stripes of neat
proportions, sizes 34 to 46

mm Sel"

WWAA®

Originally from. $5.24 to $6.24. Splendid
quality and all from our regular stock. One
or two piece style.

Originally from $6.74 to $9.94. Our best
men’s bathing suits in assorted color stripes.
Macys—Fifth Floor, 34th Street,

GPO’)

Fre.

FeO MeN? AE AED EAE TNE EECA AEP? td AD AEE WE EZ

(Between Fifth and Sixth Avenves)

Palm Beaches—$l/ 6.50
Mohair—$20 to $25

Tropical W orsteds—

Silke Shantung Suits—

Sport Coats—$16.50

If you are looking for cool clothing,
we suggest the following:

Men’s Mohair Suits

(Coat and Trousers)

They’re so comfortable and light in weight, yet the colors and patterns
are the kind that most men like to wear—not so conspicuous as some’
Summer clothing. The quality is good and substantial, and you can ex
pect satisfactory service and wear. All sizes. |

Tropical Worsted Suits, $24.75 —

(Coat and Trousers)

Very practical Summer suits for men, Offering plenty of patterns in a cool, loosely
‘woven fabric that holds its shape just like a heavier suit. Plain colors and stripes,
dark mixtures of blue, gray and Oxford. Two and three button sack models.

Continuing the Clearance sale of

MEN’S SUITS, $29.50

Originally $39.75

You may still get a splendid choice of two and three button sack models in fine .
worsteds and unfinished worsteds as well as cassimeres and blue serges. All sizes.:

Macys —Fitth Floor.

Also These Cool Suits:

Shantung Silk Suits
Palm Beach Suits -
Flannel Two-Piece Suits
All-Wool Crash Two-Piece Suits 17.50
Linen Crash Knickers -

Racys—Titth Floor, Front

Flannel
Trousers

(all wool)

Originally $4.34 to $4.96. These suits in either 95
two-piece or one-piece style with skirt. $6.

You need them for wear with
your blue coat on special
occasions during the summer, :
Most men have two pairs, so
one can be cleaned while the
other is doing service. You
will appreciate the quality”

of these,
Macys —Fifth Floor, Front,

Men’s Straw Hats
Reduced to $1.24

Formerly $2.29

Imported and domestic straws in a variety of braids and models. Some with cush-
ion-fitting head bands.

Ki2ey’s —Main Floor, 35th Street, Center.

‘Herald Square

New York

Stern Brothers

WEST 42d ST.

WEST 43d ST.

2-piece Summer Suits for Men:

Change that woolen suit for
a featherweight Kirschbaum
Midsummer suit. Shapely,
good fitting lines, tailored in
to stay in. Cool! Smart! And

very economical! All models
—all sizes.

White Flannel Trousers, $8.75 and $10.75
Wool Golf Knickers in Herringbone effect, Special—$7.50

TARIFF THREATENS
| TRADE WITH EGYPT

Prohibitive Rate. on Cotton Will
It Is Estimated There.

BUSINESS MEN ARE AROUSED

Americans Who Are Opening Up
bh New Markets Fear Defeat if
& , Policy Is Not Changed.

Copyright, 1922, by The New York Times Company.
Special Cable to Tue New York TiMEs,

CAIRO, July 20.—Everybody in Egypt
With the faintest idea of economics—
Americans, British, French, Italians,
Greeks, Egyptians and the real polyglot
community—is watching. anxiously the
‘trend of American policy concerning the
import duty on long staple cotton into
the United States.. The matter is one of
national importance to Egypt, and in a

pveeeet degree to America. 2

. During this week international cap-
tains of commerce in Cairo and Alexan-
dria were interviewed on this _matter.
‘_In the main their views are identical.
American business men, with close
knowledge of cotton-growing conditions
in the United States, point out that if
. the present temporary import duty on
long ‘staple cotton into the United States
is incorporated permanently in the new
tariff legislation it will constitute the

thin. end of the wedge which ultimately
will split Egypto-American commercial
relations asunder. They point out -that
the fundamental fact in the case ts not
the protection needed for long staple
cotton grown in the United States, but
that the American grown long staple
is inferior to Egyptian long staple and
canrot replace Egyptian in American
manufacturing industries. They say fur-
ther that protection of long staple must
have as an inevitable corollary a pro-
tective tariff. for short staple cotton.
This means American industries wiil be
forced to use inferior cotton, notably for
tires. Thus, while thousands of farmers,
perhaps, will gain a slight advantage
through the tariff, millions of farmers
and business men generally~ in, the
United States will suffer disadvantage
through having to use automobile tires
and other cotton products which neces-
sarily.are inferior in quality to those at
present in use. Or, if long staple cotton
is prohibitively taxed while long staple
products are allowed to enter the United
States practically on a free trade basis,
the American tire industry, for instance,
is bound to be badly hit. ;

However, even if the reaction ‘in the
United States were not serious, there
are other important considerations re-
quiring careful attention. It is neces-
sary to recognize that the import duty
on Egyptian cotton eventually means
the elimination of Egyptian cotton from
American industry. This indeed is the
aim of the American cotton growers who
are urging that the duty be made-per-
manent.

if the duty is confirmed the first_ef-
fect on American foreign commerce wil!
be the loss of Egypt's trade with
America. Last year this amounted -to
$50,000,000. Thus at a stroke of the
pen American legislators will lose for
America more than $50,000,000 annually
just at a time when American business
men now in Egypt are developing grow-
ing markets for American manufactures.
if America bars out [Egyptian cotton,
Egypt obviously will be seriously impov-
erished and American commercial pio-
neers in Egypt will have to retreat fur-
ther.

If Egyptian cotton is unable to enter
the United States there will be a sub-
stantia] loss to the United States Ship-
ping Board, whose ships now find prof-
{table cargoes in the transporting of
Egyptian cotton to American ports.
Otherwise they would be empty on the
homeward journeys.

It is estimated here that if tariff legis-
lation drives Egyptian cotton from
America the total loss to the United
States will be more than $100,000,000
annually.

Finally there is another aspect. Amer-
fica having capitulations in Egypt is safe
from retaliation. If-America makes the
prohibitive tariff on Egyptian cotton
permanent it is tantamount to tying an
opponent's hands, then ‘hitting him in
the face.

In the foregoing only such arguments
ere given as are presented by American
business men here who are willing to
“repeat them to any American authority.
Other nationalities in business ~ in
Egypt ‘go even further in their state-
ments.

REPUBLICAN BOLT
GUTS GLOVE DUTIES

Continued from Page 1, Column 3.

other side of the chamber that docs not
want to vote upon the bill before tne
Fall elections. 1 am not violating any
confidence or revealing any secret when
I make that declaration. The bill is
going to be disposed of. It is not going
to be sidetracked on the theory that the
Democrats have -filibustered against it
to an extent that has prevented the
Senate from disposing of it. We ought
to vote finally on the tariff bill inside
of three weeks.”

“JY agree with the
claimed Senator Smoot.

** As soon as the wool dispute has been
Gisposed of, I shall be ready to place a
limitation on debate, and I shall be
ready to agree to a time to vote final-
ly,”’ continued Senator Robinson.

‘** Ample opportunity will be afforded
to discuss the Shipping bill when that
bill is before the Senate. Full oppor-
tunity will be had to discuss the Muscle
Shoals proposition when it is pertinent
to do so. Recognition of the Obregon
Government, a purely executive func-
tion, which absorbed the attention’ of
the Senate yesterday, of course, cannot
properly be brought before the Senate.
Feverything except the pending proposi-
tion (tariff) has been before the Senate
this morning.

‘*T hope the Senate may now get down
to business and dispose of the Tariff
bill. It is true that from the Democratic
side has come much of today’s irrele-
vant discussion from Senators, how-
ever, who, in the main, have voted with
the majority on the Tariff bill, giving
color to the suspicion that there is a
growing purpose on the part of those
who ostensibly favor the Tariff bill to
peatgpne the day of judgment respect-

“We are going to vote on the Tariff
bill. We are going to vote on the Bonus
bill. And then we are going to the
country. ~God save the country!’

WASHINGTON, July 20.—After its ac-
tion on the glove duties today the Sen-
ate turned to the jute section, approving
a rate of 4 cents a pound on hackled
hemp after rejecting, 82 to 18, an
amendment by Senator Robinson of Ar-
ares to make the rate one cent a

und. .

Next the Senate approved a committee
duty of 25 per cent. ad valorem on
sliver and roving of flax, hemp or ra-
mie. Senator Robinson sought to have
the rate reduced to 15 per cent., as at

_ present, contending that the hemp in-
dustry jwas one that. could not thrive
inthis Country under present labor con-
ditions.

Senator,’’ ex-

A!so expert services on
general chimney work,

heating and ventilating.
No payment ac-

Smoky

- Fireplaces *<"=

Frederic N. Whitley, Inc.
Engineers and Contractors’
217 Fulton St., Brookiyn

IN JACKSON'S LUNGS

Physician’s Testimony Protested
by Counsel for Exterminator, on
Trial for Manslaughter.

Despite objections by counsel for Al-
bert Bradicich, a vermin exterminator,
who is being tried for manslaughter on
the charge of causing the deaths of. Mr.
and Mrs. Freemont M. Jackson in their
apartment in the Hotel Margaret Annex
in Brooklyn last April/ the: prosecution
got before the jury yesterday testimony
to show that cyanogen gas in the lungs
was detected at the autopsy.

It was charged that Bradicich was
careless in releasing. cyanogen gas in
an apartment below the Jackson’s and
that the gas seeped through crevices
in the floor and overcame:.them. Dr.
William W. Hala, who assisted in the
autopsy° on Mr. Jackson's. body, said
that when he opened the chest cavity
he distinctly smelled the gas and spoke
of it to Dr. Charles Wuest, the medical
examiner.

**I told Dr. Wuest,”’ he said, “that
I believed Mr. Jackson -had died of cy-
anogen poisoning because of, the odor
from his Jungs, after which Dr. Wuest
left..the room.”

County Judge Haskell told the jury
that they should not consider Dr. Hala’s
testimony that of an expert, inasmuch

as he had never treated a case of cy-
anogen gas poisoning.

LEGAL RUM SUPPLY
HALVED THIS YEAR

Total Withdrawals From Govern-
ment Warehouses Estimated at

The ‘volume of liquor legaHy with-
drawn from Government warehouses
during 1922 will be a little more than
|half of that taken out’ in 1931 and less

than a sixth of that issued in 1920, ac-
cording to an estimate given out yester-
day by Federal Prohibition. Commis-
sioner Roy A. Haynes, who visited New
York prohibition, headquarters, at 1,107
Broadway,, yesterday. ;

‘In 1920 there were legally withdrawn
from Government waréhouses and other
sources 12,000,000 gallons of: good, ‘or
red, liquor. The figures for 1921 were
3,500,000, while our estimate of the total
withdrawals for this year, based on
those of the first-quarter, 1s 1,s00,000

“There is little qyestion, but that 50
per cent. of the improvement in general
prohibition —- throughout the
country is due to
bootleg market with inferior liquor. As
the withdrawals of good«liquor have
been decreased, poor grade ,and often
poisonous substitutes have been resorted
to, so that many persons who in the
past occasionally used liquor. refrain
now from drinking on account of fear of
being poisoned.”

SEA PIRATES KILL SKIPPER.

Men in Motor Boat Board Schooner
and Shoot Her Master.

MIAMI, Fla., July 20.—The converted
| auxiliary schooner, Willam H. Albury
was held up by motor-boat pirates off
Gun Key today and her master, Captain
Edgecombe, shot. dead on deck, accord-
ing to a wireless message from Bimini
picked up by the Miami Beach Radio
Station tonight.

The message said the Albury was held
up by men in a motorboat bearing the
name Falcon and the license number
V-7456. The Falcon escaped and the
Albury headed for Bimini, where the

body of the captain was taken off.
The Albury has been in the Nassau-

TELLS OF GASODOR-

| pital.

e flodding $f the |’

IN MOTOR CRASHES

Two Cyclists Are Killed in Col-

lisions With Trucks and Taxi
Crushes Boy of 4.

VAN BACKS OVER CHILD

Girl, 14, Hurt Wednesday, Suc-
cumbs—Elderly Couple Are Run
Down—Politicians Injured.

Trying to avoid a collision with an au-
tomobile truck in Long Island ¢ ity
about 6 .0’clock last night, Louis Bluc.-
man swerved bis motorcycle so sharply
that it overturried and slid into the. rear
of the truck. - He died of a fractured

skull in St. John's Hospital. Peter
Wailin, who.was riding in the side car
of, the motorcycle, was.taken to the hos-
pital with’ a’ broken arm, three ‘broken
ribs and other injuries.

Blackman was 25 years old and lived
at 22 East 104th Street, Manhattan.
Wailin, who is 31, lives at 91 Second
Avenue, Manhattan... The truck was
driven’ by Joseph J. Kleinheinz of 72
Jamaica Avenue, Long Island City.

Marvin Propper, 4 years old, of 1,403
Fifth Avenue, was kitled by a taxicab
on Fifth Avenue, near 116th Street, yes-
terday afternoon, Edward. Manning, of
1.347 Hershell Street, the Bronx, took
the boy to Mount Sinai Hospital, but he
had been killed instantly.

Several children were playing in Mon-
roe Street about’ 6:30 o’clock last eve-
ning when the driver of an automobile
truck tried. to turn his machine around.
He backed into the group of little
ones, and: Maria Pakiz, 3 years old,
fell underneath a rear wheel. She died
half an hour later in Gouverneur Hos-
The accident took place in front
of her home at-215 Monroe Street. Sam-
uel Lieberman of 2891 Madison - Street,
the driver, was arrested on a technical
charge of homicide. ‘

A collision between an automobile aml
a motorcycle on. the State Highway
near Dover, N. J., yesterday afternoon
caused the death’ of the motorcyclist:
His skull was fractured, both legs and
both: arms were: broken and: he suffered
internal injuries. The Coroner found in
his - pocket. a card with the name
‘Michael Sherry, North Bergen.”

The automobile was driven by Charles
N. Bourgan-of Montclair,

Injuries received on Wednesday night
caused- the death of Margaret Costello,
14 years old, of 70S Fourth’ Avenue,
Brooklyn, in .the Norwegian Hospital
yesterday.. The girl: was struck by an
automobile driven by Peter Budesheim
of. 3,205 Sixth -Avenue, Brooklyn, at
Fourth Avenue and -Twenty-second
Street, Brooklyn. .

Mr. and Mrs. Harry W. Flagg, an
elderly couple of Brockton, MaSs., were
knocked down by a taxicab in one of
the runways at Pennsylvania Station
last night. The husband, who is 62 years
old, was cut and- bruised about the body.
His wife sustained a fracture of the left
knee and cuts and bruises. Thomas
Pryor, 28 years old, of 247 West Twenty-
ninth Street, who drove the taxi, was
arrested on charges of felonious assault
and reckless driving.

William N. George and Arthur Twom-
bly, prominent in Queens County poli-
tics, ‘were injured last night in a colli-
sion between Mr. George's automobile
and a trolley car of the New York &
Long Island Traction Company, on th:
Jericho Turnpike near Monroe Street.
Queens Village. They were taken to the

Feespaie ana tioeteciaitaae

Jamaica Hospital in a serious condition.

Both were unconscious.

Two automobiles were wrecked in a
collision on the Willis Avenue Bridge
between Harlem and the Bronx about
midnight. Miss Mary McGovern of 521
West Fifty-first Street may die from
her injuries. She and another woman
were caught in the wreckage of one car,
and she was taken to Harlem Hospital
with a possible fracture of the skull.
Frank Rito, ‘30 years old; of 731 St.

Jamaica trade for some time, it was! Ann's Avenue, the Bronx, was arrested |

said tonight.

ITALIAN GRENADINE.TIES .. .
FRENCH CUT SILK TIES...
IRISH LINEN HANDKERCHIEFS
ENGLISH WOOL HOSE
ANGORA WOOL MUFELERS
ENGLISH MADE CAPS... .
FRENCH LISLE HOSE-. .. .
ENGLISH MADRAS-SHIRTS . .

on a charge of reckless driving.

a ee ne ee ee

IE NEW YORK TIMES,

5 DIE, 6 ARE INJURED

“BUCKINGHAM”

Foulard Cravats

—SILK LINED—

Sitks selected in Eng.
land and hand-blocked
in 49 designs and
color combinations
exclusively for

Saks and Company

OT content with featuring the larg-
est assortment of foulard four-in-
hands in the City, we Show a wealth

of designs:and combinations that cannot
be obtainedgelsewhere. We selected these
rich silks right at the mill and had them
printed by London’s leading silk printer.
Each cravat is carefully tailored and is lined
with silk. - Distinctive neckwear of unus-
ual character at a very modest price.

Saks and Company feature at all
times, New York’s largest collection

of English foulard cravats.

Saks & Company

BROADWAY At 34th STREET

PROTESTING RATHENAU'S
MURDER.

The ‘Lustgarten in Berlin, with a
greal mass meeting in progress to pro-
test against Dr. Rathenau’s assasiina-
tion, graphically delineated in the Mid-
Week Pictorial this week. 10 cents
a copy.—Advi.

pLain'§
FANCY 75¢ ae,

FOR SALE EVERYWHERE
LEARN TO SWIM NOW

GUARANTEED BY AYVAD MFG. CQ.- HOBOKEN - N-v

TO CLOSE

WHOLESALE FOREIGN, DEPT.

MEN'S FURNISHINGS

eA T
WHOLESALE PRICES

SCOTCH GOLF HOSE .
PONGEE SILK SHIRTS .
SWISS SILK MUEFLERS .
JAPANESE JACQUARD SILK
ANGORA VESTS. . .
SILK PAJAMAS ...
ANGORA SWEATERS

FRENCH BATH ROBES

THIS SALE.COMPRISES GOODS PERSONALLY SE-
LECTED BY FINCHLEY FOR SPECIAL REPRE-
SENTATIVES IN THE LARGER GITIES IN‘AMER-
ICA. FINGHLEY. DESIRES TO HAVE IT. KNOWN

THAT

THE ENTIRE BUILDING IS NOW TO BE

DEVOTED EXCLUSIVELY TO RETAIL BUSINESS.

5 West 46th. Street

. NEW YORK

-GIMBEL BROTHERS |

32ND STREET — BROADWAY — 33RD STREET — NEW YORK CITY

the Blazing Weather

Dapper as you please, and cool as you please.
Whether it’s city for work or city for play. Whether
it’s mountains or beach or backwoods. Keep cool
in cool clothes — that are smart clothes, Un-

mussed and unruffled— tidy and trim. Unwilted
and unshrivelled. Decks cleared for action—and

plenty of spirit to act. Summer time isn’t
slump time if youre rightly dressed.
PALM BEACH SUITS |
Nothing so cool in masculine garb
since—well—almost pre-historic $
Palm Beaches. Better made
— and better styled. Biggest
values right in this lot. At
All Colors. All Sizes. 33 to 48. Regulars and Stouts.

Sizes to 48. stouts.

days. Each season brings better
Other Palm Beach Suits Society Brand Suits

Palm Beaches and tropical worsteds.

Sizes 33 to 46. Regulars and Stouts.

Regulars and

And a Big Stock of

COOL MOHAIR SUITS

Plain blacks; Light stripes; Dark stripes.

, st Big assortment! And
big value at each price.

Sizes 34 to 48. Regulars and Stouts.
GIMBELS MEN’S CLOTHING STORE—Fourth Floor

GIMBELS MEN’S HAT SHOP—Fourth Floor

bd * a

je ¥* oo
made sennits —plain-and saw
their origindl prices. Now down
MEN’S GOOD SHOES to

Lowest price of the season! And :
for quality hats! Most of them ;

with cushioned head bands. Well $ 00

edge—-crowns of many heights | r |

—brims of every width. All -

Were biggest value in town at 3]

for cleararice to $1.45. Half the e

season yet to wear ’em. Crisp,

new, fresh, fine! - - - -
. Bo hws
Final Clearance Prices Reduce —

High ‘and Low | But Not Every ~
$5 45 Style in Every
: o Size ?

Shoes That Have Sold
In Regular Stock
for Dollars More
GIMBELS—Fourth Floor

in All Men’s
Sizes

Golf shoes; _ street
shoes; dress — shoes;
brogues and dancing
‘pumps — all drastic-
ally price-cut to en-
_ Bure a rapid exit.

ORD OFFER RIDDLED.
AN SENATE REPORT

rris Déifared Muscle Shoals
1/000 ina Hundred Years.

Sencinde nail

INTS “DEED TO CAPITOL”

ght Members of the Agriculture
Ejrommittee Join Chairman in

fl. oe onal. ie Ree

he Opposing Acceptance.

WASHINGTON, July 20.—The rejec-
tion of Henry Ford's offer for Muscle
Shoals and the enactment of legislation
f the development, of the war-built
Pfojects in Alabama by a Government-
owned and Government-controlled corpo-
rg@tion was recommended to the Senate
today by Chairman Norris of.the Senate
Agricultural Committee.

His views. were set forth in a volumi-
nous report, different portions of which

supported by various members of

é@ committee. Senators Page of Ver-

mnt; McNary, Oregon; Keyes, New
pshire; Gooding, Idaho; Norbeck,

uth Dakota; Harreld, Oklahoma, and
inley, Illinois, Republicans; and
ndrick, Democrat,

eport stated, favored the rejection of |

é@ Ford ‘offer. along with Chairman
Norris. “Senators McNary, Norbeck, Mc-
Kinley and Gooding conctitréd with the
Chairman in the recommendation for
Government development along the lines

tailed in the pending Norris bill.

tOne of those whom, the report set
forth, subs¢ribed to the recommendation

the Ford offer be rejected, Senator
Bendis declared in the Senate after

e submission of the report, however
that he ‘‘ would: be glad to vote to ap-
prove the ofter of Henry Ford provided
@ modification is ‘made’ of ‘the time limit

the lease. The Ford offer provides
fr a hundred-year lease ‘and Senator
endrick explained that he favored the

ty-year maximum provided for such
es in the Federal Water Power act.

Ironical on Ford Offer.

Fhe report criticized the Ford offer |

rply, describing it as ‘“‘the most
wonderful real estate spéculation since
Adam and Eve lost title to the Garden

of Eden,’”’ and inquiring .‘‘ why a war-

ty deed to the Capitol at Washington |
not included ih this great ‘transfer of |
vernment property to this wonderful |

rporation.’

'" It is difficult to harmonize our idea |

Mr. Ford’s fairness,’’ the report says,

“with his silence on this subject, when

name is so often used in exaggera-

m and misrepresentation
what he does offer to do.

Ford has guaranteed to. reduce,the cost

arantee of any kind in the way of
e reduction of the cost of fertilizer.
e country has been given to under-
stand that he pays the Governmeént 4}
per cent. interest on its investment in
the two dams. He does nothing of the
Kind. He has not made any such offer,
@nd no such proposition is included in

fertilizer by one-half. He has done
thing of the kind.. He has ms ride no!

of: Wyoming, the

as to just}
The country |
hes been given to understand that Mr. |

ynriey

renee Ene ye a immu

| not only lost and given away, but those
who are unwillingly compelled to eo

. at otek to be taxed 100 one :

ore profitable.

ft ever bestowed upon
mortal man since salvation Was made
ae 2 i human race.’

her features of the Ford proposal
eine Signe attacked. That propos-
ing the hundred year lease of the water
|power projects, the report asserts, would
tect: the Federal Water-power ‘act, in
eiftec

hee tee

‘a scrap of paper.’
Norris Bill Is Praised.

The report continues:

“In comparison with its (the Norris
}Plan’s) provision regarding fertilizer,
| the. Ford offer sinks into absolute in-
significance. It offers the greatest hope
to struggling agriculture, it frankly
recognizes that improvements must be
made if we would cheapen the produc-

tion of fertilizer, and it provides for the
use of the Government property and
funds to make the necessary investi tide-
tion for such improvements. In advo-
cating its passage we hold out no will-
o’-the-wisp to deceive and mislead the
people. We face the fertilizer proposi-
tion without practicing any deception
upon the farmers.

‘We believe the extraction of nitro-

en from the air can-be cheapened, but
we cannot guarantee it. Fertilizer carn
j be produced at Muscle Shoals, but if it
is cheapened to the farmer we must
have cheap power and improved
processes,

“We believe that the Government is
justified not only as a war ,measure,
but as a peace proposition, to expend all
of the money that may be necessary in
chemical experiments with the view of
cheapening fertilizer. This provision
ought to be hailed with ane not only
by the farmers, but by all of the con-
sumers who buy the products of the
farm. It will develop at Nitrate Plant
No, 1 the greatest experimental labora-
tory in the world. «>»

“Instead of turning over the surplus
power to any one individual or to one
corporation, to be used for his or its
financial. benefit, -without regulation
from amy’ source whatever, it will be
able to supply electricity to the people
at large, and cities and communities
hundreds of miles distant from Muscle
Shoals will receive benefits either di-
rectly from this source, or indirectly, by
the cheapening of electricity by men and
corporations who will be competitors of
this governmental corporation.”

The report will be followed by another
from the committee next week, presented
by Senator Ladd, Republican, North

Dakota, and supported by those favor-
ing unconditional acceptance of the Ford
offer.

| Nevada Aviator Safe ‘in the Yukon.

DAWSON CITY, Y. T., July 20.—Clar-
ence O. Prest, Nevada aviator, flying
from Buffalo, N. Y., to Nome, Alaska,
and Siberia, who was feared lost in the
wilderness between here and Fairbanks,
is alive and well at Nigger Head Flat,
seventy-five miles from Dawson, accord-
| ing to word received here today. He was
| forced to land there Sunday on account
| of engine trouble.

bid. Giving his corporation credit }

for every dollar that it pays, he will be

paying to tre taxpayer less th an 3 per}

mt. on the money which he uses
e Treasury of the United States, g
When we consider that this loan runs
for 100 years,, it requires even the
retching of the imagir nation to under-
nd the enormous profit that this ¢or-
poration secures in this one item alone
Assuming that a fair inte rest rate
ih the commercial world | is 6 per cent.,
s would give his corporation du writ ig a
lgundred-year, period a total gift of cold
cesh of $236,250,000, and if this money

yere compounded; as Ma. Ford asks the
overnment to compound what he pays, }

e profit to the corporation at the end
of the 100-year period would be $14,500,-
000,000. This is more than half our tota
cost of the World War.

* Says Proposed “ Gift ’’ Dazes.
“The country has been given to un-
Gerstand that the lord offer provides

the repayment to the Government}
in the 100-year period of.the entire |

Government -has |

imvestment that the

de. His offer does nothing of the |

nd. Om -the other hand, the total

ents included in the offer of both}

amount to
sstment

erest and amortization
s than 3 per cent. on the inves
d he never pays one

principal.

§* The people of the country have been

fed to believe that the Ford offer means |
@ reduced price for. electricity to the |
umer. It means nothing of the|
nd. He has not agreed to furnish a}
ngle kilowatt to any home or to any |
ufacturing concern except his own. |

Whe mighty power at Muscle Shoals will
devoted entirely and exclusively to
use of the great corporation which

. Ford will organize.
:“ When we bring together the results
= must follow from these two divisions

unreasonableness of the proposition,
the. enormity of the gift.
nditure of no money there is to be
ed ovér to a corporation property
the value of more than $100,000,000
the right ‘and priviléze to ¢Xtort un-

profits ‘from the citizens of -this

gpantry without limit.

“If the Ford offer is accepted, then |
fight for conservation that has been |
aged by public-spirited and patriotic |

= and women all over the country |

Semi-Annual Sale:

Dr. Reed
Cashion Shoes
and Oxfords

/! Men-and Women

Selected Lines from
Regular Stock

- Alkeizes but not in
each style

Women’s $9.95

Did Reed

4.P.8MITH SHOECO.

iv SOLDONLY AT.
: $872 Broadway, at 87th Street

ROSES MRR Go Teme CEE ROOD oe

etn ee Saarenennenenepeuncees one pS N CREE TRAIT RRR NRT BWR ATA Me LL

doliar of ||

With the}

Excellent quality. wool
jersey bathing suits in
solid and contrasting

colors, Practical surf

satin beach frocks gaily
embroidered.

BATHING SUIT DEPARTMENT—THIRD PLOOR

Store Closed All Day, Saturday

Lord & Taylor

Perk Place, ‘Woolworth Bide. ,

cA Mid-Season Sale

Bathing Suits

| All Excellent Values

the Ford: offer, the mind is dazed at |

PRICE is the first point. We have faken 500 bathing suits
| and written $3.50, $5, or $7.50, on every price tag—all new
low prices! VARIETY is the second point. There-is every
type of suit from the two-in-one wool diving suit to the
pretty beach frock. TIMELINESS is the third point. You
may wish to replace a faded suit. You may wish a deco-
rative beach frock as well as an athletic swimming suit.
Or you may be. just now pteparing for your vacation.
Then: plan to take advantage of these prices today.

ee ee oe

. Hours of Business: 9 A. M., to 5:30 P. M. Saturdays 9 A. M. wo FP. M. —

_ MAISON BE

22 East 57th UN

Between Fifth and Madison Avenues

For Friday and Satundéy Until I P. M.

FINAL REDUCTIONS

On Our Entire Collection Of

‘Midsummer Frocks

Heretofore Sage: From $75 to $150

For Every Function of Summer

Our policy of never carrying over from one season to another
has resulted in deeply slashing our already moderate prices in
order to effect a rapid clearance. Heére are gowns of plain and
printed chiffons, Spanish and Chantilly laces, French foulard,
In black, white, navy,

Daytime
Gowns
Dance
Frocks
Dinner
Gowns
Sports
Costumes

Georgette, Crepe Roma and silk crepes.
pearl grey, and summer’s favored shades.

Every COAT, CAPE and WRAP for evening, -
street, sports and travel wear finally reduced to
LESS THAN HALF OF FORMER PRICES. VY

22 East 57th St.

Bathing Caps
A diving cap made of
heavy rubber, strong and
durable, 75¢ and 95c

Fancy Bandanas, for
those who affect the deco-
tativemood. Thesearetied
overt a diving cap, $1.75

Beach Hats, satin, with
brim, for those who play
on the beach rather than
in the water, $2.25

GROUND FLOOR

Bathing Shoes

Soft, light soles make
these shoes ideal for swim-
ing as well as for wear on
the beach. They do not
hold the water—a great
recommendation. White
with tan trimmings.

For Bathers
Silk Stockings

A particularly good stock-
ing to wear bathing be-
cause it is an excellent
durable quality. All-silk in
black, white, pearl, silver,
nude, beige.

GROUND FLOOR

For Swimmers

A Corset:

Brassiere

This double-service gar.
ment is the ideal thing co
wear under your baching
suit. It is small and light
with just the desirable
amount of support. Made
of figured material with
garters attached, 75c, $2

Garter Belts, $1.75.

SECOND FLOOR

cAnd for Use
Before and After

Hine’s Ambrosia, $1.. Stull.
man’s Freckle Cream, 35c.
Taleum Powder, i-lb., 19¢.
Waterproof Rouge, 69c¢

GROUND FLOOR

A manufacturer’s satn-
ple line comprised of all
high class models. Taf-
feta, and satin beach
frocks. Novelty wool

swimming suits.

Models secured by
special purchase — of
satin, taffeta and poplin.
Also extra quality two-
in-orie wool jersey swim-
ming suits trimmed.

FIFTH AVENUE

two: good ‘shades.

COURTESY
and Satisfaction With.
’ Every Purchase

Broadway, at Ninth

Will Tt Pay Me to Buy New Furniture this Year?
Will It Pay Me to Wait for the Great August Sale?

All our 60 years of. experience as merchants in the service ‘of
‘ the public vouches for the unhesitating answer:

YES—

The reasons are simple enough...

Furniture regular prices are lower now
than they have been in: the: past seven

- years.

A comprehensive survey of the ‘furni-
ture market just completed, taken in con-
nection with all basiness conditions, war-
rants our conviction that
furniture’ regular “prices
at this moment ‘are as
low as they will go.

The greatest genuine.

reduction. that can _-pos- -

sibly, come to these reg-
ular prices - will be the
sweeping. reduction .cov-
ering the whole Wana--
maker furniture stocks
during the month. of Au-
gust.

‘Every piece among ‘the
many thousands. will .be
at a substantial reduction
from these present: regu-
lar prices.

it will pay you to buy new furniture this year.
it will pay you to wait for the Wanamaker August Sale.

can possibly be made in any other Sale. .

are larger, economies .are larger.

you can find generally, for thé ‘reason

“Esay to: Get to

CN ee eres Hours: 9 to S
_» Pemerly A, T. Stewart — :

Pees

These reductions will be ovate than .

« The reason for this is that the Wana-
maker purchasing powers are larger, sales

‘The Wanamaker furniture is better than

that our greater purchas- -
ing powers give us greater
influence with the manu-
.facturers-to govern, and °
in some cases compel them |.
to make better goods, to
make improvements, to
modify or correct designs,
to send only ‘the best of
the’ best in the Ne coca
maker shipments.

_ Faulty. pieces, sub-
standard constructions,
unstable woods cannot be
included in the Vana-
_maker shipments. They ,
must go elsewhere.

This advance notice is.in the interest of customers coming from a

distance.

The Wanamaker August Sale of Furniture opens Wednes-

day of next week with Days of ere on which selections may ”

175: Men’s $35 Tropical Worsted
Suits for. $24.50---Today

Special purchase from one of our. reguiar-manisfacturers

made.

“414 patterns—grays, browns, -black and:white mix-

tures.

2 patch pocket models—both 2-button. styles,

one slightly more form-fitting than the other. ‘Feather-

weight worsteds.

Just the suits for July and August—and some Sep-
tembers. Light weight. Well cut.~ Seams piped with
good cotton-back satin. Sizes 34 to 46, regulars, shorts,

stouts.

All Straw Hats—$1.95.

Several heights of crown and widths of brim. Sizes

grades for $1.65---and

Se BE aS REESE NIOL ETNA: TENGEN RC
EARL & WILSON

E.-& W. picked patterns. Not‘found in any other shirts.
thoroughly, finely. Mostly woven madras at $1.65.

and some all fibre silk, at $2.65..

Hundreds of patterns and colorings.

this year’s output

Made the E. & W. way—
Fibre silk stripéd woven madras,

- The Great Half-Yearly Clearaway of the Middle At-
lantic States section of this famous factory.

Best lot of shirts in the East at the prices.

$1 and $1.50 Neckties—for 50c

2,400. A using-up of short ends of summer and autumn silks’by one of our regu-

Tar necktie makers.
checks, bias stripes.

3-fold Wallets

and Pass Cases

$4 grades in everything except
that the lining is of sateen
instead of silk.
Pin seal leather.
Calfskin lined.
14-K gold corners.

Street floor, Old Building.

fortably.

The. Hatchway slip-on suit.

All kinds of silks—baratheas, twills, fancy figures, satin stripes,
Light and dark effects.

Remarkable values.

763 Buttonless Union Suits

at 75c and $1

Saves time. Fits com-

At 75c—were $1 and $1. 25—fine white check nainsook. Sleeve-
less. Knee length. Sizes 34 to 50.

At $1—were $1.60 and $1.75—plaid madras, sizes 34 to 50; aa
fine ribbed cottom in sizes 34 to 46, and 50. Sleeveless. Knee length,

Street floor, New Building.

Never offered anything that so many men want!
Breaking all records in this extraordinary Sale!

Men’s Suits to Measure, $35

Using $50 and $55 custom suitings and giving

2 pairs of trousers

Fortunate that we have such a good supply of
suitings. Many men are ordering two and three suits!

Custom woolens remaining from the Spring selec-

tion. Good year ’round weight.

Plain. blue serges,

flannels,. unfinished worsteds. Plain gray serges—

Plain brown serges—three good

shades. Checks. Pencil stripes. Great choice!

Any sack style you like!
No matter how big you are!

Via hime pals 1h ee ee Soe Ss 3 Vine) Geetie ahh i teat soa a ig ian +

* Petes os o <¥ f é : x + ee 3 ibe eae 3 >
a Rm Ea et BEEK Ailote, Tha pete ena hee harren eng tian te tv ata ng teeny al eiyt ¢ x
* : = at Wen dete OO es. 2 ohe Bees vss Soe TN

Tey at

oe She
Smee EER —
bak ; si

i etl emt name temerineeeee eta ede
> Wyre be

.| recommends to the ‘Attorne
1 Casés. Te

WITH WAR FRAUDS

Attorney General Organizes
Special Division to Decide Dis-
position of Every Case.

GIVES BODY FULL POWERS

Daugherty Himself Barred. From
Dropping Any Suit Without.the
Board’s Authorization.

Special to The New York Times.

WASHINGTON, July 20.—Final de-
cision for prosecuting or dropping war
contract cases will rest with a special
board of review and not with any one
person in the Department of Justice, it
Was announced today in a department
@tatement outlining the organization of

the special division authorized by a
$500,000 Congressional appropriation to
investigate war fraud cases,

So broad are the powers of this special
board that not even Attorney General
Daugherty can drop a war contract suit
without its authorization. This announce-
ment indicates a departure from the
original plan organizing the special De-
partment of Justice division for prosecu-
tion of war fraud cases, when Mr.
Daugherty declared that final decision
as to what suits should be brought and
what cases dropped would rest with him,
and him alons.

The new body will be known as the
Board of Administration and Review
and will be composed of the Attorney
General, six of his assistants and others
whom he may desire to appoint.

It was noted in the statement that
the new division authorized by

1ess, which is now pusving the surplus
umber cases and investigation of the
Chemical Foundation before the Dis-
trict of Columbia Grana Jury, is of-
fictally known as the War Transactions
Section, rather than~ by its previous
designation of War Frauds Section.

The appointment of an advisory
couneil to render opinions upon pro-
ceedure and points of law in war con-
tract cases also was announced. This
body will be composed of former Sena-
tor Charles S. Thomas of Colorado,
former Judge T. H. Bigger of Columbus,
Ohio, and Charles Ferr, recently re-
signed as United States Judge of the
Panama Canal Zone.

The Department of Justice statement
gays, in part:

‘*The new section has been
Attorney General Daugherty has
ney General as counsel-in-charge.
other assignments as may be required

in the future to such other sub-divisions |
as it may be necessary to establish will |

are needea, and to
special assistants the

be made as they
such additional

Attorney General will assign from time |
to time the expert legal assistance es- |

sential to the prosecution of the various
cases coming under them,

‘“‘ As the head of the board of admin-
istration and review and of the advisory
council, the Attorney General is in a po-
sition to be at all times in
control of the legal work of the depart-
ment growing out of the war cases, and

to be in constant toucn with all develop- |

ments, but the system kas been so de-

vised that every decision with respect to!

or with!
respect to dropping cases where the out- |

the prosecution of a criminal case,
the bringing of a civil suit,

look is not favorable, must be taken,
not by any individual in the department,

including the Attorney General himself, |

but by a non-partisan board composed
of the best legal talent the Government
has been able to obtain.

*“ Miscellaneous cases referred by the |
Attorney General to the advisory coun-
ceil, are to be carefully considered and
@ written report and recommendation
will be made to the Attorney General
in each case. In cases where prosecu-
tion is recommended, the advisory coun- |
cil is charged with the duty of taking
such action, upon approval of the Attor-
ney General, as may be deemed neces-
Bary to carry the prosecution to a suc-
cessful conclusion.

Requires Written. Recommendations. }

‘“‘In each case when the advisory
council recommends that a case be dis-
missed or dropped, the recommendation

dividea |
into five sub-divisions, to each of which

signed a spccial assistant to the Attor- |
Such |

complete |

| Board

assignment ‘of al ssigns spe-
celal cases that do not properly come
under any of the routine subdivisions
into which the work of the section has
been divided to. special counsel; it
makes assignments when additional at-
torneys, investigators, accountants and
stenographers are necessary, and it calls
into conference any. time such part of
whe personnel’ of the section as may be
deemed advisable, including United
States Attorneys and Assistants: and
others who may be engaged in any
branch of the work. The board is also
empowered to.call fer progress reports
on any case at any time.

“Under the instructions of Attorney
General Daugherty, when a case has
been assigned to counsel such counsel
shall: have and exercise full authority
and control over all proceedings thereon
and will be held responsible for the

reparation and presentation of the case
n all its phases. Except. in cases of
emergency, before either civil or crimi-
nal proceedings are started in any case
the counsel assigned to the case are re-
quired to submit a brief on the facts and
the law and the recommendations there-
on to the Attorney General.

‘‘ Before any case'can be dismissed or
éGropped the'counsel in charge shall sub-
mit a written opinion and recommenda-
tion to the Attorney General, and these

the Attorney General for consideration
and advice. No case shall be initiated
or dismissed until the board concurs in
writing and until the Attorney General
has approved the decision.

Provides for Dissenting Opinions.

‘An important provision of the plan
under which the war contract cases are
being prosecuted by the Government is
that any member of the Board of Ad-
ministration and Review shall have the
rig::t ts have his dissenting vote on any
questioa made a matter of record and
to file dissenting opinion in any matter
which has been passed on by the board.
Thus the utmost freedom of action is
given to the board and its members, and
no action can be taken without the rea-
|sons for that action becoming a matter
of public record. ;

‘““An administrative officer has been
designated to have charge of the carry-
ing out of all administration matters
relating to the War Transactions Sec-
tion and of its proper co-ordination with
the other divisions of the Department of
Justice through the Assistant Attorney
General in charge of administration.’’

The statement says that the War
Transactions Section has been divided
into five subdivisions, which will have
charge of cases growing out of contracts
concerning aviation, camps and canton-
ments, Quartermaster Corps, ordnance
and foreign expenditures and miscella-
neous cases.

NO VOTING MACHINES
| TO BE SET UP HERE

|Makers Are Unwilling to Face
Litigation Certain to Follow
Their Installation.

ALBANY, N. Y., July 20.—No voting
machines will be installed in New York
City this Fall, Secretary of State John
J. Lyons announced this afternoon. The
| reason given was that the only company
| manufacturing machines ‘‘that have
j} stood the test of time, and which ‘is
| equipped to the extent of being able to
supply New York with the required num-
| ber of machines this Fall, has come to
the decision that it does not want to
enter into any contract, so far as New
York City is concerned.’’

The law authorizes the Secretary of
State to let the contract for enough ma-
chines to equip at least 15 per cent. of
the New York polling places this year,
but, following the disagreement of the
Board of Elections, came the refusal
of the Automatic Registering Machine
Corporation, of Jamestown, N. Y., to
sell ‘machines to a city ‘‘ where there

is every prospect of obstruction and liti-
gation staring it in it's face.”

John R. Voorhis, President of the
of Elections, who has opposed
making a contract with the Jamestown
firm manufacturing voting machines,
declared last night that he was not sur-
prised that the firm had refused” to con-
tinue its efforts to get its machine in-
stalled in this city. He said he had
opposed this particular inachine because
he believed it was too costly.

if the machine was forced upon the
city, Mr. Voorhis said, litigation would
be sure to follow, as the financial offi-
clals would not agree to the price. Op-
portunity, he said, should be given to
manufacturers to submit other types of
machines, as he understood they could

must be accompanied by an opinion in
writing to the Attorney General, set-
ting forth the reasons for the proposed
action. This means that cnly the most
carefully considered judgments of the
advisory council, embodied in written |
statements, will determine the course of
the Department of Justice in dealing
with all miscellaneous cases.

“Written decisions and opinions as to
the proposed initiation or disposal of
cases are also required to be made by
the Board of Administration and Re-
view. To this board the Attorney Gen-

be manufactured at a much lower cost.
A delay of a year in the installation of
voting machines might be a good thing,
he added, as a better type of machine
might be evolved.

The Commissioner denied that politics
had influenced his attitude in any way.
Only one political party, he said, had
favored the type of machine in question,
The Democrats, he said, had never taken
a Stand in the matter, except those
Democratic members of the Election

Board who had opposed it on account
of its price.

Today’s Radio Program

STATION WJZ, NEWARK, N. J.
360-Meter Wave Length.
(Daylight Caves ee siete |

m additional’ to a musical prog i
aoe res 9 A. M. to 7 ». M., the Newark
station sends out the foltowing broadcasting
program by the radio telephone:

: -M.—Agricultural reports.

41,00 a i Onenins prives on active bonds
“and stocks, under the authority of the
New York Stock Exchange; grain quota-
tions from the Chicago Board of Trade;
coffee and sugar prices from the New
York Coffee and Sugar Exchange. s

22:00 M.—Agricultural .eports and weather

42:58 P.M. to 1 P. M.—Standard time signal
A rlington.

4:00 P. AL Midday prices on active bonds

prano; Ralph Spittal, tenor; Earl C.
Waldo, basso; soprano solos, “* Laughing
Song,’’ “‘ Queen of the Night,”’ Ruth Ely;
contralto Solos, “If Thou Wert Blind,’
The Nightingale,’’ Emma Mausert
Reeves; baritone solos, ‘‘Minor and Ma-
jor,” *“‘I Must Down to the Sea,"’ Clar-
ence K. Daetke; soprano solos, ‘‘ The
Springtime of the Year,” “The Jasmine
Door, Elma Carey Johnson; bass solos,
‘ Rolling Down to Rio,” ~‘* The Horn,”’
Earl C. Waldo; contralto solos, ‘“ Wake
Up,”’ ** Invocation to Life,” Edith Frantz
Mills; tenor solos, ‘*O Memory Divine,”
Love Song,’* William Spittal; soprano
solo, ‘‘A Spring Fancy,’’ Grace Beau-
mont; quartet, “‘The Good Night Quar-
tet (Martha),” Miss Rowe, Miss Mills
Mr. Spittal, Mr. Waldo. ;

and stocks, under the authority of the
New York Stock Exchange.

2:00 P. M:—Shipping. news ana closing prices

“from the New York Coffee and Sugar Ex-
change.

hion news.

8:00 P. M.—Baseball

her forecast. ‘

6:00 P M.—Agricultural reports, official

“weather forecast and shipping news.

7:00 P. M.—Final baseball scores and ‘‘ Bed-

“thme Stories,” by Thornton Burgess.
7:30 P. M.—'‘ Message 0° Hope for the
“Cancer Stricken,’” by Annie Riley Hale.
8:00 P. M.—Closing prices on active bonds
“and stocks, under tne authority of the
New York Stock Exchange; closing grain
quotations from Chicago; repeat closing
prices, New York Coffee and Sugar 1x-
change; marine news. :

8:00 P. M.—Literary evening conducted by
the editorial staffs of The Outloox, Scien-
tHic.American and Harper & Bro.

8:15 P. M.—Musical concert by Paul Den-

‘s Orchestra.

30:52 1 i :00 P. M.—Official Arlington time.

11:01 P. M.—Official wea.her forecast.
ATION WVP, ARMY SIGNAL CORPS,

BT EDLOW'S ISLAND, NEW YORK.
Operated by Aniateur. Padio Reserve.

1,450-Meter Wave Length.
(Daylight Saving Time.)

$:50 P. M.—Answering mati received from
the public.

6:00 P. M.—‘ Mother Pavison’s Army and
Navy Night.” Jack Mahoney will sing
his own compositions, entitled ‘* Water is
Dangerous,”’ ‘‘ When Father Puts the
Paper on the Wail.” Miss Lois Fox.
Songs by Raymond Call of Evans Honey
Boy Minstrels, ‘‘I Ain’t Got Nobody
Much,” ‘‘ Sunrise and You,” ‘* Dawning.
William M. Gibson, barytone; Charles
Reissman, humorist; Guy Hunter, blind
entertainer; Henry F. Davison, cellist;
Babe Southwe!l et the piano.

STATION WW2Z, MANHATTAN.
860-Meter Wave Length.
(Daylight Saving Time.)

4:40 P. M.—Victrola selections from fa-
mous operas.

2:40 P. M.—Ampico recordings of composi-
tions by American composers. J

8:40 P, M.—Leota Fischer, soprano, in short
gong recital. ?

4:40 P. M.—Children’s hour, by Elsie Jean.
*"*The Little Cave Dweller.’

P. M.—Song recital, by Edward B.
ith, baritone, assisted by Elsye Thomp-
son, pianist.

STATION WGY, SCHNECTADY, N. Y.
, $00-Meter Wave Length.
(Eastern Standard Time.) .
92:30 P. M.—Noon stock market quotations.
6:00 P. M.—Produce and stock market quo-
tations; basebali results; news bulletins.
6:30 P. M.—Sixteenth chapter of “ Alice in
'. Wonderland.’’ Kolin Hager, reader.
7:40 P. M.—Health talk, ‘‘ Poisonous
Plants,”’ by Dr. Hermann M. Biggs, New
York State Health Department.
9:45 P. M.—Concert program. furnished by

M.—Baseball s-o7es and women's

scores and official

pupils of A. Y. Cornell Summer School
Green oe. se ha pad Nees
‘ es: ert. j t plano, Trio,
. n Pr ethel Best | Rowe, -so-

10:30 P. M.—Concert program: Plano solo,
' The Harmonious Blacksmith,’’ Teresa
Carreno Duo-Art; violin solo, ‘‘ The Wal-
nut Tree,”’ ‘ Country Dance,’’ Francis
Roudebush ; accordion solo, “St. Cecilia
March, Pietro Dellaratta; piano solo,

Minuet, Ignace Jan Paderewski-Duo-
Art; violin solo, ‘ Romanza,” Francis
Roudebush ; accordion solo, ‘‘O Maria.”
Pletro | Dellaratta; tenor solo," Kas
Lu A, Carl Jéster; violin solo, ‘‘ Song
Without Words,” Francis Roudebush ;
accordion solo, ‘‘ Mazurka,’’ Pietro Della-
ratta; tenor-solo, ‘ Smiling Thru,”’ Carl
Jester ; violin solo, “The Old Refrain 7
Francis Roudebush; fox trot ** Califor-
nia,” Frank Milne Duo-Art. °

STATION WBZ, SPRINGFIELD, MASS
360-Meter Wave Length. 5
etiies jg egtions Saving Time.)

T:3 - M.—Baseball scores; Uncle
Bedtime Story, , wey

7:45 P. M.—United States Government State
market reports; fashion talk by Marion
Taylor, associate editor of The Vogue
courtesy of the Nast Publications:
** Making the Floor Count,"”’ by Margaret

McElroy, associate editor o
Garden. ee

8:00 P. M.—Baseball scores; musical pro-
gram to be announced by radio.

STATION KDKA, EAST PITTSBURGH, PA,
360-Meter Wave Length.
(Eastern Standard Time.)

6:00 P. M.—Letter from Farm and Home.
Weekly talk on ‘“* Swimming,’’ by Ralph
Shinton, captain .Pittsburgh Post Life
Guard, located at Oakmont, the centre
of Pittsburgh's Camp Colony.

7:00 P. M.—** Seasonable Suggestions for

Home Garden,” Harry R. Eby,
County Agriculturist, Allegheny County
Farm Bureau. ‘

8:00 P. M.—Versatile entertainment by Nor-
man V. Tate, vocalist; James Bridge
and Robert Reamy, tenor-banjoist, and
Esther C, Koerner, reader; ‘‘ Toreador,’’
from ‘‘ Carmen,”’ Bizet; ‘* Barcaroile,”’
‘* Tales of Hoffmann,’’ Offenbach; James
Bridges, unaccompanied; reading, ‘* Mary
Cary'’; selected, ‘‘ Castor Oil,’’ anyony-
mous, Esther C. Koerner; vocal solos,
*“*De Prodegigul Son,’’ anonymous;>“ A
Similar Case,” anonymous, Esther C.
Koerner; ‘* Medley of Popular Airs,”
James Bridges and Robert. Reamy.

STATION KYW. GHICAGO, ILL.
360-Meter Wave Length.
(Ceneral Daylight Saying Time.)

9:00 P. M.—Musical program: ‘*‘ Mammy’s
Lil’ Pigeon,’’ Reliance Quartet;
mance,”’ ‘‘O Dry Those Tears,’ M,
McMillan; ‘‘In the Garden of
Heart,’’ W. K. Mitchell;
Fragrance of the Rose,’ ‘‘ Kiss. Me,
Sweetheart,’’ Florence Trefry Gormen;
Comedy Sketch, ‘‘ When the Harvest
Moon Is S§Shining,’’ Reliance Quartet;
“Thy Sentinel Am I,"' M. H. McMillan;
‘* Somewhere a Voice Is Calling,’ H. C.
Meyers; Comedy Sketch, Reliance Quar-
tet; ‘‘ My Laddie,’’ ‘The Hills 0’ Skye,’’
Florence Trefry Gormen; ‘‘ Khaki Lad,’’
A. Foster; ‘‘ Harlem Goat,’’ sketch, Re-
lance

rom

We ts | Ghlaa: ‘Bextet £

“I Drink the

é ¥ a * ee phy Ao pln
rare pr printers ee ae gents ba GG

sah

reports-will be laid before the board by |’

Quartet; “.Mick ‘and the -Pick,’’

powers at ‘ sh

Borrow from Us

We would like to fend you money
on your real estate in Greater New
York. Our answers are prompt and

. our fees and interest rates are rea-
sonable.

Title Guarantee & Trust Co.

176 Broadway, New York, 175 Remsen St., Brooklyn.

137 West 125th St., New York. 350 Fulton St., Jamaica.

370 East 149th St.. New York. Bridge Plaza North, L. I. City.
90 Bay St., St. George, S. L Mineola, Long Island.

G. Altman & Cn.

The Entire Remaining Stock

Men’s Sennit Straw Hats

EEE

TROT OS

OX WY

MOLE OLS OVO OA

UBOEK

PUBS

DOW EY.

LEUED

EBT

ay, MOCO ULC MN NM

(including the higher-cost qualities)

have been marked, for early clearance, at the
extraordinarily low price of

Important Reductions have also been made
in the prices.of all other Straw Hats in stock,
including Fancy Straws, Split Straws, Leg=
horns, Milans, Bangkoks, Mackinaws and
Panamas; all of which have been marked at
extremely low figures.

(Men’s Hat Department, First Floor)

Madison Avenue - Fifth Anenue
34th and 35th Streets New York

Eagerly Awaited! Unforgettable!
Published today

ROBIN

By FRANCES HODGSON BURNETT

Uniform with

THe HEAD yie HOUSE oF COOMBE

A novel for all lovers of true romance—
an absorbing story of people of today
which makes the reader feel better and
bigger for having read it.

“Robin” is complete, satisfying without
“The Head of the House of Coombe” (now
in its 80th thousand and steadily increasing

in favor), but every reader of the earlier
novel will be impatient for “Robin.”

What better “Bon Voyage,” Week-end, Birthday or other gift
than “Robin” and “TheYHead of the House of Coombe,” either
in cloth or leather, handily bored ?

Cloth, per copy $2.00. Leather, per copy $2.50

Publishers FREDERICK A. STOKES COMPANY

New York

Will You Be Able to Listen-In

On the Leonard-Tendler Fight
July 27?

Experience the thrill of a championship bout in your own
home. Get your set and necessary parts today! We have

the requisites for building complete Armstrong Super-
Regenerative sets. '

A PRE-INVENTORY CLEARANCE OF

Radio Materials

Here is an opportunity that is rare! Practically every-
thing in Radio has been marked at a new low price.

Rann

Vax

Nitvaxitvaxit/av

Ne vaxtye

Rene

Formerly Now

Rta

De Forest Rheostats .

- Thordarson Transformers
Bakelite Sockets
Brach Outdoor Arresters. .
Federal Phones, 2200 Ohms. ...
Imported Phones, 4000 Ohms .
Imported Phones, 6000 Ohms

Quantities Limited

Car

PCC EC Ain Nits MD MLL

Fifth Flodr, Center, Rear.

ax VaxtivaX viva variveu

Her

shia

SRY ry stmeey

Men’s Palm Beach

SU LLS

COAT AND TROUSERS

July Sales Price

‘These suits of Palm Beach Cloth are
ideal for warm weather wear. They are
cool, practical and durable—fine tailor-_
ing adds materially to their comfort and
fit. Each has a silk yoke and silk-
piped seams. Colors are natural, sand,
gray, blue and heather mixtures. All

sizes, regulars, longs, shorts and stouts,

Other Special Items

CAMEL’S HAIR CLOTH, GABARDINE
AND KNITTED FABRICS,

Golf ‘Knickers: ~-°- -

IRISH LINEN CRASH IN NATURAL OR
WHITE—PALM BEACH CLOTH
NATURAL, SAND OR GRAY.

Flannel Trousers - - 9.00

CAREFULLY TAILORED OF FINEST
QUALITY 16 OZ ALL WOOL FLANNEL
-—-SILK STITCHED THROUGHOUT.

James MeGreery & Co.

SECOND FLOOR Sth AVENUE 35th STREET

A eae ae i oat Geen oe ook

J°HN DAVID

Stein-BLtocu SMART CLOTHES
Men's FurnisHincs ANnpb Hats

as ik
The Easily Reached JOHN DAVID SHOPS Roundabout New York

BROADWAY, AT 32nd 125 AND 127 WEST 42nd
62 BROADWAY, BELOW WALL COURT ST., AT MONTAGUE, B’KLYN

Our Entire Stock

Stein-Bloch Tropical Suits

Silk-Trimmed — Coat, Waistcoat and Trousers

$50 And $45 Tropical Suits, Now

$65, $60, $55 Tropical Suits, Now

@ This Presents A Rare Chance

To Select For Immediate Wear
Light-Weight Summer Suits Of
The Conceded Highest Standard
In America At Substantial Savings

Chauffeurs’ Outfits.
of Cool Palm Beach Cloth

Coat, Trousers,
Duster and Cap —
Special at

The entire outfit is made
of cool, durable, dark
grey, Genuine Palm
Beach Cloth, and is guar-
anteed to be WASHA LE.

America’s Headquarters for Chauffeurs’ Apparel
Broadway at 49th Street - i New. York City

aoe is
iaaaucaaaaaaeaananaaaseanaaaaeaaeaassaasecaaaas!

neeaemeye)

OOO MTEC

BORER Ta TR TTOT

LE OREO 8

BORO IM

Bas

ROD

PROBE

TBO

ADA

First Quality
Factory Guaranteed
‘Special Prices
fora Limited
Time Only

SPECIAL NON-SKID FABRIC |
30x314 FIRESTONE $8.70 net

VICTOR AUTO TIRE CO.

Tel. Circle 6187

56th Street

Julg- Clearance

Close-out Groups for Today’s Selling

Odd Cloth Capes and Wraps—$35
(Values to $125)

Sheer Cotton Dresses—-$25
(Values to $65)

“FIFTH AVENUE 57th Street

Summer Sports Frocks—$18
(Values to $55)

Two and Three Piece Suits—$45
(Values to $150)

Town and Country Suits—$18
(Values*to $65)

Handsome Silk Sweaters—$20
(Values to $45)

Handmade Summer Blouses—$8
(Values to $15)

Tailored and Sport Hats—$10
(Values to $35)

esperar ceteris tease emittance tactician aii
COTO OTE OTE I EE aT TO ty

GOIN’ FISHIN’? —

Along with your tackle, take a book on
angling. ‘The end of the day will find you
a wiser man even if the: creel is empty.

TROUT FISHING FOR THE BEGINNER,

ADVENTURES IN ANGLING; Van C. Heilner.. .$2.54

SOME FISH AND SOME FISHING, _

LAKE AND STREAM GAME FISHING, D. Carroll.$2.54
CASTING TACKLE AND METHODS, ©

Main Floor, 35th Street, Rear

On the Fifth Floor, everything you need to catch pickerel,
tarpon.

e ‘e Macy ; f ~~ C e
Herald Square i New York

All Aboard

for the Milk Special. A
quart a day is your ticket.
No reduced ‘fare for
children.

‘ It’s the main line to
Health, Happiness, and
points East.

DAIRYMEN’S LEAGUE
CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, INS.
UTICA, N. ¥.

M7 Nala

Yarttvarivay

a vraivane.

ANE aX)

Teta?

Wu ELE, VE MYR?

Ya \ElZ

CmOs7

‘+ “van, pl dat eek eee Pee Re vets. i eae epee Nhe peated LO PPR) oo ate. WAS Gs) Oh ru, Shee tite 8 ae
EASE eran area ee aetna cane enn Denuee ine Tite aaeeeneeatamabandanatatemataeditioaaeaddend timate decsiidentigtmapanphpnemmdeetnngntl
" a B Rea +
F An ting eas we

For years the largest circulation among Chicago
newspapers (city and suburban as well as total)
has been that of The Sunday Tribune. For years
the largest week-day circulation (exclusive of
Sunday) has been that of The Daily Tribune.

During May and June, 1922, The Tribune has
won another “FIRST” in that its net paid city
and suburban circulation on week days (exclu-
sive of Sunday) exceeded that of the next paper.

Tribune Supreme in
Advertising Lineage

During the first six months of 1922 The Chicago
Tribune printed more than 35% of all the ad-
vertising carried by the six Chicago newspapers.

During the first six months of 1922 The Tribune
has gained 4,235 columns over the correspond-
ing period of 1921, but the second Chicago
paper has Jost 767 columns.

In local display advertising The Tribune gained
2,215 columns over 1921, but the second paper
lost 1,170 columns.

In want advertising The Tribune gained 952
columns over 1921, but the second paper lost
395 columns.

Chicago Tribune COLORoto

A. Boon to Advertisers

The quality of four-color illustrations printed
by the néwly invented color rotogravure, or
Coloroto, process of The Chicago Tribune has
won much favorable comment. Bearing this
in mind, study the following comparison of
rates and circulations:
Price Cérculation
Coloroto. Magazine of The Sunday Tribune
Good Housekeeping (back page in 4 colors)... 5,000 709,000
Literary Digest (back page in 4 colors) 8,000 1,381,000
American Magazine (back page in 4 colors).. 8,500 1,635,000
Ladies Home Journal (back page in 4 colors) 15,000 1,724,000

This means that for each thousand four-color pages
distributed the advertiser pays as follows:

Tribune Coloroto Magazine. i 20
American Magazine 5.20
Litetard Digest oon «dso neal 5.80
Good Housekeeping .
Ladies’ Home Journal

In other words, The Tribune is now equipped to sell
splendid color advertising at the lowest of prices,

FACTS

—of value to every man who spends money

for advertising or whose money is spent

for advertising—FACTS on markets and.

merchandising as well as on advertising—
FACTS completely and statistically pre-
sented—FACTS, not estimates—FACTS
to help the greenest specialty salesman as
well as the largest national advertiser or
agency—FACIS vividly pictured in
graphic charts—FACTS that help to take
the blue sky out of advertising—FACTS
available nowhere else—

—make up the eighty (80) pages of The

Chicago Tribune’s new BOOK of FACTS.

The 1922 BOOK of FACTS is just off
the press and will be mailed FREE to any
selling organization requesting it on
business stationery. __

MEN

Not only are thousands of Chicago Tribune
BOOKS of FACTS ready for distribution
to manufacturers and sales executives—
but thirty Chicago Tribune MEN, trained
in selling merchandise in The Chicago
Territory, are at their service.

Every one of these men has directed sales campaigns for
various products in this market, and through repeated con-
tacts with jobbers and retailers has-learned what can be
done, how to do it, and what it will cost. Several members

.of this unique staff make their headquarters at the Eastern

Advertising Offices of The Chicago Tribune, 512 Fifth
Avenue, New York. They will be glad to make appoint-
ments with Eastern manufacturers to discuss practical
methods for developing sales in the vast, rich market made
up of Illinois, Indiana, lowa, Michigan and Wisconsin.

For a BOOK of FACTS or for a renpesinbatine to call, write to

Eastern Advertising Offices—5l2 Fifth Avenue, New York.

ee Nee ee eer re eg ere aR ee eas na ee a eae a eal ae a area

The Chicugs Tribune

ITHE WORLD'S GREATEST NEWSPAPER}

cae

| A E ‘STREET FIRE
| FLARES UP AGAIN

Four. Companies Called as
|. Stubborn Blaze Still Resists
Close-Range Attack.

EXPLOSIONS LAID -TO WATER:

Firemen Forcibly Rescue: Man. Suf-
fering | From Delirium Tremens ; s a .
From: Third-Floor Window. June was the biggest month in all the Motorists are supported in their choice of
Poco st twenty-two years of Firestone’s: history. Firestone equipment by. America’s greatest

‘The bleze in the M ers’ . ee ire- i i i i ? -
Transit p-sotiibal waco Gt ik More than 700,000 tires—-Cord, Fabric and rod peyog een Nene catteetee nan

Jane Streét,.one of the stubbornest fires Truck—were shipped from the factories at mn” nat the country They eats investigated the

the department bas ou in man ;
Sika’ sebaeeis’ casted’ wp cds ak Akron to meet the tremendous demand for high quality materials, workmanship and

“special processes of double gum-dipping and.

midnight last night after. more than Firestone products
sixty-five-hours of continuous burning. P ,
Se tee cee ne es Se This is convincing proof of the rapidly in- _ ir-bag cure that go into Firestone Tires,
Sanaa were sweeping through the third creasing public recognition of the high stand-. .and have accurate records to prove the ex-
h floors. Four companies re- ; ery i i ile iV
aponded. Deputy Chief Helm set four- $ ard of quality, value and SerVACe established traordingry mileage they pre
teen streams of water playing into the by Firestone. It reflects the car owner's © Share in the advantages Firestone offers

Ser Veen, ye aetared, wieht. hire) eager acceptance of. Firestone’s pledge of | you. Buy from the reliable dealer in your

and smoulder for a week. ‘ : : , ee R
‘“Smoky " Joe Martin. and Deputy Most Miles per Dollar. neighborhood who sells Firestone quality.
a Chief Kenny were aroused from 3 Mi 1 ’
bed. and returned-to thé fire. Several Mugs af Mo a
of the Chitago fire chiefs visiting the ee ; mrs st t es per Dollar :
city also arrived at the fire shortly after : j 3
midnight. , Sf
“Deputy Chief Martin said nothing
could be done at present except to keep
throwing water on the blaze. As it con-
tinued too dangerous to permit firemen
to enter and attack it at close range, he
thought he would have to let it burn out.
At’ one time he considered the use of
dynamite to make possible an attack on
the vitals of the blaze, but the danger
to other buildings already weakened by
explosions finally caused him to aban-
don the idea. He thinks that eventually
the Jane Street and West Twelfth Street
walls will collapse, as both showed more
signs of, weakness yesterday.
District Attorney Banton learned yes-
terday that the magnesium powder came

. ee Sonny ah Hamburg and mt : CORD
e time o e fire was being movec Reg
to the General Compolite Company, Long ec one Ext — Size. 2s
Island~City, .where it was to be sifted . x 334 ra Size....., 17.
and -sent to the Ordnance Department
of the United States Navy. The re-
rt ef Acting City Chemist Walter L.
lackhall showed that the residue found
at the fire was magnesium oxide, which
is me nee of burned metal mag-
nesium. powder. F «<999""
Assistant District Attorney Morgan A. = * i; Siac £99 "$7.99
Jones said magnesium would explode 4 x 3% © 9’’.. 8.99 - '
upon contact with water. His theory . :
is that the explosions occurred when the , eit ‘ OR Yr Ee
firemen first began to play their streams , . . : -
on the boxes of powder. That, he be- (Plus Tax) ; : \ 2
lieves, is the reason some of the men E %, : :
who were handling the stuff ran to get Ry SO | S mm Yr a
sand when the chemical first began to : bes , , O es
burn, knowing that water would ex- - ~ . ah f
plode it. ¥ p a
The third, fourth and fifth floors were i Ue | oll:
burning briskly last night as darkness i . ' i ess eC a Cj U ca Yr eG r Ss
came on. Several hose tines were still : ’ P
pleying inte by ae og 7° ep ¥ UY, ‘ Sl weheive the
street an est Twelfth Street. ‘‘ Smoky ; : ' Me HPRIE 4 ; 3 j 5 Sakae
oe shitoocr ina lven a cnn ee “the 3 ; : ae greatest variety of light-weight suits ever displayed—and they are priced so low that
building, as he feared the floor supports $ , ig ; every man can. afford to get one or more reak, comfort-givi e its-~
were crumbling. ra f WAH 4 j g : t-giving Summer Suits
Despite the danger, three firemen en- E fi ,
tered the es nnraey morning to forget , / Fg Taek } e
rescue. a man suffering from delirium LS TER LAS 3 fe *
tremens. He was Joneph Fisher, 26, of K Woy hs 1s: tha i, s | or instance:
18 Kighth Avenue. He ran through West LA _ HM o |

Twelfth Street crying that somebody
was after him. Before he could be
stopped he had run into the bnilding and

eis dip iht ciel | zg a ee || Genuine Palm Beach Suits.

aoe. Fisher climbed up and balanced on
the sill, shouting. : a | f

Députy Chief Helm asked for volun- F = ' }! ; L/h ‘ : s aieemaal
teers to save the man. Firemen Steven aH 5 4
Hanan, Thomas Ward and Lee Easop
greped their way up the dark stairway
ty the third floor and forcibly downed
#tsher, who threatened to jump out of
the window. He had to be bound before
being taken in an ambulance to Belle-
yue Hospital.

The fame of the Jane Street blaze is
@uch among firemen that 100 visiting
(thicago firemen went down to the scene

M@sterday to see the New York Depart-

t at work, :
o firemen were burned last night .

When a back draft —- mem . e Z
building at 242 West 129th Street. 1e ADVERTISEMENT. 5 :
fire was in the sixth floor apartment of ADVERTISEMENT.
Mrs. Alice Donohue. Fireman Fred TS |
Denny of 646 Bergen Avenue, the Bronx,
and Fireman Victor Sattoning of 538
East Highty-fifth Street were taken to

Harlem - Hospital. Five others were ; wt

slightly burned. ; Silk Mohair : : T sal W 4

wursE Founp Guiry | Economy Truck | = Suits “aes
OF $800 RING THEFT “THE BEST THING ON WHEELS” . SE Rb Beack, 3

Woman Convicted of Stealing See Te if. Deas aoeeeees
Gem From Lamont Home Will THEY DELIVER! * - THE GERUME CLOTH

Be Sentenced on Thursday. NO UNCERTAINTY! - values to $22.50 ~ values -tor $35.00" i

A jury in Judge Koenig’s part of Gen- |
eral Sessions yesterday returned a ver- SAVE NOW AND YOu WILL A
dict of guilty against Miss Elizabeth C. SAVE LATER &

Kelly, 37. years old, a trained nurse, for : ° ad Des Tr : Sete saa eS
ee a - ee ee SS tahas, Z é a j WH é i All our other light-weight All Wool Monroe Suits are reduced—in keeping with our
e . CHASSIS $1095 ; policy for Fall. Wemust clear out our entire present stock, and the quickest way to.ac-~

at 220 West angntencons Street, in De-
the banker's 13-yearvold sony John, when eee ees complish that is to sell them away under value—so the quickest way is our way:
, . SThteg

the. banker’s 13-year-old son, John, when

the:banker’s 13-year-old son, John, when Rp y ERE Whatever the amount of rent you can af-
reMiss Kelly, gray-haired and dressed raneaemuansences! ford to pay, comsult the Tr ibune’s new * When you realize that at original prices, Monroe Clothes are from $10.to $15 less ice

in. deep mourning, sobbed as Judge

Koenig remanded her to the Tombs for CAPACITY 1—1!4 TON weekly supplement for apartment seekers. elsewhere, you'll certainly take advantage of the opportunity these reductions riew

sentence next Thursday. ‘The jury de-

before; Miss Kelly told the Jury that her | ATTEN T ARGON CO. anc | as ranged list of ‘desirable. apartments for

of Paris, widow of the late Peter Cooper 109 WEST 64TH STREET ;

time of Mr. Hewitt’s death last August, ALSO to Tribune readers the | :

and two others, alleging that they slan- $25 and $30 Suits $35 and $40 Suits. $45 and $50 Suits

ring shortly after it disappeared, it was

Here’s how Monroe Suits are now priced:

-- Allour

liberated “one hour and forty minutes. It 18. a comprehensive, conveniently of. offer.
present trouble was the outgrowth of . ;
rentin all the boroughs of the City, suited
Hewitt, the inventor. She was a nurse
and later brought an action for $100,000
dered her when they complained to the BROOKLYN ave NOW ave Now 58 Tap
are NOW ..-.-

When. testifying in her defense the day
differences with the Baroness d’ Erlanger
in the ‘Hewitt home in Paris up to the NEAR BROADWAY to your needs and purse. A helpful service °
All our All our ?
damages in Paris against the baroness BRONX

police that — ae ee en in : a
gems from the widow, who recently was .
married to the baron. COLUMBUS CIRCLE
Although she was arrested and dis- ‘ : ' =
charged for the theft of the -Lamont 4 » :
not until three months ago that an in- ' j °
dictment was returned by the Grand ,

Jury charging her with grand larceny OWNERS & AGENTS will b : . ° : 3
in the first degree. “The police at that Seal Li yop tet of uae e published, beginning next Sunday,

given to Mrs. Lamont by her husband _ apartments for publication and continuing every Sunday through hak
at the time of their engagement twenty in the Tribune Apartment Si : . ” ° : ;
, b ake any’s . ces ,
Steet at ty a sromian acaatateres Howse Guide, Give in the renting season. Tabloid size for con- Come UP Where the Price Is DOWN!
nei x a venience. Indexed for. quick reference ac- . ie

Verdict of Accidental Death in Cases

Wpetectives leartied from this woman : rooms, yearly rental, streel, : ;
that several months before Miss Kelly number and renting agent, cording to number of rooms, location and , HATTAN ; ‘ BRONX
o 50. ss gE ge MAN
Wide admitted ‘that she: fed pened weekly. Forms close Thurs- yearly rental. Look for the Apartment es ele ca Aa . an ae
i ‘ yecke : et, cor. Broadwa Loew's, Theatre...
Bees ie hie feenutention ofthe ss mil be furnished om appli- House Guide with your : . YONKERS — Getty Square
lean Ag \\ 622 & - Nassau Street, cor. Frankfort hs
INJURED MOTORISTS BETTER|| @ea\\i : ’ . Hi : 987 Fulton $t: at Flatbush
strinhen hers ie | d Next Sunday S. 14th Street, corner Broadway ~ 413 Fulton Stréet
of New York Victims. Ms , £ : : | : »- s i
“MONTREAL, July 20:—A Coroner's noe teeth’ the og | . é 46th Street and Broadway se JERSEY. Ciry— Cor. Erie Se.
Jury today held that the deaths of -Mi- right way— ; : 59th St. at Columbus Circle Sm PATERSON—220 Main St.
chael B. Bernstein, Mrs.©De Witt Mill- “Washes,” does not : | eave ALBANY >, 2 se
hauser and Mrs. S. Gutman of New : , 125th Street, corner 7th Ave. nets BAL T I MO. R .

had delivered a pawn ticket for the ring Corrections will be ‘made B A Oa  % ‘0
ectio ergen Ave. at 149th Street
ring, but declared the Lamonts were j } day Blanks for - listing
Peek ; will be i
e : ent ring. 50 E. 42d she cor. Madison BROOKLYN =
34th Street, corner Broadway — NEWARK—151 Market SE
York when their automobile was scratch or scour the

wrecked on the King Edward High Any further assistance or information will be gladly given i will’ 181st St.,.cor. St. Nich. Ave. ha, SE ae te
at St. Philip  Seatertay ia sbcidental, enamel. y gladly given if you will "phone ) . ! PHILADELPHIA

-Four ‘survivors of the crash, two of Colgate’s is safe to BEEKMAN 3000

whom..were at first th ht t y aces wary yt
con fatally injured, are expeated: ef ve use every day. as
Delta Wied in ee i eae

al in this city.
‘Relatives of the dead arrived from et See Be Medium size 10c
New York today to claim the bodieg,

Oe ee ee Te
Ap eae ee eT vet ~ : wor senna nae

cette eee Aan ea ERE ttn tanta

eNO ERE RT ee

meena eee ae cen tt et

ane AeA NE

*Pundiel, sarvices for Charles Kcnabe
Milier, editor-in-chief of Tue NEw

Yorx Times, will be held at 11 o'clock ,

this‘morning in St. James’s Episcopal

urch, Madison Avenue and Seventy-
first’ Street. The Rev. Dr. Frank
Warfield Crowder, rector of the
church, will officiate, and ‘interment,
which will be private, will be at Wood-
lawn Cemetery.

The pallbearers. will be the sixteen
members of the editorial council of
@ax New York Times, with the fol-
tewing honorary pallbearers:

» Dr. Cuarues~L. DANA,
Joun W. Davis,
MELVILLE _E. STONE,
HENRY W. Tart,
H..H.. Koxwusaat,
Epwarp W. WINTER,
EpwaArp PAGE MITCHELL,
Crartes’R. Crane,
CHARLES R. FLINT,
Joun G. AGcaR,
Dr. I. Wyman DruMMOND.
, Epwarp N. PERKINS.

Additional tributes. to .Mr. ~Miller
Were paid yesterday by individuals,

Mewspapers’'and organizations as fol-
lows:

From President Harding.

THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, D. C., July .20.
Hoyt ‘Miller, ‘care Tue New York
“Times, New York:
“News of your distinguished father’s

~ @eath.. brings me a sense of personal

loss, because of long-maintained ad-
miration-for his public services and
Professional abilities. His was a career
ofthe type which, journalists. and pub-
licists might well emulate ~-by efforts
at that. reasonableness, modern con-
structive: effort and. unfailing courage
which he displayed. I tender sincerest
condolences in your loss.
WARREN G. HARDING.

‘From. Governor Miller.

Albany, N. Y., July 20.
The country has lost one of its great
men and journalism one of its soundest |
Philosophical. thinkers. Mr. Miller was
ene of our ablest exponents of constitu-
tional government. .I ‘deeply sympathize
with you in your loss,
NATHAN L, MILLER, Governor.

From Ex-Governor Cox.

Paris, France, July 20.
I learn with profound sorrow of Mr.
Miller's death. This is a great loss to
journalism and to our. country.

JAMES' M. COX.

From Ex-Senator Depew.

Hot Springs, Va., July 20, 1922.
Miss - Madge. Miller, New York:

I extend to yourself and brother my
Geepest sympathy. The world loses much
in the death-of your splendid father.

CHAUNCEY M. DEPEW.

From Will H. Hays.

Chicago, July 20.
Just learned of Mr. Miller’s death and
want to send just this word of apprecia-
tion: Charles. R. Miller was a great
man, a-great editor and a distinguished
citizen; as. such we mourn for him.
Personally I really feel his loss most
keenly. He was uniformly so kind to
me, and many times in the last few
years when I have talked deeply to him
on matters in which I was interested,
he has always had a sympathetic and
kind understanding that has meant very
much to me. Most deeply, indeed, do I
feel his loss personally.
WILL H. HAYS,

From Other Individuals.

HARDEN CHURCH, President of

Samur.
Carnegie Institute, Pittsburgh: *
Permit me to express the most sincere
regrets at the death of. your able and
accomplished editor, Mr. Charles R.
Miller. In exercising the whole power
of his intellect and his talent in keep-
ing before the world through the me-
dium of a great newspaper the princi-
ples.of right thinking and of law, order
and international peate, Mr. Miller has
richly earned the respect and gratitude
ef the American people.

®rroporns W. HANicAN, Financial Sec-
retary, Brooklyn Buréau of Charities:
s * * May I not express my sincere
sympathy at the death of Charlés
Ransom, Miller, editor of THE TrMEs,
whose name has stood for everything
that is best in the field of journalism
for the last forty years? His passing
will be mourned throughout the coun-
try.

G.osTER ARMSTRONG, British Consul Gen-
eral, New York City: .* * * Sincere
sympathy in the bereavement that not
only you all have suffered but this
éountry and the world at large in the
loss of such a distinguished and bril-
Hant writer and thinker.

Crantes J. Guopen, “ditor Aeronautical
Digest, New York City: * * * The
most’ touching tribute possible to your
former editor-in-chief was the fact that
Tur Timps’s only editorial was regard-
ing your beloved associate.

A. J. County, Vice-President,
Pennsylvania Railroad Company:
My associates. in. the Pennsylvania
Railroad and myself express our deep
sorrow on the death of Charles R:
Miller whose friendship, culture, tolera-
tion and breadth of mind, we enjoyed
privately and as readers of Tur TIMES
for-many years. It was impossible to
be a reader of his editorials for a. mat-
ter of years without feeling that our
own education and views were broad-
ened and deepened,

Marc Kiaw, New York: City: * * * Ac-
cept sincere sympathy in loss sustained
by Mr. Miller's death. THe New YorK
Times history has inspired me with a
deep appreciation of his fine mental
fibre and character. He is a distinct
loss to* both THe Times and American
journalism in general.

Wu1uM R.. Wittcox, New York City:
* * * It is with the greatest regret
that I learned.of the death of Charles
R» Miller. In all his career he was
noted for his fairness and highminded-
ness. “He ‘was a'man of high ideals
and anxious at all times to serve his

city and State. In the death of Mr.
Wwriller.a great man has gone.

Jéuw - Hays HammMonpd, Gloucester,
Mass.: * * * My deep sympathy in
the loss of your distinguished editor-
in-chief. It is not only a great loss to
his many personal friends but to Amer-
ican journaligm and citizenship.

Gronce . S Btxpy, Plattsburg, N. Y.:
* ¢ * It inakes me sad to think that
I ghall ‘never drop into Mr. Miller's
eytie again. I wish I had written him
lately and told him how I have seen

the

with my own eyes the increasing num-~
ber of people scanning the page. of
which he was so fond. —
Aurrep A. Coox, Paris France:
“ Deeply regret to learn of Mr. Miller’s
death.
COLONEL .. EDWARD House, Cabourg,
France: * * * Heartfelt sympathy

B. F. Yoakum, New York City:
I am sorry indeed. He stood at the
top among the-best and most influ-
ential writers of the day.

Grorce Foster Prasovy, Saratoga Springs,
N.. ¥.: * * ® Send sympathy with
regret that a loss so widespread has
come, upon the country. I cannot .but
remember, though, how much the
richer all his friends are, and even
his unnumbered readers, for the shar-
ing with us of his abounding riches
of knowledge, justice and love for the
best in humanity.

B.. M. Hopkins, President ‘of Dartmouth
College, Hanover, N. H.: ¢ ¢ * Ace
gept expression of sorrow and personal
loss at the news of Mr. Miller’s death.
He will be greatly missed by us all.

ADOLPH: LEWISOHN, New ork City:
* * *. Accept heartfelt condolence in
the loss of Mr. Charles R. Miller. He
was a splendid man, and his death is
a great loss to the entire community.

Hersert S. Houston, New York. City:
* * * Beyond all doubt he was the
great outstanding editorial figure in
the country, a true leader and molder
of public opinion. And he was so re~
markable in his unfailing modesty and
general self-effacement. He always
seemed to me such-an embodiment of
real strength. You felt instinctively
that he was thoroughly honest» with
himself and therefore thoroughly hon-
est with his great public.

Frank I. Coss, The World, New York
City: ** * Apart from anything
said -in THe World, I wish to add an
expression of my personal regret at
the death of Mr. Miller. I have never
ceased to admire his. scholarship, his
sturdy character and his rugged com-
mon sense. He was a great editor in
the truest sense of that word.

From Newspapers.

NEW YORK CITY.
From The Day

Two days ago died in New York one
of the anonymous powers. of modern
democracy—tne editor of a _ powerful
newspaper. Charles Ransom Miller, as
director of the policy of THE NEw YorK
Times, and himsélf one of its most ca-
pable exponents, was little heard of ex-
cept in professional circles which are
acquainted with the inside of news-
paperdom. Yet day in, day out, for
something like forty years, he gave the
mot d’ordre to an-organ which today
is admittedly one of the most influential
in the world.

As the editor of THr New YORK
Times Mr. Miller was a powerful con-
servative influence. Apart from the in-
dividual question which THr TIMES
helped with its influence to decide, it
has so steadily maintained an attitude
of political and social conservatism as
to have become the mouthpiece of the
American standpatter. In that respeet
THe New YORK Times occupies a unique
position. Both by virtue of its mag-
nificent. news service and by the se-
riousness of its tone, it has climbed to
that position—comparable to that held
by The Times of England and by Le
Temps of France. * * *

In the creation of that force,
its direction, Charles Ransom
was an important factor.

and in
Miller

From The Jewish Daily News.

Charles Ransom °~Miller belonged to
what has been termed the old school
of journalism. He was the statesman in
daily newspaperdom. Scholarly, imbued
with a. high sense of responsibility, a
thinker, wielding a trenchant pen, he
helped to make history by interpreting
the trend of thought and of current
events to his readers.

Naturally a conservative, schooled in
the classics, Charles Ransom Miller
brought to bear upon the editorial con-
duct of THE New YorRK TIMES a view-
point which, while not always accept-
able, was premised upon deep thought
and -an earnest sincerity. He was the
very opposite of the sensational shallow
journalist who seeks temporary glory in
the shrick and the stirring up of ani-
mosities.

Charles Ransom Miller was a national
figure, and it may be said without ex-
aggeration that he was of international
importance. He wrote under the cloak
of anonymity. This was in harmony
with the school of journalism of which
he was so fine an exponent. This did not
imply fear“or lack of courage but rather
was the result of the thought that the
great daily newspaper represents not
merely a personal opinion, but a com-
ination of opinidns resulting from study,
understanding and a keen desire to
further human progress.

THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY.
From The Buffalo News.

It is a commonplace to newspaper
men, but apparently a recurring source
of mild wonderment to the public that
the great men of the newspaper world
are unknown, except to the guild.

Charles Ransom Miller was one of the
truly great men in America. Yet it is
probable that not one in a hundred of
the readers of THe New Yorx Times
know even his name. Easy fame lay
within his grasp. Men with a tithe of
his ability are known from coast to
coast. _He preferred to remain true to
the editorial tradition of impersonality.

Speaking with the impressive author-
ity of THE New Yorx Times, the pres-
tige of which he did as much as any
man to build, his influence spread over
the course of four decades is beyond
all,computation. Charles Ransom Miller
was one of. the figures who make us
proud to say ‘‘ We, too, are newspaper
men.”’

From The Buffalo Commercial,

Charles Ransom Miller was a shining
example of the scholar in journalism.

Mr, Miller was not a man who sought
personal publicity, but his editorial work
on THE TIMES was easily recognized,
and its influence upon the life and
thought of his day was most powerful
as it was most inspiring and uplifting.

From The New Haven Register,

To the masterly publisher of Tur New
Yorx TiMeEs, in conferring on him the
degree of Master of Arts a few weeks
ago, Yale said; ‘‘'THE New. York Times
has all the news that is fit to print, and
seems able to maintain its huge circula-
tion without- cartoons,
umns or special features.’ It might
justly-have added: ‘‘ With the, aid of
Charles R, Miter as editor.’’

Virtually all of Mr, Miller’s productive.
life has. been devoted to fhe end of mak~.

humorous col-’

ing ‘THe New Yor Pines’ a “truly, erent
newspaper, and the. Sincere récognition
of his.saccess which has come from the
thinking world is memorial enough for

‘Sometimes in our haste we despair of
American journalism. Sometimes: some’
of us'are fain ‘to accept as. true the pes-
simistic view that the commercial domi-

¢ | nates the ideal-in all our newspapers

that we deem successful. .But-that pes-
simigm will neyer be justified so long as
we have in THe New York TIMES a daily
demonstration that the greatest, most
successful newspaper in America is also
@ presérver of the ‘purest ideals our
journalism ever knew. For that demon-
stration. we cannot but thank Charles R.
Miller, and we cannot do better than to
exalt among the truly great of those
who: have; made American newspapers
what they really are the man who never
permitted, himself to be pushed unduly
Into the- glare of the limelight. Modest,
untiring, ‘true to. his guiding star, he has
achieved a tremendous end for America
and the world.

From The New Hayen Union.

Another:of the distinguished” company
of veteran editors in American journal-
ism- has passed; away. Charles Ransom
Miller, ‘except for: three’ years spent on
the staff of The Springfield Republican,
had devoted his talents continuously to
the editorial department of THe New
York Times.. For forty years he had oc-
cupied the chair of editor-in-chief, and
contributed * * “*° to the remarkable
success of that metropolitan journal.

From the |Philadelphia Evening Ledger.

The summary. of the attainments of
the late Charles R. Miller, for more n
forty years editor of THz NEW YoRK
TIMES, ‘may surprise those outside of
newspaper offices by its revelation of
the extent of the mental] equipment re-
garded as necessary to qualify a man
to direct the policy of a great journal.

Mr. Miller was a Doctor of Laws.’ The
degree was conferred on him by Dart-
mouth College seventeen years ago, in
recognition of his learning. He was
first a fine classical scholar. He spoke
and read French, German, Italian, Span-
ish and Russian, He had a mastery of
the political history of his own and
other countries. He was an expert on
international law and on’ foreign re-
lations. His knowledge of cconomics
and of literature was as broad as that
of many. college professors. There were
a score of subjects on’ which he could
have lectured to college classes more il-
luminatingly than the men hired to
do it.

He had equipped himself this way be-
cause it was-his business to know ‘the
subjects which his newspaper had to
discuss, Just as the editors and editorial
writers of other newspapers have
equipped themselves by constant study
{in order to discuss intelligently the
questions which are continually arising.
These editors are as well groundéd in
their subjects as any ore, and they are
in closer touch with the changing cur-
rents’ of opinion than any other group
of men.

It has been fashionable to regret the
disappearance of Greeleys and the Ray-
monds from journalism, but Mr. Miller
would have held his own with these men
in their specialties and he could have
written all around them lot of
other subjects.

on a

From The Savannah Press (by Pleasant A.
Stovall).

He was the leader of living journalists
in New York. People who have read
THE NEw YORK Times, whether {t was
issued by ‘the ‘old management or the
new, Were struck by the clearness and
the conservatism with which leading a:-
ticlés were always written, and yet few
people ever asked who was the author
of these editorials. The writer was not
like Horace Greeley or Raymond or
Bennett or Henry Watterson, who threw
his personality into his work, and who
longed to be in the’ publie <aze.: To
these men personal and political reputa-
tion was as the breath of their nostrils.

He: sat quietly~in the editorial room
like the artist who carved his figures in
the studio. He was alone with his
thoughts and his’ ideals, and he was
faithful to them for half a century, He
will be remembered and thanked for his
public support of two of the greatest
men this country has ever had—Grover
Cleveland and Woodrow .Wilson. For
THE TIMES was a tower of strength in
all these years, From the outbreak of the
European war he predicted the collapse
of the German people, freed from mili-
tarism. _He was a steady and unyield-
ing advocate of America’s entering the
war. Every one will remember that Typ
New YoRE TIMES conducted a splendid
crusade at that time, and.was an inspi-
ration to the whole country. It was a
strong exemplar of united Americanism,
and Charles R. Miller was its prophet.
How true it is, as George Eliot -said,
that ‘ the growing good of this world is
due to the many who faithfully live a
hidden life and rest in unvisited tombs.’’

From The Utica Observer-Dispatch.

In an unobstrusive and yet compelling
way. he has influenced the thoughts and
sentiment of the country. Nobody
thought of Charles R. Miller as they
read his articles and were compelled to
accept them .as a guiding influence
through their perfect fairness, clearness
and sound reasoning. And so, through
nearly four decades, this patient, steady,
earnest thinker and worker has to a
very large extent shaped and directed
the trend of human thought for millions
who have passed under his tutorship as
expressed through the columns of Tre
Times, but who have even not known
his name. Well. informed, gifted with
common sense, sincere, eminently fair,
pérsuasive as a writer, he exerted a
wholesome influence upon all who were
within his circle of readers. It is im-
possible to estimate the good that this
man ‘has accomplished, and yet so mod-
estly and unobtrusively. He has been
truly a great teacher,

From The didchosed Morning Herald.

Charles R. Miller exerted’ a powerful
and evenly sustained influence upon
American Journalism, and through it,
upon American public life. The news-
paper of which he was the editorial
chief had become a mighty instrument
for the. expression of his opinions and
ideals, loftily conceived and resolutely
adhered to, But that was not: all, Its
example of fine integrity, freedom from
partisan narrowness and spleen; con-
sistent respect for truth and, above all,
for sincerity, caused the editorial con-
duct and spirit of Toe New York Times
to be respected and to be reflected, even
unconsciously, in hundreds of lesser pub-
lications and no less in the mood and
standards of the reading public,

Other .great newspaper editors there
have been, but -in sheer integrity of
journalistic and civic purpose, and in
the will and ability to maintain-it un-
falteringly through a lifetime of in-
creasingly potent editorial. utterances,
we remember none. who has counted for
more than Charles R. Miller. In his
work there was invariably to be traced
sound and-full.scholarship, earnest con-
vietion ‘and informed judgment, Asan

Faget REA hy ORE
advocate, he had the singular faculty of

stating an opinion with the force and
convincing effect of judicial finality. In
political: discernment and’ appraisal, he
had no superior among the journalists
of his own time or any other.

From The Washington Post.

American jurnalism has lost, one of the
finest characters in the death of Charles
Ransom Miller, for forty’ years the im-
personal editor-in-chief of THE NEW
York TIMzEs.
land, which ‘has given to the country so
many illustrious men of letters, for four
decades he was a leader in his profes-
sion.

Few who read and were impressed by
his vigorous comment on public affairs
knew the name of the man whose work,
day after day, made its’ worth felt not
only among the clientele of the news-
paper whose editorial policy he directed,
but beyond that horizon, and especially
to his colleagues in journalism through-
out the nation,

The anonymous mentor of some, to all
who admire intellectual
vigorous assertion of principles, regard-
less of differing opinion in politics and
regarding policies, the ‘visible and in-
scribed productions of. his brilliant mind
commanded respect.

From the League of Foreign-
Born Citizens.

The League of Foreign-Born Citizens
deeply mourn the passing of your dis-
tinguished editor-in-chief. Charles R.
Miller typified the highest ideal of
sound, fair-minded, cultured American-
ism. Ever mindful of the fact that
America is made up of the contributions
of ali the world’s peoples, he was, from
its founding, a close friend of the
League of Foreign-Born Citizens and a
devoted.aid in its efforts.to bring to
both the foreign born the realization of
their obligations to America and to the
native born the consciousness, their
duty to properly -welcome immigrants
to American ‘life, for their united striv-
ing toward lasting .attainments of the
principles of Americanism.

Defender of Central Park.

To the Editor of The New York Times:

Charles R. Miller was, perhaps, the
best and most powerful friend Central
Park has had during a third of a cen-
tury. This I feel should -be said at
this ‘time and said emphatically ‘by
some one who has known the facts
through all these years. This should
never be forgotten by: the lovers of
Central Park.

He, of all men, knew the real mean-
ing of Central Park. How much it
meant for the children and mothers on
the east side as well as the lovers of
country sights and sounds was always
in his mind. Fully realizing as few
have ever done the profound, true and |
abiding art of Olmsted and -Vaux, the |
designers of Central Park, Charles R.
Miller had an open mind for all changes
necessary to meet new conditions. Al-
ways and ever, though, he recognized
the fine artistic instinct that inspired
the designers when they sought to bring
country life to the city. It wa8S a great
boon for the New York press to have
a champion of Central Park in such a
dominant position as that held by him.
He defended the Park a hundred, nay,
a thousand times, with such high zeal
and ideals and sueh a forceful, con-
vincing and able style that there was
in all the country no such power -ex-
ercised in such a masterly fashion for
the purpose in view and through such
a long period of years.

I know. Charles -R.- Miller loved Cen-
tral Park and was able to.do wonders
to save it time and time again. Few
have been in such a good position to
judge of his value as I have been and
I want to testify to what I know and
feel at this time of his passing. —

Yours very truly,
SAMUEL PARSONS,

From. the New York Times
Composing Room Chapel.

Whereas, Charles Ransom Miller, for
forty years editor-in-chief of THn NEw
YORK TIMES, has been called to his
everlasting home; therefore, be it

Resolved, That the members of THE
New YORK TIMES Composing Room
Chapel hereby express their sincere
sympathy-to his son and daughter in
their irreparable loss; be it further

Resolved, That this preamble and
resolution be spread upon the minutes
of the chapel and a copy sent to the
family. ED. H. EDWARDS,

JOHN M. FITZPATRICK,
FRANCIS L. WHITE,
Committee.

J. S. FUEMING, Chairman.

N. A. POLLOCK, Secretary.

GOMPERS SEES. REBUKE
TO GLD GUARD POLICY

Declares Nebraska Primary Again
Shows the People Won't Stand
for Repression.

Special to The New York Times.
WASHINGTON, July 20.—Samuel Gom-
pers, President of the American Federa-
tion of Labor, sees the primary election

results in Nebraska as a fresh rebuke
to Old Guard tactics, ‘‘ which might be
borne in mind while the Government tis
embarking upon a. course of repression

by force and upon a course of military }-

dictatorship.”’

‘* Political opinion,’’ said Mr. Gompers,
‘“‘is being registered against the kind of
Governmental policy now being mani-
fested in the coal and railroad. strikes.
This opinion is expressing itself as rap-
idly as opportunity offers,

“The Old Guard, as it is called, has
just been beaten in Nebraska. Congress-
man Albert W. Jefferis, who was defeat-
ed for the nomination for United States
Senator in that State, was possessed of
a good legislative record, but ne weht
into the campaign arm in arm with the

Olicies of the President which are be-

ng.so may displayed in the great in-
dustrial crisis.‘ The people, including
the workers. of Nebraska, voted down
those policies.

‘The primaries have not failed thus
far to show the revulsion of the peo-
ple against. Old Guard tactics. This
might with profit be borne in mind
while the Government is embarking
upon a course of repression by force
and upon a course of military dictator-
ship for the purpose of beating down
workers who have a just and burning
grievance,”’

Howell Increasing His Lead.

OMAHA, Neb., July 20 (Associated
Press).—Political observers watching the
count of the vote in Tuesday’s primary
in the race for the Republican Guberna-

torial nomination between Adam McMul-
len of Beatrice and Charles I, Randall of
Randolph ex es the opinion tonight
that it would take the official count,
with mail votes permitted under the
Absent Voters’ law, to decide the out-
come, so harrow was the margin sepa-
rating the contestants.
R. B. Howell, Republican national
committeeman, progressive Republican,
was strengthening the plurality by which
he won the Republican United States
Senatorial nomination tioin Representa-
tive Albert W. Jefferis, regarded as>a
conservative Republican. Jefferis ran
13,000 behind Howell in 1,740 precincts,
and was only 600 votes ahead of Clar-
ence A. Davis, Attorney General, also a
progressive Republican, with C. H. Gus-
tafson, head of the United States Grain
aromers: ‘Inc., trailing.7,000 votes behind.

A product. of New Eng- |:

strength and]

‘ The Original Goodyear Cushion Tire
now equipped with

The All-Weather Tread

Several years ago, Goodyear engi-
neers invented and patented the
Goodyear Hollow-Center Cushion
Tire for motor trucks.

It was made with a soft base and at-
tached to the wheel by side flanges.

This was the first hollow-center

cushion truck tire of S. A. E. meas-

urements.

Later this tire was improVed By at-

papa: to it a steel base, making it
“pressed-on” tire.

More than 30,000 of these earlier
types have been used and have
established a unique reputation for
resilience and wear.

But these tires were smooth treads.

Now the ultimate development has
been effected by combining the vir-
tues of the Hollow-Center Cushion
Tire with the advantages of the

world-famous Goodyear AIll-
Weather Tread.

The result is the new Goodyear
All-Weather Tread Cushion Tire.

Look at its outstanding features:

1—It has triple cushioning—due to the patented Good-
year Hollow-Center, the famous Goodyear All-Weather
Tread, and the new Goodyear Indented Sidewall.

Cross-section shows the Good-

year ae Hollew-Cemter

design of the Goodyear- All-
- Weather Tres d Cushion Tings.

2—It has the tractive might of the Goodyear All-Weather Tread.

3—It has a special Goodyear pressed-on base.

4—It has the wearing strength of Goodyear stock and construction.

The new Goodyear All-Weather Tread Cushion
Tire is a true cushion tire, built to meet the spe-
cial requirements of a particular type of hauling,
and it is resilient to the last mile.

It is a logical development of the Goodyear
Hollow-Center Cushion Tire, and it is a distinct
and important advance on that splendid tire.

You will get from it an unparalleled measure of
efficient and low cost performance, distinguished -
for buoyance, traction and wear.

The new Goodyear All-Weather Tread Cushion |
Tire is specified as all’round equipment for light.
and medium duty trucks and for front wheels of
heavier units: It is made in all standard sizes °.
from 4 to 7 inches, .inclusive. ‘

For other types of hauling, Goodyear makes other special tires. Sold
and serviced by your Goodyear Truck Tire Service Station Dealer

Goodyear Means Good Wear

For Sale by

Burrows Archer & Roberts, Inc.
56 No. Moore St. 342 East 25th St.

To Close Out!
Women’s Suits

of Tricotine

Twill and Tweed

Far below their cost prices

at 22.50. Suits of Twill; Tweed and Trico-
tine of excellent quality. Sizes 34 to 48.

at 14.75. These suits are also of ‘Twill,
Tweed and Tricotine but may be secured
in broken sizes only,

[Fourth Floor}

Nelson Truck Tire & Wheel Shop, Inc.
431 Lafayette Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y. ee Prospect 3020

hee Convenience

Economy in fuel, in tires, in upkeep
you will find in the Wills Sainte Claire.
Molybdenum steel, perfect balance,
advanced engineering have achieved
this economy. Convenience you will
find in the wheel base, ideal for com-
fort, parking, turning and handling
in traffic.

WILLS SAINTE CLAIRE CO.

of NEW YORK
EDWIN B. JACKSON, President
Fisk Building, 57th St. at Broadway
New York City, N. Y.
Tel. Circle 9743
OPEN EVENINGS EXCEPT SATURDAY

WILLS SAINTE CLAIRE
cMotor Cars

MIL LU

OC.H.W.ca.

WEST POINT FROM THE SKY. it

Striking. photograph of West Point Academy’ fron
showing every detail, is-one of the remarkable features i
Mid-Week Pictorial. _10 cents a copy.

Nem York Times
the News That’s Fit to Print.”

ee ay, Day in the Year by
tNEw YORK Times Company.

S..OcHs, Publisher and President
"a B. ©, Franck, Secretary.

ICES; [TELEPHONE BRYANT 1000]
ES BUILDING Times Square
BS ANNEX..438d 8t. w. of Broadway

7 Beekman Street
165 Broadway

111 West 125th Street
300 Wasnington Street

b Bronx Pr SS Savio sss pecan 2,914 Third Avenue
_ WASHINGION Hilcuts 3,525 Broadway
Wastncton........00-c0s000es Albee Building
HS «+ +1302-1304 Tribune Building
-401 Globe-Deinocrat Building

{Ol Ford Building
.. 742 Markec Street

Ban FRANCISCO.
208 ANGE ES Times Buliding
WOBIONDON. occ ccc cces 12 Salisbury Square, E. C,
Ee WON (Advertising)...03-94 Chancery Lane

¥ and 125 Pall Mall, S. W. IL.
Panw..,.Av Matin, 6 Boulevard Poissonniére
Telephone Bergére 5229.

Panis <(Advertising)...24 Blvd. des Capucines
’ and 5 Rue Lamartine, 9me,.
aBumnos Arres.......... Avenida de Mayo-500
SUBSCRIPTION RATES.
(Entered as second-class mail matter.)
Two Cents a Copy in Greater New York;
Cents within 200 «miles; -Four Cents
elsewhere. Sunday, Five Certs in Manhattan,
Bronx and Brooklyn; Ten Cents elsewhere.
By Mail, postage paid. One Year. Six Mos. One Mo.
Bunday only, Canada. 6.00 3.26
&: *One week, 35c. tOne week, 30c.
Foreign. Rates

Binder, Picture Section, for 26. issues, $2.50.
; AUXILIARY PUBLICATIONS
ANNALIST (Mondays), per year, $5; Canada, $5.50;
‘Other countries, $6. Binder, 26 issues, $1.50.
REW YORK TIMES BOOK REVIEW AND MAGA-
ZINE (Weékly), per year, $1; Canada, $1.50;
Other countries, $2. Binder, 52 issues, $1.50.
SIMES MID-WEEK PICTORIAL (Thursdays), one
Year. $5; Canada, $6; other countries, $6.50.
Binder, 52 issues, % leather, $2.50; cloth, $1.50.
CUBBENT HISTORY MAGAZINE, 1 yr. (12 issues),
®HE NEW YORK TIMES INDEX, Quvarterly—
“full cloth, per copy, $2; per year, $8.
€IMES WAR VOLUMES—20 voiumes—illustrated—
“‘eloth, $63.33; % leather, $76; full leather, $95.
MISTORY OF THE NEW YORK TIMES—1851-
4921, U. S. and Canada, cloth, $2; paper,
60 cents. Foreign, cloth, $2.25; paper, 65 cents.

The Associated Press is exclusively
titic¢d to the use for republication of all
news dispatches credited to it, or not other-
wise credited in this paper, and also the
local news of spontaneous origin published
heréin. All rights of republication of all
‘ether.matter herein are also reserved.

NEW YORK, FRIDAY, JULY 21, 1922.

OVERDOING IT.

The Governor of Michigan desires to
have his State Government undertake
the mining of coal. But Mr. Lewis of
the United Mine Workers telegraphs
him that the thing cannot be done
without the consent of the- union,
which is refused.
Governor compared with a labor
leader? In similar fashion, Mr. Lewis
declares that the plan of the Presi-
dent of the United States to open the
mines cannot be carried out. The
threat is added that, if the attempt is
made, the men running the pumps
will be called on strike and the mines
flooded and wrecked, as the Germans
ruined the coal mines in France.

Jf a ‘* Wall- Street tool ’’ or a cor-
poration manager had displayed such
arrogance, such callous indifference to
the needs of the people, labor unions
would ‘have rent the sky with their
cries of indignation.
ish-interest they seem to think that
But if

In their own self-

théy can do. it with impunity.

they keep on they will find out their |

huge mistake. There is a limit to
public patience.
which no Government can suffer. The
Washington Administration has been
cautiously feeling its way, but there is

something ominous in yesterday’s

statement by the Attorney General.of |

the United States: ‘‘ There is only one
** Federal Government, and the Fed-
** eral laws are superior to any set of
** men in the country.’’ Mr. Lewis
cannot say that he was not warned in
time.

PROTECTION MADE PERFECT.

According to Senator Rosinson of
Arkansas, the of
Goopina of Idaho, head of

speech Senator

bloc and a mighty wool grower, which |

filled two hours and twenty-four min-
utes of Wednesday’s session of the
Senate, was delivered to an audience
of not more than three Republican
and two Democratic Senators. One
passage in it, however, will be heard
by all the American people:

If I had my way, I would pitila a
tariff wall clear around the country,
go there would be no interference with
American products.

This is perfect protection. It is a
¢metaphor parallel to the famous one
attributed to but denied by the late
NELSON DINGLEY, who was
have wished he could make the At-
lantic Ocean ‘‘a in-
navigable by ships the
préducts of the pauper
Europe. Mr. ForpNey admitted that
thé object of his bill was to check im-
ports. More severely orthodox, Mr.

30DING would prevent them alto-
gether.
9 in a large degree that doctrine.
Only the other day Senator LENrRoorT,
sppaking of the amendment to double
the duty on cotton waste, impressed
urjon the Senate the fact that in 192

solo’ 500 pounds of such waste were

sea of fire,’’
carrying
labor

iniported.
tect everything that is or can be
duced in the United States, no mat-

producer may cost the American

nce, are going to be paid as a bonus

to, Southern California for her lemons,

algrionds, figs, walnuts; her olives, the

fye consumption of which she sup-

as to the extent of 8 per cent.; her

s, of which she supplies one-half of

ber cent.?. All through the bill runs

mulcting of the consumer. Mr.

7@ODING's naked statement of the pur-

es of this fanatical protection must

pall to new irritation the considerable

paddy of Republican Senators who see
‘the danger of this extreme theory.

. Benator Gooving naively asserted

tha ‘there are now 3,500,000 persons

N of employment, excluding those on

s. Whatever the value of his fig-

they are fatal to his dogma,

is to buy the surplus of our ag-

What is a mere}

There are challenges |

the farm |

said to

The McCumber bill carries |

How many millions, for in-/|

r ea ae Fide) Vag? wh rete A en oy GRE anche CT Hk
ricultural and manufacturing products
if we are to shut out or reduce to their
lowest terms the import of foreign
goods by which alone they can. be
bought? What but increasing unem-
ployment can be expected from this
attempt at embargo and non-inter-
course? In his capacity as a protec-
tionist showman, Mr. GOODING ex-
hibited to his audience of five a dog-
muzzle made by pauper labor. Seeing
him add the last consummate flower of
absurdity to this preposterous tariff,
judicious and moderate Republican
Senators might be justified in wishing
that even that august Senatorial
mouth were bound.

“ HENRY AND ME.”

WILLIAM ALLEN WHITE of Emporia
and the universe, as the champion of
freedom of speech, ‘‘ defies ’’’ the Kan-
sas Industrial Court law. He has
posted a placard in the window of his
newspaper office declaring sympathy
with the striking railway shopmen.
Sympathy with workers seeking to
better their condition is every man’s
first impulse, but editors help to form
opinion and have a civic as well as
legal and moral responsibility for the
use they make of their freedom of
speech. The Emporia editor is in
more danger of balking the adminis-
tration of a law at least worth fair
trial than he is of having his press
stopped by the-court’s action.

Governor ALLEN says: ‘‘ We all
‘“‘know Britt. If he insists on being
‘“‘ funny, we will have to do something
‘‘ about it.” ‘The Attorney General of
Kansas is more serious, going so far
as to say that expression of sympathy
with unlawful acts is itself unlawful. ,

The Governor’s jest. may be
than the Attorney General's thunder.
‘* Brit ’’ is not really in contempt of
the Industrial but “ defies.”
telegram which forbade
** and sum-

wiser

Court,
merely a
|** picketing in any form
moned all officials to suppress. moles-
tation of workers. If the posting of
the placard is unlawful picketing, it
will be necessary to establish that fact
in the courts before anything can
happen to the daring editor.

| oned there is no real question of free-
| dom of speech.
out the nation a real question of free-
dom of labor, and Kansas is pioneer-
| ing in the matter of preserving that

| freedom.

We would not speak too
the of the
well-known Kansas firm of ‘‘ Henry
and Me.’’
| lightly the entanglement of the two
| freedoms.

| seriously of dissolution

Yet it will not do to take

And it is to be remarked
| that the Kansas placard differs from

the sentiments of the President of the |

The strike merits have
been passed upon by the Labor Board,
the
exercised

| United States.

| which is ‘*‘ defied’ by
Mr. WHITE
| freedom of speech, and may be left to

shopmen.
complete

|; his own resultant responsibility.

FOISTING ART ON THE PUBLIC.

Something worse than mere boorish-

ness appears in Mayor HY Lan’s han-
| dling of the War Memorial project. His
| conduct at Wednesday's mecting of
| the Board of Estimate seems to have
| been inspired by a deliberate purpose
| to wear down opposition to a projected
of Central Park with the
preposterous plan for honoring the
city’s dead. A dozen civic organiza-

| invasion

|tions were represented, ready to ex-
| press a widespread and growing oppo-
when the

due
| to the final place on the program. Men

sition, yet subject was

} reached in order it was deferred

j}and women who were giving their
time from a sense of public duty were
kept waiting almost seven hours in
the sweltering heat of midsummer—
and were then forbidden to speak,
| though the project of a musical and
|art centre had meantime been freely
| discussed. The board appropriated
| $600,000 and the Mayor cut short all
|question with his gavel, threatening
|to throw out/one remonstrant bodily
| from the hall.

In explaining all this he said: “ Py
“ appropriating this money we save it,
'** set it.aside for future use.’’ He
| promised that ‘‘ before one dollar of
| ** city money is spent everybody will
i“ have a chance to be heard.” But
| the hearing has already begun, and
will not cease until the Park is pro-
| tected against invasion, until the dead
| whom the city mourns are honored as
their relatives, their friends and fel-
| low-citizens would have them honored.
Among the organizations represented
lat the City Hall were the Citizens
'Union,.the City Club, the Municipal
|Art Society, the Parks and Play-
grounds Association, the Historic and
|Scenic Preservation Society, the
Broadway Association, the Fifth Ave-
nue Association and the Harlem
Chamber of Commerce. These bodies
| existed before Mr. HYLAN was Mayor
and they will long outlast him. The
insolence of office is brief, but the
forges of constructive intelligence, of
enlightened public service, endure.
Neither now nor hereafter will they
allow ignorant pretense and vanity to
violate the beautiful Park that is the
treasure of living multitudes, or do
sacrilege to the memory of their
heroic dead.

One civic body was conspicuous by
its absence. The city has an Art Com-
mission appointed for the purpose of
bringing professional knowledge and
responsible judgment to bear upon
precisely such problems as Mayor Hyr-
LAN has now in hand. Its opinion has
not been asked and can scarcely be
proffered until the project of rustic-

triumphant arch, swimming. tank,

Until the editor is fined or impris- |

But there is through- |

cinder track

time, the city will not fail to take no-
tice that its Chief Magistrate neglects
authoritative counsel as brazenly as he
shouts down public opinion.

ONE PENALTY FOR STRIKING.

It is stated that the railway shop-
men were willing to’ call off their
strike and go back to work provided
their ‘‘ seniority ’’ rights were _Te-
stored to them. But the railroad ex-
ecutives refused to assent to this con-
dition. It might seem a trifling mat-
ter, but it is not. Many new men
bave been employed, and under the
terms of their engagement are entitled
to the privileges of seniority, compris-
ing the right to be assigned first to
repair work that comes into the shops.
Moreover, the strikers had been duly
and definitely warned that if they left
the employ of the roads they would
lose their seniority rights, and could
return to work only as if they were
new employés.

Evidently a principle is involved, im-
portant not only to the public but to
the unions. Too many strikes are en-
tered upon light-heartedly, the men
being ready to ‘‘ take a chance ”’ in
the belief that, even if the strike be
lost, they can have \their jobs again
as if nothing had happened. That, in
fact, has often. occurred, especially
during the recent years when there
was a shortage of labor. Conditions
are now different, and it may be a
wholesame thing to drive home the
lesson’ that there are, after all, cer-
tain penalties for a reckless strike.

OFFICES PURELY ORNAMENTAL.
Since the death of Mr. ALDRIDGE,
Collector of the Port of New York,
Republican leaders have nad sveral
to decide shall be
nominated to fill But
thus far they have been
agree. The latest report is that the
office is to be left unoccupied until
after the November The
idea seems to be either that the man-
agers would then know better who’s
who in the party counsels or that the |
held
as a_ possible

conferences who
the vacancy.

unable to

election.

office may be up before active

workers reward for
effective service in the campaign.

| The clash of views about the Collec-
torship involves a practice which has
been so long established that some
politicians think of it as almost sacred.
It is that no resident of this city can
hope to be Collector of its port. The}
prize has frequently been. reserved for |

a mysterious process of reasoning, it |

some worthy citizen up the State.

| seems to have been settled that only a|
}man from Rochester or Ogdensburg |
or some other fresh-water town is |
really fit to administer a great mari- |
commerce like that

of New|

However, this year, if we may |

time
York.
leredit accounts given in the newspa-
pers of the debate of the Republican |

magnates, those in Greater New York

are so audacious as to insist that they
a man on the spot,
lactually familiar with the sight of
ships entering and leaving the har-
| bor, who is worthy to be Collector of
|the Port. This naturally seems almost
llike sacrilege to the leaders from the
| country districts, and their obstinacy
}has led to the postponement of the
whole matter.

Does this mean that the duties of
the office of Collector are to be left

'undischarged? Not in the least, for an
been

could produce

has

If it were

| efficient Deputy Collector
j}and is attending to them.
| only a question of experience and ca-
pacity, he would seem to be the very
man to promote to be Collector, But
that would be a procedure smacking
too much of common sense and busi-
ness principles to win the approval of
the politicians. They think of the
office not as a place to work, but to
draw a good ‘salary. Let who will
lattend to the necessary details of ad-
| ministration, but always see to it that
| some one dear and useful to the politi-
leal managers is to be the official
| head, wear the title, and get all the
applause and credit. This is what
may be called the ornamental theory
of officeholding. Under it a party
worker has the job, but somebody else

does the work.
LAS ORNS 2 ISAM PL VE NT TENT

MONTENEGRO.

The house of PETROVITCH-NIEGOSH,
like the Sruarts, gets more loyal sup-
port than it deserves. Mr. Lvtcr
CriscuoLo, head of the American
committee of Montenegrin irreconcil-
ables (though himself not a Montene-
grin), says that Montenegro still
lives. The fact that the Council of
Ambassadors recognizes that the for-
mer territory of Montenegro is in-
cluded within the territory of the
Serbs, Croats and Slovenes is, he says,
no argument to the contrary. Doubt-
less, then, the Southern Confederacy
is still in existence. There was never
much doubt that it commanded the
support of the majority of the popu-
lation included in its territory; there
is considerable doubt that any Monte-
negrin majority could be obtained for
separation. Residents of South Caro-
lina or Mississippi are recognized by
foreigners as citizens of the United
States, just as residents of Monte-
negro are recognized by foreigners as
citizens of the Jugoslav Kingdom.

Whether or not the establishment
of a centralized instead of a Federal
Government was a good thing for
Jugoslavia, it is a fact. There were
strong arguments on both sides, but
the argument was ended by the vote
of the Constituent Assembly. This

Se ee ae
track and. other attendant mon- |
strosities takes definite shape, Mean-

agitation for the break-up of the
Jugoslav State, for the starting of
new disturbances in a region where
disturbance is disappearing and the
people are getting down to work.
How much of it is inspired by dis-
interested love of liberty and how.
much by mere dislike of the ideal of
Jugoslav unity?

THE ITALIAN CABINET.

The Facta Cabinet in Italy, like sey-
eral of its predecessors, has~fallen be-
cause it was unable to repress internal
disorders. . The violence of Commu-
nists and Fascisti, dying down from
time to time, breaks out again; it
cannot be allowed to continue, yet no
Government can make up its mind to
repress it by strong measures. At
last the Chamber seems to haye tired
of a Government whose p6licy of
wait-and-see produced a great deal of
waiting, with little else. The scanty
achievements of the Genoa conference
no doubt did something to lower the
credit of the Government, but appar-
ently the unfavorable vote in the
Chamber on Wednesday was due to
Don SrTurzo, leader of the Catholic
Party, who decided that a new deal
was advisable.

In the speculation on the formation
of a new Government ORLANDO Is per-
haps most prominently mentioned. as
Premier; other names suggested ara
those of De Nicota, De Nava and
former Premier BoNoM!I. A new Min-
may perhaps be _ fortunate
enough to escape the particular issue
which led to the downfall of the old;
Communists fight hard
enough, but their* energies are -usu-
ally exhausted after a few days and
they go home till the next inspiration

istry

and Fascisti

moves them. In Italy even more than

in Germany gloomy predictions are
constantly

stantly falsified.

being made, and as con-

COUNTRY AND CITY.

The statement of the Census Bu-
reau that only 29.9 per cent. of the
people of the United States live on
farms may disturb those who think
that the trend from the. land thus
indicated is portentous. But whatever
the migration to the city means in its
moral and economic consequences, the

|fact that the number of persons en-

gaged in agricultural pursuits has
decreased in the last hundred years
from 87 per. cent. to 30 per cent. is
not in. itself ominous. The decline is
due in part to an increase in the agri-
cultural productivity of the average
farmer.

In the early days an entire family on
the farm produced little if any more
than enough for its own subsistence.
Now one family produces sufficient

|for three families, and perhaps even

more. The other two, or three, are
free to get fuel for all; to manufac-
ture, transport, buy and sell; to care
for the sick as doctors or nurses; to
see that justice is done among all;
to furnish information, to teach, to
preach, to study, to carry on scientific
research, to bring art in all its forms
to the enrichment and adornment of
life. So the actual number engaged
in agriculture, up to the point of
maximum productivity, is roughly in
inverse ratio to the degree of its de-
velopment. And this development in
turn connotes in a general way the

sort of civilization that rests upon it. |

In China 70 per cent. or more of the
people are engaged in farming, and yet
there are not enough farmers to till
all the available land, so crude are
their methods of production. With us
30 per cent. release 70 per cent. for
other employment; thirty millions re-
lease seventy millions.

The thing of prime consequence is
that those thirty millions shall have a
fair share of the fruits of the civiliza-
tion that has its roots in the soil of
the farm. The provision and main-
tenance of better rural schools is
essential. It is of national importance
that the public now give more serious
attention to such rural school pro-
grams as are prepared for New York
and Pennsylvania. This better farm,
better farm home, better rural school
movement is widespread and is even
further on its way in the States of the
Middle West. As indication of this
new spirit among the farmers them-
selves, it is reported that a meeting
was held a fortnight ago out in
Illinois, at which 20,000 or 25,000
were gathered to celebrate and further
the work of the farm and home bu-
reaus. Better farmers may indeed
mean fewer farmers. And a trend
from the farm may be a sign of a
higher state of farm development—a
trend which is good or bad, according
to what happens at the city end.

TOPICS OF THE TIMES.

Was it not somewhat
tactless in Communist
Liberty Dress to remind ‘“ Mr.

Union Man” that,
and Debs. thanks to the war
‘““ which you shouted for, voted for, in-
vested your last dollar for and crossed
the Atlantic. to fight and die for,’’ we
now live in‘a world in which ‘“ Kaiser-
ism is dead and democracy and liberty
are on top’’? No other goal was ever
set up by those who. supported the war,
call them ‘‘ Wall Street profiteers’’ or
what not, :

By the same token Mr. Union Man
knows well enough that the President's
intention of protecting individuals intheir
right to work, of safeguarding the public
against a paralysis of industry followed
by a Winter of hunger and cold, ig like-
wise an act in defense of-liberty. Whén
Dess and his kind sought to obstruct the
war the thought fn their hearts was not

Kaiserism,

| spell SF AE eat loa.

eh ew

Executive clemency released from. Atlan-
ta Jail declares that the Government is
“lined up against you in battle array,
ready to shoot you down like dogs,” and
he calls ‘upon American workmen to
‘‘ strike together, vote together and fight
together.’’

i There is small danger of misleading
the craft unionists whom Dsss more
particularly addresses. They know~that
the surest means of defeat in any strike
is to oppose law with violence, If the
violence Degs calls-for occurs, there will
once more be a question of Atlanta—but
no longer a.question as to the recent re-
lease from it,

Under the heading
** Scientific Events,” a
of periddical devoted to

science reprints from

a Scientist. 14. British Medical
Journal a brief article such as doubt-
less has never before found its way into
a scientific Journal. It is a review of a
play with which an eminent French
actor recently opened his répertoire in
London. It is a play with no “ love in-
terest."’ It does not have even a female
character. It is said to follow no rules
of the drama. and to be simply a ‘‘ series
ot monologues.’’ It is the simple story
of the life of Pasteur and of his scien-
tifle achievements. Yet the actor who
Plays the leading réle is reported to
have had a ‘‘triumph in its presenta-
tion.’’

Such is the appeal of science when art
reveals its hidden heroisms and makes
known the silent conquests of the
laboratory. Myth and fiction have no
more thrilling adventurous episodes than
those which lie in the realm of scien-
tific fact—in the continuing epic of
scientific research, scientific interpreta-
tion and scientific application. Her-
cules’s encounter with the mythical
many-headed and hydra-bedied dog,
Cerberus, that guarded the gate of
Hades, is not comparable in human in-
terest or in significance with the scien-
tific struggle of PasTeuR in his conqueér-
ing hydrophobia in the boy bitten by a
mad dog.

The whole vro:.. has good reason to
celebrate with France the centenary,
which occurs this year, of the birth of
this great benefactor of mankind, whose
achievements in ridding mankind of
some of the infinitesimal pests are
greater than the killing of the Nemean
lion or the Lernean hydra or the Stym-
phalian birds by the ancient hero of
strength and subduer of public menaces,
By contrast PAstrur dragged around for
many years 2 half-stricken body.

The Drama

In intention at
least, nothing could
Ancient be more admirable
than the stand taken

and Modern. by Swarthmore Col-
lege with regard to the dress of its wo-
men students. ‘‘ Extremes or eccentric-
ities in style of the dress and of the
coiffure,”’ writes the Dean to mothers of
ithe coming class, “ are not indicative of
the good taste which college women
should preserve.”’

But what shall one say looking Dack-
ward upon the habits of other years? It
is not necessary to invoxe stomacher
and crinoline. Time was when young
ladies at Swarthmore and elsewhere
wore sleeves that flanked their shoulders
as if with two gross hams. A little iater
they wore hats that perched forward
over a fuzzy bang like a pancake crest-
ing an ocean breaker. Albums of old
snapshots ate mere chambers of such
horrors. Yet the wearers were still
young ladies—the very same, in fact,
who now write that Swarthmore, or
Wellesley, or Smith, “has a tradition
which must be maintained in the future
as it has been in the past.”

The real complaint against votartes of
short skirts and bobbed hair, one sus-
pects, is that they have ventured to
have an eccentricity of dress or of coif-
fure that differs from the eccentricities
of their elders. At Vassar lately, when
a trainload of old grads alighted, a
young thing on the platform was heard
|}to whisper, ‘Here come the alumnae,
| with their corsets and their ears! ”’

The head of the Society
for the Suppression of
Vice, having had Mr.
THOMAS SELTZER arrested
for publishing the works
of ScHNITZLER and D. H. LAWRENCE, has
now gone on to prosecute another firm
for selling the Satyricon of PEeTRoNIuS.
The publishers say that the book is not
| sold to the general public; what criterion
they use in the selection of permitted
purchasers is not stated.

Such a prosecution ought to cause re-
consideration of the principles of our
laws against obscene publications. In
any ordinary definition of that word
PETRONIUs is certainly obscene; and yet
he is read by many who are merely an-
noyed by his obscenities. The extant
fragments of what must have been a
long book reveal a brildant talent; they
contain excellent writing, some admira-
ble literary and artistic criticism; above
all, they afford evidence such as can be
found nowhere else as to the social
conditions in certain classes of society
at Rome in the first century A. D. It
would be a serious loss to human knowl-
edge to suppress PErrroNIus, whatever
may be thought of SCHNITZLER and D. H.
LAWRENCE,

It used to be assumed by courts which
construed the law that persons who
could read the classical languages were
already corrupt beyond hope of redemp-
tion; hence the obscene classics were
usually allowed to circulate without in-
terference. Mr. SUMNER has now at-
tacked that interpretation of the law.
And he is quite right, if one assumes—
as he must—that in a work containing
obscene passages nothing else is read,
and that matter which might pervert
some readers must be withheld from all

readers.

Eccentricities,

Petronius
Now
on Trial.

nn eenemenensaaentenensneeeaaaeansiinesetd

immigration Restriction.
To the Editoy of The New York Times:

I wish to comment on your editorial of
June 30, entitled ‘‘ New Stock Gains of
old,” giving figures to show that récent
immigration is changing the composition of
the American race. It is true that Ameri-
cans in genéral, everl the later arrivals, do
not want immigration, as they know it to be
bad for the country, but it Is not true that
wo have nothing to fear from it in, the
future. The present law restricting immi-
gration will last only two years. Unless the
public expresses more actively its wish for a
permanent law, those who want to sell trans-

ortation or get cheap labor may —_ by
ts aparent indifference to open the gates

again. . H. B. ALDIS.
Boston, July 19, 1922.

Lynchings in the South.
To the Editor of The New York Times:

You print in your today’s Sunday issue an
éxtract from a letter that I sent you on

This extract gives the impression that I
favor lynching in the South and am, there-
fore, against the Dyer bill. This is an un-
fair extract, as perudal of the whole letter

which I sent will show, I was trying to ex-
plain the condition between the races in the
South that led to lynchings, stated that
Southerners regret lIynchings as mich as
any one elaé, and that Federkl intervention by
enactment of the Dyer bill would only ag-
gravate bad racial feeling, and concluded by
asking that the South be allowed to deal
locally with its race problems,
JOHN 8, TERRY.

the leader whom}.

May Be Found in “ Records of the
War of the Rebellion.”
To the Editor of The New York Times:

There has been a good deal of misin-
formation published in the papers of the
country recently about the endorsement
by the Confederate reunion of a book
that contained matter supposed to be
unjust to Mr. Lincoln, As I am in pos-
session of the facts in the case, also of
a few of these books, I will be glad to
straighten this matter out for y of
your readers desiring to learn the truth.

In the first place, this book is not a
history, nor was it written by Colonel
Huger W. Jackson of Curryville, Va., as
thé writers of the letters‘in the papers
seem to think, but it is a small pamphlet
written by a Confederate naval officer,
Captain H. W. Johnstone of Idyl-
wild, Ga.

The data in this. little book did not
originate. with Captain Johnstone; he
simply culled them from the ‘“‘Records of
the War of the Rebellion’’ and put them
in convenient shape for the reader. This
many-volumed record, as you doubtless
knew, was published by the United
States Government and supposed for
that reason to be authentic. Any one
willing to take the time to fefret out
this matter can get this same informa-
tion by reading the ‘Records of the
War of the Rebellion.”

The data in this little pamphlet are all
based on Lincoln’s signed telegrams as
reported in this Government record, and
it. goes without saying that if the in-
ferences drawn from these telegrams are
uncomplimentary to Mr. Lincoln, then
the responsibility for this offense harks
back to the United States Government,
which published these telegrams, and
has put this book in néarly every library
in the country.

There are doubtless many libraries in
your city that possess copies of this
Government record, so it will be easy
for any one who desires ta do so to
verify this matter for himself.

The “leader” that appeared in your
paper on this subject was, in my judg-
ment, more discriminating than that in
any other paper that has come under
my notice. M. D. CARTER.
| -Uppefville, Va., July 13, 1922.

Lincoin’s Loves.

i To the Editor ef The New York Times:

| May I not, even at this late date, express
j te you my thanks and keen appreciation of
| Horace Green's ‘‘ Love Affairs of Abraham
Lincoln *’ of March 12. This létter has been
long, and unavoidably delayed. Nothing to
my mind has ever been written of Lincoln
with a stronger ring of sincerity and mat-
ters of fact than this. It rings true. Mrs.

Lincoln was a connection of my mother’s, | for all

Dickman Heads Body Named to,

Drop 1,700 Army Officers.

WASHINGTON, July 20.—The Board
of General Officers’ to supervise reduc-
tion of the number of regular officers
of the army to the figures prescribed
by: Congress will be headed by Major
Gen. Joseph T. Dickman, retired, as
President.s Other members of the board
will be Major Gen. Merritt W. Ireland,
Surgeon General; Major Gen. Henry P.
‘McCain, retired, former Adjutant Gen-
éral, and, Brig. Gens. Andre W. Brew-
ster and Ernest Hinds.

‘The magnitude and importance of
the work of this board have caused the
utmost care to be observed in the selec-
tion of its members,’”’ the War Départ-
ment’s announcement said. It added
that the department had sought to pro-
vide for ‘‘a thoroughly just and im-
partial ’’ survey by the board and in the
make-up of the board had excluded of-
ficers now or recently *‘ closely identi-
fied with the present War Department
administration,’’ and included officers
not graduates of West Point and an of-
ficer who did not serve abroad during
the war. The board also represents the
major branches of the army in that men
who have served in the infantry, the ar-
tillery, the cavalry and in the staff de-
partments are members.

It will be the function of the board to
pass upon the records of all officers in
the army, with the exception of Second
Lieutenants, and determine the relative
value of such officers to. the Govern-
ment. Those for any reason of least
value, in the judgment of the board, will
be separated from the.active service by
Dec. 15 next. They will be retired for
physical disability, reduced one step in
rank or honorably discharged .with a
yee # pay in lieu of retirement ben-
efits.

It is ‘estimated that probably more
than 1,700 officers now on the rolls of
the regular army and ineluding officers
of all classes Will be thus honorably dis-
charged as a measure of governmental
economy demanded by Congress.

RETAIL FOOD COST RISES.

Average Increase of 1 Per Cent.
From May 15 to June 15.

WASHINGTON, July 20.—The retail
eost of food to the average family in
the United States Increased 1 per cent.
from May.15 to June 15, according to a
report today by the Bureau of Labor
Statistics of the Department of Labor.

Qf forty-three food articles computed
in the average, increases,in twenty-one
ranged from 20 per cent\ for potatoes
to one-half of 1 per cent. for bananas.
Decreases in twelve ranged from 18 per
cent. for onions to 1 per cent. for canned
peas, while prices for the others re-
mained practically stationary.

The largest increase in food prices for
the month was 4 per cent. for Detroit.
Of the ten cities out of fifty-one show-
ing a decrease in the average price,
none exceeded i per cent.

Cost of living figures announced. by
the bureau today, based on retail prices
important commodity groups,

and it is significant and heartening that a| showed but slight change in the three

man and a Northerner has risen to her de-
fense, a keenly sensitive woman, for whom
the times and the circumé&tances of her sur-
|roundings were so largely responsible. Ma-
tilda Edwards, of whom Mr. Green writes
so charmingly, was the idolized elder sister
of my mother. As children we listened with
keen joy on our part to the story of her con-
quests for its romance, and later for the
history which it involved. Wé were always
told in the family that Lincoln courted her,
a fact which she only divulged to her near-
est and dearest. As he was then of no spe-
eial note it was merely regarded as another
in the st of her suitors. She married New-
ten Strong—not Schuyler—of the Strongs of
Pittsfield, Mass. Copies of Mr. Green's ar-
ticle are to be carefully treasured for cach
member of this generation.
(Mrs.) NANCY REED GORDON.
South Norwalk, Conn., July 15, 1922,

The Power of the Militia.
To the Editor of The New York Times:

In these days of riots in many parts of
the United States, the following, taken from
the minutes of the Council meeting at Fort
George, N. Y., Aug. 31, 1773, may be of
interest: In June, 1773, General Haldimand
took command of the King's forces and
shortly after he was called upon by Governor
Tryon and his Council to furnish a military
force to “‘ repress several large riots in the
County of Charlotte’ and ‘‘ to order a suf-
ficient number of troops to occupy the posts
of Ticonderoga and Crown Point, &c., and
to assist the civil magistrates.”

The Governor's application was answered
the day it was received. It sets forth ‘‘ that
in the present circumstances of affairs in
America it appears to me of a dangerous
tendency to employ regular troops whére
there are militia laws and where the civil

| in the navy, works

months from atch to June. Jackson-
ville, Fla., showed the greatest de-
crease, 1.4 per cent., while the maxa-
mum increase, 1.1 per cent., was record-
ed for Norfolk, Va.

SEAPLANES QUICKLY LANDED

New Naval Device Stops Them on
the Decks of Warships.

WASHINGTON, July 20.—Perfection
of a device to enable en airplane going
60 miles an hour, to land om the deck of
a ship, was announced today by the
Navy Department. For the iast few
months the naval air service has been
experimenting secretly at Hampton
Roads with the device on a dummy
ship’s deck.

The device, which it is said will per-
mit the safe landing of any type of air-
Mahe equipped with landing gear in uSe
on a number of
wires placed across the ship’s deck,
weights being attached to the — ends.
Hooks descending from the bottom of
the airplanc, engage the wires. The in-
creasing weight exerts a brake effect on
the speed of the plane.

In one of the experiments a small air-
— was. brought to a stop within 38
eet.

FIND FAKE PICTURE PLOT.

Paris Police Uncover Scheme to
Flood Market With Counterfeits.

Special Cable to THz New York Tues.

PARIS, July 20.—One of the greatest
schemes for flooding the market with
fake pictures purporting to come from
the brushes of great masters is believed
to have been discovéred here following

magistrates can at any time call upon its | a complaint made to the police yester-

trained inhabitants to aid and assist them in

the performances of their offices and the ex- |
ecution of the laws in force against riot- |

ers, and for the protection of the lives and
property of his Majesty’s subjects. That
the idea that a few lawless vagabonds can
prevail so far in such a Government as that
of New York as to oblige its Governor to
have recourse to the regular troops to sup-
press them ‘appears to me to carry with it
such reflection of weakness as I am afraid
would be attended with bad consequence and
render the authority of the civil magistrate,
when not supported by the troops, con-
temptible to its inhabitants.’’

This being a far different answér than the
Council expected, the application was with-
drawn. This advice is still good, although
given 149 years ago. JAMES B. WILBUR.

Manchester, Vt., July 19, 1922.

The Minnesota Afloat.
To the Editor of The New. York Times:

In your Book Raevipw AND M4GazInge of the
16th, in the article entitled ‘* Under-Sea
Men,’’ the author states that the battleship
Minnesota was sunk. This is an error.

While sweeping German mines off the Jer-
sey coast with the U. S. minesweeper King-
fisher the U. S. minesweeper Teal received
wireless orders to go to the assistance of
the steamship Minnesota off Fenwick Island
Lightship.

The Teal proceeded as directed, and when
we sighted the battleship Minnesota she was
listed to starboard, but was proceeding un-
der her own steam. She reached the League
Island Navy Yard at Philadelphia,

Shortly after the Teal was ordered to the
same yard for repairs. This gave me an
opportunity to visit the Minnesota in dry
dock, and there was a hole in her starboard
bow ‘‘big enough to drive a horse’ and
wagon through.”

ROBERT B. PETERS,
Ex-Chief Gunner’s Mate U. 8. 8. Teal, Mine-
sweeper No. 23.
Brooklyn, July 17, 1922.

An Elemental Explosive.
To the Editor of The New York Times:

I read in this morning’s Times ‘‘ that the
explosion of a case of magnesium powder
is believed to be the cause of the Jane
Street fire.”

Now, magnesium may be an ingredient of
explosive mixtures, but it is not explosive
by itself. An element cannot, in the chem-
ical sense, be explosive per se. The only

exception is liquid ozone. C. PARODI.
New York, July 19, 1922.

RESTORATION.

When friends betray, and love grows
sour,
When men and women fail,
Peace comes within the hermit’s bower;
The world of books I hail.

And when the printed page turns cold,
When soul’ departs from words,
My comrades rise in field and fold,

"Mid animals and birds.

But when dark memory my spirit tries,
And opens wide my scars,
I lift mine eyes beyond the skies,
In union with the stars.
LOUIS Il. NEWMAN,

| day by

Mme. Choublier, daughter
the painter Eugene Carriere.

Mme. Choublier declbred she had- ob-
served at several expositions and in cer-
tain art stores paintings signed with her
father’s name which she was certain
were false. :

The police visited the modest home
of a painter in Montmartre, where they
found in a studio and gallery organized
by him a great number of paintings
bearing signatures of Carriere, Corot,
Monticelli, Claude Monet, Renner, Fan-
tiz-Latour, Puvis de Chavannes,
Degas, Cezanne, Pissarro, Harpignies
and Chaplin. There were eight pictures
purporting to be Carriere’s which the
police seized.

The Montmartre painter defended all
the pictures in the collection, declaring
he was a collector as well as an artist
and that he had boyght the paintings
at various sales during. the past several
years.

All pictures ascribed to Carriere are
to be submitted to experts, however,
and further developmiénts will depend
on their decisions.

TO INSTALL 50 STEEL CARS.

B. R. T. to Obey Commission’s Order
on Centre Street Loop.

Substitution of fifty new steel cars
for sixty-five so-called elevated” line
type in the Centre Street loop will be

Commission yesterday of its accéptance
of a recent order to provide the new
equipment. The order is accepted, how-
ever, with the understanding that the
substitution is not to set a precedent

which will bind the company to furnish
such equipment for other branches of
its system as a general policy, and in
the further understanding that the new
cars shall be financed with funds real-
ized from the old equipment.

The hearing of the Transit Commis-
sion into the valuations of the Brooklyn
Rapid Transit surface lines, including
the property of the Brooklyn City Rail-
road Company, scheduled for yesterday,
was postponed until July 31.

MOURNS J. SANFORD SALTUS

Mayor Says Blois Wil! Always Pre-
serve His Memory.

The President of the Joan of Arc Sta-
tue Committee of the City of Blois,
France, received, at his New York of-
fice yesterday, a letter from Mayor A.
Croizeau of Blois, extending to the
committee his condolences on the death

i of J. Sanford Saltus, honorary citizen. of

Blois and donor of the Joan of Arc sta-
tue, erected in Blois on Aug. 13, 1021.
The letter said;

“T have just learned, through. the
newspapers, of the tragic death of our
fellow-citizen, Mr. J. Sanford Saltus. in
the name of the Municipal Council, in
the name of the people of Blois and in
my own name, I beg you io accept, Mr.
President, and to transmit to your com-
mittee our most’ earnest and sincere
condolences. .

‘‘The people of Blois will always pre-
serve the memory of its dear fellow-
citizen and ‘benefactor,’

Administration Stands Firmly
by Its Demand for Guarantees
Before Recognition Is Given.

LAND SEIZURE GOES ON

Present Situation One in Which
Friction Between the Two Coun-
tries Might Easily Arise.

Special te The New York Times.

WASHINGTON, July 20.—A high
spokesman of the Administration today
furnished an informal summary of the
situation {nvolving the issues between
this country and Mexico, from which it
is apparent that recognition of Mexico
by the American Government is as far
off as ever unless the Obregon Govern-
ment translates informal assurances
into action and gives those definite and
precise guarantees of security which are
insisted upon rigidly by the American
Government,

The statement of the case today was
the more significant, becausé it came en
the heels of the recent visit to the White
House and State Department of Adolfo
de la Huerta, Mexican Minister of Fi-
nance, to whom the attitude of the
Washington Government was again
clearly explained during his conference
of nearly two hours with Secretary of
State Hughes. The hope is expressed

here that upon his return tg Mexico
City Sefior de la Huerta -make a
report to President Obregon: that would
be followed by affirmative action by the
Mexican Government of such character
as to warrant recognition.

The American Government’s position

is that recognition depends on the Mex-~

icans. If they ‘wish prompt reco: on
they can give prompt guarantees, The
longer they delay the action for which
Secretary Hughes, as spokesman for
President Harding, is waiting the longer
recognition will be delayed.

Not less than five distinct. opportuni-—
ties have been afforded the Obregon -

Government to demonstrate in a prac-
tical way its desire to resume diplomatic

relations with the United States, it was.

stated. The first of these was the pro-
posal made by Secretary of State Hughes
that the two nations conclude a trea
of amity and commerce. Though s
suggestion was made more than a year
and a half ago it has not been acce

by the Mexican Government; the
pointed out. Throughout tne time which
has elapsed since the proposal was
made, this Government has maintained
a discreet silence, it was stated, in
order that Obregon might be free to
work out his affairs in his own way,
without embarrassment fiom this end.
Nevertheless, the problem apparently is
no nearer solution than
ations were undertaken.

Debt Agreement Not Complete.

The second big opportunity afforded
the Obregon Government, the official
said, was in connection with the recent
international banking agreement con-
cluded at New York between Finance

Minister de la Huerta and representa-
tives of the international ereditors of
Mexico. ‘Tnis agreement, which was
heralded as a step in the direction of
recognition, has not been approved by
Obregon, who apparently is unable, or
unwilling, to act in the face of a re-
luctant Congress.

The third case mentioned had to do
with the agreement entered into by
American oil men at Mexico City with
the Mexican authorities.

The fotirth case was the decisions by
the Mexitan Supreme Court be
upon the question of the retroactivity of
Article 27 o¥ the Mexican Constitution.
Numerous statements have been made,
it was pointed-out, to. the effect that
these decisions afforded the guarantees
against confiscation which the American
Government has been seeking. Never-
theless, the official continued, it has
proved impossible, despite weeks of de-
lay, for this Government to obtain
copies of tne text of these decisions or
to find out in a specific and definite way
exactly how comprehensive they are in
scope,

Action on agrarian lands was the fifth
point discussed by the officlal. Ex-
propriation, which is regarded here as
not being in accordance with American
principles, apparently is sanctioned by
the laws and constitutions of some of
the Mexican States, it was stated, and
the Obregon Government either is unable
or umwiilling to prevent the carrying
out of these laws.

President Obregon, in speeches and in
interviews, has many times asserted
that Article 27 will not be applied retro-
actively. Such assertions were welcome
to this Government, but inasmuch as
they were personal and informal, were
not regarded as sufficient.

The United States proposed, therefore,
a treaty of amity and commerce which
would definitely safeguard American
rights. This treaty, President Ob im
stated, he had no authority to sign. 6
fact that he said he had no authority to
do this greatly detracted, in the opin-
ion of the American Government, from
the previous statements of the Mexican
President that no retroactive effect
would be given to the Constitutional pro-
visions.

Since negotiations began with the
Mexican Government, there have been
numerous instances of confiscation of
American agrarian holdings in Mexico,
it was officiahy admitted today. The
term used by the Mexican Government,
it was explained, is expropriation, but
expropriation implies payment, and no
just payment has been made in numer-
ous cases, and the proceeding, therefore,
becomes confiscation. In many instances
valuation was based on taxes which re-
sulted in only a nominal value being
placed on the land, and payment at the
merely nominal figure was then offered
in practically worthless bonds.

This Government has no objection to
expropriation in the interests of some
worthy public policy, as for example,

| providing the peons with lands, but {t
| is going to insist that proper remunera-
| tion be made when the validly acquired
jlands of American citizens are €xpro-
priated. The policy of the Harding Ad-
| ministration, it was asserted, ig not
|formed with an eye to any particular

j}made by the Brooklyn Rapid Transit | group or set of interésts; it Is mot dic-
| Company, which notified the Transit

ltated by Wall Street or by the oil in-
\terests, but is determined by American
lrights of whatever nature they may be.

Persons are going about the ¢ 4
the Administration spokesman 4
today, talking about things which should
be done by Mexico. as if they had al-
ready been done. This Government does
not wish to be put in the poetics of
appearing to dictate to Mexico, but at
the same time it_is unwilling that the
Mexican people should get the idea that
we can be fooled into believing certain
essential conditions have been met when
they have not.

When loose conversation is indulged
in as to, agreements havi been made
on the Mexican external debt, or agree-
ments betweén oil men and Mexico, the
Administration spokesman continued, it
must be remembered that the agreement
is not complete until-Obregon or the
Mexican Congress has approved it. ‘This
Government does not care how the
agreement is accomplished, so long as
it is accomplished, but is not going to
be rushed off its feet by misrepresenta-
tion and misstatement, whether such
misrepresentation is by Americans or
by foreigners.

Danger of Friction.

WASHINGTON, July 20.—It is un-
derstood to be recognized by the Wash-
ington Government that continuance of
the present situatién with regard to
Mexico is fraught with possibilities of
incidents which might develop into less
friendly relations between the two

Governments, particularly in view of
the application of the Mexican agrarian
policy to the land held by Americans
under valid titles in Mexico. . Since the
policy of the United States. on the ques-
tion of recognition of the Obregon v=
ernment was formally stated ‘by Secre-
tary Hughes more than fifteen months
ago, there have been numerous cases of
“ expropriations”’ of Am

Wiel we legvls-

2 get nn SS

~— ATTACKS CITY'S AID

-* OF ‘CONEY’ IN PARK

Stewart Browne, in Letter to
Hylan, Says Hearings Have
Become “Public Scoldings.”’

OPPOSES $600,000 VOTED

Charges Estimate Board Put Citl-
zens to Vexatious Delays—Lew-
isohn Protests Building in Park.

The Board of Estimate’s action on the
Proposed Central Park war meniorial,
for which $600,000 was appropriated
Wednesday, despite the protests of civic
associations and individuals interested
in the parks, was attacked yesterday
by Stewart Browne of the United
Real Estate, Owners’ Association. Mr.
Browne, in a letter ‘to Mayor Hylan,
declared that hearings of the board had
degenerated into ‘‘ public scoldings.’’

Mr. Browne was one of those present
at Wednesday’s hearing. He quit the
meeting after the Mayor had threatened
to have him seated by force.

The Parks and Playgrounds Associa-
tion, it was said yesterday, would have
a statement to make with regard to the
Board of Estimate’s action. George
Gordon Battle, President of the asso-
ciation,.is in Maine. William Brad-
ford Roulstone, Chairman of the Parks
Committee, represented the association
at the board meeting.

Mr..Browne’s letter follows:

UNITED REAL ESTATE OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION,
280 Broadway,
New York City, July 20, 1922.
Hon. John F. Hylan, Mayor of the
City of New York:
My Dear Mayor Hylan: While John
F. Hylan in private life and Mayor
Hylan in individual interviews are ex-
tremely courteous, considerate and
pleasing personalities, the Mayor of
the city at which are euphoniously
miscalied public hearings of the
Board of Estimate is extremely dis-
courteous and inconsiderate and makes
a ‘bully’ Chairman.
For instance: The people of the city
are intensely interested in the pro-
osed combination war memorial and
ittle Coney Island in Central Park
and the Art and Music Temple on Sev-
enth, Avenue, between Fifty-sixth and
Fifty-ninth Streets, and which have
been on the calendar for public hear-
ings for three separate Board of Bsti-
mate meetings. Fully 1,000 people ap-
peared at the first to be politely told
for the first time that the meeting
Was postponed until the next week,
when public notice could have been
given the day before. The next week
arrived and, owing to the sad and un-
expected death of Borotigh President
Cahill, the meeting was very properly
postponed, but the audience was kept
waiting fully an hour before such an-
nouncement was made.
At yesterday's hearing were at least
ten of the principal civic and realty
organizations present, as you and your
colleagues well know, to. protest
against the above two proposais.
Your meéeting continued from 10:30
A. M. to 5 P. M., and although your
board had predetermined to give no
public hearing on these two matters,
you kept the representatives of these
ten organizations kicking their heels
and wasting their time, to be discour-
teously told by you at 5 P. M. that
there would be no public hearings on
these two matters except public hear-
ings to hear and not to be heard, and
you jammed them through in spite of
protests. In doing this you were ex-
tremely inconsiderate in not making
such announcement at the beginning
of the meeting—10:30 A. M.—and your
only apparent reason was that you
thought you could tire the opponents
out by such dilatory tactics.
Permit me courteously to suggest
that your public hearings are worse
than you designate them, viz.: Pub-
lic hearings to hear and not to be
heard, or ‘‘ public listenings,’” but in |
addition they have degenerated into
‘“‘public scoldings’’ and appeals to
class prejudice.
You said that yesterday’s votes
didn’t commit the board to anything.
They door do not according to your
desire. =e can rescind, modify or
let them stand. Don’t you think it is
absurd to vote $600,000 for something
or other that you say you don’t know
anything about? But you can’t fool
me with that statement. The Jamaica
Bay Boulevard was to be paid for by
Queens, but before the last election
it was by your 'board’s resolution
made a city-wide charge. There are
hundreds of similar cases. Faithfully
yours,
STEWART BROWNE, President.
Adolph Lewisohn, in a letter to THE}
New York TIMES on Wednesday, said
he was strongly of the opinion that no
building should be put up in the Park.

‘“‘I consider that it would be a great
mistake to put any further buildings inj}
the Park, which should be used entirely
as a playground and place of recreation
for the largest number of people who
want to go there,’’ Mr. Lewisohn wrote.
‘‘T think that all the lawns should be}
thrown open to the public and a strong |
effort should be made to keep them clean
and free from waste and waste paper,
which is often strewn all over the lawn
in places.”’

RUTH JONES HEARD.

Young Violinist Makes Her Prelimi-
nary Debut in Chicago.

Special to The New York Times.

CHICAGO, July 20.—Ruth Jones, a
violinist, who is said to be planning an
entrance-upon the professional concert
stage next season, made her preliminary
début at the Ziegfeld Theatre this morn-
ing. Miss Jones is the wife of Richard
G. Knott, editor of The Louisville Bve-
ning Post, and is a pupil of Leopold
Auer. Apparently, she will go on well
equipped. She has acquired all the

requisites of full bodied tone and. a
technique that makes light of the diffi-
culties in her path, and she has in addi-
tion a breezy, vigorous manner of plan-
ning that is personal. :

Her program would seem to have
been chosen with those characteristics
fn mind. It included the Vitali Cha-
conne, the Lalo ‘‘Symphonie Espa-
gnole,’’ which can be successful only
when the player approaches it in the
attitude of treating it as a lively game,
and a pair of groups of shorter pieces,
some interesting, others harmless but no
doubt necessary. Because of her own
energetic individuality, Miss Jones gives
more promise of definite accomplish-
ments in her artistic career than the
e@verage, and this with many other good
young violinists in’ mind.

DEAD RECLUSE NOT EARL:

Countess of Cassillis Says Duke of
Grafton’s Brother Died in 1912.

LONDON, July 20.—The Countess of
Cassillis, sister-in-law of the present
Duke of Grafton, today described as
preposterous the theory of investiga-
tors in New York that Edward Euston,
the eccentric old night watchman found
dead in a Brooklyn rooming house,
might have been the Earl of Euston,
the Duke’s elder brother and one-time
heir to the dukedom.

The Countess said that the late Earl,
otherwise known as Henry James Fitz
Roy, had died childless in Wakefield
Lodge, Stony Startford, England, on
May 10, 1912. He was the eldest of
four brothers, one of whom, Alfred
William Maitland Fitz Roy, because the
eighth Duke of Grafton upon the death
of his father in 1918,

| of Mrs.

SOCIAL NOTES

New York...

Mr. and Mrs. Clarkson Potter enter-
tained at dinner in the roof garden at
the Ritz-Carlton last evening, and among
their guests were Mr. and Mrs. Goodhue
Livingston Jr., Charles Hayden and
Hamilton Post.

Mr. and Mrs. Anthony J, Drexel Biddle
of Philadelphia have come from Stock-
bridge, Mass., and are at the Lorraine.
They will see their daughter, Mrs. Cor-
delia Biddle Duke, off for Europe on the
Homeric tomorrow.

Hermann Oelrichs entertained at a
uncheon at Pierre’s yesterday for his
aunt, Mrs. W. K. Vanderbilt 2d. Mr.
and Mrs. Goodhue Livingston also gave
a luncheon there for Mr. and Mrs. Rufus
L. Patterson.

Grant Kingore has returned to the
Ritz after a three weeks’ visit in New-
port, and is sailing tomorrow on the
Homeric for Europe.

W. Francklyn Paris has returned from
an extended trip abroad.

Dr. and Mrs. Walter Lester Carr and
Mr. and Mrs. Gustavus T: Kirby are
mong the recent arrivals at Nantucket
sland.

Mr. and Mrs. J. Dryden Kuser of Ber-
nardsville, N. J., have left for Bar Har-
bor, where they have taken a house for
six weeks.

Edward Anthony Strauss, M. P., who
arrived from England on the Homeric,
is at the Plaza, where Mr. and Mrs.
Gerald V. Hollins of East Islip, L. 1.,
are staying.

Colonel and Mrs. Sosthenes Behn, who
are expected to arrive on the Paris from
Europe, have taken an apartment at the
Vanderbilt for the remainder of the
Summer.

Mrs. Horatio Nelson Slater of 1 Lex-
ington Avenue and Boston is sailing on
July 29 on the Majestic, to remain in
Europe until October. Next season Mrs.
Slater will be at 907 Fifth Avenue,
where she has taken an apartment

Mrs. Henry Steers gave a luncheon for
Mrs. George B. Salisbury yesterday at
Sherry’s, where Mrs. Edward S. J. Mc-
Vickar entertained for her sister, Mrs.
Oliver Perin.

Captain H. J. Vaugh, U. S. A., of the
Aviation Corps, entertained members of
the Swiss Legation at dinner laSt eve-
ning on Belleclaire Towers, atop. the
Hotel Belleclaire.

Mrs. Nathanel Bowditch Potter enter-
tained a luncheon party yesterday in the
Japanese Garden at the Ritz for Mrs.
Arthur Iselin. Mr. and Mrs Edward F.
Hutton also entertained there at
luncheon.

The annual card party for the benefit
of the Huntington, L. I., Hospital, will
be given at the Huntington Bay Club on
Wednesday, July 26. Mrs. William Ar-
thur Mathews is Chairman and is being
assisted by Mrs. George B. Cortelyou,
Mrs. Arthur Nichols, Mrs. Theodor
Wolf, Mrs. Raymond E. Baylis and Mrs.
Frederick M. MacKay. ,

A Grecian pageant and tableaux will
be given tonight at the Maidstone Club,
East Hampton, L. I., for the benefit of
St. Luke’s Church, under the direction
of Albert Herter and Francis H. Mar-
koe, assisted by Mrs. Albert R. Gallatin.

Mr. and Mrs. Ira Clifton Copley of
Washington, D. C., arrived on the
Homeric from Europe and are at the
Ambassador. Mr. and Mrs. Paul
Denckla Mills of Philadeiphia are also
staying there.

Newport.

Former Governor R. Livingston Beeck-
man, who yesterday afternoon addressed
the members of the Newport County
Women’s Republican Club, left later for
Washington, where he has an appoint-
ment with President Harding this morn-
ing. The President promised Mr. Beeck-

man to visit Newport as his guest some)

time during the Summer if time could be
found for the trip, and the object of the
former Governor's visit is to see Af the
President will arrange to be in Newport}
next month whilé the Atlantic Fleet. is}
basing on Narragansett Bay. The ships!
are to arrive on Aug. 7, to remain pane)

Yesterday afternoon marked the sec-
ond of the afternoon dances at the}
Casino for the young people of the}
colony, and they were out in large num-
bers. It is possible that a weekly dance
in the Casino Theatre will he arranged

MOLLA, VEXED LOSER,
RAILS AT THE PRESS

Tennis Star,-on Arrival Home,
Calls American Newspapers
the ‘‘Filthiest and Dirtiest.”

layer,,and Irwould consider it a privi-.
ege to play against her. Any one likes
to meet a skillful opponent. ;
~" What makes me angry is the effort
to make this out to be a .* grudge’
match with a lot of personal animosity
in it. That sort of thing is unpleasant
for us and I think it is unfair. It seems
as though the papers abroad have
sought to pick up any chance remark
or perhaps remarks that were never
made, and thus work up the great
‘Lenglen-Mallory Feud’ or ‘The Sec-
ond Battle of the Century’ and all the
other ridiculous things they have
called it
““The whole thing would be so ab-
surd that it’ would be beneath notice
were it, not for the fact that it is so
unwarranted. I start to get mad about
it, and then I-think ‘Oh, what's the
use?’ and try to grin and forget it. I
should think -I had been playing tennis
long enough in this country for the pub-
lic to know pretty. well whether I am
in the habit of making excuses for de-
feats or saying. discourteous and un-
sportsmanlike things about opponents.
‘*L play tennis because I like it, and I
t have no fondness for being interviewed.
I. prefer just to play the game and let
it go at that. I hope you will be so
kind as to tell my whole story, for this
is all I have to say and I stance by
every word of it.’’

REAL WIFE SPOILS
WEDDING ROMANCE

Bridegroom of Three Days Ar-

rested After Second Marriage
to Girl of 18.

WILL NOT PRAISE SUZANNE

But Denies Any Caustic Flings at
French Victor—Dean Mathey
Issues Statement.

Plainly piqued over losing her laurels
as woman tennis champion of the world
to Mile. Suzanne Lenglen at Wimbledon
a fortnight ago, Mrs. Molla Bjurstedt
Mallory returned home on the Homeric
of the White Star line yesterday, vent-
ing her wrath on what she termed the
unfairness of the American press
toward her. In an interview aboard
ship. she showed little disposition’ to
speak in praise of her opponent, although
she did deny published reports that she
had had words with Mile. Lenglen over
the net,

_Mrs. Mallory’s attitude toward the
Frenchwoman was in marked contrast G

to that displayed by Miss Eleanora Schrader, 21, of Ridgewood, who ran

Sears, Miss Edith Sigourney a
Mathey of the American "temotn teans Of $0. Albany. and. were. sation Maat
that. participated in the Wimbledon|day,.a day after Miss Gould became 18

matches. ~All three gave unstinted| years old, ended unhappily yesterday

praise to their opponents and spoke in 4
Plshest tart ae een , iD when the young bride learned that her
e skill of Mile. Leng husband of a few days has another wife

len.

When found in the lounge of the|and a 20-months-old daughter and
Homeric, Mrs. Mallory declared at first] Schrader was arrested for abandoning
air of finality that she had|hjs first wife, Marion, aged 20.

nothing to say. In the ne

broke into a tirade eats ey een A few hours after his wife withdrew a
charge of non-support against him in
the Ridgewood Court last Friday he and

popers of her country, saying that some

of the stories appearing about her were
Elsie boarded a train for Albany. They
could not marry immediately because

** ridiculous,”’
the dirtiest,
Elsie was under age.

_|* The newspapers are
filthiest things that ever happened,’*
oe eee oe want my name in
ors. ave a b é :
the courts than in Shik /pinenamane . In the meantime Mrs. Schrader No. 1
my own country.” had called to see Elsie’s mother and told
her she was Schrader’s wife. Mrs. Gould
promised to help his wife. So yesterday
when the newly married couple arrived
at her home, Mrs. Gould telephoned the
Nassau police. Elsie and George were
still there when Sheriff Charles Smith
came in and placed Schrader under
arrest. He found the marriage license
and certificate in the prisoner's pocket.
The young bride collapsed when her
mother told her the truth.

Schrader’s first wife said she learned
that Elsie and her husband became ac-
quainted six weeks ago in the County
Clerk’s office in Jamaica. Elsié was a
stenographer in the Title Guarantee and
Trust Company in Jamaica and Schra-
der was an examiner for the Honie Title
Insurance Company, also in Jamaica.

Mrs. Schrader said she had pawned
her wedding ring to buy food for herself
and baby and she goes from one
friend’s home to another for night’s
lodging. She has been married three
years.

In the Jamaica court yesterday
Schrader was held in $500 bail for the
Ridgewood Court today.

MISS WATSON WEDS
VERY REV. J. H. R. RAY
Daughter of Mrs. J. Henry Wat-

son Marries Dean of St. Mat-
thew’s Cathedral, Dallas.

The short-lived romance of Miss Elsie

ould of Elmont, L. L, and George L.

Denies Friction With Suzanne.

» When it was suggested the American
people were waiting to hear from one
} of their leading tennis players, she
broke in to deny that there had been
any friction betweem Suzanne and her-

self. Dean Mathey sought to placate
the aroused Molla by patting her on the
| shoulders and talking to her in a low
voice.

Asked if she would play Mile. Lenglen
again, Mrs, Mallory ‘dodged a direct
answer by replying:

eo She won’t come over here.’’

“Will you try to get another match
next Summer?’

‘** Maybe next Summer," she answered
with a tinge of bitterness. ‘‘ Nobody
knows whether we will be alive next
Summer. But if she comes over I'll
play her again.’’

At this juncture she asked Dean
Mathey to ‘' do the talking.’”’ He, real-
izing the possible effect of some of her
statements, suggested that she retract.
| ‘* Well, I'll retract, but I don’t think
the agwepepers have given me a square

eal.

“Do you want to say that Mile. Len-
glen is the best player in the world?”
| Mrs. Mallory was asked.

** How can I say that?” she retorted.
“*T went over there. I was beaten and J
came back. You all know that.”’

Asked what she had said to her suc-
cessful opponent, Mrs. Mallory replied:

‘I just congratulated her. You know
that there were so many statements
made about me that I was afraid to say
anything. None of the clippings about
me in which I was alleged to have made
alibis before and after the match were
true. I did not make any unsportsman-
like criticisms of Suzanne and there
never was any exchange of bitter words
between us.’”

To a reporter who asked if it were

The marriage of the Very Rev. Jack-
son H. Randolph Ray, Dean of St.
Matthew's Cathedral, Dallas, Texas,

for the coming month.

Mrs. J. Mason Gulick has registered |
at the Casino for the season. Others to}
register there yesterday afternoon were|
Henri Benoltst and Miss Elizabeth Be- |}
noist of St. Jiouis, who were in Newport |
from Jamestown, and Mrs. F. J. Farnell. |

The Rev. and Mrs. John Cornell, who}
are at their Middletown farm Summer |
home, gave a luncheon there yesterday |
for Bishop and Mrs. James H. Darlin-
ton.

Mr. and Mrs. Herman B. Kountze of |
New Yorl- after an early season stay |
at Piteman’s, have taken possession of |
Sunnviea, Mrs. E. S. Cramp's property |
on L Avenue, which they have}
rented for UTo °rmmatmeaer cc the Sum-|
mer.

Sylvanus Stokes Jr. has
Washington for a few days.

The automobiles of Mrs. Hugh B./}
Auchincloss and Mr. and Mrs. De Lan-
cey Kane Jay came together at Webster |
Street and Bellevue Avenue yesterday
and the young Son of Mr. and Mrs. Jay |
was silghtly cut by glass.

Yale Dolan, who is spending the Sum-
mer at Narraggnsett Pier, was in New-
port yesterday as the luncheon guest
of his brother, Clarence W. Dolan.

Dr. and Mrs. Alexander Hamilton Rice
will entertain a large number of guests
at their home, Miramar, on Sunday af- |
ternoon,.

Lady Herbert of England concluded
her Newport visit yesterday and, with
her sister, Mrs. T. Shaw Safe, whose |
guest she was, left by motor for New
York. Mrs. Safe will see her off on
the Homeric tomorrow. 4

Mrs. Daniel Knowlton and Miss Fran- |
ces Hopkins of New York are the guests |
Marsden J. Perry at Bleak

returned to

House.

Miss Fanny Johnson and Mrs. Robert
W. Lovett were luncheon hostesses yes-
terday.

Southampton,

Mrs. Finley Peter Dunne, who is Chair-
man of the whirligig booth in the Mid-
way Plasance at the street fair to be
held Aug. 4 for the Southampton Hos-
pital, reports that her committee will
pe able to start with all expenses paid
and that more than 400 prizes have been
donated.

Lucien H. Tyng is the donor of the
prizes for the women’s handicap golf
matches to be played this afternoon on
the links of the Shinnecock Hills Golf
Club. f

The Misses Zella de Milhau and Geor-
giana Howland, as the Committee on
Arrangements, have sent out invitations
for an exhibition of painting, the work
of artists who studied with the late
William M. Chase, at his Shinnecock
Hilis Art School. The exhibition is to
be given in the Parrish Memorial Hall,
commencing Aug. 17, and will continue
until Sept. 4, as a tribute, to the memory
of Mr. Chase by his former pupils.

Mrs. William Sloane arrived yesterday
at the Douglas House in Gin Lane,
which she has leased for the rest of the
season. Mrs. Sloane is a daughter of
Mrs. George A. Crocker, who_has the
Sands yilla in Great Plains Road for
the Summer.

Mrs. William W, Hoppin Jr. has. sent
out invitations for an exhibition of por-
traits by M. Alfred Hoen of Paris, to
be held at the Parrish Memorial Hall on
Wednesday, July 26. Tea will be servea
in the afternoon, and the exhibition will
continue for a week.

day mornin at the Summer
nero * re. F. TA. Valentine, Miss
Eleanor Markell gave the third of a
series of talks on Spain.

Miss Florence Earle Johnson will en-
tertain at dinner Saturday night at
Agawam, the Summer home of her
mother, Mrs. Edward Hine Johnson, for
Miss Katherine Mackay and Kenneth
O’Brien, and later in the evening will
take her guests to the Meadow Club
dance.

Mrs. Ten Broeck M. Terhune enter-
tained at luncheon yesterday at. her
Summer kome in Main Street.

Clarence Mackay will arrive, with his
family, next Monday at the Chields cot-
tage, in Great Plains Road, where they
will be for the rest of the Summer,

Mr. and Mrs. Harvey Wallace Shaffer
will have with them for over Sunday
at their Summer home in Herrick Road
Mr. and Mrs. Sims Wiley. Mr. and Mrs.
Shaffer will give a dinner tonight, after-
wards taking their puents to the Sbinne-
cock Hills Golf Club for the dance. -

}again to have another opportunity, for

| friends during the day, Mrs. MaHory re

'and Miss Mary Elmendorf Watson, a
daughter of the late Rev. J. Henry
Watson, and of Mrs. Watson of 5bl
: West Seventy-fifth Street, New York,
Will} took place yesterday afternoon in St.
Thomas's Church.

The bride was attended only
cousin, Miss Margaret E, Hoffman, a
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Samuel V.
Hoffman. Byrd D. Wise was the best
man and the ushers were the Rev. W.
O. Kinsolving and Eugene A. Watson,
ja brother of the bride. Major Henry
L. Watson, another brother, gave the
bride in marriage.

Mrs, Ray is a granddaughter of the
late Rev. Dr. John L. Watson of Bos-

true that her husband lost $10,000 bet-
ting on her, she shot back:

Warns of Musband’s Temper.

“Ask my husband that and he
kick you out of his office.’’

*‘ Are you anxious to meet Mile. Leng-
len again,’’ asked an interviewer, em-
phasizing the ‘' anxious.’’

‘* Yes, am anxious to meet her
again. When you play tennis you take
chances.”’

Dean Mathey then took charge of the
interview and announced he would issue
a statement in behalf of Mrs. Mallory.

‘Mrs. Mallory was beaten,”’ he said.
‘*She enjoyed the game very much.
She would like to meet Mile. Lenglen

by her

sine has beaten Mile. Lenglen once and

eas good chance of beating her ton and also of the late Dean Eugene
Mrs. Mallory was met at the pier by; A- Hoffman, the head of the General

Franklin B. Mallory, her husband. They | Theological Seminary on Chelsea

went to their home at 69 East Fifty- Square.

sixth Street. Mr. Mallory said his wife iid eases ak tee Arek tae

would play at Seabright, at*Glen Cove
and in the national tournament at For-| Smith to Reburn Leonard Watkins took
place yesterday morning in the rectory

est Hills,
Apparent? of St. Patrick's Church. The ceremony
was performed by the Rev. Martin P.
J. Egan in the presence of a small
company of relatives and _ intimate
friends. Mr. and Mrs. Watkins left
for a short honeymoon in a near by
mountain resort and_ will later go to
Tampa, Fla., where Mr. Watkins is in
business.

FREDERICK DWIGHT TO WED.

Lawyer to Marry Mrs. Mary E. D.
Monod in St. Bartholomew’s Aug. 5.

The marriage of Frederick Dwight, son
of Mrs. Frederick A. Dwigut of 891 Park
Avenue, and Mrs. Mary Eliazbeth D,
Monod of 383 Park Avenue, widow of
George Monod, is to tak> piace Aug. 5 in
St. Batholomew’s Church on Park Ave-
nue and Fifty-first Street. Mr. Dwight,
who is a widower, is a lawyer of this
city and is at present Jiving at the Uni-
versity Club. His mother is at their
i. country home, Tanglehedge, at Sea-
that result, just as she would be, if it bright, N. J., and his sister, Miss An-
were the other way round. Of course, | toinette Dwight, and his brother, Henry
I am human and would like to win.!R. Dwight, are also there.

Who wouldn't? But my whole life is] ‘The first news of the approaching wed-
not ruined just because I lose a tennis | ding came yesterday when the couple
match, and it seems silly to put us in! obtained a marriage Hcense at the Mu-
the position of being so wrought up over! nicipal Building. Mr. Dwight is a grad-
something that is only a sporting event) uate of Yale, class of "94, and of Colum-
after all. Also it seems unreasonable|pia, class of ‘97. Among his clubs are
to make us appear to be quarreling like|the University, Grolier, Down Town, So-
a couple of peevish children. We are ciety of Colonial Wars-anc the St. Nich-
both full grown people, and don’t like to] olas Society.

seem ridiculous,

‘““When I sailed for England in May
to play in the English championship [
authorized a statement that I was going
there for the third time to try _to win
that title. Upon arriving in England,
when asked regarding my plans, I made
exactly the same sort of statement, and
whenever,I was asked to comment on
tennis affairs after that I tried to make
clear that I was in England simply to
play tennis and not to talk,

‘‘ Nevertheless, the newspapers abroad
repeatedly asked for opinions regarding
tennis affairs that are no concern of
mine. I have had no desire or intention
to regulate the management of tourna-
ments or to comment upon opponents
whose ability I respect and with whom
I should like to be on good terms. Spe-
cifically, that applies to Mlle. Lenglen,
as it does to the others whom it was
my pleasure to meet in the English
tournaments. ‘The officials of the Brit-
ish Association and the players were
most courteous and cordial to the
American players. Everything possible
was done to make dur stay enjoyable
and I can offer only the most sincere

raise for everything: of that sort that
I experienced while abroad,

Says Rival Won Fairly.

‘Tt happens that Mlle. Lenglen and I
had met in two tournaments, and that
each had won, before the last match at
Wimbledon. We played that and. she
won, She won fairly and decisively, and
I have played, enough tennis to be will-
ing to let the scores speak for them-
selves. I have no use for alibis and
offer none, We had no quarrel before,

during or after the match. I know noth-
ing about her future plans, nor whether
we may meet again. She is a w

after talking with her

gretted the public exhibition of her an-
ger. Late in the day the United States
Lawn Tennis Association released a pre-
pared interview with her in which she
speaks only .of the newspapers abroad
which she said tried to work up a Mal-
lory-Lenglen feud. It was headed,
‘‘Mrs. Mallory laughs at the fuss about
her defeat.”’

The statement read:

‘Any one might think I am a great
diplomat or a movie star, or some equally
famous person, to see all the fuss that
has accompanied my playing in the
English championship,’’ she said. ‘‘ Ap-
parently the public has been given to
understand that Mlle. Lenglen and I
have some sort of a private feud and
that we have been traveling around
England eager for each other’s blood.
That makes me angry until I think how
silly it is, and then I laugh.

Both Are Grown Up, She Says.

‘‘T like to play tennis and I have a
good time doing it. So does Mile. Leng-
len. We meet in a tournament and she
wins. I am perfectly willing to accept

Treadwell-Peck Engagement.
Mrs. James Wetmore Treadwell of
Flushing, L. I., has announced the en-

gagement of her daughter, Miss Agnes
Carter Treadwell, to I. Heyward Peck,
also of Flushing.

THEATRICAL NOTES,

‘*He Who Gets Slapped’ will play its
250th performance tomorrow €vening at the
Garrick.

Frederick Bentley, formerly of the Neigh-
borhood Playhouse, has designed strege set-
ting for next Tuesday’s bill at the Threshold
Playhouse.

The Cief Club Orchestra has been engaged
for ‘‘ The Ginger Box’’ revue which opens
on Aug. 1 at the Greenwich Village Theatre.

The late James Europe’s Fifteenth Regi-
ment Band will play next Monday at Moss’s
Franklin Theatre and Thursday at Keith’s
Hamilton,

Qharies A. Morey, who acted General Lee
in ‘‘The Birth of a Natfon’’ picture, has
announced a tour in vaudeviile.

A. H. Woods has engaged Charles Dalton
for ‘‘ By Right of Conquest,’’ now rehearsing
with Pauline Frederick as star.

The Dramatic Club of Indianapolis has of-
fered $100 for a play for its use’ to be sub-
mitted by Oct. 15 next.

Sophie Tucker will sail for home in Au-
gust after six weeks’ starring engagement
at the London Hippodrome.

Peggy Nash, the dencer, has been added
to/ the cast for the 1922 version of ‘' George
White’s Scandals.’’

Madge Kennedy is to play in ‘‘ Spite Cor-
ner,”’ which John Goldén produces on Aug. 7
at Asbury Park.

Arnold Daly will be seen in vaudeville next
week, in ‘* The Farewell Supper," from ‘‘ The
Affairs of Anatol,’’ with Gallna Kopernak itn
Doris Keane's role.

| it was stated

FARRAR ASKS 99600
FROM LOU TRLLEGEN

Opera Singer Suing for Divorce
Says Husband Failed to
Repay Loans.

ANSWER DENIES DEBTS

Denial of Plea for Details of Reply
Reveals Action Filed Several
Months Ago.

Geraldine Farrar, opera singer, who is
suing her husband, Lou Tellegen, actor,

for divorce, filed a new suit against him
in the Supreme Court several months
ago, in which she demands the repay-
ment of $9,600 alleged to have been lent
to Tellegen during the. four years they
lived together.

This did not become known until yes-
terday, when an application by Miss
Farrar to coinpel her husband to give
particulars of the defense in his answer
mailed to her attorneys last month was
denied by Justice Donnelly. The papers
also show that Max D. Steuer is now
acting as attorney for Tellegen. The
answer claimed ail the money was re-
paid.

In her petition asking for particulars,
the opera singer demanded that her hus-
band tell when, where, by whom, to
whom, and in what manner the pay-
ments were made, because the only in-
formation given in his answer is a gen-
eral allegation that ‘‘each and every
sum of money that the defendant bor-
rowed from the plaintiff he duly paid to
the plaintiff, and there is no Indebted-
ness existing from the defendant to the
plaintiff.”

The petition stated that Miss Farrar
is suing for the following loans: $2,000 on
$1,000, July 1, 1921. The date of the last
alleged loan was shortly before Miss
Farrar is said to have ousted her hus-
band from her residence in this city,
which resulted in his filing a separation
suit in August and her divorce action in
New York County. The two actions were
joined later and will be tried here to-
gether.

Mr. Steuer, for Tellegen, in opposing
the application, pointed out decisions by
the Appellate Division stating that the
caurt will not require a defendant to
give particulars of defenses of payment
‘unless very special reasons appear.”’

SIR HARRY LAUDER COMING.

He May Be’ Accompanied by Sir
Thomas Lipton, Wm. Morris Says.

William Morris, theatrical manager,
who returned on the Homeric of the
White Star Line yesterday -vith Mrs.
Morris and William Morris Jr., an-
nounced that Sir Harry Lauder would
be in New York early in September, his
next American tour. Sir Thomas Lip-
ton expected to accompany Sir Harry
across and issue a challenge for an-
other international yacht race, Mr. Mor-
ris said. The comedian and the yachts-
man at present were on a fishing trip
on the east coast of England. 7

After making a twenty-two weeks tour
of this country, Sir Harry would go to
Australia, and later to South Africa,
Mr. Morris said. He told of the gift of
‘““the crookedest cane in the world”
from the Prince of Wales to Lauder.

‘‘The Prince brought back the cane
from Japan, where it -was presented to
him by a group of Japanese noblemen,”’
Mr. Morris said. ‘‘ Knowing Sir Harry‘s
penchant for weird canes, the Prince
sent it to him on his return from the
world tour. In return Sir Harry sent
the Prince of Wales a handsome stick.”

Mr. Morris said he had secured the
rights of a Hindu drama by Narengien
Pal, a son of a native ruler. He said
the play would be produced here next
season with a troupe of Hindu actors.
The drama dealt with the problems of
India and offered a solution, Mr. Mor-
ris said.

WEBER AND FIELDS AGAIN.

Famous Team Reunited for a Tour
as Unit In Shubert Vaudeville.

The Shubert Affiliated Vaudeville an-
nounced yesterday that it had succeed-
ed in reuniting, as stage partners again}
after a dozen years, the famous team}
of Weber and Fields. Joe Weber and
Lew Fields, following the close of their
famous~Music Hall near Twenty-ninth
Street, reappeared once at the Broad-
way in 1909, along with their old-time
stars such as the late Lillian Russell,
together with George Beban, William
Collier and other associates of that
company or of. earlier years back to
the team’s first days at Tony Pastor’s.

Their reunion now promised will be
a first appearance uptown under any
management but their own. Mr. Fields,
who was to have appeared in his own
unit on the Shubert vaudeville circuit,
has withdrawn from that production,
last night, and a brand
will be written for the re-

new book

{turn of Weber and Fields.

Daniel Frohman Gives a Birthday
Party for Stage Veteran.

Daniel Frohman gave a birthday par-
ty atop of the Lyceum Theatre last
evening for the veteran actor, F. F.
Mackay, who is 90 years old and still
active as Executive Chairman of the
Actors’ Fund. The guests invited in-
cluded Sam Scribner, Milton Nobles,
Ralph Delmore, Major A. B. Reinold,
Charles B. Wells, Walter Vincent and
W. Cc. Austin.

David Belasco, rehearsing a play be-
low stairs, went up to. offer congratu-
lations to Mr. Mackay, who was stage
manager of the old California Theatre
when young Belasco was the assistant
in their early days out West.

Washington Sq. College to Give Plays

The Washington Square College Play-
ers will give two public performances,
on Friday and Saturday of next week,
at the Lenox Little Theatre, 52 East
Seventy-eighth Street. The plays, to be
staged under the direction of Randolph
Sommerville, are Malcolm La Prade’s
‘*Checkmate,’’ Lady Gregory’s ‘‘ The
Workhouse,’’ Dorrian’s ‘* The Age of
Reason’’ and Stuart Walker’s ‘‘ The
Medicine Show.’’ Among those in the
casts, all students of New York Univer-
gt. are Mitzi Kalish, Edwina Colville,
Julia Cohn, Julia Schoenfeld, Richard
Lambert, Albert Kretzman, Edward
Fitzhugh, Neil Huntington and George
Rellum.,

" Orlando S. Isbell.

Orlando S. Isbell, Vice President and
Secretary of the Lawyers’ Mortgage
Company, died Wednesday evening in a
private sanitarium at 393 Central Park
West.after a month’s illness. Born 56
years ago in New Haven, Conn., he
graduated from Yale in 1873, prepared
for the bar at Yale, and began practice
in Denver, Col. In 1901 he moved to
this city and became associated with
the Lawyers’ Mortgage Company. He
was unmarried and lived with his
mother and a married sister at 250 West
Ninety-third Street.

Miss Belle H. Bennett.

RICHMOND, Ky., July 20.—Miss Belle
H. Bennett, for many years prominent
in the work of the Methodist Episcopal
Church in the United States, died here
this morning after a lingering illness.
She was the founder of the Scarrett
Bible and Training School in Kansas
City, Mo., and was a leader in estab-
lishing schools for mountaineers and in-
digent girls;. also city missions, known
as Wesley Houses, in many industrial
centres of the South.
dent of the Women's Missionary Council
of the M. FE. Church and had been Presi-
dent of the Woman's Board of Home
Missions.

Edward H. Blake.

BANGOR, Me., July 20.—Edward H.
Blake, President of the Merchants’ Na-
tional Bank and former Maycr of this
city, died here yesterday, aged 66. He

was a lawyer, specializing in admiralty |

practice, and had lectured on admiralty
at the University of Maine. He owned
oil and lumber properties in various
parts of the United States and Canada.
He .was a. Mason and-a-~ Knight. of
Pythias,

DREISS—Entered

EWING—Mabelle Lee,

She was Presi- |

IMPERIAL DIADEM VANISHES.|

Austrian Diamond and Ruby Orna-
ment Reported Missing.

A diamond and:ruby diadem, described
as part of the Imperial Austrian jewels,
disappeared two months ago from their
place of arenes. in the Spanish Con-
sulate in Vienna. Coupled with the an-
nouncement was a warning to Ameri-
cans not to buy gems represented as
part of the Austrian crown jewels.

The statement, issued on behalf of
Baron Clemens von Radowitz-Nei. who
is at the Waldorf, and Count de Korwin-
Sokolowski, who sailed for Europe last
Saturday, said in part:

“Count de Sokolowski had been a flier

with the Hungarian air. forces, and be-
cause he was intimately related to
Hungarian royalty he took unto himseif
the task of slipping out of the country
many members of the royal family
whose lives were imperiled by the revo-
lutionists. The Archduchess Blanca of
Austria, ene of the Princesses of Bour-
bon, told the Count of the royal jewels
having been secreted. The diamond-
ruhy diadem was hidden in a convent in
Vienna, and at the Archduchess’s re-
quest the Count went to Vienna when
the imperial family had been safely re-
moved to Spain, and claimed them. The
diadem was placed with the spanish
Consulate in Vienna.”’

The diadem was the property of the
Archduchess Blanca, and consists of five
stars of diamonds, with a ruby in the
centre of each star of diamonds. It is

Edward W. (Dad) Moulton.

PALO ALTO, Cal., July 20.—Edward
W. (Dad) Moulton, 74 years old, train-
er off Stanford track teams for the last
twenty years, died suddenly at his home
yesterday after a day’s illness, He is
survived by a widow and son.

Moulton was a veteran of the Indian
wars and fifty years ago had a repu-
tation in the Middle West as a runner.
He was a native of Maine.

Obituary Notes.

JOHN SITTLER, Superintendent of the
New York Railways Company for the last
twenty-six. years, died yesterday at his resi-
dence, 448 Fiftieth Street, in his seventieti
year. A son, John, survives.

Major E. D. LIBBEY, 78, Civil War vete-
ran, Indian War fighter, and former Adju-
tant Generali of Minnesota, died in St. Paul
i He was born in Stockton, Me., in

Married.

BORLAND—DIGNUM—At Syracuse, N. Y.,
on July 19, 1922, Mrs. Margaret Marte
Dignum, formerly of Auburn, N. Y., to
Middleton S. Borland of New York,

KESSLER—KRAUS—Mr. and Mrs. Daniel
Kraus of 2,159 83d St., Brooklyn . an-
nounce the marriage of their daughter
Helen to Mr. Samuel Kessler of New

WHITE—SMITH—On Wednesday, July 19, at
home of Rev. Frederick N. Lindsay
Grazia Paula Adams Smith of Frankfort,
Ind., to Frank Howard White of New

York.
Bird.

BERNSTEIN—Suddenly, on July 19, Mitchell,
beloved husband of Julie (Eppinger)
Bernstein and devoted father of the late
Helen C. Millhauser. Notice of funeral
later.

BERNSTEIN—Frank E., of
Bronx, connected with Witty Bros., 50
Eldridge St., at Fleischmann’s, N, °.
July 19, after a short illness. Funera
2 P. M. Friday, July 21, from Meyers’s
Funeral Parlors, 228 Lenox Ay., New
York City.

BERNSTEIN—Frank. The Grand _ Street
Boys’ Association sorrowfully announce
the death of Brother Frank E. Bernstein.
Funeral from  Meyers’s Parlors, 22
Lenox Av., on Friday, July 21, at 2PM
Members of this association are requested
to attend... MAX S. LEVINE, President.
ABRAHAM BERNSTEIN, Secretary.

BERSCH—Suddenly, on Wednesday, July 19,
Charles W. Bersch, in his 65th year.
Friends, relatives and members of lodges,
Court Mecca, I. O. F., ‘No. 1686; Ein-
hacht Lodge, No. 1779, Fraternal Aid
Union; Taurus Council 1396, Royal Ar-
canum, aré invited to attend funeral ser-
vices at his late residence, 315 Easi
175th St., corner Anthony Av.,
Friday evening, 8:30 o’clock.
private.

BETTS—Paesed away on Tuesday, July 18,
1922, Hilda Olson, daughter of William
C. Betts, in her 3lst year. Funeral ser-
vices will be held at St. John’s Episcopal
Church, Montclair Av., Montclair, N. J.,
Friday afternoon at 1 o’clock. Interment
at Greenwood Cemetery.

BRIGGS—Tuesday, July 18, at Coeymans,
N. Y., John N. Briggs, in his 84th year.
Funeral services at Coeymans, N. Y.,
on Friday, at 1 o’clock, standard time.

CAFFREY — Marian. Campbell Funeral
Church until Saturday.

COHN—On Thursday, July 20, Abraham L.,
in his 70th year, beloved brother of Lillie
Keller, Mark, Sarah; Isaac and Louis
Cohn. Funeral from his late residence,

3,151 Broadway, Sunday, July 23, at 10

COOKE—Mass for the repose of the soul of
Sara Louie Cooke, benef*ctress’ of the
parish, at 9:30 A. M., on Friday, July 21,
at the Church of St. Mary the Virgin,
139 West 46th St.

COOPEK—At Montclair, N. J., Wednesday,
July 19, 1922, Ferguson Livingston, son
of the late. Ferguson L. and Emma M.
Bibby and beloved husband of Marcella
S. Cooper. Funeral services will be held
at his late home, 6 James St., Montclair,
Saturday morning at 10:30 o'clock, upon
arrival of train leaving Hoboken at 9:30
A. M., daylight saving time.

CORWIN—Society of Colonial Wars in the
State of New York: With deep regret an-
nouncement is made to the members of
the society of the death on July 16, 1922,
of their late associate, Hamilton Stewart
Corwin,

EDWARD LASELL PARTRIDGE,
‘ Governor,

CORWIN—Sons of the Revolution in the
State of New York: With regret an-
nouncement is made of the death on
July 16, 1922, of Hamilton Stewart Cor-
win, a member of this society.

ROBERT OLYPHANT, President.

into rest July 20, 1922,
Louise E., widow of Louis J. Dreiss and
beloved daughter of Louise Weimar.
Funeral service Sunday afternoon, 3
o’clotk, at her late residence, 230 East
196th St., corner Valentine Av., Bronx.
Interment, Woodlawn Cemetery.

DROWNE—At ‘East Orange, N. J.,
Wednesday, une 19, 1922, Minnie E.,
wife of the late John M. Drowne. Ser-
vice at her late home, 146 Steuben St.,
Friday evening, 8 o'clock. Interment at
convenience of family.

beloved wife of H.

Norwood Ewing, daughter of Rose Hart

Lee and sister of Mrs. Thomas L. Mee-

han, Robert and Alfred Lee, suddenly, at

Meherrin, Va., July 16, 1922. Funeral

from her late residence, 923 Barretto St.,

Requiem mass at St. Athanasius’s

Chureh, Tiffany and Fox Sts., Bronx.

Automobile cortege.

766 Grote St.,

Bronx,

Funeral

ee ee

Bird.
FINNERTY—July 20, 1922, John

Funeral Stephen Merritt’s Harlem Chapel,
304 West 126th St., Sunday, 2 P. M.

GEORGI—Chearles H., on July. 19, beloved
husband of Caroline #1. Georgi (nee
Hague) of Corona, L. I. Masonic ser-
vices at his late residence, 121 Sist St..
aw on Saturday, July 22, at 2:30

GOGGIN—At her home, 753 Main St., Stam-! SEIGELTUCH—Rosa, of 2,474 D
f 186 Edgecom

ford, Conn., on Thursday, July 20, Mary
i., wife of the late James B. Goggin.
Funeral from her lata residence Saturday.
July 22, at 8:30; thence to St. John's
~R. C. Church, 9 A. M. Interment ood-
lawn, New York. Boston papers please
copy.
TMAN—Suddenly,. on July 19, Pauline, |
beloved wife of the late Sanders Gutman
and devoted mother of Leo B., Arthur S.
and Monroe C. Notice of funeral later.

HARMS—On July 20, 1922, Margaret J.
Harms, beloved wife of Charles F.
Harms.

Funeral services Saturday, 8 P.
M., at her late residence, 705 De Graw
Av., Newark. Funeral Sunday, private.
Interment Flower Hill Cemetery.

HAZARD — William  Ayrault, Cedarhurst,
Long Island, July 19, in his 69th year,
husvand. of Laura Pelton Hazard. Fu-
neral service at 2:30 o'clock, Friday, July
21, at St. John’s Church, Far Rocka-
way, Long Island. Train leaving Penn-
sylvania Station 1:25 P. M.

HEED—Augusta Miller, July 19, 1922, at
her residence, 935 Galt Av., Chicago, wife
of Thomas D. Heed. Funeral services at
Church of the Atonement, 5,749 Ken-
more Av., Chicago, Friday, July 21, 9
A. M. Interment Greenwood Cemetery,
New York City.

HENRY—Charles Seton. Campbell Funeral
Chureh, Broadway at 66th St.

HERZBERG—Michael M. Members of Met-
ropelitan Lodge, No. 60, I. O. F. S. of I..
are requested to attend the funeral. of
Brother Michael M. Herzberg on Friday.
July 21, at 10 A. M., from Meyers’s Fu-
neral Parlors, 228 Lenox Av.

JOSEPH HYAMS, President.
H. E. HORWITZ, Financial Sec’y.

HIRSCH—Ella (nee Solomon), aged 52 years,
beloved wife of Adolph, mother of Lillian
Phillips, Jeannette K. Tarr, Joseph and
Sylvia Hirsch, suddenly, while touring
Germany. Funeral Sunday, July 23,
10:30, from her late residence, 443 Weat
57th St.

INNES—Entered into life eternal July 19,
1922, Lillian Van Tine, widow of Charles
R. Innes and beloved mother of Ethel,
Mildred and Elizabeth. Funeral services
will be held at her late residence, 460
West 147th St., Saturday, 10 A. M.

ISBELL—Orland Sidney of 250 West 93d St.,
New York, July 19, 1922, son of Mrs.
John Isvell and brother of Mrs. Gertrude
E. Bronton. Funeral services at Funeral
Church, 66th St. and Broadway, Friday,
— 21, at 5'P. M. Interment Madison,

onn.

JARETSKY—Louis, beloved husband of Lena
(nee Krimper) and dear father of Gus-
tave, Max, Rose, Theil and Martha
Broder. Services at Meyers’s Funera! Par-
lors, 228 Lenox Av., Friday, July 21, at
11 A. M. Members of Joshua Lodge and
Soctety Joseph Brothers are respectfully
invited.

JARETSKY—Members and seat holders of
Congregation Mount Zion are requested
to attend the funeral services of Louis
Jaretsky, father of our esteemed trus-
tee, Gustave Jaretsky, Friday July 21, at
11 M. at Meyers’s Funeral Parlors,
228 Lenox Av.

J. l. LE BOWSKI, President.
RALPH MEYERS, Secretary.

JOHNSON—Suddenly, at Point o* Woods,
Long Island, on July 19, Thomas Vail
Johnson, aged 81 years. Funeral from
Webb Memoria! Chapel, Madison, N. J.,
on Saturday morning at 10:30.  Inter-
ment Vail Cemetery, Parsippany, N. J.

KOCH—Marta A. (nee Schnugg), on Tuesday.
July 18, in her 73d year. Funeral Friday
morning from _ her late ‘ residence,
9,603 Shore Road, Fort Hamilton,
Brooklyn; thence to St. Nicholas Church,
Kast 2d Bt., New York. Solemn requiem
mass at 10:30 A. M. Interment Calvary
Cemetery.

LAUGHNA—In Bridgeport, Conn., July 19,
1922, William O. Laughna, father. of
Mrs. Seymour de B. Keim, formerly of
Cynwyd, Pa. Funeral Friday.

LEONARD—On July 19, Florence C. Leonard
(nee Kiechlin), in her 27th year, beloved
wife of Frederick Leonard. Fun:al from
her late residence, 1,195 Clay Av.,
Bronx, Friday, July 21, at 9 A. M.; thence
to the Church of St. Monica, 409 East
79th: St., where a requiem mass will be
celebrated. Interment Calvary.

McCAFFERTY—On July 20, 1922, Ellen A.,
beloved daughter of the late Patrick and
Eleanore McCafferty. Funeral from her
late residence, 446 East 142d, Saturday,
at 9:30 A. M. Requiem mass at St.
Jerome’s Church. Interment Calvary.

McCHRISTIE—At his late residence, 1,058
Cauldwell Av., Dr. William McChristle,
beloved hushand of Alice Miller McChris-
tle. Funeral notice later.

McCOY—July 19, 1922, Catherine B., beloved
wife of Lieutenant William F. McCoy
and daughter of the late James Barker.
Funeral Saturday from her late resi-
thence to the Church of Our Lady of
Lourdes, 142d St., near Convent Av.
Kindly omit flowers. Interment private.

MARDEN—Suddenly, Thursday, July 20, at
her residence, 2 West 83d St., Lillie
Skiddy Marden, beloved wife of the late
Francis Alexander Marden, in the 77th
veer of her age. Notice of funeral here-
after.

MEAGHER—Mé@rion T., on July 18. Re-
mains at Universal Funeral Chapel, 597
Lexington Av., at 52d St., until Friday,
July 21; thence to Paulist Church, 59th
St., Columbus Av., 10 o'clock requiem |
mass. Interment in St. Raymond’s.

MILLER—Charies R., on Tuesday, July 18,
in hits 74th year, at his residence, 635
Park Av. Funeral servievs Friday morn-
ing at 11 o’clock at St. James Church,
T7ist St. and Madison Av.

MILLHAUSER—Suddenly, on July 19, Helen
C., dearly beloved wife of De Witt Mill-
hauser and devoted mother of Peggy.
Notice of funeral later.

MOORE—July 20, 1922, Henry
Elias and Louisa Moore.
interment private. ©

REICHENBACH—Mathilda (Baer).
private, 655 West 177th St.,

SALTUS—In London, England, on June 22,
1922, John Sanford Saltus, son of the
late Theodore and Susan Sanford Saltus.
Funeral services at the Marble Collegiate
Church, Sth Av. and 29th St., Friday,
July 21, at 10 o’clock in the forenoon.
Friends and members of societies are in-
vited to attend. Interment at Woodlawn
Cemetery.

SALTUS—John Sanford. The Salmagundi
Club announces with the deepest regret
the death of its, distinguished member,
John Sanford Saltus, which occurred in
London on the 22d of June. Since he be-
came a member of the club in 1895 he
has been an enthusiastic contributor to
the library of the club; more than half of
the five thousand and odd volumes on the
shelves, including the rare collection
of works on Louis XVII., bear his name
on the book plates. His beloved person-
ality and his generous interest in the
welfare of the organization make his
memory one of the treasures of the club.
The members of the club are requested
to attend his funeral at the Marble Col-
legiate Church, at 29th St. and 5th Av.
today at 10 A. M.

E., son of
Funeral and

Funeral
Friday

ADVERTISEMENT.

ZIONISM REVEALED THROUGH THE MEMOIRS OF I

THE JEWISH MORNING JOURNAL.
PRINT VIS AY |

creme

Announces the first and exclusive
publication in America of

The

Diaries of
Theodor

Herzl

Daily. in its columns

Finnerty. | SCHOPPME

d Ste ee A

YER—Suddenly,
tenant John J., eer a

No. L

usband of
‘ al —s caiser a John °

eral from his e
173d St., on Saturday at 9:15
‘Solemn requiem mass at
Incarnation, West 175th St. and
olas Av. Automobile co:

r (nee
J. and

ibe
Isidore, ae ose
wae Frank and Jeanette Drifl
Se es at Me ‘s Funeral | P
228 Lenox Av., day, July 21, 1°
sharp. 7

SETZER—Hyman, beloved husband of. Ri
and father of Mrs. Ray Cohn, 5
Mautner, Selma and Setzer. Fi
neral. services at his late residence, 50:
_ 169th St., Friday, July 2%, at

SINCLAIR—William, in his 64th. year,
son of the late William and Mary 345
Sinclair, the beloved husband of
Hamilton Sinclair, father of Ha
Sinclair. Services at Holy Rood C P=
179th St. and Ft. Washington Av.,

SITTLER—John, on. July , 20, .residence 448 —
West 50th St. Masonic services. ys
8:30 P. M., at Curran’s Parlors, 401 W
5ist. Funeral Saturday, 9 A. M.
ment Lutheran Cemetery. vg

STEVENS—Thursday, July 20, 1922, Willfam®
Waldorf Stevens, beloved husband of Min= |
nie Hohman, Funeral services at parlors
of Charles A. Benedict, 150 West 23
St., Saturday evening, 8 o’clock. Inter<
ment private.

STEVENS—On July 20, 1922, Nellie L., wii
of Edgar H. Stevens. Services af her -
late residence, 156 Chilton St.,. 5
N. J., Friday evening at 8 o'clock. a
terment Bristol, Conn., July 22. ,

STONE—At Newark, N. J., on Wedn
July 19, 1922, Louis; beloved hi :
Anna Stone (nee Schaumburg), father 0!
Helen and brother of Mrs. y Manso
Mrs. Hannah Greenstone, Mrs. &
Wolff and Harry and Philip Stone, in’
56th year. Funeral services will be he
at 79 East Park St. on Friday, July 2

STURGES—At St. tal, on ie
nesday, July 19, Bi arie Vi

widow of Winfield Scott Sturges.
eral services will be held at the
Chapel, 129 Fulton Av., Long Island Oi
on Friday evening, ge? St, at: 83
o'clock. Interment Mt. Olivet Cemet
TOWNSEND—Suddenly on Thursday, Jul
20, 1922, John Moore Townsend. F
from his late residence, Merrick Road
Amityville, L. L, Sunday, July 23, ;
P. M. Interment at oslyn Cemetery —
Monday, 12 o'clock noon. . Fs
WALTON—Elizabeth Amelia, at rest July 20,
1922, widow of the late Daniel Day W
ton. Funeral services at«the resider
of her son, Daniel Day Walton Jr.. 1
W. 88th St., N. Y. C., Saturday
ing, July 22, at 11. o'clock.’ I

Rosedale Cemetery, Orange, N. J.
WOMLGEMUTH—Helen,. beloved mother:
grandmother, great-grandmother, a
19, at residence of her_dsughter, Frieda
Oppenheimer. Funeral Friday, 11 A. My
3,122 Snyder Av., Brooklyn.
‘RIGHT—On July 16, at the Royal Muskoka
_ Hotel, Canada, after a very short. illness,
the Rev. Dr. Frank Hall Wright, known)
ag the singing Indian evangelist of St.
Louis, Mo. Interment in St, Louis, Mo.

3u Memoriam.

AUERBACH—Sarah B. In loving memory of
Geran B. Auerbach, who’ July *
tet

waky

Luke's Hos

ips

AUERBACH—Sarah B, In constant
of loving wife and devoted mother, |
passed away July 21. 1913. :
BLEYER—Joseph M. In sweet memo
loving and devoted husband and fatte
who passed away July 21, 1916. Gone
not forgotten. WIFE AND CHILDR
BROWN-—In loving memory of Nancy
GOLDSTEIN—In loving memory of our
brother, Jacob H. Goldstein. Gone

never forgotten. Se :
BROTHERS AND SISTERS. B

GOLDSTEIN—In memory of my f
pal, Jack Goldstein. A FRIEZE!

JOSEPHY—Mamie (nee Klinger). In
cay eeneree daughter ang siater,

LAUE—In loving memory of my belo
band and ovr dear father, Her
who departed this life - July
Fond memory keeps our loved’ one
as, though you left us three years

WIFE, DAUGHTBR, SON-IN-

LEV Y—In loving memory of my d
Jennie -Levy, died July 21, 1912,
but not forgotten,

SMYTHE—In loving memory of our
Ida Willets Smythe, who depa ;
YOUNG —In loving memory of leuten:
Townsend Young, 18th Infantry, ist B
sion, A. E. F., killed in action at Som

UNDERTAKERS.

Chetsea

CHAS. A. BENEDICT, 10%...
FUNERAL DIRECTOR oka

CEMETERIES. \

THE WOODLAWN CEMETERY”

233d St. Jerome or Lexington Subway.
Telephone Woodlawn 1100.
Book of views or Representative

FURNITURE.

PUBLIC AUCTION.

At The

HOTEL PLAZA

The Rese Room os

5TH AVE., 58TH and 59TH STS., N.Y. C.

A MAGNIFICENT COLLECTION OF;

riental hugs —
Direct from Constantinople, ae
Sold by Order of +a
MR. H. 8. CHERKEZ,
"of New York City.

SALE TO-DAY and SATURDAY
DO YOUR FALL BUYING NOW.
CATALOGUES GRATIS.

S. G. RAINS, Auctioneer, Ps
44 West 50th St. Tel. Circle 67

ADVERTISEMENT.

OF ITS FOUNDER

HESE Diaries were left by the immortal Herzl
in the custody of the executors of his estate’

with instruction to have them published twenty
years after his death, or earlier if the interests of the

Zionist cause warranted it.

The executors have

chosen the present time because of the twenty-

fifth anniversary

Palestine.

ncetables of many

No_ Jew should

of the first Basle Congress and the

imminent realization of the Jewish Homeland. in

The Diaries cover a period of from 1895, when Herzl ©
first began to think hard about the Jewish problem,
until shortly before his death.
a minute account of Herzl’s talks, negotiationsy”
correspondence with Christians as well as Jewish

They not only give

countries, including some poten-

tates, but also give the vivid impressions of this
great Jew and great writer.

fail to read this most important.

Jewish work of generations.

beginning

Monday, July 24th, 1922

4 Pe. English
Golf Suits

Built of the finest Eng-
lish, Scotch and Irish
fabrics—

Tailored in London.

Were originally $60 to $75

Also a Limited
quantity of

3 Pe. English
Sack Suits

Actua] value $40 to $60

Modest charge for alterations.

Downtown Store Only

Fleming Ltd.

of London, Eng.

2 John St., N. Y.

New York, "hila. & London.

Saxophone Player

h Five Years

ISAM JONES USES
THE CONN EXCLUSIVELY

The New York Sun of July 8

1922, says in. part: “Jones

owns~a~- palatial home, a fleet
of automobiles, has servants
and all the trappings of
wealth. His bank account 1s
swelling so fast he can hardly
keep track of it. ‘Simple,’ says
Jonés. ‘I blow my own horn—
I mean my saxophone!’ ”

Conn
Saxo-
phones

and

Play
While You
Pay

Right! .Thé Conn Saxophone
is sintple to play and easy to
learn... Play your first tune
in an hour. Take your place in an
orchestra within a few weeks time.

The Conn Saxophone can help
you socially as. well as finan-
cially: ;

Copy of the latest'Conn cata-
log FREE... Weekly payments
arranged. Call and see us.

Conn New York Co.

Strand Theatre Bldg.
Telephone Bryant 7574

Too Hot
to Work

Phone Watkins 6112 for- our cool
weather man.

Offices, plants and whole office
buildings can be kept cool and
comfortable with General BDlectric
Fans.

Our technical’ “fan-man” will -cail
and discuss ways and means if
oull, phone us. No obligation.
We' "iE take.a chance, if you will.
General Electric Fans are life-
time fans. No repairs necessary.
Inexfiensive “to operate.

Electrical Supply Qa,
Pi ioa-g rubato be gi

and Samatiea.

hone Watkins O112

for coo! breezes

'HOPE OF SEI SETTLING -

| picion,

| tation of

REPARATION ISSUE,

Result of Bankers’ Conference
Is Found to Be Less Nega-
tive Than It Seemed.

MADE FRENCH SEE LIGHT

Best Opportunity Since the Armi-
stice Is Opening for Germany
to. Save Herself.

By CHARLES H. GRASTY.

Copyright, 1922, by The New York Times Company.
Special Cable to THs New York TiMBEs.

LONDON, July 21.—European interest
is concentrating upon the reparations
question, The return of the Guarantee
Committee probably bringing offers from
the Wirth Government, the tentative pro-
posals for British remission of the
French debt, the favorable reception of
which in America has given them a de-
cided boost, and finally the expected
meeting of Premiers Lloyd George and
Poincaré in the near future encourage
hopes that this all important question
may be entering on ‘its final stage.

There is one essential difference be-
tween the present and past efforts. The
breaking up of the bankers’ conference

at Paris last month and the statement
of the bankers, as well as the logic of
the whole loan incident, have shaped
world sentiment toward businesslike
procedure in the reparations settlement.
It is evident that real progress has
been made in an approach to a settle-
ment. ‘Chis progress has not yet taken
visible form, but it is none the less real.
It consists largely in mental clarification
on the subject of German reparations.
Until very recently it was impossible,
in France at least, to separate
question of meting out justice to the
Germans for devastation damage and
sacrifice of life from the question of how
much could be collected from them, and
when and how. With the means at hand
in the shape of a great efficient army to
inflict, as an alternative incomparably
more terrible than any amount of in-
demnity, the partial or complete des-
truction of Germany, the Frenchman's
jaws have been set against letting the
Germans off cheaply. Why should this
people, as skillful in trade as they were
eruel in war be treated leniently by the
country -they had tried to. destroy by
force, and would later try to ruin by in-
dustrial! competition made easier for
them by this very leniency?
There has been no time

ere since the
armistice when any French

Statesman

could dare to set up against this feeling |

a program of accepting what could be
got out of Germany. It might be ra-
tional, it might be in aecordance with
ultimate self-interest, but France would
have none of it.

Effect of Bankers’ Conference.

It was the Bankers’ Conference that
turned French thought toward the un-
palatable realities. The result of the
Morgan committee’s session was in effect |

much less negative than it seemed. It}
was a friendly, even partisan committee
but, as must have been foreseen,
bound to deal with hard facts, Righteous
indignation and political spellbinding
are unaeceptable as collateral. If money |
was to be advanced, there had to be

reasonable certainty of its repayment.
When the bankers put up the shutters
and went home upon France’s refusal to |
have the subject pursued on these lines
they gave an explanation of their action
that left no room for criticism or sus-
: Here at last was a body
spoke with authority and that could not
be disposed of by hue and cry or impu-
bad motives. They had come

it w as}

| to Paris to help the Allies, particularly

| France,
only way open

and when they indicated

to get practical
they were not allowed to proceed.

the
results

As a people peculiarly endowed with |

| @ sense of the practical the French have

| been re-examining the position.

j} and
| They would like to reduce

After
bank that is
as can be collected,
promptly as possible.
to a minimum

all, it is real money in the
wanted, as much

collected as

| future danger from Germany and would

| ble
} bound

| almost as
} across the

| the
| been a
| stampede by
| business.

| less

abate

their claims if this could thereby
accomplished. Lut they are a sensi-
people and know that -security is
) up chiefly in friendly relations
with their allies. The French
have nevy< entertained any
ide as of a militaristic character.
dread their own “ man on horsé sback ”’
much as they do the enemy
Rhine.
The progress that has been made
last few weeks has therefore
movement of © public
toward un attainable settlement.
not be s0 easy hereafter to
raising the ery of *‘ ampu-
at every effort to get down to
Demagogues and die-hards |
and professional militafists will
influence, Presently

serious

largely
opinion
it will

tation

counsels of

; common sense may be offered publicly,
(as for some time past they have been

| oferee

privately.

Even Mr. Lioyd
George may be

permitted to come back

{into action with his wonderful problem-

solving abilities.
The objects to be sought are obvious,

| but the methods by which to attain them |

| are far from simple.

The British Prime

| Minister is most supple and resourceful

|; as an author of solutions,

and ‘if he

were new in the business some inven-

tion by him might bridge over the diffi-
} culties which any public man in France
| who attempts to meet England half way

| is sure to encounter.

The most useful
aid from any quarter would be good
advice from America, but of course
Washington is very skittish about mak-

‘ing an opening for bringing up the sub-
| ject of debts or seeming io get within
| range of European entanglements,

May Be Germany’s East Chance.

Whether anything can or will be done
in this inning to heal the wound
through which Europe is being bled
white, all observers agree that the next
fi months will afford the best oppor-
tunity since the armistice—and perhaps
the last opportunity for Germany to
deal standing up. The tensile strength

GERMANY AGREES

TO SUPERVISION

“sy EDWIN L. JAMES.
Continued from Page 1, Column 2,

incidentally, there is a strong feeling
that the example Great Britain would

| thus set would have a most important

| bearing in the future

| realized in the United States,

upon the develop-
ment of American’ public opinion to-
ward the allied debts to Washington
when it shall have become generally
as it is
not now, that actual gold payments of
these debts are
but probably impossible.

Question of Payment in Kind.
Technically a matter apart from the
affairs now before the Reparation Com-
mission but in reality closely tied to
them is payment in kind by Germany,
which arrangement goes into effect to-

day. Committees representing various
governmental organizations having to do
with reconstruction will meet in Paris
tomorrow under the presidency of. Min-
ister of Reconstruction Reibel. ‘There is
a conflict between the Departments of |
Reconstruction and big
interests over the Importation of Ger-
man materials. for reparations which
to a not unimportant degree will enter
into competition with French industry.

Business interests have demanded that!

the Government apply ordinary import
duties to these deliveries by Germany.
M. Reibel says to do this would be to
dedtroy in large part the efficacy of the
plan of Wiesbaden. He asks that the
minimum duty be applied and in retuyn
is giving every assurance to Vrench fn-
dustry that materials. imported from
Germany for reconstruction will be used

the |

that!

masses |

They |

cause a |

have |

not only impracticable |

French business |

shown by the. fabric. of the
Republic has surprised everybody,
“4 2s coe that the Wirth

through to a* finish, but

it tt moult fall it is difficult’ to see
how a general collapse could be pre-

In circles having close touch with the
Reparation Commission I have heard
this week much discussion in the sense
set forth above. There is general agree-
ment that the Morgan committee put
the leaven of common. sense into
situation and that its opinions wiil be
cumulatively useful. | hile not per-
mitted to conclude its work the gen~
eral effect was to show that the present
policy is not sensible or business-like.
Although the delegates on the commis-
sion did not express themselves di-
rectly, the loan incident demonstrated
what they really believe. No one co
fail to draw from the majority vo
extending the’ mandate of the
Committee the necessary wapHoation:
that the majority desired a suggestion
as to changes in. reparation policy be-
cause they believed such changes wer’
necessary.

There is a fooling of hopefulness that
the Committes on Guarantees brings
back from Berlin assurances regarding
the German budget and supervision of
its details and suggestions of measures
to be taken to prevent the evasion
of capital and for imposing increased
taxes. Of course,a recurrence of the
crisis is to be expected and matters
may get worse before they get better,
but at least there is a pretty general
feeling that the reparations problem ‘is
less insoluble than it seemed_ three
months ago.

BRITISH POSITION
ON FRANCE’S DEBT

‘Plain Outline’ by Government
Organ—Suggested Political
Quid Pro Quo.

Special Cable to THp New Yorn TIMES.

LONDON, Friday, July 21.—As there
is a good deal of vagueness in the minds

and

| which discussion has reached on the |
question of Setting off interallied debts |
against German reparations, The Daily
Chronicle gives the following ‘ plain
outline ’’ of the position:

‘The Prime Minister was asked in
‘Parliament last Monday about a sugges-
tion that ‘ Great Britain, while paying
her debt to America, should accept in

lieu of her debts from France, Italy and
Belgium German bonds, which would |
then be destroyed. ’ He replied that any |
such plan ‘ had the serious disadvantage |
of placing this country in a position et |
paying in full all that it had ECO ES |
from other countries during the war and

collecting nothing, either in respect of
war advances or in respect of repara-
tions.’

‘That answer,’’ The Chronicle con-
tinues, “‘is in harmony with the atti-
tude that the British Government has
hitherto consistently adopted. When Sir
Robert Horne suggested last Winter in
Paris that the French debts to Great
| Britain might be made payable in Ger-

German reparations account and help
| to reduce Germany's
payments. within
| tions, it was a condition that the United |
States should be willing in the same}
| way to accept German bonds as payment |
from us.

| The scheme was in fact to be a unt-
versal one. All allied debts to Great
| Britain and all 3ritish debts
| United States would be paid in German
| bonds, and. since the allied debts. to
| Great Britain are approximately. double
the British debt to the United States it
will be seen that the net sums taken in
| German bonds by Great Britain and the

United States—the net sacrifices accept-
ed by the two countries—would be ap-
prokfenntely equal
| ‘The present obstacle to this scheme
| lies in the altitude of American opin-
lien. The American voter burdened by
| high taxation has been told by many
of his newspapers and public men that
the way to get it down is to make the
Allies pay their debts. The only ally
who has expressed readiness and wil-
|lingness to pay is Great Britain, and
he is loath to commute this imme-
| diately available money for German
bonds whose value, if any, would be
| unrealizable till a remote date.

‘* Perhaps if he realized the relation
|of the debt question to Europe's recov-
ery and that of Europe's recovery to
America’s trade he would think other-
wise, but he does not and there are no
| substantial signs that he will. In. these
circumstances Great Britain will’ of
course adhere to her obligation to pay
her American debt. When the House
rises Sir Rebert Horne will proceed to
Washington and arrange there: with the
American Government for it to be fund-
ed over a period of years.

‘The situation as between Great Brit-
ain and France, therefore, is that the
condition upon which the British offer
was based has at present very little
|jchance of being fulfilled,. and the Brit-
|} ish Government can scarcely see its way
to go ahead without it for the reasons
so succinctly given by the Prime Min-
ister in the answer which we quoted
above.

““It is, however, conceivable . that
| France herself might give us some con-
sideration in return for our making
some set-off of the German for the
{French debt. Such consideration would
| presumably be political;. France might
| accede to our views regarding the pres-
d | ent very expensive occupation of German
territory by the allied forces.

‘“We are not aware that any definite
suggestions of this kind have ever been
made, though the idea may have been
| mooted in formal talks. At all events,
|in the critical situation now resulting
¢ som the German mark’s collapse and
j}danger to French finances, no stone of
discussion ought be left unturned.’”’

Ex-Soldiers Mourn ‘Aunt Mary’ Hall
HARRISBURG, Pa., July .20.—Gov-
ernor Sproul in a telegram today to
R. A. Dunn of Augusta, Ga,, expressed
the sorrow of Pennsylvania's. former
soldiers at the news of. the death of

Miss Mary Hall, 84 years old, known
as ‘‘ Aunt Mary ** to men of the Twen-
ty-eighth (Keystone) Division, whom
she ‘‘ mothered’? while. they were, in
camp in Georgia in 1918.

The Governor’s message was in re-
sponse to one from Dunn notifying
him of the death of Miss Hall, whom
Dunn déscribed as the “‘ only known
unreconstructed rebel.”” She also was
known as ‘‘ the Princess of the Vets’”’
and ‘‘ the Lady in Gray.’’

only in the devastated regions and not
enter -upon the general French market
or be re-exported by the French Gov-
ernment in competition with the exports
of French industry.

However, the Parliamentary: Customs
Commission sides with the French man-
ufacturers ahd recommends imposition
of the usual import duty, the receipts. to
go to a special fund to be devoted to
reparations work.

Despite the very large influence of big
business on the French Government, it
is likely that the wishes of the local
authorities in the devastated regions, as
formulated at a conference opening to-
morrow, will prevail.

The notification by Germany that ‘she
feels obliged to discontinue the pay-
ments of $10,000,000. a month for the
settiement of allied. private - business
claims against German nationals is a
matter to be dealt with by the Govern-

reparations. Another fact of the situa-
tion. Germany’s curtailment of coal de-
liveries, belongs, on the other hand, to
the general reparation question.

The complexity of the situation “ ex-
plains Premier Poincaré’s desire to have
the Reparation Commission complete its

review of the situation before he meets].

Premier Lioyd George. As I explained

immediate cash |
manageable propor- |

overn= .

of many people regarding the wee

IDLA;

man bonds which would be credited to}

to the!

ment apart from the general subject of}

ERIGA’S. FOREMOST THEATRES AND. HITS. DIRECTION. OF LEE & 1 i. SHUBERT.

SPICE OF 1922

VALESKA SURATT, ADELE ROWLAND,
GEORGIE PRICE & Superlative. Cast.

TIMES SQUARE W. 42d St. Eves. 8.30.

Mats. Sat.&Thurs. 2:30.
The Quesn of Musical Comedies,

“SUE, DEAR”

th MONTH-BIJOU (oe ore.

E DOVER ROAD “aise

With CHAS.
SEASON'S ree COMEDY.

FROM. FROM. MORN
TO MIDNIGHT %4, re ge in Wod.336

MOROSCO Saat, wane sez

THE BEST MYSTERY PLAY IN TOWN.

THEBA Tver

NATIONAL THEA., 41 St., W- of. B’y. Bry. 1564,

‘ieee POPULAR

MATINEE
ANARY TOMORROW.

World’ 8

F..RAY COMSTOCK & MORRIS GEST Present

-BALIEFF'S Chauve- Souris

From MOSCOW—Direct from LONDON—PARIS

are 62d St. &

CENTURY ROOF THEA.®*
Ssiiane on 62d St. Phone Columbus 8500.

ASTO! Thea., 45th St. & B’way. Evs. 8:30,

MARIORIE In the Comedy Clasgic,

AMBEAU}The GOLDFISH
REPUBLIC W. 424 St Eves at 6:30.

HOLS’ Lang Wed. a be a -
ANNE NICH

-ABIE’S IRISH ROSE”

HE WHO G ARRICK

SLAPPED Mats. Tom’w&Th., $2
We. A.
BRADY’S:

Theatre, Just | Eve
48TH ST. Hast-of B’way. |8:36
MATS. TOM’W, TUES. & THURS,

FLORENCE. MILLS

be ‘PLANT ATION REVUE”

Mats. Tom'w & Thurs., 2:40.
THE with Grant Mitchell
BIG HIT! K E M Pp Y and the Nugents, —
SELWYN THEATRE, W.

oe | BELMONT *y

MATINEE sar. ONLY
BARNEY BERNARD and
ALEXANDER CARR in a new
Comedy “PARTNERS AGAIN”

MOTION PICTURES.

“The Best Hot W eather | :

Entertainment in Town”

“THE MOST REMARKABLE PICTURE
NEW YORK HAS SEEN--NOW PLAYING’

THE STORM}

ENTRAL bway at aT st.

Continuous Noon ‘to 11 |

Presented by Carl. Laemmle.
A Universal Jewel.

Broadway & | Con. Noon
44th Street

CRITERION: a [SRR
AST 2D §
VIOLA DANA in “THE $5 BABY”

BEGINNING ah
ETRO. PICTURES CORP Distributors

“FORGET ME NOT"

THE PLEA OF AN ORPHAN’S SOUL

(CAPITOL ta aeaoe CHAPLIN

“SHOULDER » ARMS”
and Short Subject Program,

Bway at 5Sist.

MARK

Capitol Grand Orchestra.

A FOOL THERE ui |

I R A N
Strand Symphony Orch.

p T i ZA “NANOOK OF

THE NORTH”
Mad. Ave and CORINNE. GRIFFITH
& 59th St. in “ISLAND WIVES”

Poti emcee ata
Opposite W. 130th St. Ferry. 50 New Attractions |
Salt Water Surf Bathing NOW OPEN.

News of Books

Keep informed regarding
new publications in all
branches of literature through
the regular reading of The
New York Times Book Re- ||
view and Magazine. Issued |||
weekly. One dollar a year.

yesterday, his slowness in going to Lon- yr

don is not due to.a desire for. solitary.

French action, but rather to a desire to].

prepare fully the case of France. It is

| probable Mr. Lloyd George and M. Poin-j,

caré will hold their ‘meeting in London
between the fifth and fifteenth . of
August. P

BERLIN, July 20 (Associated Press).
—The official announcement that Ger-
| many has consented to the establishment
of financial *‘ supervision ’’ of her house-
hold provokes only. mild enthusiasm
among the newspapers supporting Chan-
eellor Wirth, but official quarters which
consented to discuss the -arrangements
entered into with the Guarantee Com-
mittee of the Reparation Commission
today permitted the impression that Ger-
many had made thé’ best or a bad bar-
gain,

Ladies 7ic

WILLIAM FOX presents
with Mary Carr in Person at Each Performance.
‘APOLLO West 42nd St. Twicd Daily 2:30 & 8:30,

136th and [37th times today—tonight.
JACK HOLT in.
“The Man Unconquerable”

wae A
. . Rivoli Concert. Orchestra
tn & Going to the Rivoli Se
“tt You Believe it, It's sev"
A Paramount Picture
SQuaRB Famous Rialto Orchestra
L ¥ R I C THEATRE, WEST 22D § ST.
WILLIAM FOX presents
THE GREATEST OF. ALL SCREEN SPECTACLES
taged by J. GORDON EDWARDS.
aise et (22nd times t today—ton ite.
A M E John Barrymore
42d St.& B’way

THE GREAT AMERICAN FILM!
BY, WITH AND FOR AMERICANS
R: A Paramount Picture
TALTO THOMAS MEIGHAN
“A Trip’ to Paramountown”
“NERO.
ry Dir. B. S. MOSS adn ie
TAY s—

“GO SEE 1IT."—World.

“THE. STROKE
OF MIDNIGHT”

Wesley Jolbnson & Co.,
Steppe & O'Neal, others.

SWIMMING

At MADISON SQUARE GARDEN)
WORLD’S LARGEST POOL

Open 11 A. M. fo 11 P. M. Admission, 50¢ |
(CNTADIUM SYMPHONY CONCERTS

N. Y. Philharmonic Orchestra
LEWISOHN STADIUM, Amst. Av. & 138 St.
| HENRY HADLEY. -CONDUCTOR

TONIGHT ,47! “ANDRE POLAH

VIOLINIST

DANCING
CLOVER GARDENS

GRAND C — AL PALACE
Gentleme n $1. No extra seeepanae

CEDARHURST PARK,

‘Sherlock Holmes’!

TEES Polis

BELASCO West 44th St. Eves. at, .

MATINEE TOMORROW,
“Miss Ulrie’s Performance as Kiki’ is the

most finished piece ef acting cf the seasep.”

‘—Heywood Broun,

arris Mats. Wed. & Sat. ‘samp

SIX CYLINDER LOVE

By Wm. Anthony McGuire, with

1} TRUEX

St. i
Mats. Wed. & Sat, 237 oo

CAPTAIN “APPLE JACK

By Walter Hackett, with
Nash.

Wallace

Musie Box Jf, #5 St Hes.325.
= IRVING BERLIN'S =
MUSIC BOX REVUE
ly. ivy Geezer, iheliad Terry, Soly Ward
taged by Hassard Short, and many others.

(ood Morning _ Deane

Musical Comedy GLOBE © -

Sensation at the

ee Gm pet =

The Coolest Spot

on Broadway

ROSELAND

The home of Refined Dancing
Every Evening

Broadway at 5 Ist

and the lady instructors serene ou
an evening of perfect dancing. ?

STEEPLECHASE r=

CONEY
ISLAND

Surf and Poot Batht

HOTELS AND RESTAURANTS. .

New York’s New Suburban Restaurant
“One Hour from. Broadway” *«

OPENS SATURDAY, JULY 22nd
RESTAURANT

LEDOYEN

Albemarle Road and Stratford Ave.
Long Island,
Music Daacing
Under personal management of Henry
Stoll, formerly Sherry’s and Beaux-Arts

Tel. Far Rockaway 4342.

HOTEL

ASHTON

93d St., at Madison Ave.

Ideal location; convenient park,

buses and surface cars. Newly
decorated and furnished. Refined
| surroundings. Full hotel service.
| SUMMER RATES
Roem, Use of Bath, $10 Weekly Up
| Room, Private Bath, $15 Weekly Up
2 Rooms, Private Bath,

: $20 Weekly Up

All Outside Rooms.

Cafe aa

41 Steps from Broadway, on 4/si St."
Luncheon 80c. Dinner $1.50

Wed. & Sat. Maras. ,

Fresh breezes of mens
air keep « ie eigee

“he ITALIAN« -
GARDEN —

always cool and comfortable—
for luncheon, tea, or dinger.’ a ta
A delightful summer restaurant
where seashore coolness is reer
maintained.

‘The Ambassadart,

Park Avenue and Fifty-First Street

THE AMBASSADOR HOTELS SYSTEM
The Ambassador, New York City. The Ambassador, Los Angclés:

The Anibassador, Atlantic City.

2 East 56th St.

Right at Fifth Avenue
Desirable* suites to rent,
any size, ‘with or without
furnishings.

Restaurant a la Carte

The Alexandria, Los Angeles. ~~

[===THE LANGDON==THE CAMBRIDGES=

60 West 68th St
New Apartment Hotel 7
Attractive suites of 2 or. -

3 Rooms and Bath; fur-
nished or unfurnished.

High Class” Restaurant

EDMUND H, CHATILLON

eat Place Sr — ee

x ad Yerk.

Misey’'$ Rom Gardens

228 West 42nd St., off B’way
JOSEPH A. . eee PRESENTS

An lepertationsl Revue

with @ special surprise party given by

Gus Edwards

to = - vee. Among ;those who will
be Georgie’ ie George
Jesusk. jack W Wilsén and others.

Dancing Noon to-Closing
EVERY SUNDAY NIGHT

Pies HEATH INN, MERRICK
OAD, LYNBROOK,

In the Hotel Hamilton things are dif-
ferent and tetter—from the food in
the restaurant to the furnishing im the
rooms.

Now leasing for fall occupancy.
Summer rates for transients.

HOTEL HAMILTON

West 73rd St.

BROADWAY --
85th to 86th Street, NoY¥. ia

Between Contr Riverside DB:
SUBWAY STATION At Tt set STRE
ELEVATED STATION—2 BLOCKS:
Largest and. Most
town Hotei. ‘ Within~
All Shops and Theatres.

For Transient or Permanen éasabieak
During Spring & ‘Saubaker Months

500 Rooms with Private Bath *

‘At Very Attractive Rates

Also Suites of 2, 3 and:4 Rooins:’

RESTAURANT OF ‘HIGHEST STANDARD:

chine!

Famous Restaurant

ib St. Dear Fourth Ave. |

Satisfaction
comes in the

@traan 4 3:

oan ahh ispregpomon ee

-_ KS Ge

FS fy nora tenons

cn ne ee

ane eet tenons

Delicious and
Refreshing

tae

SS cme ©

ail
ale

The Coca-Cola Company
os Atlanta, Ga.

Pig, RETIN

pee
shea a

sat er TD
2 Bee

tan -2

As iy

Peake ae Ronee te IR ae al ae ee ee UE aie eM ke <2

WeeheR L 4 *

. ee. : SP Oo

YANKEES TURN ON
TY COBB'S TIGERS

New Yorkers Come to Life and
Hammer Out a Welcome
§ to 1 Victory.

WARD HITS FOR THE CIRCUIT

Aaren Drives Two Mates Home

Ahead of Him With Blow Into
Left. Field Bleachers.

It’s still a little early to begin getting
out the embalming fluid for the Yan-
keesj/ This was demonstrated yesterday
at the Polo Grounds, when the corpse
gat up and moved briskly. There was
aomething reminiscent of the old and
better days in the swish of the Yankee
bats. Clean, crisp hitting, good pitch-
ing, adequate fielding—everything as it
used to be before the Hugmen decided
to lie down and become the doormat

of the American League.

The Detroit Tigers looked weak and
futile against this combination, although
even at that the Cobb team led for five

of the nine innings.
in the first inning, and this was good
until the sixth, when B. Meusel and G.
Ruth awoke and banged forth singles
that paved the way for a two-run flurry
against Red Oldham. These were runs
enough to win, as events turned out,
but Aaron Ward closed the case by driv-
ing a full-fledged home run _ into the
left-field bleachers in the eighth, with
two colleagues on the base lines. The
score was 5 to 1.

The good pitching came from blond

Carl Mays, whose: work has been so in- |

different. lately that nobody was sur-
prised when the Tigers battered him for

seven hits in the first five innings. But |

after that the Detroits got only a lone
singe and nothing came of that except
a@ little excitement before Bob Veach
closed the inning, the eighth, by flying
out to Meusel in left.

Huggins Shifts Batting Order.
‘Miller Huggins, after reflecting hag-

gardly over Wednesday’s mean disaster,
geve his batting order another shake-

up. involving Ruth and Meusel, the late |
Bustin’ Bob |

lest his proud place as clean-up batter |
and was shoved up to third in the list. |

exiled orphans of baseball.

Ruth ‘went down a peg to the position

| New WOPsin oo oie cece

They scored a run |

a ie ee ae

RTS.

BASEBALL |

YESTERDAY'S RESULTS.

AMERICAN LEAGUE.
New York 5, Detroit 1.
Boston 3, Chicago 2.
(Ten innings.)
St. Louis 4, Philadelphia 0.
Cleveland 8, Washington 2.

NATIONAL LEAGUE
New York 7, Cincinnati 3.
Brooklyn 11, Chicage 7.
Pittsburgh 2, Philadelphia 1.
(Twelve innings.)
St. Louis. 5, Boston 4,

(Ten. innings.)

STANDING OF THE CLUBS.

AMERICAN LEAGUE.
Won. Lost.

St. Lowis.....% sccesesc8l 37
CHICAS sca'd vcee cs seb 42
Detroit... cccoccecsech® ag
PROMUIIE? hc ie oes weue see 61

NATIONAL LEAGUE.
Won. Lost. P.C.

5066s cee ee ne
CONMO soc eccccacs suee
Cincinnati cco cee
Pittsburgh 41
Philadelphia .........31
Boston ..... o0saed

St. Louis...

ereeeee
eeeeeeee

ee eens

WHERE THEY PLAY TODAY,

AMERICAN LEAGUE
Detroit at New York,
(Game starts at 3:30 P. M.)
| St. Leuls at Philadephia.
Chicago at Boston.
Cleveland at Washington.

NATIONAL LEAGUE,
New York at Cincinnati.
Brooklyn at Chicago.
Philadelphia at Pittsburgh.
Boston at 8t. Louis.

it was a great day for Mil'er Huggins
and a bad one for Cobb's tcam, which is
so close to falling behind the rearing,
tearing Indians that any aay now may

}see the Tigers back in the second di-

he held before with the Yankees when | vision. ‘

he was puissant, powerful and pulveriz- |
rei The Babe didn’t exactly fit this |
but he did smash | witt.cf
out a timely single and scored two runs, | pipn'ip
ene of which was the winning tally in | Meusel,if
Meusel disported with rare} Ruth,rf
His single | Schang,c
on the skids, and his | Ward,2bv
double and Ruth’s walk immediately | Scott,ss

description yesterday,

the sixth.
abandon in his new niche.

started Oldham

receded the four-base hoist with which
Ward won fame in the eighth,
Baseball is a queer game. To the
casual observer the Tigers might “have
looked outclassed by Mays and
mates. But the game,
fact, hinged on a foul fly,
' oul that countless catchers have caught
countless times. It came with two out in
the sixth and the Yanks a run behind.
They had made only three hits off Old-
ham up to that time, and the general
effect was black and discouraging.
Then Meusel came to bat
lofted a high fly near the Yankee bench.
Woodall ran over and poised gracefully.
But either the wind played tricks with
the ball or else Woody's eyesight should
be attended to at once, for the ball fell
three feet away from him. Meusel got
another chance and singled to centre.
The Yanks, aroused by this good for-
tune, proceeded to step into Oldham for
enough runs to win. Ruth singled to
right, Meusel going to third. Schang
ined solidly to left, scoring Meusel and
advancing Ruth to second. Ward, with
a wasted triple to his credit, slashed a
-Wicious drive which carromed
Jones’s ankle and rolled into
centre, while Ruth lumbéred in from

second.

With the Yanks ahead Cobb derricked |

Oldham in the eighth to let Manion

pinch hit for him, and it was off How-
three runs were |
If Woodall |

ard: Ehmke that the
coined in the- same inning.
had caught the foul and the Yanks
hadn’t romped ahead and Oldham hadn't
had to leave the game—well, stranger
things have happened in baseball.

Mates Put Mays in Hole.

Poor support got Mays into a hole in
the first. Blue smacked the first ball
on a line to right field, and Bob Jones
sacrificed. With Cobb at bat, Blue set
gail for third. Sschang threw high and
to McNally’s left. Don Miguel speared

the ball and then completely missed |

his |
as a matter of |
the sort of

and |