TRANSIMS traffic flow characteristics

Knowledge of fundamental traffic flow characteristics of traffic simulation models is an essential requirement when using these models for the planning, design, and operation of transportation systems. In this paper we discuss the following: a description of how features relevant to traffic flow are currently under implementation in the TRANSIMS microsimulation, a proposition for standardized traffic flow tests for traffic simulation models, and the results of these tests for two different versions of the TRANSIMS microsimulation.

A condition for the genotype-phenotype mapping: Causality

The appropriate choice of the genotype-phenotype mapping in combination with the mutation operator is important for a successful evolutionary search process. We suggest a measure to quantify the quality of this combination by addressing the question whether the relation among distances is carried over from one space to the other. Search processes which do not destroy the neighbourhood structure are termed strongly causal. We apply the proposed measure to parameter and structure optimisation problems in order to assess the combination (mapping, mutation operator) and at the same time to be able to propose improved settings.

Experiences with iterated traffic microsimulations in Dallas

This paper reports experiences with iterated traffic microsimulations in the context of a Dallas study. ``Iterated microsimulations'' here means that the information generated by a microsimulation is fed back into the route planner so that the simulated individuals can adjust their routes to circumvent congestion. This paper gives an overview over what has been done in the Dallas context to better understand the relaxation process, and how to judge the robustness of the results.

Sentient Networks

In this paper we consider the question whether a distributed network of sensors and data processors can form "perceptions" based on the sensory data. Because sensory data can have exponentially many explanations, the use of a central data processor to analyze the outputs from a large ensemble of sensors will in general introduce unacceptable latencies for responding to dangerous situations. A better idea is to use a distributed "Helmholtz machine" architecture in which the collective state of the network as a whole provides an explanation for the sensory data.

Effects of neutral selection on the evolution of molecular species

We introduce a new model of evolution on a fitness landscape possessing a tunable degree of neutrality. The model allows us to study the general properties of molecular species undergoing neutral evolution. We find that a number of phenomena seen in RNA sequence-structure maps are present also in our general model. Examples are the occurrence of "common" structures which occupy a fraction of the genotype space which tends to unity as the length of the genotype increases, and the formation of percolating neutral networks which cover the genotype space in such a way that a member of such a network can be found within a small radius of any point in the space. We also describe a number of new phenomena which appear to be general properties of neutrally evolving systems. In particular, we show that the maximum fitness attained during the adaptive walk of a population evolving on such a fitness landscape increases with increasing degree of neutrality, and is directly related to the fitness of the most fit percolating network.

Adaptive Competition, Market Efficiency, Phase Transitions and Spin-Glasses

We analyze a simple model of adaptive competition which captures essential features of a variety of adaptive competitive systems in the social and biological sciences. Each of N agents, at each time step of a game, joins one of two groups. The agents in the minority group are awarded a point, while the agents in the majority group get nothing. Each agent has a fixed set of strategies drawn at the beginning of the game from a common pool, and chooses his current best-performing strategy to determine which group to join. For a fixed N, the system exhibits a phase change as a function of the size of the common strategy pool from which the agents initially draw their strategies. For small pool sizes, the system is in an efficient market phase. All information that can be used by the agents' strategies is traded away, no agent can accumulate more points than would an agent making random guesses, and thus the commons suffer,since relatively few points are awarded to the agents in total. For large initial strategy pool sizes, the system is in an inefficient market phase, in which there is predictive information available to the agents' strategies, and some agents can do better than random at accumulating points. In this phase, the total number of points awarded to the agents is greater than in a game in which all agents guess randomly, and so the commons do relatively well. At a critical size of the strategy pool marking the cross-over from the efficient market to the inefficient market phases, the commons do best. This critical size of the pool grows monotonically with N. The behavior of this system has some features reminiscent of a spin-glass.

Geometric statistical inference

Finite sample size corrections to the reparametrization-invariant solution of the inverse problem of probability are computed, and shown to converge uniformly to the correct distribution.

Modelling coevolution in multispecies communities

We introduce the Webworld model, which links together the ecological modelling of food web structure with the evolutionary modelling of speciation and extinction events. The model describes dynamics of ecological communities on an evolutionary timescale. Species are defined as sets of characteristic features, and these features are used to determine interaction scores between species. A simple rule is used to transfer resources from the external environment through the food web to each of the species, and to determine mean population sizes. A time step in the model represents a speciation event. A new species is added with features similar to those of one of the existing species and a new food web structure is then calculated. The new species may (i) add stably to the web, (ii) become extinct immediately because it is poorly adapted, or (iii) cause one or more other species to become extinct due to competition for resources. We measure various properties of the model webs and compare these with data on real food webs. These properties include the proportions of basal, intermediate and top species, the number of links per species and the number of trophic levels. We also study the evolutionary dynamics of the model ecosystem by following the fluctuations in the total number of species in the web. Extinction avalanches occur when novel organisms arise which are significantly better adapted than existing ones. We discuss these results in relation to the observed extinction events in the fossil record, and to the theory of self-organized criticality.

Invariant closure for the Fokker-Planck equation

We develop the principle of dynamic invariance to obtain closed moment equations from the Fokker-Planck kinetic equation. The analysis is carried out to explicit formulae for computation of the lowest eigenvalue and of the corresponding eigenfunction for arbitrary potentials.

Emergence of Rules in Cell Society: Differentiation, Hierarchy, and Stability

A dynamic model for cell differentiation is studied, where cells with internal chemical reaction dynamics interact with each other and replicate. It leads to spontaneous differentiation of cells and determination, as is discussed in the isologous diversification. Following features of the differentiation are obtained: (1)Hierarchical differentiation from a ``stem'' cell to other cell types, with the emergence of the interaction-dependent rules for differentiation; (2)Global stability of an ensemble of cells consisting of several cell types, that is sustained by the emergent, autonomous control on the rate of differentiation; (3)Existence of several cell colonies with different cell-type distributions. The results provide a novel viewpoint on the origin of complex cell society, while relevance to some biological problems, especially to the hemopoietic system, is also discussed.

Large-scale evolution and extinction in a hierarchically structured environment

A class of models for large-scale evolution and mass extinctions is presented. These models incorporate environmental changes on all scales, from influences on a single species to global effects. This is a step towards a unified picture of mass extinctions, which enables one to study coevolutionary effects and external abiotic influences with the same means. The generic features of such models are studied in a simple version, in which all environmental changes are generated at random and without feedback from other parts of the system.

Critical Exponent of Species-Size Distribution in Evolution

We analyze the geometry of the species- and genotype-size distribution in evolving and adapting populations of single-stranded self-replicating genomes: here programs in the Avida world. We find that a scale-free distribution (power law) emerges in complex landscapes that achieve a separation of two fundamental time scales: the relaxation time (time for population to return to equilibrium after a perturbation) and the time between mutations that produce fitter genotypes. The latter can be dialed by changing the mutation rate. In the scaling regime, we determine the critical exponent of the distribution of sizes and strengths of avalanches in a system without coevolution, described by first-order phase transitions in single finite niches.

Collective Behaviour and Diversity in Economic Communities: Some Insights from an Evolutionary Game

Many complex adaptive systems contain a large diversity of specialized components. The specialization at the level of the microscopic degrees of freedom, and diversity at the level of the system as a whole are phenomena that appear during the course of evolution of the system. We present a mathematical model to describe these evolutionary phenomena in economic communities. The model is a generalization of the replicator equation. The economic motivation for the model and its relationship with some other game theoretic models applied to ecology and sociobiology is discussed. Some results about the attractors of this dynamical system are described. We argue that while the microscopic variables -- the agents comprising the community -- act locally and independently, time evolution produces a collective behaviour in the system characterized by individual specialization of the agents as well as global diversity in the community. This occurs for generic values of the parameters and initial conditions provided the community is sufficiently large, and can be viewed as a kind of self-organization in the system. The context dependence of acceptable innovations in the community appears naturally in this framework.

Dynamics of Individual Specialization and Global Diversification in Communities

We discuss a model of an economic community consisting of $N$ interacting agents. The state of each agent at any time is characterized, in general, by a mixed strategy profile drawn from a space of $s$ pure strategies. The community evolves as agents update their strategy profiles in response to payoffs received from other agents. The evolution equation is a generalization of the replicator equation. We argue that when $N$ is sufficiently large and the payoff matrix elements satisfy suitable inequalities, the community evolves to retain the full diversity of available strategies even as individual agents specialize to pure strategies.

Neural network design for J function approximation in dynamic programming

This paper shows that a new type of artificial neural network (ANN) -- the Simultaneous Recurrent Network (SRN) -- can, if properly trained, solve a difficult function approximation problem which conventional ANNs -- either feedforward or Hebbian -- cannot. This problem, the problem of generalized maze navigation, is typical of problems which arise in building true intelligent control systems using neural networks. (Such systems are discussed in the chapter by Werbos in K.Pribram, Brain and Values, Erlbaum 1998.) The paper provides a general review of other types of recurrent networks and alternative training techniques, including a flowchart of the Error Critic training design, arguable the only plausible approach to explain how the brain adapts time-lagged recurrent systems in real-time. The C code of the test is appended. As in the first tests of backprop, the training here was slow, but there are ways to do better after more experience using this type of network.

On the 1/f fluctuations in the nonlinear systems affected by noise

We investigate a problem of the necessary and sufficient conditions for appearance of the 1/f fluctuations in the simple systems affected by the external random perturbations, i.e. the power spectral density of the flux of particles moving in some contours and perturbed by the external forces. In some cases we observe the 1/f behavior but only in some range of frequencies and parameters of the systems.

How fast do structures emerge in hypercycle-systems?

A general framework for the simulation of reaction-diffusion systems with probabilistic cellular automata is presented. The basic reaction probabilities of the chemical model translate directly into the transition rules of the automaton, thus allowing a clear comparison between simulation results and analytic calculations. This framework is then applied to simulations of hypercycle-systems in up to three dimensions. Furthermore, a new measurement quantity is introduced and applied to the hypercycle-systems in two and three dimensions. It can be shown that this quantity can be interpreted as a measure for the macroscopic order of the hypercycle systems.

Nondecay probability of a metastable state: almost exact analytical description in wide range of noise intensity

This paper presents a complete description of noise-induced decay of a metastable state in a wide range of noise intensity. Recurrent formulas of exact moments of decay time valid for arbitrary noise intensity have been obtained. The nondecay probability of a metastable state was found to be really close to the exponent even for the case when the potential barrier height is comparable or smaller than the noise intensity.

Development and Evolution of Neural Networks in an Artificial Chemistry

We present a model of decentralized growth for Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs) inspired by the development and the physiology of real nervous systems. In this model, each individual artificial neuron is an autonomous unit whose behavior is determined only by the genetic information it harbors and local concentrations of substrates modeled by a simple artificial chemistry. Gene expression is manifested as axon and dendrite growth, cell division and differentiation, substrate production and cell stimulation. We demonstrate the model's power with a hand-written genome that leads to the growth of a simple network which performs classical conditioning. To evolve more complex structures, we implemented a platform-independent, asynchronous, distributed Genetic Algorithm (GA) that allows users to participate in evolutionary experiments via the World Wide Web.

A dynamical theory of speciation on holey adaptive landscapes

The metaphor of holey adaptive landscapes provides a pictorial representation of the process of speciation as a consequence of genetic divergence. In this metaphor, biological populations diverge along connected clusters of well-fit genotypes in a multidimensional adaptive landscape and become reproductively isolated species when they come to be on opposite sides of a ``hole'' in the adaptive landscape. No crossing of any adaptive valleys is required. I formulate and study a series of simple models describing the dynamics of speciation on holey adaptive landscapes driven by mutation and random genetic drift. Unlike most previous models that concentrate only on some stages of speciation, the models studied here describe the complete process of speciation from initiation until completion. The evolutionary factors included are selection (reproductive isolation), random genetic drift, mutation, recombination, and migration. In these models, pre- and post-mating reproductive isolation is a consequence of cumulative genetic change. I study possibilities for speciation according to allopatric, parapatric, peripatric and vicariance scenarios. The analytic theory satisfactorily matches results of individual-based simulations reported by Gavrilets et al. (1998). It is demonstrated that rapid speciation including simultaneous emergence of several new species is a plausible outcome of the evolutionary dynamics of subdivided populations. I consider effects of population size, population subdivision, and local adaptation on the dynamics of speciation. I briefly discuss some implications of the dynamics on holey adaptive landscapes for molecular evolution.

Rapid parapatric speciation on holey adaptive landscapes

A classical view of speciation is that reproductive isolation arises as a by-product of genetic divergence. Here, individual-based simulations are used to evaluate whether the mechanisms implied by this view may result in rapid speciation if the only source of genetic divergence are mutation and random genetic drift. Distinctive features of the simulations are the consideration of the complete process of speciation (from initiation until completion), and of a large number of loci, which was only one order of magnitude smaller than that of bacteria. It is demonstrated that rapid speciation on the time scale of hundreds of generations is plausible without the need for extreme founder events, complete geographic isolation, the existence of distinct adaptive peaks or selection for local adaptation. The plausibility of speciation is enhanced by population subdivision. Simultaneous emergence of more than two new species from a subdivided population is highly probable. Numerical examples relevant to the theory of centrifugal speciation and to the conjectures about the fate of ``ring species'' and ``sexual continuums'' are presented.

Life as Complex Systems --- Viewpoint from Intra-Inter Dynamics

Basic problems in complex systems are surveyed in connection with Life. As a key issue for complex systems, complementarity between syntax/rule/parts and semantics/behavior/whole is stressed. To address the issue, a constructive approach for a biological system is proposed. As a construction in a computer, intra-inter dynamics is presented for cell biology, where the following five general features are drawn from our model experiments; intrinsic diversification, recursive type formation, rule generation, formation of internal representation, and macroscopic robustness. Significance of the constructed logic to the biology of existing organisms is also discussed.

Cooperative mechanism of self-regulation in hierarchical living systems

We study the problem of how a ``living'' system complex in structure can respond perfectly to local changes in the environment. Such a system is assumed to consist of a distributed ``living'' medium and a hierarchical ``supplying'' network that provides this medium with ``nutritious'' products. Because of the hierarchical organization each element of the supplying network has to behave in a self-consistent way for the system can adapt to changes in the environment.
We propose a cooperative mechanism of self-regulation by which the system as a whole can react perfectly. This mechanism is based on an individual response of each element to the corresponding small piece of the information on the state of the ``living'' medium. The conservation of flux through the supplying network gives rise to a certain processing of information and the self-consistent behavior of the elements, leading to the perfect self-regulation. The corresponding equations governing the ``living'' medium state are obtained.

Dynamics of clade diversification on the morphological hypercube

Understanding the relationship between taxonomic and morphological changes is important in identifying the reasons for accelerated morphological diversification early in the history of animal phyla. Here, a simple general model describing the joint dynamics of taxonomic diversity and morphological disparity is presented and applied to the data on the diversification of blastozoans. I show that the observed patterns of deceleration in clade diversification can be explicable in terms of the geometric structure of the morphospace and the effects of extinction and speciation on morphological disparity without invoking major declines in the size of morphological transitions or taxonomic turnover rates. The model allows testing of hypotheses about patterns of diversification and estimation of rates of morphological evolution. In the case of blastozoans, I find no evidence that major changes in evolutionary rates and mechanisms are responsible for the deceleration of morphological diversification seen during the period of this clade's expansion. At the same time, there is evidence for a moderate decline in overall rates of morphological diversification concordant with a major change (from positive to negative values) in the clade's growth rate.

Decline in extinction rates and scale invariance in the fossil record

We show that the decline in the extinction rate during the Phanerozoic can be accurately parameterized by a logarithmic fit to the cumulative total extinction. This implies that extinction intensity is falling off approximately as the reciprocal of time. We demonstrate that this observation alone is sufficient to explain the existence of the proposed power-law forms in the distribution of the sizes of extinction events and in the power spectrum of Phanerozoic extinction, results which previously have been explained by appealing to self-organized critical theories of evolutionary dynamics.

Nonlinear theory of autooscillations of quasiplanar interface during directional solidification

Within the framework of the frozen temperature approximation we develop a strongly-nonlinear theory of one-dimensional pattern formation during directional solidification of binary mixture under nonequilibrium segregation. In the case of small partition coefficient the full problem is reduced to the system of two ordinary differential equations describing the interface motion in terms of its velocity and position coordinate. The type of the oscillatory instability bifurcation is studied in detail in different limits. For the subcrytical bifurcaton relaxation interface oscillations are analyzed analytically and numerically. We show that these oscillation exibit a number of anomalous properies. In particular, such oscillations can be weakly- or strongly-dissipative depending on the physical parameters and the amplitude of the strongly-dissipative oscillations is determined not only by the form of the corresponding nullcline but also by the behavior of the system for small values of the interface velocity. Characteristic parameters of the superlattice occuring in the growing crystal are estimated.

Optimizing Epochal Evolutionary Search: Population-Size Independent Theory

Epochal dynamics, in which long periods of stasis in population fitness are punctuated by sudden innovations, is a common behavior in both natural and artificial evolutionary processes. We use a recent quantitative mathematical analysis of epochal evolution to estimate, as a function of population size and mutation rate, the average number of fitness function evaluations to reach the global optimum. This is then used to derive estimates of and bounds on evolutionary parameters that minimize search effort.

Optimizing Epochal Evolutionary Search: Population-Size Dependent Theory

Epochal dynamics, in which long periods of stasis in an evolving population are punctuated by a sudden burst of change, is a common behavior in both natural and artificial evolutionary processes. We analyze the population dynamics for a class of fitness functions that exhibit epochal behavior using a mathematical framework developed recently. In the latter the approximations employed led to a population-size independent theory that allowed us to determine optimal mutation rates. Here we extend this approach to include the destabilization of epochs due to finite-population fluctuations and show that this dynamical behavior often occurs around the optimal parameter settings for efficient search. The resulting, more accurate theory predicts the total number of fitness function evaluations to reach the global optimum as a function of mutation rate, population size, and the parameters specifying the fitness function. We further identify a generalized error threshold, smoothly bounding the two-dimensional regime of mutation rates and population sizes for which evolutionary search operates efficiently.

Extinction, diversity and survivorship of taxa in the fossil record

Using data drawn from large-scale databases, a number of interesting trends in the fossil record have been observed in recent years. These include the average decline in extinction rates throughout the Phanerozoic, the average increase in standing diversity, correlations between rates of origination and extinction, and simple laws governing the form of survivorship curves and the distribution of the lifetimes of taxa. In this paper we derive mathematically a number of relations between these quantities and show how these different trends are inter-related. We also derive a variety of constraints on the possible forms of these trends, such as limits on the rate at which extinction may decline and limits on the allowed difference between extinction and origination rates at any given time.

The Structure of Adaptive Competition in Minority Games

In this paper we present results and analyses of a class of games in which heterogeneous agents are rewarded for being in a minority group. Each agent possesses a number of fixed strategies each of which are predictors of the next minority group. The strategies use a set of aggregate, publicly available information (reflecting the agents' collective previous decisions) to make their predictions. An agent chooses which group to join at a given moment by using one of his strategies. These games are adaptive in that agents can choose, at different points of the game, to exercise different strategies in making their choice of which group to join. We find, rather generally, that such systems evidence a phase change from a maladaptive, informationally efficient phase in which the system performs poorly at generating resources, to an inefficient phase in which there is an emergent cooperation among the agents, and the system more effectively generates resources. The best emergent coordination is achieved in a transition region between these two phases. This transition occurs when the dimension of the strategy space is of the order of the number of agents playing the game. We present explanations for this general behavior, based in part on an information theoretic analysis of the system and its publicly available information. We also propose a mean-field like model of the game which is most accurate in the maladaptive, efficient phase. In addition, we show that the best individual agent performance in the two different phases is achieved by sets of strategies with markedly different characteristics. We discuss implications of our results for various aspects of the study of complex adaptive systems.

Power spectra of extinction in the fossil record

Recent Fourier analyses of fossil extinction data have indicated that the power spectrum of extinction during the Phanerozoic may take the form of 1/f noise, a result which, it has been suggested, could be indicative of the presence of "critical dynamics" in the processes giving rise to extinction. In this paper we examine extinction power spectra in some detail, using family-level data from a variety of different sources. We find that although the average form of the power spectrum roughly obeys the 1/f law, the spectrum can be represented more accurately by dividing it into two regimes: a low-frequency one which is well fit by an exponential, and a high-frequency one in which it follows a power law with a 1/f^2 form. We give explanations for the occurrence of each of these behaviours and for the position of the cross-over between them.

Reproductive Tradeoffs In Uncertain Environments: Explaining The Evolution Of Cultural Elaboration

Dunnell's (1989) explanation for cultural elaboration proposed that elaboration could be a consequence of selection within uncertain environments. He developed the theory to the extent that it performed well explaining the distribution of elaboration at regional scales within eastern North America. More detailed studies require more detailed development of the theory, so that additional hypotheses and implications can be deduced. We draw upon theories of selection in fluctuating environments and portions of life history theory to propose a formal model of selection for "waste" in uncertain environments. We use agent-based simulation to explore the sufficiency of the theory for explaining the maintenance of high levels of elaboration within populations, and deduce novel implications for archaeological evidence usable by others to test the utility of Dunnell's model in specific localities.

The Evolutionary Biology of Ourselves: Unit Requirements and Organizational Change in United States History

Researchers have proposed that the distinction between so-called "simple" and "complex" societies can be expressed by an increase in the number of levels at which functional organization, interaction, and thus selection, operate. In spite of the obvious links between this suggestion and research into complex social organization amongst insects and other social animals, the levels of selection model has seen little use among anthropologists. We suggest that the primary reason for lack of research into the evolutionary causes of social complexity has been the lack of descriptive units with which we can examine phenotypic variation and heritability of social organization above the level of the organism. The goal of our paper, therefore, is to begin constructing descriptive units which map to meaningful models of multi-level selection. In order to demonstrate how these units are useful in a real dataset, we examine the functional changes involved in the United States economy over the last 100 years, a period of time characterized, we believe, by significant changes in the number and kinds of social aggregates functioning as "individuals" with respect to selection. Our preliminary analysis suggests that it is possible to measure changes in the scale at which functional integration occurs through published data, and that the multilevel selection model for complex society may possess considerable power for describing how selection of culturally transmitted variation occurs in complex societies.

A Mathematical Model with Modified Logistic Approach for Singly-Peaked Population Processes

When a small number of individuals of organism of single species is confined in a closed space with limited amount of indispensable resources, their breading may start initially under suitable conditions, and after peaking, the population should go extinct as the resources are exhausted. Starting with the logistic equation and assuming that the carrying capacity of the environment is a function of the amount of resources, a mathematical model describing such pattern of population change is obtained. An application of this model to typical population records, that of deer herds by Scheffer (1951) and O'Roke and Hamerstrome (1948), yields estimations of the initial amount of indispensable food and its availability or nutritional efficiency which were previously unspecified.

The Evolutionary Unfolding of Complexity

We analyze the population dynamics of a broad class of fitness functions that exhibit epochal evolution---a dynamical behavior, commonly observed in both natural and artificial evolutionary processes, in which long periods of stasis in an evolving population are punctuated by sudden bursts of change. Our approach---statistical dynamics---combines methods from both statistical mechanics and dynamical systems theory in a way that offers an alternative to current ``landscape'' models of evolutionary optimization. We describe the population dynamics on the macroscopic level of fitness classes or phenotype subbasins, while averaging out the genotypic variation that is consistent with a macroscopic state. Metastability in epochal evolution occurs solely at the macroscopic level of the fitness distribution. While a balance between selection and mutation maintains a quasistationary distribution of fitness, individuals diffuse randomly through selectively neutral subbasins in genotype space. Sudden innovations occur when, through this diffusion, a genotypic portal is discovered that connects to a new subbasin of higher fitness genotypes. In this way, we identify innovations with the unfolding and stabilization of a new dimension in the macroscopic state space. The architectural view of subbasins and portals in genotype space clarifies how frozen accidents and the resulting phenotypic constraints guide the evolution to higher complexity.

The Origin of the RNA World: a Kinetic Model

The aims of this paper are to propose, construct and analyse microscopic kinetic models for the emergence of long chains of RNA from monomeric beta-D-ribonucleotide precursors in prebiotic circumstances. Our theory starts out from similar but more general chemical assumptions to those of Eigen, namely that catalytic replication can lead to a large population of long chains. In particular, our models incorporate the possibility of (i) direct chain growth, (ii) template-assisted synthesis and (iii) catalysis by RNA replicase ribozymes, all with varying degrees of efficiency. However, in our models the reaction mechanisms are kept `open'; we do not assume the existence of closed hypercycles which sustain a population of long chains. Rather it is the feasibility of the initial emergence of a self-sustaining set of RNA chains from monomeric nucleotides which is our prime concern. We confront directly the central nonlinear features of the problem, which have often been overlooked in previous studies. Our detailed microscopic kinetic models lead to kinetic equations which are generalisations of the Becker-Doring system (BD) for the step-wise growth of clusters or polymer chains; they lie within a general theoretical framework which has recently been successfully applied to a wide range of complex chemical problems. In fact, the most accurate model we consider has BD aggregation terms, together with a general Smoluchowski fragmentation term to model the competing hydrolysis of RNA polymer chains. We conclude that, starting from reasonable initial conditions of monomeric nucleotide concentrations within a prebiotic soup and in an acceptable timescale, it is possible for a self-replicating subset of polyribonucleotide chains to be selected, while less efficient replicators become extinct.

Evolution of genetic organization in digital organisms

We examine the evolution of expression patterns and the organization of genetic information in populations of self-replicating digital organisms. Seeding the experiments with a linearly expressed ancestor, we witness the development of complex, parallel secondary expression patterns. Using principles from information theory, we demonstrate an evolutionary pressure towards overlapping expressions causing variation (and hence further evolution) to sharply drop. Finally, we compare the overlapping sections of dominant genomes to those portions which are singly expressed and observe a significant difference in the entropy of their encoding.

Replication Error and Time Evolution of a Self-Replicating System

A self-replicating system where the elements belonging to a solution category can replicate themselves by copying their own informations, is considered. The information carried by each element is defined by an element of all the n multiple tensor product of a base space that consists of m different base elements. We assume that in the replication the processes of copying each base information are the same and independent from one another and that the copying error distribution in each process is characterized by a small variation with a quite small mean value. Concentrating on the number fluctuation of the informations in the copying process, we analyze the time evolution of the system. We illustrate the change of averaged number of informations carried by system objects and the variation of the number distribution as a function of time. Especially, it is shown that the averaged number of information grows in general after large number of generations.

Characterizing self-organization and coevolution by ergodic invariants

In addition to the emergent complexity of patterns that appears when many agents come in interaction, it is also useful to characterize the dynamical processes that lead to their self-organization. A set of ergodic invariants is identified for this purpose, which is computed in several examples, namely a Bernoulli network with either global or nearest-neighbor coupling, a generalized Bak-Sneppen model and a continuous minority model.

Three sided complex adaptative systems

We introduce two three sided adaptative systems as toy models to mimic the exchange of commodities between buyers and sellers. These models are simple extensions of the minority game, exhibiting similar behaviour as well as some new features. The main difference between our two models is that in the first the three sides are equivalent while in the second, one choice appears as a compromise between the two other sides. Both models are investigated numerically and compared with the original minority game.

Extremal Coupled Map Lattices

We propose a model for co-evolving ecosystems that takes into account two levels of description of an organism, for instance genotype and phenotype. Performance at the macroscopic level forces mutations at the microscopic level. These, in turn, affect the dynamics of the macroscopic variables. In some regions of parameter space, the system self-organises into a state with localised activity and power law distributions.

Model of self-replicating cell capable of self-maintenance

We construct a simple model of a proto-cell that simulates a stochastic dynamics of abstract chemicals on a two-dimensional lattice. We assume that chemicals catalyze their reproduction through interaction with each other, and that between some chemicals repulsion occurs. We have shown that chemicals organize themselves into a cell-like structure that maintains its membranes dynamically. Further, we have obtained cells that can divide themselves automatically into daughter cells.

Number-conserving cellular automaton rules

A necessary and sufficient condition for a one-dimensional q-state n-input cellular automaton rule to be number-conserving is established. Two different forms of simpler and more visual representations of these rules are given, and their flow diagrams are determined. Various examples are presented and applications to car traffic are indicated. Two nontrivial three-state three-input self-conjugate rules have been found. They can be used to model the dynamics of random walkers.

A microsimulation of traders activity in the stock market: the role of heterogeneity, agents' interactions and trade frictions

We propose a model with heterogeneous interacting traders which can explain some of the stylized facts of stock market returns. In the model synchronization effects, which generate large fluctuations in returns, can arise either from an aggregate exogenous shock or, even in its absence, purely from communication and imitation among traders. A trade friction is introduced which, by responding to price movements, creates a feedback mechanism on future trading and generates volatility clustering.

Globally coupled bistable elements as a model of group decision making

A simple mathematical model is proposed to study the effect of the average trend of a population on the opinion of each individual, when a group decision has to be made by voting. It is shown that if such effect is strong enough a transition to coherent behavior occurs, in which the whole population converges to a single opinion. This transition has the character of a first-order critical phenomenon.

Minimum Energy Information Fusion in Sensor Networks

In this paper we consider how to organize the sharing of information in a distributed network of sensors and data processors so as to provide explanations for sensor readings with minimal expenditure of energy. We point out that the Minimum Description Length principle provides an approach to information fusion that is more naturally suited to energy minimization than traditional Bayesian approaches. In addition we show that for networks consisting of a large number of identical sensors Kohonen self-organization provides an exact solution to the problem of combining the sensor outputs into minimal description length explanations.

Metastable Evolutionary Dynamics: Crossing Fitness Barriers or Escaping via Neutral Paths?

We analytically study the dynamics of evolving populations that exhibit metastability on the level of phenotype or fitness. In constant selective environments, such metastable behavior is caused by two qualitatively different mechanisms. One the one hand, populations may become pinned at a local fitness optimum, being separated from higher-fitness genotypes by a {\em fitness barrier} of low-fitness genotypes. On the other hand, the population may only be metastable on the level of phenotype or fitness while, at the same time, diffusing over {\em neutral networks} of selectively neutral genotypes. Metastability occurs in this case because the population is separated from higher-fitness genotypes by an {\em entropy barrier}: The population must explore large portions of these neutral networks before it discovers a rare connection to fitter phenotypes.
We derive analytical expressions for the barrier crossing times in both the fitness barrier and entropy barrier regime. In contrast with ``landscape'' evolutionary models, we show that the waiting times to reach higher fitness depend strongly on the width of a fitness barrier and much less on its height. The analysis further shows that crossing entropy barriers is faster by orders of magnitude than fitness barrier crossing. Thus, when populations are trapped in a metastable phenotypic state, they are most likely to escape by crossing an entropy barrier, along a neutral path in genotype space. If no such escape route along a neutral path exists, a population is most likely to cross a fitness barrier where the barrier is {\em narrowest}, rather than where the barrier is shallowest.

A dynamical model of non regulated markets

The main focus of this work is to understand the dynamics of non regulated markets. The present model can describe the dynamics of any market where the pricing is based on supply and demand. It will be applied here, as an example, for the German stock market presented by the Deutscher Aktienindex (DAX), which is a measure for the market status. The duality of the present model consists of the superposition of the two components - the long and the short term behaviour of the market. The long term behaviour is characterised by a stable development which is following a trend for time periods of years or even decades. This long term growth (or decline) is based on the development of fundamental market figures. The short term behaviour is described as a dynamical evaluation (trading) of the market by the participants. The trading process is described as an exchange between supply and demand. In the framework of this model there the trading is modelled by a system of nonlinear differential equations. The model also allows to explain the chaotic behaviour of the market as well as periods of growth or crashes.

Functional Dynamics II : Syntactic Structure

Functional dynamics, introduced in a previous paper, is analyzed, focusing on the formation of a hierarchical rule to determine the dynamics of the functional value. To study the periodic (or non-fixed) solution, the functional dynamics is separated into fixed and non-fixed parts. It is shown that the fixed parts generate a 1-dimensional map by which the dynamics of the functional values of some other parts are determined. Piecewise-linear maps with multiple branches are generally created, while an arbitrary one-dimensional map can be embedded into this functional dynamics if the initial function coincides with the identity function over a finite interval. Next, the dynamics determined by the one-dimensional map can again generate a `meta-map', which determines the dynamics of the generated map. This hierarchy of meta-rules can continue recursively. It is also shown that the dynamics can produce `meta-chaos' with an orbital instability that is stronger than exponential. The relevance of the generated hierarchy to biological and language systems is discussed, in relation with the formation of syntax of a network.

Resource Sharing and Coevolution in Evolving Cellular Automata

Evolving one-dimensional cellular automata (CAs) with genetic algorithms has provided insight into how improved performance on a task requiring global coordination emerges when only local interactions are possible. Two approaches that can affect the search efficiency of the genetic algorithm are coevolution, in which a population of problems---in our case, initial configurations of the CA lattice---evolves along with the population of CAs; and resource sharing, in which a greater proportion of a limited fitness resource is assigned to those CAs which correctly solve problems that fewer other CAs in the population can solve. Here we present evidence that, in contrast to what has been suggested elsewhere, the improvements observed when both techniques are used together depend largely on resource sharing alone.

Cumulant Dynamics of a Population under Multiplicative Selection, Mutation and Drift

We revisit the classical population genetics model of a population evolving under multiplicative selection, mutation and drift. The number of beneficial alleles in a multi-locus system can be considered a trait under exponential selection. Equations of motion are derived for the cumulants of the trait distribution in the diffusion limit and under the assumption of linkage equilibrium. Because of the additive nature of cumulants, this reduces to the problem of determining equations of motion for the expected allele distribution cumulants at each locus. The cumulant equations form an infinite dimensional linear system and in an authored appendix Adam Prugel-Bennett provides a closed form expression for these equations. We derive approximate solutions which are shown to describe the dynamics well for a broad range of parameters. In particular, we introduce two approximate analytical solutions: (1) Perturbation theory is used to solve the dynamics for weak selection and arbitrary mutation rate. The resulting expansion for the system's eigenvalues reduces to the known diffusion theory results for the limiting cases with either mutation or selection absent. (2) For low mutation rates we observe a separation of time-scales between the slowest mode and the rest which allows us to develop an approximate analytical solution for the dominant slow mode. The solution is consistent with the perturbation theory result and provides a good approximation for much stronger selection intensities.

Scaling in a Multispecies Network Model Ecosystem

A new model ecosystem consisting of many interacting species is introduced. The species are connected through a random matrix with a given connectivity. It is shown that the system is organized close to a boundary of marginal stability in such a way that fluctuations follow power law distributions both in species abundance and their lifetimes for some slow-driving (immigration) regime. The connectivity and the number of species are linked through a scaling relation which is the one observed in real ecosystems. These results suggest that the basic macroscopic features of real, species-rich ecologies might be linked with a critical state. A natural link between lognormal and power law distributions of species abundances is suggested.

Phase Transition in Random Networks with Multiple States

The critical boundaries separating ordered from chaotic behavior in randomly wired S-state networks are calculated. These networks are a natural generalization of random Boolean nets and are proposed as on extended approach to genetic regulatory systems, sets of cells in different states or collectives of agents engaged into a set of S possible tasks. A order parameter for the transition is computed and analysed. The relevance of these networks to biology, their relationships with standard cellular automata and possible extensions are outlined.

Analysis of the optimality principles responsible for vascular network architectonics

The equivalence of two optimality principles leading to Murray's law has been discussed. The first approach is based on minimization of biological work needed for maintaining the blood flow through the vessels at required level. The second one is the principle of minimal drag and lumen volume. Characteristic features of these principles are considered. An alternative approach leading to Murray's law has been proposed. For that we model the microcirculatory bed in terms of delivering vascular network with symmetrical bifurcation nodes, embedded uniformly into the cellular tissue. It was shown that Murray's law can be regarded as a direct consequence of the organism capacity for controlling the blood flow redistribution over the microcirculatory beds.

Measuring Mutual Information in Random Boolean Networks

During the last few years an area of active research in the field of complex systems is that of their information storing and processing abilities. Common opinion has it that the most interesting beaviour of these systems is found ``at the edge of chaos'', which would seem to suggest that complex systems may have inherently non-trivial information proccesing abilities in the vicinity of sharp phase transitions. A comprenhensive, quantitative understanding of why this is the case is however still lacking. Indeed, even ``experimental'' (i.e., often numerical) evidence that this is so has been questioned for a number of systems. In this paper we will investigate, both numerically and analitically, the behavior of Random Boolean Networks (RBN's) as they undergo their order-disorder phase transition. We will use a simple mean field approximation to treat the problem, and without lack of generality we will concentrate on a particular value for the connectivity of the system. In spite of the simplicity of our arguments, we will be able to reproduce analitically the amount of mutual information contained in the system as measured from numerical simulations.

Self-Organized Criticality: Self-Organized Complexity? The Disorder and ``Simple Complexity'' of Power Law Distributions

The disorder and a simple convex measure of complexity are studied for rank ordered power law distributions, indicative of criticality, in the case where the total number of ranks is large. It is found that a power law distribution may produce a high level of complexity only for a restricted range of system size (as measured by the total number of ranks), with the range depending on the exponent of the distribution. Similar results are found for disorder. Self-organized criticality thus does not guarantee a high level of complexity, and when complexity does arise, it is self-organized itself only if self-organized criticality is reached at an appropriate system size.

A Simple Model of the Evolution of Simple Models of Evolution

In the spirit of the many recent simple models of evolution inspired by statistical physics, we put forward a simple model of the evolution of such models. Like its objects of study, it is (one supposes) in principle testable and capable of making predictions, and gives qualitative insights into a hitherto mysterious process.

Simple models of evolution and extinction

This article gives a brief introduction to the mathematical modeling of large-scale biological evolution and extinction. We give three examples of simple models in this field: the coevolutionary avalanche model of Bak and Sneppen, the environmental stress model of Newman, and the increasing fitness model of Sibani, Schmidt, and Alstrom. We describe the features of real evolution which these models are intended to explain and compare the results of simulations against data drawn from the fossil record.

Mathematical description of the heat transfer in living tissue (Part I)

In the present monograph we formulate a simple model for heat transfer in living tissue with self - regulation. The initial point of the model is the governing equations describing heat transfer in living tissue at the mesoscopic level, i.e. considering different vessels individually. Then, basing on the well known equivalence of the diffusion type process and random walks, we develop a certain regular procedure that enables us to average these mesoscopic equations practically over all scales of the hierarchical vascular network. The microscopic governing equations obtained in this way describe living tissue in terms of an active medium with continuously distributed self - regulation. One of the interesting results obtained in the present monograph is that there can be the phenomena of ideal self - regulation in large active hierarchical systems. Large hierarchical systems are characterized by such a great information flow that none of its elements can possess whole information required of governing the system behavior. Nevertheless, there exists a cooperative mechanism of regulation which involves individual response of each element to the corresponding hierarchical piece of information and leads to ideal system response due to self - processing of information. The particular results are obtained for bioheat transfer. However, self - regulation in other natural hierarchical systems seems to be organized in a similar way. The characteristics of large hierarchical systems occurring in nature are discussed from the stand point of regulation problems. By way of example, some ecological and economic systems are considered. An cooperative mechanism of self-regulation which enables the system to function ideally is proposed.

Mathematical description of the heat transfer in living tissue (Part II)

In the present monograph we formulate a simple model for heat transfer in living tissue with self - regulation. The initial point of the model is the governing equations describing heat transfer in living tissue at the mesoscopic level, i.e. considering different vessels individually. Then, basing on the well known equivalence of the diffusion type process and random walks, we develop a certain regular procedure that enables us to average these mesoscopic equations practically over all scales of the hierarchical vascular network. The microscopic governing equations obtained in this way describe living tissue in terms of an active medium with continuously distributed self - regulation. One of the interesting results obtained in the present monograph is that there can be the phenomena of ideal self - regulation in large active hierarchical systems. Large hierarchical systems are characterized by such a great information flow that none of its elements can possess whole information required of governing the system behavior. Nevertheless, there exists a cooperative mechanism of regulation which involves individual response of each element to the corresponding hierarchical piece of information and leads to ideal system response due to self - processing of information. The particular results are obtained for bioheat transfer. However, self - regulation in other natural hierarchical systems seems to be organized in a similar way. The characteristics of large hierarchical systems occurring in nature are discussed from the stand point of regulation problems. By way of example, some ecological and economic systems are considered. An cooperative mechanism of self-regulation which enables the system to function ideally is proposed.

Amplifying Phenomenal Information: Toward a Fundamental Theory of Consciousness

Fundamental approaches bypass the problem of getting consciousness from non-conscious components by positing that consciousness is a universal primitive. For example, the double aspect theory of information holds that information has a phenomenal aspect. How then do you get from phenomenal information to human consciousness? This paper proposes that an entity is conscious to the extent it amplifies information, first by trapping and integrating it through closure, and second by maintaining dynamics at the edge of chaos through simultaneous processes of divergence and convergence. The origin of life through autocatalytic closure, and the origin of an interconnected worldview through conceptual closure, induced phase transitions in the degree to which information, and thus consciousness, is locally amplified. Divergence and convergence of cognitive information may involve phenomena observed in light e.g. focusing, interference, and resonance. By making information flow inward-biased, closure shields us from external consciousness; thus the paucity of consciousness may be an illusion.

Modelling Migration and Economic Agglomeration with Active Brownian Particles

We propose a stochastic dynamic model of migration and economic aggregation in a system of employed (immobile) and unemployed (mobile) agents which respond to local wage gradients. Dependent on the local economic situation, described by a production function which includes cooperative effects, employed agents can become unemployed and vice versa. The spatio-temporal distribution of employed and unemployed agents is investigated both analytically and by means of stochastic computer simulations. We find the establishment of distinct economic centers out of a random initial distribution. The evolution of these centers occurs in two different stages: (i) small economic centers are formed based on the positive feedback of mutual stimulation/cooperation among the agents, (ii) some of the small centers grow at the expense of others, which finally leads to the concentration of the labor force in different extended economic regions. This crossover to large-scale production is accompanied by an increase in the unemployment rate. We observe a stable coexistence between these regions, although they exist in an internal quasistationary non-equilibrium state and still follow a stochastic eigendynamics.

Fitness versus Longevity in Age-Structured Population Dynamics

We examine the dynamics of an age-structured population model in which the life expectancy of an offspring may be mutated with respect to that of the parent. While the total population of the system always reaches a steady state, the fitness and age characteristics exhibit counter-intuitive behavior as a function of the mutational bias. By analytical and numerical study of the underlying rate equations, we show that if deleterious mutations are favored, the average fitness of the population reaches a steady state, while the average population age is a decreasing function of the overall fitness. When advantageous mutations are favored, the average population fitness grows linearly with time t, while the average age is independent of fitness. For no mutational bias, the average fitness grows as t^{2/3}.

Special Lagrangian Fibrations I: Topology

In 1996, Strominger, Yau and Zaslow made a conjecture about the geometric relationship between two mirror Calabi-Yau manifolds. Roughly put, if X and Y are a mirror pair of such manifolds, then X should possess a special Lagrangian torus fibration $f:X\to B$ such that Y is obtained by dualizing the fibration f. This leaves a huge amount to be done to verify such conjectures. This paper takes a speculative point of view, in that it assumes that a special Lagrangian torus fibration exists on X. We address a number of questions of a topological nature: what is the relationship between the cohomology of X and the cohomology of the dual fibration? what kind of information does the Leray spectral sequence for f contain? what is the relationship between the topological (1,1) couplings of the dual of f and the (1,n-1)-couplings of X in the large complex structure limit? These questions are shown to have nice answers if a key conjecture about the monodromy diffeomorphisms about a large complex structure limit point holds. Roughly put, this conjecture says that monodromy about a large complex structure limit point can be described as a very natural generalization of a Dehn twist for an elliptic curve. Given this conjecture, we show, among other results, that the large complex radius limit of the (1,n-1) couplings on X coincide with the topological (1,1) couplings on Y, and if dim X=3, the Leray filtration and weight filtrations of the mixed Hodge structure coincide, as conjectured by myself and P.M.H. Wilson, and independently by D. Morrison.

Resonant Hypergeometric Systems and Mirror Symmetry

The Gamma-series of Gel'fand-Kapranov-Zelevinsky are adapted so that they give solutions for certain resonant systems of GKZ hypergeometric differential equations. For this some complex parameters in the Gamma-series are replaced by nilpotent elements from a ring $R_{A,T}$. The adapted Gamma-series is a function $Ψ$ with values in the finite dimensional vector space $R_{A,T}\otimes C$. Applications of these results in the context of toric Mirror Symmetry are described. Building on work of Batyrev we show that the relative cohomology module of a certain hypersurface in a torus is a GKZ hypergeometric $D$-module which over an appropriate domain is isomorphic to the trivial $D$-module $R_{A,T}\otimes O_T$, where $O_T$ is the sheaf of holomorphic functions on this domain. The isomorphism is explicitly given by adapted Gamma-series. As a result one finds the periods of a holomorphic differential form of degree $d$ on a $d$-dimensional Calabi-Yau manifold, needed for the B-model side input to Mirror Symmetry. Relating our work with that of Batyrev and Borisov we interpret the ring $\cR_{\sA,\gT}$ as the cohomology ring of a toric variety and a certain principal ideal in it as a subring of the Chow ring of a Calabi-Yau complete intersection. This interpretation takes place on the A-model side of Mirror Symmetry.

Stringy Hodge numbers of varieties with Gorenstein canonical singularities

We introduce the notion of stringy E-function for an arbitrary normal irreducible algebraic variety X with at worst log-terminal singularities. We prove some basic properties of stringy E-functions and compute them explicitly for arbitrary Q-Gorenstein toric varieties. Using stringy E-functions, we propose a general method to define stringy Hodge numbers for projective algebraic varieties with at worst Gorenstein canonical singularities. This allows us to formulate the topological mirror duality test for arbitrary Calabi-Yau varieties with canonical singularities. In Appendix we explain non-Archimedian integrals over spaces of arcs. We need these integrals for the proof of the main technical statement used in the definition of stringy Hodge numbers.

Stringy Hodge numbers and Virasoro algebra

Let $X$ be an arbitrary smooth $n$-dimensional projective variety. It was discovered by Libgober and Wood that the product of the Chern classes $c_1(X)c_{n-1}(X)$ depends only on the Hodge numbers of $X$. This result has been used by Eguchi, Jinzenji and Xiong in their approach to the quantum cohomology of $X$ via a representation of the Virasoro algebra with the central charge $c_n(X)$. In this paper we define for singular varieties $X$ a rational number $c_{st}^{1,n-1}(X)$ which is a stringy version of the number $c_1c_{n-1}$ for smooth $n$-folds. We show that the number $c_{st}^{1,n-1}(X)$ can be expressed in the same way using the stringy Hodge numbers of $X$. Our results provides an evidence for the existence of an approach to quantum cohomology of singular varieties $X$ via a representation of the Virasoro algebra whose central charge is the rational number $e_{st}(X)$ which equals the stringy Euler number of $X$.

The enumerative geometry of K3 surfaces and modular forms

We prove the conjectures of Yau-Zaslow and Gottsche concerning the number curves on K3 surfaces. Specifically, let X be a K3 surface and C be a holomorphic curve in X representing a primitive homology class. We count the number of curves of geometric genus g with n nodes passing through g generic points in X in the linear system |C| for any g and n satisfying C^2=2g+2n-2.
When g=0, this coincides with the enumerative problem studied by Yau and Zaslow who obtained a conjectural generating function for the numbers. Recently, Gottsche has generalized their conjecture to arbitrary g in terms of quasi-modular forms. We prove these formulas using Gromov-Witten invariants for families, a degeneration argument, and an obstruction bundle computation. Our methods also apply to P^2 blown up at 9 points where we show that the ordinary Gromov-Witten invariants of genus g constrained to g points are also given in terms of quasi-modular forms.

On the classification of hyperbolic root systems of the rank three. Part I

It was recently understood that from the point of view of automorphic Lorentzian Kac-Moody algebras and some aspects of Mirror Symmetry, interesting hyperbolic root systems should have restricted arithmetic type and a generalized lattice Weyl vector. One can consider hyperbolic root systems with these properties as an appropriate hyperbolic analog of the classical finite and affine root systems.
This series of papers is devoted to classification of hyperbolic root systems of restricted arithmetic type and with a generalized lattice Weyl vector $ρ$, having the rank 3 (it is the first non-trivial rank). In the Part I we announce classification of the maximal hyperbolic root systems of elliptic (i.e. $ρ^2 >0$) and parabolic (i.e. $ρ^2=0$) type, having the rank 3. We give sketch of the proof. Details of the proof and further results (non-maximal cases) will be given in Part II. Classification for hyperbolic type (i.e. $ρ^2<0$) and applications will be considered in Part III.

The Character of the Infinite Wedge Representation

We study the character of the infinite wedge projective representation of the algebra of differential operators on the circle. We prove quasi-modularity of this character and also compute certain generating functions for traces of differential operators which we call correlation functions. These correlation functions are sums of determinants built from genus 1 theta functions and their derivatives.

Toric Degenerations of Fano Varieties and Constructing Mirror Manifolds

For an arbitrary smooth n-dimensional Fano variety $X$ we introduce the notion of a small toric degeneration. Using small toric degenerations of Fano n-folds $X$, we propose a general method for constructing mirrors of Calabi-Yau complete intersections in $X$. Our mirror construction is based on a generalized monomial-divisor mirror correspondence which can be used for computing Gromov-Witten invariants of rational curves via specializations of GKZ-hypergeometric series.

Theory of the Interaction of Planetary Nebulae with the Interstellar Medium

The theory of the interaction of planetary nebulae with the interstellar medium is important for the interpretation of nebular morphologies that deviate from point symmetry. It can be used to probe the interstellar medium and its magnetic field. We emphasize in this review the role of hydrodynamical instabilities in the interaction.

Feedback Processes in the Early Universe

Feedback effects due to massive stars and supernovae in the first objects are shown to strongly regulate both galaxy formation/evolution and the reionization process. Here we review the most important ones in some detail. We discuss how Type II supernovae can be used as tracers of the first objects and detected with NGST, for which we predict supernova number counts including the effects of gravitational lensing. Preliminary results on the formation of dust in the ejecta of supernovae of primordial composition are also presented. We finally turn to the consideration of the process of inhomogeneous reionization due to primordial stellar sources by means of high resolution numerical simulations, allowing for a self-consistent treatment of the above feedback processes. These simulations allow us to draw conclusions on the evolution and epoch of reionization and about the fate of reionizing objects. We conclude that a large fraction (~ 99%) of collapsed objects must be dark at redshift around eight.

Observed Properties of Mass Loss in Symbiotic Binaries

Both the red giants and the Mira variables in symbiotic systems have systematically higher mass-loss rates than do typical galactic giants and Miras, which suggests that only very evolved giants, and so those with highest mass-loss rates, can support symbiotic behaviour in widely separated binary systems. They often show a flattened mass-loss geometry due to an intrinsically inhomogeneous mass loss and/or tidal interactions between the binary components. The main body of a symbiotic nebula is thus formed from material lost in the giant wind, while the hot component is responsible for its ionization and excitation. In addition, the fast wind and/or jet ejection from the hot component, whenever occur, give rise to the complex, often bipolar, shape of symbiotic nebulae. Observations of resolved nebulae also suggest that the binary geometry and nebular structure are aligned but the bipolar outflow may be not orthogonal to the orbital plane in all cases.

Spin-Orbit Couplings in X-ray Binaries

We discuss the influence of tidal spin-orbit interactions on the orbital dynamics of close intermediate-mass X-ray binaries. In particular we consider here a process in which spin angular momentum of a contracting RLO donor star, in a synchronous orbit, is converted into orbital angular momentum and thus helps to stabilize the mass transfer by widening the orbit. Binaries which would otherwise suffer from dynamically unstable mass transfer (leading to the formation of a common envelope and spiral-in evolution) are thus shown to survive a phase of extreme mass transfer on a sub-thermal timescale. Furthermore, we discuss the orbital evolution prior to RLO in X-ray binaries with low-mass donors, caused by the competing effects of wind mass loss and tidal effects due to expansion of the (sub)giant.

New Direct Observational Evidence for Kicks in SNe

We present an updated list of direct strong evidence in favour of kicks being imparted to newborn neutron stars. In particular we discuss the new cases of evidence resulting from recent observations of the X-ray binary Circinus X-1 and the newly discovered binary radio pulsar PSR J1141-6545. We conclude that the assumption that neutron stars receive a kick velocity at their formation is unavoidable (van den Heuvel & van Paradijs 1997).

H2 emission from CRL 618

We present a complete study of the H2 infrared emission, including the pure rotational lines, of the proto Planetary Nebulae CRL 618 with the ISO SWS. A large number of lines are detected. The analysis of our observations shows: (i) an OTP ratio very different from the classical value of 3, probably around 1.76-1.87; (ii) a stratification of the emitting region, and more precisely different regions of emission, plausibly located in the lobes, in an intermediate zone, and close to the torus; (iii) different excitation mechanisms, collisions and fluorescence.

Do AGB Stars Differ Chemically from RGB Stars in Globular Clusters?

Recent improvements in globular cluster colour-magnitude diagrams, coupled with an increase in large-sample spectroscopic abundance studies of cluster giants, finally allow some attempts at a statistically meaningful comparison of the chemical compositions of red giant branch (RGB) and asymptotic branch (AGB) cluster stars. We review some of the extant data here, concluding that in a few clusters the AGB stars show on average smaller amounts of high-temperature proton-capture synthesis products (low oxygen, high sodium and aluminum) at their surfaces than do the first-ascent RGB stars. This suggests that those RGB stars with envelopes that have been enriched with proton-capture material also have high helium contents. Such stars after the He-flash then take up residence on the bluest parts of the horizontal branch (as a consequence of their high envelope helium), probably never to return to the AGB during subsequent evolutionary stages.

HST/WFPC2 observations of the core of KjPn 8

Narrow-band images of the core of the extraordinary poly-polar planetary nebula KjPn 8 have been obtained with the WFPC2 camera on board the Hubble Space Telescope. Spasmodic bipolar ejections, in changing directions have occurred over thousands of years to create KjPn 8. The central star is finally revealed in these observations and its compact nebular core is resolved into a remarkably young, aprox. 500 years old, elliptical ring. The highest speed bipolar outflows are perpendicular to this central ring which is identified as the latest event in the creation of this nebula. The formation history of KjPn 8 has involved two distinct planetary nebula-like events, probably originating froma a binary core evolution with components of similar mass.

Studies of Low-Mass Star Formation with ALMA

ALMA will revolutionize the study of star formation by providing a combination of angular resolution and sensitivity that far exceeds that of present instruments. I will focus on studies of relatively isolated cores that are forming low-mass stars. There is a general paradigm for the formation of such stars, and there are detailed theoretical predictions for the evolution of the density and velocity fields for different assumptions about the initial conditions. Because the theory is well developed, observational tests are particularly revealing. The primary probes of physical conditions in these regions are discussed and the sensitivity of ALMA to these probes is shown and compared to the current state of the art. The consequences for the ALMA requirements are discussed.

The variability analysis of PKS 2155-304

In this paper, the post-1977 photometric observations of PKS 2155-304 are compiled and used to discuss the variation periodicity. Largest amplitude variations ($ΔU = 1^{m}.5$; $ΔB = 1^{m}.65$;
$ΔV = 1^{m}.85 $; $ΔR = 1^{m}.25$; $ΔI = 1^{m}.14 $) and color indices ($(B-V) = 0.30\pm 0.06$; $(U-B) = -0.72\pm 0.08$;
$(B-R) = 0.62\pm 0.07$; $(V-R) = 0.32\pm 0.04$) are found.
The Jurkevich's method and DCF (Discrete Correlation Function) method indicate possible periods of 4.16-year and 7.0-year in the V light curve.

A Hard Medium Survey with ASCA. III.: a Type 2 AGN revealed from X-ray Spectroscopy

In this paper we report the discovery of an hard X-ray selected Type 2 Seyfert galaxy and we present and discuss its X-ray and optical spectrum together with the radio to X-ray energy distribution. The X-ray source - AXJ2254+1146 - is part of the ASCA Hard Serendipitous Survey (HSS). What makes this discovery particularly noteworthy is the fact that the Type 2 classification of this Seyfert galaxy has resulted directly from the X-ray data and has been confirmed by optical spectroscopy only subsequently. The X-ray spectrum of AXJ2254+1146 is best described by a model consisting of an unresolved Gaussian line at $6.43\pm 0.1$ keV plus the so called "leaky-absorber" continua having an intrinsic power law photon index of $Γ$ = $2.51^{2.76}_{2.17}$ (1 $σ$ confidence interval). The best fit values of the absorbing column density ($N_H$ = $1.85^{2.24}_{1.47} \times 10^{23}$ cm$^{-2}$), of the line equivalent width ($0.6^{0.84}_{0.36}$ keV) and of the scattering fraction ($0.7^{1.4}_{0.1} %$), lead us to classify it as a Type 2 AGN from an X-ray point of view. Inspection of the POSS II image reveals the presence, within the ASCA X-ray error circle, of the nearby Sbc spiral galaxy UGC 12237 ($m_{B_o}=14.26$) that, even on positional ground considerations alone, is the most likely optical counterpart of AXJ2254+1146. Subsequent optical spectroscopy of UGC 12237 has confirmed its Seyfert 2 optical nature.

Multiple Outflows in AFGL 2688

We present high resolution (1.1x0.9'') imaging of the proto-planetary nebula AFGL 2688 in the CO (J=2-1) line using the IRAM interferometer. The observations reveal with unprecedented detail the structure and the kinematics of the gas ejected by the star over the past few hundred years and exemplify the mechanism by which point symmetries are imprinted on the structure of planetary nebulae at early stages of their formation.

Limits on the Spatial Extent of AGN Measured with the Fine Guidance Sensors of the HST

The optical structure of several AGN has been studied using the Fine Guidance Sensors (FGS) on the Hubble Space Telescope (HST). The FGSs are interferometric devices which can resolve structure on scales of 20 milliarcsecs or less and hence have the potential to improve on the resolution attainable by HST's cameras. The FGSs produce interferometric fringes known as S-curves which are related to the intensity profile of the object on the sky. These have been analyzed using a simple model for the radial intensity distribution and strength of the underlying background illumination of the observed objects. Eight different observations of six different AGN have been analyzed. No statistically significant differences from point sources are detected but significant upper limits of order 20 milliarcseconds are placed on any spatial extent. Systematic effects limiting the resolution are discussed and some simple conclusions about the physical size and luminosity densities of the emitting regions of the AGN implied by the data are given.

On Luminosity and morphology segregation in the Southern Sky Redshift Survey 2

The results are still valid, however this letter is superceeded by a significantly extended version which is available at astro-ph/0003358 and is scheduled for publication in the ApJ Dec. 10, 2000. We have withdrawn this letter to avoid confusion.

The BeppoSAX High Energy Large Area Survey (HELLAS): a progress Report

The integrated emission of highly obscured AGN is expected to provide a major contribution to the X-ray energy density in the Universe: the X-ray background (XRB). The study of these objects is possible only at energies where the effects of absorption are less severe. For this reason we have carried out the BeppoSAX High Energy LLarge Area Survey in the hardest band (5-10 keV) accessible so far with imaging X-ray instruments. The source surface density at the survey limiting flux accounts for a significant fraction (20-30%) of the hard XRB. The X-ray data complemented by multiwavelength follow--up observations suggest that a large fraction of the hard sources are AGN and that X-ray absorption with column densities in the range 10^22-23.5 cm-2 is common among them. The great diversity in their optical-near-IR properties suggests that the optical appearance of obscured sources is a function of the X-ray luminosity. We briefly discuss the implications of these findings for the XRB models.

Morphological evolution of X-ray clusters using hydrodynamical simulations

A large set of TREESPH simulations is used to test the global morphology of galaxy clusters and its evolution against X-ray data. A powerful method to investigate substructures in galaxy clusters are the power ratios introduced by Buote & Tsai. We consider three flat cosmological models: CDM, LCDM($Ω_Λ= 0.7$) and CHDM($Ω_h = 0.2$, 1 massive $ν$), all normalized so to fit the observed number of clusters. For each model we built 40 clusters, using a TREESPH code, and performed a statistical comparison with a data sample including nearby clusters observed with ROSAT PSPC instrument. The comparison disfavors the LCDM model, as clusters appear too relaxed, while CDM and CHDM clusters, in which a higher degree of complexity occurs, seem to be closer to observations. A better fit of data can be expected for some different DM mix. If DM distributions are used instead of baryons, we find substructures more pronounced than in gas and models have a different score. Using hydrodynamical simulations is therefore essential to our aims.

Eccentric Stellar Discs with Strong Density Cusps and Separable Potentials

We introduce a class of eccentric discs with "strong" density cusps whose potentials are of Stäckel form in elliptic coordinates. Our models exhibit some striking features: sufficiently close to the location of the cusp, the potential and surface density distribution diverge as $Φ\propto r^{-1}$ and $Σ\propto r^{-2}$, respectively. As we move outward from the centre, the model takes a non-axisymmetric, lopsided structure. In the limit, when $r$ tends to infinity, the isocontours of $Φ$ and $Σ$ become spherically symmetric. It is shown that the configuration space is occupied by three families of regular orbits: {\it eccentric butterfly}, {\it aligned loop} and {\it horseshoe} orbits. These orbits are properly aligned with the surface density distribution and can be used to construct self-consistent equilibrium states.

The Second Peak: The Dark-Energy Density and the Cosmic Microwave Background

Supernova evidence for a negative-pressure dark energy (e.g., cosmological constant or quintessence) that contributes a fraction $Ω_Λ\simeq0.7$ of closure density has been bolstered by the discrepancy between the total density, $Ω_{\rm tot}\simeq1$, suggested by the location of the first peak in the cosmic microwave background (CMB) power spectrum and the nonrelativistic-matter density $Ω_m\simeq0.3$ obtained from dynamical measurements. Here we show that the impending identification of the location of the {\it second} peak in the CMB power spectrum will provide an immediate and independent probe of the dark-energy density. As an aside, we show how the measured height of the first peak probably already points toward a low matter density and places upper limits to the reionization optical depth and gravitational-wave amplitude.

Evidence for TeV gamma-ray emission from the shell type SNR RXJ1713.7-3946

We report the results of TeV gamma-ray observations of the shell type SNR RXJ1713.7-3946 (G347.3-0.5). The discovery of strong non-thermal X-ray emission from the northwest part of the remnant strongly suggests the existence of electrons with energies up to 100 TeV in the remnant, making the SNR a good candidate TeV gamma-ray source. We observed RXJ1713.7-3946 from May to August 1998 with the CANGAROO 3.8m atmospheric imaging Cerenkov telescope and obtained evidence for TeV gamma-ray emission from the NW rim of the remnant with the significance of 5.6 sigma. The observed TeV gamma-ray flux from the NW rim region was estimated to be (5.3 +/- 0.9[statistical] +/- 1.6[systematic]) * 10^{-12} photons cm^{-2} s^{-1} at energies >= 1.8 +/- 0.9 TeV. The data indicate that the emitting region is much broader than the point spread function of our telescope. The extent of the emission is consistent with that of hard X-rays observed by ASCA. This TeV gamma-ray emission can be attributed to the Inverse Compton scattering of the Cosmic Microwave Background Radiation by shock accelerated ultra-relativistic electrons. Under this assumption, a rather low magnetic field of 11 micro gauss is deduced for the remnant from our observation.

The 24-Hour Night Shift: Astronomy from Microlensing Monitoring Networks

Scores of on-going microlensing events are now announced yearly by the microlensing discovery teams OGLE, MACHO and EROS. These early warning systems have allowed other international microlensing networks to focus considerable resources on intense photometric - and occasionally spectroscopic - monitoring of microlensing events. Early results include: metallicity measurements of main sequence Galactic bulge stars; limb darkening determinations for stars in the Bulge and Small Magellanic Cloud; proper motion measurements that constrain microlens identity; and constraints on Jovian-mass planets orbiting (presumably stellar) lenses. These results and auxiliary science such as variable star studies and optical identification of gamma ray bursts are reviewed.

Near infrared imaging spectroscopy of NGC1275

We present H and K band imaging spectroscopy of the core regions of the cD/AGN galaxy NGC1275. The spectra, including lines from H2, H, 12CO bandheads, [FeII], and [FeIII], are exploited to constrain the star formation and excitation mechanisms in the galaxy's nucleus. The near-infrared properties can largely be accounted for by ionized gas in the NLR, dense molecular gas, and hot dust concentrated near the active nucleus of NGC1275. The strong and compact H2 emission is mostly from circumnuclear gas excited by the AGN and not from the cooling flow. The extended emission of latetype stars is diluted in the center by the thermal emission of hot dust.

On the FIR emission from intracluster dust

We make predictions for the diffuse far-infrared (FIR) emission from dust in the intracluster medium (ICM) of the Virgo cluster using detailed information on potential dust sources, grain heating and sputtering rates available for this cluster from recent optical and X-ray studies. We show that the infrared emission from dust injected by sources inside the core region of the Virgo cluster is a factor of 10 below the detection limit of currently available telescopes. The outer regions of dynamically young clusters like the Virgo cluster have a further potential source of intracluster grains since they are still accreting freshly infalling spiral galaxies which are presumably contained in an accreting intergalactic medium (IGM). We show that cosmic ray driven winds from the infalling spirals can inject grains into a subvirial IGM that is external to the observed X-ray-emitting ICM. Sputtering during the injection process and in the IGM is weak, so that the injected grains should accumulate in the IGM until the infall brings them into contact with the hot ICM. This effect dominates the dust injection rate from known sources embedded in the hot Virgo ICM. Thus, any detection of diffuse IR emission would probe the current dust accretion rate for the cluster, acting as an indicator of the youth and the dynamical state of the cluster. The predictions for the Virgo cluster are generalised to other clusters and the possibility of detection of dynamically young clusters at cosmological distances is discussed.

Electron densities, temperatures and ionization rates in two interstellar clouds in front of beta Canis Majoris, as revealed by UV absorption lines observed with IMAPS

The spectrum of beta CMa (Mirzam) between 1000 and 1200 A was recorded at a wavelength resolving power ~ 60 000 by the Interstellar Medium Absorption Profile Spectrograph (IMAPS) during its orbital flight on the ORFEUS-SPAS II mission in 1996. New information about interstellar absorption lines of CII, CII*, NI and OI from this spectrum are combined with the HST results reported by Dupin & Gry (1998) to arrive at new conclusions about the physical properties of the absorbing gas in front of beta CMa. For two prominent velocity components centered at heliocentric velocities of +20.0 and +30.5 km/s, designated by Dupin & Gry as Components C and D respectively, we use determinations of N(CII*)/N(CII) and N(MgI)/N(MgII) to solve for temperatures and electron densities. From our knowledge that oxygen and nitrogen have their ionizations coupled to that of hydrogen through charge exchange reactions, we can derive the hydrogen ionizations by comparing these elements to sulfur, which is likely not to be depleted onto dust grains. For Component C with an approximate column density of neutral and ionized hydrogen N(Htotal)=6 10^{18} cm^-2, we find that the neutral fraction n(HI)/n(Htotal)=0.25, 400<T<6500 K, and 0.08<n(e)<0.6 cm^-3, while for Component D with N(Htotal)=1.2 10^{19}cm^-2, we arrive at n(HI)/n(Htotal)=0.035, 8000<T<14000 K, and 0.09<n(e)<0.2cm^-3. The relatively large ionization fractions of H can arise if the clouds are about 130 pc away from us, so that they are exposed to the strong, ionizing radiation fields from epsilon and beta CMa. The presence of SiIII indicates the existence of additional gas with even higher levels of ionization.

Quantum Astronomy. Part II

A new method of fundamental quantum data sampling on basis of an optimum measuring scale has been designed. The method was applied for minimization of redundant experimental data in different fields of physics. Basing of this method there has been found the laws of binding electromagnetic, strong and gravitational interaction. It is shown that the laws of quantizing of physical quantities are the effect of space fibering. Moreover the said laws have a general electromagnetic nature as well. They are related to dimensionless electromagnetic constants - Na =861 and a-1=137,0360547255. These constants cover both the atomic and the space scales.

On the Interpretation of the Optical Spectra of L-type Dwarfs

We present synthetic optical spectra in the range 640-930 nm of a sample of field L dwarfs and the brown dwarf GL229B. Our computations show that Li, Na, K, Rb, and Cs govern the spectra of these objects, with Na and K contributing significantly to block the optical emergent radiation. Molecular absorptions of TiO, VO, CrH, FeH and CaH also dominate in the early L-types showing a strength that progressively decreases for later types. We find that the densities of these molecules in the atmospheres are considerably smaller by larger factors than those predicted by the chemical equilibrium. In order to reproduce the overall shape of the optical spectra an additional opacity (AdO) is required to be implemented in the computations. We have modelled it with a simple law [a0 (nu / nu0)^N, N=4], and found that this provides a good fit to the data. This AdO could be due to molecular/dust absorption or to dust scattering. The EWs and intensities of the alkali lines are highly affected by this opacity. The Li line at 670.8 nm, widely used as a substellarity discriminator, is more affected by the AdO than by the natural depletion of neutral Li. Our computations display a rather strong feature even at Teffs around 1000 K; depending on the Teff and on the amount of dust in the atmospheres of very cool dwarfs, it might be possible to detect Li even at temperatures this cool. Changes in the physical conditions of dust formation in L-type dwarfs will cause variability of the alkali lines.

Observational Tests for the Cosmological Principle and World Models

We review observational tests for the homogeneity of the Universe on large scales. Redshift and peculiar velocity surveys, radio sources, the X-Ray Background, the Lyman-$α$ forest and the Cosmic Microwave Background are used to set constraints on inhomogeneous models and in particular on fractal-like models.
Assuming the Cosmological Principle and the FRW metric, we estimate cosmological parameters by joint analysis of peculiar velocities, the CMB, cluster abundance, IRAS and Supernovae.
Under certain assumptions the best fit density parameter is Omega_m = 1 - lambda \approx 0.4 .
We present a new method for joint estimation by combining different data sets in a Bayesian way, and utilising `Hyper-Parameters'.

The nature of RXJ0052.1-7319

The nature of the X-ray source RXJ0052.1-7319 is discussed from observational data obtained from ROSAT observations performed in 1995 and 1996. An accurate position is derived from ROSAT HRI observations performed in 1995. The 6" error circle contains two OGLE microlensing optical variables of which one has previously been identified with a 14.5 mag Be-type star in the Small Magellanic Cloud. During the October 1996 observation RXJ0052.1-7319 was found to be extremely bright (with a count rate of ~1.1+/-0.1 s^-1) and 15.3 second X-ray pulsations have been discovered during this observation. This indicates for a high-mass X-ray binary nature of the source. During the 1995 observation the X-ray source detected at the position of RXJ0052.1-7319 was a factor 200 fainter. The corresponding luminosity has changed from 5.2x10^37 erg s^-1 to 2.6x10^35 erg s^-1 assuming SMC membership of the source. It is unclear whether the so-far unidentified second optical variable contributes to the X-ray flux of the source.

Photometric modal discrimination in Delta Scuti and Gamma Doradus stars

The potential of photometric methods for the identification of l, the degree of spherical surface harmonic of a pulsating star, is investigated with special emphasis on Stromgren photometry applied to delta Scuti and gamma Dor variables. Limitations of actual model atmospheres when fine precision is required for the calculations of partial derivatives and integrals, which depend on limb darkening coefficients, are discussed. Two methods are discussed to calculate the phase lags, the angle between maximum temperature and minimum radius, and R, a parameter which describes departure from adiabaticity of the atmospheres of these pulsating stars. These quantities appear to be very dependent on the convection as parametrized by the mixing length theory. When one of the methods is applied to the gamma Dor stars gives phase lags close to 0 degrees, which are 90-180 degrees out of phase from typical delta Scuti stars. Examples are given for some High Amplitude Delta Scuti Stars (HADS) where the method can be easily applied and gives results consistent to interpret them as radial (l=0) pulsating stars. Other low amplitude delta Scuti stars could be oscillating in a non-radial (l=1, 2) mode. Multi-band photometry is concluded to be a very powerful tool for mode identification of delta Scuti and gamma Dor stars, specially with the more accurate photometry that will be achieved in the near future with the asteroseismological space missions now in progress.

On the peculiar red clump morphology in the open clusters NGC 752 and NGC 7789

The red clump stars in the open cluster NGC 752 present a peculiar distribution in the colour-magnitude diagran (CMD): the clump is observed to present a faint extension, slightly to the blue of the main concentration of clump stars. We point out that a similar structure is present in the CMD of NGC 7789, and discuss their possible origins. This feature may be understood as the result of having, at the same time, stars of low-mass which undergo the helium-flash, and those just massive enough for avoiding it. The ages of both clusters are compatible with this interpretation. Similar features can be produced in theoretical models which assume a non-negligible mass spread for clump stars, of about 0.2 Mo. However, one can probably exclude that the observed effect is due to the natural mass range of core helium burning stars found in single isochrones, although present models do not present the level of detail necessary to completely explore this possibility. Also the possibility of a large age spread among cluster stars can be refuted on observational grounds. We then suggest a few alternatives. This spread may be resulting either from star-to-star variations in the mass-loss rates during the RGB phase. Alternatively, effects sush as stellar rotation or convective core overshooting, could be causing a significant spread in the core mass at He-ignition for star of similar mass. Finally, we point out that similar effects could also help to understand the distribution of clump stars in the CMDs of the clusters NGC 2660 and NGC 2204.

2-D Radiation Transfer Model of Non-Spherically Symmetric Dust Shell in P roto-Planetary Nebulae

We have fitted the HST images and the spectral energy distributions (SEDs) of three proto-planetary nebulae (PPN) with a 2-D radiation transfer model. The geometric and mass loss properties of these PPN are also derived.

Cold gas, the HI 21cm line and evolving galactic potentials

Neutral hydrogen traces gravitational potentials. In the nearby universe, 21cm emission-line surveys show that the bulk of the HI resides in well-formed, optically-luminous galaxies. At high redshift, 21cm line absorption against background radio quasars occurs in gas-rich systems identified with the highest HI column densities -- the ``damped Lyman alpha'' quasar absorption-line systems. High spatial-resolution observations of the redshifted 21cm line absorbers measure sizes and kinematics of the neutral absorbers.

Distribution functions for evolved stars in the inner galactic Plane

We present dynamical distribution functions for evolved stars in the inner galactic plane. We use an axisymmetric, two-component Stackel potential that satisfies recent constraints on the galactic potential, amongst others a slightly declining local rotation curve. We show that this potential is adequate to model stellar-kinematic samples with radial extent ranging from \~100 pc to ~5 kpc in the Galaxy. The two-integral model that gives the best fit to the first three projected moments provides a very good global representation of the data but fails to reproduce the central dispersion, the central apparent scaleheight and the cylindrical rotation at intermediate longitudes. All these features are fitted well by a three--integral model. We discuss various properties of the 2I- and 3I models and the implications for galactic structure. A somewhat thicker disk component is needed to explain the distribution of older AGB stars in the plane; this component also fits the kinematics at higher latitudes better. We find that the Disk and the Bulge, as traced by AGB stars, are very similar dynamically and could well be one and the same component. There is a dynamically distinct component in the inner 100 pc of the Bulge, however.

Radiative Processes and Geometry of Spectral States of Black-Hole Binaries

I review radiative processes responsible for X-ray emission in the hard (low) and soft (high) spectral states of black-hole binaries. The main process in the hard state appears to be thermal Comptonization (in a hot plasma) of blackbody photons emitted by a cold disk. This is supported by correlations between the spectral index, the strength of Compton reflection, and the peak frequencies in the power density spectrum, as well as by the frequency-dependence of Fourier-resolved spectra. Spectral variability may then be driven by the variable truncation radius of the disk. The soft state appears to correspond to the smallest truncation radii. However, the lack of high-energy cutoffs observed in the soft state implies that its main radiative process is Compton scattering of disk photons by non-thermal electrons. The bulk-motion Componization model for the soft state is shown to be ruled out by the data.

Can DNA bases be produced during molecular cloud collapse?

Using a reasonably large chemical reaction network consisting of 421 species, we show that along with normal chemical evolution of molecular cloud during collapse and star formation, significant amount of adenine, a DNA base, may be produced after an evolution of 10^{6-7} years. This findings may shed light on whether life on earth had to begin from scratch or these molecules could have contaminated the earth from the beginning.

A limit-cycle model for the binary supersoft X-ray source RX J0513.9-6951

We present new results of our X-ray monitoring of the transient binary supersoft X-ray source RX J0513.9-6951 in the LMC and of our re-analysis of optical light curves obtained during the MACHO project. We have covered a complete X-ray outburst cycle with the ROSAT HRI detector. From the amplitude and timescale of the soft X-ray variability, tight limits are derived for the temporal behaviour of the white-dwarf radius and the effective temperature of its envelope. A limit-cycle model is proposed to explain the observed optical and X-ray variability, the characteristic timescales of the durations of the X-ray on and off states, and those of the transitions between both states. Our observations confirm that the radius changes of the white-dwarf envelope occur on the Kelvin-Helmholtz timescale. The duration of the X-ray on and off states is compatible with the viscous timescales of the inner and outer accretion disk, respectively.

Chemo - Photometric evolution of star forming disk galaxy

The chemical and photometric evolution of star forming disk galaxies is investigated. Numerical simulations of the complex gasdynamical flows are based on our own coding of the Chemo - Dynamical Smoothed Particle Hydrodynamical (CD - SPH) approach, which incorporates the effects of star formation. As a first application, the model is used to describe the chemical and photometric evolution of a disk galaxy like the Milky Way.

HST NICMOS Observation of Proto-Planetary Nebulae

We report NICMOS wide-band and polarimetric observations of four proto-planetary nebulae. Molecular hydrogen emission is detected near the ends of the bipolar lobes of IRAS 17150-3224, which is evidence for the interaction of a fast, collimated outflow with the remnant of the asymptotic giant branch wind.

The X-ray/submillimetre link

It is widely believed that most of the cosmic X-ray background (XRB) is produced by a vast, hitherto undetected population of obscured AGN. Deep X-ray surveys with Chandra and XMM will soon test this hypothesis. Similarly, recent sub-mm surveys with SCUBA have revealed an analogous population of exceptionally luminous, dust-enshrouded {\em star-forming} galaxies at high redshift. There is now growing evidence for an intimate link between these obscured populations. There are currently large uncertainties in the models, but several independent arguments lead to the conclusion that a significant fraction of the SCUBA sources ($10-30% $) will contain quasars. Recent observational studies of SCUBA survey sources appear to confirm these predictions, although the relative roles of AGN and star-forming activity in heating the dust are unclear. Forthcoming surveys combining X-ray and sub-mm observations will provide a very powerful tool for disentangling these processes.

RR Lyrae Variables in the Globular Cluster M5

We present V-band CCD photometry of 65 RR Lyr variables from the globular cluster M5. We have estimated the basic physical parameters for 16 RRc stars and 26 RRab stars using a Fourier decomposition of the light curves of the variables. The mean values of mass, luminosity, effective temperature and relative helium abundance for the RRc stars are measured to be ${\cal M}=0.54{\cal M}_\odot$, log L = 1.69 T_{eff}=7353 K and Y=0.28, respectively. For the RRab variables the derived mean values of absolute magnitude, metallicity and effective temperature are: M_V=0.81, [Fe/H]=-1.23 and T_{eff}=6465 K. We find that the V amplitude of an RRab star for a given period is a function of metal abundance rather than Oosterhoff type. We find significant problems with the calibration of both the zero point and the scale of the luminosities measured with the Fourier technique. The apparent distance modulus derived from RRc stars is equal to $14.47\pm0.11$ and it is in good agreement with recent determinations. On the other hand distance modulus obtained from the sample of RRab stars (calibrated by the Baade-Wesselink observations of field RR Lyr variables) is significantly smaller and equal to $14.27\pm0.04$

Young and Intermediate Stellar population in Seyfert 2 galaxies

We present and discuss near-ultraviolet and optical ground-based spectra of the 20 brightest Seyfert 2 nuclei, and HST ultraviolet images and ultraviolet spectroscopy for a few of them. The goal is to study the starburst-AGN connection and the origin of the featureless continuum. The results indicate that half of the nuclei in the sample harbor a young and/or intermediate age population. These stars are formed in powerful and dusty starbursts of short duration, that have bolometric luminosities similar to the estimated bolometric luminosities of their obscured Seyfert 1 nuclei.

Cosmology with SZ and X-ray cluster surveys

Hydrodynamical simulations are used in combination with the Press-Schechter expression to simulate Sunyaev-Zel'dovich (SZ) galaxy cluster sky maps. These are used to gauge the ability of future SZ observations to provide information about the cosmological parameters H_0, Omega_M, and the gas fraction f_g in clusters. This work concentrates on prospects for AMI, the Arcminute MicroKelvin Imager, a new type of compact interferometric array currently proposed in Cambridge. The expectations are contrasted with those for X-ray missions, such as XMM, and the benefits of combining SZ and X-ray data are highlighted.

The variability of the Seyfert galaxy NGC 2992: the case for a revived AGN

We report the transition to an active state of the nucleus in the Seyfert 1.9 galaxy NGC 2992, discovered by means of new hard X-ray data. While the 2-10 keV flux declined by a factor of ~ 20 from 1978 to 1994, two recent BeppoSAX observations in 1997 and in 1998 caught the nuclear emission raising back to the same level of activity observed in 1978.
In both BeppoSAX observations the X-ray spectrum of the source is well represented by a power law with spectral index Gamma ~ 1.7, absorbed by a column density of N_H ~ 10^{22} cm^{-2} and characterized by a prominent iron Kαline. While in the second BeppoSAX data set the line properties appear to be consistent with those expected from accretion disc models, in the first BeppoSAX data set the iron feature is rather peculiar. The broadening is not significant and the line energy is E_{Kα}=6.62 +/- 0.07 keV, indicating emission from highly ionized iron. The line has too high equivalent width (~ 700 eV) to be produced by a hot scattering medium. By comparing these data with data previously in the literature, we interpret the spectral and flux changes in terms of different phases of rebuilding an accretion disc. The timescale for the disc rebuilding is estimated to range between 1 and 5 years.
The X-ray data are complemented with optical and near-infrared followup spectra taken 1.5 months after the discovery of the X-ray burst. The spectra are characterized by prominent broad emission lines. There is also evidence for hot dust emission in the H and K bands that, however, is probably still in the process of increasing.

Micro & strong lensing with the Square Kilometer Array: The mass--function of compact objects in high--redshift galaxies

We present the results from recent VLA 8.5-GHz and WSRT 1.4 and 4.9-GHz monitoring campaigns of the CLASS gravitational lens B1600+434 and show how the observed variations argue strongly in favor of microlensing by MACHOs in the halo of a dark-matter dominated edge-on disk galaxy at z=0.4. The population of flat-spectrum radio sources with micro-Jy flux-densities detected with the Square-Kilometer-Array is expected to have dimensions of micro-arcsec. They will therefore vary rapidly as a result of Galactic scintillation (diffractive and refractive). However, when positioned behind distant galaxies they will also show variations due to microlensing, even more strongly than in the case of B1600+434. Relativistic or superluminal motion in these background sources typically leads to temporal variations on time scales of days to weeks. Scintillation and microlensing can be distinguished, and separated, by their different characteristic time scales and the frequency dependence of their modulations. Monitoring studies with Square-Kilometer-Array at GHz frequencies will thus probe both microscopic and macroscopic properties of dark matter and its mass-function as a function of redshift, information very hard to obtain by any other method.

BeppoSAX observations of the nearby low-mass X-ray binary and fast transient SAX J1819.3-2525

SAX J1819.3-2525 is a nearby X-ray transient which exhibited a fast and large X-ray outburst on Sep. 15, 1999 (Smith et al. 1999). The Wide Field Cameras and the Narrow Field Instruments (NFI) on board BeppoSAX observed SAX J1819.3-2525 at various stages of its activity before that, in the spring and fall of 1999. The fluxes range between 0.012 and 0.3 Crab units (2-10 keV). The NFI observation is unique because it is the longest semi-continuous observation of SAX J1819.3-2525 so far, and it offers a study of the spectrum at a relatively high resolution of 8% full width at half maximum at 6 keV. We discuss the observations with emphasis on the X-ray spectrum. A strong Fe-K emission line was detected in SAX J1819.3-2525 with an equivalent width between 0.3 and 1 keV. The line energy is up to 6.85 +/- 0.02 keV and suggests the presence of highly ionized iron. We identify this as fluorescent emission from a photo-ionized plasma. The continuum spectrum is typical for a low-mass X-ray binary in which emission from an accretion disk corona plays an important role. There is no sign of an eclipse or periodic signal due to the binary orbit in this exposure, despite the fact that the twin jets seen at radio wavelengths suggest a high inclination angle.

Evidence for TeV Emission from GRB 970417a

Milagrito, a detector sensitive to very high energy gamma rays, monitored the northern sky from February 1997 through May 1998. With a large field of view and a high duty cycle, this instrument was well suited to perform a search for TeV gamma-ray bursts (GRBs). We report on a search made for TeV counterparts to GRBs observed by BATSE. BATSE detected 54 GRBs within the field of view of Milagrito during this period. An excess of events coincident in time and space with one of these bursts, GRB 970417a, was observed by Milagrito. The excess has a chance probability of $2.8 \times 10^{-5}$ of being a fluctuation of the background. The probability for observing an excess at least this large from any of the 54 bursts is $1.5 \times 10^{-3}$. No significant correlations were detected from the other bursts.

A Sociological Study of the Optically Emitting Isolated Neutron Stars

Although less than 1% of all radio pulsars are detected at optical wavelengths, their optical emission can yield a wealth of information that is either very difficult or plainly impossible to obtain at other wavelengths.

The Circumstellar Matter Around OH44.8-2.3

I-band images of the OH maser source OH44.8-2.3 are presented. Having a well-determined distance, this object is shown to be very young and physically small, with an asymmetric compact bipolar nebula already present. In the morphological terminology of Meixner et al. (2000) and Ueta et al. (2000), this object would be classified as a DUPLEX nebula because of its high optical depth and pole-to-equator density contrast.

The Most Distant X-ray Clusters and the Evolution of their Space Density

We briefly review our current knowledge of the space density of distant X-ray clusters as measured by several ROSAT serendipitous surveys. We compare old and new determinations of the cluster X-ray Luminosity Function (XLF) at increasing redshifts, addressing the controversial issue of the evolution of its high end. We use complete subsamples, drawn from the ROSAT Deep Cluster Survey (RDCS), to quantify the statistical significance of the XLF evolution out to z ~1. A consistent observational picture emerges in which the bulk of the cluster population shows no significant evolution out to z ~1, whereas the most luminous systems (L_x >~ L* [0.5-2 keV] =~ 5x10^44 erg/s) were indeed rarer, at least at z >0.5, in keeping with the original findings of the EMSS. We also report on the recent spectroscopic identification of four clusters in the RDCS lying beyond z =1, the most distant X-ray clusters known to date, which set an interesting lower limit on the space density of clusters at z >1.

Star Formation: Lessons from Taurus

The Taurus molecular cloud complex is the paradigm for quiescent, low-density, isolated star formation. Yet the age distribution of its stellar population indicates that star formation is a rapid and dynamic process, inconsistent with the old picture of magnetically-controlled protostellar cloud collapse. Instead, Taurus seems to have formed stars in a manner qualitatively consistent with the rapid cloud formation and dispersal inferred for other, higher-density star-forming regions. I suggest that the Taurus clouds were formed rapidly by the collision of atomic gas streams in the interstellar medium, and that star formation ensued immediately afterward.

EUV and X-ray observation of Abell 2199: a three-phase intracluster medium with a massive warm component

Various independent ways of constraining the Hubble constant and the baryonic content of the universe finally converged at a consensus range of values which indicates that at the present epoch the bulk of the universe's baryons is in the form of a warm $\sim$ 10$^6$ K gas - a temperature regime which renders them difficult to detect. The discovery of EUV and soft X-ray excess emission from clusters of galaxies was originally interpreted as the first direct evidence for the large scale presence of such a warm component. We present results from an EUVE Deep Survey (DS) observation of the rich cluster Abell 2199 in the Lex/B (69 - 190 eV) filter passband. The soft excess radial trend (SERT), shown by a plot against cluster radius $r$ of the percentage EUV emission $η$ observed above the level expected from the hot intracluster medium (ICM), reveals that $η$ is a simple function of $r$ which decreases monotonically towards $r = 0$; it smoothly turns negative at $r \sim$ 6 arcmin, inwards of this radius the EUV is absorbed by cold matter with a line-of-sight column density of $\geq$ 2.7 $\times$ 10$^{19}$ cm$^{-2}$. The area of absorption is much larger than that of the cooling flow. These facts together provide strong evidence for a centrally concentrated but cluster-wide distribution of clumps of cold gas which co-exist with warm gas of similar spatial properties. Further, the simultaneous modeling of EUV and X-ray data requires a warm component even within the region of absorption. The phenomenon demonstrates a three phase ICM, with the warm phase estimated to be $\sim$ 5-10 times more massive than the hot.

The multi-phase nature of three intracluster media

Among the models proposed to account for the new component of diffuse EUV and soft X-ray emission from clusters of galaxies (first discovered in Virgo) are two key contestants: the non-thermal scenario which postulates a population of relativistic electrons undergoing inverse-Compton (IC) interaction with the cosmic microwave background, and the original conjecture that the radiation is from a thermal warm gas at a temperature of $\sim$ 10$^{5-6}$ K. Currently a consensus set of limiting values on cosmological parameters favor the thermal gas interpretation. We also argued, based on pressure balance within the intracluster medium (ICM), that the non-thermal approach has formidable difficulties. Here we describe a spatial analysis of the soft X-ray excess emission of three clusters (Virgo, A2199, and Coma), using archival ROSAT/PSPC data, which reveals resolved features of cold intracluster clouds in absorption spreading over vast distances. Within the sample there is good indication that the soft excess radial trend (SERT, which qualitatively means a rising importance of the soft component with cluster radius) is due to a centrally peaked distribution of cold matter, with Coma having the least effect and no direct evidence for absorption. The data strongly suggest an intermixed ICM which contains gas masses at a wide range of temperatures, and the soft excess is due to a warm intermediate phase.

A Search for X-ray emission from Saturn, Uranus and Neptune

We present an analysis of X-ray observations of the trans-Jovian planets Saturn, Uranus and Neptune with the ROSAT PSPC in comparison with X-ray observations of Jupiter. For the first time a marginal X-ray detection of Saturn was found and 95% confidence upper limits for Uranus and Neptune were obtained. These upper limits show that Jupiter-like X-ray luminosities can be excluded for all three planets, while they are consistent assuming intrinsic Saturn-like X-ray luminosities. Similar X-ray production mechanisms on all trans-Jovian planets can therefore not be ruled out, and spectral shape and total luminosity observed from Saturn are consistent with thick-target bremsstrahlung caused by electron precipitation as occurring in auroral emission from the Earth.

Giant protostellar outflows revealed by infrared imaging

We present new infrared data from a survey for embedded protostellar jets in the Orion A cloud. This survey makes use of the S(1) v = 1-0 line of molecular hydrogen at lambda = 2.12 mum to search for infrared jets deep inside the cloud and thus hidden from view at optical wavelengths. We present data on the three flows associated with the Herbig-Haro objects HH 43/38 & HH 64, HH 65, and the L1641-N giant flow. HH 43, HH 38 and HH 64 are part of one H_2 flow extending over at least 1.4 pc. We identify a deeply embedded 1.3 mm and IRAS source (HH 43 MMS1 = IRAS 05355-0709C) as the likely driving source, while the infrared source previously assumed to drive HH 43/38 (HH 43-IRS1 = IRAS 05357-0710) is seen to drive a smaller jet. The morphology of HH 43-IRS1 suggests that it is a star+disk system seen close to edge-on. We identify another large H_2 flow apparently comprising the L1641-S3 CO outflow and the redshifted lobe of the L1641-S CO outflow containing HH 65. This flow extends over at least 2.6 pc and appears strongly curved. It is driven by L1641-S3 IRS, a deeply embedded 1.3 mm and IRAS source (L1641-S3 MMS1 = IRAS 05375-0731). Finally, we have found some additional large H_2 features to the east of V 380 Ori and the HH 1/2 system, which probably outline another part of the L1641-N outflow. The molecular flow MB 20/21, which extends to the south from V 380 Ori, also appears to be a part of the L1641-N outflow.

Analysis and interpretation of the X-ray properties of black hole candidates

The thesis is mainly devoted to the study of spectral and timing characteristics of the X-ray emission from Galactic black hole candidates GRS 1915+105, GX 339-4, 4U 1630-47, XTE J1748-288, GRS 1739-278, KS/GRS 1730-312 and GRS 1737-31. The main results include: observation of the correlated evolution of spectral and timing parameters of these sources and its interpretation in the framework of two-phase model of the accretion flow near the compact objects; development of the quantitative model for the evolution of GRS 1915+105 during flaring state providing direct estimate of the disk accretion rate in the system; restrictions on the parameters of the spatial distribution and luminosity function of the Galactic hard X-ray transient sources; application of the the bulk motion comptonization model to the analytic approximation of the broad--band energy spectra of Galactic black hole candidates in the high/very high state obtained with RXTE.

ISO SWS-LWS observations of the prototypical reflection nebula NGC 7023

We present SWS and LWS ISO observations towards a strip across the photodissociation region (PDR) in the reflection nebula NGC 7023. SWS02 and LWS01 spectra have been taken towards the star and the brightest infrared filaments located NW and SW from the star (hereafter NW and SW PDRs). In addition, SWS02 spectra have been taken towards two intermediate positions.
While all the PDR tracers (the [CII] 157.7$\mic$, [OI] 63.2 and 145.6$\mic$, [HI] 21cm and the H$_2$ rotational lines) present a ring-like morphology with the peaks toward the NW and SW PDRs and a minimum around the star, the SiII emission is filling the hole of this ring with the peak towards the star. This morphology can only be explained if the SiII emission arise in the lowest extinction layers of the PDR (A$_v$ $<$ 2 mag) and the HII region. At least 20% -- 30% of the Si must be in gas phase in these layers. For A$_v$ $\geq$ 2 mag, the Si is mainly in solid form ($δ$ Si = -1.3).
In both, the NW and SW PDRs, the intensities of the H$_2$ rotational lines can only be fitted by assuming an ortho-to-para-H$_2$ ratio lower than 3 in gas with rotation temperatures from 400 to 700 K. Therefore, there is a non-equilibrium OTP ratio in the region. The comparison between the OTP ratio derived from H$_2$ vibrational lines and the pure H$_2$ rotational lines, shows that the OTP ratio increases from $\sim$ 1.5 to 3 across the photodissociation region with larger values in the less shielded gas (A$_v$$<$ 0.7 mag). This behavior is interpreted as a consequence of an advancing photodissociation front.

Probing the width of the MACHO mass function

The simplest interpretation of the microlensing events observed towards the Large Magellanic Cloud is that approximately half of the mass of the Milky Way halo is in the form of MAssive Compact Halo Objects with $M \sim 0.5 M_{\odot}$. This poses severe problems for stellar MACHO candidates, and leads to the consideration of more exotic objects such as primordial black holes (PBHs). Constraining the MACHO mass function will shed light on their nature. Using the current data we find, for four halo models, the best fit delta-function, power law and PBH mass functions. The best fit PBH mass functions, despite having significant finite width, have likelihoods which are similar to, and for one particular halo model greater than, those of the best fit delta functions. We also find that if the correct halo model is known then $\sim$ 500 events will be sufficient to determine whether the MACHO mass function has significant width, and will also allow determination of the mass function parameters to $\sim 5%$.

Hubble Space Telescope Imaging of the Young Planetary Nebula GL 618

We present narrow-band Hubble Space Telescope images of the young planetary nebula GL 618. These images have allowed us to study the detailed morphology of shock-excited emission present in the bipolar lobes of this object. These images reveal the presence of three highly collimated outflows emanating from the central regions of GL 618. We discuss the significance of the detection of these outflows and the possible origins of these features.

Clues to the origin of parsec to kilo-parsec jet misalignments in EGRET sources

The apparent position angle difference $Δ$PA between parsec and kilo-parsec jets in blazars can be related to the bending properties of the jets. We present correlations between the misalignment $Δ$PA and the ratio of radio to broad-line emission for a sample of $γ$-ray blazars. The present study is limited to EGRET sources due to uniform data for the radio and optical properties of these sources being easily available. The broad-line emission is known to be a good indicator of the accretion power for both steep and flat-spectrum quasars. We find significant correlations between $Δ$PA and the ratio of radio flux (total and radio core flux respectively) to broad-line flux, which is consistent with the beaming scenario. A weak correlation between $Δ$PA and the ratio of extended radio to broad-line flux might imply that the intrinsic bend of the jet is related with the ratio of jet mechanical power to accretion power.

Synthesis of 19F in Wolf-Rayet stars

Meynet and Arnould (1993) have suggested that Wolf-Rayet (WR) stars could significantly contaminate the Galaxy with 19F. In their scenario, 19F is synthesized at the beginning of the He-burning phase from the 14N left over by the previous CNO-burning core, and is ejected in the interstellar medium when the star enters its WC phase. Recourse to CNO seeds makes the 19F yields metallicity-dependent. These yields are calculated on grounds of detailed stellar evolutionary sequences for an extended range of initial masses (from 25 to 120 Msol) and metallicities (Z = 0.008, 0.02 and 0.04). The adopted mass loss rate prescription enables to account for the observed variations of WR populations in different environments. The 19F abundance in the WR winds of 60 Msol model stars is found to be about 10 to 70 times higher than its initial value, depending on the metallicity. This prediction is used in conjunction with a very simple model for the chemical evolution of the Galaxy to predict that WR stars could be significant (dominant?) contributors to the solar system fluorine content. We also briefly discuss the implications of our model on the possible detection of fluorine at high redshift.

2 micron Spectroscopy within 0.3 arcseconds of SgrA*

We present moderate (R~$\approx$~2,700) and high resolution (R~$\approx$~22,000) 2.0$-$2.4 \micron\ spectroscopy of the central 0.1 square arcseconds of the Galaxy obtained with NIRSPEC, the facility near-infrared spectrometer for the Keck II telescope. The composite spectra do not have any features attributable to the brightest stars in the central cluster, i.e.\ after background subtraction, W$_{\rm ^{12}CO(2-0)}$~$<$~2~Å. This stringent limit leads us to conclude that the majority, if not all, of the stars are hotter than typical red giants. Coupled with previously reported photometry, we conclude that the sources are likely OB main sequence stars. In addition, the continuum slope in the composite spectrum is bluer than that of a red giant and is similar to that of the nearby hot star, IRS16NW. It is unlikely that they are late-type giants stripped of their outer envelopes because such sources would be much fainter than those observed. Given their inferred youth ($τ_{\rm age}$~$<$~20~\Myr), we suggest the possibility that the stars have formed within 0.1 pc of the supermassive black hole. We find a newly-identified broad-line component (V$_{\rm FWHM}$ $\approx$ 1,000 \kms) to the 2.2178 \micron\ [\ion{Fe}{3}] line located within a few arcseconds of Sgr~A$^*$. A similar component is not seen in the Br-$γ$ emission.

X-rays and Cosmology

The role of X-ray observations for cosmological studies and conclusions is briefly explored. X-rays currently yield cosmologically interesting results on the abundances, evolution and gas content of clusters of galaxies, on the clustering and evolution of active galaxies and on the X-ray Background. They are unlikely in the long term future to give the most precise values of the cosmological parameters, although in the short term the baryon fraction of clusters and the Sunyaev-Zeldovich effect will remain important determinants and checks for some parameters. X-rays will however continue to play an important role in studying the astrophysics of the formation and growth of black holes, galaxies, groups and clusters. It is possible that this role will be crucial, if winds from active galaxies are responsible for breaking the simple gravitational scaling laws for clusters.

Simulating Supernovae Remnants in Gas Clouds

The Hydra $N$-body hydrodynamics code has been modified to model, from the end of the Sedov phase, the effects of supernovae on the surrounding medium. The motivation is to investigate the feedback of energy into the interstellar/intergalactic medium. We compare our results for supernova remnants (SNRs) in a uniform medium to previous detailed work on the late evolution of SNRs. The code is found to reproduce the bulk characteristics of SNRs well. Results on the effects of a single central SNR on Plummer clouds are presented. The feedback of kinetic energy and the percentage mass loss can be parameterised in terms of the cloud mass and characteristic radius in a simple way. The kinetic energy fraction returned to the ISM from a SNR is $<3$ per cent. The removal of gas from the cold, dense phase and the addition of energy due to the lowering of the potential energy of a cloud is at least as significant, if not much more so, than the kinetic energy leaving a cloud.

Evidence for a substellar secondary in the magnetic cataclysmic binary EF Eridani

Low-state spectrophotometry of the short-period polar EF Eridani (Porb=81 min) found the system at V=18.0 with no trace of the companion (Wheatley and Ramsay 1998). We show that the lack of such spectral features implies that the companion to the white dwarf in EF Eri has a spectral type later than M9 and is either a transition object at the brink of hydrogen burning or a brown dwarf. The optical low state spectrum indicates a temperature of the white dwarf of Teff=9500+-500K. This is one of the coldest white dwarfs in cataclysmic variables, implying a cooling age t_cool>=10e9 yrs or accretional heating at a rate as given by gravitational radiation. The large age of the system excludes a warm brown dwarf as companion. EF Eri has either just passed through the period minimum of cataclysmic variable stars or has started mass transfer from an old brown dwarf secondary.

Testing for substructure in optical and X-ray clusters

We present a detailed study of the morphological features of 22 rich galaxy clusters. We systematically compare cluster images and morphological parameters in an attempt to reliably identify possible substructure in both optical and X-ray images. To this end, we compute moments of the surface-brightness distribution to estimate ellipticities, center-of-mass shifts and orientations. We find important correlations between the optical and X-ray morphological shape parameters. Most of our clusters (17) have a good 1-to-1 correspondence between the optical and the X-ray images and at least 9 appear to have strong indications of substructure. This corresponds to a percentage of about 40% in good accordance with other similar analyses. Finally, 4 out of 22 systems seem to have distinct subclumps in the optical which are not verified in the X-ray images, and thus are suspect of being due to optical projection effects. We assess the significance of results using Monte Carlo simulations.

On the gamma-ray fluxes expected from Cassiopeia A

Based on the results of our previous study of the broad band synchrotron emission of Cas A in the framework of a spatial inhomogeneous model, we calculate the fluxes of gamma-radiation that can be expected from this supernova remnant in different energy bands. We show that at energies below 10 GeV gamma-ray fluxes detectable by forthcoming space-borne detectors should be produced due to bremsstrahlung of radio emitting electrons. We predict that the power-law index of the photon flux in the GeV region should be hard, close to the index ~2.2 expected for the acceleration spectrum of the electrons. Photon fluxes accessible to future ground-based gamma-ray detectors could also be expected at very high energies. The fluxes to be expected due to bremsstrahlung and inverse Compton radiation of relativistic electrons at TeV energies should be very steep, and strongly dependent on the characteristic magnetic fields in Cas A. We could expect also significant fluxes of pi^0 -decay gamma-rays produced by relativistic protons. These fluxes may extend with a hard spectrum beyond TeV energies as far as the protons would be accelerated to energies beyond 100 TeV. The hardness of the gamma-ray spectrum at TeV energies could in principle allow one to distinguish between electronic and hadronic origins of those gamma-rays. We discuss also other implications, such as relativistic particle content, or physical parameters in the source, that could be derived from future gamma-ray flux measurements in different energy bands.

On energy-dependent propagation effects and acceleration sites of relativistic electrons in Cassiopeia A

We consider the effect of energy dependent propagation of relativistic electrons in a spatially inhomogeneous medium in order to interpret the broad-band nonthermal radiation of the young supernova remnant (SNR) Cassiopeia A. A two-zone model is proposed that distinguishes between compact, bright steep-spectrum radio knots and the bright fragmented radio ring on the one hand, and the remainder of the shell - the diffuse `plateau' - on the other hand. In the framework of this model it is possible to explain the basic features of the spectral and temporal evolution of the synchrotron radiation of Cas A if one assumes that these compact structures correspond to sites of efficient electron acceleration producing hard spectra of accelerated particles with power-law indices ~2.2. The resulting energy distribution of radio electrons in these compact structures becomes significantly steeper than the electron production spectrum on timescales of the energy dependent escape of these electrons into the surrounding diffuse plateau region. We argue that the steepness, rather than the hardness, of the radio spectra of compact bright structures in clumpy sources can in general be considered as a typical signature of sites where strong electron acceleration has built up high gradients in the spatial distribution of radio electrons. Subsequent diffusive escape then modifies their energy distribution, leading to spatial variations of spectral indices within the radio source. Qualitative and quantitative interpretations of a number of observational data of Cas A are given. Predictions following from the model are discussed.

N-body simulations of interactions and mergings in small galaxy groups

In this paper I focus on three topics related to the dynamical evolution of small galaxy groups, for which the input of N-body simulations has been decisive. These are the merging rates in compact groups, the properties of remnants of multiple mergers, and the evolution of disc galaxies surrounded by one or more satellites. The short dynamical times of compact groups make it difficult to understand why such groups are observed at all. N-body simulations have pointed out two possible classes of solutions to this problem. The first one proposes that there is on-going formation of compact groups, or that the longevity of the group is due to secondary infall. For the second class of solutions the longevity of compact groups is due either to their specific initial conditions, or to a massive common halo, encompassing the whole group. I discuss here these alternatives, together with their respective advantages and disadvantages. I then turn to the structure of remnants of multiple mergers and compare the results of N-body simulations with the properties of observed elliptical galaxies. Finally I discuss the dynamical evolution of a disc galaxy surrounded by one or more spherical satellites.

Clustering in the X-ray Universe

In this paper we discuss various possibilities of using X-ray observations to gain information about the large-scale structure of the Universe. After reviewing briefly the current status of these investigations we explore different ways of making progress in this field, using deep surveys, large area surveys and X-ray background observations.

Physical morphology and triggers of starburst galaxies

We present a method of determining the likely triggering mechanisms for luminous, nearby starbursts based on their optical asymmetry and (B-V) color -- what we term as indices of `physical morphology.' By comparing the starbursts' locations in a color-asymmetry diagram to an independent, nearby galaxy sample, we identify which starbursts are likely triggered by an interaction/merger. We confirm our morphological interpretation based on a comparison to 20% and 50% HI velocity-width ratios. We further explain how this use of physical morphology can put constraints on the dynamical history of other galaxies, including star-forming galaxies at high redshifts.

Current Development of the Photo-Ionization Code Cloudy

This paper describes the most important differences between Cloudy 90 and Cloudy 94, the most recent upgrade of the code which has now been posted on the WWW. It also describes the upgrade of the grain model in Cloudy which is currently underway.

Young Massive Star Clusters in Spiral Galaxies. III. Correlations between cluster populations and host galaxy properties

We present an analysis of correlations between integrated properties of galaxies and their populations of young massive star clusters. Data for 21 nearby galaxies presented by Larsen & Richtler (1999) are used together with literature data for 10 additional galaxies, spanning a range in specific U-band luminosity T_L(U) from 0 to 15. We find that T_L(U) correlates with several observable host galaxy parameters, in particular the ratio of Far-Infrared (FIR) to B-band flux and the optical surface brightness. Taking the FIR luminosity as an indicator of the star formation rate (SFR), it is found that T_L(U) correlates very well with the SFR per unit area. A similar correlation is seen between T_L(U) and the atomic hydrogen surface density. The cluster formation efficiency seems to depend on the SFR in a continuous way, rather than being related to any particularly violent mode of star formation. We discuss fundamental features of possible scenarios for cluster formation. One possibility is that the correlation between T_L(U) and SFR is due to a common controlling parameter, most probably the density of the ISM. Another scenario conceives a high T_L(U) as resulting from the energy input from many massive stars in case of a high SFR.

Stellar-Dynamics of Young Star Clusters

The stellar-dynamical evolution of bound star clusters during the first few Myr is dominated by binary-binary and binary-star interactions, the rapid sinking of the most massive stars to the centre of the clusters and mass loss from evolving stars. The consequences of these processes for the binary and stellar population in clusters, and for the star clusters as a whole, are studied by following the evolution over 150 Myr of a library of compact cluster models containing up to 10^4 stars.

A large high-energy gamma-ray flare from the blazar 3C 273

The Compton Gamma-Ray Observatory (CGRO) experiments EGRET and COMPTEL observed the Virgo sky region continuously for 7 weeks between December 10, 1996 and January 28, 1997. The prominent quasar 3C~273 was found to be the brightest source in gamma-rays and was significantly detected by EGRET and COMPTEL. The EGRET experiment observed a time-variable flux at energies above 100 MeV, which reached in a 2-week flaring period (December 30, 1996 to January 14, 1997) its highest flux level observed during the CGRO-era. COMPTEL, however, does not observe obvious time variability at energies below ~30 MeV contemporaneous to EGRET. In particular, no flare was observed, indicating that this outburst is solely a high-energy (>100 MeV) phenomenon. The energy spectrum between 3 MeV and 10 GeV is well represented by a simple power-law model. Below 3 MeV a spectral turnover is indicated. Performing spectral analysis for different time periods, we found evidence for a spectral hardening during the flaring period, which is consistent with the flare occurring mainly at the higher energies and with its absence at COMPTEL energies of a few MeV. This may be interpreted as an indication that the emission in the EGRET energy range is dominated by a different radiation mechanism than the MeV emission. We argue that the most likely mechanism for the high-energy flare is inverse-Compton scattering of reprocessed accretion-disk radiation.

Regular magnetic fields in the dwarf irregular galaxy NGC 4449

We present a high-resolution VLA study of the total power and polarized radio continuum emission at 8.46 and 4.86 GHz of the irregular galaxy NGC 4449, known for its weak rotation and non-systematic gas motions. We found strong galaxy-scale regular magnetic fields, which is surprising because of a lack of ordered rotation required for the dynamo action. The strength of the regular field reaches 8 $μ$G and that of the total field 14 $μ$G, comparable to that of the total magnetic field strength in radio-bright spirals. The magnetic vectors in NGC 4449 form radial ``fans'' in the central region and fragments of a spiral pattern in the galaxy's outskirts. These structures are associated with large regions of systematic Faraday rotation, implying genuine galaxy-scale magnetic fields rather than random ones compressed and stretched by gas flows. The observed pattern of polarization B-vectors is similar to dynamo-type fields in normal spirals. Nonstandard, fast dynamo concepts are required to explain the observed field strengths, though it is unknown what kind of magnetic field geometry can be produced in slowly and chaotically rotating objects. The so far neglected role of magnetic fields for the dynamics and star formation in dwarf irregulars also needs to be revised.

The 1996 outburst of GRO J1655-40: disc irradiation and enhanced mass transfer

We show that the 1996 outburst of the X-ray binary transient system GRO J1655-40 can be explained by the standard dwarf-nova type disc instability, followed by an episode of enhanced mass transfer from the secondary if the mass transfer rate in GRO J1655-40 is within a factor < 10 of the stability limit. We argue that irradiation of the secondary during the onset of the outburst driven by the thermal instability in the outer disc can increase the mass transfer rate above the minimum value required for stable accretion. This will then produce the period of near-constant X-ray emission seen in this system. This scenario can also explain the observed anti-correlation between the optical and X-ray fluxes. It is generally accepted that optical emission in low-mass X-ray binaries is produced by irradiation of the outer disc by X-rays. There is also strong circumstantial evidence that in order for the outer disc to see the irradiating flux, it must be warped. Depending on the warp propagation mechanism, either a burst of mass from the secondary or viscous decay are likely to decrease the degree of warping, thereby causing the decrease in the observed optical flux while the X-ray flux remains constant or even increases, exactly as observed in GRO J1655-40. Finally, the decrease of the disc warping and, therefore, irradiation will cause the disc to become unstable once again, terminating the outburst.

Superconducting cosmic strings as gamma ray burst engines

Cusps of superconducting strings can serve as GRB engines. A powerful beamed pulse of electromagnetic radiation from a cusp produces a jet of accelerated particles, whose propagation is terminated by the shock responsible for GRB. A single free parameter, the string scale of symmetry breaking $η\sim 10^{14} GeV$, together with reasonable assumptions about the magnitude of cosmic magnetic fields and the fraction of volume that they occupy, explains the GRB rate, duration and fluence, as well as the observed ranges of these quantities. The wiggles on the string can drive the short-time structures of GRB. This model predicts that GRBs are accompanied by strong bursts of gravitational radiation which should be detectable by LIGO, VIRGO and LISA detectors.

ISO Spectroscopy of Young Intermediate-Mass Stars in the BD+40 4124 Group

We present the results of ISO SWS and LWS grating scans towards the three brightest members of the BD+40 4124 group in the infrared: BD+40 4124 (B2Ve), LkHalpha 224 (A7e) and the embedded source LkHalpha 225. Emission from the pure rotational lines of H_2, from ro-vibrational transitions of CO, from PAHs, from H I recombination lines and from the infrared fine structure lines of [Fe II], [Si II], [S I], [O I], [O III] and [C II] was detected. These emission lines arise in the combination of a low-density (approx 10^2 cm^-3) H II region with a clumpy PDR in the case of BD+40 4124. The lower transitions of the infrared H I lines observed in BD+40 4124 are optically thick; most likely they arise in either a dense wind or a circumstellar disk. This same region is also responsible for the optical H I lines and the radio continuum emission. In the lines of sight towards LkHalpha 224 and LkHalpha 225, the observed emission lines arise in a non-dissociative shock produced by a slow (approx 20 km/s) outflow arising from LkHalpha 225. Toward LkHalpha 225 we also observe a dissociative shock, presumably located closer to the outflow source than the non-dissociative shock. In the line of sight towards LkHalpha 225 we observed absorption features due to solid water ice and amorphous silicates, and due to gas-phase H_2O, CO and CO_2. No solid CO_2 was detected towards LkHalpha 225, making this the first line of sight where the bulk of the CO_2 is in the gas-phase.

H_3^(2+) molecular ion in a strong magnetic field: a triangular configuration

The bound state in the system of three protons and an electron (pppe) under a homogeneous strong magnetic field where the protons are situated in the vertices of an equilateral triangle perpendicular to the magnetic field lines is found. It is shown that for magnetic fields B = 10^11 - 4.414x10^13 G the potential energy curves as a function of the internuclear distance R have an explicit minimum. For all magnetic fields studied, the binding energy of the triangular configuration is less than the binding energy of the linear parallel configuration (A. Turbiner et al. JETP Lett. 69, p. 844). In the contrary to the linear case, the binding energy decreases with a magnetic field growth, while the equilibrium internuclear distance slowly increases.

Spectra of High Redshift Galaxies using a Cluster as a Gravitational Telescope

Using the Focal Reducer Spectrograph (FORS) at the Very Large Telescope (VLT) during the FORS commissioning time in December 1998 we took long slit spectra of the gravitational arc visible on images of the galaxy cluster 1E 0657 (z = 0.296). This cluster is one of the hottest (massive) cluster known so far and hence perfectly acts as a gravitational telescope magnifying the flux of background sources up to a factor of 17. Here we present the spectra of the gravitational arc (z = 3.23) and 4 additional high redshift objects (z=2.35 to 3.09), that also fall on the slit by chance coincidence. We briefly discuss the stellar contents of these galaxies and show first models of the observed spectra. Furthermore we point out the effectivity of using FORS in combination with available gravitational telescopes.

Wind properties of Wolf-Rayet stars at low metallicity: Sk41 (SMC)

The stellar properties of Sk41 (AB4, WN5h), the only known single Wolf-Rayet star in the SMC, are derived from ultraviolet (IUE), optical (AAT) and near-IR (NTT) spectroscopy. Contrary to expectations, the stellar properties of Sk41 are typical of equivalent WN stars in the Galaxy and LMC, with T=42kK, log(L/Lo)=5.7, v_inf=1300 km/s, Mdot/sqrt(f)=3x10^-5 Mo/yr and H/He=2 by number, where f is the volume filling factor. The stellar luminosity of Sk41 is 50% below the minimum value predicted by single star evolutionary models at the metallicity of the SMC.
Emission line luminosities of HeII 4686A and CIV 5801-12A in SMC WR stars are not systematically lower than their Galactic and LMC counterparts. From 43 late-type and 59 early-type WN stars, log L(HeII)=36.0 erg/s and 35.8 erg/s respectively, while log L(CIV)=36.5 erg/s from 25 early-type WC stars. This new calibration has application in deriving WR populations in young starburst galaxies.
Synthetic WN models are calculated with identical parameters except that metal abundances are varied. Following the Smith et al. WN classification scheme, CNO equilibrium models reveal that earlier spectral types are predicted at lower metallicity, i.e. WN3--4 at 0.04 Z(solar) versus WN6 at 1.0 Z(solar). This provides an explanation for the trend towards earlier WN spectral types at low metallicity.

Ages, Distances, and the Initial Mass Functions of Stellar Clusters

We provide a review of the current status of several topics on the ages, distances, and mass functions of open clusters, with a particular emphasis on illuminating the areas of uncertainty. Hipparcos has obtained parallaxes for nearby open clusters that have expected accuracies much better than has been previously achievable. By using the lithium depletion boundary method and isochrone fitting based on much improved new theoretical evolutionary models for low mass stars, it is arguable that we will soon have have much better age scales for clusters and star-forming regions. With improved optical and near-IR cameras, we are just now beginning to extend the mass function of open clusters like the Pleiades into the regime below the hydrogen burning mass limit. Meanwhile, observations in star-forming regions are in principle capable of identifying objects down to of order 10 Jupiter masses.

7Li in Metal-Poor Stars: The Spread of the Li Plateau

A highly homogeneous study of 23 halo field dwarf stars has achieved a Li abundance accuracy of 0.033 dex per star. The work shows that the intrinsic spread of the Li abundances of these stars at a given metallicity is <0.02 dex, and consistent with zero. That is, the Spite Li plateau for halo field dwarfs is incredibly thin. The thinness rules out depletion by more than 0.1 dex by a rotational-induced extra-mixing mechanism. Despite the thinness of the plateau, an increase of Li with [Fe/H] is seen, interpreted as evidence of Galactic chemical evolution (GCE) of Li, primarily due to Galactic cosmic ray (GCR) spallation reactions in the era of halo formation. The rate of Li evolution is concordant with: (1) observations of spallative 6Li in halo dwarfs; (2) GCE models; and (3) data on Li in higher metallicity halo stars. New data have also revealed four new ultra-Li-deficient halo dwarfs, doubling the number known. Based on their propensity to cluster at the halo main sequence turnoff and also to exist redward of the turnoff, we hypothesise that they are the products of binary mergers that ultimately will become blue stragglers. We explain their low Li abundances by normal pre-main-sequence (and possibly main-sequence) destruction in the low mass stars prior to their merging. If this explanation is correct, then such stars need no longer be considered an embarrassment to the existence of negligible Li destruction in the majority of field halo dwarfs.

A search for precursors of Ultracompact HII Regions in a sample of luminous IRAS sources. III: Circumstellar Dust Properties

The James Clerk Maxwell Telescope has been used to obtain submillimeter and millimeter continuum photometry of a sample of 30 IRAS sources previously studied in molecular lines and centimeter radio continuum. All the sources have IRAS colours typical of very young stellar objects (YSOs) and are associated with dense gas. In spite of their high luminosities (L>10000 solar units), only ten of these sources are also associated with a radio counterpart. In 17 cases we could identify a clear peak of millimeter emission associated with the IRAS source, while in 9 sources the millimeter emission was extended or faint and a clear peak could not be identified; upper limits were found in 4 cases only.
Using simple greybody fitting model to the observed SED, we derive global properties of the circumstellar dust. The dust temperature varies from 24 K to 45 K, while the exponent of the dust emissivity vs frequency power-law spans a range 1.56<beta<2.38, characteristic of silicate dust; total circumstellar masses range up to more than 500 solar masses.
We find that for sources with comparable luminosities, the total column densities derived from the dust masses do not distinguish between sources with and without radio counterpart. We interpret this result as an indication that dust does not play a dominant role in inhibiting the formation of the HII region. We examine several scenarios for their origin in terms of newborn ZAMS stars and although most of these fail to explain the observations, we cannot exclude that these sources are young stars already on the ZAMS with modest residual accretion that quenches the expansion of the HII region. Finally, we consider the possibility that the IRAS sources are high-mass pre-ZAMS (or pre-H-burning) objects deriving most of the emitted luminosity from accretion.

Morphology vs. physical properties: some comments and questions

Some of the correlations between morphological and other physical properties of planetary nebulae (PNe) are reviewed. In particular, the finding that bipolar (b) PNe have more massive progenitors than the other morphological classes is discussed in detail. Earlier results are confirmed; including all the various sources of uncertainty, the Galactic distribution of objects indicate that b PNe are formed by stars with initial masses >1.3 solar masses, while elliptical (e) PNe by progenitors with masses <1.3 solar masses. Recent results for the chemical abundances of b and e PNe and their orientation within the Galaxy are also presented. Finally, the key role in the discussion of the formation of b PNe played by detached binary systems such as symbiotic stars is briefly discussed.

Symbiotic Miras can do it

Symbiotic Miras give a nice practical demonstration of the formation of bipolar and highly aspherical nebulae as a consequence of interaction in detached binaries. We believe that these binary systems are among the most promising candidates for the progenitors of bipolar planetary nebulae. We present a list of the optically extended nebulae known to date around symbiotic Miras, and illustrate their properties using recent HST and ESO-NTT [NII] images of He 2-104 and He 2-147.

Abundances in Very Metal-Poor Stars

Metal-poor stars provide information on the characteristics and chemical evolution of the halo population of the Galaxy, the first epoch of star formation and Galaxy formation (not just locally but with relevance to high-redshift objects), and big bang nucleosynthesis. This review looks at recent developments in this subject.

The Galaxy Distribution: Homogeneous, Fractal, or Neither

From the standpoint of theoretical physics we can treat Newtonian cosmology as a problem in nonlinear dynamics. The attempt to average the density, in search of a method of making contact between theory and observation, is replaced by the more systematic idea of coarsegraining. I also explain in this context why two previous attempts at the construction of hierarchical models of the universe are not useful in data analysis. The main ideas behind two older competing data analyses purporting to show evidence from galaxy statistics for either a homogeneous and isotropic universe in one case, and for a mono-fractal universe in the other, are presented and discussed. I also present the method and results of a newer data analysis that shows that visible matter provides no evidence that would allow us to claim that the cosmological principle holds, or that the universe is fractal (or multifractal). In other words, observational data provides us with no evidence that the universe is either homogeneous and isotropic, or monofractal.

CCD photometry in the region of NGC 6994: the remains of an old open cluster

We present the results of BV(RI)_KC CCD photometry down to V=21 mag in the region of NGC 6994. To our knowledge, no photometry has previously been reported for this object and we find evidences that it is a poor and sparse old open cluster, with a minimum angular diameter of 9 arcmin, i.e. larger than the 3 arcmin originally assigned to it. We obtain a color excess E(B-V) = 0.07 +/- 0.02 mag by means of the BVI_(C) technique. Based on the theoretical isochrones from VandenBergh (1985) that are in better agreement with our data, we estimate for this cluster a distance from the Sun of 620 pc (Vo-Mv = 9 +/- 0.25 mag) and an age lying within the range of 2 - 3 Gyr, adopting solar metallicity. Thus, the corresponding cluster's Galactocentric distance is 8.1 kpc and is placed at about 350 pc below the Galactic plane. According to this results, NGC 6994 belongs to the old open cluster population located in the outer disk and at large distances from the Galactic plane, and must have suffered significant individual dynamical evolution, resulting in mass segregation and evaporation of low mass stars.

Models of the Time Variability of BHC: Light Curves, PSD, Lags

We present a model for the aperiodic variablity of accreting Black Hole Candidates (BHC) along with model light curves. According to the model this variability is the combined outcome of random (Poisson) injection of soft photons near the center of an extended {\sl inhomogeneous} distribution of hot electrons (similar to those advocated by the ADAF or ADIOS flows) and the stochastic nature of Compton scattering which converts these soft photons into the observed high energy radiation. Thus, the timing properties (PSD, lags, coherence) of the BHC light curves reflect, to a large extent, the properties of the scattering medium (which in this approximation acts as a combination of a {\sl linear} amplifier/filter) and they can be used to probe its structure, most notably the density profile of the scattering medium. The model accounts well for the observed PSDs and lags and also the reduction in the RMS variability and the increase in the characteristic PSD frequencies with increasing source luminosity. The electron density profiles obtained to date are consistent mainly with those of ADIOS but also with pure ADAF flows.

Extragalactic H2 and its variable relation to CO

A steep metallicity dependence of the CO-to-H2 conversion factor X of the form log X = 12.2 - 2.5 log[O]/[H], based on a sample of 20 (extra)galactic determinations, is presented and discussed. The apparently less steep dependence found from millimeter interferometer observations is explained within the context of photon-dominated regions.

Could merged star-clusters build up a small galaxy?

We investigate the behaviour of a cluster of young massive star clusters (hereafter super-cluster) in the tidal field of a host galaxy with a high-resolution particle-mesh code, Superbox. Specifically we want to establish if and how such super star-clusters merge and carry out a detailed study of the resulting merger-object. This merger-object shows either the properties of a compact spherical object or the elongated (`fluffy') shape of dSph-galaxies depending on the initial concentration of the super-cluster.

Search for Relic Neutrinos and Supernova Bursts

We describe the current situation concerning methods to search for relic neutrinos from the Big Bang and from all past supernovae (SNs). The most promising method for Big Bang neutrinos is by the interaction of ultra-high- energy (UHE) neutrinos. For supernova neutrinos, both Super Kamiokande- and ICARUS-type detectors will be important to study both nubar_{e} and nu_{e} fluxes. We also discuss a dedicated supernova burst observatory (OMNIS) being planned for three sites in the world. We also describe the possible analysis of the supernova type-II (SNII) neutrinos, including flavor mixing, that might be carried out in the future.

Electron Firehose instability and acceleration of electrons in solar flares

An electron distribution with a temperature anisotropy T_par/T_perp > 1 can lead to the Electron Firehose instability (Here par and perp denote directions relative to the background magnetic field B_0). Since possible particle acceleration mechanisms in solar flares exhibit a preference of energizing particles in parallel direction, such an anisotropy is expected during the impulsive phase of a flare. The properties of the excited waves and the thresholds for instability are investigated by using linearized kinetic theory. These thresholds were connected to the pre-flare plasma parameters by assuming an acceleration model acting exclusively in parallel direction. For usually assumed pre-flare plasma conditions the electrons become unstable during the acceleration process and lefthand circularly polarized waves with frequencies of about the proton gyrofrequency are excited at parallel propagation. Indications have been found, that the largest growth rates occur at oblique propagation and the according frequencies lie well above the proton gyrofrequency.

Warm Absorbers in Active Galactic Nuclei

We first provide a review of the properties of warm absorbers concentrating on what we have learned from ROSAT and ASCA. This includes dusty and dust-free warm absorbers, non-X-ray emission and absorption features of warm absorbers, and the possible warm absorber interpretation of the peculiar 1.1 keV features.
We then discuss facets of warm absorbers by a more detailed investigation of individual objects: In a first part, we discuss several candidates for dusty warm absorbers. In a second part, we review and extend our earlier study of a possible relation between warm absorber and CLR in NGC 4051, and confirm that both components are of different origin (the observed coronal lines are underpredicted by the models, the warm absorber is too highly ionized). We then suggest that a potential overprediction of these lines in more lowly ionized absorbers can be avoided if these warm absorbers are dusty. In a third part, we present first results of an analysis of a deep ROSAT PSPC observation of the quasar MR2251-178, the first one discovered to host a warm absorber. Finally, we summarize our scrutiny under which conditions a warm absorber could account for the dramatic spectral variability of the Narrow-line Seyfert 1 galaxy RXJ0134-4258.

The giant X-ray outbursts from nearby, non-active galaxies: tidal disruption flares ?

One efficient method to probe the direct vicinity of SMBHs in nearby galaxies is to make use of the detection of flares from tidally disrupted stars (e.g., Lidskii & Ozernoi 1979, Rees 1988). The first few excellent candidates for the occurrence of this process in non-active galaxies have emerged recently. Here, we present a review of these observations, compare with variability in AGN, and discuss theoretical implications. We concentrate on the cases of NGC 5905 and RXJ1242-1119, and report results from a systematic search for further X-ray flares from a sample of >100 nearby galaxies.

Dynamics of the X-ray clusters Abell 222, Abell 223 and Abell 520

We present the results of a dynamical analysis of three rich, X-ray luminous galaxy clusters, Abell 222, Abell 223 and Abell 520, that are at intermediate redshifts. Our study is based on radial velocities for 71 cluster members, respectively 30 for A222, 20 for A223 and 21 for A520, measured from spectra obtained at the Canada-France-Hawaii Telescope, the European Southern Observatory, and the Pic du Midi Observatory, and supplemented with radial velocities from the literature. A222 galaxies have slightly higher velocities than those of A223, with bi-weighted mean velocity of V_{bi} = 64242 +/- 194 km/s for A222, and of V_{bi} = 63197 +/- 266 km/s for A223. The velocity dispersions of the two clusters are about the same: sigma_{bi} = 1013 +/- 150 km/s and sigma_{bi} = 1058 +/- 160 km/s for A222 and A223, respectively. For A520 we obtain V_{bi} = 60127 +/- 284 km/s with sigma_{bi} = 1250 +/- 189 km/s. We also give mass and mass-luminosities ratio estimates for each cluster separately. We argue that these clusters are presently undergoing strong dynamical evolution and that A222 and A223 will probably merge in the future. We have applied a Principal Component Analysis to a sample of 51 CFHT spectra to produce a spectral classification for these galaxies. This classification has allowed us to show that the morphological and kinematical segregations were already established in these intermediate redshift clusters.

The red giant branches of Galactic globular clusters in the [(V-I)o,Mv] plane: metallicity indices and morphology

The purpose of this study is to carry out a thorough investigation of the changes in morphology of the red giant branch (RGB) of Galactic globular clusters (GGC) as a function of metallicity, in the V,I bands. To this aim, two key points are developed in the course of the analysis.
(a) Using our photometric V,I database for Galactic globular clusters (the largest homogeneous data sample to date; Rosenberg et al. 1999) we measure a complete set of metallicity indices, based on the morphology and position of the red-giant branch. In particular, we provide here the first calibration of the S, DV_(1.1) and DV_(1.4) indices in the (V-I,V) plane. We show that our indices are internally consistent, and we calibrate each index in terms of metallicity, both on the Zinn & West (1984) and the Carretta & Gratton (1997) scales. Our new calibrations of the (V-I)o,g, DV_(1.2), (V-I)_(-3.0) and (V-I)_(-3.5) indices are consistent with existing relations.
(b) Using a grid of selected RGB fiducial points, we define a function in the {(V-I)o,Mi,[Fe/H]} space which is able to reproduce the whole set of GGC giant branches in terms of a single parameter (the metallicity). As a first test, we show that the function is able to predict the correct trend of our observed indices with metallicity.
The usage of this function will improve the current determinations of metallicity and distances within the Local Group, since it allows to easily map [(V-I)o,Mi] coordinates into {[Fe/H],Mi} ones. To this aim the ``synthetic'' RGB distribution is generated both for the currently used Lee et al. (1990) distance scale, and for the most recent results on the RR Lyr distance scale.

Sunyaev-Zel'dovich Surveys: Analytic treatment of cluster detection

Thanks to advances in detector technology and observing techniques, true Sunyaev-Zel'dovich (SZ) surveys will soon become a reality. This opens up a new window into the Universe, in many ways analogous to the X-ray band and inherently well-adapted to reaching high redshifts. I discuss the nature, abundance and redshift distributions of objects detectable in ground-based searches with state-of-the-art technology. An advantage of the SZ approach is that the total SZ flux density depends only on the thermal energy of the intracluster gas and not on its spatial or temperature structure, in contrast to the X-ray luminosity. Because ground-based surveys will be characterized by arcminute angular resolution, they will resolve a large fraction of the cluster population. I quantify the resulting consequences for the cluster selection function; these include less efficient cluster detection compared to idealized point sources and corresponding steeper integrated source counts. This implies, contrary to expectations based on a point source approximation, that deep surveys are better than wide ones in terms of maximizing the number of detected objects. At a given flux density sensitivity and angular resolution, searches at millimeter wavelengths (bolometers) are more efficient than centimeter searches (radio), due to the form of the SZ spectrum. Possible ground-based surveys could discover up to $\sim 100$ clusters per square degree at a wavelength of 2 mm and $\sim 10$/sq. deg. at 1 cm, modeling clusters as a simple self-similar population.

High Resolution Simulation of Galaxy Formation with Feedback

We present results from a Smoothed Particle Hydrodynamic (SPH) simulation of galaxy formation that exceeds the minimum resolution requirement suggested by Steinmetz & Muller (1993) of 3*10^4 SPH particles per galaxy. Using the multiple mass technique an effective resolution of a little over one billion particles is attained within a 48 Mpc cube. We find that even with an SPH mass resolution of 1.5*10^6 solar masses and a plausible feedback algorithm, the cooling catastrophe continues to be a problem for Einstein-de Sitter CDM cosmologies. Increasing resolution also appears to exacerbate the core-halo angular momentum transport problem.

Analytical Study of Thermonuclear Reaction Probability Integrals

An analytic study of the reaction probability integrals corresponding to the various forms of the slowly varying cross-section factor $S(E)$ is attempted. Exact expressions for reaction probability integrals are expressed in terms of the extended gamma functions.

Analysis of The Hipparcos Measurements of HD10697 - A Mass Determination of a Brown-Dwarf Secondary

HD10697 is a nearby main-sequence star around which a planet candidate has recently been discovered by means of radial-velocity measurements (Vogt et al. 1999, submitted to ApJ). The stellar orbit has a period of about three years, the secondary minimum mass is 6.35 Jupiter masses and the minimum semi-major axis is 0.36 milli-arc-sec (mas). Using the Hipparcos data of HD10697 together with the spectroscopic elements of Vogt et al. (1999) we found a semi-major axis of 2.1 +/- 0.7 mas, implying a mass of 38 +/- 13 Jupiter masses for the unseen companion. We therefore suggest that the secondary of HD10697 is probably a brown dwarf, orbiting around its parent star at a distance of 2 AU.

CADIS deep star counts: Galactic structure and the stellar luminosity function

In this paper we present the first results of deep star counts carried out within the Calar Alto Deep Imaging Survey, CADIS (Meisenheimer 1998). Although CADIS was designed as an extragalactic survey, it also attempts to identify the stars in the fields in order to avoid confusion with quasars and compact galaxies. We have identified a sample of about 300 faint stars 15.5< R < 23), which are well suited to study the structure of the Galaxy. The stars lie in two fields, hereafter 16h and 9h field, respectively. The stars have been separated from galaxies by a classification scheme based on photometric spectra and morphological criteria. Distances were derived by photometric parallaxes. We are able to find stars up to distances of approximately 25 kpc above the Galactic plane. The vertical density distribution of the stars shows the contribution of the thin disk, the stellar halo and the ``thick disk'' of the Galaxy. We give quantitative descriptions of the components in terms of exponential disks and a de Vaucouleurs spheroid. For the disk stars we derive the luminosity function. It is equal within the errors to the local luminosity function and continues to rise out to at least M_V = 13. Implications for the mass function are briefly discussed.

H2 emission as a diagnostic of physical processes in starforming galaxies

Observations and interpretation of extragalactic rotational and rovibrational H2 emission are reviewed. Direct observations of H2 lines do not trace bulk H2 mass, but excitation rate. As such, the H2 lines are unique diagnostics, if the excitation mechanism can be determined, which generally requires high-quality spectroscopy and suitable additional data. The diagnostic power of the H2 lines is illustrated by two cases studies: H2 purely rotational line emission from the disk of the nearby spiral galaxy NGC891 and high resolution imaging and spectroscopy of H2 vibrational line emision from the luminous merger NGC6240.

The Unique Potential of SKA Radio Observations of Gamma-Ray Bursts

Radio observations with the Square Kilometer Array (SKA) provide the agility, sensitivity, and spectral coverage to trace the evolution of the size, shape and spectra of gamma-ray burst (GRB) remnants from the earliest moments on. In the first hours to days after the burst a major, and unique tool, will be provided through the study of dynamically evolving radio spectra, caused by diffractive and refractive scintillation in the local ISM. Simultaneous observations from optically thin to optically thick frequencies will provide strong constraints on any model for the GRB remnant. SKA will also allow for extremely rapid (within minutes, if not seconds) follow-up observations by electronic steering of the array. SKA observations have the sensitivity to detect GRB afterglows out to redshifts of 10 or greater. They therefore allow studies of the high redshift universe, and measure the massive star formation (and massive star death rate!) history of the universe, unbiased by optical obscuration. Wide field surveys may detect thousands of GRBs within a few days of observing (depending on the amount of collimation, the width of the GRB luminosity function, the number of GRBs like GRB 980425/SN 1998bw). There would be new ones, but many more would be old, fading afterglows, allowing the determination of the multi-variate GRB-optical-radio luminosity function of GRBs. This should elucidate the relation of the `faint' ones, like GRB 980425, to the luminous ones like GRB 970508. Such surveys will also tell us whether GRB fireballs (and which ones) are collimated into jets.

A continuous low star formation rate in IZw 18 ?

Deep long-slit spectroscopic observations of the blue compact galaxy IZw 18 obtained with the CFH 3.6 m Telescope are presented. The very low value of oxygen abundance previously reported is confirmed and a very homogeneous abundance distribution is found (no variation larger than 0.05 dex) over the whole ionized region. We concur with Tenorio-Tagle (1996) and Devost et al. (1997) that the observed abundance level cannot result from the material ejected by the stars formed in the current burst, and propose that the observed metals were formed in a previous star formation episode. Metals ejected in the current burst of star formation remain most probably hidden in a hot phase and are undetectable using optical spectroscopy. We discuss different scenarios of star formation in IZw 18. Combining various observational facts, for instance the faint star formation rate observed in low surface brightness galaxies van Zee et al. (1997), it is proposed that a low and continuous rate of star formation occurring during quiescent phases between bursts could be a significant source of metal enrichment of the interstellar medium.

Implications of Abundance Gradients in Intracluster Gas

Analysis of spatially resolved ASCA spectra of the intracluster gas in Abell 496 confirms that metal abundances increase toward the center. We also find spatial gradients in several abundance ratios, indicating that the fraction of iron from SN Ia increases toward the cluster center. The dominant metal enrichment mechanism near the cluster center must therefore be different than in the outer parts. We show that ram pressure stripping of gas from cluster galaxies cannot account for the central abundance enhancement. We suggest that two successive stages of galactic winds contaminate intracluster gas: protogalactic winds driven by SN II, followed by less energetic winds driven by SN Ia, which have longer lived progenitors than SN II. The less energetic secondary wind from a cD galaxy may be suppressed, due to its location at the cluster center, leading to the observed central enhancement of SN Ia ejecta.

Glimpses of a strange star

There are about 2000 gamma ray burst (GRB) events known to us with data pouring in at the rate of one per day. While the afterglows of GRBs in radio, optical and X-ray bands are successfully explained by the fireball model, a significant difficulty with the proposed mechanisms for GRBs is that a small amount ($\le 10^{-6} M_{\odot}$) of baryons in the ejecta can be involved. There are very few models that fulfill this criteria together with other observational features, among which are the differentially rotating collapsed object model and the "supernova" model. These models generally invoke rapidly rotating neutron stars, and may be subject to uncertainties in the formation mechanisms and the equations of state of neutron stars. According to Spruit, the problem of making a GRB from an X-ray binary is reduced to finding a plausible way to make the star rotate differentially. We suggest that a model of strange star (SS) can naturally explain many of these bursts with not only their low baryon content, but the differential rotation which leads to an enhanced magnetic field that surfaces up and is responsible for GRBs.

WWhat Heavy Elements in Clusters of Galaxies Tell About Clusters and Galaxies

Clusters of galaxies allow a direct estimate of the metallicity and metal production yield on the largest scale so far. The ratio of the total iron mass in the ICM to the total optical luminosity of the cluster (the iron mass-to-light-ratio) is the same for all clusters which ICM is hotter than $\sim 2$ keV, and the elemental proportions (i.e. the [$α$/Fe] ratio) appear to be solar. The simplest interpretation of these evidences is that both the IMF as well the relative contributions of SN types are universal. Currently available abundances in cooler clusters and groups are much more uncertain, possibly due to insufficiently accurate atomic physics data for multi-electron ions, or to the ICM being multi-phase, or to a combination thereof. This uncertainty automatically extends to the reality of radial abundance gradients so far reported in cool clusters. It is emphasized that most metals reside in the ICM rather than in galaxies, which demonstrates that energetic winds operated early in the evolution of massive galaxies, the likely producers of most metals now in the ICM. The ICM metallicity is also used to set a semiempirical constraint of $\sim 0.1$ keV per particle to the ICM {\it preheating} due to supernova driven galactic winds. A lower limit of the universe global metallicity at $z=3$ is also mentioned.

Closing the gap: an X-ray selected sample of clusters of galaxies behind the Galactic plane

We discuss the design and current status of the CIZA survey, the first systematic X-ray search for clusters of galaxies in the Galactic plane region. So far, we have compiled a sample of more than 70 X-ray selected clusters at |b|<20 deg, 80% of which were previously unknown. Upon its completion the CIZA cluster catalogue will complement the existing galaxy surveys in the Galactic plane region and allow a fresh look at large-scale structure and local streaming motions.

MACS: The evolution and properties of massive clusters of galaxies

We present first results from the MAssive Cluster Survey (MACS), a new large-scale X-ray survey designed to find and characterize very massive, distant clusters of galaxies. Based on X-ray detections in the ROSAT All-Sky Survey, MACS aims to compile a sample of more than 200 X-ray luminous clusters at z>0.3, about 50 times the number of EMSS clusters in the same redshift and luminosity range. The MACS sample is uniquely suited to investigate cluster evolution at redshifts and luminosities poorly sampled by all existing surveys.
At the time of writing the MACS sample comprises 41 clusters with measured redshifts of 0.3<z<0.56 and X-ray luminosities in excess of 6 10^44 erg/s (0.1-2.4 keV). This early sample is thus already twice as large as the high-z, high-luminosity subsets of the EMSS, BCS, and REFLEX cluster samples taken together. An additional 85 MACS clusters with photometric redshifts z>0.3 are scheduled for spectroscopic observation.
From a preliminary analysis of a statistically well defined subsample of the 25 X-ray brightest MACS clusters we conclude tentatively that negative evolution is not significant at the highest X-ray luminosities (Lx>10^45 erg/s) out to redshifts of z~0.4. Our findings thus extend the no-evolution result obtained by many serendipitous ROSAT cluster surveys at lower luminosities.

Gravitational Lensing of High Redshift Sources

The combination of deep exposures and high resolution offered by telescopes in space allows the detection of lensing over a wide range of source redshifts and lens masses. As an example, we model a lens candidate found in the southern Hubble Deep Field. The system consists of a source galaxy lensed into an arc, 0.9 arcseconds from an elliptical galaxy with an implied mass-to-light ratio of order 15 in solar units. This lens system may be a preview of the large number of lensed high-redshift galaxies that will be detected with the Next Generation Space Telescope (NGST). Popular models of structure formation imply that roughly 3% of observed sources at z>5 should be multiply imaged. Thus, NGST should detect several lensed objects in each field of view. In addition, NGST will be a valuable tool for weak lensing measurements if it can resolve the background galaxies. We estimate the angular size distribution of high redshift sources within hierarchical models of structure formation and find that most will be resolved. (abridged)

Where are the type 2 AGNs?

Most of the energy of the X-ray background is contributed by sources with a hard X-ray spectrum, harder than the spectrum observed in nearby type 1 AGNs. The hard background contributors are conventionally identified with type 2 AGNs, obscured by circumnuclear matter both in the optical and in the soft X rays. However, preliminary results of identification programs seem to find systematically few type 2 AGNs in samples selected with obscuration insensitive criteria. We discuss this issue, and assess the various scenarios which are being proposed to solve the discrepancy.

ISO Spectroscopy of H2 in Star Forming Regions

We have studied molecular hydrogen emission in a sample of 21 YSOs using spectra obtained with the Infrared Space Observatory (ISO). H2 emission was detected in 12 sources and can be explained as arising in either a shock, caused by the interaction of an outflow from an embedded YSO with the surrounding molecular cloud, or in a PDR surrounding an exposed young early-type star. The distinction between these two mechanisms can not always be made from the pure rotational H2 lines alone. Other tracers, such as PAH emission or [S I] 25.25 micron emission, are needed to identify the H2 heating mechanism. No deviations from a 3:1 ortho/para ratio of H2 were found. Both shocks and PDRs show a warm and a hot component in H2, which we explain as thermal emission from warm molecular gas (warm component), or UV-pumped infrared fluorescence in the case of PDRs and the re-formation of H2 for shocks (hot component).

Delta Scuti Stars in Stellar Systems: a Review

We present a list of delta Scuti stars in double and multiple systems, ranging from the very wide binaries to the very close ones such as spectroscopic and eclipsing systems including the optical visual pairs which are of no further use here. Our aim is to group the information from the binarity on the one hand and the pulsational characteristics on the other hand for as complete a sample as possible of delta Scuti stars in stellar systems. A selection of 18 well-documented cases, taking care that every type of binary is being represented, is discussed more extensively.

Evolution of the Magnetic Field in Accreting Neutron Stars

There has been sufficient observational indication suggesting a causal connection between the binary history of neutron stars and the evolution of their magnetic field. In particular, it is believed that the generation of the low-field millisecond pulsars is a consequence of the processing of normal high-field neutron stars in binary systems. We try to understand the mechanism of field evolution in neutron stars that are members of binary systems with an aim to understand the problem of millisecond pulsar generation. To this end we have looked at four related problems : i. the effect of diamagnetic screening on the final field of a neutron star accreting material from its binary companion; ii. evolution of magnetic flux located in the crust of an accreting neutron star; iii. application of the above-mentioned model to real systems and a comparison with observations; iv. an investigation into the consequences of magnetic flux being initially located in the core of the star and its observational implications.

Pulse shape and spectrum of PSR J0218+4232 observed with BeppoSAX

We present the results of a BeppoSAX observation of PSR J0218+4232 which, for the first time, provides detailed information on the pulsar's temporal and spectral emission properties in the broad band 1-10 keV. We detected X-ray pulses with a pulsed fraction of 73 +/- 12 %. The pulse profile is characterized by two peaks phase separated by 0.47 +/-0.05. The pulsed spectrum is best described by a power-law of photon index 0.61 +/- 0.32 with an unabsorbed (2-10 keV) X-ray flux of 4.1E-13 erg/cm^2/s implying a luminosity of Lx = 1.3E32 Theta (d/5.7 kpc})^2 erg/s and an X-ray efficiency of 4.8E-4 Theta (d/5.7 kpc})^2 where Theta is the solid angle spanned by the emission beam.

BVRcIc photometry of GRB 980703 and GRB 990123 host galaxies

We present a photometry of GRB 980703 and GRB 990123 host galaxies which was performed about 20 days and a half year after gamma-ray bursts occured, respectively. The contributions of the optical transiets (OT) were negligible in both cases. We derived broad band BVR_cI_c spectra of the host galaxies and compared them to continuum spectra of different Hubble-type galaxies and averaged spectra of starburst galaxies. For H_0=60 km s^{-1} Mpc^{-1} and three Friedmann cosmological models with matter density and cosmological constant parameters (Omega_m,Omega_Lambda) = (1,0),(0,0),(0,1) we estimated M_Brest and star-forming rates (SFRs) using the fluxes in photometric bands for the host galaxies. Within the range of cosmological parameters our estimates of the absolute magnitudes are: M_Brest = -20.60 .. -21.73 for the GRB 980703 host galaxy and M_Brest = -20.20 .. -21.82 for the GRB 990123 host galaxy. We obtained estimates of K-correction values and absolute magnitudes of the host galaxies using SEDs for star-forming galaxies.

Gravitational microlensing source limb-darkening and limb-polarization,~I: angle-averaged amplification functions

There is increasing interest in extended source effects in microlensing events, as probes of the unresolved sources. Previous work has either presumed a uniform source, or else required an approximate or numerical treatment of the amplification function averaged over the source disk. In this paper, I present analytic expressions for the angle-averaged amplification functions for the rotationally-symmetric intensity and polarization cases.
These integrals will allow us to use the technology of inverse problems to study the source limb-darkening and limb-polarization functions.

X-ray Surveys of the obscured Universe

Deep X-ray surveys have shown that the cosmic X-ray background (XRB) is largely due to accretion onto supermassive black holes, integrated over cosmic time. However, the characteristic hard spectrum of the XRB can only be explained if most AGN spectra are heavily absorbed. The absorbed AGN will suffer severe extinction and therefore, unlike classical QSOs, will not be prominent at optical wavelengths. Most of the accretion power is being absorbed by gas and dust and will have to be reradiated in the FIR/sub-mm band. AGN could therefore contribute a substantial fraction to the recently discovered cosmic FIR/sub-mm background. Here it is shown that a number of high-redshift absorbed X-ray sources selected in the ROSAT Deep Survey of the Lockman Hole have broad-band spectral energy distributions very similar to the local ULIRG NGC6240, lending additional support to the background models for the obscured universe.

Nanoarcsecond single-dish imaging of the Vela pulsar

We have measured the properties of the diffractive scintillation toward the Vela pulsar under the extremely strong scattering conditions encountered at 660 MHz. We obtain a decorrelation bandwidth of $ν_d = 244 \pm 4$ Hz and diffractive decorrelation timescale of $t_{\rm diff} = 3.3\pm 0.3$ s. Our measurement of the modulation indices $m=0.87\pm 0.003\pm 0.05$ and $m=0.93\pm 0.03 \pm 0.05$ (one for each polarization stream), are at variance with the modulation index of the Vela pulsar obtained at 2.3 GHz by Gwinn et al. (1997) {\it if} the deviation from a modulation index of unity is ascribed to a source size effect.

A direct view of the AGN powering IRAS12393+3520

We report the first direct X-ray evidence that an AGN is hidden in the center of IRAS12393+3520. An ASCA observation of this target unveiled a bright (0.5-10 keV luminosity 3.9 x 10^42 erg/s) and variable source, with minimum observed doubling/halving time scale comprised in the range 30-75 ks. A model composed by a simple power-law, with photon index ~1.8 and an absorption edge, whose threshold energy is consistent with K-shell photoionization of OVII, provides an adequate fit of the spectrum. This suggests that we are observing the emission from the nuclear region through a warm absorber of N_H a few 10^{21}/cm/cm. If it has internal dust with Galactic gas-to-dust ratio, it could explain the lack of broad Hbeta emission, even in the episodic presence of a broad Halpha emission line. Optical spectra obtained over several years show indeed variations in the strength of this broad Halpha component. A distribution of dusty, optically thick matter on spatial scales a few hundreds parsec, which does not intercept the line of sight towards the nucleus, is probably required to account simultaneously for the relative [OIII] luminosity deficit in comparison to the X-rays. The high IR to X-ray luminosity ratio is most likely due to intense star formation in the circumnuclear region. IRAS12393+3520 might thus exhibit simultaneously nuclear activity and remarkable star formation.

The X-ray properties of luminous infrared galaxies and their contribution to the X-ray background

We present a study of a sample of luminous infrared galaxies (LIGs, L_IR > 10^11 L_sun) observed in the hard (2-10 keV) X rays. The main results are: 1) most LIGs are powered both by AGN and starburst activity; 2) the AGNs in our sample are absorbed in the infrared by a lower N_H than in the X rays or, alternatively, the dust-to-gas ratio is lower than galactic; 3) the study of a subsample of sources observed in the 20-200 keV band indicates that most of the AGNs hosted by the LIGs are heavily obscured up to 100 keV and, therefore, their contribution to the X-ray background must be small.

Evolution of the cluster X-ray luminosity function from the WARPS survey

The evolution of the X-ray luminosity function of clusters of galaxies has been measured to z=0.85 using over 150 X-ray selected clusters found in the WARPS survey. We find no evidence for evolution of the luminosity function at any luminosity or redshift. The observations constrain the evolution of the space density of moderate luminosity clusters to be very small, and much less than predicted by most models of the growth of structure with Omega=1.

Diffusive Shock Acceleration of Electrons and Radio Emission from Large Diameter Shell-Type Supernova Remnants

In present study I examine the capability of diffusive shock acceleration mechanism to explain existing data on radio emission from evolved large diameter shell-type adiabatic supernova remnants (SNRs). Time-dependent ''onion-shell'' model for the radio emission of SNRs is developed, which is based on the assumptions: a) acceleration takes place from thermal energies and test-particle approximation is valid; b) the problem of injection is avoided by introducing, like Bell (1978), two injection parameters; c) to take into consideration very late stages of SNR evolution the analytic approximation of Cox and Andersen (1982) for the shell structure is used; c)no radiative cooling. Constructed Surface Brightness - Diameter $(Σ-D)$ tracks are compared with the empirical $Σ-D$ diagram. The main conclusion of the study is that the DSA mechanism is capable of explaining all the statistics of radio SNRs including very large diameter remnants and giant galactic loops.

Ongoing Large Surveys for Metal-Poor Stars in the Galactic Halo

We report on two major surveys for metal-poor stars in the galactic halo, the HK survey, and the Hamburg/ESO survey, which have been undertaken in order to provide targets for high-resolution spectroscopy with the Subaru HDS and other large telescopes. We compare basic properties of these two surveys and their current status, and add some historical remarks.
The candidate selection procedures of both surveys are described in detail. We evaluate the candidate selection by comparing effective yields (EYs) of the survey techniques for the identification of metal-poor stars. It is found that EY for stars below [Fe/H]=-2.0 in the HES can be up to 80% for stars selected by automatic classification from machine-scanned unwidened plates, whereas in the HK survey, where stars are selected by visual inspection of widened survey plates, the EY is between 11% and 32%, depending on whether a pre-selection based on BV photometry has been applied.
Finally, we describe techniques used for determining stellar parameters of the survey stars by means of moderate resolution follow-up spectroscopy, and additional UBV photometry. While follow-up observations of HES stars have just been started, the HK survey has already produced a list of ~4700 stars with estimates of [Fe/H] typically precise to +/-0.2 dex, some 1000 of which have [Fe/H]<-2.0, and roughly 100 of which have [Fe/H]<-3.0.

Chemical enrichment and star formation in the Milky Way disk; I. Sample description and chromospheric age-metallicity relation

The age-metallicity relation of the solar neighbourhood is studied using a sample of 552 late-type dwarfs. This sample was built from the intersection of photometric catalogues with chromospheric activity surveys of the Mount Wilson group. For these stars, metallicities were estimated from uvby data, and ages were calculated from their chromospheric emission levels using a new metallicity-dependent chromospheric activity-age relation developed by Rocha-Pinto & Maciel (1998). A careful estimate of the errors in the chromospheric age is made. The errors in the chromospheric indices are shown to include partially the effects of the stellar magnetic cycles, although a detailed treatment of this error is still beyond our knowledge. It is shown that the results are not affected by the presence of unresolved binaries in the sample. We derive an age-metallicity relation which confirms the mean trend found by previous workers. The mean metallicity shows a slow, steady increase with time, amounting at least 0.56 dex in 15 Gyr. The initial metallicity of the disk is around -0.70 dex, in agreement with the G dwarf metallicity distribution. According to our data, the intrinsic cosmic dispersion in metal abundances is around 0.13 dex, a factor of two smaller than that found by Edvardsson et al. (1993). We show that chromospheric ages are compatible with isochrone ages, within the expected errors, so that the difference in the scatter cannot be caused by the accuracy of our ages and metallicities. This reinforces some suggestions that the Edvarsson et al.'s sample is not suitable to the determination of the age-metallicity relation.

Chemical enrichment and star formation in the Milky Way disk; II. Star formation history

A chromospheric age distribution of 552 late-type dwarfs is transformed into a star formation history by the application of scale height corrections, stellar evolutionary corrections and volume corrections. We show that the disk of our Galaxy has experienced enhanced episodes of star formation at 0-1 Gyr, 2-5 Gyr and 7-9 Gyr ago, although the reality of the latter burst is still uncertain. The star sample birthsites are distributed over a very large range of distances because of orbital diffusion, and so give an estimate of the global star formation rate. These results are compared with the metal-enrichment rate, given by the age-metallicity relation, with the expected epochs of close encounters between our Galaxy and the Magellanic Clouds, and with previous determinations of the star formation history. Simulations are used to examine the age-dependent smearing of the star formation history due to age uncertainties, and the broadening of the recovered features, as well as to measure the probability level that the history derived to be produced by statistical fluctuations of a constant star formation history. We show with more than 98% level of confidence that the the star formation of our Galaxy was not constant.

Atomic diffusion in metal poor stars. The influence on the Main Sequence fitting distance scale, subdwarfs ages and the value of Delta Y/DeltaZ

The effect of atomic diffusion on the Main Sequence (MS) of metal-poor low mass stars is investigated. Since diffusion alters the stellar surface chemical abundances with respect to their initial values, one must ensure - by calibrating the initial chemical composition of the theoretical models - that the surface abundances of the models match the observed ones of the stellar population under scrutiny. Since the observed surface abundances of subdwarfs are different from the initial ones due to the effect of diffusion, while the globular clusters stellar abundances are measured in Red Giants, which have practically recovered their initial abundances after the dredge-up, the isochrones to be employed for studying globular clusters and Halo subdwarfs with the same observational value of [Fe/H] are different and do not coincide. We find, however,that the current MS-fitting distances derived from HIPPARCOS subdwarfs using colour corrections from standard isochrones are basically unaltered when diffusion is taken properly into account; on the other hand, the absolute ages, the age dispersion, the age-metallicity relation for Halo subdwarfs, as well as the value of the helium enrichment ratio Delta Y/Delta Z obtained from the width of the empirical Halo subdwarfs MS, are all significantly modified when the properly calibrated isochrones with diffusion are used.

On the Origin of Quasi-Periodic Oscillations and Broad-band Noise in Accreting Neutron Stars and Black Holes

Accreting neutron stars and black holes share a number of rapid variability characteristics, such as quasi-periodic oscillations and broad-band noise. The frequencies of these features were recently shown to be comparable to fundamental general relativistic frequencies of perturbed test-particle orbits near the compact objects. In this paper we propose a dynamical model for producing modulations in the inner disk properties at these characteristic frequencies. We postulate that a transition radius exists in the accretion disk close to the compact object and investigate its response to a broad spectrum of density fluctuations. We find that the transition radius acts as a low band-pass filter with a broadband response that is constant at frequencies lower than the inverse radial drift timescale and decreases above it as the inverse of the frequency. Moreover, the response shows strong resonances at frequencies nearly equal to the orbital, periastron-precession, and nodal-precession frequencies, thereby accounting for the observed power-density spectra of accreting compact objects and the correlations between their characteristic frequencies.

Properties of disk galaxies in a hierarchical formation scenario

We used galaxy evolutionary models in a hierarchical inside-out formation scenario to study the origin of the main properties and correlations of disk galaxies. We found that most of these properties and correlations are the result of three (cosmological) initial factors and their dispersions: the virial mass, the halo mass aggregation history (MAH), and the angular momentum given through the spin parameter λ. The MAH determines mainly the halo structure and the color indexes while λdetermines mainly the surface brightness and the bulge-to-disk ratio. We calculated star formation (SF) using a gravitational instability criterion and a self-regulation mechanism in the turbulent ISM. The efficiency of SF in this model is almost independent from the mass. We show that the luminosity-dependent dust absorption empirically determined by Wang & Heckman explains the observed color-magnitude and color Tully-Fisher (TF) relations without the necessity of introducing a mass-dependent SF efficiency. The disks in centrifugal equilibrium form within growing CDM halos with a gas accretion rate proportional to the MAH. The disks present exponential surface density and brightness profiles, negative radial color index gradients, and nearly flat rotation curves. We also calculated the secular formation of a bulge due to gravitational instabilities in the stellar disk. The intensive properties of our models agree with the observational data and the trends of the Hubble sequence are reproduced. The predicted infrared TF and luminosity-radius relations also agree with observations. The main shortcomings of our inside-out hierarchical models are the excessive radial color gradients and the dark halo dominion in the rotation curve decompositions.

The deuterium abundance in QSO absorption systems: a mesoturbulent approach

A new method, based on simulated annealing technique and aimed at the inverse problem in the analysis of intergalactic or interstellar complex spectra of hydrogen and metal lines, is outlined. We consider the process of line formation in clumpy stochastic media accounting for fluctuating velocity and density fields self-consistently. Two examples of the analysis of `H+D'-like absorptions seen at z = 3.514 and 3.378 towards APM 08279+5255 are presented.

Broad-band BeppoSAX observation of the low-mass X-ray binary X1822-371

Results of a 1997 September 9-10 BeppoSAX observation of the 5.57 hr low-mass X-ray binary (LMXRB) X1822-371 are presented. The 0.3-40 keV spectrum is unusually complex and cannot be fit by any of the standard models applied to other LMXRB. At least two components are required. One component has a shape consistent with that expected from the Comptonization of an input soft (Wein) spectrum while the other, contributing ~40% of the 1-10 keV flux, is consistent with being a blackbody. In addition, there is a ``dip'' in the spectrum which can be modeled by a 1.33 +0.05 -0.11 keV absorption edge with an optical depth, tau, of 0.28 +/- 0.06. If the same model is fit to ASCA Solid-State Imaging Spectrometer spectra obtained in 1993 and 1996, then reasonable fits are also obtained, with a similar absorption feature required. The nature of this feature is highly uncertain; its energy corresponds to the K-edges of highly ionized Ne x and neutral Mg, or to an L-edge of moderately ionized Fe. Surprisingly, no strong (tau > 0.05) Fe-K or (tau > 0.18) O-K edges are visible. The folded lightcurve of X1822-371 is similar to previous observations, except that no strong softening is seen near the eclipse. An updated orbital ephemeris is provided.

Evolution of D and 3He in the Galaxy

The predictions of Galactic chemical evolution models for D and $^3$He are described in connection with those on the other Galactic quantities for which observational constraints are available.
Models in agreement with the largest set of data predict deuterium depletions from the Big Bang to the present epoch smaller than a factor of 3 and do not allow for D/H primordial abundances larger than $\sim4\times10^{-5}$. Models predicting higher D consumption do not reproduce other observed features of our Galaxy.
If both the primordial D and $^3$He are low, models assuming that 90% of low-mass stars experience an extra-mixing during the red giant phase reproduce all the $^3$He observed abundances. The same percentage allows to fit also the observed carbon isotopic ratios, thus supporting the self-consistency of the extra-mixing mechanism.

Search for Astronomical Sites in Developing Countries and their Preventive Protection

The archives of meteorological satellites permit to find around the world dry sites well adapted to astronomical observations (in the visible, IR, and millimetric ranges), as a pre-selection of sites. The GSM (Grating Scale Monitor) technique permits to qualify some of them as astronomical sites for a future setting-up of astronomical observatories. Such sites are found in new astronomical countries or in Developing Countries. At the same time, their preventive protection from light pollution and/or radio interference has to be viewed. In practice, once the pre-selection is made, the government of these countries ought to be alerted for example by IAU and/or UN Office for Outer Space Affairs. The local site testing through GSM should be carried out in cooperation with astronomers or scientists of these countries under the umbrella of IAU. This should be an approach to help to introduce astronomy and astrophysics in Developing Countries.

The enigmatic Soft X-ray AGN RX J0134.2--4258

We report the discovery and analysis of the follow-up ROSAT pointed observation, an ASCA observation and optical and radio observations of the enigmatic soft X-ray AGN RX J0134.2-4258. In the optical, RX J0134.2-4258 appears as an extreme 'Narrow-Line Seyfert 1 galaxy' (NLS1), with very strong FeII emission, very blue optical continuum spectrum and almost no Narrow Line Region emission. While its spectrum was one of the softest observed from an AGN during the ROSAT All-Sky Survey, its spectrum was found to be dramatically harder during a pointed observation although the count rate remained constant. We found in the pointed observation that the spectrum is softer when it is fainter and spectral fitting demonstrates that it is the hard component that is variable. The ASCA observation confirms the presence of a hard X-ray power law, the slope of which is rather flat compared with other NLS1s. Survey and followup radio observations reveal that RX J0134.2-4258 is also unusual in that it is a member of the rare class of radio-loud NLS1s, and, with R=71, it holds the current record for largest radio-to-optical ratio in NLS1s. We discuss possible scenarios to explain its strange behaviour.

OGLE Cepheids have Lower Amplitudes in SMC than in LMC

We selected cepheids from the OGLE database for the Magellanic Clouds in the period range 10^{1.1} < P < 10^{1.4} days. There were 33 objects in the LMC and 35 in the SMC. We find that the median amplitude of cepheids in the LMC is 18% larger than in the SMC, a 4 sigma effect. This implies that the period - flux amplitude relation is not universal, and cannot be used to measure distances accurately.

The Magnetic Fields of the Universe and Their Origin

Recent rotation measure observations of a dozen or so galaxy clusters have revealed a surprisingly large amount of magnetic fields, whose estimated energy and flux are, on average, $\sim 10^{58}$ ergs and $\sim 10^{41}$ G cm$^2$, respectively. These quantities are so much larger than any coherent sums of individual galaxies within the cluster that an efficient galactic dynamo is required. We associate these fields with single AGNs within the cluster and therefore with all galaxies during their AGN phase. Only the central, massive black hole (BH) has the necessary binding energy, $\sim 10^{61}$ ergs. Only the accretion disk during the BH formation has the winding number, $\sim 10^{11}$ turns, necessary to make the gain and magnetic flux. We present a model of the BH accretion disk dynamo that might create these magnetic fields, where the helicity of the $α- Ω$ dynamo is driven by star-disk collisions. The back reaction of the saturated dynamo forms a force-free field helix that carries the energy and flux of the dynamo and redistributes them within the clusters.

Constraints on Photometric Calibration from Observations of High-Redshift Type Ia Supernovae

The good match of the type Ia supernova (SNIa) Hubble Diagram to the prediction of a not-unreasonable cosmological world model shows that measurements of standard stars and their comparison with point sources down to m=25 mag is good to better than +/-0.5 mag over an 11 mag range. It also shows that the true spectral energy distribution (SED) shapes of standard stars are known to better than +/-0.5 mag over an octave in wavelength. On the other hand, the SNIa argument for an accelerating Universe assumes that the magnitude system is good to much better than ~0.1 mag over the 11 mag range, and that SED shapes are known to much better than ~10 percent over an octave in wavelength. There is no independent empirical evidence for these plausible assumptions.

Note on the Origin of the Highest Energy Cosmic Rays

In this note we argue that the galactic model chosen by E.-J. Ahn, G. Medina-Tanco, P.L. Bierman and T. Stanev in their paper discussing the origin of the highest energy cosmic rays, is alone responsible for the focussing of positive particles towards the North galactic pole. We discuss the validity of this model, in particular in terms of field reversals and radial extensions. We conclude that with such a model one cannot retreive any directional information from the observed direction of the cosmic rays. In particular one cannot identify point sources at least up to energies of about 200 EeV. Therefore the apparent clustering of the back-traced highest energy cosmic rays observed to date cannot be interpreted as an evidence for a point source nor for the identification of M87, which happens to be close to the North pole, as being such a source.

Theoretical Implications of Diffuse Non-Thermal Emission from Clusters of Galaxies

A short review on theoretical implications of non-thermal emission (radio, extreme ultraviolet, high energy X-ray) from the intra-cluster medium is given. The origin of cluster radio halos and cluster radio relics is discussed within the framework of a network of processes producing a non-thermal electron population. Emphasis is given to the role of old, remnant, presently invisible relativistic plasma released by former radio galaxies.

Broad-band colour evolution of star clusters

We briefly review the main features in the broad-band colour evolution of star clusters, over the complete age interval from 10^7 to 10^(10) yr. The emphasis is in the problem of age-dating distant young clusters (<2 Gyr) from their integrated colours. It is shown that U-B and B-V are less sensitive to metallicity than colours involving red pass-bands, like V-I, at least up to ages of some few Gyr. Since U-B and B-V are determined by well-understood and well-populated evolutionary stages, they are also less affected by theoretical uncertainties and by the ubiquitous effect of stochastic colour dispersion. The latter effects become important for the V-K colour. Thus, we argue that U-B and B-V are, presently, the more suitable broad-band colours for age-dating distant clusters. For other potentially useful colours like V-R and V-I, empirical tests of their evolution are still missing.

Dusty Tori of Seyfert Nuclei

Dusty tori around active galactic nuclei (AGNs) play an important role in the classification of Seyfert galaxies. Therefore, physical properties of dusty tori are of great interest. We briefly introduce three statistical studies investigating properties of dusty tori; 1) physical sizes of dusty tori based on water-vapor maser emission, 2) ionization condition of the inner wall of tori based on high-ionization emission lines, and 3) viewing angle toward dusty tori based on mid-infrared color.

On continued gravitational collapse

According to a widespread idee fixe, the spherically-symmetric collapse of a sufficiently massive celestial body of spherical shape should generate a black hole. I prove that this process generates simply an ordinary point mass. My argument is model-independent.

Near-Infrared-Spectroscopy with Extremely Large Telescopes: Integral-Field- versus Multi-Object-Instruments

Integral-field-spectroscopy and multi-object-spectroscopy provide the high multiplex gain required for efficient use of the upcoming generation of extremely large telescopes. We present instrument developments and designs for both concepts, and how these designs can be applied to cryogenic near-infrared instrumentation. Specifically, the fiber-based concept stands out the possibility to expand it to any number of image points, and its modularity predestines it to become the new concept for multi-field-spectroscopy. Which of the three concepts --- integral-field-, multi-object-, or multi-field-spectroscopy --- is best suited for the largest telescopes is discussed considering the size of the objects and their density on the sky.

Low Frequency Insights Into Supernova Remnants

Low frequency observations at 330 and 74 MHz can provide new insights into supernova remnants (SNR). We can test theoretical predictions for spectral index variations. Nonlinear models of shock acceleration predict that the spectra from young SNR should be slightly concave rather than power laws -- flattening toward higher energies. However, few SNR are bright and compact enough to be studied at millimeter wavelengths, restricting studies to the small range from 6 to 20 cm (a factor of 1.7 in electron energies). Observations at 330 MHz increase the electron energy baseline to a factor of 4, while providing sensitivity to larger spatial scales that are resolved out by centimeter-wavelength interferometers. Such observations can also separate thermal from nonthermal emission and detect excess free-free absorption associated with cool gas in remnants. Wide field images also provide an efficient census of both thermal and nonthermal sources over a large region.

Transient X--Ray Sources Observed with the Rxte All-Sky Monitor after 3.5 Years

We present light curves of a sample of "transient" sources observed with the All-Sky Monitor (ASM) of the Rossi X-ray Timing Explorer (RXTE). The light curves extend over 3.5 years. They are presented in three groups: six neutron-star systems, eight black-hole-candidate systems, and an additional diverse set of six objects that are either transient sources (in the sense of usually being undetectable) or persistent sources showing transient behavior. The outburst profiles of these sources show reproducible characteristics within one source and from source to source, as well as large variations. These profiles together with the profiles of the hardness ratios from the ASM are a valuable resource for the understanding of accretion instabilities. We summarize briefly some recent work by observers on these somewhat arbitrarily selected sources.

Competitive Accretion in Clusters and the IMF

Observations have revealed that most stars are born in clusters. As these clusters typically contain more mass in gas than in stars, accretion can play an important role in determining the final stellar masses. Numerical simulations of gas accretion in stellar clusters have found that the stars compete for the available reservoir of gas. The accretion rates are highly nonuniform and are determined primarily by each star's position in the cluster. Stars in the centre accrete more gas, resulting in initial mass segregation. This competitive accretion naturally results in a mass spectrum and is potentially the dominant mechanism for producing the initial mass function. Furthermore, accretion on to the core of a cluster forces it to shrink, which may result in formation of massive stars through collisions.

LiBeB Evolution: Three Models

We consider the three principal LiBeB evolutionary models, CRI in which the cosmic-ray source at all epochs of Galactic evolution is the average ISM, CRI+LECR in which metal enriched low energy cosmic rays (LECRs) are superimposed onto the CRI cosmic rays, and CRS in which the cosmic-ray source, accelerated in superbubbles, is constant, independent of the ISM metallicity. By considering the evolutionary trend of log(Be/H) vs. both [Fe/H] and [O/H], we demonstrate that the CRI model is energetically untenable. We present evolutionary trends for B-11/B-10 and B/Be which, combined with future precision measurements, could distinguish between the CRS and CRI+LECR models. We show that delayed LiBeB synthesis in the CRS model, due to the transport of the cosmic rays, could explain why log(Be/H) is steeper vs. [O/H] than vs. [Fe/H]. We also show that delayed deposition of Fe into star forming regions, due to its incorporation into high velocity dust, could provide an explanation for the possible rise of [O/Fe] with decreasing [Fe/H]. Observations of refractory and volatile alpha-elements could test this scenario. There seems to be a need for pregalactic or extragalactic Li-6 sources.

Radio-optical identification of very-steep spectrum radio sources from the UTR-2 catalogue

We used radio source catalogues accessible from the CATS database (http://cats.sao.ru) to establish radio continuum spectra for decametric radio sources in the UTR-2 catalogue (Braude et al., 1978--1994). From these, we select a sample of 23 sources with ultra steep radio spectra (α<=-1.2, S ~ ν^α) and present accurate positions and sizes from FIRST and NVSS. The search for optical counterparts from the APM (object) and DSS (image) databases, as well as infrared and X-ray identifications of these UTR sources are in progress.

LiBeB Production and Associated Astrophysical Sites

The various modes of spallative LiBeB production are summarized, and classified according to their dependence or independence on the abundance of medium heavy elements (CNO) illustrated by that of oxygen in the interstellar medium.
The predictions of the models are confronted to the available observational correlations (Be, B vs O). Clearly, a primary mechanism should lead to a slope one in the lg(Be/H) vs [O/H] plot and a secondary mechanism to a slope two. Due to the ambiguity of the O data, another criterion, based on energetics, can help us to select an adequate model. A purely secondary origin in the very early Galaxy is much more energy demanding than a primary one. Indeed, magnesium seems to be a possible surrogate of oxygen and iron since i) it is spectroscopically more easy to cope with and ii) its nucleosynthetic yield is independent of the mass cut and does not depend on metallicity.

Investigations of the Local Supercluster Velocity Field III. Tracing the backside infall with distance moduli from the direct Tully-Fisher relation

We have extended the discussion of Paper II (Ekholm et al. 1999) to cover also the backside of the Local Supercluster (LSC) by using 96 galaxies within Theta<30 deg from the adopted centre of LSC and with distance moduli from the direct B-band Tully-Fisher relation. In order to minimize the influence of the Malmquist bias we required log V_max>2.1 and sigma_{B_T}<0.2 mag.
We found out that if R_Virgo<20 Mpc this sample fails to follow the expected dynamical pattern from the Tolman-Bondi (TB) model. When we compared our results with the Virgo core galaxies given by Federspiel et al. (1998) we were able to constrain the distance to Virgo: R_Virgo=20-24 Mpc.
When analyzing the TB-behaviour of the sample as seen from the origin of the metric as well as that with distances from the extragalactic Cepheid PL-relation we found additional support to the estimate R_Virgo=21 Mpc given in Paper II. Using a two-component mass-model we found a Virgo mass estimate M_Virgo= (1.5-2)M_virial, where M_virial=9.375.10^14M_sun for R_Virgo=21 Mpc. This estimate agrees with the conclusion in Paper I (Teerikorpi et al. 1992).
Our results indicate that the density distribution of luminous matter is shallower than that of the total gravitating matter when q_0<=0.5. The preferred exponent in the density power law, alpha\approx2.5, agrees with recent theoretical work on the universal density profile of dark matter clustering in an Einstein-deSitter universe (Tittley & Couchman 1999).

The Elliptical Galaxy formerly known as the Local Group: Merging the Globular Cluster Systems

Prompted by a new catalogue of M31 globular clusters, we have collected together individual metallicity values for globular clusters in the Local Group. Although we briefly describe the globular cluster systems of the individual Local Group galaxies, the main thrust of our paper is to examine the collective properties. In this way we are simulating the dissipationless merger of the Local Group, into presumably an elliptical galaxy. Such a merger is dominated by the Milky Way and M31, which appear to be fairly typical examples of globular cluster systems of spiral galaxies.
The Local Group `Elliptical' has about 700 +/- 125 globular clusters, with a luminosity function resembling the `universal' one. The metallicity distribution has peaks at [Fe/H] ~ -1.55 and -0.64 with a metal-poor to metal-rich ratio of 2.5:1. The specific frequency of the Local Group Elliptical is initially about 1 but rises to about 3, when the young stellar populations fade and the galaxy resembles an old elliptical. The metallicity distribution and stellar population corrected specific frequency are similar to that of some known early type galaxies. Based on our results, we briefly speculate on the origin of globular cluster systems in galaxies.

On the absence of winds in ADAFs

We show that recently published assertions that advection dominated accretion flows (ADAFs) require the presence of strong winds are unfounded because they assume that low radiative efficiency in flows accreting at low rates onto black holes implies vanishing radial energy and angular momentum fluxes through the flow (which is also formulated in terms of the `Bernoulli function' being positive). This, however, is a property only of self-similar solutions which are an inadequate representation of global accretion flows. We recall general properties of accretion flows onto black holes and show that such, necessarily transonic, flows may have either positive or negative Bernoulli function depending on the flow viscosity. Flows with low viscosities (alpha<0.1 in the alpha-viscosity model) have a negative Bernoulli function. Without exception, all 2-D and 1-D numerical models of low viscosity flows constructed to date experience no significant outflows. At high viscosities the presence of outflows depends on the assumed viscosity, the equation of state and on the outer boundary condition. The positive sign of the Bernoulli function invoked in this context is irrelevant to the presence of outflows. As an illustration, we recall 2-D numerical models with moderate viscosity that have positive values of the Bernoulli function and experience no outflows. ADAFs, therefore, do not differ from this point of view from thin Keplerian discs: they may have, but they do not have to have strong winds.

The role of Star Formation in the evolution of spiral galaxies

Spiral galaxies offer a unique opportunity to study the role of star formation in galaxy evolution and to test various theoretical star formation schemes. I review some recent relevant work on the evolution of spiral galaxies. Detailed models are used for the chemical and spectrophotometric evolution, with metallicity dependent stellar yields, tracks and spectra. The models are ``calibrated'' on the Milky Way disk and generalised to other spirals with some simple scaling relations, obtained in the framework of Cold Dark Matter models for galaxy formation. The results compare favourably to the main observables of present day spirals, provided a crucial assumption is made: massive disks form their stars earlier than low mass ones. It is not clear whether this picture is compatible with currently popular hierarchical models of galaxy evolution. The resulting abundance gradients are found to be anticorrelated to the disk scalelength, support radially dependent star formation efficiencies and point to a kind of ``homologuous evolution'' for spirals.

Search for Binary Protostars

In an effort to shed more light on the formation process of binary stars, we have started a program to study multiplicity among nearby low- and intermediate-mass protostars using the OVRO Millimeter Array. Here, we describe the project and present the first results on the protostellar core in the Bok globule CB230 (L1177). At 10 arcsec resolution, the molecular core is resolved into two components separated by 5000 AU. The morphology and kinematics of the double core suggest that it formed from a single cloud core due to rotational fragmentation.

Infrared Properties of High Redshift and X-ray Selected AGN Samples

The NASA/ISO Key Project on active galactic nuclei (AGN) seeks to better understand the broad-band spectral energy distributions (SEDs) of these sources from radio to X-rays, with particular emphasis on infrared properties. The ISO sample includes a wide variety of AGN types and spans a large redshift range. Two subsamples are considered herein: 8 high-redshift (1 < z < 4.7) quasars; and 22 hard X-ray selected sources.
The X-ray selected AGN show a wide range of IR continuum shapes, extending to cooler colors than the optical/radio sample of Elvis et al. (1994). Where a far-IR turnover is clearly observed, the slopes are < 2.5 in all but one case so that non-thermal emission remains a possibility. The highest redshift quasars show extremely strong, hot IR continua requiring ~ 100 solar masses of 500 - 1000 Kelvin dust with ~ 100 times weaker optical emission. Possible explanations for these unusual properties include: reflection of the optical light from material above/below a torus; strong obscuration of the optical continuum; or an intrinsic deficit of optical emission.

Better Astrometric Deblending of Gravitional Microlensing Events by Using the Difference Image Analysis Method

Due to the choice of very dense star fields for a higher event rate, the current microlensing searches suffer from large uncertainties caused by blending effect. To measure light variations of microlensing events free from the effect of blending, a newly developed method of Differential Image Analysis (DIA) was proposed for microlensing searches. However, even with the light variation curve obtained by using the DIA method, dramatic reduction of the uncertainty in the determined Einstein time scale is not expected due to the difficulty in determining the baseline flux of a source star.
However, we show in this paper that if the blending effect is investigated by detecting the shift of a source star image centroid, the DIA method will allow one to detect the blending effect with a significantly enhanced efficiency compared the efficiency of the current method based on PSF photometry (PSF method). This is because for a given event the centroid shift measurable by using the DIA method, $δθ_{\rm c,DIA}$, is {\it always} larger than the centroid shift measurable by using the PSF method, $δθ_{\rm c,PSF}$. We find that the ratio $δθ_{\rm c,DIA}/δθ_{\rm c,DIA}$ rapidly increases with increasing fraction of blended light. In addition, for events affected by the same fraction of blended light, the ratio $δθ_{\rm c,DIA}/ δθ_{\rm c,DIA}$ is larger for the event with a lower amplification. Therefore, centroid shift measurements by using the DIA method will be an efficient method to detect the blending effect especially of highly blended events, for which the uncertainties in the determined Einstein time scale are large, as well as of low amplification events, for which the current method is highly inefficient.

Modeling Galaxy Lenses

In order to use a gravitational lens to measure the Hubble constant accurately, it is necessary to derive a reliable model of the lens surface potential. If the analysis is restricted to the locations and magnifications of point images, the derived Hubble constant depends upon the class of mass models used to fit the data. However, when there is extended emission from an Einstein ring, it may be possible to derive a potential from the observed surface brightness in a model-independent manner. This procedure is illustrated with reference to B1608+656. The multi-band images are de-reddened, de-convolved and de-contaminated so that the luminous matter and the surface brightness contours in the Einstein ring are both faithfully mapped. This intensity distribution can then be used to reconstruct the potential. Progress in implementing this program is reported.
The observed incidence of multiple-imaged galaxies on the Hubble Deep Fields is an order of magnitude smaller than naively predicted on the basis of radio lens surveys, like CLASS, but consistent with the rate computed using surface photometry of candidate lens galaxies assuming standard mass to light ratios. In order to resolve this paradox, it is suggested that most galaxy lenses are located in compact groups.

A GPS-based method to model the plasma effects in VLBI observations

Global Positioning System (GPS) satellites broadcast at frequencies of 1,575.42 MHz (L1) and of 1,227.60 MHz (L2). The dispersive property of the ionosphere can be used to combine independent measurements at the two frequencies to estimate the total electron content (TEC) between a GPS receiver site and a broadcasting satellite. Such measurements, made at sites near to Very Long Baseline Interferometry (VLBI) sites, can be used to estimate the ionospheric contribution to VLBI observables. For our 1991.9 astrometric VLBI experiment in which we obtained group-delay observations in the 8.4 and 2.3 GHz bands simultaneously, we found that the GPS and VLBI determinations of the ionosphere delays agreed with root-mean-square differences below 0.15 ns for intercontinental baselines and 0.10 ns for continental ones. We also successfully applied the GPS-based procedure to reduce the ionospheric effect in phase delays used for high precision differenced astrometry at 8.4 GHz for this same experiment.

ROSAC: Studying the clustering properties of X-ray selected AGNs

We present the first ROSAC results of an AGN clustering analysis. This study comprises a sample of 200 AGNs, 75% of which being at low redshifts z<0.5, in the Ursa Major constellation. The spatial 2-point-correlation function (SCF) as well as the minimal spanning tree (MST) technique were applied. Some evidence for clustering is found in the SCF, although with low significance. Using the MST technique, we could find two AGN groups. This result is preliminary and the exact significance will be tested with careful simulations.

ISO observational campaign of the BL Lac object PKS 2155-304

The BL Lacertae object PKS 2155-304 was observed by the Infrared Space Observatory in May and June 1996, during a multiwavelength campaign. These are the first observations in the mid- and far-infrared bands since IRAS. In the observing period, the source showed no detectable time variability at 4.0, 14.3, 60 and 90 micron. The spectrum from 2.8 to 100 micron is well fitted by a single power law with energy spectral index alpha = 0.4, intermediate between the flatter radio spectrum and the steeper simultaneous optical spectrum. The overall infrared to X-ray spectral energy distribution can be well explained by optically thin synchrotron emission, with negligible contributions from thermal sources. We also show that the host galaxy flux is negligible in this spectral range.

Strong and weak lensing analysis of cluster Abell 2219 based on optical and near infrared data

We present a gravitational lensing study of the massive galaxy cluster A2219 (redshift 0.22). This investigation is based on multicolour images from U through H, which allows photometric redshifts to be estimated for the background sources. The redshifts provide useful extra information for the lensing models: we show how they can be used to identify a new multiple-image system (and rule out an old one), how this information can be used to anchor the mass model for the cluster, and how the redshifts can be used to construct optimal samples of background galaxies for a weak lensing analysis. Combining all results, we obtain the mass distribution in this cluster from the inner, strong lensing region, out to a radius of 1.5 Mpc. The mass profile is consistent with a singular isothermal model over this radius range. Parametric and non-parametric reconstructions of the mass distribution in the cluster are compared. The main features (elongation, sub-clumps, radial mass profile) are in good agreement.

Toy model of obscurational variability in active galactic nuclei

We propose an explanation of the variability of AGN based on a cloud model of accretion onto a black hole. These clouds, present at a distance of 10-100 Schwarzschild radii, possibly come from the disrupted innermost disk and they can partially obscure the central X-ray source due to their extreme Compton optical depth. We consider the implications of this scenario using a toy model of AGN spectra and support the results with full radiative transfer computations from the codes TITAN and NOAR. We show that small random rearrangements of the cloud distribution can happen on timescales of the order of 10^2 - 10^6 s and may lead to relatively high variability amplitude in the X-ray band if the mean covering factor is large. The normalized variability amplitude in the UV band is either the same as in the X-ray band, if the contribution from the dark sides of the clouds to the UV band is negligible, or it is smaller. The X-ray spectrum should basically preserve its spectral shape even during the high amplitude variability, within the frame of our model.

Molecules as Tracers of PN Structure

Molecular gas plays an important role in the structure of planetary nebulae: it is a major component of the equatorial tori of bipolar nebulae, it forms the cores of globules and related mircostructures, and is the likely origin of multiple arcs. It is also a key component during the early stages of formation where interactions with outflows or jets provide an important shaping mechanism.

Early spectroscopic observations of Nova (V1494) Aquilae 1999 No.2

Low- and medium resolution spectra of the fast nova, Nova (V1494) Aql 1999 No.2 obtained approximately 6, 7, 19 and 28 days after the maximum brightness are presented and discussed. The spectrum covering the whole optical range at day 6 shows the principal plus diffuse-enhanced spectrum. The presence of strong Fe II multiplets with P-Cyg profiles suggest that V1494 Aql belongs to the ``Fe II'' class defined by Williams (1992). The medium-resolution profiles (lambda/Delta lambda \approx 7000) of the Hgamma and Hdelta lines show well-defined sharp absorption features with the same radial velocities, while the Halpha split into two distinct emission peaks in the last two spectra (Delta t=19 and 28 days). The observed behaviour suggests an expanding equatorial ring with possible small-scale clumpiness in the nova shell.
The visual lightcurve is used to deduce M_V by the maximum magnitude versus rate of decline relationship. The resulting parameters are: t_2=6.6+/-0.5 days, t_3=16+/-0.5 days, M_V=-8.8+/-0.2 mag. Adopting this value, a distance d=3.6+/-0.3 kpc is determined.

The Fornax Spectroscopic Survey I. Survey Strategy and Preliminary Results on the Redshift Distribution of a Complete Sample of Stars and Galaxies

The Fornax Spectroscopic Survey will use the Two degree Field spectrograph (2dF) of the Anglo-Australian Telescope to obtain spectra for a complete sample of all 14000 objects with 16.5<=Bj<=19.7 in a 12 square degree area centred on the Fornax Cluster. By selecting all objects---both stars and galaxies---independent of morphology, we cover a much larger range of surface brightness and scale size than previous surveys. In this paper we present results from the first 2dF field. Redshift distributions and velocity structures are shown for all observed objects in the direction of Fornax, including Galactic stars, galaxies in and around the Fornax Cluster, and for the background galaxy population. The velocity data for the stars show the contributions from the different Galactic components, plus a small tail to high velocities. We find no galaxies in the foreground to the cluster in our 2dF field. The Fornax Cluster is clearly defined kinematically. The mean velocity from the 26 cluster members having reliable redshifts is 1560+/-80 km/s. They show a velocity dispersion of 380+/-50 km/s. Large-scale structure can be traced behind the cluster to a redshift beyond z=0.3. Background compact galaxies and low surface brightness galaxies are found to follow the general galaxy distribution.

WSRT 1.4 GHz Observations of the Hubble Deep Field

We present WSRT 1.38 GHz observations of the Hubble Deep Field (and flanking fields). 72 hours of data were combined to produce the WSRT's deepest image yet, achieving an r.m.s. noise level of 8 microJy per beam. We detect radio emission from galaxies both in the HDF and HFF which have not been previously detected by recent MERLIN or VLA studies of the field.

The Properties of Young Clusters in M82

We present a detailed study of two luminous super star clusters in the starburst galaxy M82. Spectra, covering 3250-8790 A at a resolution of 1.6 A, were obtained at the 4.2 m William Herschel Telescope (WHT) for cluster F and the highly reddened cluster L. We compare the strengths of the observed Balmer absorption lines and the Balmer jump in the blue spectrum of F with theoretical model cluster spectra using the PEGASE spectral synthesis code to derive an age of 60+/-20 Myr. For cluster L, we find that the similarities in the strength of the Ca II triplet and overall spectral appearance with cluster F suggest a similar age. The brightness and compactness of cluster F make it an ideal candidate for determining its dynamical mass by measuring the velocity dispersion. We present the results of such an investigation based on echelle spectra at a resolution of 8 km/s obtained at the WHT from 5760-9140 A. By cross-correlating various wavelength regions in the spectrum of cluster F with cool giant and supergiant template stars, we derive a velocity dispersion and, by application of the virial theorem, determine a dynamical mass of 2 million solar masses. We compare our derived mass with those determined for other young super star clusters and discuss whether our derived parameters are consistent with cluster F being able to survive to become a globular cluster.

X-ray/optical observations of XTE J0421+560/CI Cam in quiescence

We report on a BeppoSAX observation of the transient X-ray source XTE J0421+560 during quiescence performed ~150 days after the 1998 April outburst. The source had an unabsorbed 0.5-10 keV flux of 6.7x10^{-12} erg/cm2/s and was still remarkably soft with most of the emission below 2 keV. The X-ray spectrum can be fit with the same two-temperature model as the outburst observations. There is evidence for the presence of an Iron emission feature at ~7 keV. We report also on a series of optical observations performed using the 72 cm Teramo-Normale Telescope (TNT) of the Teramo Observatory, and the 1.5 m Loiano Telescope of the Bologna Observatory. The optical spectrum includes very strong Balmer emission lines, He I, [Fe II], and [O I] features. From the observed L_x/Lopt~10^{-3} the quiescent optical emission cannot be due to re-processing of the X-rays, but has to be generated in the optical companion or the circumstellar material. Moreover, the quiescent X-ray luminosity cannot be due to the optical star if it is of spectral type OB. Although the nature of the compact object present in the XTE J0421+560/CI Cam system cannot be firmly established, we speculate that it is most probably a white dwarf.

Super star clusters as probes of massive star evolution and the IMF at extreme metallicities

Young super star clusters and young compact massive star forming regions can provide useful information on their burst properties (age, burst duration, SFR), the upper end of the IMF and yield new constraints on the evolution of massive stars. Through the study of their stellar populations we can in particular extend our knowledge on massive stars to extreme metallicities unavailable for such stars in the Local Group.
Here we summarise the main results from recent studies on two metallicity extremes: Wolf-Rayet and O star populations in very metal-poor BCD, and metal-rich compact nuclear SF regions.

A time-delay determination from VLA light curves of the CLASS gravitational lens B1600+434

We present Very Large Array (VLA) 8.5-GHz light curves of the two lens images of the Cosmic Lens All Sky Survey (CLASS) gravitational lens B1600+434. We find a nearly linear decrease of 18-19% in the flux densities of both lens images over a period of eight months (February-October) in 1998. Additionally, the brightest image A shows modulations up to 11% peak-to-peak on scales of days to weeks over a large part of the observing period. Image B varies significantly less on this time scale. We conclude that most of the short-term variability in image A is not intrinsic source variability, but is most likely caused by microlensing in the lens galaxy. The alternative, scintillation by the ionized Galactic ISM, is shown to be implausible based on its strong opposite frequency dependent behavior compared with results from multi-frequency WSRT monitoring observations (Koopmans & de Bruyn 1999). From these VLA light curves we determine a median time delay between the lens images of 47^{+5}_{-6} d (68%) or 47^{+12}_{-9} d (95%). We use two different methods to derive the time delay; both give the same result within the errors. We estimate an additional systematic error between -8 and +7 d. If the mass distribution of lens galaxy can be described by an isothermal model (Koopmans, de Bruyn & Jackson 1998), this time delay would give a value for the Hubble parameter, H_0=57^{+14}_{-11} (95% statistical) ^{+26}_{-15} (systematic) km/s/Mpc (Omega_m=1 and Omega_Lambda=0). Similarly, the Modified-Hubble-Profile mass model would give H_0=74^{+18}_{-15} (95% statistical) ^{+22}_{-22} (systematic) km/s/Mpc. For Omega_m=0.3 and Omega_Lambda=0.7, these values increase by 5.4%. ... (ABRIDGED)

The Evolution of He4 and LiBeB

Our understanding of the evolution of He4 and Li7 depends critically on the available data for these two elements at low metallicity. In particular, the degree to which there is a slope in an abundance vs metallicity regression can help determine the evolution of He, C, N, and O in dwarf galaxies in the case of He, and cosmic-ray induced nucleosynthesis of LiBeB in our own galaxy in the case of Li. Recent data and their implications will be discussed.

Quasar Candidate Multicolor Selection Technique: a different approach

We present a quasar candidate identification technique based on multicolor photometry. The traditional multi-dimensional method (2 $\times$ N dimensions, where N is the number of the color-color diagrams) is reduced to a one-dimensional technique, which consists in a standard fitting procedure, where the observed spectral energy distributions are compared to quasar simulated spectra and stellar templates. This new multicolor approach is firstly applied to simulated catalogues and its {\it efficiency} is examined in various redshift ranges, as a function of the filter combination and the available observing time for spectroscopy. We conclude that this method is better suited than the usual multicolor selection techniques to quasar identification, especially for high-redshift quasars. The application of the method to real quasar samples found in the literature results in an {\it efficiency} comparable to the one obtained from the use of color-color diagrams. The major advantage of the new method is the estimation of the {\it photometric} redshift of quasar candidates, enabling, in almost all cases, spectroscopy to be targeted to best suited wavelength ranges.

Structure and Evolution of Circumstellar Disks Around Young Stars: New Views from ISO

A question central to understanding the origin of our solar system is: how do planets form in circumstellar disks around young stars? Because of the complex nature of the physical processes involved, multi-wavelength observations of large samples will be required in order to obtain a complete answer to this question. Surveys undertaken with ISO have helped to solve pieces of this puzzle in addition to uncovering new mysteries. We review a variety of studies aimed at understanding; i) the physical structure and composition of circumstellar disks commonly found surrounding young stellar objects; and ii) the evolution of circumstellar disks from the active accretion phase to post-planet building debris disks.

The Distance to the Large Magellanic Cloud

I demonstrate that the two unexpected results in the local Universe: anomalous intrinsic (V-I)_0 colors of RR Lyrae stars and clump giants in the Galactic center, and very short distances to Magellanic Clouds inferred from clump giants, can be at least partially resolved with a modified coefficient of selective extinction A_V/E(V-I). With this modification, I find a new clump-giant distance modulus to the Large Magellanic Cloud, mu_{LMC} = 18.27 +/- 0.07, which is 0.09 larger than the Udalski (1998b) result. When distance estimates from the red clump, RR Lyrae stars and the eclipsing binary HV2274 are combined, one obtains mu_{LMC} = 18.31 +/- 0.04 (internal).

Point source models for the gravitational lens B1608+656: Indeterminacy in the prediction of the Hubble constant

We apply elliptical isothermal mass models to reproduce the point source properties, i.e. image positions, flux density ratios and time delay ratios, of the quadruple lens B1608+656. A wide set of suitable solutions is found, showing that models that only fit the properties of point sources are under-constrained and can lead to a large uncertainty in the prediction of Ho. We present two examples of models predicting Ho=100 km/(s Mpc) (chi^2=4) and Ho=69 km/(s Mpc) (chi^2=24).

A Comparison of Ultraviolet, Optical, and X-Ray Imagery of Selected Fields in the Cygnus Loop

During the Astro-1 and Astro-2 Space Shuttle missions in 1990 and 1995, far ultraviolet (FUV) images of five 40' diameter fields around the rim of the Cygnus Loop supernova remnant were observed with the Ultraviolet Imaging Telescope (UIT). These fields sampled a broad range of conditions including both radiative and nonradiative shocks in various geometries and physical scales. In these shocks, the UIT B5 band samples predominantly CIV 1550 and the hydrogen two-photon recombination continuum. Smaller contri- butions are made by emission lines of HeII 1640 and OIII] 1665. We present these new FUV images and compare them with optical Halpha and [OIII], and ROSAT HRI X-ray images. Comparing the UIT images with those from the other bands provides new insights into the spatial variations and locations of these different types of emission. By comparing against shock model calculations and published FUV spectroscopy at select locations, we surmise that resonance scattering in the strong FUV permitted lines is widespread in the Cygnus Loop, especially in the bright optical filaments typically selected for observation in most previous studies.

The Cosmological Quark-Hadron Transition and Massive Compact Halo Objects

One of the abiding mysteries in the so-called standard cosmological model is the nature of the dark matter. It is universally accepted that there is an abundance of matter in the universe which is non-luminous, due to their very weak interaction, if at all, with the other forms of matter, excepting of course the gravitational attraction. Speculations as to the nature of dark matter are numerous, often bordering on exotics, and searches for such exotic matter is a very active field of astroparticle physics at the dawn of the new century. Nevertheless, in recent years, there has been experimental evidence for at least one form of dark matter - the massive compact halo objects detected through gravitational microlensing effects proposed by Paczynski some years ago. To date, no clear consensus as to what these objects, referred to in the literature as well as in the following by the acronym MACHO, are made of; for a brief discussion of some of the suggestions, see below. In this work, we show that they find a natural explanation as leftover relics from the putative first order cosmic quark - hadron phase transition that is predicted by the standard model of particle interactions to have occurred during the microsecond epoch of the early universe.

The giant radio galaxy 8C0821+695 and its environment

We present new VLA and Effelsberg observations of the radio galaxy 8C0821+695. We have obtained detailed images in total intensity and polarization of this 2 Mpc sized giant. The magnetic field has a configuration predominantly parallel to the source main axis. We observe Faraday rotation at low frequencies, most probably produced by an ionized medium external to the radio source. The spectral index distribution is that typical of FR II radio galaxies, with spectral indices gradually steepening from the source extremes towards the core. Modeling the spectrum in the lobes using standard synchrotron loss models yields the spectral age of the source and the mean velocity of the jet-head with respect to the lobe material. The existence of a possible backflow in the lobe is considered to relate spectral with dynamical determinations of the age and the velocity with respect to the external medium. Through a very simple model, we obtain a physical characterization of the jets and the external medium in which the radio galaxy expands. The results in 8C0821+695 are consistent with a relativistic jet nourishing the lobes which expand in a hot, low density halo. We infer a deceleration of the source expansion velocity which we explain through a progressive increase in the hot-spot size.

Clustering of mass and galaxies

These lectures cover various aspects of the statistical description of cosmological density fields. Observationally, this consists of the point process defined by galaxies, and the challenge is to relate this to the continuous density field generated by gravitational instability in dark matter. The main topics discussed are (1) nonlinear structure in CDM models; (2) statistical measures of clustering; (3) redshift-space distortions; (4) small-scale clustering and bias. The overall message is optimistic, in that simple assumptions for where galaxies should form in the mass density field allow one to understand the systematic differences between galaxy data and the predictions of CDM models.

SGRs and AXPs - Magnetars or Young Quark Stars ?

Recent measurements of the spin-down rates of soft gamma ray repeaters (SGRs) and anomalous X-ray pulsars (AXPs) have been interpreted as evidence that these objects are ``magnetars'': neutron stars spinning down by magnetic dipole radiation, but with a magnetic field two orders of magnitude larger than that of ordinary neutron stars. We discuss the evidence disfavouring this interpretation. We argue that, instead, the observations support the hypothesis that SGRs and AXPs are neutron stars that have suffered a transition into a denser form of nuclear matter to become, presumably, strange stars or quark stars. Their gravitational energy release while they are cooling and contracting can power both their quiescent X-ray emission and their star quakes which produce `soft' gamma ray bursts.

Understanding NLR in Seyfert Galaxies: numerical simulation of jet-cloud interaction

Recent HST observations suggest that the NLR in Seyfert Galaxies can be the result of interaction between jet and external inhomogeneous medium; following this suggestion we perform numerical simulations considering the impact of a radiative jet on a dense cloud. We approach the problem adopting a hydrodynamical code, that consents us to study in detail the jet hydrodynamics, while we choose a more simplified treatment of radiative processes, in order to give a qualitatively good interpretation of the emission processes. Our three main purposes are: i) to reproduce in our simulations the physical conditions observed in the NLR of Seyfert Galaxies, ii) to obtain physical constraints of the jet parameters and iii) to study the jet capability to photoionize the surrounding medium.

The HST view of the FR I / FR II dichotomy

In order to explore how the FR I / FR II dichotomy is related to the nuclear properties of radio galaxies, we studied a complete sample of 26 nearby FR II radio galaxies using Hubble Space Telescope (HST) images and compared them with a sample of FR I previously analyzed. FR I nuclei lie in the radio-optical luminosity plane along a tight linear correlation, which argues for a common synchrotron origin. FR II show a more complex behavior, which is however clearly related to their optical spectral classification.
Broad line FR II radio galaxies (BLRG) are located overall well above the FR I correlation, suggesting that a contribution from thermal (disc) emission is present. Three narrow line (NLRG) and one weak line radio galaxy (WLRG), in which no nuclear source is seen, can be interpreted as the obscured counter-parts of BLRG, in agreement with the current unification schemes.
Conversely, in 5 sources of the sample, all of them NLRG or WLRG, optical cores are located on the same correlation defined by FR I and with similar radio and optical luminosities. This suggests that, in analogy to FR I, the emission is dominated by synchrotron radiation and represents the optical counter-part of the non-thermal radio cores. Interestingly, all these galaxies are located in clusters, an environment typical of FR I.
These results imply that, at least at low redshifts, the FR II population is not homogeneous. Furthermore, the traditional dichotomy between edge darkened and brightened radio morphology is not univocally connected with the innermost nuclear structure, as we find FR~II with FR I-like nuclei and this has interesting bearings from the point of view of the AGN unified models.

Magnetized Atmospheres around Accreting Neutron Stars

We present a detailed investigation of atmospheres around accreting neutron stars with high magnetic field ($B\gtrsim 10^{12}$ G) and low luminosity ($L\lesssim 10^{33}$ erg/s). We compute the atmospheric structure, intensity and emergent spectrum for a plane-parallel, pure hydrogen medium by solving the transfer equations for the normal modes coupled to the hydrostatic and energy balance equations. The hard tail found in previous investigations for accreting, non-magnetic neutron stars with comparable luminosity is suppressed and the X-ray spectrum, although still harder than a blackbody at the star effective temperature, is nearly planckian in shape. Spectra from accreting atmospheres, both with high and low fields, are found to exhibit a significant excess at optical wavelengths above the Rayleigh-Jeans tail of the X-ray continuum.

ISO-LWS spectroscopy of Centaurus A: extended star formation

We present the first full FIR spectrum of Centaurus A (NGC 5128) from 43 - 196.7 um. The data was obtained with the ISO Long Wavelength Spectrometer (LWS). We conclude that the FIR emission in a 70 arcsec beam centred on the nucleus is dominated by star formation rather than AGN activity. The flux in the far-infrared lines is ~ 1 % of the total FIR: the [CII] line flux is ~ 0.4 % FIR and the [OI] line is ~ 0.2 %, with the remainder arising from [OIII], [NII] and [NIII] lines. These are typical values for starburst galaxies.
The ratio of the [NIII]/[NII] line intensities from the HII regions in the dust lane can be modelled as a ~ 6 million year old starburst. This suggests that the galaxy underwent either a recent merger or a merger which triggered a series of bursts.
We estimate that < 5 % of the observed [CII] arises in the cold neutral medium (CNM) and that ~ 10 % arises in the warm ionized medium (WIM). The main contributors to the [CII] emission are the PDRs, which are located throughout the dust lane and in regions beyond where the bulk of the molecular material lies. On scales of ~ 1 kpc the average physical properties of the PDRs are modelled with a gas density, n ~ 1000 cm^-3, an incident far-UV field, G ~ 100 times the local Galactic field, and a gas temperature of ~ 250 K.

Mass-loss induced instabilities in fast rotating stars

To explain the origin of Herbig Ae/Be stars activity, it has been recently proposed that strong mass-losses trigger rotational instabilities in the envelope of fast rotating stars. The kinetic energy transferred to turbulent motions would then be the energy source of the active phenomena observed in the outer atmosphere of Herbig Ae/Be stars (Vigneron et al. 1990; Lignieres et al. 1996).
In this paper, we present a one-dimensional model of angular momentum transport which allows to estimate the degree of differential rotation induced by mass-loss. Gradients of angular velocity are very close to - 2 Ω/ R (Ωbeing the surface rotation rate and R the stellar radius). For strong mass-loss, this process occurs in a short time scale as compared to other processes of angular momentum transport. Application of existing stability criteria indicates that rotational instabilities should develop for fast rotating star. Thus, in fast rotating stars with strong winds, shear instabilities are expected to develop and to generate subphotospheric turbulent motions. Albeit very simple, this model gives strong support to the assumption made by Vigneron et al. 1990 and Lignieres et al. 1996.

Overmerging in N-body simulations

The aim of this paper is to clarify the notion and cause of overmerging in N-body simulations, and to present analytical estimates for its timescale. Overmerging is the disruption of subhaloes within embedding haloes due to {\it numerical} problems connected with the discreteness of N-body dynamics. It is shown that the process responsible for overmerging is particle-subhalo two-body heating. Various solutions to the overmerging problem are discussed

ChaMP and the High Redshift Quasars in X-rays

Chandra X-ray Observatory, (formerly known as AXAF), will observe down to the flux limit of 2\times 10^{-16} erg~s^{-1} cm^{-2}. In its first year of operation Chandra's CCD detectors will observe over 1500 quasars serendipitously in the soft (0.5--3.5 keV) band. Over 200 quasars will be detected in X-rays in the redshift range 3<z<4 and over 400 quasars in 2<z<3. This will enable us to determine the high redshift X-ray luminosity function. This is the contribution by unabsorbed sources only. The total numbers would be larger by about 60%

High-resolution simulations and visualization of protoplanetary disks

A problem of mass flow in the immediate vicinity of a planet embedded in a protoplanetary disk is studied numerically in two dimensions. Large differences in temporal and spatial scales involved suggest that a specialized discretization method for solution of hydrodynamical equations may offer great savings in computational resources, and can make extensive parameter studies feasible. Preliminary results obtained with help of Adaptive Mesh Refinement technique and high-order explicit Eulerian solver are presented. This combination of numerical techniques appears to be an excellent tool which allows for direct simulations of mass flow in vicinity of the accretor at moderate computational cost. In particular, it is possible to resolve the surface of the planet and to model the process of planet growth with minimal set of assumptions. Some issues related to visualization of the results and future prospects are discussed briefly.

Cosmic defects and cosmology

We provide a pedagogical overview of defect models of structure formation. We first introduce the concept of topological defect, and describe how to classify them. We then show how defects might be produced in phase transitions in the Early Universe and approach non-pathological scaling solutions. A very heuristic account of structure formation with defects is then provided, following which we introduce the tool box required for high precision calculations of CMB and LSS power spectra in these theories. The decomposition into scalar vector and tensor modes is reviewed, and then we introduce the concept of unequal-time correlator. We use isotropy and causality to constrain the form of these correlators. We finally show how these correlators may be decomposed into eigenmodes, thereby reducing a defect problem to a series of ``inflation'' problems. We conclude with a short description of results in these theories and how they fare against observations. We finally describe yet another application of topological defects in cosmology: baryogenesis.

The Role of H2 Molecules in Cosmological Structure Formation

We review the relevance of H2 molecules for structure formation in cosmology. Molecules are important at high redshifts, when the first collapsed structures appear with typical temperatures of a few hundred Kelvin. In these chemically pristine clouds, radiative cooling is dominated H2 molecules. As a result, H2 ``astro-chemistry'' is likely to determine the epoch when the first astrophysical objects appear. We summarize results of recent three-dimensional simulations. A discussion of the effects of feedback, and implications for the reionization of the universe is also given.

Gyro-Magnetic Relations and Masses of Stars

The calculations in Thomas-Fermi approximation show that in a gravitational field each cell of ultra dense matter inside celestial bodies obtains a very small positive electric charge. A celestial body is electrically neutral as a whole, because the negative electric charge exists on its surface. On the order of magnitude the positive volume charge is very small ($10^{-18}e$ only). But it is sufficient to explain the occurrence of magnetic fields of celestial bodies and the existence of a discrete spectrum of steady-state values of masses of stars and pulsars.

The Light Elements Be and B as Stellar Chronometers in the Early Galaxy

Recent detailed simulations of Galactic Chemical Evolution have shown that the heavy elements, in particular [Fe/H], are expected to exhibit a weak, or absent, correlation with stellar ages in the early Galaxy due to the lack of efficient mixing of interstellar material enriched by individual Type II supernovae. A promising alternative "chronometer" of stellar ages is suggested, based on the expectation that the light elements Be and B are formed primarily as spallation products of Galactic Cosmic Rays.

The Warp of the Galaxy and the Orientation of the LMC Orbit

After studying the orientation of a warp generated by a companion satellite, we show that the Galactic Warp would be oriented in a different way if the Magellanic Clouds were its cause. We have treated the problem analytically, and complemented it with numerical N-Body simulations.

Kinematics of Molecular Hydrogen Emission from Planetary and Pre-planetary Nebulae

We report results from a program of high-resolution spectral mapping of rotational H_2 emission from bipolar planetary and pre-planetary nebulae. Long-slit spectra obtained with the NOAO Phoenix near-infrared spectrometer allow us to probe the molecular kinematics of these nebulae at moderate spatial resolution. We find strong evidence of a component of rotation in the equatorial H_2 emission from the Egg nebula (RAFGL 2688). In this nebula and in the pre-planetary nebula RAFGL 618, the H_2 kinematics point to the recent emergence of high-velocity polar flows, which likely mark the fairly sudden terminations of the red giant phases of their central stars. The classical bipolar planetary NGC 2346 displays distinct kinematic components, which we interpret as arising in the morphologically distinct equatorial and polar regions of the nebula. The H_2 rings observed in the Phoenix position-velocity maps of this nebula support the hypothesis that ring-like planetaries that display H_2 emission possess bipolar structure.

From Historical Perspectives to Some Modern Possibilities

A historical perspective on the study of asymmetries in planetary nebulae (PNs) is presented. We also describe our ongoing work in high resolution spectroscopy of planetaries, and discuss some likely future directions for the study of asymmetrical PNs.

LASCO and EIT Observations of Coronal Mass Ejections

We present a brief overview of LASCO and EIT observations of CMEs. We discuss CME energetics, the relation of CMEs to streamers and conclude with some insights into the source regions of CMEs.

HST Images of Stephan's Quintet: Star Cluster Candidates in a Compact Group Environment

We present HST WFPC2 images of Stephan's Quintet which encompass three interacting galaxies and their associated tidal features. These deep, three-color (B, V, I) images indicate recent, massive stellar system formation in various regions within the compact group environment. We have identified star cluster candidates (SCC) both within the interacting galaxies and in the tidal debris. We compare the SCC colors with stellar population synthesis models in order to constrain cluster ages, and compare the pattern of formation of SCC in different regions to the inferred dynamical history of the group.

Extragalactic Globular Cluster Systems: A new Perspective on Galaxy Formation and Evolution

We present an overview of observational progress in the study of extragalactic globular cluster systems. Globular clusters turn out to be excellent tracers not only for the star-formation histories in galaxies, but also for kinematics at large galactocentric radii. Their properties can be used to efficiently constrain galaxy formation and evolution. After a brief introduction of the current methods and futures perspectives, we summarize the knowledge gained in various areas of galaxy research through the study of globular clusters. In particular, we address the star-formation histories of early-type galaxies; globular cluster population in late-type galaxies and their link to early-type galaxies; star and cluster formation during mergers and violent interactions; and the kinematics at large radii in early-type galaxies. The different points are reviewed within the context of galaxy formation and evolution.
Finally, we revisit the globular cluster luminosity function as a distance indicator. Despite its low popularity in the literature, we demonstrate that it ranks among one of the most precise distance indicators to early-type galaxies, provided that it is applied properly.

Alternative Solutions to Big Bang Nucleosynthesis

Standard big bang nucleosynthesis (SBBN) has been remarkably successful, and it may well be the correct and sufficient account of what happened. However, interest in variations from the standard picture come from two sources: First, big bang nucleosynthesis can be used to constrain physics of the early universe. Second, there may be some discrepancy between predictions of SBBN and observations of abundances. Various alternatives to SBBN include inhomogeneous nucleosynthesis, nucleosynthesis with antimatter, and nonstandard neutrino physics.

VLBI difference astrometry at 43GHz

From 43GHz VLBA observations of the pair of radio sources 1928+738 and 2007+777 we have demonstrated the feasibility of precision phase-delay differential astrometric techniques at millimeter wavelengths. For a pair of sources with 5 degrees separation and high antenna elevations, we have shown that present astrometric models and millimeter arrays are advanced enough to model the differential phase-delay to within 2 picoseconds, less than one tenth of a phase-cycle at 43GHz. The root-mean-square of the differential phase-delay residuals is dominated by the fluctuations of the atmospheric water vapor. We have determined the relative position of the observed sources with a precision twofold better than previous determinations at lower frequencies and, more importantly, largely free from ambiguous definitions of the reference point on the structure of the radio sources. Our result makes 43GHz VLBI phase-delay differential astrometry an ideal tool to study the absolute kinematics of the highly variable structures of regions near the core of extragalactic radio sources.

On energy spectra of UHE cosmic rays accelerated in supergalactic accretion flows

Some ultra-high energy (UHE) cosmic ray (CR) events may be correlated with the Local Supercluster plane. We consider acceleration of such particles at the large-scale accretion flows of matter towards such plane and/or accretion flows onto galaxy clusters. The formed shocks and the general compression flow are expected to allow for CR diffusive acceleration of UHE particles. For a simplified flow geometry we consider a stationary acceleration of such CRs and we discuss influence of model parameters on a particle spectral index. We show that the general convergent flow pattern leads naturally to very flat proton spectra with the phase-space spectral indices $σ\approx 3.0$, as compared to the `canonical' shock value of 4.0.

Determination of the EAS Attenuation Length from Data of the ANI Experiment

Using the EAS size spectra measured with the MAKET ANI array on Mt. Aragats, Armenia (3200m a.s.l.) in the range of the shower size 10^5 - 10^7 for different angles-of-incidence, the EAS attenuation length has been determined applying different analysis methods. The analysis is based on a data sample of 2.5*10^6 events collected in the period of June, 97 - April, 99. The results are compared with results deduced from data of the EAS TOP and KASCADE experiments.

The Dependence of the Age Parameter from EAS Size and Zenith Angle of Incidence

The quality of the MAKET-ANI detector installation in view of the uniformity of the registration efficiency is demonstrated. Based on a data sample collected by the MAKET-ANI array in the period of June 1997 - March 1999, the dependencies of the age parameter on the zenith angle and the EAS size (10^5-10^7) are studied. The variation of the age parameter with the shower size can be approximately related to the elongation rate.

The Formation History of Globular Clusters

The properties of old globular cluster systems in galaxy halos are used to infer quantitative constraints on aspects of generic star (cluster) formation. First, the spatial distribution of globulars in three large galaxies, together with trends in total cluster population vs. galaxy luminosity for 97 early-type systems plus the halo of the Milky Way, imply that bound stellar clusters formed with a universal efficiency throughout early protogalaxies: by mass, always 0.26% of star-forming gas was converted into globulars rather than halo field stars. That this fraction is so robust in the face of extreme variations in local and global galaxy environment suggests that any parcel of gas needs primarily to exceed a relative density threshold in order to form a bound cluster of stars. Second, it is shown that a strict, empirical scaling of total binding energy with luminosity and Galactocentric position is a defining equation for a fundamental plane of Galactic globular clusters. The characteristics of this plane, which subsumes all other observable correlations between the structural parameters of globulars, provide a small but complete set of facts that must be explained by theories of cluster formation and evolution in the Milky Way. It is suggested that the E_b(L,r_{\rm gc}) relation specifically resulted from star formation efficiencies having been systematically higher inside more massive protoglobular gas clumps.

Constraints on Cluster Formation from Old Globular CLuster Systems

The properties of old globular cluster systems (GCSs) in galaxy halos offer unique insight into the physical processes that conspire to form any generic star cluster, at any epoch. Presented here is a summary of the information obtained from (1) the specific frequencies (total populations) and spatial structures (density vs. galactocentric radius) of GCSs in early-type galaxies, as they relate to the efficiency (or probability) of bound cluster formation, and (2) the fundamental role of a scaling between cluster mass and energy among Galactic globulars in setting their other structural correlations, and the possible implications for star formation efficiency as a function of mass in gaseous protoclusters.

Measuring the Size of the Vela Pulsar's Radio Emission Region

We describe measurements of the size of the Vela pulsar via scintillation, using both fits to the distribution of intensity and measurements of the modulation index. We briefly discuss systematic effects other than source size that can affect the distribution, including gain variations, self-noise, scintillation shot noise, and correlator saturation. Modulation index, a single number, can be biased by all of these, whereas the distribution of intensity is affected in different ways by different effects, providing means of distinguishing among them. Self-noise and gain variations are likely more important at long observing wavelengths, and correlator saturation and scintillation shot noise at short wavelengths. We find a size of about 500 km at decimeter wavelengths. Interestingly, this agrees with measurements of modulation index by Roberts & Ables at the same wavelength. Their results (and more recently that reported by Macquart et al.) suggest that size decreases with increasing wavelength. Although consistent with the observations, this conclusion is perhaps surprising from the standpoint of the traditional radius-to-frequency mapping. However, these measurements are of size rather than height; and of course systematic effects may play a role.

The CDS information hub

The Centre de Donnees astronomiques de Strasbourg (CDS) provides homogeneous access to heterogeneous information of various origins: information about astronomical objects in Simbad; catalogs and observation logs in VizieR and in the catalogue service; reference images and overlays in Aladin; nomenclature in the Dictionary of Nomenclature; Yellow Page services; the AstroGLU resource discovery tool; mirror copies of other reference services; and documentation. With the implementation of links between the CDS services, and with other on--line reference information, CDS has become a major hub in the rapidly evolving world of information retrieval in astronomy, developing efficient tools to help astronomers to navigate in the world-wide `Virtual Observatory' under construction, from data in the observatory archives to results published in journals. The WWW interface to the CDS services is available at: http://cdsweb.u-strasbg.fr/

The Broad Line Region in Active Galactic Nuclei

We review constraints on models of the broad line region that are imposed by observations of the emission lines in Active Galactic Nuclei. Comparison of high and low ionization lines in sources with FWHM Hbeta < 4000 km/s points toward low ionization line emission produced in a flattened geometry (the accretion disk?) with an associated high ionization wind. It remains unclear whether these results can be extended to all radio quiet AGN and particularly to radio loud AGN.

A phase-reference study of the quasar pair 1038+528A,B

We present results from 3.6 cm observations of the quasar pair 1038+528 A and B, made in 1995 using the VLBA together with the Effelsberg 100m telescope. We describe the use of a phase-referencing technique to measure the astrometric separation between the quasars. We also introduce a new data analysis method -"hybrid double mapping"- which preserves the relative astrometric information in a single VLBI hybrid map for close source pairs. We combine our measurements with those from three previous epochs, the earliest in 1981. Our new observations confirm the evolution within the structure of quasar B, previously proposed to explain the measured change in the relative separation of the pair. Our upper bound for any systematic proper motion between the mass centres of quasars A and B is 10 micro-arcsec/year. This is set by the limited precision in defining the reference points in the quasars at different epochs and by possible instabilities of the source "core" locations. A separate analysis enables us to put more stringent upper limits to any core motions along the two source axes.

Chemistry in the Envelopes around Massive Young Stars

Recent observational studies of intermediate- and high-mass star-forming regions at submillimeter and infrared wavelengths are reviewed, and chemical diagnostics of the different physical components associated with young stellar objects are summarized. Procedures for determining the temperature, density and abundance profiles in the envelopes are outlined. A detailed study of a set of infrared-bright massive young stars reveals systematic increases in the gas/solid ratios, the abundances of evaporated molecules, and the fraction of heated ices with increasing temperature. Since these diverse phenomena involve a range of temperatures from < 100 K to 1000 K, the enhanced temperatures must be communicated to both the inner and outer parts of the envelopes. This `global heating' plausibly results from the gradual dispersion of the envelopes with time. Similarities and differences with low-mass YSOs are discussed. The availability of accurate physical models will allow chemical models of ice evaporation followed by `hot core' chemistry to be tested in detail.

Geodetic Precession and the Binary Pulsar B1913+16

A change of the component separation in the profiles of the binary pulsar PSR B1913+16 has been observed for the first time (Kramer 1998) as expected by geodetic precession. In this work we extend the previous work by accounting for recent data from the Effelsberg 100-m telescope and Arecibo Observatory and testing model predictions. We demonstrate how the new information will provide additional information on the solutions of the system geometry.

Reionization of the Universe and the Photoevaporation of Cosmological Minihalos

The first sources of ionizing radiation to condense out of the dark and neutral IGM sent ionization fronts sweeping outward through their surroundings, overtaking other condensed objects and photoevaporating them. This feedback effect of universal reionization on cosmic structure formation is demonstrated here for the case of a cosmological minihalo of dark matter and baryons exposed to an external source of ionizing radiation with a quasar-like spectrum, just after the passage of the global ionization front created by the source. We model the pre-ionization minihalo as a truncated, nonsingular isothermal sphere in hydrostatic equilibrium following its collapse out of the expanding background universe and virialization. Results are presented of the first gas dynamical simulations of this process, including radiative transfer. A sample of observational diagnostics is also presented, including the spatially-varying ionization levels of C, N, and O in the flow if a trace of heavy elements is present and the integrated column densities of H I, He I and II, and C IV thru the photoevaporating gas at different velocities which would be measured in absorption against a background source like that responsible for the ionization.

Red Companions to the z=2.15 Radio Loud Quasar 1550-269

We have conducted observations of the environment around the z=2.15 radio loud quasar 1550-269 in search of distant galaxies associated either with it or the z=2.09 CIV absorber along its line of sight. Such objects will be distinguished by their red colours, R-K > 4.5. We find five such objects in a 1.5 arcmin^2 field around the quasar, with typical K' magnitudes of ~20.4 and no detected R band emission. We also find a sixth object with K=19.6 +/- 0.3, and undetected at R, just two arcseconds from the quasar. The nature of all these objects is currently unclear, and will remain so until we have determined their redshifts. We suggest that it is likely that they are associated with either the quasar or the CIV absorber, in which case their properties might be similar to those of the z=2.38 red Ly-alpha emitting galaxies discovered by Francis et al. (1997). The small separation between the quasar and the brightest of our objects suggests that it may be the galaxy responsible for the CIV metal line absorption system. The closeness to the quasar and the red colour might have precluded similar objects from being uncovered in previous searches for emission from CIV and eg. damped absorbers.

The ALADIN Interactive Sky Atlas

The Aladin interactive sky atlas, developed at CDS, is a service providing simultaneous access to digitized images of the sky, astronomical catalogues, and databases.
The driving motivation is to facilitate direct, visual comparison of observational data at any wavelength with images of the optical sky, and with reference catalogues.
The set of available sky images consists of the STScI Digitized Sky Surveys, completed with high resolution images of crowded regions scanned at the MAMA facility in Paris.
A Java WWW interface to the system is available at: http://aladin.u-strasbg.fr/

Approximations of the self-similar solution for blastwave in a medium with power-law density variation

Approximations of the Sedov self-similar solution for a strong point explosion in a medium with the power-law density distribution ρ^o\propto r^{-m} are reviewed and their accuracy are analyzed. Taylor approximation is extended to cases m\neq 0. Two approximations of the solution are presented in the Lagrangian coordinates for spherical, cylindrical and plane geometry. These approximations may be used for the investigation of the ionization structure of the adiabatic flow, i.e., inside adiabatic supernova remnants.

Radio Emission Properties of Millisecond Pulsars

We report the most recent progress in understanding the emission properties of millisecond pulsars.

The Effelsberg Search for Pulsars in the Galactic Centre

We report the status of a search for pulsars in the Galactic Centre, using a completely revised and improved high-sensitivity double-horn system at 4.85-GHz. We also present calculations about the success rate of periodicity searches for such a survey, showing that in contrast to conclusions in recent literature pulsars can be indeed detected at the chosen search frequency.

Near Infrared Photometry of Galactic Globular Clusters M56 and M15. Extending the Red Giant Branch vs. Metallicity Calibration Towards Metal Poor Systems

Infrared JKs-band photometry of the Galactic globular clusters M15 and, for the first time, M56 is presented. We estimated the reddening (E(B-V)=0.18+/-0.08 mag) and distance modulus ((m-M)_V=15.43+/-0.30 mag) towards the poorly studied globular cluster M56. We combined our data with observations of other clusters from the literature (12 in total) to extend the [Fe/H] vs. Red Giant Branch (RGB) slope relation towards metal-poor clusters. Our best fit yields to [Fe/H]=-3.40(+/-0.22)-27.74(+/-2.35)x(RGB Slope), with an r.m.s.=0.20. The broader metallicity baseline greatly reduced the uncertainties compared to other existing calibrations. We confirmed a previously obtained calibration of the relation between the RGB color (J-Ks)_0(RGB) at M_Ks=-5.5 vs. [Fe/H]: [Fe/H]=-6.90(+/-0.99)+6.63(+/-1.05)x(J-Ks)_0(RGB) with an r.m.s.=0.33. Finally, using the new RGB slope calibration we estimated the abundance of the super metal-rich cluster Liller 1 [Fe/H]=+0.34+/-0.22.

The Magellanic Clouds and the Primordial Helium Abundance

A new determination of the pregalactic helium abundance based on the Magellanic Clouds H II regions is discussed. This determination amounts to Yp = 0.2345 +- 0.0030 and is compared with those derived from giant extragalactic H II regions in systems with extremely low heavy elements content. It is suggested that the higher primordial value derived by other authors from giant H II region complexes could be due to two systematic effects: the presence of neutral hydrogen inside the helium Stromgren sphere and the presence of temperature variations inside the observed volume.

Fractal structures and the large scale distribution of galaxies

Galaxy structures are certainly fractal up to a certain crossover scale λ_0. A clear determination of such a scale is still missing. Usually, the conceptual and practical implications of this property are neglected and the structures are only discussed in terms of their global amplitude. Here we present a compact summary of these implications. First, we discuss the problem of the identification of the crossover scale λ_0 and the proper characterization of the scaling. We then consider the implications of these properties with respect to various physical phenomena and to the corresponding characteristic values, i.e. r_0, σ_8, Ω, etc. These implications crucially depend on the value of λ_0, but they are still important for a relatively small value, say λ_0 \approx 50 \hmp. Finally we consider the main theoretical consequences of these results.

Quintessence at Galactic Level?

Recently it has been proposed that the main contributor to the dark energy of the Universe is a dynamical, slow evolving, spatially inhomogeneous scalar field called quintessence. We investigate the behavior of this scalar field at galactic level by assuming that it is the dark matter compossing the halos of galaxies. Using an exact solution of the Einstein's equations we find an excellent concordance between our results and observations.

Eccentric Orbits of close Companions to Asymptotic Giant Branch Stars

I propose that the relatively high eccentricity found in some tidally strongly interacting binary systems, where the mass-losing star is an evolved giant star, e.g., an asymptotic giant branch star, is caused by an enhanced mass loss rate during periastron passages. Tidal interaction by itself will circularize the orbits of these systems in a relatively short time, hence a mechanism which increases the eccentricity on a shorter time scale is required. The proposed scenario predicts that the nebula formed by the mass loss process possesses a prominent departure from axisymmetrical structure. Such a departure is observed in the Red Rectangle, which has a central binary system, HD 44179, with an orbital period of 318 days, and an eccentricity of e=0.38.

Cosmic Star Formation History Required from Infrared Galaxy Number Count : Future Prospect for Infrared Imaging Surveyor (IRIS)

We constructed a model of infrared and sub-mm (hereafter IR) galaxy number count and estimated history of the IR luminosity density. We treat the evolutionary change of galaxy luminosities as a stepwise nonparametric form, in order to explore the most suitable evolutionary history which reproduces the present observational results. We found the evolutionary patterns which satisfy both constraints required from Cosmic Infrared Background (CIRB) and IR galaxy number counts. One order of magnitude increase of luminosity at redshift $z=0.75 - 1.0$ was found in IR $60 μ$m luminosity density evolution. We also found that a large number of galaxies ($\sim 10^7$ in the whole sky) will be detected in all-sky survey at far-infrared by Infrared Imaging Surveyor (IRIS); Japanese infrared satellite project Astro-F.

A Nearby Supernovae Search: Eros2

Type Ia supernovae (SNIa) have been used as approximate standard candles to measure cosmological parameters such as the Hubble constant and the deceleration parameter. These measurements rely on empirical correlations between peak luminosities and other features that can be observed in the supernovae spectra and their light curves. Such correlations deserve further study since they have been established from small samples of nearby SNIa. Two years ago, the EROS2 collaboration launched an automated search for supernovae with the 1m Marly telescope operating at La Silla. In all, 57 SNe have been discovered in this EROS2 search and spectra have been obtained for 26 of them. We found that 75% were of type Ia and 25% of type II. Using this sample, a preliminary SN explosion rate has been obtained. Our most recent observation campaign took place in February and March 99. It was performed in the framework of a large consortium led by the {\em Supernova Cosmology Project}. The aim of this intensive campaign was to provide an independent set of high quality light curves and spectra to study systematic effects in the measurement of cosmological parameters. We will briefly describe our search procedure and present the status of our ongoing analysis.

Detection of deuterium Balmer lines in the Orion Nebula

The detection and first identification of the deuterium Balmer emission lines, D-alpha and D-beta, in the core of the Orion Nebula is reported. Observations were conducted at the 3.6m Canada-France-Hawaii Telescope, using the Echelle spectrograph Gecko. These lines are very narrow and have identical 11 km/s velocity shifts with respect to H-alpha and H-beta. They are probably excited by UV continuum fluorescence from the Lyman (DI) lines and arise from the interface between the HII region and the molecular cloud.

The Formation of Galaxies, the Formation of Old Globular Clusters and the Link with High-Redshift Objects

In this paper, we are exploring the properties of old, metal-poor globular clusters in galaxies. We investigate whether their properties are related to the properties of their host galaxies, and whether we can constrain their formation. The main result is that the mean metallicities of old GC systems are found to lie in a narrow range -1.7 < [Fe/H] < -1.1 (80 % of the population). Moreover, no correlations are found between the mean metallicities and other galaxy properties which implies a GC formation independent of the host galaxies. Further, we try to identify the sites of old, metal-poor GC formation, with any currently known high redshift objects. We find that the metalicities of damped Ly$α$ systems in the redshift range 1.6 < z < 4 are consistent with our GC metalicities, which suggests that these high-density neutral gas objects may be the progenitors of the old, metal-poor globular clusters.

Formation of the optical spectra of the coolest M- and L-dwarfs and lithium abundances in their atmospheres

Theoretical aspects of modeling of spectra of late M- and L-dwarfs are discussed. We show, that the processes of formation of spectra of M- and L-dwarfs are basically different. Instead of the case of M-dwarfs, atoms of Ti and V should be depleted into grains in the atmospheres of L-dwarfs. Overall shape of the L-dwarf spectra is governed by the K I + Na I resonance line wings of the huge strength. To fit lithium lines observed in spectra of the coolest dwarfs we used two additional suggestions: a) there are some EXTRA depletions of molecular species absorbed in the optical spectra of L-dwarfs; b) there may be (a few?) additional (``dusty''?) opacity sources in their atmospheres. Problems of lithium line formation and the ``natural'' limitation of their use for the ``lithium test'' for the case of L-dwarfs are considered.

On radial gas flows, the Galactic Bar and chemical evolution in the Galactic Disc

We develop a numerical chemical model allowing for radial flows of gas, with the aim to analyse the possible role of gas flows in the chemical evolution of the Galactic Disc. The dynamical effects of the Galactic Bar on the radial gas profile of the Disc are especially addressed.

Dynamical effects of a cosmological constant

The observational evidence for the existence of a non-zero cosmological constant is getting stronger. It is therefore timely to address the question of its eventual effect on the dynamics of galaxies, clusters and larger structures in the Universe. We find, contrary to a recent claim, that the influence of the cosmological constant has to be negligible for, e.g., the rotation curves of galaxies. On larger scales, starting with large galaxy clusters, there are potentially measurable effects from the repulsive addition to the Newtonian gravitational force caused by the cosmological constant.

Structure of the Sagittarius dwarf galaxy at low Galactic latitudes

We report the detection of $\sim$ 1500 RR Lyrae of Bailey type ab located in the Sagittarius dwarf galaxy (Sgr). These variables have been detected on two ESO Schmidt fields centred on (l,b)=(3.1 deg,-7.1 deg) and (6.6 deg, -10.8 deg), covering an area of $\sim$50 square degree. We present a surface density map of Sgr based on the spatial distribution of these RRab, allowing us to trace its structure in a region that was still almost unexplored between b=-14 deg and b=-4 deg. We present the results of the fit of different models to the density profile of Sgr. The best fit to the core of Sgr is an exponential with a scale length of 4.1 deg along the major axis. When we look at the extension of Sgr we find a break (significant at the $\sim2σ$ level) in the slope of the surface density along the main axis of Sgr. The nearly flat (or at least very slowly decreasing) profile in the outer region of Sgr shows that this dwarf galaxy is probably extending even further out our fields.

Ultra-High-Energy Cosmic Ray Acceleration by Magnetic Reconnection in Newborn Pulsars

We here investigate the possibility that the ultra-high energy cosmic ray (UHECR) events observed above the GZK limit are mostly protons accelerated in econnection sites just above the magnetosphere of newborn millisecond pulsars which are originated by accretion induced collapse (AIC).

Patterns of Super Star Cluster Formation in `Clumpy' Starburst Galaxies

We present preliminary results from a Hubble Space Telescope (HST) WFPC2 investigation of spatial and temporal distributions of star clusters in the clumpy irregular galaxy NGC 7673 and the starburst spirals NGC 3310 and Haro 1. We compare the spectral energy distributions of star clusters in the large clumps in NGC 7673 to model calculations of stellar clusters of various ages. We also propose that the presence of super star clusters in clumps seems to be a feature of intense starbursts.

Adiabatic CDM Models and the Competition

The inflation-inspired flat, cold dark matter-dominated models of structure formation with adiabatic, nearly scale-invariant initial conditions agree very well with current CMB anisotropy data. The success of these models is highlighted by the failure of alternatives; we argue that there are no longer any viable competitors (with the exception of models with more complicated matter content which are still flat and which still require inflation). CMB data will soon be of sufficient quality that, if one {\it assumes} inflation, one can detect a non-zero cosmological constant by combining a determination of the peak location with Hubble constant measurements.

Beaming and Jets in GRBs

The origin of GRBs have been a mystery for almost 30 years. The afterglow observed in the last few years enabled redshift determination for a handful of bursts, and the cosmological origin is now firmly established. Though the distance scale is settled, there still remains orders of magnitude uncertainty in their rate and in the total energy that is released in the explosion due to the possibility that the emission is not spherical but jet-like. Contrary to the GRB itself, the afterglow can be measured up to months and even years after the burst, and it can provide crucial information on the geometry of the ejecta. We review the theory of afterglow from jets and discuss the evidence that at least some of the bursts are not spherical. We discuss the prospects of polarization measurements, and show that this is a powerful tool in constraining the geometry of the explosion.

The hard X-ray properties of the Seyfert nucleus in NGC 1365

We present BeppoSAX observations of the Seyfert 1.8 galaxy NGC1365 in the 0.1--100 keV range. The source was 6 times brighter than during an ASCA observation 3 years earlier. The 4--10 keV flux is highly variable during the BeppoSAX observation, while the soft (0.1-4 keV) emission is constant within the errors. Both a cold and a warm reflector and a cold absorber are required to explain the observed spectrum. The comparison between ASCA and BeppoSAX spectra strongly suggests that the circumnuclear material has a more complex structure than a simple homogeneous torus, with quite different absorbing gas columns along different lines of sight. A broad iron K_alpha line is also present in the spectrum, with the peak energy significantly redshifted. This can be explained by means of a relativistic disk line model. Alternatively, a warm absorption Fe line system with N_H ~ 10^23 cm^(-2) could account for the observed line profile.

Astrophysical Effects Related to Gravity-Induced Electric Polarization of Matter

The calculations in Thomas-Fermi approximation show that in a gravitational field each cell of ultra dense matter inside celestial bodies obtains a very small positive electric charge. A celestial body is electrically neutral as a whole, because the negative electric charge exists at its surface. The positive volume charge is very small, on the order of magnitude it equals to 10^{-18}e per atom only. But it is sufficient to explain the occurrence of magnetic fields of the celestial bodies and the existence of a discrete spectrum of steady-state values of masses of planets, stars, and pulsars.

Inflationary Models and Connections to Particle Physics

The basic workings of inflationary models are summarized, along with the arguments that strongly suggest that our universe is the product of inflation. The mechanisms that lead to eternal inflation in both new and chaotic models are described. Although the infinity of pocket universes produced by eternal inflation are unobservable, it is argued that eternal inflation has real consequences in terms of the way that predictions are extracted from theoretical models. The ambiguities in defining probabilities in eternally inflating spacetimes are reviewed, with emphasis on the youngness paradox that results from a synchronous gauge regularization technique. To clarify (but not resolve) this ambiguity, a toy model of an eternally inflating universe is introduced. Vilenkin's proposal for avoiding these problems is also discussed, as is the question of whether it is meaningful to discuss probabilities for unrepeatable measurements.

Resonant inverse Compton scattering by secondary pulsar plasma

We consider resonant inverse Compton scattering of thermal photons by secondary particles above the pulsar polar gap. The process appears to be an essential energy loss mechanism for the particles. The distribution function of the secondary plasma particles is found to be strongly affected by the scattering. It becomes two-humped implying the development of two-stream instability. The resonantly upscattered Compton photons are found to gain energy of 1 - 10 MeV forming an additional component in the pulsar gamma-ray spectrum. The corresponding gamma-ray flux is estimated as well.

First VLT spectra of white dwarfs in a globular cluster

We present the first spectra obtained with the Very Large Telescope for white dwarfs in a globular cluster. Estimates of atmospheric parameters are obtained and compared to evolutionary tracks. We discuss possible implications for the distance scale of globular clusters and white dwarf evolution and demonstrate how white dwarfs might be used to establish an independent distance scale to globular clusters.

Improving the Resolution of X-Ray Telescopes with Occulting Satellites

One of the challenges of X-ray astronomy is how to both collect large numbers of photons yet attain high angular resolution. Because X-ray telescopes utilize grazing optics, to collect more photons requires a larger acceptance angle which in turn compromises the angular resolution. All X-ray telescopes thus have angular resolution far poorer than their diffraction limit. Although collecting more photons is a desirable goal, sometimes selective collecting fewer photons may yield more information. Natural (such as lunar) occultations have long been used to study sources on small angular scales. But natural occulters are of limited utility because of their large angular velocities relative to the telescope, and because of the serendipity of their transits. We describe here how one can make use of an X-ray Big Occulting Steerable Satellite (X-BOSS) to achieve very-high resolution of X-ray sources. An X-BOSS could significantly improve the resolution of existing X-ray facilities such as the Chandra telescope, or X-ray Multiple Mirror (XMM) satellite, and could vastly improve the resolution of some future X-ray telescopes, particularly Constellation X where sub-milliarcsecond resolution is possible for a wide range of sources. Similar occulting satellites could also be deployed in conjunction with planned space observatories for other wavebands.

A local infrared perspective to deeper ISO surveys

We present new techniques to produce IRAS 12 micron samples of galaxies and stars. We show that previous IRAS 12 micron samples are incompatible for detailed comparison with ISO surveys and review their problems. We provide a stellar infrared diagnostic diagram to distinguish galaxies from stars without using longer wavelength IRAS colour criteria and produce complete 12 micron samples of galaxies and stars. This new technique allows us to estimate the contribution of non-dusty galaxies to the IRAS 12 micron counts and produce a true local mid-infrared extragalactic sample compatible with ISO surveys. We present our initial analysis and results.

Recent Advances in Binary Star Formation Using SPH

We review recent advances in the study of binary star formation that have been made using the smoothed particle hydrodynamics (SPH) technique. We discuss the importance of ensuring that the Jeans mass is always resolved during a self-gravitating SPH calculation. Even obeying this criterion, we show that it is now possible to perform calculations which follow the collapse of a molecular cloud core all the way to stellar densities. These calculations resolve 7 orders of magnitude in spatial extent and 17 orders of magnitude in density contrast. Finally, we discuss the progress that has been made in understanding the mass-ratio distributions of binary stellar systems by studying the evolution of protobinary systems as they accrete gas from their surrounding envelopes.

The superbubble model for Li, Be and B production and Galactic evolution

We show that the available constraints relating to $^{6}$LiBeB Galactic evolution can be accounted for by the so-called superbubble model, according to which particles are efficiently accelerated inside superbubbles out of a mixture of supernova ejecta and ambient interstellar medium. The corresponding energy spectrum is required to be flat at low energy (in E^-1 below 500 MeV/n, say), as expected from Bykov's acceleration mechanism. The only free parameter is also found to have the value expected from standard SB dynamical evolution models. Our model predicts a slope 1 (primary) and a slope 2 (secondary) behaviour at respectively low and high metallicity, with all intermediate slopes achieved in the transition region, between 10^-2 and 10^-1 Z_sol.

A vestige low metallicity gas shell surrounding the radio galaxy 0943-242 at z=2.92

Observations are presented showing the doublet CIV 1550 absorption lines superimposed on the CIV emission in the radio galaxy 0943-242. Within the errors, the redshift of the absorption system that has a column density of N_CIV = 10^{14.5 +- 0.1} cm-2 coincides with that of the deep Ly-alpha absorption trough observed by Rottgering et al. (1995). The gas seen in absorption has a resolved spatial extent of at least 13 kpc (the size of the extended emission line region). We first model the absorption and emission gas as co-spatial components with the same metallicity and degree of excitation. Using the information provided by the emission and absorption line ratios of CIV and Ly-alpha, we find that the observed quantities are incompatible with photoionization or collisional ionization of cloudlets with uniform properties. We therefore reject the possibility that the absorption and emission phases are co-spatial and favour the explanation that the absorption gas has low metallicity and is located further away from the host galaxy (than the emission line gas). The estimated low metallicity for the absorption gas in 0943-242 (Z \~ 1% solar) and its proposed location -outer halo outside the radio cocoon- suggest that its existence preceeds the observed AGN phase and is a vestige of the initial starburst at the onset of formation of the parent galaxy.

Energy implications of temperature fluctuations in photoionized plasma

We quantify the energy radiated through all the collisionally excited lines in a photoionized nebula which is permeated by temperature fluctuations. We assume that these correspond to hot spots which are the results of an unknown heating process distinct from the photoelectric heating. We consider all the effects of using a higher mean temperature (as compared to the equilibrium temperature) due to the fluctuations not only on each emission line but also on the ionization state of the gas. If this yet unknown process was to radiate a fixed amount of energy, we find that the fluctuations should correlate with metallicity Z when it exceeds 0.7 solar. The excess energy radiated in the lines as a result of the fluctuations is found to scale proportionally to their amplitude t^2. When referred to the total energy absorbed through photoionization, the excess energy is comparable in magnitude to t^2.

The Formation of the Hubble Sequence of Disk Galaxies: The Effects of Early Viscous Evolution

We investigate a model of disk galaxies whereby viscous evolution of the gaseous disk drives material inwards to form a proto-bulge. We start from the standard picture of disk formation through the settling of gas into a dark halo potential well, with the disk initially coming into centrifugal equilibrium with detailed conservation of angular momentum. We derive generic analytic solutions for the disk-halo system after adiabatic compression of the dark halo, with free choice of the input virialized dark halo density profile and of the specific angular momentum distribution. We derive limits on the final density profile of the halo in the central regions. Subsequent viscous evolution of the disk is modelled by a variation of the specific angular momentum distribution of the disk, providing analytic solutions to the final disk structure. The assumption that the viscous evolution timescale and star formation timescale are similar leads to predictions of the properties of the stellar components. Focusing on small `exponential' bulges, ones that may be formed through a disk instability, we investigate the relationship between the assumed initial conditions, such as halo `formation', or assembly, redshift $z_f$, spin parameter $λ$, baryonic fraction $F$, and final disk properties such as global star formation timescale, gas fraction, and bulge-to-disk ratio. We find that the present properties of disks, such as the scale length, are compatible with a higher initial formation redshift if the re-distribution by viscous evolution is included than if it is ignored. We also quantify the dependence of final disk properties on the ratio $F/λ$, thus including the possibility that the baryonic fraction varies from galaxy to galaxy, as perhaps may be inferred from the observations.

Long-term photometry of the Wolf-Rayet stars WR 137, WR 140, WR 148, and WR 153

In 1991, a long term UBV-photometry campaign of four Wolf-Rayet stars was started using the 60 cm telescope of the National Astronomical Observatory Rozhen, Bulgaria. Here we report on our observational results and discuss the light variations. The star WR 137 showed only random light variations, which are probably due to dynamical wind instabilities but not to eclipses. WR 140 featured a dip in the light curve, the amplitude increasing towards shorter wavelengths. The probable cause is electron and Rayleigh scattering when the star was eclipsed by a dust envelope. In the case of WR 148 we found a period of 4.3 days and significant scatter in the light curves. Additionally there seems to be a long term variation with a period of 4 years. Our photometry of WR 153 is consistent with the quadruple model for this star.

Extended X-ray emission from FRIIs and RL quasars

We review the evidence that detectable fluxes of X-rays are produced by inverse Compton scattering of nuclear photons with the relativistic electrons in the radio lobes of strong FRII radio galaxies within the FRII-RL quasar unification scheme. We report here on the possible detection of this effect in two steep spectrum RL quasars. This may have important implications on the physics and evolution of powerful radio galaxies.

The Morphology, Color, and Gas Content of Low Surface Brightness Galaxies

Recent surveys have discovered hundreds of low surface brightness galaxies, systems with central surface brightness fainter than 22.0 B mag arcsec^-2, in the local universe. Plots of the surface brightness distribution - that is, the space density of galaxies plotted against central surface brightness - show a flat space density distribution from the canonical Freeman value of 21.65 through the current observational limit of 25.0 B mag arcsec^-2. It is therefore extremely important to understand these diffuse systems if we wish to understand galaxy formation and evolution as a whole. This talk is a review of both the known properties of low surface brightness galaxies and of popular theories describing the formation and evolution of these enigmatic systems.

Problems encountered in the Hipparcos variable stars analysis

Among the 17 volumes of results from the Hipparcos space mission, two are dedicated to variable stars. These two volumes arose from the work of two groups, one at the Geneva Observatory and one at RGO (Royal Greenwich Observatory), on the 13 million photometric measurements produced by the satellite for 118204 stars.
The analysis of photometric time series permitted us to identify several instrumental and mathematical problems: overestimation of the precision, offsets in the zero-points depending on the field of view, mispointing effects, image superpositions, trends in the magnitudes, binarity effects (spurious periods and amplitudes) and time-sampling effects. In this article we summarize some of the problems encountered by the Geneva group.

The Schweizer-Middleditch star revisited

We have re-observed and re-analysed the optical spectrum of the Schweizer-Middleditch star, a hot subdwarf which lies along almost the same line-of-sight as the centre of the historic SN1006 supernova remnant (SNR). Although this object is itself unlikely to be the remnant of the star which exploded in 1006AD, Wellstein et al. (1999) have demonstrated that it could be the remnant of the donor star in a pre-supernova Type Ia interacting binary, if it possesses an unusually low mass. We show that, if it had a mass of 0.1-0.2 Msun, the SM star would lie at the same distance (~800pc) as the SNR as estimated by Willingale et al. (1995). However, most distance estimates to SN1006 are much larger than this, and there are other convincing arguments to suggest that the SM star lies behind this SNR. Assuming the canonical subdwarf mass of 0.5 Msun, we constrain the distance of the SM star as 1050 pc<d<2100 pc. This places the upper limit on the distance of SN1006 at 2.1 kpc.

The Elusive Active Nucleus of NGC 4945

We present new HST NICMOS observations of NGC 4945, a starburst galaxy hosting a highly obscured active nucleus that is one of the brightest extragalactic sources at 100 keV. The HST data are complemented with ground based [FeII] line and mid--IR observations. A 100pc-scale starburst ring is detected in Pa alpha, while H_2 traces the walls of a super bubble opened by supernova-driven winds. The conically shaped cavity is particularly prominent in Pa alpha equivalent width and in the Pa alpha/H_2 ratio. Continuum images are heavily affected by dust extinction and the nucleus of the galaxy is located in a highly reddened region with an elongated, disk-like morphology. No manifestation of the active nucleus is found, neither a strong point source nor dilution in CO stellar features, which are expected tracers of AGN activity. Even if no AGN traces are detected in the near-IR, with the currently available data it is still not possible to establish whether the bolometric luminosity of the object is powered by the AGN or by the starburst: we demonstrate that the two scenarios constitute equally viable alternatives. However, the absence of any signature other than in the hard X-rays implies that, in both scenarios, the AGN is non-standard: if it dominates, it must be obscured in all directions, conversely, if the starburst dominates, the AGN must lack UV photons with respect to X-rays. An important conclusion is that powerful AGNs can be hidden even at mid-infrared wavelengths and, therefore, the nature of luminous dusty galaxies cannot be always characterized by long-wavelength data alone but must be complemented with sensitive hard X-ray observations.

IZ Photometry of L dwarfs and the implications for brown dwarf surevys

The I-Z colour has been recently shown to be a good temperature indicator for M dwarfs. We present the first IZ photometry of a small sample of L dwarfs ranging in spectral type from L0.5V to L6.0V. We find that the I-Z colour is not a good temperature indicator for objects between L1V and L5V, such objects having colours that overlap with mid M dwarfs. We attribute this to the reduction in the strength of the TiO and VO bands in the L dwarfs which are the dominant opacity source in the I band for late M dwarfs. Beyond L5V, I-Z appears to be a reasonable indicator. This has important implications for the planning of optical surveys for cool objects in clusters and the field. For example I-Z will cease to be a good method of discriminating brown dwarfs in the Pleiades below around 0.04 Msolar, and at around 0.075 Msolar in the Hyades and Praesepe.

Constraining reionization using the thermal history of the baryons

The thermal evolution of the intergalactic medium (IGM) depends on the reionization history of the universe. Numerical simulations indicate that the low density IGM, which is responsible for the low column density Ly-alpha forest, follows a well defined temperature-density relation. This results in a cut-off in the distribution of line widths as a function of column density. We use hydrodynamic simulations to calibrate the relation between the cut-off and the temperature-density relation and apply this relation to Keck spectra spanning a redshift range z=2-4.5. We find that the temperature peaks at z~3 and interpret this as evidence for reheating due to the reionization of helium.

Modelling galaxy clustering at high redshift

Most phenomenological galaxy formation models show a discrepancy between the predicted Tully-Fisher relation and the luminosity function. We show that this is mainly due to overmerging of galaxy haloes, which is inherent in both the Press-Schechter formalism and dissipationless N-body simulations. This overmerging problem be circumvented by including a specific galaxy halo formation recipe into an otherwise standard N-body code. Resolving the overmerging also allows us to include models for chemical evolution and starbursts, which improves the match to observational data and renders the modelling more realistic. We use high-redshift clustering data to try and distinguish models which predict similar results at low redshifts for different sets of parameters.

Not enough stellar Mass Machos in the Galactic Halo

We combine new results from the search for microlensing towards the Large Magellanic Cloud (LMC) by EROS2 (Experience de Recherche d'Objets Sombres) with limits previously reported by EROS1 and EROS2 towards both Magellanic Clouds. The derived upper limit on the abundance of stellar mass MACHOs rules out such objects as an important component of the Galactic halo if their mass is smaller than 1 solar mass.

Decay of proton into Planck neutrino in the theory of gravity

It is considered gravitational interaction within the framework of the Newton theory and the quantum field theory. It is introduced the Planck neutrino $ν_{Pl}$. Gravitational interaction of the fields $ψψ$ includes short-range interaction $ψν_{Pl}$ and long-range interaction $ν_{Pl}ν_{Pl}$. Gravitational radiation can be identified with the Planck neutrino. The theory predicts the decay of proton into Planck neutrino. It is assumed that the Planck mass built from three fundamental constants $\hbar$, $c$ and $G$ is fixed in all the inertial frames. This leads to that the lifetime of proton relative to the decay into Planck neutrino decreases with the Lorentz factor as $\sim γ^{-5}$. Such a dependence of the lifetime of proton on the Lorentz factor yields a cut-off in the EHECRs spectrum. It is shown that the first "knee" in the EHECRs spectrum $E\sim 3\times 10^{15}$ eV corresponds to the lifetime of proton equal to the lifetime of the universe, the second "knee" $E\sim 10^{17}-10^{18}$ eV corresponds to the lifetime of proton equal to the thickness of our galactic disc. The EHECRs with the energies $E>3 \times 10^{18}$ eV can be identified with the Planck neutrinos.

The elusive structure of the diffuse molecular gas: shocks or vortices in compressible turbulence?

The cold diffuse interstellar medium must harbor pockets of hot gas to produce the large observed abundances of molecular species, the formation of which require much more energy than available in the bulk of its volume. These hot spots have so far escaped direct detection but observations and modeling severely constrain their phase-space structure i.e. they must have a small volume filling factor (a few %), surface filling factors larger than unity with large fluctuations about average and comparable velocity structure in ``pencil beams'' and ``large beams''. The dissipation of the non-thermal energy of supersonic turbulence occurs in bursts, either in shocks or in the regions of large shear at the boundary of coherent vortices. These two processes are susceptible to generate localized hot regions in the cold medium. Yet, it is of interest to determine which of them, if any, dominates the dissipation of turbulence in the cold interstellar medium. In this paper, we analyze the spatial and kinematic properties of two subsets of hydrodynamical compressible turbulence: the regions of largest negative divergence and those of largest vorticity and confront them with the observational constraints. We find that these two subsets fulfill the constraints equally well. A similar analysis should be conducted in the future on simulations of MHD turbulence.

On PSR1913+16

There are reference frames for which both stars of binary radio-pulsar PSR1913+16 are at rest. As a consequence, PSR1913+16 does not emit gravity waves. (If the accelerated bodies should send out a gravitational radiation, they would represent a class of physically privileged systems. But this is forbidden by general relativity.)

On the universality of the spectrum of cosmic rays accelerated at highly relativistic shocks

A small error was corrected.

Systematic effects in the interpretations of Cluster X-ray Temperature functions

The formation and evolution of clusters of galaxies are sensitive to the underlying cosmological model. Constraints on cosmological parameters of cold dark matter models have been derived from mass, temperature and luminosity functions of clusters. We study the importance of including cluster formation history and a correction for collapsed fraction of objects in determining the cluster X-ray temperature function. We find that both effects are important. We compare temperature functions obtained by using a power law approximation for the mass variance normalized to X-ray clusters to those obtained by using a COBE normalized full CDM treatment. We conclude that the temperature function could be a powerful test on the average density of the Universe if we could find the correct way of interpreting the data.

Detection of X-ray pulsations from the Be/X-ray transient A 0535+26 during a disc loss phase of the primary

Using the RossiXTE experiment, we detect weak X-ray emission from the recurrent Be/X-ray transient A 0535+26 at a time when the optical counterpart V725 Tau displayed H-alpha in absorption, indicating the absence of a circumstellar disc. The X-ray radiation is strongly modulated at the 103.5-s pulse period of the neutron star, confirming that it originates from A 0535+26. The source is weaker than in previous quiescence detections by two orders of magnitude and should be in the centrifugal inhibition regime. We show that the X-ray luminosity cannot be due to accretion on to the magnetosphere of the neutron star. Therefore this detection represents a new state of the accreting pulsar. We speculate that the X-ray emission can be due to some matter leaking through the magnetospheric barrier or thermal radiation from the neutron star surface due to crustal heating. The observed luminosity is probably compatible with recent predictions of thermal radiation from X-ray transients in quiescence. The detection of the X-ray source in the inhibition regime implies a reduced density in the outflow from the Be companion during its disc-less phase.

Mining for Metals in the Lyman Alpha Forest

In order to ascertain the extent of metal enrichment in the Ly alpha forest, we have analysed a very high S/N spectrum of the z = 3.625 QSO Q1422+231. We find that in high column density Ly alpha clouds, the power law column density distribution function of C IV continues down to log N(C IV) = 11.7. In addition, by analysing pixel-by-pixel optical depths we show that there are considerably more metals in the Ly alpha forest than are currently directly detectable.

New gamma Doradus Stars from the Hipparcos Mission and Geneva Photometry

A search for new gamma Dor stars was undertaken using the Hipparcos periodic variable star catalogue and the Geneva photometric database, leading to a list of 40 new candidates. We started a monitoring of the candidates which suited the observational window with the CORALIE spectrograph at the Swiss Euler Telescope for establishing a robust list of new gamma Dor stars and studying line profile variations. We here present our long-term program.

Low Frequency Radio Pulses from Gamma-Ray Bursts?

Gamma-ray bursts, if they are generated in the process of interaction between relativistic strongly magnetized winds and an ambient medium, may be accompanied by very short pulses of low-frequency radio emission. The bulk of this emission is expected to be at the frequencies of $\sim 0.1-1$ MHz and cannot be observed. However, the high-frequency tail of the low-frequency radio emission may reach a few ten MHz and be detected, especially if the strength of the magnetic field of the wind is extremely high.

Use of DPOSS data to study globular cluster halos: an application to M 92

We exploited the large areal coverage offered by the DPOSS to analyze the outermost regions of the galactic globular cluster M 92. Two independent photometric reduction programs (SKICAT and DAOPHOT) were used to construct a color-magnitude diagram and a surface density profile for this cluster, based on J- and F-band DPOSS plates. A strong similarity has been found in the performance of the two programs in the low--crowded outermost cluster regions. After removing the background contribution, we obtained the cluster outer surface density profile down to a surface brightness magnitude of mu_V ~ 31 mag/sq.arcsec and matched it with the inner profile of Trager et al. 1995. The profile shapes match very well: since our data are uncalibrated, the shift in magnitude between the profiles has been also used to calibrate our profile. The analysis shows that the cluster has an extra tidal halo extending out to ~ 30 arcmin from the cluster center at a 3 sigma level over the background noise. This halo is revealed to be almost circular.

Silicate emission in Orion

We present mid-infrared spectro-imagery and high-resolution spectroscopy of the Orion bar and of a region in the Orion nebula. These observations have been obtained in the Guaranteed Time with the Circular Variable Filters of the ISO camera (CAM-CVF) and with the Short Wavelength Spectrometer (SWS), on board the European Infrared Space Observatory (ISO). Our data shows emission from amorphous silicate grains from the entire HII region and around the isolated O9.5V star Theta2 Ori A. The observed spectra can be reproduced by a mixture of interstellar silicate and carbon grains heated by the radiation of the hot stars present in the region. Crystalline silicates are also observed in the Orion nebula and suspected around Theta2 Ori A. They are probably of interstellar origin. The ionization structure and the distribution of the carriers of the Aromatic Infrared Bands (AIBs) are briefly discussed on the basis of the ISO observations.

The extragalactic background and its fluctuations in the far-infrared wavelengths

A Cosmic Far-InfraRed Background (CFIRB) has long been predicted that would traces the intial phases of galaxy formation. It has been first detected by Puget et al.(1996) using COBE data and has been later confirmed by several recent studies (Fixsen et al. 1998, Hauser et al. 1998, Lagache et al. 1999). We will present a new determination of the CFIRB that uses for the first time, in addition to COBE data, two independent gas tracers: the HI survey of Leiden/Dwingeloo (hartmann, 1998) and the WHAM H$_α$ survey (Reynolds et al 1998). We will see that the CFIRB above 100 micron is now very well constrained. The next step is to see if we can detect its fluctuations. To search for the CFIRB fluctuations, we have used the FIRBACK observations. FIRBACK is a deep cosmological survey conducted at 170 micron with ISOPHOT (Dole et al., 2000). We show that the emission of unresolved extra-galactic sources clearly dominates, at arcminute scales, the background fluctuations in the lowest galactic emission regions. This is the first detection of the CFIRB fluctuations.

High Velocity Star Formation in the LMC

Light-echo measurements show that SN1987A is 425 pc behind the LMC disk. It is continuing to move away from the disk at $18 \kms$. Thus, it has been suggested that SN1987A was ejected from the LMC disk. However, SN1987A is a member of a star cluster, so this entire cluster would have to have been ejected from the disk. We show that the cluster was formed in the LMC disk, with a velocity perpendicular to the disk of about $50 \kms$. Such high velocity formation of a star cluster is unusual, having no known counterpart in the Milky Way.

Secondary caustics in close multiple lenses

We investigate the caustic structure of a lens composed by a discrete number of point-masses, having mutual distances smaller than the Einstein radius of the total mass of the system. Along with the main critical curve, it is known that the lens map is characterized by secondary critical curves producing small caustics far from the lens system. By exploiting perturbative methods, we derive the number, the position, the shape, the cusps and the area of these caustics for an arbitrary number of close multiple lenses. Very interesting geometries are created in some particular cases. Finally we review the binary lens case where our formulae assume a simple form.

HST/NICMOS Imaging of the Planetary Nebula Hubble 12

Images of Hubble 12 were obtained with the HST/NICMOS instrument in the F110W, F164N, and F166N filters of NIC1, and the F160W, F187N, F190N, F212N, F215N filters of NIC2. The images show the structure of the inner ``torus'' and lobes much clearer than previous ground-based images. In particular, the [Fe II] lobes are clearly resolved and shown to be distinct from the molecular hydrogen emission structures. Apparent changes in the inner ionized and neutral bipolar shell implies periodic mass loss or changes in stellar wind shape or direction. The molecular hydrogen in the ``eye'' is radiatively excited and shows a complex morphology that suggests that several mass ejection events are responsible for producing this structure. The position angle of the molecular hydrogen and [Fe II] lobes differ, indicating a possible precession of the ejection axis.

Evolution and surface abundances of red giants experiencing deep mixing

We have calculated the evolution of low metallicity red giant stars under the assumption of deep mixing between the convective envelope and the hydrogen burning shell. We find that the extent of the observed abundance anomalies, and in particular the universal O-Na anticorrelation, can be totally explained by mixing which does not lead to significant helium enrichment of the envelope. On the other hand, models with extremely deep mixing and strong helium enrichment predict anomalies of sodium and oxygen, which are much larger than the observed ones. This latter result depends solely on the nucleosynthesis inside the hydrogen burning shell, but not on the details of the mixing descriptions. These, however, influence the evolution of surface abundances with brightness, which we compare with the limited observational material available. Our models allow, nevertheless, to infer details on the depth and speed of the mixing process in several clusters. Models with strong helium enrichment evolve to high luminosities and show an increased mass loss. However, under peculiar assumptions, red giants reach very high luminosities even without extreme helium mixing. Due to the consequently increased mass loss, such models could be candidates for blue horizontal branch stars, and, at the same time, would be consistent with the observed abundance anomalies.

The shock waves in decaying supersonic turbulence

We here analyse numerical simulations of supersonic, hypersonic and magnetohydrodynamic turbulence that is free to decay. Our goals are to understand the dynamics of the decay and the characteristic properties of the shock waves produced. This will be useful for interpretation of observations of both motions in molecular clouds and sources of non-thermal radiation.
We find that decaying hypersonic turbulence possesses an exponential tail of fast shocks and an exponential decay in time, i.e. the number of shocks is proportional to t exp (-ktv) for shock velocity jump v and mean initial wavenumber k. In contrast to the velocity gradients, the velocity Probability Distribution Function remains Gaussian with a more complex decay law.
The energy is dissipated not by fast shocks but by a large number of low Mach number shocks. The power loss peaks near a low-speed turn-over in an exponential distribution. An analytical extension of the mapping closure technique is able to predict the basic decay features. Our analytic description of the distribution of shock strengths should prove useful for direct modeling of observable emission. We note that an exponential distribution of shocks such as we find will, in general, generate very low excitation shock signatures.

On the Role of Dust Particles in Decoupling of Plasma from Magnetic Field in Laboratory and Space

The objective of this paper is to apply the recent achievements in understanding of the non-MHD effects in plasma (acquired both in laboratory experiments, as well as in theory), to the interstellar phenomena. Applied to the space plasma, these effects can significantly change the picture of plasma dynamics. Charged dust particles are always present in the interstellar medium and can easily remain not magnetized, even when the plasma electrons and ions are strongly magnetized. In such a medium, the magnetic field can propagate with the super-Alfven velocity. This breaks the local "frozen-in" law for the magnetic field, which can significantly affect the gravitational collapse phenomena, the space plasma turbulence spectrum, magnetic dynamo and the rate of the Fermi acceleration of cosmic rays.

Primordial Nucleosynthesis For The New Millennium

The physics of the standard hot big bang cosmology ensures that the early Universe was a primordial nuclear reactor, synthesizing the light nuclides (D, 3He, 4He, and 7Li) in the first 20 minutes of its evolution. After an overview of nucleosynthesis in the standard model (SBBN), the primordial abundance yields will be presented, followed by a status report (intended to stimulate further discussion during this symposium) on the progress along the road from observational data to inferred primordial abundances. Theory will be confronted with observations to assess the consistency of SBBN and to constrain cosmology and particle physics. Some of the issues/problems key to SBBN in the new millenium will be highlighted, along with a wish list to challenge theorists and observers alike.

X-ray variability and prediction of TeV emission in the HBL 1ES1101-232

1ES1101-232 is a bright BL Lac of the High frequency peak class. We present here the results of two BeppoSAX observations in which the source has shown a variation of about 30% in flux with a corresponding spectral variability. We interpret the overall spectral energy distribution in terms of an homogeneous SSC model and, by using also the TeV upper limit from a short Mark 6 pointing, derive constraints on the physical parameters of the source, in particular on the magnetic field strength. The overall Spectral Energy Distribution makes 1ES1101-232 a very promising candidate for TeV detection.

Sachs-Wolfe effect in space-times with torsion

Cartan torsion contribution to Sachs-Wolfe effect in the inflationary phase of the Universe is discussed.From the COBE data of the microwave anisotropy is possible to compute the spin-density in the Universe as $10^{16}$ mks units.The spin-density fluctuations at the hadron era is shown to coincide with the anisotropy temperature fluctuations.

Spirals and the size of the disk in EX Dra

Observations at high spectral and temporal resolution are presented of the dwarf nova EX Dra in outburst. The disk seen in the He I line reconstructed by Doppler tomography shows a clear two-armed spiral pattern pointing to spiral shocks in the disk. The Balmer and He II maps also give evidence for the presence of spirals. The eclipse as seen in the red continuum indicates a disk radius of 0.31 times the orbital separation, which might be large enough to explain the observed spiral shocks through excitation by the tidal field of the secondary. The eclipse in the Balmer line profiles, well resolved in our observations, indicates a somewhat smaller disk size (0.25). We discuss the possibility that this is related to an optical depth effect in the lines.

The frequency content of Delta Sct stars as determined by photometry

The results obtained by means of the photometric approach to the study of Delta Sct stars are extensively discussed. The different frequency contents of the three best candidates for asteroseismological studies (FG Vir, 4 CVn and XX Pyx) are presented and compared; the importance of the amplitude variations and of the combination terms is emphasized. The analysis of other multiperiodic variables shows how a large variety of nonradial modes are excited; in some cases, modifications of the power spectrum can be observed over a few years and new modes can be seen to grow. Among monoperiodic pulsators, constant as well as variable amplitudes can be observed. The difficulty of identifying an oscillation yielding quantum numbers is emphasized; the possibilities offered by $δ$ Sct stars belonging to binary systems and open clusters are discussed. In this respect, combining the photometric and the spectroscopic approaches could lead to a solution. A comparison is also made between low- and high-amplitude pulsators, finding similarities. The use of a reliable Period-Luminosity-Colour relationships toward the shortest periods can greatly help mode identification in the galactic stars; moreover, it could provide an independent verification of extragalactic distances.

Formation and evolution of disk galaxies within cold dark matter halos

We present results of extensive model calculations of disk galaxy evolution within an hierarchical inside-out formation scenario. We first compare properties of the dark halos identified in a cosmological N-body simulation with predictions of a seminumerical method based on an extended collapse model and find a good agreement. We also study the properties of the halos in dependence on their environment. We then describe detailed modelling of the formation and evolution of disks within the growing isolated cold dark matter halos and predictions for the main properties, correlations and evolutionary features of normal disk galaxies. The possible shortcomings of the scenario are discussed.

On the origin of the color Tully-Fisher and color-magnitude relations of disk galaxies

We propose and show that the dependence of the internal face-on dust absorption upon B-band luminosity reported by Wang & Heckman (1996) for a sample of late-type galaxies may explain the empirical color-magnitude and color Tully-Fisher relations of disk galaxies. Thus, in order to explain these relations, it is not necessary to evoke star formation and gas infall efficiencies dependent on the mass of the galaxy system. After applying the Wang & Heckman's luminosity-dependent extinction to hierarchical inside-out galaxy formation and evolution models where the star formation and gas infall efficiencies do not significantly depend on mass, we succesfully predict the observed Tully-Fisher relations in the H and B bands as well as the color-magnitude relation.

Performance Results of the AMS-01 Aerogel Threshold Cherenkov

The Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer (AMS) was flown in june 1998 on board of the space shuttle Discovery (flight STS-91) at an altitude ranging between 320 and 390 km. This preliminary version of AMS included an Aerogel Threshold Cherenkov detector (ATC) to separate antiprotons from electron background, for momenta less than 3.5 GeV/c. In this paper, the design and physical principles of ATC will be discussed briefly, then the performance results of the ATC will be presented.

CHVCs: Galactic Building Blocks at z = 0

A distinct sub-class of anomalous velocity HI emission features has emerged from recent high quality surveys of the Local Group environment, namely the compact high velocity clouds (CHVCs). A program of high-resolution imaging with the Westerbork array and the Arecibo telescope has begun to provide many insights into the nature of these objects. Elongated core components with a velocity gradient consistent with rotation (V_Rot ~ 15 km/s) are seen in many objects. Comparison of volume and column densities has allowed the first distance estimates to be made (600+/-300 kpc). The objects appear to be strongly dark-matter dominated with dark-to-gas mass ratios of 30-50 implied if the typical distance is 700 kpc.

Multi-colour PL-relations of Cepheids in the Hipparcos catalogue and the distance to the LMC

We analyse a sample of 236 Cepheids from the Hipparcos catalog, using the method of ``reduced parallaxes'' in V, I, K and the reddening-free ``Wesenheit-index''. We compare our sample to those considered by Feast & Catchpole (1997) and Lanoix et al. (1999).
We stress the importance of two systematic effects which influence the distance to the LMC: the slopes of the Galactic PL-relations and metallicity corrections. In order to assess the influence of these various effects, we present 27 distance moduli (DM) to the LMC, based on three different colours (V,I,K), three different slopes, and three different metallicity corrections.
The DM to the LMC based on the parallax data can be summarised as follows. Based on the PL-relation in V and I, and the Wesenheit-index, the DM is 18.60 \pm 0.11 (\pm 0.08 slope)(^{+0.08}_{-0.15} metallicity), which is our current best estimate.
Based on the PL-relation in K the DM is 18.52 \pm 0.18$ (\pm 0.03 slope) (\pm 0.06 metallicity)(^{+0.10}_{-0} sampling bias}).
The random error is mostly due to the given accuracy of the Hipparcos parallaxes and the number of Cepheids in the respective samples. The terms between parentheses indicate the possible systematic uncertainties due to the slope of the Galactic PL-relations, the metallicity corrections, and in the K-band, due to the limited number of stars. Recent work by Sandage et al. (1999) indicates that the effect of metallicity towards shorter distances may be smaller in V and I than indicated here.

Distance-Redshift in Inhomogeneous FLRW

We give distance--redshift relations in terms of elliptic integrals for three different mass distributions of the Friedmann-Lema\^ıtre-Robertson-Walker (FLRW) cosmology. These models are dynamically pressure free FLRW on large scales but, due to mass inhomogeneities, differ in their optical properties. They are the filled-beam model (standard FLRW), the empty-beam model (no mass density exists in the observing beams) and the 2/3 filled-beam model. For special $\OM$-- $\OL$ values the elliptic integrals reduce to more familiar functions. These new expressions for distance-redshift significantly reduce computer evaluation times.

The Toronto Red-Sequence Cluster Survey: First Results

The Toronto Red-Sequence Cluster Survey (TRCS) is a new galaxy cluster survey designed to provide a large sample of optically selected 0.1 < z < 1.4 clusters. The planned survey data is 100 square degrees of two color (R and z') imaging, with a 5-sigma depth ~2 mag past M* at z=1. The primary scientific drivers of the survey are a derivation of Omega_m and sigma_8 (from N(M,z) for clusters) and a study of cluster galaxy evolution with a complete sample. This paper gives a brief outline of the TRCS survey parameters and sketches the methods by which we intend to pursue the main scientific goals, including an explicit calculation of the expected survey completeness limits. Some preliminary results from the first set of data (~6 deg^2) are also given. These preliminary results provide new examples of rich z~1 clusters, strong cluster lensing, and a possible filament at z~1.

X-ray absorption lines in the Seyfert 1 galaxy NGC 5548 discovered with Chandra-LETGS

We present for the first time a high-resolution X-ray spectrum of a Seyfert galaxy. The Chandra-LETGS spectrum of NGC 5548 shows strong, narrow absorption lines from highly ionised species (the H-like and He-like ions of C, N, O, Ne, Na, Mg, Si, as well as Fe XIV--XXI). The lines are blueshifted by a few hundred km/s. The corresponding continuum absorption edges are weak or absent. The absorbing medium can be modelled by an outflowing, thin and warm shell in photoionization equilibrium. The absorption lines are similar to lower ionization absorption lines observed in the UV, although these UV lines originate from a different location or phase of the absorbing medium. Redshifted with respect to the absorption lines, emission from the O VIII Lyman alpha line as well as the O VII triplet is visible. The flux of these lines is consistent with emission from the absorbing medium. The O VII triplet intensity ratios demonstrate that photoionization dominates and yield an upper limit to the electron density.

Electron acceleration due to high frequency instabilities at supernova remnant shocks

Observations of synchrotron radiation across a wide range of wavelengths provide clear evidence that electrons are accelerated to relativistic energies in supernova remnants (SNRs). However, a viable mechanism for the pre-acceleration of such electrons to mildly relativistic energies has not yet been established. In this paper an electromagnetic particle-in-cell (PIC) code is used to simulate acceleration of electrons from background energies to tens of keV at perpendicular collisionless shocks associated with SNRs. Free energy for electron energization is provided by ions reflected from the shock front, with speeds greater than the upstream electron thermal speed. The PIC simulation results contain several new features, including: the acceleration, rather than heating, of electrons via the Buneman instability; the acceleration of electrons to speeds exceeding those of the shock-reflected ions producing the instability; and strong acceleration of electrons perpendicular to the magnetic field. Electron energization takes place through a variety of resonant and non-resonant processes, of which the strongest involves stochastic wave-particle interactions. In SNRs the diffusive shock process could then supply the final step required for the production of fully relativistic electrons. The mechanisms identified in this paper thus provide a possible solution to the electron pre-acceleration problem.

Mode identification from line-profile variations

We review the current status of different mode-identification techniques based on observed line-profile variations. Three basic methods are currently available to identify the non-radial pulsation modes. These three methods are described, together with their different variants. We further present applications to real data, focusing especially on delta Scuti stars. After having discussed all the methods and their applications, we present an inventory in which we compare the properties of the different methods. Finally, we end with future prospects, both on the theoretical and observational side.

Transport Phenomena and Light Element Abundances in the Sun and Solar Type Stars

The observations of light elements in the Sun and Solar type stars give special clues for understanding the hydrodynamical processes at work in stellar interiors. In the Sun 7Li is depleted by 140 while 3He has not increased by more than 10% in 3 Gyrs. Meanwhile the inversion of helioseismic modes lead to a precision on the sound velocity of about .1%. The mixing processes below the solar convection zone are constrained by these observations. Lithium is depleted in most Pop I solar type stars. In halo stars however, the lithium abundance seems constant in the "spite plateau" with no observed dispersion, which is difficult to reconcile with the theory of diffusion processes. In the present paper, the various relevant observations will be discussed. It will be shown that the mu-gradients induced by element settling may help solving the "lithium paradox".

Lithium abundances in main-sequence F stars and sub-giants

The application to main-sequence stars of the rotation-induced mixing theory in the presence of mu-gradients leads to partial mixing in the lithium destruction region, not visible in the atmosphere. The induced lithium depletion becomes visible in the sub-giant phase as soon as the convective zone deepens enough. This may explain why the observed " lithium dilution " is smoother and the final dilution factor larger than obtained in standard models, while the lithium abundance variations are very small on the main sequence.

X-ray flares on zero-age- and pre-main sequence stars in Taurus-Auriga-Perseus

We present results of a systematic search for X-ray flares on young stars observed during ROSAT PSPC observations of the Taurus-Auriga-Perseus region. All pointed PSPC observations currently available from the ROSAT Public Data Archive with known T Tauri stars, Pleiads, or Hyads in the field are analyzed in order to study the evolution of coronal activity. 38 large flares can be attributed to late-type stars. A flare rate is derived for the different stellar samples making use of the flare duration and the observing time. We investigate the influence of stellar parameters such as age, rotation and multiplicity on individual flare parameters and the flare frequency.

The Iron Project

Recent advances in theoretical atomic physics have enabled large-scale calculation of atomic parameters for a variety of atomic processes with high degree of precision. The development and application of these methods is the aim of the Iron Project. At present the primary focus is on collisional processes for all ions of iron, Fe I- FeXXVI, and other iron-peak elements; new work on radiative processes has also been initiated. Varied applications of the Iron Project work to X-ray astronomy are discussed, and more general applications to other spectral ranges are pointed out. The IP work forms the basis for more specialized projects such as the RMaX Project, and the work on photoionization/recombination, and aims to provide a comprehensive and self-consistent set of accurate collsional and radiative cross sections, and transition probabilities, within the framework of relativistic close coupling formulation using the Breit-Pauli R-Matrix method. An illustrative example is presented of how the IP data may be utilised in the formation of X-ray spectra of the K$α$ complex at 6.7 keV from He-like Fe XXV.

K-Band Spectroscopy of an Obscured Massive Stellar Cluster in the Antennae Galaxies (NGC 4038/4039) with NIRSPEC

We present infrared spectroscopy of the Antennae Galaxies (NGC 4038/4039) with NIRSPEC at the W. M. Keck Observatory. We imaged the star clusters in the vicinity of the southern nucleus (NGC 4039) in 0.39" seeing in K-band using NIRSPEC's slit-viewing camera. The brightest star cluster revealed in the near-IR (M_K(0) = -17.9) is insignificant optically, but coincident with the highest surface brightness peak in the mid-IR (12-18 um) ISO image presented by Mirabel et al (1998). We obtained high signal-to-noise 2.03-2.45 um spectra of the nucleus and the obscured star cluster at R = 1900.
The cluster is very young (age ~ 4 Myr), massive (M ~ 16E6 M_sun), and compact (density ~ 115 M_sun pc^(-3) within a 32 pc half-light radius), assuming a Salpeter IMF (0.1-100 M_sun). Its hot stars have a radiation field characterized by T_eff ~ 39,000 K, and they ionize a compact HII region with n_e ~ 10^4 cm^(-3). The stars are deeply embedded in gas and dust (A_V = 9-10 mag), and their strong FUV field powers a clumpy photodissociation region with densities n_H > 10^5 cm^(-3) on scales of ~ 200 pc, radiating L{H_2 1-0 S(1)}= 9600 L_sun.

Photometric Properties of Low Redshift Galaxy Clusters

We have recently completed a comprehensive photometric survey of 27 Abell clusters with the 8k mosaic camera on the KPNO 0.9m telescope. Preliminary luminosity functions and dwarf-to-giant galaxy ratios have been calculated for five galaxy clusters (A1185, A1656, A2151, A2152, and A2197). A significant increase in the faint end slope between the inner (0.0-0.75 Mpc) and outer (0.75-1.50 Mpc) luminosity function is measured for A2151 (H_o = 50 km/s/Mpc). All five clusters show a significant dip in the luminosity function at M_R = -19.5.

Effect of Beam-Plasma Instabilities on Accretion Disk Flares

We show that a certain class of flare models for variability from accretion disk coronae are subject to beam-plasma instabilities. These instabilities can prevent significant direct acceleration and greatly reduce the variable X-ray emission argued to arise via inverse Compton scattering involving relativistic electrons in beams and soft photons from the disk.

Chemical and dynamical evolution in gas-rich dwarf galaxies

We study the effect of a single, instantaneous starburst in a gas-rich dwarf galaxy on the dynamical and chemical evolution of its interstellar medium. We consider the energetic input and the chemical yields originating from SNeII, SNeIa and intermediate-mass stars. We find that a galaxy resembling IZw18 develops a galactic wind carrying out mostly the metal-rich gas. The various metals are lost differentially and the metals produced by the SNeIa are lost more efficiently than the others. As a consequence, we find larger [$α$/Fe] ratios for the gas inside the galaxy than for the gas leaving the galaxy. Finally we find that a single burst occurring in primordial gas (without pre-enrichment), gives chemical abundances and dynamical structures in good agreement with what observed in IZw18 after $\sim$ 29 Myr from the beginning of star formation.

The Luminosity Function of MS2255.7+2039 at z=0.288

The luminosity function of MS2255.7+2039 at z=0.288 is determined down to a total magnitude of R ~ 24, corresponding to M_R ~ -17 (H_0 = 50 km/s/Mpc). The data are corrected for incompleteness and crowding using detailed simulations. We find that the luminosity function is steeper than a standard Schechter function at faint magnitudes, and shows an excess of galaxies below M_R ~ -19. After corrections for light loss and crowding, the data can be described by a sum of two Schechter functions, one with M_R = -22.8 and alpha = -1.0, and one steeper with M_R = -18.9 and alpha = -1.5, representing the dwarf population. A straight-line fit to the faint part yields a slope similar to the Schechter alpha = -1.5 of the dwarf population. The luminosity function of MS2255.7+2039 is compared to other clusters at lower redshifts, and does not show any significant difference. The redshift range for clusters in which increased number of dwarf galaxies have been found is therefore extended to higher redshifts.

Properties of Proto--Planetary Nebulae

This review describes some general properites of proto-planetary nebulae with particular emphasis on the recent work of morpholgical studies. The weight of observational evidence shows that proto-planetary nebulae (PPNe) are most certainly axisymmetric like planetary nebulae. Recent work suggests two subclasses of PPNe optical morphology, DUst-Prominent Longitudinally-EXtended (DUPLEX) and Star-Obvious Low-level Elongated (SOLE). Radiative transfer models of an example DUPLEX PPN and SOLE PPN, presented here, support the interpretation that DUPLEX and SOLE are two physically distinct types of PPNe. The DUPLEX PPNe and SOLE PPNe may well be the precursors to bipolar and elliptical PNe, respectively.

Asymmetric, arc minute scale structures around NGC 1275

ROSAT HRI observations show complicated substructure in the X-ray surface brightness within $\sim$5 arcminutes around NGC 1275 -- the dominant galaxy of the Perseus cluster. The typical amplitude of the variations is of the order of 30% of the azimuthally averaged surface brightness at a given distance from NGC 1275. We argue that this substructure could be related to the activity of NGC 1275 in the past. Bubbles of relativistic plasma, inflated by jets, be forced to rise by buoyancy forces, mix with the ambient intracluster medium (ICM), and then spread. Overall evolution of the bubble may resemble the evolution of a hot bubble during a powerful atmospheric explosion. From a comparison of the time scale of the bubble inflation to the rise time of the bubbles and from the observed size of the radio lobes which displace the thermal gas, the energy release in the relativistic plasma by the active nucleus of NGC 1275 can be inferred. Approximate modeling implies a nuclear power output of the order of $10^{45}$ erg s$^{-1}$ averaged over the last $\sim 3~10^7$ years. This is comparable with the energy radiated in X-rays during the same epoch. Detailed measurements of the morphology of the X-ray structure, the temperature and abundance distributions with Chandra and XMM may test this hypothesis.

HV Ursae Majoris, a new contact binary with early-type components

We present the first UBV and uvby photometric observations for the short period variable star HV Ursae Majoris classified as a field RRc variable. The observed differences between the consecutive minima and the lack of colour variations disagree with the RRc-classification and suggest the possible binary nature of HV UMa. In order to reveal the real physical status of this star, we took medium resolution spectra in the red spectral region centered at 6600 A. Spectra obtained around the assumed quadratures clearly showed the presence of the secondary component.
An improved ephemeris calculated using our and Hipparcos epoch photometry is Hel. JD_min=2451346.743+/-0.001, P=0.7107523(3) d. A radial velocity curve was determined by modelling the cores of Halpha profiles with two Gaussian components. This approximative approach gave a spectroscopic mass ratio of q_sp=0.19+/-0.03. A modified Lucy model containing a temperature excess of the secondary was fitted to the V light curve. The obtained set of physical parameters together with the parallax measurement indicate that this binary lies far from the galactic plane, and the primary component is an evolved object, probably a subgiant or giant star. The large temperature excess of the secondary may suggest a poor thermal contact between the components due to a relatively recent formation of this contact system.

The Dependence of Tidally-Induced Star Formation on Cluster Density

A survey of H alpha emission in 320 spiral galaxies in 8 nearby clusters shows an enhancement of circumnuclear starburst emission with increasingly rich clusters. These observations provide convincing evidence that spirals have been transformed into S0s in clusters predominantly by tidal forces, a picture fully in accord with the most recent numerical simulations of clusters. For the richest clusters, the enhancement of starburst emission is greater than would be expected on the basis of increasing galaxy surface density alone, which may explain the anomalous result for the type-galaxy surface density relation found for low richness clusters at intermediate redshift.

Fossils of turbulence and non-turbulence in the primordial universe: the fluid mechanics of dark matter

Was the primordial universe turbulent or non-turbulent soon after the Big Bang? How did the hydrodynamic state of the early universe affect the formation of structure from gravitational forces, and how did the formation of structure by gravity affect the hydrodynamic state of the flow? What can be said about the dark matter that comprises 99.9 % of the mass of the universe according to most cosmological models? Space telescope measurements show answers to these questions persist literally frozen as fossils of the primordial turbulence and nonturbulence that controlled structure formation, contrary to standard cosmology which relies on the erroneous Jeans 1902 linear-inviscid-acoustic theory and a variety of associated misconceptions (e. g., cold dark matter). When effects of viscosity, turbulence, and diffusion are included, vastly different structure scenarios and a clear explanation for the dark matter emerge. From Gibson's 1996 theory the baryonic (ordinary) dark matter is comprised of proto-globular-star-cluster (PGC) clumps of hydrogenous planetoids termed ``primordial fog particles''(PFPs), observed by Schild 1996 as ``rogue planets ... likely to be the missing mass'' of a quasar lensing galaxy. The weakly collisional non-baryonic dark matter diffuses to form outer halos of galaxies and galaxy clusters.

Predictions on the number of variable stars for the GAIA space mission and for surveys as the ground-based International Liquid Mirror Telescope

Future space and ground-based survey programmes will produce an impressive amount of photometric data. The GAIA space mission will map the complete sky down to mag V=20 and produce time series for about 1 billion stars. Survey instruments as the International Liquid Mirror Telescope will observe slices of the sky down to magnitude V=23. In both experiments, the opportunity exists to discover a huge amount of variable stars. A prediction of the expected total number of variable stars and the number of variables in specific subgroups is given.

Star Formation and Chemical Evolution of Lyman-Break Galaxies

The number density and clustering properties of Lyman-break galaxies (LBGs) observed at redshift $z\sim 3$ are best explained by assuming that they are associated with the most massive haloes at $z\sim 3$ predicted in hierarchical models of structure formation. In this paper we study, under the same assumption, how star formation and chemical enrichment may have proceeded in the LBG population. A consistent model, in which the amount of cold gas available for star formation must be regulated, is suggested. It is found that gas cooling in dark haloes provides a natural regulation process. In this model, the star formation rate in an LBG host halo is roughly constant over about 1 Gyr. The predicted star formation rates and effective radii are consistent with observations. The metallicity of the gas associated with an LBG is roughly equal to the chemical yield, or about the order of $1 Z_{\odot}$ for a Salpeter IMF. The contribution to the total metals of LBGs is roughly consistent with that obtained from the observed cosmic star formation history. The model predicts a marked radial metallicity gradient in a galaxy, with the gas in the outer region having much lower metallicity. As a result, the metallicities for the damped Lyman-alpha absorption systems expected from the LBG population are low. Since LBG halos are filled with hot gas in this model, their contributions to the soft X-ray background and to the UV ionization background are calculated and discussed.

A New Dark Matter Model for Galaxies

In this paper a new theory of Dark Matter is proposed. Experimental analysis of several Galaxies show how the non-gravitational contribution to galactic Velocity Rotation Curves can be interpreted as that due to the Cosmological Constant $Λ$. The experimentally determined values for $Λ$ are found to be consistent with those expected from Cosmological Constraints. The Cosmological Constant is interpreted as leading to a constant energy density which in turn can be used to partly address the energy deficit problem (Dark Energy) of the Universe. The work presented here leads to the conclusion that the Cosmological Constant is negative and that the universe is de-accelerating. This is in clear contradiction to the Type Ia Supernovae results which support an accelerating universe.

The role of outflows and star formation efficiency in the evolution of early-type cluster galaxies

A phenomenological model for chemical enrichment in early-type galaxies is presented, in which the process of star formation is reduced to a set of four parameters: star formation efficiency (Ceff), fraction of ejected gas in outflows (Bout), formation redshift (zF) and infall timescale (Tf). Out of these four parameters, only variations of Bout or Ceff can account for the color-magnitude relation. A range of outflows results in a metallicity sequence, whereas a range of star formation efficiencies will yield a mixed age + metallicity sequence. The age-metallicity degeneracy complicates the issue of determining which mechanism contributes the most (i.e. outflows versus efficiency). However, the determination of the slope of the correlation between mass-to-light ratio and mass in clusters at moderate or high redshift will allow us to disentangle age and metallicity.

A study of young radio-loud AGN using space-VLBI

Gigahertz Peaked Spectrum (GPS) sources form a key element in the study of the onset and evolution of radio-loud AGN, since they are most likely the young counterparts of extended radio sources. Here we discuss space-VLBI observations of GPS sources, which enable us to obtain unprecedented angular resolution at frequencies near their spectral turnovers. Observed peak brightness temperatures of Log[T]=10.5-11 Kelvin indicate that synchrotron self absorption is responsible for their spectral turnovers. This is in close agreement with previous size - spectral turnover statistics for GPS sources. The combination of these new space-VLBI observations with ground-based VLBI observations taken at an earlier epoch, confirm the young ages for the most compact GPS galaxies of several hundred years.

Cosmic Equation of State, Quintessence and Decaying Dark Matter

If CDM particles decay and their lifetime is comparable to the age of the Universe, they can modify its equation of state. By comparing the results of numerical simulations with high redshift SN-Ia observations we show that this hypothesis is consistent with present data. Fitting the simplest quintessence models with constant $w_q$ to data leads to $w_q \lesssim -1$. We show that a universe with a cosmological constant or quintessence matter with $w_q \sim -1$ and a decaying Dark Matter has an effective $w_q < -1$ and fits SN data better than stable CDM or quintessence models with $w_q > -1$.

ISO far-infrared observations of rich galaxy clusters II. Sersic 159-03

The far-infrared emission from rich galaxy clusters is investigated. Maps have been obtained by ISO at 60, 100, 135, and 200 microns using the PHT-C camera. Ground based imaging and spectroscopy were also acquired. Here we present the results for the cooling flow cluster Sersic 159-03. An infrared source coincident with the dominant cD galaxy is found. Some off-center sources are also present, but without any obvious counterparts.

Polaris: astrometric orbit, position, and proper motion

We derive the astrometric orbit of the photo-center of the close pair alpha UMi AP (=alpha UMi Aa) of the Polaris multiple stellar system. The orbit is based on the spectroscopic orbit of the Cepheid alpha UMi A (orbital period of AP: 29.59 years), and on the difference Delta mu between the quasi-instantaneously measured HIPPARCOS proper motion of Polaris and the long-term-averaged proper motion given by the FK5. There remains an ambiguity in the inclination i of the orbit, since Delta mu cannot distinguish between a prograde orbit (i=50.1 deg) and a retrograde one (i=130.2 deg). Available photographic observations of Polaris favour strongly the retrograde orbit. For the semi-major axis of the photo-center of AP we find about 29 milliarcsec (mas). For the component P, we estimate a mass of 1.5 solar masses and a magnitude difference with respect to the Cepheid of 6.5 mag. The present separation between A and P should be about 160 mas. We obtain the proper motion of the center-of-mass of alpha UMi AP with a mean error of about 0.45 mas/year. Using the derived astrometric orbit, we find the position of the center-of-mass at the epoch 1991.31 with an accuracy of about 3.0 mas. Our ephemerides for the orbital correction, required for going from the position of the center-of-mass to the instantaneous position of the photo-center of AP at an arbitrary epoch, have a typical uncertainty of 5 mas. For epochs which differ from the HIPPARCOS epoch by more than a few years, a prediction for the actual position of Polaris based on our results should be significantly more accurate than using the HIPPARCOS data in a linear prediction, since the HIPPARCOS proper motion contains the instantaneous orbital motion of about 4.9 mas/year = 3.1 km/s. Finally we derive the galactic space motion of Polaris.

Non-LTE Effects in Berylium Abundances

In this work we analyze the beryllium-iron chemical diagram from the point of view of non-LTE effects. Be abundances were re-calculated by considering non-LTE corrections in ionization equilibrium (logg) and Fe abundances ([Fe/H]). These corrections seem do not affect the linear relation between Be-Fe for metal-poor stars already found in the literature for LTE derived abundances.

Kinetic theory of cosmic ray and gamma-ray production in supernova remnants expanding into wind bubbles

Abbreviated Abstract: A kinetic model of particle acceleration in supernova remnants (SNRs) is extended to study the cosmic ray (CR) and associated high energy gamma-ray production during SN shock propagation through the inhomogeneous circumstellar medium of a progenitor star that emits a strong wind. The wind forms a low-density bubble surrounded by a swept-up shell of interstellar matter. Gamma rays are produced as a result of decay of pions which in turn are the result of collisions of CRs with nuclei of the thermal plasma. The time evolution of the SNRs is followed numerically, taking into account the nonlinear backreaction of the accelerated CRs. Examples typical for SN type Ib and SN type II explosions are considered. Apart from the confirmation of the known fact that acceleration is extremely rapid and that the upper momentum cutoff is reached almost immediately after the explosion due to the high wind magnetic field, it is also shown that the CRs are accelerated with high efficiency. The CR energy spectrum, ultimately produced in the SNRs, has a power law form with index = 2.0 to 2.1 in a wide energy range up to a maximum energy which is about 10^14 eV if the CR diffusion coefficient is as small as the Bohm limiting value. However, the expected pi^0-decay gamma-ray flux is considerably lower than in the case of a uniform interstellar medium; a relatively high gamma-ray luminosity in the TeV band, detectable at distances of several kpc, is only expected in the case of a relatively dense ISM with a number density above 10/cc.

Superluminal Caustic is Just a Common Misconception: A Comment on astro-ph/0001199 by Zheng Zheng and Andrew Gould

When angular objects in lensing are considered as linear objects, interesting phenomena start happening. Tachyonic caustics are one example. We review that the intrinsic variables of the lens equation are angular variables. We argue that the "fast glance effect" of a caustic curve that is far away from lenses does not share the physical bearing of the well-known (apparent) superluminal motion. There is no dbout that it would be a useful exercise to study the null geodesics in the metric of, say, a rapidly rotating black hole binary. Lienard-Wiechert potentials ($A_μ$) satisfy Maxwell's equations in Minkowski space. Authors' claim that swapping eQ and GM makes the time component ($A_0$) of the Lienard-Wiechert potentials into "the gravitational analog" that governs the behavior of the null geodesics near a relativistic binary system seems to be unfounded.

Comptonization, reflection and noise in black hole binaries

Based on the analysis of a large sample of RXTE/PCA observations of several black hole binaries in the low spectral state we show that a correlation exists between the spectral parameters and characteristic noise frequency. In particular, the amplitude of reflection increases and the slope of Comptonized radiation steepens as the noise frequency increases. We consider possible implications of these results on the accretion flow models and discuss a possible observational test aimed to discriminate between different geometries of the accretion flow.

Research and Education in Basic Space Science: The Approach Pursued in the UN/ESA Workshops

Since 1990, the United Nations in cooperation with the European Space Agency is holding annually a workshop on basic space science for the benefit of the worldwide development of astronomy. These workshops have been held in countries of Asia and the Pacific (India, Sri Lanka), Latin America and the Caribbean (Costa Rica, Colombia, Honduras), Africa (Nigeria), Western Asia (Egypt, Jordan), and Europe (Germany, France). Additional to the scientific benefits of the workshops and the strengthening of international cooperation, the workshops lead to the establishment of astronomical telescope facilities in Colombia, Egypt, Honduras, Jordan, Morocco, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Sri Lanka, and Uruguay. The annual UN/ESA Workshops continue to pursue an agenda to network these astronomical telescope facilities through similar research and education programmes. Teaching material and hands-on astrophysics material has been developed for the operation of such astronomical telescope facilities in an university environment.

The Optical Gravitational Lensing Experiment. Catalog of Microlensing Events in the Galactic Bulge

We present the Catalog of microlensing events detected toward the Galactic bulge in three observing seasons, 1997--1999, during the OGLE-II microlensing survey. The search for microlensing events was performed using a database of about 4*10^9 photometric measurements of about 20.5 million stars from the Galactic bulge. The Catalog comprises 214 cases of microlensing events found in the fields covering about 11 square degrees on the sky and distributed in different parts of the Galactic bulge. The sample includes 20 binary microlensing events, 14 of them are caustic crossing. In one case a double star is likely lensed.
We present distribution of the basic parameters of microlensing events and show preliminary rate of microlensing in different regions of the Galactic bulge. The latter reveals clear dependence on the Galactic coordinates. The dependence on 'l' indicates that the majority of lenses toward the Galactic bulge are located in the Galactic bar. Models of the Galactic bar seem to reasonably predict the observed spatial distribution of microlensing events in the Galactic bulge.
All data presented in the Catalog and photometry of all events are available from the OGLE Internet archive.

Dust lanes, thick absorbers, and the unification model for Seyfert galaxies

A modification of the popular unification model for Seyfert galaxies is proposed, which takes into account recent observational findings on the statistical properties of both type 1 and type 2 Seyferts. In the proposed scenario, Compton-thick Seyfert 2 galaxies are those sources observed through compact, thick matter (the `torus'), while Compton-thin/intermediate Seyfert galaxies are obscured by dust lanes at larger distances.

The Impact of Rotation on Cluster Dynamics

The evolution of rotating, isolated clusters of stars up to core-collapse is investigated with n-body numerical codes. The simulations start off from axisymmetric generalisations of King profiles, with added global angular momentum. In this contribution I report on results obtained for two sets of single-mass cluster simulations. These confirm the more rapid evolution of even mildly-rotating clusters. A model is presented with rotational energy comparable to omega-Centauri's; it reaches core-collapse in less than half the time required for non-rotating model clusters.

Rapid fading of optical afterglows as evidence for beaming in gamma-ray bursts

Based on the refined dynamical model proposed by us earlier for beamed $γ$-ray burst ejecta, we carry out detailed numerical procedure to study those $γ$-ray bursts with rapidly fading afterglows (i.e., $\sim t^{-2}$). It is found that optical afterglows from GRB 970228, 980326, 980519, 990123, 990510 and 991208 can be satisfactorily fitted if the $γ$-ray burst ejecta are highly collimated, with a universal initial half opening angle $θ_0 \sim 0.1$. The obvious light curve break observed in GRB 990123 is due to the relativistic-Newtonian transition of the beamed ejecta, and the rapidly fading optical afterglows come from synchrotron emissions during the mildly relativistic and non-relativistic phases. We strongly suggest that the rapid fading of afterglows currently observed in some $γ$-ray bursts is evidence for beaming in these cases.

The robust detection of stars on CCD images

Two parameters are developed to analyze the CCD images from ground-based and/or space telescopes. The first parameter, deduced from the intensity profile of the object sharp, is useful to resolve stars and hot pixels. The second parameter shape distinguishes the stars from the background cosmic-ray events using geometric characteristics defined by its shapes. The parameters are applied to a simulated OMC/INTEGRAL image and a HST image.

ISO spectroscopy of circumstellar dust in the Herbig Ae systems AB Aur and HD 163296

Using both the Short- and Long-wavelength Spectrometers on board the Infrared Space Observatory (ISO), we have obtained infrared spectra of the Herbig Ae systems AB Aur and HD 163296. In addition, we obtained ground-based N band images of HD 163296. Our results can be summarized as follows: (1) The main dust components in AB Aur are amorphous silicates, iron oxide and PAHs; (2) The circumstellar dust in HD 163296 consists of amorphous silicates, iron oxide, water ice and a small fraction of crystalline silicates; (3) The infrared fluxes of HD 163296 are dominated by solid state features; (4) The colour temperature of the underlying continuum is much cooler in HD 163296 than in AB Aur, pointing to the existence of a population of very large (mm sized) dust grains in HD 163296; (5) The composition and degree of crystallization of circumstellar dust are poorly correlated with the age of the central star. The processes of crystallization and grain growth are also not necessarily coupled. This means that either the evolution of circumstellar dust in protoplanetary disks happens very rapidly (within a few Myr), or that this evolution is governed by factors other than stellar mass and age.

Optically dim counterparts of hard X-ray selected AGNs

We present near-IR photometry and imaging observations of a small sample of sources identified in the BeppoSAX 5-10 keV survey (HELLAS) which resolves ~ 20-30% of the X-ray background at these energies. The near-IR data are combined with optical spectra and photometry. Only 40% of the sources in our sample have the blue, power law continuum typical of color-selected QSOs. The remaining 60% are dominated by a galactic component which, on the basis of the continuum colors and shape, have ages ranging from 10^9 to 10^10 years. The images show that the blue QSOs are pointlike at our angular resolution, while all the other sources are extended, consistent with their spectral appearance and low redshift. Since down to R=20 only about two thirds of the HELLAS sources have a counterpart, the preliminary HELLAS census comprises in roughly equal parts: i) blue QSOs (mostly at high redshifts); ii) optically dim, galaxy-dominated active nuclei (mostly at modest redshifts); and iii) empty fields (possibly highly absorbed QSOs at high redshifts).

What Damped Ly-alpha Systems Tell Us About the Radial Distribution of Cold Gas at High Redshift

We investigate the properties of damped Lyman-alpha systems (DLAS) in semi-analytic models, focusing on whether the models can reproduce the kinematic properties of low-ionization metal lines described by Prochaska & Wolfe (1997b, 1998). We explore a variety of approaches for modelling the radial distribution of the cold neutral gas associated with the galaxies in our models, and find that our results are very sensitive to this ingredient. If we use an approach based on Fall & Efstathiou (1980), in which the sizes of the discs are determined by conservation of angular momentum, we find that the majority of the DLAS correspond to a single galactic disc. These models generically fail to reproduce the observed distribution of velocity widths. In alternative models in which the gas discs are considerably more extended, a significant fraction of DLAS arise from lines of sight intersecting multiple gas discs in a common halo. These models produce kinematics that fit the observational data, and also seem to agree well with the results of recent hydrodynamical simulations. Thus we conclude that Cold Dark Matter based models of galaxy formation can be reconciled with the kinematic data, but only at the expense of the standard assumption that DLAS are produced by rotationally supported gas discs whose sizes are determined by conservation of angular momentum. We suggest that the distribution of cold gas at high redshift may be dominated by another process, such as tidal streaming due to mergers.

Optical Counterparts to Damped Lyman Alpha Systems

Previously we have shown (Maller et al, 1998) that the kinematics of Damped Lyman Alpha Systems (DLAS) as measured by Prochaska and Wolfe (1998) can be reproduced in a multiple disk model (MDM) if the gaseous disks are of sufficient radial extent. Here we discuss this model's predictions for the relationship between DLAS and Lyman break galaxies (LBGs), which we here take to be objects at z~3 brighter than R=25.5. We expect that future observations of the correlations between DLAS and LBGs will provide a new data set able to discriminate between different theoretical models of the DLAS. Djorgovski (1997) has already detected a few optical counterparts and more studies are underway.

Damped Ly-alpha Systems in Semi-Analytic Models: Sensitivity to dynamics, disk properties, and cosmology

Previously we have shown that it is possible to account for the kinematic properties of damped Lyman alpha systems (DLAS) in the context of semi-analytic models. In these models, hierarchical structure formation is approximated by constructing a merger tree for each dark matter halo. A natural consequence is that every virialized halo may contain not only a central galaxy, but also a number of satellite galaxies as determined by its merging history. Thus the kinematics of the DLAS arise from the combined effects of the internal rotation of gas disks and the motions between gas disks within a common halo. Here we investigate the sensitivity of this model to some of the assumptions made previously, including the modeling of satellite dynamics, the scale height of the gas, and the cosmology.

AGB evolution with overshoot: hot bottom burning and dredge up

We calculated models of massive AGB stars with a self-consistent coupling of time-dependent mixing and nuclear burning for 30 isotopes and 74 reactions. Overshoot with an exponentially declining velocity field was considered and applied during all stages of evolution and in all convective regions. Very efficient 3rd dredge-up was found even overcompensating the growth of the hydrogen-exhausted core after a few thermal pulses. Hot bottom burning occurs for M>4Msol within the sequences with overshoot. Carbon star formation in these more massive AGB stars is delayed or even prevented by hot bottom burning despite the very efficient dredge-up. With the simultaneous treatment of mixing and burning the formation of Li-rich AGB stars due to the Cameron-Fowler mechanism was followed. For a 6Msol model the maximum Li abundance was found to be epsilon(Li7)=4.4.

ISO-SWS Observations of OMC-1: H_2 and Fine Structure Lines

Using the Short-Wavelength-Spectrometer on the Infrared Space Observatory (ISO), we obtained near- and mid-infrared spectra toward the brightest H_2 emission peak of the Orion OMC-1 outflow. A wealth of emission and absorption features were detected, dominated by 56 H_2 ro-vibrational and pure rotational lines reaching from H_2 0-0 S(1) to 0-0 S(25). The spectra also show a number of H I recombination lines, atomic and ionic fine structure lines, and molecular lines of CO and H_2O. Between 6 and 12 mu the emission is dominated by PAH features. The H_2 level column density distribution shows no signs of fluorescent excitation or a deviation from an ortho-to-para ratio of three. It shows an excitation temperature which increases from about 600 K for the lowest rotational and vibrational levels to about 3200 K at level energies E(v,J)/k > 14 000 K. No single steady state shock model can reproduce the observed H_2 excitation. The higher energy H_2 levels may be excited either thermally in non-dissociative J-shocks, through non-thermal collisions between fast ions and molecules with H_2 in C-shocks, or they are pumped by newly formed H_2 molecules. The highest rotational levels may be populated by yet another mechanism, such as the gas phase formation of H_2 through H^-.

The hard X-ray emission of luminous infrared galaxies

We present a study of the hard X-ray properties of a sample that includes all the Luminous Infrared Galaxies (LIGs, L_IR > 10^11 L_sun) observed in the 2-10 keV energy band (new and archival data). We find that a significant fraction of the sources optically classified as AGNs do not show any indication of nuclear activity in the X rays, thus suggesting heavy absorption along our line of sight. The absence of strong emission in the 20-200 keV band in a subsample of LIGs observed with BeppoSAX suggests that in many cases these sources are completely Compton thick (N_H > 10^25 cm^(-2)). From a comparison between the infrared and the X-ray emission we deduce that the mid-IR emission is absorbed by a lower column density than the X-ray emission or, alternatively, that the dust-to-gas ratio is lower than Galactic. We describe a simple model that reproduces the IR-X correlation by means of mixed AGN and starburst contributions and we compare the predictions of this model with the observational data at X-ray and optical wavelengths. Finally, we discuss the biases that affect the currently available samples of LIGs and briefly analyze a small unbiased sample, finding that at least 50% of the sources host a (weak) AGN.

Some Aspects of Inverse Compton Emission from 3K Background Photons

We review the history and a few features of IC/3K emission. We discuss observing strategies, the physical parameters which can be derived directly or indirectly from successful detections, and the disparities between magnetic field strength estimates found by different methods.

A Comparison of the Extra Nuclear X-ray and Radio Features in M87

ROSAT High Resolution Imager (HRI) data from eight observations have been co-added to obtain an effective exposure of 230 ksec. We have identified a number of features and regions with excess X-ray brightness over that from a circularly symmetric model of the well known hot gas component. A prominent `spur' extends 4' from the vicinity of knot A towards the south-west. The brightness to the south and east of this spur is significantly higher than that to the north and west. Excess brightness is also found to the East of the nucleus, with a local maximum centered on the eastern radio lobe 3' from the core.
There are two well known relationships between radio and x-ray emission for radio galaxies in clusters: coincidence of emissions because the X-rays come from inverse Compton or synchrotron processes; and anti-coincidence caused by exclusion of hot gas from radio entities. We present a radio/X-ray comparison to determine if either of these relationships can be isolated in M87. The greatest obstacle we face is the unknown projection which affects both bands.

Delta Scuti stars in stellar systems: on the variability of HD 220392 and HD 220391

HD 220392 (HR 8895), the brightest member of the visual double star CCDM 23239-5349, is a new short-period variable bright star, probably of the Delta Scuti type. The period analysis performed on the complete set of definitive Geneva photometry as well as on the data obtained at the ESO 0.5m telescope shows two periodicities of about 4.7 and 5.5 cycles per day (cpd) with amplitudes of 0.014 and 0.011 mag respectively. A similar period search on the (smaller) dataset obtained for the 1 mag fainter B-component, HD 220391, however shows no periodicity with an amplitude significantly above the noise level of the data (about 0.006 mag). This difference in variability behaviour is discussed from the consideration that both stars form a common origin pair and are located in the Delta Scuti instability strip.

Pulsation in two Herbig Ae stars: HD 35929 and V351 Ori

New photometric observations of seven intermediate mass pre-main sequence delta Scuti candidates are presented. The periods and pulsation modes are derived for two of these stars, namely HD 35929 and V351 Ori. The comparison between observations and nonlinear pulsational models allows us to provide some initial constraints on their mass and evolutionary state. As an illustration we discuss the use of periods to identify the mode of pulsation in these two stars and to have an independent estimate of their distances.

The Fraction of High Redshift Galaxies in Deep Infrared Selected Field Galaxy Samples

Recent results on the incidence of red galaxies in a > 100 square arcminute field galaxy survey to K=20 and a K=22 survey of the Hubble Deep Field are presented. We argue that a simple photometric redshift indicator, based on J-K color and supported by spectroscopic results obtained with Keck, gives a reliable lower limit of ~25% for the fraction of z>1 galaxies in the 100 square arcminute survey. This fraction is substantially higher than found in previous smaller samples, and is at least as consistent with predictions for pure luminosity evolution as with those for hierarchical models. The same technique yields a very low fraction for the HDF, which appears to be unusually underabundant in red galaxies.

The dynamical evolution of the dust shell of IRC+10216

We present high-resolution J-, H-, and K-band observations of the carbon star IRC+10216. The images were reconstructed from 6 m telescope speckle interferograms using the bispectrum speckle interferometry method. The H and K images consist of several compact components within a 0.2" radius and a fainter asymmetric nebula. The brightest four components are denoted with A to D in the order of decreasing brightness. A comparison of our images gives - almost like a movie of five frames - insight to the dynamical evolution of the inner nebula. For instance, the separation of the two brightest components A and B increased by almost 40% from 191 mas in 1995 to 265 mas in 1998. At the same time, component B is fading and the components C and D become brighter. The X-shaped bipolar structure of the nebula implies an asymmetric mass-loss suggesting that IRC+10216 is very advanced in its AGB evolution, shortly before turning into a protoplanetary nebula. The cometary shape of component A suggests that the core of A is not the central star, but the southern lobe of a bipolar structure. The position of the central star is probably at or near the position of component B.

A deep search for the optical counterpart to the anomalous X-ray pulsar 1E 2259+58.6

We present Keck R and I band images of the field of the anomalous X-ray pulsar 1E 2259+58.6. We derive an improved X-ray position from archival ROSAT HRI observations by correcting for systematic (boresight) errors. Within the corresponding error circle, no object is found on the Keck images, down to limiting magnitudes R = 25.7 and I = 24.3. We discuss the constraints imposed by these limits, and conclude that it is unlikely that 1E 2259+58.6 is powered by accretion from a disk, irrespective of whether it is in a binary or not, unless the binary is extremely compact.

Prospects of Variable Star Research by Future Space Missions

ESA and NASA are studying projects having a tremendous return on variable star research. Other national space agencies are also studying or developing projects of smaller costs but with impressive returns. The projects range from global Galactic surveys like the ESA mission GAIA which will give photometric time series for about 1 billion stars, to detailed pulsation modes studies like the CNES mission COROT which could reach a photometric precision lower than 1 ppm. The presentation will emphasize the future astrometric, asteroseismologic and planet detection missions.

Some statistical properties of spiral galaxies

This paper presents some statistical correlations of 72 northern spiral galaxies. The results show that early-type spirals that are brighter, and thicker, and the axis ratios ($H_{z}/H_r$) of the disk tend to be smaller along the Hubble sequence. We also find that $H_{z}/H_r$ correlates strongly with the galaxy's color, and early-type spirals have larger values of $H_{z}/H_r$. The inclinations obtained by fitting the pattern of a spiral structure with a logarithmic spiral form are nearly the same as those obtained by using the formulas of Aaronson et al. (1980). Finally, the mean measured pitch angles for the different Hubble sequences in the Third Catalogue of Bright Galaxies by de Vaucouleurs et al. (1991) are derived.

Non-equilibrium H2 ortho-to-para ratio in two molecular clouds of the Galactic Center

We present ISO observations of the S(0), S(1), S(2), and S(3) rotational lines of molecular hydrogen from two molecular clouds near the Galactic Center (GC). We have also measured continuum dust emission at infrared wavelengths with ISO and the rotational radio lines J=1-0 of 13CO and C18O and J=2-1 of C18O with the IRAM-30m telescope. Using the dust continuum spectra and the CO lines we derive a total visual extinction of 15-20 magnitudes toward these GC clouds. After correcting the H2 data for extinction, the gas temperatures are \~250 K and the column densities of warm gas are ~2e21 cm-2. This is the first direct measure of the H2 column densities of the warm component; with this, we estimate an NH3 abundance in the warm gas of ~ 2e-7. The column density of warm gas is, at least, a factor of 100 larger than the corresponding column densities derived from the warm dust. The observed ortho-to-para ratio (OTPR) is ~ 1, clearly below the local thermodynamical equilibrium (LTE) OTPR for gas at 250 K of ~3. Low velocity shocks (~ 10 km/s) are the most likely explanation for the column densities of warm gas and dust and the non-LTE H2 OTPR.

Delta Scuti Stars in Stellar Systems: the interest of HD 220392 and HD 220391

The very wide double star CCDM 23239-5349 is an interesting study case of a pulsating star within a common origin pair or wide binary. Both stars are located in the Delta Scuti instability strip. Based on data obtained at La Silla (Chile), at the Swiss 0.7m and the ESO 0.5m telescopes, we found two periodicities of about 4.7 and 5.5 cycles per day (cpd) with amplitudes of 0.014 and 0.011 mag, respectively, for HD 220392, the brightest member of the system. The most dominant periodicity was also detected in the Hipparcos Epoch Photometry data. A similar period search on the (smaller) dataset obtained for the 1 mag fainter B-component, HD 220391, however shows no periodic behaviour with an amplitude significantly above the noise level of the data (about 0.006 mag).

Search for molecular gas in HVCs through HCO+ absorption

High-Velocity Clouds (HVCs) have radial velocities that cannot be explained by the global Galactic rotation; their distances remain mostly unknown, and their true nature and origin are still a mystery. Some of them could be of galactic origin, or belong to tidal streams drawn by the Milky-Way/ Magellanic Clouds interaction, or could even be intergalactic clouds infalling onto the Local Group. In the latter hypothesis, they play a major role in the hierarchical formation scenario of the Milky-Way and are connected to the Lyman-limit absorption systems. In any case, the determination of their physical state (density, temperature, internal structure, abundances, excitation) will help to discriminate between current theories on their origin and nature. A recent UV measurement (Richter et al 1999) has discovered for the first time in a HVC the molecular phase that was previously searched for, without success, through CO emission. Previous non detections could be due either to metallicity problems, or insufficient excitation (because of low density). Low-excitation molecular gas may, however, be detectable though absorption. Here we report on a sensitive search for HCO+(1-0) absorption lines in front of 27 quasars, already known to be strong millimetric continuum sources. Except for one tentative case, no detection was obtained in most HVCs, although HCO+(1-0) was clearly detected towards galactic low-velocity clouds. We discuss the implications of this result.

Modification of AGB wind in a binary system

We explore one of plausible causes of asymmetry in the wind of an AGB star - the presence of a binary companion. We have developed a simple method for estimating the intrinsic non-sphericity of the outflow in that case. Assuming the Roche model, local stellar parameters (T_eff, g) are calculated, and then a formula for the local mass loss rate is applied. As a by-product a relation between the ratio of stellar radius to the Roche lobe radius and the overall wind enhancement is obtained.

Post-Glitch RXTE-PCA Observations of the Vela Pulsar

We report the results of analysis of observations of the Vela Pulsar by PCA on RXTE. Our data consists of two parts. The first part contains observations at 1, 4, and 9 days after the glitch in 1996 and has 27000 sec. total exposure time. The second part of observations were performed three months after this glitch and have a total exposure time of 93000 sec. We found pulsations in both sets. The observed spectrum is a power-law with no apparent change in flux or count rate. The theoretical expectations of increase in flux due to internal heating after a glitch are smaller than the uncertainty of the observations.

Fundamental parameters of Galactic luminous OB stars V. The effect of microturbulence

We study the effect of microturbulence in the line formation calculations of H and He lines, in the parameter range typical for O and early B stars. We are specially interested in its effect on the determination of stellar parameters: effective temperature, surface gravity and specially on the He abundance. We find that only HeI lines and HeII 4686 are sensibly affected by microturbulence, and that models with lower gravities, the ones suitable for supergiants, are more sensitive to it. We analyze five stars using microturbulence velocities of 0 and 15 km/s. The parameters obtained for 15 km/s differ from the ones at 0 km/s within the limits of the standard error box of our analysis. The quality of the line fits only improves for HeI 4471, but not to the extent of completely solving the so-called dilution effect. Therefore our conclusion is that microturbulence is affecting the derivation of stellar parameters, but its effect is comparable to the adopted uncertainties. Thus it can reduce moderate He overabundances and solve line fit quality differences, but it cannot explain by itself large He overabundances in O stars.

Present and Near-Future Reflected Light Searches for Close-In Planets

Close-in extrasolar giant planets may be directly detectable by their reflected light, due to the proximity of the planet to the illuminating star. The spectrum of the system will contain a reflected light component that varies in amplitude and Doppler shift as the planet orbits the star. Intensive searches for this effect have been carried out for only one extrasolar planet system, tau Boo. There exist several other attractive targets, including the transiting planet system HD 209458.

Gravitational potential and energy of homogeneous rectangular parallelepiped

Gravitational potential and gravitational energy are presented in analytical form for homogeneous rectangular parallelepiped.

Radio Supernovae and GRB 980425

Study of radio supernovae (RSNe) over the past 20 years includes two dozen detected objects and more than 100 upper limits. From this work we are able to identify classes of radio properties, demonstrate conformance to and deviations from existing models, estimate the density and structure of the circumstellar material and, by inference, the evolution of the presupernova stellar wind, and reveal the last stages of stellar evolution before explosion. It is also possible to detect ionized hydrogen along the line of sight, to demonstrate binary properties of the stellar system, and to show clumpiness of the circumstellar material. More speculatively, it may be possible to provide distance estimates to radio supernovae.
The interesting and unusual radio supernova SN 1998bw, which is thought to be related to the gamma-ray burst GRB 980425, is discussed in particular detail. Its radio properties are compared and contrasted with those of other known RSNe.

The evolution of helium white dwarfs: III. On the ages of millisecond pulsar systems

We employed recently computed evolutionary white-dwarf models with helium cores, supplemented by heavier models with carbon-oxygen cores, in order to investigate the ages of millisecond pulsar systems based on the cooling properties of the compact companions. Contrary to the behaviour of more massive white dwarfs, the evolutionary speed of low-mass white-dwarf models is substantially slowed down by ongoing hydrogen burning. By comparing the cooling ages of these models with the spin-down ages of the pulsars for those systems for which reasonable information about the compact companions is available, we found good correspondence between both ages. Based on these models any revisions concerning the temporal evolution of millisecond pulsars do not appear to be necessary.

The Future of Radio Astronomy: Options for Dealing with Human Generated Interference

Radio astronomy provides a unique window on the universe, allowing us to study: non-thermal processes (galactic nuclei, quasars, pulsars) at the highest angular resolution using VLBI, with low opacity. It is the most interesting wave band for SETI searches. To date it has yielded 3 Nobel prizes (microwave background, pulsars, gravitational radiation). There are both exciting possibilities and substantial challenges for radio astronomy to remain at the cutting edge over the next 3 decades. New instruments like ALMA and the SKA will open up new science if the challenge of dealing human generated interference can be met. We summarise some of the issues and technological developments that will be essential to the future success of radio astronomy.

Radio Frequency Interference

We describe the nature of the interference challenges facing radio astronomy in the next decade. These challenges will not be solved by regulation only, negotiation and mitigation will become vital. There is no silver bullet for mitigating against interference. A successful mitigation approach is most likely to be a hierarchical or progressive approach throughout the telescope and signal conditioning and processing systems. We summarise some of the approaches, including adaptive systems.

Optical and X-ray analysis of the cluster of galaxies Abell 496

We present a detailed analysis of the cluster of galaxies \a4. The optical data include a redshift catalogue of 466 galaxies, out of which 274 belong to the main cluster and a CCD photometric catalogue in a much smaller region, with 239 and 610 galaxies in the V and R bands respectively. The X-ray analysis is based on an image obtained with the ROSAT PSPC. Besides Abell 496 itself, the velocity distribution along the line of sight shows the existence of at least four structures at different redshifts, one of them seeming to be a poor cluster at a velocity of 30083 km/s. The other of these structures have a too large spatial extent to be clusters but may be filaments along the line of sight or other young structures. Various independent methods show that Abell 496 appears to be a quite relaxed cluster, except perhaps for the distribution of emission line galaxies. These appear to be distributed in two samples falling on to the main cluster, one from the back (the ELGs concentrated towards the west) and one from the front (the high velocity ELGs). The bright part of the galaxy luminosity function, built from the redshift catalogue, shows a flattening at R$\sim 16$ (M$_{\rm R}\sim -20.5$), and can be accounted for by a gaussian distribution of bright galaxies and a power law or Schechter function for faint galaxies. The deeper galaxy counts derived from CCD imaging show a dip at R$\sim 19.5$ (M$_{\rm R} \sim -17$) which can be modelled assuming a cut-off in the luminosity function such as that observed in Coma. We propose a model for the X-ray gas and derive the galaxy, X-ray gas and total dynamical masses, as well as the baryon fraction in the cluster. \a4 appears as a relaxed cluster which can be used as a prototype for further studies.

CMB Anisotropies: A Decadal Survey

We review the theoretical implications of the past decade of CMB anisotropy measurements, which culminated in the recent detection of the first feature in the power spectrum, and discuss the tests available to the next decade of experiments. The current data already suggest that density perturbations originated in an inflationary epoch, the universe is spatially flat, and baryonic dark matter is required. We discuss the underlying assumptions of these claims and outline the tests required to ensure they are robust. The most critical test - the presence of a second feature at the predicted location - should soon be available. Further in the future, secondary anisotropies and polarization should open new windows to the early and low(er) redshift universe.

Determination of cosmological parameters from large scale structure observations

The possibility of determining cosmological parameters on the basis of a wide set of observational data including the Abell-ACO cluster power spectrum and mass function, peculiar velocities of galaxies, the distribution of Ly-$α$ clouds and CMB temperature fluctuations is analyzed. Using a $χ^2$ minimization method, assuming $Ω_Λ+Ω_m =1$ and no contribution from gravity waves, we found that a tilted $Λ$MDM model with one sort of massive neutrinos and the parameters $n\approx 1.12$, $Ω_m\approx 0.4$ ($Ω_Λ\approx 0.6$), $Ω_{cdm}\approx 0.3$, $Ω_ν\approx 0.06$, $Ω_b\approx 0.04$ and $h\approx 0.7$ matches observational data best. $Ω_ν$ is higher for more species of massive neutrinos, $\sim 0.1$ for two and $\sim 0.13$ for three species. $Ω_m$ raises by $\sim 0.08$ and $\sim 0.15$ respectively.
Varying only a subset of parameters and fixing the others shows also that the observational data set used here rules out pure CDM models with $h\ge 0.5$, scale invariant primordial power spectrum, zero cosmological constant and spatial curvature at a very high confidence level, $>99.99%$. The corresponding class of MDM models are ruled out at $\sim 95%$ C.L.
It is notable also that this data set determines the amplitude of scalar fluctuations approximately at the same level as COBE four-year data. It indicates that a possible tensor component in the COBE data cannot be very substantial.

The Final Fate of Coalescing Compact Binaries: From Black Hole to Planet Formation

Coalescing compact binaries are thought to be involved in a wide variety of astrophysical phenomena. In particular, they are important sources of gravitational radiation for both ground-based and space-based laser-interferometer detectors, and they may be sources of supernova explosions or gamma-ray bursts. Mergers of two white dwarfs may produce neutron stars with peculiar properties, including perhaps millisecond radio pulsars sometimes accompanied by planets (as observed in PSR 1257+12). According to a widely held belief, the coalescence of two neutron stars should produce a rapidly rotating black hole surrounded by an accretion disk or torus, but this is by no means certain. This review paper focuses on the final hydrodynamic coalescence and merger of double neutron stars and double white dwarfs, and addresses the question of the nature of the final merger products.

Models of Wave Supported Clumps in Giant Molecular Clouds

We present plane-parallel equilibrium models of molecular clumps that are supported by Alfven waves damped by the linear process of ion-neutral friction. We used a WKB approximation to treat the inward propagation of waves and adopted a realistic ionization structure influenced by dissociation and ionization due to photons of external origin. The model clumps are larger and less centrally condensed than those obtained for an assumed ionization structure, used in some previous studies, that is more appropriate for dark regions.

Effects of galaxy mergers on the faint IRAS source counts and the background

Binary merging constitutes a complementary mode of galaxy evolution to the canonical hierarchical clustering theory. This merger-driven evolution not only influences the galaxy mass distribution function, but may drive the main galactic activity cycles, such as starbursts and the activity in the nuclei (AGNs). In this paper, we use galaxy aggregation dynamics together with a possible merger-driven starburst and AGN phenomena, to study the effects of evlution of these consequential activities for the faint IRAS source counts and the infra-red background. We find that the strong evolution of IRAS 60$ μm$ source count at flux range of $10 mJy \sim 1 Jy$ is difficult to be explained only by the merger rate decrease with cosmic time. We need to assume a redshift dependent infrared burst phase of ultraluminous infrared galaxies (ULIGs) from the gas rich mergers at high redshift and the gas poor mergers at low redshift. The background intensity at 60$ μm$ which we get from this aggregation evolution is a lower limit of only $1.9 nW m^{-2} sr^{-1}$, about half of those estimated by some previous models, but close to the lower end of the range derived by Malkan & Stecker (1998).

Analysis of Balmer Profiles of early type stars

The spectral energy distribution (SED) of recent star formation regions is dominated by the more massive and early stars (O and B types). These stars show large and very significant absorption features, the most prominent being the recombination lines of H, HeI and HeII. In particular, the shape of their profiles are very dependent on the luminosity of the star. We have explored the potential use of high resolution profiles to discriminate between different luminosity classes and spectral types, by using profiles of the He and Balmer lines. We have calculated growth curves for each of the lines and their dependence on gravity and effective temperature. We show some of these theoretical growth curves and our preliminary conclusions are analyzed and discussed.

Lithium and rotation on the subgiant branch II. Theoretical analysis of observations

Lithium abundances and rotation, determined for 120 subgiant stars in Lebre et al. (1999) are analyzed. To this purpose, the evolutionary status of the sample as well as the individual masses have been determined using the HIPPARCOS trigonometric parallax measurements to locate very precisely our sample stars in the HR diagram. We look at the distributions of A(Li) and Vsini with mass when stars evolve from the main sequence to the subgiant branch. For most of the stars in our sample we find good agreement with the dilution predictions. However, the more massive cool stars with upper limits of Li abundances show a significant discrepancy with the theoretical predictions, even if the Non-LTE effects are taken into account. For the rotation behaviour, our analysis confirms that low mass stars leave the main sequence with a low rotational rate, while more massive stars are slowed down only when reaching the subgiant branch. We also checked the connection between the observed rotation behaviour and the magnetic braking due to the deepening of the convective envelope. Our results shed new light on the lithium and rotation discontinuities in the evolved phase.

Evolution of lithium in solar-type stars: clues from intermediate age clusters

We present Li abundances for 14 solar-type stars in the intermediate age (~ 2 Gyr) clusters IC 4651 and NGC 3680. The log n(Li) vs. effective temperature distributions are compared with those of the similar age cluster NGC 752, of the younger Hyades (600 Myr) and of the older M 67 (4.5 Gyr) and NGC 188 (6-7 Gyr) clusters. Neither IC 4651 nor NGC 3680 show the dispersion in Li which is observed in M 67. The 2 Gyr clusters have very similar Li vs. effective temperature distributions; in addition, stars in the upper envelope of the M 67 distribution have the same Li content as stars in the 2 Gyr clusters, suggesting that either they have not suffered any significant depletion between 2 and 4.5 Gyr or they had a much slower Li depletion. Mechanisms that lead to Li depletion on the main sequence are discussed in the light of these observations. None of the existing models seem to reproduce well the observed features.

ROSAT HRI monitoring of X-ray variability in the NLS1 galaxy PKS 0558-504

We present the results of ROSAT High Resolution Imager (HRI) observations and the survey data of the radio-loud Narrow-Line Seyfert 1 galaxy (NLS1) PKS 0558--504. We find strong and persistent X-ray variability on both short and medium time-scales. The most extreme amplitude variations require a radiative efficiency exceeding the theoretical maximum for a Schwarzschild black hole, suggesting the presence of a rotating black hole or the influence of relativistic beaming effects. The spatial analysis rules out the possibility that the high luminosity and the strong variability are related to a nearby source.

Magnetic field strength from peaked synchrotron spectra

Key diagnostics of non-thermal plasmas, such as the position of the synchrotron self-absorption turnover or the Faraday rotation optical depth, depend crucially on the unobserved low-energy electron spectrum. We investigate the effect of physically viable assumptions about the low-energy electron spectrum on the magnetic field strength as inferred from the position of the peak in the synchrotron spectrum marking the transition from optically thick to optically thin radiation. To this end the kinetic equations are written down and stationary solutions are given. In this context the inviability of the delta function approximation of the synchrotron power spectrum is discussed. Using two different approaches, we show that the field determination is independent of the assumptions about the low energy electron spectrum within an order of magnitude. As an example, we use our result to obtain a small correction to the limiting brightness temperature.

Bimodal production of Be and B in the early Galaxy

Recently models based on the acceleration of metal-rich material inside superbubbles have been proposed to account for the observed abundances of Be and B in metal-poor halo stars. We analyse some of the implications of these models for the distribution of the Be/O and B/O abundance ratios. In particular, we discuss the possible scatter in the data and argue that LiBeB production in the very early Galaxy was probably bimodal, with isolated supernovae giving rise to a low-efficiency mechanism, and collective supernovae exploding in an OB association inducing a high-efficiency mechanism. This should produce two populations of halo stars, one with high L/M ratios (light elements/metals), and the other with L/M ratios about ten times lower. The relative weight of these two populations depends on the fraction of supernovae exploding inside superbubbles. In this context, we discuss the recent observation of the B-depleted, Li-normal star HD 160617 (Primas, et al., 1998), as well as the reported spread in the Be data at [Fe/H] ~ -2.2 (Boesgaard, et al., 1999). Finally, we predict that Be will be found to be even more deficient than B in HD 160617.

Primordial black holes and gravitational memory

We discuss the various ways in which primordial black holes may have formed in the early Universe and how the effects of such black holes can be used to place constraints on cosmological models. We show that such constraints may be severely modified if the value of the gravitational "constant" G varies with cosmological epoch, a possibility which arises in many scenarios for the early Universe. The nature of the modification depends upon whether the value of G near a black hole maintains the value it had at its formation epoch (corresponding to gravitational memory) or whether it tracks the background cosmological value. This is still uncertain but we discuss various approaches which might help to resolve the issue.

A correction to the pp reaction

These descriptive comments are made to encourage detailed three-body, relativistic, quantum collision calculations for the pp reaction. In stars, coulomb barrier tunneling, as in the pp reaction, is not a two-body process. Tunneling is mediated by an energetic electron that interacts with the colliding particles. The presence of such an electron lowers the potential barrier and increases the probability of tunneling by orders of magnitude. The solar luminosity can be maintained with a central temperature near 10 million K where the neutrino production rates correspond to the observed rates. Current stellar interior and evolutionary models need substantial revision.

Non-Linear Effects on the Angular Correlation Function

Extracting the three dimensional power spectrum from the 2D distribution of galaxies has become a standard tool of cosmology. This extraction requires some assumptions about the scaling of the power spectrum with redshift; all treatments to date assume a simple power law scaling. In reality, different scales grow at different rates, due to non-linearities. We show that angular surveys are sensitive to a weighted average of the power spectrum over a distribution of redshifts, where the weight function varies with wavenumber. We compute this weight function and show that it is fairly sharply peaked at \bar{z}, which is a function of k. As long as the extracted power spectrum is understood to be $P(k,\bar{z})$, the error introduced by non-linear scaling is quantifiable and small. We study these effects in the context of the APM and SDSS photometric surveys. In general the weight matrix is peaked at larger z and is broader for deeper surveys, leading to larger (but still quantifiable) errors due to non-linear scaling. The tools introduced here -- in particular the weight function and effective redshift $\bar{z}$ -- can also be profitably applied to plan surveys to study the evolution of the power spectrum.

How flat is the Universe?

In order to answer this question, we combine ten independent astrophysical constraints in the space of the density parameters $Ω_m$ of gravitating matter and $Ω_Λ$ of vacuum energy. We find that $Ω_m=0.31\pm 0.07$, $Ω_Λ=0.63\pm 0.21$, and thus $Ω_m + Ω_Λ=0.94\pm 0.22$. The total $χ^2$ is 4.1 for 8 degrees of freedom, testifying that the various systematic errors included are generous. We also determine $Ω_m$ in the exactly flat case. Five supplementary flat-case constraints can then be included in our fit, with the result $Ω_m=1-Ω_Λ= 0.337\pm0.031$. It follows that the age of the Universe is $t_0 = 13.5\pm 1.3$ (0.68/h) Gyr.

Pixel and Micro-lensing with NGST

Within 8 years, the current microlensing surveys of M31 will provide several hundred events affecting unresolved stars. They will thus allow a statistical study of the dark matter in M31's halo. The NGST will resolve these stars and constrain the mass of the corresponding lenses. In case of on-line alerts from ground-based observations, real-time NGST follow-up with high signal-to-noise ratio will provide further constraints on the lenses. In addition, high resolution observations with NGST will complement XMM and the previous optical data and thus enable a closer insight of X-ray binaries within M31 to be obtained. The optimal instrumentation to achieve these scientific goals will be discussed. Last, the study of the dark matter encompassed in the galaxy clusters would be possible with high angular resolution observations on a large field camera and would open a new field of research.

Low Frequency Radio Emission of Pulsar PSR J1907+0919 Associated with the Magnetar SGR 1900+14

The soft gamma repeater SGR 1900+14 was observed in Pushchino observatory since 1988 December using BSA radio telescope operating at 111 MHz. We have detected the pulsed radio emission (Shitov 1999) with the same 5.16 s period that was reported earlier for this object. The timing analysis has shown that this new radio pulsar PSR J1907+0919 associated with SGR 1900+14 has a superstrong magnetic field, which is 8.1 * 10^14 G, thereby confirming that it is a "magnetar". The dispersion measure of PSR J1907+0919 is 281.4(9) pc * cm^(-3) which gives an estimate of the pulsar's distance as about 5.8 kpc.

Jets from compact objects

Some topics in the theory of jets are reviewed. These include jet precession, unconfined jets, the origin of knots, the internal shock model as a unifying theme from protostellar jets to Gamma-ray bursts, relations between the Blandford-Znajek and MHD disk-wind models, and jet collimation in magnetic acceleration models.

Theory of solar luminosity variations

The theory of stellar structure can be used to identify the most plausible mechanisms for the irradiance variations associated with the solar cycle. Changes in surface emissivity, i.e. the reduced cooling in spots and enhanced emission by small scale magnetic fields, are the most effective mechanisms and account for most of the observed variation. Helioseismology will soon be able to test the consequences of changes in surface emissivity, and distinguish them from other scenarios for irradiance variability.

A limit for the mass transfer rate in soft X-ray transients

Many black hole X-ray transients are in a low state for several decades until an outburst occurs. We interpret this outburst behaviour as a marginal occurrence of a dwarf nova type disk instability in the cool outer accretion disk. We compute the disk evolution including evaporation of matter from the cool thin disk. This evaporation process causes the transition to a hot coronal flow. The efficiency depends on the black hole mass.
The new results are the dependence of the outburst recurrence time on the mass transfer rate from the companion star and the fraction of the matter which is accumulated in the disk for the outburst. We determine a lower limit of the mass transfer rate, below which no disk instability can be triggered. We find that for rates slightly lower than those in the known black hole X-ray transients the disk would be stationary. We argue that many such optically faint black hole X-ray binaries with stationary cool accretion disks exist.

Bit-String Physics Prediction of eta, The Dark Matter/Baryon Ratio and Omega_M

Using a simple combinatorial algorithm for generating finite and discrete events as our numerical cosmology, we predict that the baryon/photon ratio at the time of nucleogenesis is $η= 1/256^4$, $Ω_{DM}/Ω_B= 12.7$ and (for a cosmological constant of $Ω_Λ=0.6\pm 0.1$ predicted on general grounds by E.D.Jones) that $0.325 > Ω_M > 0.183 $. The limits are set not by our theory but by the empirical bounds on the renormalized Hubble constant of $0.6 < h_0 < 0.8$. If we impose the additional empirical bound of $t_0 < 14 Gyr$, the predicted upper bound on $Ω_M$ falls to 0.26. The predictions of $Ω_M$ and $Ω_Λ$were in excellent agreement with Glanz' analysis in 1998, and are still in excellent agreement with Lineweaver's recent analysis despite the reduction of observational uncertainty by close to an order of magnitude.

Primordial black holes, phase transitions, and the fate of the universe

Phase transitions in the early universe are prime settings for the production of primordial black holes, since they can break the relatively quiescent homogeneity and isotropy of Friedmann-Robertson-Walker (FRW) cosmologies. These epochs of "symmetry breaking," moreover, can affect the subsequent development of spacetime by changing the evolution of some FRW parameters, including the present age and density of the universe. We discuss the relative importance of such effects on constraining mechanisms of black hole formation.

A correlation between the SiO and the Fe 6.4 keV line emission from the Galactic center

In this letter we present a map of the GC in the 1-0 line of SiO covering the same region than the ASCA observations of the Fe 6.4 keV line. The SiO emission is restricted to molecular clouds with radial velocity between 10 and 60 km/s in the Sgr A and Sgr B complexes. We find a correlation between the SiO morphology and the spatial distribution of the Fe 6.4 keV line, on the large scale and also within Sgr A and Sgr B. The SiO abundance increases by a factor of 20 in the regions with strong Fe 6.4 keV line. This indicates that the Fe 6.4 keV line mainly arises from molecular clouds with large gas phase abundance of refractory elements. We discuss the implications of the correlation on the origin of the hard X-rays, and the heating and the chemistry of the molecular clouds in the GC

One relation for self-gravitating bodies

The relation between the gravitational potential energy, W, the central potential, U, and the mass, M: W/U/M is considered for various homogeneous and inhomogeneous self-gravitating bodies.

On the origin of the universe

It has been proven recently that the Standard Model of particle physics has electric charge quantization built into it. It has also been shown by the author that there was no electric charge in the early universe. Further it is shown here that the restoration of the full Standard Model symmetry (as in the Early Universe) leads to the result that `time', `light', along with it's velocity c and the theory of relativity, all lose any physical meaning. The physical Universe as we know it, with its space-time structure, disappears in this phase transition. Hence it is hypothesized here that the Universe came into existence when the Standard Model symmetry $SU(3)_C \otimes SU(2)_L \otimes U(1)_Y$ was spontaneously broken to $SU(3)_C \otimes U(1)_{em}$. This does not require any spurious extensions of the Standard Model and in a simple and consistent manner explains the origin of the Universe within the framework of the Standard Model itself.

A few things we do not know about the sun and F stars and G stars

WE do not know how to make realistic model atmospheres; understand convection; consider the variation in microturbulent velocity; understand spectroscopy; have good spectra of the sun or any other star; have energy distributions for the sun or any other star; know how to determine abundances; know the abundances of the sun or any other star; have good atomic and molecular data; One half the lines in the solar spectrum are not identified. We should get our own house in order before worrying about the neighbors.

A New Strategy for the Routine Detection & Imaging of Faint Radio Sources with VLBI

In this paper I outline a new strategy for the routine detection and imaging of faint (sub-mJy and microJy) radio sources with VLBI and SVLBI. The strategy relies on a combination of in-beam phase-referencing, wide-field VLBI imaging and simultaneous correlation of multiple field centres. A combination of these techniques, together with the steeply rising radio source counts observed at cm wavelengths, permit routine high resolution observations of radio sources previously considered too faint for conventional VLBI.

2D Numerical Simulation of Stellar Convection

The dynamics and thermal structure of the surface layers of stars with outer convection zones can be studied in some detail by means of numerical simulations of time-dependent compressible convection. In an effort to investigate the properties of ``stellar granulation'' as a function of spectral type, we have carried out elaborate 2-dimensional radiation hydrodynamics calculations of surface convection for a variety of stellar parameters. The main features of these simulations are reviewed, with particular reference to standard mixing length models.

Effects of Photospheric Temperature Inhomogeneities on Lithium Abundance Determinations (2D)

Based on detailed 2D radiation hydrodynamics (RHD) simulations, we have investigated the effects of photospheric temperature inhomogeneities induced by convection on spectroscopic determinations of the lithium abundance. Computations have been performed both for the solar case and for a metal-poor dwarf. NLTE effects are taken into account, using a five-level atomic model for LiI. Comparisons are presented with traditional 1D models having the same effective temperature and gravity. The net result is that, while LTE results differ dramatically between 1D and 2D models, especially in the metal-poor case, this does not remain true when NLTE effects are included: 1D/2D differences in the inferred NLTE Li abundance are always well below 0.1 dex. The present computations still assume LTE in the continuum. New computations removing this assumption are planned for the near future.

The Properties of Hypernovae: SNe Ic 1998bw, 1997ef, and SN IIn 1997cy

We discuss the properties of the hyper-energetic Type Ic supernovae (SNe Ic) 1998bw and 1997ef and Type IIn supernova (SN IIn) 1997cy. SNe Ic 1998bw and 1997ef are characterized by their large luminosity and the very broad spectral features. Their observed properties can be explained if they are very energetic SN explosions with the kinetic energy of $E_{\rm K} \gsim 1\times10^{52}$ erg, originating probably from the core collapse of the bare C+O cores of massive stars ($\sim 30-40$M$_\odot$). At late times, both the light curves and the spectra suggest that the explosions may have been asymmetric; this may help us understand the claimed connection with GRB's. The Type IIn SN 1997cy is even more luminous than SN 1998bw and the light curve declines more slowly than $^{56}$Co decay. We model such a light curve with circumstellar interaction, which requires the explosion energy of $\sim 5 \times 10^{52}$ erg. Because these kinetic energies of explosion are much larger than in normal core-collapse SNe, we call objects like these SNe "hypernovae". The mass of $^{56}$Ni in SN 1998bw is estimated to be as large as 0.5 - 0.7 $M_\odot$ from both the maximum brightness and late time emission spectra, which suggests that the asymmetry may not be extreme.

Monte Carlo inversion of hydrogen and metal lines from QSO absorption spectra

A new method, based on the simulated annealing algorithm and aimed at the inverse problem in the analysis of intergalactic (interstellar) complex spectra of hydrogen and metal lines, is presented. We consider the process of line formation in clumpy stochastic media accounting for fluctuating velocity and density fields (mesoturbulence). This approach generalizes our previous Reverse Monte Carlo and Entropy-Regularized Minimization methods which were applied to velocity fluctuations only. The method allows one to estimate, from an observed system of spectral lines, both the physical parameters of the absorbing gas and appropriate structures of the velocity and density distributions along the line of sight. The validity of the computational procedure is demonstrated using a series of synthetic spectra that emulate the up-to-date best quality data. HI, CII, SiII, CIV, SiIV, and OVI lines, exhibiting complex profiles, were fitted simultaneously. The adopted physical parameters have been recovered with a sufficiently high accuracy. The results obtained encourage the application of the proposed procedure to the analysis of real observational data.

First order Fermi acceleration at multiple oblique shocks

Numerical results for particle acceleration at multiple oblique shocks are presented. We calculate the steady state spectral slope of test particles accelerated by the first order Fermi process. The results are compared to analytical treatments, for parameters, where the diffusion approximation does apply. Effects of injection and finite shock extend are included phenomenologically. We find the spectrum of accelerated particles to harden substantially at multiple oblique shocks and discuss the influence of the number of shocks compared to the obliquity itself.

A ROSAT HRI study of the open cluster NGC 3532

NGC 3532 is a very rich southern open cluster of age ~200-350 Myr; it is therefore a good candidate to investigate the X-ray activity-age-rotation relationship at ages intermediate between the Pleiades and the Hyades, where, to our knowledge, X-rays studies exist for only one cluster (NGC 6475). We have performed an X-ray study of NGC 3532 using HRI observations retrieved from the ROSAT archive. The observations have a limiting sensitivity $L_{\mathrm x} \sim 4 \times 10^{28}$ erg sec$^{-1}$ in the center of the field. We detected ~50 X-ray sources above a $4 σ$ threshold, half of which have a known optical counterpart within 10 arcsec; 15 of the X-ray sources have at least one cluster member as optical counterpart.
A comparison of NGC 3532 with the nearly coeval cluster NGC 6475 indicates that the former cluster is considerably X-ray underluminous with respect to NGC 6475. However, because of the existence of possible selection effects, additional X-ray and optical observations are needed before definitively concluding that the X-ray properties of NGC 3532 and NGC 6475 are significantly different.

Electron energy losses near pulsar polar caps: a Monte Carlo approach

We use Monte Carlo approach to study the energetics of electrons accelerated in a pulsar polar gap. As energy-loss mechanisms we consider magnetic Compton scattering of thermal X-ray photons and curvature radiation. The results are compared with previous calculations which assumed that changes of electron energy occurred smoothly according to approximations for the average energy loss rate due to the Compton scattering. We confirm a general dependence of efficiency of electron energy losses due to inverse Compton mechanism on the temperature and size of a thermal polar cap and on the pulsar magnetic field. However, we show that trajectories of electrons in energy-altitude space as calculated in the smooth way do not always coincide with averaged Monte Carlo behaviour. In particular, for pulsars with high magnetic field strength ($B_{pc} > 3\times 10^{12}$ G) and low thermal polar cap temperatures ($T < 5\times 10^6$ K) final electron Lorentz factors computed with the two methods may differ by a few orders of magnitude. We discuss consequences for particular objects with identified thermal X-ray spectral components like Geminga, Vela, and PSR B1055-52.

Iterative Maps with Hierarchical Clustering for the Observed Scales of Astrophysical and Cosmological Structures

We derive, in order of magnitude, the observed astrophysical and cosmological scales in the Universe, from neutron stars to superclusters of galaxies, up to, asymptotically, the observed radius of the Universe. This result is obtained by introducing a recursive scheme of alternating hierachical mechanisms of three-dimensional and two-dimensional close packings of gravitationally interacting objects. The iterative scheme yields a rapidly converging geometric sequence, which can be described as a hierarchical clustering of aggregates, having the observed radius of the Universe as its fixed point.

The Galactic Exoplanet Survey Telescope: A Proposed Space-Based Microlensing Survey for Terrestrial Extra-Solar Planets

We present a conceptual design for a space based Galactic Exoplanet Survey Telescope (GEST) which will use the gravitational microlensing technique to detect extra solar planets with masses as low as that of Mars at all separations >~ 1 AU. The microlensing data would be collected by a diffraction limited, wide field imaging telescope of ~ 1.5m aperture equipped with a large array of red-optimized CCD detectors. Such a system would be able to monitor $\sim 2\times 10^8$ stars in $\sim 6$ square degrees of the Galactic bulge at intervals of 20-30 minutes, and it would observe $\sim 12000$ microlensing events in three bulge seasons. If planetary systems like our own are common, GEST should be able to detect $\sim 5000$ planets over a 2.5 year lifetime. If gas giants like Jupiter and Saturn are rare, then GEST would detect $\sim 1300$ planets in a 2.5 year mission if we assume that most planetary systems are dominated by planets of about Neptune's' mass. Such a mission would also discover $\sim 100$ planets of an Earth mass or smaller if such planets are common. This is a factor of $\sim 50$ better than the most ambitious ground based programs that have been proposed. GEST will also be sensitive to planets which have been separated from their parent stars.

Quintessence-like Dark Matter in Spiral Galaxies

Through the geodesic analysis of a static and axially symmetric space time, we present conditions on the state equation of an isotropic perfect fluid $p=ωd$, when it is considered as dark matter in spiral galaxies. The main conclusion is that it can be an exotic fluid ($-1<ω<-1/3$) as it is found for Quintessence at cosmological scale.

Accretion and Emission Processes in AGN: the UV-X Connection

The main characteristics of the average spectrum of radio quiet AGN in the UV and X-ray range are reviewed, and the emission mechanisms are discussed in the framework of accretion disk models, in particular the ``irradiated cold relativistic disk". It is shown that some problems arise in confronting the predictions of the model to the observations. We propose an alternative model in terms of a hot disk surrounded by a cold Compton thick medium. Finally we mention problems with remote regions of the accretion disk.

The head-tail structure of high-velocity clouds - A survey of the northern sky

We present new observational results on high-velocity clouds (HVCs) based on an analysis of the Leiden/Dwingeloo HI survey. We cataloged all HVCs with NHI > 1 10^19 cm^-2 and found 252 clouds that form a representative flux limited sample. The detailed analysis of each individual HVC in this sample revealed a significant number of HVCs (nearly 20%) having simultaneously a velocity and a column density gradient. These HVCs have a cometary appearance in the position-velocity representation and are called henceforward head-tail HVCs (HT HVCs). The head is the region with the highest column density of the HVC, while the column density of the tail is in general much lower (by a factor of 2 - 4). The absolute majority of the cataloged HVCs belongs to the well known HVC complexes. With exception of the very faint HVC complex L, all HVC complexes contain HT HVCs. The HT HVCs were analyzed statistically with respect to their physical parameters like position, velocity (v_LSR,v_GSR), and column density. We found a linear correlation between the fraction of HVCs having a head-tail structure and the peak column density of the HVCs. While there is no correlation between the fraction of HT HVCs and v_LSR, we found a dependence of the fraction of HT HVCs and v_GSR. There is no significant correlation between the fraction of HT HVCs and the parameters galactic longitude and latitude. The HT HVCs may be interpreted as HVCs that are currently interacting with their ambient medium. In the context of this model the tails represent material that is stripped off from the HVC core. We discuss the implications of this model for galactic and extragalactic HVCs.

Determination of Masses and Radii of the Massive Eclipsing Binary System HV 2543 in the Large Magellanic Cloud

We present a V light curve of the eclipsing binary system HV 2543 (Sk-67 117) in the Large Magellanic Cloud based on CCD images acquired between the years 1995 and 1998. We have analysed this light curve and published radial velocity data, finding that this system is semidetached, with the secondary (less massive and less luminous component) filling its Roche lobe. From our analysis with the Wilson-Devinney code, we estimated the following masses and radii for the components of HV 2543: M1=25.63 +- 0.7, R1=15.54 +- 0.4, M2=15.63 +- 1.0 and R2=13.99 +- 0.4, in solar units. On the basis of B and V photometry of the field stars, we found that HV 2543 is member of an OB association, perhaps related to which the massive binary system Sk-67 105 belongs.

VSOP Observations of a Sub-Parsec Accretion Disk

The physical conditions in the inner parsec of accretion disks believed to orbit the central black holes in active galactic nuclei can be probed by imaging the absorption of background radio emission by ionized gas in the disk. We report high angular resolution observations of the nearby galaxy NGC 4261 which show evidence for free-free absorption by a thin, nearly edge-on disk at several frequencies. The angular width, and probably the depth, of the absorption appears to increase with decreasing frequency, as expected. Because free-free absorption is much larger at lower frequencies, the longest possible baselines are needed to provide adequate angular resolution; observing at higher frequencies to improve resolution will not help.

Speckle Imaging: a boon for astronomical observations

The speckle imaging is a photographic technique that resolves objects viewed through severely distorted media. The results are insensitive to the errors caused by apparent size of the isoplanatic patch and the telescope aberrations. In this article, a short descriptions of the atmospheric turbulence and its effect on the flat wavefront from a stellar source is presented; the shortcomings of the conventional long-exposure images in the presence of Earth's atmosphere are discussed. The advantages of the speckle interferometric technique over conventional imaging are enumerated. The technical details of the method, basic Fourier optics, data analysis procedures are also described.

Is the [CO] index an age indicator for star forming galaxies?

The classical [CO] index, i.e. the strength of the CO first overtone absorption bands starting at 2.29 micron, is sometimes used to constrain the maximum age of star formation events in galaxies. In this paper we critically analyze
- theoretical models which could predict either a factor of >2 drop or a pronounced increase of [CO] at ages older than 100 Myr, depending on the evolutionary tracks one adopts
- observational data for young clusters in the LMC which do not show any strong relationship between the CO index and cluster age.
The above scenario indicates that the value of [CO] does not provide a reliable tool for estimating the age of stellar populations older than about 10 Myr, i.e. after the first red supergiants have been formed.
The contradictory results of theoretical models reflect problems in treating the evolution along the Asymptotic Giant Branch (AGB). In particular, those evolutionary synthesis models using stellar tracks which do not include the thermal pulsing AGB phase produce too weak CO features at 100-1000 Myr, i.e. in the range of ages when the near infrared emission is dominated by thermal pulsing AGB stars.

The CFH Optical PDCS survey (COP) I: The Data

This paper presents and gives the COP (COP: CFHT Optical PDCS; CFHT: Canada-France-Hawaii Telescope; PDCS: Palomar Distant Cluster Survey) survey data. We describe our photometric and spectroscopic observations with the MOS multi-slit spectrograph at the CFH telescope. A comparison of the photometry from the PDCS (Postman et al. 1996) catalogs and from the new images we have obtained at the CFH telescope shows that the different magnitude systems can be cross-calibrated. After identification between the PDCS catalogues and our new images, we built catalogues with redshift, coordinates and V, I and Rmagnitudes. We have classified the galaxies along the lines of sight into field and structure galaxies using a gap technique (Katgert et al. 1996). In total we have observed 18 significant structures along the 10 lines of sight.

A model for the alternating phase lags associated with QPOs in X-ray binaries

We present a theoretical model for the alternating phase lags associated with QPO fundamental and harmonic frequencies observed in some Galactic black-hole candidates. We assume that the accretion flow exhibits a transition from an outer cool, optically thick accretion disk to a hot, inner advection-dominated accretion flow (ADAF), and that the QPOs are related to small-scale oscillations of the accretion rate and the transition radius. We present an analytical estimate of the expected phase lags at the fundamental and first harmonic frequencies of the QPOs and perform detailed time-dependent Monte-Carlo simualtions of the radiation transport in the oscillating ADAF / cool disk system. We find that this model is well suited to reproduce alternating phase lags between the fundamental and the first harmonic. It also naturally explains the trend observed in GRS 1915+105 that, as the soft X-ray luminosity increases, the QPO frequency increases and the phase lag associated with the QPO fundamental frequency changes sign from positive to negative. The relation between the disk temperature and the QPO frequency observed in GRS 1915+105 is consistent with a secular instability modulating the disk evaporation at the transition radius.

Radiatively inefficient accretion disks

Radiatively inefficient (or advection dominated) disks are discussed at an introductory level. Ion supported and radiation supported flows are discussed, the different consequences of advection dominated flows onto black holes vs. solid surfaces (neutron stars, white dwarfs), hydrodynamics, the role of the ratio of specific heats, and the possible connection between ADAFs and outflows.

Turbulence and diffusion: fossil turbulence

Fossil turbulence processes are central to turbulence, turbulent mixing, and turbulent diffusion in the ocean and atmosphere, in astrophysics and cosmology, and in most other natural flows. George Gamov suggested in 1954 that galaxies might be fossils of primordial turbulence produced by the Big Bang. John Woods showed that breaking internal waves on horizontal dye sheets in the interior of the stratified ocean form highly persistent remnants of these turbulent events, which he called fossil turbulence. The dark mixing paradox of the ocean refers to undetected mixing that must exist somewhere to explain why oceanic scalar fields like temperature and salinity are so well mixed, just as the dark matter paradox of galaxies refers to undetected matter that must exist to explain why rotating galaxies don't fly apart by centrifugal forces. Both paradoxes result from sampling techniques that fail to account for the extreme intermittency of random variables involved in self-similar, nonlinear, cascades over a wide range of scales; turbulent vorticity for dark mixing, and accreting small-planetary-mass MACHO number density for dark matter.

Fundamental properties of the open cluster NGC 2355

NGC 2355 is an old open cluster in the outer part of the galactic disk (l=203 deg, b=+11 deg) which has been little studied until now. This paper presents the first astrometric and spectroscopic investigation of this cluster. We have measured precise absolute proper motions from old Carte du Ciel plates, POSS-I plates and recent CCD observations obtained with the Bordeaux meridian circle. The proper motion data reveal 38 highly probable cluster members down to B=15 mag within 7' of the cluster center. We have also obtained ELODIE high resolution spectra for 24 stars. Seventeen of them are confirmed to be members of the cluster on the basis of radial velocity. Eight of them are fast rotating turnoff stars for which the projected rotational velocity has been determined. The spectroscopic observations have also provided estimates of the physical parameters Teff, log(g), [Fe/H], Mv of the 24 target stars. Two stragglers have been identified in the cluster. Combining our astrometric and spectroscopic results with previous UBV photometry and recent JHKs photometry from the 2MASS survey we have derived the fundamental properties of the cluster : metallicity, age, distance, size, spatial velocity and orbit.

Where Do We Stand?

I review the understanding of bulges that emerged from the lively discussions and presentations during the meeting, and emphasize areas for future work. The evidence is for a diversity of `bulges', and of formation mechanisms.

Observations of Eddington-limited type-I X-ray bursts from 4U 1812-12

During more than 3 years (August 1996-October 1999) monitoring of a 40x40 degree sky region around the Galactic Centre by the Wide Field Cameras on board BeppoSAX, a total of 8 type-I bursts have been detected from a sky position consistent with that of 4U 1812-12, a likely neutron-star low-mass X-ray binary. We present the results of a detailed study of the bursts of 4U 1812-12, about 15 years after the last reported observations of X-ray bursts from this source (Murakami et al. 1983). Clear evidence for photospheric radius expansion due to Eddington-limited burst luminosity is present in most of the observed events, allowing an accurate estimate of the source distance (~4 kpc) and its burst parameters.

Photometry of Nova V 1493 Aql

We report on photometric observations of V 1493 Aql during the early decline and highlight some uncommon aspects of the light curve. V 1493 Aql was hotter at maximum light than in the following phases, and was characterized by the presence of a long lasting secondary maximum, that, unlike in other novae, was quite red in color. The mean of three distance estimates yields d ~ 18.8 +/- 3.6 Kpc. Such a large distance would place V 1493 Aql at the extreme outskirts of our Galaxy or even in an external Local Group galaxy.

Large Scale Structure in the weakly non-linear regime

Is gravitational growth responsible for the observed large scale structure in the universe? Do we need non-gaussian initial conditions or non-gravitational physics to explain the large scale features traced by galaxy surveys? I will briefly revise the basic ideas of non-linear perturbation theory (PT) as a tool to understand structure formation, in particular through the study of higher order statistics, like the skewness and the 3-point function. Contrary to what happens with the second order statistics (the variance or power-spectrum), this test of gravitational instability is independent of the overall amplitude of fluctuations and of cosmic evolution, so that it does not require comparing the clustering at different redshifts. Predictions from weakly non-linear PT have been compared with observations to place constraints on our assumptions about structure formation, the initial conditions and how galaxies trace the mass.

Star Clusters and the Duration of Starbursts

The duration of starbursts is important for determining how they are regulated and the impact they have on their environment. Starbursts contain numerous prominent star clusters which typically comprise in total ~20% of the ultraviolet light, embedded in a diffuse glow of recently formed stars responsible for the dominant ~80%. Hubble Space Telescope images have been obtained for four starburst galaxies in order to determine their burst duration from the ages of their star clusters. Preliminary results for NGC3310 are reported here. The UBI colors of its clusters and diffuse light give consistent results. The clusters have a broad range of colors, consistent with a population of instantaneous bursts with ages ranging from 0 to a few 100 Myr. The diffuse light has a narrow range of color consistent with continuous star formation over timescales ranging from ~ 10 to 100 Myr. Hence NGC3310's starburst has lasted ~100 Myr, or about 10 times the crossing time. Other results noted in the literature also indicate bursts lasting several times longer than the crossing time. These results suggest that starbursts are not self-extinguishing flashes. Rather they are sustainable, perhaps self-regulated.

The vertical extent and kinematics of the HI in NGC 2403

The neutral hydrogen line profiles along the major axis of the nearby spiral galaxy NGC 2403 show a wing towards the sytemic velocity. This asymmetry can be explained with the presence of an abnormally thick HI disk (FWHM ~ 5 kpc) or with a two-component structure: a thin disk and a slowly rotating, thicker (1-3 kpc) HI layer. The latter model gives a better representation of the observations. These results throw a new light on the disk-halo connection. In particular, the decrease of rotational velocity with height above the plane may be the result of a galactic fountain flow. A vertically extended, slowly rotating HI layer may be common among spiral galaxies with high levels of star formation.

Influence of new reaction rates on 18F production in novae

Gamma-ray emission from classical novae is dominated, during the first hours, by positron annihilation resulting from the beta decay of radioactive nuclei. The main contribution comes from the decay of 18F and hence is directly related to 18F formation during the outburst. A good knowledge of the nuclear reaction rates of production and destruction of 18F is required to study 18F synthesis in novae and the resulting gamma-ray emission. The rates relevant for the main mode of 18F destruction (i.e, through proton captures) have been the object of many recent experiments. However, subsequent analyses were focused on providing rates for X-ray burst nucleosynthesis not valid at nova temperatures (lower than 3.5 10^8 K). Accordingly, it is crucial to propose and discuss new reaction rates, incorporating all new experimental results, down to the domain of nova nucleosynthesis. We show that in this temperature regime, the 18F(p,gamma) and (p,alpha) reaction rates remain uncertain and deserve further experimental and theoretical efforts. Our hydrodynamic calculations including the new nuclear rates demonstrate that their impact on 18F synthesis in nova explosions is quite large and, consequently, the early gamma-ray emission from classical novae is also affected.

The Sombrero Galaxy III. Ionised gas and dust in the central 200 pc: a nuclear bar?

We present the results of new 3D TIGER spectroscopic observations and archived HST/WFPC2 and NICMOS images of the central region of M 104. The [NII]+Ha images reveal the presence of a nuclear spiral structure, and the gaseous kinematics in the central arcsecond shows evidence for kinematical decoupling of the central peak. A straight nuclear dust lane, with a weak symmetric counterpart, is seen in the V-I and V-H colour maps. These results hint for the presence of a strong nuclear bar, that would be located inside the inner Linblad resonance of the large-scale bar discussed by Emsellem (1995).

X-ray emitting-absorbing media in Seyfert 1 galaxies

Seyfert galaxies have been shown to exhibit a large variety of features in their X-ray spectra from which the environment of the central engine can be deduced. We focus on the two following aspects: the Warm Absorber, mainly responsible of the soft X-ray properties, and the reprocessing/reflecting plasma medium at the origin of the iron Kalpha fluorescent line. The physical parameters and the location of the so-called Warm Absorber (WA), a photoionized medium along the line of sight to the nuclear region, are more strongly constrained by optical coronal lines than by the oxygen edges observed in the soft X-rays and produced by the WA. The photoionization models also predict the intensities of the X-ray emission lines which are going to be detected with the new generation of X-ray satellites. An alternative model to the relativistic accretion disc is proposed to explain the profile of the X-ray iron Kalpha line observed in the Seyfert 1. This line can be formed in the framework of a quasi-spherical accretion of optically thick clouds. An optically thick photoionization code coupled with a Monte-Carlo code has been developed to compute the entire spectrum from the IR to the hard X-rays for a close geometry with a large covering factor. The multiple Compton reflections allow to reproduce the redshifted broad iron line as detected in several Seyfert 1 galaxies and in MCG-6-30-15.

Hydrodynamical Models of Accretion Disks in SU UMa Systems

We numerically test the mode-coupling model (Lubow 1991a) of tidal instability in SU UMa systems. So far, all numercial models confirming it have been based on SPH codes and isothermal equation of state. In our paper we present Eulerian models, using both isothermal approximation and the full energy equation. We also investigate influence of different ways of mass transfer. While isothermal models behave similarly to SPH simulations, the behaviour of models with full energy equation is quite different, and the mode-coupling model is not confirmed in this case.

High resolution near-infrared polarimetry of Eta Carinae and the Homunculus Nebula

High resolution near-infrared adaptive optics imaging and polarimetry have been obtained of the Homunculus Nebula and its central star Eta Carinae (HD 93308). Maps of the linear polarization at a resolution of <0.2'' have been made in the J, H and K bands and in a narrow 2.15micron continuum band (K_c). The overall appearance of the nebula in the near-IR is similar in all bands and to that at V, with specific features less sharp to longer wavelengths. The large-scale pattern of polarization vectors is centro-symmetric demonstrating that single scattering dominates everywhere except perhaps in the central bright core. Polarization maps at K_c in the near vicinity of Eta Carinae were restored using a PSF derived from blind deconvolution. An extension of the flux in the direction of the optically visible speckle knots was detected, with 18% polarization determined for one knot.
The most remarkable result of the linear polarization mapping is the level of similarity in the spatial structure, and the degree of polarization, between the near-IR and optical data. Such a polarization pattern cannot arise in Mie scattering from a single power law distribution of grain sizes unless the particles are very small compared with the wavelength, in disagreement with mid-IR observations. The colour dependence of the extinction was found to be shallower than the typical ISM, indicating the presence of large grains. Optical depth effects and a broad distribution in grain sizes are suggested to explain these contradictory results, perhaps with a dependence of the grain size with depth into the small obscuring clouds in the Homunculus lobes. However the presence of aligned grains, previously inferred from mid-IR polarization, may also affect the dust-scattered radiation. (Abridged abstract)

First Detection of Molecular Gas in the Shells of CenA

Shells are faint arc-like stellar structures, which have been observed around early type galaxies and are thought to be the result of an interaction. HI gas has recently been detected in shells, a surprising result in view of the theoretical predictions that most of the gas should decouple from stars and fall into the nucleus in such interactions. Here we report the first detection of molecular gas (CO) in shells, found 15kpc away from the center of NGC5128 (CenA), a giant elliptical galaxy that harbors an active nucleus (AGN). The ratio between CO and HI emission in the shells is the same as that found in the central regions, which is unexpected given the metallicity gradient usually observed in galaxies. We propose that the dynamics of the gas can be understood within the standard picture of shell formation if one takes into account that the interstellar medium is clumpy and hence not highly dissipative. The observed metal enrichment could be due to star formation induced by the AGN jet in the shells. Furthermore our observations provide evidence that molecular gas in mergers may be spread out far from the nuclear regions.

The first radius-expansion X-ray burst from GX 3+1

During several observations in 1999 August with RXTE of the low-mass X-ray binary GX 3+1, we found a single short and strong X-ray burst. This is the first burst from GX 3+1 which clearly shows evidence for radius expansion of the neutron-star photosphere during the thermo-nuclear runaway. We show that the cooling phase of the neutron star photosphere starts already just before the end of the contraction phase. Considering the fact that the radius expansion is due to the burst luminosity being at the Eddington luminosity, assuming standard burst parameters and accounting for gravitational redshift effects we derive a distance to the source of ~4.5 kpc, although relaxing these assumptions may lead to uncertainties up to ~30%. By comparing the persistent flux with that observed at the peak of the burst we infer that near the time of the X-ray burst the persistent luminosity of GX 3+1 is ~0.17*L_edd, confirming predictions from theoretical modeling of X-ray spectra of bright sources like GX 3+1.

Disk heating and stellar migration in galaxies

The paper claimed that significant radial migration of stars in a stellar disk like that of the Milky Way could not occur. We now think that while the treatment of the effects of molecular clouds was correct, the paper seriously underestimated the ability of spiral arms to shift the radii of stars that corotate with them. Consequently, it is likely that significant radial migration_is_ possible.

Accretion by Galaxies

Both theory and observation indicate that galaxies like the Milky Way accrete matter at the rate of a few Msun per year.

Does the unification of BL Lac and FR I radio galaxies require jet velocity structures?

We explore the viability of the unification of BL Lacs and FR I radio galaxies by comparing the core emission of radio galaxies with those of BL Lacs of similar extended radio power, taking advantage of the newly measured optical nuclear luminosity of FR I sources. The spectral properties of complete samples are also studied in the radio-optical luminosity plane: starting from the Spectral Energy Distribution (SED) of BL Lacs, we calculate the predicted luminosity of FR I nuclei in the frame of a simple one--zone model, by properly taking into account the relativistic transformations. We find that the bulk Lorentz factors required by the spread in the observed luminosities in all bands are significantly smaller than those implied by other, both observational and theoretical, considerations. This discrepancy is also reflected in the fact that FR I nuclei are over-luminous by a factor of 10-10^4, with respect to the predictions, both in the radio and in the optical band.
In order to reconcile these results with the unification scheme, velocity structures in the jet are suggested, where a fast spine is surrounded by a slow (but still relativistic) layer so that the emission at different angles is dominated by different velocity components: the fast one dominates the emission in BL Lacs while the slow layer dominates the emission in misaligned objects. Furthermore for the lowest luminosity BL Lacs it has to be also postulated that their beaming factor in the radio band is lower than in the optical (and X-ray), as would result from deceleration of the jet.
The self-consistency of the unification model therefore requires that both intrinsic differences in the SED and different beaming properties play a substantial role in characterizing the phenomenology of these sources.

Pre-Supernova Evolution of Massive Stars

We present the preliminary results of a detailed theoretical investigation on the hydrodynamical properties of Red Supergiant (RSG) stars at solar chemical composition and for stellar masses ranging from 10 to 20 M_sun. We find that the main parameter governing their hydrodynamical behavior is the effective temperature, and indeed when moving from higher to lower effective temperatures the models show an increase in the dynamical perturbations. Also, we find that RSGs are pulsationally unstable for a substantial portion of their lifetimes. These dynamical instabilities play a key role in driving mass loss, thus inducing high mass loss rates (up to several 1e-4 M_sun/yr) and considerable variations of the mass loss activity over timescales of the order of 10,000 years. Our results are able to account for the variable mmass loss rates as implied by radio observations of type II supernovae, and we anticipate that comparisons of model predictions with observed circumstellar phenomena around SNII will provide valuable diagnostics about their progenitors and their evolutionary histories.

2dF QSO Redshift Survey

With approximately 6000 QSO redshifts,the 2dF QSO redshift survey is already the biggest complete QSO survey. The aim for the survey is to have 25000 QSO redshifts, providing an order of magnitude increase in QSO clustering statistics. We first describe the observational parameters of the 2dF QSO survey. We then describe several highlights of the survey so far, including new estimates of the QSO luminosity function and its evolution. We also review the current status of QSO clustering analyses from the 2dF data. Finally, we discuss how the complete QSO survey will be able to constrain the value of Omega_o by measuring the evolution of QSO clustering, place limits on the cosmological constant via a direct geometrical test and determine the form of the fluctuation power-spectrum out to the approximately 1000 Mpc scales only previously probed by COBE.

Persistent fluctuations and scaling properties in galaxy number counts

Counts of galaxies as a function of apparent magnitude are among the most time-honored observations in cosmology. In this Letter, we focus on some statistical properties of these counts which are fundamental in order to characterize the large scale correlations in the galaxy spatial distribution. There are, in fact, no longer doubts since two decades of the existence of very large scale structures. The still remaining problem concerns the correct characterization of their statistical properties. We propose to study two properties of galaxy counts data, in order to discriminate between a small scale (~ 5 - 20 Mpc/h) homogeneous distribution, and a fractal structure on large scales (~ 20 - 300 Mpc/h). Firstly, the average slope of the counts which can be associated to an eventual fractal dimension in real space by simple arguments. Secondly, we propose to study fluctuations of counts around the average behavior as a function of apparent magnitude in the whole magnitude range B_j > 11. These fluctuations can discriminate between a genuine fractal distribution and a homogeneous one. In fact, they are related to the very statistical properties of the spatial distribution, independently on cosmological corrections. More specifically, in a fractal distribution one expects to find persistent scale-invariant fluctuations around the average behavior, which do not decay with apparent magnitude. On the other hand, in an homogeneous distribution, on large enough scales, the relative variance of the counts should decrease exponentially with apparent magnitude. Smooth cosmological corrections cannot change such a behavior.

A code for optically thick and hot photoionized media

We describe a code designed for hot media {(T $\ge$} a few 10$^4$ K), optically thick to Compton scattering. It computes the structure of a plane-parallel slab of gas in thermal and ionization equilibrium, illuminated on one or on both sides by a given spectrum. Contrary to the other photoionization codes, it solves the transfer of the continuum and of the lines in a two stream approximation, without using the local escape probability formalism to approximate the line transfer. We stress the importance of taking into account the returning flux even for small column densities (10$^{22}$ cm$^{-2}$), and we show that the escape probability approximation can lead to strong errors in the thermal and ionization structure, as well as in the emitted spectrum, for a Thomson thickness larger than a few tenths. The transfer code is coupled with a Monte Carlo code which allows to take into account Compton and inverse Compton diffusions, and to compute the spectrum emitted up to MeV energies, in any geometry. Comparisons with {\sc{cloudy}} show that it gives similar results for small column densities. Several applications are mentioned.

The reality of old moving groups - the case of HR 1614

We prove the existence of the old and metal-rich moving group HR1614. This is done using the new Hipparcos parallaxes in combination with metallicities derived from Stromgren photometry, supported by dynamical simulations of the evolution of old moving groups in the galactic potential. A new selection criterion for this moving group is presented as well as a new, extended sample of probable member stars. In particular we find that the HR 1614 moving group has an age of about 2 Gyr (using Bertelli et al. 1994 isochrones) and a [Fe/H] = 0.19 +/- 0.06 dex. We also revisit and apply our new selection criterion to the samples in Eggen (1992) and Eggen (1998). It is found that, when binaries and stars with too low metallicity have been removed, 15 of his stars fulfill our criteria.

The Tip of the Red Giant Branch and Distance of the Magellanic Clouds: results from the DENIS survey

We present a precise determination of the apparent magnitude of the tip of the red giant branch (TRGB) in the I (0.8 micron), J (1.25 micron), and K_S (2.15 micron) bands from the luminosity function of a sample of data extracted from the DENIS catalogue towards the Magellanic Clouds (Cioni et al. 2000).
From the J and Ks magnitudes we derive bolometric magnitudes m_bol. We present a new algorithm for the determination of the TRGB magnitude, which we describe in detail and test extensively using Monte-Carlo simulations. We note that any method that searches for a peak in the first derivative (used by most authors) or the second derivative (used by us) of the observed luminosity function does not yield an unbiased estimate for the actual magnitude of the TRGB discontinuity. We stress the importance of correcting for this bias, which is not generally done. We combine the results of our algorithm with theoretical predictions to derive the distance modulus of the Magellanic Clouds. We obtain m-M = 18.55 (0.04 formal, 0.08 systematic) for the Large Magellanic Cloud (LMC), and m-M = 18.99 (0.03 formal, 0.08 systematic) for the Small Magellanic Cloud (SMC). These are among the most accurate determinations of these quantities currently available, which is a direct consequence of the large size of our sample and the insensitivity of near infrared observations to dust extinction.

The evolution of the stellar populations in low surface brightness galaxies

We investigate the star formation history and chemical evolution of low surface brightness (LSB) disk galaxies by modelling their observed spectro-photometric and chemical properties using a galactic chemical and photometric evolution model incorporating a detailed metallicity depen dent set of stellar input data. For a large fraction of the LSB galaxies in our sample, observed properties are best explained by models incorporating an exponentially decreasing global star formation rate (SFR) ending at a present-day gas fraction (M_{gas}/(M_{gas}+M_{stars}) = 0.5 for a galaxy age of 14 Gyr. For some galaxies small amplitude star formation bursts are required to explain the contribution of the young (5-50 Myr old) stellar population to the galaxy integrated luminosity. This suggests that star formation has proceeded in a stochastic manner.
The presence of an old stellar population in many late-type LSB galaxies suggests that LSB galaxies roughly follow the same evolutionary history as HSB galaxies, except at a much lower rate. In particular, our results imply that LSB galaxies do not form late, nor have a delayed onset of star formation, but simply evolve slowly.

The Mid-Infrared Spectra of Interacting Galaxies: From ISO to SIRTF

We present mid-infrared (5--16micron) images and spectra of a sequence of interacting galaxies, observed by ISOCAM. The galaxies were selected as being at progressive stages in the time evolution of a merging event, following what is known as Toomre's ``merger sequence'', and having no detected contribution from an active galactic nucleus (AGN) in their mid-infrared spectrum. To trace the intensity of the global star formation in those galaxies, we use the ratio of the 15micron to 7micron flux. Our analysis indicates that this ratio increases from ~1 to ~5 as galaxies move from the pre-starburst to the merging/starburst phase only to decrease to ~1 again in the post-starburst phase of the evolved merger remnants. Moreover, we find that the variation of this ratio is well correlated with the one of the IRAS 25/12 and 60/100 flux ratios. The potential to test and improve upon these results using the Infrared Spectrograph (IRS) on board SIRTF is discussed.

IRS: the Infrared Spectrograph on SIRTF

The Infrared Spectrograph (IRS)is one of the three instruments on board the Space Infrared Telescope Facility (SIRTF) to be launched in December 2001. The IRS will provide high resolution spectra R~600 from 10--37microns and low resolution spectra R~60 from 5.3--40microns Its high sensitivity and ``spectral mapping-mode'' make it a powerful instrument for observing both faint point-like and extended sources.

Cosmic Microwave Background at low frequencies

The next generation low-frequency radio telescopes may probe cosmological models by means of observations of the cosmic microwave background (CMB). I discuss the prospects for observations of CMB imprints - recombination lines from the epoch of recombination, μdistortions and angular temperature anisotropies - at low frequencies. A future low-frequency radio telescope, like the proposed SKA, may be capable of attempting some difficult CMB measurements because of the large collecting area and large element numbers; however, this will require a telescope design that will allow specialized calibration strategies and will give emphasis to the control of spurious responses.

Non-existence of radiation damping of gravitational motions

A rigorous, non-perturbative proof that there is no radiation damping of gravitational motions.

Cosmic Velocities 2000: A Review

I review the status of cosmic velocity analysis as of January 2000, with an emphasis on two key questions: (1) What is the scale of the largest bulk flows in the universe? and (2) What is the value of beta=Omega_m^{0.6}/b indicated by cosmic velocities, and what does this tell us about Omega_m itself? These are the most important issues for cosmic flow analysis, and each has been controversial in recent years. I argue that a preponderance of the evidence at present argues against very large scale (> 100 Mpc) bulk flows, and favors beta = 0.4-0.5, corresponding to a low-density (Omega_m=0.2-0.3) universe.

Gravitational potential energy of simple bodies: the homogeneous bispherical concavo-convex lens

Gravitational potential energy of the homogeneous bispherical concavo-convex lens, with the equal absolute values of radii of curvature of both surfaces is studied.

Blue compact galaxies and the primordial 4Helium abundance

Blue compact galaxies (BCG) are ideal objects in which to derive the primordial 4He abundance because they are chemically young and have not had a significant stellar He contribution. We discuss a self-consistent method which makes use of all the brightest He I emission lines in the optical range and solves consistently for the electron density of the He II zone. We pay particular attention to electron collision and radiative transfer as well as underlying stellar absorption effects which may make the He I emission lines deviate from their recombination values. Using a large homogeneous sample of 45 low-metallicity H II regions in BCGs, and extrapolating the Y-O/H and Y-N/H linear regressions to O/H = N/H = 0, we obtain Yp = 0.2443+/-0.0015, in excellent agreement with the weighted mean value Yp = 0.2452+/-0.0015 obtained from the detailed analysis of the two most metal-deficient BCGs known, I Zw 18 and SBS 0335-052. The derived slope dY/dZ = 2.4+/-1.0 is in agreement with the value derived for the Milky Way and with simple chemical evolution models with homogeneous outflows. Adopting Yp = 0.2452+/-0.0015 leads to a baryon-to-photon ratio of (4.7+/-1.0)x10^{-10} and to a baryon mass fraction in the Universe Omega_b h^2_{50} = 0.068+/-0.015, consistent with the value derived from the primordial D abundance of Burles & Tytler (1998).

Gravitational potential energy of simple bodies: the method of negative density

The method of negative density is presented which allows to obtain the analytical solutions for potential energy of new kinds of homogeneous and ihhomogeneous self-gravitating bodies. The homogeneous bispherical concavo-convex lens is considered in particular.

UV Light Curves of Thermonuclear Supernovae

Ultraviolet light curves are calculated for several thermonuclear supernova models using a multifrequency radiation hydrodynamic code. It is found that Chandrasekhar-mass models produce very similar light curves both for detonation and deflagration. Sub-Chandrasekhar-mass models essentially differ from ``normal'' Chandrasekhar ones regarding behaviour of their UV fluxes. Differences in absolute brightness and in shape of light curves of thermonuclear supernovae could be detectable up to 300 Mpc with modern UV space telescopes.

The MONS Star Trackers

The MONS satellite will have two Star Trackers to sense the spacecraft attitude, and we plan to use them as scientific instruments to perform high-precision photometry of thousands of stars. We briefly describe the current plans for the Star Trackers and their expected capabilities.

Prospects for observing pulsating red giants with the MONS Star Trackers

K and M giants show variability on timescales from years down to days and possibly even hours. I discuss the contribution that can be made with high-precision photometry that will be obtained by the MONS Star Trackers. These include observations of flare-like events on Mira variables, and oscillation spectra for K giants and short-period M giants.

Sunyaev-Zel'dovich constraints from black hole-seeded proto-galaxies

Recent studies of galactic nuclei suggest that most galaxies are seeded by super-massive black holes which power the central nucleus. In this picture, the proto-galactic object is likely to have undergone a very active phase during which the surrounding medium was shocked and heated up to very high temperatures. We predict the cosmological effects of this scenario in terms of the thermal and kinetic Sunyaev-Zel'dovich distortions induced on galactic scales by a population of proto-galaxies. These predictions are compared to the observational limit on the mean Compton distortion set by the COBE-FIRAS instrument. This enables us to derive tight constraints on the fraction of proto-galaxies seeded by super-massive black holes as well as on the black hole-to-spheroid mass ratio. Finally, we estimate the contribution of such a population to the angular power spectrum of the Cosmic Microwave Background temperature anisotropies on very small angular scales ($l\simeq 10^4-10^5$).

Non-Gaussian signature induced by the SZ effect of galaxy clusters

We apply statistical tests, based on the study of thecoefficients in a wavelet decomposition, to a cosmological signal: the Cosmic Microwave Background (CMB) anisotropies. The latter represent the superposition of primary anisotropy imprints of the initial density perturbations and secondary anisotropies due to photon interactions after recombination. In an inflationary scenario with Gaussian distributed fluctuations, we study the statistical signature of the secondary effects. More specifically, we investigate the dominant effects arising from the Sunyaev-Zel'dovich effect of galaxy clusters. Our study predicts the non-Gaussian signature of these secondary anisotropies and its detectability in the context of the future CMB satellite Planck Surveyor.

Temporal behaviour of emissions from Gamma-ray bursts and optical/near-IR afterglows of GRB 991208 and GRB 991216

The CCD magnitudes in Cousins R and I photometric passbands are determined for GRB 991216 and GRB 991208 afterglows respectively about 1 and about 3 day after trigger of the corresponding gamma-ray bursts. Light curves of the afterglow emissions are obtained by combining the published data with the present measurements in R and I passbands for GRB 991208 and in R, Gunn I and J passbands for GRB 991216. They indicate that the flux decay constants of a GRB are almost the same in each passband with values about 2.2 for GRB 991208 and about 1.2 for GRB 991216 indicating very fast optical flux decay in the case of former which may be due to beaming effect. However, cause of steepening by 0.23 +/- 0.06 dex in the R light curve of GRB 991216 afterglow between 2 to 2.5 day after the burst, is presently not understood. Redshift determinations indicate that both GRBs are at cosmological distance with a value of 4.2 Gpc for GRB 991208 and 6.2 Gpc for GRB 991216. The observed fluence above 20 keV indicates, if isotropic, release of energy about 1.3 x 10^{53} erg for GRB 991208 and about 6.7 x 10^{53} erg for GRB 991216 by these bright gamma-ray flashes. The enormous amount of released energy will be reduced, if the radiation is beamed which seems to be case for GRB 991208 afterglow.The quasi-simultaneous broad-band photometric spectral energy distributions of the afterglows are determined about 8.5 day and about 35 hour after the bursts of GRB 991208 and GRB 991216 respectively.The flux decreases exponentially with frequency. The value of spectral index in the optical-near IR region is -0.75 +/- 0.03 for GRB 991208 and -1.0 +/- 0.12 for GRB 991216.

Structure in the local Galactic ISM on scales down to 1 pc, from multi-band radio polarization observations

We discuss observations of the linearly polarized component of the diffuse galactic radio background. These observations, with an angular resolution of 4', were made with the Westerbork Synthesis Radio Telescope (WSRT) in 5 frequency bands in the range 341-375 MHz. The linearly polarized intensity P (with polarized brightness temperature going up to 10K) shows a `cloudy' structure, with characteristic scales of 15'-30', which contains relatively long, but very narrow `canals' (essentially unresolved) in which P is only a small fraction of that in the neighbouring beams.
These `canals' are generally seen in more than one frequency band, although their appearance changes between bands. They are probably due to depolarization within the synthesized beam, because the change in polarization angle across the deepest `canals' is in general close to 90 degrees (or 270 etc.). These very abrupt changes in polarization angle, which are seen only across the `canals', seem to be accompanied by abrupt changes in the Rotation Measure (RM), which may have the right magnitude to create the difference of close to 90 degrees in polarization angle, and thereby the `canals'.
The structure in the polarization maps is most likely due to Faraday rotation modulation of the probably smooth polarized radiation emitted in the halo of our Galaxy by the fairly local ISM (up to 500 pc). Therefore, the abrupt changes of RM across the `canals' provide evidence for very thin (about 1 pc), and relatively long transition regions in the ISM, across which the RM changes by as much as 100%. Such drastic RM changes may well be due primarily to abrupt changes in the magnetic field.

Adenine Abundance in a Collapsing Molecular Cloud

A vital ingredient of DNA molecule named adenine may be produced by successive addition of HCN during molecular cloud collapse and star formation. We compute its abundance in a collapsing cloud as a function of the reaction rate and show that in much of the circumstances the resulting amount may be sufficient to contaminate planets, comets and meteorites. We introduce a $f$-parameter which may be used to study the abundance where radiative association takes place.

Old models for Cygnus X-1 and AGN

Recently, there appeared many papers devoted to the modeling of X-ray properties of Cygnus X-1 and other black hole accretion disk candidates: e.g. J.Poutanen, J.Krolik, F.Ryde, MNRAS 292 (1997) L21; E.Agol, J.Krolik, ApJ 507 (1998) 304; A.Beloborodov, in ``High Energy Processes in Accreting Black Holes'', ASP Conf. Series, 161, (1999), p.295. The goal of this electronic publication is to draw attention to our old papers where many ideas of recent discussions were anticipated (hot coronae, Comptonization, photon damping of waves, particle acceleration and matter ejection from accretion disks with large scale poloidal magnetic fields, etc.)

The Interstellar Medium of Young Stellar Clusters from the Mid-Infrared Point of View

Effects of young stellar clusters on their gas and dust environment are probed using mid-infrared (MIR) wavelengths. The strong MIR [NeIII]/[NeII] ratios (5 to 10) reveal the presence of current massive stars less than 5 Myr. Using MIR line ratios along with optical and NIR data from the literature, composite SEDs are constructed for NGC 1569, NGC 1140 and IIZw40. The stellar SEDs are then used as input to a dust model to study the impact of the hard, penetrating radiation field on the dust components, particularly in low metallicity environments, where the destructive effects of the massive stellar clusters on the environments occur on global scales. For example, the smallest dust particles are destroyed over larger regions in the dwarf galaxies than in normal metallicity starbursts.

Dust properties of external galaxies; NGC 891 revisited

We compare 850um SCUBA images of NGC 891 with the corresponding V-band optical depth predicted from radiation transfer simulations. These two tracers of dust show a very similar distribution along the minor axis and a reasonable agreement along the major axis. Assuming that the grains responsible for optical extinction are also the source of 850um emission we derive a submillimeter emissivity (emission efficiency) for dust in the NGC 891 disk. This quantity is found to be a factor of 2-3 higher than the generally-accepted (but highly uncertain) values adopted for the Milky Way. It should be stated, however, that if a substantial fraction of dust in NGC 891 is clumped, the emissivity in the two galaxies may be quite similar. We use our newly-acquired emissivity to convert our 850um images into detailed maps of dust mass and, utilizing 21cm and CO-emission data for NGC 891, derive the gas-to-dust ratio along the disk. We compute an average ratio of 260 -- a value consistent with the Milky Way and external spirals within the uncertainties in deriving both the dust mass and the quantity of molecular gas. The bulk of dust in NGC 891 appears to be closely associated with the molecular gas phase although it may start to follow the distribution of atomic hydrogen at radii >9 kpc (i.e. >0.5 R_25). Using the optical depth of the NGC 891 disk, we quantify how light emitted at high redshift is attenuated by dust residing in foreground spirals. For B-band observations of galaxies typically found in the Hubble Deep Field, the amount of light lost is expected to be small (~ 5%). This value depends critically on the maximum radial extent of cold dust in spiral disks (which is poorly known). It may also represent a lower limit if galaxies expel dust over time into the intergalactic medium.

The Kinematics of the Planetary Nebula Population in M94

The planetary nebula populations of relatively nearby galaxies can be easily observed and provide both a distance estimate and a tool with which dynamical information can be obtained. Usually the requisite radial velocities are obtained by multi-object spectroscopy once the planetary nebulae have been located by direct imaging. Here we report on a technique for measuring planetary nebula kinematics using the double-beam ISIS spectrograph at the William Herschel Telescope in a novel slitless mode, which enables the detection and radial velocity measurements to be combined into a single step. The results on our first target, the Sab galaxy NGC 4736, allow the velocity dispersion of the stellar population in a disk galaxy to be traced out to four scale lengths for the first time and are consistent with a simple isothermal sheet model.

Searching for AGN signatures in Mid-IR Spectra: The case of NGC1068

We present mid-IR observations of the prototypical Seyfert 2 galaxy NGC 1068 obtained with ISOCAM between 5 and 16micron. The proximity of this galaxy coupled with the spectro-imaging capabilities of the instrument allow us to separate the mid-IR emission of the active galactic nucleus (AGN) from the distinctly different emission of the circumnuclear star forming regions. The Unidentified Infrared Bands (UIBs), which trace the starburst contribution very well, are not detected in the spectrum of the AGN region where their carriers could be destroyed. Moreover, the featureless continuum of the AGN exhibits a strong hot dust component below 10micron not observed in the starburst regions. Those two distinct mid-IR spectral properties, as well as the presence of high excitation ionic lines such as [NeVI](7.7micron) and [NeV](14.3micron) in the AGN spectrum, provide us with very powerful complementary tools to disentangle AGNs from starbursts. The effects of high extinction on the mid-IR identification of AGNs are also discussed.

2.5-11 micron spectroscopy and imaging of AGNs: implication for unification schemes

We present 2.5-11 micron spectrophotometric & imaging ISO observations of 28 Sf1, 29 Sf2 & 1 normal galaxy. The Sf1 & Sf2 MIR spectra are statistically different: Sf1 have a strong power-law continuum of index -0.84+/-0.24 & weak PAH emission bands. Sf2s have a weak continuum & very strong PAH emission features with EW (equivalent widths) up to 7.2 micron. On the other hand, the Sf1 and Sf2 PAH luminosities do not differ statistically and the 7 micron continuum is ~8 times less luminous in Sf2s than in Sf1s. The PAH emission is unrelated to the nuclear activity & arises in the bulge ISM. PAH EW are thus a sensitive nuclear redenning indicator. These results are consistent with unified schemes & imply that the Sf2 MIR nuclear continuum is, on the average, extinguished by 92+/-37 visual magnitudes whereas it is directly visible in Sf1s. The dispersion in Sf2's PAH EW is consistent with the expected spread in viewing angles. Those Sf2s with PAH EW > 5 micron suffer from > 125 magnitudes of extinction and are invariably weak X-ray sources. Such Sf2s represent the highly inclined objects where our line of sight intercepts the full extent of the torus. About 1/3rd of the Sf2s have PAH EW <= 2 micron, in the range of Sf1s. Among them, those which have been observed in spectropolarimetry or IR spectroscopy invariably display "hidden" broad lines. As proposed by Heisler et al (1997), such Sf2s are most likely seen at grazing incidence such that one has a direct view of both the "reflecting screen" and the torus inner wall emitting the MIR continuum. Our observations thus constrain the screen & the torus inner wall to be spatially co-located. Finally, the 9.7 micron Silicate feature appears weakly in emission in Sf1s, implying that the torus vertical thickness cannot significantly exceed E+24 cm-2

VLBI Astrometry of the Stellar Image of U Herculis, Amplified by the 1667 OH Maser

The OH 1667 MHz maser in the circumstellar shell around the Mira variable U Herculis has been observed with the NRAO Very Long Baseline Array (VLBA) at 6 epochs, spread over 4 years. Using phase referencing techniques the position of the most blue-shifted maser spot was monitored with respect to two extra-galactic radio sources. The absolute radio positions of the maser can be compared with the stellar optical position measured by the Hipparcos satellite to 15 mas accuracy. This confirms the model in which one of the maser spots corresponds to the stellar continuum, amplified by the maser. The stellar proper motion and the annual parallax (5.3 +/- 2.1 mas) were measured.

Physical conditions in broad and associated narrow absorption-line systems toward APM 08279+5255

Results of a careful analysis of the absorption systems with zabs = zem seen toward the bright, z_em ~ 3.91, gravitationally lensed quasar APM 08279+5255 are presented. Two of the narrow-line systems, at z_abs = 3.8931 and z_abs = 3.9135, show absorptions from singly ionized species with weak or no NV and O V absorptions at the same redshift. Absorption due to fine structure transitions of C II and Si II (excitation energies corresponding to, respectively, 156$μ$m and 34$μ$m) are detected at z_abs = 3.8931. Excitation by IR radiation is favored as the column density ratios are consistent with the shape of APM 08279+5255 IR spectrum. The low-ionization state of the system favors a picture where the cloud is closer to the IR source than to the UV source, supporting the idea that the extension of the IR source is larger than ~ 200 pc. The absence of fine structure lines at z_abs = 3.9135 suggests that the gas responsible for this system is farther away from the IR source. Abundances are ~ 0.01 and 1$Z_{\odot}$ at z_abs = 3.913 and 3.8931 and aluminum could be over-abundant with respect to silicon and carbon by at least a factor of two and five. All this suggests that whereas the \zabs = 3.8931 system is probably located within 200 pc from the QSO and ejected at a velocity larger than 1000 kms^{-1}, the \zabs = 3.9135 system is farther away and part of the host-galaxy. (abridged)

Semi-Analytic Models for Dark Matter Halos

Various analytic expressions have been proposed for the density profile of dark matter halos. We consider six of these expressions for which the density profile has a power-law fall-off rho proportional to r^{-3} at large radii and a power-law cusp rho proportional to r^{-gamma} (gamma=0, 1/2, 1, 3/2) at small radii. The phase-space distribution function for these models is calculated assuming spherical symmetry and either an isotropic velocity dispersion tensor or an anisotropic dispersion tensor of the type proposed by Osipkov and Merritt. The differential energy distribution for these models is also derived. Several applications are discussed including the analysis of dark matter search experiments and the study of halo formation in a cosmological setting. Analytic fitting formulae for some of the models are provided.

Detectability of Gravitational Radiation from Prompt and Delayed Star Collapse to a Black Hole

We consider the emission of gravitational waves in the two proposed models for the collapse of a massive star to a black hole: the prompt collapse, in which nearly all the star collapses to a black hole in a dynamical time scale, and the delayed collapse, in which a light black hole, or a neutron star, which subsequently accretes matter, forms due to the fall-back achieving, in the neutron star case, the critical mass for black hole formation. Recent simulations strongly support this last scenario. We show that, due to the slowness of fall-back, in the delayed collapse the main burst of gravitational radiation is emitted depending on the parameters, mass and angular momentum, of the initial, light, black hole. We estimate, under different assumptions, the detectability of the emitted gravitational waves showing that such kind of collapse is not particularly suited for detection by forthcoming interferometric detectors. Detectors with high sensitivity at frequencies greater than ~4-5 kHz would be well suited for this kind of sources. We calculate also the final mass distribution function of single black holes.

HS0907+1902: a new 4.2hr eclipsing dwarf nova

We report on follow-up spectroscopy and photometry of the cataclysmic variable candidate HS0907+1902 selected from the Hamburg Quasar Survey. B, V, and R photometry obtained during the first observed outburst of HS0907+1902 (V~13) reveals deep eclipses (DeltaV~2.1-2.8) and an orbital period Porb=4.2h with the eclipse depth decreasing to the red. The outburst eclipse profiles are symmetric, indicating an axisymmetrical brightness distribution in the accretion disc. We derive an inclination i~73deg-79deg from the eclipse duration. The quiescent spectrum obtained with the Hobby-Eberly Telescope shows double peaked emission lines of HI, HeI and FeI,II and clearly identifies the system as a dwarf nova. Absorption features of the secondary star are detected at red wavelengths from which a spectral class M3+-1.5 and a distance of d=320+-100pc are derived.

Photometric and kinematic studies of open star clusters. II. NGC 1960 (M 36) and NGC 2194

We present CCD photometry and proper motion studies of the two open star clusters NGC 1960 (M 36) and NGC 2194. Fitting isochrones to the colour magnitude diagrams, for NGC 1960 we found an age of t=16 Myr and a distance of roughly d=1300 pc and for NGC 2194 t=550 Myr and d=2900 pc, respectively. We combined membership determination by proper motions and statistical field star subtraction to derive the initial mass function of the clusters and found slopes of Gamma=-1.23 +/- 0.17 for NGC 1960 and Gamma=-1.33 +/- 0.29 for NGC 2194. Compared to other IMF studies of the intermediate mass range, these values indicate shallow mass functions.

The dynamical evolution of the fragmented, bipolar dust shell around the carbon star IRC +10216: Rapid changes of a PPN-like structure?

We present high-resolution J-, H-, and K-band observations and the first H-K color image of the carbon star IRC +10216. The images were reconstructed from 6m telescope speckle interferograms using the bispectrum speckle interferometry method. The H and K images with resolutions between 70mas and 92mas consist of several compact components within a 0.2" radius and a fainter asymmetric nebula. The brightest four components are denoted with A to D in the order of decreasing brightness in the 1996 image. A comparison of our images from 1995, 1996, 1997, and 1998 gives - almost like a movie of five frames - insight into the dynamical evolution of the inner nebula. For instance, the separation of the two brightest components A and B increased from 191 mas in 1995 to 265 mas in 1998. At the same time, component B is fading and the components C and D become brighter. The X-shaped bipolar structure of the nebula, most prominently present in the J-band image, implies an asymmetric mass loss. Such asymmetries are often present in protoplanetary nebulae but are unexpected for AGB stars. IRC +10216 is thus likely to be very advanced in its AGB evolution, shortly before turning into a protoplanetary nebula. The cometary shapes of A in the H and J images and in the 0.79 micron and 1.06 micron HST images suggest that the core of A is not the central star, but the southern lobe of a bipolar structure. The position of the central star is probably at or near the position of component B, where the H-K color has a value of 4.2. If the star is at or near B, then the components A, C, and D are likely to be located at the inner boundary of the dust shell.

The best unbiased estimator for the CMB angular bispectrum

For those angular multipoles where cosmic variance is an issue, non-Gaussianities in the Cosmic Microwave Background (CMB) anisotropies will be hard to detect. Here, we construct explicitly the best unbiased estimator for the CMB angular bispectrum.

Galactic Evolution of Beryllium and Oxygen

We discuss the early evolution of beryllium and oxygen in our Galaxy by comparing abundances of these elements for halo and disk metal-poor stars. Both, O and Be rise as we go progressively to more metal-rich stars, showing a slope 0.41 +-0.09 ([Be/O] vs [Fe/H]) for stars with [Fe/H] < -1. This relationship provides an observational constraint to the actually proposed Galactic Cosmic Ray theories.

Large-Scale Cosmic Shear Measurements

We present estimates of the gravitational lensing shear variance obtained from images taken at the CFHT using the UH8K CCD mosaic camera. Six fields were observed for a total of 1 hour each in V and I, resulting in catalogs containing approximately 20,000$ galaxies per field, with properly calibrated and optimally weighted shear estimates. These were averaged in cells of sizes ranging from 1'.875 to 30' to obtain estimates of the cosmic shear variance $<\barγ^2>$, with uncertainty estimated from the scatter among the estimates for the 6 fields. Our most reliable estimator for cosmic shear is provided by the cross-correlation of the shear measured in the two passbands. At scales $\lsim 10'$ the results are in good agreement with those of van Waerbeke et al. 2000, Bacon et al. 2000 and Wittman et al. 2000 and with currently fashionable cosmological models. At larger scales the shear variance falls below the theoretical predictions, and on the largest scales we find a null detection of shear variance averaged in 30' cells of $<\barγ^2 > = (0.28 \pm 1.84) \times 10^{-5}$.

Correlated mixtures of adiabatic and isocurvature cosmological perturbations

The Cosmic Microwave Background (CMB) anisotropies measurements can provide many clues about the Universe. Although the common belief is that they will allow a very precise measurement of the cosmological parameters (that is, the current state of the Universe), they will alternatively give interesting informations about the state of the initial perturbations (that is, the state of the Universe at the end of inflation). In this paper, we study the observational consequences on the CMB anisotropies of some wide set of inital conditions, with a correlated mixture of adiabatic and isocurvature perturbations.

Clustering statistics on a light-cone in the cosmological redshift space

We summarize a series of our recent work concerning the cosmological redshift-space distortion and light-cone effects. After briefly describing the theoretical formalism, we show how those effects are sensitive to the cosmological parameters. Then we apply this formalism to predict the two-point correlation functions and power spectra for the X-ray clusters, galaxies and quasars in future surveys, and discuss their cosmological implications.

Perspective of long baseline interferometry

This article is a sort of sequel of the earlier extensive review by Saha (1999a) where emphasis was laid down on the ground based single aperture, as well as on the working long baseline optical interferometers (LBI) situated at the various observatories across the globe that are producing a large amount of astronomical results. Since the future of high resolution astronomy lies with the new generation of arrays, the numerous technical challenges of developing such systems are addressed indicating the current trends and the path to future progress in interferometry. The new generation interferometers such as Palomar testbed interferometer (PTI), Navy prototype optical interferometer (NPOI), Keck interferometer, Very large telescope interferometer (VLTI), Center for high angular resolution astronomy (CHARA) array, Optical very large array (OVLA), Mitaka optical infrared arrays (MIRA), etc., are being developed. A few of them, viz., PTI, NPOI, IOTA are producing results. Among the working interferometers that have been described earlier by Saha (1999a), the expansion of the Grand interféromètre à deux (two) télescopes (GI2T), Infrared and optical telescope array (IOTA) are in progress. The current status of all these interferometers stated above are enumerated. The data analysis being carried out using the working interferometers are also described. The space interferometry programmes are advancing very fast. Among the notable ones are the Space technology 3 (ST3), Space interferometry mission (SIM), and Darwin; they have already received funds. The technical details of these interferometers and their objectives are highlighted.

The observation of Delta Sct and Gamma Dor stars by using MONS satellite

The MONS space experiment will be able to verify some of the most important topics in the asteroseismologic studies of Delta Sct and Gamma Dor stars. We discuss how the $γ$ Doradus can be considered possible "bridges" between the opacity driven overstable pulsation and the stochastically excited solar like oscillation. For this reason the possible inclusion of a Gamma Dor representative in the MONS main target list is presented and discussed. To study Delta Sct stars, an appropriate frequency resolution, comparable to or better than what is currently achieved by ground-based observations, is necessary and hence two runs are recommended. To avoid over-scheduling of the Main Camera, a possible combination of observations from the Main Camera and from the Star Trackers is proposed. As a result, key-objects could be adequately monitored, affording the possibility to enter into details of amplitude variations. Simultaneously, the same results could be obtained on two Gamma Dor stars.

A far IR study of the CfA Seyfert sample. I. The data

We present mid and far IR ISO data of the CfA Seyfert galaxy sample. These data allow a detailed study of the far IR Spectral Energy Distribution (SED) of these galaxies. A Bayesian inversion method has been used to invert the SED of these sources yielding two fundamental results, namely, that the mid and far IR SED of Seyfert galaxies can be explained solely through thermal reradiation of high energy photons by dust, and that this thermal emission is made up of two or three different independent components, a warm, a cold and a very cold dust component. These thermal components have been readily explained as produced respectively by warm dust heated by either the active nucleus or by circumnuclear starburts, cold dust heated by star forming region in the galaxy disk, and very cold dust heated by the general interstellar radiation field. Comparisons between the parameters obtained from the analysis of the IR SEDs (fluxes, temperatures, luminosities) have been made. Our results suggest that the emission in the mid IR is anisotropic and the differences found between Seyfert 1 and Seyfert 2s can be explained with thin molecular tori models.

Turbulent mixing, viscosity, diffusion and gravity in the formation of cosmological structures: the fluid mechanics of dark matter

Self-gravitational structure formation theory for astrophysics and cosmology is revised using nonlinear fluid mechanics. Gibson's 1996-2000 theory balances fluid mechanical forces with gravitational forces and density diffusion with gravitational diffusion at critical viscous, turbulent, magnetic, and diffusion length scales termed Schwarz scales. Instability occurs for scales larger than the largest Schwarz scale rather than only for scales larger than the acoustic scale introduced by Jeans 1902. From the new theory, the inner-halo-dark-matter of galaxies consists of dark proto-globular-star-cluster (PGC) clumps of small-planetary-mass objects called primordial fog particles (PFPs) formed soon after decoupling at 300,000 years. PFPs explain Schild's 1996 "rogue planets >... likely to be the missing mass" of a quasar lens-galaxy. WIMP dark matter fluid is super-diffusive and fragments at large L_SD scales to form outer-galaxy-halos. In the beginning of structure formation 30,000 years after the Big Bang the viscous Schwarz scale L_SV matched the horizon scale L_H at proto-galaxy-supercluster masses, decreasing to proto-galaxy fragments at 300,000 years. WIMP diffusivities from observed outer-halo (L_SD) scales indicate WIMP particle masses in the neutrino rather than neutralino range.

Cosmological Strucure Formation with Topological Defects

Structure formation with topological defects is described. The main differences from inflationary models are highlighted. The results are compared with recent observations. It is concluded that all the defect models studied so far are in disagreement with recent observations of CMB anisotropies. Furthermore, present observations do not support 'decoherence', a generic feature of structure formation from topological defects.

Chandra, GLAST, and the Galactic Center

Two-temperature spherical accretion flows produce $\approx 100$ Mev gamma-rays from the decay of neutral pions created in proton-proton collisions close to the black hole; they also produce $\sim 10$ keV X-rays by bremsstrahlung emission at large radii. The gamma-ray to X-ray luminosity ratio is nearly independent of black hole mass and accretion rate. It does depend sensitively on the radial density profile of the accretion flow through the parameter a, where $n \propto r^{-a}$. For the canonical Bondi value of a = 3/2, the gamma-ray to X-ray luminosity ratio is $\approx 30$. We interpret a recent Chandra detection coincident with the massive black hole at the Galactic Center as being thermal bremsstrahlung emission from the accretion flow. With this normalization, the expected gamma-ray luminosity is $\approx 10^{35}$ ergs s$^{-1}$ if a = 3/2. This is nearly two orders of magnitude above the detection threshold of the GLAST telescope. For $a \approx 1/2$, however, (a value suggested by recent theoretical arguments), the expected gamma-ray luminosity is only $\approx 10^{29}$ ergs s$^{-1}$; GLAST should therefore provide an important probe of the true accretion rate and radial density profile of the accretion flow onto Sgr A*.

Additional Information from Astrometric Gravitational Microlensing Observations

Astrometric observations of microlensing events were originally proposed to determine the lens proper motion with which the physical parameters of lenses can be better constrained. In this proceeding, we demonstrate that besides this original usage astrometric microlensing observations can be additionally used in obtaining various important information about lenses. First, we demonstrate that the lens brightness can be determined with astrometric observations, enabling one to know whether the event is caused by a bright star or a dark lens. Second, we show that with additional information from astrometric observations one can resolve the ambiguity of the photometric binary lens fit and thus uniquely determine the binary lens parameters. Finally, we propose two astrometric methods that can resolve the degeneracy in the photometric lens parallax determination. Since one can measure both the proper motion and the parallax by these methods, the lens parameters of individual events can be uniquely determined.

On the Physics of Primordial Magnetic Fields

There are at present more then 30 theories about the origin of cosmic magnetic fields at galactic and intergalactic scales. Most of them rely on concepts of elementary particle physics, like phase transitions in the early Universe, string theory and processes during the inflationary epoch. Here we present some more astrophysical arguments to provide some guidance through this large number and variety of models. Especially the fact that the evolution of magnetic fields depends on the spatial coherence scale of the fields leds to some interesting conclusions, which may rule out the majority of the theoretical scenarios. In principle one has to distinguish between the large-scale and small-scale magnetic fields. Large scale fields are defined as those as becoming sub-horizon at that redshift at which the mass energy density becomes equal to the photon energy density, which we name as equality. Small scale fields which are sub-horizon even before equality, i.e. with scales lower than (present) few Mpc cannot survive the radiation era and cannot reach recombination, because of the effects of magnetic diffusion and photon diffusion. Therefore mechanisms based on phase transitions become unlike, as they provide magnetic fields on scales smaller than the horizon. Thus, the observed galactic and intergalactic fields, which are small scales in our terminology must be created after recombination by normal plasma processes during the protogalactic evolution. The large scale fields instead were produced during inflation and may have noticeable implications for the formation of the large scale structure of the Universe. The inclusion of large scale magnetic fields may improve present Cold Dark Matter theories of structure formation.

On the formation and evolution of the globular cluster Omega Centauri

By means of N-body/hydrodynamical simulations we model the evolution of a primordial 10^{8} solar masses density peak which ends up in an object closely resembling the present day globular cluster Omega Centauri. We succeed to reproduce the main features of the cluster, namely the structure, kinematics and metallicity distribution. We suggest that Omega Centauri might be a cosmological dwarf elliptical, formed at high redshift, evolved in isolation and self-enriched, and eventually fallen inside the potential well of the Milky Way, in agreement with the Searle-Zinn (1978) paradigm for galactic globular clusters formation. We finally suggest that Omega Centauri is probably surrounded by an extended Dark Matter (DM) halo, for which no observational evidence is at present available. We expect that signatures, if any, of the DM halo can be found in the kinematics of stars outside about 20 arcmin.

NGC 6994: an open cluster which is not an open cluster

We report on CCD photometry in the Johnson B,V and I passbands for 146 stars in a 9' \times 9' region around the southern aggregate NGC 6994 (C 2056-128), which appears in the Lynga (1987) catalogue of open star clusters. We argue that this object is not really an open cluster, but simply a random enhancement of four bright stars above the background level. This stars sample includes HD 358033 and GSC 05778-0082, together with M 73, which is referred to as a binary star, but actually represents the whole asterism. Since NGC 6994 is not the first case (see for instance Carraro and Patat 1995), this raises the possibility that other open clusters may have been misclassified. We also suggest that NGC 6994 is unlikely to be an open cluster remnant (OCR).

Mode detection from line-profile variations in Delta Scuti stars

The phenomenology associated with line profile variations in delta Scuti stars is reviewed. The three main techniques adopted to detect pulsation modes, i.e., the pixel-by-pixel analysis, the analysis of the moment time series and the Fourier Doppler Imaging are presented and discussed. Their application to the observational data has allowed the reliable detection of several pulsation modes, many of them not detectable with photometric observations. The need of better coordination of simultaneous spectroscopic and photometric campaigns in order to get the complete pulsation spectra of these stars is pointed out. The observation in different campaigns of the same objects has proved that dramatic changes in the mode amplitudes are quite common, even in a couple of years (and maybe less). In the last part of the paper a recent approach to the mode detection by direct fit of line profile variations in multiperiodic pulsators is described.

Cross-correlating CMB polarization with local large scale structures

We study heterogeneous quantities that efficiently cross-correlate the lensing information encoded in CMB polarization and large-scale structures recovered from weak lensing galaxy surveys. These quantities allow us to take advantage of the special features of weak lensing effect on CMB B-polarization and of the high (40%) cross-correlation between the two data sets. We show that these objects are robust to filtering effects, have a low intrinsic cosmic variance (around 8% for small 100 square degrees surveys) and can be used as an original constraint on the vacuum energy density.

Driven-disk model for binaries with precessing donor star. Three-dimensional simulations

We present the results of three-dimensional numerical simulations of mass transfer in semi-detached binary with a donor star whose rotation vector precesses around the orbital rotation axis of the binary in the observer's coordinate frame. The calculations support our previous model of flow without a `hot spot'. Characteristic features of the flow in this model, such as the formation of an circumbinary envelope, the absence of a `hot spot' at the edge of the accretion disk, and the formation of a shock wave along the edge of the stream, are also present in the solution for a binary with precessing donor star. The parameters of accretion disk and of the structure of the near-disk regions recur with the precessional period of the rotation axis of donor star.

Detection of polarized mm and submm emission from SgrA*

We report the detection of linear polarization from SgrA* at 750, 850, 1350 and 2000 microns which confirms the contribution of synchrotron radiation. From the lack of polarization at longer wavelengths it appears to arise in the millimetre/sub-millimetre excess. There are large position angle changes between the millimetre and sub-millimetre results and these are discussed in terms of a polarized dust contribution in the sub-millimetre and various synchrotron models. In the model which best explains the data the synchrotron radiation from the excess is self-absorbed in the millimetre region and becomes optically thin in the sub-millimetre. This implies that the excess arises in an extremely compact source to the order of 2 Schwarzschild radii.

Photometric Redshifts based on standard SED fitting procedures

In this paper we study the accuracy of photometric redshifts computed through a standard SED fitting procedure, where SEDs are obtained from broad-band photometry. We present our public code hyperz, which is presently available on the web. We introduce the method and we discuss the expected influence of the different observational conditions and theoretical assumptions. In particular, the set of templates used in the minimization procedure (age, metallicity, reddening, absorption in the Lyman forest, ...) is studied in detail, through both real and simulated data. The expected accuracy of photometric redshifts, as well as the fraction of catastrophic identifications and wrong detections, is given as a function of the redshift range, the set of filters considered, and the photometric accuracy. Special attention is paid to the results expected from real data.

An outline of radiatively-driven cosmology

A Big Bang universe consisting, before recombination, of H, D, 3He, 4He, 6Li, and 7Li ions, electrons, photons, and massless neutrinos, at closure density, with a galaxy-size perturbation spectrum but no large-scale structure, will evolve into the universe as we now observe it. Evolution during the first billion years is controlled by radiation. Globular clusters are formed by radiatively-driven implosions, galaxies are formed by radiatively triggered gravitational collapse of systems of globular clusters, and voids are formed by radiatively-driven expansion. After this period the strong radiation sources are exhausted and the universe has expanded to the point where further evolution is determined by gravity and universal expansion.

The late afterglow and host galaxy of GRB 990712

We present deep HST imaging, as well as ground-based imaging and spectroscopy, of the optical afterglow associated with the long-duration gamma-ray burst GRB 990712 and its host galaxy. The data were obtained 48--123 days after the burst occurred. The magnitudes of the host (R = 21.9, V = 22.5) and optical afterglow (R = 25.4, V = 25.8, 47.7 days after the burst) favor a scenario where the optical light follows a pure power-law decay with an index of alpha ~ -1.0. We find no evidence for a contribution from a supernova like SN1998bw. This suggests that either there are multiple classes of long-duration gamma-ray bursts, or that the peak luminosity of the supernova was > 1.5 mag fainter than SN1998bw. The HST images and EFOSC2 spectra indicate that the gamma-ray burst was located in a bright, extended feature (possibly a star-forming region) 1.4 kpc from the nucleus of a 0.2 L^*_B galaxy at z = 0.434, possibly a Seyfert 2 galaxy. The late-time afterglow and host galaxy of GRB 990712 bear some resemblance to those of GRB 970508.

Cut-off radii of galactic disks: A statistical study on the truncation of galactic disks

We present the analysis of a CCD survey of 31 nearby (<= 110 Mpc) edge-on spiral galaxies. The three-dimensional one-component best fit models provide their disk-scalelengths h and for the first time their disk cut-off radii R_{co}. We confirm for this sample the existence of such sharp truncations, and find a significantly lower mean value of the distance independent ratio R_{co}/h =2.9 +- 0.7 than the standard value of 4.5 often used in the literature. Our data show no correlation of these parameters with Hubble type, whereas we report a correlation between R_{co}/h and the distance based scalelength in linear units. Compared to the Milky Way we find only lower values of R_{co}/h, explained either by possible selection effects or by the completely different techniques used. We discuss our data in respect to present models for the origin of the cut-off radii, either as a relict of the galaxy formation process, or as an evolutionary phenomenon.

Mass Segregation in Star Clusters

Star clusters - open and globulars - experience dynamical evolution on time scales shorter than their age. Consequently, open and globular clusters provide us with unique dynamical laboratories for learning about two-body relaxation, mass segregation from equipartition of energy, and core collapse. We review briefly, in the framework of star clusters, some elements related to the theoretical expectation of mass segregation, the results from N-body and other computer simulations, as well as the now substantial clear observational evidence.

A search for Jovian-mass planets around CM Draconis using eclipse minima timing

For the eclipsing binary system CM Draconis, eclipse minimum times have been monitored with high precision between 1994 and 1999. Periodic deviations of minimum times from a linear ephemeris may indicate the presence of an orbiting third body. Individual measurements of 41 eclipse minimum times result in a standard deviation from linear ephemeris of 5.74 seconds. A power spectral analysis of the residuals reveals only one periodicity with more then 2 seconds amplitude. This feature, with a periodicity between 750 and 1050 days has an amplitude of 2.8+-0.5 seconds, and is also present with similar phases if the power spectral analysis is performed independently for primary and secondary eclipses. It would be compatible with a planet of 1.5-3 Jupiter masses at an orbital distance of 1.1-1.45 AU to the binary barycenter. The assignation of a planet to the CM Dra system can however only be upheld if this periodicity can be followed in future observations for several years. For low-mass eclipsing binary stars, the method of eclipse minimum timing allows one to reach mass limits for the detection of third bodies well below that feasible by radial velocity measurements.

A Characteristic Scale on the Cosmic Microwave Sky

The current suite of results from Cosmic Microwave Background anisotropy experiments is fulfilling the promise of providing extraordinary levels of discrimination between cosmological models. We calculate a binned anisotropy power spectrum, which we tabulate, along with error bars and bin-to-bin correlations, so that it can be easily used for constraining models. The resulting power spectrum is flat at large angles, with a gradual rise to a prominent peak at around 0.5 degrees and a decrease thereafter. This is precisely the shape predicted by inflationary-inspired adiabatic models. Within that class of cosmologies, this characteristic scale imprinted on the CMB sky can be used to infer that the geometry of the Universe is very close to flat. The next wave of CMB results should add fuel to the debate about whether or not the Universe once inflated, as well as beginning in earnest the task of measuring cosmological parameters.

BeppoSAX observation of the transient X-ray pulsar GS 1843+00

We present the results from both the timing and spectroscopic analysis of the transient X-ray pulsar GS 1843+00 observed by the BeppoSAX satellite on 1997 April 4, when the source was at a luminosity of ~10^{37} erg s^{-1}. GS 1843+00 shows a very hard spectrum that is well fitted by an absorbed power law (N_H \~2.3 10^{22} cm^{-2}) modified by a high energy cut-off above 6 keV. The source shows a small pulse amplitude in the whole energy band. The pulse profile evolves with energy from a double-peaked to single-peaked shape. The barycentric pulse period is 29.477+/-0.001 s.

Photoionization and Recombination

Theoretically self-consistent calculations for photoionization and (e + ion) recombination are described. An identical eigenfunction expansion for the ion is employed in coupled channel calculations for both processes, thus ensuring consistently accurate cross sections and rates in an ab initio manner. The theoretical treatment of (e + ion) recombination subsumes both the non-resonant recombination ('radiative recombination'), and the resonant recombination ('di-electronic recombination') processes in a unified scheme. In addition to the total, unified recombination rates, level-specific recombination rates and photoionization cross sections are obtained for a large number of atomic levels. Both relativistic Breit-Pauli, and non-relativistic LS coupling, calculations are carried out in the close coupling approximation using the R-matrix method. Although the calculations are computationally intensive, they yield nearly all photoionization and recombination parameters needed for astrophysical photoionization models with higher precision than hitherto possible, estimated at about 10-20 % from comparison with experimentally available data (including 'experimentally derived DR rates'). Results are electronically available for over 40 atoms and ions. Photoionization and recombination of He-, and Li-like C and Fe are described for X-ray modeling. The unified method yields total and complete (e+ion) recombination rate coeffcients, that can not otherwise be obtained theoretically or experimentally. "temp" 23 lines, 1524 characters

Cosmological Surveys at Submillimetre Wavelengths

One of the major goals of observational cosmology is to acquire empirical data that has the diagnostic power to develop the theoretical modelling of the high-redshift universe, ultimately leading to an accurate understanding of the processes by which galaxies and clusters form and subsequently evolve. New bolometer arrays operating on the world's largest submillimetre telescopes now offer a unique view of the high-redshift universe through unbiassed surveys with unprecedented sensitivity. For brevity, except when there is a need to be more specific, the FIR to millimetre wavelength regime (100um < lambda < 6000um) will be referred to as the ``submillimetre'' (submm). One of the major challenges in this field is to accurately quantify the star-formation history of submm-selected galaxies, particularly those at redshifts > 1, and determine their contribution to the submm extragalactic background. The field of observational cosmology will be revolutionized during the course of the next 10 years due to the variety of powerful new ground-based, airborne and satellite facilities, particularly those operating at FIR to millimetre wavelengths. This review summarises the results from the recent blank-field submm surveys, and describes the future observations that will provide accurate source-counts over wider ranges of wavelength and flux-density, constrain the spectral energy distributions of the submm-selected galaxies and accurately constrain the redshift distribution and submm luminosity function by removing the current ambiguities in the optical, IR and radio counterparts.

The Evolution of Galaxies on Cosmological Timescales

I discuss the chemical and spectrophotometric evolution of galaxies over cosmological timescales and present a first attempt to treat both aspects in a chemically consistent way. In our evolutionary synthesis approach, we account for the increasing metallicity of successive generations of stars and use sets of stellar evolutionary tracks, stellar yields, spectra, etc. for various metallicities. This gives a more realistic description of nearby galaxies, which are observed to have broad stellar metalllicty distributions, as well as of young galaxies at high redshift. Selected results are presented for the chemo-cosmological evolution of galaxies as compared to QSO absorption line observations and for the spectrophotometric evolution of galaxies to very high redshifts. On cosmological timescales, intercations are important drivers of galaxy evolution. Neglecting dynamical aspects we study the effects of interaction-induced starbursts on the spectrophotometric and chemical evolution of galaxies and briefly discuss the formation of star clusters and Tidal Dwarf Galaxies in this context.

Young Star Clusters: Metallicities, Ages, and Masses

Observations of Young Star Cluster ({\bf YSC}) systems in interacting galaxies are reviewed with particular emphasis on their Luminosity Functions ({\bf LF}) and colour distributions. A few spectroscopic abundance measurements are available. They will be compared to YSC abundance predictions from spiral galaxy models. Evolutionary synthesis models allow to derive ages for individual YSCs on the basis of their broad band colours. With individual YSC ages, models predict the future colour and luminosity evolution of the YSC systems that will be compared - after a Hubble time - to observations of old Globular Cluster ({\bf GC}) systems. Using model M/L ratios as a function of age, YSC masses can be estimated. Age spread effects in young systems can cause the shape of the LF to substantially differ from the shape of the underlying mass function. Major sources of uncertainty are the metallicity, dust reddening, and observational colour uncertainties.

Radiation Spectra of Advection Dominated Accretion Flows around Kerr Black Holes

We study the formation of the spectra in advection dominated accretion flows (ADAFs) around Kerr black holes. We use a Monte Carlo approach and fully general relativistic treatment to follow the paths of individual photons and model their scattering with mildly relativistic, thermal electrons of the two temperature plasma present in the flow. We study the influence of the accretion rate, black hole mass, black hole angular momentum, and the strength of the small scale magnetic field present in the plasma on the resulting spectra. The impact of the black hole angular momentum on the spectra is present and can be distinguished from the influence of changes in other parameters. This property of the models should be taken into account when modeling the individual sources and the population of inefficiently accreting black holes in the Universe.

A microlensing search for cold molecular clouds in Virgo

We report preliminary results from a first season of photometric monitoring of 600 quasars behind the Virgo galaxy cluster with the aim of detecting microlensing by the cluster dark matter. Our project is sensitive to dark objects of surface mass densities down to ~20 g/cm^2. We are thus capable of detecting diffuse objects, such as cold molecular clouds, unlike all Galactic microlensing surveys whose surface mass density limits are > 10^4 g/cm^2. The average optical depth to microlensing of quasars through the central 30 sq. deg. of Virgo is ~1x10^-3. We report a null detection which implies that less than half the dark matter in Virgo is in objects of mass ~10^-5 solar masses, of surface mass density > 20 g/cm^2, at 90% confidence.

HST spectroscopy of the double QSO HS 1216+5032 AB

(Abridged) We report on HST FOS observations of the double QSO HS 1216+5032 AB (z(A)=1.455; z(B)=1.451, and angular separation theta=9 arcsec). An unusual broad-absorption-line (BAL) system is observed only in the B component: maximum outflow velocity of ~5000 km/s; probably a mixture of broad and narrow components. Observed ions are: HI, CII, CIII, NIII, NV, OVI, and possibly SIV and SVI. We also discuss two outstanding intervening systems: (1) a complex CIV system at z=0.72 of similar strength in A and B, with a velocity span of 1500 km/s; and (2) a possible strong MgII system at z=0.04 observed in B only.
Assuming HS 1216+5032 is a binary QSO, the size of Ly-alpha forest clouds is constrained using S~ 80 /h_50 kpc at redshifts between z=1.15 and 1.45. Four Ly-alpha systems not associated with metal lines and producing lines with W_0>0.17 AA are observed in both spectra, while five appear in only one spectrum. This sample, although scarce due to the redshift path blocked out by the BALs in B, allows us to place upper limits on the transverse cloud sizes. Modelling the absorbers as non-evolving spheres, a maximum-likelihood analysis yields a most probable cloud diameter D=256 /h_50 kpc and 2 sigma bounds of 172<D<896 /h_50 kpc. If the clouds are modelled as filamentary structures, the same analysis yields lower transverse dimensions by a factor of two. Independently of the maximum-likelihood approach, the equivalent width differences provide evidence for coherent structures. The suggestion that the size of Ly-alpha forest clouds increases with decreasing redshift is not confirmed.

Rotation, mass loss and pulsations of the star: an analytical model

The characteristics of the star with the "prescribed" density distribution $ρ=ρ_c[1-(r/R)^α]$ are analytically studied.

Estimation of steady-state basic parameters of stars

From a minimum of total energy of celestial bodies, their basic parameters are obtained. The steady-state values of the mass, radius, and temperature of stars and white dwarfs, as well as masses of pulsars are calculated. The luminosity and giromagnetic ratio of celestial bodies are estimated. All the obtained values are in a satisfactory agreement with observation data.

Direct Detection of Nonbaryonic Dark Matter

Weakly Interacting Massive Particles (WIMPs) are leading candidates for the dominant part of the mass density of the Universe. Here we will review direct WIMP detection techniques by giving examples of currently running experiments, and present the status of the most promising future projects.

GENIUS: the first real-time detector for solar pp-neutrinos?

The GENIUS project is a proposal for a large supersensitive Germanium detector system for WIMP and double beta decay searches with a much increased sensitivity relative to existing and other future experiments. In this paper, the possibility to detect low energy solar neutrinos with GENIUS in real-time through elastic neutrino-electron scattering is studied.

Proper motion and membership determination in the young open cluster NGC1662

Relative proper motions and cluster membership probabilities of 30 stars within an area of 14' of diameter centered in the open cluster NGC1662 (α=04^{\rm h}48^{\rm m}, δ=+10^{\rm o}56') are determined by combining positions of stars observed by the Valinhos CCD meridian circle with those from other astrometric catalogues. Our basic source for first epoch of stars brighter than B=13 magnitudes is the AC2000 Catalogue, which provides a time baseline of about 90 years, whereas the USNO-A2.0 Catalogue is used for fainter stars, providing a time baseline of about 40 years in this region. Average accuracies in proper motion of 2 mas/yr and 7 mas/yr are achieved, respectively, when the AC2000 or the USNO-A2.0 is used. Membership determination is obtained by applying the Zhao & He (1990) method. The cluster proper motion was found to be (-3.2\pm 0.6) mas/yr in right ascension and (-1.6\pm 0.6) mas/yr in declination.

New Developments in Cosmology

A brief review is given of the present observational data in cosmology. A review of a new bimetric gravity theory with multiple light cones is presented. The physical consequences of this gravity theory for the early universe are analyzed.

Limits on magnetic field strength of the extended nebula of PSR B1706-44 from optical, X-ray and TeV observations

The detection of unpulsed TeV emission from PSR B1706-44 raised the question if this VHE emission results from inverse Compton scattering of multi-TeV electrons on the CMBR and other soft photon fields. This hints at the existence of an unseen synchrotron nebula, which is larger than the observed 1 arcminute compact X-ray nebula. In a search for synchrotron counterpart of the TeV nebula, we have taken V-band CCD images of the region around the PSR B1706-44 pulsar position. By rejecting all point source contributions down to the diffuse sky limit, we were able to search for such extended plerionic synchrotron emission on scale sizes limited by the angular resolution of the CANGAROO imaging TeV observations. By combining the V-band flux limits with the observed TeV flux, we were able to obtain upper limits for the magnetic field strength as a function of the radius of the assumed TeV nebula. Assuming that the 2 arcminute radio plerion also defines the size of the TeV nebula, we constrain the steady state particle spectral index to the values between 4 and 5.5, with a field strength limit of about 3x10^-6 G. This compares with an index of 3.6+/-0.6 inside the 1 arcminute compact X-ray nebula.

Asymptotic Giant Branch Stars in Interacting Galaxy Globular Clusters

We present new modelling of the spectrophotometric properties of intermediate age stellar populations in the near-infrared (NIR). We take into account the evolutionary and spectroscopic properties of the Asymptotic Giant Branch (AGB) stars which dominate the integrated NIR emission of those populations. The predictions of spectrophotometric narrow-band molecular indices require the use of an effective temperature -- colour (or spectrum) calibration for AGB stars; synthetic indices show a strong dependence upon this calibration. Preliminary results of NIR observations of a supermassive 500 Myr old stellar cluster in the prototypical merger remnant NGC 7252 are presented. The spectra are indeed consistent with intermediate age models dominated by light from AGB stars, a significant fraction of which may be carbon rich. Implications for the stellar inputs used in the modelling of intermediate age stellar populations and their NIR emission are discussed.

Stochastic Fluctuations in the Spectrophotometric Properties of Star Clusters

Integrated spectrophotometric properties of stellar systems are intrinsically dispersed due to the stochastic nature of the small numbers of bright stars they contain. Among clusters, only the most massive ones can be used individually for comparison with the mean properties predicted by population synthesis calculations. The appropriate minimal masses depend, among others, on the waveband or colour index studied and on age. Selected indices (near-IR CO and H2O, EW(Halpha)) are used to illustrate the asymmetric nature of the probability distribution of observable properties and their dependence on cluster mass.

The longest thermonuclear X-ray burst ever observed? (A BeppoSAX Wide Field Camera observation of 4U 1735-44)

A long flux enhancement, with an exponential decay time of 86 min, is detected in 4U 1735-44 with the BeppoSAX Wide Field Cameras. We argue that this is a type-I X-ray burst, making it the longest such burst ever observed. Current theories for thermonuclear bursts predict shorter and more frequent bursts for the observed persistent accretion rate.

An efficient algorithm for two-dimensional radiative transfer in axisymmetric circumstellar envelopes and disks

We present an algorithm for two-dimensional radiative transfer in axisymmetric, circumstellar media. The formal integration of the transfer equation is performed by a generalization of the short characteristics (SC) method to spherical coordinates. Accelerated Lambda Iteration (ALI) and Ng's algorithm are used to converge towards a solution. By taking a logarithmically spaced radial coordinate grid, the method has the natural capability of treating problems that span several decades in radius, in the most extreme case from the stellar radius up to parsec scale. Flux conservation is guaranteed in spherical coordinates by a particular choice of discrete photon directions and a special treatment of nearly-radially outward propagating radiation. The algorithm works well from zero up to very high optical depth, and can be used for a wide variety of transfer problems, including non-LTE line formation, dust continuum transfer and high temperature processes such as compton scattering. In this paper we focus on multiple scattering off dust grains and on non-LTE transfer in molecular and atomic lines. Line transfer is treated according to an ALI scheme for multi-level atoms/molecules, and includes both random and systematic velocity fields. The algorithms are implemented in a multi-purpose user-friendly radiative transfer program named RADICAL. We present two example computations: one of dust scattering in the Egg Nebula, and one of non-LTE line formation in rotational transitions of HCO$^{+}$ in a flattened protostellar collapsing cloud.

Mid-infrared ISO spectroscopy of NGC 4945

We have observed the central region of the nearby starburst galaxy NGC4945 with the mid-infrared spectrometers SWS and PHT-S aboard ISO. We do not find any evidence for the existence of the powerful AGN, inferred from hard X-ray observations. The upper limits on our AGN tracers [NeV] 14.32um & 24.32um and [NeVI] 7.65um imply an A(V)>160 towards the NLR, assuming the NLR to be of equal strength as in the Circinus galaxy. Other possibilities are discussed. The starburst excitation indicators [NeIII]15.56um/[NeII]12.81um and L(bol)/L(lyc) suggest that the starburst in the central region is at least 5x10^6 yrs old, and that it accounts for at least half of the nuclear bolometric luminosity. The starburst might well power the entire bolometric luminosity, but the available constraints are also consistent with an up to 50% contribution of the embedded AGN. With PHT-S, at a resolution of approximately 90, we detect strong absorption features of water ice, and, for the first time in an external galaxy, of CO_2 and CO. The same PHT-S spectrum also reveals strong emission from the family of PAH features. Finally, we have observed and detected several pure rotational and ro-vibrational H_2 lines, two of which, the (0-0) S(0) & S(1) lines, allow us to determine the excitation temperature (160K) and warm H_2 mass (2.4x10^7 Msun). The low excitation temperature shows Orion-like shocks not to be representative for the entire emission of the central region of the galaxy and fairly normal PDRs to be perhaps more typical.

Inflation models, spectral index and observational constraints

We have evaluated the observational constraints on the spectral index $n$, in the context of a $Λ$CDM model. For $n$ scale-independent, as predicted by most models of inflation, present data require $n\simeq 1.0 \pm 0.1$ at the 2-$σ$ level. We have also studied the two-parameter scale-dependent spectral index, predicted by running-mass inflation models. Present data allow significant variation of $n$ in this case, within the theoretically preferred region of parameter space.

Exploring the Ultrahigh Energy Neutrino Universe

Astronomy at the highest energies observed must be performed by studying neutrinos rather than photons because the universe is opaque to photons of these energies. By making observations of neutrinos with energies above 10 EeV one can deduce information about the distribution and cosmological history of cosmic rays which may have been accelerated to energies above 100 EeV. Very large fluxes of neutrinos at these energies which exhibit a hard spectrum would be evidence of a GUT phase transition or superheavy dark matter particles. Neutrinos at energies around a PeV may be produced in observable quantities in active galaxies from the acceleration and interactions of cosmic rays in the vicinity of massive black holes or in relativistic jets produced by these black holes. Cosmological gamma-ray bursts may also produce PeV neutrinos. Neutrinos at these energies may oscillate into tau neutrinos which can travel through the Earth by the process of regeneration and produce upward moving air-showers. Neutrinos of energies above of 1000 EeV can produce ultrahigh energy cosmic rays thorugh interactions with big-bang neutrinos, producing Z bosons. This "Z-burst" phenomenon can be used to study the mass and distribution of big-bang neutrinos.

Coupling of the X-ray and radio emission in the black hole candidate a nd compact jet source GX 339-4

We report the results of a long-term campaign of radio, soft- and hard- X-ray observations of the galactic black hole candidate GX 339-4. In the Low-Hard X-ray state the system displays a strong 3-way linear correlation between soft- and hard-X-rays and radio emission, implying a coupling between the Comptonising corona and a radio-emitting compact jet. In this state the radio emission is linearly polarised at a level of around 2 %, with an almost constant polarisation angle, indicative of a favored axis in this system probably related to the compact jet and/or black hole spin axis. In the Off X-ray state the radio emission declines with the X-ray emission to below detectable levels, suggesting that it is simply a lower-luminosity version of the Low-Hard state. In the High-Soft state both the hard-X-ray and radio emission are suppressed. We also note that the transitions from the Low-Hard state to the High-Soft state (and the reverse) are possibly associated with discrete ejection(s) of expanding relativistic plasma.

The Intrinsic Shape Distribution of a Sample of Elliptical Galaxies

We apply the dynamical modeling approach of Statler (1994b) to 13 elliptical galaxies from the Davies and Birkinshaw (1988) sample of radio galaxies to derive constraints on their intrinsic shapes and orientations. We develop an iterative Bayesian algorithm to combine these results to estimate the parent shape distribution from which the sample was drawn, under the assumption that this parent distribution has no preferred orientation. In the process we obtain improved estimates for the shapes of individual objects. The parent shape distribution shows a tendency toward bimodality, with peaks at the oblate and prolate limits. Under minimal assumptions about the galaxies' internal dynamics, 35% of the objects would be strongly triaxial (0.2 < T < 0.8). However, the parent distribution is sensitive to the assumed orbit populations in the galaxies. Dynamical configurations in which all galaxies rotate purely about either their long or short axes can be ruled out because they would require the sample to have a strong orientation bias. Configurations in which the mean motion about the short or long axis is either ``disklike''---dropping off away from the symmetry planes---or ``spheroidlike''---remaining roughly constant at a given radius---are equally viable. Spheroidlike rotation in the long-axis or short-axis tube orbits significantly lowers the abundance of prolate or oblate galaxies, respectively. If rotation in ellipticals is generally disklike, then triaxiality is rare; if spheroidlike, triaxiality is common.

Hotspot Emission from a Freely Precessing Neutron Star

Recent observations of 1E~161348-5055, the neutron-star candidate at the center of the supernova remnant RCW 103, show that a component of its emission varies sinusoidally with a period of approximately six hours. We argue that this period is what one would expect for a freely precessing neutron star with a spin period of about one second. We produce light curves for a freely precessing neutron star with a hotspot. By a suitable choice of parameters, we obtain light curves which are constant with rotational phase when the flux from the star reaches a maximum. At other phases of the precession, the flux varies as the star rotates but the total flux decreases by a factor of several. These models can explain the behavior observed from 1E~161348-5055 and predict that the spin period should be detectable at minimum flux from sufficiently sensitive measurements.

Simulated Submillimetre Galaxy Surveys

Current submillimetre surveys are hindered in their ability to reveal detailed information on the epoch of galaxy formation and the evolutionary history of a high-redshift starburst galaxy population. The difficulties are due to the small primary apertures (D < 15 m) of existing submillimetre telescopes and the limited sensitivities of their first generation of bolometer cameras. This situation is changing rapidly due to a variety of powerful new ground-based, airborne and satellite FIR to millimetre wavelength facilities. Improving our understanding of the luminosity and clustering evolution provides the motivation for conducting cosmological submillimetre and millimetre surveys. It is therefore important that we quantify the limitations of the future surveys and the significance of the results that can be drawn from them. In this paper we present simulated surveys which are made as realistic as possible in order to address some key issues confronting existing and forthcoming surveys. We discuss the results from simulations with a range of wavelengths (200 um - 1.1 mm), spatial resolutions (6 arcsec - 27 arcsec) and flux densities (0.01-310 mJy). We address how the measured source-counts could be affected by resolution and confusion, by the survey sensitivity and noise, and by the sampling variance due to clustering and shot-noise.

Galaxy Distributions and Tsallis Statistical Mechanics

Large-scale astrophysical systems are non-extensive due to their long-range force of gravity. Here we show an approach toward the statistical mechanics of such self-gravitating systems (SGS). This is a generalization of the standard statistical mechanics based on the new definition of entropy; Tsallis statistical mechanics. Developing the composition of entropy and the generalized Euler relation, we investigate the galaxy distributions in count-in-cell method. This is applied to the data of CfA II South redshift survey.

3C radio sources as they've never been seen before

Low-radio-frequency observations played a remarkable role in the early days of radio astronomy; however, in the subsequent three or four decades their usefulness has largely been in terms of the finding-frequency of surveys. Recent technical innovation at the VLA has meant that spatially well-resolved imaging at low frequencies is now possible. Such imaging is essential to understanding the relationship between the hotspot and lobe emission in classical double radio sources, for example. We here present new images of 3C radio sources at 74 MHz and 330 MHz and discuss their implications.

Age and metallicity for six LMC clusters and their surrounding field population

We investigate, on the basis of CCD Stroemgren photometry, the ages and metallicities of six LMC clusters together with their surrounding field population. The clusters and metallicities are: NGC1651 (in the range [Fe/H]=-0.65 dex to -0.41 dex), NGC1711 (-0.57+/-0.17 dex), NGC 1806 (-0.71+/-0.23 dex), NGC2031 (-0.52+/-0.21 dex) and NGC2136/37 (-0.55+/-0.23 dex) and NGC2257 (-1.63+/-0.21 dex). In the cluster surroundings, we found about 650 field stars that were suitable to be used for a determination of an age-metallicity relation (AMR). Our method is to estimate ages for individual stars on the basis of Stroemgren isochrones with individually measured metallicities. With this method we are able to sample the AMR of the field population up to 8 Gyr. Our metallicity data are incompatible with models predicting many metal-poor stars (G-dwarf problem). The metallicity of the field population increased by a factor of six, starting around 2 Gyr ago. The proposed AMR is consistent with the AMR of the LMC cluster system (including ESO 121 SC03 and three clusters with an age of 4 Gyr).

BeppoSAX observations of AM Herculis in intermediate and high states

Temporal and spectral analyses from BeppoSAX observations of AM Her performed during both an intermediate and a high state are presented and discussed. Optical observations taken a few days after the X-ray ones are also presented.
During the intermediate state observation, the source was in its "normal", one-pole accretion mode. In the high state it switched to an hitherto unobserved atypical "two-pole" accretion mode, with significant soft and hard X-ray emission from both poles. The emission from the second pole is much softer than that from the primary pole, while the soft X-ray excess of the primary pole is fairly modest in this accretion mode. These facts suggest that accretion onto the secondary is mainly due to blobs penetrating deeply in the photosphere, while that on the primary pole is mostly via a more homogeneous column, giving rise to the classical standing shock. A strong X-ray flaring activity is also observed in the soft X-ray band, but not the hard X-ray and optical emissions indicating that flares are due to inhomogeneous blobby-accretion events.

Temporal Evolution of X-ray Lags in Cygnus X-1

We present the long term evolution of the frequency-dependent X-ray time lags of the black hole candidate Cygnus X-1 as measured in 1996 and 1998 with the Rossi X-ray Timing Explorer (RXTE). Lag spectra measured during the 1996 June soft state are very similar to those seen during 1996 December and most of 1998 while Cyg~X-1 was in its hard state. During state transitions, however, the shape and magnitude of the X-ray lag is highly variable and tends to be much larger than outside of the state transitions. This behavior is most obvious in the 1--10 Hz band. The increase of the X-ray lag during the state transitions might be related to the formation and destruction of the synchrotron radiation emitting outflows present during the hard state.

VLT observations of GRS 1915+105

We present near infrared spectroscopy of the superluminal microquasar \grs\ obtained with the first unit of the VLT (Based on observations collected at the European Southern Observatory, Chile (ESO No 63.H-0261).) and the ISAAC spectro-imager. The emission features detected in the VLT data have been identified as He I, Br $γ$, He II and Na I. The detection of Na I is reported here for the first time, while our confirmation of weak He II emission provides support to previous marginal detections of this feature. By comparing the observed spectra with those of massive stars, we find that our results are very consistent with \grs being a high mass X-ray system with an early type primary, as previously proposed by Chaty et al. (1996) and Mirabel et al. (1997). The VLT spectra also provide evidence of P Cygni profiles, that turn into blue emission wings when the system is in outburst. This observed line profile evolution implies that \grs must be surrounded by an expanding envelope, that is partially blown out during the X-ray outbursts. The presence of such circumstellar gaseous material around \grs is more naturally understood in the context of a massive luminous star than if the system was a low-mass X-ray binary.

On the Blandford - Znajek mechanism of the energy loss of a rotating black hole

The Grad--Shafranov approach to the problem of the structure of the black hole magnetosphere is discussed. For the double transonic flow, the number of boundary conditions in the pair creation region is shown to be sufficient to determine not only the longitudinal electric current, but also the angular velocity of a flow as a solution to a problem. As a result, the energy loss is determined by the physical parameters at the particle creation region rather than the "boundary conditions" at the event horizon.

Gamma-Ray Bursts as a Cosmic Window for Galaxy Evolution

Present knowledge indicates that gamma-ray bursts are linked with massive stars. They will become invaluable probes of the early universe and galaxy formation. In the future, it will be possible to use gamma-ray bursts for two purposes: 1) to probe the history of massive star formation in the Universe by the rate of occurence of gamma-ray bursts, and 2) for the study of galaxy evolution at all lookback times by determining the nature of the galaxy hosts. Because gamma-rays are not attenuated by intervening dust and gas, the selection of the cosmic sites of massive star formation by this method is less affected by the biases associated with optical-uv surveys (e.g. UV-dropout techniques). Infrared and sub-millimeter follow up studies of the hosts of gamma-ray bursts may: 1) reveal a putative population of reddened ($R-K \geq 4$) galaxies at high redshifts, and 2) detect very massive stars (population III) formed at $z \geq$ 5.

Abundance of Terrestrial Planets by Microlensing

Terrestrial planets may be detected using the gravitational microlensing technique. This was demonstrated in the high magnification event MACHO-98-BLG-35. Observing strategies aimed at measuring the abundance of terrestrial planets are discussed, using both existing telescopes and planned telescopes.

Galaxy Evolution at 0 < z < 2 from the NICMOS HDF-North

We have carried out a deep infrared imaging survey (1.1um and 1.6um) of the Hubble Deep Field North (HDF-N) using NICMOS on board the Hubble Space Telescope. The combined WFPC2+NICMOS data set lets us study galaxy morphologies, colors and luminosities at common rest frame wavelengths over a broad range of redshifts, e.g., in the V-band out to z=2. Here, I illustrate some applications of this data set for studying the evolution of giant galaxies, on and off the Hubble Sequence. Large, relatively ordinary spiral galaxies are found out to at least z=~1.25. Morphological irregularities seen in many distant HDF galaxies tend to persist from ultraviolet through optical rest frame wavelengths, suggesting that these are genuinely peculiar, structurally disturbed systems. Red giant ellipticals are found out to (photometric) redshifts z=~1.8, implying that some such galaxies probably formed the bulk of their stars at z_f>~4. However, there are also bluer early type galaxies at z>0.5, which may have experienced extended star formation histories. Finally, there appears to be a substantial deficit of high luminosity galaxies of all types at 1.4<~z<2 compared to lower redshifts. However, this result must be considered with caution given the small volume of the HDF, its susceptibility to line-of-sight clustering variations, and the heavy reliance on photometric redshifts at z>~1.4.

The Evolution of 3He, 4He and D in the Galaxy

In this work we present the predictions of a modified version of the ``two-infall model'' (Chiappini et al. 1997) for the evolution of 3He, 4He and D in the solar vicinity, as well as their distributions along the Galactic disk. In particular, we show that when allowing for extra-mixing process in low mass stars, as predicted by Charbonnel and do Nascimento (1998), a long standing problem in chemical evolution is solved, namely: the overproduction of 3He by the chemical evolution models as compared to the observed values in the sun and in the interstellar medium. Moreover, we show that chemical evolution models can constrain the primordial value of the deuterium abundance and that a value of primordial D/H < 3 x 10(-5) is suggested by the present model. Finally, adopting the primordial 4He abundance suggested by Viegas et al. (1999), we obtain a value for dY/dZ around 2 and a better agreement with the solar He abundance.

Multiple and variable X-ray sources in the globular clusters omega Cen, NGC6397, NGC6752, and Liller 1

We detect stars from the Hipparcos and Tycho Catalogues in the field of view of observations with the ROSAT HRI of three globular clusters. We use the positions of these stars to reduce the systematic error in the positions of X-ray sources in the clusters to ~2'' for omega Cen and NGC6752, and 1'' for NGC6397. We detect three X-ray sources in the core of omega Cen, and four in the core of NGC6752; the data for the center of NGC6397 may be fitted with five or six sources. Outside the cores, but within the half-mass radius of the clusters, we detect two sources in omega Cen, one in NGC6397 and two in NGC6752; these may or may not be cluster members. A ROSAT HRI observation of Liller 1 does not detect a low-luminosity source, at a limit below a detection with ASCA. We discuss the nature of the low-luminosity X-ray sources in globular clusters in the light of these new results.

Theory of Microlensing

I present a somewhat selective review of microlensing theory, covering five major areas: 1) the derivation of the basic formulae, 2) the relation between the observables and the fundamental physical parameters, 3) binaries, 4) astrometric microlensing, and 5) femtolensing.

Disks and Planets in Binary Systems

The star formation process in molecular clouds usually leads to the formation of multiple stellar systems, mostly binaries. Remaining disks around those stars may be located around individual stars (circumstellar disks) or around the entire binary system (circumbinary disk). We shall briefly review the present observational evidence for both types of disks in binary stars, in particular the properties of circumbinary disks.
We then present recent results of the theoretical modeling of the collapse and fragmentation of gravitationally unstable molecular cloud cores and their implications for binary and disk formation, and discuss the dynamical influence of the binary companions on disk truncation and gap formation. The presence of binaries may have profound influence on the process of planet formation as well. We present results on the stability and evolution of orbits of planets in disks around binaries.

The orbital evolution of planets in disks

The orbital parameters of the observed extrasolar planets differ strongly from those of our own solar system. The differences include planets with high masses, small semi-major axis and large eccentricities. We performed numerical computations of embedded planets in disks and follow their mass growth and orbital evolution over several thousand periods.
We find that planets do migrate inwards on timescales of about $10^5$ years on nearly circular orbits, during which they may grow up to about 5 Jupiter masses. The interaction of the disk with several planets may halt the migration process and lead to a system similar to the solar planetary system.

Discovery of Narrow X-ray Absorption Lines from NGC 3783 with the Chandra HETGS

We present the first grating-resolution X-ray spectra of the Seyfert 1 galaxy NGC 3783, obtained with the High Energy Transmission Grating Spectrometer on the Chandra X-ray Observatory. These spectra reveal many narrow absorption lines from the H-like and He-like ions of O, Ne, Mg, Si, S and Ar, as well as FeXVII-FeXXI L-shell lines. We have also identified several weak emission lines, mainly from O and Ne. The absorption lines are blueshifted by a mean velocity of approximately 440\pm200 km/s and are not resolved, indicating a velocity dispersion within the absorbing gas of a few hundred km/s or less. We measure the lines' equivalent widths and compare them with the predictions of photoionization models. The best-fitting model has a microturbulence velocity of 150 km/s and a hydrogen column density of 1.3\times10^22 cm^-2. The measured blueshifts and inferred velocity dispersions of the X-ray absorption lines are consistent with those of the strongest UV absorption lines observed in this object. However, simple models that propose to strictly unify the X-ray and UV absorbers have difficulty explaining simultaneously the X-ray and UV absorption line strengths.

Failed Oort Clouds and Planetary Migration

Planet formation is accompanied by the formation of comet clouds. In systems where planets migrate on rapid timescales, the diffusive evolution of comet orbits may stall, resulting in a comet cloud intermediate between a flattened Kuiper Belt and a spherical Oort cloud. These `failed Oort clouds' may provide a `smoking gun', indicating that planetary migration has taken place. If some fraction of the scattered component consists of planetary embryos, it may be possible to observe transits of such bodies even when the planetary system is not edge-on to the line of sight.

Ferromagnetism of quark liquid and magnetars

Spontaneous magnetization of quark liquid is examined on the analogy with that in electron gas. It is pointed out that quark liquid has potential to be ferromagnetic at rather low densities, around nuclear saturation density. Somme comments are given as for implications on magnetars.

Star Formation and Galaxy Environment

The dependence of star formation rate on galaxian environment is a key issue in the understanding of galaxy formation and evolution. However, the study of this subject is complex and observationally challenging. This paper reviews some of the current results, drawing mostly from recent large redshift surveys such the LCRS, the MORPH collaboration, and the CNOC1 and CNOC2 redshift surveys.

A Note on Hydrodynamic Viscosity and Selfgravitation in Accretion Disks

We propose a generalized accretion disk viscosity prescription based on hydrodynamically driven turbulence at the critical effective Reynolds number. This approach is consistent with recent re-analysis by Richard & Zahn (1999) of experimental results on turbulent Couette-Taylor flows. This new $β$-viscosity formulation is applied to both selfgravitating and non-selfgravitating disks and is shown to yield the standard $α$-disk prescription in the case of shock dissipation limited, non-selfgravitating disks. A specific case of fully selfgravitating $β$-disks is analyzed. We suggest that such disks may explain the observed spectra of protoplanetary disks and yield a natural explanation for the radial motions inferred from the observed metallicity gradients in disk galaxies. The $β$-mechanism may also account for the rapid mass transport required to power ultra luminous infrared galaxies.

The gamma Velorum binary system. II. WR stellar parameters and the photon loss mechanism

In this paper we derive stellar parameters for the Wolf-Rayet star in the gamma Velorum binary system (WR11), from a detailed non-LTE model of its optical and infrared spectra. Compared to the study of Schaerer et al., the parameters of the WC8 star are revised to a hotter effective temperature (Teff~57kK),a higher luminosity (log(L/Lsun = 5.00), and a lower mass loss rate (log(Mdot / Msun/yr) = -5.0 - using a 10% clumping filling factor). These changes lead to a significant decrease in wind efficiency number, from 144 to 7, so that the driving mechanism of the wind of this WR star may be simply radiation pressure on lines. The derived spectroscopic luminosity is found to be 40% lower than that derived by De Marco & Schmutz through the mass-luminosity relationship for WR stars (log(L/Lsun = 5.2). The paper furthermore presents a comparison of the independently-developed modelling programs, CMFGEN and ISA-Wind . Overall, there seems to be very reasonable agreement between the derived parameters for WR11, except for the carbon content, which is 2 times higher for CMFGEN (C/He=0.15 vs. 0.06, by number).The comparison also confirms a disparity in the predicted flux at lambda<$400A, found by Crowther et al., which will have effects on several nebular line strengths.
The paper also presents the first independent check of the photon loss mechanism proposed by Schmutz. We conclude that, not only is it important to include very many lines to realistically model line blanketing, but in particular those ones that critically interact with strong resonance lines (e.g. HeII lambda303.78). The inclusion of these latter lines may significantly alter the wind ionization structure.

Network and Internetwork: a compared Multiwavelength Analysis

We analyze the temporal behavior of Network Bright Points (NBPs), present in the solar atmosphere, using a set of data acquired during coordinated observations between ground-based observatories (mainly at the NSO/Sacramento Peak) and the Michelson Doppler Interferometer onboard SOHO. We find that, at any time during the observational sequence, all the NBPs visible in the NaD2 images are co-spatial within 1 arcsec with locations of enhanced magnetic field. In analogy with the Ca II K line, the NaD2 line center emission can be used as a proxy for magnetic structures. We also compare the oscillation properties of NBPs and internetwork areas. At photospheric levels no differences between the two structures are found in power spectra, but analysis of phase and coherence spectra suggests the presence of downward propagating waves in the internetwork. At chromospheric levels some differences are evident in the power spectrum between NBPs and internetwork. The power spectrum of NBPs at the Halpha core wavelength shows an important peak at 2.2 mHz (7 minutes), not present in the internetwork areas. Its coherence spectrum with Halpha wings shows very low coherence at this frequency, implying that the oscillations at these chromospheric levels are not directly coupled with those present in lower layers.

Radio supernovae, supernova remnants and HII regions in NGC 2146 observed with MERLIN and the VLA

We present a high-resolution 5-GHz radio continuum map of the starburst galaxy NGC 2146 made with MERLIN and the VLA, in a search of radio supernovae and supernova remnants expected to be already produced by the most massive stars in the starburst. At 5 GHz, about 20 point sources were detected earlier by Glendenning & Kronberg (1986) in the central 800 pc of NGC 2146. Our observations with higher sensitivity and resolution made with MERLIN and the VLA confirms the detection of 18 sources, and resolves 7 of them. Additional 1.6-GHz MERLIN observations disclose 9 sources coincident in position with those detected at 5 GHz, which allows us to derive their spectral indices. Only 3 sources have indices consistent with synchrotron emission from supernova remnants or radio supernovae, while the others have very steep inverted spectra. We suggest that the sources with positive spectral index are optically thick ultra-compact and/or ultra-dense HII regions with high electron densities and high emission measures (EM > 10^(7) cm^(-6) pc). Minimum energy requirements indicate that these regions may contain up to 1000 equivalent stars of type O6. When compared with M 82, the galaxy NGC 2146 lacks however a large number of supernova remnants. We suggest that NGC 2146 is experiencing a burst of star formation stronger than that in M 82, but being in a younger phase. We may, however, not exclude an alternative scenario in which strong free-free absorption at 1.6 GHz in foreground ionized gas with very high emission measures (EM > 10^(8) cm^(-6) pc) hides a certain number of supernova remnants, thus rendering for some sources the observed inverted spectra.

A kinematic and morphological investigation of the asymmetric nebula around the LBV candidate WRA 751

WRA 751 is an evolved massive star in our Galaxy closely resembling Luminous Blue Variable stars (LBVs). It is surrounded by a nitrogen enriched nebula of ab out 23" diameter. A comparative study of the nebula's morphology and kinematics is presented, it supports - together with spectroscopical evidence - the classification of WRA 751 as a LBV. Images show that the nebula consists of a nearly spherical shell as well as a bipolar-like structure north and south of its main body, the Northern and Southern Caps. In contrast to the almost spherical appearance of the main body of the nebula, the kinematics shows a deviation even of this part from a classical spherical expansion pattern. From the present data it can be concluded that the main body expands asymmetrically (central expansion velocity ~26 km/s), with a thicker shell at the back side. A bump-like structure can be found to the west of the central star. In addition to the main body, bipolar kinematic components can be identified with the morphologically classified Caps. These results put WRA 751 into the class of LBVs which are surrounded by a nebula with bipolar components, albeit considerably less pronounced than, for instance, in the classical bipolar LBVs Eta Car and HR Car.

The "Swiss cheese" cosmological model has no extrinsic curvature discontinuity: A comment on the paper by G.A. Baker, Jr. (astro-ph/0003152)

Contrary to a claim, the Schwarzschild solution insertion in an expanding universe model, the so called "Swiss cheese" model, does not possess an extrinsic curvature discontinuity. We show that both the intrinsic metric and the extrinsic curvature are continuous, and point out the error that led to the claim.

ISO-SWS observations of pure rotational water absorption lines toward Orion-IRc2

First detections of thermal water vapor absorption lines have been made toward Orion IRc2 using the Short Wavelength Spectrometer (SWS) on board the Infrared Space Observatory (ISO). Grating spectra covering wavelengths 25-45 micron yield 19 pure rotational lines, originating from energy levels 200-750 K above ground. Fabry-Perot spectra of 5 transitions resolve the line profiles and reveal the water gas kinematics. The fact that all lines are seen in absorption is in striking contrast with data from the ISO Long Wavelength Spectrometer (LWS), where the water lines appear in emission. At least one line displays a P-Cygni type profile, which suggests that the water is located in an expanding shell centered on or near IRc2. The expansion velocity is 18 km per second, in agreement with the value inferred from water maser observations by Genzel et al. (1981). Because the continuum is intense and likely formed in or near the water-containing gas, the excitation of the observed transitions is dominated by radiative processes. A simple, generalised curve-of-growth method is presented and used to analyze the data. A mean excitation temperature of 72 K and a total water column density of 1.5e18 molecules per cm squared are inferred, each with an estimated maximum uncertainty of 20%. Combined with the molecular hydrogen column density derived from ISO observations of the pure rotational lines, and an assumed temperature of 200-350 K, the inferred water abundance is 2e-4 to 5e-4 in the warm shocked gas. This abundance is similar to that found recently by Harwit et al. (1998) toward Orion using data from the LWS, but higher than that found for most other shocked regions by, for example, Liseau et al. (1996).

High resolution Ks polarization mapping of OH 231.8+4.2 (OH 0739-14) with SOFI

The bipolar reflection nebula OH 231.8+4.2 (OH 0739-14), centred on the Mira variable star QX Pup, has been mapped at Ks in linear polarization using the ESO SOFI near-infrared multi-mode instrument. The large scale linear polarization features agree with previous studies, validating the polarimetric mode of the instrument. However the high spatial resolution of the polarization map reveals considerable structure, some of which finds correspondence in the surface brightness images. The core is crossed by low polarization filaments; the northern lobe reveals an axial finger and a rim of very high linear polarization (upto 80%) whilst the southern lobe shows less polarization contrast. There is a trend in polarization perpendicular to the bipolar axis in both lobes. The individual linear polarization features most probably arise from localised dust structures with distinct orientations leading to differing polarization through single scattering. A single scattering geometric model, consisting of two lobes of ellipsoidal section and a central dense disk, is considered which can explain the general features of the intensity and polarization images.

X-ray observation of radio supernova SN1979C by ASCA

We report on the X-ray observation of the radio selected supernova SN1979C carried out with ASCA in December 1997. The supernova of type II$_{L}$ was first observed in the optical and occurred in the weakly barred, almost face on spiral galaxy NGC 4321 (M100) which is at a distance of 17.1 Mpc, and contains at least three other supernovae discovered in this century. No point source was detected at the radio position of SN1979C in a 3' diameter half power response circle in a 27.3 ks SIS exposure. The background and galaxy subtracted SN signal had a 3$σ$ upper limit to the count rate of 1.2$\times 10^{-3}$ cps in the full ASCA SIS band (0.4-10.0 keV). These measurements give the first ever x-ray flux limit of a Type II$_{L}$ SN in the higher energy band ($\geq$ 2 keV) which is an important diagnostic of the {\it outgoing} shock wave ploughing through the circumstellar medium.

Early galaxy evolution from deep wide field star counts. I. The spheroid density law and mass function

As part of a global analysis of deep star counts to constrain scenarii of galaxy formation and evolution, we investigate possible links between the galactic spheroid and the dark matter halo. A wide set of deep star counts at high and intermediate galactic latitudes is used to determine the large scale density law of the spheroid. Assuming a power density law, the exponent, flattening, local density and IMF slope of this population are estimated. The estimation is checked for robustness against contamination of star counts by the thick disc population. Contamination effects are derived from a model of population synthesis under a broad variety of thick disc parameters. The parameter fit is based on a maximum likelihood criterion. The best fit spheroid density law has a flattening of 0.76, a power index of 2.44. There is a significant degeneracy between these two parameters. The data are also compatible with a slightly less flattened spheroid (c/a = 0.85), in combination with a larger power index (2.75). A flatter spheroid (c/a = 0.6) with a power index of 2 is not excluded either. We also constrain the spheroid IMF slope αto be 1.9 +/- 0.2, leading to a local density of 1.64 10$^{-4}$ stars pc$^{-3}$ and a mass density of 4.15 10$^{-5}$ \Msun pc$^{-3}$. With this slope the expected mass density of brown dwarfs in the halo makes a negligible part of the dark matter halo, as already estimated from microlensing surveys.
So, as star count data progresses in depth and extent, the picture of the spheroid star population that comes out points to a shape quite compatible with what we know about the distribution of baryonic dark matter if it is made of stellar remnants, suggesting a common dynamical origin.

Microlensing of multiply-imaged compact radio sources: Evidence for compact halo objects in the disk galaxy of B1600+434

We present the first unambiguous case of external variability of a radio gravitational lens, CLASS B1600+434. The VLA 8.5-GHz difference light curve of the lensed images, taking the proper time-delay into account, shows the presence of external variability with 14.6-sigma confidence. We investigate two plausible causes of this external variability: scattering by the ionized component of the Galactic interstellar medium and microlensing by massive compact objects in the bulge/disk and halo of the lens galaxy. Based on the tight relation between the modulation-index and variability time scale and the quantitative difference between the light curves of both lensed images, we conclude that the observed short-term variability characteristics of the lensed images are incompatible with scintillation in our Galaxy. This conclusion is strongly supported by multi-frequency WSRT observations at 1.4 and 5 GHz, which are in strong disagreement with predictions based on the scintillation hypothesis. ... On the other hand, a single superluminal jet-component, having an apparent velocity 9<=(v_app/c)<=26, a radius of 2-5 micro-arcsec and containing 5-11% of the observed 8.5-GHz source flux density, can reproduce the observed modulation-indices and variability time scale at 8.5 GHz, when it is microlensed by compact objects in the lens galaxy. It also reproduces the frequency-dependence of the modulation-indices, determined from the independent WSRT 1.4 and 5-GHz observations. ... The only conclusion fully consistent with the data gathered thus far is that we have indeed detected radio microlensing. The far reaching consequence of this statement is that a significant fraction of the mass in the dark-matter halo at ~6 kpc (h=0.65) above the lens-galaxy disk in B1600+434 consists of massive compact objects. [abridged]

Studies of Binary Star Cluster Candidates in the Bar of the LMC. I: SL 353 & SL 349

We present a detailed study of the cluster pair SL 353 & SL 349. This candidate binary cluster is located at the northwestern rim of the LMC bar. Based on photometric data we find that both clusters are coeval with an age of 550 +/- 100 Myr. We use the Ca II triplet in the spectra of individual red giants to derive radial velocities. Both components of the binary cluster candidate show very similar mean velocities (approx. 274 +/- 10 km/sec for SL 349 and approx. 279 +/- 4 km/sec for SL 353) while the field stars show lower velocities (approx. 240 +/- 19 km/sec). These findings suggest a common origin of the two clusters from the same GMC. In this sense the cluster pair may constitute a true binary cluster. We furthermore investigate the stellar densities in and around the star clusters and compare them with isopleths created from artificial, interacting as well as non-interacting star clusters. Gravitational interaction leads to a distortion which can also be found in the observed pair.

Centrifugal buoyancy as a mechanism for neutron star glitches

The frequent glitches (sudden increases of the apparent angular velocity) observed in certain pulsars are generally believed to be attributable to discontinuous angular momentum transfer to the outer neutron star crust from a differentially rotating superfluid layer, but the precise mechanism is not quite elucidated. Most explanations invoke vortex pinning as the essential mechanism responsible for the build up of strain in the crust that is relaxed, either by fracture of the solid structure or by discontinous unpinning, during the glitch. It is shown here that there is another mechanism that could give rise to strain, and subsequent fracture, of the solid crust, even if vortex pinning is ineffective: this is the effective force arising from the deficit of centrifugal buoyancy that will be present whenever there is differential rotation. This centrifugal buoyancy deficit force will be comparable in order of magnitude, but opposite in direction, to the force that would arise from vortex pinning if it were effective.

Pulsar optical observation with the Very Large Telescope

Optical data in the V-band gathered with the 8.2m ESO Very Large Telescope (VLT) at the radio interferometric position of PSR 1706-44 are presented. The pulsar is close to a bright star in projection and was not detected. The pulsar magnitude limit must be fainter than V=24.5 for a distance of $\leq$ 2\farcs0 from the bright star. In the outer gap model for an aligned rotor the optical flux should scale with the gamma-ray flux. For pulsars which emit pulsed gamma-rays but are not detected in the optical bands, the synchrotron cutoff frequency for the tertiary photons must be well below the optical frequencies and the magnetic and spin axes may be misaligned.

Physical properties of the pulsating hydrogen-deficient star LSS 3184 (BX Cir)

We report new determinations of the radius and mass of the pulsating helium-rich, hydrogen-deficient star LSS 3184 (BX Cir) using measurements of radial velocity and angular radius throughout its pulsation cycle. Measurements of radial velocity, and thus changes in stellar radius, were made using Anglo-Australian Telescope echelle spectra. Hubble Space Telescope ultraviolet spectra and ground-based BV photometry were used to find temperatures and fluxes throughout the pulsation cycle. The temperatures and fluxes were used to find the angular radius of the star (alpha). The alpha, Delta-alpha and Delta-radius values thus found were used to calculate the mean stellar radius <R_star> = 2.31 +/- 0.10 R_sun. If we use the previously determined logg = 3.35 +/- 0.1 for LSS 3184 and our radius estimate, we find its mass to be M_star = 0.42 +/- 0.12 M_sun.

The Inner Boundary Condition for a Thin Disk Accreting Into a Black Hole

Contrary to some recent claims the `no torque inner boundary condition' as applied at the marginally stable orbit is correct for geometrically thin disks accreting into black holes.

Old White Dwarfs as a Microlensing Population

A popular interpretation of recent microlensing studies of the line of sight towards the Large Magellanic Cloud invokes a population of old white dwarf stars in the Galactic halo. Below I review the basic properties of old white dwarf stars and the ongoing efforts to detect this population directly.

HI 21cm-line observations with the GMRT towards interstellar clouds previously seen in optical absorption

We have made HI 21cm-line absorption measurements using the GMRT towards 15 directions in the Galaxy which are known to have high random velocity clouds as seen in the optical absorption lines of CaII and NaI. For the first time, in 6 out of these 15 directions we detect HI absorption features corresponding to the high random velocity optical absorption lines. The mean optical depth of these detections is ~ 0.08.

Detection of the VLBI-scale Counter Jet in NGC 6251

Mapping the central 5 pc region of the nearby radio galaxy NGC 6251 with a 0.2 pc resolution using VLBI at two radio frequencies, 5 GHz and 15 GHz, we have found the sub-pc-scale counter jet for the first time in this radio galaxy. This discovery allows us to investigate the jet acceleration based on the relativistic beaming model (Ghisellini et al. 1993).

BeppoSAX observations of Mrk 509 and MCG+8-11-11

BeppoSAX observations of the Seyfert galaxies Mrk 509 and MCG+8-11-11 are presented. Earlier evidence of a soft excess in Mrk 509 is confirmed. This excess is found to be better represented by a power law than by a black body: with a photon slope of 2.5, its extrapolation matches the flux recorded in the far UV. An ASCA observation, which appeared to exclude the presence of the excess while showing instead evidence of a warm absorber, turns out to be compatible with the coexistence of the excess seen with BeppoSAX and of the warm absorber. The hard power law of Mrk 509 is seen for the first time to be affected by a cut-off at high energies, with an e-folding energy of about 70 keV. In MCG+8-11-11 the cut-off is found at about 170 keV, consistent within the combined errors with a previous estimate from a ASCA+OSSE/CGRO observation. In both objects the reflection component is clearly detected. In Mrk 509 its strength, together with that of the iron K line, indicates a solid angle Omega, subtended by the reprocessing gas in the accretion disk, much less than 2pi, but lacking a valid constraint on the inclination angle this evidence is not as convincing as that found with BeppoSAX in IC 4329A. In MCG+8-11-11 the same parameters are instead consistent with Omega=2pi, but the comparison with an ASCA observation, when the flux level was about 2.5 times weaker, suggests that a substantial fraction of the angle might be associated with gas farther out than the accretion disk.

A Finding List for Delta_mu Binaries derived from a Comparison of HIPPARCOS Proper Motions with Long-term Averaged Data

The comparison of quasi-instantaneously measured HIPPARCOS proper motions with long-term averaged proper motions, derived from ground-based data, allows the identification of many stellar objects as Delta_mu binaries (Wielen et al., 1999, A&A 346, 675). We have used this method to find Delta_mu binaries among the fundamental stars, among the GC stars, and among the Tycho-2 stars. A finding list for about 4000 Delta_mu binaries is given under the URL http://www.ari.uni-heidelberg.de/dmubin in a machine-readable format. This information on the probable duplicity of the listed objects can be used for planning specific observing programs, for improving our knowledge of binary statistics, or for avoiding the use of these binaries in some astrophysical calibrations or as astrometric reference stars.

Neutrino-antineutrino transition under CP-transformation and solar neutrino puzzle

This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to the presented idea is wrong.

Abundances of light elements in metal-poor stars. IV. [Fe/O] and [Fe/Mg] and the history of star formation in the solar neighborhood

The accurate O, Mg and Fe abundances derived in previous papers of this series from a homogenous reanalysis of high quality data for a large sample of stars are combined with stellar kinematics in order to discuss the history of star formation in the solar neighborhood. We found that the Fe/O and Fe/Mg abundance ratios are roughly constant in the (inner) halo and the thick disk; this means that the timescale of halo collapse was shorter than or of the same order of typical lifetime of progenitors of type Ia SNe (~ 1 Gyr), this conclusion being somewhat relaxed (referring to star formation in the individual fragments) in an accretion model for the Galaxy formation. Both Fe/O and Fe/Mg ratios raised by ~ 0.2 dex while the O/H and Mg/H ratios hold constant during the transition from the thick to thin disk phases, indicating a sudden decrease in star formation in the solar neighbourhood at that epoch. These results are discussed in the framework of current views of Galaxy formation; they fit in a scenario where both dissipational collapse and accretions were active on a quite similar timescale.

Vertical structure of the accreting two-temperature corona and the transition to an ADAF

We investigate the model of the disc/corona accretion flow around the black hole. The model, parameterized by the total (i.e. disk plus corona) accretion rate, $\dot m$, mass of the black hole, $M$ and the viscosity parameter, $α$, uniquely determines the fraction of energy released in the corona as a function of radius and, in particular, the transition radius to the single-phase ADAF flow. Self-consistent solutions with the mass exchange between phases display radial dependence of the parameters. This model reproduces all characteristic luminosity states of accretion black hole without any additional ad hoc assumptions. In particular. the mechanism of the disk evaporation leads to a new, almost horizontal branch on the accretion flow's stability curve (i.e. the dependence of accretion rate on surface density) at the critical accretion rate.

The Hamburg/ESO survey for bright QSOs. III. A large flux-limited sample of QSOs

We present a new sample of 415 bright QSOs and Seyfert~1 nuclei drawn from the Hamburg/ESO survey (HES). The sample is spectroscopically 99 % complete and well-defined in terms of flux and redshift limits. Optical magnitudes are in the interval 13 < B_J < 17.5, redshifts range within 0< z < 3.2. More than 50 % of the objects in the sample are new discoveries. We describe the selection techniques and discuss sample completeness and potential selection effects. There is no evidence for redshift-dependent variations of completeness; in particular, low-redshift QSOs - notoriously missed by other optical surveys - are abundant in this sample, since no discrimination against extended sources is imposed. For the same reason, the HES is not biased against multiply imaged QSOs due to gravitational lensing. The sample forms the largest homogeneous set of bright QSOs currently in existence, useful for a variety of statistical studies. We have redetermined the bright part of the optical quasar number-magnitude relation. We confirm that the Palomar-Green survey is significantly incomplete, but that its degree of incompleteness has recently been overestimated.

Multifrequency studies of Gamma-Ray bursts: towards the understanding of the mystery

GRBs have remained a puzzle for many high-energy astrophysicists since their discovery in 1967. With the advent of the X-ray satellites BeppoSAX and RossiXTE, it has been possible to carry out deep multi-wavelength observations of the counterparts associated with the GRBs just within a few hours of occurence, thanks to the observation of the fading X-ray emission that follows the more energetic gamma-ray photons once the GRB event has ended. The fact that this emission (the afterglow) extends at longer wavelengths, has led to the discovery of the first optical/IR/radio counterparts in 1997-99, greatly improving our understanding of these sources. Now it is widely accepted that GRBs originate at cosmological distances. The observed afterglow satisfies the predictions of the "standard" relativistic fireball model, and the central engines that power these extraordinary events are thought to be the collapse of massive stars or the merging of compact objects.

The Multiply Scattering Effect on the Energy Measurement of UHE Cosmic Rays using Atmospheric Fluorescence Technique

Point sources in the atmosphere are surrounded by aureole because of atmospheric scattering. The properties of the time-dependent aureole radiance are calculated by use of a Monte Carlo approach and an iterative method. Since the aureole is particularly important in the ultraviolet, which is the region the Ultra-High-Energy (UHE) cosmic ray experiment using the air fluorescence technique like Fly's Eye or High-Resolution-Fly's-Eye(HiRes) are set in. The effect of the multiply scatteing on the energy measurement is studied.

Redshifts For 220 BATSE Gamma-Ray Bursts Determined by Variability and the Cosmological Consequences

We show that the time variability of a gamma-ray burst (GRB) appears to be correlated with the absolute luminosity of the burst: smooth bursts are intrinsically less luminous. This Cepheid-like relationship can be used to determine the redshift of a GRB from parameters measured solely at gamma-ray energies. The relationship is based on only seven events at present and needs to be further confirmed with more events. We present the details of converting GRB observables to luminosities and redshifts for 220 bright, long GRBs from the Burst and Transient Source Experiment (BATSE) and explore the cosmological consequences. In particular, we derive the GRB rate as a function of $z$ without assuming either a luminosity function or that the GRB rate follows the star formation rate (SFR). We find that the GRB formation rate scales as (1+z)^{3.3 \pm 0.3}. The observations used to derive the SFR can be strongly affected by dust for z > 2 whereas GRB observations are not. If GRBs trace star formation, then our results indicate that the SFR does not peak at z\sim 2 but instead continues to increase until z \sim 10. We have used the burst formation rate to correct the observed GRB luminosity function for the incompleteness due to the detection threshold, resulting in a luminosity function with a power law index of \sim -2.3 that slightly rolls over at low luminosities. The reality of our variability--luminosity relationship requires confirmation but, if valid, will provide a powerful tool for studying both GRBs and the early universe.

Multiparameter estimation with the Pseudo-C_l method

We apply the Pseudo-C_l formalism to obtain an unbiased, approximate method for efficient simultaneous estimation of several cosmological parameters from large, almost full-sky cosmic microwave background data sets.

BeppoSAX observation of Cen X-4 in quiescence

We report on a 61 ks BeppoSAX observation of the soft X-ray transient Cen X-4 during quiescence which allowed to study the source X-ray spectrum from ~ 0.3 keV to ~ 8 keV. A two-component spectral model was required, consisting of a black body with temperature of ~ 0.1 keV and a power law with photon index ~ 2. These values are compatible with earlier ASCA results indicating that Cen X-4 may be stable, within a factor of a few, over a 5 year baseline.

On the Poynting-Robertson Effect and Analytical Solutions

Solutions of the two-body problem with the simultaneous action of the solar electromagnetic radiation in the form of the Poynting-Robertson effect are discussed. Special attention is devoted to pseudo-circular orbits and terminal values of osculating elements. The obtained results complete those of Klacka and Kaufmannova (1992) and Breiter and Jackson (1998). Terminal values of osculating elements presented in Breiter and Jackson (1998) are of no physical sense due to the fact that relativistic equation of motion containing only first order of $\vec{v}/c$ was used in the paper.

Cold dust in the starburst galaxy M82

The starburst galaxy M82 has been mapped at 1.2 mm using the IRAM 30-m telescope and the MPIfR 19-channel bolometer. The influence of the sidelobe pattern and the 12CO(2-1) line has been carefully analyzed. Based on this analysis, we conclude that the cold dust does not extend far into the halo as has been previously claimed. The total mass of dust in the inner 3 kpc of the galaxy is 7.5*10^6 M(sun). Assuming a solar gas-to-dust ratio, the inferred total mass of gas is 7.5*10^8 M(sun).
Unlike in any other galaxy we find the CO(2-1) line emission to be clearly more extended than the 1.2 mm dust emission. A likely explanation for this exceptional behaviour, seen for the first time in galaxies, is heating of molecular gas by low-energy cosmic rays and soft X-rays in the halo of M82.

Cooling neutron stars with localized protons

We analyze cooling of neutron stars, assuming the presence of localized protons in the densest region of their cores. Choosing a single threshold density for proton localization and adjusting neutron star mass, we reproduce the observational data on effective surface temperatures of Vela and PSR 0656+14, with or without an accreted hydrogen envelope. However, the presence of a tiny hydrogen envelope is mandatory, in this model, for reproducing the Geminga data.

Unusually rapid variability of the GRB000301C optical afterglow

We present BVRI light curves of the afterglow of GRB000301C, one of the brightest ever detected at a day time scale interval after GRB trigger. The monitoring started 1.5 days after the GRB and ended one month later. Inspection of the extremely well sampled R band light curve and comparison with BVI data has revealed a complex behavior, with a long term flux decrease and various short time scale features superimposed. These are uncommon among other observed afterglows, and might trace either intrinsic variability within the relativistic shock (re-acceleration and re-energization) or inhomogeneities in the medium in which the shock propagates.

Limits on the optical magnitude of PSR 1821-24 in M28

The detection of a pulsed X-ray counterpart (RX J1824.2-2R52P) of the 3.05 ms pulsar PSR 1821-24, suggests the possibility of a part of the rotational energy loss of this high spindown rate pulsar being in the optical band. Archival HST data for M28 is used here to set upper limits on the optical V-band magnitude of PSR 1821-24. The optical limit extends the multiwavelength observations for this source and provides a constraint for theoretical models of pulsar emission.

Source Reconstruction as an Inverse Problem

Inverse Problem techniques offer powerful tools which deal naturally with marginal data and asymmetric or strongly smoothing kernels, in cases where parameter-fitting methods may be used only with some caution. Although they are typically subject to some bias, they can invert data without requiring one to assume a particular model for the source. The Backus-Gilbert method in particular concentrates on the tradeoff between resolution and stability, and allows one to select an optimal compromise between them. We use these tools to analyse the problem of reconstructing features of the source star in a microlensing event, show that it should be possible to obtain useful information about the star with reasonably obtainable data, and note that the quality of the reconstruction is more sensitive to the number of data points than to the quality of individual ones.

The Parameter Space Occupied by Galaxies: The Optical Window

We discuss the optical parameter space (luminosity and surface brightness) over which galaxies are known to exist and report on the results from three recent datasets: the Two-degree Field Galaxy Redshift Survey, the Hubble Deep Field north, and the Local Group. These data are combined to provide a unique and comprehensive insight into the luminosity distribution of galaxies over the range -24 < M(B) < -8 mags, and the surface brightness distribution over the range 18 < SB(Effective) < 28 mags/sq arcsec. The main conclusions are: (1) luminous low surface brightness galaxies are rare; (2) there exists a universal luminosity-surface brightness relation; (3) the most numerous galaxies are low luminosity low surface brightness dwarfs.

Large scale star formation in galaxies. I. The spirals NGC 7217, NGC 1058 and UGC 12732

We present multiband photometric observations of three spiral galaxies selected in a sample suited for the study of young stellar groupings and their relationship with the parent galaxy and the galactic environment. Star forming regions have been identified using an objective technique based on a multivariate statistical analysis. Maps of young star groupings are given for each galaxy. The luminosity functions of the young star group populations show a remarkable similarity with a slope in the range -1.52 to -1.33 range. The size distributions peak around the classical 100pc value of the Local Group associations for two out of the three galaxies. NGC 1058 shows smaller associations (peak at about 50pc). The total number of young groups per unit B absolute luminosity of the galaxy is significantly greater in UGC 12732. The activity of star formation is in all three galaxies clearly stronger in the central regions.

Studies of binary star cluster candidates in the bar of the LMC. II

Binary clusters account for more than 10 % of the cluster population in the Magellanic Clouds. Statistically fewer than 50 % of the found pairs are expected to be chance superpositions. We estimated the cluster encounter rate and suggest that tidal capture is an unlikely formation scenario for the formation of binary clusters. Thus, most true binary clusters can be expected to have formed together. Here we present a study of three binary cluster candidates which are located in the bar of the LMC. NGC 1971 & NGC 1972 are situated in the association LH 59 in the eastern part of the bar. A third star cluster, NGC 1969, is close enough to this pair that all three objects may constitute a triple system. We present the first age determination that is based on CMDs for these star clusters. Our findings suggest that all three clusters are young (40-70 Myr) and may have been formed in the same GMC. It cannot clearly decided whether the clusters are physically interacting or not. NGC 1894 & SL 341 are located at the south-western rim of the LMC bar. This pair is studied in detail for the first time: The isopleths of both clusters reveal an elliptical shape. Whether this might be interpreted as a sign of interaction or is a peculiarity which is shared with a large amount of LMC star clusters which show higher ellipticities than their counterparts in the Milky Way remains unclear. From our age determination we find that both clusters are coeval with an age of 55+/-5 Myr. This makes a formation from the same GMC a likely scenario. SL 385 & SL 387 are a close pair in the western part of the LMC bar. We derived ages of 170+/-30 Myr for SL 385 and >=250 Myr for SL 387. The large age difference makes it unlikely that these two clusters formed in the same GMC.

Large-scale CMB anisotropies: wrinkles in the Galaxy rather than in time

Withdrawm.
Public data of COBE-DMR are not perfectly subtracted from dipole. Therefore, the Galactic latitude dependence is affected by the remnants of the dipole and the results previously announced in this paper about this are not valid.
Anyway, the suspect of a high Galactic contamination announced in another paper (Lopez-Corredoira 1999; A&A 346, 369) is still valid and to be considered.
Thanks are given to Ted Bunn for helpful discussions which made me realize of the problem with the dipole.

The saturation of disk heating in the solar neighborhood and evidence for a merger 9 Gyrs ago

We re-examine the age-velocity dispersion relation in the solar neighborhood using improved stellar age estimates that are based on Hipparcos parallaxes and recent stellar evolution calculations. The resulting relation shows that the Milky Way stellar disk was relatively quiescent, suffering little heating or dispersion increase between 3 and 9 Gyrs. However, at an age of 9 Gyrs there is an abrupt increase in the stellar velocity dispersions. To explain the abrupt increase (by almost a factor of 2) in dispersions we propose that the Milky Way suffered a minor merger 9 Gyrs ago that created the thick disk. The quiescent phase is consistent with inefficient heating caused by scattering from tightly wound transient spiral structure. It is possible that many galaxy disks have radial velocity dispersions at the point where heating from spiral structure becomes inefficient. Surface brightness profiles and dispersion measurements can be used to predict spiral arm winding numbers at this saturation point. A comparison between the observed and predicted winding numbers could test this hypothesis and also search for evidence of merger induced disk heating in nearby galaxies.

The Compton Microscope: Using the Energy Dependence of QPO Amplitudes to Probe Their Origin in Accretion Disks

We report the development of a new tool to determine the origin of quasi-periodic oscillations (QPOs) in accretion disk systems. The technique uses the source energy spectrum and the energy dependence of the QPO fractional amplitude to restrict the location of the emission region of the modulated photons, which are assumed to originate in the inner accretion disk. Both Monte Carlo and semi-analytical methods are presented. We assume the accretion disk is enshrouded by a slab atmosphere of hot electrons in which unsaturated Compton scattering produces the high-energy spectrum. Properties of the atmosphere, in particular the electron temperature, are assumed functions of radius from the central compact object. We show that our model reproduces the observed energy dependence of the fractional amplitude of the 67 Hz QPO in GRS 1915+105 if the QPO is assumed to originate within five gravitational radii from the innermost stable circular orbit.

The First VLT FORS1 spectra of Lyman-break candidates in the HDF-S and AXAF Deep Field

We report on low-resolution multi-object spectroscopy of 30 faint targets (R \~ 24-25) in the HDF-S and AXAF deep field obtained with the VLT Focal Reducer/low dispersion Spectrograph (FORS1). Eight high-redshift galaxies with 2.75< z < 4 have been identified. The spectroscopic redshifts are in good agreement with the photometric ones with a dispersion $σ_z = 0.07$ at z<2 and $σ_z = 0.16$ at z>2. The inferred star formation rates of the individual objects are moderate, ranging from a few to a few tens solar masses per year. Five out of the eight high-z objects do not show prominent emission lines. One object has a spectrum typical of an AGN. In the AXAF field two relatively close pairs of galaxies have been identified, with separations of 8.7 and 3.1 proper Mpc and mean redshifts of 3.11 and 3.93, respectively.

Characterizing the Low-Frequency QPO behavior of the X-ray Nova XTE J1550-564

For all 209 RXTE observations of the 7-Crab X-ray nova XTE J1550-564, we analyzed the X-ray power spectra, phase lags, and coherence functions. These observations cover the entire 250 day outburst cycle of the source and are the most complete and arguably the richest data set for any black hole X-ray nova. We find that there are three fundamental types of QPO behavior--one more than reported by Wijnands, Homan, & van der Klis (1999, ApJ, 526, 33). The new type occurred during the first half of the outburst. These three types of QPO behavior can be grouped according to the relative contributions of the disk and power-law components to the total flux.

Wide-field J- and K-band galaxy counts in the ELAIS fields

New near-infrared galaxy counts in the J and K bands are presented over a total area of 0.70 and 0.97 degrees^2, respectively. The limiting magnitudes of the deepest regions are 19.5 in J and 18.0 in K. At J>16 and K>15 our J and K-band counts number counts agree well with existing surveys provided all data are corrected to a common magnitude scale. There are real differences from field to field, and the ELAIS N1 and N2 fields show an overdensity of J<16, K<15 galaxies. The slopes of log N(m) / dm are 0.40 to 0.45 at 15<K<18 and 16<J<19.5. Our counts favor galaxy models with a high normalization of the local luminosity function and without strong evolution.

Determining the reality of X-ray filaments

A number of authors have reported filaments connecting bright structures in high-resolution X-ray images, and in some cases these have been taken as evidence for a physical connection between the structures, which might be thought to provide support for a model with non-cosmological redshifts. In this paper I point out two problems which are inherent in the interpretation of smoothed photon-limited data of this kind, and develop some simple techniques for the assessment of the reality of X-ray filaments, which can be applied to either simply smoothed or adaptively smoothed data. To illustrate the usefulness of these techniques, I apply them to archival ROSAT observations of galaxies and quasars previously analysed by others. I show that several reported filamentary structures connecting X-ray sources are not in fact significantly detected.

EROs in the EIS Fields. I: The AXAF (Chandra) Deep Field

The publicly available EIS-DEEP optical-NIR data for the AXAF (Chandra) Deep Field have been used to construct samples of Extremely Red Objects (EROs) using various single-band and multi-band color criteria. In this work we define as EROs objects with colors consistent with passively evolving elliptical galaxies at z $\geq$ 1. The EROs surface densities we derive are intermediate between previous published values, emphasizing again the need for larger survey areas to constrain the effects of possible large-scale structure. Although various single-color selected samples can be derived, the EROs sample selected using R-Ks > 5, I-Ks > 4, J-Ks > 1.8 jointly is likely to contain the highest fraction of passively evolving luminous field elliptical galaxies at z >= 1, or conversely, the lowest fraction of lower redshift interlopers. The surface density of this multi-band selected EROs sample is consistent with the conclusion that little or no field elliptical volume density evolution has occurred in the redshift range 0 > z > 1.5. However, extensive spectroscopic followup is necessary to confirm this conclusion.

Exploration of the BaSeL stellar library for 9 F-type stars COROT potential targets

The Basel Stellar Library (BaSeL models) is constituted of the merging of various synthetic stellar spectra libraries, with the purpose of giving the most comprehensive coverage of stellar parameters. It has been corrected for systematic deviations detected in respect to UBVRIJHKLM photometry at solar metallicity, and can then be considered as the state-of-the-art knowledge of the broad band content of stellar spectra. In this paper, we consider a sample of 9 F-type stars with detailed spectroscopic analysis to investigate the Basel Stellar Library in two photometric systems simultaneously, Johnson (B-V, U-B) and Stromgren (b-y, m_1, and c_1). The sample corresponds to potential targets of the central seismology programme of the COROT space experiment, which have been recently observed at OHP. The atmospheric parameters T_eff, [Fe/H], and log g obtained from the BaSeL models are compared with spectroscopic determinations as well as with results of other photometric calibrations. For a careful interpretation of the BaSeL solutions, we computed confidence regions around the best $χ$^2-estimates and projected them on T_eff-[Fe/H], T_eff-log g, and log g-[Fe/H] diagrams. (Abridged)

Discovery of High-Frequency QPOs in Black Hole Candidate XTE J1859+226

We report the discovery of quasi-periodic oscillations (QPOs) at roughly 187 Hz and 150 Hz in the X-ray intensity of X-ray nova XTE J1859+226. The source was observed during a recent outburst with RXTE. Besides these high-frequency QPOs, we have also detected QPOs (and sometimes their harmonics) at 6--7 Hz, and significant broad-band variability at low frequencies. These properties, as well as the observed hard X-ray spectrum, make XTE J1859+226 a black hole candidate (BHC).
The detection of QPOs at two distinct frequencies $\gtrsim 100$ Hz in two observations separated by about 4 hours provide additional insights into the high-frequency QPO phenomenon in BHCs. The importance lies in the proposed interpretations which invariably involve the effects of strong gravity near a black hole. We compare our results to those of other BHCs, and discuss the impact of the observational data on the models in a global context.

Microlensing and the Physics of Stellar Atmospheres

The simple physics of microlensing provides a well-understood tool with which to probe the atmospheres of distant stars in the Galaxy and Local Group with high magnification and resolution. Recent results in measuring stellar surface structure through broad band photometry and spectroscopy of high amplification microlensing events are reviewed, with emphasis on the dramatic expectations for future contributions of microlensing to the field of stellar atmospheres.

Constraining Galaxy Mass Profiles with Strong Gravitational Lensing

Measured time delays between the images of a gravitationally lensed source can lead to a determination of the Hubble constant ($H_o$), but only if the lensing mass distribution is well understood. The inability to sufficiently constrain galaxy mass models results in large uncertainties on the derived $H_o$, and severely hampers the cosmological application of this otherwise elegant method. At the same time, lensing must compete with new techniques that have the potential to measure the Hubble constant to within a few percent by the middle of the decade. In this letter we re-evaluate the role of strong gravitational lensing in the age of precision cosmology, and present a series of Monte Carlo simulations that demonstrate the effect of the galaxy mass distribution on Hubble constant determination. Though most gravitational lens systems are unlikely to contribute significantly to precision studies of the cosmological distance scale, the strong dependence of predicted time delays on the galaxy mass profile suggests that the most useful and interesting results may be obtained by running the traditional lensing problem in reverse -- namely, combining measured time delays with a well-constrained value of $H_o$ to study galaxy mass distributions.

Discovery and Photometric Observation of the Optical Counterpart in a Possible Galactic Halo X-ray Transient, XTE J1118+480

We discovered the optical counterpart about 13 mag of a soft X-ray transient, XTE J1118+480 on 2000 March 30. We perform astrometry and provide the accurate position as R.A. = 11h18m10s.85, Decl. = +48o02'12".9. The outbursting object is identified with a 18.8 mag star in USNO catalog. Our pre-discovery data shows another outburst during 2000 January, again coinciding with an outburst detected in X-rays. Through the CCD time-series photometry, we found the presence of a periodic variation with the amplitude of 0.055 mag and the period of 0.17078(0.00004)d which we consider as promising candidate of orbital period. Because of the high galactic latitude and faint quiescence magnitude of 18.8, XTE J1118+480 is the possible first firmly identified black hole candidate (BHC) X-ray transient in the galactic halo.

IC3328: a "dwarf elliptical galaxy" with spiral structure

We present the 2-D photometric decomposition of the Virgo galaxy IC3328. The analysis of the global light distribution of this morphologically classified nucleated dwarf elliptical galaxy (dE1,N) reveals a tightly wound, bi-symmetric spiral structure with a diameter of 4.5 kpc, precisely centered on the nucleus of the dwarf. The amplitude of the spiral is only three percent of the dwarf's surface brightness making it the faintest and smallest spiral ever found in a galaxy. In terms of pitch angle and arm winding the spiral is similar to the intermediate-type galaxy M51, but it lacks the dust and prominent HII regions which signal the presence of gas. The visual evidence of a spiral pattern in an early-type dwarf galaxy reopens the question on whether these dwarfs are genuine rotationally supported or anisotropic stellar systems. In the case of IC3328, we argue for a nearly face-on disk (dS0) galaxy with an estimated maximum rotation velocity of v_c,max = 55kms-1. The faintness of the spiral and the small motions within it, suggests that we could be seeing swing-amplified noise. The other possibility is a tidal origin, caused by the near passage of a small companion.

Microlensing extended stellar sources

We have developed a code to compute multi-colour microlensing lightcurves for extended sources, including the effects of limb darkening and photospheric star spots as a function of spot temperature, position, size and lens trajectory. Our model also includes the effect of structure within the spot and rotation of the stellar source.
Our results indicate that star spots generally give a clear signature only for transit events. Moreover, this signature is strongly suppressed by limb darkening for spots close to the limb -- although such spots can be detected by favourable lens trajectories.

The lithium isotope ratio in the metal-poor halo star G271-162 from VLT/UVES observations

A high resolution (R = 110.000), very high S/N (>600) spectrum of the metal-poor turnoff star G271-162 has been obtained in connection with the commissioning of UVES at VLT/Kueyen. Using both 1D hydrostatic and 3D hydrodynamical model atmospheres, the lithium isotope ratio has been estimated from the LiI 670.8 nm line by means of spectral synthesis. The necessary stellar line broadening (1D: macroturbulence + rotation, 3D: rotation) has been determined from unblended KI, CaI and FeI lines. The 3D line profiles agree very well with the observed profiles, including the characteristic line asymmetries. Both the 1D and 3D analyses reveal a possible detection of 6Li in G271-162, 6Li/7Li = 0.02 +-0.01 (one sigma). It is discussed if the smaller amount of 6Li in G271-162 than in the similar halo star HD84937 could be due to differences in stellar mass and/or metallicity or whether it may reflect an intrinsic scatter of the Li isotope ratio in the ISM at a given metallicity.

III Zw 2, the first superluminal jet in a Seyfert galaxy

So far all relativistically boosted jets with superluminal motion have only been detected in typical radio galaxies with early type host galaxies. We have now discovered superluminal motion in the Seyfert I galaxy III Zw 2, classified as a spiral. Superluminal motion was first inferred from the spectral evolution of the source and then confirmed by VLBI observations. The lower limit for the apparent expansion speed is 1.25 +/- 0.09 c. The fact that the spectral and spatial evolution are closely linked demonstrates that we are dealing with real physical expansion. Prior to this rapid expansion we have seen a period of virtually no expansion with an expansion speed less than 0.04 c. Since III Zw 2 is also part of a sample of so called radio-intermediate quasars (RIQ), it confirms earlier predictions of superluminal motion for this source, based on the argument that RIQs could be relativistically boosted jets in radio-weak quasars and Seyfert galaxies.

On the pair-electromagnetic pulse from an electromagnetic Black Hole surrounded by a Baryonic Remnant

The interaction of an expanding Pair-Electromagnetic pulse (PEM pulse) with a shell of baryonic matter surrounding a Black Hole with electromagnetic structure (EMBH) is analyzed for selected values of the baryonic mass at selected distances well outside the dyadosphere of an EMBH. The dyadosphere, the region in which a super critical field exists for the creation of electron-positron pairs, is here considered in the special case of a Reissner-Nordstrom geometry. The interaction of the PEM pulse with the baryonic matter is described using a simplified model of a slab of constant thickness in the laboratory frame (constant-thickness approximation) as well as performing the integration of the general relativistic hydrodynamical equations. The validation of the constant-thickness approximation, already presented in a previous paper Ruffini, et al.(1999) for a PEM pulse in vacuum, is here generalized to the presence of baryonic matter. It is found that for a baryonic shell of mass-energy less than 1% of the total energy of the dyadosphere, the constant-thickness approximation is in excellent agreement with full general relativistic computations. The approximation breaks down for larger values of the baryonic shell mass, however such cases are of less interest for observed Gamma Ray Bursts (GRBs). On the basis of numerical computations of the slab model for PEM pulses, we describe (i) the properties of relativistic evolution of a PEM pulse colliding with a baryonic shell; (ii) the details of the expected emission energy and observed temperature of the associated GRBs for a given value of the EMBH mass; 10^3 solar masses, and for baryonic mass-energies in the range 10^{-8} to 10^{-2} the total energy of the dyadosphere.

Identification and astrometry of variables in M3

We present identification and astrometry of all previously known or suspected variables along with the discovery of six new variables in the globular cluster M3. The number of the catalogized variables increased to 274 by including all the confirmed, previously known variables and the new discoveries. The precise and homogeneous astrometry, as well as the clarification of misapprehensions in the preceding identifications are done by using overlapping fields from a wide-field Schmidt-camera, a 1m RCC telescope, and HST archive observations from the center of the cluster. The astrometric positions can serve as a direct input to any photometry which needs the accurate centers of the variables.

The distance to the nearest star-forming clouds: MBM12 and MBM20

We present high-resolution spectra (R ~ 49,000) of stars that have parallax measurements from the Hipparcos satellite and are projected along the line of sight to the two nearest known star forming clouds to the Sun: MBM12 and MBM20. The spectra were obtained with the FOCES Echelle Spectrograph at the 2.2 meter telescope in Calar Alto, Spain and the wavelength range was chosen to include the interstellar NaI D lines at 5889.950 Angstroms and 5895.924 Angstroms. Since the stars are at a range of distances, we use their spectra along with their parallaxes from Hipparcos to determine the distance to the molecular gas. The stars in front of the cloud do not show interstellar NaI D absorption features while the stars behind the cloud do show interstellar absorption features. We find that both clouds are somewhat more distant than previously estimated. The revised distance to MBM12 is 58+-5 pc < d < 90+-12 pc and the distance to MBM20 is 112+-15 pc < d < 161+-21 pc.

Microlensing Constraints on the Frequency of Jupiter Mass Planets

Microlensing is the only technique likely, within the next 5 years, to constrain the frequency of Jupiter-analogs. The PLANET collaboration has monitored nearly 100 microlensing events of which more than 20 have sensitivity to the perturbations that would be caused by a Jovian-mass companion to the primary lens. No clear signatures of such planets have been detected. These null results indicate that Jupiter mass planets with separations of 1.5-3 AU occur in less than 1/3 of systems. A similar limit applies to planets of 3 Jupiter masses between 1-4 AU.

Hidden Galaxies in the Fornax Cluster

We are using the Multibeam 21cm receiver on the Parkes Telescope combined with the optical Two degree Field spectrograph (2dF) of the Anglo-Australian Telescope to obtain the first complete spectroscopic sample of the Fornax cluster. In the optical the survey is unique in that all objects (both ``stars'' and ``galaxies'') within our magnitude limits (Bj=16.5 to 19.7) are measured, producing the most complete survey of cluster members irrespective of surface brightness. We have detected two new classes of high surface brightness dwarf galaxy in the cluster. With 2dF we have discovered a population of very low luminosity (Mb approx -12) objects which are unresolved from the ground and may be the stripped nuclei of dwarf galaxies; they are unlike any known galaxies. In a survey of the brighter (Bj=16.5 to 18) galaxies with the FLAIR-II spectrograph we have found a number of new high surface brightness dwarf galaxies and show that the fraction of star-forming dwarf galaxies in the cluster is about 30 per cent, about twice that implied by earlier morphological classifications. Our radio observations have greatly improved upon the sensitivity of the standard Multibeam survey by using a new ``basket weave'' scanning pattern. Our initial analysis shows that we are detecting new cluster members with HI masses of order 10-to-the-8 Msun and HI mass-to-light ratios of 1-2 Msun/Lsun.

An Extended View of the Fornax Cluster

The Multibeam survey at the Parkes Radio Telescope has provided a wealth of 21 cm HI data. We have mosaicked ten standard HIPASS cubes to produce a datacube approximately 25 deg x 25 deg in size, centred on NGC1399, the optical centre of the Fornax Cluster. Some properties of the initial approx. 80 galaxies identified in HI are described.
In the optical, Ferguson's Fornax Cluster Catalogue (FCC) identified 340 likely member galaxies in the central 40 sq.deg. In the radio we have detected a more uniform sheet of about 80 galaxies at the cluster velocity extending up to 15 deg from the cluster centre. At the cluster distance of about 15 Mpc, this corresponds to an elongated large-scale structure (LSS) more than 7 Mpc in extent.
Galaxies were detected to a lower mass limit of 1x10^8M_sun and fewer than 25 of these were within the central 40 sq.deg, suggesting considerable HI depletion of galaxies in the centre of the cluster. Further, these results strongly indicate that HI surveys do not readily identify galaxy clusters.

Turmoil on the accretion disk of GRO J1655-40

During the 1996/1997 outburst of the X-ray transient GRO J1655-40 the Wide Field Cameras onboard BeppoSAX observed the system with nearly continuous coverage during some stages of this outburst. On two occasions we find clear evidence for frequent dipping behaviour, characterized by several absorption dips occurring within one binary orbit. However, during preceding and following binary orbits there is no sign of such dips at the same range of orbital phases. We also collected light curves of absorption dips as seen with other X-ray instruments. Although the 65 dips that were collected occur preferably between orbital phases 0.68 and 0.92, there is evidence that the morphology of the material causing the dips is changing over just one binary orbit. The short duration (~minutes) and phasing of the dips are discussed in the framework of models where the stream from the companion star encounters a hot outer rim on the accretion disk.

Stringent constraints on single-star evolution theory from masses and radii of well-detached binaries in star clusters

Which sample of objects can give strong constraints on single-star evolution theory ? Whilst star cluster members share the same age and the same metallicity, many questions (e.g. field stars contamination, stellar rotation, presence of unresolved binaries) are difficult to clarify properly when using their colour-magnitude diagram to compare with theoretical isochrones. Alternatively, binary stars can be used to put constraints on theoretical predictions. However, while the stellar mass is accurately known for some sample of well-detached binary stars, their metallicities are often poorly known. Then it appears that a better test could be obtained by combining both advantages (well-detached binaries members of a star cluster). This idea is applied in this work to binaries in the Hyades and one binary in the Cepheus OB3 association to test the validity of independent sets of theoretical tracks. A detailed comparison of theoretical vs. observational masses (and radii when possible) is presented.

On the mass of moderately rotating strange stars in the MIT bag model and LMXBs

We compute the maximum mass of moderately rotating strange stars as a function of the strange quark mass, of the QCD coupling constant, $α_c$, and of the bag constant (vacuum energy density), $B$, in the MIT bag model of quark matter with lowest order quark-gluon interactions. For a fixed value of $B$, the maximum stellar mass depends only weakly on $α_c$, and is independent of this coupling in the limit of massless quarks. However, if it is the value of the chemical potential of quark matter at zero pressure which is held constant, for example at the value corresponding to the stability limit of nucleons against conversion to quark matter, the maximum mass of the strange star is higher by up to 25% for $α_c=0.6$, than for non-interacting quarks, and this may be relevant in the discussion of kHz QPO sources. The maximum mass of a non-rotating strange star could be sufficiently high to allow an orbital frequency as low as 1.0 kHz in the marginally stable orbit. However, for all $α_c<0.6$, the stellar mass cannot exceed $2.6M_\odot$ at any rotational period $\ge1.6 $ms.

The response of a dwarf nova disc to real mass transfer variations

We present simulations of dwarf nova outbursts taking into account realistic variations of the mass loss rate from the secondary. The mass transfer variation has been derived from 20 years of visual monitoring and from X-ray observations covering various accretion states of the discless cataclysmic variable AM Herculis. We find that the outburst behaviour of a fictitious dwarf nova with the same system parameters as AM Her is strongly influenced by these variations of the mass loss rate. Depending on the mass loss rate, the disc produces either long outbursts, a cycle of one long outburst followed by two short outbursts, or only short outbursts. The course of the transfer rate dominates the shape of the outbursts because the mass accreted during an outburst cycle roughly equals the mass transferred from the secondary over the outburst interval. Only for less than 10% of the simulated time, when the mass transfer rate is nearly constant, the disc is in a quasi-stationary state during which it periodically repeats the same cycle of outbursts. Consequently, assuming that the secondary stars in non-magnetic CV's do not differ from those in magnetic ones, our simulation indicates that probably all dwarf novae are rarely in a stationary state and are constantly adjusting to the prevailing value of the mass transfer rate from the secondary.

Oscillations and convective motion in stars with URCA shells

It is shown that in presence of URCA shell pulsational energy losses due to neutrino emission and nonequilibrium beta heating are much less than energy losses by excitation of short-wavelength acoustic waves. Convective motion in presence of URCA shell is considered, and equations generalizing the mean free path model of convection are derived.

CMB Cosmological Parameter Estimation: Methods and Current Results

The majority of present efforts to constrain cosmological parameters with cosmic microwave background (CMB) anisotropy data employ approximate likelihood functions, the time consuming nature of a complete analysis being a major obstacle. We have performed a full (unapproximated) likelihood analysis on several experiments that allows us to examine the various assumptions made in these approximate methods and to evaluate their performance. Our results indicate that care should be taken when using such approaches. With an improved approximate method, we present some constraints on cosmological parameters using the entire present CMB data set.

A radio-microlensing caustic crossing in B1600+434?

First, we review the current status of the detection of strong `external' variability in the CLASS gravitational B1600+434, focusing on the 1998 VLA 8.5-GHz and 1998/9 WSRT multi-frequency observations. We show that this data can best be explained in terms of radio-microlensing. We then proceed to show some preliminary results from our new multi-frequency VLA monitoring program, in particular the detection of a strong feature (~30%) in the light curve of the lensed image which passes predominantly through the dark-matter halo of the lens galaxy. We tentatively interpret this event, which lasted for several weeks, as a radio-microlensing caustic crossing, i.e. the superluminal motion of a micro-arcsec-scale jet-component in the lensed source over a single caustic in the magnification pattern, that has been created by massive compact objects along the line-of-sight to the lensed image.

Radio recombination lines from starburst galaxies : high and low density ionized gas

Radio recombination lines (RRL) at 8 GHz and 15 GHz detected from four starburst galaxies are shown to arise in compact high density HII regions, which are undetectable below ~4 GHz. Detection of an RRL at 1.4 GHz towards one galaxy and upper limits in the other three are consistent with the presence of an equal amount of low density diffuse gas. Continuum flux density measurements using the GMRT will be important in constraining the properties of the diffuse gas.

Vertical motions in the disk of NGC 5668 as seen with optical Fabry-Perot spectroscopy

We have observed the nearly face-on spiral galaxy NGC 5668 with the TAURUS II Fabry-Perot interferometer at the William Herschel Telescope using the $Hα$ line to study the kinematics of the ionized gas. From the extracted data cube we construct intensity, velocity and velocity dispersion maps. We calculate the rotation curve in the innermost 2 arcmin and we use the residual velocity field to look for regions with important vertical motions. By comparing the geometry of these regions in the residual velocity field with the geometry in the intensity and velocity dispersion maps we are able to select some regions which are very likely to be shells or chimneys in the disk. The geometry and size of these regions are very similar to the shells or chimneys detected in other galaxies by different means. Moreover, it is worth noting than this galaxy has been reported to have a population of neutral hydrogen high velocity clouds (Schulman et al. 1996) which, according to these observations, could have been originated by chimneys similar to those reported in this paper.

Resolving the radio nebula around beta Lyrae

In this paper we present high spatial resolution radio images of the puzzling binary system beta Lyrae obtained with MERLIN at 5 GHz. We find a nebula surrounding the binary with a brightness temperature of 11000+-700K approximately 40AU across. This definitively confirms the thermal origin of the radio emission, which is consistent with emission from the wind of the B6-8II component (mass loss of order of 10^-7 Msun per year), ionized by the radiation field of the hotter companion. This nebula, surrounding the binary, is the proof that beta Layrae evolved in a non-conservative way, i. e. not all the mass lost by the primary is accretted by the secondary, and present measurements indicate that almost 0.015Msun had been lost from the system since the onset of the Roche lobe overflow phase. Moreover, the nebula is aligned with the jet-like structures inferred from recent optical measurements, indicating a possible connection among them.

Search for radio recombination lines towards the gravitational lens PKS 1830-211

A search for radio recombination lines near 20 cm at z=0.193 and z=0.886 towards the gravitational lens system PKS 1830-211 has yielded upper limits on the line optical depth of 5 x 10^{-5} and 5 x10^{-4} at the two redshifts respectively. Based on the non-detections, we derive upper limits to the emission measure of the ionized gas in the absorbing systems. We also present continuum flux density measurements over the frequency range 0.3-45 GHz made at a single epoch.

The Instability Strip of M3

We present new multicolour CCD photometry of the central part of the globular cluster M3, mapping the precise position of ~120 RR Lyrae stars (RRab, RRd, RRc) on the horizontal branch (HB). The location of the double-mode variables (RRd) is in perfect agreement with recent theoretical results. We find a significant internal spread of metallicity amongst the RRab variables.

Circumbinary disks around T Tauri stars: HST/NICMOS near-infrared images and polarimetric maps

We have obtained new near-infrared images of both GG Tau and UY Aur circumbinary disks with the polarimetric modes of NICMOS aboard the Hubble Space Telescope. The 1 micron intensity map of GG Tau reveals a more complete elliptical shape than in previous ground-based images. Its eastern and western sides are definitely asymmetric. Our image strongly supports the ring geometry proposed by Guilloteau, Dutrey & Simon (1999) on the basis of their millimetre interferometry images: a geometrically thick and sharply edged ring surrounding an empty gap around the binary. Around UY Aur, we identify structures that are in excellent agreement with the optical images of Ménard et al. (1999), which confirms that the inclination of the system to the line-of-sight is about 60 degrees. We also find tentative new structures closer to the stars.

Evidence for Newly Synthesized Lithium in Interstellar Space

As a part of a study on the variation in the 7Li/6Li ratio, high signal to noise, high resolution spectroscopy of Li I (6708 Angstroms) and K I (4044 Angstroms) were obtained toward zeta and o Per. The lithium isotope shift is approximately the same as its fine structure splitting (0.158 Angstroms), resulting in a blend of the 7Li and 6Li lines. Use of the K I line as a velocity template allowed a straightforward determination of the lithium isotopic ratio.
Our high resolution observations show remarkably disparate isotope ratios: 7Li/6Li = 1 0.6 +/- 2.9 toward zeta Per and 3.6 +/- 0.6 and 1.7 +/- 0.3 toward o Per. While the results toward zeta Per are consistent with the meteoritic value, the ratio toward o Per's clouds suggest recent Galactic cosmic ray spallation. This is the first clear and unambiguous evidence for an interstellar 7Li/6Li ratio that differs dramatically from the Solar System value. The low ratio indicates a higher cosmic ray flux toward o Per than toward zeta Per. A higher flux of cosmic rays toward o Per was suggested earlier in a study of OH and HD chemistry (Federman, Weber, & Lambert 1996, ApJ 463, 181).
The total lithium abundances and the K/Li ratio are useful in placing the 7Li/6Li ratio into context. We obtained total lithium abundances of (12.2 +/- 2.2) x 10^(-10) toward zeta Per and (9.8 +/- 3.5) x 10^(-10) toward o Per. The columns of K I and Li I yielded K/Li ratios that revealed no discernable trend. Since a Li isotope ratio ~2 toward o Per suggests newly processed lithium, the comparable total Li abundances and K/Li ratios are unexpected.

The Properties of Matter in White Dwarfs and Neutron Stars

White dwarfs and neutron stars are stellar objects with masses comparable to that of our sun. However, as the endpoint stages of stellar evolution, these objects do not sustain any thermonuclear burning and therefore can no longer support the gravitational load of their own mass by generating thermal pressure. Rather, matter in their interiors is compressed to much higher densities than commonly found in normal stars, and pressure is created by degenerate fermion kinetic energy and particle interactions. As a result, white dwarfs and neutron stars offer unique cosmic laboratories for studying matter at very high densities. In this review we discuss the basic properties of condensed matter at extreme densities and summarize the extent to which these properties can be examined by observations of compact objects.

Looking for non-Gaussianity in the COBE-DMR data with spherical wavelets

We present an analysis of the Gaussianity of the 4-year COBE-DMR data (in HEALPix pixelisation) based on spherical wavelets. The skewness, kurtosis and scale-scale correlation spectra are computed from the detail wavelet coefficients at each scale. The sensitivity of the method to the orientation of the data is also taken into account. We find a single detection of non-Gaussianity at the $>99%$ confidence level in one of our statistics. We use Monte-Carlo simulations to assess the statistical significance of this detection and find that the probability of obtaining such a detection by chance for an underlying Gaussian field is as high as 0.69. Therefore, our analysis does not show evidence of non-Gaussianity in the COBE-DMR data.

Variability Model for the Microquasar GRS 1915+105

We analyse the radiation pressure instability of the standard, optically thisc disc and propose it as an explanation of the obseved variability of the superluminal microquasar GRS 1915+105. The quantitave agreement with the observed outburst amplitudes is obtained under the assumption that substantial part of the energy is carried away by the jet.

Stellar Populations and Galaxy Morphology at High Redshift

In this article we investigate the morphology and stellar populations of high-redshift galaxies through multi-waveband HST imaging and ground-based spatially-resolved spectroscopy. We study the redshift evolution of galaxy morphology in the Hubble Deep Field, using the deep IDT-NICMOS near-infrared HST imaging coupled with spectroscopic and photometric redshifts. Using the multi-waveband data to compare the appearance of galaxies at the same rest-frame wavelengths reveals that "morphological k-corrections" (the change in appearance when viewing high-z objects at shorter rest-frame wavelengths) are only important in a minority of cases, and that galaxies were intrinsically more peculiar at high redshift. One example of significant morphological k-corrections is spiral galaxies, which often show more pronounced barred structure in the near-infrared than in the optical. Therefore, the apparent decline in the fraction of barred spirals at faint magnitudes in the optical HDF may be due to band-shifting effects at the higher redshifts, rather than intrinsic evolution. Using such features as the age-sensitive Balmer+4000Ang break, the spatially- resolved colours of distant galaxies in optical/near-infrared imaging can also be used to study their component stellar populations. We supplement this with deep Keck/LRIS spectroscopy of two extended sources: a chain galaxy at z=2.8 (HDF4-555.1, the "Hot Dog" - the brightest U-drop Lyman-break galaxy in the HDF) and a pair of z=4.04 gravitationally lensed arcs behind the cluster Abell 2390. The absence of measurable rotation across the z=2.8 chain galaxy implies that it is unikely to be a disk viewed edge on. With the resolution enhancement from lensing, we detect stellar populations of different ages in the z=4 arcs.

Constraints on the Cosmic Infra-Red Background based on BeppoSAX and CAT spectra of Mkn 501

The TeV and X-ray data obtained by the imaging Cherenkov telescope CAT and X-ray satellite BeppoSAX during the remarkable flare of Mkn 501 in April 16, 1997 are used to constrain the flux of the Cosmic Infrared Background (CIB) using different CIB models. We show that a non-negligible absorption of gamma-rays due to the CIB could take place already in the low-energy (sub-TeV) domain of the spectrum of Mkn 501. This implies that the data of the low-energy threshold CAT telescope contain very important information about the CIB at short wavelengths, 0.4 mum <= lambda <= 3. mum. The analysis of almost simultaneous spectroscopic measurements of Mkn 501 in a high state by CAT and BeppoSAX in the framework of the standard homogeneous Synchrotron-Self-Compton (SSC) framework model leads to the conclusion that the density of the near-infrared background with typical ``starlight spectrum'' around 1 mum should be between 5 and 35 nW m^-2 sr^-1 (99 % CL), with most likely value around 20 nW m^-2 sr^-1. Also we argue that the CAT gamma-ray data alone allow rather robust upper limits on the CIB, lambda F_lambda <= 60 nW m^-2 sr^-1 at 1 mum, taking into account that for any reasonable scenario of gamma-ray production the differential intrinsic spectrum of gamma-ray hardly could be flatter than dN/dE == E^-1. This estimate agrees, within statistical and systematic uncertainties, with recent reports about tentative detections of the CIB at 2.2 and 3.5 mum by the Diffuse Infrared Background Experiment (DIRBE), as well as with the measurements of the background radiation at optical wavelengths from absolute photometry. We also discuss the impact of the intergalactic absorption effect in derivation of the SSC parameters for the jet in Mkn 501.

Microlensing and Galactic Structure

Because we know little about the Galactic force-field away from the plane, the Galactic mass distribution is very ill-determined. I show that a microlensing survey of galaxies closer than 50 Mpc would enable us to map in three dimensions the Galactic density of stellar mass, which should be strictly less than the total mass density. A lower limit can be placed on the stellar mass needed at R<R_0 to generate the measured optical depth towards sources in the bulge. If the Galaxy is barred, this limit is lower by a factor of up to two than in the axisymmetric case. Even our limited knowledge of the Galactic force field suffices to rule out the presence of the amount of mass an axisymmetric Galaxy needs to generate the measured optical depth. Several lines of argument imply that the Galaxy is strongly barred only at R < 4 kpc, and if this is the case, even barred Galaxy models cannot generate the measured optical depth without violating some constraint on the Galactic force-field. Galactic mass models that are based on the assumption that light traces mass, for which there is significant support in the inner Galaxy, yield microlensing optical depths that are smaller than the measured value by a factor of more than 2.5.

Discovery of a very luminous megamaser during a radio flare in the Seyfert 2 galaxy Mrk 348

We report the detection of a new H_2O megamaser in the Seyfert 2 galaxy Mrk 348 with the MPIfR 100 m telescope in Effelsberg. With an apparent isotropic luminosity of L_H2O ~ 420 L_sun the maser is the third most luminous maser discovered so far. The detected line is unusually broad (Delta v ~ 130 km/s), is redshifted by ~130 km/s from the systemic velocity, and is asymmetric with a pronounced blue wing. While evidence for obscuring material towards the nucleus of this galaxy was found earlier, this detection is the first direct observation of molecular material in the vicinity of the AGN. We also searched for absorption from ammonia (NH_3) and cyclopropenylidene (C_3H_2) against the bright radio nucleus. The H_2O line was only marginally detected in archival data indicating that the maser flared recently in conjunction with a huge radio continuum flare. Continuum and line flux density increased by a factor of three, suggesting an unsaturated maser. The radio continuum flare has made Mrk 348 the most radio luminous megamaser galaxy known. It is pointed out that megamaser galaxies contain a rather large fraction of galaxies with prominent radio cores and it is speculated that the flare in the maser emission in Mrk 348 is related to the flare in the nuclear jet.

The Circumstellar Environment of the TTS SU Aurigae

In this contribution we investigate how a disk determines the physical and geometrical properties of the circumstellar environment of the T Tauri SU Aurigae. Our model of the spectral energy distribution of this star includes the central young star, a flat black disk and a diffuse envelope. We also describe the inner interaction region between the disk and the star, the magnetosphere, by analysing the accretion and wind signatures in several spectral lines observed during the MUSICOS 96 campaign.

A Search for Sub-TeV Gammas in Coincidence with Gamma Ray Bursts

We report on a study of sub-TeV ($E_γ> 10$ GeV) gamma-ray-induced muon secondaries in coincidence with BATSE gamma ray bursts (GRBs). Each TeV gamma ray striking the atmosphere produces $\approx$0.2 muons whose identity and angle can be measured by the Project GRAND array. Eight GRB candidates were studied; seven were selected based upon the optimum product of (detected BATSE fluence) $\times$ (GRAND's acceptance). One candidate was added because it was reported as a detection by the Milagrito collaboration. Seven candidates show a positive, though not statistically significant, muon excess. The most significant possible coincidence shows an excess of $466 \pm 171$ muons during the BATSE T90 time interval. It is also of interest that the event with the second most significant signal to noise (1.2$σ$) is the Milagrito event. If our most significant event is real, the implied fluence of energetic ($> 10$ GeV) gammas necessary to account for the observed muon excess would require that most of the GRB fluence arrived in the form of energetic gammas.

Status Report of Project GRAND: An Extensive Air Shower Array of Proportional Wire Chambers

Project GRAND is an extensive air shower array utilizing position sensitive detectors of proportional wire chambers. The 64 detectors deployed in a field 100 m x 100 m are located at 86.2 deg W and 41.7 deg N, at 220 m above sea level. The project was completed about two years ago and has been taking data, simultaneously on two triggers: 1) multiple-hit coincidence triggers which collect data on extensive air showers, and 2) 200 Hz triggers which collect the single tracks stored in each station during the last 5 msec.

Asymmetries of Secondary Cosmic Muons with High Statistics and Low Systematics

Project GRAND measures the asymmetries of secondary cosmic muons by calculating the differences between the muons from the east and the muons from the west for complete solar days. A similar north-south difference is also presented. These muons are identified in single track data taken with the 64 stations of Project GRAND; the data cover a two year span with a total muon sample of 30 billion muons.

Secondary Cosmic Muon Angular Distributions with High Statistics

Project GRAND preents a map in right ascension and declination for single cosmic secondary tracks which have been identified as muons. These muons are measured in stations of proportional wire chambers (PWCs) which have a mean angular resolution of 0.26 deg. A 50 mm steel plate interspersed with the PWCs is used to distinguish muons from electrons. Two years of data are accumulated in a map of right ascension and declination which covers all of the northern hemisphere and a small portion of the southern hemisphere. The total number of muon tracks in this data sample are 40 billion. Significant large angular structure is found in this map; the deviations from average are small compared to the average, but because of the high statistics, the deviations from average are statistically significant to many standard deviations. Systematic effects in the data are minimized by averaging over this two year period. These results are similar to those obtained in previous data.

A new component of the Galaxy as the origin of the LMC microlensing events

We suggest a new component of the Milky Way that can account for both the optical depth and event durations implied by microlensing searches targeting the Large Magellanic Cloud. This component, which represents less than 4% of the total dark matter halo mass, consists of mainly old white dwarf stars in a distribution that extends beyond the disk of the galaxy, but lies well within the dark matter halo. It is consistent with recent evidence for a significant population of white dwarfs detected in proper motion studies of the Hubble Deep Field that cannot be accounted for by stars in the disk or spheroid. Further, it evades all of the current observational constraints that restrict a halo population of white dwarfs.

Tidal dwarf candidates in a sample of interacting galaxies

We present deep optical B, V, R images of a sample of 10 interacting systems which were selected for their resemblance to disturbed galaxies at high redshift. Photometry is performed on knots in the tidal features of the galaxies. We calculate a grid of evolutionary synthesis models with two metallicities and various burst strengths for systems consisting of some fraction of the stellar population of a progenitor spiral plus starburst. By comparison with two-color diagrams we interpret the photometric data, select from a total of about 100 condensations 36 star-forming objects that are located in the tidal features and predict their further evolution. Being more luminous by 4 mag than normal HII regions we argue that these objects could be tidal dwarf galaxies or their progenitors, although they differ in number and mean luminosity from the already known tidal dwarf galaxies typically located at the end of tidal tails in nearby giant interacting systems. From comparison with our models we note that all objects show young burst ages. The young stellar component formed in these tidal dwarf candidates contributes up to 18% to the total stellar mass at the end of the starburst and dominates the optical luminosity. This may result in fading by up to 2.5 mag in B during the next 200 Myrs after the burst.

Cataclysmic variables as sources of gravitational waves

General Relativity predicts that binary systems of stars produce gravitational waves of significant intensity. Here we are particularly interested in the cataclysmic variable binaries (CVs). These systems emit low frequency gravitational waves, $ f < 10^{-3} Hz$. We present here a catalog of CVs and argue that part of them are capable of being detected by the Laser Interferometer Space Antenna (LISA).

Reionization of the Universe by Starlight and the Photoevaporation of Cosmological Minihalos

The first sources of ionizing radiation to condense out of the dark and neutral IGM sent ionization fronts sweeping outward through their surroundings, overtaking other condensed objects and photoevaporating them. This feedback of universal reionization on cosmic structure formation is demonstrated here by gas dynamical simulations, including radiative transfer, for the case of a cosmological minihalo of dark matter and baryons exposed to an external source of ionizing starlight, just after the passage of the global ionization front created by the source.

EUVE Observations of OY Carinae in Superoutburst

The Extreme Ultraviolet Explorer (EUVE) satellite was used for three days beginning on 1997 Mar 26.96 UT to obtain photometric and spectroscopic observations of the eclipsing SU UMa-type dwarf nova OY Carinae in superoutburst. Because of the longer time on source (143 ks), the larger number of eclipses observed (17), and the higher count rate in the detector (0.5-2.2 counts/s), we are able to significantly strengthen previous reports that there is little or no eclipse by the secondary of the EUV emission region of OY Car in superoutburst. The mean EUVE spectrum extends from 70 to 190 A and contains broad (FWHM~1 A) emission lines of N V, O V-O VI, Ne V-Ne VII, Mg IV-Mg VI, Fe VI-Fe VIII, and possibly Fe XXIII. Good fits of the observed spectrum are obtained with a model (similar to that of Seyfert 2 galaxies) wherein radiation from the boundary layer and accretion disk is scattered into the line of sight by the system's photoionized accretion disk wind. It is possible to trade off continuum luminosity for wind optical depth, but reasonable models have a boundary layer temperature T_{bl}=90-130 kK and a boundary layer and accretion disk luminosity L_{bl}=L_{disk} ~4x10^{34} erg/s ~ 10 Lsun, corresponding to a mass-accretion rate Mdota~10^{-8} Msun/yr; an absorbing column density N_H=1.6-3.5x10^{19} cm^{-2}; and a wind mass-loss rate Mdotw~10^{-10} Msun/yr ~ 0.01 Mdota. Because radiation pressure alone falls an order of magnitude short of driving such a wind, magnetic forces must also play a role in driving the wind of OY Car in superoutburst.

Evidence consistent with the cosmological interpretation of quasar redshifts

In this letter, the old issue of whether redshifts of quasars are of cosmological origin is investigated. We make a plot of absorption redshifts versus emission redshifts for quasars with large amounts of data. Our study shows that, almost all absorption redshifts are smaller than the corresponding emission redshifts. The relation between the absorption and emission redshifts predicted by current cosmological models is well obeyed. The result confirms that redshifts of quasars are indeed distance indicators. It might be the most obvious evidence found so far to be consistent with the cosmological interpretation of quasar redshifts.

Formulas for direct determination of real speed in Galactic superluminal sources

In this paper we show explicit and direct relations between the expected quantities and the observed quantities for the components of Galactic superluminal sources. Basic formulas for calculating the real speed and the angle to the line of sight of the components from the data of proper motions and the distance of the source are presented. We point out that the real speed and the angle to the line of sight of components can be uniquely and directly determined from the observed values of the proper motions and the distance of the source. It is not necessary to calculate an intermediate quantity first and then using the resulted value to calculate the two required quantities. The process of the calculation is simple, and in this way, some extra uncertainties are avoided.

The STARE Project: A Transit Search for Hot Jupiters

The STARE instrument is a small aperture, wide-field, CCD-based telescope that delivers high cadence time series photometry on roughly 40,000 stars in a typical field centered on the galactic plane. In a two-month observing run on a field, we obtain sufficient precision on roughly 4,000 stars to detect a close-in Jupiter-sized companion in an edge-on orbit. We also used this instrument to detect the planetary transits across the Sun-like star HD209458. The project is now in its third season, and we have acquired a large dataset on several fields. Given the frequency of close-in extrasolar planets found by the radial velocity surveys, and the recent confirmation that at least some of these are indeed gas giants, the STARE project should be able to detect roughly a dozen Jupiter-sized planets in its existing dataset.

FUSE Observations of the Low-Redshift Lyman-beta Forest

We describe a moderate-resolution (20-25 km/s) FUSE study of the low-redshift intergalactic medium. We report on studies of 7 extragalactic sightlines and 12 Ly-beta absorbers that correspond to Ly-alpha lines detected by HST/GHRS and STIS. These absorbers appear to contain a significant fraction of the low-z baryons and were a major discovery of the HST spectrographs. Using FUSE data, with 40 mA (4-sigma) Lyb detection limits, we have employed the equivalent width ratio of Lyb/Lya and occasionally higher Lyman lines, to determine the doppler parameter, b, and accurate column densities, N(HI), for moderately saturated lines. We detect Lyb absorption corresponding to all Lya lines with EW > 200 mA. The Lyb/Lya ratios yield a preliminary distribution function of doppler parameters, with mean <b> = 31.4 +/- 7.4 km/s and median b = 28 km/s, comparable to values at redshifts z = 2.0-2.5. If thermal, these b-values correspond to T(HI) ~ 50,000 K, although the inferred doppler parameters are considerably less than the widths derived from Lya profile fitting, <b(dopp)/b(width)> = 0.52. The typical increase in column density over that derived from profile fitting is Delta[log N(HI)] = 0.3, but ranges up to 1.0 dex. Our data suggest that the low-z Lya absorbers contain sizable non-thermal motions or velocity components in the line profile, perhaps arising from cosmological expansion and infall.

FUSE Observations of O VI in High Velocity Clouds

We have used moderate-resolution (FWHM ~ 25 km/sec) spectra of AGNs and QSOs observed by the Far Ultraviolet Spectroscopic Explorer (FUSE) to make the first definitive measurements of absorption by hot gas in high velocity clouds (HVCs) at large distances from the Galactic plane. Seven of the 11 sight lines studied exhibit high velocity (|V(LSR)| > 100 km/sec) O VI 1031.93 A absorption with log N(O VI) = 13.79-14.62. High velocity O VI absorption is detected in the distant gas of H I HVC Complex C, the Magellanic Stream, several HVCs believed to be in the Local Group, and the outer Galaxy. The fraction of O VI in HVCs along the seven sight lines containing high velocity O VI averages about 30 percent, with a full range of 10-70 percent. The O VI detections imply that hot (log T(K) = 5-6) collisionally-ionized gas is an important constituent of the HVCs since O VI is difficult to produce by photoionization unless the path lengths over which the absorption occurs are very large (>100 kpc). The association of O VI with H I HVCs in many cases suggests that the O VI may be produced at interfaces or mixing layers between the H I clouds and hot, low density gas in the Galactic corona or Local Group. Alternatively, the O VI may originate within cooling regions of hot gas clouds as they are accreted onto the Galaxy.

FUSE Observations of Diffuse Interstellar Molecular Hydrogen

We describe a moderate-resolution FUSE mini-survey of H2 in the Milky Way and Magellanic Clouds, using four hot stars and four AGN as background sources. FUSE spectra of nearly every stellar and extragalactic source exhibit numerous absorption lines from the H2 Lyman and Werner bands between 912 and 1120 A. One extragalactic sightline, PKS 2155-304, with low N(HI) shows no detectable H2 and could be the "Lockman Hole" of molecular gas, of importance for QSO absorption-line studies. We measure H2 column densities in low rotational states (J = 0 and 1) to derive rotational and/or kinetic temperatures of diffuse interstellar gas. The higher-J abundances can constrain models of the UV radiation fields and gas densities. In three optically thick clouds toward extragalactic sources, we find n(H) ~ 30-50 cm(-3) and cloud thicknesses of 2-3 pc. The rotational temperatures for H2 at high Galactic latitude, <T_01> = 107 +/- 17 K (seven sightlines) and 120 +/- 13 K (three optically thick clouds), are higher than those in the Copernicus sample composed primarily of targets in the disk. We find no evidence for great differences in the abundance or state of excitation of H2 between sight lines in the Galaxy and those in the SMC and LMC. In the future, we will probe the distribution and physical parameters of diffuse molecular gas in the disk and halo and in the lower-metallicity environs of the LMC and SMC.

Infrared Observations of Hot Gas and Cold Ice toward the Low Mass Protostar Elias 29

We have obtained the full 1-200 um spectrum of the low luminosity (36 Lsun) Class I protostar Elias 29 in the Rho Ophiuchi molecular cloud. It provides a unique opportunity to study the origin and evolution of interstellar ice and the interrelationship of interstellar ice and hot core gases around low mass protostars. We see abundant hot CO and H2O gas, as well as the absorption bands of CO, CO2, H2O and ``6.85 um'' ices. We compare the abundances and physical conditions of the gas and ices toward Elias 29 with the conditions around several well studied luminous, high mass protostars. The high gas temperature and gas/solid ratios resemble those of relatively evolved high mass objects (e.g. GL 2591). However, none of the ice band profiles shows evidence for significant thermal processing, and in this respect Elias 29 resembles the least evolved luminous protostars, such as NGC 7538 : IRS9. Thus we conclude that the heating of the envelope of the low mass object Elias 29 is qualitatively different from that of high mass protostars. This is possibly related to a different density gradient of the envelope or shielding of the ices in a circumstellar disk. This result is important for our understanding of the evolution of interstellar ices, and their relation to cometary ices.

Comparison between Observed and Theoretical Red Giant Branch Luminosity Functions of Galactic Globular Clusters

V-band luminosity functions have been obtained for the upper main-sequence, sub-giant branch and red giant branch of 18 galactic globular clusters from HST data. A comparison with four sets of theoretical models has been performed. In contrast with what was found in several previous works, a Good general agreement has been found between the observed and theoretical LF at any metallicity [M/H]<-0.7. Possible discrepancies at higher metallicity, in the upper part of the RGB, need to be confirmed with further observational data and by extending all the models to the most metal rich regime. The SGB shape has been used to set an upper limit to the cluster age, and consequently a lower limit on the cluster distance. A discussion on the still open problem of the mismatch between the observed and theoretical RGB bump location is also presented.

ISO observations of a sample of Compact Steep Spectrum and GHz Peaked Spectrum Radio Galaxies

We present results from observations obtained with ISOPHOT, on board the ISO satellite, of a representative sample of seventeen CSS/GPS radio galaxies and of a control sample of sixteen extended radio galaxies spanning similar ranges in redshift (0.2 <= z <= 0.8) and radio luminosity (P_2.7 GHz >= 10^26 W/Hz). The observations have been performed at lambda = 60, 90, 174 and 200 microns. Seven of the CSS/GPS sources have detections >= 3 sigma at one or more wavelengths, one of which is detected at >= 5 sigma. By co-adding the data we have obtained average flux densities at the four wavelengths. We found no evidence that the FIR luminosities of the CSS/GPS sources are significantly different from those of the extended objects and therefore there is not any support for CSS/GPS sources being objects "frustrated" by an abnormally dense ambient medium. The two samples were then combined, providing FIR information on a new sample of radio galaxies at intermediate redshifts. We compare this information with what previously known from IRAS and discuss the average properties of radio galaxies in the redshift range 0.2 - 0.8. The FIR emission cannot be accounted for by extrapolation of the synchrotron radio spectrum and we attribute it to thermal dust emission. The average FIR luminosity is >= 6*10^11 L_sun. Over the observed frequency range the infrared spectrum can be described by a power law with spectral index alpha >~1.0 +/- 0.2. Assuming the emission to be due to dust, a range of temperatures is required, from >=80 K to \~25 K. The dust masses required to explain the FIR emission range from 5*10^5 M_sun for the hotter component up to 2*10^8 M_sun for the colder one. (abridged)

Extreme Type IIp Supernovae as Yardsticks for Cosmology

Evolutionary effects with redshift of core collapse supernovae and their application to cosmology have been studied based on an extensive grid of stellar models between 13 and 25 Mo, and their light curves after the explosion.
With decreasing metallicity Z and increasing mass, progenitors tend to explode as compact Blue Supergiants (BSG) and produce subluminous supernovae which are about 1.5 mag. dimmer compared to 'normal' SNeII with Red Supergiant (RSG) progenitors. Progenitors with small masses tend to explode as RSGs even with low Z. The consequences are obvious for probing the chemical evolution.
We identify 'extreme SNe IIp' supernovae as a rather homogeneous class which may allow their use as standard candles for distance determination accurate within 30 %. Due to their unique light curves, no spectra need to be taken for their identification, and follow-up observations can be limited to a very small dynamical range in brightness. This means that distance determination by 'extreme SNe IIp" are possible up to redshifts of about 3 using 8-meter class telescopes. SIRTIF may push the limit by another magnitude.

Resolved Stellar Populations of Super-Metal-Rich Star Clusters in the Bulge of M31

We have applied the MCS image deconvolution algorithm (Magain, Courbin & Sohy 1998) to HST/WFPC2 V, I data of three M31 bulge globular clusters (G170, G177, and G198) and control fields near each cluster. All three clusters are clearly detected, with an increase in stellar density with decreasing radius from the cluster centers; this is the first time that stars have been resolved in bulge clusters in the inner regions of another galaxy. From the RGB slopes of the clusters and the difference in I magnitude between the HB and the top of the RGB, we conclude that these three clusters all have roughly solar metallicity, in agreement with earlier integrated-light spectroscopic measurements. Our data support a picture whereby the M31 bulge clusters and field stars were born from the same metal-rich gas, early in the galaxy formation.

Carbon and Oxygen Galactic Abundance Gradients: A Comparative Study of Stellar Yields

Chemical evolution models for the Galactic disk under an inside-out formation scenario are presented for seven sets of stellar yields, all of them metal dependent. In particular, the effects of yields from massive and low-and-intermediate-mass stars on the C/O chemical history of the solar neighborhood and on abundance gradients are discussed comparing the predictions with abundance ratios from nearby HII regions, B-stars, dwarf stars, and the Sun.
In the solar vicinity, the increase of C/O with metallicity is due to massive stars alone. Models with yields by Maeder (1992) or by Portinari, Chiosi, & Bressan (1998) reproduce the observed C/O increase with metallicity, while models assuming yields by Woosley & Weaver (1995) and Woosley, Langer, & Weaver (1993) do not. Models based on yields by Maeder (1992) are in agreement with the C/O gradient, while those based on yields by Portinari et al. (1998) or by Woosley & Weaver (1995) and Woosley et al. (1993) are not. To match both, the C/O enrichment history of the solar neighborhood and the C/O local gradient, models call for: i) yields that take into account metal-dependent stellar winds; and ii) for massive stars, a mass-loss rate with a metallicity dependence not as simple as Z^{0.5}.
C/O abundance ratios predicted with yields by Marigo, Bressan, & Chiosi (1996, 1998) are higher than those with yields by Renzini & Voli (1981), which in turn are higher than those with yields by the van den Hoek & Groenewegen (1997).

Gravitation Wave Emission from Radio Pulsars Revisited

We report a new pulsar population synthesis based on Monte Carlo techniques, aiming to estimate the contribution of galactic radio pulsars to the continuous gravitational wave emission. Assuming that the rotation periods of pulsars at birth have a Gaussian distribution, we find that the average initial period is 290 ms. The number of objects with periods equal to or less than 0.4 s, and therefore capable of being detected by an interferometric gravitational antenna like VIRGO, is of the order of 5100-7800. With integration times lasting between 2 and 3 yr, our simulations suggest that about two detections should be possible, if the mean equatorial ellipticity of the pulsars is $ε$ =10$^{-6}$. A mean ellipticity an order of magnitude higher increases the expected number of detections to 12-18, whereas for $ε< 10^{-6}$, no detections are expected

FUSE Observations of O VI Absorption in the Galactic Halo

Far-ultraviolet spectra of 11 AGNs observed by FUSE are analyzed to obtain measures of O VI 1031.93 A absorption occurring over very long paths through Milky Way halo gas. Strong O VI absorption is detected along 10 of 11 sight lines. Values of log [N(O VI) sin|b|] range from 13.80 to 14.64 with a median value of 14.21. The observations reveal the existence of a widespread but irregular distribution of O VI in the Milky Way halo. Combined with estimates of the O VI mid-plane density, n0 = 2x10^(-8) cm^(-3), from the Copernicus satellite, the FUSE observations imply an O VI exponential scale height of 2.7+/-0.4 kpc. We find that N(C IV)/N(O VI) ranges from 0.15 in the disk to 0.6 along four extragalactic sight lines. The changing ionization state of the gas from the disk to the halo is consistent with a systematic decrease in the scale heights of Si IV, C IV, N V, to O VI from ~5.1 to ~2.7 kpc. While conductive heating models can account for the highly ionized atoms at low |z|, a combination of models (and processes) appears to be required to explain the highly ionized atoms found in the halo. The greater scale heights of Si IV and C IV compared to O VI suggest that some of the Si IV and C IV in the halo is produced in turbulent mixing layers or by photoionization by hot halo stars or the extragalactic background.

Timescales of disk evolution and planet formation

We present high-spatial resolution HST and adaptive optics observations, and high-sensitivity ISO (ISOCAM & ISOPHOT) observations of a sample of X-ray selected weak-line (WTTS) and post (PTTS) T Tauri stars located in the nearby Chamaeleon T and Scorpius-Centaurus OB associations. HST/NICMOS and adaptive optics observations aimed at identifying substellar companions at separations >=30 A.U. from the primary stars. No such objects were found within 300 A.U. of any of the target stars, and a number of faint objects at larger separations can very likely be attributed to a population of background stars. ISOCAM observations of 5 to 15 Myr old WTTS and PTTS in ScoCen reveal infrared excesses which are clearly above photospheric levels, and which have a spectral index intermediate between that of younger (1 to 5 Myr) T Tauri stars in Cha and that of pure stellar photospheres. The difference in the spectral index of the older PTTS in ScoCen compared to the younger classical and WTTS in Cha can be attributed to a deficiency of smaller size (0.1 to 1mu) dust grains relative to larger size (~5mu) dust grains in the disks of the PTTS. The lack of small dust grains is either due to the environment (effect of nearby O stars and supernova explosions) or due to disk evolution. If the latter is the case, it would hint that circumstellar disks start to get dust depleted at an age between 5 to 15 Myr. Dust depletion is very likely related to the build-up of larger particles (ultimately rocks and planetesimals) and thus an indicator for the onset of the period of planet formation.

Hubble Space Telescope Imaging of Bipolar Nuclear Shells in the Disturbed Virgo Cluster Galaxy NGC 4438

We present broadband and narrowband Hubble Space Telescope images of the central region of the heavily disturbed Virgo cluster galaxy NGC 4438 (Arp120), whose nucleus has been described as a type 1 LINER or dwarf Seyfert. Narrowband H-alpha and [NII] HST images reveal striking bipolar shell features, 1 kpc in projected length from end-to-end, which are likely the result of an outflow from the nuclear region experiencing a strong interaction with the ISM. While these outflow shells share similarities with those in some other starburst or AGN galaxies, these in NGC 4438 are notable because NGC 4438 harbors neither a luminous circumnuclear starburst nor a luminous AGN. The shells appear to be closed at their outer ends, suggesting that the outflow in NGC 4438 is dynamically younger than those in some other galaxies. The radio continuum emission is strongly enhanced near the outer ends of the shells, suggesting working surfaces arising from collimated nuclear outflows which have impacted and shocked the surrounding ISM. The 2 shells are quite different, as the northwestern (NW) shell is luminous and compact, while the southeastern (SE) shell is 2.5 times longer and much fainter, in both optical emission lines and the non-thermal radio continuum. The differences between the 2 shells may be attributed to a difference in ISM density on the 2 sides of the nuclear disk. Such an ISM asymmetry exists on larger scales in this heavily disturbed galaxy. At the base of the outflow is a nuclear source, which is the highest surface brightness source in the galaxy at optical wavelengths, We discuss whether the outflow is powered by a low luminosity AGN or a compact nuclear starburst.

Production of Lithium in the Galactic Disk

We examine the evolution of Li in the Galactic disk,basing our model on the compilation of Li v.Fe observations in stars of iron abundance ranging between halo values,which give a baseline for the disk Li abundance,and 0.2 dex above solar.The upper envelope of these observations is taken to represent the locus of minimum stellar Li depletion,and thus to follow the Galactic IS Li abundance.The most striking feature of this envelope is its steep rise between Fe/H ~ -0.4 and -0.2,corresponding to a relatively late epoch.The Li abundance increases by an order of magnitude,from its halo value of logLi ~2.2 to the "current" value of ~3.2 within this narrow range of Fe abundances.It is well known that spallation reactions between CNO and 4He in the ISM produce Li,but models give a nearly tenfold shortfall for this process.The alpha+alpha fusion reaction appeared to yield too much early Li or too little current Li.These failures led to the exploration of stellar sources:supernovae,novae,and the He flash phase in AGB stars.The Li-Fe envelope is a strong constraint on any process.Our models can account for this in the context of disk chemical evolution with a near constant or growing rate of low metallicity gas infall,and a purely interstellar Li source: alpha-alpha fusion.The Li production rate is found to be proportional to the gas expulsion rate from intermediate and low mass stars.Low-energy alphas,emitted by these stars,but accelerated in more energetic processes associated with SNe,or the bow-shocks of stellar winds,can yield the observed abundance and its variation with Fe or O.Our model is consistent with the cosmic ray spectrum in the few MeV range,corrected for solar modulation and with new 7Li/6Li ratios found by Knauth et al.(2000) in the local ISM.

The morphology of the Magellanic Clouds revealed by stars of different age: results from the DENIS survey

The spatial distribution of sources populating different regions of the colour-magnitude diagram (I-J, I) extracted from the DENIS catalogue towards the Magellanic Clouds (DCMC -- Cioni et al. 2000) reveal significantly different morphologies. Each region is associated to a different age group. The Large Magellanic Cloud (LMC) shows an extended circular shape with a prominent, off center bar, a nucleus and irregular spiral arms. The Small Magellanic Cloud shows a perturbated structure with a prominent central concentration of stars. Old and young populations are offset from one another.

Search for clusters at high redshift - I. Candidate Lya emitters near 1138-262 at z=2.2

Radio, optical and X-ray observations of the powerful radio galaxy PKS 1138-262 at z=2.156 have suggested that this galaxy is a massive galaxy in the center of a forming cluster. We have imaged 1138-262 and the surrounding 38 square arcminute field with the Very Large Telescope in a broad band and a narrow band encompassing the redshifted Lya emission. We detect 50 objects with rest equivalent width larger than 20 A and a luminous, highly extended Lya halo around 1138-262. If the radio galaxy is at the center of a forming cluster, these objects are candidate Lya emitting cluster galaxies.

ISO Observations of Pre-Main Sequence and Vega-type Stars

I present an overview of the results obtained by the Infrared Space Observatory (ISO) on circumstellar material in pre-main sequence (PMS) stars. Results obtained for embedded YSOs, Herbig Ae/Be systems and T Tauri stars are reviewed and their connection to the disks around Vega-type systems is discussed. Although the gas contents of the PMS environment will also be discussed briefly, this review will mainly focus on the composition, mineralogy and evolution of dust in these systems, and the results will be compared to those found in other classes of objects, including solar system comets.

A bright X-ray transient towards NGC 5128 (Centaurus A)

During five ROSAT HRI observations in July 1995, a bright X-ray source (designated 1RXH J132519.8-430312) was detected 2.5' south-west of the nucleus of NGC 5128 (Centaurus A) at the outer regions of the elliptical galaxy. At that time it was the brightest point source in the ROSAT HRI field-of-view. All other ROSAT observations made before and after these observations show no trace of the source suggesting that this is a highly variable object. Chandra observations of Cen A made in September 1999 show a source at the ROSAT position which may be the quiescent counterpart of the transient. It is very probable that the transient is located in NGC 5128. Given the existence of a transient source that close to the direction of NGC 5128, all observations (at least in soft X-rays) of Cen A, with instruments of low spatial resolution, must take the presence and variability of this object into account.

What hides at the center of the Sun ?

The Standard Solar Model (SSM) and its basic assumption of an equation of state of perfect gases for the plasmas of its interior is analyzed within the new theoretical framework of QED coherent states. We find that for $\frac{r}{r_{\odot}}\leq 0.3$ the SSM solution is unstable against collapse to a dense, {\it cold} coherent core and as a result a large suppression of $B^{8}$-neutrinos is obtained, apparently solving the long standing solar neutrino problem.

The Global Cosmological Parameters

This lecture note presents a survey of the current status of the determination of the three cosmological parameters, the Hubble constant, the mass density paramater and the cosmological constant, to the closing date of the end of November 1999.

X-rays from Quiescent Low-Mass X-ray Binary Transients

I argue that it is very unlikely that X-rays from quiescent black-hole low-mass X-ray binary transients are emitted by coronae of companion stars. I show that in a simple model in which these X-rays are emitted by an ADAF filling the inner part of an unsteady, dwarf-nova type disc, the X-ray luminosity is correlated with the orbital period. I predict what values of X-ray luminosities from black-hole transient systems should be observed by Chandra and XMM-Newton.

Dynamical processes, element mixing and chemodynamical cycles in dwarf galaxies

Since the chemical evolution of galaxies seems to differ between morphological types and deviates in many details from the standard scenario the question has to be addressed when, how and to what amount metal-enriched ejecta from Supernovae and Planetary Nebulae polute their environment. Since recent observations of dwarf galaxies show no significant metal abundance gradients throughout the galaxies while enhancement of metals happens in isolated HII regions, an effective mixing process has to be assumed. Chemodynamical evolution models can provide a possible explanation by demonstrating that strong evaporation of gas clouds by hot gas and following condensation leads to an almost perfect mixing of the gas. We focus on the different phases of chemodynamical evolution that are experienced by a representative dwarf irregular galaxy model and present a quantitative analysis of the chemodynamical gas flow cycles.

An X-ray burst with strong photospheric radius expansion observed from the source 4U1724-307 in Terzan 2

We present results of the RXTE observations of an extremely intense X-ray burst detected from the source 4U1724-307 in the globular cluster Terzan 2. The burst profile was complex consisting of two precursors and a long primary peak. During the first (strong) precursor the source luminosity, L ~ 3.6 x 10^38 erg/s, was comparable with that measured in the main event. The structure of the profile, its dependence on energy and observed spectral evolution indicated strong photospheric expansion of a neutron star. The effective temperature and radius of the photosphere were estimated from the black body model at different stages of expansion, their correlations and specific features of the profile were analyzed and discussed.

Redshifts of 10 quasar candidates in the field of the rich absorption line quasar QSO 0122-380

We have obtained low resolution (~20 Angstrom FWHM) slit spectra of 10 quasar candidates located within one degree of the z = 2.181 quasar Q0122-380 with the objective of searching for signs of large scale structure matching the intervening rich absorption complexes seen over the redshift range 1.81<z<1.97 toward this object. Of the 8 confirmed quasars, 4 turn out to have redshifts z < 1.8, placing them well in front of the redshift range of interest. Two of the three confirmed quasars at redshift z > 1.8 show no obvious absorption matching that of Q0122-380 at our spectral resolution and signal-to-noise ratio. The third object at a redshift of z = 1.868 displays strong z_{abs} \sim z_{em} absorption systems at z = 1.84 and z = 1.86 and a possibly BAL-like trough at z = 1.76. If not intrinsic in nature, the former two systems could potentially be related to the absorption seen in Q0122-380, albeit over a distance of 50.2 arcmin (D_\perp \simeq 15 h^{-1} Mpc at z = 1.9).

Composition of UHE Cosmic Ray Primaries

Project GRAND presents results on the atomic composition of primary cosmic rays. This is accomplished by determining the average height of primary particles that cause extensive air showers detected by Project GRAND. Particles with a larger cross sectional area, such as iron nuclei, are likely to start an extensive air shower higher in the atmosphere whereas protons, with a smaller cross section, would pass through more air before interacting and thus start showers at lower heights. Such heights can be determined by extrapolating identified muon tracks backward (upward) to determine their height of origin (Gress et al., 1997). Since muons are from the top, hadronic part of the shower, they are a good estimator for the beginning of the shower. The data for this study were taken during the previous year with 20 million shower events.

Redshift Distortions and Clustering in the PSCz Survey

We have constrained the redshift-distortion parameter $β\equiv Ω^{0.6}/b$ and the real-space power spectrum of the IRAS PSCz survey using a spherical-harmonic redshift-distortion analysis combined with a data compression method which is designed to deal with correlated parameters. Our latest result, $β=0.4 \pm 0.1$, strongly rules out $β=1$.

Electromagnetic Radiation and Motion of Dust Particle - A Simple Model

A simple model for motion of dust particle (meteoroid) under the action of (solar) electromagnetic radiation is presented. The particle of the form of plane mirror is taken into account and exact analytical results are presented. As for long-term orbital evolution, particle may spiral outwards the central body (Sun); initial conditions are important. As a consequence, motion of real dust particles may differ from that generally considered.

Monte Carlo Predictions of Far-Infrared Emission from Spiral Galaxies

We present simulations of Far Infrared (FIR) emission by dust in spiral galaxies, based on the Monte Carlo radiative transfer code of Bianchi, Ferrara & Giovanardi (1996). The radiative transfer is carried out at several wavelength in the Ultraviolet, optical and Near Infrared, to cover the range of the stellar Spectral Energy Distribution (SED). Together with the images of the galactic model, a map of the energy absorbed by dust is produced. Using Galactic dust properties, the spatial distribution of dust temperature is derived under the assumption of thermal equilibrium. A correction is applied for non-equilibrium emission in the Mid Infrared. Images of dust emission can then be produced at any wavelength in the FIR.
We show the application of the model to the spiral galaxy NGC 6946. The observed stellar SED is used as input and models are produced for different star-dust geometries. It is found that only optically thick dust disks can reproduce the observed amount of FIR radiation. However, it is not possible to reproduce the large FIR scalelength suggested by recent observation of spirals at 200 um, even when the scalelength of the dust disk is larger than that for stars. Optically thin models have ratios of optical/FIR scalelengths closer to the 200um observations, but with smaller absolute scalelengths than optically thick cases. The modelled temperature distributions are compatible with observations of the Galaxy and other spirals. We finally discuss the approximations of the model and the impact of a clumpy stellar and dust structure on the FIR simulations.

Newtonian Limit of Induced Gravity

We discuss the weak-field limit of induced gravity and show that results directly depend on the coupling and self-interaction potential of the scalar field. A static spherically symmetric exact solution is found and its conformal properties are studied. As an application, it is shown that the light deflection angle and the microlensing quantities can be parametrized by the coupling of the theory.

The Intergalactic Medium

About half a million years after the Big Bang, the ever-fading cosmic blackbody radiation cooled below 3000 K and shifted first into the infrared and then into the radio, and the smooth baryonic plasma that filled the Universe became neutral. The Universe then entered a ``dark age'' which persisted until the first cosmic structures collapsed into gravitationally-bound systems, and evolved into stars, galaxies, and black holes that lit up the Universe again. Some time between redshift of 7 and 15, stars within protogalaxies created the first heavy elements; these systems, together perhaps with an early population of quasars, generated the ultraviolet radiation that reheated and reionized the cosmos. The history of the Universe during and soon after these crucial formative stages is recorded in the all-pervading intergalactic medium (IGM), which is believed to contain most of the ordinary baryonic material left over from the Big Bang. Throughout the epoch of structure formation, the IGM becomes clumpy and acquires peculiar motions under the influence of gravity, and acts as a source for the gas that gets accreted, cools, and forms stars within galaxies, and as a sink for the metal enriched material, energy, and radiation which they eject. Observations of absorption lines in quasar spectra at redshifts up to 5 provide invaluable insight into the chemical composition of the IGM and primordial density fluctuation spectrum of some of the earliest formed cosmological structures, as well as of the ultraviolet background radiation that ionizes them.

Foreground and background dust in star cluster directions

This paper compares reddening values E(B-V) derived from the stellar content of 103 old open clusters and 147 globular clusters of the Milky Way with those derived from DIRBE/IRAS 100 micron dust emission in the same directions. Star clusters at |b|> 20 show comparable reddening values between the two methods, in agreement with the fact that most of them are located beyond the disk dust layer. For very low galactic latitude lines of sight, differences occur in the sense that DIRBE/IRAS reddening values can be substantially larger, suggesting effects due to the depth distribution of the dust. The differences appear to arise from dust in the background of the clusters consistent with a dust layer where important extinction occurs up to distances from the Plane of ~ 300 pc. For 3 % of the sample a significant background dust contribution might be explained by higher dust clouds. We find evidence that the Milky Way dust lane and higher dust clouds are similar to those of several edge-on spiral galaxies recently studied in detail by means of CCD imaging.

Introducing ZEUS-MP: A 3D, Parallel, Multiphysics Code for Astrophysical Fluid Dynamics

We describe ZEUS-MP: a Multi-Physics, Massively-Parallel, Message-Passing code for astrophysical fluid dynamics simulations in 3 dimensions. ZEUS-MP is a follow-on to the sequential ZEUS-2D and ZEUS-3D codes developed and disseminated by the Laboratory for Computational Astrophysics (lca.ncsa.uiuc.edu) at NCSA. V1.0 released 1/1/2000 includes the following physics modules: ideal hydrodynamics, ideal MHD, and self-gravity. Future releases will include flux-limited radiation diffusion, thermal heat conduction, two-temperature plasma, and heating and cooling functions. The covariant equations are cast on a moving Eulerian grid with Cartesian, cylindrical, and spherical polar coordinates currently supported. Parallelization is done by domain decomposition and implemented in F77 and MPI. The code is portable across a wide range of platforms from networks of workstations to massively parallel processors. Some parallel performance results are presented as well as an application to turbulent star formation.

Cosmic strings in the age of Boomerang

We show how two simple modifications to the standard cosmic string scenario for structure formation compare to the recently released Boomerang data set. Namely we consider pure string closed models and mixed models where both inflation and strings are responsible for the perturbations. In the closed models we find that pure string models would require a universe with roughly $Ω_M=0.8$, $Ω_Λ=1.6$ to agree with the peak position revealed by the data and in agreement with the SNIa data. In the hybrid scenario with local strings we find that we require even more tilt and baryon content ($n_s\sim 0.8$, $Ω_b=0.08$, $H_0=70$) to match the data than with pure inflation models. The case with global strings fares better with a standard period of $Λ$CDM inflation and a $\sim30%$ contribution from strings being in good agreement with the data.

The neutrino star in the bulk Universe

Motivated by the Kaluza-Klein theory with large extra spacetime dimensions the neutrino star built from the massive sterile neutrinos core and the massless brane neutrinos envelope is presented. The six - dimensional compactification scale ~15 MeV gives the maximal neutrino mass M_max = 2.3 10^4 of the solar mass with the radius R_max = 1.2 10^6 km . The maximal neutrino star parameters varies with temperature. In the limit of the neutrino ball approximation the maximal sterile neutrino star is M_max = 1.1 10^6 of the solar mass.

Semiclassical planetology : some results

The aim of this lecture is to review the basic physical ideas and some planetological results of the semiclassical theory of dense matter proposed by P.Savic and R.Kasanin

X-ray reprocessing in Narrow-Line Seyfert 1 Galaxies: Ton S180 and Ark 564

We present the results of spectral analysis of the ASCA data for the Narrow-Line Seyfert 1 galaxy (NLS1) Ton S180 and simultaneous ASCA and RXTE data modelling for the NLS1 Ark 564. We model both the primary and reflected continuum as well as the iron K alpha line, the energy of which depends on the ionization state of the reprocessor. We show that the reprocessing matter is mildly ionized, and we find the soft to hard luminosity ratio to be about 2.5. The accretion rate approximately corresponds to the Eddington limit value.

BLR velocities in optically and X-ray selected AGN samples

We have analyzed optical spectra of 473 X-ray and 235 optically selected AGNs, to study their emission line properties. We present results of an analysis of the H-beta linewidths. We find that the linewidth distribution of quasars is shifted towards higher velocities (<v>=4300 km s-1) compared to the distribution of Sy 1s (<v>=3000 km s-1). There are no Narrow Line Quasars, i.e. there are no AGNs with quasar luminosities and FWHM(H-beta) < 2000 km s-1. NLSy1s comprise 20-30 per cent of the AGN population at faint absolute magnitudes (MB>-22), irrespective of the selection method. In the RASS sample we find Gamma [0.1-2.4 keV] < 3.3. The Gamma vs. FWHM(H-beta) distribution for Sy 1 galaxies is consistent with previous work. For QSOs the spectral index also flattens with increasing FWHM(H-beta), but they have larger linewidths than Seyfert 1s.

X-ray Fluctuations from the Slim Disk

The responses of perturbations added into the optically thick, advection-dominated accretion disk (ADAD), what we call the slim disk (SD), are investigated through numerical simulations. Although it is proposed that the SD is thermally stable, I find that a perturbation added into the disk is not rapidly damped and moves through the disk in its free-fall time. After the perturbation moves, the global structure of the disk does not vary very much. These facts may account for the substantial variability of the X-ray luminosities of stellar super-luminal jet sources (SLJSs) and Narrow-Line Seyfert 1s (NLS1s).

Optical Monitoring of NLS1s at the Wise Observatory

We report the preliminary results of a spectrophotometric monitoring program of Narrow-Line Seyfert 1 galaxies conducted at the Wise Observatory in 1999. The data we collected will be used to evaluate the line-to-continuum time lag in an attempt to test the idea that the accretion rate in NLS1s is larger than in other Seyfert 1 galaxies.

Unravelling Active Galactic Nuclei

A complete flat-spectrum radio-loud sample of AGN includes a significant fraction of Seyfert-like AGN including a NLS1. Analysis of their optical spectra suggests that the reddest continuum colours are either associated with AGN in nearby resolved galaxies, or distant quasars showing relatively narrow permitted emission lines.

Discovery of a narrow line Seyfert 1 galaxy

We have discovered a Narrow-Line Seyfert 1 (NLS1) galaxy and identified it with an ultrasoft X-ray source RX 215319-1514 detected with ROSAT. We present its X-ray and optical spectral characteristics. Its redshift is found to be 0.0778+-0.0002. Its optical spectrum shows fairly strong Fe II emission lines, and its X-ray spectrum has an extremely steep power-law index of Gamma greater/equal 4, making it an extremely interesting example of this class of AGNs. No low-energy absorption or variability is observed. The soft X-ray (0.1-2.0 keV) luminosity is estimated to be 3.4-12.5 times 1e43 erg/s, depending on the spectral model.

1E 0117.2-2837 and the NLR of Narrow-Line Seyfert 1 galaxies

Based on photoionization calculations we present a study of the NLR emission line ratios of Narrow-line Seyfert 1 (NLS1) galaxies. In particular, we investigate the influence of different EUV - soft-X-ray spectral shapes (a giant soft excess, a steep X-ray powerlaw, the presence of a warm absorber) and NLR cloud properties (density, abundances, distance from the continuum source) on the predicted optical emission-line ratios like [OIII] and [FeXIV].

New NLS1 galaxies detected among RASS galaxies

Six Narrow-Line Seyfert 1 galaxies have been discovered in optical follow-up spectroscopy of nuclei of galaxies selected for their high X-ray flux in the ROSAT All Sky Survey. We give X-ray and optical parameters of the sources and show optical spectra.

The response of the X-ray luminosity to the interaction strength in Seyfert 1 & 2 galaxies

We have correlated a sample of 99 Seyfert 1 and 98 Seyfert 2 (Rafanelli et al., 1995) interacting galaxies with the survey and pointed ROSAT data and have detected 91 Seyferts 1 and 47 Seyfert 2s in the X-ray band. We have performed spectral and timing analysis of the X-ray detected sources, and we have examined the relation of the X-ray luminosity L_X with the interaction strength Q.

Modelling of the X-ray broad absorption features in Narrow-Line Seyfert 1s

We investigate the origin of the broad absorption features detected near 1-1.4 keV in several Narrow Line Seyfert 1 galaxies, by modelling the absorbing medium with various physical parameters, using the ionization code PEGAS. The observed properties of the X-ray absorption features can be reproduced by taking into account the peculiar soft X-ray excess which is well fitted by a blackbody plus an underlying power law. We equally stress that the emission coming from the absorbing medium (related to the covering factor) has a strong influence on the resulting X-ray spectrum, in particular on the apparent position and depth of the absorption features. A non-solar iron abundance may be required to explain the observed deep absorption. We also investigate the influence of an additional collisional ionization process (hybrid case) on the predicted absorption features.

The enigmatic soft X-ray NLS1 RX J0134.2-4258

We report the discovery and analysis of the follow-up ROSAT pointed observation, an ASCA observation and optical and radio observations of the enigmatic Narrow-Line Seyfert 1 galaxy RX J0134.2-4258. While its spectrum was one of the softest observed from an AGN during the ROSAT All-Sky Survey, its spectrum was found to be dramatically harder during a pointed observation although the count rate remained constant. In the pointed observation we found that the spectrum is softer when it is fainter, and spectral fitting demonstrates that it is the hard component that is variable. The ASCA observation confirms the presence of a hard X-ray power law, the slope of which is rather flat compared with other NLS1s. Survey and follow-up radio observations reveal that RX J0134.2-4258 is also unusual in that it is a member of the rare class of radio-loud NLS1s, and, with R=71, it holds the current record for the largest radio-to-optical ratio in NLS1s. We discuss possible scenarios to explain its strange behaviour.

Properties of Warm absorbers in Narrow-Line Seyfert 1 galaxies

We present a study of the X-ray properties of several NLS1 galaxies, focusing on their warm absorbers. In the first part, we discuss properties of dusty and dust-free warm absorbers in NLS1s, and study their potential contribution to high-ionization optical iron lines. In the second part, we summarize our work on the exceptional spectral variability of the NLS1 galaxy RX J0134.3-4258 (from Gamma about -4.4 in the ROSAT all-sky survey observation, to about -2.2 in our subsequent pointed observation).

The Magnetic Field Sign Reversal and Evolution of Rossby and Alfven Waves Induced by Velocity Shear Oscillations on the Sun

The behaviour of the toroidal and meridional components of the solar large-scale magnetic field and linear Alfven and Rossby waves during solar activity cycles and bi-annual time periods are theoretically investigated in this work. We consider the case of periodical velocity shear with bi-annual oscillation period . The large-scale magnetic field toroidal and meridional components are obtained as harmonic functions of the time. The sign reversal of these magnetic field components is studied. The numerical simulations show that, due to the velocity shear oscillations, the toroidal or meridional component of the large-scale magnetic field reverses its sign three times in one of the hemispheres (northern or southern) of the Sun, during the solar activity cycle 23. According to our results the appearance of velocity shear oscillations leads to the modulation of the magnetic field 22-year period oscillations by the bi-annual ones. The presented model is applicable for investigation of the magnetic field evolution at the base of convection zone as well as for understanding the magnetic field properties in the upper solar atmosphere. The excitement of the linear Rossby and Alfven waves in the shear layer at the base of the convection zone is also considered. The periodical impulsive growth is characteristic to the energy density of Alfven and Rossby waves and they propagate as localized in time powerful pulses. Such behavior of waves well explains mechanisms of the solar flare excitement and activity.

Studies of the high luminosity quasar, PDS 456

X-ray and multi-wavelength observations of the most luminous known local (z<0.3) AGN, the recently discovered radio-quiet quasar PDS 456, are presented. The spectral energy distribution shows that PDS 456 has a bolometric luminosity of 1e47 erg/s, peaking in the UV. The X-ray spectrum obtained by ASCA and RXTE shows considerable complexity. The most striking feature observed is a deep, highly-ionised, iron K edge (8.7 keV, rest-frame), originating via reprocessing from highly ionised material, possibly the inner accretion disk. PDS 456 was found to be remarkably variable for its luminosity; in one flare the X-ray flux doubled in just about 15 ksec. If confirmed this would be an unprecedented event in a high-luminosity source, with a light-crossing time corresponding to about 2RS. The implications are that either flaring occurs within the very central regions, or else that PDS 456 is a super-Eddington or relativistically beamed system.

LWS spectroscopy of the luminous Blue Compact Galaxy Haro 11

We present far infrared (FIR) spectroscopy of the luminous blue compact galaxy (BCG) Haro 11 (ESO 350-IG38) obtained with the ISO Long Wavelength Spectrometer (LWS) in low resolution mode. This metal poor dwarf merger is an extremely hot IRAS source with a high [CII]158um/CO(1-0) flux ratio. We discuss the balance between dust and line cooling in the photodissociated regions (PDR), in particular the role of the [CII] line, and derive the basic properties of the PDR gas. While samples of other starburst galaxies show a correlation between the [CII]/FIR flux ratio and the IRAS f60/f100 ratio, Haro 11 deviates significantly from this relationship being brighter in [CII] than average. We propose that the relationship is caused by an increasing optical depth with increasing IRAS temperature but that the low metallicity and the extreme starburst properties of Haro 11 allow the medium to be thin despite its high f60/f100 ratio, explaining the [CII] excess. This leaves room for a more optimistic view on the possibilities to detect massive starforming mergers at high redshifts, using the [CII] line.

Abundance evolution of intermediate mass elements (C to Zn) in the Milky Way halo and disk

We present a comprehensive study of the evolution of the abundances of intermediate mass elements, from C to Zn, in the Milky Way halo and in the local disk. We use a consistent model to describe the evolution of those two galactic subsystems. The halo and the disk are assumed to evolve independently, both starting with gas of primordial composition, and in different ways: strong outflow is assumed to take place during the $\sim$1 Gyr of the halo formation, while the disk is built by slowly infalling gas. This description of the halo+disk evolution can correctly account for the main observational constraints (at least in the framework of simple models of galactic chemical evolution). We utilise then metallicity dependant yields to study the evolution of all elements from C and Zn. Comparing our results to an extensive body of observational data (including very recent ones), we are able to make a critical analysis of the successes and shortcomings of current yields of massive stars. Finally, we discuss qualitatively some possible ways to interpret the recent data on oxygen vs iron, which suggest that oxygen behaves differently from the other alpha-elements.

Possible Detection of Gamma Ray Air Showers in Coincidence with BATSE Gamma Ray Bursts

Project GRAND presents the results of a search for coincident high-energy gamma ray events in the direction and at the time of nine Gamma Ray Bursts (GRBs) detected by BATSE. A gamma ray has a non-negligible hadron production cross section; for each gamma ray of energy of 100 GeV, there are 0.015 muons which reach detection level (Fasso & Poirier, 1999). These muons are identified and their angles are measured in stations of eight planes of proportional wire chambers (PWCs). A 50 mm steel plate above the bottom pair of planes is used to distinguish muons from electrons. The mean angular resolution is 0.26 degrees over a +/- 61 degree range in the XZ and YZ planes. The BATSE GRB catalogue is examined for bursts which are near zenith for Project GRAND. The geometrical acceptance is calculated for each of these events. The product is then taken of the GRB flux and GRAND's geometrical acceptance. The nine sources with the best combination of detection efficiency and BATSE's intensity are selected to be examined in the data. The most significant detection of these nine sources is at a statistical significance of +3.7 sigma; this is also the GRB with the highest product of GRB flux and geometrical acceptance.

Simulated Cluster Archive: A Computational Catalog of X-Ray Clusters in a Lambda-CDM Universe

We have simulated the evolution of a large sample of X-ray clusters in a Lambda-CDM universe at high spatial resolution using adaptive mesh refinement and placed the results in an online archive for public access. The Simulated Cluster Archive website http://sca.ncsa.uiuc.edu provides tools for interactive 2D and 3D analysis of gas and dark matter fields, X-ray and SZ imaging, and data export. We encourage community use and solicit their feedback.

HST revisits the proper motion of PSR B0656+14

We report the first successful measurement (with HST/WFPC2) of a significant proper motion for a V~ 25 object which we had proposed as the optical counterpart of the radio pulsar PSR B0656+14. The yearly displacement of 43+/- 2 mas is highly significant and, while in agreement with early, rougher, radio measurements, stands out for its vastly improved accuracy. Together with the report of a possible optical pulsation (Shearer et al. 1998), we regard this result as the final proof of the optical identification of PSR B0656+14.

Observational Constraints on the Theory of the IMF

Observational constraints on the theory of the IMF are reviewed. These observations include the new result that star formation is very rapid, usually going from start to finish in only 1 or 2 dynamical times on a wide range of scales. This result, combined with the observation that the IMF is independent of cluster density over a factor of several hundred, implies that protostar coagulation during orbital motions in a cloud are not important for the IMF: there is not enough time. The observation that the IMF in individual clusters is about the same as the IMF in whole galaxies implies that stars of all masses form randomly in self-gravitating clouds of all masses. There cannot be a sequence of stellar masses in a cluster, based on stirring or heating for example, where the largest star that forms keeps increasing until the cloud is destroyed. The uniformity of the IMF over time and space argues for a process that is independent of specific properties of molecular clouds. This uniformity, along with the common observation of young stars in hierarchical clusters that resemble the structures of interstellar gas, suggests that the IMF, at least in the power law range, is a by-product of turbulence. Detailed physical processes may affect the turnover at low mass, but even this may have a universal character arising from a combination of turbulence-induced variations in the local cloud properties, and fragmentation in unstable cloud pieces.

Polarization in Sagittarius A*

We summarize the current state of polarization observations of Sagittarius A*, the compact radio source and supermassive black hole candidate in the Galactic Center. These observations are providing new tools for understanding accretion disks, jets and their environments. Linear polarization observations have shown that Sgr A* is unpolarized at frequencies as high as 86 GHz. However, recent single-dish observations indicate that Sgr A* may have strong linear polarization at frequencies higher than 150 GHz. Circular polarization, which was recently discovered in Sgr A*, is detectable to frequencies as high as 43 GHz. It is strongly variable on a 10-day timescale, with the degree of variability increasing with frequency. At low frequencies, fractional circular polarization is stable over nearly 20 years. We discuss some of the possible models for the origin of the circular polarization.

Three Dimensional Radiative Transfer

Radiative Transfer (RT) effects play a crucial role in the thermal history of the intergalactic medium. Here I discuss recent advances in the development of numerical methods that introduce RT to cosmological hydrodynamics. These methods can also readily be applied to time dependent problems on interstellar and galactic scales.

Gamma-ray bursts from internal shocks in a relativistic wind: an hydrodynamical study

The internal shock model for gamma-ray bursts involves shocks taking place in a relativistic wind with a very inhomogeneous initial distribution of the Lorentz factor. We have developed a 1D lagrangian hydrocode to follow the evolution of such a wind and the results we have obtained are compared to those of a simpler model presented in a recent paper (Daigne & Mochkovitch 1998) where all pressure waves are suppressed in the wind so that shells with different velocities only interact by direct collisions. The detailed hydrodynamical calculation essentially confirms the conclusion of the simple model: the main temporal and spectral properties of gamma-ray bursts can be reproduced by internal shocks in a relativistic wind.

ISOPHOT observations of 3CR quasars and radio galaxies

In order to check for consistency with the radio-loud AGN unification scheme, ISOPHOT data obtained for two small sets of intermediate redshift steep-spectrum 3CR radio galaxies and quasars are being examined. Supplementary submillimeter and centimeter radio data for the quasars are also taken into account, in order to assess the magnitude of any beamed nonthermal radiation. The fact that we find broad-lined objects to be somewhat more luminous in their far-infrared output than narrow-lined objects, hints at a contradiction to the unification scheme. However, as the sample objects are not particularly well matched, the sample size is small, and the FIR radiation may still be partly anisotropic, this evidence is, at the moment, weak.

Normal Galaxies in the Infrared

This review addresses what can be learned from infrared observations about galaxies powered predominantly by star formation. Infrared techniques mostly probe the interstellar medium of galaxies, yielding physical and chemical information on the medium out of which stars form, which is in turn affected by those stars. Methods traditionally used in the study of such normal galaxies at wavelengths longer than 3 microns are described, and major questions currently pursued in the field are outlined. The most prominent results from the IRAS survey are reviewed. Contributions by ISO in the field of broad-band photometry are then presented, followed by ISO results in spectrospcopy. Normal galaxy studies not directly concerned with the ISM are quickly reviewed. The outlook and challenges in pursuing the interpretation of infrared data on the ISM are discussed.

First correlation between compact object and circumstellar disk in the Be/X-ray binaries

A remarkable correlation between the H-alpha emission line and the radio behaviour of LSI+61 303 (V615 Cas, GT 0236+610) over its 4 yr modulation is discovered. The radio outburst peak is shifted by a quarter of the 4 yr modulation period (about 400 days) with respect to the equivalent width of the H-alpha emission line variability. The onset of the LSI+61 303 radio outbursts varies in phase with the changes of the H-alpha emission line, at least during the increase of H-alpha equivalent width. This is the first clear correlation between the emission associated to the compact object and the Be circumstellar disk in a Be/X-ray binary system.

Was the Whirlpool (M51) a Spiral Galaxy before the Encounter with the Companion NGC 5195?

Using the B-I color index in the radial photometry of M51, applied to defined azimuthal sectors, we reveals asymmetries in the shape of the density pattern of the galactic arms. The anomalous shape is present only in the side close to the companion and not in the far side. Two more non-interacting check-spirals do not show similar behaviour. The anomalous sawtooth-like shape is similar to that produced by a progressive wave propagating in a preexisting density pattern. In this hypothesis we have to conclude that the galaxy M51 could be a spiral galaxy formerly, i.e. before the encounter with the companion.

Redshift estimation from low-resolution prism SEDs with an NGST MOS

We discuss the utility of a low resolution prism as a component of a Multi-Object Spectrometer for NASA's proposed Next Generation Space Telescope (NGST). Low resolution prism spectroscopy permits simultaneous observation of the 0.6-5micron wavelength regime at R~50. To such data we can apply the modern techniques in spectral energy distribution (SED) fitting to determine source redshifts, sometimes called ``photometric redshifts''. Low resolution prism observations of galaxy SED's provide a significant advantage over multi-filter observations for any realistic observing strategy, and we have performed extensive simulations to quantify it. The advantage of the prism is largest in the regime of faint (K_AB>30) objects at high redshift (z>4), the primary discovery space of NGST. Many important objects will be too faint for follow up at higher spectral resolution, so prism observations are the optimal technique to study them. Prism observations also reduce the contamination of high redshift samples by lower redshift interlopers.

Magnetic fields around black holes

The electromagnetic field near a rotating black hole is being explored in educational style here. By employing analytic solutions for electrovacuum fields, we plot the surfaces of constant flux and we show how the field is dragged around the black hole by purely geometrical effects of the strong gravitational field. We visualize the structure of magnetic lines and we also propose possible astrophysical applications of more realistic situations involving the presence of plasma: The entangled and twisted field lines result in reconnection processes which accelerate the particles injected into the vicinity of the black hole. Such acceleration mechanisms of the electromagnetic origin are considered as a possible source of high-speed outflows emerging from numerous nuclei of galaxies where black holes reside.

Extremely High Energy and Violation of Lorentz Invariance

Extremely high-energy(EHE) cosmic rays might provide a chance to check a violation of the Lorentz symmetry of spacetime. Some theoretical consideration is described about why the Lorentz symmetry might break-down in EHE phenomena in this universe. Some models which introduce the violation of the Lorentz symmetry will be discussed.

New type astrophysical solution to the solar neutrino problems and its predicitons to the SNO

The anomalously slow rotation of the solar core is just one from a remarkable lists of fundamental indications showing that the solar core is somehow coupled to the surface activity cycle. On the other hand, the atmospheric, LSND and solar neutrino problems are not consistent, therefore one or more of the neutrino experiments must be attributed - at least in part - to some phenomena other than neutrino oscillations, or a fourth neutrino is required. We use the luminosity constraint in a general case not considered yet, taking into account nuclear reactions occurring in small hot bubbles indicated to be present in the solar core (Grandpierre, 2000). The dynamic solar model fit the observed neutrino fluxes within one-and-half sigma even without oscillations. This fit is shown to be better than the present day MSW and VAC fits. An attracting perspective is obtained for a simultaneous solution of the neutrino problems and the solar core-related astrophysical problems. Predictions of the dynamic solar model are presented for the SNO measurements.

Doubling the number of Be/X-ray binaries in the SMC

A correlation of X-ray source and Halpha emission-line object catalogues in the Small Magellanic Cloud (SMC) shows that more than two thirds of the optically identified Be stars in Be/X-ray binaries are found as emission-line objects in the catalogues. On the basis of this result we propose up to 25 X-ray sources mainly from recent ROSAT catalogues as new Be/X-ray binaries and give their likely optical counterparts. Also for the five yet unidentified X-ray pulsars in the SMC we propose emission-line stars as counterparts. This more than doubles the number of known high mass X-ray binary systems in this nearby galaxy. The spatial distribution of the new candidates is similar to that of the already identified Be/X-ray binaries with a strong concentration along the SMC main body and some systems in the eastern wing. The new candidates contribute mainly to the low-luminosity end of the X-ray luminosity distribution of Be/X-ray binaries. A comparison with the luminosity distribution in the Milky Way reveals no significant differences at the high-luminosity end and the large number of low-luminosity systems in the SMC suggests that many such systems may still be undetected in the Galaxy. The overall ratio of known Be to OB supergiant X-ray binaries in the SMC is an order of magnitude larger than in the Galaxy, however, might show spatial variations. While in the eastern wing the ratio is comparable to that in the Galaxy no supergiant X-ray binary is currently known in the main body of the SMC. Possible explanations include a different star formation history over the last ~15 My.

IR-TF Relation In The Zone Of Avoidance With 2MASS

Using the Tully-Fisher relation, one can map the peculiar velocity field and estimate the mass in regions such as the Great Attractor. 2MASS is surveying the full sky in J, H and K bands and has the great advantage that it allows us to detect galaxies more uniformly to lower Galactic latitude than optical surveys. This study shows the feasibility of using 2MASS and the TF relation to probe large scale structure. We found that (i) we can use axis ratio $b/a$ up to 0.5; (ii) intrinsic extinction is present (up to 0.5mag at J, 0.1 mag at K); (iii) the zero-point of the TF relation is independent of the 2MASS magnitude measurement and is consistent with the HST Key-Project value; (iv) the 2MASS K-band 20th mag/arcsec$^2$ isophotal aperture magnitude produces the best TF relation; and (v) there is no type dependence of the residuals

E&F White conference on Radio Frequency Interference Mitigation Strategies

The conference brought together expertise on a range of interference mitigation techniques from CSIRO, Australian and international industry and universities. Key goals were to: enhance the understanding of techniques and their inter-relationship, increase awareness of advanced technologies such as software radios and photonics, and foster a cooperative approach to the development of interference mitigation techniques. The foremost application in mind was the square kilometre array (SKA) and the need to find ways to develop an hierarchical scheme for removing unwanted signals from astronomical data. This paper gives an overview of the topics discussed at the conference and summarises some of the key ideas and results that were presented.
Many of the interference challenges we face can be overcome with technical solutions. There will always be a place for regulatory and legal approaches to spectrum management, but too much reliance has been placed on these in the past. The strategy of avoidance has worked well in the past and will continue to be useful in the future, but is now limited by the growth of space based communications systems, which are visible everywhere on Earth. There is no technical solution which is likely to provide a silver bullet. Rather a hierarchical approach will be required, combining a range of techniques. We have just begun exploring technical solutions and their toxicity to astronomical data. We need to continue on this path, determining which techniques are best and how they interact in order to develop a flexible and powerful system for interference suppression.

Evidence for a two-armed spiral in the Milky Way

Emission profiles of the Galactic plane in K and at $240\micron$ are presented, and features associated with the tangents of the spiral arms are identified. In the K band, which traces stellar emission and suffers little from absorbtion, features associated with the arm tangents indicate that a two-armed logarithmic spiral dominates the nonaxisymmetric structure of the Milky Way. In contrast, the $240\micron$ emission from dust entrained in the interstellar gas is consistent with a four-armed model, in concordance with radio data and optical spiral tracers. This suggests that the non-axisymmetric mass perturbation responsible for the four-armed spiral structure in the gas has a two rather than four-armed structure.

On the origin of the difference between the runaway velocities of the OB-supergiant X-ray Binaries and the Be/X-ray Binaries

The recent finding by Chevalier & Ilovaisky (1998) that OB-supergiant X-ray binaries have relatively large runaway velocities whereas Be/X-ray binaries have low runaway velocities, provides confirmation of the current models for the formation of these two types of systems. These predict a difference in runaway velocity of an order of magnitude. This difference basically results from the variation of the fractional helium core mass as a function of stellar mass, in combination with the conservation of orbital angular momentum during the mass transfer phase that preceded the formation of the compact object in the system. This combination results into: (i) Systematically narrower pre-supernova orbits in the OB-supergiant systems than in the Be-systems, and (ii) A larger fractional amount of mass ejected in the supernovae in high-mass systems relative to systems of lower mass. Regardless of possible kick velocities imparted to neutron stars at birth, this combination leads to a considerable difference in average runaway velocity between these two groups. The observed low runaway velocities of the Be/X-ray binaries confirm that in most cases not more than 1 to 2Msun was ejected in the supernovae that produced their neutron stars. This, in combination with the --on average-- large orbital eccentricities of these systems, indicates that their neutron stars must have received a velocity kick in the range 60 - 250 km/s at birth.

Our Second Look at the Immature Universe: The Infrared View

The long-awaited promise of studying high-redshift galaxies at long wavelengths has been partially eclipsed by progress at optical wavelengths, mostly because of the number of available pixels. It is nonetheless essential to study optically selected high-redshift galaxies at wavelengths longward of 1\mic, for several reasons. One of the indications from such studies to date is that interstellar dust (as an absorber of UV photons and re-emitter of IR photons) plays an energetically significant role at high redshifts, just as it does in present-day star-forming galaxies. This also provides a strong motivation for new searches which detect high-redshift galaxies based on IR observations. Some of these are already succeeding in clarifying our view of galaxy evolution in the Immature Universe.

The Cosmological Constant Problems (Talk given at Dark Matter 2000, February, 2000)

The old cosmological constant problem is to understand why the vacuum energy is so small; the new problem is to understand why it is comparable to the present mass density. Several approaches to these problems are reviewed. Quintessence does not help with either; anthropic considerations offer a possibility of solving both. In theories with a scalar field that takes random initial values, the anthropic principle may apply to the cosmological constant, but probably to nothing else.

ORFEUS II echelle spectra : H_2 measurements in the Magellanic Clouds

More than 20 years after the Copernicus satellite, ORFEUS allows the investigation of molecular hydrogen (H_2) in the diffuse interstellar medium by way of FUV absorption spectroscopy once again. This time, targets in the Magellanic Clouds were also observed, allowing the first investigation of cold H_2 in a metal-poor environment outside the Milky Way disk. This paper presents new H_2 measurements in LMC gas along the lines of sight toward HD 269698 (Sk 67 166), HD 269546 (Sk -68 82) and HD 36402 (Sk 67 104) and summarizes the ORFEUS H_2 measurements in the the Magellanic Clouds. For seven lines of sight we investigate correlations between N(H I), N(H_2), E(B-V) and compare the results with H_2 observations in the Milky Way disk. We find that the abundance of H_2 is low in comparison to the total gas quantity and speculate that the fraction of hydrogen in molecular form is limited by the lower dust content of the Magellanic Clouds.

First results of UVES at VLT: abundancesin the Sgr dSph

Two giants of the Sagittarius dwarf spheroidal have been observed with the UVES spectrograph on the ESO 8.2m Kueyen telescope, during the commissioning of the instrument. Sgr 139 has [Fe/H]=-0.28 and Sgr 143 [Fe/H]=-0.21, these values are considerably higher than photometric estimates of the metallicity of the main population of Sgr. We derived abundances for O, Na, Mg, Al, Si, Ca, Sc, Ti, V, Cr, Mn, Co, Ni, Cu, Y, Ba, La, Ce, Nd and Eu; the abundance ratios found are essentially solar with a few exceptions: Na shows a strong overdeficiency, the heavy elements Ba to Eu, are overabundant, while Y is underabundat. The high metallicity derived implies that the Sgr galaxy has experienced a high level of chemical processing. The stars had been selected to be representative of the two main stellar populations of Sagittarius, however, contrary to what expected from the photometry, the two stars show a very similar chemical composition. We argue that the most likely explanation for the difference in the photometry of the two stars is a different distance, Sgr 143 being about 2Kpc nearer than Sgr 139. This result suggests that the interpretation of colour -- magnitude diagrams of Sgr is more complex than previously thought and the effect of the line of sight depth should not be neglected. It also shows that spectroscopic abundances are required for a correct interpretation of Sgr populations.

BeppoSAX discovery of a new Seyfert 2 galaxy: 1SAXJ2234.8-2541

In the present work we report the BeppoSAX serendipitous discovery of the type 2 AGN 1SAXJ2234.8-2541 in the MECS field of view when pointing at the Seyfert 2 galaxy NGC7314. The source is optical identified with the bright (m_B=14.40) galaxy ESO533-G50 at redshift z=0.026. The source is clearly detected at energies above 4 keV but barely visible below this energy implying heavy obscuration intrinsic to the source. Spectral analysis indicates a column density of the order of 2-3 x 10^(23) cm^-2$ and a power law photon index compatible with values often seen in active galaxies. These X-ray characteristics suggest a Seyfert 2 classification for 1SAXJ2234.8-2541. Subsequent spectroscopy of the optical conterpart, ESO533-G50, performed with the ESO 1.52m telescope at La Silla Observatory, confirms the type 2 nature of this source and therefore its identification with the X-ray source. We also report the marginal detection of an iron line centered at 7.29 +/- 0.47 keV and having an equivalent width of 464 (+636 -398) eV; although marginal, this result is indicative of the presence of warm material in the source. If instead the line is associated to cold material, we estimate an upper limit to its equivalent width of 290 eV. The overall characteristics of 1SAXJ2234.8-2541 strongly suggest that the source is Compton thin.

Pulsational instability domain of Delta Scuti variables

An updated theoretical instability domain of the Delta Scuti star models in the Hertzsprung-Russell diagram, in the log g - log Teff diagram and in diagrams for dereddened uvby-beta photometric indices is presented. The sensitivity of both the position of the evolutionary tracks and the Blue Edge of the instability domain to changes in the chemical composition parameters (X, Z) and to changes in the convection theory parameters (mixing-length in the stellar envelope, the extent of the overshooting from the convective core) is discussed.

Astronomers and the Science Citation Index, 1981--1997

The Institute for Science Information (ISI) has generated two lists of citation information for astronomers that are uniquely restricted both as to the years surveyed for the cited papers, and the years surveyed for the citing papers. The main list gives citation data for 62,813 physicists and astronomers whose journal papers were cited 100 times or more from 1981.0 to 1997.5 by papers published during the same time interval. The second list gives the 200 most-cited papers/year published in refereed astronomical journals from 1981-1996, as cited in papers in those same journals from 1981.0-1998.0. Astronomer names were selected from various sources. From this work an Astronomy Citation Database (ACD) has been constructed, containing citation data for 6458+ astronomers, plus additional data for 173 astronomers and the top-10 cited papers published 1981-1996. Various problems, both substantial and subtle, of producing a reasonably fair citation database are detailed. Chief among these are whether to assign either parital or full credit for each author on a given paper. Whether one is honored with one of the top astronomy lifetime-awards is a strong function of how well your work stands out as your own, and in what kind of publications you publish (e.g., the ISI does not keep track of papers in meeting proceedings/books/catalogs). Name confusion affects this kind of analysis to the extent that that it would take an enormous effort to disentangle its effects and, even then, not all name confusion would be settled. A ``modest proposal'' is made that our professional field (and others) go to a system of uniquely associating an identification number to each author on each paper to solve the name confusion problem.

The European Large Area ISO Survey: Latest Result

We present some recent results from the European Large Area ISO Survey (ELAIS). This survey was the largest non-serendipitous ISO field survey. A preliminary reduction has recently been completed and catalogues of sources released to the community. Early results show strongly evolving source counts. A comprehensive identification programme is underway and a number of extremely luminous objects have already been discovered. This survey provides an exciting legacy from the ISO mission and (amongst many goals) will allow us to provide important constraints on the obscured star-formation history of the Universe.

The Nature of the Lithium Rich Giants. Mixing episodes on the RGB and early-AGB

We present a critical analysis of the nature of the so-called Li-rich RGB stars. For a majority of the stars, we have used Hipparcos parallaxes to determine masses and evolutionary states by comparing their position on the Hertzsprung-Russell diagram with theoretical evolutionary tracks. Among the twenty Li-rich giants whose location on the HR diagram we were able to determine precisely, eight should be re-classified as Li-normal. For the remaining stars, the high Li abundance must be a result of fresh synthesis of this fragile element. We identify two distinct episodes of Li production which occur in advanced evolutionary phases depending upon the mass of the star. We suggest that the Li-rich stars are formed mainly as a precursor to the deeper mixing process which produces anomalously low carbon isotopic ratios. Low-mass RGB stars, which later undergo the helium flash, produce Li at the phase referred to as the bump in the luminosity function. In intermediate-mass stars, the Li-rich phase occurs on the early-AGB. The compiled data provide constraints on the time scales for extra mixing and some insight on processes suggested in the literature. However, our results do not suggest any specific trigger mechanism. Since the Li-rich phases are extremely short, enrichment of the Li content of the ISM as a result of these episodes is negligible.

New Detremination Method of Primordial Li Abundance

We discuss the primordial nucleosynthesis in lepton asymmetric Universe models. In order to better estimate the universal baryon-mass density parameter $Ω_b$, we try to remove the uncertainty from the theoretical prediction of primordial $^7$Li abundance. We propose a new method to determine the primordial $^7$Li by the use of isotopic abundance ratio $^7$Li/$^6$Li in the interstellar medium which exhibits the minimum effects of the stellar processes.

The Star Formation History of the Local Group

The star formation histories of Local Group galaxies are summarized. The three large spirals are discussed individually, whereas the discussion of the Local Group dwarfs concentrates on differences and commonalities. While Local Group galaxies exhibit an amazing diversity in their star formation and enrichment histories even within the same morphological type, they share a number of common global properties. Major determining factors for their evolution are galaxy mass and environmental effects such as ram pressure and tidal stripping. It seems likely that low-mass dwarf irregular galaxies evolve into dwarf spheroidals.

Cosmic Microwave Background Temperature at 1280 MHz

The absolute temperature of the cosmic microwave background (CMB) has been measured at a frequency of 1280 MHz. The observation was made with a modified version of the L-band receiver used in the Giant Metre wavelength Radio Telescope (GMRT): the feed horn was replaced by a corrugated plate and the receiver was placed on the ground, directed at zenith, and shielded from ground radiation by an aluminium screen with corrugated edges. Novel techniques have been adopted for (1) reducing and cancelling unwanted contributions to the system temperature of the receiver and (2) calibrating the contributions from the feed assembly and receiver. The thermodynamic temperature of the CMB is estimated to be 3.45 +/- 0.78 K.

The radiation driven winds of rotating B[e] supergiants

We have formulated the momentum equation for sectorial line driven winds from rotating stars including: (a) the oblateness of the star, (b) gravity darkening (von Zeipel effect), (c) conservation of angular momentum, (d) line driving specified by the force multiplier parameters (k, alpha, delta), (e) finite disk correction factors for an oblate star with gravity darkening for both the continuum and the line driving. The equations are solved numerically. We calculated the distribution of the mass flux and the wind velocity from the pole to the equator for the winds of B[e]-supergiants. Rotation decreases the terminal velocity in the equatorial region but hardly affects the wind velocity from the poles; it enhances the mass flux from the poles while the mass flux from the equator remains nearly the same. These effects increase with increasing rotation rates.
We also calculated models with a bi-stability jump around 25 000 K, using force multipliers recently calculated with a Monte Carlo technique. In this case the mass flux increases drastically from the pole to the equator and the terminal velocity decreases drastically from pole to equator. This produces a density contrast in the wind rho(equator/pole) of about a factor 10 independent of the rotation rate of the star. We suggest that the observed density contrast of a factor 100 of the disks of B[e] stars may be reached by taking into account the wind compression due to the trajectories of the gas above the critical point towards the equatorial plane.

General relativistic treatment of the thermal, magnetic and rotational evolution of neutron stars with crustal magnetic fields

We investigate the thermal, magnetic and rotational evolution of isolated neutron stars assuming that the dipolar magnetic field is confined to the crust. Our treatment, for the first time, uses a fully general relativistic formalism not only for the thermal but also for the magnetic part, and includes partial general relativistic effects in the rotational part. Due to the fact that the combined evolution depends crucially upon the compactness of the star, three different equations of state have been employed in the calculations. In the absence of general relativistic effects, while upon increasing compactness a decrease of the crust thickness takes place leading into an accelerating field decay, the inclusion of general relativistic effects intend to ``decelerate this acceleration''. As a consequence we find that within the crustal field hypothesis, a given equation of state is compatible with the observed periods $P$ and period derivative $\dot P$ provided the initial field strength and current location as well as the magnitude of the impurity content are constrained appropriately. Finally, we access the flexibility of the soft, medium and stiff classes of equations of state as candidates in describing the state of the matter in the neutron star interiors. The comparison of our model calculations with observations, together with the consideration of independent information about neutron star evolution, suggests that a not too soft equation of state describes neutron star interiors and its cooling proceeds along the `standard' scenario.

Disk mass accretion rate and infrared flares in GRS 1915+105

We have analyzed in detail a set of Rossi X-ray Timing Explorer (RXTE) observations of the galactic microquasar GRS 1915+105 corresponding to times when quasi-periodic oscillations in the infrared have been reported. From time-resolved spectral analysis, we have estimated the mass accretion rate through the (variable) inner edge of the accretion disk. We compare this accretion rate to an estimate of the mass/energy outflow rate in the jet. We discuss the possible implications of these results in terms of disk-instability and jet ejection, and in particular note an apparent anti-correlation between the accretion and ejection rates, implying that the gas expelled in the jet must leave the accretion disk before reaching its innermost radius.

Kinematics of young stars (I): Local irregularities

The local velocity field of young stars is dominated by the galactic rotation, the kinematics of the Gould Belt and the nearest OB associations and open clusters, and the kinematics of the spiral structure. We re-examined here this local velocity field by using a large sample of nearby O and B stars from the Hipparcos Catalogue. The high quality astrometric data are complemented with a careful compilation of radial velocities and Strömgren photometry, which allows individual photometric distances and ages to be derived. The Gould Belt extends up to 600 pc from the Sun with an inclination with respect to the galactic plane of $i_{\mathrm{G}} = 16$-$22\degr$ and the ascending node placed at $Ω_{\mathrm{G}} = 275$-$295\degr$. Approximately 60% of the stars younger than 60 Myr belong to this structure. The values found for the Oort constants when different samples selected by age or distance were used allowed us to interpret the systematic trends observed as signatures induced by the kinematic behaviour of the Gould Belt. The contribution of Sco-Cen and Ori OB1 complexes in the characterization of the expansion of the Gould Belt system is also discussed. We found that a positive $K$-term remains when these aggregates are excluded. From the kinematic behaviour of the stars and their spatial distribution we derive an age for the Gould Belt system in the interval 30-60 Myr.

Evolution in the Clustering of Galaxies for z < 1.0

Measuring the evolution in the clustering of galaxies over a large redshift range is a challenging problem. We have developed a new technique which uses photometric redshifts to measure the angular correlation function in redshift shells. This novel approach minimizes the galaxy projection effect inherent in standard angular correlation measurements, and allows for a measurement of the evolution in the galaxy correlation strength with redshift. In this paper, we present new results which utilize more accurate photometric redshifts, which are derived from a multi-band dataset (U,B,R, and I) covering almost two hundred square arcminutes to B_{AB} ~ 26.5, to quantify the evolution in the clustering of galaxies for z < 1. We also extend our technique to incorporate absolute magnitudes, which provides a simultaneous measurement of the evolution of clustering with both redshift and intrinsic luminosity. Specifically, we find a gradual decline in the strength of clustering with redshift out to z ~ 1, as predicted by semi-analytic models of structure formation. Furthermore, we find that r_0(z=0) ~ 4.0 h^{-1} Mpc for the predictions of linear theory in an Omega_0 = 0.1 universe.

A Short History of the Missing Mass and Dark Energy Paradigms

In 1900 it was believed that almost 100% of the mass of the Universe resided in stars. Now, in the year 2000, such stars (and cold gas) are known to account for only ~1% its mass. The remaining mass of the Universe is thought to reside in hot baryons (~3%), cold dark matter (~30%) and dark energy (~66%). The present paper traces the evolution of our thinking about the density of the Universe during the Twentieth Century, with special emphasis on the of the discovery of cold dark matter.

The effects of numerical resolution on hydrodynamical surface convection simulations and spectral line formation

The computationally demanding nature of radiative-hydrodynamical simulations of stellar surface convection warrants an investigation of the sensitivity of the convective structure and spectral synthesis to the numerical resolution and dimension of the simulations, which is presented here. With too coarse a resolution the predicted spectral lines tend to be too narrow, reflecting insufficient Doppler broadening from the convective motions, while at the currently highest affordable resolution the line shapes have converged essentially perfectly to the observed profiles. Similar conclusions are drawn from the line asymmetries and shifts. In terms of abundances, weak FeI and FeII lines show a very small dependence (~0.02 dex) while for intermediate strong lines with significant non-thermal broadening the sensitivity increases (~0.10 dex). Problems arise when using 2D convection simulations to describe an inherent 3D phenomenon, which translates to inaccurate atmospheric velocity fields and temperature and pressure structures. In 2D the theoretical line profiles tend to be too shallow and broad compared with the 3D calculations and observations, in particular for intermediate strong lines. In terms of abundances, the 2D results are systematically about 0.1 dex lower than for the 3D case for FeI lines. Furthermore, the predicted line asymmetries and shifts are much inferior in 2D. Given these shortcomings and computing time considerations it is better to use 3D simulations of even modest resolution than high-resolution 2D simulations.

Line formation in solar granulation: I. Fe line shapes, shifts and asymmetries

Realistic ab-initio 3D, radiative-hydrodynamical convection simulations of the solar granulation have been applied to FeI and FeII line formation. In contrast to classical analyses based on hydrostatic 1D model atmospheres the procedure contains no adjustable free parameters but the treatment of the numerical viscosity in the construction of the 3D, time-dependent, inhomogeneous model atmosphere and the elemental abundance in the 3D spectral synthesis. However, the numerical viscosity is introduced purely for numerical stability purposes and is determined from standard hydrodynamical test cases with no adjustments allowed to improve the agreement with the observational constraints from the solar granulation. The non-thermal line broadening is mainly provided by the Doppler shifts arising from the convective flows in the solar photosphere and the solar oscillations. The almost perfect agreement between the predicted temporally and spatially averaged line profiles for weak Fe lines with the observed profiles and the absence of trends in derived abundances with line strengths, seem to imply that the micro- and macroturbulence concepts are obsolete in these 3D analyses. Furthermore, the theoretical line asymmetries and shifts show a very satisfactory agreement with observations with an accuracy of typically 50-100 m/s on an absolute velocity scale. The remaining minor discrepancies point to how the convection simulations can be refined further.

Line formation in solar granulation: II. The photospheric Fe abundance

The solar photospheric Fe abundance has been determined using realistic ab initio 3D, time-dependent, hydrodynamical model atmospheres. The study is based on the excellent agreement between the predicted and observed line profiles directly rather than equivalent width, since the intrinsic Doppler broadening from the convective motions and oscillations provide the necessary non-thermal broadening. Thus, three of the four hotly debated parameters (equivalent widths, microturbulence and damping enhancement factors) in the center of the recent solar Fe abundance dispute regarding FeI lines no longer enter the analysis, leaving the transition probabilities as the main uncertainty. Both FeI (using the samples of lines of both the Oxford and Kiel studies) and FeII lines have been investigated, which give consistent results: log FeI = 7.44 +- 0.05 and log FeII = 7.45 +- 0.10. Also the wings of strong FeI lines return consistent abundances, log FeII = 7.42 +- 0.03, but due to the uncertainties inherent in analyses of strong lines we give this determination lower weight than the results from weak and intermediate strong lines. In view of the recent slight downward revision of the meteoritic Fe abundance log Fe = 7.46 +- 0.01, the agreement between the meteoritic and photospheric values is very good, thus appearingly settling the debate over the photospheric Fe abundance from FeI lines.

Velocity and Mass Functions of Galactic Halos: Evolution and Environmental Dependence

We study the distribution functions of mass and circular velocity for dark matter halos in N-body simulations of the $Λ$CDM cosmology, addressing redshift and environmental dependence. The dynamical range enables us to resolve subhalos and distinguish them from "distinct" halos. The mass function is compared to analytic models, and is used to derive the more observationally relevant circular velocity function. The distribution functions in the velocity range 100--500 km/s are well fit by a power-law with two parameters, slope and amplitude. We present the parameter dependence on redshift and provide useful fitting formulae. The amplitudes of the mass functions decrease with z, but, contrary to naive expectation, the comoving density of halos of a fixed velocity ~200 km/s actually increases out to z=5. This is because high-z halos are denser, so a fixed velocity corresponds to a smaller mass. The slope of the velocity function at z=0 is as steep as ~ -4, and the mass and velocity functions of distinct halos steepen with increasing z, while the functions of subhalos do not steepen with $z$, and become even flatter at z>2. A simple observable prediction is that the slope of the velocity function of isolated galaxies is steeper than that of galaxies in groups by as much as unity, reflecting the density biasing of high-velocity halos. We confirm that the Press-Schechter approximation typically overestimates the halo mass function by a factor of ~2, while modified approximations provide improved predictions.

The influence of inverse Compton scattering on GRB afterglows: one possible way to flatten and steepen the light curves

The fireball model of gamma-ray bursts predicted that when the energetic blast wave encountered the surrounding medium, there will be afterglow emission, and the subsequent afterglow observations appeared to confirm this prediction. In this simplest fireball model, the electrons have been accelerated to a power law energy distribution in a relativistic blast wave, then they give afterglow emission through synchrotron radiation. Up to now synchrotron radiation is believed to be the main mechanism of GRB emission, however, here we will show that under some circumstances, the inverse Compton scattering (ICS) may play an important role, and can change the light curves of GRB afterglows. Here we investigate the effects of ICS in the relativistic case (the surrounding medium density $ρ\propto r^{-2}$) and in the non-relativistic case (for both $ρ=constant$ and $ρ\propto r^{-2}$), we find that in the relativistic case the effect of ICS is usually important, while in the non-relativistic case, this effect is usually unimportant, unless the surrounding medium density is very high. We show that if ICS is important, then it can flatten and steepen the light curves of GRB afterglows, and this may provide the explanation for some afterglow observations.

A project of a new detector for direct Dark Matter search: MACHe3

MACHe3 (MAtrix of Cells of superfluid He3) is a project of a new detector for direct Dark Matter (DM) search. A cell of superfluid He3 has been developed and the idea of using a large number of such cells in a high granularity detector is proposed.This contribution presents, after a brief description of the superfluid He3 cell, the simulation of the response of different matrix configurations allowing to define an optimum design as a function of the number of cells and the volume of each cell. The exclusion plot and the predicted interaction cross-section for the neutralino as a photino are presented.

X-ray observations of the starburst galaxy NGC 253:II. Extended emission from hot gas in the nuclear area, disk, and halo

Spatial and spectral analysis of deep ROSAT HRI and PSPC observations of the near edge-on starburst galaxy NGC 253 reveal diffuse soft X-ray emission, which contributes 80% to its total X-ray luminosity (L$_{\rm X} = 5 10^{39}$ \ergsec, corrected for foreground absorption). The nuclear area, disk, and halo contribution to the luminosity is about equal. The starburst nucleus itself is highly absorbed and not visible in the ROSAT band.
We describe in detail spectra and morphology of the emission from the nuclear area, disk and halo and compare our results to observations at other wavelengths and from other galaxies. (abridged)

The likely detection of pulsed high-energy gamma-ray emission from millisecond pulsar PSR J0218+4232

We report circumstantial evidence for the first detection of pulsed high-energy gamma-ray emission from a millisecond pulsar, PSR J0218+4232, using data collected with the Energetic Gamma Ray Experiment (EGRET) on board the Compton Gamma Ray Observatory (CGRO). The EGRET source 3EG J0222+4253 is shown to be spatially consistent with PSR J0218+4232 for the energy range 100 - 300 MeV. Above 1 GeV the nearby BL Lac 3C 66A is the evident counterpart, and between 300 MeV and 1 GeV both sources contribute to the gamma-ray excess. Folding the 100-1000 MeV photons with an accurate radio ephemeris of PSR J0218+4232 yields a double peaked pulse profile with a ~3.5 sigma modulation significance and with a peak separation of ~0.45 similar to the 0.1-10 keV pulse profile.

Thermonuclear Explosions of Chandrasekhar-Mass White Dwarfs

We present a new way of modeling turbulent thermonuclear deflagration fronts in Chandrasekhar-mass white dwarfs, consisting of carbon and oxygen, undergoing a type Ia supernova explosion. Our approach is a front capturing/tracking hybrid scheme, based on a level set method, which treats the front as a mathematical discontinuity and allows for full coupling between the front geometry and the flow field. First results of the method applied to the problem of type Ia supernovae are discussed. It will be shown that even in 2-D and even with a physically motivated sub-grid model numerically ``converged'' results are difficult to obtain.

Type Ia Supernovae and their implications for cosmology

Models for Type Ia Supernovae (SNe Ia) are reviewed. It is shown that there are strong reasons to believe that most SNe Ia represent thermonuclear disruptions of C-O white dwarfs, when these white dwarfs reach the Chandrasekhar limit and ignite carbon at their centers.
Different progenitor scenarios are reviewed critically and the strengths and weaknesses of each scenario are presented in detail. It is argued that theoretical considerations currently favor single-degenerate models, in which the white dwarf accretes from a subgiant or giant companion. However, it is still possible that more than one progenitor class contributes to the observed sample. The relation of the different models to the use of SNe Ia for the determination of cosmological parameters is discussed. It is shown that while the observed diversity of SNe Ia may argue for the existence of different progenitor classes, this does not affect the interpretation of an accelerating expansion of the universe.

The detection of spiral arm modulation in the stellar disk of an optically flocculent and an optically grand design galaxy

Two dimensional Fourier spectra of near-infrared images of galaxies provide a powerful diagnostic tool for the detection of spiral arm modulation in stellar disks. Spiral arm modulation may be understood in terms of interference patterns of outgoing and incoming density wave packets or modes. The brightness along a spiral arm will be increased where two wave crests meet and constructively interfere, but will be decreased where a wave crest and a wave trough destructively interfere. Spiral arm modulation has hitherto only been detected in grand design spirals (such as Messier 81). Spiral arm amplitude variations have the potential to become a powerful constraint for the study of galactic dynamics. We illustrate our method in two galaxies: NGC 4062 and NGC 5248. In both cases, we have detected trailing and leading m=2 waves with similar pitch angles. This suggests that the amplification mechanism is the WASER type II. In this mechanism, the bulge region reflects (rather than refracts) incoming waves with no change of pitch angle, but only a change of their sense of winding. The ratio between the amplitudes of the leading and the trailing waves is about 0.5 in both cases, wherein the higher amplitude is consistently assigned to the trailing (as opposed to leading) mode. The results are particularly significant because NGC 5248 is an optically grand design galaxy, whereas NGC 4062 is optically flocculent. NGC 4062 represents the very first detection of spiral arm modulation in the stellar disk of an optically flocculent galaxy.

Orbital Motion of Resonant Clumps in Dusty Circumstellar Disks as a Signature of an Embedded Planet

We have applied a powerful numerical approach to compute, with a high resolution, the structure of dusty circumstellar disks with embedded planets. We emphasize some testable implications of our simulations which would verify the presence of a planet via thermal emission of one or more dusty clumps which are in mean motion resonances with the planet. In particular, our simulations indicate that Vega may have a massive planet of m~2 m_J (m_J being Jupiter's mass) at a distance of 50-60 AU, and Epsilon Eri may have a less massive planet of m~0.2 m_J at a similar distance of 55-65 AU. This conclusion is testable: Each resonant feature is stationary in the reference frame co-rotating with the planet, but it is not so for the observer at Earth. Therefore, if our interpretation of asymmetric clumps in circumstellar disks as dynamical resonant structures is correct, the above pattern revolves around the star with an angular velocity of (1.2-1.6) deg/yr (Vega) and (0.6-0.8) deg/yr (Epsilon Eri) -- a prediction that can be tested on a timescale of several years.

X-ray emission from Lindroos binary systems

We present a study of the X-ray emission from binary systems extracted from the Lindroos catalogue (Lindroos 1986) based on the ROSAT All-Sky survey as well as ROSAT PSPC and HRI pointings. The studied sample consists of visual binary systems comprised of early-type primaries and late-type secondaries. The ages of the systems were determined by Lindroos (1985) from uvbybeta photometry of the primaries. These ages range between 33 and 135 Myr, so if the late-type secondaries are physically bound to the early-type primaries, they could be Post-T Tauri stars (PTTS). We have found strong X-ray emission from several secondaries. This fact together with their optical and IR data, make them bona fide PTTS candidates. We have also detected X-ray emission from several early-type primaries and, in particular, from most of the late-B type stars. Because their HRI hardness ratios are similar to those from resolved late-type stars, the presence of an unresolved late-type companion seems to be the cause of this emission.

Models for the interpretation of CaT and the blue Spectral Indices in Elliptical Nuclei

We present a grid of theoretical models where the calculation of absorption line spectral indices in both the blue and red wavelength ranges is done with the same evolutionary synthesis code. We have computed some of these indices: CaT, NaI, MgI in the near infrared and Mgb, Mg2, Fe52, Fe53, NaD and Hbeta, in the blue-visible range, for Single Stellar Population (SSP) of 6 different metallicities, (Z=0.0004,0.001, 0.004, 0.008, 0.02 and 0.05), and ages from 4 Myr to 20 Gyr.
From the comparison of these evolutionary synthesis models with a compilation of elliptical galaxy data from the literature, we find that the observed CaT index follows the blue <Fe> index rather than Mg2 as the models predict. If this implies an over-abundance [Mg/Ca] and we take into account the masses of stars which produce Mg and Ca, these stars could form in a time scale shorter than 5 Myr from the beginning of the star formation process. Alternatively, an IMF biased towards very massive stars (M > 40 Msun) at the early epoch of star formation in elliptical nuclei has to be assumed. We also suggest to revise the calculation of the nucleosynthesis yield of Magnesium.
By using the diagnostic diagram CaT-Hbeta to disentangle age and metallicity in such populations, we obtain around solar abundances and a sequence of ages between 4 and 16 Gyr for the galaxy sample.

Deep far infrared ISOPHOT survey in "Selected Area 57", I. Observations and source counts

We present here the results of a deep survey in a 0.4 sq.deg. blank field in Selected Area 57 conducted with the ISOPHOT instrument aboard ESAs Infrared Space Observatory (ISO) at both 60 um and 90 um. The resulting sky maps have a spatial resolution of 15 x 23 sq.arcsec. per pixel which is much higher than the 90 x 90 sq.arcsec. pixels of the IRAS All Sky Survey. We describe the main instrumental effects encountered in our data, outline our data reduction and analysis scheme and present astrometry and photometry of the detected point sources. With a formal signal to noise ratio of 6.75 we have source detection limits of 90 mJy at 60 um and 50 mJy at 90 um. To these limits we find cumulated number densities of 5+-3.5 per sq.deg. at 60 um and 14.8+-5.0 per sq.deg.at 90 um. These number densities of sources are found to be lower than previously reported results from ISO but the data do not allow us to discriminate between no-evolution scenarios and various evolutionary models.

Episodic lithium production by extra-mixing in red giants

The recent discovery of low-mass red giants with enhanced atmospherical Li abundance in galactic low-metallicity stellar clusters adds to the mysterious phenomenon of the Li-rich giants. We propose a combined scenario for the Li-enrichment: engulfing a giant planet (or brown dwarf) by a red giant (external source) activates inside the giant the "7Be-mechanism" producing Li internally. This episodical Li-production can happen at any time on the red giant branch and is naturally followed by Li-depletion as is observed. Limitations of our scenario are discussed as well.

The 12C/13C-ratio in cool carbon stars

We present observations of circumstellar millimetre-wave 13CO line emission towards a sample of 20 cool carbon stars. Using a detailed radiative transfer model we estimate the circumstellar 12CO/13CO-ratios, which we believe accurately measure the important stellar 12C/13C-ratios. For those optically bright carbon stars where it is possible, our derived 12C/13C-ratios are compared with the photospheric results, obtained with different methods. Our estimates agree well with those of Lambert et al. (1986).
It is shown that a straightforward determination of the 12CO/13CO-ratio from observed line intensity ratios is often hampered by optical depth effects, and that a detailed radiative transfer analysis is needed in order to determine reliable isotope ratios.

Transient Low-Mass X-Ray Binaries in Quiescence

We summarize the quiescent X-ray observations of transient low-mass X-ray binaries. These observations show that, in quiescence, binaries containing black holes are fainter than those containing neutron stars. This has triggered a number of theoretical ideas about what causes the quiescent X-ray emission. For black hole binaries, the options are accretion onto the black hole or coronal emission from the rapidly rotating stellar companion. There are more possibilities for the neutron stars: accretion, thermal emission from the surface or non-thermal emission from a ``turned-on'' radio pulsar. We review recent theoretical work on these mechanisms and note where current observations can distinguish between them. We highlight the re-analysis of the quiescent neutron star emission by Rutledge and collaborators that showed thermal emission to be a predominant contributor in many of these systems. Our knowledge of these binaries is bound to dramatically improve now that the Chandra and XMM satellites are operating successfully,

Chromospheric Activity in Metal-Poor Dwarfs

We have obtained echelle spectra with the Hubble Space Telescope (HST) of the MgII 2800A region of ten stars whose metallicities range from 1/300 to 1/3 that of the Sun, and whose space velocities suggest a halo or old thick-disk origin. Spectra of all ten show double-peaked emission in the MgII core, very much like the quiet Sun. A half-dozen non-rotating stars were observed more than once, and show at most a low level of variability in the emission flux, comparable to that of quiet stars of solar metallicity. For four stars, we have obtained Lyman-alpha spectra at 0.2A resolution; all four show emission. The data thus strongly suggest that chromospheric activity at a minimum level is present in all stars of near-solar temperature, regardless of age or metallicity. While this points to non-magnetic sources such as acoustic waves, a contribution from globally-organized magnetic fields is possible at a low level. We plan a longer series of MgII and Lyman alpha observations to constrain this.

A BeppoSAX and ROSAT view of the RCW86 supernova remnant

We present a spectral analysis of the Northern and Southwestern rim of the RCW86 X-ray shell, pointing out the remarkable differences between these two parts of the same object. In the North, a single temperature Non Equilibrium of Ionization emission model describes the data well, and the derived abundances of O, Ne, Mg, Si, S, Ar and Fe are in agreement with expected metal depletion behind a fast shock moving in the interstellar medium. If the initial explosion energy was $\sim 10^{51}$ erg, the derived distance and age are $1.18^{+0.17}_{-0.16}$ kpc and $1630^{+440}_{-360}$ yr, fully consistent with the association to the historical supernova SN185. The X-ray emission from the SW is described by a two-temperature emission model with kT$_{\rm h}=5.7$ keV and kT$_{\rm l}=1.0$ keV. There is evidence of overabundant metals in the high-temperature component, thus indicating the presence of ejecta. In this case, a Type Ia SN is to be preferred over a more energetic Type II event, which would imply a more distant and older remnant fully in its Sedov phase.

Constraints on source and lens parameters from microlensing variability in QSO 0957+561 A,B

From regular monitoring of the Double Quasar QSO 0957+561 A,B there is now general agreement on a time delay of about 416 days. This has made it possible to determine the microlensing residual in the light-curve, see Pelt et al. (1998). We have used two significant microlensing features: 1) A ``quiet'' period with a variability less than 0.05 mag lasting about 8 years, and 2) A change in the residual of 0.25 mag during a time interval of about 5 years. The first feature gives a lower limit for the lens mass, 'M', for a given normalized source radius, 'r', whereas the second feature gives an upper limit. We have considered the amount of mass in a continuum to be a free parameter with possible values between 0% (all mass in lenses) and 90%. At a significance level of 1% the mass can only be constrained within a rather wide range (1e-06 M_solar to 5 M_solar). For the radius 'R' of the source an upper limit of 1e16 cm is found, whereas the normalized source radius 'r' is restricted to be smaller than 30. At a level of 10%, however, the range of possible masses is much narrower (2e-03 M_solar to 0.5 M_solar), and the upper limit of R is about 6e15 cm, whereas the value of 'r' is restricted to be less than 2. We have used an effective transverse velocity 'V' equal to 600 km/s.

Modelling Radioactivities and other Observables from OB Associations

Recent observations of the diffuse Galactic gamma-ray glow at 1.809 MeV, attributed to the radioactive decay of 26Al, point towards a massive star origin of this radioactive isotope. Wolf Rayet stars and core-collapse supernovae appear to dominate the production of this isotope. Massive stars are commonly located in clusters and OB associations, regions of recent star formation. We thus discuss the temporal evolution of 26Al, and 60Fe within evolving OB associations. The goal of this study is to utilize the associated gamma-ray lines as a diagnostic tool for the study of correlated star formation, and also to provide more detailed models for the interpretation of data obtained with COMPTEL on the Compton Observatory. We investigate the effects of possible aluminum yield enhancements, predicted for some massive close binary systems. In addition to the ejection of chemically processed matter, massive stars also drive strong stellar winds and emit large fluxes of ionizing radiation. This energy and radiation input into the interstellar medium (ISM) is crucial for the dynamical evolution of the gas and subsequent star forming activity in the galactic disk. We discuss population synthesis models for a variety of star formation histories, and compare the predicted gamma-ray line lightcurves to COMPTEL measurements in the Cygnus region. Radioactive tracers such as 26Al and 60Fe provide a unique gamma-ray tracer of Galactic star formation activity, complementary to other methods using spectral information in the radio, IR or optical bands.

Structure of the MgII and damped Lyman-alpha systems along the line of sight to APM 08279+5255

A study of the absorption systems toward the gravitationally lensed quasar APM 08279+5255 is presented. Most of the MgII systems in the redshift range 1.2-2.07, although saturated, show large residuals at the bottom of the lines. The most likely interpretation is that individual clouds within MgII halos do cover only one of the two brightest QSO images. This reveals that MgII halos are made of a collection of clouds of radius smaller than about 1 kpc. Two strong MgII absorbers at z = 1.062 and 1.181 are studied in detail. This is the first time that the NaI3303 doublet is detected in such high redshift systems. Together with the detection of the MgI2852 transition, this strongly constrains the physical characteristics of the gas. The N(NaI)/N(MgI) ratio is found to be larger than unity, implying that the gas is cool and neutral. The column densities of NaI, CaII, MgI, TiII, MnII and FeII observed at z = 1.1801 are very close to that observed along the line of sight towards 23 Ori in our Galaxy. The shape of the QSO continuum and the relative depletion of Fe, Ti, Mn and Ca are consistent with the presence of dust at z = 1 (AV = 0.5 mag). Altogether it is found that the HI column density at z = 1 is of the order of 1 to 5 10**21 cm-2, the corresponding metallicity is in the range 1--0.3 Zsol. The objects associated with these two systems could both contribute to the lens together with another possible strong system at z = 1.1727 and the strong Lyman-alpha system at z = 2.974. The probable damped Ly-alpha system at z = 2.974 has 19.8 < log N(HI) < 20.3. The transverse dimension of the absorber is larger than 200 pc. Abundances relative to solar are -2.31, -2.26, -2.10, -2.35 and -2.37 for, respectively, Fe, Al, Si, C and O (for log N(HI) = 20.3). (Abridged)

Ambipolar Filamentation of Turbulent Magnetic Fields : A numerical simulation

We present the results of a 2-D, two fluid (ions and neutrals) simulation of the ambipolar filamentation process, in which a magnetized, weakly ionized plasma is stirred by turbulence in the ambipolar frequency range. The higher turbulent velocity of the neutrals in the most ionized regions gives rise to a non-linear force driving them out of these regions, so that the initial ionization inhomogeneities are strongly amplified. This effect, the ambipolar filamentation, causes the ions and the magnetic flux to condense and separate from the neutrals, resulting in a filamentary structure.

Spatial resolution bias in the mid-infrared Starburst/AGN classification

We present the effects of limited spatial resolution to the observed mid-infrared (MIR) spectrum of an active galactic nucleus (AGN) surrounded by a disk with massive star forming regions. Using MIR observations of the face-on nearby Seyfert 1 galaxy NGC 6814, we vary the observing aperture and examine the evolution of the observed AGN/starburst fraction with our MIR diagnostic. We show that the spatial resolution of ISOCAM is sufficient to disentangle AGN from starburst features in nuclear regions of nearby galaxies (D<50Mpc). However, with the exception of a few ultra-luminous galaxies, dilution effects hide completely the AGN contribution in more distant galaxies.

Generation of Cosmic Magnetic Fields at Recombination

It is shown that the standard cosmological model predicts {\it ab initio} generation of large-scale but very small-amplitude cosmic magnetic fields at the epoch of recombination of the primeval plasma. Matter velocities dominated by coherent flows on a scale $L\approx 50h^{-1}(1+z)^{-1}$ Mpc lead to a dipole of radiation flux in the frame of the moving matter. Thomson scattering of the radiation differentially accelerates the electrons and ions, creating large-scale coherent electric currents and magnetic fields. This process is analyzed using magnetohydrodynamic equations which include a modification of Ohm's law describing the effect of Thomson drag on the electrons. The field strength is estimated to be $B\simeq 10^{-20}$G.

The Dark Matter Telescope

Weak gravitational lensing enables direct reconstruction of dark matter maps over cosmologically significant volumes. This research is currently telescope-limited. The Dark Matter Telescope (DMT) is a proposed 8.4 m telescope with a 3 degree field of view, with an etendue of 260 $(m. degree)^2$, ten times greater than any other current or planned telescope. With its large etendue and dedicated observational mode, the DMT fills a nearly unexplored region of parameter space and enables projects that would take decades on current facilities. The DMT will be able to reach 10-sigma limiting magnitudes of 27-28 magnitude in the wavelength range .3 - 1 um over a 7 square degree field in 3 nights of dark time. Here we review its unique weak lensing cosmology capabilities and the design that enables those capabilities.

X-rays and regions of star formation: a combined ROSAT-HRI/near-to-mid IR study of the rho Oph dark cloud

We have obtained two deep exposures of the rho Oph cloud core region with the ROSAT HRI. The improved position accuracy (1"-6") with respect to previous recent X-ray observations (ROSAT PSPC, and ASCA) allows us to remove positional ambiguities for the detected sources. We also cross-correlate the X-ray positions with IR sources found in the ISO-ISOCAM survey of the same region at 6.7 and 14.3 \mum, in addition to sources known from ground-based observations, which are young stars. We find that there is no statistically significant difference between the X-ray luminosity functions of HRI-detected Class II and Class III sources, i.e., T Tauri stars with and without disks, confirming that the contribution of these disks to X-ray emission or absorption, must be small. Most of the sources are variable, and their variability is consistent with a solar-like (hence magnetic) flare origin. We use the information given both by the ISOCAM survey and by our HRI deep exposure to study the T Tauri star population of the rho Oph dense cores. We confirm that essentially all Class II and Class III sources are X-ray emitters, and that a strong correlation exists between their X-ray luminosity, L_X, and their stellar luminosity, L_*, with L_X/L_* ~ 1E-4. Most of the new ISOCAM Class II sources are not detected, however, which we explain by the fact that their X-ray luminosities ``predicted'' on the basis of this correlation are too faint to be detected by the HRI. We predict that ~40 unknown faint or embedded Class III sources remain to be discovered in X-rays in the HRI/ISOCAM overlapping area, down to a limit of L_X ~ 3 \times 1E28 erg/s. We show that the bulk of these unknown Class III sources should be made of low- to very low-mass stars. Prospects for future detections with XMM-Newton and Chandra are discussed.

Dust versus Supernova Cosmology

Here we present some critical discussions about the systematic uncertainty by dust extinction in the recent cosmological results of high-redshift Type Ia supernovae. First we argue that the currently available data do not robustly exclude the cosmologically significant extinction either by the reddening check or the dispersion argument because of the observational uncertainties, even in the case of ordinary dust that reddens. Then we discuss two theoretical possibilities that high-z supernovae have larger extinction and hence they are fainter than local supernovae: the intergalactic dust and host galaxy evolution. Optical and near-infrared observations for a large number of supernovae with improved photometric accuracy are required to reject these possibilities and derive a compelling cosmological result.

Dense gas in the dust lane of Centaurus A

The interstellar medium of Centaurus A (NGC 5128) has been studied extensively in recent years, using mostly molecular lines tracing low to medium density gas (500 to several $10^3$ cm$^{-3}$). The amount and distribution of the dense molecular gas was largely unknown. Here we present new millimeter data of the HCN(1-0), CS(2-1), and CS(3-2) rotational transitions towards the nearby radio galaxy Centaurus A observed with the SEST on La Silla, Chile. We obtained spectra of the HCN(1-0) emission which traces dense 10$^4$ cm$^{-3}$ molecular gas at the center and along the prominent dust lane at offset positions $\pm60^{\prime \prime}$ and $\pm100^{\prime \prime}$. We also obtained a few spectra of CS(2-1) and (3-2) tracing densities of $\sim10^5$ cm$^{-3}$. The emission in these lines is weak and reaches a few mK at the available angular resolutions of 54$^{\prime \prime}$ - 36$^{\prime \prime}$. At the central position, the integrated intensity ratio I(HCN)/I(CO) peaks at 0.064, and decreases to $\sim$0.02 to 0.04 in the dust lane.

Multi-Read Out Data Simulator

We present a data simulation package designed to create a series of simulated data samples for a detector with non-destructive sampling capability. The original intent of this software was to provide a method for generating simulated images for the Next Generation Space Telescope, but it is general enough to apply to almost any non-destructive detector or instrument. MultiDataSim can be used to generate "practice" sampling strategies for an instrument or field-of-view, and thus can be used to identify optimal observation strategies.

Removal of the calcium underabundance in cool metal rich Galactic disk dwarfs

An apparent Ca underabundance for cool metal rich disk dwarfs was derived by Feltzing & Gustafsson (1998, A&AS, 129, 237). This was suggested to be a NLTE effect, following the prediction by Drake (1991, MNRAS, 251, 369). New NLTE calculations with MARCS atmospheres and opacities (Thorén, P., 2000, A&A, in preparation) show that deviations from LTE are very small and can not explain the underabundance. It is shown that the underabundance was primarily due to erroneously calculated atomic line broadening parameters (van der Waals broadening). Part of the underabundance was also due to the decision not to change photometrically determined stellar parameters to satisfy the Fe I excitation balance.

Quintessence and CMB

A particular kind of quintessence is considered, with equation of motion $p_Q/ρ_Q = -1$, corresponding to a cosmological term with time-dependence $Λ(t) = Λ(t_0) (R(t_0)/R(t))^{P}$ which we examine initially for $0 \leq P < 3$. Energy conservation is imposed, as is consistency with big-bang nucleosynthesis, and the range of allowed $P$ is thereby much restricted to $0 \leq P < 0.2$. The position of the first Doppler peak is computed analytically and the result combined with analysis of high-Z supernovae to find how values of $Ω_m$ and $Ω_Λ$ depend on $P$.

FUSE Spectroscopy of High Velocity Cloud Complex C

We present Far Ultraviolet Spectroscopic Explorer (FUSE) observations of the sightline toward the Seyfert 1 galaxy Markarian 876, which passes through high velocity cloud (HVC) complex C. This sight line demonstrates the ability of FUSE to measure ionic absorption lines in Galactic HVCs. High velocity absorption is clearly seen in both members of the O VI doublet. This is the first detection of O VI in a neutral hydrogen HVC. One component of HVC complex C is resolved in multiple Fe II lines from which we derive N(Fe II)/N(H I)=0.48 (Fe/H)_solar. This value of N(Fe II)/N(H I) implies that the metallicity of complex C along this sightline may be higher than that along the Mrk 290 sightline (0.1 solar) found by Wakker et al. (1999). On the other hand, if the metallicity of complex C is also 0.1 solar along this line of sight, the observed value of N(Fe II)/(N(H I) suggests there may be a significan t amount of H+ along the line of sight. In any case, little, if any, iron can be depleted into dust grains if the intrinsic metallicity of complex C is subsolar. Absorption from complex C is also seen in C II, N I, and N II, and upper limits based on non-detections can be determined for Ar I, P II, and Fe III. Although molecular hydrogen in the Milky Way is obvious in the FUSE data, no H_2 absorption is seen in the high velocity cloud to a limit N(H_2)<2.0x10^14 cm^-2. Future FUSE observations of extragalactic objects behind Galactic high velocity clouds will allow us to better constrain models of HVC origins.

The Evolution of Magnetic Field and Spin Period of Accreting Neutron Stars

Based on the accretion induced magnetic a field decay model, in which a frozen field and an incompressible fluid are assumed, we obtain the following results. (1) An analytic relation between the magnetic field and spin period, if the fastness parameter of the accretion disk is neglected.
The evolutionary tracks of accreting neutron stars in the P-B diagram in our model are different from the equilibrium period lines when the influence of the fastness parameter is taken into account. (2) The theoretical minimum spin period of an accreting neutron star is $\max (1.1{\rm ms}(\frac{ΔM}{M_{\odot}})^{-1} R^{-5/14}_6 I_{45}(\frac{M}{M_{\odot}})^{-1/2}, 1.1{\rm ms} (\frac{M}{M_{\odot}})^{-1/2} R^{17/14}_6)$, independent of the accretion rate (X-ray luminosity) but dependent on the total accretion mass $ΔM$. However, the minimum magnetic field depends on the accretion rate. (3) The magnetic field strength decreases faster with time than the period.

Can EGRET's Gamma Ray Sources > 100 MeV Be Seen with Single Secondary Cosmic Muons from Gammas > 30 GeV?

The high energy gamma ray sources provided by experiment EGRET on the Compton Gamma Ray Observatory are examined, testing Project GRAND's ability to detect primary gamma rays by means of studying secondary muons. There is ~1.5% chance that a 100 GeV primary cosmic gamma ray will produce a muon at detection level (Fasso & Poirier, 1999), a probability which increases with increasing gamma energy. Project GRAND has 80 square meters of muon detector which identifies secondary muons >0.1 GeV and measures their angles to 0.26 deg (projected angle in the XZ and YZ planes). Data taken during the last two years are analyzed. A table of EGRET's gamma ray sources is examined (The Third EGRET Catalog of High Energy Gamma Ray Sources (EGRET webpage, 1999). EGRET's flux (>0.1 GeV), angular information, and spectral index were extrapolated to GRAND's energy region (>30 GeV). Then the geometrical acceptance was calculated for each of these events. Thus, GRAND's sensitivity to each of EGRET's sources was predicted. A product of extrapolated flux and GRAND's detection sensitivity yields an overall parameter indicating GRAND's relative sensitivity to each source, assuming an energy dependence given by EGRET's spectral index. The 14 sources with the best extrapolated detection efficiency were selected to be examined with the data.

Confirmation of a moving component in the H-alpha emission line of LSI+61303

We report our attempts to detect and confirm a narrow moving component in the H-alpha emission line of the radio emitting Be/X-ray binary LSI+61 303 (V615 Cas, GT0236+610). The existence of this spectral feature was already suspected in the past. As a result, we find that this component does exist and that its radial velocity varies in agreement with the radio period of the system. We interpret it tentatively as due to a denser region, or bulge, orbiting near the outer edge of the H-alpha emitting disk.

Galactic Observations at 31, 42 and 144~GHz with the Mobile Anisotropy Telescope

We present multi-frequency maps of a portion of the Galactic Plane centered on a declination of -60 degrees with resolutions ranging from 0.2 to 0.9 degrees. The maps are optimized to detect unresolved source emission and are cross-calibrated against the planet Jupiter. We discuss six millimeter-bright regions, three of which are visible in all bands, and list measured flux densities. Variability is limited to less than 3.8% for all sources seen at 31 and 42 GHz and less than 10% at 144 GHz. Fractional polarization limits smaller than 0.08 are measured for all sources seen at 31 and 42 GHz. No fractional polarization limits are reported at 144 GHz.

The role of NCO reaction chain on the He ignition in degenerate stellar structures

The role played by NCO reaction in the onset of the He flash in the He core of a RGB star and in low mass CO WDs accreting H/He rich matter is investigated.

Spectroscopic confirmation of a white dwarf companion to the B star 16 Dra

Using an Extreme Ultraviolet Explorer (EUVE) spectrum, we confirm the identification of a white dwarf companion to the B9.5V star 16 Dra (HD150100), and constrain its surface temperature to lie between 29,000K and 35,000K. This is the third B star + white dwarf non-interacting Sirius-type binary to be confirmed, after y Pup (HR2875, HD59635) and theta Hya (HR3665, HD79469). 16 Dra and its white dwarf companion are members of a larger resolved proper motion system including the B9V star 17 Dra A (HD150117). The white dwarf must have evolved from a progenitor more massive than this star, i.e. ~3.7 solar masses. White dwarf companions to B stars are important since they set an observational limit on the maximum mass for white dwarf progenitors, and can potentially be used to investigate the high mass ends of the initial-final mass relation and the white dwarf mass-radius relation.

Stellar Populations in the Nucleus of NGC 6764

We present first results of near-infrared integral field spectroscopy of the central 8''$\times$8'' of the Wolf-Rayet nucleus of the barred spiral galaxy NGC 6764. In addition to stellar CO and Na I absorption lines as well as recombination lines of H and He I the K-band spectrum shows strong emission from molecular hydrogen. Analysis of the stellar nuclear light using population synthesis in conjunction with NIR spectral synthesis suggests either the presence of two starbursts with ages of $\sim$ 5 Myrs and $\sim$ 20 Myrs or continuous star formation with an star formation rate of $\sim$ 0.4 \solm yr^{-1} over the past 1 Gyr.

The (anti)correlation of the sub-mm and X-ray background sources

The connection between the sub-mm and the hard X-ray backgrounds is studied by comparing data at 2-10 keV and at 850um for a sample of 34 sources at fluxes (or limiting fluxes) which resolve most of the background in the two bands. These data were obtained with new SCUBA observations and by correlating data sets available from the literature. None of the 11 hard X-ray (2-10 keV) sources has a counterpart at 850um, with the exception of a faint Chandra source, which is a candidate type 2 QSO at high redshift. These data indicate that 2-10 keV sources brighter than 10^-15 erg s-1 cm-2, which make at least 75% of the background in this band, contribute for less than 7% to the submillimetric background. Out of the 24 SCUBA sources 23 are undetected by Chandra. These data indicate that most of these SCUBA sources must be powered either by starburst activity, or by an AGN which is obscured by a column Nh > 10^25 cm-2, with a reflection efficiency in the hard X-rays significantly lower than 1% in most cases.

Detecting Ultra High Energy Neutrinos by Upward Tau Airshowers and Gamma Flashes

Tau Air-showers are the best trace of rarest Ultra High Energy neutrinos UHE $ν_τ$, $\barν_τ$ and $\barν_e$ at PeV and higher energy. $τ$ Air-showers may generate billion times amplified signals by their secondaries . Horizontal amplified $τ$ air-showers by $ν_τ N$ and UHE $\barν_{e} e$ at PeV emerging from mountain chain might be the most power-full imprint. Upward UHE $ν_τ N$ interaction on Earth crust at horizontal edge and from below, their consequent UHE $τ$ air-showers beaming toward high mountains should flash $γ$,$μ$,X and optical detectors on the top.
Upward $τ$ air-shower may hit nearby satellite flashing them by short, hard, diluted $γ-$burst at the edge of Gamma Ray Observatory BATSE threshold. We identify these events with recent (1994) discovered upward Terrestrial Gamma Flashes (TGF) and we probed their UHE $τ$ - UHE $ν_τ$ origin. From these TGF data approximated UHE $ν_τ$ flux and $Δm_{ν_μν_τ}$ sever lower bound are derived. Partial TGF Galactic signature is also manifest within known 47 TGF events clustered within three degrees from the Galactic plane at ${\simeq 2\cdot 10^{-3}}$probability. Well known $X-γ-\mathrm{TeV}$ active galactic and extragalactic sources have found probable counterpart in TGF arrival directions. Detection of elusive UHE $ν_τ$ seem finally achieved.

Acceleration of CR at Large Scale Shocks and Their Cosmological Role for Structure Formation in the Universe

We investigate the dynamical importance of a newly recognized possible source of significant feedback generated during structure formation; namely cosmic ray (CR) pressure. We present evidence for the existence of numerous shocks in the hot gas of galaxy clusters (GCs). We employ for the first time an explicit numerical treatment of CR acceleration and transport in hydro simulations of structure formation. According to our results, CRs provide an important fraction of the total pressure inside GCs, up to several tenths. This was true even at high redshift (z=2), meaning that such non-thermal component could affect the evolution of structure formation.

Neutrino Degeneracy and Decoupling: New Limits from Primordial Nucleosynthesis and the Cosmic Microwave Background

We reanalyze the cosmological constraints on the existence of a net universal lepton asymmetry and neutrino degeneracy. We show that neutrinos can begin to decouple at higher temperatures than previous estimates due to several corrections which diminish the neutrino reaction rate. These decoupled neutrinos are therefore not heated as the particle degrees of freedom change. The resultant ratio of the relic neutrino-to-photon temperatures after $e^\pm$ annihilation can then be significantly reduced by more than a factor of two from that of the standard nondegenerate ratio. This changes the expansion rate and subsequent primordial nucleosynthesis, photon decoupling, and structure formation. In particular we analyze physically plausible lepton-asymmetric models with large $ν_μ$ and $ν_τ$ degeneracies together with a moderate $ν_e$ degeneracy. We show that the nucleosynthesis by itself permits very large neutrino degeneracies $0 \le \xinum$, $\xinut \le 40$, $0 \le \xinue \le 1.4$ together with large baryon densities $0.1 \le Ω_b \h502 \le 1$ as long as some destruction of primordial lithium has occurred. We also show that structure formation and the power spectrum of the cosmic microwave background allows for the possibility of an $Ω= 1$, $Ω_Λ= 0.4$, cosmological model for which there is both significant lepton asymmetry ($| \xinum | = | \xinut | \approx 11$) and a relatively large baryon density ($Ω_b \h502 \approx 0.2$). Our best-fit neutrino-degenerate, high-baryon-content models are mainly distinguished by a suppression of the second peak in the microwave background power spectrum. This is consistent with the recent high resolution data from BOOMERANG and MAXIMA-1.

Multi-wavelength Observations of Galaxies in the Southern Zone of Avoidance

We discuss the possibilities of extragalactic large-scale studies behind the Zone of Avoidance (ZOA) using complementary multi-wavelength data from optical, systematic blind HI, and near-infrared (NIR) surveys. Applying these data to the NIR Tully-Fisher relation permits the mapping of the peculiar velocity field across the ZOA. Here, we present results of a comparison of galaxies identified in the rich low-latitude cluster Abell 3627 in the B-band with NIR (DENIS) data, and cross-identifications of galaxies detected with the blind Parkes HI Multibeam survey with NIR data - many of which are optically invisible.

High Energy Physics and Quintessence

It is shown that any realistic model of quintessence should be based on Supergravity (SUGRA) since the value of the quintessence field on the attractor is approximately the Planck mass. Under very general assumptions, the typical shape of a SUGRA tracking potential is derived. Cosmological implications are investigated. In particular, it is demonstrated that, generically, the equation of state parameter is driven to a value close to -1 in agreement with recent observations.

Discovery of 1RXS J171824.2-402934 as an X-ray burster

We report the first-time detection of a type-I X-ray burst from a position that is consistent with that of 1RXS J171824.2-402934. The detection was made on Sep 23, 1996, with the Wide Field Cameras on board the BeppoSAX satellite. The burst had a peak intensity of 1.3 Crab units in 2 to 28 keV and is relatively long (at least 3.5 min). Analysis of the burst gives clear evidence for photospheric radius expansion. Assuming the peak luminosity to be close to the Eddington limit, standard burst parameters and taking into account gravitational redshift effects, the distance to the source is approximately 6.5 kpc. No other bursts from this source have been observed during the rest of the WFC observations. The detection of a type-I burst implies that 1RXS J171824.2-402934in all likelihood is a low-mass X-ray binary where the compact object is a neutron star.

28SiO, 29SiO and 30SiO excitation: effects of infrared line overlaps

We have investigated the influence of several line overlaps between 28SiO, 29SiO and 30SiO on maser emission from the envelopes of late-type stars using the Large Velocity Gradient radiative transfer formalism modified to account for overlaps. Our model includes: (i) 40 rotational levels for each of the v=0 to 4 vibrational states and each isotopic species; (ii) collisions with molecular and atomic hydrogen; and (iii) radiative pumping by a shell of dust grains surrounding the SiO masing layers.
We have shown that several line overlaps may play a role on the excitation of the 28SiO v=3, J=1-0 maser, and on the anomalously weak v=3, J=2-1 emission. We suggest that 28SiO maser emission in the v=4, J=5-4 line, the only one observed in this vibrational level, may also result from line overlaps. For 29SiO, infrared line overlaps successfully explain observed maser emission in the v=0, J=5-4 and v=1, 2, J=6-5 lines. 30SiO, v=0, J=2-1, and v=0, J=4-3 maser emissions could also result from line overlaps, and we find that several overlaps could explain the newly discovered maser line 30SiO v=1, J=1-0. Finally, we make some predictions for new 28SiO, 29SiO and 30SiO maser lines.

Formation of binary millisecond pulsars with relatively high surface dipole magnetic fields

We have carried out numerical evolutionary calculations of binary systems to investigate the formation of binary millisecond pulsars (pulsars with white dwarf companions). We apply the ``standard scenario'' in which the binary pulsars are formed from low-mass and intermediate-mass X-ray binaries as well the alternative scenario in which the neutron stars are formed by accretion-induced collapse (AIC) of white dwarfs. The mass transfer processes are carefully followed by taking into account a number of binary interactions. Assuming that the magnetic fields of the neutron stars decay due to the accretion, we calculate the pulsar surface dipole magnetic field strength at the end of the mass transfer as a function of the final orbital period. We find that while the observed data of the majority of pulsars are compatible with the derived relations, we fail to produce binary pulsars with relatively high magnetic fields and short orbital periods (such as PSR B0655+64). We conclude that those systems are most likely formed through common-envelope phase.

Inertial Instability of Accretion Disks with Relativistic Electrons

We show that accretion disks with relativisticly hot electrons which are coupled to cold ions is subject to inertial-type instability in which kinematic drag between electrons and ions produces radial acceleration of electrons.

Periodic modulation of the optical counterpart of the X-ray pulsator 1WGA J1958.2+3232. A new intermediate polar

Time-resolved observations of a 6' x 6' field, containing the position error boxes of the X-ray source 1WGA J1958.2+3232, were performed in June 1999 with the 91 cm Catania telescope, equipped with a Photon Counting Intensified CCD. The star recently proposed as the optical counterpart of the 1WGA J1958.2+3232, exhibited a strong optical modulation with a period compatible with that seen in X-ray (~12 min). The optical modulation was detected again in September and October 1999. These results confirm the identification of the optical counterpart and support the classification of 1WGA J1958.2+3232 as a cataclysmic variable, possibly an Intermediate Polar. Modulation at period twice as large was also found in one observation run, suggesting that the true spin period of the White Dwarf could be 24 min rather than 12 min, thus 1WGA J1958.2+3232 appears to be, among the IPs, the slowest rotator which exhibit double peaked spin profile.

Galactic Bulge Microlensing Events with Clump Giants as Sources

We present preliminary results of the analysis of 5 years of MACHO data on the Galactic bulge microlensing events with clump giants as sources. In particular, we discuss: 1) the selection of `giant' events, 2) distribution of impact parameters, 3) distribution of event durations, 4) the concentration of long duration events in MACHO field 104 centered on (l,b) = (3.1,-3.0). We report the preliminary average optical depth of (2.0 +/- 0.4) x 10^{-6} (internal) at (l,b) = (3.9,-3.8). We discuss future work and prospects for building a coherent model of the Galaxy.

Rapid Optical Followup Observations of SGR Events with ROTSE-I

In order to observe nearly simultaneous emission from Gamma-ray Bursts (GRBs), the Robotic Optical Transient Search Experiment (ROTSE) receives triggers via the GRB Coordinates Network (GCN). Since beginning operations in March, 1998, ROTSE has also taken useful data for 10 SGR events: 8 from SGR 1900+14 and 2 from SGR 1806-20. We have searched for new or variable sources in the error regions of these SGRs and no optical counterparts were observed. Limits are in the range m_ROTSE ~ 12.5 - 15.5 during the period 20 seconds to 1 hour after the observed SGR events.

Electrodynamic Structure of Outer Gap Accelerators: Invisibility of Pulsed Tev Fluxes

We study the structure of an outer-magnetospheric gap around a rotating neutron star. Migratory electrons and positrons are accelerated by the electric field exerted in the gap and radiate copious gamma-rays via curvature process. Some of the gamma-rays materialize by colliding with the X-rays illuminating the gap, leading to a pair production cascade. The replenished charges partially screen the original acceleration field, which is self-consistently solved from the Poisson equation, together with the Boltzmann equations for gamma-rays and the continuity equations for particles. We demonstrate that it is difficult to detect the TeV emission due to Compton upscatterings in the gap, by the current ground-based telescopes.

Limits on Neutrino Masses from Large-Scale Structure

Massive neutrinos have a detectable effect on cosmological structure formation, in particular on the large-scale distribution of galaxies. Adding Hot Dark Matter to the now-standard Lambda CDM model leads to a worse fit to large-scale structure and CMB anisotropy data. This results in a limit on the mass of the most massive neutrino of 4 eV, assuming a power-law primordial power spectrum.

Is the Lambda CDM Model Consistent with Observations of Large-Scale Structure?

The claim that large-scale structure data independently prefers the Lambda Cold Dark Matter model is a myth. However, an updated compilation of large-scale structure observations cannot rule out Lambda CDM at 95% confidence. We explore the possibility of improving the model by adding Hot Dark Matter but the fit becomes worse; this allows us to set limits on the neutrino mass.

Implications of a possible 23 day periodicity for binary black hole models in Mkn~501

We investigate the implications of a massive binary system in the centre of the gamma-ray blazar Mkn~501 and show that the periodical behaviour recently observed in the TeV and X-ray lightcurves may possibly be related to the orbital motion of the relativistic jet emerging from the less massive black hole. For the special relativistic jet properties inferred from emission models, we derive an intrinsic orbital period of $(6-14)$ yrs and a centre-of-mass distance of $(2.0-3.5) \times 10^{16}$ cm. If the binary is very close with a separation of the order of that for which gravitational radiation becomes dominant, we find a maximum primary mass of $\sim 10^8 M_{\sun}$ and a corresponding secondary mass in the range of $\sim (4-42)\times 10^6 M_{\sun}$ depending on the intrinsic jet properties. Such values are in line with the black hole masses expected from merger scenarios.

On the nonthermal X-ray emission in blazar jets

We consider particle acceleration to high energy via diffusive shock acceleration in a simple, self-consistent shock in jet model for blazars. Electrons are assumed to be accelerated at a shock front in relativistic jets and radiate synchrotron emission in a post-shock region. The full time, space and momentum dependence of the electron distribution function is used for a calculation of the nonthermal synchrotron spectra. We discuss the evolution of the spectral index by varying the rate at which particles enter the acceleration process. The results indicate that the synchrotron spectral index displays a characteristic looplike behaviour with intensity (as has been observed in several blazars), where the orientation of the loop depends on whether the acceleration time scale is comparable to the synchrotron cooling time scale or not. We show that our model provides a good fit to the observed evolution of the spectral index of Mkn 421 during a flare in 1994.

Irradiation and mass transfer in low-mass compact binaries

We study the reaction of low-mass stars to anisotropic irradiation and its importance for the long-term evolution of compact binaries binaries. We show by means of a simple homology model that if the energy outflow through the surface layers of a low-mass main sequence star is blocked over a fraction s_eff < 1 of its surface it will inflate only modestly and that the maximum contribution to mass transfer is s_eff times what one obtains in the isotropic case. The duration of this mass transfer phase is roughly -0.1 ln(1-s_eff) times the thermal time scale of the convective envelope. Numerical computations confirm these results. Second, we present a simple analytic one-zone model for computing the blocking effect by irradiation which gives results in acceptable quantitative agreement with detailed numerical computations. Third, we show that unless mass transfer is strongly enhanced by consequential angular momentum losses, cataclysmic variables are stable against mass transfer if the mass of the main sequence donor is less than about 0.7 solar masses. Otherwise systems may be unstable, subject to the efficiency of irradiation. We argue that low-mass X-ray binaries are even less susceptible to this instability. In case of instability, mass transfer must evolve through a limit cycle in which phases of high mass transfer alternate with phases of small (or no) mass transfer.

Probing the gas content of the dwarf galaxy NGC 3109 with background X-ray sources

We established the catalog of X-ray point sources in the field of the Magellanic-type spiral galaxy NGC 3109 (DDO 236) from two ROSAT PSPC observations. Of the 91 X-ray sources 26 are contained within the HI extent of NGC 3109 as derived by Jobin & Carignan (1990) with the VLA. For 10 of these we can determine accurate hardness ratios delta HR2<=0.2. We find 3 candidate AGN, 2 candidate X-ray binaries and one source which may belong to either class. We also find 2 candidate foreground stars. In a field of 8'x8' observed with the NTT in the I-band and centered on the nucleus of NGC 3109 we determine candidate optical counterparts in the X-ray error circle of 7 ROSAT PSPC sources. We apply a spectral fit to the ROSAT spectrum of the X-ray brightest absorbed candidate AGN behind NGC 3109, RX J1003.2-2607. Assuming a galactic foreground hydrogen column density of 4.3 10^20 cm^-2 we derive from the X-ray spectral fit, assuming reduced metallicities (~0.2 solar), a hydrogen column density due to NGC 3109 of 11(+7,-5) 10^20 cm^-2. This value is slightly larger than the hydrogen column density derived from the 21-cm observations of ~8 10^20 cm^-2. We estimate that the molecular mass fraction of the gas is not larger than ~60%.

Dense gas in nearby galaxies XIII. CO submillimeter line emission from the starburst galaxy M82

12CO 1-0,2-1,4-3,7-6, and 13CO 1-0, 2-1, and 3-2 line was mapped with angular resolutions of 13" - 22" toward the nuclear region of starburst galaxy M82. The difference of lobe spacings in submillimeter (~15") and millimeter (~26") lines indicates the presence of a `low' and a `high' CO excitation component. An LVG excitation analysis of the submillimeter lines leads to inconsistencies, since area and volume filling factors are almost the same, resulting in cloud sizes along the lines-of-sight that match the entire size of the M82 starburst region. Nevertheless, LVG column densities agree with estimates derived from the dust emission in the far infrared and at submillimeter wavelengths. Accounting for high UV fluxes and variations in kinetic temperature and assuming that the observed emission arises from photon dominated regions (PDRs) resolves the problems related to an LVG treatment of the radiative transfer. 12CO/13CO line intensity ratios > 10 indicate that the bulk of the CO emission arises in UV-illuminated diffuse cloud fragments of small column density and sub-parsec cloud sizes with area filling factors >> 1. Thus CO arises from quite a different gas component than the classical high density tracers. The dominance of such a diffuse molecular interclump medium also explains observed high [CI}/CO line intensity ratios. PDR models do not allow a determination of the relative abundances of 12CO to 13CO. Ignoring magnetic fields, the CO gas appears to be close to the density limit for tidal disruption. A warm diffuse ISM not only dominates the CO emission in the starburst region of M82 but is also ubiquitous in the central region of our Galaxy, where tidal stress, cloud-cloud collisions, shocks, high gas pressure, and high stellar densities may all contribute to the formation of a highly fragmented molecular debris.

Photometric study of fields of nearby pulsars with the 6m telescope

Fields of Geminga, PSR B0950+08, PSR J1908+0734 and PSR J0108-1431 have been observed within the program of optical investigation of nearby neutron stars carried out with the 6m telescope. Our multicolour BVR_cI_c photometry has yielded the following magnitudes of Geminga: V=25.3+/-0.4; R_c=25.4+/-0.3. The estimates of the 3σupper limits in the B and I_c bands are 25.4 and 24.9, respectively. This is in agreement with previous observations of Geminga. We have suggested candidate for optical counterpart of PSR B0950+08, with R_c=25.4+/-0.3. When compared to the HST data obtained in UV its flux shows that this old pulsar can be brighter in near-IR than in near-UV. We have obtained for the first time images of the fields of PSR J1908+0734 and PSR J0108-1431. Although no optical counterparts have been detected, the magnutude upper limits obtained suggest further observations of these pulsars.

Numerical Simulations in Cosmology I: Methods

This lecture gives a short introduction to different methods used in cosmology. The focus is on major features of N-body simulations: equations, main numerical techniques, effects of resolution, and methods of halo identification.

Numerical Simulations in Cosmology II: Spatial and Velocity Biases

We give a summary of recent results on spatial and velocity biases in cosmological models. Progress in numerical techniques made it possible to simulate halos in large volumes with a such accuracy that halos survive in dense environments of groups and clusters of galaxies. Halos in simulations look like real galaxies, and, thus, can be used to study the biases -- differences between galaxies and the dark matter. The biases depend on scale, redshift, and circular velocities of selected halos. Two processes seem to define the evolution of the spatial bias: (1) statistical bias and (2) merger bias (merging of galaxies, which happens preferentially in groups, reduces the number of galaxies, but does not affect the clustering of the dark matter). There are two kinds of velocity bias. The pair-wise velocity bias is b_12=0.6-0.8 at r< 5Mpc/h, z=0. This bias mostly reflects the spatial bias and provides almost no information on the relative velocities of the galaxies and the dark matter. One-point velocity bias is a better measure of the velocities. Inside clusters the galaxies should move slightly faster (b_v =1.1-1.3) than the dark matter. Qualitatively this result can be understood using the Jeans equations of the stellar dynamics. For the standard LCDM model we find that the correlation function and the power spectrum of galaxy-size halos at z=0 are antibiased on scales r<5Mpc/h and k=(0.15-30)h/Mpc.

Numerical Simulations in Cosmology III: Dark Matter Halos

Properties of dark matter halos are reviewed. Taken from different publications, we present results on (1) the mass and velocity functions, (2) density and velocity profiles, and (3) concentration of halos. In the range of radii r=(0.005-1)rvir the density profile for a quiet isolated halo is very accurately approximated by a fit suggested by Moore etal (1997): rho=1/x^1.5(1+x^1.5), where x=r/rs and rs is a characteristic radius. The fit suggested by Navarro et al (1995) rho= 1/x(1+x)^2, also gives a very satisfactory approximation with relative errors of about 10% for radii not smaller than 1% of the virial radius. The mass function of z=0 halos with mass below 10^{13}Msun/h is approximated by a power law with slope alpha =-1.85. The slope increases with the redshift. The velocity function of halos with Vmax< 500km/s is also a power law with the slope beta= -3.8-4. The power-law extends to halos at least down to 10km/s. It is also valid for halos inside larger virialized halos. The concentration of halos depends on mass (more massive halos are less concentrated) and environment, with isolated halos being less concentrated than halos of the same mass inside clusters. Halos have intrinsic scatter of concentration: at 1sigma level halos with the same mass have Delta(log{c_vir})=0.18 or, equivalently, DeltaVmax/Vmax =0.12. Velocity anisotropy for both subhalos and the dark matter is approximated by beta(r) =0.15+2x/[x^2+4], where x is radius in units of the virial radius.

Recent Observations of X-Ray Emission from Galactic Binary Neutron Stars

Recent measurements of young accreting binary neutron stars are determining more precise magnetic field and accretion parameters. A low magnetic field accreting, millisecond pulsar has finally been found in a binary burster. At least 20 low-mass binaries have exhibited high frequency oscillations, 300--1200 Hertz. The majority have, for some range of luminosity, the pair of quasiperiodic oscillations that have never been seen in a black hole candidate. Recent evidence from burst oscillations strengthens the case that the difference frequency of this pair is close to the spin frequency of the neutron star. These oscillations are correlated with the spectra, luminosity, and low frequency oscillations. Quasiperiodic oscillations are also seen sometimes in strong magnetic field pulsars, where their origin can be closely examined.

Meteor Stream Membership Criteria

Criteria for the membership of individual meteors in meteor streams are discussed from the point of view of their mathematical and also physical properties. Discussion is also devoted to the motivation. It is shown that standardly used criteria (mainly D-criterion of Southworth and Hawkins, 1963) have unusual mathematical properties in the sense of a term ``distance'', between points in a phase space, and, physical motivation and realization for the purpose of obtaining their final form is not natural and correct, and, moreover, they lead also to at least surprising astrophysical results. General properties of possible criteria are discussed. A new criterion for the membership in meteor streams is suggested. It is based on probability theory. Finally, a problem of meteor orbit determination for known parent body is discussed.

Far infrared extragalactic background radiation: I. Source counts with ISOPHOT

As a part of the ISOPHOT CIRB (Cosmic Infrared Background Radiation) project we have searched for point-like sources in eight fields mapped at two or three wavelengths between 90 and 180um. Most sources are previously unknown and based on the far-infrared (FIR) spectral energy distributions dust-enshrouded, distant galaxies form a significant fraction of the sources. We present a list of the new extragalactic FIR-sources and discuss the uncertainties of the source detection from the ISOPHOT maps. We estimate the source number densities at 90, 150 and 180um and at flux density levels down to 100mJy to be 10^5, 2 10^5, and 3 10^5 1/sr, respectively. Strong galaxy evolution models are in best agreement with our results, although the number of detections exceeds most model predictions. No-evolution models can be rejected at a high confidence level. Comparison with COBE results indicates that at 90um the detected sources correspond to some 20% of the extragalactic background light. At longer wavelengths the corresponding fraction is closer to 10%.

Dynamic Work Distribution for PM Algorithm

Although poor for small dynamic scales, the Particle-Mesh (PM) model allows in astrophysics good insight for large dynamic scales at low computational cost. Furthermore, it is possible to employ a very high number of particles to get high mass resolution. These properties could be exploited by suitable parallelization of the algorithm. In PM there are two types of data: the particle data, i.e. position and velocity, which are stored in one-dimensional arrays of N elements, and the grid data, i.e. density and force, which are stored in three-dimensional arrays $M\times M\times M$ in size. Since individual particles can change cell under the action of gravitational force, parallelization is a real challenge on parallel machine and must account for the machine architecture. We have implemented a dynamic work distribution through agenda parallelism. By subdividing the work in small tasks, the implementation is well balanced, scalable and efficient also for clustered particle distributions. In this contribution we describe this efficient, load balanced, parallel implementation of PM algorithm on Cray T3E at CINECA and show its performances on cosmological simulation results.

The synthesis of the light Mo and Ru isotopes: how now, no need for an exotic solution ?

The most detailed calculations of the p-process call for its development in the O/Ne layers of Type II supernovae. In spite of their overall success in reproducing the solar system content of p-nuclides, they suggest a significant underproduction of the light Mo and Ru isotopes. On grounds of a model for the explosion of a 25 solar mass star with solar metallicity, we demonstrate that this failure might just be related to the uncertainties left in the rate of the 22Ne(alpha,n)25Mg neutron producing reaction. The latter indeed have a direct impact on the distribution of the s-process seeds for the p-process.

Exploring the high frequency emission of radio loud X-ray binaries

We report millimetre-wave continuum observations of the X-ray binaries Cygnus X-3, SS 433, LSI+61 303, Cygnus X-1 and GRS 1915+105. The observations were carried out with the IRAM 30 m-antenna at 250 GHz (1.25 mm) from 1998 March 14 to March 20. These millimetre measurements are complemented with centimetre observations from the Ryle Telescope, at 15 GHz (2.0 cm) and from the Green Bank Interferometer at 2.25 and 8.3 GHz (13 and 3.6 cm). Both Cygnus X-3 and SS 433 underwent moderate flaring events during our observations, whose main spectral evolution properties are described and interpreted. A significant spectral steepening was observed in both sources during the flare decay, that is likely to be caused by adiabatic expansion, inverse Compton and synchrotron losses. Finally, we also report 250 GHz upper limits for three additional undetected X-ray binary stars: LSI+65 010, LSI+61 235 and X Per.

The evolution Equation of Cosmological density perturbation in Einstein-Cartan gravity

The evolution equation of linear cosmic density perturbations in the realm of Einstein-Cartan theory of gravity is obtained.The de Sitter metric fluctuation is computed in terms of the spin-torsion background density.

What are MACHOs? Interpreting LMC microlensing

I discuss two hypotheses that might explain LMC microlensing: the Halo stellar remnant lensing hypothesis and the unvirialized LMC lensing hypothesis. I show that white dwarfs cannot contribute substantially to the cosmic baryon budget; they are strongly constrained by chemical evolution and background light measurements. Although there have been some claims of direct optical detections of white dwarfs in the Halo, I show how the full sample of direct optical searches for halo lenses do not support the Halo lens hypothesis.
N-body simulations suggest that the LMC may be naturally excited out of virial equilibrium by tidal forcing from the Milky Way. New measurements of LMC kinematics not only do not rule out the unvirialized LMC lensing hypothesis, but even moderately favor it (at 95% confidence).

L483: A Protostar In Transition From Class 0 to Class I

We present molecular-line observations toward the dense core in L483 and its bipolar outflow powered by the Class 0 object IRAS 18148-0440. CO (carbon monoxide) maps show that the outflow is well collimated and asymmetric, and that its gas is warmer than the surrounding cloud by at least a factor of 2. H2CO (formaldehyde) lines toward the outflow show prominent high-velocity wings and evidence for an H2CO abundance enhancement of a factor of 20. At ambient velocities, these lines show strong self-absorption and a brighter blue peak, a characteristic signature of inward motions. Finally, and in contrast with the outflows from other Class 0 objects, the CH3OH (methanol) lines in L483 do not show high velocity wings, and no evidence for abundance enhancement is found in this molecule or in SiO (silicon monoxide). Comparing the physical and chemical properties of the outflow in L483 with those of other outflows from Class 0 and Class I sources, we find that the L483 outflow is somewhat intermediate between these types. This suggests that the L483 central source has already started its transition between Class 0 and Class I, and that its mixed properties illustrate how this transition occurs.

A large age for the pulsar B1757-24 from an upper limit on its proper motion

The "characteristic age" of a pulsar usually is considered to approximate its true age, but this assumption has led to some puzzling results, including the fact that many pulsars with small characteristic ages have no associated supernova remnants. The pulsar B1757-24 is located just beyond the edge of a supernova remnant; the properties of the system indicate that the pulsar was born at the centre of the remnant, but that it has subsequently overtaken the expanding blast-wave. With a characteristic age of 16,000 yr, this implies an expected proper motion by the pulsar of 63-80 milliarcsec per year. Here we report observations of the nebula surrounding the pulsar which limit its proper motion to less than 25 mas/yr, implying a minimum age of 39,000 yr. A more detailed analysis argues for a true age as great as 170,000 yr, significantly larger than the characteristic age. From this result and other discrepancies associated with pulsars, we conclude that characteristic ages seriously underestimate the true ages of pulsars.

Geometric Conditions on the Type of Matter Determining the Flat Behavior of the Rotational Curves in Galaxies

In an arbitrary axisymmetric stationary spacetime, we determine the expression for the tangential velocity of test objects following a circular stable geodesic motion in the equatorial plane, as function of the metric coefficients. Next, we impose the condition, observed in large samples of disks galaxies, that the magnitude of such tangential velocity be radii independent, obtaining a constraint equation among the metric coefficients, and thus arriving to an iff condition: The tangential velocity of test particles is radii independent iff the metric coefficients satisfied the mentioned constraint equation. Furthermore, for the static case, the constraint equation can be easily integrated, leaving the spacetime at the equatorial plane essentially with only one independent metric coefficient. With the geometry thus fixed, we compute the Einstein tensor and equate it to and arbitrary stress energy tensor, in order to determined the type of energy-matter which could produce such a geometry. Within an approximation, we deduce a constraint equation among the components of the stress energy tensor. We test in that constraint equation several well known types of matter, which have been proposed as dark matter candidates and are able to point for possible right ones. Finally, we also present the spherically symmetric static case and apply the mentioned procedure to perfect fluid stress energy tensor, recovering the Newtonian result as well as the one obtained in the axisymmetric case. We also present arguments on the need to use GR to study non dust types of matter.

On the Formation of Massive Stars by Accretion

(Abriged) At present, there are two scenarios for the formation of massive stars: 1) The accretion scenario and 2) The coalescence scenario, which implies the merging of intermediate mass stars. We examine here some properties of the first one. We calculate three different sets of birthlines, i.e. tracks followed by a continuously accreting star. First, three models with a constant accretion rate ($\dot{M}_{\rm{accr}}$ = $10^{-6}$, $10^{-5}$, $10^{-4}$ M$_{\odot}$ yr$^{-1}$). Then several birthlines following the accretion models of Bernasconi and Maeder (\cite{BM96}), which have $\dot{M}_{\rm{accr}}$ increasing only slightly with mass. Finally we calculate several birthlines for which $\dot{M}_{accr} = \dot{M}_{\mathrm{ref}} ({\frac{M}{M_{\odot}}}) ^ϕ$, with values of $ϕ$ equal to 0.5, 1.0 and 1.5 and also for different values of $\dot{M}_{\mathrm{ref}}$. The best fit to the observations of PMS stars in the HR diagram is achieved for $ϕ$ between 1.0 or 1.5 and for $\dot{M}_{\mathrm{ref}} \simeq 10^{-5}$ M$_{\odot}$ yr$^{-1}$. Considerations on the lifetimes favour values of $ϕ$ equal to 1.5. These accretion rates do well correspond to those derived from radio and IR observations of mass outflows. We emphasize the importance of the accretion scenario for shaping the IMF, and in particular for determining the upper mass limit of stars. In the accretion scenario, this upper mass limit will be given by the mass for which the accretion rate is such that the accretion induced shock luminosity is of the order of the Eddington luminosity.

Spectroscopic confirmation of clusters from the ESO imaging survey

We measure redshifts for 67 galaxies in the field of six cluster candidates from the ESO Imaging Survey (EIS). The cluster candidates are selected in the EIS patches C and D among those with estimated mean redshifts between 0.5 and 0.7. The observations were made with EFOSC2 at the 3.6m ESO telescope.
In the six candidate cluster fields, we identify 19 possible sets of 2 to 7 galaxies in redshift space. In order to establish which of the 19 sets are likely to correspond to real dense systems we compare our counts with those expected from a uniform distribution of galaxies with given luminosity function. In order to take into account the effect of the Large Scale Structure, we modulate the probability computed from the luminosity function with random samplings of the Canada-France Redshift Survey.
We find that four out of six candidate EIS clusters are likely to correspond to real systems in redshift space (> 95 % confidence level). Two of these systems have mean redshift in agreement with the redshift estimate given by the matched filter algorithm. The other two systems have significantly lower redshifts.
We discuss the implications of our results in the context of our ongoing research projects aimed at defining high-redshift optically-selected cluster samples.

Searches for Quasars at z > 5

Quasars continue to be the most luminous objects known in the universe but are now rivaled by galaxies for having the largest redshifts. I review current techniques for finding quasars at z > 5 and the status of current optical surveys. I compare the spectra of known quasars with z \approx 5 with the spectra of some recently discovered galaxies with z > 5 to see what we may expect in the future from surveys for high redshift quasars and galaxies. The prominent emission lines of quasars should make them easier to detect and confirm spectroscopically than the z > 5 galaxies discovered so far. An update section to May, 2000 discusses new discoveries made after the meeting.

The flatness of the Universe is robust

We combine the two balloon experiments BOOMERANG and MAXIMA-1 with our previous fit which used 9 constraints and concluded that the Universe is flat. The result is that the flatness is robust, $Ω_0 = 0.97 \pm 0.05$.

Cosmic Intelligence and Black Holes

The paper is devoted to a new direction in SETI. After a general discussion of the field, the authors put forth the hypothesis that the black holes may serve as a physical substratum for intelligent beings. This hypothesis is based on four parallels between the brain-psyche system, on the one hand, and black holes, on the other. (1) The descriptions of brain and psyche, in the system brain-psyche, are complementary to each other, as descriptions by internal and external observers of a black hole in Susskind-t'Hooft's schema. (2) There is an aspect of the inner structure of a black hole in Kerr's model of the rotating black hole that is isomorphic to the structure of the human subjective domain in the psychological model of reflexion. (3) Both black holes and the brain-psyche system have a facet which can be represented using thermodynamic concepts. (4) The brain lends itself to a holographic description; as has been recently demonstrated by Susskind, black holes can also be described holographically. The authors speculate that the intelligent black holes can generate other black holes by triggering creation of massive stars from which new black holes arise after the stars' collapse. In addition, the authors analyze certain strange phenomena related to the birth of young massive stars which may or may not be connected with such a triggering.

Towards global-phase-delay VLBI astrometry: observations of QSO 1150+812 and BL 1803+784

On 18 November 1993, we observed the QSO 1150+812 and the BL Lac object 1803+784, nearly 15°apart on the sky, with a VLBI array, simultaneously recording at 8.4 and 2.3 GHz. Using difference astrometry techniques, we determined the coordinates of 1803+784 relative to those of 1150+812 to be Δα= 6h 7m 33.18469 arcsec +- 0.00020 arcsec Δδ= -2deg 30' 25''.13557 +- 0''.00075 These standard errors contain estimated contributions from the propagation medium, the effects of source opacity, and the possible misidentification of the reference point in some of the maps. We obtained comparably accurate and consistent relative positions of the radio sources with GPS-based ionosphere corrections, thus demonstrating that dual-frequency observations are not required for state-of-the-art accuracy in VLBI astrometry. These results also demonstrate the feasibility of using single-frequency measurements for sources separated by 15$^\circ$ on the sky, and open the avenue for the application of this technique on a full-sky scale.

Implications of the cosmic infrared background for light production and the star formation history in the Universe

The Cosmic Background due to the integrated radiation from galaxies over the whole life of the Universe is reviewed. We find that this background is well constrained by measurements. The total power in the background is in the range 60-93 nW/m2/sr. The data show the existence of a minimum separating the direct stellar radiation from the infrared part due to radiation reemitted by dust. This reemitted dust radiation is about 1-2.6 time the background power in the optical/near-IR thus much larger than the same ratio measured locally (30%). The far-infrared and submillimeter background is likely to be dominated by redshifted infrared galaxies. The long wavelength spectrum of the background being significantly flatter than the spectrum of these galaxies it strongly constrains the far-infrared radiation production rate history which must increase by a factor larger than 10 between the present time and a redshift 1 and then stays rather constant at higher redshift, contrary to the ultraviolet radiation production rate which decreases rapidly.
Several models of galaxy evolution have been proposed to explain the submillimeter background. In this paper we do not propose a new model; we systematically explore the allowed range of evolution histories allowed by the data. If infrared galaxies are mostly powered by starbursts as indicated by recent observations, this infrared production history reflects the history of starbursts in the Universe.

Cirrus spectra of low surface brightness regions

We have studied the galactic cirrus in low surface brightness regions using ISOPHOT raster maps at 90, 150 and 180um. Observations are used to determine dust emission spectra and dust temperatures. The data extend to longer wavelengths than IRAS observation. Compared with DIRBE data the resolution and the sensitivity are better and this makes it possible to study faint cirrus emission in individual fields.
We will discuss the calibration of the observations and present results of a comparison between ISOPHOT and DIRBE surface brightness values. The correspondence was found to be better than 30%. At 90um the ISOPHOT surface brightnesses tend to be slightly higher than the DIRBE values while at longer wavelength the situation is reversed.
Surface brightness variations caused by cirrus fluctuations make it possible to determine the spectrum of the dust emission. Cirrus spectra were obtained for six fields with surface brightnesses in the range 1-2 MJy/sr after the Zodiacal light and the contribution of extragalactic sources have been subtracted. Assuming f^2 emissivity law the dust temperatures are in the range 18-20 K. Temperature variations can be seen even within individual fields. These values are higher than values from DIRBE but this can be explained by differences in the calibration.

ISOPHOT CIRB project: FIR source counts at 90, 150 and 180 um

Far-infrared maps obtained with ISOPHOT have been searched for point-like sources. The majority of the 55 sources is believed to be extragalactic and in most cases no previously known sources can be associated with them. Based on the far-infrared spectral energy distributions it is likely that dust-enshrouded, distant galaxies form a significant fraction of the sources.
We estimate the number densities of extragalactic sources at 90, 150 and 180 um wavelengths and at flux density levels down to 100 mJy. The counts are compared with models of galaxy evolution. The counts exceed the predictions of current models, even those with strong evolution, and no-evolution models are rejected at a high confidence level.
Comparison with recent results from COBE mission indicates that at 90 um the detected sources correspond to over 20% of the extragalactic background light. At longer wavelengths the corresponding fraction is 10%.

Unusual quiescent X-ray activity from XTE J0421+560 (CI Cam)

We report on BeppoSAX observations of the X-ray transient XTE J0421+560 in quiescence 156, 541, and ~690 days after the maximum of the 1998 April outburst. In the first observation the source was soft with a power-law photon index of 4.0 (+1.9 -0.9) and absorption, NH, of (1.1 +4.9 -1.1) X 10^21 atom/cm2. In the second observation, the source brightened by a factor ~15 in the 1-10 keV energy range, became significantly harder with a photon index of 1.86 (+0.27 -0.32) and was strongly absorbed with NH = (4.0 +/- 0.8) X 10^23 atom/cm2. There is evidence for a narrow emission line in both spectra at \~7 keV. In the third observation, the source had faded by a factor ~$8 from the previous observation to below the BeppoSAX detection level. It is possible that these variations result from orbital motion of a compact object around the B[e] star companion with the intense, absorbed, spectrum arising during passage through dense circumstellar material. If this is the case, the system may be continuing to exhibit periodic activity.

BeppoSAX broad-band observations of low-redshift quasars: Spectral curvature and iron K_alpha lines

We present results from BeppoSAX observations of 10 low redshift quasars. The quasars are part of the Laor et al. (1997) sample of 23 optically selected PG quasars with redshift <0.4 and low Galactic absorption along the line of sight. Significant spectral curvature is detected for the 6 quasars with the highest signal to noise ratio in their low energy spectra. The average curvature can be parameterized as a flattening of the underlying power law by Delta_alpha ~ 0.5 above ~1 keV. We find that quasars with a steeper soft X-ray (0.1-2 keV) spectrum tend to be steeper also at higher (2-10 keV) energies. The distribution of the best fit 2-10 keV slopes is similar to that found for other radio-quiet AGN and characterized by a large dispersion around the mean: alpha_E ~ 1.0+/-0.3. Iron K_alpha lines are detected in 4 quasars. In the narrow-line quasar PG 1115+407, the rest frame line energy (6.69+/-0.11 keV) and equivalent width (580+/-280 eV) are consistent with those found in a few low redshift narrow-line Seyfert 1 galaxies (NLSy1). This, together with the similarity of the 0.1-10 keV X-ray continuum, suggests that this quasar is the higher redshift and luminosity analog of a NLSy1. In the broad line quasar PG 0947+396, the rest-frame line energy suggests fluorescence from cold iron. The line equivalent width (> 400 eV) is however about 2-3 times higher than that usually found in Seyfert 1 galaxies. The high energy power-law slopes and the iron line emission properties seem to be unrelated to the X-ray luminosity.

Hot and Cold Dark Matter Search with GENIUS

GENIUS is a proposal for a large volume detector to search for rare events. An array of 40-400 'naked' HPGe detectors will be operated in a tank filled with ultra-pure liquid nitrogen. After a description of performed technical studies of detector operation in liquid nitrogen and of Monte Carlo simulations of expected background components, the potential of GENIUS for detecting WIMP dark matter, the neutrinoless double beta decay in 76-Ge and low-energy solar neutrinos is discussed.

Detection of Strong Clustering of Extremely Red Objects: Implications for the Density of z > 1 Ellipticals

We present the results of a wide-field survey for extremely red objects (EROs hereafter), the widest so far, based on Ks and R band imaging. The survey covers 701 arcmin^2 and it is 85% complete to Ks\leq18.8 over the whole area and to Ks\leq19.2 over 447.5 arcmin^2. Thanks to the wide field covered, a complete sample of about 400 EROs with R-Ks\geq5 was selected. The distribution of the EROs on the sky is strongly inhomogeneous, being characterized by overdensities and large voids. We detect at the 8 sigma level a strong clustering signal of the EROs which is about an order of magnitude larger than the clustering of K-selected field galaxies in the same magnitude range. A smooth trend of increasing clustering amplitude with the R-Ks color is observed. These results are strong evidence that the largest fraction of EROs is composed of high-z ellipticals, of which we detect for the first time the z\simgt1 large scale structure clustering signal. We show how the surface density variations of the ERO population found in our survey can explain the highly discrepant results obtained so far on the density of z > 1 ellipticals, and we briefly discuss the main implications of our results for the evolution of elliptical galaxies. The number counts and the colors of the K-selected field galaxies are also presented and briefly discussed.

The Sun's acoustic asphericity and magnetic fields in the solar convection zone

The observed splittings of solar oscillation frequencies can be employed to separate the effects of internal solar rotation and to estimate the contribution from a large-scale magnetic field or any latitude-dependent thermal perturbation inside the Sun. The surface distortion estimated from the rotation rate in the solar interior is found to be in good agreement with the observed oblateness at solar surface. After subtracting out the estimated contribution from rotation, there is some residual signal in the even splitting coefficients, which may be explained by a magnetic field of approximately 20 kG strength located at a depth of 30000 km below the surface or an equivalent aspherical thermal perturbation. An upper limit of 300 kG is derived for a toroidal field near the base of the convection zone.

The jet of 3C 273 observed with ROSAT HRI

ROSAT HRI observations of 3C 273 reveal X-ray emission all along the optically visible jet with the peak of emission at the inner end. Whereas the X-ray emission from the innermost knot A is consistent with a continuation of the radio-to-optical synchrotron continuum, a second population of particles with higher maximum energy has to be invoked to explain the X-ray emission from knots B, C and D in terms of synchrotron radiation. Inverse Compton emission could account for the X-ray flux from the hot spot. We detect a faint X-ray halo with a characteristic scale of 29 kpc and particle density on the order of 6 x 10^4 m^-3, higher than previously thought.

Getting the Red Out: A Stellar Approach to Determining Spatial Variations of Interstellar Dust

By employing two different spectroscopic techniques we have mapped out the variable ISM dust extinction endemic to globular cluster M4. We derive an average E(B-V) reddening of 0.33 +/- 0.01 and R = 3.4 +/- 0.4, both in good agreement with previous studies of M4. For individual stars in the most heavily reddened regions of M4, we find E(B-V) values significantly higher than those inferred by studies of interstellar gas; for heavily reddened regions, the gas measured in column density measurements may not completely trace the dust.

Hipparcos, IUE, and the Stellar Content of the Solar Neighbourhood

The spectroscopic parallaxes in the Hipparcos catalogue can be used to translate absolute stellar fluxes observed at Earth to the fluxes emerging at the stellar surface for nearby stars. The comparison of these fluxes with the predictions of theoretical model atmospheres allows us to determine the effective temperature and the metallicity of the stars. It is suggested that is possible to study the stellar content of the solar neighbourhood making use of the large number of ultraviolet spectra in the archive of the IUE satellite.

Proton and Electron Acceleration through Magnetic Turbulence in Relativistic Outflows

Low frequency electromagnetic turbulence is generated in relativistically outflowing plasma that sweeps up particles from the surrounding environment. Electrons are energized by stochastic gyroresonant acceleration with the turbulence produced by the isotropization of captured protons and charged dust. Protons are accelerated stochastically by the dust-induced turbulence. Analytical solutions for the proton and electron energy distributions are obtained and used to calculate broadband synchrotron emission. The solutions are compared with generic spectral behavior of blazars and gamma-ray bursts. Dust captured by a blast wave can generate turbulence that could accelerate protons to very high energies.

Ionization physics evidence for magnetic flare origin of X-rays in AGN

We present full disk X-ray reflection spectra for two currently popular accretion flow geometries for AGN -- the lamppost model frequently used to discuss the iron line reverberation in AGN, and the model where the X-rays are produced in magnetic flares above a cold accretion disk (AD). The lamppost spectra contain several spectroscopic features characteristic of highly ionized material that are not seen in the X-ray spectra of most AGN. The magnetic flare model, on the other hand, produces reflected spectra that are roughly a super-position of a power-law and a {\em neutral-like} reflection and iron K$α$ line, and are thus more in line with typical AGN X-ray spectra. Furthermore, because of the difference in the ionization structure of the illuminated material in the two models, the line equivalent width increases with the X-ray luminosity, $L_x$, for the lamppost, and decreases with $L_x$ for the flare model. In light of these theoretical insights, recent iron line reverberation studies of AGN, the X-ray Baldwin effect, and the general lack of X-ray reflection features in distant quasars all suggest that, for high accretion rates, the cold accretion disk is covered by a Thomson thick, completely ionized skin. Because the latter is only possible when the X-rays are concentrated to small emitting regions, we believe that this presents a strong evidence for the magnetic flare origin of X-rays in AGN.

The Behind The Plane Survey - source selection, identifications and completeness

We present details of the Behind The Plane survey of IRAS galaxies, which extends the PSCz survey to cover the 93% of the sky with complete and reliable IRAS data from the Point Source Catalog. At low latitudes, our catalogue is not complete to 0.6Jy, but the incompleteness is physically understood and can be corrected for. IRAS galaxies at low latitudes are heavily or completely obscured optically, and are heavily outnumbered by Galactic sources with similar IRAS properties. We have used radio, optical, mm, near and far-infrared data to identify the galaxies, and the 2D catalogue is now complete. We have used optical and HI spectroscopy to obtain redshifts for the galaxies; the southern spectroscopy is completed and the north nearly so.

A New Narrow-Line Seyfert 1 galaxy : RXJ1236.9+2656

We report identification of a narrow-line Seyfert 1 galaxy RXJ1236.9+2656. X-ray emission from the NLS1 galaxy undergoes long-term variability with 0.1--2.0 keV flux changing by a factor of 2 within about 3 yr. The ROSAT PSPC spectrum of RXJ1236.9+2656 is well represented by a power-law of Gamma = 3.7 absorbed by matter in our own Galaxy (N_H = 1.33X10^20 cm**-2). Intrinsic soft X-ray luminosity of the NLS1 galaxy is estimated to be 1.5X10^43 erg/s in the energy band of 0.1-2.0 keV. The optical spectrum of RXJ1236.9+2656 is typical of NLS1 galaxies and shows narrow Balmer emission lines (1100 km/s < FWHM < 1700 km/s) of Hbeta, Halpha, and forbidden lines of [O III] and [N II]. Fe II multiplets, usually present in optical spectra of NLS1 galaxies, are also detected in RXJ1236.9+2656.

Interpolation of Discretely-Sampled Density Fields

We present a new technique for the interpolation of discretely-sampled non-negat ive scalar fields across regions of missing data. Any set of basis functions can be used, though the method is fastest when they are close to orthogonal. We sho w how the technique may be efficiently applied when the discrete sampling rate v aries across the field. Regularisation is desirable to avoid over-fitting noisy data, and is necessary when the regions of missing data are larger than the requ ired resolution. We present and investigate methods for such regularisation.

The afterglow of the short/intermediate-duration gamma-ray burst GRB 000301C: A jet at z=2.04

We present Ulysses and NEAR data from the detection of the short or intermediate duration (2 s) gamma-ray burst GRB000301C (2000 March 1.41 UT). The gamma-ray burst (GRB) was localised by the Inter Planetary Network (IPN) and RXTE to an area of 50 arcmin^2. A fading optical counterpart was subsequently discovered with the Nordic Optical Telescope (NOT) about 42h after the burst. The GRB lies at the border between the long-soft and the short-hard classes of GRBs. If GRB000301C belongs to the latter class, this would be the first detection of an afterglow to a short-hard burst. We present UBRI and JHK photometry from the time of the discovery until 11 days after the burst. Finally, we present spectroscopic observations of the optical afterglow obtained with the ESO VLT Antu telescope 4 and 5 days after the burst. The optical light curve is consistent with being achromatic from 2 to 11 days after the burst and exhibits a break. A broken power-law fit yields a shallow pre-break decay power-law slope of a_1=-0.72+-0.06, a break time of t_b=4.39+-0.26 days after the burst, and a post-break slope of a_2=-2.29+-0.17, which is best explained by a sideways expanding jet in an ambient medium of constant mean density. In the optical spectrum we find absorption features that are consistent with FeII, CIV, CII, SiII and Ly-a at a redshift of 2.0404+-0.0008. We find evidence for a curved shape of the spectral energy distribution of the observed afterglow. It is best fitted with a power-law spectral distribution with index b ~ -0.7 reddened by an SMC-like extinction law with A_V~0.1 mag. Based on the Ly-a absorption line we estimate the HI column density to be log(N(HI))=21.2+-0.5. This is the first direct indication of a connection between GRB host galaxies and Damped Ly-a Absorbers.

Chemical composition of evolved stars in the open cluster M 67

High-resolution spectra of six core helium-burning `clump' stars and three giants in the open cluster M 67 have been obtained with the SOFIN spectrograph on the Nordic Optical Telescope to investigate abundances of up to 25 chemical elements. Abundances of carbon were studied using the C2 Swan (0,1) band head at 5635.5 A. The wavelength interval 7980-8130 A with strong CN features was analysed in order to determine nitrogen abundances and 12C/13C isotope ratios. The oxygen abundances were determined from the [O I] line at 6300 A.
The overall metallicity of the cluster stars was found to be close to solar ([Fe/H]=-0.03+-0.03). Compared with the Sun and other dwarf stars of the Galactic disk, as well as with dwarf stars of M 67 itself, abundances in the investigated stars suggest that carbon is depleted by about 0.2 dex, nitrogen is enhanced by about 0.2 dex and oxygen is unaltered. Among other mixing- sensitive chemical elements an overabundance of sodium may be suspected. The mean C/N and 12C/13C ratios are lowered to the values of 1.7+-0.2 and 24+-4 in the giants and to the values of 1.4+-0.2 and 16+-4 in the clump stars. These results suggest that extra mixing of CN-cycled material to the stellar surface takes place after the He-core flash. Abundances of heavy chemical elements in all nine stars were found to be almost identical and close to solar.

The IRAS view of the Local Universe

We summarise results for the predicted density and peculiar velocity fields from the PSCz survey. We have used a generalisation of the Path Interchange Zeldovich Approximation to determine the velocity field; the most remarkable feature being a coherent large-scale flow along the baseline connecting the Local Supercluster, Centaurus and the Shapley Concentration. Comparison of the predicted and observed bulk flows gives a value of beta = 0.50+-0.1.
We re-examine the PSCz dipole, with improved redshift completeness at low-latitudes and using PIZA to estimate real-space distances. We find the dipole to be stable between 80 and 180 hMpc, although there appears to be a significant contribution to the dipole around 200 hMpc. The overall misalignment with the CMB dipole remains at 20degrees. The implied value of beta is in the range 0.40-0.55 with statistical error +-0.1. We also present the density field and a preliminary dipole analysis from the almost completed Behind The Plane survey, which extends the PSCz to cover 93% of the sky including the proposed core of the Great Attractor. We find a density peak at (325,-5,3500km/s), about half as massive as Centaurus or Pavo-Indus, and forming part of a continuous filament linking them across the Plane. We also find evidence for a much larger `Greater Attractor' directly behind the GA, at a distance of 125 hMpc, and more massive than the Shapley concentration.
At large distances the dipole direction is in much improved agreement with the CMB: at 250-300hMpc, the misalignment is only 5-10 degrees, though this depends on the incompleteness corrections made. The dipole amplitude implies a value for the parameter beta of 0.44+-0.1.

Magnetic collimation of the solar and stellar winds

We resolve the paradox that although magnetic collimation of an isotropic solar wind results in an enhancement of its proton flux along the polar directions, several observations indicate a wind proton flux peaked at the equator. To that goal, we solve the full set of the time-dependent MHD equations describing the axisymmetric outflow of plasma from the magnetized and rotating Sun, either in its present form of the solar wind, or, in its earlier form of a protosolar wind. Special attention is directed towards the collimation properties of the solar outflow at large heliocentric distances. For the present day solar wind it is found that the poloidal streamlines and fieldlines are only slightly focused toward the solar poles. However, even such a modest compression of the flow by the azimuthal magnetic field would lead to an increase of the mass flux at the polar axis by about 20% at 1 AU, relatively to its value at the equator, for an initially isotropic at the base wind, contrary to older and recent (Prognoz, Ulysses, SOHO) observations. For the anisotropic in heliolatitude wind with parameters at the base inferred from in situ observations by ULYSSES/SWOOPS and SOHO/CDS the effect of collimation is almost totally compensated by the initial velocity and density anisotropy of the wind. This effect should be taken into account in the interpretation of the recent SOHO observations by the SWAN instrument. Similar simulations have been performed for a five- and ten-fold increase of the solar angular velocity corresponding presumably to the wind of an earlier phase of our Sun. For such conditions it is found that for initially radial streamlines, the azimuthal magnetic field created by the fast rotation focus them toward the rotation axis and forms a tightly collimated jet.

The Dark and Luminous Matter coupling in the formation of spheroids: a SPH investigation

Using N-body/hydrodynamical simulations which include prescriptions for Star Formation, Feed-Back and Chemical Evolution, we explore the interaction between baryons and Dark Matter at galactic scale. The N-body simulations are performed using a Tree-SPH code that follows the evolution of individual DM halos inside which stars form from cooling gas, and evolve delivering in the interstellar medium mass, metals, and energy. We examine the formation and evolution of a giant and a dwarf elliptical galaxy of total mass 10^12 and 10^9 solar masses, respectively. Starting from an initial density profile like the universal Navarro profile in the inner region, baryons sink towards the center due to cooling energy losses. At the end of the collapse, the innermost part (1/20 of the halo size) of the galaxy is baryon-dominated, whereas the outer regions are DM dominated. The Star Formation proceeds at much faster speed in the giant galaxy where a spheroid of 8 \times 10^10 solar masses is formed in 2 Gyr, with respect to the dwarf galaxy where the spheroid of 2 \times 10^7 solar masses is formed in 4 Gyr. For the two objects the final distribution of stars is well fitted by a Hernquist profile with effective radii of r_e = 30 kpc, and 2.8 kpc, respectively. The dark-to-luminous tarnsition radius r_IBD occurs roughly at 1 r_e, as in real ellipticals. The DM halo density evolution is non-adiabatic and does not lead to a core radius.

Comment on ``Violation of the Greisen-Zatsepin-Kuzmin Cutoff: A Tempest in a (Magnetic) Teapot? Why Cosmic Ray Energies above $10^{20}$ eV May Not Require New Physics''

In a recent letter [1] with the same title, Farrar and Piran offered an explanation for the near isotropy of the arrival directions [2] of ultrahigh energy cosmic rays (UHECRs) and the apparent absence [3] of the so called `GZK cutoff' in their spectrum around $10^{20}$ eV due to pion photoproduction on the cosmic background radiation (CMB) that was predicted independently by Greisen [4] and by Zatsepin and Kuz'min [5]. They suggested that the extragalactic magnetic fields near the Milky Way are strong enough to deflect and isotropise the arrival directions of the UHECRs from a few nearby sources for which their travel time to Earth is shorter than their attenuation time by pion photoproduction on the CMB. They also estimated that this allows active galactic nuclei (AGNs) or gamma ray bursts (GRBs) to be the source of the UHECRs. However, these suggestions are inconsistent with various observations

Implications of the X-Ray Properties of Pulsar Nebulae

A plausible model for the Crab Nebula is one in which a particle dominated, highly relativistic wind from the pulsar passes through a shock front in which the particles attain a power law energy distribution. The electrons and positrons lose energy radiating synchrotron emission. Here, a one zone version of the model is developed and applied to observations of X-ray pulsar nebulae. Efficient conversion of pulsar spin-down power to X-ray luminosity is expected if the observed electrons are in the synchrotron cooling regime and their energy spectrum is similar to that in the Crab Nebula. In this case, the relation between X-ray luminosity and pulsar spin-down power depends only weakly on the model parameters. The dependence is stronger for a steeper particle spectrum, as appears to be present in N157B, and the efficiency of X-ray production can be lower. If the electrons are not in the cooling regime, the X-ray luminosity can be low, as appears to be the case for the compact nebula around the Vela pulsar. Slow cooling is likely to be caused by a sub-equipartition magnetic field in the radiating region. Observations can place constraints on the uncertain physics of relativistic MHD shocks. The model is related to those developed for gamma-ray burst afterglows.

Equilibrium configurations of relativistic White Dwarfs

The Feynman-Metropolis-Teller treatment for compressed atoms is here reconsidered in the framework of the relativistic generalised Fermi-Thomas model, obtained by Ruffini et al. Physical properties of a zero temperature plasma is thus investigated and the resulting equation of state, which keeps into account quantum, relativistic and electromagnetic effects, is applied to the study of equilibrium configurations of relativistic White Dwarfs.
It is shown that numerical evaluation of such configuration leads, for the same central density $ρ_c$, to smaller values of radius R and of mass M than in the classical works of Chandrasekhar and Salpeter, the deviations being most marked at the lowest densities (up to 30% from the
Chandrasekhar model and 10% from the Salpeter one for $ρ_c \sim 10^6g/cm^3$, corresponding to $M \sim 0.2 M_{\odot}$).
At high densities we considered the occurrence of inverse beta decays, whose effect is to introduce gravitational instability of the configurations. We consequently find the maximum mass of White Dwarfs, which, for an Oxygen and an Iron WD, is respectively $1.365 M_{\odot}$ and $1.063 M_{\odot}$.

Reconstructing PSCz with a Generalised PIZA

We present a generalized version of the Path Interchange Zel'dovich Approximation (PIZA), for use with realistic galaxy redshift surveys. PIZA is a linear particle-based Lagrangian method which uses the present day positions of galaxies to reconstruct both the initial density field and the present day peculiar velocity field. We generalize the method by mapping galaxy positions from redshift-space to real-space in the Local Group frame, and take the selection function into account by minimizing the mass weighted action. We have applied our new method to mock galaxy catalogues, and find it offers an improvement in the accuracy of reconstructions over linear theory. We have applied our method to the all-sky IRAS Point Source Catalogue Redshift Survey. Applying PIZA to PSCz, we are able to obtain the peculiar velocity field, the dipole, bulk velocities, and the distortion parameter. From the dipole, we find that beta=0.51+/-0.14. We compare the PSCz bulk velocity with that of Mk III and conclude that beta=0.5+/-0.15. We compare the PSCz dipole with that of SFI and find that beta=0.5+/-0.1.

Magnetic field measurements in white dwarfs. Magnetic field, rotation and spectrum of 40 Eri B

This paper describes results of magnetic field measurements of white dwarfs carried out on the 6-m telescope for the last years. A magnetic field of about Be ~ 28 kG has been discovered in the degenerate star WD 1953-011.
A rotational period of WD 0009+501, 1.83 hours, has been discovered, the average magnetic field of the star is <Be> = -42.3 +/- 5.4 kG and its semi-amplitude of the rotational variability is 32.0 +/- 6.8 kG. The variable magnetic field of the bright normal (non-magnetic) degenerate star 40 Eridani B was confirmed in January 1999 by Zeeman time-resolved spectroscopy. Both the Halpha and the Hbeta lines give about the same results, we have selected two best periods in the magnetic field variability, 2h25m and 5h17m. The semi-amplitude of the rotational variations B_ max ~ 4000-5000 G and the average field is about zero +/- 500 G. If the magnetic field of 40 Eridani B is a central dipole, then the rotational axis inclination to the line of sight is i ~ 90 DEG, and the magnetic axis inclination to the rotational axis is about the same, beta ~ 90 DEG. For the first time an ultra-high signal-to-noise spectrum of the white dwarf has been obtained (S/N > 1000). We have found in this hydrogen-rich DA white dwarf 40 Eridani B (16500 K) that helium abundance is low (N(He)/N(H) < 10^{-7}), but the spectrum is rich in ultra-weak absorption lines of metals in low ionization states. It was proposed that these lines were produced in both circumstellar and interstellar gas.

Iterative map-making for scanning experiments

We describe here an iterative method for jointly estimating the noise power spectrum from a scanning experiment's time-ordered data, together with the maximum-likelihood map. We test the robustness of this method on simulated datasets with colored noise, like those of bolometer receivers in CMB experiments.

The Disturbed ISM of the Local Group Dwarf Galaxy NGC 6822

We present a wide-field, high spatial and velocity resolution map of the entire extended HI distribution of the nearby Local Group dwarf galaxy NGC 6822. The observations were obtained with the Parkes single-dish telescope and the Australia Telescope Compact Array in mosaicing mode. NGC 6822 has an extended HI-disk which is shaped by the presence of numerous HI holes and shells, including a supergiant shell, and the effects of tidal interaction, in the form of a tidal arm and an infalling or interacting HI complex. These tidal features are not obvious in lower resolution data, and only the proximity of NGC 6822 enables us to see them clearly. This suggests that the importance of minor interactions in dwarf galaxies may be larger than previously assumed.

Tunable Imaging Filters in Astronomy

While tunable filters are a recent development in night time astronomy, they have long been used in other physical sciences, e.g. solar physics, remote sensing and underwater communications. With their ability to tune precisely to a given wavelength using a bandpass optimized for the experiment, tunable filters are already producing some of the deepest narrowband images to date of astrophysical sources. Furthermore, some classes of tunable filters can be used in fast telescope beams and therefore allow for narrowband imaging over angular fields of more than a degree over the sky.

The stars near the centre of supergiant shell LMC4: Further constraints on triggering scenarios

The huge supergiant shell (SGS) LMC4, next to the giant HII region 30 Doradus the second most impressive feature of the Large Magellanic Cloud (LMC), has been the subject of many studies and was used to test various models of star forming mechanisms. In this paper we present a B, V photometry of the very centre of this SGS. The new data yield an age of 11(2)Myr and a colour excess E(B-V) = 0.10(3)mag. Additionally, the two clusters near the geometric centre are too old to be related to the formation of LMC4: HS343 being ~0.1Gyr and KMHK1000 being ~0.3Gyr of age. This and existing photometries support that the young stellar population covering the entire inner region is nearly coeval. We compare these findings with predictions of models proposed for the creation mechanism of SGSs. We conclude that the large-scale trigger, necessary to explain the observations, comes from hydrodynamic interaction of the galactic halo with gas in the leading edge of the moving LMC.

Quasar environments at 0.5 < z < 0.8

Over the past few years, we have been collecting data with the Nordic Optical Telescope (NOT) on the galaxy environments around active galactic nuclei (AGN). Here we present some results from a sample of 21 radio-loud and 20 radio-quiet quasars in the redshift range 0.5 < z < 0.8. We find a few quasars in very rich environments, perhaps as rich as Abell class 1-2 clusters, but more often the quasars seem to prefer groups and poorer clusters. We also find that on average the galaxy environments around radio-loud and radio-quiet quasars are indistinguishable, consistent with the findings that both powerful radio-loud and radio-quiet quasars appear to be hosted by luminous galaxies with luminosities higher than the break in the luminosity function (Dunlop et al. 1993; Taylor et al. 1996). Comparing the galaxy richnesses in the radio-loud quasar fields with quasar fields in the literature, we find a weak, but significant, correlation between quasar radio luminosity and environmental richness.

Fine phase resolved spectroscopy of the X-ray emission of the Crab pulsar (PSR B0531+21) observed with BeppoSAX

The Crab Nebula and the Pulsar have been pointed several times by the BeppoSAX satellite. We analysed all these observations, summed together, to study the main spectral properties with a good phase resolution. A new accurate estimate of the hydrogen column density in the Crab direction N_H=3.23 x 10^(21) cm^(-2) is given as derived from the analysis of the off-pulse emission at low energies. We studied the changes of the spectral index with the pulse phase and showed that in the interpeak region it is systematically harder than in the main peaks of about 0.4. We observed also a significant spectral steepening of the pulsed emission and showed that this distribution can be represented by a unique law with a linear variable log slope and apply it to the spectrum of the first peak. A two component model is proposed to explain the phase evolution of the spectrum. One component has the same profile observed in the optical while the other presents a maximum at the phase 0.4 with essentially the spectrum of the interpeak region. Two possible interpretations for the origin of the latter component are discussed.

Is there ERE in bright nebulae?

In 1986 Witt & Schild studied the optical emission of selected bright nebulae. Comparison of the data to a model led the authors to conclude the nebulae have too high a level of I-band emission to be explained solely by the scattering of starlight. The excess is explained as a broad band I emission which originates in the nebulae. This phenomenum is known as Extended Red Emission (ERE).
Given Witt & Schild's data, the model they employed, and the estimate of observational errors, I've reached a different conclusion: Witt & Schild's observations are compatible with classical scattering and therefore cannot be used to prove the existence of ERE.

Constraints on Cluster Properties Using X-ray and Optical Data

In this work we show that combining different cluster data sets is a powerful tool to constrain both, the cosmology and cluster properties. We assume a model with 9 parameters and fit them to 5 cluster data sets. From that fit, we conclude that only low density universes are compatible with the previous data and we also get some interesting conclusions on the rest of parameters.

Impact of Few-Body Reactions on Explosive Nucleosynthesis: The Big-Bang and Supernovae

We study the few body reactions in explosive nucleosynthesis of light-to-heavy mass elements in various astrophysical conditions. In neutrino-driven winds of gravitational core collapse of SNeII, several light nuclei as well as heavy unstable nuclei paly significant roles in producing r-process elements. We discuss how the three-body reaction $^4$He$(αn, γ)^9$Be, whose cross section is poorly known, plays very critical role. We make note that several other reactions in the r-process are relevant to a Big-Bang nucleosynthesis. We discuss briefly a Galactic chemical evolution.

Equations of motion for the mass centers in a scalar theory of gravitation

A scalar theory of gravitation with a preferred reference frame (PRF) is considered, that accounts for special relativity and reduces to it if the gravitational field cancels. The gravitating system consists of a finite number of perfect-fluid bodies. An " asymptotic " post-Newtonian (PN) approximation scheme is used, allowing an explicit weak-field limit with all fields expanded. Exact mass centers are defined and their exact equations of motion are derived. The PN expansion of these equations is obtained: the zero-order equations are those of Newtonian gravity (NG), and the equations for the first-order (PN) corrections depend linearly on the PN fields. For PN corrections to the motion of the mass centers, especially in the solar system, one may assume " very-well-separated " rigidly moving bodies with spherical self-fields of the zero-order approximation. The PN corrections reduce then to a time integration and include spin effects, which might be significant. It is shown that the Newtonian masses are not correct zero-order masses for the PN calculations. An algorithm is proposed, in order to minimize the residual and to assess the velocity in the PRF.

Three high-redshift millimeter sources and their radio and near-infrared identifications

We present millimeter wavelength detections of three faint sources that are most likely high-redshift starburst galaxies. For one of the sources, which was previously discovered with SCUBA at 850 mu m, we present a detection with the IRAM interferometer at 240 GHz (1.25 mm) that shows the object unresolved at an angular resolution of 2.''5, and coincident within 1'' with a radio source and a galaxy detected in the near-infrared. The two other sources were discovered in a deep 250 GHz (1.2 mm) survey with the Max-Planck Millimeter Bolometer (MAMBO) array at the IRAM 30m telescope. Both have fluxes of ~4 mJy and radio counterparts with a 1.4 GHz flux density of ~75 muJy. Their radio-to-mm flux ratios suggest redshifts larger than 2. Both sources are faint in the optical and near-infrared, one showing a 20.5 mag K-band counterpart. From our data and that available in the literature, we estimate the redshift distribution of twenty-two faint mm and sub-mm sources and conclude that the majority of them are likely to be at z>2.

High-energy $γ$-ray emission from GRBs

GRBs are nowadays a rather well understood phenomenon in the soft (KeV-MeV) $γ$-ray energy band, while only a few GRBs have been observed at high photon energies ($E_γ \ut > 1$ GeV). It is also widely recognized that GRBs accelerate protons to relativistic energies and that dense media are often present nearby the sources. Within this framework we compute in detail the high-energy $γ$-ray flux from the decay of neutral pions produced through the interaction of accelerate protons with nucleons in the surrounding medium. We also take into account the local and intergalactic $γ$-ray absorption. The presence of magnetic fields around the GRB sources causes the deflection of the accelerated protons and so a temporal spread of the produced high-energy $γ$-rays with respect to the signal in the soft $γ$-ray band. Moreover, we analyze the possibility to detect the $γ$-ray signal in the GeV-TeV energy range by the ARGO detector under construction in Tibet.

Constraints on the Space Density of Extragalactic HVCs

High Velocity Clouds (HVCs) have recently attracted renewed attention as being long lived, massive dark matter dominated clouds of primordial composition distributed throughout the Local Group. In this picture the HVCs would contain a few times 10^7 M_sun of HI and would be at distances of a few hundred kpc to 1.5 Mpc from the Local Group barycenter. If this extragalactic interpretation of HVCs is true, similar clouds are expected in other galaxy groups and around galaxies. We discuss the limits blind HI surveys and QSO absorption line studies put on this proposed population of clouds.

Superbubbles and the Galactic evolution of Li, Be and B

From a recent re-analysis of the available data, Be and B Galactic evolution appears to show evidence for a two-slope behaviour with respect to O. The inferred Be/O abundance ratio in halo stars is constant at very low metallicity (primary behaviour) and increases proportionally to O/H at high metallicity (secondary behaviour). We show that this can be explained in the framework of one single model, the `superbubble model', in which Li, Be and B are produced by spallation reactions induced by energetic particles accelerated out of a mixture of supernova (SN) ejecta and ambient interstellar medium inside superbubbles (SBs). All the qualitative and quantitative constraints, including the energetics, the value of the transition metallicity and the 6Li/9Be isotopic ratio, are satisfied provided that the energetic particles have a spectrum flattened at low energy (in E^-1) and that the proportion of the SN ejecta inside SBs is of the order of a few percent. This lends support to Bykov's acceleration mechanism inside SBs and to the SB dynamical evolution model of Mac Low & McCray (1988).

Tidal Tails Around 20 Galactic Globular Cluster: Observational Evidence for Gravitational Disk/Bulge Shocking

Large-field multi-color images of 20 galactic globular clusters are used to investigate the presence of tidal tails around these stellar systems. Field and cluster stars are sorted with the help of color-magnitude diagrams, and star-count analysis is performed on the selected cluster stars in order to increase the signal-to-noise ratio of their surface density. We study the overdensities of these stars using the wavelet transform of the star counts in order to filter the background density noise and to detect the weak structures, at large scale, formed by the numerous stars previously members of the clusters. We associate these stellar overdensities with the stars evaporated from the clusters because of dynamical relaxation and/or tidal stripping from the clusters by the galactic gravitational field. Most of the globular clusters in our sample display strong evidence of tidal interactions with the galactic plane in the form of large and extended deformations. These tidal tails exhibit projected directions preferentially towards the galactic center. All the clusters observed, which do not suffer from strong observational biases, present such tidal tails, tracing their dynamical evolution (evaporation, tidal shocking, tidal torquing, and bulge shocking) in the Galaxy. The clusters exhibit different regimes of mass loss rate, detected using the radial density slope in the outer parts of the clusters. For NGC 5139 ($ω$ Centauri), we estimate, taking into account the possible presence of mass segregation in its outer parts, that about 0.6 to 1% of its mass has been lost during the crossing (Abridged)

Collimated outflows of rapidly rotating young stellar objects

We present an analytical model for the magnetic flux surfaces for rapidly rotating magnetized young stellar objects which is based on ideal, stationary, axisymmetric magnetohydrodynamics. The resulting cold wind solutions reproduce observed wind velocities of a few hundred \kms$ $ and the outer jet radi us for a collimated jet of several thousand stellar radii. The theory of axisymmetric magnetospheres around rapidly rotating stellar sources is outlined including electric fields due to the rapid rotation. Gravity of the central object is consistently built into this theory. A consistent wind theory is developed which contains the Newtonian theory as a classical limit. Current--carrying plasma flows will lead to a collimation of the magnetospheric structure into a cylindrical shape. We show that the asymptotic structure is essentially determined by electric forces in the pinch equation, and not by centrifugal and pressure forces.

The radial distribution of OB star formation in the Galaxy

We present the azimuthally averaged radial distribution of 748 regions of OB star formation in the whole galactic disk, based on our previous CS(2-1) survey of UC H II regions. Embedded massive stars produce a total FIR luminosity of 1.39E8 Lsun within the range 0.2<R/Ro<2 in galactocentric radius. We find 492 massive star forming regions within the solar circle, producing 81% of the total FIR luminosity. Separate analyses of the 349 sources in the I and II quadrant (north), and of the 399 sources in the III and IV quadrant (south), yield FIR luminosities (extrapolated to the complete galactic disk) of 1.17E8 Lsun and of 1.60E8 Lsun, respectively. Massive star formation is distributed in a layer with its centroid Zo(R) following that of molecular gas for all galactocentric radii, both north and south. Its thickness for R<Ro is ~73 pc (FWHM), 62% the thickness of the molecular gas disk. The FIR luminosity produced by massive stars has a well defined maximum at R=0.55Ro, with a gaussian FWHM of 0.28Ro - compared with 0.51Ro for the H2 surface density distribution. Toward the outer Galaxy, down from the maximum, the face-on FIR surface luminosity decays exponentially with a scale length of 0.21Ro, compared with 0.34Ro for the H2 surface density. Massive star formation per unit H2 mass is maximum for R~0.55Ro in the southern Galaxy, with a FIR surface luminosity to H2 surface density ratio of 0.41Lsun/Msun, compared with 0.21Lsun/Msun at the same radius in the north, and with an average of ~0.18Lsun/Msun for the whole galactic disk within the solar circle.

RX J0911+05: A Massive Cluster Lens at z=0.769

We report the detection of a massive high-redshift cluster of galaxies near the quadruple quasar RX J0911+05, using the LRIS instrument on the Keck-II telescope. The cluster is found to have a mean redshift of <z>=0.7689+/-0.002 and a velocity dispersion of sigma=836{+180-200} km/s, based on redshift measurements for 24 member galaxies. This massive high-redshift cluster is the origin of the unusually large external shear required by lensing models of the quadruple quasar system. We predict the expected time delay depending on the exact contribution of the cluster. A measurement of the time delay and further deep lensing and X-ray observations will unravel useful properties of this serendipitously discovered high-redshift cluster, and may put interesting cosmological constraints on H0.

Theoretical and Experimental Topics on Ultra High Energy Cosmic Rays

Since their first observation in 1962, the existence of Ultra High Energy Cosmic Rays (UHECR) remains a mystery in modern astrophysics. Those cosmic rays, with energies well above 50 EeV ($50\times 10^{18}$eV), can hardly be accelerated, even in the most active parts of our universe such as FR-II radio galaxies or AGNs, nor can they travel on distances larger than 100 Mpc. In the following some of the production and acceleration models for UHECR are reviewed and some of the transport issues are exposed. Finally the detection and identification on Earth of those ``cosmic bullets'' are presented.

The response of an accretion disc to an inclined dipole with application to AA Tau

We compute the warping of a disc induced by an inclined dipole. We consider a magnetised star surrounded by a thin Keplerian diamagnetic disc with an inner edge that corotates with the star. We suppose the stellar field is a dipole with an axis that is slightly misaligned with the stellar rotation axis. The rotation axes of the disc material orbiting at large distances from the star and that of the star are supposed to coincide. The misalignment of the magnetic and rotation axes results in the magnetic pressure not being the same on the upper and lower surfaces of the disc. The resultant net vertical force produces a warp which appears stationary in a frame corotating with the star. We find that, if viscosity is large enough (alpha on the order of 0.01-0.1) to damp bending waves as they propagate away, a smoothly varying warp of the inner region of the disc is produced. The amplitude of the warp can easily be on the order of ten percent of the disc inner radius for reasonably small misalignment angles (less than 30 degrees). Viscous damping also introduces a phase shift between the warp and the forcing torque, which results in the locations of maximum elevation above the disc forming a trailing spiral pattern. We apply these results to recent observations of AA Tau, and show that the variability of its light curve, which occurs with a period comparable to the expected stellar rotation period, could be due to obscuration produced by a warp configuration of the type we obtain.

FUSE Observations of the Active Cool Star AB Doradus

Far ultraviolet spectra were obtained of the active cool star AB Doradus (HD 36705) during the calibration and checkout period of the FUSE satellite. Observations in this early phase of the mission were taken at a resolving power of 12000-15000 (~20-25 km/s) and covered the spectral range 905-1187 A. The integrated spectrum exhibits strong, rotationally broadened stellar emission from C III (977, 1175) and O VI (1032, 1037), and many weaker lines. Strong emission lines of C III and O VI exhibit broad wings. The C III 977 profile shows blue-shifted absorption at ~30 km/s and C II 1036 absorption appears superposed on emission in the wing of O VI 1037. Rotational modulation of C III and O VI is present, in harmony with its photometric variability. Flares were detected in the brightest lines and subexposures were analyzed to examine flux and profile variations. Downflows that extend to 600 km/s during a flare are found in the O VI profiles. These early observations demonstrate that FUSE will be an exceptional instrument for studying chromospheres in cool stars.

A Search of the Zone of Avoidance in Scorpius

An optical search of the Scorpius region - close to the Galactic bulge - has revealed some 1400 partially-obscured galaxies. Redshifts have been obtained for nearly a hundred of these objects. Preliminary indications of large-scale structures are reported.

An Overview of Optical Galaxy Searches and their Completeness

Dust and stars in the Milky Way create a ``Zone of Avoidance'' (ZOA) in the distribution of optically visible galaxies of about 25% of the sky. To reduce this gap, optical searches for partially obscured galaxies have been performed. The status of these deep searches, in particular their completeness as a function of foreground extinction are discussed. Using existing sky surveys, over 50000 previously unknown galaxies have been identified. The surveys cover practically the whole ZOA. It is shown that these surveys are complete for galaxies with extinction-corrected diameters D^o ge 1.3 arcmin to extinction levels of A_B le 3.0 mag. Incorporating these new data in a whole-sky map of galaxies complete to D^o ge 1.3 arcmin finds the ZOA reduced by a factor of about 2 to 2.5, respectively from extinction levels of A_B = 1.0 mag to A_B = 3.0 mag (see Fig.~4).

The HI mass function in Ursa Major

A deep blind HI survey of the nearby spiral rich Ursa Major cluster has been performed with the VLA in parallel with a wide-field R-band imaging campaign of most VLA fields with the CFHT. The goal is to measure the slope of the HI mass function down to HI masses of 10^7 Msun as well as the slope of the faint-end of the luminosity function down to M(R)=-10. The VLA survey sampled 16% of the Ursa Major cluster volume. Both the HIMF and the LF in Ursa Major are nearly flat at their faint-ends. No free- floating HI clouds were detected.

Large-Scale Structures behind the Southern Milky Way in the Great Attractor Region

A deep optical galaxy search behind the southern Milky Way and a subsequent redshift survey of the identified obscured galaxies traces clusters and superclusters into the deepest layers of Galactic foreground extinction (A_B <= 3^m - 5^m). In the Great Attractor region, we have identified a low-mass cluster (the Centaurus-Crux cluster) at (l, b, v, sigma) = (305.5deg, +5.5deg, 6214 km/s, 472 km/s) and found that ACO 3627 (the Norma cluster) at (l, b, v, sigma) = (325.3deg, -7.2deg, 4844 km/s, 848 km/s) is the most massive cluster in the Great Attractor region known to date. It is comparable in virial mass, richness and size to the well-known but more distant Coma cluster. The Norma cluster most likely marks the bottom of the potential well of the Great Attractor. It is located at the intersection of two main large-scale structures, the Centaurus Wall and the Norma supercluster. The flow field observed around the Great Attractor probably is caused by the confluence of these two massive structures.

VLBA observations of SiO masers: Arguments in favor of radiative pumping mechanisms

We have performed VLBA observations of the SiO v=1 and v=2 J=1-0 masers in two AGB stars, TX Cam and IRC +10011. We confirm the ring-like spatial distribution, previously found in several AGB objects, as well as the tangential polarization pattern, already reported for TX Cam. Both properties, that seem to be systematic in this kind of objects, are characteristic of radiatively pumped SiO masers. On the contrary, we do not confirm the previous report on the spatial coincidence between the J=1-0 v=1 and 2 masers, a result that would have argued in favor of collisional pumping. We find that both lines sometimes arise from nearby spots, typically separated by 1-2 mas, but are rarely coincident. The discrepancy with previous results is explained by the very high spatial resolution of our observations, ~ 0.5 mas, an order of magnitude better than in the relevant previously published experiment.

Detection limits in space-based transit observations

From simulations of transit observations, it is found that the detectability of extrasolar planets depends only on two parameters: The signal-to-noise ratio during a transit, and the number of data points observed during transits. All other physical parameters describing transit configurations (planet and star size, orbital period, orbital half axis, latitude of the transit across star) can be reduced to these two parameters. In turn, once the dependency between transit detectability and these two parameters has been determined, predictions for an instrument's ability to detect transits by any combination of physical parameters can be derived with ease. These predictions are applied to the Eddington proposal of a combined Astroseismology/Transit-detection space mission currently under study by ESA, which is described briefly.

Reconstructing the ZOA from Galaxy Peculiar Velocities

Galaxy peculiar velocity data provide important dynamical clues to the structures obscured by the Zone of Avoidance (hereafter, ZOA) with resolution >~ 500km/s. This indirect probe complements the very challenging approach of directly mapping of the distribution of galaxies behind the Milky Way. In this work, the Wiener filter method is applied to reconstruct the 3D density and velocity distributions of the universe, within ~8000km/s, using SEcat the largest peculiar velocity catalog yet. This catalog is a combination of the SFI spiral galaxy peculiar velocity catalog and the newly completed nearby early-type galaxy peculiar velocity catalog, ENEAR. The recovered density is smoothed with 900km/s Gaussian. The main reconstructed structures are consistent with those extracted from the IRAS 1.2-Jy redshift galaxy catalogs. The revealed structures are identified and their robustness and significance are discussed.

ISO observations of the Wolf-Rayet galaxy NGC 7714 and its companion object NGC 7715

The interacting system Arp 284 consisting of the Wolf-Rayet galaxy NGC 7714 and its irregular companion NGC 7715 was observed using the Infrared Space Observatory. Deconvolved ISOCAM maps of the galaxies using the 14.3, 7.7 and 15 micron LW3, LW6 and LW9 filters, along with ISOPHOT spectrometry of the nuclear region of NGC 7714 were obtained and are presented. Strong ISOCAM emission was detected from the central source in NGC 7714, along with strong PAH features, the emission line [Ar II], molecular hydrogen at 9.66 microns and a blend of features including [S IV] at 10.6 microns. IR emission was not detected from the companion galaxy NGC 7715, the bridge linking the two galaxies or from the partial stellar ring in NGC 7714 where emission ceases abruptly at the interface between the disk and the ring.
The morphology of the system can be well described by an off-centre collision between the two galaxies. The LW3/LW2, where the LW2 flux was synthesized from the PHOT-SL spectrum, LW9/LW6 and LW3/LW6 ratios suggest that the central burst within NGC 7714 is moving towards the post-starburst phase, in agreement with the age of the burst. Diagnostic tools including the ratio of the integrated PAH luminosity to the 40 to 120 microns infrared luminosity and the far-infrared colours reveal that despite the high surface brightness of the nucleus, the properties of NGC 7714 can be explained in terms of a starburst and do not require the prescence an AGN.

Air shower simulation using {\sc geant4} and commodity parallel computing

We present an evaluation of a simulated cosmic ray shower, based on {\sc geant4} and {\sc top-c}, which tracks all the particles in the shower. {\sc top-c} (Task Oriented Parallel C) provides a framework for parallel algorithm development which makes tractable the problem of following each particle. This method is compared with a simulation program which employs the Hillas thinning algorithm.

High-Redshift, Radio-Loud Quasars

I discuss two programs to study radio-loud quasars at high (z>4) redshift. Quasars are the most luminous, non-transient objects known and are observed to the earliest cosmic epochs. At lower redshifts, radio-loud quasars are associated with host galaxies having deVaucoleurs profiles. By association, identifying and studying a sample of high-redshift, radio-loud quasars provides important clues to the early Universe and potentially probes early-type galaxy formation. The first aspect of this proceeding discusses an extensive search for high-redshift, radio-loud quasars culled from matching the FIRST radio catalog with the 2nd generation Palomar Sky Survey. The second aspect of this proceeding concerns studying the radio properties of optically-selected z>4 quasars. At the time of this conference, only seven z>4 quasars were in the literature. The first program discussed herein uncovers three new such sources, while the second program identifies an additional five. We use the new samples to study the evolution of the radio-loud fraction, finding no evolution in this quantity between redshift z>2 and z>4 for -26>M(B)>-28.

Extended Extragalactic Radio Emission

Extended radio emission and its relation to parent galaxy properties is briefly reviewed. Our current understanding of the relation between absolute radio and optical luminosity, radio morphology and linear size is discussed. The impact of radio jets on dense cluster cores is discussed using M87 as an example. Finally, the relation of AGN's to star-bursting galaxies at high redshift is considered.

Survey of rotation curves for northern spiral edge-on galaxies

Rotational curves are measured for almost complete sample of 308 northern spiral galaxies using the 6-m telescope. For observations we selected edge-on galaxies from RFGC catalog with apparent axial ratio a/b>8, angular diameter a<2', and declinations delta>+38deg above the Arecibo belt. About 97% of the galaxies are detected in the H-alpha line. For them a typical rotation curve extends till 87% of the standard galaxy radius. The rotation curve amplitude shows close correlation with a width of the HI line. The median radial velocity for the galaxies is 7800 km/sec, and the median maximum of the rotation curves is 137 km/s. These new observational data will be used to study cosmic streamings of galaxies seen on a scale of 200 Mpc.

Simulations of Foreground Effects for CMB Polarization

We use a simple model to investigate the effect of polarized Galactic foreground emission on the ability of planned CMB missions to detect and model CMB polarization. Emission from likely polarized sources (synchrotron and spinning dust) would dominate the polarization of the microwave sky at frequencies below 90 GHz if known Galactic foregrounds are at least 10% polarized at high latitude (|b| > 30 deg). Maps of polarization at frequencies below 90 GHz will likely require correction for foreground emission to enable statistical analysis of the individual Stokes Q or U components. The temperature-polarization cross-correlation is less affected by foreground emission, even if the foreground polarization is highly correlated with the foreground intensity. Polarized foregrounds, even if uncorrected, do not dominate the uncertainty in the temperature-polarization cross-correlation for instrument noise levels typical of the MAP experiment. Methods which remove galactic signals at the cost of signal to noise ratio should carefully balance the value of rejecting faint foregrounds with the cost of increased instrument noise.

Neutrinos in physics, astrophysics, and cosmology

A brief review of neutrino anomalies in particle physics and of the role played by neutrinos in cosmology and astrophysics is presented. The main part of the talk is dedicated to the impact of neutrinos and in particular of neutrino oscillations on BBN and to a possible spatial variation of primordial abundances.

Exploring the gravitationally lensed system HE 1104-1805: Near-IR Spectroscopy

(Abridged) A new technique for the spatial deconvolution of spectra is applied to near-IR (0.95 - 2.50 micron) NTT/SOFI spectra of the lensed, radio-quiet quasar HE 1104-1805. The continuum of the lensing galaxy is revealed between 1.5 and 2.5 micron. It is used in combination with previous optical and IR photometry to infer a plausible redshift in the range 0.8 < z < 1.2. Modeling of the system shows that the lens is probably composed of the red galaxy seen between the quasar images and a more extended component associated with a galaxy cluster with fairly low velocity dispersion (~ 575 km/s). The spectra of the two lensed images of the source show no trace of reddening at the redshift of the lens nor at the redshift of the source. Additionally, the difference between the spectrum of the brightest component a nd that of a scaled version of the faintest component is a featureless continuum. Broad and narrow emission lines, including the FeII features, are perfectly subtracted. The very good quality of our spectrum makes it possible to fit precisely the optical Fe II feature, taking into account the underlying continuum over a wide wavelength range. HE 1104-1805 can be classified as a weak Fe II emitter. Finally, the slope of the continuum in the brightest image is steeper than the continuum in the faintest image and supports the finding by Wisotzki et al. (1993) that the brightest image is microlensed. This is particularly interesting in view of the new source reconstruction methods from multiwavelength photometric monitoring.

The Type Ia Supernova Width-Luminosity Relation

Observations of type Ia supernovae at high redshifts have become an important tool for studying the geometry of the universe. The relation between the duration of the peak phase of a type Ia supernova's lightcurve and its luminosity (broader is brighter) forms the cornerstone of this measurement, yet it is a purely empirical relation. In this paper we show that the relation is a natural consequence of the radiation transport in type Ia supernovae and suggest constraints on the nature of the explosions which arise from our interpretation of the observed relation. The principle parameter underlying the relation is the mass of radioactive 56Ni produced in the explosion. The relation is shown to be relatively insensitive to most other parameters in Chandrasekhar-mass explosions. Cosmological results are thus unlikely to suffer from systematic effects stemming from evolution in the explosions' progenitors.

The evolution of type 1 AGN at 15um from the ELAIS

We present the first preliminary estimate of the evolution of type 1 AGNs at 15 um. A new sample of sources selected from the ELAIS-S1 survey has been used together with the RMS sample. The ELAIS-S1 survey covers an effective area of 2.2 deg^2 (total: 4 deg^2) down to 1.2 mJy at 15 um. Spectroscopic identifications have been carried out in the range 17.2<R<20.0 at the 3.6m/ESO, NTT/ESO and 2dF/AAT. The luminosity function is steeper at bright luminosities in comparison to the previous estimates of Rush, Malkan & Spinoglio (1993). The evolution is compatible with a Pure Luminosity Evolution model with L(z)=L(0)(1+z)^3.4.

A spectroscopic study of field BHB star candidates

New spectroscopic observations (R=15000 and 40000) are given for 31 nearby (V < 11) BHB star candidates. IUE low-resolution spectra are available for most of them. New determinations of temperature, gravity, reddening and abundances were obtained from these data using models computed by Castelli with an updated version of the ATLAS9 code. A summary of the visual photometry for these stars (including new photometry obtained at Kitt Peak) is also given. All 31 candidates are halo stars. We classify 28 as BHB stars because: (1) They lie close to the ZAHB (in a similar position to globular cluster BHB stars) in the Teff vs. log g plot. (2) Their distribution of vsini (less than 40 km/s) is similar to that found for the BHB stars in globular clusters. (3) Their [Fe/H] lies between -0.99 and -2.95 (mean [Fe/H] -1.67, dispersion 0.42 dex) which is similar to that found for field halo RR Lyrae and red HB stars but more metal- poor than for halo globular clusters. Field BHB stars with Teff greater than 8500 K show the He I (4471 A) line corresponding to solar abundance. (4) They show a similar average enhancement of the alpha-elements ([Mg/Fe] = +0.43 +/- 0.04 and [Ti/Fe] = +0.44 +/- 0.02) to that found for other halo field stars of similar metallicity. Comments are given on a further 25 stars that have previously been suggested to be BHB stars; these were not included in our sample because they did not fulfil one or more of the above criteria.

Toward a Symmetrization of Gravity I. Classical Formulation: Results and Predictions; Dark Matter With a Difference

We propose an additional term in the classical gravitational force law, which is repelling in nature, and which may solve the dark matter problem. As an inverse cube field interaction, it operates over 4 real spatial dimensions and its effect on our observable 3-D space may account both for flat rotation curves and standard Newtonian dynamics at small radial distances. By utilizing cosmological clustering scales, we can derive the universal interaction strength, and show that this naturally leads to an altered Planck mass that becomes the neutron/proton rest mass. Moreover, the correct value for the electron rest mass can be predicted using only classical electrostatics coupled with the current theory. On cosmological scales, the interaction easily accounts for the acceleration of the Hubble flow.

Hot HB stars in globular clusters - Physical parameters and consequences for theory. V. Radiative levitation versus helium mixing

Atmospheric parameters (effective temperature Teff, surface gravity log g), masses and helium abundances are derived for 42 hot horizontal branch (HB) stars in the globular cluster NGC 6752. For 19 stars we derive magnesium and iron abundances as well and find that iron is enriched by a factor of 50 on average with respect to the cluster abundance whereas the magnesium abundances are consistent with the cluster abundance. Radiation pressure may levitate heavy elements like iron to the surface of the star in a diffusive process. Taking into account the enrichment of heavy elements in our spectroscopic analyses we find that high iron abundances can explain part, but not all, of the problem of anomalously low gravities along the blue HB. The blue HB stars cooler than about 15,100 K and the sdB stars (Teff > 20,000 K) agree well with canonical theory when analysed with metal-rich ([M/H] = +0.5) model atmospheres, but the stars in between these two groups remain offset towards lower gravities and masses. Deep Mixing in the red giant progenitor phase is discussed as another mechanism that may influence the position of the blue HB stars in the (Teff, log g)-plane but not their masses.

The Equilibrium Structure of Cosmological Halos: Dwarf Galaxies to X-ray Clusters

An analytical model for the postcollapse equilibrium structure of virialized objects which condense out of the cosmological background universe is described and compared with observations and simulations of cosmological halos. The model is based upon the assumption that virialized halos are isothermal, which leads to a prediction of a unique nonsingular isothermal sphere for the equilibrium structure, with a core density which is proportional to the mean background density at the epoch of collapse. These predicted nonsingular isothermal spheres are in good agreement with observations of the internal structure of dark-matter-dominated halos from dwarf galaxies to X-ray clusters. Our model also reproduces many of the average properties of halos in CDM simulations to good accuracy, suggesting that it is a useful analytical approximation for halos which form from realistic initial conditions. While CDM N-body simulations find profiles with a central cusp, our nonsingular model matches the simulated halos outside the innermost region well. This model may also be of interest as a description of halos in nonstandard CDM models like self-interacting dark matter, which have been proposed to eliminate the discrepancy between the cuspy halos of standard CDM simulations and observed halos with uniform-density cores.

HCN in the inner envelope of {chi} Cygni

We have detected the (0,11c,0)J=3-2 and (0,0,0)J=8-7 transitions of HCN towards the S star {chi} Cygni. The excitation requirements of these transitions are too high to be satisfied in the outer envelope of the star, and the emission must originate within {solar}20 stellar radii, ie. the molecule must be forming close to the star. This conclusion is supported by a model for AGB stars in which molecules including HCN form in a shocked wind close to the stellar surface.

ORFEUS II Echelle spectra: Molecular hydrogen at high velocities toward HD 93521

Absorption lines of interstellar molecular hydrogen in the far ultraviolet (FUV) have been observed in the spectrum of the O9.5 halo star HD 93521, located some 1500 pc from the Galactic plane. During the second flight of the ORFEUS-SPAS mission a spectrum with the Echelle spectrometer has been recorded with a total integration time of 1740 s. The resolution achieved was about 10.000 with a signal-to-noise ratio of up to 25. For the first time two components of molecular hydrogen have been observed in absorption at velocities of -12 km/s in the Galactic disk and at -62 km/s located presumably in the Galactic halo. The column densities derived from a standard curve of growth analysis were found to be N(H_2) = 10^17.0 cm^-2 for the disk component and N(H_2) = 10^14.6 cm^-2 respectively for the component located in the Galactic halo.

Study of the depletion effect in the cluster MS1008-1224

We present a detailed study of the depletion effect (the radial manifestation of the magnification bias) in the cluster MS1008-1224. Following our results concerning the simulations of depletion curves (see Mayen and Soucail, 2000 (astro-ph/0003332) for a complete description of the code), we propose to constrain the mass profile of the cluster and the main characteristics of its potential (orientation and ellipticity). This application is based solely on deep photometry of the field and does not require the measurement of the shape parameters of the faint background galaxies.

Galaxies behind the Milky Way and the Great Attractor

Dust and stars in the plane of the Milky Way create a "Zone of Avoidance" in the extragalactic sky. Galaxies are distributed in gigantic labyrinth formations, filaments and great walls with occasional dense clusters. They can be traced all over the sky, except where the dust within our own galaxy becomes too thick - leaving about 25% of the extragalactic sky unaccounted for. Our Galaxy is a natural barrier which constrains the studies of large-scale structures in the Universe, the peculiar motion of our Local Group of galaxies and other streaming motions (cosmic flows) which are important for understanding formation processes in the Early Universe and for cosmological models. Only in recent years have astronomers developed the techniques to peer through the disk and uncover the galaxy distribution in the Zone of Avoidance. I present the various observational multi-wavelength procedures (optical, far infrared, near infrared, radio and X-ray) that are currently being pursued to map the galaxy distribution behind our Milky Way. Particular emphasis is given to discoveries in the Great Attractor region -- a from streaming motions predicted huge overdensity centered behind the Galactic Plane. The recently unveiled massive rich cluster A3627 seems to constitute the previously unidentified core of the Great Attractor.

The Effect of Gasdynamics on the Structure of Dark Matter Halos

Adaptive SPH and N-body simulations were carried out to study the effect of gasdynamics on the structure of dark matter halos that result from the gravitational instability and fragmentation of cosmological pancakes. Such halos resemble those formed in a hierarchically clustering CDM universe and serve as a test-bed model for studying halo dynamics. With no gas, the density profile is close to the universal profile identified previously from N-body simulations of structure formation in CDM. When gas is included, the gas in the halo is approximately isothermal, and both the dark matter and the gas have singular central density profiles which are steeper than that of the dark matter with no gas. This worsens the disagreement between observations of constant density cores in cosmological halos and the singular ones found in simulations. We also find that the dark matter velocity distribution is less isotropic than found by N-body simulations of CDM, because of the strongly filamentary substructure.

Monte Carlo Simulations of Globular Cluster Dynamics

We have developed a new parallel supercomputer code based on Henon's Monte Carlo method for simulating the dynamical evolution of globular clusters. This new code allows us to calculate the evolution of a cluster containing a realistic number of stars (N ~ 10^5 - 10^6) in about a day of computing time. The discrete, star-by-star representation of the cluster in the simulation allows us to treat naturally a number of important processes, including single and binary star evolution, all dynamical interactions of single stars and primordial binaries, and tidal interactions with the Galaxy.

The Multiband Photometry of the GRB Host Galaxies

We present photometric multiband spectral energy distributions for the GRB host galaxies: GRB 971214, GRB 970508, GRB 980613, GRB 980703 and GRB 990123 obtained with the 6-m telescope of SAO RAS. Using SEDs for the starburst galaxies, we made estimates of K-correction values and estimated the absolute magnitudes of the GRB host galaxies within the range of cosmological parameters. The comparison of the broad band spectra of these galaxies with the spectra of galaxies of different morphological types (Connolly et al, 1995, AJ, 110, 1071) shows that the GRB host galaxies are best fitted by the spectral properties of S2-S5 averaged SEDs of starburst galaxies.

The Observation of Lunar Impacts

The intense activity of cratering on the Moon and in the inner regions of the solar system was accomplished during the first 10^9 years [1]. Occasionally, some impact events occur even nowadays. In Section 1, we treat, from a historical point of view, the Earth-based observation of lunar impacts. In Section 2, we consider the visibility conditions of such events evaluating the luminosity of the background upon which an impact shines. In Section~3, the luminosity of an impact is discussed. The occurrence of lunar impact events outside of meteor shower periods is calculated using the hourly rate of the sporadic meteors and their population index. The evidence of a larger rate of impacts of meteoroids in the past under these hypotheses is presentend in the last section.

Detection of the thermal radio continuum emission from the G9.62+0.19-F Hot Core

We present new high resolution and high sensitivity multi-frequency VLA radio continuum observations of the G9.62+0.19-F hot molecular core. We detect for the first time faint centimetric radio continuum emission at the position of the core. The centimetric continuum spectrum of the source is consistent with thermal emission from ionised gas. This is the first direct evidence that a newly born massive star is powering the G9.62+0.19-F hot core.

Kelvin-Helmholtz instability in three dimensional radiative jets

The analysis of the stability properties of astrophysical jets against Kelvin-Helmholtz (or shear-layer) instabilities plays a basic role in the understanding the origin and physical characteristics of these objects. Numerical simulations by Bodo et al. (1998) have shown that the three-dimensional non-linear evolution of KH instabilities in supersonic jets is substantially faster than in the two-dimensional case, leading to a cascade of modes towards smaller scales and a very effective mixing and momentum transfer to the ambient medium. On the other hand, Rossi et al. (1997) and Micono et al. (1998) found, in two dimensions, that radiative losses tend to reduce and delay mixing effects and momentum transfer to the ambient medium. In this paper, as a logical next step, we investigate the effects of radiative losses on the stability of 3D supersonic jets, assuming that the internal jet density is initially lower, equal and higher than the ambient medium, respectively. We find that light and equal-density radiative jets evolve in a qualitatively similar fashion with respect to the corresponding adiabatic ones. Conversely, we note substantial differences in the evolution of heavy jets: they remain more collimated and do not spread out, while the momentum gained by the ambient medium stays within ~ 5 jet radii.

Detection of a spectroscopic transit by the planet orbiting the star HD209458

We report the first detection of a planetary transit by spectroscopic measurements. We have detected the distortion of the stellar line profiles during a planetary transit. With the ELODIE spectrograph we took a sequence of high precision radial velocities of the star HD209458 at time of a transit of its planet. We detected an anomaly in the residuals of the orbit. The shape and the amplitude of the anomaly are modeled as a change of the mean stellar line profile resulting from the planet crossing the disk of the rotating star. The planetary orbit is in the same direction as the stellar rotation. Using the photometric transit to constrain the timing and the impact parameters of the transit, we measure an angle alpha=3.9d between the orbital plane and the apparent equatorial plane as well as a vsini=3.75(+-)1.25 kms-1. With additional constrains on the inclination of the star and on the statistics of the line of sight distribution, we can set an upper limit of 30d to the angle between the orbital plane and the stellar equatorial plane.

Reconstructing the evolution of double helium white dwarfs: envelope loss without spiral-in

The unique core-mass - radius relation for giants with degenerate helium cores enables us to reconstruct the evolution of three observed double helium white dwarfs with known masses of both components.
The last mass transfer phase in their evolution must have been a spiral-in. In the formalism proposed by Webbink (1984), we can constrain the efficiency of the deposition of orbital energy into the envelope to be $1 \la α\la 6$, for an envelope structure parameter $λ=0.5$. We find that the two standard mass transfer types (stable mass transfer and spiral-in) are both unable to explain the first phase of mass transfer for these three binaries.
We use a parametric approach to describe mass transfer in low-mass binaries, where both stars are of comparable mass and find that the orbital characteristics of the observed double helium white dwarfs can be well reproduced if the envelope of the primary is lost with ~1.5 times the specific angular momentum of the initial binary. In this case no substantial spiral-in occurs.

Can Rotational Properties of General Relativistic Compact Objects Be Predicted from Static Ones?

We propose an approximate description of basic parameters (radius, mass and oblateness) of general relativistic compact rotating objects in terms of the parameters of the static configuration and of the angular velocity only. The representation in terms of static properties is derived using the condition of stationary equilibrium together with some phenomenological assumptions. The predicted radius and mass of rotating neutron star (described by some realistic equations of state) and strange star (described by the bag model equation of state) are compared with data obtained by numerical integration of gravitational field equation. The obtained formulae also allow a simple derivation of the "empirical" equation relating the maximum rotation frequency $Ω_{max}$ of uniformly rotating star models to the mass and radius of the maximum allowable mass configuration of the non-rotating model.

Classical Cepheid pulsation models. VI. The Hertzsprung progression

We present the results of an extensive theoretical investigation on the pulsation behavior of Bump Cepheids. We constructed several sequences of full amplitude, nonlinear, convective models by adopting a chemical composition typical of Large Magellanic Cloud (LMC) Cepheids (Y=0.25, Z=0.008) and stellar masses ranging from 6.55 to 7.45 solar masses. We find that theoretical light and velocity curves reproduce the HP, and indeed close to the blue edge the bump is located along the descending branch, toward longer periods it crosses at first the luminosity/velocity maximum and then it appears along the rising branch. In particular, we find that the predicted period at the HP center is 11.24 +- 0.46 d and that such a value is in very good agreement with the empirical value estimated by adopting the Fourier parameters of LMC Cepheid light curves. We also find that the models at the HP center are located within the resonance region but not on the 2:1 resonance line. Interestingly enough, the predicted Bump Cepheid masses, based on a Mass-Luminosity (ML) relation which neglects the convective core overshooting, are in good agreement with the empirical masses of Galactic Cepheids estimated by adopting the Baade-Wesselink method. Even by accounting for the metallicity difference between Galactic and LMC Cepheids, this result seems to settle down the long-standing problem of the Bump mass discrepancy. Finally, the dynamical behavior of a cool Bump Cepheid model provides a plain explanation of an ill-understood empirical evidence.

New identification of the near infrared Source in the "born-again" planetary nebula A58 (=V605 Aql)

The central dust knot V605 Aql (= Nova Aql 1919) in the planetary nebula
A58 is the result of a late-helium flash. Previous near infrared (NIR) measurements yield very bright fluxes. This exceeds model predictions, based on other wavelengths and estimates of the visual extinction within the object, by a factor of 100. Using NIR imaging by the DENIS instrument, we found that the source was misidentified in previous (single channel photometer) observations. We present the NIR flux of A58 and identify an unrelated stellar field source, which in fact represents the NIR source attributed to A58, according to the literature. The new identification is consistent with model predictions for the source. An accurate astrometry for the core of A58 is also provided.

Sub-mm and X-ray background: two unrelated phenomena?

Obscured AGNs are thought to contribute a large fraction of the hard X-ray background (2-10 keV), and have also been proposed as the powerhouse of a fraction of the SCUBA sources which make most of the background at 850um, thus providing a link between the two spectral windows. We have tackled this issue by comparing data at 2-10 keV and at 850um for a sample of 34 sources at fluxes (or limiting fluxes) which resolve most of the background in the two bands. We present here new SCUBA observations, and new correlations between separate data sets retrieved from the literature. Similar correlations presented by others are added for completeness. None of the 11 hard X-ray (2-10 keV) sources has a counterpart at 850um, with the exception of a Chandra source in the SSA13 field, which is a candidate type 2, heavily absorbed QSO at high redshift. The ratios F(850um)/F(5keV) (mostly upper limits) of the X-ray sources are significantly lower than the value observed for the cosmic background. In particular, we obtain that 2-10 keV sources brighter than 10^-15 erg s^-1 cm^-2, which make at least 75% of the background in this band, contribute for less than 7% to the submillimeter background. Out of the 24 SCUBA sources, 23 are undetected by Chandra. The ratios F(850um)/F(5keV) (mostly lower limits) of these SCUBA sources indicate that most of them must be powered either by starburst activity, or by an AGN which is obscured by a column Nh > 10^25 cm^-2, with a reflection efficiency in the hard X rays significantly lower than 1% in most cases. However, AGNs of this type could not contribute significantly to the 2-10 keV background.

Photospheric Metals in the FUSE Spectrum of the Subdwarf B Star PG0749+658

We present an abundance analysis of the far-ultraviolet (905--1187 A) spectrum of the subdwarf B star PG0749+658, obtained by the Far Ultraviolet Spectroscopic Explorer (FUSE). The data have a resolution of about R = lambda / Delta lambda = 12000--15000 (20--25 km/s). We determine C, N, Si, P, S, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, and Ni abundances, and upper limits on the abundance of Cl and V, using a grid of synthetic spectra based on a LTE stellar atmosphere model. He, C, N, Si, and Cl are depleted by a factor of >~10 with respect to solar, while P, S, and Fe are diminished by less than a factor of 10. We measure a solar abundance of Cr, Mn, and Co and a Ni enhancement of ~0.6 dex. We compare these values to predictions based on radiative levitation theory. The radial velocity of the foreground interstellar material has one dominant component, and coincides with that of the photospheric lines.

3-D MHD Numerical Simulations of Cloud-Wind Interactions

We present results from three-dimensional (3-D) numerical simulations investigating the magnetohydrodynamics of cloud-wind interactions. The initial cloud is spherical while the magnetic field is uniform and transverse to the cloud motion. A simplified analytical model that describes the magnetic energy evolution in front of the cloud is developed and compared with simulation results. In addition, it is found the interaction of the cloud with a magnetized interstellar medium (ISM) results in the formation of a highly structured magnetotail. The magnetic flux in the wake of the cloud organizes into flux ropes and a reconnection, current sheet is developed, as field lines of opposite polarity are brought close together near the symmetry axis. At the same time, magnetic pressure is strongly enhanced at the leading edge of the cloud from the stretching of the field lines that occurs there. This has an important dynamical effect on the subsequent evolution of the cloud, since some unstable modes tend to be strongly enhanced.

Timing the Kilohertz Quasi-Periodic Oscillations in Low-mass X-ray Binaries

I describe a new technique that we have been using in the past few years to get precise measurements of the frequency separation of the kHz QPOs in some Low-mass X-ray binaries. I show how this technique (that we call "shift-and-add") works, and I present some of the results we obtained using it.

Limits on the cosmic-ray ionization rate toward massive young stars

Recent models of the envelopes of seven massive protostars are used to analyze observations of H3+ infrared absorption and H13CO+ submillimeter emission lines toward these stars, and to constrain the cosmic-ray ionization rate zeta. The H13CO+ gives best-fit values of zeta=(2.6+/- 1.8) x 10^-17 s^-1, in good agreement with diffuse cloud models and with recent Voyager/Pioneer data but factors of up to 7 lower than found from the H3+ data. No relation of zeta with luminosity or total column density is found, so that local (X-ray) ionization and shielding against cosmic rays appear unimportant for these sources. The difference between the H3+ and H13CO+ results and the correlation of N(H3+) with heliocentric distance suggest that intervening clouds contribute significantly to the H3+ absorptions in the more distant regions. The most likely absorbers are low-density (<~10^4 cm^-3) clouds with most carbon in neutral form or in CO.

Near-infrared photometry of isolated spirals with and without an AGN. II: Photometric properties of the host galaxies

We present the analysis of morphological and photometric properties of a sample of isolated spirals with (18) and without (11) an active nucleus, based on near-infrared imaging in the J and K' bands. The aim of this analysis is to find the differential properties that could be directly connected with the phenomenon of nuclear activity. We stress the importance of using isolated objects for that purpose. Our study shows that both sets of galaxies are similar in their global properties: they define the same Kormendy relation, their disk components share the same properties, the bulge and disk scale lengths are correlated in a similar way, bar strengths and lengths are similar for primary bars. Hosts of isolated Seyfert galaxies have bulge and disk properties comparable to those of isolated non active spirals. Central colors (the innermost 200 pc) of active galaxies are redder than the centers of non active spirals, most probably due to AGN light being re-emitted by the hot dust and/or due to circumnuclear star formation, through the contribution of giants/supergiants. Only one of the Seyfert galaxies in our sample does not present a primary bar,but both primary and secondary bars are equally present in active and control objects. Secondary central elongations (associated with secondary bars, lenses, rings or disks) may be somewhat different. Numerical models indicate that such secondary bars are not strictly necessary to feed the central engine when a primary bar is present. Our results show that down to scales of 100-300 pc, there are no obvious differences between active and non active spiral galaxies.

BeppoSAX Observations of the Soft Gamma-Ray Repeater SGR 1806-20

We have observed with the BeppoSAX satellite the quiescent counterpart of the Soft Gamma-ray Repeater SGR 1806-20. Observations performed in October 1998 and in March 1999 showed that this pulsar continued its long term spin-down trend at an average rate of ~8 10e-11 s/s while its flux and spectrum remained remarkably constant between the two observations, despite the soft gamma-ray bursting activity that occurred in this period. We also reanalyzed archival ASCA data, that when compared with the new BeppoSAX observations, show evidence for a long term variation in luminosity.

Gas, Stars and Baryons in Low Surface Brightness Galaxies

Recent surveys have discovered hundreds of low surface brightness galaxies in the local (z < 0.1) Universe. Plots of the surface brightness distribution (the space density of galaxies plotted against central surface brightness) show a flat distribution from the bright-end cutoff of 21.65 through the current observational limit of 25.0 B mag arcsec^{-2}. As no trend is seen to indicate the size or mass of galaxies decreases with decreasing central surface brightness, it is likely that a significant percentage of the baryon content in the universe is contained in these diffuse systems. In this paper I briefly review the known properties of low surface brightness galaxies, and describe some current theories on the baryonic mass fraction of low surface brightness systems and their consequences.

Preliminary results and perspectives in the Archeops experiment

Observations of the Cosmic Microwave Background (CMB) temperature fluctuations are a powerful tool for testing theories of the early Universe and for measuring cosmological parameters. We present basics of CMB physics, review some of the most recent results and discuss their implications for cosmology. The Archeops balloon-borne experiment is designed to map the CMB with an angular resolution of 10 arcminutes and a precision of 30 $μ\mathrm{K}$ per pixel. This will allow the measurement of the CMB fluctuation power spectrum from large to small angular scales. We describe preliminary results from the test flight which took place in July 1999 and present perspectives for upcoming scientific flights (January 2001).

Approximate expressions for polar gap electric field of pulsars

We derive easy-to-handle approximations for the polar gap electric field due to inertial frame dragging as derived by Harding & Muslimov 1998. A simple formula valid for polar gap height comparable to the polar cap radius is presented.

Blank Field X-Ray Sources

The X-ray sky is not as well known as is sometimes thought. We report on our search of minority populations (Kim & Elvis 1999). One of the most intriguing is that of `blank field sources', i.e. bright ROSAT sources (F(X)>1e-13 erg/cm2/s) with no optical counterpart on the Palomar Sky Survey (to O=21.5) within their 39"(99%) radius error circle. The nature of Blank Field sources is unknown: no known extragalactic population has such extreme X-ray to optical ratios (f(X)/f(V) >60). Moreover blank field source tend to have much flatter PSPC spectra compared to radio-quiet AGN. Both properties suggest obscuration. `Blank field sources' could be: Quasar-2s, low-mass AGNs, isolated neutron stars, high redshift clusters of galaxies, failed clusters, AGNs with no big blue bump. Identification with any of these populations would be an interesting discovery.

SISSA Searching for blazars: the BLEIS project

We present the aim and the status of the BLEIS project currently under development at SISSA. This project consists in selecting a complete Blazar sample from deep optical data, down to B=24.6, V=24.4 and I=23.7 (80% completness). The optical images are taken from the ESO Imaging Survey (EIS - Wide), a public survey covering ~16 deg2 of the Southern Emisphere. This new Blazar sample, thanks to the different energy band of the selection and to the faintness of EIS images, will be useful not only in understanding the physics of such objects, but also in evolutive and cosmological studies. It will also be a new test for the unified models of AGNs and will be helpful in making predictions for future deep surveys.

Three-dimensional structure of an alpha accretion disk

An analytic solution is presented to the three-dimensional problem of steady axisymmetric fluid flow through an accretion disk. The solution has been obtained through a systematic expansion in the small parameter epsilon =H/R (the ratio of disk thickness to its radial dimension) of the equations of viscous hydrodynamics. The equation of state was assumed to be polytropic. For all values alpha< 0.685 of the viscosity parameter, we find significant backflow in the midplane of the disk occuring at all radii larger than a certain value; however, in the inner regions of the disk the fluid always flows toward the accreting object. The region of backflow is separated from the region of inflow by a surface flaring outwards from a circular locus of stagnation points situated in the midplane of the disk.

On Batchelor passive advection by a finite-time correlated random velocity field

The Batchelor passive advection is an advection by a smooth velocity field. If the velocity field is a delta-correlated in time random Gaussian process, then the problem is reduced to quantum mechanics of fluctuating velocity gradient u'(t). For the finite-time correlated velocity field, such a reduction does not exist. To illustrate this point, the second moment of a passively advected magnetic field is considered, and the stochastic calculus is used to find finite-time corrections to its growth rate. The growth rate depends on large scale properties of the velocity field. Moreover, the problem is not universal with respect to the short-time regularization: different regularizations give different answers for the growth rate.

Statistics of smoothed cosmic fields in perturbation theory I: Formulation and useful formulas in second-order perturbation theory

We formulate a general method for perturbative evaluations of statistics of smoothed cosmic fields, and provide useful formulas in application of the perturbation theory to various statistics. This formalism is an extensive generalization of the method used by Matsubara (1994) who derived a weakly nonlinear formula of the genus statistic in a 3D density field. After describing the general method, we apply the formalism to a series of statistics, including genus statistics, level-crossing statistics, Minkowski functionals, and a density extrema statistic, regardless of the dimensions in which each statistic is defined. The relation between the Minkowski functionals and other geometrical statistics is clarified. These statistics can be applied to several cosmic fields, including 3D density field, 3D velocity field, 2D projected density field, and so forth. The results are detailed for second order theory of the formalism. The effect of the bias is discussed. The statistics of smoothed cosmic fields as functions of rescaled threshold by volume-fraction are discussed in the framework of second-order perturbation theory. In CDM-like models, their functional deviations from linear predictions plotted against the rescaled threshold are generally much smaller than that plotted against the direct threshold. There is still slight meat-ball shift against rescaled threshold, which is characterized by asymmetry in depths of troughs in the genus curve. A theory-motivated asymmetry factor in genus curve is proposed.

Construction of the one-point PDF of the local aperture mass in weak lensing maps

We present a general method for the reconstruction of the one-point Probability Distribution Function of the local aperture mass in weak lensing maps. Exact results, that neglect the lens-lens coupling and departure form the Born approximation, are derived for both the quasilinear regime at leading order and the strongly nonlinear regime assuming the tree hierarchical model is valid. We describe in details the projection effects on the properties of the PDF and the associated generating functions. In particular, we show how the generic features which are common to both the quasilinear and nonlinear regimes lead to two exponential tails for $P(\Map)$. We briefly investigate the dependence of the PDF with cosmology and with the shape of the angular filter. Our predictions are seen to agree reasonably well with the results of numerical simulations and should be able to serve as foundations for alternative methods to measure the cosmological parameters that take advantage of the full shape of the PDF.

The Effect of Diffusion on Pulsations of Stars on the Upper Main Sequence. delta Scuti and Metallic A Stars

Recent dramatic improvements in the modeling of abundance evolution due to diffusion in A stars have been achieved with the help of monochromatic opacity tables from the OPAL group. An important result in the context of stellar pulsations is the substantial helium abundance shown to be left over in the driving region of delta Scuti-type pulsations in chemically peculiar Am stars. An accurate opacity profile in the entire stellar envelope including the full effect of heavy elements is also now available for the first time.
Pulsations are shown to be excluded for young Am stars but occur naturally when these stars evolve off the ZAMS. The predicted variable metallic A stars all lie towards the red edge of the instability strip, in qualitative agreement with the observed variable delta Delphini and mild Am stars.
Results show little direct excitation from iron-peak elements in A-type stars. The main abundance effect is due to the settling of helium, along with a marginal effect due to the enhancement of hydrogen.

On the Seyfert 2 warm and cool infrared dichotomy

An optical spectropolarimetric study has shown that the detectability of polarised broad H-alpha in Seyfert 2 galaxies is correlated to the IRAS f60/f25 flux ratio where only those Seyfert 2s with "warm" IRAS colours show polarised broad line emission. It was suggested that those Seyfert 2s with "cool" IRAS colours have highly inclined tori which obscure the broad line scattering screen.
I present here hard X-ray observations inconsistent with this picture showing that the derived column densities of warm and cool Seyfert 2 galaxies are statistically the same. I suggest that the IRAS f60/f25 flux ratio is more consistent with implying the relative strength of galactic to Seyfert emission and provide supporting evidence for this view.

Non-equilibrium Ionization and FIP Effect Diagnostics

We examine the accuracy of a common FIP effect diagnostic, the ratio of Ne VI to Mg VI lines in the solar transition region. Since the two ions have quite similar contribution functions near their maxima in equilibrium, the ratio of these two ions is often taken to be the abundance ratio of Ne and Mg. First we compute non-equilibrium ionization effects on the ratio f(Ne+5)/f(Mg+5) of ion fractions for a variety of simple flows through the transition region. Calculating the spectral line ratios for a few examples, we then show that non-equilibrium effects as well as temperature and density dependence must be evaluated for each line ratio used in the diagnostics.

Sinks of Light Elements in Stars - Part II

The fragile light elements lithium, beryllium, and boron are easily destroyed in stellar interiors, and are thus superb probes of physical processes occuring in the outer stellar layers. The light elements are also excellent tracers of the chemical evolution of the Galaxy, and can test big bang nucleosynthesis (BBN). These inter-related topics are reviewed with an emphasis on stellar physics.
In Part I (presented by CPD), an overview is given of the physical processes which can modify the surface abundances of the light elements, with emphasis on Population I dwarfs - convection; gravitational settling, thermal diffusion, and radiative levitation; slow mixing induced by gravity waves or rotation. We will discuss the increasingly large body of data which begin to enable us to discern the relative importance of these mechanisms in Population I main sequence stars.
In Part II (presented by MHP), discussion is extended to the issue of whether or not the halo Li plateau is depleted, and includes the following topics: Li dispersion in field and globular cluster stars, Li production vs. destruction in Li-rich halo stars, and constraints from 6Li. Also discussed are trends with metal abundance and Teff and implications for chemical evolution and BBN.
In Part III (presented by CC), evidence is reviewed that suggests that in situ mixing occurs in evolved low mass Population I and Population II stars. Theoretical mechanisms that can create such mixing are discussed, as well as their implications in stellar yields.

Sinks of Light Elements in Stars - Part III

The fragile light elements lithium, beryllium, and boron are easily destroyed in stellar interiors, and are thus superb probes of physical processes occuring in the outer stellar layers. The light elements are also excellent tracers of the chemical evolution of the Galaxy, and can test big bang nucleosynthesis (BBN). These inter-related topics are reviewed with an emphasis on stellar physics.
In Part I (presented by CPD), an overview is given of the physical processes which can modify the surface abundances of the light elements, with emphasis on Population I dwarfs - convection; gravitational settling, thermal diffusion, and radiative levitation; slow mixing induced by gravity waves or rotation. We will discuss the increasingly large body of data which begin to enable us to discern the relative importance of these mechanisms in Population I main sequence stars.
In Part II (presented by MHP), discussion is extended to the issue of whether or not the halo Li plateau is depleted, and includes the following topics: Li dispersion in field and globular cluster stars, Li production vs. destruction in Li-rich halo stars, and constraints from 6Li. Also discussed are trends with metal abundance and Teff and implications for chemical evolution and BBN.
In Part III (presented by CC), evidence is reviewed that suggests that in situ mixing occurs in evolved low mass Population I and Population II stars. Theoretical mechanisms that can create such mixing are discussed, as well as their implications in stellar yields.

Anisotropic Galaxy-Galaxy Lensing

We investigate the weak lensing shear due to dark matter galaxy halos whose mass distributions, as projected on the sky, are nearly elliptical. The shear pattern due to these halos is anisotropic about the lens centers and we quantify the level of anisotropy by comparing the mean shear experienced by sources located closest to the major axes of the lenses $<γ>_{major}$, to that experienced by sources located closest to the minor axes, $<γ>_{minor}$. We also compute the degree to which the anisotropy in the lensing signal is degraded due to a noisy determination of the position angles of the lens galaxies and find that provided the typical error on the orientation of the lenses is less than $15^\circ$, more than 90% of the true lensing signal is recovered in the mean. We discuss our our results in the context of detecting anisotropic galaxy-galaxy lensing in large, ground-based data sets and conclude that a modest net flattening of dark matter halos should be detectable at a statistically significant level. The forthcoming Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) data will necessarily provide a very useful data set for this analysis, but a detection of anisotropic galaxy-galaxy lensing is not dependent upon the very large sky coverage of the SDSS. Rather, we argue that a significant detection of this effect can also be obtained from an imaging survey that is of order two magnitudes fainter than SDSS and which covers only a relatively small area of sky, of order one square degree. [Abridged]

The central part of the young open cluster NGC 6383

The spectral and extinction properties of 14 pre-main sequence candidates in the central part of the very young open cluster NGC 6383 were investigated. None of these stars shows evidence for anomalous circumstellar extinction. However, six out of 14 programme stars do show an infrared excess, indicative of the presence of circumstellar dust, heated up by the central star. One of these stars (number 4), also shows Halpha in emission and shows some indications for the presence of circumstellar gas in its spectrum, and might therefore be a newly identified Herbig Ae star.

Theoretical Calculations of Atomic Data for Spectroscopy

Several different approximations and techniques have been developed for the calculation of atomic structure, ionization, and excitation of atoms and ions. These techniques have been used to compute large amounts of spectroscopic data of various levels of accuracy. This paper presents a review of these theoretical methods to help non-experts in atomic physics to better understand the qualities and limitations of various data sources and assess how reliable are spectral models based on those data.

Implications of Binary Properties for Theories of Star Formation

The overall frequency and other statistical properties of binary systems suggest that star formation is intrinsically a complex and chaotic process, and that most binaries and single stars actually originate from the decay of multiple systems. Interactions between stars forming in close proximity to each other may play an important role in the star formation process itself, for example via tidally induced accretion from disks. Some of the energetic activity of newly formed stars could be due to bursts of rapid accretion triggered by interactions with close companions.

Line Formation in the Atmosphere of Brown Dwarf Gliese 229B: $CH_4$ at 2.3 micron

We investigate the formation of methane line at 2.3 ${\rm μm}$ in Brown Dwarf Gliese 229B. Two sets of model parameters with (a) $T_{\rm eff}=940 $K and $\log (g) =5.0$, (b) $T_{\rm eff}=1030 $K and $ \log(g)=5.5$ are adopted both of which provide excellent fit for the synthetic continuum spectra with the observed flux at a wide range of wavelengths. In the absence of observational data for individual molecular lines, we set the additional parameters that are needed in order to model the individual lines by fitting the calculated flux with the observed flux at the continuum. A significant difference in the amount of flux at the core of the line is found with the two different models although the flux at the ontinuum remains the same. Hence, we show that if spectroscopic observation at $2.3{\rm μm}$ with a resolution as high as $R \simeq 200,000$ is possible then a much better constraint on the surface gravity and on the metallicity of the object could be obtained by fitting the theoretical model of individual molecular line with the observed data.

Extragalactic 2-10 keV source counts from a fluctuation analysis of deep BeppoSAX MECS images

We present an analysis of the spatial fluctuations of the 2-10 keV Cosmic X-ray Background (CXB) as measured from 22 high galactic latitude (|b| > 25 deg) fields observed with the MECS instrument on-board BeppoSAX. This technique allowed us to probe extragalactic source counts a factor 3-4 fainter than is possible with direct measurements of pointlike sources in MECS deep fields. The slope of the 2-10 keV logN-logS relationship is found to be still close to the ``Euclidean'' one (gamma = 1.5) down to our flux limit of 1.5 10^-14 erg cm^-2 s^-1, where the contribution of discrete sources to the 2-10 keV CXB amounts to 40-50%. Source counts derived from the analysis presented in this letter are in very good agreement both with those directly measured with ASCA and BeppoSAX deep surveys at bright fluxes and with a first estimation of the 2-10 keV Chandra logN-logS at fainter fluxes.

Extraplanar diffuse ionized gas in a small sample of nearby edge-on galaxies

We present narrowband H-alpha imaging data of a small survey of nearby edge-on spiral galaxies, aiming at the detection of `extraplanar' diffuse ionized gas (DIG). A few of our studied edge-on spirals show signs of disk-halo interaction (DHI), where extended line emission far above the galactic plane of these galaxies is detected. In some cases an extraplanar diffuse ionized gas (eDIG) layer is discovered, e.g., NGC4634, NGC 3044, while other galaxies show only filamentary features reaching into the halo (e.g., IC 2531) and some galaxies show no sign of eDIG at all. The extraplanar distances of the DIG layer in our narrowband H-alpha images reach values of z<= 2 kpc above the galactic plane. The derived star formation rates (SFRs) from the H-alpha flux of the studied galaxies range from 0.05-0.7 M_{sun}/yr, neglecting a correction for internal absorption. The variation of the SFR values among our sample galaxies reflects the diversity of star formation within this sample. A diagnostic diagram is introduced, which allows to predict the existence of gas halos in `quiescent' galaxies based on the ratio S_{60}/S_{100} versus L_{FIR} / D^2_{25} in this diagram. We compare the positions of the non--starburst galaxies with starburst galaxies, since these galaxies populate distinct positions in these diagrams.

Is there ERE in diffuse galactic light at high latitude?

In 1998 Gordon, Witt and Friedmann wrote of detection of ERE in diffuse galactic light at high latitudes. The comparaison of diffuse galactic light and starlight over a few regions of the sky cannot, according to the authors, be fully explained by extinction of starlight. 50% of the red interstellar light needs to come from an interstellar emitting process.
Different aspects of Gordon et al.'s data reduction work, and of the model which supports their assertion, will be considered here. Analysis of the 100 micron emission of the regions Gordon et al. have studied will prove that the color of the diffuse galactic light is explained by scattering of the background starlight by dust embedded in nearby cirrus.
ERE may not be present in diffuse galactic light, and, more generally, in interstellar space.

BeppoSAX spectroscopy of the NGC7078 (M15) globular cluster X-ray source X2127+119

Results of a 1999 November 16--17 BeppoSAX observation of the low-mass X-ray binary X2127+119 located in the globular cluster NGC7078 are presented. The system is believed to be one where the central neutron star is normally obscured by the accretion disk, and only X-rays scattered into our line of sight by an extended accretion disk corona (ADC) are observed. The 0.1--10 keV lightcurve is energy dependent and shows two partial eclipses separated by the 17.1 hr orbital period. The 0.1--100 keV spectrum is unusually complex, but can be successfully modeled using a partially covered power-law and disk-blackbody model. Together with a column consistent with the interstellar value to NGC7078, about 60% of the source is covered by an additional column of 1E22 atom/cm2. The absorbed component may be X-rays that pass through the outer layers of the accretion disk. The energy dependent intensity variations by a factor of ~2 may be modeled as due to a changing normalization of the disk-blackbody. None of the other spectral parameters appear to clearly depend on luminosity. The same spectral model is also able to fit an archival ASCA spectrum.

Constraints on the physical properties of the damped Ly-alpha system of Q0000-2619 at z = 3.054

We present the detection of CII and CII* absorption in the z = 3.0543 damped Ly-alpha system toward Q0000-2619. The derived population ratio implies a fine structure excitation temperature between 19.6 and 21.6 K. The upper value sets a strict upper limit on the CMB temperature at this redshift, which is consistent with the predicted value of 11.05 K from standard cosmology. Under the assumptions of an ionization degree ranging from 0 to 10%, a gas kinetic temperature between 100 and 10000 K and a UV field with a Milky Way spectrum, the density of the absorber is constrained to be between 0.7 and 40 cm^-3 and the H-ionizing flux between 1 and 80 times the intensity of the Galactic UV field. If the damped Ly-alpha system is assumed to be homogeneous, the implication is that its size in the direction of the line of sight must be between 1 and 100 pc.

Explosions During Galaxy Formation

As an idealized model of the effects of energy release by supernovae during galaxy formation, we consider an explosion at the center of a halo which forms at the intersection of filaments in the plane of a cosmological pancake by gravitational instability during pancake collapse. Such halos resemble the virialized objects found in N-body simulations in a CDM universe and, therefore, serve as a convenient, scale-free test-bed model for galaxy formation. ASPH/P3M simulations reveal that such explosions are anisotropic. The energy and metals are channeled into the low density regions, away from the pancake plane. The pancake remains essentially undisturbed, even if the explosion is strong enough to blow away all the gas located inside the halo at the onset of the explosion and reheat the IGM surrounding the pancake. Infall quickly replenishes this ejected gas and gradually restores the gas fraction as the halo mass continues to grow. Estimates of the collapse epoch and SN energy-release for galaxies of different mass in the CDM model can relate these results to scale-dependent questions of blow-out and blow-away and their implication for early IGM heating and metal enrichment and the creation of dark-matter-dominated dwarf galaxies.

Pre-main sequence binaries with aligned disks ?

We present the results of a study performed with the goal to investigate whether low-mass pre-main sequence binary stars are formed by multiple fragmentation or via stellar capture. If binaries form preferentially by fragmentation, we expect their disks to be co-planar. On the other hand, the capture scenario will lead to a random distribution of disk orientations. We performed near-infrared polarization measurements of 49 young close binary stars in the K band with SOFI at the NTT. The near-infrared excess radiation of the targets mostly point to the presence of disks. For a major fraction of the sample, evidence for disks is also obvious from other features (outflows, jets, Herbig-Haro objects). We derived the disk orientation from the orientation of the polarization vector of both components of each binary. This statistical study allows to test which hypothesis (co-planarity, random orientation) is consistent with the observed distribution of polarimetric

The Far-Infrared emission of Radio Loud and Radio Quiet Quasars

Continuum observations at radio, millimetre, infrared and soft X-ray energies are presented for a sample of 22 quasars, consisting of flat and steep spectrum radio loud, radio intermediate and radio quiet objects. The primary observational distinctions, among the different kinds of quasars in the radio and IR energy domains are studied using large observational datasets provided by ISOPHOT on board the Infrared Space Observatory, by the IRAM interferometer, by the sub-millimetre array SCUBA on JCMT, and by the European Southern Observatory (ESO) facilities IRAC1 on the 2.2 m telescope and SEST.
The spectral energy distributions of all quasars from radio to IR energies are analyzed and modeled with non-thermal and thermal spectral components.
The dominant mechanism emitting in the far/mid-IR is thermal dust emission in all quasars, with the exception of flat spectrum radio loud quasars for which the presence of thermal IR emission remains rather uncertain, since it is difficult to separate it from the bright non-thermal component. The dust is predominantly heated by the optical/ultraviolet radiation emitted from the external components of the AGN. A starburst contributes to the IR emission at different levels, but always less than the AGN (< 27%). The distribution of temperatures, sizes, masses, and luminosities of the emitting dust are independent of the quasar type.

The Dynamical Interstellar Medium: Insights from Numerical Models

Numerical models of the dynamical interstellar medium show that interactions between structures such as supernova remnants and superbubbles are more important than the structures themselves in determining the behavior of the ISM. I review the techniques and conclusions of recent global models, focussing on what they tell us about the formation of star-forming giant molecular clouds.

The structure and kinematics of AGN with ionization cones

Results of 2D spectral observations for 4 Sy galaxies with ionization cones are presented. Images in the [OIII] line, velocity fields of the ionized gas, stellar velocity and velocity dispersion fields were obtained at the SAO RAS 6m telescope. Non-circular gas motions and Z-shaped emission filaments could be explained as helical waves located in the ionization cone. This waves are generated by the hydrodynamical instability due to the velocity break between galactic ISM and outflowing matter from the AGN engine. The axis of cone lies close to the direction of a nuclear mini bar.

Solar flare radio pulsations as a signature of dynamic magnetic reconnection

Decimetric radio observations of the impulsive solar flare on October 5, 1992, 09:25 UT show a long series of quasi-periodic pulsations deeply modulating a continuum in the 0.6-2 GHz range that is slowly drifting toward lower frequencies. We propose a model in which the pulsations of the radio flux are caused by quasi-periodic particle acceleration episodes that result from a dynamic phase of magnetic reconnection in a large-scale current sheet. The reconnection is dominated by repeated formation and subsequent coalescence of magnetic islands (known as ``secondary tearing'' or ``impulsive bursty'' regime of reconnection), while a continuously growing plasmoid is fed by newly coalescing islands. Such a model, involving a current sheet and a growing plasmoid, is consistent with the Yohkoh observations of the same flare (Ohyama & Shibata 1998). We present two-dimensional MHD simulations of dynamic magnetic reconnection that support the model. Within the framework of the proposed interpretation, the radio observations reveal details of plasmoid formation in flares.

Nuclear Reaction Rates in a Plasma: The Effect of Highly Damped Modes

The fluctuation-dissipation theorem is used to evaluate the screening factor of nuclear reactions due to the electromagnetic fluctuations in a plasma. We show that the commonly used Saltpeter factor is obtained if only fluctuations near the plasma eigenfrequency are assumed to be important (ω\sim ω_{pe}\ll T (\hbar=k_{B}=1)). By taking into account all the fluctuations, the highly damped ones, with ω>ω_{pe}, as well as those with ω\leqω_{pe}, we find that nuclear reaction rates are higher than those obtained using the Saltpeter factor, for many interesting plasmas.

Outflow from YSO and Angular Momentum Transfer

Dynamical contraction of a slowly-rotating magnetized cloud is studied using the magnetohydrodynamical (MHD) simulations. In the isothermal stage ($n \la n_{\rm A} \sim 10^{10}{\rm cm}^{-3}$), the cloud evolves similarly to that expected from Larson-Penston self-similar solution and experiences the run-away collapse. However, after the central density exceeds $\sim n_{\rm A}$, an accretion disk is formed around the adiabatic core. Just outside the core, outflow is ejected by the effect of magnetic torque (magnetocentrifugal wind). Since $\sim$ 10% of the mass is ejected with almost all the angular momentum, the specific angular momentum of the protostellar core reduces to that observed in main-sequence stars.

Disk-galaxy density distribution from orbital speeds using Newton's law, version 1.1

Given the dimensions(including thickness) of an axisymmetric galaxy, Newton's law is used in integral form to find the density distributions required to match a wide range of orbital speed profiles. Newton's law is not modified and no dark-matter halos are required. The speed distributions can have extreme shapes if they are reasonably smooth. Several examples are given.

The BeppoSAX 2-10 keV Survey

We present the results of a 2-10 keV BeppoSAX survey based on 140 high galactic latitude MECS fields, 12 of which are deep exposures of ``blank'' parts of the sky. The limiting sensitivity is 5 10^-14 erg cm^-2 s^-1 where about 25% of the Cosmic X-ray Background (CXB) is resolved into discrete sources. The logN-logS function, built with a statistically complete sample of 177 sources, is steep and in good agreement with the counts derived from ASCA surveys. A CXB fluctuation analysis allowed us to probe the logN-logS down to about 1.5 10^-14 erg cm^-2 s^-1 where the contribution of discrete sources to the CXB grows to 40-50%. A hardness ratio analysis reveals the presence of a wide range of spectral shapes and that a fairly large fraction of sources appear to be heavily absorbed, some of which showing soft components. A comparison of the flux distribution of different subsamples confirms the existence of a spectral hardening with decreasing flux. This effect is probably due to an increasing percentage of absorbed sources at faint fluxes, rather than to a gradual flattening of the spectral slope. Nearly all the sources for which adequate ROSAT exposures exist, have been detected in the soft X-rays. This confirms that soft spectral components are present even in strongly absorbed objects, and that a large population of sources undetectable below a few keV does not exist. A Ve/Va test provides evidence for the presence of cosmological evolution of a magnitude similar to that found in soft X-ray extragalactic sources. Evolution is present both in normal and absorbed sources, with the latter population possibly evolving faster,although this effect could also be the result of complex selection effects.

The transient X-ray source SAX J2239.3+6116 and its optical counterpart

We have discovered with the Wide Field Cameras on board BeppoSAX the weak transient X-ray source SAXJ2239.3+6116 whose position coincides with that of 4U2238+60/3A2237+608 and is close to that of the fast transient AT2238+60 and the unidentified EGRET source 3EG2227+6122. The data suggest that the source exhibits outbursts that last for a few weeks and peak to a flux of 4E-10 erg/s/cm2 (2-10 keV) at maximum. During the peak the X-ray spectrum is hard with a photon index of -1.1+/-0.1. Follow-up observations with the Narrow-Field Instruments on the same platform revealed a quiescent emission level that is 1E+3 times less. Searches through the data archive of the All-Sky Monitor on RXTE result in the recognition of five outbursts in total from this source during 1996-1999, with a regular interval time of 262 days. Optical observations with the KPNO 2.1 m telescope provide a likely optical counterpart. It is a B0 V to B2 III star with broadened emission lines at an approximate distance of 4.4 kpc. The distance implies a 2-10 keV luminosity in the range from 1E+33 to 1E+36 erg/s. The evidence suggests that SAXJ2239.3+6116 is a Be X-ray binary with an orbital period of 262 days.

The iron abundance in hot central stars of planetary nebulae derived from IUE spectra

We present the first attempt to determine the iron abundance in hot central stars of planetary nebulae. We perform an analysis with fully metal-line blanketed NLTE model atmospheres for a sample of ten stars (T_eff >= 70.000 K) for which high-resolution UV spectra are available from the IUE archive. In all cases lines of Fe VI or Fe VII can be identified. As a general trend, the iron abundance appears to be subsolar by 0.5-1 dex, however, the S/N of the IUE spectra is not sufficient to exclude a solar abundance in any specific case. Improved spectroscopy by either FUSE or HST is necessary to verify the possibility of a general iron deficiency in central stars. The suspected deficiency may be the result of gravitational settling in the case of three high-gravity objects. For the other stars with low gravity and high luminosity dust fractionation during the previous AGB phase is a conceivable origin.

ORFEUS II echelle spectra: On the influence of iron-group line blanketing in the Far-UV spectral range of hot subdwarfs

We present an analysis of the subdwarf O star Feige 67 with a fully metal-line blanketed NLTE model atmosphere based on high-resolution Far-UV (912-2000 A) and Near-UV (2000-3400 A) spectra from new ORFEUS II echelle observations and the IUE final archive. The Far-UV spectra are heavily blanketed by iron and nickel lines, preventing the detection of the stellar continuum and complicating the abundance analysis.
Important points concerning the account for blanketing by millions of iron-group lines and for an accurate determination of iron and nickel abundances are discussed: The usage of all theoretically and experimentally known line opacities of the iron-group elements, the consideration of a broad wavelength range for a reliable determination of the stellar continuum flux, and the role of interstellar reddening. This paper outlines a basic approach for spectral analysis of future high-resolution Far-UV spectra of hot compact stars. During this study we re-analyzed the iron and nickel abundance of our exemplary object Feige 67 and confirm their extraordinarily amount.

Self-Interacting Dark Matter

Spergel and Steinhardt have recently proposed the concept of dark matter with strong self-interactions as a means to address numerous discrepancies between observations of dark matter halos on subgalactic scales and the predictions of the standard collisionless dark matter picture. We review the motivations for this scenario and discuss some recent, successful numerical tests. We also discuss the possibility that the dark matter interacts strongly with ordinary baryonic matter, as well as with itself. We present a new analysis of the experimental constraints and re-evaluate the allowed range of cross-section and mass.

Nucleosynthesis in Massive Stars - Including All Stable Isotopes

We present the first calculations to follow the evolution of all stable isotopes (and their abundant radioactive progenitors) in a finely zoned stellar model computed from the onset of central hydrogen burning through explosion as a Type II supernova. The calculations were performed for a 15 solar mass Pop I star using the most recently available set of experimental and theoretical nuclear data, revised opacity tables, and taking into account mass loss due to stellar winds. We find the approximately solar production of proton-rich isotopes above a mass number of A=120 due to the gamma-process. We also find a weak s-process, which along with the gamma-process and explosive helium and carbon burning, produces nearly solar abundances of almost all nuclei from A=60 to 85. A few modifications of the abundances of heavy nuclei above mass 90 by the s-process are also noted and discussed. New weak rates lead to significant alteration of the properties of the presupernova core.

HI absorption in radio galaxies

Twenty-two powerful radio galaxies have been searched for HI absorption. We find the highest probability of detecting HI in absorption among narrow-line compact (or small) galaxies or galaxies with indication of richer interstellar medium (i.e. with ongoing or recent star-formation). We discuss the difficulty in the interpretation of the origin of the HI absorption due to the uncertainty in the systemic velocity of the galaxies.

On the transport of magnetic fields by solar-like stratified convection

The interaction of magnetic fields and stratified convection was studied in the context of the solar and late type stellar dynamos by using numerical 3D MHD simulations. The topology of stratified asymmetric and over-turning convection enables a pumping mechanism that may render the magnetic flux storage problem obsolete. The inclusion of open boundary conditions leads to a considerable flux loss unless the open boundary is placed close to the physical boundary. Simulations including solar-like latitudinal shear indicates that a toroidal field of several tens of kilo-Gauss may be held down by the pumping mechanism.

Sunyaev-Zel'dovich Effect Review

I review the present observational status of the SZ effect due to the Compton scattering of the 3K background on the hot electrons of clusters of galaxies. I raise the relevant issues from theoretical and X-ray aspects of the question that challenge the present experiments. Future instruments like powerful radio interferometers and bolometric cameras should give us access to the statistics of clusters as well as their internal morphology within the next ten years. They will provide an approach complementary to space experiments (XMM, Chandra, Planck) for some fundamental cosmological and large scale structure issues.

X-rays from the barred galaxy NGC 4303

The late-type galaxy NGC 4303 (M61) is one of the most intensively studied barred galaxies in the Virgo Cluster. Its prominent enhanced star formation throughout large areas of the disk can be nicely studied due to its low inclination of about 27 \degr.
We present observations of NGC 4303 with the ROSAT PSPC and HRI in the soft X-ray (0.1-2.4 keV). The bulk of the X-ray emission is located at the nuclear region. It contributes more than 80% to the total observed soft X-ray flux. The extension of the central X-ray source and the L_X/L_Halpha ratio point to a low luminous AGN (LINER) with a circumnuclear star-forming region. Several separate disk sources can be distinguished with the HRI, coinciding spatially with some of the most luminous HII regions outside the nucleus of NGC 4303. The total star formation rate amounts to 1-2 Msun/yr. The X-ray structure follows the distribution of star formation with enhancement at the bar-typical patterns.
The best spectral fit consists of a power-law component (AGN and HMXBs) and a thermal plasma component of hot gas from supernova remnants and superbubbles. The total 0.1-2.4 keV luminosity of NGC 4303 amounts to 5x10^40 erg/s, consistent with comparable galaxies, like e.g. NGC 4569.

The Nature of High-Redshift Galaxies

Using semi-analytic models of galaxy formation set within the Cold Dark Matter (CDM) merging hierarchy, we investigate several scenarios for the nature of the high-redshift ($z \ga 2$) Lyman-break galaxies (LBGs). We consider a ``collisional starburst'' model in which bursts of star formation are triggered by galaxy-galaxy mergers, and find that a significant fraction of LBGs are predicted to be starbursts. This model reproduces the observed comoving number density of bright LBGs as a function of redshift and the observed luminosity function at $z\sim 3$ and $z\sim 4$, with a reasonable amount of dust extinction. Model galaxies at $z \sim 3$ have star formation rates, half-light radii, I-K colours, and internal velocity dispersions that are in good agreement with the data. Global quantities such as the star formation rate density and cold gas and metal content of the Universe as a function of redshift also agree well. Two ``quiescent'' models without starbursts are also investigated. In one, the star formation efficiency in galaxies remains constant with redshift, while in the other, it scales inversely with disc dynamical time, and thus increases rapidly with redshift. The first quiescent model is strongly ruled out as it does not produce enough high redshift galaxies once realistic dust extinction is accounted for. The second quiescent model fits marginally, but underproduces cold gas and very bright galaxies at high redshift. A general conclusion is that star formation at high redshift must be more efficient than locally. The collisional starburst model appears to accomplish this naturally without violating other observational constraints.

Mid infrared emission of nearby Herbig Ae/Be stars

We present mid IR spectro-photometric imaging of a sample of eight nearby ($D \leq 240$pc) Herbig Ae/Be stars. The spectra are dominated by photospheric emission (HR6000), featureless infrared excess emission (T~Cha), broad silicate emission feature (HR5999) and the infrared emission bands (HD 97048, HD 97300, TY~CrA, HD 176386). The spectrum of HD179218 shows both silicate emission and infrared emission bands (IEB). All stars of our sample where the spectrum is entirely dominated by IEB have an extended emission on scales of a few thousand AU ($\sim 10''$). We verify the derived source extension found with ISOCAM by multi--aperture photometry with ISOPHT and compare our ISOCAM spectral photometry with ISOSWS spectra.

The Reionization of the Universe and the Photoevaporation of Cosmological Minihalos

The first sources of ionizing radiation to condense out of the dark and neutral IGM sent ionization fronts sweeping outward through their surroundings, overtaking other condensed objects and photoevaporating them. This feedback of universal reionization on cosmic structure formation is demonstrated here by gas dynamical simulations, including radiative transfer, for a cosmological minihalo of dark matter and baryons exposed to an external source of ionizing radiation, either starlight or quasar light, just after the passage of the global ionization front created by the source.

Internal shocks in the jets of blazars

The development of instabilities leading to the formation of internal shocks is expected in the relativistic outflows of both gamma-ray bursts and blazars. The shocks heat the expanding ejecta, generate a tangled magnetic field and accelerate leptons to relativistic energies. While this scenario has been largely considered for the origin of the spectrum and the fast variability in gamma-ray bursts, here we consider it in the contest of relativistic jets of blazars. We calculate the expected spectra, light curves and time correlations between emission at different wavelengths. The dynamical evolution of the wind explains the minimum distance for dissipation (~10^{17} cm) to avoid $γ$--$γ$ collisions and the low radiative efficiency required to transport most of the kinetic energy to the extended radio structures. The internal shock model allows to follow the evolution of changes, both dynamical and radiative, along the entire jet, from the inner part, where the jet becomes radiative and emits at high energies ($γ$-jet), to the parsec scale, where the emission is mostly in the radio band (radio-jet). We have produced some animations that can be found at http://www.merate.mi.astro.it/~lazzati/3C279/, in which the temporal and spectral informations are shown together.

Extensive molecular gas in the tidal arms near NGC3077 - Birth of a dwarf galaxy?

Using the IRAM 30m radio telescope we have mapped the tidal arm feature south-east of NGC3077 where we recently detected molecular gas in the CO (J=1-0) and (2-1) transitions. We find that the molecular gas is much more extended than previously thought (several kpc). The CO emission can be separated into at least 3 distinct complexes with equivalent radii between 250pc and 700pc and all well confined over a narrow range in velocity. For one complex we have also obtained a CO (3-2) spectrum using the KOSMA 3m radio telescope; utilizing an LVG model we find that the kinetic temperature for this complex must be about 10K, and the H2 volume density between 600 and 10000cm^-3. Mass estimates based on virialization yield a total mass for the complexes of order 2-4 10^7 M_sun, i.e. more than the estimated molecular mass within NGC3077 itself. This implies that interactions between galaxies can efficiently remove heavy elements and molecules from a galaxy and enrich the intergalactic medium. A comparison of the distribution of HI and CO shows no clear correlation. However, CO is only found in regions where the HI column density exceeds 1.1 10^21 cm^-2. HI masses for the molecular complexes mapped are of the same order as the corresponding molecular masses. Since the tidal arm with its molecular complexes has all the ingredients to form stars in the future, we are thus presumably witnessing the birth of a dwarf galaxy. This process could be important for the formation of dwarf galaxies especially at larger look-back times in the universe where galaxy interactions may have been more frequent.

Observational Properties of Diffuse Halos in Clusters

The number of known diffuse radio sources in clusters of galaxies has grown in recent years, making it possible to derive statistical properties of these sources and of the hosting clusters. We show that diffuse sources are associated with X-ray luminous clusters which have undergone recent merger processes. The radio and X-ray structures are often similar, and correlations are found between radio and X-ray parameters. This is indication of a link between the diffuse relativistic and thermal plasma in clusters of galaxies.

Radio Halos and Relics in Clusters of Galaxies and Detection Statistics

New sensitive VLA observations confirm the existence of halo and relic sources in 6 Abell clusters where a diffuse emission was found in the NVSS. We find evidence that the frequency of clusters with halos and relics is larger in clusters with high X-ray luminosity. The evidence that the occurrence of a halo source is larger at high redshifts is marginal.

Spectroscopic confirmation of a cluster of galaxies at z=1 in the field of the gravitational lens MG2016+112

We present new optical data on the cluster AX J2019+1127 identified by the X-ray satellite ASCA at z\sim 1 (Hattori et al. 1997). The data suggest the presence of a high-redshift cluster of galaxies responsible for the large separation triple quasar MG2016+112. Our deep photometry reveals an excess of z\sim 1 galaxy candidates, as already suspected by Benitez et al. (1999). Our spectroscopic survey of 44 objects in the field shows an excess of 6 red galaxies securely identified at z \sim 1, with a mean redshift of z =1.005 +/- 0.002. We estimate a velocity dispersion of σ= 771 (+430/-160) km s(-1) based on these 6 galaxies and a V-band mass-to-light ratio of 215 (+308/-77) h_50 M/L_sol. Our observations thus confirm the existence of a massive structure acting as the lens, which explains the unusual configuration of the triple quasar. Hence, there is no more need to invoke the existence of a ``dark cluster'' to understand this lens system.

A unified formalism for the core mass-luminosity relations of shell-burning stars

The luminosity evolution of stars with highly condensed cores surrounded by nuclear-burning shell(s) is analytically investigated with the aid of homology relations. With respect to earlier works using a similar approach (e.g. Refsdal & Weigert 1970; Kippenhahn 1981), the major improvement is that we derive all the basic dependences (i.e. on core mass, core radius, and chemical composition) in a completely generalised fashion, then accounting for a large range of possible physical properties characterising the burning shell(s). Parameterised formulas for the luminosity are given as a function of the (i) relative contribution of the gas to the total pressure (gas plus radiation), (ii) opacity source, and (iii) dominant nuclear reaction rates. In this way, the same formalism can be applied to shell-burning stars of various metallicities and in different evolutionary phases. In particular, we present some applications concerning the luminosity evolution of RGB and AGB stars with different chemical compositions, including the case of initial zero metallicity. It turns out that homology predictions provide a good approximation to the results of stellar model calculations. Therefore, the proposed formalism is useful to understand the possible differences in the luminosity evolution of shell-burning stars within a unified interpretative framework, and can be as well adopted to improve the analytical description of stellar properties in synthetic models.

A Self-Consistent Test of Comptonisation Models Using Bepposax Observations of Seyfert Galaxies

We test accurate models of Comptonisation spectra over BeppoSAX observations of Seyfert galaxies focusing on the long look at NGC 5548. The hot plasma temperature derived with these models is significantly higher than that obtained fitting the same data with a power law plus high energy cut off model for the continuum. This is due to the fact that in anisotropic geometries Comptonisation spectra show "intrinsic" curvature which moves the fitted high energy cut-off to higher energies. We also show preliminary results of our analysis of a sample of 5 other Seyfert galaxies.

Pair Creation at Shocks: Application to Agns

We investigate the effect of pair creation on a shock structure. Actually, particles accelerated by a shock can be sufficiently energetic to boost, via Inverse Compton process for example, surrounding soft photons above the rest mass electron energy and thus to trigger the pair creation process. The increase of the associated pair pressure is thus able to disrupt the plasma flow and possibly, for too high pressure, to smooth it completely. Reversely, significant changes of the flow velocity profile may modify the distribution function of the accelerated particles in such a way that the number of particles enable to trigger the pair creation process may change, modifying consequently the pair creation rate. We propose here, using simplifying assumptions, to study the global behavior of a shock structure in an environment dominated by pairs.

Dark Matter and Cold Fractal Clouds

There is strong evidence for a large fraction of dark matter in the Universe. Some of the evidence and candidates for dark matter are reviewed. Dark matter in spiral galaxies may be in the form of cold dense clouds of molecular hydrogen. This model is presented in more detail and perspectives for detecting the cold H_2 are discussed.

The evolution of disk galaxies

We study the evolution of disk galaxies using galaxy evolutionary models with initial and boundary conditions linked to the hierarchical formation scenario. Disks galaxies are modeled locally within growing cold dark matter halos and including a physical model for star formation. We focus our attention on predictions of the star formation history, size and surface brightness evolution and the evolution of the H- and B-band Tully-Fisher relations. Comparisons with available observational data are presented.

Bayesian Methods for Cosmological Parameter Estimation from Cosmic Microwave Background Measurements

We present a strategy for a statistically rigorous Bayesian approach to the problem of determining cosmological parameters from the results of observations of anisotropies in the cosmic microwave radiation background. We propose the application of Markov chain Monte Carlo methods, specifically the Metropolis-Hastings algorithm, to estimate the parameters. A complete statistical analysis is presented, with the Metropolis-Hastings algorithm described in detail.

AstroMD. A multi-dimensional data analysis tool for astrophysical simulations

Over the past few years, the role of visualization for scientific purpose has grown up enormously. Astronomy makes an extended use of visualization techniques to analyze data, and scientific visualization has became a fundamental part of modern researches in Astronomy. With the evolution of high performance computers, numerical simulations have assumed a great role in the scientific investigation, allowing the user to run simulation with higher and higher resolution. Data produced in these simulations are often multi-dimensional arrays with several physical quantities. These data are very hard to manage and to analyze efficiently. Consequently the data analysis and visualization tools must follow the new requirements of the research. AstroMD is a tool for data analysis and visualization of astrophysical data and can manage different physical quantities and multi-dimensional data sets. The tool uses virtual reality techniques by which the user has the impression of travelling through a computer-based multi-dimensional model. AstroMD is a freely available tool for the whole astronomical community (http://www.cineca.it/astromd/).

Gas flow in barred galaxies

I briefly review the properties of the gas flow in and around the region of the bar in a disc galaxy and discuss the corresponding inflow and the loci of star formation. I then review the flow of gas in barred galaxies which have an additional secondary bar. Finally I discuss the signatures of bars in edge-on galaxies.

The dusty SF history of distant galaxies and modelling tools

I review recent advances in the determination of the cosmic history of star formation, and its relevance in our understanding of the formation of structures. I emphasize the importance of dust reprocessing in the high--z universe, as demonstrated in particular by IR and sub-mm data. This demand a panchromatic approach to observations and suitable modelling tools. I summarize the basic requirements for these models and to what extent they are satisfied by models published so far.

New star clusters projected close to the Galactic Centre

We carried out a systematic search for new star clusters in a field of 5$^{\circ} \times5^{\circ}$ centred close to the Galactic Nucleus using the infrared JHK$_s$ 2MASS Survey archive. In addition we searched for embedded clusters in the directions of HII regions and dark clouds for $|\ell|\le4^{\circ}$. As a result we present a list of 58 IR star clusters or candidates. We provide positions, sizes and reddening estimated from 100 $μ$m dust emission. Their angular distribution together with previously catalogued objects in the region and possible relation with star forming complexes are also discussed.

Some aspects of the chemical evolution of 4He in the Galaxy: the He/H abundance gradient and the Delta Y/Delta Z enrichment ratio

Two aspects of the chemical evolution of 4He in the Galaxy are considered on the basis of a sample of disk planetary nebulae by the application of corrections due to the contamination of 4He from the progenitor stars. First, the He/H radial gradient is analyzed, and then, the helium to heavy element enrichment ratio is determined for metallicities up to the solar value.

Physical Conditions and Spatial Structure in the Molecular Interstellar Medium of M33

In this review, I discuss recent detailed studies of individual molecular clouds in M33 in higher rotational transitions of CO, 13CO, and the fine structure line of atomic carbon. These data reveal that the temperature and density of the molecular gas is correlated with the presence of nearby massive star formation, with clouds with more intense star formation having higher temperatures and lower densities. This effect is most likely due to post-star formation processing of the molecular gas. A comparison of 13CO observations for M33 and individual molecular clouds in the Milky Way suggests that a significant fraction of the molecular interstellar medium resides in low column density regions and accounts for 30-60% of the CO luminosity. Finally, a detailed map of a single molecular cloud in the giant HII region NGC 604 reveals an offset between the atomic carbon and CO emission, which indicates that the dominant source of atomic carbon in this cloud is likely photodissociation of CO by ultraviolet photons from the massive stars. A complete map of the CO emission in M33 would be extremely helpful to guide further detailed studies.

Constraints on Type Ia Supernovae from Near Infrared Spectra

We describe a research program to improve the understanding of Type Ia Supernovae (SNe Ia) by modeling and observing near infrared (NIR) spectra of these events. The NIR between 0.9 microns and 2.5 microns is optimal for examining certain products of the SNe Ia explosion that may be blended or obscured in other spectral regions. NIR analysis will enable us to place important constraints on the physical properties of SNe Ia progenitors and their explosion dynamics. These are critical steps toward understanding the physics of Type Ia Supernovae. We have identified features in NIR spectra of SNe Ia that discriminate between Population I and Population II progenitors. These features can significantly restrict the evolutionary history of SNe Ia. We also examine certain products of the nuclear burning that enable us to place constraints on the propagation of nuclear burning during the explosion, and on the behavior of the burning front during the event. We will be able to differentiate between the several explosion models for SNe Ia.

Dynamics of the Galaxy's Satellites

The Milky Way's satellites provide unique information about the density of the Galactic halo at large radii. The inclusion of even a few rather inaccurate proper motions resolves an ambiguity in older mass estimates in favour of higher values. Many of the satellites are concentrated into streams. The dynamics of the Magellanic Stream provided an early indication that the halo reaches out to beyond 100 kpc. Tidal forces between the Clouds are currently disturbing the Clouds' internal dynamics. One would expect this damage to worsen rapidly as the tidal field of the MW excites the eccentricity of the Clouds' mutual orbit. This process, which has yet to be completely modelled, is important for understanding the degree of self-lensing in searches for gravitational lensing events. The Sagittarius Dwarf galaxy very likely contributes significantly to the Galactic warp. The direction of the warp's line of nodes is incorrectly predicted by the simplest models of the Dwarf's orbit. More sophisticated models, in which a complex distribution of stripped dark matter is predicted, may be more successful.

Reflections on Gravity

A pedagogical description of a simple ungeometrical approach to General Relativity is given, which follows the pattern of well understood field theories, such as electrodynamics. This leads quickly to most of the important weak field predictions, as well as to the radiation damping of binary pulsars. Moreover, certain consistency arguments imply that the theory has to be generally invariant, and therefore one is bound to end up with Einstein's field equations. Although this field theoretic approach, which has been advocated repeatedly by a number of authors, starts with a spin-2 theory on Minkowski spacetime, it turns out in the end that the flat metric is actually unobservable, and that the physical metric is curved and dynamical.
Short sections are devoted to tensor-scalar generalizations, the mystery of the vacuum energy density, and quintessence.

Type Ia supernova rate at $z \sim 0.1$

We present the EROS nearby supernova ($z \sim 0.02 - 0.2$) search and the analysis of the first year of data (1997). A total of 80 square degrees were surveyed. Eight supernovæ were detected, four of which were spectroscopically identified as type Ia supernovæ. The search efficiency was determined with a Monte-Carlo simulation taking into account the efficiencies for both supernova detection and host galaxy identification. Assuming that for a given galaxy the supernova rate is proportional to the galactic luminosity, we compute a type Ia supernova explosion rate of:
${\cal R} = 0.44 {}_{-0.21}^{+0.35} {}_{-0.07}^{+0.13} h^2: / 10^{10}
\lbsun / 100 {\rm yrs}$ at an average redshift of $\sim 0.1$ where the errors are respectively statistical and systematic (type misidentification included).

Star formation in expanding shells

We discuss the induced star formation in dense walls of expanding shells. The fragmentation process is studied using the linear perturbation theory. The influence of the energy input, the ISM distribution and the ISM speed of sound is examined analytically and by numerical simulations. We formulate the universal condition for the gravitational fragmentation of expanding shells: if the total surface density of the disk is higher than a certain critical value, shells are unstable. The value of the critical density depends on the energy of the shell and the sound speed in the ISM.

On Physical Interpretation of the Poynting-Robertson Effect

Comments to the statements of Srikanth (1999) are presented. As for the standard definition of the Poynting-Robertson drag, the results of Srikanth (1999) are incorrect. Srikanth's statements about the isothermality condition and ``red-shift'' are also discussed. Srikanth's results are generalized for the most general case of the equation of motion when momentum loss per unit time is proportional to -v/c (higher orders are neglected), where v is (heliocentric) velocity of the particle, c is the speed of light.

Is the Galactic center populated with young star clusters?

We study the evolution and observability of young and compact star clusters near the Galactic center, such as the Arches cluster and the Quintuplet. The star clusters are modeled with a combination of techniques; using direct N-body, integration to calculate the motions of all stars and detailed stellar and binary evolution to follow the evolution of the stars. The modeled star clusters dissolve within 10 to 60 million years in the tidal field of the Galaxy. The projected stellar density in the modeled clusters drops within 5% to 70% of the lifetime to a level comparable to the projected background density towards the Galactic center. And it will be very hard to distinguished these clusters at later age among the background stars. This effect is more severe for clusters at larger distance from the Galactic center but in projection at the same distance. Based on these arguments we conclude that the Galactic center easily hides 10 to 40 clusters with characteristics similar to the Arches and the Quintuplet cluster.

EISily looking for distant clusters of galaxies - - a new algorithm and its application to the EIS-wide data

We present a new algorithm to search for distant clusters of galaxies on catalogues deriving from imaging data, as those of the ESO Imaging Survey. Our algorithm is a matched filter one, similar to that adopted by Postman et al. (1996), aiming at identifying cluster candidates by using positional and photometric data simultaneously. The main novelty of our approach is that spatial and luminosity filter are run separately on the catalogue and no assumption is made on the typical size nor on the typical M* for clusters, as these parameters intervene in our algorithm as typical angular scale (sigma) and typical apparent magnitude m*. Moreover we estimate the background locally for each candidate, allowing us to overcome the hazards of inhomogeneous datasets. As a consequence our algorithm has a lower contamination rate - without loss of completeness - in comparison to other techniques, as tested through extensive simulations. We provide catalogues of galaxy cluster candidates as the result of applying our algorithm to the I-band data of the EIS-wide patches A and B.

Distribution of dust from Kuiper belt objects

(Abridged) Using an efficient computational approach, we have reconstructed the structure of the dust cloud in the Solar system between 0.5 and 100 AU produced by the Kuiper belt objects. Our simulations offer a 3-D physical model of the `kuiperoidal' dust cloud based on the distribution of 280 dust particle trajectories produced by 100 known Kuiper belt objects ; the resulting 3-D grid consists of $1.9\times 10^6$ cells containing $1.2\times 10^{11}$ particle positions. The following processes that influence the dust particle dynamics are taken into account: 1) gravitational scattering on the eight planets (neglecting Pluto); 2) planetary resonances; 3) radiation pressure; and 4) the Poynting-Robertson (P-R) and solar wind drags. We find the dust distribution highly non-uniform: there is a minimum in the kuiperoidal dust between Mars and Jupiter, after which both the column and number densities of kuiperoidal dust sharply increase with heliocentric distance between 5 and 10 AU, and then form a plateau between 10 and 50 AU. Between 25 and 45 AU, there is an appreciable concentration of kuiperoidal dust in the form of a broad belt of mostly resonant particles associated with Neptune. In fact, each giant planet possesses its own circumsolar dust belt consisting of both resonant and gravitationally scattered particles. As with the cometary belts simulated in our related papers (Ozernoy, Gorkavyi, & Taidakova 2000a,b), we reveal a complex resonant structure of the dust belts containing rich families of resonant peaks and gaps. An important result is that both the column and number dust density are more or less flat between 10 and 50 AU, which might explain the surprising data obtained by Pioneers 10 & 11 and Voyager that the dust number density remains approximately distance-independent in this region.

Monte Carlo Simulations of Star Clusters

A revision of Stodółkiewicz's Monte Carlo code is used to simulate evolution of large star clusters. The survey on the evolution of multi-mass N-body systems influenced by the tidal field of a parent galaxy and by stellar evolution is discussed. For the first time, the simulation on the "star-by-star" bases of evolution of 1,000,000 body star cluster is presented. \

Probing the galactic center by gravitational lensing

The nature of Galactic Center could be probed by lensing experiments capable of testing the spatial and velocity distributions of stars nearby and beyond it. Several hypotheses are possible (e.g. massive neutrino condensation, boson star) which avoid the shortcomings of the supermassive black hole model.

Confidence levels of evolutionary synthesis models

The stochastic nature of the IMF in young stellar clusters implies that clusters of the same mass and age do not present the same unique values of their observed parameters. Instead they follow a distribution. We address the study of such distributions, parameterised in terms of their confidence limits, in evolutionary synthesis models. These confidence limits can be understood as the inherent uncertainties of the synthesis models. Here we concentrate on some parameters such as EW(Hb) in emission. For instance, we show that for a cluster where 10^5 Mo have been transformed into stars, the dispersion of EW(Hb) is about 18% within the 90% confidence levels at ages between 3.5 and 5 Myrs.

Chemical abundances in seven red giants of NGC 2360 and NGC 2447

Chemical abundances of about fifteen elements from oxygen to europium are measured in seven red giants of the two open clusters NGC 2360 and NGC 2447. The effective temperatures of the giants are determined spectroscopically by taking advantage of their known masses (~2 Mo in NGC 2360 and ~3 Mo in NGC 2447) and bolometric magnitudes.
The average iron abundances we obtain for the two clusters are [Fe/H]=0.07 for NGC 2360 and [Fe/H]=0.03 for NGC 2447.
Evolutionary stellar model calculations are performed in the mass range 1-4 Mo in order to analyze the surface Na and O abundances predicted after the first dredge-up. The sodium abundance shows a well defined correlation with stellar mass in the 2-3 Mo range. The agreement between our Na abundance determinations in NGC 2360 and our model predictions at 2 Mo is very good. In contrast, the overabundance in one of the three stars in NGC 2447 exceeds that predicted at 3 Mo by ~0.08 dex, which is significant compared to the observational error bars. The effects of core overshooting, convection prescription, metallicity and nuclear reaction rates on the Na surface predictions of our models are investigated.
An oxygen deficiency relative to iron by 0.2 dex is measured in our stars, in disagreement with our model predictions. Assuming that the Sun is 0.1-0.3 dex enriched in oxygen relative to neighbor stars could explain the discrepancy.

ISO deep far-infrared survey in the "Lockman Hole" II. Power spectrum analysis: evidence of a strong evolution in number counts

We investigate the characteristics of FIR brightness fluctuations at 90 micron and 170 micron in the Lockman Hole, which were surveyed with ISOPHOT aboard the Infrared Space Observatory(ISO). We first calculated the angular correlation function of each field and then its Fourier transform(the angular Power Spectral Density: PSD) over the spatial frequency range of f=0.05 - 1 arcmin^-1. The PSDs are found to be rather flat at low spatial frequencies (f <= 0.1 arcmin^-1), slowly decreasing toward higher frequencies. These spectra are unlike the power-law ones seen in the IR cirrus fluctuations, and are well explained by randomly distributed point sources. Furthermore, point-to-point comparison between 90 micron and 170 micron brightness shows a linear correlation between them, and the slope of the linear fit is much shallower than that expected from the IR cirrus color, and is consistent with the color of galaxies at low or moderate redshift(z < 1). We conclude that the brightness fluctuations in the Lockman Hole are not caused by the IR cirrus, but are most likely due to faint star-forming galaxies. We also give the constraints on the galaxy number counts down to 35 mJy at 90 micron and 60 mJy at 170 micron, which indicate the existence of a strong evolution down to these fluxes in the counts. The galaxies responsible for the fluctuations also significantly contribute to the cosmic infrared background radiation.

Double Inflation in Supergravity and the Boomerang Observations

One of the biggest mystery of the recent observation of cosmic microwave background anisotropies by the boomerang team is insignificance of the second acoustic peak in the angular power spectrum. It is very difficult to explain such a low amplitude without assuming the higher baryon density than predicted by the Big Bang Nucleosynthesis (BBN). Employing the double inflation model in supergravity, we show that the density fluctuations produced by this inflation model can produce a sufficient low second acoustic peak with the standard value of the baryon density from BBN. It is shown that these density fluctuations are also consistent with the observations of cluster abundances and galaxy distributions.

Out of Equilibrium Fields in Self-consistent Inflationary Dynamics. Density Fluctuations

The physics during the inflationary stage of the universe is of quantum nature involving extremely high energy densities. Moreover, it is out of equilibrium on a fastly expanding dynamical geometry.We present in these lectures non-perturbative out of equilibrium field theoretical methods in cosmological universes. We then study the non-linear dynamics of quantum fields in matter and radiation dominated FRW and de Sitter universes. We investigate the explosive particle production due to spinodal instabilities and parametric amplification in FRW and deSitter universes with and without symmetry breaking. We show how the particle production is sensitive to the expansion of the universe.We present a complete renormalization scheme for the equation of motion and the energy momentum tensor in flat cosmologies. We then consider an O(N) inflaton model coupled self-consistently to gravity in the semiclassical approximation, with `new inflation' type initial conditions. We study the dynamics self-consistently and non-perturbatively with non-equilibrium field theory methods in the large N limit. We find that spinodal instabilities drive the growth of non-perturbatively large quantum fluctuations which shut off the inflationary growth of the scale factor. A very specific combination of these large quantum fluctuations plus the inflaton zero mode assemble into a new effective field. This new field behaves classically and it is the object which actually rolls down. The metric perturbations during inflation are computed using this effective field and the Bardeen variable for superhorizon modes during inflation. We compute the amplitude and index for the spectrum of scalar density and tensorperturbations and find for these models that the spinodal instabilities are responsible for a `red' primordial spectrum.

Orbital Dynamics of Triaxial Black-Hole Nuclei

Orbital motion in triaxial nuclei with central point masses, representing supermassive black holes, is investigated. The stellar density is assumed to follow a power law, rho ~ 1/r^gamma, with gamma=1 or gamma=2. At low energies the motion is essentially regular; the major families of orbits are the tubes and the pyramids. Pyramid orbits are similar to box orbits but have their major elongation parallel to the short axis of the figure. A number of regular orbit families associated with resonances also exist, most prominently the banana orbits, which are also elongated with the short axis. At a radius where the enclosed stellar mass is a few times the black hole mass, the pyramid orbits become stochastic. The energy of transition to this ``zone of chaos'' is computed as a function of gamma and of the shape of the stellar figure; it occurs at lower energies in more elongated potentials. Our results suggest that supermassive black holes may place tight constraints on departures from triaxiality in galactic nuclei, both by limiting the allowed shapes of regular orbits and by inducing chaos.

Searches for astronomical neutrino sources and WIMPs with Super-Kamiokande

Searches for astronomical neutrino sources and weakly interactive massive particles (WIMPs) using the Super-Kamiokande detector have been performed. We select the neutrino-induced upward muon events for the first 4 years, which is already the world largest data sample, and look for statistically significant excesses compared to the atmospheric neutrino background. No excess has been found so far. Limits of upward muon flux from various potential sources are obtained. Also limits of upward muon flux due to annihilations of WIMPs in the Earth core, the Sun and the Galactic center are obtained as a function of WIMP masses.

A Dwarf Galaxy Survey in the Local Volume

We are carrying out a comprehensive multi-wavelength study of dwarf galaxies in the Local Volume (< 5 Mpc). After our all-sky survey more than doubled the dwarf census we are now measuring structural parameters, integrated properties, and velocities. Our 200-orbit HST snapshot program yields stellar content, star formation history, and TRGB distances. We can thus study the morphology-density relation in galaxy groups in three dimensions, the influence of environment on galaxy evolution, and the universality of the metallicity-surface brightness-luminosity relation.

Oxygen Abundance Determination in Very Metal-Deficient Giants: Permitted O I Lines Versus Forbidden [O I] Lines

The abundance of oxygen was determined for selected very metal-poor G-K stars (six giants and one turn-off star) based on the high S/N and high-resolution spectra observed with Keck HIRES in the red through near-IR region comprising the permitted O I lines (7771-5, 8446) along with the [O I] forbidden line at 6363 A. It turned out that both the abundances from the permitted line features, O I 7771-5 and O I 8446, agree quite well with each other, while the forbidden line yields somewhat discrepant and divergent abundances with a tendency of being underestimated on the average. The former (7773/8446) solution, which we believe to be more reliable, gives a fairly tight [O/Fe] vs. [Fe/H] relation such that increasing steadily from [O/Fe] = 0.6 (at [Fe/H] = -1.5) to [O/Fe] = 1.0 (at [Fe/H] = -3.0), in reasonable consistency with the trend recently reported based on the analysis of the UV OH lines. We would suspect that some kind of weakening mechanism may occasionally act on the formation of [O I] forbidden lines in metal-poor stars. Therefore, [O I] lines may not be so a reliable abundance indicator as has been generally believed.

Integral field spectroscopy of the radio galaxy 3C 171

We have performed integral field spectroscopy of the radio galaxy 3C 171 (redshift z=0.238) with the TIGER instrument at the Canada France Hawaii telescope in the Hbeta-[OIII]4959-5007 wavelength region. We present the reconstructed Hbeta and [OIII] images and compare them to the HST and radio maps. We discuss the variations of the [OIII]/Hbeta line ratio throughout the nebulosity. We also analyze the velocity field in detail, in particular the presence of several components. We find that the kinematics derived with emission lines in the central region (inside 1 arcsec) are compatible with a disk-like rotation of low amplitude (50 km/s). The continuum surface brightness profile follows an r^{1/4} law, suggesting that the underlying galaxy is an elliptical with an effective radius of 15 kpc.
We have fit two components in the region centered 2.7 arcsec to the West and of extension 3 arcsec^2. We find that the blueshifted component is an extension of the central part, whereas the second one is redshifted by 600 km/s. In both components, line ratios and FWHM are compatible with the presence of shocks induced by jet-cloud interactions.

An Open Singularity-Free Cosmological Model with Inflation

In the light of recent observations which point to an open universe $(Ω_{0}<1)$, we construct an open singularity-free cosmological model by reconsidering a model originally constructed for a closed universe. Our model starts from a nonsingular state called prematter, governed by an inflationary equation of state $P=(γ_{p}-1)ρ$ where $γ_{p}$ $(\simeq 10^{-3})$ is a small positive parameter representing the initial vacuum dominance of the universe. Unlike the closed models universe cannot be initially static hence, starts with an initial expansion rate represented by the initial value of the Hubble constant H(0). Therefore, our model is a two-parameter universe model $(γ_{p},H(0))$. Comparing the predictions of this model for the present properties of the universe with the recent observational results, we argue that the model constructed in this work could be used as a realistic universe model.

Looking for High Energy Peaked Blazars

Blazars can be classified on the basis of their overall Spectral Energy Distribution (SED). BL Lac objects are usually divided in LBL or HBL (Low or High energy peaked BL Lacs), according to the peak frequency of the synchrotron emission, if in the optical or UV-soft-X band respectively. FSRQs instead are characterized by synchrotron peaks mainly at IR-optical frequencies, similarly to LBLs. Here we report on recent BeppoSAX observations which are unveiling the high energy branch of the range of synchrotron peak frequencies. Four new "extreme" HBLs have been discovered, one of which (1ES 1426+428) peaks near or above 100 keV, in a quiescent state.

Internal Motions in Globular Clusters

Observations of internal motions in globular clusters offer unique insights into the dynamics of the clusters. We have recently developed methods of high-precision astrometry with HST's WFPC2 camera, which allow us to measure internal proper motions of individual stars. These new data open up many new avenues for study of the clusters. Comparison of the dispersion of proper motion with that of radial velocity offers what is potentially the best method of measuring cluster distances, but reliable results will require dynamical modeling of each cluster. Proper motions are much better able to measure anisotropy of stellar motions than are radial velocities. In 47 Tucanae we have measured thousands of proper motions near the center; their velocity distribution is remarkably Gaussian. In two outer fields we have begun to study anisotropy, which appears in the high velocities but not in the lower ones, contrary to the spheroidal velocity distributions that have commonly been assumed.

The anomalous Galactic globular cluster NGC 2808

We present UBVI photometry for about 60,000 stars in a region of 44'x33' centered on the Galactic globular cluster (GGC) NGC 2808. The central region has been mapped with the HST WFPC2 camera. We cover a field which extends from the center to about 1.7 tidal radii. We confirm the anomalously elongated HB with gaps along it, and we show that the gaps are statistically significant. We find that: 1) the extended blue tail of HB (EBT) is present beyond 400''(=9r_h), and extends to V=21.2 also in these external regions; 2) also the gaps on the EBT are present at least out to 400'' from the cluster center, and possibly beyond that. The location of the gaps in the HB seems to be the same all over the cluster. 3) there are no significant radial gradients in the distribution of the stars in the HB. The observational facts presented in this paper seem to exclude the possibility that the EBTs originate from tidal stripping of the envelope of the RGB stars due to close encounters in high density environments or to mass transfer in close binaries. Also, it is not clear whether the presence of EBTs and gaps on them are the manifestation of the same physical phenomenon. We have also shown that the jump recently identified in the HB using Str"omgren-u photometry is clearly visible also in the U, U-B plane, at T_e~11,600K. Finally, we present the luminosity function (LF) of the RGB. The LF clearly shows the presence of the usual RGB bump, but also a second feature, 1.4 magnitudes brighter in V, that we have named RGB heap. The RGB heap, visible also in other GGCs, is a new feature that, because of its position on the RGB, we have tentatively associated with the recently discovered K giant variables.

Mining The Local Universe for Data: the QSO Luminosity Function with the Asiago-ESO/RASS QSO Survey

We present progress results of a new survey for bright QSOs (V<14.5, R<15.4, B_J<15.2) covering the whole sky at |b|>30. The surface density of QSOs brighter than B_J=14.8 turns out to be $2.9 \pm 0.8 \cdot 10^{-3} deg^{-2}$. The optical Luminosity Function at 0.04 < z < 0.3 shows significant departures from the standard pure luminosity evolution, providing new insights in the modelling of the QSO phenomenon.

On the Energy Equation and Efficiency Parameter of the Common Envelope Evolution

We have investigated the structure of evolved giant stars with masses 3-10 M_sun in order to evaluate the binding energy of the envelope to the core prior to mass transfer in close binary systems. This binding energy is expressed by a parameter lambda which is crucial for determining the outcome of binaries evolving through a common envelope (CE) and spiral-in phase. We discuss the lambda-parameter and the efficiency of envelope ejection in the CE-phase, and show that lambda depends strongly on the evolutionary stage (i.e. stellar radius) of the donor star at the onset of the mass transfer. The existence of this relation enables us to introduce a new approach for solving the energy equation. For a given observed binary system we can derive a unique solution for the original mass and age of the donor star, as well as the pre-CE orbital period. We find that the value of lambda is typically between 0.2 and 0.8. But in some cases, particularly on the asymptotic giant branch of lower-mass stars, it is possible that lambda > 5. A high value of lambda (rather than assuming a high efficiency parameter, eta_CE >1) is sufficient to explain the long final orbital periods observed among those binary millisecond pulsars which are believed to have evolved through a CE-phase. We also present a tabulation of lambda as a function of stellar radius and mass, which is useful for a quick estimation of the orbital decay during a common envelope and spiral-in phase.

The evolution of the color gradients of early-type cluster galaxies

We investigate the origin of color gradients in cluster early-type galaxies to probe whether pure age or pure metallicity gradients can explain the observed data in local and distant (z approx 0.4) samples. We measure the surface brightness profiles of the 20 brightest early-type galaxies of CL0949+44 (hereafter CL0949) at redshift z=0.35-0.38 from HST WF2 frames taken in the filters F555W, F675W, F814W. We determine the color profiles (V-R)(r), (V-I)(r), and (R-I)(r) as a function of the radial distance r in arcsec, and fit logarithmic gradients in the range -0.2 to 0.1 mag per decade. These values are similar to what is found locally for the colors (U-B), (U-V), (B-V) which approximately match the (V-R), (V-I), (R-I) at redshift approx 0.4. We analyse the results with up to date stellar population models. We find that passive evolution of metallicity gradients (approx 0.2 dex per radial decade) provides a consistent explanation of the local and distant galaxies' data. Invoking pure age gradients (with fixed metallicity) to explain local color gradients produces too steep gradients at redshifts z approx 0.4. Pure age gradients are consistent with the data only if large present day ages (>=15 Gyr) are assumed for the galaxy centers.

The tetra-lobed planetary nebula NGC 1501

Direct imagery and long-slit, spatially resolved echellograms of the high excitation planetary nebula NGC 1501 allowed us to study in detail the expansion velocity field, the physical conditions (electron temperature, electron density, ionization) and the spatial distribution of the nebular gas. An electron temperature of 11500 K and a turbulence of 18 km/s are derived by comparing the Halpha and [OIII] emission line profiles, but large, small scale fluctuations of both these quantities are present in the ionized gas. The radial density distribution shows external peaks up to 1400 cm-3; they have steep outwards profiles and extended inwards tails probably originated by Rayleigh-Taylor instability and winds interaction. The complexity of the expanding motions indicates that the main part of NGC 1501 is a thin ellipsoid of moderate ellipticity, but the presence of a pair of large lobes along both the major and the intermediate axes and of a multitude of smaller bumps spread on the whole nebular surface, makes the general 3-D structure of NGC 1501 like a boiling, tetra-lobed shell. This peculiar morphology can be qualitatively explained in terms of interaction of the slow nebular material with the intense and fast wind from the WC4/OVI central star.

Suppression of giant planet formation in stellar clusters

Photoevaporation driven by the ultraviolet radiation from massive stars severely limits the lifetime of protoplanetary discs around stars formed within stellar clusters. I investigate the resulting influence of clustered environments on the probability of giant planet formation, and show that for clusters as rich, or richer than, Orion, the time available for planet formation is likely to be limited to the length of any delay between low mass and high mass star formation. Under popular models for the formation of massive planets, the fraction of stars with giant planets in rich clusters is expected to be substantially suppressed as compared to less clustered star formation environments.

Riemannian collineations in General Relativity and in Einstein-Cartan cosmology

Riemannian vectorial collineations along with current Killing conservation are shown to lead to tensorial collineations for the energy-stress tensor in general relativity and in Einstein-Cartan Weyssenhoff fluid cosmology.

The Cosmological Angular Momentum Problem of Low-Mass Disk Galaxies

The rotational properties of the visible and dark components of low-mass disk galaxies (vrot<=100 km/s) are investigated using the Swaters sample. The rotational parameter lambda'=lambda_DM*(j_d/m_d) is determined, where lambda_DM is the dark halo spin parameter and j_d/m_d is the ratio between the specific angular momentum of the disk and that of the dark halo. The distribution of lambda' is in excellent agreement with cosmological predictions of hierarchical clustering if j_d/m_d=1, that is if the protogalactic gas did not loose a significant amount of specific angular momentum due to dynamical friction. This result is in disagreement with current cosmological Nbody/SPH simulations where the baryonic component looses 90% of its specific angular momentum while settling into the equatorial plane. The Swaters sample also shows a surprisingly strong correlation between lambda' and the baryonic mass fraction m_d: lambda'=0.4 m_d**0.6. This correlation can be explained if the total amount of gas in protogalaxies is a universal fraction of their dark matter mass, of order 10%, and if the variation in m_d is a result of the fact that only the inner parts of the primordial gas distribution managed to form a visible disk component. In this case the specific angular momentum of the gas out of which the disk formed is a factor of 2.75 larger than that of the dark halo, which would require a yet unknown spin-up process for the visible baryonic component.

Application of Data Compression Methods to the Redshift-space distortions of the PSCz galaxy catalogue

We apply a spherical harmonic analysis to the Point Source Redshift Survey (PSCz), to compute the real-space galaxy power spectrum and the degree of redshift distortion caused by peculiar velocities. We employ new parameter eigenvector and hierarchical data compression techniques, allowing a much larger number of harmonic modes to be included, and correspondingly smaller error bars. Using 4644 harmonic modes, compressed to 2278, we find that the IRAS redshift-space distortion parameter is $β= 0.39 \pm 0.12$ and the amplitude of galaxy clustering on a scale of $k=0.1 \Mpch$ is $Δ_{\rm gal}(0.1)=0.42 \pm 0.02$. Combining these we find the amplitude of mass perturbations is $Δ_m(0.1)=(0.16\pm0.04) Ω_m^{-0.6}$. A preliminary model fitting analysis combining the PSCz amplitudes with the CMB and abundance of clusters yields the cosmological matter density parameter $Ω_m=0.16\pm 0.03$, the amplitude of primordial perturbations $Q=(8.4\pm 3.8) \times 10^{-5}$, and the IRAS bias parameter $b=0.84\pm 0.28$.

COBE- and Cluster-Normalized CDM Simulations

We introduce a set of four new publicly available N-body simulations, the most recent additions to the Texas P^3M Database. Our models probe the less studied parameter space region of moderate volume (100/h Mpc box) combined with fine mass resolution (~10^12 M_Sol, roughly comparable to a L_* galaxy), making these simulations especially suitable for study of major large-scale structure features such as voids, and for comparison with the largest three-dimensional redshift surveys currently available. Our cosmological models (LCDM, TOCDM, OCDM, TCDM) are all COBE-normalized, and when possible (LCDM and TOCDM) also cluster-normalized, based on the X-ray cluster M--T relation. The COBE- and cluster-normalized LCDM model reiterates the attractiveness of this currently favored model which does not require the introduction of tilt in order to fit the constraints imposed by observations of other cosmological parameters.

Galaxy Mergers: A Search for Chemical Signatures

We have gathered high resolution echelle spectra for more than two dozen high-velocity metal-poor field stars, including BD+80 245, a star previously known to have extremely low [alpha/Fe] abundances, as well as G4-36, a new low-alpha star with unusually large [Ni/ Fe]. In this kinematically selected sample, other chemically anomalous stars have also been uncovered. In addition to deriving the alpha-element abundances, we have also analysed iron-group and s-process elements. Not only does chemical substructure exist in the halo, but the chemical anomalies are not all the same within all elemental groups.

The GHz-Peaked Spectrum radio galaxy 2021+614: Detection of slow motion in a compact symmetric object

We have analysed VSOP (VLBI Space Observatory Programme) data at 5 GHz and ground-based VLBI (Very Long Baseline Interferometry) data at 15 GHz for the GHz-Peaked Spectrum (GPS) radio galaxy 2021+614. Its morphology is consistent with it being a compact symmetric source extending over 30 h^-1 pc (H_0 = 100 h km s^-1 Mpc^-1, q_0 = 0.5). From a comparison with earlier observations we have detected an increase in the separation and a decrease in the size of the two most prominent components. We determine the projected speed with which these two components recede from each other to be 0.12+/-0.02 h^-1 c. Given the projected separation of the two components of 16.1 h^-1 pc, the infered kinematic age is 440+/-80 years, measured in the source reference frame. These results provide additional support for the contention that compact symmetric radio objects are young and the precursors of the classical FR I or FR II radio sources. The sizes of individual components appear to contract with time which is not consistent with the self-similar evolution model for peaked spectrum sources.
In order to overcome problems related to the estimation of uncertainties for separation measurements between source components, we have developed and applied a method that compares two uv-data sets obtained at different epochs. This method parametrizes the most important structural change, the increase in separation between components, by rescaling the u and v axis of the amplitude interference pattern. It provides best-fit values for the parameters and uses a bootstrap method to estimate the errors in the parameters.

Low and High Frequency Quasi-Periodic Oscillations in 4U1915-05

The X-ray burster and dipper 4U1915-05 (also known as XB1916-053) was observed 19 times for a total exposure of roughly 140 ks between 1996 February and October with the proportional counter array (PCA) aboard Rossi X-ray Timing Explorer (RXTE). We present here the detailed timing study of its X-ray emission. The source was observed in both a high intensity/soft spectral and a low intensity/hard spectral state. The 2-20 keV luminosities are about 1.4x10^37 and 3.2x10^36 ergs/s in the two regimes respectively (assuming a source distance of 9.3 kpc). We confirm that 4U1915-05 is an atoll source based on its spectral behaviour and its aperiodic variability in the frequency range 4x10^{-3}-128 Hz. 4U1915-05 displays red noise below 1 Hz, but is especially remarkable for its quasi-periodic variability detected for the first time at several timescales. We detect low frequency quasi-periodic oscillations (LFQPOs) between 5 and 80 Hz, as well as high frequency QPOs (HFQPOs) between 200 and 1300 Hz. Both LFQPOs and HFQPOs frequencies positively correlate with the mass accretion rate inferred from the position of the source on the color-color diagram. In a narrow range of luminosity, we also detect twin simultaneous HFQPOs separated by 348 +/- 12 Hz.

Galaxy Formation and Chemical Evolution in Hierarchical Hydrodynamical Simulations

We report first results of an implementation of a chemical model in a cosmological code, based on the Smoothed Particle Hydrodynamics (SPH) technique. We show that chemical SPH simulations are a promising tool to provide clues for the understanding of the chemical properties of galaxies in relation to their formation and evolution in a cosmological framework.

A study of the dipping low mass X-ray binary Xþ1624-490 from the broadband BeppoSAX observation

A study of the luminous dipping LMXB X1624-490 was made using BeppoSAX. From modelling the MECS radial profile in several energy bands, the optical depth to dust scattering at 1 keV was found to be 2.4+/-0.4. The non-dip and dip spectra of X1624-490 in the energy band 1-100 keV are well-described by emission consisting of a point-like blackbody from the neutron star plus extended Comptonized emission from an ADC. The blackbody temperature was 1.31+/-0.07 keV and the Comptonized emission had photon power law index 2.0+0.5/-0.7 and cut-off energy ~12 keV. Good fits to the dip spectra were obtained by allowing the Comptonized emission to be progressively covered by an extended absorber while the blackbody was rapidly absorbed and a constant halo component accounted for dust scattering into the line-of-sight. From the dip ingress time, a diameter of the extended Comptonized emission region of 5.3+/-0.8x10^10 cm was derived, consistent with a hot, X-ray emitting corona extending to ~50% of the accretion disk radius. The source luminosity for a distance of 15 kpc is 7.3x10^37 erg/s, an appreciable fraction of the Eddington limit making X1624-490 the most luminous dipping LMXB. The half-height of the blackbody emitting region on the neutron star of 6.8+/-1.8 km agrees well with the half-height of the radiatively supported inner accretion disk of 6.3+/-2.9 km. Together with similar agreement recently obtained for 13 other LMXB in an ASCA survey (Church & Balucinska-Church 2000), this strongly supports the identification of the neutron star as the origin of the blackbody emission in LMXB and suggests a mechanism in which the disk height is the main factor determining the level of blackbody emission. Finally, from RXTE ASM data, we derive an improved orbital period of 20.87+/-0.01 hr.

Constraints over Cosmological Constant and Quintessence Fields in an Accelerating Universe

A brief account of the current cosmological observations is given and their implications for QCDM and $Λ$CDM cosmologies are discussed. The nucleosynthesis and the galaxy formation constraints have been used to put limits on $Ω_ϕ$ during cosmic evolution, and develop a realistic approach to the tracking behaviour of quintessence fields. The astrophysical constraints are applied to interpolate the value of the tracking parameter $ε\simeq 0.75$ at the present epoch and also to find the lower and the upper limits for $Λ$ in the accelerating universe. It is shown that the transition from deceleration to acceleration in the cosmic expansion occurs earlier in $Λ$CDM cosmology compared to QCDM cosmology.

To Probe a Black Hole

We show how an idealized high-frequency VLBI can probe the metric of nearby supermassive black holes. No quantitative assumptions about plasma dynamics are used in the suggested diagnostic, which is based on strong-field lensing.

On the Determination of the He Abundance in Extragalactic H II Regions

Of the light element abundances capable of testing standard big bang nucleosynthesis, only He4 is measured with an accuracy of a few percent. Thus, it is imperative to establish a comprehensive technique for determining He4 abundances and reliable estimates of the true systematic uncertainties. Helium abundance determinations in H II regions are made from the observations of several distinct He I emission lines and their strengths relative to H I emission lines. With the general availability of large format, linear CCD detectors, the accuracy of relative emission line ratios has improved to the point where several terms in the error budget which were assumed to be negligible may now be important. Here we investigate the estimation of errors in deriving and reporting nebular helium abundances from optical emission line spectra.

Direct Simulation of Dense Stellar Systems with GRAPE-6

In this paper we describe the current status of the GRAPE-6 project to develop a special-purpose computer with a peak speed exceeding 100 Tflops for the simulation of astrophysical N-body problems. One of the main targets of the GRAPE-6 project is the simulation of dense stellar systems. In this paper, therefore, we overview the basic algorithms we use for the simulation of dense stellar systems and their characteristics. We then describe how we designed GRAPE hardwares to meet the requirements of these algorithms. GRAPE-6 will be completed by the year 2001. As an example of what science can be done on GRAPE-6, we describe our work on the galactic center with massive black holes performed on GRAPE-4, the predecessor of GRAPE-6.

MID-IR Surveys - The Next Generations

Using new cosmological models for galaxy evolution, predictions for the next generation of deep mid-IR surveys are presented for both the ASTRO-F space telescope (due for launch 2003) and the proposed HII/L2 mission (2010). Although ASTRO-F will be able to detect between 20,000-40,000 sources in the mid-IR, deep surveys will be severely constrained by confusion due to faint sources (due to the relatively small aperture of all IR space telescopes to date). However, HII/L2 with its larger 3.5m mirror will be able to observe to fluxes 10-100 times deeper below the present confusion limits.

Evaporation: The change from accretion via a thin disk to a coronal flow

We present a model for a corona above a geometrically thin standard disk around a black hole. This corona is fed by matter from the thin disk which evaporates from the cool layers underneath. An equilibrium establishes between the cool accretion stream and the hot flow. In the inner region evaporation becomes so efficient that at low accretion rates all matter flows via the corona and proceeds towards the black hole as an advection-dominated accretion flow (ADAF). We investigate this transition for accretion disks around stellar black holes. We derive a set of four ordinary differential equations which describe the relevant processes and solve them numerically. The evaporation efficiency has a maximum value where the advection-dominated structure of the corona (at large distances from the black hole) changes to a radiation-dominated structure (at small distances). This maximum can be related to the observed spectral transitions in black hole X-ray binaries. Our solutions of coronal structure are valid for both, accretion in galactic X-ray transients and in AGN.

Non-LTE effects in neutron star atmospheres

We present the first non-LTE model atmospheres for neutron stars (NS). We study their structure and NLTE effects on the emergent thermal radiation of old isolated NS.

HNCO in massive galactic dense cores

We surveyed 81 dense molecular cores associated with regions of massive star formation and Sgr A in the 5_{05}-4_{04} and 10_{010}-9_{09} lines of HNCO. Line emission was detected towards 57 objects. Selected subsamples were also observed in other HNCO lines covering a frequency range from 22 to 461 GHz. HNCO lines from the K_{-1} = 2,3 ladders were detected in several sources. Towards Orion-KL, K_{-1} = 5 transitions with upper state energies E_u/k ~ 1100 and 1300 K could be observed. Five HNCO cores were mapped. The sources remain spatially unresolved at 220 and 461 GHz with beam sizes of 24" and 18", respectively. Typical HNCO abundances relative to H_2 as derived from a population diagram analysis are ~ 10^{-9}. The rotational temperatures reach ~ 500 K. The gas densities in regions of HNCO $K_{-1}=0$ emission should be n > 10^6 cm^{-3} and in regions of K_{-1}>0 emission about an order of magnitude higher even for radiative excitation. HNCO abundances are found to be enhanced in high-velocity gas. HNCO integrated line intensities correlate well with those of thermal SiO emission. This indicates a spatial coexistence of the two species and may hint at a common production mechanism, presumably based on shock chemistry.

Coherent radio emission from the magnetic chemically peculiar star CU Virginis

Radio observations of the magnetic chemically peculiar star CU Vir, carried out with the VLA in three different days, show that the radio emission at 20 cm is characterized by a strong enhancement at particular rotational phases. This radio emission is found to be right hand polarized with a degree of polarization close to 100 %. As common for this class of stars, the magnetic axis of CU Vir is oblique with respect to the rotational axis. By comparing the 20 cm radio light curve with the effective magnetic field available from the literature, a coincidence of the main peaks of the radio emission with the magnetic nulls has been found. This happens when the magnetic axis lies in the plane of the sky. We suggest that the high degree of polarization, together with the high directivity of the radiation, can be explained in terms of coherent radio emission. The data have been interpreted on the basis of the Electron Cyclotron Maser Emission from electrons accelerated in current sheets out of the Alfven radius toward the stellar surface and eventually reflected outward by magnetic mirroring.

Near-IR Imaging of LSB Galaxies: the High and Low HI Content Cases

Recently acquired near-IR imaging (J and Ks) of low surface brightness galaxies is presented. The data includes 52 galaxies with log[MHI/Msolar] < 9.0 and 58 galaxies with log[MHI/Msolar] > 9.5. These galaxies have been selected from the catalogue of Impey et al. (1996), and all of them are observable from both hemispheres. The principal goal of this research is to investigate the poorly understood giant and old stellar content of these galaxies. Current work includes total and isophotal photometry, and comparison with spectrophotometric models of galaxy evolution, including the role of age and metallicity. Already allocated observing time at Las Campanas Observatory will provide high S/N B and I imaging.

A Cyclic Universe without Missing Mass: Implications of R->alpha'/R

Results from string theory conclude that a spatial dimension R is equivalent to *'/R. If R is considered as a four-space dimension, several interesting results emerge. In this paradigm, *'/R exists in a time-reversed, "anti- parallel" universe. Cosmological distances in our real-time universe are equivalent to the compact dimensions at the instant of a Big Bang in a time- inverted universe. This model agrees with standard black hole theory in that particles become frozen in time when they reach the 'singularity' (of dimension alpha'). A particle which enters a black hole in real time exits from the Big Bang or "white hole" in the time-inverted universe, leaving behind a trace of annihilation radiation. A diagram of this phenomenon is constructed, consistent with existing knowledge of the early universe. The primordeal black holes predicted by Hawking are required. A cyclic universe is described by M^2\p,n + T^2\n = 1. The "missing mass" proscribed by standard closed- universe theories is not required. This result is useful if experimental evidence in the search for dark matter continues to leave a significant "missing mass" - and particularly in light of more recent observations indicating that, in fact, inflation continues at a much reduced rate.

The Influence of Interactions and Minor Mergers on the Structure of Galactic Disks: II. Results and Interpretations

We present the second part of a detailed statistical study focussed on the effects of tidal interactions and minor mergers on the radial and vertical disk structure of spiral galaxies. In the first part we reported on the sample selection, observations, and applied disk models. In this paper the results are presented, based on disk parameters derived from a sample of 110 highly-inclined/edge-on galaxies. This sample consists of two subsamples of 49 interacting/merging and 61 non-interacting galaxies. Additionally, 41 of these galaxies were observed in the NIR. We find significant changes of the disk structure in vertical direction, resulting in ~1.5 times larger scale heights and thus vertical velocity dispersions. The radial disk structure, characterized by the cut-off radius and the scale length, shows no statistically significant changes. Thus, the ratio of radial to vertical scale parameters, h/z0, is ~1.7 times smaller for the sample of interacting/merging galaxies. The total lack of typical flat disk ratios (h/z0)>7 in the latter sample implies that vertical disk heating is most efficient for (extremely) thin disks. Statistically nearly all galactic disks in the sample (93%) possess non-isothermal vertical luminosity profiles like the sech (60%) and exp (33%) distribution, independent of the sample and passband investigated. This indicates that, in spite of tidal perturbations and disk thickening, the initial vertical distribution of disk stars is not destroyed by interactions or minor mergers.

Two BeppoSAX observations of BL Lac

We present the results of two ToO BeppoSAX observations of BL Lac. During the first observation we detected both the synchrotron and the Compton components. Fast time variability was present, but only for the synchrotron component. During the second observation the spectrum was flatter and only the Compton component was present. Four different SED are presented and can be described by a blob moving along a jet and responsible for the SSC emission. The seed photons for the Compton scattering are the synchrotron photons themself plus possibly external photons coming from the broad line region.

Rotation, Statistical Dynamics and Kinematics of Globular Clusters

Evolution with mass segregation and the evolution of the rotation of cores are both discussed for self-similar core collapse. Evolution with angular velocity proportional to the square root of the density is predicted. On the Dynamical Main Sequence of globular clusters the energy emission from binaries balances the energy expended in expanding the halo.
Newton's exactly solved N-body problem is then given, along with recent generalisations, all of which have no violent relaxation, but a new type of statistical equilibrium is discussed.
Finally, we set the creation of streams in the Galaxy's halo in the historical context of their discovery.

Photometric Redshifts and Gravitational Telescopes

We review the use of photometric redshifts in the particular context of Gravitational Telescopes. We discuss on the possible application of such a technique to the study of both the faint population of distant sources and the properties of cluster lenses. Photometric reshifts could be used to derive the redshift distribution and properties of a very faint subsample of high-z lensed galaxies, otherwise out of reach. Concerning the mass distribution in lensing clusters, photometric reshifts are strongly needed to scale the mass in weak lensing analysis, and to characterize the lensing structure.

N-body simulations of self-gravitating gas in stationary fragmented state

The interstellar medium is observed in a hierarchical fractal structure over several orders of magnitude in scale. Aiming to understand the origin of this structure, we carry out numerical simulations of molecular cloud fragmentation, taking into account self-gravity, dissipation and energy input. Self-gravity is computed through a tree code, with fully or quasi periodic boundary conditions. Energy dissipation is introduced through cloud-cloud ineslatic collisions. Several schemes are tested for the energy input. It appears that energy input from galactic shear allows to achieve a stationary clumped state for the gas, avoiding final collapse. When a stationary turbulent cascade is established, it is possible to derive meaningful statistical studies on the data such as the fractal dimension of the mass distribution.

Shallow cores in the dark matter halos: self-interaction in action?

Using observational data for a sample of dark matter dominated galaxies and two cluster of galaxies, we have found that the central halo density does not depend on its mass, and the core radius is roughly proportional to the maximum rotation velocity. A good agreement with these scaling laws is obtained for CDM halos whose dense inner parts were expanded by gravothermal instabilities if the particles efficiently self-interact only in these parts. We find that the particle cross-section is inversely proportional to the velocity dispersion.

Disk Galaxies as Cosmological Benchmarks: Cold Dark Matter versus Modified Newtonian Dynamics

We discuss a comparison of models for the formation of disk galaxies both in a Universe dominated by cold dark matter (CDM) and one in which the force law is given by modified Newtonian dynamics (MOND). Our main aim is to address the claim made by McGaugh & de Blok that CDM suffers from severe fine-tuning problems, which are circumvented under MOND. As we show, CDM indeed requires some amount of tuning of the feedback efficiencies to obtain a Tully-Fisher relation (TFR) as steep as observed. However, that same model is in excellent agreement with a wide variety of additional observations. Therefore, the modest amount of feedback needed should not be regarded a fine-tuning problem. Instead, its requirement should be considered a generic prediction for CDM, which might be tested with future observations and with detailed modeling of feedback processes. We also show that galaxy formation in a MOND universe can not simultaneously reproduce the TFR and the lack of high surface brightness dwarf galaxies. We thus conclude that CDM is a more viable theory for the formation of disk galaxies than MOND.

Comment on "On physical interpretation of the Poynting-Robertson effect"

In response to the comments of astro-ph/0006426 on Srikanth (Icarus 1999), we clarify, and thereby justify, the definition of Poynting-Robertson drag adopted in the latter. We confirm that dust absorption is a necessary condition while re-emission is neither necessary nor sufficient for the inspiralling of a rest-isotropically emitting dust.

Proper Motions of Pre-Main Sequence Stars in Southern Star-Forming Regions

We present proper motion measurements of pre-main sequence (PMS) stars associated with major star-forming regions of the southern hemisphere (Chamaeleon, Lupus, Upper Scorpius - Ophiuchus, Corona Australis), situated in the galactic longitude range l = 290\degr to l = 360\degr. A list of PMS stars as complete as possible was established based on the Herbig and Bell catalogue and many new catalogues like the PDS survey, the catalogue of Herbig Ae/Be stars by Thé et al. (1994), X-rays surveys, etc. The measurements made use of public material (mainly AC2000 and USNO--A2.0 catalogues) as well as scans of SERC-J Schmidt plates with the MAMA measuring machine (Paris) and Valinhos CCD meridian circle observations (Brazil). We derived proper motions for 214 stars, with an accuracy of 5 to 10 mas/yr depending mainly on the difference of epochs between the position sources. The main characteristics of the sample are discussed. We show that systematic motions of groups of stars exist, which are not explained by the reflex solar motion.

Optical spectroscopy of galaxies in the direction of the Virgo cluster

Optical spectroscopy of 76 galaxies, 48 of which are projected in the direction of the Virgo cluster and 28 onto the Coma-A1367 supercluster, is reported. Adding these new measurements to those found in the literature, the redshift completeness in the Virgo region becomes 92% at B_T<=16.0 and 68% at B_T<=18.0. The one of CGCG galaxies in the direction of the Coma-A1367 supercluster becomes 98%. The Virgo cluster membership estimates obtained on morphological grounds by Binggeli et al. (1985) are confirmed in all cases. However, several "possible members" classified as BCD (if in the cluster) are found instead to be giant emission-line galaxies in the background of the Virgo cluster

The Cometary Blue Compact Dwarf Galaxies Mkn 59 and Mkn 71: Clues to Dwarf Galaxy Evolution?

"Cometary" Blue Compact Dwarf Galaxies (iI,C BCDs) are characterized by off-center starbursts close to the end of an elongated dwarf irregular (dI)-like host galaxy. This may either represent randomly enhanced star-forming activity of a dI, or may be caused by a set of special properties of such systems or their environment. For a first investigation of this issue, we analyse the nearby iI,C BCDs Markarian 59 and Markarian 71. Using deep ground-based spectrophotometric data and HST images, we derive physical properties, structure and ages of the starburst regions and the underlying stellar host galaxies. The metallicities show small scatter in the vicinity of the star-forming regions and along the major axis of Mrk 59 which suggests effective mixing of heavy elements on kpc scales. The surface brightness profiles of the underlying host galaxies in either iI,C BCD show an exponential decay with a central surface brightness and scale length that are intermediate between typical iE/nE BCDs and dIs. Spectral population synthesis models in combination with colour magnitude diagrams and colour profiles yield most likely formation ages of ~2 Gyr for the host galaxies in both iI,C BCDs, with upper limits of ~4 Gyr for Mrk 59 and ~3 Gyr for Mrk 71, i.e. significantly lower than the typical age of several Gyr derived for the host galaxies of iE/nE BCDs. These findings raise the question whether iI,C systems form a distinct class within BCDs with respect to the age and structure of their hosts, or whether they represent an evolutionary stage connecting young i0 BCDs and "classical" iE/nE BCDs. Properties of analogous objects studied in the local universe and at medium redshifts provide some support for this evolutionary hypothesis.

A combined HST/CFH12k/XMM survey of X-ray luminous clusters of galaxies at z~0.2

We describe a project to study a sample of X-ray luminous clusters of galaxies at redshift z~0.2 at several scales (with HST/WFPC2 and CFHT/CFH12k) and wavebands (optical and X-ray). The main aims of the project are (i) to determine the mass profiles of the clusters on scales ranging from ~10 kpc/h to >1.5 Mpc/h using weak and strong lensing, thereby testing theoretical predictions of a ``universal mass profile'', and (ii) to calibrate the M_tot - T_X relation in view of future application in the study of the evolution of the cluster mass function at higher redshift.

The Newton Wonder in Mechanics

Application of Newton's ideas from "Principia" gives many new results in mechanics. Here we explore the question ``What form of extra force will maintain the magnitude of a vector constant of the motion while changing its direction?''

Wandering Among Newton Wonders

In the electromagnetic fields t^2 B = b(r/t), E = r x B/t trajectories of non-relativistic charged particles conserve (r-vt)^2. The transformation r'=r/t t'=1/t maps such trajectories into orbits in the constant magnetic field all of which conserve kinetic energy. The transformation may also be used to transform any fields obeying Curl E = B/dt, div B = 0 into others and relates the particle trajectories in them.

An optical time-delay estimate for the double gravitational lens system B1600+434

We present optical I-band light curves of the gravitationally lensed double QSO B1600+434 from observations obtained at the Nordic Optical Telescope (NOT) between April 1998 and November 1999. The photometry has been performed by simultaneous deconvolution of all the data frames, involving a numerical lens galaxy model. Four methods have been applied to determine the time delay between the two QSO components, giving a mean estimate of Δ_t = 51+/-4 days (95% confidence level). This is the fourth optical time delay ever measured. Adopting a Omega=0.3, Lambda=0 Universe and using the mass model of Maller et al. (2000), this time-delay estimate yields a Hubble parameter of H_0=52 (+14, -8) km s^-1 Mpc^-1 (95% confidence level) where the errors include time-delay as well as model uncertainties. There are time-dependent offsets between the two (appropriately shifted) light curves that indicate the presence of external variations due to microlensing.

MACHOs and the clouds of uncertainty

I review proposals for explaining the current gravitational microlensing results from the EROS and MACHO surveys towards the Magellanic Clouds. Solutions involving massive compact halo objects (MACHOs), both baryonic and non-baryonic, as well as solutions that do not require MACHOs, are discussed. Whilst the existence and nature of MACHOs remains to be established, the prospects for achieving this over the next few years are good.

The evolution of AGB stars with convective overshoot

The influence of extended convective mixing (overshoot) on asymptotic giant branch stellar evolution is investigated in detail. The extended mixing is treated time-dependently, and the efficiency declines exponentially with the geometric distance from the convective boundary. It has been considered at all convective boundaries, including the He-flash convection zone in the intershell region which forms during the thermal pulses. Both the structural and the chemical evolution are affected by the inclusion of overshoot. The main results include a very efficient third dredge-up which leads to the formation of carbon stars of low mass and luminosity. A C13 pocket which may serve as a neutron source for the s-process can form after the third dredge-up has reached into the C12 rich intershell. Overshoot applied to the pulse-driven convective zone during the He-flash leads to a deeper penetration of the bottom of this convective zone into the C/O core below the He-burning shell. This in turn causes He4 to be less abundant in the intershell while C12 and O16 are more abundant compared to calculations without overshoot. We show that overshoot at the He-flash convection zone as well as at the base of the envelope convection enhance the efficiency of the third dredge-up. Characteristic properties of the structural and chemical evolution of AGB stars are presented.

Can gravitational waves be detected in quasar microlensing?

Studies of the lensed quasar ${\rm Q}0957+561 {\rm A,B}$ have shown evidence for microlensing in the brightness history of the quasar images. It had been suggested that a frequency offset between the brightness fluctuations in each of the two images might possibly be caused by gravitational radiation generated by a massive black hole binary at the center of the lensing galaxy. This paper demonstrates that the fluctuations produced by such a source of gravitational waves will be too small to account for the observed frequency offsets.

Constraining (Ω_m,Ω_λ) from strong lensing

The knowledge of the redshift of multiple images in cluster-lenses allows to determine precisely the total projected mass within the Einstein radius. The observation of various multiple images in a same cluster is opening new possibilities to constrain the curvature of the universe. Indeed, although the influence of $Ω_m$ and $Ω_λ$ on the images formation is of the second order, observations of many multiple images at different redshifts formed by a regular cluster-lens should allow to constrain very accurately the mass distribution of the cluster and to start to be sensitive to the cosmological parameters entering the diameter angular distances. We present, analytical expressions and numerical simulations that allow us to compute the expected error bars on the cosmological parameters provided an HST/WFPC2 resolution image and spectroscopic redshifts for the multiple images. Numerical tests on simulated data confirm the rather small uncertainties we could obtain this way for the two popular cosmological world models: $Ω_m=0.3{\pm 0.24}$, $Ω_λ=0.7{\pm 0.5}$ or $Ω_m=1.{\pm 0.33}$, $Ω_λ=0.{\pm 1.2}$.

Spectroscopic follow up of arclets in AC114 with the VLT

We present the first results on the VLT/FORS-1 spectroscopic survey of amplified sources and multiple images in the lensing cluster AC114. Background sources were selected in the cluster core, close to the critical lines, using photometric redshifts combined with lensing inversion criteria. Spectroscopic results are given, together with a brief summary of the properties of some of these high-z galaxies.

The Outflow-Disc Interaction in Young Stellar Objects

In this work the most spectacular phenomena occurring during the formation of a star are briefly reviewed: accretion through a rotating disc of matter and outflow through the poles of the new stellar object. Magnetic fields have been proposed to be principally responsible for the coexistence of these opposed mechanisms of accretion and outflowing. According to different models, the magnetic fields are either twisted or stretched by the accretion disc, allowing the formation of polar channels through which part of the accreting matter can escape. The high degree of coupling between the physical parameters describing the young stellar object (e.g. circular velocity of the disc and the central object, viscosity, strength and freezing of magnetic fields, etc.) makes detailed understanding of the interaction between accretion discs and outflows very difficult. The models presented here provide only a partial answer to this difficult problem.

Pre-Main Sequence models for low-mass stars and brown dwarfs

We present evolutionary models for low mass stars and brown dwarfs ($m \le 1.2 \msol$) based on recent improvement of the theory: equation of state, atmosphere models, ... We concentrate on early evolutionary phases from the initial deuterium burning phase to the zero-age Main Sequence. Evolutionary models for young brown dwarfs are also presented. We discuss the uncertainties of the present models. We analyse the difficulties arising when comparing models with observations for very young objects, in particular concerning the problem of reddening.

Measurements of Tidal Tail Populations Designed to Optimize Their Use as Potential Probes

The launching of up to four astrometric missions in the next decade will enable us to make measurements of stars in tidal streamers from Galactic satellites of sufficient accuracy to place strong constraints on the mass distribution in the Milky Way. In this paper we simulate observations of debris populations in order to assess the required properties of any data set chosen to implement this experiment. We apply our results to find the desired target properties of stars (e.g., accuracy of velocity and proper motion measurements) associated with the dwarf spheroidal satellites of the Milky Way.

Spectral Variability of QSOs in the Optical Band

A new analysis of the variability of the spectral slope of PG QSOs has been performed, on the basis of recent literature data in the B and R photometric bands. Preliminary results confirm our previous findings concerning the increase of variability with the rest-frame observing frequency. We also find a correlation of the spectral slope with luminosity, consistent with temperature changes of an emitting black body.

Shedding light on the dark side of galaxy formation: submillimetre surveys through lensing clusters

Most new sub-mm/mm surveys, both deep and shallow, are being targeted at rich cluster fields. I explain why, comparing surveys that have exploited weak lensing by massive foreground clusters with those done in blank fields.

Abundance gradients and their evolution in the Milky Way disk

Based on a simple, but fairly successful, model of the chemical evolution of the Milky Way disk, we study the evolution of the abundances of the elements He, C, N, O, Ne, Mg, Al, Si, S, Ar and Fe. We use metallicity dependent yields for massive stars with and without mass loss. We find that most observed abundance profiles are correctly reproduced by massive star yields, but C and N require supplementary sources. We argue that massive, mass losing stars can totally account for the abundance profile of C, while intermediate mass stars are the main source of N; in both cases, some conflict with corresponding data on extragalactic HII regions arises, at least if current observations in the Galaxy are taken at face value. The observed behaviour of Al is marginally compatible with current massive star yields, which probably overestimate the ``odd-even'' effect. We also find that the adopted ``inside-out'' formation scheme for the Milky Way disk produce abundance profiles steeper in the past. The corresponding abundance scatter is smaller in the inner disk than in the outer regions for a given interval of Galactic age.

Hot Dark Matter in Cosmology

Cosmological dark matter in the form of neutrinos with masses of up to a few electron volts is known as hot dark matter. After an historical review of the subject, this article considers constraints on hot dark matter from current data on neutrino oscillations and on cosmology. The atmospheric neutrino oscillation data imply a lower limit on the HDM contribution to the cosmological density $Ω_ν\gsim 0.001$. The possible improvement of low-$Ω_m$ flat ($Λ$CDM) cosmological models with the addition of light neutrinos appears to be rather limited, but$Λ$CDM models with $Ω_ν\lsim 0.1$ may be consistent with presently available data. Data expected soon may permit detection of such a hot dark matter contribution, or alternatively provide stronger upper limits on $Ω_ν$ and neutrino masses.

The Baryon Content of Groups and Clusters of Galaxies

We have analyzed the properties of a sample of 33 groups and clusters of galaxies and examine the baryon content to check for trends over a decade in temperature down to 1 keV. We examine the relative contribution of galaxies and ICM to baryons in clusters through the gas-to-stellar mass ratio and find that the typical stellar contribution to the baryonic mass is between 5 and 20%. This ratio is found to be roughly independent of temperature. Therefore, we do not confirm the trend of increasing gas-to-stellar mass ratio with increasing temperature as previously claimed. We also determine distribution of the baryon fraction with the density contrast. Virial masses are estimated from two different mass estimators: one based on the isothermal hydrostatic equation (IHE), the other based on scaling law models (SLM). Comparing the two methods, we find that SLM lead to less dispersed baryon fractions over all density contrasts and that the derived mean absolute valuesare significantly lower than IHE mean values. We show that this is not due to the uncertainties on the outer slope $β$ of the gas density profile but is rather indicating that IHE masses are less reliable. Examining the shape of the baryon fraction profiles we find that cluster baryon fractions estimated from SLM follow a scaling law. Moreover, we do not find any strong evidence of increasing baryon (gas) fraction with temperature, neither do we find the slope $β$ to increase with temperature. The absence of clear trends between $f_{b}$ and $M_{gas}/M_{*}$ with temperature is consistent with the similarity of baryon fraction profiles and suggests that non-gravitational processes such as galaxy feedback, do not play a dominant rôle in heating the intra-cluster gas on the virial scale.

Physical Processes at Cosmic Dawn

In this summary paper I will focus on the four main topics discussed at this Conference: (i) First luminous sources in the universe, (ii) Reionization, (iii) Intergalactic medium and (iv) Galaxy formation. In addition to provide a necessarily sketchy summary of the various talks on these subjects, I will also outline some of potentially important issues that still need to be fully addressed.

Can we really rule out the existence of antistars?

The existence of large domains of antimatter is still an open question. Some space mission and experiments in the near future are expected to give reasonable answer to that question. Meanwhile, we can try to search for other signatures of the presence of antimatter. This paper presents a discussion about possible effects of the close encounter of stars and antistars. It is known that the accretion power can be higher in presence of antimatter, because of high-energy photons generated in annihilation, which result in a smaller radiation pressure. Therefore, the Eddington luminosity can reach higher values. Calculations of the gamma-ray flux above 100 MeV, and comparison with recent data from satellites, show a good agreement for certain sources. So, let's play some science-fiction!

Statistical properties of visual binaries as tracers of the formation of young stellar clusters

In this review, we summarize the observed statistical properties of visual binaries in various young stellar clusters. The binary frequency, orbital period distribution and mass ratio distribution are considered for populations of both low-mass and high-mass stars. These properties are then compared to numerical models of the dynamical evolution of stellar clusters and to the predictions of binary formation mechanisms.

Advection-Dominated Accretion Onto Weakly-Magnetized White Dwarfs

The boundary layers of weakly-magnetized white dwarfs (WDs) accreting at rates <=10^16 g/s are radially extended, hot, optically-thin, and they advect some of their internally-dissipated energy (Narayan & Popham 1993). Motivated by this, I construct here idealized spectral models of an Advection-Dominated Accretion Flow (ADAF) around a WD, for application to quiescent Dwarf Novae (DN). The Bremsstrahlung cooling of the gas in the ADAF, with temperatures ranging from a few keV to a few tens of keV, can account for the X-ray emission properties of quiescent DN. If the energy advected by the flow is thermalized in the WD atmosphere, the resulting emission from the entire stellar surface (blackbody of temperature T_eff ~ 5 eV) outshines the X-ray luminosity substantially. This extreme-UV component provides a flux in the 0.055-0.28 keV band which is sufficient to power the strong HeII lambda4686 emission lines of quiescent DN by photoionization of the disk material. Reprocessing of the ADAF X-ray emission by a cold outer thin disk could also lead to an observable iron Kalpha fluorescence emission line, which can be used to probe the geometry of the accretion flow. Existing observational data indicate that the presence of ADAFs in quiescent DN is not ubiquitous, while future observations, in particular with the X-ray satellites Chandra and XMM-Newton, have the potential to detect signatures of the hot flow in promising candidates.

Feedback from Protostellar Outflows in Star and Star Cluster Formation

Magnetic stresses collimate protostellar winds into a common distribution of force with angle. Sweeping into the ambient medium, such winds drive bipolar molecular outflows whose properties are insensitive to the distribution of ambient gas and to the details of how the wind is launched, and how its intensity varies over time. Moreover, these properties are in accord with the commonly observed features of outflows.
This model is simple enough to permit a quantitative study of the feedback effects from low-mass star formation. It predicts the rate at which star-forming gas is ejected by winds, and hence the efficiency with which stars form. Applied to individual star formation, it relates the stellar initial mass function to the distribution of pre-stellar cores. Applied to cluster formation, it indicates whether the resulting stellar system will remain gravitationally bound.
Using the energy injection and mass ejection implied by this model, we investigate the dynamical evolution of a molecular clump as a stellar cluster forms within it. This depends critically on the rate at which turbulence decays: it may involve equilibrium star formation (slow decay), overstable oscillations, or collapse (fast decay).

Observations of Spectral and Time Variabilities from MCG-2-58-22

We present results from analysis of the X-ray archive data of MCG-2-58-22, acquired with ROSAT from 1991 to 1993 and with ASCA from 1993 to 1997. By analyzing light curves, we find that MCG-2-58-22 shows a clear time variability in X-ray flux. The time scales of the variations range widely from about 1000 s to more than years. Among the variations, a flare-like event overlaid on the gradual flux decrease from 1979 to 1993 is detected. We also find clear time variability of the spectra in the energy range of 0.1 - 2.0 keV. However, the flux variation does not influences on their spectra in the energy range of 2 - 10 keV. The implications of these observational results are discussed in terms of a supermassive black hole model and accretion flow dynamics near the central black hole.

A gravitational lens survey with Planck Surveyor

The Planck Surveyor cosmic microwave background (CMB) imaging mission will make very sensitive maps of the whole sky at microwave, millimetre (mm) and sub-mm wavelengths. The steep source counts expected in the highest frequency Planck bands are likely to be associated with a strong magnification bias, and so the fraction of galaxies magnified by a factor of two or more could be greater than 10%. In this paper, previous predictions of the significance of the Planck survey for studies of lensing statistics are updated, to reflect our expanded knowledge of the properties of high-redshift dusty galaxies, obtained from far-infrared and sub-mm surveys. A catalogue of probably about 10000 galaxies, but perhaps as many as 100000 or as few as 1000, is expected to be generated from the final Planck all-sky maps. Of order 1000 galaxies, a better determined number, might reasonably be expected to be strongly lensed. Co-ordinated sub-mm and far-infrared follow-up observations made using the SPIRE and PACS instruments aboard the ESA cornerstone mission FIRST - Planck's travelling companion to its L2 orbit - and the ground-based ALMA interferometer array will provide accurate positions and very valuable information about the spectral energy distributions (SEDs), redshifts and astrophysical properties of the galaxies in the Planck catalogue. ALMA and radio images will also reveal their morphology, and the characteristic arc and multiple image structures produced by gravitational lensing. Studies of these bright sub-mm-selected galaxies will allow new insight into the process of galaxy formation and evolution.

Placing limits on the spin-torsion fluctuation from the stability of Friedmann solution and COBE data

The gravitational stability of Friedmann metric with respect to homogeneous and isotropic perturbations in Einstein-Cartan cosmology is used together with the COBE data to place a limit on the spin-torsion primordial density fluctuation.Cosmological perturbations in Bianchi type III models are shown to have no contributions from torsion at the early stages of the Universe.

Testing the AGN models for the X-ray background

We will briefly examine the following three issues related to the AGN synthesis models for X-ray background: 1) the possibility that absorbed AGNs evolve faster than unabsorbed ones; 2) the existence of the still debated population of luminous absorbed AGNs, the so-called QSO2s; 3) the behavior of the AGN density at a redshift above ~3.

Multiwavelength observations of clusters of galaxies and the role of cluster mergers

Some clusters of galaxies have been identified as powerful sources of non-thermal radiation, from the radio to X-ray wavelengths. The classical models proposed for the explanation of this radiation usually require large energy densities in cosmic rays in the intracluster medium and magnetic fields much lower that those measured using the Faraday rotation. We study here the role that mergers of clusters of galaxies may play in the generation of the non-thermal radiation, and we seek for additional observable consequences of the model. We find that if hard X-rays and radio radiation are respectively interpreted as inverse Compton scattering (ICS) and synchrotron emission of relativistic electrons, large gamma ray fluxes are produced, and for the Coma cluster, where upper limits are available, these limits are exceeded. We also discuss an alternative and testable model that naturally solves the problems mentioned above.

Opening the ultra high energy cosmic ray window from the top

While several arguments can be proposed against the existence of particles with energy in excess of $(3-5)\times 10^{19}$ eV in the cosmic ray spectrum, these particles are actually observed and their origin seeks for an explanation. After a description of the problems encountered in explaining these ultra-high energy cosmic rays (UHECRs) in the context of astrophysical sources, we will review the so-called {\it Top-Down} (TD) Models, in which UHECRs are the result of the decay of very massive unstable particles, possibly created in the Early Universe. Particular emphasis will be given to the signatures of the TD models, likely to be accessible to upcoming experiments like Auger.

Inter-Scale Correlations as Measures of CMB Gaussianity

A description of CMB temperature fluctuations beyond the power spectrum is important for verifying models of structure formation, especially in view of forthcoming high-resolution observations. We argue that higher-order statistics of inter-scale correlations, because of their low cosmic variance, may be effective in detecting non-Gaussian features in the CMB. Inter-scale correlations are generically produced in defect-based models of structure formation. We analytically study properties of general higher-order cumulants of Fourier components of homogeneous random fields and design a new set of statistics suitable for small-scale data analysis. Using simulated non-Gaussian fields, we investigate the performance of the proposed statistics in presence of a Gaussian background and pixel noise, using the bispectrum as the underlying cumulant. Our numerical results suggest that detection of non-Gaussian features by our method is reliable if the power spectrum of the non-Gaussian components dominates that of the Gaussian background and noise within at least a certain range of accessible scales.

Effect of the Environment on the Fundamental Plane of Elliptical Galaxies

We present an analysis of interacting E/S0 galaxies location on the Fundamental Plane. Using the NEMO package, we performed N-body simulations of close encounters and mergers between two spherical galaxies. We followed how structural and dynamical parameters (central density, half-mass radius and velocity dispersion)of galaxies are changed during the encounter. We analysed the dependence of these changes on initial mass concentration and presence of dark halo. The results of our simulations are used to discuss the Fundamental Plane for interacting early-type galaxies.

The First Acoustics Peak CMBR and Cosmic Total Density

Boomerang measured the first peak in CMBR to be at location of $l_D=196\pm 6$, which excites our strong interesting in it. A widely cited formula is $l_D\simeq 200Ω_T^{-0.50}$ to estimate the cosmic total density. Weinberg shows it is not correct and should be $l_D\propto Ω_T^{-1.58}$ near the interest point $(Ω_m,Ω_Λ)=(0.3,0.7)$. We show further that it should be $l_D\propto Ω_T^{-1.43}Ω_m^{-0.147}$ or $Ω_T^{-1.92}Ω_Λ^{0.343}$ near the same point in the more veracious sense if we consider the effect from the sound horizon. We draw a contour graph for the peak location, show that the recent data favor to a closed universe with about $Ω_T\simeq 1.03$. If we insist on obtaining a flat universe, a point $(0.36,0.64)$, i.e., more matter and less vacuum energy, is still possible, which has a more right-side first peak $l_D=208$ in CMBR and a smaller acceleration parameter $-q_0=0.10$ for the $z=0.4$ redshift SNIa.

Interstellar Seeing. I. Superresolution Techniques Using Radio Scintillation

Interstellar scintillation can be used to probe transverse sizes of radio sources on scales inaccessible to the nominal resolution of any terrestrial telescope, e.g. $\lesssim 10^{-6}$ arc sec. Methodology is presented that exploits this superresolution phenomenon for both single aperture and interferometer observations. The treatment applies to the saturated (strong-scattering) regime and holds for both thin screens and extended media. A general signal model for radio sources is presented, {\it scintillated amplitude modulated noise}, which applies to compact, incoherent synchrotron sources such as AGNs and gamma-ray burst sources and also to known, coherent sources such as masers and pulsars. The exact probability density function for measured intensities and interferometric visibilities is obtained by solving a general Fredholm problem. An approximate density function is also obtained by using the equivalent number of degrees of freedom in scintillation modulations. The scintillation modulation variance is presented, which includes the effects of source structure and time-bandwidth averaging in the signal processing. Two Bayesian methods are outlined for inferring the sizes of emission regions that use first order statistics of the intensity and visibility. Intensity cross-correlation methods for inferring source sizes are also given. Intensity interferometry in the the radio context is compared to the optical intensity interferometry of Hanbury-Brown and Twiss.

Interstellar Seeing. II. The Case of the Vela Pulsar: Source Unresolved

I use a method based on interstellar scintillations for discerning information about source sizes on scales less than one micro-arc sec. I use a comprehensive model for a pulsar signal, scintillated amplitude modulated noise, that includes source fluctuations and noise statistics. The method takes into account time-frequency averaging in the signal processing as well as effects due to source structure. The method is applied to interferometric visibility data on the Vela pulsar which show slightly less scintillation modulation than expected for a point source in the strong scattering regime. The decreased scintillation modulation is likely to be due exclusively to time-frequency averaging rather than from any source size effects. The implied upper limit on source extent, derived through Bayesian inference, is compared to predictions that take into account beaming from the relativistic plasma flow in neutron star magnetospheres. The upper limit for the transverse source size ($\lesssim 400$ km at 95% confidence for a pulsar distance of 0.5 kpc) is easily consistent with conventional models for radio emission regions in pulsar magnetospheres that place them well inside the light cylinder at only a few neutron-star radii from the star's surface.

The star formation history of resolved galaxies: Composite H-R diagram

I discuss the information provided by color-magnitude diagrams of different absolute magnitude limits in the study of the star formation histories of nearby galaxies. I review the recent progress made in the field, with emphasis on the results for Local Group dwarf galaxies.

On the Abundance Gradient of the Galactic Disk

Estimates of the gas temperature in planetary nebulae obtained from the [O III] emission line ratio and from the Balmer discontinuity indicate differences reaching up to 6000 K (Liu and Danziger 1993). The [O III] temperature is commonly used to obtain the ionic fractions of highly ionized ions, particularly the O++ and Ne++ ions when using the empirical method to calculate the elemental abundances of photoionized gas from the observed emission line intensities. However, if the gas temperature is overestimated, the elemental abundances may be underestimated, in particular, it may lead to an uncorrect elemental abundance gradient of the Galaxy, usually used as a constraint for the chemical evolution models. Using Monte Carlo simulations, we calculate the systematic error, introduced in the abundance gradient obtained from planetary nebulae by an overestimation of the gas temperature. The results indicate that the abundance gradient in the Galaxy should be steeper than previously assumed.

Cosmic Inflation

I review the current status of the theory of Cosmic Inflation. My discussion covers the motivation and implementation of the idea, as well as an analysis of recent successes and open questions. There is a special discussion of the physics of ``cosmic coherence'' in the primordial perturbations. The issue of coherence is at the heart of much of the success inflation theory has achieved at the hands of the new microwave background data. While much of this review should be useful to anyone seeking to update their knowledge of inflation theory, I have also made a point of including basic material directed at students just starting research.

Conference Summary: Mapping the Hidden Universe

Two curiously connected topics provided a novel focus for this meeting in Guanajuato, Mexico, 22--29, February, 2000. Two days were devoted to discussions of galaxy surveys deep into the Galactic plane and to modeling of the distribution of matter that makes use of quasi-full-sky coverage. Then the meeting turned its attention for four further days to a look at the Universe from surveys based on HI selection. How distorted is the world view of the optical chauvinist?

The Fundamental Plane of field early-type galaxies at intermediate redshift

We present preliminary results on the evolution of the stellar populations of field early-type galaxies (E/S0) from z=0.4 to z=0. The diagnostic tool used in this study is the Fundamental Plane (FP), a tight empirical correlation between their central velocity dispersion (sigma), effective radius (Re), and effective surface brightness (SBe), which is observed to hold in the local Universe. Using HST-WFPC2 archive images and spectra obtained at the ESO-3.6m telescope we measured the FP parameters for a sample of ~30 field E/S0s at z=0.2-0.4. Remarkably, field E/S0s at intermediate redshift also define a tight FP, with scatter unchanged with respect to that of local samples. The intermediate redshift FP is offset from the local one, in the sense that, for given RE and sigma, galaxies are brighter at z=0.4 than at z=0. The implication of the offset of the FP in terms of passive evolution of the stellar population depends on its star formation history. In a single burst scenario, the stellar populations of field E/S0s were formed at z=0.8-1.6 (Omega=0.3; Omega_{Lambda}=0.7; H_0=50 km/s/Mpc). Alternatively, the bulk of stars (90% in mass) can be formed at high redshift (z~3), and the rest in a secondary burst occurred more recently (z~0.5-0.8).

Dirac equation in Kerr geometry and its solution

Chandrasekhar separated the Dirac equation for spinning and massive particles in Kerr geometry into radial and angular parts. In the present review, we present solutions of the complete wave equation and discuss how the Dirac wave scatters off Kerr black holes. The eigenfunctions, eigenvalues and reflection and transmission co-efficients are computed for different Kerr parameters. We compare the solutions with several parameters to show how a spinning black hole distinguishes mass and energy of incoming waves. Very close to the horizon, the solutions become independent of the particle parameters indicating an universality of the behaviour.

Advective Accretion Flows: Ten Years Later

Ten years have passed since the global solutions of advective accretion disks around black holes and neutron stars were first discovered. Since then they are enjoying support from observers almost on a daily basis, more so in recent days with the launching of very high resolution satellites. This review presents the development of the subject of advective accretion in last twenty five years leading to the global solutions and their applications. It also shows that apart from the standard Keplerian disk features in most part of the accretion flow, future models must incorporate the essential features of the advective disks, such as the advection of energy and entropy by the flow, centrifugal barrier supported boundary layer of a black hole, steady and non-steady shocks, the bulk motion Comptonization of matter close to the black hole, outflows from the centrifugal barrier etc. Since black holes are `black', methods of their identification must be indirect, and therefore, the solutions must be known very accurately. On the horizon, matter moves supersonically, but just before that it is subsonic due to centrifugal pressure dominated boundary layer or CENBOL where much of the infall energy is released and outflows are generated. In this review, we show that advective flow models treat accretion and winds onto black holes and neutron stars in the same footing. Similarly treated are the steady and time-dependent behaviour of the boundary layers of neutron stars and the black holes!

Dynamical masses, time-scales, and evolution of star clusters

This review discusses (i) dynamical methods for determining the masses of Galactic and extragalactic star clusters, (ii) dynamical processes and their time-scales for the evolution of clusters, including evaporation, mass segregation, core collapse, tidal shocks, dynamical friction and merging. These processes lead to significant evolution of globular cluster systems after their formation.

The environments and ages of extragalactic radio sources inferred from multi-frequency radio maps

A 3-dimensional model of the synchrotron emissivity of the cocoons of powerful extragalactic radio sources of type FRII is constructed. Bulk backflow and energy losses of the relativistic electrons, radiative and adiabatic, are self-consistently taken into account. Thus the model is an extension of spectral aging methods including the underlying source dynamics into the age estimates. The discrepancies between spectral ages and dynamical ages arising from earlier methods are resolved. It is also shown that diffusion of relativistic particles within the cocoon is unlikely to significantly change the particle spectrum and thus the emitted radio spectrum. Projection along the line of sight yields 1 or 2-dimensional surface brightness distributions which can be compared with observations. From the model parameters constraints on the source age, the density of the source environment and the angle to the line of sight can be derived. Application of the method to Cygnus A, 3C 219 and 3C 215 show that the method provides robust estimates for the model parameters for sources with comparatively regularly shaped radio lobes. The resolution of the radio maps required is only moderate. Within the large uncertainties for the orientation angle, the three example sources are found to be consistent with orientation-based unification schemes of radio-loud AGN. In the case of Cygnus A the gas density of the environment is found to agree with independent X-ray measurements. For 3C 219 and 3C 215 the densities derived from the model are apparently too low. It is suggested that these discrepancies are caused by overestimates of slope and core radius of $β$-models for the gas density distribution from X-ray observations for clusters hosting powerful radio sources.

Uncertainties on Clusters of Galaxies Distances

We investigate in this paper the error on the cluster redshift estimate as a function of: (1) the number of galaxy structures along the line of sight; (2) the morphology of the clusters (regular/substructures); (3) the nature of the observed galaxies (cD/normal galaxies); (4) the number of observed galaxies; and (5) the distance of the clusters. We find that if we use cD galaxies we have errors of less than 2% (at the 1-$σ$ level) for the cluster distances except when the clusters are very complex. In those cases when we use five redshift measurements along the cluster lines of sight to compute the mean redshift, the mean redshift estimate error is less than 5% for the clusters closer than z=0.30. The same error of 5% for clusters in z=[0.30;0.60] requires about 12 redshifts measurements.

Mapping the star formation history of Mrk86: II. Stellar populations and global interpretation

In this paper, continuation of Gil de Paz et al. (Paper I), we derive the main properties of the stellar populations in the Blue Compact Dwarf galaxy Mrk86. Ages, stellar masses, metallicites and burst strengths have been obtained using the combination of Monte Carlo simulations, a maximum likelihood estimator and Cluster and Principal Component Analysis. The three stellar populations detected show well defined properties. We have studied the underlying stellar population, which shows an age between 5-13 Gyr and no significant color gradients. The intermediate aged (30 Myr old) central starburst show a very low dust extinction with high burst strength and high stellar mass content (9 10^6 M_sun). Finally, the properties of 46 low-metallicity star-forming regions were also studied. The properties derived suggest that the most recent star-forming activity in Mrk86 was triggered by the evolution of a superbubble originated at the central starburst by the energy deposition of stellar winds and supernova explosions. Finally, different mechanisms for the star formation triggering in this massive central starburst are studied, including the merging with a low mass companion and the interaction with UGC4278.

The distance modulus of the Small Magellanic Cloud based on double-mode Cepheids

We employ the very recent photometric data of the OGLE project together with stellar atmosphere and linear pulsation models to determine the distance modulus of the Small Magellanic Cloud from its double-mode Cepheids. Based on the requirement of obtaining the same distance modulus DM from the two types of variables (fundamental & first overtone and first & second overtone), we get DM=19.05 mag, with a very small statistical error (standard deviation) of 0.017 mag. Various systematic and zero point ambiguities (primarily those of the color - temperature transformation) lead to an error of +/-0.13 mag (estimated 3 sigma deviation). This result is in very good agreement with the distance modulus of the Large Magellanic Cloud of 18.5 mag, derived earlier from cluster double-mode RR Lyrae stars.

LiBeB, O and Fe Evolution: Refractory Element and Cosmic Ray Transport Delays

Employing a Monte-Carlo based evolutionary code, we show that the delay of Fe deposition relative to O, due to the incorporation of supernova ejecta refractories in high velocity grains, can account for the rise of [O/Fe] with decreasing [Fe/H]. The predicted behavior of refractory Mg, Si, Ca and Ti, and volatile S, namely that the refractories should not show the rise, but that the behavior of S should be similar to that of O, appears to be confirmed (Takeda et al. 2000, astro-ph/0007007). The delayed deposition of Be, due to cosmic ray transport in a relatively low density medium, leads to consistency of primary Be evolution as a function of both [Fe/H] and [O/H].

Comptonization in the accretion column of the X-ray pulsar GX~1+4

X-ray observations of the binary pulsar GX 1+4 made using the Rossi X-ray Timing Explorer (RXTE) satellite between February 1996 and May 1997 were analysed to quantify source spectral variation with luminosity.
Mean Proportional Counter Array (PCA) spectra over the range 2-40 keV are best fitted with a Comptonization model, with source spectrum temperature T_0 approx 1-1.3 keV, plasma temperature T_e approx 6-10 keV, and optical depth tau approx 2-6. The range of fitted T_0 was consistent with the source spectrum originating at the neutron star polar cap, with Compton scattering taking place primarily in the hot plasma of the accretion column. Both the fitted optical depth and plasma temperature vary significantly with the source flux. The variation of the optical depth (and hence the density of the scattering region) with luminosity strongly suggests increasing cross-sectional area of the accretion column at higher accretion rate Mdot.
The wide range of source luminosity spanned by archival observations of GX 1+4 offers evidence for two distinct spectral states above and below L_X approx 2*10^{37} erg/s (2-60 keV, assuming a source distance of 10 kpc). GX 1+4 additionally exhibits dramatic hourly variations in neutral column density n_H indicative of density variations in the stellar wind from the giant companion.

The First Hours of a Core Collapse Supernova

New two-dimensional, high-resolution calculations of a core collapse supernova in a 15 Msol blue supergiant are presented, which cover the entire evolution from shock revival until the first few hours of the explosion. Explosive nucleosynthesis, its dependence upon convective mixing during the first second of the evolution and the growth of Rayleigh-Taylor instabilities at the composition interfaces of the progenitor star are all modeled consistently and allow for a comparison with observational data. We confirm our earlier findings, that the perturbations induced by neutrino driven convection are sufficiently strong to seed large-scale Rayleigh-Taylor mixing and to destroy the onion-shell structure of the stellar He-core. As in our earlier calculations, the strong deceleration of the nickel clumps in the layers adjacent to the He/H interface suggests that the high velocities of iron-group elements observed in SN 1987A cannot be explained on the basis of currently favored progenitor models. Possible solutions to this dilemma and the implications of the mixing for type Ib explosions are briefly discussed.

Interpreting the optical data of the Hubble Deep Field South: colors, morphological number counts and photometric redshifts

We present an analysis of the optical data of the Hubble Deep Field South. We derive F300W(AB), F450W(AB), F606W(AB) and F814W(AB) number counts for galaxies in all four bands. The slope is steeper at shortest wavelengths: we estimated gamma(F300W(AB))=0.47, gamma(F450W(AB))=0.35, gamma(F606W(AB))=0.28 and gamma(F814W(AB))=0.28. Morphological number counts are actually dominated by late type galaxies, while early type galaxies show a decreasing slope at faint magnitudes. Combining this information with photometric redshifts, we notice that galaxies contributing with a steep slope to morphological number counts (i.e. spiral and irregular galaxies) have z>1, suggesting a moderate merging. However we emphasize that any cut in apparent magnitude at optical wavelengths results in samples biased against elliptical galaxies, affecting as a consequence the redshift distributions and the implications on the evolution of galaxies along the Hubble sequence.

CLASS B0827+525: `Dark lens' or binary radio-loud quasar?

We present radio, optical, near-infrared and spectroscopic observations of the source B0827+525. We consider this source as the best candidate from the Cosmic Lens All-Sky Survey (CLASS) for a `dark lens' system or binary radio-loud quasar. The system consists of two radio components with somewhat different spectral indices, separated by 2.815 arcsec. VLBA observations show that each component has substructure on a scale of a few mas. A deep K-band exposure with the W.M.Keck-II Telescope reveals emission near both radio components. The K-band emission of the weaker radio component appears extended, whereas the emission from the brighter radio component is consistent with a point source. Hubble Space Telescope F160W-band observations with the NICMOS instrument confirms this. A redshift of 2.064 is found for the brighter component, using the LRIS instrument on the W.M.Keck-II Telescope. The probability that B0827+525 consists of two unrelated compact flat-spectrum radio sources is ~3%, although the presence of similar substructure in both component might reduce this.
We discuss two scenarios to explain this system: (i) CLASS B0827+525 is a `dark lens' system or (ii) B0827+525 is a binary radio-loud quasar. B0827+525 has met all criteria that thus far have in 100% of the cases confirmed a source as an indisputable gravitational lens system. Despite this, no lens galaxy has been detected with m_F160W<=23 mag. Hence, we might have found the first binary radio-loud quasar. At this moment, however, we feel that the `dark lens' hypothesis cannot yet be fully excluded.

On the Relation Between Radio and Non-Radio Elliptical Galaxies

Empirical evidence suggests that elliptical galaxies hosting a radio source may not be different from normal non-radio ellipticals. To test this possibility, we use Monte Carlo simulations to reproduce the distribution of radio galaxies in the radio-optical luminosity plane. The input parameters of the simulation are the optical luminosity function (LF) of ellipticals and the radio LF of radio galaxies, linked by a function giving the probability for an elliptical to be a radio galaxy.
Simulations reproduce the observations well, supporting unification of radio and non-radio ellipticals, provided that the probability of an elliptical hosting a radio source is proportional to the square of its optical luminosity.
The difference of 0.5 magnitudes in average optical luminosity between FRI and FRII radio galaxies is also explained in this framework.

The Low-Mass Stars in Starburst Clusters

If star formation depends strongly on the global properties of the environment in which they form, the slope of the IMF as well as the upper and lower mass cut-offs would be expected to vary significantly between violent starbursts and more quiescent star forming regions. To test this hypothesis we observed the stellar content of the two closest massive star forming regions, 30Doradus and NGC3603 with HST/NICMOS and VLT/ISAAC. Our observations are the most sensitive observations made to date of dense starburst cores, allowing us to investigate its low-mass stellar population with unprecedented quality. The NIR luminosity function of 30Doradus shows no evidence for a truncation down to at least 1 M_o, its stellar core R136 is populated in low-mass stars to at least 2 M_o and NGC3603, which is very similar to R136, down to 0.1 M_o. Our observations clearly show that low-mass stars do form in massive starbursts.

Science with SIRTF - Some Examples

The Space InfraRed Telescope Facility (SIRTF) is a space-borne, cryogenically-cooled infrared observatory capable of studying objects ranging from our Solar System to the distant reaches of the Universe. SIRTF is the final element in NASA's Great Observatories Program, and an important component of its Origins Program. The intent of this paper is to summarize the most important parameters of the observatory and its scientific instruments and to present three typical examples of scientific areas where SIRTF will have a significant impact. These examples of ``nearby'' targets -- brown dwarf surveys, protostellar disks, and massive young clusters -- have been selected in regard to the main topics of this conference.

Spectrum and proper motion of a brown dwarf companion of the T Tauri star CoD-33 7795

We present optical and infrared spectra as well as the proper motion of an H=12 mag object 2" off the ~5 mag brighter spectroscopic binary star CoD-33 7795 (=TWA-5), a member of the TW Hya association of T Tauri stars at ~55 pc. It was suggested as companion candidate by Lowrance et al. (1999) and Webb et al. (1999), but neither a spectrum nor the proper motion of the faint object were available before. Our spectra taken with FORS2 and ISAAC at the ESO-VLT reveal that the companion candidate has spectral type M8.5 to M9. It shows strong H-alpha emission and weak Na I absorption, both indicative of a young age. The faint object is clearly detected and resolved in our optical and infrared images, with a FWHM of 0.18" in the FORS2 image. The faint object's proper motion, based on two year epoch difference, is consistent with the proper motion of CoD-33 7795 by 5 Gaussian sigma significance. From three different theoretical pre-main sequence models, we estimate the companion mass to be between ~15 and 40 M_jup, assuming the distance and age of the primary. A slight offset between the VLT and HST images with an epoch difference of two years can be interpreted as orbital motion. The probability for chance alignment of such a late-type object that close to CoD-33 7795 with the correct proper motion is below 7e-9. Hence, the faint object is physically associated with CoD-33 7795, the 4th brown dwarf companion around a normal star confirmed by both spectrum and proper motion, the first around a pre-main sequence star.

Direct imaging search for planetary companions next to young nearby stars

We report first results from our ground-based infrared imaging search for sub-stellar companions (brown dwarfs and giant planets) of young (up to 100 Myrs) nearby (up to 75 pc) stars, where companions should be well separated from the central stars and still relatively bright due to ongoing accretion and/or contraction. Among our targets are all members of the TW Hya association, as well as other binary and single young stars either discovered recently among ROSAT sources (some of which as yet unpublished) or known before. Our observations are performed mainly with SOFI and SHARP at the ESO 3.5m NTT on La Silla and with ISAAC at the ESO 8.2m Antu (VLT-UT1) on Cerro Paranal, all in the H- and K-bands. We present direct imaging data and H-band spectroscopy of a faint object detected next to TWA-7 which, if at the same age and distance as the central star, could be an object with only a few Jupiter masses. Our spectrum shows, though, that it is a background K-dwarf.

Massive Star Forming Regions: from diagnostic tools to derived properties

The current state-of-the-art of multi-wavelength diagnostic tools (evolutionary synthesis, photoionisation models) for massive star forming regions (HII regions, starbursts, etc.) and some of their input physics (especially model atmospheres) is reviewed. Analysis of stellar populations based on integrated spectra from both stellar features and nebular emission lines from the UV to IR are summarised. We stress the importance of "template" studies at various scales (from individual stars to well studied galaxies) and various wavelengths, to understand the processes operating in massive star forming regions and to reliably derive their properties.

Prospects for the Lensing of Supernovae

Observations of high redshift type Ia supernovae (SNe) will enable us to probe the structure of galaxy halos and the composition of dark matter. The future prospects for this field are briefly discussed here. First the ability of SN observations to differentiate between dark matter made of macroscopic compact objects and dark matter made of microscopic particles is reviewed. Then a new method for probing the structure of galaxy halos and galaxy cluster halos is described. This method utilizes the correlations between foreground galaxy light and supernova brightnesses to substantially decrease possible systematic errors. The technique may be particularly useful for measuring the size of dark matter halos, a measurement to which the galaxy--galaxy lensing is not well suited, and the level of substructure in galaxy halos, a problematic prediction of the cold dark matter model. The required observations of hundreds of SNe at z ~ 1 are already being proposed for the purposes of cosmological parameter estimation.

Frequency decomposition of astrometric signature of planetary systems

We present theoretical analysis of the astrometric searches for extrasolar planets with the Space Interferometry Mission (SIM). Particularly, we derive a model for the future measurements with SIM and discuss the problem of reliable estimation of orbital elements of planets. For this purpose we propose a new method of data analysis and present a numerical test of its application on simulated SIM astrometric measurements of $\upsilon$ Andromedae planetary system. We demonstrate that our approach allows successfull determination of its orbital elements.

Recent results by the MOA group on gravitational microlensing

Recent work by the MOA gravitational microlensing group is briefly described, including (i) the current observing strategy, (ii) use of a high-speed parallel computer for analysis of results by inverse ray shooting, (iii) analysis of the light curve of event OGLE-2000-BUL12 in terms of extra-solar planets, and (iv) the MOA alert system using difference imaging.

The ISO-LWS map of the Serpens cloud core: I. The SEDs of the IR/SMM sources

ISO-LWS mapping observations of the Serpens molecular cloud core are presented. The spectral range is 50 - 200 micron and the map size is 8' X 8'. These observations suffer from severe source confusion at FIR wavelengths and we employ a Maximum Likelihood Method for the spectro-spatial deconvolution. The strong and fairly isolated source SMM1 FIRS1 presented a test case, whose modelled spectral energy distribution (SED), within observational errors, is identical to the observed one. The model results for the other infrared and submillimetre sources are therefore likely to represent their correct SEDs. Simulations demonstrating the reliability and potential of the developed method support this view. For the majority of sources the peak of the SEDs is found within the spectral range of the LWS and derived temperatures are generally higher (>30K) than have been found by earlier deconvolution attempts using IRAS data. SMM sizes are found to be only a few arcsec in diameter. In addition, the SMMs are generally optically thick even at LWS wavelengths. Self-consistent radiative transfer calculations indicates that the SMMs are optically thick out to even longer wavelengths. Models were calculated for five sources, for which sufficient data were available, viz. SMM 1, 2, 3, 4 and 9. These models are optically thick out to millimetre wavelengths (wavelength of unit optical depth 900 to 1400 micron). Envelope masses for these SMMs are in the range 2-6 Msun, which is of course considerably more massive than estimates based on the optically thin assumption. The luminosities are in the range 10-70 Lsun, suggesting the formation of low-mass to intermediate mass stars, so that the existence of such massive envelopes argues for extreme youth of the SMMs in the Serpens cloud core.

The jet and circumburst stellar wind of GRB 980519

We present extensive multi-colour (UBVR_CI_C) photometry of the optical afterglow of GRB 980519. Upon discovery, 8.3 hours after the burst, the source was decaying as a power law, (t-t_GRB)^alpha, with a rapid decay rate alpha_1 = - 1.73+-0.04. About 13 hours after the burst a steepening of the light-curve to alpha_2 = -2.22+-0.04 was observed. Within the framework of current afterglow models, we argue that the rapid initial decline, the `break' in the light curve, and the spectral properties of the afterglow are best interpreted as being due to a collimated ultra-relativistic jet of fixed opening angle expanding into an inhomogeneous medium. In this scenario, we find that the circumburst medium has a density structure that goes as r^(-2.05+-0.22). This is characteristic of a preexisting wind expelled from a massive star. A possible physical scenario is that the progenitor star collapsed to form a black hole (i.e., a `collapsar'), producing the observed burst and afterglow. However, the supernova signature expected in the light curve in such a scenario is not detected. This either implies that the redshift of GRB980519 is greater than 1.5 or that supernovae accompanying GRBs are not standard candles.

Galaxies in the infrared

The mid infrared spectra of the starbursts show the 9.7$μm$ silicate absorption feature and strong mid infrared emission bands centered at 6.2, 7.7, and 11.3 $μ$m. Illustrative models of the {\it active} galaxies are presented: As the starbursts are most likely confined to the central region of the galaxy the radiative transfer in the nucleus is solved under the assumption of spherical symmetry. The distribution of stars and dust are adjusted until the complete infrared spectrum of the galaxies are modeled. The dust is described as a mixture of large grains, very small grains and PAH, which are undergoing temperature fluctuations. Although the galactic nuclei are deeply hidden in the dust its global structure can be estimated by the simple calculations presented. ISOPHOT samples of eleven {\it active} galaxies and seven {\it inactive} spirals are presented. The far infrared and submillimeter spectrum of the {\it active} galaxies can be described by a single modified black--body at a color temperature of $31.5 \pm 2.8$ K. This leads to a ratio of infrared luminosity to gas mass, $L_{\rm IR}/M_{\rm gas}$, of $\sim 90$ L$_\odot$/ M$_\odot$. In contrast, the spectral energy distributions of {\it inactive} spirals require, apart from warm dust of $31.8 \pm 2.8$ K, an additional very cold component of at most $12.9\pm 1.7$ K. This implies a $L_{\rm IR}/M_{\rm gas}$ ratio of $\sim 3$ L$_\odot$/ M$_\odot$ for the {\it inactive} spirals, a factor $\sim 30$ lower than for the {\it active} galaxies. The detection of such cold dust can be predicted by radiative transfer models.

The filament of ionized gas in the outskirt of M87

We report on the filament of ionized gas found at the NE periphery of M87, the second brightest elliptical galaxy in the Virgo cluster. The object lies at 3.16 arcmin (15.7 kpc) projected distance of the nucleus of M87, and it coincides in position with the Eastern radio lobe of M87. Long slit spectroscopy confirmed the gaseus nature of this object, showing Hbeta, [OIII], [OI], [NII], Halpha and [SII] lines, without any underlying continuum. The redshift of the object, V = 1170+-25 km/s, agrees with the velocity of M87 itself (V = 1280 km/s), and with the bulk of the ionized material found near the center of M87. The Halpha flux of this filament corresponds to 1 % of the ionized material in M87. The radio-optical coincidence together with the spectral characteristics suggest that the filament is ionized by a shock.

Relation between $γ$-rays and emission lines for the $γ$-ray loud blazars

The relation between the $γ$-ray and the emission line luminosities for a sample of 36 $γ$-ray loud blazars is investigated; an apparent correlation between them, $L_γ \propto L_{Line}^{0.69\pm0.11}$, with a correlation coefficient $r=0.741$ and a chance probability of $p = 1.9\times10^{-6}$, is found. It is found, however, that there is no intrinsic correlation between them: the apparent correlation is due to the redshift dependence in a flux-limited sample. Thus no evidence is found to support the argument that the up-scattered soft photons are from the broad emission lines. Our analysis does not conflict with the SSC model. The disk-jet symbiosis and radio/$γ$-ray correlation found in the literature are also discussed. The radio/$γ$-ray correlation may be an apparent correlation caused by the boosting effect since both bands are strongly beamed.

Parameter Estimation in Astronomy with Poisson-Distributed Data. II. The Modified Chi-Square-Gamma Statistic

I investigate the use of Pearson's chi-square statistic, the Maximum Likelihood Ratio statistic for Poisson distributions, and the chi-square-gamma statistic (Mighell 1999, ApJ, 518, 380) for the determination of the goodness-of-fit between theoretical models and low-count Poisson-distributed data. I demonstrate that these statistics should not be used to determine the goodness-of-fit with data values of 10 or less. I modify the chi-square-gamma statistic for the purpose of improving its goodness-of-fit performance. I demonstrate that the modified chi-square-gamma statistic performs (nearly) like an ideal chi-square statistic for the determination of goodness-of-fit with low-count data. On average, for correct (true) models, the mean value of modified chi-square-gamma statistic is equal to the number of degrees of freedom (nu) and its variance is 2*nu --- like the chi-square distribution for nu degrees of freedom. Probabilities for modified chi-square-gamma goodness-of-fit values can be calculated with the incomplete gamma function. I give a practical demonstration showing how the modified chi-square-gamma statistic can be used in experimental astrophysics by analyzing simulated X-ray observations of a weak point source (signal-to-noise ratio of 5.2; 40 photons spread over 317 pixels) on a noisy background (0.06 photons per pixel). Accurate estimates (95% confidence intervals/limits) of the location and intensity of the X-ray point source are determined.

Substellar Companions to Nearby Stars from NICMOS Surveys

A coronagraphic imaging survey of 65 nearby stars was conducted using the Near Infrared Camera and Multi-Object Spectrometer (NICMOS) on the Hubble Space Telescope by the Instrument Definition Team. Using these guaranteed time observations we searched for very low mass stellar and substellar (extra-solar giant planet and brown dwarf) companions to young main sequence and late M dwarf stars. Nineteen additional stars, similarly observed in our circumstellar disk program, were also examined for evidence of companions. We discuss the large depth and dynamic range of these surveys which have given rise to several putative and confirmed detections. Using follow-up spectrographic observations obtained with the Space Telescope Imaging Spectrograph (STIS) we have begun to characterize the physical nature of the objects found in the companion search program.

NICMOS Imaging of Candidate Extra-Solar Planetary Systems

The connection between the formation and growth of planetesimals into larger bodies and the circumstellar debris disks around young and nascent stars from which they arise has been the subject of continual speculation, discussion and inquiry, since the original scenario for such evolution was first expanded upon by Laplace (1796) following the general proposition by Kant (1755). NICMOS coronagraphy has enabled both the direct imaging of such circumstellar disks seen in scattered light about more mature stars (other than b Pictoris) exhibiting morphologically resolved spatial features, and the detection of substellar companions (brown dwarfs and extra-solar giant planets) with masses extending into the Jovian domain for recently formed objects (< a few x 107 years).