

=== sourcerecordsofg04char ===

SOURCE  RECORDS

THE  GREAT  WAR

A  COMPREHENSIVE  AND  READABLE  SOURCE  RECORD  OF  THE
WORLD'S  GREAT  WAR,  EMPHASIZING  THE  MORE  IMPORTANT
EVENTS.  AND  PRESENTING  THESE  AS  COMPLETE  NARRATIVES
IN  THE  ACTUAL  WORDS  OF  THE  CHIEF  OFFICIALS  AND  MOST
EMINENT  LEADERS

NON-PARTISAN  NON-SECTIONAL  NON-SECTARIAN

PRESENTING  DOCUMENTS  FROM  GOVERNMENT  ARCHIVES  AND
OTHER  AUTHORITATIVE  SOURCES.  WITH  OUTLINE  NARRATIVES.
INDICES.  CHRONOLOGIES,  AND  COURSES  OF  READING  ON  SOCIO-
LOGICAL MOVEMENTS  AND   INDIVIDUAL   NATIONAL  ACTIVITIES

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

CHARLES  F.  HORNE,  Ph.D.

DIRECTING  EDITOR

WALTER  F.  AUSTIN,  LL.M

With  a  stafi  of  specialists

VOLUME  IF

Rational  &lumm

Copyright,  1923,  National  Alumn

Printed  in  U.  S.  A.

CONTENTS

VOLUME  IV— 1916
"They  Shall  Not  Pass"

PAGB

An  Outline  of

Verdun  and  the  Black  Year  of  Exhaustion       .  xiii

CHARLES  F.  HORNE.

I    Belgium's  Martyrdom  (Oct.  1915-Nov.  1 91 6)

The  Enslavement  of  Labor  1

BRAND  WHITLOCK,  U.  S.  Minister  to  Belgium.
CARDINAL  MERCIER,  Roman  Catholic  Primate  of  Belgium.
GENERAL  VON  BISSING,  German  Governor  of  Belgium.

APPEAL  OF  THE  BELGIAN  WORKMEN.

APPEAL  OF  THE  BELGIAN  WOMEN.

II    Little  Montenegro' s  Last  Stand  (Jan.  13)

The  Austrian 's  Capture  its  Capital,  Cettinje     .  18

EDGAR  WALLACE,  British  historian.

LAZARE  MUSKOVITCH,  Prime  Minister  of  Montenegro.

III  Russia's  Conquest  of  Armenia  (Feb.  16)

The  Capture  of  Erzerum       ....  24

GENERAL  YUDENITCH,  Russian  Chief  of  Staff  in  the  East.
MORGAN  PRICE,  British  official  witness  in  Asia  Minor.

IV  The  First  Assault  on  Verdun  (Feb.  21)

The  Mightiest  Effort  of  Germany's  Artillery     .  38

COUNT  DE  SOUZA,  noted  French  military  authority.

LORD  NORTHCLIFFE,  Britain's  foremost  newspaper  director.

GENERAL  VON  FALKENHAYN,  German  Chief  of  Staff.

GENERAL  VON  LUDENDORFF,  afterward  German
Chief  of  Staff.

CROWN  PRINCE  FREDERICK  WILLIAM,  German  com-
mander at  Verdun.

V    Armed  Intervention  in  Mexico  (March  15- June)
The  United  States  Volunteer  Army  Gathered  and

JOHN  PERSHING,  Brigadier  General  U.  S.  A.  in  1916.
FREDERICK  FUNSTON,  Major  General  U.  S.  A.  in  1916.
VENUSTIANO  CARRANZA,  President  of  Mexico.
ROBERT  LANSING,  U.  S.  Secretary  of  State.

vii

viii  CONTENTS

PAOB

VI    Germany  Yields  to  America's  Ultimatum  (April

The  Abandonment  of  Unrestricted  Submarine

Warfare   .  88

PRESIDENT  WILSON,  of  the  United  States.

GOTTLIEB  VON  JAGOW,  German  Minister  of  Foreign  Affairs.

VII    The  Deportations  from  Lille  (April  22)

Enslavement  Extended  over  the  Captured  Region

JAMES  W.  GERARD,  U.  S.  Ambassador  in  Germany.
ARISTIDE  BRIAND,  Prime  Minister  of  France  in  1916.
GENERAL  VON   GRAEVENITZ,   German   Commander  in
Lille.

ALEXIS  CHAROST,  Bishop  of  Lille.

HERBERT  HOOVER,  U.  S.  Commissioner  in  Europe.

VIII    The  Sinn-Fein  Uprising  in  Dublin  (April  24-
May  1)

Germany  Lends  Aid  to  an  Irish  Revolt    .        .  114

PADRAIC  PEARSE,  President  of  the  temporary  Sinn  Fein
Republic.

JOHN  REDMOND,  Leader  of  the  Irish  "Nationalists."
GENERAL  MAXWELL,  British  commander  in  Dublin.
SIR  ROGER  CASEMENT.  Leader  in  the  revolt.
LORD  ROBERT  CECIL,  Member  of  the  British  Cabinet.

IX    British  Disaster  at  Kut-el-Amara  (April  2Q)

The  Surrender  of  a  British  Army   .        .        .  127

GASTON  BODART,  official  Austrian  investigator  in  Turkey.
EDMUND  CANDLER,  official  British  observer  in  Mesopotamia.
GENERAL  TOWNSHEND,  the  British  General  in  command.
MAJOR  CHARLES  BARBER,  an  officer  in  Kut.

X    Austria's  First  Great  Attack  on  Italy  (May  15-
June j)

Repulse  of  the  Austrian  Invasion  at  Asiago    .  146

OFFICIAL  ITALIAN  STATEMENT.
THOMAS  N.  PAGE,  U.  S.  Ambassador  in  Italy.
GENERAL  VON  CRAMON,  Austro-German  Chief  of  Staff.

XI    The  Mightiest  of  all  Naval  Fights  (May  31)

The  Battle  of  Jutland  or  of  the  Skagerrak         .     1 54

W.  MACNEILE  DIXON,  Professor  of  Glasgow  University.

GERMAN  AND  BRITISH  OFFICIAL  REPORTS.
ADMIRAL  VON  CAPELLE,  German  Minister  of  Marine.
ADMIRAL  JELLICOE,  British  coumander-in-chief.

LETTERS  OF  GERMAN  AND  BRITISH  PARTICIPANTS.

CONTENTS

XII

XIII

XIV

Brusiloff  again  Breaks  the  Austrian  Line  (June  4)
Capture  of  Bukowina  and  the  Third  Advance  into

ROBERT  MACHRAY,  standard  authority  on  Eastern  Europe.
GENERAL  ALEXEI  BRUSILOFF,  Russian  commander.
GENERAL  VON  CRAMON,  German  General  participating.
NARRATIVES  OF  AUSTRIAN  EYE-WITNESSES.

The  Climax  of  the  Verdun  A  ssault  (June  and  July)
The  Battles  for  Fort  Vaux  and  Thiaumont       .  206

GABRIEL  HANOTAUX,  French  historian,  statesman  and  Mem-
ber of  the  French  Academy.
EDWIN  GREWE,  British  historian.
MARSHAL  JOSEPH  JOFFRE.
LETTERS  OF  PARTICIPANTS.

Arab  Independence  Proclaimed  (June  27)

The  Mohammedan  Religious  Leadership  Lost  to

HUSSEIN  THE  FIRST,  King  of  the  Moslem  Holy  Land.
THE  ULEMA,  Council  of  Mohammedan  High  Priests.

The  Battle  of  the  Somme  (July  i-November)
Britain's  Mightiest  Effort  of  the  War

PHILIP  GIBBS,  British  official  observer  at  the  Somme.
PRINCE  RUPPRECHT  OF  BAVARIA,  the  German  commander.
LIEUTENANT  DAMBITSCH,  a  German  participant.

XVI

XVII

XVIII

XIX

The  First  Americans  to  "Pay  the  Debt "  (July  4)
The  Thronging  of  U.  S.  Volunteers  to  aid  in  De-
fending Civilization    ....  259

PAUL  HERVIER,  noted  French  author.
E.  A.  McKENZIE,  Canadian  publicist.

First  Submarine  to  Cross  the  Atlantic  (July  q)

The  ' '  Deutschland ' '  appears  in  Norfolk  Harbor  .  276

CAPTAIN  PAUL  KOENIG,  of  the  "Deutschland."
OFFICIAL  PROTEST  OF  THE  ALLIED  GOVERNMENTS.

Execution  of  Captain  Fryatt  (July  27)

Germany  Rouses  British  Seamen  to  Vengeance  .  281

GERMAN  GOVERNMENT  STATEMENT.
ARTHUR  BALFOUR,  former  British  Prime  Minister.

The  Storming  of  Gorizia  (Aug.  p)

Italy's  Chief  Aggressive  Campaign  .       .        .  294

GENERAL  CADORNA,  Italian  commander-in-chief.
EDWIN  GREWE,  British  historian.

WALTER  OERTEL.  Official  observer  with  the  Austrian  army.

CONTENTS

XX    The  Black  Betrayal  {Aug -Sept.)

Russia's  Court  Intriguers  Betray  both  Russia

PROF.  J.  Y.  SIMPSON,  authority  on  Eastern  Europe.
PAUL  MILYUKOF,  Russian  parliamentary  leader.
L.  J.  MAXSE,  Editor  of  the  British  National  Review.
RAYMOND  RECOULY,  French  historian,  editor  of  Figaro.

XXI    Rumania  Joins  the  Allies  (Aug.  27)

TAKE  JONESCUE,  Leader  of  Democracy  in  the  Balkans.
ION  BRATIANU,  Prime  Minister  of  Rumania.
KING  FERDINAND,  of  Rumania.

VON  BETHMANN-HOLLWEG,  Chancellor  of  Germany.

XXII    Revolution  in  Greece  (Aug.  30)

Struggle  of  the  Bulgars  and  Allies  for  Salonika  .  331

PROF.  STEPHEN  DUGGAN,  American  authority  on  the  Bal-
kans.

G.  WARD  PRICE,  eye-witness  in  Salonika.
KING  CONSTANTINE.  of  Greece.

XXIII  Mackensen's  Brilliant  Rumanian  Campaign

(Oct.-Nov.)

GENERAL  D.  WOLLMAN,  German  military  critic.
GENERAL  MACKENSEN,  German  commander.
WINIFRED  GORDON,  eye-witness  in  Rumania.

XXIV  The  Verdun  Counter-attack  (Oct.  24)

A  French  Dash  Regains  the  Losses  of  Months  .  373

GERMAN  OFFICIAL  STATEMENTS.
MARSHAL  HINDENBURG,  German  Commander-in-Chiei.
CROWN  PRINCE  FREDERICK  WILLIAM,  commanding  at

Verdun.

FRENCH  AND  BRITISH  EYEWITNESSES.
GENERAL  DUBOIS,  French  commander  in  Verdun.

XXV    Serbia  Reborn  (Nov.  iq)

The  New  Serbian  Army  Captures  Monastir  in

G.  WARD  PRICE,  British  eye-witness.

XXVI    Rumania  Rallies  in  her  Mountains  (Dec.  6)

The  Capture  of  Bucharest      ....  399

QUEEN  MARIE,  of  Rumania.

COLONEL  KONSTANTIN  SHUMSKY,  Russia's  chief  military
critic.

CONSTANTINE  ANGELSCU,  Rumanian  Minister  to  the  U.  S.

XXVII    The  German  Treatment  of  Prisoners       .  .412

VIERORDE,  the  German  poet.

RUSSIAN  GOVERNMENTAL  REPORT.
ROBERT  YOUNGER,  British  Member  of  Parliament.
DANIEL  MCCARTHY,  U.  S.  official  investigator.

ILLUSTRATIONS

VOLUME  IV

The  World's  Greatest  Sea-fight  {page  154)
Painting  by  Willy  Stower.

U-boat  Raid  Off  New  England

Painting  by  Willy  Stower.

The  British  Disaster  at  Kut  .

After  an  Eye- witness's  Sketch.

The  Austrian  Defense  of  Gorizia  .

Painting  by  Hans  Schmidt.

THEY  SHALL  NOT  PASS"

AN  OUTLINE  NARRATIVE  OF

VERDUN  AND  THE  BLACK  YEAR  OF  EXHAUSTION

HE  increasing  shadow  of  German  mastery  of  the  uni-

X  verse  which  had  hung  heavy  upon  the  world  toward
the  close  of  19 15  became  more  ominous  still  in  19 16.  For
Europe  this  was  the  darkest  year  of  the  War,  the  year  of
black  exhaustion,  with  no  promise  of  an  end  in  sight.
Neither  side  would  yield  in  the  desolating  struggle ;  and  yet
neither  side  could  win.  Between  them,  mankind,  or  at  least
the  European  peoples  who  had  so  long  been  the  leaders  of
mankind,  seemed  doomed  to  extermination.

This  was  the  year  of  the  tremendous  attacks  upon  Ver-
dun. With  tornadoes  of  ammunition  and  an  endless  ava-
lanche of  men,  the  Germans  beat  the  staggering  French  line
back  and  back,  until  the  whole  world  trembled  for  its  break-
ing. With  each  new  day  civilization  everywhere  looked
eagerly  to  its  morning  news  to  know  if  the  barrier  had  indeed
broken  at  last.  Was  the  flood  of  evil  to  be  again  let  loose,  to
submerge  France  as  it  had  submerged  peaceful  Belgium,  and
helpless  Poland,  and  vast  voiceless  Western  Russia,  and  he-
roic Serbia.

Then  the  French  troops  at  Verdun  raised  their  heroic
counter-cry,  "They  shall  not  pass!"  and  the  French  poilus
held  firm,  each  serving  at  his  appointed  task  until  he  per-
ished ;  whereon  yet  another  poilu  would  step  forward  stead-
ily to  endure  the  misery  until  he  also  fell ;  and — the  Germans
did  not  pass !  The  world  has  never  known  a  period  of  more
dramatic  anxiety — nor  one  which  should  more  inspire  us
with  faith  in  the  future  of  our  human  race.

BY  CHARLES  F.  HORNE

xiv  AN  OUTLINE  NARRATIVE  OF

On  the  whole,  the  year  1916  went  badly  for  Germany;
for  her  main  efforts  were  put  forth  upon  the  Western  front,
and  were  symbolized  by  her  failure  to  win  Verdun.  Yet
while  the  German  war-machine  could  by  its  utmost  effort
win  no  great  triumph  in  the  West,  its  victories  continued
with  but  little  apparent  effort  in  the  East,  and  the  way  was
prepared  for  the  complete  breakdown  of  Russia  in  the  fol-
lowing year.  Thus  an  impartial  estimate  of  what  this  somber
year  meant  to  the  world  might  best  be  summed  up  by  that
one  desolating  word — Exhaustion!

France,  Britain  and  Italy,  each  now  had  reached  the
maximum  of  its  strength.  Each  was  using  every  available
man  and  woman  at  some  needful  war-work.  Of  these  ex-
haustive drains,  that  upon  the  man  power  was  the  worst.
By  the  end  of  19 16  France  had  lost  from  her  fighting  hordes
over  a  quarter  of  her  total  possible  soldiers.1  That  is,  of
her  four  million  sons  once  fit  to  defend  her  by  physical
force,  over  a  million  were  dead  or  permanently  crippled,  or
— worse  still — were  prisoners  to  the  sullenly  embittered  Ger-
mans. France,  the  gay,  the  brilliant,  the  intellectual  star
among  nations,  had  lost  a  million  not  of  her  duller,  narrower
and  more  selfish  sons,  but  of  her  bravest  and  most  eager
and  most  loyal.  Britain,  similarly,  had  lost  a  fifth  of  her
best  children,  and  Italy  a  tenth  of  hers.  As  for  Russia,  draw-
ing in  stubborn  fashion  upon  her  seemingly  limitless  reserves
of  hapless  human  beings,  she  was  nearer  to  the  breaking
point  than  men  then  guessed.

In  other  lands  there  was  even  worse  exhaustion.  Through
all  the  regions  held  in  German  thrall  the  conquered  peoples
were  perishing  2  under  such  massacre  and  starvation  as  our
preceding  volume  has  described.  This  was  the  year  of  the
complete  enslavement  of  Belgian  labor,  and  of  the  shameful

1  Readers  must  discriminate  between  permanent  losses  and  the
usually  stated  "casualties"  of  a  battle.  In  the  casualties  the  largest
figure  is  made  up  of  the  wounded ;  and  under  modern  surgery  the
greater  number  of  the  wounded  are  soon  made  well  again.  In  the
intense  passion  of  the  Great  War,  the  recovered  wounded  returned
almost  always  to  the  ranks.  Many  men  were  thus  "casualties"  four
and  even  more  times  over.  Western  Europe,  if  fighting  without  its
"hospital  corps,"  must  soon  have  collapsed — as  Turkey  did.

aSee  §  VII,  "The  Deportations  from  Lille,"  by  Gerard,  Hoover,  etc.

VERDUN  AND  THE  YEAR  OF  EXHAUSTION  xv

deportation  of  young  women  from  their  homes  in  Lille  and
the  other  captured  regions  of  France.  Even  among  the
dominant  races  in  the  new  Middle-Europe  Empire,  the  grip
of  want  became  severe.  Austria,  demoralized  and  lacking
through  casualties,  capture,  or  desertion  fully  a  third  of  her
original  fighting  strength,  saw  the  gaunt  specter  of  starva-
tion creeping  appreciably  close.  Germany,  by  the  end  of
19 1 6,  had  lost  nearly  two  million  men  from  her  armies,  a
fifth  of  her  possible  strength,  and  was  by  no  means  the  Ger-
many which  had  so  eagerly  welcomed  war  two  and  a  half
years  before.

THE  PEACE  TALK  AND  THE  DEEPENING  SHADOW

To  the  German  people  the  goal  of  world-conquest  no
longer  glowed  with  such  alluring  colors.  Now  that  they  had
for  over  two  years  plodded  the  awful  road  which  they  had
been  told  would  lead  to  glory,  they  found  it  wholly  unlike
their  expectations.  They  had  pictured  Conquest  as  a  won-
drous goddess  of  beauty;  they  had  been  promised  that  she
would  bring  with  her  pleasure  and  honor  and  boundless
wealth.  Instead,  she  had  given  to  their  victorious  hands  only
wasted  and  ruined  regions,  only  nations  of  decaying  corpses,
only  hollow  faced  and  useless  captives,  who  cursed  Germany
even  as  they  died.1  "Conquest  destroys  the  thing  con-
quered." Vaguely  the  deluded  German  people  began  to
recognize  their  dream  goddess  as  the  devil-hag  she  is.  And
always  her  false  face  and  her  distorted  smile  remained  as
distant  from  them,  and  as  difficult  to  win,  as  ever.

The  German  nation  could  scarcely  have  been  held  longer
to  its  painful  and  exhaustive  task,  had  the  war  been  still  set
before  them  as  a  struggle  for  the  winning  of  more  land  or
wealth  or  fame.  Not  until  July  of  191 7  did  the  German
parliament  pass  its  notable  resolution  declaring  that  it  wanted
peace  without  any  annexations  of  territory  whatever;  and
this  parliament,  it  must  be  remembered,  was  only  a  talking
body,  a  powerless  voice  for  expressing  a  restricted  amount
of  public  sentiment.    Yet  from  19 16  onward  the  German

1  See  §  XXVII,  "German  Treatment  of  Prisoners,"  by  Vierorde,
McCarthy,  etc.

AN  OUTLINE  NARRATIVE  OF

Government  found  it  necessary  to  convince  its  people  that
they  were  really  fighting  in  self-defense,  that  the  world  was
bent  on  destroying  them,  as  they  themselves  had  destroyed
Serbia  and  Poland.  Elusive  peace  proposals  filled  the  air.
But  always  when  these  were  sifted  down  they  were  found
to  include  Germany's  demand  that  she  be  allowed  to  keep
her  plunder,  that  her  victims  should  remain  victims,  and
"f rightfulness"  become  thus  the  established  code  of  war.

Western  Europe  considered  the  first  peace  proposals  seri-
ously; for  men  knew  the  frightful  price  they  still  must  pay
before  victory  was  possible.  Doubters  had  even  begun  to
fear  that  with  their  utmost  effort  and  sacrifice  they  could  not
outlast  Germany.  But  when  the  Allies  learned  what  the  Ger-
man Government  really  demanded,  as  opposed  to  the  fair
words  of  its  powerless  parliament,  there  was  a  general  grim
refusal  of  her  terms.  A  widespread  saying  arose  among  men,
in  America  as  well  as  Europe,  that  if  such  deeds  as  Germany
had  perpetrated  could  pass  without  redress  in  this  world,
then  the  world  was  not  worth  living  in  anyway;  and  they
would  fight  their  way  out  of  it.  In  such  stern  mood  did
Western  Europe  approach  the  ending  of  this  somber  year.
Hope  was  dying  from  the  world.

In  its  place  came  the  flaming  spirit  of  martyrdom,1  the
spirit  of  the  old  crusades.  Even  among  neutrals  there  were
those  who  would  no  longer  endure  in  patience  the  approach
of  the  German  terror.  Many  Americans  both  with  voice
and  pen  urged  their  country  to  go  to  Europe's  aid.  Many
would  not  wait  for  the  doubtful  national  action,  but  went
individually  as  volunteers  into  the  French  or  British  armies.
There  they  died  as  men  should  die,  as  the  poet  Alan  Seeger
died,  cheering  on  his  comrades  with  his  death  song  through
the  last  bleak  night.2  Death  had  indeed  come  to  be  but  a
little  thing  in  the  minds  of  men,  as  compared  with  freedom
and  with  justice.  And  to  console  the  survivors  of  the  youth-
ful heroes  everywhere  falling,  there  spread  over  the  civilized
world  a  great  religious  revival.    Its  full  meaning,  its  depth

1  See  §  L  "Belgium's  Martyrdom,"  by  Whitlock,  Mercier,  etc.
'See  §  XVI,  "The  First  Americans  to  Pay  the  Debt,"  by  Her-
vier,  etc.

VERDUN  AND  THE  YEAR  OF  EXHAUSTION  xvii

and  richness  can  only  be  measured  by  a  later  age  when  it
looks  back  on  them.

Let  us  trace  the  chronological  steps  by  which  19 16
brought  these  changes  in  the  outer  fortunes  and  the  inward
spirit  of  the  world.  The  close  of  191 5  had  seen  the  Mid-
dle-Europe Empire  fully  established  by  the  defeat  of  Rus-
sia, the  crushing  of  Serbia,  and  Bulgaria's  union  with  the
seekers  for  dominion  over  subject  races.  But  Russia's  de-
feat had  been  incomplete,  and  she  was  now  beginning  to
make  ammunition  for  herself  and  to  receive  more  from
Japan.  Moreover,  in  the  Balkans  the  Allies  had  still  one
army  strongly  sheltered  at  Salonika  and  another  possible
army  being  rebuilt  from  the  escaped  Serbs,  who  were  pro-
tected in  their  Adriatic  refuge  by  the  navy  of  Italy.

THE  WAR  SPREADS  IN  ASIA

At  the  opening  of  19 16  Russia  signalized  her  returning
strength  by  a  successful  campaign  against  Turkey  in  the
Caucasus.  Here,  where  in  the  preceding  winter  she  had
driven  the  Turks  from  her  frontier,  she  signalized  this  sec-
ond winter  by  overthrowing  another  army  and  capturing
Erzerum,  the  chief  fortress  city  of  Armenia.  Soon  she  held
all  the  northern  section  of  Armenia,  and  so  checked  the
Turkish  massacres  in  that  unhappy  region.1

But  now  the  immeasurable  devastation  of  the  War,  which
in  the  last  year  had  hung  only  on  the  borders  of  Asia,  be-
gan spreading  its  wings  of  death  over  the  interior  of  that
continent  also.  The  Russian  forces  advanced  through  Per-
sia and  occupied  Ispahan,  its  capital.  They  then  drove  the
Turks  out  of  Persia  and  over  the  border  mountains  into
the  Turkish  domain  of  Mesopotamia,  the  Bible  region  of  the
childhood  of  mankind.  By  June  the  advancing  Russians
were  within  seventy  miles  of  Bagdad,  the  ancient  Asiatic  city
which  loomed  so  large  in  German  minds.

Bagdad,  however,  was  not  yet  to  fall.  The  tide  of  for-
tune turned  against  the  daring  Russian  column  which  had
penetrated  so  far  into  these  ancient  wilds.    The  Russians

1  See  §  III,  "Russia's  Conquest  of  Armenia,"  by  Gen.  Yuden-
itch,  etc.

xviii

AN  OUTLINE  NARRATIVE  OF

were  compelled  to  retreat  by  the  gathering  masses  of  Turks,
who  had  become  available  through  their  triumph  over  a  simi-
lar British  expedition  against  Bagdad.

This  British  expedition  stands  high  among  the  many
tragedies  of  the  War.  From  the  opening  days  of  19 14,  Ger-
many had  encouraged  the  Turks  in  the  vicinity  of  the  ancient
Holy  Lands  to  attack  the  British  in  Egypt.  Such  an  effort
could  not  fail  to  be  as  disastrous  to  the  Turks  as  it  was  profit-
able to  Germany  by  holding  large  British  forces  in  Egypt
on  the  defensive.  It  was  quite  beyond  Turkey's  powers  of
organization  to  carry  an  army  successfully  across  the  deserts
which  separate  Egypt  from  Asia.  Twice  she  broke  down  in
the  attempt.  Then  Britain  determined  to  block  the  influence
of  the  Turks  over  her  millions  of  Mohammedan  subjects  in
Egypt  and  India  by  striking  at  the  center  of  Turkey's  Asiatic
power.  Hence,  in  April  of  1915,  with  but  little  prelimi-
nary study  or  labor,  she  started  an  army  to  invade  Meso-
potamia from  the  South.  Marching  from  the  head  of  the
Persian  Gulf,  this  gallant  column  fought  its  way  slowly
northward  up  the  course  of  the  Tigris  and  Euphrates  Rivers
until  by  the  end  of  November,  191 5,  an  advance  guard  was
within  twenty  miles  of  Bagdad.  Here,  however,  the  van
was  held  up  by  a  strong  Turkish  army  and  driven  back
upon  the  main  British  column  at  Kut-el-Amarna.

At  Kut  the  Britons  were  surrounded  and  besieged  by
the  Turks  during  the  early  months  of  19 1 6.  A  second
British  army  tried  to  fight  its  way  up  the  river  valley  to
rescue  the  first.  But  the  Turks  were  now  in  such  heavy
force  that  they  blocked  the  way  of  the  relieving  army,  and
on  April  29th  compelled  the  surrender  of  the  beleaguered
troops  in  Kut.  Some  nine  thousand  British  soldiers,  mostly
from  India,  thus  became  captive  to  the  Turks.  Such  a  sur-
render of  an  entire  army  had  not  dimmed  Britain's  proud
record  since  the  day  of  Cornwallis'  surrender  to  Washing-
ton. The  Indian  soldiers  captured  at  Kut  were  well  treated,
but  of  some  three  thousand  Britons  barely  a  thousand  sur-
vived the  rigors  of  the  barbarous  captivity  in  which  they
were  held  until  the  end  of  the  War.1

1  See  §  IX,  "British  Disaster  at  Kut,"  by  Gen.  Townshend,  etc.

VERDUN  AND  THE  YEAR  OF  EXHAUSTION  xix

This  impressive  Turkish  success,  coming  upon  top  of
the  triumph  over  Britain  at  the  Dardanelles,  was  doubly
disastrous.  It  quite  convinced  the  Turks  of  their  own  glory ;
and  it  went  far  toward  restoring  the  Asiatic  tradition  of
their  prowess.  A  spark  now  might  have  set  the  whole  Mos-
lem world  in  flame  against  the  Christians.

Not  until  December  of  19 16  were  the  dogged  Britons
able  to  reassert  themselves  so  far  from  home,  and  send
sufficient  reinforcements  to  their  troops  upon  the  Persian
Gulf.  Then  these  began  a  new  advance  up  the  marsh-cov-
ered, fever-swept  Euphrates  valley.  Meanwhile,  as  we  have
seen,  the  Turks  turned  upon  the  Russians  with  eager  dash,
and  swept  them  back  into  Persia.  That  was  the  last  of  the
Russian  advance.  For  the  second  time  Bagdad  had  been  suc-
cessfully defended  against  the  European  invaders.

What  perhaps  saved  the  world  from  the  added  horror
of  a  "holy  war"  of  the  Moslems  in  1916  was  the  formation
in  the  spring,  before  the  Mesopotamian  disasters  had  de-
veloped, of  an  independent  religious  government  in  Arabia.
The  submission  of  desert  Arabia  to  its  Turkish  overlords
had  long  been  merely  nominal.  Moreover,  the  religious  chief-
tain of  the  Moslem  holy  Arabian  cities,  Mecca  and  Medina,
was  regarded  by  many  Arabs  as  the  true  head  of  their  faith,
rather  than  the  Turkish  high-priest.  In  June,  19 16,  under
British  encouragement,  this  Arab  high-priest  declared  his
independence  of  Turkey.  His  people  joined  him,  and  thus
the  Moslem  world  became  divided.  If  Emperor  William
of  Germany  had  his  own  usually  obedient  Mohammedan
high-priest  in  Constantinople,  King  George  of  England,  lord
of  the  Empire  of  India,  had  his  in  Arabia.  Such  was  the
Asiatic  situation  in  1916.1

VERDUN

In  the  nearer  East,  the  Balkans  and  the  Russian  front,
there  was  no  very  heavy  fighting  until  June.  In  lanuary
the  Serbian  overthrow  of  the  preceding  year  was  completed
by  the  Austrian  capture  of  Cettinje,  the  last  point  of  re-
sistance in  Montenegro,  the  lesser  Serb  state  which  had

1  See  §  XIV,  "Arab  Independence  Proclaimed,"  by  King  Hus-
sein, etc.

xx  AN  OUTLINE  NARRATIVE  OF

shared  Serbia's  fortunes.1  But  this  was  but  a  minor  step  in
the  tremendous  moves  of  the  War.  The  Allied  army  at
Salonika  was  not  strong  enough  to  leave  its  secure  position ;
so  Montenegro  fell  unaided.  After  that  Russia  was  only
too  glad  to  snatch  the  breathing  spell  she  so  sorely  needed;
and  Germany  and  Austria  saw  no  profit  in  pursuing  the
stubborn  Russians  further  through  the  vast  empty  spaces  of
the  Russian  swamps.  Moreover  they  thought  their  Eastern
European  foes  so  exhausted  that  they  might  well  be  ig-
nored. Hence  the  Central  Powers  turned  attention  to  the
West.  Austria  made  ready  for  an  attack  on  Italy,  and  Ger-
many hurled  her  full  strength  against  Verdun.

Verdun  was  obviously  intended  to  be  the  seat  of  Ger-
many's main  operation  of  the  year  and  of  the  War.  She
planned  to  break  France,  as  she  had  broken  the  Russian
front,  by  such  a  concentration  of  artillery  as  should  be  ab-
solutely irresistible.  Then,  when  she  had  the  French  fleeing
from  Verdun,  there  were  in  France  no  such  vast  empty  spaces
as  had  saved  Russia  by  offering  a  hiding  and  rallying  place
for  the  defeated  troops.  With  France  crushed  and  Russia
exhausted,  Britain  could  soon  be  driven  back  into  her  island
home.

The  German  plan  for  19 14  had  been  to  win  by  a  sudden
rush ;  and  it  had  been  checked  at  the  Marne.  The  plan
for  1915  had  been  to  win  by  crushing  the  East;  and  it  had
halfway  succeeded — only  that  the  beaten  foes  refused,  one
and  all,  to  recognize  defeat.  Russia  still  staggered  on  be-
hind her  marshes ;  the  Britons  still  clung  to  their  desperate
footing  upon  the  Persian  Gulf ;  and  the  French  general  with
his  beleaguered  forces  at  Salonika  delayed  the  complete  sur-
render of  the  Balkans.  The  plan  for  1916  turned  again  to
the  West.  Germany  now  resolved  to  win  by  grinding
France  into  atoms  at  Verdun;  and  this  plan  had  at  least  as
promising  an  outlook  as  either  of  the  earlier  ones.2

How  near  the  attack  came  to  succeeding  we  have  already
told.   The  Crown  Prince  of  Germany  was  placed  at  its  head,

JSee  §  II,  "Little  Montenegro's  Last  Stand,"  by  Wallace  and
Muskovitch.

2  See  §  IV,  "The  First  Assault  on  Verdun,"  by  De  Souza,  Luden-
dorff,  etc.

VERDUN  AND  THE  YEAR  OF  EXHAUSTION  xxi

so  that  he  might  become  a  Hohenzollern  hero  for  his  coun-
trymen. His  first  assault  on  Verdun  developed  suddenly  on
February  21st.  Fort  Douaumont,  one  of  the  main  defenses,
fell  on  the  25th;  but  the  French  resisted  desperately  and  by
the  end  of  February  had  hurried  to  the  spot  such  reinforce-
ments as  enabled  them  to  meet  the  foe  upon  more  equal  terms.
Huge  battles  were  fought  almost  every  day  up  to  April
nth.  Then  came  a  breathing  space.  The  Germans,  stag-
gered and  dazed  by  a  resistance  as  stubborn  as  was  their  at-
tack, had  to  pause,  to  reorganize,  to  make  new  plans.  Their
losses  had  been  tremendous ;  and  their  loudly  vaunted  attack,
which  was  to  have  annihilated  the  foe,  had  carried  them  on-
ward practically  not  at  all.

Apparently,  however,  their  High  Staff  could  devise  no
better  plan;  for  in  May  their  assaults  began  again.  This
second  series  of  Verdun  battles  lasted  in  full  intensity  for
over  two  months;  but  again  the  French  resistance  proved
unbreakable.1  In  July  the  weight  of  the  assault  decreased,
and  by  September  it  had  almost  died  away ;  for  by  this  time
two  things  had  happened.  On  their  side,  the  Germans,  long
losing  faith  in  their  Crown  Prince  and  in  the  possibility  of
any  serious  Verdun  success,  sought  excuse  to  abandon  the  too
costly  enterprise.  The  Allies  on  their  side,  knowing  how  the
Verdun  defense  was  shaken,  endeavored  to  relieve  it  by
forcing  Germany  to  turn  her  attention  elsewhere.  Herce
the  month  of  June  saw  a  general  renewal  of  active  warfare
in  many  places ;  and  by  mid-July  Verdun  had  ceased  to  be
one  of  the  chief  centers  of  battle.  The  unsuccessful  assault
had  cost  the  Germans  at  least  half  a  million  casualties.  The
defense  had  cost  the  French  not  quite  so  heavily,  but  they
could  afford  these  terrible  losses  even  less  than  the  Germans.

THE  COUNTER-ATTACKS  IN  THE  WEST

The  three  main  counter-assaults  were  that  of  the  Ital-
ians, that  of  the  Russians,  and  most  tremendous  of  all,  that
of  the  British  and  French  along  the  Somme  River.  Heavy
fighting  began  first  in  Italy,  though  not  from  the  Italian
side.   Austria,  fresh  from  the  conquest  of  little  Montenegro,

"See  §  XIII,  "The  Climax  of  the  Verdun  Assault,"  by  Hanotaux,
Toffre,  etc.

xxii  AN  OUTLINE  NARRATIVE  OF

planned  a  spring  assault  on  Italy  to  parallel  the  Verdun  drive.
But  the  Austrians  were  slower  of  movement  than  the  Ger-
mans and  only  opened  their  offensive  in  mid-May.  Attack-
ing suddenly  from  the  Alpine  summits  of  the  Trentino,  four
hundred  thousand  Austrian  troops  hammered  the  Italians
back  from  the  mountain  heights  to  the  edge  of  the  Italian
lakes.  These,  too,  were  anxious  days  for  civilization.  Would
the  western  line  of  defense  be  broken  here  rather  than  in
France?  By  June,  however,  the  Italians,  like  the  French
at  Verdun,  had  brought  their  full  strength  to  meet  the  at-
tack. The  Austrian  advance  slowed  up.  By  June  6th  it
was  completely  blocked.  Then  the  Italian  counter-attacks
began.1

Cadorna,  the  Italian  commander,  had  no  intention  of  try-
ing to  fight  his  way  across  the  Alps  in  face  of  a  foe  so  strong
in  artillery.  Contenting  himself  with  blocking  the  Austrians
on  the  Trentino  front,  he  on  August  6th  launched  his  main
attack  at  the  head  of  the  Adriatic,  along  the  Isonzo  River
where  the  Italians  had  vainly  endeavored  to  advance  during
the  preceding  year.  The  new  assault  was  gallant,  deadly,
and  long  continued.  On  August  9th  the  city  of  Gorizia,  the
center  of  the  Austrian  defense,  was  carried  in  a  great  as-
sault.2 The  Austrians  were  driven  from  one  steep  moun-
tain summit  after  another.  In  the  end,  however,  their  nat-
ural defense  of  mountains  proved  too  strong  for  the  assail-
ants. Winter  found  the  Italians  still  but  a  few  miles  beyond
the  Isonzo  River.  Through  all  the  summer  and  fall  along
this  frontier  more  than  a  million  men  fought  actively  on
either  side  without  any  large  success  for  either.  The  sole
appreciable  result  was  the  same  as  at  Verdun,  death,  and
desolation,  and  the  exhaustion  of  the  world's  supplies,  of
men,  of  money,  and  of  the  treasured  sources  of  food,  the
herds  and  farms  and  hoarded  grains.

Similar,  only  in  yet  more  stupendous  measure  of  deso-
lation, is  the  story  of  the  Somme  battle.3  Britain  by  her
thorough  preparation  in  191 5  had  been  able  by  the  summer

1  See  §  X,  "Austria's  First  Great  Attack  on  Italy,"  by  Low,  etc.
1  See  §  XIX,  "The  Storming  of  Gorizia,"  by  Cadorna,  Oertel,  etc.
'See  §  XV,  "The  Battle  of  the  Somme,"  by  Gibbs,  Prince  Rup-
precht,  etc.

VERDUN  AND  THE  YEAR  OF  EXHAUSTION  xxiii

of  1916  to  place  in  France  an  active  army  of  over  two  mil-
lion men.  Their  store  of  ammunition  equaled  even  that
of  the  Germans  at  Verdun.  On  July  1st  this  greatest  British
army  that  had  ever  existed  began  a  tremendous  attack  upon
the  western  front  about  midway  between  Paris  and  the
northern  coast,  where  once  the  city  of  Peronne  had  stood
upon  the  banks  of  the  Somme.  The  French  in  somewhat
lesser  numbers  joined  in  the  assault,  advancing  up  the  actual
valley  of  the  Somme,  while  the  Britons  fought  along  the
higher  ground  to  the  north  of  the  river.

General  Haig  had  succeeded  General  French  in  supreme
command  of  the  British  forces  in  December  of  191 5,  so  the
Somme  was  Haig's  battle.  General  Foch  commanded  the
French.  Day  after  day  the  struggle  continued  all  through
the  summer.  There  was  the  usual  advance  at  first,  before
the  Germans  gathered  in  sufficient  numbers  to  resist.  Then
came  the  old  deadlock.  Every  foot  of  ground  was  fought
for.  A  German  cartoon  of  the  time  represents  the  British
commander  as  reporting  "We  have  gained  ground  again  to-
day— just  enough  to  make  graves  for  the  day's  dead."

Here,  on  September  5th,  the  Britons  sprang  one  of  the
most  successful  surprises  of  the  War,  the  first  "tank"  attack.
So  successful  were  these  new  "moving  forts,"  these  "land
cruisers,"  that  they  soon  became  an  essential  feature  of  arma-
ment. The  Germans,  dismayed  by  them  at  first,  soon  copied
them,  and  found  ways  to  meet  them ;  and  the  balance  of  fight-
ing strength  was  restored.

The  Somme  battle  can  scarcely  be  said  to  have  ended.  It
faded  out,  as  did  the  fighting  on  the  Italian  front,  with  the
approach  of  winter.  Up  to  mid-November  the  Britons  were
still  doggedly  attacking,  and  their  newspapers  were  still  re-
cording each  slight  advance  as  a  new  victory.  But  the
German  line  remained  seemingly  as  firm  as  ever.  Not  until
after  the  War  did  we  learn  from  the  German  leaders  how
terribly  their  forces  were  worn  down  by  the  "Somme  fight-
ing," how  anxiously  they  discussed  ways  of  preventing  its
renewal  in  the  next  year.  The  total  casualties  of  the  Ger-
mans at  the  Somme  approached  three-quarters  of  a  million
men.    The  casualties  of  the  British  and  French  were  even

xxiv         AN  OUTLINE  NARRATIVE  OF

higher;  since  theirs  was  the  constant  attack,  and  since  they
never  achieved  the  ultimate  "breaking  through"  which  means
wholesale  losses  to  the  shattered  defense.

Until  the  great  final  campaign  of  the  War,  these  twin
battles  of  Verdun  and  the  Somme  stood  as  the  longest,  the
most  hard  fought,  the  most  exhaustive,  in  human  annals.
Verdun  also  continued  to  exact  its  heavy  toll  of  lives  all
through  the  autumn.  But  now  it  was  the  French  who  tri-
umphantly attacked  the  wearied  Teutons.  In  a  series  of
dashing  assaults  the  French  won  back  almost  all  the  ground
they  had  lost  in  the  spring.1  Indeed,  the  worst  sorrow  of
these  awful  battles  lay,  like  all  the  sorrow  of  1916,  in  that
they  were  without  decisive  result.  They  left  the  main  oppo-
nents about  as  these  had  stood  before.  The  issue  was  still
unsettled,  and  the  contestants  had  still  to  struggle  on,  bleed-
ing, gasping,  reeling,  ever  nearer  to  mutual  destruction  and
the  utter  downfall  of  the  European  races.

THE  RUSSIAN  BETRAYAL  AND  RUMANIAN  DOWNFALL

Turn  now  to  the  Russian  counter-offensive  and  the  sec-
ond half  of  the  year  in  eastern  Europe.  Here  the  operations
offered  a  strange  and  striking  parallel  to  those  of  191 5,  with
Rumania  as  the  victim  instead  of  Serbia.  Russia,  as  we
have  seen,  was  somewhat  recovering  from  her  defeats  of
19 1 5  ;  and  in  June  of  19 16  she  sought  to  do  her  share  toward
relieving  Verdun.  Her  most  successful  general,  Brusiloff,
was  in  command  along  the  Austrian  front,  and  he  began  an
advance  similar  to  those  which  had  twice  before  carried  him
to  the  Hungarian  border  amid  the  peaks  of  the  Carpathian
Mountains.2

On  a  front  of  over  two  hundred  miles  from  Poland
south  to  the  Rumanian  border,  Brusiloff  made  a  sudden  si-
multaneous advance  with  almost  a  million  men.  The  Aus-
trians  broke  before  him  like  straw.  The  strong  fortress
city  of  Czernovitz  was  taken  on  June  18th.  Hundreds  of
thousands  of  Austrian  prisoners  were  captured.  Before  the
end  of  July  southern  Galicia  was  again  overrun,  and  Hun-

1  See  §  XXIV,  "The  Verdun  Counter-attack,"  by  Ludendorff,  etc.

2  See  §  XII,  "Brusiloff  Breaks  the  Austrian  Line,"  by  Brusiloff,  etc.

VERDUN  AND  THE  YEAR  OF  EXHAUSTION  xxv

gary  for  the  third  time  was  in  danger.  This  attack  had  a
large  share  in  stopping  the  May  assault  of  the  Austrians
against  Italy.  They  had  to  hurry  all  available  forces  to  the
east  to  meet  the  Russians.

The  tale  of  what  followed  is  among  the  blackest  of  the
War.  The  Russian  court  had  long  been  a  strange  confusion
of  loyal  Russian  nobles  and  selfish  schemers,  many  of  them
raised  to  highest  places  by  German  influence.  Even  the
Czarina,  originally  a  German  princess,  was  suspected  of  act-
ing as  a  German  spy.  The  closest  military  secrets  con-
stantly reached  German  ears.  Now  came  one  of  the  most
dramatic  and  terrible  triumphs  of  court  intrigue.

Sturmer,  a  new  Prime  Minister,  was  appointed  in  Rus-
sia. He  was  regarded  as  a  German  tool  and  was  afterward
executed  on  the  charge  of  having  plotted  to  accomplish
three  things :  to  stop  the  Brusiloff  attack,  to  make  a  separate
Russo-German  peace,  and  to  betray  neutral  Rumania  into
German  hands.  Thus  might  Russia  escape  the  disastrous
War,  and  some  further  millions  of  starving  serfs  and  their
plundered  Rumanian  land  be  added  to  the  glorious  Empire
of  Middle  Europe.  Two-thirds  of  Sturmer's  plan  suc-
ceeded, but  not  what  was  to  his  own  career  the  most  essen-
tial third,  the  Russian  peace.1

Brusiloff's  offensive  was  blocked  by  sending  him  the
wrong  ammunition  for  his  guns  and  by  generally  confusing
his  supplies.  It  is  difficult  to  conceive  Sturmer's  treachery
as  extending  beyond  this,  though  at  his  trial  he  was  also
accused  of  actually  disclosing  Brusiloff's  plans  to  the  enemy.
He  thus  caused  the  deaths  of  thousands  of  the  unhappy
people  he  was  supposed  to  be  governing.

His  betrayal  of  Rumania  was  equally  abominable.  Her
sympathy  with  the  Allies  had  always  been  strong;  but  her
lack  of  preparation  and  her  exposed  position  in  face  of
the  united  power  of  Austria,  Bulgaria  and  Turkey  would
have  made  it  almost  suicidal  for  her  to  have  entered  the  War
at  any  previous  period.  In  August  of  191 6,  however,  with
Brusiloff  still  advancing  in  Galicia  and  taking  300,000  Aus-
train  prisoners,  Rumania  might  supposedly  count  on  Rus-

lSee  §  XX,  "The  Black  Betrayal,"  by  Milyukof,  etc.

xxvi

AN  OUTLINE  NARRATIVE  OF

sian  protection  against  Austria  at  least.  Moreover,  Ger-
many had  failed  at  Verdun;  the  Britons  and  French  were
holding  all  her  attention  with  their  advance  along  the
Somme;  and  Italy  was  apparently  winning  upon  the  Isonzo
front.  Had  things  been  all  as  they  seemed,  this  might  well
have  been  the  hour  for  Rumania  to  make  a  triumphal  en-
try into  the  War.  So  Sturmer  seized  this  moment  to  send
Rumania  a  secret  ultimatum.  If  she  would  join  Russia  at
once  and  take  a  share  in  the  great  Brusiloff  advance,  Russia
would  lend  her  ammunition,  and  an  army  to  protect  her.  If
not,  Russia  would  abandon  her  to  the  devouring  maw  of
Middle  Europe,  both  now  and  at  the  peace  conference  to
follow.1

Rumania  selected  war,  proclaimed  it  on  August  27th,  and
launched  her  army  in  an  attack  on  Hungary.  Then  came  the
closing  of  the  trap.  The  exhausted  Brusiloff  fell  back.
Neither  ammunition  nor  army  was  sent  to  Rumania's  aid.
Instead  a  powerful  German-Austrian  army,  secretly  ready
in  advance,  was  hurled  against  her  as  it  had  been  against
Serbia  the  year  before.  Moreover,  Mackensen,  the  con-
queror of  Serbia,  was  placed  in  command  against  Rumania,
and  in  addition  to  the  army  advancing  against  her  through
Hungary,  he  organized  another  composed  mainly  of  Bul-
garians. He  himself  led  the  Bulgarian  army  to  attack  Ru-
mania from  the  rear,  just  as  the  Bulgarians  had  before  at-
tacked Serbia.2

In  face  of  this  overwhelming  combination  of  force  and
treachery,  Rumania  was  helpless  as  a  babe.  Her  troops
fought  valiantly,  but  hopelessly.  They  were  soon  driven
out  of  Hungary,  defeated  in  their  border  mountain  passes,
and  driven  back  upon  Bucharest,  their  capital.  Mackensen,
advancing  from  the  south,  fought  his  way  across  the  Danube
to  join  the  northern  army,  and  Bucharest  was  captured  on
December  6th.3

1  See  §  XXI,  "Rumania  joins  the  Allies,"  by  Jonescu,  King  Ferdi-
nand, etc.

2  See  §  XXV,  "Mackensen's  Brilliant  Rumanian  Campaign,"  by
Wollman,  Mackensen,  etc.

8  See  §  XXVI,  "Capture  of  Bucharest,"  by  Queen  Marie,  An-
gelscu,  etc.

VERDUN  AND  THE  YEAR  OF  EXHAUSTION  xxvii

Rumania's  destruction,  however,  was  never  so  complete
as  that  of  Serbia.  The  remnant  of  her  soldiers  maintained
themselves  in  the  mountain  region  along  the  Russian  border
where  they  were  still  in  touch  with  Brusiloff.  Then  Stur-
mer,  suspected  of  treason,  lost  his  control  of  Russia;  and
early  in  the  next  year  came  the  first  Russian  Revolution  to
sweep  him  and  all  his  evil  crew  from  power.  Rumania,
saved  for  the  moment  by  a  more  genuine  Russian  aid,  was
able  to  make  a  sort  of  peace  treaty  with  the  Teutons,  which
left  her  some  shadow  of  self-government.

What,  now,  of  the  Allies'  army  at  Salonika?  Could  it
not  have  saved  Rumania  ?  It  made  what  effort  it  could.  In
August  an  advance  from  Salonika  was  begun ;  and  in  Sep-
tember the  reconstructed  Serbian  army  rushed  eagerly  into
action  upon  this  front.  The  Serbs  fought  their  way  back
across  the  Serbian  border,  and  set  up  a  new  Serbian  gov-
ernment in  the  town  of  Monastir.1  But  the  Bulgarian  and
Austrian  resistance  to  this  Salonika  advance  was  strong;
and  conditions  in  Greece  soon  checked  it  altogether.

Greece,  the  nominal  owner  of  the  port  of  Salonika,  was
in  much  the  same  position  as  Rumania.  Her  sympathies
with  the  Allies  had  been  strong;  but  the  fate  of  Serbia  nat-
urally terrified  her.  When  Rumania  entered  the  War,  Greece
almost  entered  too.  Her  Prime  Minister,  Venizelos,  had  for
years  been  keen  for  her  to  take  this  vigorous  course ;  but
her  king,  Constantine,  was  pro-German,  was  indeed  of  Ger-
man descent,  and  had  held  her  at  peace.  Now  the  two  fac-
tions flared  into  open  contest;  and  Venizelos,  driven  from
the  capital,  set  up  a  pro-Ally  Greek  Government  at  Salonika.2
For  the  moment  the  Allies  had  their  hands  full  in  sup-
porting him.  They  could  not  possibly  advance  to  an  attack
leaving  revolution  in  their  rear.

Thus  in  reviewing  the  whole  European  theater  of  the
War  for  1916,  we  see  only  the  one  struggle  that  could  be
called  other  than  indecisive.  That  was  the  Rumanian  cam-
paign.   The  Middle-Europe  Empire  had  been  increased  by

1  See  §  XXV,  ''Serbia  Reborn,"  by  Price.

2  See  §  XXII,  "Revolution  in  Greece,"  by  Duggan,  King  Constan-
tine, etc.

xxviii       AN  OUTLINE  NARRATIVE  OF

the  crushing  of  this  one  more  Balkan  state;  German  pres-
tige had  been  augmented  by  one  more  victorious  campaign ;
and  Germany's  source  of  supplies  had  been  slightly  extended
by  the  capture  of  Rumania's  oil  wells  and  her  grain  fields.

THE  WAR  AT  SEA

On  the  seas  this  was  the  year  of  the  great  Jutland  battle,
in  size  the  foremost  naval  combat  of  the  world.1  Dread-
naughts  fought  with  super-dreadnaughts ;  and  huge  steel
cruisers,  once  the  pride  of  their  nations,  proved  too  feeble
for  the  giant  fray.  Yet  this  combat,  too,  was  indecisive  of
result.  It  left  affairs  where  it  had  found  them.  Each  side
lost  several  ships  and  many  valuable  lives  of  expert  naval
men.  Three  huge  British  ships  were  blown  up;  and  Ger-
many, hiding  her  own  losses,  boasted  of  having  won  a
mighty  victory.  But  the  end  of  the  fight,  after  a  day  and
night  of  thunderous  battle,  was  only  that  the  Germans  re-
turned to  their  harbors,  keeping  sheltered  there  as  before,
and  the  Britons  continued  in  control  of  the  North  Sea.

So  too  the  German  U-boat  campaign  continued  without
definite  result.  It  was  exhaustive,  but  not  sufficiently  so  to
be  in  any  way  decisive  in  its  influence  on  the  War.  America's
persistent  agitation  of  the  Lusitania  question  led  in  April,
after  a  year  of  patient  discussion,  to  President  Wilson's
refusal  to  await  further  evasions.  He  sent  Germany  what
amounted  to  an  ultimatum.2  Facing  this,  Germany  prom-
ised to  abandon  the  methods  of  blind  attack  which  had  men-
aced American  lives.  For  a  time  she  kept  her  word,  and
the  U-boat  became  consequently  less  destructive.

German  ingenuity,  however,  carried  her  U-boat  construc-
tion forward  to  two  points  which  would  have  been  much
noted  achievements  in  time  of  peace.  She  made  her  U-boats
so  much  bigger  and  stronger  that  they  could  carry  heavy
guns,  became  in  fact  "cruisers"  above  water.  In  this  fashion
they  were  able  to  defend  themselves  against  merchant  ships
and  even  to  seize  and  search  them,  thus  extending  the  possi-

JSee  §  XI,  "The  Mightiest  of  all  Naval  Fights,"  by  von  Capelle,
Jellicoe,  etc.

2  See  §  VI,  "Germany  Yields  to  America's  Ultimatum,"  by  Wilson
and  von  Jagow.

VERDUN  AND  THE  YEAR  OF  EXHAUSTION  xxix

bilities  of  a  legitimate  U-boat  war  on  commerce.  More  im-
pressive still  was  the  building  of  the  Deutschland,  a  subma-
rine so  big  that  it  crossed  the  Atlantic  and  appeared  as  a
merchant  ship  upon  the  American  coast.1  A  second  similar
submarine  followed  the  Deutschland;  but  the  tireless  British
navy  soon  put  an  end  to  even  these  secret  voyages.

Naval  bitterness  between  Britain  and  Germany  was  still
further  increased  during  the  year  by  the  execution  of  Cap-
tain Fryatt.  He  was  a  British  merchant-ship  captain  who
had  escaped  a  German  submarine  by  boldly  ramming  at
it.  The  Germans  pointed  to  the  fact  that  under  International
Law  a  merchant  ship  was  forbidden  to  resist  capture  after
a  search.  This  law  had  been  established  on  the  principle
that  men-of-war  must  not  destroy  merchant  ships  without
investigation  and  preservation  of  the  crew,  and  that  there-
fore a  ship  which  submitted  to  the  investigation  must  not
suddenly  burst  into  treacherous  attack.  But  by  one  of  those
extraordinary  twists  of  the  German  reasoning  power  under
stress  of  passion,  the  Germans  argued  that  this  law  should
still  have  held  Captain  Fryatt  from  fighting  their  U-boats,
though  the  U-boats  had  already  rejected  the  basis  on  which
the  law  was  built.  They  had  left  the  merchant  skippers  no
alternative  except  successful  resistance  or  death.  Now  they
declared  that  resistance  should  also  mean  death.  That  is,
they  captured  Captain  Fryatt  on  a  later  voyage,  held  a  form
of  trial,  and  executed  him.  To  Britons  this  seemed  a  far
more  evil  thing  than  even  the  sinking  of  the  Lusitania.  To
condemn  a  man  for  defending  his  own  life!  The  Germans
could  have  discovered  no  surer  way  to  add  to  the  indigna-
tion of  neutrals,  and  to  have  made  Britain  fight  them  to  the
death.2

GERMAN  INTRIGUE  AND  AMERICAN  ANXIETY

Two  other  doubtful  successes  of  German  intrigue  of  the
year  were  the  Sinn  Fein  (shin  fane)  Revolt  in  Ireland,  and
the  Mexican  troubles  of  the  United  States.  The  members  of
the  Sinn  Fein  were  encouraged  to  revolt  by  promises  of

1  See  §  XVIII,  "The  First  Submarine  to  Cross  the  Atlantic,"  by  Cap-
tain Koenig,  etc.

a  See  §  XVIII,  "Execution  of  Captain  Fryatt,"  by  Balfour,  etc.

xxx  AN  OUTLINE  NARRATIVE  OF

German  aid,  and  for  a  week  they  held  control  of  Dublin.
But  the  German  aid  failed  them,  and  the  mass  of  the  Irish
people  refused  to  link  hands  with  the  German  betrayers  of
civilization.  So  upon  the  whole,  Britain's  difficulties  were
rather  lessened  than  increased  by  the  easy  suppression  of  the
revolt.1

The  Mexican  trouble  culminated  in  a  United  States
army  being  gathered  on  the  Mexican  border  under  Gen-
erals Funston  and  Pershing.  Thus  the  army  men  received
a  training  which  helped  prepare  them  for  the  Great  War.
So  far  as  the  German  intent  went,  of  giving  the  United
States  such  trouble  at  home  as  would  distract  her  attention
from  the  larger  war,  Mexico  was  far  too  feeble  to  be  ever
seriously  regarded  in  America  as  an  opponent.2

On  the  contrary,  the  ever-deepening  interest  and  anxiety
of  the  United  States  as  to  the  Great  War  can  be  traced
through  all  this  disastrous  year.  Not  only  did  she  deliver
her  ultimatum  in  the  submarine  dispute,  but  she  made  fre-
quent protests  against  the  mistreatment  of  the  Belgians.
She  declared  her  readiness  to  aid  in  forming  a  League  of
Nations ;  and  in  December  President  Wilson  made  a  formal
effort  to  bring  the  exhausted  foes  together  for  an  honorable
peace.  Germany  unhappily  was  still  too  hopeful  of  victory
to  be  willing  either  to  admit  her  crimes  or  to  abandon  her
spoils.   So  the  seemingly  hopeless  War  dragged  on  into  19 17.

THE  CHANGING  LEADERSHIP

The  strife  in  the  next  year  was  to  be  resumed  with  Amer-
ica's aid  and  under  leaders  almost  wholly  new.  Odd  indeed
in  its  completeness  was  the  shifting  of  the  individuals  in  the
War  command  during  19 16,  and  especially  in  its  closing
months.  Britain's  commander  on  the  battlefield,  General
French,  gave  way  to  General  Haig  at  the  close  of  191 5.
Then  Britain  lost  her  great  organizing  hero  warrior,  Lord
Kitchener.  He  was  drowned  June  7,  19 16,  while  voyaging
to  Russia  to  lend  her  the  aid  of  his  power  and  prestige.
Britain's  war  cabinet  also  became  almost  wholly  changed,

1  See  §  VIII,  "The  Sinn-Fein  Uprising,"  by  Pearse,  Casement,  etc.

2  See  §  V,  "Armed  Intervention  in  Mexico,"  by  Funston,  Car-
ranza,  etc.

VERDUN  AND  THE  YEAR  OF  EXHAUSTION  xxxi

the  old-time  leaders,  both  Liberal  and  Conservative,  gradu-
ally yielding  before  the  new  Democratic  leader,  Lloyd
George.  He  was  made  Prime  Minister  in  December  of
1916,  with  his  former  opponents  accepting  positions  under
him  in  a  coalition  government.

In  France  in  19 16,  the  heroic  and  well -loved  minister
of  war,  General  Gallieni,  the  defender  of  Paris,  died.  Mar-
shal Joffre,  the  most  prominent  figure  among  Ally  leaders
during  the  first  two  years  of  war,  was  retired  in  December.
The  "Radical"  Premier,  M.  Briand,  though  still  supported
by  the  masses  of  the  people,  had  repeatedly  to  meet  the  pro-
test of  Clemenceau  and  other  leaders  who  felt  Briand  too  lax
in  forcing  on  the  war  preparations.  Early  in  19 17  he  too  was
driven  to  resign;  and  in  November,  19 17,  Clemenceau  him-
self took  the  helm,  "the  tiger  of  France."  He  was  a  fierce
and  partly  discredited  old  man  of  seventy,  disliked  by  the
Radicals,  who  were  still  in  the  majority,  but  accepted  by
every  one  as  a  fighter  and  a  devoted  lover  of  France.

In  Italy  Prime  Minister  Salandra,  who  had  led  his  coun-
try into  the  War,  was  also  driven  to  resign  in  19 16.  He
had  lost  the  confidence  of  his  impatient  people,  because  of
the  continued  ill-success  of  their  arms.  His  cabinet  was
replaced  in  June  by  a  coalition  ministry  headed  by  an  aged,
honored,  and  trusted  scholar,  Signor  Boselli.  Other  coali-
tion ministries  soon  superseded  that  of  Boselli.  Thus  the
War  was  carried  beyond  19 16  by  new  and  strangely  com-
posite Ally  governments,  by  leaders  who  had  been  farthest
from  men's  thoughts  when  war  began.

Equally  complete  was  the  19 16  shift  of  leadership  within
the  Central  Empires.  The  outworn  but  still  vigorous  Aus-
trian Emperor,  Franz  Josef,  died  rather  suddenly  on  No-
vember 2 1st,  at  the  age  of  88.  He  was  succeeded  by  his
grand-nephew,  the  Emperor  Charles  I.,  son  of  a  younger
brother  of  thai  Archduke  Franz  whose  murder  at  Serajevo
had  been  made  the  pretext  for  the  War.  The  Prime  Min-
ister, not  of  Austro-Hungary  but  of  Austria  itself,  Count
Sturgkh,  was  shot  by  a  Socialistic  Austrian  in  October ;  and
in  December  the  new  Emperor  dismissed  Sturgkh's  suc-
cessor and  appointed  a  Prime  Minister  of  his  own  choosing-.

xxxii  VERDUN  AND  THE  YEAR  OF  EXHAUSTION

This  was  Count  Clam-Martinitz,  a  court  favorite,  but  of
Slav  ancestry,  and  hence  presumably  opposed  to  the  domi-
nation of  either  Germans  or  Hungarians.  The  Minister  of
War  of  the  older  generation,  General  Krobatin,  was  dropped
soon  afterward.  Only  the  Hungarian  leaders,  Burian  and
Tisza,  remained  from  the  previous  regime.

In  Germany  von  Tirpitz,  the  champion  of  ruthless  U-boat
warfare,  was  temporarily  dismissed  from  the  cabinet  in
March,  though  recalled  to  power  with  the  reacceptance  of
his  plans  the  following  year.  Von  Jagow,  the  Minister  of
Foreign  Affairs,  was  superseded  by  Alfred  Zimmermann,
soon  to  become  of  equal  ill-repute  in  his  dealings  with  Amer-
ica. Far  more  wide-reaching  than  these  minor  changes
was  the  fact  that  both  the  Kaiser  and  his  son,  after  the  Ver-
dun failure,  were  eclipsed  in  popular  esteem  by  von  Hin-
denburg,  the  victor  over  Russia.  On  August  29,  1916,  Hin-
denburg  was  made  "Chief-of-Staff" ;  and  soon  afterward  the
Kaiser  even  bent  his  pride  so  far  as  to  confer  upon  the  new
Chief-of-Staff  the  rank  previously  reserved  solely  for  him-
self, that  of  Commander-in-Chief  of  all  the  German  armies.
Moreover,  Hindenburg  was  allowed  to  name  as  head  of  his
own  staff,  his  chosen  lieutenant,  the  sternly  able  General
von  Ludendorff.  The  latter  remained  Germany's  real  or-
ganizer of  the  War  until  its  close.

Under  Ludendorff  and  Hindenburg,  the  army  chiefs  of
Germany  assumed  complete  control  of  the  nation.  Even  the
smooth  and  pertinacious  Imperial  Chancellor,  Bethmann-
Hollweg,  was  compelled  by  them  to  resign  in  191 7  and  his
place  was  filled  by  one  puppet  chancellor  after  another.  It
is  impressive  indeed  to  note  that  not  one  of  the  men  who
had  led  the  Central  Powers  into  the  War  remained  to  lead
them  out  of  it — save  only  the  Kaiser  himself;  and  he  had
sunk  to  be  a  mere  querulous  figurehead.  The  War  of  1916
had  grown  too  terrible  to  be  controlled  by  any  vain  poseur
or  any  self-seeking  politician.  Verdun  and  the  Somme
could  be  survived  only  by  the  strong,  by  those  who  could
endure  all  things,  grim  chieftains  such  as  the  once  unknown
von  Ludendorff,  and  the  once  disgraced  von  Hindenburg.

BELGIUM'S  MARTYRDOM

THE  ENSLAVEMENT  OF  LABOR

OCTOBER,    I91 5"  NOVEMBER,  IQl6

BRAND  WHITLOCK  CARDINAL  MERCIER

BARON  VON  BISSING
APPEAL  OF  THE  BELGIAN  WORKMEN

APPEAL  OF  THE  BELGIAN  WOMEN

Conquest,  plunder,  slaughter  1  These  the  Belgians  had  suffered  in
the  first  year  of  the  War.  But  from  the  time  of  the  German  decree
of  October  12,  1915,  a  disaster  yet  more  complete  began  to  threaten
them.  This  decree  declared  that  the  German  military  commanders
might  compel  the  Belgians  to  work  in  any  way  the  military  wanted.
It  was  the  beginning  of  possible  enslavement.  Such  compulsory  labor
did  not,  however,  become  common  until  1916.  Then  it  gradually  in-
creased in  severity.  At  first  the  people  were  set  to  tasks  in  their
own  neighborhood  and  were  paid  for  the  work.  Next,  they  were  or-
dered to  do  war  work,  aiding  the  German  army  against  their  own
countrymen.  Next,  refusals  to  work  were  punished  by  deportation
to  Germany  and  enforced  prison  labor  there.  Next,  the  enforced  labor
was  paid  for  in  such  absurdly  small  sums  as  made  it  practically  unpaid
slavery.  Finally,  in  October  of  1916  the  deportations  to  Germany
became  wholesale.  People  of  all  classes  were  carried  off  and  com-
pelled by  force  to  toil  and  starve  and  perish  absolutely  as  slaves.

There  arose  a  storm  of  neutral  protest,  to  which  Germany  gave
but  scant  attention.  Her  rulers  blandly  asserted  that  they  were  en-
gaged in  a  work  of  charity,  that  the  deported  Belgians  would  be
much  better  off  in  Germany.  But  the  tales  of  such  exhausted  survivors
as  ultimately  regained  their  homes  show  not  only  how  badly  they
were  treated  but  how  utterly  they  were  forced  into  the  degradation  of
unquestioning  submission  to  their  taskmaster's  will.

General  von  Bissing,  the  German  governor,  here  states  the  Ger-
man side  of  the  matter,  in  answer  to  the  celebrated  protests  of
Cardinal  Mercier,  the  Roman  Catholic  Archbishop  of  Malines.  The
neutral  view  is  first  given  by  the  United  States  Minister,  Brand  Whit-
lock.  Then  the  Belgians  are  summoned  to  speak  for  themselves  in
two  noted  protests,  the  first  by  the  Belgian  workmen,  the  second  by
the  shamed  and  agonized  women  of  Belgium.  c.  F.  H.

BY  BRAND  WHITLOCK

T  HAVE  had  it  in  mind,  and  I  might  say,  on  my  conscience,
1     since  the  Germans  began  to  deport  Belgian  workmen
early  in  November  of  1916,  to  prepare  for  the  Department  a

BELGIUM'S  MARTYRDOM

detailed  report  on  this  latest  instance  of  brutality,  but  there
have  been  so  many  obstacles  in  the  way  of  obtaining  evidence
on  which  a  calm  and  judicious  opinion  could  be  based,  and
one  is  so  overwhelmed  with  the  horror  of  the  thing  itself,  that
it  has  been,  and  even  now  is,  difficult  to  write  calmly  and
justly  about  it.  I  have  had  to  content  myself  with  the  frag-
mentary dispatches  I  have  from  time  to  time  sent  to  the  De-
partment and  with  doing  what  I  could,  little  as  that  can  be,
to  alleviate  the  distress  that  this  gratuitous  cruelty  has  caused
the  population  of  this  unhappy  land.

In  order  to  understand  fully  the  situation  it  is  necessary
to  go  back  to  the  autumn  of  191 4.  At  the  time  we  were  or-
ganizing the  relief  work,  the  Comite  National — the  Eelgian
relief  organization  that  collaborates  with  the  Commission  for
Relief  in  Belgium — proposed  an  arrangement  by  which  the
Belgian  Government  should  pay  to  its  own  employees  left  in
Belgium,  and  other  unemployed  men  besides,  the  wages  they
had  been  accustomed  to  receive.  The  Belgians  wished  to  do
this  both  for  humanitarian  and  patriotic  purposes;  they
wished  to  provide  the  unemployed  with  the  means  of  liveli-
hood, and,  at  the  same  time,  to  prevent  their  working  for  the
Germans.  I  refused  to  be  connected  in  any  way  with  this
plan,  and  told  the  Belgian  committee  that  it  had  many  possi-
bilities of  danger;  that  not  only  would  it  place  a  premium  on
idleness,  but  that  it  would  ultimately  exasperate  the  Ger-
mans. However,  the  policy  was  adopted,  and  has  been  con-
tinued in  practice,  and  on  the  rolls  of  the  Comite  National
have  been  borne  the  names  of  hundreds  of  thousands — some
700,000,  I  believe — of  idle  men  receiving  this  dole,  dis-
tributed throughout  the  communes.

The  presence  of  these  unemployed,  however,  was  a  con-
stant temptation  to  German  cupidity.  Many  times  they
sought  to  obtain  the  lists  of  the  chomeurs,  but  were  always
foiled  by  the  claim  that  under  the  guarantees  covering  the
relief  work,  the  records  of  the  Comite  National  and  its  vari-
ous suborganizations  were  immune.  Rather  than  risk  any
interruption  of  the  ravitaillemcnt,  for  which,  while  loath  to
own  any  obligation  to  America,  the  Germans  have  always
been  grateful,  since  it  has  had  the  effect  of  keeping  the  popu-

BELGIUM'S  MARTYRDOM

lation  calm,  the  authorities  never  pressed  the  point,  other
than  with  the  burgomasters  of  the  communes.

Finally,  however,  the  military  party,  always  brutal  and
with  an  astounding  ignorance  of  public  opinion  and  of  moral
sentiment,  determined  to  put  these  idle  men  to  work.

In  August  of  1916  von  Hindenburg  was  appointed  to
the  supreme  command.  He  is  said  to  have  criticised  von
Bissing's  policy  as  too  mild;  there  was  a  quarrel;  von  Bis-
sing  went  to  Berlin  to  protest,  threatened  to  resign,  but  did
not.  He  returned,  and  a  German  official  here  said  that  Bel-
gium would  now  be  subjected  to  a  more  terrible  regime,
would  learn  what  war  was.  The  prophecy  has  been  vindicated.

The  deportations  began  in  October  in  the  etape,  at  Ghent
and  at  Bruges.  The  policy  spread;  the  rich  industrial  dis-
tricts of  Hainaut,  the  mines  and  steel  works  about  Charleroi
were  next  attacked ;  next  they  were  seizing  men  in  Brabant,
even  in  Brussels,  despite  some  indications,  and  even  predic-
tions of  the  civil  authorities,  that  the  policy  was  about  to  be
abandoned.

Their  seizures  in  Brussels  were  made  evidently  with  much
greater  care  than  in  the  provinces,  with  more  regard  for  the
appearances.  There  was  no  public  announcement  of  the
intention  to  deport,  but  suddenly  certain  men  in  towns  whose
names  were  on  the  list  of  chomeurs  received  summonses  noti-
fying them  to  report  at  one  of  the  railway  stations  on  a  given
day  and  penalties  were  fixed  for  failure  to  respond  to  the
summons,  and  there  was  printed  on  the  card  an  offer  of  em-
ployment by  the  German  Government,  either  in  Germany  or
Belgium.

On  the  first  day,  out  of  about  1,500  men  ordered  to
present  themselves  at  the  Gare  du  Midi,  about  750  responded.
These  were  examined  by  German  physicians  and  300  were
taken.  There  was  no  disorder,  a  large  force  of  mounted
Uhlans  keeping  back  the  crowds  and  barring  access  to  the
station  to  all  but  those  who  had  been  summoned  to  appear.
The  Commission  for  Relief  in  Belgium  had  secured  permis-
sion to  give  to  each  deported  man  a  loaf  of  bread,  and  some
of  the  communes  provided  warm  clothing  for  those  who  had
none,  and  in  addition  a  small  financial  allowance.

BELGIUM'S  MARTYRDOM

As  by  one  of  the  ironies  of  life,  the  winter  had  been  more
excessively  cold  than  Belgium  has  ever  known  it,  and  while
many  of  those  who  presented  themselves  were  adequately
protected  against  the  cold,  many  of  them  were  without  over-
coats. The  men  shivering  from  cold  and  fear,  the  parting
from  weeping  wives  and  children,  the  barriers  of  brutal  Uh-
lans, all  this  made  the  scene  a  pitiable  and  distressing  one.

The  rage,  the  terror,  and  despair  excited  by  this  measure
all  over  Belgium  were  beyond  anything  we  had  witnessed
since  the  day  the  Germans  poured  into  Brussels.  The  dele-
gates of  the  Commission  for  Relief  in  Belgium,  returning  to
Brussels,  told  the  most  distressing  stories  of  the  scenes  of
cruelty  and  sorrow  attending  the  seizures.  And  daily,  hourly,
almost,  since  that  time,  appalling  stories  have  been  related
by  Belgians  coming  to  the  legation.  It  is  impossible  for  us
to  verify  them,  first  because  it  is  necessary  for  us  to  exercise
all  possible  tact  in  dealing  with  the  subject  at  all,  and,  sec-
ondly, because  there  is  no  means  of  communication  between
the  Occupations  Gebiet  and  the  Etappen  Gebiet.

Transportation  everywhere  in  Belgium  is  difficult,  the
vicinal  railways  scarcely  operating  any  more  because  of  the
lack  of  oil,  while  all  the  horses  have  been  taken.  The  people
who  are  forced  to  go  from  one  village  to  another  must  do  so
on  foot  or  in  vans  drawn  by  the  few  miserable  horses  that  are
left.  The  wagons  of  the  breweries,  the  one  institution  that
the  Germans  have  scrupulously  respected,  are  hauled  by  oxen.

The  well-known  tendency  of  sensational  reports  to  exag-
gerate themselves,  especially  in  time  of  war,  and  in  a  situa-
tion like  that  existing  here,  with  no  newspapers  to  serve  as
a  daily  clearing  house  for  all  the  rumors  that  are  as  avidly
believed  as  they  are  eagerly  repeated,  should,  of  course,  be
considered,  but  even  if  a  modicum  of  all  that  is  told  is  true,
there  still  remains  enough  to  stamp  this  deed  as  one  of  the
foulest  that  history  records.

I  am  constantly  in  receipt  of  reports  from  all  over  Bel-
gium that  tend  to  bear  out  the  stories  one  constantly  hears  of
brutality  and  cruelty.  A  number  of  men  sent  back  to  Mons
were  in  a  dying  condition,  many  of  them  tubercular.  At
Malines  and  at  Antwerp  returned  men  died,  their  friends  as-

BELGIUM'S  MARTYRDOM

serting  that  they  had  been  victims  of  neglect  and  cruelty,  of
cold,  of  exposure,  of  hunger.

I  have  had  requests  from  the  Burgomasters  of  ten  com-
munes from  La  Louviere,  asking  that  permission  be  obtained
to  send  to  the  deported  men  in  Germany  packages  of  food
similar  to  those  that  are  being  sent  to  prisoners  of  war.  Thus
far  the  German  authorities  have  refused  to  permit  this  ex-
cept in  special  instances,  and  returning  Belgians  claim  that
even  when  such  packages  are  received  they  are  used  by  the
camp  authorities  only  as  another  means  of  coercing  them  to
sign  the  agreements  to  work.

It  is  said  that  in  spite  of  the  liberal  salary  promised  those
who  would  sign  voluntarily  no  money  has  as  yet  been  re-
ceived in  Belgium  from  workmen  in  Germany.

One  interesting  result  of  the  deportations  remains  to  be
noted,  a  result  that  once  more  places  in  relief  the  German
capacity  for  blundering  almost  as  great  as  the  German  capac-
ity for  cruelty.

They  have  dealt  a  mortal  blow  to  any  prospect  they  may
ever  have  had  of  being  tolerated  by  the  population  of  Flan-
ders ;  in  tearing  away  from  nearly  every  humble  home  in  the
land  a  husband  and  a  father  or  a  son  and  brother,  they  have
lighted  a  fire  of  hatred  that  will  never  go  out;  they  have
brought  home  to  every  heart  in  the  land,  in  a  way  that  will
impress  its  horror  indelibly  on  the  memory  of  three  genera-
tions, a  realization  of  what  German  methods  mean,  not,
as  with  the  early  atrocities  in  the  heat  of  passion  and  the
first  lust  of  war,  but  by  one  of  those  deeds  that  make  one
despair  of  the  future  of  the  human  race,  a  deed  coldly
planned,  studiously  matured,  and  deliberately  and  systemati-
cally executed,  a  deed  so  cruel  that  German  soldiers  are  said
to  have  wept  in  its  execution  and  so  monstrous  that  even
German  officers  are  now  said  to  be  ashamed.

BY  CARDINAL  DESIREE  MERCIER

M alines,  November  7,  1916.
Every  day  the  military  authorities  deport  from  Belgium
into  Germany  thousands  of  inoffensive  citizens  to  oblige
them  there  to  perform  forced  labor.

6  BELGIUM'S  MARTYRDOM

As  early  as  October  19th  we  sent  to  the  Governor  Gen-
eral a  protest,  a  copy  of  which  was  handed  to  the  representa-
tives of  the  Holy  See,  of  Spain,  the  United  States,  and  Hol-
land, in  Brussels,  but  the  Governor  General  replied  to  it
that  nothing  could  be  done.

At  the  time  of  our  protest  the  orders  of  the  occupying
power  threatened  only  the  unemployed;  to-day  every  able-
bodied  man  is  carried  off,  pellmell,  assembled  in  freight  cars,
and  carried  off  to  unknown  parts,  like  a  herd  of  slaves.  The
enemy  proceeds  by  regions.  Vague  rumors  had  come  to  our
ears  that  arrests  had  been  made  in  Tournau,  Ghent,  and
Alost,  but  we  were  not  aware  of  the  conditions  under  which
they  had  been  made.  Between  October  24th  and  November
2nd  deportations  took  place  in  the  region  of  Mons,  Quiev-
rain,  Saint  Guislain,  Jemappes,  in  bunches  of  800  to  1,200
men  a  day.  The  next  and  the  following  days  they  were  ex-
tended to  the  Arrondissement  of  Nivelles.  Here  is  a  speci-
men of  the  announcement  concerning  the  proceedings :

"By  order  of  the  Kreischef  every  male  person  over  17
years  old  shall  present  himself,  Place  Saint  Paul,  in  Nivelles,
on  November  8,  1916,  at  8  o'clock  (Belgian  time),  9  o'clock
(Central  time),  bringing  with  him  his  identification  card  and
eventually  his  card  from  the  Meldeamt.

"Only  small  hand  baggage  is  permitted.

"Those  not  presenting  themselves  will  be  forcibly  de-
ported into  Germany,  and  will  besides  be  liable  to  a  heavy
fine  and  to  long  imprisonment.

"Ecclesiastics,  physicians,  lawyers,  and  teachers  are  ex-
empt from  this  order.

"The  Mayors  will  be  held  responsible  for  the  proper  exe-
cution of  this  order,  which  must  be  brought  immediately  to
the  knowledge  of  the  inhabitants."

Between  the  announcement  and  the  deportation  there  is
an  interval  of  only  twenty-four  hours.

Under  pretext  of  public  works  to  be  performed  on  Bel-
gian soil,  the  occupying  power  had  attempted  to  obtain  from
the  communities  the  lists  of  workingmen  out  of  work.  Most
of  the  communities  proudly  refused.

BELGIUM'S  MARTYRDOM

Three  decrees  from  the  General  Government  prepared
the  way  for  the  execution  which  is  in  force  to-day.

Under  date  of  August  15,  191 5,  a  first  decree  imposes,
under  penalty  of  imprisonment  and  fine,  forced  work  on  the
idle,  but  adds  that  the  work  is  to  be  executed  in  Belgium,
and  that  noncompliance  will  be  adjudged  by  Belgian  tribu-
nals.

A  second  decree,  dated  May  2,  191 6,  reserves  the  right
of  the  German  authorities  to  supply  work  to  the  idle,  and
threatens  a  fine  of  three  years'  imprisonment  and  20,000
marks  imposable  on  anybody  executing  or  ordering  to  be
executed  work  not  approved  of  by  the  General  Government.

Under  the  same  decree,  the  right  to  judge  infractions
which  had  remained  with  the  Belgian  tribunals  passed  from
the  Belgian  to  the  German  tribunals.

A  third  decree,  dated  May  13,  1916,  "authorizes  the  gov-
ernors, the  military  commanders,  and  the  chiefs  of  arron-
dissements  to  order  that  the  unemployed  be  conducted  by
force  to  the  places  where  they  must  work."  This  was  already
forcible  working,  although  in  Belgium.

Now  it  is  no  longer  a  question  of  forcible  working  in
Belgium,  but  in  Germany,  and  for  the  benefit  of  the  Germans.

To  give  an  appearance  of  plausibility  to  these  violent
measures,  the  occupying  power  insisted  in  the  German  press,
both  in  Germany  and  Belgium,  on  these  two  pretexts :  the
unemployed  constitute  a  danger  to  public  order  and  a  burden
on  official  benevolence.

To  this  we  replied  in  a  letter  addressed  to  the  Governor
General  and  to  the  head  of  the  Political  Department  on  Octo-
ber 16th,  as  follows:

"You  are  well  aware  that  public  order  is  in  no  wise  threat-
ened and  that  all  influences,  moral  and  civil,  would  support
you  spontaneously  were  it  in  danger.  The  unemployed  are
not  a  burden  on  official  benevolence ;  it  is  not  from  your  funds
that  they  receive  assistance."

In  his  reply  the  Governor  General  no  longer  urges  these
two  first  considerations,  but  he  alleges  that  "doles  to  the
unemployed,  from  whatever  source  they  may  come  at  pres-
ent, must  finally  be  a  charge  upon  our  finances,  and  that  it  is

BELGIUM'S  MARTYRDOM

the  duty  of  a  good  administrator  to  lighten  such  charges";
he  adds  that  "prolonged  unemployment  would  cause  our
workmen  to  lose  their  technical  proficiency,  and  that  in  the
time  of  peace  to  come  they  would  be  useless  to  industry."

True,  there  were  other  ways  in  which  our  finances  might
have  been  protected.  We  might  have  been  spared  those  war
levies  which  have  now  reached  the  sum  of  one  billion  francs,
and  are  still  mounting  up  at  the  rate  of  forty  millions  a
month ;  we  might  have  been  spared  those  requisitions  in  kind,
which  amount  to  several  thousands  of  millions,  and  are  ex-
hausting us.

There  are  other  ways  of  providing  for  the  maintenance
of  professional  skill  among  our  workpeople,  such  as  leaving
to  Belgian  industry  its  machinery  and  accessories,  its  raw  ma-
terials, and  its  manufactured  goods,  which  have  passed  from
Belgium  into  Germany.  And  it  is  neither  to  the  quarries  nor
to  the  lime  kilns  to  which  the  Germans  themselves  declare
our  specialists  will  go  to  complete  their  professional  educa-
tion.

The  naked  truth  is  that  every  deported  workman  is
another  soldier  for  the  German  army.  He  will  take  the
place  of  a  German  workman,  who  will  be  made  into  a  sol-
dier. Thus  the  situation  which  we  denounce  to  the  civilized
world  may  be  reduced  to  these  terms :  Four  hundred  thou-
sand workmen  have  been  thrown  out  of  work  by  no  fault  of
their  own,  and  largely  on  account  of  the  regime  of  the  oc-
cupation. Sons,  husbands,  and  fathers  of  families,  they  bear
their  unhappy  lot  without  murmuring,  respectful  of  public
order ;  national  solidarity  provides  their  most  pressing  wants ;
by  dint  of  unselfish  thrift  and  self-denial  they  escape  extreme
destitution,  and  they  await  with  dignity  and  in  a  mutual
affection  which  our  national  sorrows  have  intensified,  the
end  of  our  common  ordeal.

Groups  of  soldiers  introduced  themselves  forcibly  in  the
homes  of  these  people,  tearing  the  young  people  out  of  the
arms  of  their  parents,  the  husband  from  his  wife,  the  father
from  his  children;  at  the  point  of  the  bayonet  they  block  the
entrances  to  the  homes,  preventing  wives  and  mothers  from
rushing  out  to  say  a  last  farewell  to  them;  they  align  the  cap-

BELGIUM'S  MARTYRDOM

tives  in  groups  of  forty  or  fifty  and  push  them  forcibly  into
freight  cars;  the  locomotive  is  under  steam,  and  as  soon  as
a  trainload  is  ready,  an  officer  gives  the  signal  and  they  de-
part. Thus  are  another  thousand  Belgians  reduced  to  slav-
ery, without  previous  trial,  condemned  to  the  penalty  which
comes  next  in  cruelty  to  the  death  penalty — deportation.
They  do  not  know  how  long  their  exile  is  going  to  last,
neither  do  they  know  where  they  are  going.  All  they  know
is  that  their  work  will  benefit  the  enemy.  Several  of  them
have  been  brought  to  sign — by  coercion  or  by  threats — an  en-
gagement which  their  oppressors  dare  to  call  "voluntary."

While  they  certainly  take  the  unemployed,  they  also  take
a  large  number  in  the  proportion  of  one-quarter  for  the  Ar-
rondissement  of  Mons — of  men  who  were  never  out  of  work
and  who  belong  to  diversified  professions — butchers,  bakers,
tailors,  brewery  workers,  electricians,  farmers;  they  even
take  the  youngest  men,  college  and  university  students,  or
young  men  from  other  high  schools.

This  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  two  high  authorities  of  the
German  Empire  had  formally  guaranteed  the  liberty  of  our
compatriots.

The  day  after  the  capitulation  of  Antwerp  the  fright-
ened populace  asked  itself  what  would  become  of  the  Belgians
of  military  age  or  those  which  would  arrive  at  that  age  be-
fore the  end  of  the  siege.  Baron  von  Huene,  Military  Gov-
ernor of  Antwerp,  authorized  me  to  reassure  in  his  name  the
frightened  parents.  However,  as  rumors  were  running  that
in  Antwerp,  Liege,  Namur,  and  Charleroi  young  men  had
been  seized  and  forcibly  carried  off  to  Germany,  I  asked
Governor  von  Huene  to  confirm  to  me  in  writing  the  verbal
guarantees  which  he  had  given  me.  He  replied  that  the
rumors  pertaining  to  deportations  were  without  foundation,
and  he  gave  me  without  hesitancy  the  written  declaration
which  was  read  on  Sunday,  October  18,  1914,  in  all  the  paro-
chial churches  of  the  Arrondissement  of  Antwerp :  "Young
men  need  have  no  fear  of  being  carried  off  to  Germany,  either
for  enrollment  in  the  army  or  for  forcible  employment."

Immediately  after  the  arrival  of  Baron  von  der  Goltz  in
the  capacity  of  Governor  General  at  Brussels,  I  went  to  ask

io  BELGIUM'S  MARTYRDOM

him  to  ratify  the  guarantees  given  by  Governor  von  Huene  to
the  Province  of  Antwerp  extending  them  to  the  whole  coun-
try without  any  time  limit.  The  Governor  General  retained
my  petition  in  order  to  consider  it  at  his  leisure.  The  follow-
ing day  he  was  good  enough  to  come  in  person  to  Malines  to
express  his  approval  and  in  the  presence  of  two  aides  de
camp  and  of  my  private  secretary  to  confirm  the  promise  that
the  liberty  of  the  Belgian  citizens  would  be  respected.

In  my  letter  of  October  16th  last  to  Baron  von  Bissing
after  reminding  him  of  the  undertaking  given  by  his  predeces-
sor, I  concluded :  "Your  Excellency  will  understand  how
painful  would  be  the  burden  of  responsibility  that  I  have
incurred  toward  families  if  the  confidence  they  placed  in  you
through  me  and  at  my  earnest  entreaty  should  be  so  lament-
ably disappointed."

The  Governor  General  replied :  "The  employment  of  the
Belgian  unemployed  in  Germany,  which  has  only  been  ini-
tiated after  two  years  of  war,  differs  essentially  from  the  cap-
tivity of  men  fit  for  military  service.  Moreover,  the  meas-
ure is  not  related  to  the  conduct  of  the  war,  properly  speak-
ing, but  it  is  determined  by  social  and  economic  causes."

As  if  the  word  of  an  honest  man  were  terminable  at  the
end  of  a  year  or  two!  As  if  the  declaration  confirmed  in
1914  did  not  explicitly  exclude  both  military  operations  and
forced  labor!  As  if,  in  fine,  every  Belgian  workman  who
takes  the  place  of  a  German  workman  did  not  enable  the
latter  to  fill  a  gap  in  the  German  army !

We,  the  shepherds  of  these  sheep  who  are  torn  from  us
by  brutal  force,  full  of  anguish  at  the  thought  of  the  moral
and  religious  isolation  in  which  they  are  about  to  languish,
impotent  witnesses  of  the  grief  and  terror  in  the  numerous
homes  shattered  or  threatened,  appeal  to  all  souls,  believers
or  unbelievers,  in  allied  countries,  in  neutral  countries,  and
even  in  enemy  countries,  who  have  a  respect  for  human  dig-
nity.

When  Cardinal  Lavigerie  embarked  on  his  anti-slavery
campaign,  Pope  Leo  XIII.,  as  he  blessed  his  mission,  re-
marked :  "Opinion  is  more  than  ever  the  queen  of  the  world.

BELGIUM'S  MARTYRDOM

It  is  on  this  you  must  work.  You  will  only  conquer  by  means
of  opinion."

May  Divine  Providence  deign  to  inspire  all  who  have  any
authority,  all  who  are  masters  of  speech  and  pen,  to  rally
around  our  humble  Belgian  flag  for  the  abolition  of  Euro-
pean slavery.

May  human  conscience  triumph  over  all  sophisms  and
remain  steadfastly  faithful  to  the  great  precept  of  St.  Am-
brose :  Honor  above  everything !  Nihil  prceferendum  hone-
st ati!

In  the  name  of  the  Belgian  Bishops,

D.  J.  (Cardinal)  Mercier,

Archbishop  of  Malines.

BY  GOVERNOR  VON  BISSING

Brussels,  November  23,  1916.

Most  Honored  Cardinal :

I  acknowledge  receipt  of  your  honored  letter,  dated  No-
vember 10th,  and  of  the  manuscript  letter  dated  November
15th,  concerning  the  delay  in  delivery.  This  is  the  answer
which  I  have  to  give:

Your  Eminence  wrote  to  me  on  October  19th  last  re-
questing that  the  utilization  of  Belgian  unemployed  in  Ger-
many should  come  to  an  end.  In  my  answer  dated  October
28th,  I  have,  in  spite  of  my  appreciation  of  your  point  of
view  in  the  matter,  indicated  the  reasons  and  the  ideas  which
have  inspired  the  decisions  of  the  occupying  power  with
relation  to  the  question  of  labor.  These  decisions  were  not
arbitrary  or  hastily  taken  without  sufficient  consideration  for
the  difficulties  of  the  problem;  they  were  the  outcome  of  ripe
reflection  bearing  on  the  circumstances  and  the  necessity  rec-
ognized as  unavoidable.

The  extensive  unemployment  which  prevails  in  Belgium
is  a  great  social  evil,  and  the  employment  of  idle  Belgians
in  Germany  brings  them  great  benefit.  I  said  to  your  Emi-
nence, on  my  arrival  in  Belgium,  that  I  wanted  to  heal  the
wounds  inflicted  by  the  war  upon  the  Belgian  people;  the  re-
cent measures  are  not  in  the  least  in  contradiction  with  this
declaration.    I  must  also  consider  as  a  misrepresentation  of

12  BELGIUM'S  MARTYRDOM

facts  the  way  your  Eminence  sets  aside  the  many  and  often
successful  efforts  which  I  have  made  to  revive  Belgium's
economic  life  with  the  remark  that,  on  the  contrary,  unem-
ployment has  been  artificially  created.

Regarding  the  importation  of  raw  materials  into  Belgium
and  the  exportation  of  manufactured  articles,  England  has
made  unacceptable  conditions.  There  were  some  time  ago
negotiations  between  neutral  and  Belgian  organizations  on
this  question ;  to  dwell  on  them  would  lead  me  too  far.  I  can
only  repeat  here  that  the  present  regrettable  circumstances
are  the  result,  fundamentally,  of  England's  policy  of  isola-
tion, just  as  the  seizure  by  us  of  all  raw  material  was  only,
after  all,  a  forced  consequence  of  the  same  policy.

I  must  also  firmly  maintain  that  the  occupation  affords
the  country,  from  the  economic  point  of  view,  all  the  ad-
vantages which  can  be  provided,  considering  the  condi-
tions enforced  on  us  by  England.

In  the  execution  of  the  measures  taken  concerning  the
unemployed,  my  administration  has  met  with  a  series  of  dif-
ficulties which  cause  some  inconvenience  to  the  population.
All  this  might  have  been  avoided  if  the  communal  authori-
ties had  made  their  execution  more  simple  and  more  effec-
tive by  their  attitude  toward  them.  Under  the  present  cir-
cumstances, we  are  obliged  to  use  a  more  involved  procedure,
into  which  a  wider  circle  of  people  are  necessarily  drawn.

Measures,  however,  have  been  taken  in  order  to  avoid
mistakes  as  much  as  possible.  Some  definite  classes  of  pro-
fessions have  been  exempted  beforehand  from  submitting  to
control,  and  the  individual  claims,  if  they  are  well  founded,
will  be  either  immediately  considered  or  submitted  to  further
examination.

Your  Eminence  will  understand  from  what  is  stated
above  that  it  is  impossible  to  comply  with  the  desire  concern-
ing the  stoppage  of  the  measures  which  have  been  adopted,
and  that,  in  spite  of  the  difficulties  which  we  have  met,  their
execution  is  pursued  in  the  interest  of  all.

BELGIUM'S  MARTYRDOM  13

BY  CARDINAL  MERCIER

To  the  Governor  Gc  _-ral,  Sir:

The  letter  which  your  Excellency  did  me  the  honor  to
write  to  me,  under  date  of  November  23rd,  is  a  disappoint-
ment to  me.  In  various  circles,  which  I  had  reason  to  be-
lieve were  correctly  informed,  it  was  said,  your  Excellency,
that  you  had  felt  it  your  duty  to  protest  to  the  highest  au-
thorities of  the  empire  against  the  measures  which  you  were
constrained  to  apply  in  Belgium.  I  counted  on  at  least  a
delay  in  the  application  of  these  measures,  while  they  were
being  submitted  to  fresh  examination,  and  also  on  some  re-
laxation of  the  rigor  with  which  they  are  applied.

And  now,  your  Excellency,  without  replying  one  word
to  any  of  the  arguments  by  which  I  established  the  illegal
and  anti-social  character  of  the  condemnation  of  the  Bel-
gian working  classes  to  forced  labor  and  to  deportation,  you
confine  yourself  to  repeating,  in  your  telegram  of  November
23rd,  the  very  text  of  your  letter  of  October  26th.  These
two  letters  are,  really,  identical  in  matter  and  almost  in  word.

On  the  other  hand,  the  recruiting  of  the  so-called  unem-
ployed continues,  generally  without  any  regard  for  the  ob-
servations of  the  local  authorities.  Several  reports  which  I
have  in  hand  prove  that  the  clergy  are  brutally  thrust  aside,
burgomasters  and  town  councilors  reduced  to  silence ;  the  re-
cruiters then  find  themselves  face  to  face  with  unknown  men,
among  whom  they  arbitrarily  make  their  choice.  There  are
abundant  examples  to  prove  this  statement.  I  will  give  two
recent  ones,  chosen  from  a  quantity  of  others  which  I  hold
at  the  disposal  of  your  Excellency.

On  November  21st  recruiting  began  in  the  commune  of
Kersbeek-Miscom.  From  the  1,325  inhabitants  of  this  com-
mune the  recruiters  took  away  altogether,  without  any  dis-
tinction of  social  position  or  profession,  farmers'  sons,  men
who  were  supporting  aged  and  infirm  parents,  fathers  of
families  who  left  wives  and  families  in  misery,  each  of  them
as  necessary  to  his  family  as  its  daily  bread.  Two  families
found  themselves  deprived  each  of  four  sons  at  once.

14  BELGIUM'S  MARTYRDOM

Among  ninety-four  deportees  there  were  only  two  unem-
ployed.

In  the  region  of  Aerschot  recruiting  began  on  November
23rd;  at  Rillaer,  at  Gebrede,  at  Rotselaer,  young  men,  sup-
porting their  widowed  mothers;  farmers  at  the  head  of  large
families  (one  of  these,  who  is  over  50  years  of  age,  has  ten
children  working  on  the  land),  who  possess  cattle  and  have
never  touched  a  penny  of  public  money,  were  taken  away  by
force  in  spite  of  all  their  protestations.  In  the  little  com-
mune of  Rillaer  they  actually  took  twenty-five  boys  of  17.

Your  Excellency  wished  that  the  communal  councils
should  become  the  accomplices  of  this  odious  recruiting.  By
their  legal  situation  and  by  reason  of  conscience,  they  could
not  do  so.  But  they  could  have  advised  the  recruiters  and
are  entitled  to  do  so.  The  priests,  who  know  the  working
people  better  than  any  one  else,  might  have  been  of  the  ut-
most assistance  to  the  recruiters.   Why  is  their  help  refused?

At  the  end  of  your  letter,  your  Excellency,  you  remind
me  that  men  belonging  to  liberal  professions  are  not  inter-
fered with.  If  only  the  unemployed  were  removed  I  could
understand  this  exception.  But  if  all  able-bodied  men  con-
tinue to  be  enrolled  indiscriminately  the  exception  is  un-
justifiable. It  would  be  iniquitous  to  make  the  whole  weight
of  the  deportations  fall  upon  the  working  classes.  The  mid-
dle classes  must  have  their  part  in  the  sacrifice,  howevei
cruel  it  may  be,  and  just  because  it  is  cruel,  that  the  occupy-
ing power  imposes  on  the  nation.  A  great  many  members
of  my  clergy  have  asked  me  to  beg  for  them  a  place  in  the
van  of  the  persecuted.  I  register  their  offer  and  submit  it  to
you  with  pride.

I  would  wish  to  believe  that  the  authorities  of  the  empire
have  not  said  their  last  word.  They  will  think  of  our  un-
deserved sorrows,  of  the  reprobation  of  the  civilized  world,
of  the  judgment  of  history,  and  of  the  chastisement  of  God.

THE  APPEAL  OF  THE  BELGIAN  WORKMEN
This  Proclamation  was  sent  out  by  the  Belgian  Labor  Unions  in  1916

Workers, — In  the  name  of  the  international  bonds  that
unite  all  workmen,  the  working  classes  of  Belgium — threat-

BELGIUM'S  MARTYRDOM  15

ened,  without  exception,  with  slavery,  deportation,  and
forced  labor  for  the  enemy's  gain — send  to  the  working
classes  in  other  lands  a  supreme  appeal.

Germany,  as  you  know,  attacked  and  terrorized  Bel-
gium in  1 9 14  for  having  defended  her  right  to  neutrality  and
her  faith  and  honor.

Germany  has  been  martyrizing  Belgium.  She  has  from
that  moment  onwards  turned  the  land  into  a  prison  :  the  fron-
tiers are  armed  against  Belgians  like  a  battle  front.  .  .  .  All
our  constitutional  liberties  have  been  abolished.  There  is  no
longer  safety  anywhere;  the  life  of  our  citizens  is  at  the
mercy  of  the  policeman, — arbitrary,  limitless,  pitiless.  .  .  .
Belgian  industrial  idleness  has  been  the  creation  of  the  Ger-
mans, maintained  by  them  for  their  own  profit.1  To  these
500,000  unemployed  they  have  for  the  last  month  been  say-
ing :  "Either  you  will  sign  a  contract  to  work  for  Germany,
or  you  will  be  reduced  to  slavery."  In  either  case,  it  means
exile,  deportation,  forced  labor  in  the  interests  of  the  enemy,
and  against  the  interests  of  our  country:  formidable  pun-
ishments, the  cruellest  ever  invented  by  tyranny  for  the  pun-
ishment of  crimes — and  what  are  the  crimes  alleged?  .  .  .
On  the  western  front,  Belgian  workmen — your  brothers  and
ours — are  being  forced  to  dig  trenches,  to  build  aviation
camps,  to  fortify  the  German  lines,  and  when  the  victims,  in
spite  of  everything,  are  firm  in  their  refusal  to  take  part  in
work  forbidden  by  International  Law,  they  are  starved  and
beaten  into  illness,  wounded,  and  sometimes  even  killed.

In  Germany,  they  are  turned  on  to  work  in  mines,  and
at  lime-kilns,  quite  regardless  of  their  age,  profession,  or
trade.  Youths  of  seventeen,  old  men  of  seventy,  are  de-
ported in  haphazard  masses.  Is  not  this  a  revival  of  ancient
Slavery  with  all  its  horrors?  Do  you  know,  brothers,  what

1  By  levying  on  Belgium  a  war  contribution  which  exceeded  $200,-
000,000 — by  transporting  to  Germany  food,  merchandise  and  various
products  to  the  value  of  more  than  $1,000,000,000 — by  seizing  and
dispatching  to  their  own  country  the  greater  portion  of  raw  material,
machines  and  accessories — by  issuing  threatening  edicts  to  prevent  lo-
calities from  using  the  unemployed  on  their  own  important  works  of
public  utility.

16  BELGIUM'S  MARTYRDOM

the  Germans  throw  to  their  victims  by  way  of  pay?  Thirty
pfennigs  (six  cents)  a  day!

Workers :  Never  forget  that  the  soldiers  who  are  act-
ing as  the  torturers  of  our  Belgian  workmen  are  themselves
German  workers!

In  the  depths  of  our  distress,  we  count  on  you.  It  is  for
you  to  act!  For  ourselves,  even  if  brute  force  succeeds  for
the  moment  in  reducing  our  bodies  to  servitude,  we  shall
never  give  our  consent.

A  final  word :  Whatever  tortures  we  may  undergo,  we
do  not  wish  for  Peace  except  with  the  independence  of  our
country  and  the  triumph  of  justice.

The  Workmen  of  Belgium.

the  appeal  of  the  belgium  women

This  appeal  signed  by  many  women's  societies,  and  individual  women
of  Brussels,  was  sent  to  the  U.  S.  Minister,  Mr.  Brand  Whitlock,  on
November  18,  1916.

From  the  depths  of  our  well  of  misery  our  supplication

rises  to  you.

In  addressing  ourselves  to  you,  we  denounce  to  your
Government,  as  well  as  to  our  sisters,  the  women  of  the  na-
tion which  you  represent  in  our  midst,  the  criminal  abuse
of  force  of  which  our  unhappy  and  defenseless  people  is  a
victim.

Since  the  beginning  of  this  atrocious  war  we  have  looked
on  impotently  and  with  our  hearts  torn  with  every  sorrow
at  terrible  events  which  put  our  civilization  back  into  the
ages  of  the  barbarian  hordes.

Mr.  Minister,  the  crime  which  is  now  being  committed
under  your  eyes,  namely,  the  deportation  of  thousands  of
men  compelled  to  work  on  enemy  soil  against  the  interests  of
their  country,  can  not  find  any  shadow  of  excuse  on  the
ground  of  military  necessity,  for  it  constitutes  a  violation
by  force  of  a  sacred  right  of  human  conscience.

Whatever  may  be  the  motive  it  can  not  be  admitted  that
citizens  may  be  compelled  to  work  directly  or  indirectly  for
the  enemy  against  their  brothers  who  are  fighting.

The  Convention  of  The  Hague  has  consecrated  this  prin-
ciple.

BELGIUM'S  MARTYRDOM  17

Nevertheless,  the  occupying  power  is  forcing  thousands
of  men  to  this  monstrous  extremity,  which  is  contrary  to
morals  and  international  law,  both  these  men  who  have  al-
ready been  taken  to  Germany  and  those  who  to-morrow  will
undergo  the  same  fate,  if  from  the  outside,  from  neutral  Eu-
rope and  the  United  States,  no  help  is  offered.

Oh !  The  Belgian  women  have  also  known  how  to  carry
out  their  duty  in  the  hour  of  danger;  they  have  not  weak-
ened the  courage  of  the  soldiers  of  honor  by  their  tears.

They  have  bravely  given  to  their  country  those  whom
they  loved.  .  .  .  The  blood  of  mothers  is  flowing  on  the  bat-
tlefields.

Those  who  are  taken  away  to-day  do  not  go  to  perform  a
glorious  duty.  They  are  slaves  in  chains  who,  in  a  dark
exile,  threatened  by  hunger,  prison,  death,  will  be  called  upon
to  perform  the  most  odious  work — service  to  the  enemy
against  the  fatherland.

The  mothers  can  not  stand  by  while  such  an  abomination
is  taking  place  without  making  their  voices  heard  in  protest.

They  are  not  thinking  of  their  own  sufferings,  their  own
moral  torture,  the  abandonment  and  the  misery  in  which
they  are  to  be  placed  with  their  children.

They  address  you  in  the  name  of  the  inalterable  rights  of
honor  and  conscience.

It  has  been  said  that  women  are  "all  powerful  sup-
pliants."

We  have  felt  authorized  by  this  saying,  Mr.  Minister,  to
extend  our  hands  to  you  and  to  address  to  your  country  a
last  appeal.

We  trust  that  in  reading  these  lines  you  will  feel  at  each
word  the  unhappy  heartbeats  of  the  Belgian  women  and
will  find  in  your  broad  and  humane  sympathy  imperative  rea-
sons for  intervention.

Only  the  united  will  of  the  neutral  peoples  energetically
expressed  can  counterbalance  that  of  the  German  authori-
ties.

This  assistance  which  the  neutral  nations  can  and,  there-
fore, ought  to  lend  us,  will  it  be  refused  to  the  oppressed  Bel-
gians ?

LITTLE  MONTENEGRO'S  LAST  STAND

THE  AUSTRIANS  CAPTURE  ITS  CAPITAL,  CETTINJE

JANUARY   13,  I916

EDGAR  WALLACE  LAZARE  MUSKOVITCH

The  little  state  of  Montenegro,  whose  name  means  the  Black  Moun-
tain, might  have  remained  neutral  on  its  stormy  mountain  heights ;
but  its  people  were  Serbs,  and  they  loyally  cast  in  their  lot  with
Serbia  from  the  beginning  of  the  War.  Hence  when  Serbia  was
crushed  at  the  end  of  1915,  an  Austrian  army  under  General  Koevess
at  once  turned  upon  Montenegro.  Its  tiny  army  of  thirty  thousand
men  was  overwhelmed  in  a  desperate  battle  in  the  Tara  valley  at
the  beginning  of  January,  and  the  last  remaining  resistance  was  from
the  garrison  on  Mount  Lovcen,  a  supposedly  impregnable  fortress
overlooking  the  capital,  Cettinje.  Lovcen,  however,  fell  easily  be-
fore the  Austrian  guns;  indeed,  the  despairing  Montenegrin  royal
family  had  already  begun  negotiations  with  Austria.  With  Lovcen
gone,  the  capital  had  then  no  choice  except  to  surrender.

The  sturdy  old  King  Nicholas  then  found  the  Austrian  terms  too
hard  to  bear.  He  fled  with  his  court  to  Italy;  and  a  temporary  gov-
ernment patched  up  a  peace  with  Austria.  Many  of  the  "Black  Moun-
taineers," however,  refused  to  acknowledge  Austria's  mastery  and  con-
tinued a  guerrilla  warfare  from  their  fastnesses.

The  man  who  actually  made  the  peace  with  Austria  here  tells  why
he  felt  compelled  to  do  so.  He  was  the  Prime  Minister  of  Monte-
negro, M.  Muskovitch,  who  had  always  been  inclined  to  urge  his
country  to  lean  on  Austria  for  protection.  Hence  the  Montenegrins
hoped  he  could  secure  for  them  more  favorable  terms  than  he  did.
The  view  of  the  Allied  Powers,  that  Montenegro  should  have  held
out  to  the  bitter  end,  as  Serbia  did,  is  here  voiced  by  the  historian,
Edgar  Wallace.

BY  EDGAR  WALLACE

DEFORE  we  turn  again  to  events  in  the  larger  fields  of
LJ  war  we  may  spare  a  moment  to  note  briefly  the  tragic
position  of  the  smallest  of  the  Allies,  Montenegro.  Normally
some  30,000  strong,  but  at  the  beginning  of  1916  reduced  to
about  15,000,  the  Montenegrin  army  since  the  beginning  of
the  war  had  been  protecting  the  left  of  the  retiring  Serbians
and  had  themselves  been  driven  back  and  were  now,  in  the

MONTENEGRO'S  LAST  STAND

beginning  of  January,  1916,  holding  on  desperately  to  Mount
Lovcen,  the  last  stronghold  defending  the  capital,  Cettinje.

They  were  short  of  artillery  and  munitions,  short  of  all
kinds  of  supplies,  but  it  was  clearly  impossible  for  the  En-
tente to  offer  them  material  relief.  Montenegro  is  a  moun-
tainous country,  unserved  by  any  seaport,  and  even  the  Ital-
ians who  had  landed  at  Durazzo  could  not  hope  to  open  up
communications  to  bring  them  the  material  they  needed.

Lovcen  was  the  hill  which  dominated  the  Austrian  port  of
Cattaro.  The  Italian  Minister  Barzilai  explained  at  once
Italy's  attitude  and  the  importance  or  non-importance  of
Mount  Lovcen  in  a  terse  but  remarkable  statement :

"Cattaro  was,  and  remains,  a  natural  harbor  of  the  first
order,  capable  of  accommodating  the  whole  Austrian  fleet  in
spite  of  a  possible  menace  from  the  top  of  Mount  Lovcen.
The  barracks  at  Cattaro  are  visible  from  Mount  Lovcen,  but
during  the  sixteen  months  of  the  war  artillery  of  medium
caliber  (guns  of  large  caliber  could  never  be  brought  there
because  there  were  no  proper  roads)  placed  on  the  mountain
never  succeeded  in  doing  any  damage  to  them.  If  the  means
for  completely  saving  Montenegro  were  wanting  (and  such
an  operation  would  require  two  or  three  hundred  thousand
men,  and  an  effort  six  times  greater  than  that  necessary  to
convey  the  same  forces  on  national  territory),  Lovcen,  armed
or  unarmed,  would  anyhow  have  fallen  with  the  rest  of  the
territory  into  the  hands  of  the  enemy."

About  January  12th  the  great  hill  was  stormed  by  Aus-
trian infantry,  and  the  remnants  of  the  heroic  Montenegrin
Army — 30,000  at  its  strongest — began  its  retreat  upon  Cet-
tinje. It  is  said  that  the  Montenegrins'  resistance  was  cut
short  when  the  troops  learnt  that,  behind  their  backs,  the  Gov-
ernment was  in  negotiation  for  a  separate  peace  with  Austria.

On  the  17th  it  was  announced  in  the  Austrian  Parlia-
ment by  Count  Tisza  that  Montenegro  had  surrendered,  and
Montenegro's  official  explanation  for  that  surrender  was
given  in  a  Note  issued  by  the  Consulate-General  for  Monte-
negro in  Paris.

"The  newspapers  announce  that  unhappy  Montenegro
has  had  to  submit  to  the  inevitable  after  having  struggled

2o  MONTENEGRO'S  LAST  STAND

heroically  under  particularly  disadvantageous  conditions
against  an  enemy  much  superior  in  numbers  and  formidably
armed.  It  may  be  considered  as  certain  that  if  the  King  and
Government  have  yielded  it  is  because  the  Army  had  ex-
hausted its  last  munitions.

"Even  flight  was  impossible.  The  enemies  were  on  the
frontiers ;  there  was  no  escape  by  the  sea ;  inveterate  hostility
was  to  be  encountered  in  Albania.  If  the  Serbian  army  was
able  to  escape  from  Serbia,  the  weak  contingents  of  Monte-
negrins, exhausted  by  the  superhuman  efforts  of  their  long
and  desperate  but  effective  resistance,  and  by  privations  of
all  kinds,  were  not  able  to  seek  refuge  on  friendly  territory.
It  is  possible  to  discuss  ad  infinitum  the  conditions  of  the
suspension  of  hostilities,  the  details  of  which,  it  is  to  be  ob-
served, come  from  enemy  sources ;  it  is  even  possible  to  heap
insults  on  the  unfortunate  conquered,  but  that  will  in  no  way
detract  from  the  reputation  of  valiant  little  Montenegro  nor
from  the  sublime  role  of  heroism  which  she  is  proud  of  hav-
ing played  in  the  great  war."

The  story  of  Montenegro's  "surrender,"  so  eagerly  ac-
claimed in  Germany,  is  difficult  to  recapitulate.

Who  was  responsible — the  King  or  his  Minister — for
opening  up  negotiations  for  surrender?  Muskovitch,  who
was  frankly  Austrophil,  had  become  Premier  at  a  critical  mo-
ment in  Montenegro's  fate,  and  negotiations  were  proceeding
even  whilst  the  fighting  on  Mount  Lovcen  was  in  progress.
As  a  result  of  this,  some  of  the  troops  abandoned  their  posi-
tions after  twenty- four  hours'  bombardment.

The  Austrians,  however,  made  a  crowning  mistake.
Thinking  that  the  surrender  of  Montenegro  was  inevitable,
they  put  forward  peace  terms  which  were  wholly  unaccept-
able. This  produced  a  reaction,  in  the  course  of  which  King
Nicholas  escaped  from  his  country  and  the  heroic  remnants
of  the  army  fell  back  upon  Albania.  The  peace  terms  were
such  as  would  be  offered,  not  to  an  honorably  conquered  na-
tion, but  to  brigands  who  had  been  crushed  by  the  superior
forces  of  the  law,  and  they  could  not  have  been  accepted  by
any  nation  which  desired  to  retain  its  self-respect.

The  old  King  reached  Italy,  where  he  was  met  by  his  son-

MONTENEGRO'S  LAST  STAND  21

in-law,  the  King  of  Italy,  and  from  thence  he  went  on  to
France.  Though  a  large  number  of  Montenegrin  troops
were  captured,  a  much  larger  number  reached  Albania  in
safety,  and,  joining  hands  with  Assad  Pasha,  an  Albanian
leader,  who  favored  the  cause  of  the  Allies,  were  able  to  hold
up  the  advancing  Austrians.

Montenegro  itself  was  overrun,  but  this  country,  the
poorest  in  Europe,  offered  the  Central  Empires  very  little  re-
ward for  their  enterprise.  Cettinje  was  unharmed  and  the
King's  palace,  which  was  visited  by  an  Austrian  journalist,
was  found  intact.

"In  the  reception-room  two  great  oil-paintings  occupied
the  position  of  honor.  One  was  that  of  the  Emperor  of  Aus-
tria and  the  other  was  of  Queen  Elizabeth  of  Hungary.  In
the  study  of  King  Nicholas,  on  one  of  the  writing-tables,
there  was  a  portrait  of  Francis  Joseph,  and  in  other  rooms
we  also  came  across  his  picture."

BY  LAZARE  MUSKOVITCH

When  Montenegro  entered  the  war  on  the  side  of  the
Allies  she  was  promised  everything  necessary  for  the  army,
and  also  for  the  civil  population,  because  even  in  ordinary
times  they  imported  wheat.  Russia  and  France  were  to
furnish  supplies,  but,  unfortunately,  this  promise  could  not
be  carried  out.  They  did  what  they  could,  but  it  was  much
less  than  Montenegro  needed,  alike  in  arms,  artillery,  and  mu-
nitions, and,  above  all,  in  food.

Montenegro  was  given  the  task  of  protecting  the  rear
of  the  Serbian  army,  and  its  battalions  defended  the  Sandjak
frontier  with  such  success  that  on  this  side  the  Serbians  were
given  time  to  retire.  But  when  the  Serbians  were  unexpect-
edly obliged  to  fall  back  on  Montenegro  and  Albania,  their
arrival  precipitated  events.  The  Montenegrins  had  still  some
supplies,  but  with  120,000  to  130,000  mouths  to  feed,  and
with  soldiers  as  well  as  civil  population  arriving  in  the  coun-
try famished  and  denuded  of  everything,  it  was  necessary
to  provide  for  their  subsistence.

Many  times  the  Montenegrin  soldiers  did  not  receive  food
for  a  whole  week,  and  when  they  did  the  ration  was  only

22  MONTENEGRO'S  LAST  STAND

half  a  pound  a  day,  for  the  most  part  maize  flour,  and  not
baked  bread.  They  were  very  dejected,  discontented,  and  fa-
tigued. Montenegro  had  already  informed  the  Foreign  Min-
isters that  it  would  be  attacked,  and  counted  upon  an  Allied
Fleet  attacking  the  Austrian  Fleet,  but  it  did  not  arrive.
Shells  from  the  Austrian  Fleet  came  over  the  mountain  al-
most as  far  as  Cettinje.

Five  or  six  days'  march  was  necessary  for  the  arrival  of
reinforcements  at  Lovcen,  and  to  gain  time  for  the  arrival
of  forces  from  the  other  fronts  the  Montenegrins  were
obliged  to  demand  an  armistice  of  six  days.  Reenforce-
ments were  thus  brought  up  from  the  Sandjak  front  to  the
number  of  twelve  battalions,  who  fought  very  well  on  the
Lovcen  front.

We  have,  therefore,  used  this  expedient  in  the  pourpar-
lers for  no  other  purpose  than  to  gain  time,  since  their  con-
ditions were  not  acceptable,  namely,  that  men  from  sixteen
to  fifty  must  all  be  interned  in  Austria,  with  the  occupation
of  our  country,  the  laying  down  of  arms,  to  submit  to  requi-
sitions, to  administer  the  country  themselves,  to  give  them
passage  through  the  country  to  Albania,  to  deliver  up  all  the
members  of  the  Royal  Family  having  a  command  in  the
Army.  It  was  impossible  to  accept  those  conditions,  and  it
was,  therefore,  a  peace  absolutely  impossible.

The  King  left  his  son  behind  in  order  to  organize  the
resistance,  and  the  Montenegrin  army  had  received  orders  to
retire  towards  Scutari  behind  the  Serbian  army,  and  to  fol-
low it  in  the  direction  of  Durazzo.  The  King  had  barely
time  to  escape.  He  sent  the  following  order  to  his  troops
from  Brindisi :

"To  General  Vukovitch,  commanding  the  Montenegrin
Army : — I  order  you  anew  to  resist  the  enemy  in  the  most
energetic  way  possible.  In  the  event  of  a  retreat,  follow  the
direction  of  the  Serbian  army  towards  Durazzo.  The  Ser-
bian commanders  have  been  informed  of  this.  I  hope  that
you  will  obtain  food  supplies  at  Medua  and  farther  on.

"Prince  Mirko  and  all  the  other  Ministers  who  have  re-
mained cannot  in  any  case  open  negotiations  with  any  one
whatever.    The  French  Government  have  promised  our  re-

MONTENEGRO'S  LAST  STAND  23

treating  army  all  possible  facilities,  such  as  they  have  given
to  the  Serbian  army.  Prince  Mirko  and  the  other  Ministers
must  in  no  case  remain,  but  make  every  possible  effort  to
escape."

The  newspapers  had  spoken  of  a  secret  treaty  with  Aus-
tria. It  can  be  said  now  that  Montenegro  had  been  crushed
by  Austria  under  conditions  the  most  difficult  for  her.  If
we  had  a  secret  treaty,  the  conditions  imposed  by  Austria
must  have  been  much  more  favorable  than  those  actually
proposed.  I  do  not  understand  how  any  one  can  any  longer
be  in  doubt  as  to  what  we  have  done.  We  have  the  right  to
demand  that  our  Allies  should  respect  our  honor  in  not
lending  faith  to  the  inaccurate  statements  of  any  Austrian
origin.  I  can  affirm  again  that  the  soldiers  of  no  European
army  could  have  resisted  more  than  the  Montenegrins,
neither  at  Lovcen  nor  on  any  of  the  other  fronts,  with  the
equipment,  the  supplies,  the  arms  and  the  munitions  at  the
disposal  of  our  soldiers.

The  so-called  "surrender"  of  Montenegro  was  hailed
with  much  rejoicing  in  Berlin  and  Vienna.  "Surrender  will
follow,"  said  a  German  newspaper,  "till  every  one  of  the
Allies  has  yielded,  and  the  last  will  pay  the  piper."  There
was,  indeed,  little  to  justify  the  fantastic  joy  of  the  people,
the  event  had  no  significance  whatever  as  regards  the  out-
come of  the  War,  and  the  rejoicing  was  quickly  damped
down  when  it  became  known  that  there  was  no  unconditional
capitulation  after  all  of  this,  the  weakest  and  the  smallest  of
all  the  countries  at  war.  Montenegro  refused  to  bow  the
knee,  and  the  Government  was  transferred  to  Lyons  and  de-
cided to  continue  the  struggle.

RUSSIA'S  TEMPORARY  CONQUEST  OF

ARMENIA

THE  CAPTURE  OF  ERZERUM

FEBRUARY  l6TH

GENERAL  YUDENITCH  MORGAN  PRICE

In  1915,  as  our  previous  volume  told,  the  Russians  drove  back
a  Turkish  army  from  their  Asiatic  frontier  among  the  Caucasus
Mountains,  the  so-called  "roof  of  the  world."  Late  in  that  year  Grand
Duke  Nicholas,  certainly  the  ablest  member  of  the  Russian  royal
family,  arrived  on  the  Caucasus  front  as  its  commander.  With  the
aid  of  his  Chief  of  Staff,  General  Yudenitch,  Nicholas  promptly
planned  an  aggressive  campaign  against  the  Turks.  In  this  the
Turkish  army  was  driven  back  through  the  Armenian  regions,  the
scene  of  the  awful  massacres  which  began  in  1915.  The  outline  of
the  campaign  is  here  sketched  by  General  Yudenitch;  its  details  are
given  by  Mr.  Price,  the  official  British  observer  with  the  Russians.

The  capture  of  Erzerum,  the  chief  city  and  stronghold  of  the  re-
gion, was  the  military  climax  of  the  campaign.  The  capture  of
Trebizond,  the  second  important  city,  followed  naturally  from  the
complete  disorganization  of  the  Tnrkish  army  at  Erzerum.  Follow-
ing upon  these  successes  the  Russians  penetrated  Persia;  but  un-
fortunately for  them  the  British  reverses  at  the  Dardanelles  and
later  at  Kut-el-Amara  allowed  almost  the  entire  Turkish  forces  to
turn  their  strength  against  the  Russians.  The  latter  were  com-
pelled to  retire  from  Armenia,  leaving  that  unhappy  land  to  another
series  of  massacres.  Thus  the  entire  1916  campaign  in  the  Caucasus
ended,  as  did  most  of  the  battling  of  the  year,  with  no  decisive  vic-
tory for  either  side.    It  was  marked  only  by  unending  slaughter.

BY  GENERAL  YUDENITCH

THE  fortress  of  Erzerum  was  the  only  fortified  point  in
the  interior  of  Asia  Minor,  protecting  Western  Arme-
nia and  Anatolia  and  commanding  all  the  best  roads  of
Transcaucasia  and  the  interior  of  Asia  Minor.  For  many
years  past  great  improvements  had  been  carried  out  in  the
works  by  the  Turks,  with  the  assistance  of  the  Germans.
The  terrain  in  front  rendered  it  naturally  strong,  while  it  was
covered  on  the  flanks  by  mountain  masses  most  difficult  of
approach  and  with  their  passes  protected  by  powerful  forts.

RUSSIA'S  CONQUEST  OF  ARMENIA  25

Such  was  the  formidable  barrier  on  the  path  of  our  of-
fensive, with  enormous  defensive  advantages  on  the  north-
east and  east.  During  the  five  days'  assault  the  fortress  was
defended  by  the  Turks  with  a  stubbornness  to  which  the
enormous  quantity  of  killed  and  frozen  corpses  gives  testi-
mony. The  Caucasus  army  succeeded  in  surmounting  steep
mountains  protected  not  only  by  frost  but  by  wire  entangle-
ments and  other  defenses,  and  assaulted  the  fortress  after
an  artillery  preparation.

The  assault  on  the  forts  and  the  principal  position  lasted
from  February  nth  till  February  15th  inclusive.  After  we
had  taken  the  forts  on  the  left  flank  of  the  principal  Turkish
line  of  defense,  extending  about  27  miles,  the  fate  of  the
forts  in  the  center  and  on  the  right  flank,  and,  after  them
of  the  second  line  forts  and  the  principal  defensive  position,
was  decided  on  February  16th  after  short  attacks.  These
fortifications,  which  were  full  of  Turkish  dead,  remained  in
our  possession.

During  the  assault  on  the  fortress  several  Turkish  regi-
ments were  annihilated  or  made  prisoners  with  all  their  offi-
cers. On  the  line  of  forts  alone  we  took  197  pieces  of  ar-
tillery of  various  calibers  in  good  condition.  In  the  defense
works  of  the  central  fortress  we  took  another  126  pieces  of
artillery.  In  the  fortified  region  of  Erzerum  we  took  a  large
number  of  depots  of  various  kinds,  which  have  already  been
mentioned  by  the  Headquarters  Staff.  The  exact  number  of
Turkish  prisoners  is  235  officers  and  12,753  men.

It  is  possible  to  estimate  the  force  of  the  blow  which  we
dealt  the  Turkish  army,  whose  demoralized  remnants  are
now  withdrawing  in  disorder  towards  the  west,  if  only  by
the  fact  that  some  Army  Corps  of  three  divisions  now  only
number  from  3,000  to  5,000  men  with  a  few  guns.  All  the
remainder  have  either  fallen  into  our  hands  or  perished  in  the
fighting,  or  from  the  cold.

According  to  latest  information  received,  Turkish  officer
and  soldier  prisoners,  who  were  captured  in  the  fortified  dis-
trict of  Erzerum  and  in  the  course  of  the  pursuit,  complain
bitterly  that  their  Headquarters  Staff  was  concentrated  in  the
hands  of  Germans.  The  latter  during  the  assault  on  the  for-

26       RUSSIA'S  CONQUEST  OF  ARMENIA

tress  of  Erzerum  were  the  first  to  abandon  the  fortified  posi-
tions, causing  a  panic  and  disorder  among  the  already  shaken
Turkish  troops.

The  great  Russian  advance  west  of  Erzerum  came  to  an
end  only  with  the  exhaustion  of  the  pursuers.  In  the  south,
Mush,  eighty  miles  beyond  Erzerum,  fell  on  February  19th;
and  on  March  1st  the  Russians  were  at  Kamak,  only  seven
miles  northeast  of  Bitlis.  On  the  following  day  Bitlis  itself
was  taken,  the  mountain  pass  opening  up  the  whole  of  the
Tigris  valley,  and  only  100  miles  from  the  Turkish  rail-
head at  Nisibin,  thus  coming  into  the  possession  of  the  vic-
torious invaders.  Here  again  the  Russians  found  themselves
confronted  with  terrible  obstacles  owing  to  continual  snow-
storms and  severe  frost  at  an  altitude  of  nearly  5,000  feet.
Bitlis  had  been  an  important  Armenian  center,  but  there  were
few  of  the  oppressed  race  left  to  welcome  their  liberators,
the  Turks  and  Kurds,  under  Djevdet  Pasha,  having  massa-
cred some  15,000  of  them  in  the  previous  June.  With  this
success  the  whole  of  the  Van  region  passed  into  Russian
hands,  and  the  connection  between  the  Turks  in  Anatolia  and
their  forces  across  the  Persian  frontier  and  south  of  Lake
Urmia  was  severed.

BY  MORGAN  PRICE

This  success  had  been  due  to  errors  by  the  Turks,  who
did  not  feel  insecure  in  Armenia,  and  would  take  risks  to  save
Bagdad.  They  must  have  been  ill-informed  as  to  the  na-
ture of  the  Russian  reinforcements,  for  in  December  they
gave  leave  of  absence  to  a  number  of  officers  in  the  Erzerum
garrison,  while  they  made  no  haste  to  send  back  to  Erzerum
the  heavy  artillery  from  the  Dardanelles.  Instead,  they  con-
centrated all  their  efforts  on  Mesopotamia,  where  they  suc-
ceeded in  surrounding  General  Townsend  in  Kut,  and  in
threatening  the  whole  British  expedition  with  breakdown.
Thus  it  was  clear  that  a  Russian  offensive  on  the  Caucasus
front  would  not  only  relieve  the  situation  in  Mesopotamia,
but  would  stand  a  good  chance  of  driving  the  Turks  back  on
their  last  line  of  defense  round  the  fortress  of  Erzerum,  and
possibly  even  of  taking  it.   The  Russians  were  now  superior

RUSSIA'S  CONQUEST  OF  ARMENIA  27

by  about  50,000  men  along  the  whole  of  the  Asiatic  front
from  the  Black  Sea  to  Persia.  This  enabled  them  to  under-
take flanking  movements,  which  always  count  for  so  much  in
Asiatic  warfare.  In  Asia,  with  its  wide  expanses,  the  chances
of  an  enemy  digging  himself  into  positions  which  cannot
be  outflanked  are  very  much  less  than  in  Europe.  Every-
thing, therefore,  favored  an  offensive  in  the  direction  of
Erzerum,  and  a  series  of  maneuvers  and  flanking  move-
ments in  the  mountains  and  valleys  at  the  head-waters  of  the
Araxes  and  the  Euphrates.

The  eastern  approach  to  Erzerum  lies  along  the  Passan
plain.  Its  outer  chain  of  forts  lies  on  the  Deve-Boyun,  a
range  of  rolling  hills  from  7,000  to  8,000  feet  high,  dividing
the  head-waters  of  the  Araxes  from  those  of  the  western
Euphrates.  Bounding  the  Passan  and  upper  Euphrates  plain
on  the  south  is  the  great  range  of  the  Palan-teken,  rising
to  10,000  feet,  and  running  east  and  west  like  most  of  the
ridges  of  Armenia  outside  the  volcanic  zone.  To  the  north
of  the  plain  lies  a  confused  area,  where  volcanic  effusions
have  overlaid  the  original  plateau  ranges.  To  the  east,  not
far  from  the  Russo-Turkish  frontier,  lie  the  masses  of  the
Djelli-Gel  and  Kodjut-Dag,  which  to  the  west  merge  into  the
great  uplift  of  the  Kargar-bazar.  Further  west  still  rise  the
Giaur  and  Dumlu  Dags,  between  which  and  the  Kargar-
bazar  is  the  only  gap  in  the  whole  length  of  the  mountain-
wall  that  shields  Erzerum  on  the  north.  This  gap  is  the
defile  of  Gurji-Bogaz,1  and  the  road  through  it,  at  the  height
of  7,000  feet,  is  the  only  approach  to  Erzerum  from  this
side.  Coming  up  from  the  south  and  passing  through  this
defile,  one  enters  the  valley  of  the  Tortum  River  and  descends
into  the  relative  depression  of  Olti  Chai  and  the  middle  Cho-
rokh.  The  problem  for  the  Turks  was  to  hold  the  approaches
to  Erzerum  along  the  Passan  plain  on  the  east  (this  was
effected  by  the  9th  and  part  of  the  10th  Army  Corps),  and  to
block  the  narrow  gap  in  the  mountains  on  the  northeast  (this
was  done  by  the  nth  Army  Corps,  which  had  entrenched
itself  some  months  previously  on  the  mountain  mass  of  the

1  Turkish  for  "Georgian  Gates"

28       RUSSIA'S  CONQUEST  OF  ARMENIA

Gey  Dag,  just  southwest  of  Olti).  To  the  south  of  Erze-
rum,  across  the  Palan-teken,  lay  a  part  of  the  ioth  Army
Corps,  protecting  the  road  leading  into  the  Van  basin  and  on
to  Mesopotamia.

The  Russian  plan,  worked  out  by  General  Yudenitch,  the
Grand  Duke  Nicholas's  commander  in  the  field,  was  to  at-
tack the  Turkish  positions  in  three  columns.  The  2nd  Turke-
stan Army  Corps  at  Olti  in  the  Chorokh  depression  was  to
attack  the  Turks  guarding  the  Gurji-Bogaz  defiles  in  the  po-
sitions on  the  Gey  Dag,  and  by  this  demonstration  to  draw
off  their  strength  from  the  Passan  plain,  where  the  main
blow  was  to  be  struck  by  the  ist  Army  Corps,  which  was  to
make  a  frontal  attack  on  the  Azap  Keui  positions  between
Hassan  Kaleh  and  the  old  Russo-Turkish  frontier.  These
positions  had  been  carefully  prepared  for  some  months,  and
had  all  the  signs  of  permanent  field-fortifications.  To  make
them  untenable,  a  third  force,  the  4th  Rifle  Division,  was  to
be  sent  into  the  mountain  country  of  the  Djelli-Gel,  to  hold
the  line  between  the  ist  Army  Corps  and  the  Turkestans,
and  to  threaten  the  flanks  of  the  Turks  at  Azap  Keui  and
on  the  Gey  Dag.  It  is  interesting  to  note  that  this  was  the
same  sort  of  plan  as  that  which  Enver  Pasha  adopted,  when
he  attacked  the  Russians  just  twelve  months  before.  He,
however,  demonstrated  on  the  Passan  plain,  and  made  his
main  attack  on  the  Olti  and  Chorokh  basins.  His  plan  ulti-
mately failed,  because  he  could  not  guarantee  supplies  to  his
advanced  forces  in  the  country  that  they  had  occupied.  But
the  Russians  were  brilliantly  successful,  because  they  had
given  the  necessary  attention  to  roads  and  transport  for  their
main  advance  along  the  Passan  plain.

On  January  13th  the  Russian  advance  began.  The  2nd
Turkestan  Army  Corps  attacked  the  Turkish  nth  Army
Corps,  which  was  strongly  entrenched  on  the  Gey  Dag  west
of  Olti.  The  Russian  losses  were  heavy,  and  they  did  not
succeed  in  dislodging  the  Turks ;  but  the  real  object  of  the
attack  was  obtained  by  causing  the  Turks  to  draw  off  forces
for  the  defense  of  the  northeast  (Gurji-Bogaz)  gateway  to
Erzerum,  and  by  masking  the  main  blow,  which  was  deliv-
ered on  the  Passan  plain.    Information  brought  by  airmen,

RUSSIA'S  CONQUEST  OF  ARMENIA

who  flew  over  Erzerum  during  these  days,  showed  that  Ab-
dulla  Kerim  Pasha,  the  Turkish  commander,  had  withdrawn
one  regiment  to  the  north  to  protect  his  left  flank  in  the  de-
files. This  gave  the  necessary  opportunity  for  the  Russian
I st  Army  Corps  to  carry  the  main  Turkish  position,  and  on
January  13th  the  Azap  Keui  line  was  attacked.

In  spite  of  the  withdrawal  of  a  regiment,  the  Turks  made
a  very  stubborn  resistance,  and  for  three  days  there  was
severe  fighting  with  great  losses  on  both  sides.  But  on  Janu-
ary 15th  the  4th  Composite  Division,  which  had  been  given
the  task  of  connecting  the  2nd  Turkestans  with  the  1st  Army
Corps,  crossed  the  high  rugged  country  of  the  Djelli  Gel  at
a  level  of  9,000  feet,  and  joined  up  with  the  Turkestans  in
the  valleys  of  the  upper  Olti  Chai.  The  Turkish  1  ith  Army
Corps  on  the  Gey  Dag,  and  the  9th  and  10th  in  the  Passan
plain,  were  thus  in  danger  of  being  outflanked.  Moreover,
the  Russians  had  so  severely  pounded  the  Azap  Keui  posi-
tions that  they  were  now  practically  untenable.  So  on  Janu-
ary 1 6th  Abdulla  Kerim  Pasha  ordered  a  general  retreat  to
the  last  line  of  defense  on  the  Erzerum  forts.

Then  followed  what  is  frequently  met  with  in  Turkish
retreats,  and  is  very  characteristic  of  that  race.  The  Turk
has  all  the  stubbornness  and  endurance  of  a  highlander  and
an  agriculturist.  He  does  not  see  at  once  when  he  is  out-
mastered  :  but  when  he  does,  then  the  untrained  Oriental
comes  out  strong  in  him;  he  throws  everything  away  and
bolts  in  a  general  saave  qui  pent.  In  this  case  he  just  ran
till  he  reached  Erzerum.  The  Russians  reached  Kupri  Keui
on  the  1 8th,  and  the  next  day  were  in  Hassan  Kaleh,  thus  get-
ting into  their  hands  the  whole  of  the  east  Passan  plain  and
the  basin  of  the  Araxes  right  up  to  the  outer  forts  of  Erze-
rum. On  January  19th  the  last  Turkish  column  was  seen
disappearing  behind  the  rolling  banks  of  the  Deve-Boyun.
The  Cossacks  pursued  right  up  to  the  outer  chain  of  forts
under  cover  of  darkness,  and  cut  off  1,000  prisoners.  Next
day  field  artillery  shelled  the  outer  forts,  and  so  after  thirty-
nine  years  Erzerum  saw  a  Russian  shell  again  within  its
precincts.

Up  to  this  time  it  was  not  really  part  of  the  Russian  plan

SO       RUSSIA'S  CONQUEST  OF  ARMENIA

to  attack  Erzerum.  The  original  plan  was  to  break  the
Turkish  line  on  the  Passan  plain,  and  to  put  such  pressure
on  the  Turks  along  the  whole  line  from  the  Chorokh  to
Bitlis  that  the  pressure  on  the  English  at  Bagdad  would
be  relieved.  The  extraordinary  success  of  the  advance  in  the
second  week  of  January  took  no  one  more  by  surprise  than
the  Russians  themselves.  The  Grank  Duke  Nicholas  would
not  believe  the  news  when  he  heard  that  Hassan  Kaleh  and
Kupri  Keui  had  fallen.  Indeed,  it  was  not  until  January
23rd  that  General  Yudenitch  informed  him  that  he  thought
it  possible  to  take  Erzerum,  and  asked  for  permission  to
work  out  a  plan.  This  was  done  in  the  next  few  days.  Mean-
while, information  which  strengthened  this  decision  came  to
hand  in  the  shape  of  a  wireless  telegram,  intercepted  be-
tween Abdulla  Kerim  Pasha  and  Enver  Pasha,  in  which  it
was  stated  that  "the  condition  of  the  3rd  Army  is  serious;
reinforcements  must  be  sent  at  once,  or  else  Erzerum  can-
not be  held."

On  January  31st  a  demonstration  was  made  from  Hassan
Kaleh  by  the  Russians  against  the  outer  forts  of  the  Deve-
Boyun  to  test  the  strength  of  the  Turks.  The  bombardment
continued  all  day,  and  by  evening  it  was  seen  that  the  Turks
had  poured  water  down  the  slopes  in  front  of  the  forts,  which
on  freezing  covered  the  mountain  sides  with  icy  sheets.  Ac-
cording to  accounts  given  me  by  some  officers,  as  the  sun  was
setting  that  evening  the  sign  of  a  cross  appeared  in  the  clouds
of  white  smoke  that  accompanied  the  bombardment  and  lay
over  the  forts.

During  the  first  week  of  February  heavy  artillery  was
brought  up,  and  the  Russian  dispositions  were  made  and
developed  with  extraordinary  skill.  General  Paskevitch,
when  he  captured  Erzerum  in  1828,  confined  his  attentions
solely  to  the  approach  from  the  Passan  plain.  Meeting  with
slight  Turkish  resistance  and  with  primitive  forts,  he  had  no
great  difficulty  in  breaking  through  the  Deve-Boyun.  He
had  not  to  trouble  about  the  defiles  and  the  northern  ap-
proaches to  Erzerum,  nor  had  he  to  force  a  passage  across
immense  mountainous  tracts  of  snowy  wastes  in  order  to
keep  his  line  of  advance  intact.   But  in  these  days  the  meth-

RUSSIA'S  CONQUEST  OF  ARMENIA  31

ods  of  modern  warfare  have  to  some  degree  overcome  nature.
The  Gurji-Bogaz  defiles  were  now  passable  for  artillery,  and
moreover  the  Turks  had  built  two  forts  there.  On  their
extreme  left  wing  a  whole  Turkish  Army  Corps  held  posi-
tions far  away  in  the  isolated  valleys  of  the  upper  Chorokh
Su,  where  it  had  before  been  impossible  to  keep  and  feed  a
battalion.  The  devices  of  the  engineer  and  transport  services
had  made  all  this  possible.  The  Russians  therefore  were
threatened  with  the  danger  that,  if  they  should  make  a
frontal  attack  on  the  Deve-Boyun  forts  and  carry  them,  the
Turks  in  the  upper  Chorokh  might  suddenly  make  a  great
counter-move,  break  into  the  Olti  depression,  reach  the
Kars  plateau,  and  so  get  into  the  rear  of  the  whole  Russian
army,  as  they  did  in  December,  1914.

This  in  fact  is  exactly  what  Abdulla  Kerim  Pasha  tried
to  do.  He  ordered  Halid  Bey  (the  exceedingly  brave,  if
somewhat  rash,  commander  of  the  frontier  regiment  which
had  retreated  from  before  Artvin  through  Southern  Lazistan
when  the  Azap  Keui  positions  were  captured)  to  call  up  re-
enforcements  from  Baiburt,  break  through  the  narrow  Tor-
turn  valley  and  cut  off  the  2nd  Turkestan  Army  Corps  at
Olti.  During  the  first  ten  days  of  February  severe  fighting
took  place  on  the  passes  of  the  Kabak-tepe  east  of  Igdir,
and  on  more  than  one  occasion  Halid  Bey  seemed  on  the
point  of  outflanking  General  Prejvalsky.  By  February  10th,
however,  the  Russian  Turkestans  had  succeeded  in  repulsing
him  and  were  secure  in  the  Tortum  valley,  and  it  was  safe
for  General  Yudenitch  to  begin  his  advance  on  Erzerum.

The  plan  was  to  form  the  whole  of  the  Russian  forces
in  this  part  of  Armenia  into  a  great  semicircular  line  stretch-
ing from  the  Upper  Chorokh  Su  across  the  great  volcanic
chains  of  the  Dumlu  and  Giaur  Dags  and  the  Kargar-bazar,
across  the  Passan  plain,  and  the  heights  of  the  Palan-teken
to  the  valley  of  Khunus.  The  line  was  some  130  miles  long,
and  it  had  to  be  covered  by  two  Army  Corps  and  some  de-
tached forces.  All  the  different  sections  of  the  line  had  to
keep  in  touch  with  each  other,  and  to  advance  over  snow-
bound plateau  or  icy  mountain  skree,  whichever  fell  to  their
tot,  thus  gradually  converging  upon  the  great  fortress,  and

32       RUSSIA'S  CONQUEST  OF  ARMENIA

threatening  to  surround  it.  The  object  of  General  Yudenitch,
in  this  most  ably  conceived  and  brilliantly  executed  plan,
was  to  force  Abdulla  Kerim  Pasha  either  to  evacuate  Erze-
rum,  or  else  to  be  locked  up  in  it  with  no  hope  of  relief.

It  is  safe  to  say  that  the  struggle  was  much  greater  in
this  operation  with  the  natural  enemies,  cold  and  hunger,
than  it  was  with  the  Turks.  The  Russian  troops  had  to  cross
mountain  ranges  with  deep  snow-drifts  at  10,000  feet,  and  to
go  for  at  least  three  days  cut  off  from  supplies  of  food,  with
nothing  but  the  few  crusts  of  bread  they  could  carry  with
them.  No  other  race  of  human  beings,  except  those  accus-
tomed to  the  cold  of  sub-arctic  climates  like  that  of  Russia,
could  have  performed  this  feat.  The  Anatolian  Turk  is  in  no
degree  inferior  to  the  Russian  in  physical  endurance,  but  he
lacks  the  habit  of  husbanding  his  resources.  The  Russian,
whenever  he  gets  the  smallest  chance,  sets  himself  down  in
some  little  hollow,  and  somehow  or  other  makes  himself  a
cup  of  tea  by  burning  bits  of  grass  or  moss.  But  the  Turkish
soldier  literally  goes  without  anything  for  two  or  three  days,
and  then  eats  a  whole  sheep  or  a  perfect  mountain  of  "pilaff,"
so  that  he  cannot  move  for  hours.  Moreover,  the  Turkish
army  has  in  it  Arabs  and  Syrians,  who  can  ill  endure  a  winter
campaign  in  Armenia.

On  February  nth  the  order  for  the  general  Russian  ad-
vance was  given.  The  Elizabetopol  and  Baku  regiments  at-
tacked Forts  Chaban-dede  and  Dolan-gyoz  respectively.  The
latter  fort  is  situated  on  a  little  knoll  which  juts  out  into  the
Passan  plain,  and  is,  as  it  were,  the  advanced  guard  of  the
outer  chain.  By  5  a.  m.  on  the  12th  Dolan-gyoz  was  sur-
rounded, but  the  battalion  of  Turks  holding  the  fort  managed
to  retreat  to  the  Uzun  Ahmet  fort,  a  powerful  redoubt  which
rests  upon  a  trapeze-like  rocky  mass  with  cliffs  on  three  sides.
At  the  same  time  the  2nd  Turkestans,  advancing  through  the
defiles  of  the  Gurji-Bogaz,  surrounded  the  advanced  fort  of
Kara-gyubek.  Two  outposts  were  already  in  the  hands  of
the  Russians ;  but  the  main  struggle  was  yet  to  come.

On  the  Kargar-bazar  heights  to  the  north  all  through  the
day  and  night  of  the  10th  and  1  ith  of  February  the  4th  Com-
posite Division  attacked  the  Turks  across  snow-fields  and

RUSSIA'S  CONQUEST  OF  ARMENIA  33

skrees  of  rock.  The  summit  of  the  range  was  in  the  hands
of  the  Russians,  but  the  Turks  held  stubbornly  on  to  the
snow-fields  to  the  west  of  the  summit  which  connected  Forts
Chaban-dede  and  Tufta.  Here  they  had  made  snow-trenches,
which  were  invisible  to  the  naked  eye  at  a  distance  of  more
than  a  hundred  yards.  On  the  night  of  the  12th  the  right
wing  of  the  39th  Division  was  ordered  to  attack  Fort  Cha-
ban-dede, which,  with  Tufta,  was  the  key  to  Erzerum.  The
Baku  regiment,  which  had  taken  Dolan-gyoz,  now  joined  the
Elizabetopols,  and  together  they  advanced  from  the  village
of  Buyuk  Tuy  on  the  Passan  plain  up  the  rocky  valley  of  the
Tuy  towards  the  towering  cliffs,  on  which  Fort  Chaban-dede
rested.  The  Russian  soldiers  were  clad  in  white  coats,  so
that  in  the  darkness  and  against  the  snow  they  were  invisible.
Silently  creeping  up  the  rocky  slopes  to  the  fort,  they  got  to
within  250  yards  of  it  before  the  Turkish  searchlights  dis-
covered them.  At  once  from  the  Uzun  Ahmet  and  Chaban-
dede  forts  a  murderous  cross-fire  was  poured  upon  them,
which  in  two  hours  caused  them  to  lose  one-third  of  their
number.  However,  one  battalion  of  the  Elizabetopols
pushed  right  up,  till  they  got  underneath  the  cliffs  of  Fort
Chaban-dede.  Here  the  guns  from  the  fort  could  not  fire  at
them,  the  angle  being  too  high :  but  the  guns  from  Uzun  Ah-
met could  still  rake  their  lines.  At  this  moment  clso  the
108th  regiment  of  the  nth  Turkish  Army  Corps  on  the
Olugli  heights  at  the  head  of  the  Tuy  defile  began  a  flanking
movement.  The  right  wing  of  the  Elizabetopol  regiment  was
exposed,  and  as  there  was  no  sign  of  the  4th  Division,  whose
appearance  alone  could  fill  the  gap,  the  position  was  critical.

The  4th  Division  was  in  fact  at  this  moment  struggling
under  almost  more  terrible  conditions  at  the  height  of  10,000
feet  on  the  Kargar-bazar.  The  men  were  engaged  not  with
the  Turks,  but  with  the  frost  and  snow.  During  the  nights
of  the  12th  and  13th  they  lost  2,000  of  their  number  from
frost-bite  alone.  In  addition  to  their  sufferings  from  cold,
they  had  the  Herculean  task  of  carrying  their  artillery  across
the  snow  and  rocks,  which  alone  was  enough  to  account  for
their  delay.  Accordingly,  there  was  nothing  for  the  Eliza-
6etopol  and  Bakintsi  regiments  to  do  but  to  retreat  to  the  bot-

34       RUSSIA'S  CONQUEST  OF  ARMENIA

torn  of  the  Tuy  valley,  where  respite  could  be  obtained,  and
this  they  did  on  the  morning  of  the  13th.  All  that  day  they
waited  in  vain  for  the  4th  Division ;  but  when  evening  came
and  no  one  appeared,  it  was  seen  to  be  useless  to  wait  any
longer,  for  time  only  aided  the  Turks,  whose  reinforcements
were  being  hurried  up  from  Erzerum.  So  it  was  decided  that
the  Derbent  regiment,  which  had  hitherto  been  held  in  re-
serve, should  come  up  on  the  right  wing  and  try  to  turn  the
flank  of  the  108th  Turkish  regiment,  which  was  now  oc-
cupying the  heights  of  the  Sergy-kaya,  a  desolate  knoll  on
the  rocky  mass  of  Olugli.

At  7  p.  m.  the  advance  began.  The  Derbent  regiment
left  its  position  in  the  rear,  and  crossing  in  the  darkness  the
head  of  the  Tuy  valley,  ascended  a  defile  and  reached  the
snow-fields  round  the  Olugli  mass.  Immense  difficulty  was
experienced  in  the  advance.  The  snow  lay  in  drifts  often
five  to  six  feet  deep,  and  in  places  the  soldiers  in  order  to
move  had  to  take  off  their  coats  and  walk  on  them  in  the
snow,  throwing  them  forward  every  three  feet  to  avoid  sink-
ing in  up  to  their  necks.  In  this  way  they  advanced  pain-
fully all  night.  The  Turks,  suspecting  nothing,  were  lying
in  their  snow  trenches,  their  attention  chiefly  concentrated  on
how  to  prevent  themselves  from  freezing  to  death.  At  last
daylight  began  to  break  upon  this  arctic  scene,  and  through
scuds  of  snow  broken  by  the  icy  wind,  the  Turks  saw  a  chain
of  dark  forms  slowly  closing  in  on  them.  They  could  hardly
believe  their  eyes,  for  it  seemed  to  them  impossible  that  a
human  army  with  rifles  and  ammunition  could  cross  the
country  that  lay  in  front  of  them.

By  5.30  a.  m.  the  Turks  saw  that  their  trenches  on  the
Sergy-kaya  were  being  surrounded  from  the  northeast  and
east,  and  only  a  narrow  neck  of  snow-field  to  the  south  con-
nected them  with  the  fort  of  Chaban-dede.  So  they  hastily
left  their  trenches  and  retreated  as  fast  as  the  drifts  would
allow  them  across  the  Olugli  snow-field  till  they  reached  the
fort.  Chaban-dede  was  now  surrounded  on  the  northeast,
but  the  retreat  of  the  Turkish  garrison  was  not  cut  off  on
the  south  and  west,  and  the  Turks  with  characteristic  stub-
bornness and  bravery  continued  their  deadly  cross-fire  from

RUSSIA'S  CONQUEST  OF  ARMENIA  35

Forts  Uzun  Ahmet  and  Chaban-dede,  as  if  nothing  had  hap-
pened. Thus  the  Derbent  regiment  had  by  this  maneuver
gained  important  ground;  but  the  Russians  had  not  yet
broken  the  Turkish  cordon  that  united  the  forts,  nor  did  the
three  regiments  of  the  39th  Division  dare  to  advance  far-
ther for  fear  of  becoming  separated  from  the  Russians  to
the  right  and  left  of  them,  and  so  giving  the  Turks  a  chance
to  break  through  in  a  counter-attack.

But  what  had  happened  meanwhile  to  the  4th  Composite
Division  and  the  2nd  Turkestans  ?  They  alone  could  save  the
situation  by  piercing  the  plateau  between  Forts  Chaban-dede
and  Tufta,  and  so  joining  up  with  the  Derbent  regiment  on
the  heights  of  Olugli.  The  critical  question  was  whether  they
had  been  equal  to  their  stupendous  task  of  penetrating  the  50
miles  of  rugged  snow-bound  ridges  and  plateau.  The  morn-
ing of  February  14th  showed  that  they  had  accomplished
this  task,  and  so  sealed  the  fate  of  Erzerum.

During  the  previous  day  the  4th  Composite  Division  had
been  finishing  the  transport  of  their  artillery  to  the  summit
of  the  Kargar-bazar  ridge.  The  guns  had  again  been  dis-
membered, and  carried  to  positions  whence  they  could  drop
shells  on  the  Turks  defending  the  right  flank  of  Fort  Tufta.
The  Turkestans  had  also  prepared  their  artillery  to  sweep
the  fort  from  the  north.  On  the  morning  of  February  the
14th  the  infantry  of  the  4th  Division  descended  the  north-
western slopes  of  the  Kargar-bazar,  sliding  down  the  snow
on  their  coats  to  the  open  plateau,  out  of  which  the  Tuy
River  rises.  From  here  they  moved  on  to  the  northwest  and
reached  the  foot  of  the  Grobovoye  heights,  which  form  the
eastern  side  of  the  Gurji-Bogaz  defile.  This  is  the  north-
eastern "gateway"  to  Erzerum  through  which  the  2nd  Turke-
stans were  to  advance,  and  which  the  Turkish  10th  Army
Corps  was  defending  from  Forts  Kara-gyubek  and  Tufta.
The  plan  was  that  the  Turkish  positions  on  the  Grobovoye
heights,  connecting  Forts  Kara-gyubek  and  Tufta,  should  be
attacked  simultaneously  by  the  Turkestans  coming  through
the  northern  defiles,  and  by  the  4th  Division  coming  down
from  the  Kargar-bazar  on  the  south.

The  critical  moment  for  the  Russians  had  arrived.

36       RUSSIA'S  CONQUEST  OF  ARMENIA

Would  these  forces  unite  and  press  their  attack  together,  or
had  one  of  them  failed  and  been  overwhelmed  in  the  snow-
fields  or  defiles?  About  midday  the  artillery  of  the  4th  Di-
vision began  to  drop  shells  on  the  Turkish  snow-trenches  on
the  Grobovoye  heights.  The  bombardment  went  on  for  half
an  hour  and  then  stopped,  the  commanders  waiting  in  sus-
pense to  hear  whether  there  was  any  reply  from  their  com-
rades, the  Turkestans,  who  should  by  this  time  be  attacking
from  the  north.  Hope  was  beginning  to  wane,  and  they  were
faced  by  the  prospect  either  of  a  single-handed  encounter
with  a  greatly  superior  enemy  or  of  a  disastrous  retreat.
But  about  one  o'clock  a  faint  rumble  was  heard,  and  a  few
minutes  later  shells  were  seen  dropping  on  the  Grobovoye
heights.  They  were  Russian  shells,  yet  not  fired  by  the  4th
Division.  The  situation  was  saved,  for  the  Turkestans  had
forced  their  way  through  the  Gurji-Bogaz  defile,  capturing
Fort  Kara-gyubek,  and  pressing  on  to  the  Grobovoye  heights
and  towards  Fort  Tufta.

The  Turks  now  on  the  Grobovoye  heights  were  in  danger
of  being  surrounded  from  the  north,  south  and  east.  They
could  see  that  Kara-gyubek  was  already  in  Russian  hands.
The  left  wing  of  the  4th  Division,  moreover,  was  pressing  on
to  the  heights  of  Kuni-tepe,  a  mass  lying  north  of  the  Olugli
and  commanding  Fort  Tufta  from  the  south.  This  they  oc-
cupied at  three  o'clock,  and  the  Turks  on  the  Grobovoye
heights  retired  at  once  on  Fort  Tufta.  In  another  half-hour
the  Turkestans  appeared  upon  the  sky-line ;  and  here,  on  this
desolate  Grobovoye  height,  at  this  historic  moment,  they
greeted  their  brothers  of  the  4th  Division.  The  gap  in  the
Russian  line  was  now  filled;  the  mountains  and  the  snow-
fields  had  been  overcome,  and  it  was  now  only  a  question  of
a  few  hours  before  the  Turks  would  be  overcome  too.

Just  as  this  memorable  meeting  was  taking  place,  the  Rus-
sian artillery  observation  posts  at  Ketchk  noticed  a  great  stir
in  the  Turkish  lines  surrounding  Fort  Tufta.  The  Staff  of
the  loth  Army  Corps  knew  that  the  game  was  up,  and,  to
escape  being  surrounded,  at  once  began  the  evacuation  of
Fort  Tufta.  That  night  also  Abdulla  Kerim  Pasha  ordered
the  evacuation  of  all  the  forts  of  the  Deve-Boyun.   The  re-

RUSSIA'S  CONQUEST  OF  ARMENIA  37

serves  of  the  nth  Army  Corps  were  the  first  to  leave,  fol-
lowed by  those  of  the  9th.  Then  explosions  in  Forts  Kabur-
gar,  Ortayuk,  Uzun  Ahmet  and  Sivishli  were  observed  from
the  Russian  lines.  The  evacuation  of  Fort  Chaban-dede  was
begun  at  2  p.  m.,  and  by  four  o'clock  the  Russians  were  in
possession  of  all  the  forts  of  the  Deve-Boyun,  while  the
4th  Composite  Division  and  the  Turkestans  were  pouring
into  the  Erzerum  plain,  in  the  hope  of  cutting  off  the  Turkish
retreat.  But  here  they  met  with  less  success.  The  4th
Division,  with  orders  to  advance  south,  were  ten  miles  ahead
of  the  Turkestans,  who  had  orders  to  advance  west.  The
confusion  caused  by  columns  crossing  on  the  march  gave  a
good  start  to  the  Turks,  who  had  speedily  evacuated  the
forts,  as  soon  as  danger  was  imminent.  Yet  one  of  their
divisions,  the  34th,  was  captured  at  Uidja,  and  a  large  part
of  their  artillery  was  lost.

It  is  curious  that  the  Russians  lost  much  less  in  the  opera-
tions before  Erzerum  than  they  did  in  the  fighting  before
the  Azap  Keui  positions  in  the  previous  month,  when  they
lost  not  less  than  30,000  killed  and  wounded  in  four  days'
fighting.  But  in  the  five  days'  fighting  along  the  -whole  length
of  the  Erzerum  forts  from  the  Deve-Boyun  to  the  Gurji-
Bogaz  defiles  their  losses  were  not  more  than  12,000,  a  large
part  of  which  were  deaths  or  injuries  due  to  exposure.

The  capture  of  the  great  fortress,  hitherto  considered
impregnable,  sent  a  thrill  through  the  whole  continent.  Every
bazaar  from  Shiraz  to  Samarkand,  from  Konia  to  Kuldja,
began  talking  of  the  great  Urus,  who  had  taken  Erzerum
from  the  Osmanli.  Russian  military  prestige  in  the  East  had
fallen  very  low  since  the  Sarikamish  battle  and  Enver  Pasha's
advance  into  the  Caucasus  in  December,  19 14.  But  the  Dar-
danelles expedition  had  given  the  Turks  something  else  to
think  of  than  conquering  the  Caucasus,  and  had  thus  af-
forded the  Russians  the  necessary  respite  to  prepare  for  theii
attack  on  Erzerum,  which  in  its  turn  saved  the  British  from
being  driven  completely  out  of  Mesopotamia.

The  capture  of  Erzerum  was  the  first  great  success  that
came  to  the  Allies  in  Asia.  It  might  be  regarded  as  the
turning  point  of  the  war  in  the  East.

THE  FIRST  ASSAULT  ON  VERDUN

THE  MIGHTIEST  EFFORT  OF  GERMANY'S  ARTILLERY

FEBRUARY  2 1  ST

COUNT  DE  SOUZA  GENERAL  VON  FALKENHAYN

CROWN  PRINCE  FREDERICK  WILLIAM
LORD  NORTHCLIFFE  GENERAL  VON  LUDENDORFF

The  long  continued  assault  upon  Verdun  will  remain  to  most  minds
the  great  typical  battle  of  the  War.  The  first  series  of  attacks  began
abruptly  on  February  21st,  and  lasted  almost  without  a  day  of  pause
for  over  a  month.  During  the  first  week  of  this  terrific  onslaught,  the
German  advance  was  sufficient  to  encourage  its  commanders  to  hope
for  an  early  success  not  only  in  taking  Verdun,  which  in  itself  meant
nothing,  but  in  breaking  completely  through  the  battered  line  of  de-
fense.   The  French  even  contemplated  abandoning  Verdun.

By  March  1st,  however,  French  reinforcements  had  arrived  in  suffi-
cient numbers  to  make  the  battle  equal,  and  General  Petain  took  com-
mand of  the  defense.  His  cheery  battle  cry  to  his  men :  "Now,  we
shall  have  them !"  has  become  almost  as  noted  as  that  other  Verdun
battle-cry  of  the  later  months,  "They  shall  not  pass!"

The  general  summary  of  the  strategic  situation  is  given  by  the
noted  French  military  authority,  De  Souza,  whose  faith  in  his  country-
men and  in  the  great  Marshal  Joffre  makes  him  confident  that  their
final  victory  never  for  a  moment  wavered  in  the  balance.  The  Febru-
ary assault  is  pictured  by  the  great  British  newspaper  director  who
witnessed  it,  Lord  Northcliffe.  Other  glimpses  are  also  given  from
the  personal  narratives  of  participants.

The  German  viewpoint  is  presented  by  the  man  then  in  control  of
the  entire  German  plans  of  war,  the  Head  of  the  High  Staff,  Falken-
hayn,  and  also  by  the  Crown  Prince,  who  was  the  general  in  actual
command  at  Verdun  and  so  received  the  main  blame  for  its  final
failure.  Falkenhayn's  "defense"  has  a  special  interest  because  he  lost
his  place  as  military  director  on  account  of  Verdun.  He  was  suc-
ceeded by  Ludendorff;  so  our  section  closes  with  Ludendorff's  own
contemptuous  summary  of  his  predecessor's  effort.

In  briefest  outline  the  chief  events  of  the  first  six  weeks'  battle
were  as  follows :  Verdun  lies  on  the  Meuse  River,  which  here  winds
in  loops  through  a  network  of  hills.  The  first  German  attacks  were
made  well  to  the  eastward  of  the  river,  and  in  five  days  carried  the
assailants  half  way  to  Verdun,  close  to  the  strong  French  defenses
around  Forts  Douaumont  and  Vaux.  On  February  26th  one  German
regiment  reached  an  outer  section  of  Douaumont  and  for  a  time  main-
tained itself  among  the  ruins ;  but  no  more  Germans  could  fight  their
way  to  this  isolated  group  and  the  French  afterward  retook  the  posi-
tion. Here  the  French  line  resisted  all  further  assaults.  Meanwhile,
early  in  March,  the  Germans  began  attacking  the  hills  west  of  the

THE  FIRST  ASSAULT  ON  VERDUN  39

Meuse.  Here  they  were  equally  firmly  resisted,  and  very  gradually
won  their  way  until  they  reached  "Dead  Man's  Hill."  Against  this
they  made  a  tremendous  assault  on  April  7th,  gaining  some  slopes  of
the  hill,  but  being  beaten  back  from  its  main  summit.  After  this  re-
pulse they  were  obliged  to  pause  and  use  a  considerable  period  for
the  reorganizing  and  reenforcing  of  their  terribly  battered  troops.  Ex-
cept for  the  first  few  days  of  French  unreadiness,  the  Germans'  most
stupendous  efforts  had  won  for  them  no  appreciable  advance  toward
Verdun.

This,  however,  was  only  the  first  stage  of  the  struggle.  In  May,
as  a  later  section  of  this  volume  describes,  the  stupendous  battle  burst
into  new  flame.

BY  COUNT  DE  SOUZA

IN  dealing  with  the  great  battles  and  operations  which  de-
veloped and  were  prolonged  for  months  around  the  Ver-
dun salient,  one  must  naturally  dwell  chiefly  on  the  opening
stages,  as  these  initial  movements,  like  those  of  the  general
conflict  itself,  decided  both  the  course  and  the  issue  of  the
struggle.

The  first  action  started  on  February  21st,  that  is  if  one
dates  it  from  the  opening  of  the  German  infantry  assaults,
the  preliminary  bombardment  of  the  foe  having  been  in  full
swing  some  time  before.  It  increased  in  intensity  and  vio-
lence until  the  moment  appointed  for  the  infantry  move-
ments ;  then  the  German  troops  which  were  massed  opposite
the  sector  of  the  salient  to  be  attacked,  advanced  and  de-
ployed on  a  line  stretching  from  Consenvoye,  on  the  Meuse,
to  a  point  facing  Ornes,  at  the  opening  of  the  Spincourt  for-
est. There  were  altogether  three  full  army  corps  (or,
roughly,  120,000  men)  with  subsidiary  columns  in  support;
and  others  flanking  them  towards  the  Woevre,  and  on  the
left  bank  of  the  Meuse;  they  moved  forward  and  swarmed
in  compact  masses  over  the  French  advanced  positions  which
had  been  battered,  plowed  and  destroyed  by  their  guns,  and
they  forthwith  assaulted  the  various  points  d'appui — farms,
hills,  woods  and  villages — which,  in  spite  of  the  terrible  fire
to  which  they  were  subjected  and  to  which  they  could  not  as
yet  adequately  reply,  the  French  still  held  with  grim  and
stubborn  determination.  And  in  these  localities — Brabant,
Haumont,  Herbebois,  the  woods  of  Wavrille  and  Des  Caures
— which  suddenly  assumed  a  sinister  fame,  there  were  des-

40       THE  FIRST  ASSAULT  ON  VERDUN

perate  and  fearful  encounters,  the  whole  region  around  be-
coming a  blazing  furnace,  a  roaring  volcano.

The  French  advance  elements  were  weak  ones;  on  that
sector  of  the  salient  they  totaled  barely  12,000  men;  and
the  powerful  barrage  fire  which  the  enemy  through  intense
gun  concentration  was  able  to  establish  behind  them,  made
it  difficult,  if  not  actually  impossible  in  every  instance,  for
the  forces  more  to  the  rear  to  lend  them  any  support.  Never-
theless, they  did  what  they  could  to  maintain  the  illusion
which  the  assailants  evidently  entertained  as  to  their  strength
in  numbers.  For  the  latter  acted  there  as  on  former  and
similar  occasions,  their  plan  of  attack,  which  they  carried
out  to  the  letter,  being  based  on  the  assumption  that  their
opponents  held  the  Verdun  salient  in  full  force.  Neither
through  their  aircraft  reconnoissances  nor  by  other  means
of  obtaining  information,  had  they  succeeded  in  finding  out
the  real  numbers  and  dispositions  of  the  French;  and  their
massive  tactics  and  ponderous  and  deliberate  movements
clearly  showed  that  they  were  under  the  impression  that  a
strong  army  was  opposing  them.

During  five  days  the  heroic  Fantassins,  the  Chasseurs  and
the  Zouaves  held  on  against  the  surging  masses.  Plied  with
shot  and  shell,  scorched  by  liquid  fire,  and  suffering  besides
all  the  torments  which  troops  in  their  position  must  endure,
they  defended  stubbornly  every  inch  of  the  ground,  delivered
telling  blows,  and  by  their  efficiency  and  spirit  of  fortitude
they  held  back  and  delayed  the  enemy  columns  which  were
endeavoring  to  reach  Verdun  and  to  turn  from  the  north
the  Heights  of  the  Meuse.  Their  action  besides  rendered
possible  the  defense  of  the  salient.

For  some  little  time  the  French  generals,  puzzled  as  to
the  true  designs  of  the  foe,  could  not  make  up  their  minds  to
undertake  a  counter-movement  across  the  Meuse ;  and  in  view
of  the  possible — and  probable — development  of  the  German
offensive  on  the  left  bank  of  the  river — a  movement  which
would  have  threatened  the  communications  of  the  troops  on
the  right  bank — they  had  taken  into  serious  consideration
the  eventuality  of  having  to  evacuate  Verdun;  preliminary
steps  had  been  taken  in  that  direction ;  from  the  very  opening

THE  FIRST  ASSAULT  ON  VERDUN  41

of  the  German  bombardment  the  civilian  population  had  been
withdrawn ;  and  some  of  the  outer  forts  had  been  dismantled
so  that  they  should  not  serve  as  points  d'appui  to  the  enemy
during  the  progress  of  his  advance;  a  contingency,  however,
which  made  it  more  difficult  in  the  course  of  time  for  the  de-
fenders to  hold  the  salient  when,  owing  to  unforeseen  cir-
cumstances and  the  blunder  committed  by  the  foe,  they  at
length  resolved  to  keep  the  positions  on  the  right  bank  in
their  possession.

In  regard  to  this,  and  lest  a  wrong  view  of  affairs  should
be  taken,  it  is  as  well  to  repeat  here  that  the  French  Staff
wisely  subordinated  everything  to  sound  strategy,  and  above
all,  to  their  inflexible  system  of  man-economy.  General
Joffre's  primary  consideration  was  to  spare  his  men  as
much  as  technical  requirements  permitted,  and  he  would  not
have  occupied  in  force  and  held  a  position  if  his  calculations
had  showed  him  that  the  margin  of  casualties  would  be  to  the
profit  of  the  enemy.

It  was  chiefly  the  manner  in  which  the  Germans  carried
out  their  onslaughts  which  altered  the  minds  of  the  French
Staff  in  regard  to  the  value  of  the  Verdun  salient  as  a  point
of  general  and  decisive  contact.

When  the  preliminary  bombardment  began,  they  had
been  expecting  and  somewhat  fearing  an  enemy  attack  on
the  western  side  of  the  Meuse  from  Montfaucon,  which
would  have  endangered  the  position  of  the  troops  on  the  right
bank.  The  enemy's  artillery  was  almost  as  active  in  that  re-
gion and  was  centering  its  fire  on  the  railway  line  to  Ste.
Menehould  and  Clermont.  The  Germans,  there  is  no  doubt,
wished  to  mislead  the  French,  but  they  committed  a  con-
siderable error  in  omitting  to  carry  out  a  more  substantial
threat,  this  being  due,  as  has  been  said,  to  one  of  their  lead-
ers' views  on  the  matter.  The  French,  who  were  fairly  well
informed  as  to  the  objective  and  purpose  of  the  coming  Ger-
man attempt — an  attempt  which,  moreover,  they  had  fore-
seen and  made  ready  for  for  months — had  mapped  out  their
scheme  of  concentration  in  view  of  forestalling  a  German
offensive  on  both  sides  of  the  Meuse ;  the  right  of  de  Langle
de  Cary's  troops,  who  were  operating  in  the  Argonne,  had

42       THE  FIRST  ASSAULT  ON  VERDUN

been  reenforced  on  the  Avoncourt-Bethincourt  line;  and  so
certain  the  French  generals  felt  about  it  that  it  was  not  until
two  days  after  the  opening  of  the  enemy's  infantry  move-
ment to  the  northeast  of  Verdun  that  definite  orders  were
sent  to  the  commanding  officer  on  the  spot  (General  Herr)
to  hold  the  positions  on  the  eastern  bank  at  all  cost  (Febru-
ary 23rd).  Even  then,  thinking  of  a  ruse  on  the  part  of  the
foe,  General  Joffre  felt  diffident  as  to  throwing  too  many  of
his  forces  on  that  side  of  the  river,  as  it  would  be  difficult
and  probably  costly  to  withdraw  them  should  this,  for  rea-
sons of  strategy,  become  necessary.  On  the  25th,  only  when
it  was  realized  that  the  German  attack  was  not  a  feint,  and
that  they  had  as  yet  no  intention  of  assaulting  the  French
positions  on  the  opposite  side,  the  French  Staff  took  ample
dispositions  to  keep  the  salient,  and  Verdun,  in  their  posses-
sion. It  was  then  that  General  Petain,  a  gifted  and  experi-
enced tactician,  was  appointed,  and  that  considerable  re-
enforcements  were  thrown  across  the  river.

This  opened  the  second  stage  of  the  action;  but  ere  one
proceeds  with  the  narrative  of  the  battle,  one  may  touch  on
a  sidelight  of  the  event  which  produced  much  stir  at  the  time.

This  was  the  nomination  of  General  Petain  to  take
charge  of  matters  at  Verdun.

By  the  overawed  public,  the  appointment  of  this  gen-
eral was  interpreted  as  a  sign  of  unreadiness  and  weakness
on  the  part  of  the  French,  and  in  consequence  General  Joffre
himself  did  not  escape  censure  from  malcontent  quarters.
The  newspaper  he  Matin  published  on  the  Verdun  operations
a  criticism  which  was  based  on  contorted  facts,  and  which
elicited  a  strong  rebuke  from  high  quarters.  It  was  thought
then — as  usual  (re  battle  of  Soissons;  battle  of  Ypres,  etc.)
— that  the  situation  of  France  and  of  the  Allies  was  critical;
and  the  enemies  of  the  Republic  took  advantage  of  the  op-
portunity to  injure  the  good  name,  and  lower  the  prestige,
of  the  existing  authorities,  their  views  on  the  matter  corre-
sponding naturally  with  those  of  the  foe.

General  Petain's  nomination,  however,  was  a  question  of
pure  technicalities  and  the  fuss  which  was  made  about  it  in
some  quarters  was  quite  out  of  keeping  with  the  character  of

THE  FIRST  ASSAULT  ON  VERDUN  43

the  event.  A  tactical  job  had  to  be  done,  and  that  job  was
naturally  given  to  the  man  who  was  best  tried  in  the  kind
of  operation  which  was  about  to  be  undertaken.

The  French  troops  which  were  thrown  across  the  Meuse
on  February  25th-26th  consisted  in  several  divisions  belong-
ing to  the  1  st,  the  3rd,  the  7th,  and  the  20th  Army  Corps,
most  of  these  first-rate  elements  having  been  brought  over
from  northwestern  France  after  the  fresh  extension  of  the
British  front  there.  They  were  placed  under  the  immediate
direction  of  Generals  Herr,  Nivelle  and  Balfourier;  and
whilst  they  moved  forward  to  occupy  the  commanding  po-
sitions around  Verdun,  and  to  link  them  with  those  which
were  held  by  other  divisions  (5th  and  6th  Corps)  on  the
Heights  of  the  Meuse,  a  flanking  movement  was  carried  out
from  the  western  bank  of  the  river,  near  Forges  and  Cumi-
eres  by  units  of  the  2nd  Corps  who  had  been  battling  for
months  in  the  Argonne.  This  movement,  which  was  com-
bined with  an  infantry  attack  from  the  Talou  Heights,
brought  to  a  standstill  in  the  valley  of  the  Meuse,  near
Champneuville,  the  enemy  column  ( Vllth  Corps)  which  had
carried  Brabant  and  Samogneux,  and  which  from  the  latter
place  was  advancing  to  the  attack  of  the  main  French
line.  Caught  between  two  fires  and  vigorously  charged  with
the  bayonet,  the  enemy  in  that  quarter  gave  way  and  retired,
the  support  given  him  on  the  western  bank  being  too  meager
to  allow  him  to  resume  his  forward  movement  with  success.
Thus  the  French  reinforcements  were  enabled  to  establish
themselves  and  make  good  their  positions  on  the  range  of
low-lying  heights  which  cover  Verdun  from  the  north.

The  crowning  operation  which  rendered  the  position  of
the  French  secure  at  Verdun  was  carried  out  by  General  Bal-
fourier with  troops  of  the  20th  Corps.  The  notable  feature
about  this  operation  was  that  General  Balfourier  could  only
dispose  at  the  moment  of  one  brigade  of  the  division  which
he  had  brought  forward  across  the  Meuse,  the  other  at  the
time  being  still  on  the  way.  His  task  was  not  only  to  check
the  German  forces  (XVIIIth  Corps)  which  had  entered
Louvemont  and  were  advancing  from  that  direction  against
the  eastern  flank  of  the  Pepper  ridge  position,  but  also  to

44       THE  FIRST  ASSAULT  ON  VERDUN

storm  and  recapture  the  Douaumont  plateau,  village  and  fort,
which  another  enemy  contingent  (Illrd  Corps)  had  taken.
Happily,  Balfourier's  battalions  were  crack  troops,  and  they
were  at  full  strength  and  comparatively  fresh.  Furthermore,
their  leader  was  an  officer  of  talent.  Without  hesitation,  as
the  brigade  issued  from  Bras,  on  the  Meuse,  he  threw  it  for-
ward to  the  west  of  Douaumont,  his  action  there  resembling
that  of  Sir  Douglas  Haig  at  Ypres  on  October  21,  1914,
when  the  English  general  had  stopped  the  dangerous  gap,
north  of  the  town.  At  the  battle  of  Verdun  Balfourier
stopped  the  gap  which  then  existed  (February  26th)  between
the  Pepper  ridge  and  the  Douaumont  position ;  he  outflanked
and  overthrew  the  Germans  at  Louvemont ;  and  then  his  bat-
talions stormed  and  carried  the  Douaumont  position,  where
they  cut  off  and  surrounded  a  famous  German  unit,  the  Bran-
denburg regiment,  who  had  set  foot  into  the  partially  dis-
mantled and  battered  fort.  This  incident,  of  little  interest  in
itself,  created  the  widest  sensation  by  the  value  which  was
universally  attached  to  the  enemy's  pet  units ;  and  the  curious
facts  concerning  it  were  firstly :  that  few  observers  showed
any  interest  in  knowing  who  were  the  men  who  had  beaten
and  cornered  the  smartest  troops  of  the  Kaiser;  and  sec-
ondly :  that  the  real  noteworthy  incident  of  the  day  passed  off
practically  unnoticed  by  the  world  at  large.  Yet  this  latter
episode  marked  the  true  character  of  the  battle,  and  the  moral
significance  of  the  whole  conflict  since  the  cocksure  and  in-
solent aggressors  had  set  foot  in  France.

It  occurred  at  the  moment  when  the  recapture  of  Douau-
mont by  the  "iron  division"  of  the  20th  Corps  was  an-
nounced. Spontaneously,  the  troops  which  were  coming  on
in  the  rear,  in  and  around  Verdun,  burst  into  song;  and
the  martial  and  triumphant  strains  of  the  Marseillaise,  issu-
ing from  80,000  throats,  covered  with  their  clamor  the  thun-
der of  the  guns.

It  was  the  old  spirit  of  Valmy  reasserting  itself.  It  was
the  voice  of  proud  and  unconquerable  France.  It  was  the
trumpet  of  victory  over  a  field  of  carnage;  the  willful  ex-
pression of  a  people  whose  destiny  was  not  at  an  end,  and

THE  FIRST  ASSAULT  ON  VERDUN  45

who  meant  to  continue  in  the  pursuit  of  the  highest  ideals
of  the  human  race — talent,  honor,  freedom.

That  the  victory  was  real  and  incontestable,  there  is  no
denying;  for  from  the  moment  that  the  French  reoccupied
in  strength  their  main  lines  around  Verdun  and  connected
them  firmly  with  the  rest  of  the  front,  a  condition  of  affairs
was  created  such  as  Joffre  had  been  seeking  all  along  with
his  policy  of  patience  and  economy.  He  had  forced  the  Ger-
mans to  undertake  a  new  offensive  with  no  military  pros-
pects for  them  whatever ;  and  they  were  now  condemned  by
their  own  action,  their  swaggering  endurance,  their  bragga-
docio and  Joffre's  persistent  refusal  to  attack  them  to  squan-
der the  rest  of  their  forces  in  a  mad  and  hopeless  endeavor;
and  this  in  the  manner  which  their  opponents  most  desired.

During  three  days  (February  26th-29th)  after  their  in-
itial advance  over  devastated  and  useless  ground,  they  as-
saulted with  the  greatest  dash  and  determination  the  main
French  positions.  But  the  defenders  were  now  in  strength;
and  the  French  guns  at  length  took  matters  in  hand.  The
German  assaulting  waves  dashed  themselves  in  vain  against
the  Talou  heights,  the  Pepper  ridge,  and  the  Vaux  position.
They  were  ripped  open  with  cannon,  broken  by  the  French
bayonets,  and  driven  back  with  fearful  slaughter,  time  and
again.  Finally  the  mauled  and  battered  German  columns
collapsed,  and  they  were  withdrawn  from  the  fray ;  the  casu-
alties of  the  assailants  for  the  first  full  week  of  uninter-
rupted fighting  being  estimated,  on  the  lowest  computation,

For  such  heavy  sacrifice  the  enemy  technically  had  won
nothing,  although,  as  usual,  he  indulged  in  much  boasting
and  he  magnified  tremendously  the  barren  results  he  had
obtained  from  the  action — an  insignificant  and  useless  gain
of  ground,  a  few  prisoners,  and  some  disabled  guns;  this
was  really  all  he  could  show  as  the  outcome  of  his  plan
which  was  meant  to  open  to  him  the  gates  of  Verdun  and
to  place  him  in  possession  of  the  Heights  of  the  Meuse.  The
French,  who  had  only  lost  20,000  men,  continued  to  hold
Verdun  and  the  main  positions  surrounding  it,  including
the  above-mentioned  Heights,  the  key  to  the  whole  region.

46       THE  FIRST  ASSAULT  ON  VERDUN

BY  GENERAL  VON  FALKENHAYN

For  the  assault  on  Verdun  the  supply  of  ammunition
considerably  exceeded  the  quantity  which  all  previous  ex-
perience suggested  as  likely  to  be  needed.  Similarly,  every
demand  for  labor  and  equipment  was  complied  with.

In  order  to  divert  the  attention  of  the  enemy  from  all
these  preparations,  the  other  armies  in  the  West  were
charged  with  the  task  of  keeping  him  busy  by  small  enter-
prises on  their  sectors.  In  this  they  acquitted  themselves
in  exemplary  fashion.  On  the  9th  of  January  the  Third
Army  attacked  at  Maisons  de  Champagne,  on  the  12th  of
February  at  Ste.  Marie  a.  Py,  and  on  the  13th  of  the  same
month  at  Tahure.  On  the  28th  and  29th  of  January  the
Second  Army  had  a  fine  success  at  Frise,  south  of  the
Somme.  The  Sixth  Army  struck  on  the  26th  of  January
at  Neuville,  on  the  8th  of  February  to  the  west  of  Vimy,
and  on  the  21st  of  February  east  of  Souchez.  Gaede's
Army  Detachment  pushed  forward  into  the  French  lines
near  Obersept  on  the  13th  of  February.  Everywhere  the
appointed  objectives  were  reached,  and  the  enemy  suffered
heavy  losses.

The  relatively  slight  German  losses  sustained  on  these
occasions  were  justified,  for  it  is  highly  probable  that  these
operations  materially  contributed  to  mask  our  plans.  In
return,  it  was  only  in  the  nature  of  things  that  larger  opera-
tions other  than  the  main  attack  already  planned  should  be
discountenanced.  When  the  Third  Army  inquired  whether
it  was  still  to  undertake  a  big  attack  on  its  sector,  it  was
informed  accordingly,  and  the  following  remarks  were
added  in  explanation  of  the  plans  to  be  followed  in  the
Meuse  sector:  "Our  precise  problem  is  how  to  inflict  heavy
damage  on  the  enemy  at  critical  points  at  relatively  small
cost  to  ourselves.  But  we  must  not  overlook  the  fact  that
previous  experience  of  mass  attacks  in  this  war  offers  little
inducement  to  imitate  them.  It  would  almost  seem  as  if
the  questions  of  command  and  supply  in  these  attacks  were
insoluble."

On  the  day  appointed  for  the  opening  of  the  attack

THE  FIRST  ASSAULT  ON  VERDUN  47

the  condition  of  the  ground  in  the  Meuse  district,  soaked
with  continuous  rain,  prevented  any  movement  of  the
troops,  while  the  poor  visibility  in  the  cloud-laden  sky  made
artillery  work  impossible.  Not  till  the  middle  of  the  month
did  the  weather  improve  sufficiently  to  admit  of  the  bom-
bardment starting  on  the  21st  of  February.

The  successful  infantry  attack  on  the  following  day  was
carried  out  with  an  irresistible  impetus,  and  the  enemy's
first  lines  were  simply  overrun.  Nor  could  the  advanced
fortifications,  constructed  in  peace,  stop  the  brave  attackers,
although  these  works  were  not  much  damaged  by  our  ar-
tillery. On  February  25th  the  24th  (Brandenburg)  In-
fantry Regiment  stormed  the  Fort  Douaumont,  the  strong
and  reputedly  impregnable  north-eastern  pillar  of  the  Ver-
dun defence  system.  Simultaneously  the  enemy  gave  way
in  the  Orne  valley  as  far  as  south  of  the  Metz- Verdun  road,
so  that  the  German  front  here  also  moved  forward  to  the
foot  of  the  Heights  of  the  Meuse.  From  many  signs  it  was
clear  that  this  powerful  German  thrust  had  not  only  shaken
the  whole  enemy  front  in  the  West  very  severely,  but  that
its  effects  had  not  been  lost  on  the  peoples  and  the  Govern-
ments of  the  Entente.

However,  the  Headquarters  Staffs  of  the  Army  Groups
considered  it  necessary  to  stay  the  forward  movement
against  the  Heights.  Violent — one  may  say  desperate —
counter-attacks  by  troops  collected  in  extreme  haste  from
all  parts  of  the  front  had  begun.  They  were  repulsed
everywhere  with  very  heavy  loss  to  the  enemy.  The  situa-
tion might  have  changed,  however,  had  we  not  brought  up
our  artillery,  which  had  been  unable  to  follow  fast  enough
over  the  still  barely  passable  roads,  and  assured  the  supply
of  ammunition  and  food.

Meanwhile  the  enemy  had  with  astonishing  rapidity
brought  a  number  of  powerful  batteries  of  artillery  into
position  behind  the  Marre  ridge,  on  the  western  bank  of  the
river.  Their  half-flanking  effect  made  itself  severely  felt
on  our  assault  troops.  The  discomfort  caused  by  these
guns  had  to  be  stopped.  This  could  not  possibly  be  effected
from  the  right  bank  of  the  Meuse,  for  here  we  had  our

48       THE  FIRST  ASSAULT  ON  VERDUN

hands  full  in  dealing  with  the  enemy  forces  immediately
confronting  us.  The  only  means  available — as  had  been
forseen  and  prepared  for — was  to  push  forward  the  Ger-
man front  on  the  left  bank  so  far  that  its  artillery  could
deal  with  the  Franco-British  guns  on  the  Marre  ridge  more
effectively  than  before.  We  now  had  troops  available  to
carry  out  this  necessary  movement.

Apart  from  a  weak  attempt  in  Champagne,  there  had
been  no  relief  attacks  by  the  enemy  in  any  other  sectors,
and  our  observations  showed  that  no  preparations  for  any
immediate  attack  of  this  sort  were  in  hand.  Indeed,  it  had
become  highly  improbable.  The  French  had  nearly  got  to-
gether the  whole  of  their  reserves  from  the  rest  of  their
front,  and  had  quickly  handed  over  to  the  English  the
sector  near  Arras,  formerly  held  by  them,  in  order  to
provide  the  wherewithal  to  hold  their  positions  in  the  Meuse
sector.  The  English  had  been  compelled,  by  taking  over
the  Arras  sector,  to  extend  their  line  so  much,  that  nothing
on  a  big  scale  from  this  direction  was  to  be  apprehended.
To  be  sure,  the  formation  of  Kitchener's  conscript  armies
in  England  was  proceeding  vigorously.  Thus  it  was  to  be
anticipated  that  the  forty  to  forty-two  English  divisions,
whose  presence  on  the  Continent  had  been  established,
would  be  nearly  doubled  at  no  very  distant  date.  Whether,
and  when,  these  new  troops  would  become  fit  for  use  in  an
offensive  was  still,  however,  a  matter  of  uncertainty.

In  these  circumstances  the  question  that  had  to  be  con-
sidered by  G.  H.  Q.  was  whether  to  intimate  that  the  con-
tinuance of  the  operation  on  the  Meuse  would  be  abandoned,
and  a  new  enterprise  started  on  another  front.  This  meas-
ure would  have  meant  a  complete  departure  from  the  views
on  which  the  attack  north  of  Verdun  was  based.  Nor  was
there  any  reason  for  doing  so.  We  had  hitherto  achieved
what  we  had  set  out  to  achieve,  and  there  was  every  reason
to  hope  we  should  do  so  again  in  the  future.  As  a  matter
of  fact,  that  is  what  actually  happened.  No  offensive  else-
where had  particularly  good  prospects.  The  enemy  still
held  their  line  in  great  strength.  The  English,  for  example,
had  from  seven  to  eight  men  to  every  yard  of  their  front

THE  FIRST  ASSAULT  ON  VERDUN

Success  was  to  be  gained  against  positions  so  strongly  held
as  these  only  by  employing  the  artillery  we  had  concentrated
on  the  Meuse.  Further,  it  would  have  meant  a  great  loss
of  time,  and  the  enemy  would  assuredly  have  taken  ad-
vantage of  this  to  transfer  his  reserves  likewise.  It  was
therefore  decided  to  renounce  the  idea  of  changing  the
scene  of  operations.

The  attack  carried  out  on  the  6th  of  March  and  in  the
succeeding  weeks  on  the  west  bank  succeeded  to  this  extent,
that  the  French  were  thrown  out  of  their  foremost  lines
with  heavy  casualties  every  time.  Owing  to  the  peculiar
confirmation  of  the  country  we  could  not  use  these  suc-
cesses to  bring  our  artillery  far  enough  forward,  and  con-
sequently the  preparatory  work  here  had  to  be  continued.
Intense  fighting  lasted  for  the  whole  month  of  April  on  the
western  bank.  Not  till  our  occupation  of  the  main  portion
of  Hill  304,  on  the  7th  of  May,  was  there  any  momentary
pause  in  our  attack  in  this  sector.

The  conduct  of  the  actions  in  the  Meuse  sector  was  at
first  directly  in  the  hands  of  the  H.  Q.  Staff  of  the  Crown
Prince's  Army  Group  itself.  But  with  the  extension  of
operations  some  relief  of  the  burden  on  this  Staff  became
necessary.  Accordingly,  in  March,  while  preserving  its
control,  we  put  General  von  Mudra  in  command  on  the
right  bank,  and  on  the  left  General  von  Gallwitz,  whose
command  of  the  Eleventh  Army  in  Macedonia  was  taken
over  by  Lieutenant-General  von  Winckler.

As  already  stated,  there  had  been  a  temporary  cessation
of  our  attack  in  the  western  sector;  but  it  must  not  be  as-
sumed from  this  that  things  had  become  absolutely  quiet
there.  Here,  as  on  the  eastern  bank,  the  fighting  raged  con-
tinuously and  more  fiercely  than  ever.  The  French  saw  to
that  with  their  practically  incessant  counter-attacks.  The
artillery  battle  never  stopped.  The  raids  of  the  defenders
were  generally  relieved  by  big  thrusts  carried  out  by  forces
far  superior  to  those  of  the  attackers.  For  example,  a
particularly  resolute  thrust  was  made  on  the  22nd  and  23rd
of  May,  in  the  region  of  Douaumont,  and  for  a  time  our
hold  on  the  armored  fort  was  in  danger.

THE  FIRST  ASSAULT  ON  VERDUN

For  our  part,  we  usually  confined  ourselves  to  sending
our  opponents  home  with  bloody  pates,  recovering  from
him  such  small  patches  of  ground  as  he  might  have  gained
here  and  there,  and,  where  necessary,  effecting  slight  im-
provements in  our  positions.  Nevertheless,  this  fighting
without  visible  or — for  the  man  at  the  front — tangible
result  afforded  the  sternest  test  imaginable  of  the  capabilities
of  the  troops.  With  very  few  exceptions  they  stood  the
test  most  brilliantly.  The  enemy  nowhere  secured  any  per-
manent advantages ;  nowhere  could  he  free  himself  from  the
German  pressure.  On  the  other  hand,  the  losses  he  sus-
tained were  very  severe.  They  were  carefully  noted  and
compared  with  our  own  which,  unhappily,  were  not  light.
The  result  was  that  the  comparison  worked  out  at  some-
thing like  two  and  a  half  to  one:  that  is  to  say,  for  two
Germans  put  out  of  action  five  Frenchmen  had  to  shed  their
blood.  But  deplorable  as  were  the  German  sacrifices,  they
were  certainly  made  in  a  most  promising  cause.

BY  CROWN  PRINCE  FREDERICK  WILLIAM

The  attack  on  Verdun  began  on  February  21th,  1916,
and  the  huge  successes  of  the  first  three  days  are  well
known.  The  infantry  of  the  Third,  Eighteenth  and  Seventh
Reserve  Corps  performed  marvels  of  courage.  The  taking
of  Fort  Douaumont  crowned  everything.  Indeed,  we
should,  after  all,  have  succeeded  in  rushing  the  entire  east
front  of  Verdun,  if  the  reserves  promised  us  had  arrived  on
time.   Why  they  failed  to  do  so  is  not  within  my  knowledge.

I  was  told  by  Captain  von  Brandis,  who  stormed  Fort
Douaumont,  that,  on  the  fourth  day,  he  had  observed  a
complete  absence  of  Frenchmen  in  the  whole  district  of
Douaumont-Souville-Tavannes.  But  our  own  troops  had
exhausted  their  strength;  the  weather  was  horrible,  and
rations  could  not  everywhere  be  brought  up  as  needed.
That  it  would  have  been  possible  to  take  the  entire  east  front
of  Verdun  by  at  once  continuing  the  attack  is  clear  from
the  fact  that  the  local  leaders  of  the  French  had  already
ordered  the  evacuation.  Only  later  was  this  order  counter-
manded by  General  Joffre.

THE  FIRST  ASSAULT  ON  VERDUN  51

The  fatigue  of  our  troops  after  a  huge  military  per-
formance and  the  lack  of  reserves  despoiled  us  of  the  prize
of  victory.   I  bring  no  accusation;  I  merely  record  the  fact.

From  that  day  onward,  surprises  were  no  longer  pos-
sible ;  and  the  early  impetuous  advances  by  storm  gave  place
to  a  gigantic  wrestle  and  struggle  for  every  foot  of  ground.
Within  a  few  weeks,  I  perceived  clearly  that  it  would  not
be  feasible  to  break  through  the  stubborn  defense,  and  that
our  own  losses  would  ultimately  be  quite  out  of  proportion
to  the  gains.  Consequently,  I  soon  did  everything  in  my
power  to  stop  the  attacks ;  and  I  repeatedly  gave  expression
to  my  views  and  the  deductions  to  be  drawn  from  them.
In  this  matter  I  stood  somewhat  opposed  to  my  then  Chief
of  Staff,  General  Schmidt  von  Knobelsdorf,  and  my  repre-
sentations were  at  first  put  aside;  the  orders  ran,  "Continue
to  attack."

NARRATIVES  BY  EYE-WITNESSES

Lord  Northcliffe,  the  great  British  newspaper  owner,
tvrites  from  the  French  Headquarters  on  the  field,
March  4th.

What  is  the  secret  motive  underlying  the  German  at-
tempt to  break  the  French  line  at  Verdun,  in  which  the
Crown  Prince's  Army  is  incurring  such  appalling  losses?
Is  it  financial,  in  view  of  the  coming  war  loan  ?  Is  it  dynas-
tic ?  Or  is  it  intended  to  influence  doubting  neutrals  ?  From
the  evidence  of  German  deserters  it  is  known  that  the  attack
was  originally  intended  to  take  place  a  month  or  two  hence,
when  the  ground  was  dry.  Premature  spring  caused  the
Germans  to  accelerate  their  plans.  There  were  two  final
delays  owing  to  bad  weather,  and  then  came  the  colossal
onslaught  of  February  21st.

The  Germans  made  a  good  many  of  the  mistakes  we
made  at  Gallipoli.  They  announced  that  something  large
was  pending  by  closing  the  Swiss  frontier.  The  French,
who  were  not  ready,  were  also  warned  by  their  own  astute
Intelligence  Department.  Their  avions  were  not  idle,  and,
if  confirmation  were  needed,  it  was  given  by  deserters,  who,
surmising  the  horrors  that  were  to  come,  crept  out  of  the

52       THE  FIRST  ASSAULT  ON  VERDUN

trenches  at  night,  lay  down  by  the  edge  of  the  Meuse  till  the
morning,  and  then  gave  themselves  up,  together  with  infor-
mation that  has  since  proved  to  be  accurate.

The  district  of  Verdun  lies  in  one  of  the  coldest  and  also
the  most  misty  sectors  in  the  long  line  between  Nieuport  and
Switzerland.  Changes  of  temperature,  too,  are  somewhat
more  frequent  here  than  elsewhere ;  and  so  sudden  are  these
changes  that  not  long  ago  here  occurred,  on  a  part  of  the
front,  one  of  nature's  furious  and  romantic  reminders  of
her  power  to  impose  her  will.  The  opposing  French  and
German  trenches,  their  parapets  hard  frozen,  were  so  close
that  they  were  actually  within  hearing  of  each  other.  To-
wards dawn  a  rapid  thaw  set  in.  The  parapets  melted  and
subsided,  and  two  long  lines  of  men  stood  up  naked,  as  it
were,  before  each  other,  face  to  face  with  only  two  possi-
bilities— wholesale  murder  on  the  one  side  or  the  other,  or
a  temporary  unofficial  peace  for  the  making  of  fresh  parapet
protections.  The  situation  was  astounding  and  unique  in
the  history  of  trench  warfare.  The  French  and  German
officers,  without  conferring  and  unwilling  to  negotiate,
turned  their  backs  so  that  they  might  not  see  officially  so
unwarlike  a  scene,  and  the  men  on  each  side  rebuilt  their
parapets  without  the  firing  of  a  single  shot.

This  instance  serves  to  illustrate  the  precarious  weather
in  which  the  Germans  undertook  an  adventure  in  the  quick
success  of  which  the  elements  play  such  a  part.  That  the
attack  would  certainly  prove  more  costly  to  them  than  to
the  French  the  German  Staff  must  have  known.  That  the
sufferings  of  the  wounded  lying  out  through  the  long  nights
of  icy  wind  in  the  No  Man's  Land  between  the  lines  would
be  great  did  not  probably  disturb  the  Crown  Prince.  It  is
one  of  the  most  grewsome  facts  in  the  history  of  the  War
that  the  French,  peering  through  the  moonlight  at  what  they
thought  to  be  stealthily  crawling  Germans,  found  them  to
be  wounded  men  frozen  to  death.

During  the  War,  in  France  and  in  Flanders,  in  camps
and  in  hospitals,  I  have  conserved  with  at  least  100  Ger-
mans. Prisoners'  talk  is  always  to  be  accepted  with  great
reserve,  but  the  prisoners  of  the  Verdun  campaign  have  so

THE  FIRST  ASSAULT  ON  VERDUN

plainly  horror  and  misery  depicted  upon  their  countenances
that  I  need  no  other  evidence  as  to  the  tragedy  through
which  they  have  passed.

The  town  is  being  made  into  a  second  Ypres  by  the  Ger-
mans. Yet,  as  it  stands  out  in  the  sunlight,  it  is  difficult  to
realize  that  it  is  a  place  whose  people  have  all  gone,  save  a
few  of  the  faithful  who  live  below  ground.  The  tall  tower
of  Verdun  still  stands.  Close  by  us  is  a  hidden  French
battery,  and  it  is  pretty  to  see  the  promptitude  with  which
it  sends  its  screaming  shells  back  to  the  Germans  within  a
few  seconds  of  the  dispatch  of  a  missive  from  the  Huns.
One  speedily  grows  accustomed  to  the  sound  and  the  scene,
and  can  follow  the  position  of  the  villages  about  which  the
Germans  endeavor  to  mislead  the  world  by  wireless  every
morning.

We  journey  farther  afield,  and  the  famous  fort  of  Dou-
aumont  is  pointed  out.  The  storming  of  Fort  Douaumont,
gunless  and  unmanned,  was  a  military  operation  of  little
value.  A  number  of  the  Brandenburgers  climbed  into  the
gunless  fort,  and  some  of  them  were  still  there  on  March
6th,  supplied  precariously  with  food  by  their  comrades  at
night.  They  were  practically  surrounded  by  the  French,
whose  Headquarters  Staff  regarded  the  whole  incident  as  a
simple  episode  in  the  give-and-take  of  war.  The  announce-
ment of  the  fall  of  Fort  Douaumont  to  the  world  evinces
the  great  anxiety  of  the  Germans  to  magnify  anything  con-
cerning Verdun  into  a  great  event.  It  should  also  cause
people  to  apply  a  grain  of  salt  to  German  official  communi-
ques before  swallowing  them.

A  Neutral  Eye-witness  Pictures  the  Preparations  of  the

German  Artillery

Over  the  roads  leading  towards  Verdun  artillery  and
ammunition  were  brought  up  in  such  quantities  as  the  his-
tory of  war  has  never  seen  on  such  a  small  space.  The  coun-
try was  covered  with  guns.  We  could  hardly  believe  what
we  saw  round  Verdun.  Long  rows  of  guns  as  in  old  battle
pictures,  set  up  in  open  fields  with  gunners  standing  about
them,  and  on  the  hill-tops  observation-posts  with  their  great

54       THE  FIRST  ASSAULT  ON  VERDUN

telescopes  uncovered.  When  I  shut  my  eyes  I  still  see  be-
fore me  those  curved  lines,  row  upon  row  in  endless  array,
with  gunners  moving  about  them  in  the  open  battlefield.

The  First  Attack,  February  21st,  described  by  a  French

Staff  Officer

Thousands  of  projectiles  are  flying  in  all  directions,  some
whistling,  others  howling,  others  moaning  low,  and  all  unit-
ing in  one  infernal  roar.  From  time  to  time  an  aerial  torpedo
passes,  making  a  noise  like  a  gigantic  motor  car.  With  a
tremendous  thud  a  giant  shell  bursts  quite  close  to  our  ob-
servation post,  breaking  the  telephone  wire  and  interrupting
all  communication  with  our  batteries.

A  man  gets  out  at  once  for  repairs,  crawling  along  on
his  stomach  through  all  this  place  of  bursting  mines  and
shells.  It  seems  quite  impossible  that  he  should  escape  in
the  rain  of  shell,  which  exceeds  anything  imaginable;  there
has  never  been  such  a  bombardment  in  war.  Our  man  seems
to  be  enveloped  in  explosions,  and  shelters  himself  from  time
to  time  in  the  shell  craters  which  honeycomb  the  ground ;
finally  he  reaches  a  less  stormy  spot,  mends  his  wires,  and
then,  as  it  would  be  madness  to  try  to  return,  settles  down  in
a  big  crater  and  waits  for  the  storm  to  pass.

Beyond,  in  the  valley,  dark  masses  are  moving  over  the
snow-covered  ground.  It  is  German  infantry  advancing  in
packed  formation  along  the  valley  to  the  attack.  They  look
like  a  big  gray  carpet  being  unrolled  over  the  country.  We
telephone  through  to  the  batteries  and  the  ball  begins.  The
sight  is  hellish.  In  the  distance,  in  the  valley  and  upon  the
slopes,  regiments  spread  out,  and  as  they  deploy  fresh  troops
come  pouring  in.

There  is  a  whistle  over  our  heads.  It  is  our  first  shell.
It  falls  right  in  the  middle  of  the  enemy  infantry.  We  tele-
phone through,  telling  our  batteries  of  their  hit,  and  a  deluge
of  heavy  shells  is  poured  on  the  enemy.  Their  position  be-
comes critical.  Through  glasses  we  can  see  men  maddened,
men  covered  with  earth  and  blood,  falling  one  upon  the  other.
When  the  first  wave  of  the  assault  is  decimated,  the  ground
is  dotted  with  heaps  of  corpses,  but  the  second  wave  is  al-

THE  FIRST  ASSAULT  ON  VERDUN

ready  pressing  on.  Once  more  our  shells  carve  awful  gaps
in  their  ranks.  Nevertheless,  like  an  army  of  rats  the  Boches
continue  to  advance  in  spite  of  our  "marmites."  Then  our
heavy  artillery  bursts  forth  in  fury.  The  whole  valley  is
turned  into  a  volcano,  and  its  exit  is  stopped  by  the  barrier
of  the  slain.

A  French  Officer  pictures  a  Scene  from  the  French  With-
drawal

In  the  afternoon  of  February  23rd,  while  we  had  not  re-
tired a  single  foot,  order  was  given  us  to  withdraw  care-
fully, for,  the  Waville  wood  having  been  taken,  we  ran  the
risk  of  being  surrounded.  We  waited  for  the  night  to  come.
Some  of  our  men,  when  they  learned  that  we  were  to  leave,
protested,  asking  to  be  allowed  to  fight  and  die  on  the  spot.
However,  tactical  reasons  obliged  us  to  evacuate  Herbebois,
and  we  had  to  reckon  with  the  general  situation.

The  retirement  order  was  executed,  and  we  went  to  take
a  position  in  front  of  La  Chaume  wood,  in  communication
with  the  units  on  our  right  and  left.

The  defense  of  Herbebois  will  certainly  remain  one  of
the  most  glorious  pages  in  the  annals  of  our  regiment.  More
than  3,000  Germans  came  in  successive  waves  to  smash  them-
selves against  our  ranks,  although  we  were  in  a  fighting  posi-
tion of  the  most  disadvantageous  kind.  We  voluntarily
abandoned  the  ground,  where  hundreds  and  hundreds  of  Ger-
man corpses  show  sufficiently  how  effective  was  our  re-
sistance.

Neither  the  bombardment,  nor  the  snow,  nor  the  diffi-
culties of  obtaining  provisions,  nor  fatigue  could  overcome
the  stubborn  bravery  of  our  infantry.  By  thus  holding  firm
in  this  corner  of  Herbebois  they  for  their  part  contributed
to  win  time  for  the  arrival  of  the  necessary  reserves,  and  they
seriously  interfered  with  the  advance  of  the  Germans.  It
was  sacrifices  of  this  kind,  repeated  at  numerous  points  on
our  front,  which  held  back  the  enemy  flood.

56       THE  FIRST  ASSAULT  ON  VERDUN

The  Destruction  of  Fort  Douaumont  on  February  26th,
described  by  a  French  Soldier

Despite  the  horror  of  it,  despite  the  ceaseless  flow  of
blood,  one  wants  to  see.  One's  soul  wants  to  feed  on  the
sight  of  the  brute  Bodies  falling.  I  stopped  on  the  ground
for  hours,  and  when  I  closed  my  eyes  I  saw  the  whole  pic-
ture again.  The  guns  are  firing  at  200  and  300  yards,  and
shrapnel  is  exploding  with  a  crash,  scything  them  down.
Our  men  hold  their  ground ;  our  machine  guns  keep  to  their
work,  and  yet  they  advance.

Near  me,  as  I  lie  in  the  mud,  there  is  a  giant  wrapped  in
one  of  our  uniforms  with  a  steel  helmet  on  his  head.  He
seems  to  be  dead,  he  is  so  absolutely  still.  At  a  given  mo-
ment the  Boches  are  quite  close  to  us.  Despite  the  noise  of
the  guns  one  can  hear  their  oaths  and  their  shouts  as  they
strike.  Then  the  giant  next  to  me  jumps  up,  and  with  a  voice
like  a  stentor  shouts  in  German,  "Hier  da!  Hier  da!"  Me-
chanically some  of  us  get  up.  My  wound,  which  had  been
dressed,  left  me  free  and  I  had  forgotten  it.  I  was  unarmed,
and  so  I  struck  him  with  my  steel  helmet  and  he  dropped,
with  his  head  broken.  An  officer  who  was  passing  sees  the
incident  and  takes  off  the  man's  coat.  Below  is  a  German
uniform.  Where  had  the  spy  come  from  and  how  had  he  got
there  ?

But  the  Boches  are  returning  again  massed  to  the  as-
sault, and  they  are  being  killed  in  bulk.  It  makes  one  think
that  in  declaring  war  the  Kaiser  had  sworn  the  destruction
of  his  race,  and  he  would  have  shown  good  taste  in  doing  so.
Their  gunfire  is  slackening  now,  and  ours  redoubles.  The
fort  has  gone,  and  if  under  its  ruins  there  are  left  a  few
guns  and  gunners  the  bulk  of  the  guns  are  firing  from  out-
side. The  machine  guns  are  coming  up  and  getting  in  posi-
tion, and  our  men  are  moving  on  in  numerous  waves.

I  find  a  rifle  belonging  to  a  comrade  who  has  fallen  and
join  the  Chasseurs  with  the  fifty  cartridges  that  I  have  left.
What  a  fight  it  is,  and  what  troops!  From  time  to  time  a
man  falls,  rises,  shoots,  runs,  shoots  again,  keeps  on  firing,
fights  with  his  bayonet,  and  then,  worn  out,  falls,  to  be  tram-

THE  FIRST  ASSAULT  ON  VERDUN

pled  on  without  raising  a  cry.  The  storm  of  fire  continues.
Everything  is  on  fire — the  wood  near  by,  the  village  of  Dou-
aumont,  Verdun,  the  front  of  Bezonvaux,  and  the  back  of
Thiaumont.  There  is  fire  everywhere.  The  acrid  smell  of
carbonic  acid  and  blood  catches  at  our  throats,  but  the  battle
goes  on.

They  are  brave,  but  one  of  our  men  is  worth  two  of
theirs,  especially  in  hand-to-hand  fighting.  They  bend  and
fall  back,  and  the  sound  of  the  song  they  sing  to  order,
"Heil  dir  im  Siegerkranz,"  only  reaches  us  in  hiccoughs.  Our
reinforcements  continue  to  arrive.  We  are  the  masters.  Our
officers,  with  wonderful  coolness,  control  the  ardor  of  the
troops.  The  infantry  action  is  over.  By  its  tirs  de  barrage
the  artillery  is  holding  that  of  the  enemy,  and  we  keep
awaiting  the  fresh  order  for  action  in  silence.

German  Advance  of  April  2nd  from  Caillette  toward  Fort
Vaux  described  by  a  French  Staff  Officer

A  wonderful  work  was  accomplished  that  Sunday  fore-
noon in  the  livid,  Londonlike  fog  and  twilight  produced  by
the  lowering  clouds  and  battle  smoke.  While  the  German  as-
sault columns  in  the  van  fought  the  French  hand  to  hand,
picked  corps  of  workers  behind  them  formed  an  amazing
human  chain  from  the  woods  to  the  east  over  the  shoulder
of  the  center  of  the  Douaumont  slope  to  the  crossroads  of  a
network  of  communication  trenches,  600  yards  in  the  rear.

Four  deep  was  this  chain,  and  along  its  line  of  nearly
3,000  men  passed  an  unending  stream  of  wooden  billets,
sandbags,  chevaux-de-frise,  steel  shelters,  and  light  mitrail-
leuses, in  a  word,  all  the  material  for  defensive  fortifications,
like  buckets  at  a  country  fire.

Despite  the  hurricane  of  French  artillery  fire,  the  German
commander  had  adopted  the  only  possible  means  of  rapid
transport  over  the  shell-torn  ground,  covered  with  debris,
over  which  neither  horse  nor  cart  could  go.  Every  moment
counted.  Unless  barriers  rose  swiftly  the  French  counter-
attacks, already  massing,  would  sweep  the  assailants  back
into  the  wood.

Cover  was  disdained.    The  workers  stood  at  full  height,

58       THE  FIRST  ASSAULT  ON  VERDUN

and  the  chain  stretched  openly  across  the  hollows  and  hil-
locks, a  fair  target  for  the  French  gunners.  The  latter
missed  no  chance.  Again  and  again  great  rents  were  torn  in
the  line  by  the  bursting  melinite,  but  as  coolly  as  at  ma-
neuvers the  iron-disciplined  soldiers  of  Germany  sprang  for-
ward from  shelters  to  take  the  places  of  the  fallen,  and  the
work  went  apace.

Gradually  another  line  doubled  the  chain  of  the  work-
ers, as  the  upheaved  corpses  formed  a  continuous  embank-
ment, each  additional  dead  man  giving  greater  protection  to
his  comrades,  until  the  barrier  began  to  form  shape  along  the
diameter  of  the  wood.  There  others  were  digging  and  bury-
ing logs  deep  into  the  earth,  installing  shelters  and  mitrail-
leuses, or  feverishly  building  fortifications.

At  last  the  work  was  ended  at  fearful  cost,  but  as  the
vanguard  sullenly  withdrew  behind  it,  from  the  whole  length
burst  a  havoc  of  flame  upon  the  advancing  Frenchmen.
Vainly  the  latter  dashed  forward.  They  could  not  pass,  and
as  the  evening  fell  the  barrier  still  held,  covering  the  Ger-
man working  parties,  burrowing  like  moles  in  the  maze  of
trenches  and  boyaux.

So  solid  was  the  barricade,  padded  with  sandbags  and
earthworks,  that  the  artillery  fire  fell  practically  unavailing,
and  the  French  General  realized  that  the  barrier  must  be
breached  by  explosives  as  in  Napoleon's  battles.

It  was  8  o'clock  and  already  pitch  dark  in  that  blighted
atmosphere  as  a  special  blasting  corps,  as  devoted  as  the  Ger-
man chain  workers,  crept  forward  toward  the  German  posi-
tion. The  rest  of  the  French  waited,  sheltered  in  the  ra-
vine east  of  Douaumont,  until  an  explosion  should  signal
the  assault.

In  Indian  file,  to  give  the  least  possible  sign  of  their  pres-
ence to  the  hostile  sentinels,  the  blasting  corps  advanced  in
a  long  line,  at  first  with  comparative  rapidity,  only  stiffening
into  the  grotesque  rigidity  of  simulated  death  when  the
searchlights  played  upon  them,  and  resuming  progress  when
the  beam  shifted;  then  as  they  approached  the  barrier  they
moved  slowly  and  more  slowly.

When  they  arrived  within  fifty  yards  the  movement  of

THE  FIRST  ASSAULT  ON  VERDUN  59

the  crawling  men  became  imperceptible;  the  German  star-
shells  and  sentinels  surpassed  the  searchlights  in  vigilance.

The  blasting  corps  lay  at  full  length,  just  like  hundreds
of  other  motionless  forms  about  them,  but  all  were  working
busily.  With  a  short  trowel  each  file  leader  scuffled  the  earth
from  under  the  body,  taking  care  not  to  raise  his  arms,  and
gradually  making  a  shallow  trench  deep  enough  to  hide  him.
The  others  followed  his  example  until  the  whole  line  had
sunk  below  the  surface.  Then  the  leader  began  scooping
gently  forward  while  his  followers  deepened  the  furrow  al-
ready made.

Thus  literally,  inch  by  inch,  the  files  stole  forward,  shel-
tered in  a  narrow  ditch  from  the  gusts  of  German  mitrail-
leuse fire  that  constantly  swept  the  terrain.  Here  and  there
the  sentinels'  eye  caught  a  suspicious  movement  and  an  in-
cautiously raised  head  sank  down,  pierced  by  a  bullet.  But
the  stealthily  mole-like  advance  continued.

Hours  passed.  It  was  nearly  dawn  when  the  remnant
of  the  blasting  corps  reached  the  barricade  at  last,  and  hur-
riedly put  their  explosives  in  position.  Back  they  wriggled
breathlessly.  An  over-hasty  movement  meant  death,  yet
they  must  needs  hurry  lest  the  imminent  explosions  over-
whelm them.

Suddenly  there  comes  a  roar  that  dwarfs  the  cannonade,
and  along  the  barrier  fountains  of  fire  rise  skyward,  hurling
a  rain  of  fragments  upon  what  was  left  of  the  blasting
party.

The  barricade  was  breached,  but  75  per  cent,  of  the  de-
voted corps  had  given  their  lives  to  do  it.

As  the  survivors  lay  exhausted,  the  attackers  charged
over  them,  cheering.  In  the  melee  that  followed  there  was
no  room  to  shoot  or  wield  the  rifle.

Some  of  the  French  fought  with  unfixed  bayonets  like
the  stabbing  swords  of  the  Roman  legions.  Others  had
knives  or  clubs.  All  were  battle-frenzied,  as  only  French-
men can  be.

The  Germans  broke,  and  as  the  first  rays  of  dawn
streaked  the  sky,  only  a  small  northern  section  of  the  wood
was  still  in  their  hands.    There  a  similar  barrier  stopped

6o       THE  FIRST  ASSAULT  ON  VERDUN

progress,  and  it  was  evident  that  the  night's  work  must  be
repeated.  But  the  hearts  of  the  French  soldiers  were  leaping
with  victory  as  they  dug  furiously  to  consolidate  the  ground
they  had  gained,  strewn  with  German  bodies  as  thick  as
leaves.

Over  6,000  Germans  were  counted  in  a  section  a  quarter
of  a  mile  square,  and  the  conquerors  saw  why  their  cannon-
ade had  been  so  ineffective.  The  enemy  had  piled  a  second
barrier  of  corpses  close  behind  the  first,  so  that  the  soft  hu-
man flesh  would  act  as  a  buffer  to  neutralize  the  force  of  the
shells.

BY  GENERAL  VON  LUDENDORFF

Verdun  from  the  viewpoint  of  general  strategy  was  well
chosen  as  the  place  for  our  attack ;  for  Verdun  was  a
particularly  threatening  starting-point  for  a  French  counter-
assault.  It  very  seriously  threatened  our  main  line  of  rail-
road communication  with  Germany.  This  was  disastrously
proved  by  the  attack  launched  from  there  in  the  fall  of  1918.1
Had  we  been  able  to  drive  the  French  wholly  from  the  east
bank  of  the  Meuse,  our  victory  would  have  been  complete,
as  this  would  have  materially  strengthened  our  position  along
the  whole  western  front.

The  first  days  of  the  Verdun  assault  were  very  success-
ful, made  so  by  the  brilliant  qualities  of  our  men.  The  ad-
vantage, however,  was  insufficiently  exploited  and  our  ad-
vance soon  came  to  a  standstill.  At  the  beginning  of  March
the  world  was  still  under  the  impression  that  the  Germans  had
won  a  victory  at  Verdun.

1  This  refers  to  Pershing's  Argonne-Meuse  attack.

ASSAULT  ON  VERDL

soldiers    ere  leaping

with  victory  as  they  dug  ful^is

BY  GENgRgg

Verdun  from  the  v^^E^lug
chosen  as  the  place  J^£t^^|
particularly  threateningl|fig|f||
assault.    It  very  seriouslj^^^g

proved  by  the  attack  lauhe-S^;.-^^^

our  position  along

The  first  days  of  the  Verdun  assault  were  very  success-
ful, made  so  by  the  brilliant  qualities  of  our  men.  The  ad-
vantage, however,  was  insufficiently  exploited  and  our  ad-
vance soon  came  to  a  standstill.  At  the  beginning  of  March
die  v/orld  was  still  under  the  impression  that  the  Germans  had

;o  Pershing's  Argonne-Me'^e

$F"3^i¥w?ea^oui
■*  .main  Jin  y^p^0~
^^^_This  was  d^^^^ry
^  in  thyaSfof  1918.1

[hef  U-Boat  Raid  off"  New
j  England  (gv

\ U-B^tv53^offNAntucket  Light-
I  ship,  inet^H^^hVt^TwtedStates
/"Destroyer  Benham"

Painting  by  Willy  Slower

ARMED  INTERVENTION  IN  MEXICO

THE  UNITED  STATES  VOLUNTEER  ARMY  GATHERED

AND  TRAINED

MARCH   I5TH-JUNE  l8TH

GENERAL  JOHN  PERSHING  VENUSTIANO  CARRANZA

GENERAL  FREDERICK  FUNSTON  ROBERT  LANSING

The  troubles  of  the  United  States  with  Mexico  in  1916  are  now-
known  to  have  been  deliberately  fomented  by  the  German  Govern-
ment. Even  while  America  was  opposing  the  Allies  for  Germany's
sake  in  the  matter  of  the  new  merchant  submarines,  Germany  knowing
that  she  meant  to  break  her  submarine  pact  with  the  Americans  if
she  found  it  advisable,  was  plotting  to  embroil  them  in  difficulties
at  home  which  should  make  them  powerless  against  her.  Hence
she  stirred  up  the  rival  Mexican  leaders,  Carranza  and  Villa,  to
insult  and  defy  their  great  northern  neighbor.

Villa  began  on  January  11,  1916,  by  seizing  a  train  in  the  State  of
Chihuahua,  taking  from  it  nineteen  United  States  citizens  and  shoot-
ing them.  On  March  9th,  with  1,500  troops,  he  attacked  the  town  of
Columbus  in  New  Mexico,  plundered  it  and  slew  eleven  civilians
before  the  nearest  U.  S.  troops  could  reach  the  town.  The  troopers
put  Villa's  bandits  to  flight  and  killed  about  thirty  of  them,  but  with
a  loss  of  nine  troopers  slain.  These  two  outrages  roused  the  United
States  people  and  Government  to  a  just  resentment  which  insisted
upon  decisive  action.  The  Mexican  President,  Carranza,  insisted  that
his  own  soldiers  would  punish  the  Villistas  and  that  the  United  States
must  not  interfere.  But  patience  with  this  helpless  and  empty  worded
braggart,  puffed  up  with  German  promises,  had  ceased  to  be  longer
possible.  General  Funston,  the  U.  S.  commander  along  the  border,
was  authorized  to  send  a  strong  American  column  into  Mexico  to
pursue  Villa,  capture  him  "alive  or  dead,"  and  disperse  his  murderous
followers.  General  Pershing  was  placed  in  command  of  the  invading
column.

Pershing's  force  of  over  4,000  men  entered  Mexico  on  March  15th,
and  remained  there  until  early  in  1917.  On  March  29th  a  genuine
small-scale  battle  occurred  near  Parral  in  Chihuahua  between  some
400  U.  S.  troops  and  a  larger  force  of  Villistas.  These  were  com-
pletely defeated  and  many  of  them  killed,  with  only  a  single  death  on
the  side  of  the  well-armed  U.  S.  troops.  Villa  himself  had  been
wounded  by  Carranza's  troops  previously,  and  now  his  entire  forces
were  dispersed  or  took  refuge  in  the  inaccessible  mountains.

The  U.  S.  soldiers  continued  in  pursuit  of  the  scattered  Villistas,
and  were  brought  into  serious  clashes  with  the  Carranza  troops  who,
now  that  Villa  was  disposed  of,  began  to  appear  in  Chihuahua  in  ever-
increasing  numbers.    The  first  armed  conflict  was  at  Parral  on  April

62      ARMED  INTERVENTION  IN  MEXICO

12th,  when  the  Mexicans  endeavored  to  ambush  and  entrap  a  force
of  150  U.  S.  soldiers  who  approached  them  in  amity.  Two  of  the
U.  S.  troops  were  slain,  but  the  force  turned  upon  its  would-be  de-
stroyers and  drove  them  off  with  heavy  losses.  On  June  24th  a  more
serious  affray  occurred  at  Carrizal.  Eighty-four  U.  S.  cavalrymen
under  Captain  Boyd  were  encircled  by  an  entire  Mexican  army  under
General  Gomez,  while  Gomez  himself  engaged  in  an  apparently  amica-
ble parley  with  Boyd.  Then  the  Mexican  general  withdrew,  and
without  any  warning  the  Mexicans  suddenly  attacked  their  peaceful
visitors.  About  half  the  U.  S.  troopers  succeeded  in  fighting  their  way
through  the  encircling  foes,  but  Captain  Boyd  and  about  fourteen
others  were  killed  and  twenty-four  captured.

War  trembled  in  the  balance.  The  danger  was  the  more  serious
because  just  before  this,  President  Wilson  had  decided  that  the  Mexi-
can difficulty  had  become  too  menacing  to  be  left  to  the  small  U.  S.
army  of  "regulars."  So  on  June  18th  he  called  out  the  volunteer
army,  the  National  Guard  of  all  the  States.  These  were  already
gathering  on  the  Mexican  border.

President  Carranza  now,  however,  awakened  to  the  folly  of  which
he  had  been  guilty.  The  captured  U.  S.  troops  were  restored,  and
on  July  4th  an  apologetic  note  requested  a  conference  to  prevent
further  warlike  difficulties.  This  conference  continued  to  sit  until
the  end  of  the  year.  Meanwhile  the  U.  S.  militia  all  along  the  border
had  a  season  of  excellent  training  which  prepared  them  for  the  sterner
warfare  they  were  soon  to  undertake  in  Europe.

BY  GENERAL  PERSHING
Official  Report  of  the  Dispersal  of  Villa's  Forces

San  Geronimo  Ranch,  March  30,  1916.

DODD  struck  Villa's  command,  consisting  of  500,  6
o'clock,  March  29th,  at  Guerrero.  Villa,  who  is  suf-
fering from  a  broken  leg  and  lame  hip,  was  not  present.
Number  Villa's  dead  known  to  be  thirty,  probably  others
carried  away  dead.  Dodd  captured  two  machine  guns,  large
number  horses,  saddles,  and  arms.  Our  casualties,  four  en-
listed men  wounded,  none  seriously.

Attack  was  surprise,  the  Villa  troops  being  driven  in  a
ten-mile  running  fight  and  retreated  to  mountains  northeast
of  railroad,  where  they  separated  into  small  bands.  Large
number  Carranzista  prisoners,  who  were  being  held  for  exe-
cution, were  liberated  during  the  fight.  In  order  to  reach
Guerrero,  Dodd  marched  fifty-five  miles  in  seventeen  hours
and  carried  on  fight  for  five  hours.

Eliseo  Hernandez,  who  commanded  Villa's  troops,  was
killed  in  fight.    With  Villa  permanently  disabled,  Lopez

ARMED  INTERVENTION  IN  MEXICO  63

wounded,  and  Hernandez  dead,  the  blow  administered  is  a
serious  one  to  Villa's  band.

BY  GENERAL  FUNSTON
Official  Report  of  April  15th  on  the  Mexican  Attack  at  Parral

Frank  Tompkins's  column,  Troop  K,  Thirteenth  Cav-
alry, and  Troop  M,  Thirteenth  Cavalry,  entered  Parral  11
a.  m.,  1 2th  instant.  Proceeding  was  cordially  received  by
higher  civil  and  military  authorities.  Military  Commander
General  Lozano  accompanied  Major  Frank  Tompkins  on
way  to  camp.

In  the  outskirts  of  the  town  groups  of  native  troops  and
civilians,  following,  jeered,  threw  stones,  and  fired  on  col-
umn. Major  Frank  Tompkins  took  defensive  position  north
of  railroad,  but  was  soon  flanked  by  native  troops  and  forced
to  further  retire.

About  300  Carranza  troops  joined  in  pursuit,  and  Major
Frank  Tompkins  continued  to  withdraw  to  avoid  further
complications  until  he  reached  Santa  Cruz,  eight  miles  from
Parral.  Fighting  ceased  about  fifteen  miles  from  town.
Major  Frank  Tompkins  deserves  great  praise  for  his  for-
bearance. General  Lozano  attempted  to  control  his  men
when  fight  first  began,  but  failed  to.

Colonel  Brown,  with  Major  Charles  Young,  Tenth  Cav-
alry, squadron  of  Tenth  Cavalry,  eight  miles  away  when
notified,  and  joined  Major  Frank  Tompkins  7  p.  m.  Re-
ported privately  forty  Mexicans  killed,  all  soldiers,  including
one  major.  One  civilian  wounded.  Americans  killed,  two;
wounded,  six;  missing,  one.

Major  R.  L.  Howze,  Eleventh  Cavalry,  arrived  Parral
yesterday  from  San  Berja  and  Ballesea,  having  had  several
skirmishes  with  Villa  men.    One  man  killed,  two  wounded.

BY  PRESIDENT  CARRANZA
Protest  Transmitted,  Through  His  Secretary,  to  the  U.  S.  Government 1

1.    The  Mexican  Government  has  just  been  informed

1  The  somewhat  unusual  phraseology  of  this  protest  has  not  been
altered,  as  it  is  the  semi-official  translation  presented  to  the  U.  S.
Government.

64      ARMED  INTERVENTION  IN  MEXICO

that  a  group  of  American  troops,  crossing  the  international
boundary,  has  entered  Mexican  territory  and  is  at  the  present
time  near  a  place  called  El  Pino,  located  about  sixty  miles
south  of  the  line.

The  crossing  of  these  troops  effected  again  without  the
consent  of  the  Mexican  Government  gravely  endangers  the
harmony  and  good  relations  which  should  exist  between  the
Governments  of  the  United  States  and  Mexico.

This  Government  must  consider  the  above  action  as  a  vio-
lation of  the  sovereignty  of  Mexico,  and  therefore  it  requests
in  a  most  urgent  manner  that  the  Washington  Government
should  consider  the  case  carefully  in  order  to  definitely  out-
line the  policy  it  should  follow  with  regard  to  the  Mexican
Nation.

In  order  to  afford  a  clear  understanding  of  the  basis  of
the  request  involved  in  this  note,  it  becomes  necessary  to
carefully  review  the  incidents  which  have  occurred  up  to  the
present  time.

2.  On  account  of  the  incursion  at  Columbus,  N.  M.,  by
a  band  led  by  Francisco  Villa  on  the  morning  of  March  9,
1 9 1 6,  the  Mexican  Government,  sincerely  deploring  the  oc-
currence, and  for  the  purpose  of  affording  efficacious  pro-
tection to  the  frontier,  advanced  its  desire  that  the  Gov-
ernments of  the  United  States  and  Mexico  should  enter  into
an  agreement  for  the  pursuit  of  bandits.  The  above  pro-
posal was  made  by  the  Government  of  Mexico  guided  by  the
precedent  established  under  similar  conditions  obtaining  in
the  years  1880  to  1884,  and  requested,  in  concrete,  a  permis-
sion for  Mexican  forces  to  cross  into  American  territory  in
pursuit  of  bandits,  under  a  condition  of  reciprocity  which
would  permit  American  forces  to  cross  into  Mexican  ter-
ritory, if  the  Columbus  incident  should  be  repeated  in  any
other  point  of  the  frontier  line.

As  a  consequence  of  this  proposal  made  in  the  Mexican
note  of  March  10th  the  Government  of  the  United  States,
through  error  or  haste,  considered  that  the  good  disposition
shown  by  the  Mexican  Government  was  sufficient  to  author-
ize the  crossing  of  the  boundary,  and  to  that  effect,  with-
out awaiting  the  conclusion  of  a  formal  agreement  on  the

ARMED  INTERVENTION  IN  MEXICO  65

matter,  ordered  that  a  column  of  American  forces  should
cross  into  Mexican  territory  in  pursuit  of  Villa  and  his  band.

3.  The  American  Government,  on  this  account,  made
emphatic  declarations,  assuring  the  Mexican  Government
that  it  was  acting  with  entire  good  faith  and  stating  that
its  only  purpose  in  crossing  the  frontier  was  to  pursue  and
capture  or  destroy  the  Villa  band  that  had  assaulted  Colum-
bus ;  that  this  action  did  not  mean  an  invasion  of  our  terri-
tory, nor  any  intention  to  impair  Mexican  sovereignty,  and
that  as  soon  as  a  practical  result  should  be  obtained  the
American  troops  would  withdraw  from  Mexican  territory.

4.  The  Mexican  Government  was  not  informed  that  the
American  troops  had  crossed  the  frontier  until  March  17th,
at  which  time  it  was  unofficially  known,  through  private
channels  from  El  Paso,  that  the  American  troops  had  entered
into  Mexican  territory.  This  Government  then  addressed  a
note  to  the  Government  of  the  United  States  stating  that,
inasmuch  as  the  precise  terms  and  conventions  of  an  agree-
ment which  should  be  formally  entered  into  between  both
countries  for  the  crossing  of  troops  had  not  been  stipu-
lated, the  American  Government  should  not  consider  itself
authorized  to  send  the  expedition.

The  Washington  Government  explained  the  sending  of
such  expedition,  expressing  its  regret  that  a  misinterpreta-
tion had  occurred  in  regard  to  the  attitude  of  the  Mexican
Government  concerning  the  crossing  of  American  troops
over  the  boundary  line  in  pursuit  of  Villa,  but  that  this  had
been  done  under  the  impression  that  the  previous  exchange
of  messages  implied  the  full  consent  of  the  Mexican  Gov-
ernment, without  the  necessity  of  further  formalities.

The  American  Government  explained  also  that  its  atti-
tude was  due  to  the  necessity  of  quick  action,  and  stated
that  it  was  disposed  to  receive  any  suggestions  the  Mexican
Government  would  wish  to  make  in  regard  to  the  terms  of  a
definite  agreement  covering  the  operations  of  troops  on  either
side  of  the  boundary.

5.  Both  Governments  then  began  to  discuss  the  terms
of  an  agreement  in  accordance  to  which  the  reciprocal  cross-
ing of  troops  should  be  arranged,  and  to  this  end  two  projects

66      ARMED  INTERVENTION  IN  MEXICO

from  the  Mexican  Government  and  two  counter-projects
from  the  American  Government  were  exchanged.  During
the  discussion  of  this  agreement  the  Mexican  Government
constantly  insisted  that  the  above-mentioned  crossing  should
be  limited  within  a  zone  of  operations  for  the  troops  in
foreign  territory,  that  the  time  the  troops  should  remain
within  it,  the  number  of  soldiers  of  an  expedition  and  the
class  of  arms  they  should  pertain  to  should  be  fixed.

The  Government  of  the  United  States  objected  to  the
above  limitations,  and  when  at  last  the  American  Govern-
ment submitted  the  last  counter-draft,  accepting  them  in
part,  it  stated,  nevertheless,  that  while  agreeing  to  sign  the
agreement,  the  latter  would  not  apply  on  the  Columbus  ex-
pedition.

6.  This  attitude  of  the  American  Government  brought
forth  the  Mexican  note  of  April  12th,  in  which,  deferring
the  discussion  of  the  agreement,  since  the  latter  was  not  to
apply  to  the  Columbus  case,  the  Mexican  Government  re-
quested the  American  Government  to  withdraw  its  troops,
since  the  stay  of  them  was  not  based  on  any  agreement,  and
the  expedition  was  then  unnecessary,  inasmuch  as  the  Villa
bandits  had  been  dispersed  and  reduced  to  impotency.

7.  While  the  American  Government  was  delaying  its  re-
ply to  the  aforesaid  note  of  April  12th,  and  took  no  action
to  withdraw  its  troops,  it  was  considered  convenient  that
military  commanders  of  both  countries  should  meet  in  some
point  of  the  frontier  to  review  the  military  aspect  of  the
situation  and  endeavor  through  this  channel  to  arrive  at  a
satisfactory  solution,  which  on  the  part  of  Mexico  consisted
in  the  withdrawal  of  American  troops  from  its  territory.

To  this  end  Generals  Hugh  L.  Scott  and  Frederick  Fun-
ston,  representing  the  American  Government,  and  General
Alvaro  Obregon,  Secretary  of  War  and  Marine,  represent-
ing Mexico,  met,  at  Ciudad  Juarez  and  El  Paso,  where  they
held  a  series  of  conferences  within  an  open  spirit  of  cor%
diality.  During  these  conferences  full  explanations  and
data  were  exchanged  concerning  the  military  situation  on  the
frontier.

As  a  result  of  these  conferences  a  draft  of  a  memoran-

ARMED  INTERVENTION  IN  MEXICO  67

dum  was  submitted  to  the  approval  of  the  Washington  and
Mexican  Governments  in  accordance  with  which  General
Scott  declared  that  the  destruction  and  dispersion  of  the
Villa  band  had  been  completed,  and,  therefore,  the  American
Government  has  decided  to  begin  the  withdrawal  of  its
troops  under  the  promise  that  the  Mexican  Government
would  endeavor  to  maintain  efficacious  guard  on  the  frontier
against  new  incursions  similar  to  that  at  Columbus.

8.  The  Mexican  Government  refused  to  approve  that
sort  of  agreement,  because  it  was  stated  in  it,  besides,  that
the  American  Government  could  suspend  the  withdrawal  of
its  troops  if  any  other  incident  should  occur  which  would
serve  to  change  the  belief  of  the  Washington  Government
in  the  ability  of  the  Mexican  Government  to  protect  the  fron-
tier.

The  Mexican  Government  could  not  accept  this  condition
to  suspend  the  withdrawal,  because  the  evacuation  of  its
territory  is  a  matter  entirely  affecting  the  sovereignty  of
the  country,  which  should  at  no  time  be  subjected  to  the  dis-
cretion of  the  American  Government,  it  being  possible  on
the  other  hand  that  another  incident  might  occur  which
would  give  the  indefinite  stay  of  the  American  troops  in
Mexican  territory  a  certain  color  of  legality.

9.  General  Scott,  General  Funston,  and  General  Obre-
gon  were  discussing  this  point,  when  on  the  5th  of  the  pres-
ent month  of  May  a  band  of  outlaws  assaulted  an  American
garrison  at  Glenn  Springs,  on  the  American  side,  crossing
the  Rio  Grande  immediately  after  to  enter  into  Mexican
territory  via  Boquillas.

10.  On  this  account,  and  fearing  that  the  American
Government  would  hasten  the  crossing  of  new  troops  into
Mexican  territory  in  pursuit  of  the  outlaws,  the  Mexican
Government  instructed  General  Obregon  to  notify  the  United
States  that  the  crossing  of  American  soldiers  on  this  new
account  would  not  be  permitted  to  enter  into  Mexico,  and
that  orders  had  already  been  given  to  all  military  com-
manders on  the  frontier  to  prevent  it.

11.  When  the  attitude  of  the  Mexican  Government  be-
came known  Generals  Scott  and  Funston  assured  General

68      ARMED  INTERVENTION  IN  MEXICO

Obregon  that  no  movement  of  American  troops  had  been  or-
dered to  cross  the  frontier  on  account  of  the  Boquillas  inci-
dent, and  that  no  more  American  soldiers  would  enter  into
our  territory.

This  assurance,  which  was  personally  made  by  Generals
Scott  and  Funston  to  General  Obregon  when  the  conferences
were  about  to  be  adjourned,  was  reiterated  by  General  Scott
himself  in  a  later  private  conversation  he  had  with  Licen-
ciado  Juan  Neftali  Amador,  Sub-Secretary  for  Foreign  Af-
fairs, who  had  had  the  opportunity  to  take  part  in  the  con-
ferences between  the  American  and  the  Mexican  military
commanders.

12.  On  account  of  the  same  incident  of  Glenn  Springs,
or  Boquillas,  fearing  that  the  various  bands  of  outlaws  which
are  organized  or  armed  near  the  frontier  might  repeat  their
incursions,  and  with  a  view  to  procuring  an  effective  mili-
tary cooperation  between  American  and  Mexican  forces,
this  Government  suggested  through  its  representative,  Gen-
eral Obregon,  to  Generals  Scott  and  Funston,  representing
the  United  States,  the  convenience  of  reaching  an  under-
standing on  a  military  plan  of  distribution  of  troops  along
the  frontier  in  order  that  an  effective  watch  could  be  kept
over  the  whole  region,  and  avoiding  in  this  way,  so  far  as
possible,  the  recurrence  of  similar  assaults.  The  Mexican
Government  showed  by  this  action  not  only  its  good  faith
and  good  wishes,  but  also  its  frank  willingness  to  arrive  at
an  effective  cooperation  with  the  Government  of  the  United
States  to  avoid  all  further  sense  of  friction  between  the
two  countries.

This  plan  for  the  distribution  of  American  and  Mexi-
can forces  in  their  respective  territories  along  the  frontier
was  proposed  as  a  means  to  prevent  immediately  any  new
difficulty,  and  always  with  the  idea  of  arriving  later  at  the
celebration  of  an  agreement  for  the  reciprocal  crossing  of
troops,  as  long  as  the  abnormal  conditions  exist  in  our  ter-
ritory.

13.  The  conferences  between  Generals  Scott,  Funston,
and  Obregon  adjourned  on  May  nth  without  reaching  any
agreement  concerning  the  unconditional  withdrawal  of  the

ARMED  INTERVENTION  IN  MEXICO  69

American  troops.  General  Scott  insisted  in  the  form  of
the  memorandum  concerning  the  conditional  withdrawal  of
the  American  forces,  but  did  not  take  into  consideration  the
plan  proposed  by  the  Mexican  Government  for  the  protec-
tion of  the  frontier  by  means  of  detachments  along  the  same.

Under  these  conditions  it  was  left  for  the  Governments
of  Washington  and  Mexico  to  conclude  the  arrangements
initiated  during  the  conferences  of  Ciudad  Juarez  and  El
Paso.  Up  to  that  time  no  complication  had  occurred  on  ac-
count of  the  new  Boquillas  incident,  and  all  the  assurances
given  by  Generals  Scott  and  Funston  led  us  to  suppose  that
the  above  incident  would  not  bring  about  new  difficulties.

14.  The  Mexican  Government,  however,  has  just  been
informed  that  400  men  of  the  Eighth  Regiment  of  the  Amer-
ican Army  are  in  Mexican  territory,  having  crossed  the  line
in  the  direction  of  Boquillas  approximately  between  the
10th  and  1  ith  of  May,  and  are  at  present  near  a  place  called
El  Pino,  about  sixty  miles  south  of  the  frontier.  This
fact  was  brought  to  the  attention  of  the  Mexican  authori-
ties by  the  commander  himself  of  the  American  troops  which
crossed  the  frontier,  who  gave  advice  to  the  Mexican  mili-
tary commander  at  Esmeraldo,  Sierra  Mojada,  by  a  com-
munication in  which  he  informed  him  that  he  crossed  the
frontier  in  pursuit  of  the  band  of  outlaws  which  had  as-
saulted Glenn  Springs,  and  in  accordance  with  an  agree-
ment existing  between  the  American  and  the  Mexican  Gov-
ernments regarding  the  crossing  of  troops,  and  with  the
consent  of  a  Mexican  Consular  official  in  Del  Rio,  Texas,  to
whom  the  commander  alleged  he  had  announced  the  entry
of  his  expedition.

15.  The  Mexican  Government  cannot  assume  that  an
error  has  been  committed  a  second  time  by  the  American
Government  ordering  the  crossing  of  its  troops  without  the
consent  of  the  Government  of  Mexico.  It  fails  to  under-
stand also  that  a  commander  of  troops  of  the  United  States
Army  would  enter  into  Mexican  territory  without  the  due
authority  from  his  superiors,  and  believing  that  he  could  se-
cure permission  for  the  crossing  of  his  troops  from  a  Con-
sular agent.

;o      ARMED  INTERVENTION  IN  MEXICO

The  explanation  given  by  the  American  Government  in
regard  to  the  crossing  of  troops  at  Columbus  has  never  been
satisfactory  to  the  Mexican  Government ;  but  the  new  in-
vasion of  our  territory  is  no  longer  an  isolated  fact  and  tends
to  convince  the  Mexican  Government  that  something  more
than  a  mere  error  is  involved.

1 6.  This  latter  act  of  the  American  forces  causes  new
complications  for  the  Mexican  Government  in  the  possibility
of  a  satisfactory  solution  and  increases  the  tenseness  of  the
international  situation  between  both  countries.

The  Mexican  Government  cannot  consider  this  last  inci-
dent except  as  an  invasion  of  our  territory,  made  by  Ameri-
can forces  against  the  expressed  will  of  the  Mexican  Gov-
ernment, and  it  is  its  duty  to  request,  as  it  does,  the  Ameri-
can Government  to  order  the  immediate  withdrawal  of  these
new  forces  and  to  abstain  completely  from  sending  any  other
expedition  of  a  similar  character.

17.  The  Mexican  Government  understands  its  obliga-
tion to  protect  the  frontier;  but  this  obligation  is  not  ex-
clusively its  own,  and  it  expects  that  the  American  Govern-
ment, which  is  subject  to  an  equal  obligation,  will  appreci-
ate the  material  difficulties  with  which  this  task  is  met,  in-
asmuch as  the  American  troops  themselves,  notwithstanding
their  number  and  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  their  attention
is  not  shared  by  other  military  operations,  are  physically  un-
able to  effectively  protect  the  frontier  on  the  American  side.

The  Mexican  Government  has  made  every  effort  on  its
part  to  protect  the  frontier  without  disregarding,  on  the  other
hand,  the  considerable  task  of  pacification  which  is  being  per-
formed in  the  rest  of  the  country,  and  the  American  Gov-
ernment should  understand  that  if  now  and  then  any  lament-
able incursions  into  American  territory  committed  by  irre-
sponsible bands  of  outlaws  might  occur,  this  should  be  a
case  of  pecuniary  reparation  and  a  reason  to  adopt  a  com-
bined defense,  but  never  a  cause  for  the  American  authori-
ties to  invade  our  national  territory.

The  incursion  of  bands  of  outlaws  into  American  ter-
ritory is  a  deplorable  incident,  to  say  the  least,  but  in  no
way  can  the  Mexican  Government  be  made  responsible  for

ARMED  INTERVENTION  IN  MEXICO  71

them,  inasmuch  as  it  is  doing  everything  possible  to  pre-
vent them.  The  crossing  of  regular  American  troops  into
Mexican  territory,  against  the  express  will  of  the  Mexican
Government,  does  constitute  an  act  of  which  the  American
Government  is  responsible.

18.  The  Mexican  Government,  therefore,  believes  that
the  time  has  come  for  it  to  insist  with  the  American  Gov-
ernment that  in  withdrawing  at  once  the  new  Boquillas  ex-
pedition it  should  abstain  in  the  future  from  sending  new
troops.  In  any  case,  the  Mexican  Government  after  having
made  clear  its  unwillingness  to  permit  the  crossing  of  new
American  troops  into  Mexican  territory,  will  have  to  con-
sider the  latter  as  an  act  of  invasion  of  its  territory,  and
therefore  it  will  be  forced  to  defend  itself  against  any  group
of  American  troops  which  may  be  found  within  it.

19.  With  reference  to  the  troops  which  are  now  in-
terned in  the  State  of  Chihuahua  on  account  of  the  Columbus
incident,  the  Mexican  Government  is  compelled  to  insist  on
their  withdrawal.

The  Mexican  Government  understands  that,  in  the  face
of  the  unwillingness  of  the  American  Government  to  with-
draw the  above  forces,  it  would  be  left  no  other  recourse
than  to  procure  the  defense  of  its  territory  by  means  of
arms,  but  it  understands  at  the  same  time  its  duty  to  avoid
as  far  as  possible  an  armed  conflict  between  both  countries ;
and,  acting  in  accordance  with  Article  21  of  the  treaty  of
February  2,  1848,  it  considers  it  its  duty  to  resort  to  all
means  of  a  peaceful  character  to  find  a  solution  of  the  inter-
national conflict  in  which  both  countries  are  involved.

20.  The  Mexican  Government  considers  it  necessary
to  avail  itself  of  this  opportunity  to  request  the  American
Government  to  give  a  more  categorical  explanation  of  its
real  intentions  toward  Mexico.  To  this  end  it  hopes  that
in  speaking  with  entire  frankness  its  words  may  not  be  in-
terpreted as  tending  to  wound  the  sensibility  of  the  Ameri-
can Government;  but  that  it  finds  itself  in  the  condition  to
set  aside  all  diplomatic  euphemism,  in  order  to  express  its
ideas  with  entire  frankness.  If  in  the  expression  of  the
grievances  hereinafter  mentioned  the  Mexican  Government

72      ARMED  INTERVENTION  IN  MEXICO

makes  use  of  the  most  perfect  frankness,  it  is  because  it  con-
siders its  duty  to  convey  the  most  perfect  clearness  to  the
mind  of  the  Government  and  the  people  of  the  United  States
concerning  the  Mexican  point  of  view.

21.  The  American  Government  has  for  some  time  been
making  protests  of  friendship  to  Latin-American  countries,
and  it  has  availed  itself  of  all  possible  efforts  to  convince
the  same  that  it  is  its  desire  to  respect  their  sovereignty
absolutely.

With  respect  to  Mexico  especially,  the  American  Govern-
ment has  stated  on  various  occasions  that  it  has  no  inten-
tion to  intervene  in  any  way  in  its  internal  affairs  and  that
it  wishes  to  leave  our  country  to  decide  by  itself  its  difficult
problems  of  political  and  social  transformation.  It  is  still
reasoned  when,  on  account  of  the  Columbus  expedition,  the
American  Government,  through  the  voice  of  its  President,
has  made  the  declaration  that  it  does  not  intend  to  interfere
in  the  affairs  of  Mexico  nor  to  invade  it,  that  it  does  not  desire
to  acquire  a  single  inch  of  its  territory,  and  that  it  will  in  no
way  impair  its  sovereignty.

The  Washington  Government  and  its  representatives  on
the  frontier  have  also  expressly  declared  that  it  is  not  the
will  of  the  American  people  to  go  into  war  or  have  an  armed
conflict  with  Mexico.

Summing  up  all  of  the  above,  and  judging  from  the  offi-
cial declarations  which  have  been  made  for  some  time  past
by  the  Washington  Government,  there  should  appear  to  be
an  honest  purpose  on  the  part  of  the  Government  and  peo-
ple of  the  United  States  not  to  launch  into  a  conflict  with
Mexico.

22.  The  Mexican  Government,  however,  regrets  to  re-
mark that  the  acts  of  the  American  military  authorities  are
in  absolute  conflict  with  the  above  statements,  and  therefore
finds  itself  constrained  to  appeal  to  the  President,  the  De-
partment of  State,  the  Senate,  the  American  people  to  the
end  that  once  and  for  all  time  the  true  political  tendency  of
the  United  States  toward  Mexico  be  defined.

23.  It  is  equally  necessary  that  on  this  account  the  Gov-
ernment of  the  United  States  should  define  in  a  precise  man-

ARMED  INTERVENTION  IN  MEXICO  73

ner  its  purposes  toward  Mexico,  in  order  that  the  other  Latin-
American  nations  may  be  able  to  judge  the  sincerity  of  such
purposes  and  be  able  to  appreciate  the  proper  value  of  the
protests  of  amity  and  fraternity  which  have  been  made  to
them  during  many  years.

24.  The  American  Government,  through  the  voice  of  its
own  President,  stated  that  the  punitive  expedition  from  Co-
lumbus would  withdraw  from  Mexican  territory  as  soon  as
the  bands  of  the  Villa  outlaws  could  have  been  destroyed
or  dispersed.  More  than  two  months  have  elapsed  since  this
expedition  entered  into  Mexican  territory;  Generals  Scott
and  Funston  declared  in  Ciudad  Juarez  that  the  Villa  band
has  been  entirely  dispersed,  and,  knowing  this,  the  American
troops  are  not  withdrawn  from  the  territory  of  Mexico.

The  American  Government  is  convinced  and  has  ac-
cepted the  fact  that  no  military  task  is  now  left  for  the  Co-
lumbus expedition,  and  nevertheless  the  promise  made  by
President  Wilson  that  the  forces  would  withdraw  as  soon
as  the  purpose  which  caused  them  to  go  in  would  have  been
reached  has  not  been  complied  with.

The  causes  of  any  internal  political  order  which  may
exist  not  to  withdraw  the  American  troops  from  Mexican
territory,  however  justified  they  may  appear,  cannot  justify
the  above  attitude,  but  on  the  contrary  they  accentuate  the
discrepancy  between  the  protests  of  respect  to  the  sovereignty
of  Mexico  and  the  actual  fact  that  on  account  of  reasons  of
internal  policy  of  the  United  States  a  status  should  be  main-
tained which  is  utterly  unjust  with  regard  to  the  Mexican
Republic.

25.  The  American  Government  stated  that  its  purpose
in  causing  the  American  troops  to  enter  Mexico  was  only  to
defend  the  frontier  against  probable  incursions.  This  state-
ment, however,  is  in  conflict  with  the  attitude  assumed  by  the
same  American  Government  in  discussing  the  agreement  con-
cerning the  reciprocal  crossing  of  the  frontier,  because  while
the  Mexican  Government  maintained  that  said  agreement
should  limit  the  zone  of  operations  of  the  troops  of  one  and
the  other  country,  as  well  as  the  time  which  the  expeditions
should  last,  the  number  of  soldiers  and  the  arm  to  which

74      ARMED  INTERVENTION  IN  MEXICO

they  should  belong,  the  American  Government  constantly
eluded  these  limitations.  This  attitude  of  the  American  Gov-
ernment, which  is  the  one  expecting  to  have  frequent  occa-
sion to  cross  the  frontier  on  account  of  incursions  of  out-
laws, is  clearly  indicating  the  purpose  of  having  power  to
enter  Mexican  territory  beyond  the  limit  which  the  necessi-
ties of  defense  could  require.

26.  The  Columbus  punitive  expedition,  as  it  has  been
called,  had  not,  according  to  the  statements  of  President  Wil-
son, any  other  purpose  than  to  reach  and  punish  the  band  of
outlaws  which  had  committed  the  outrage,  and  it  was  or-
ganized under  the  supposition  that  the  Mexican  Government
had  given  its  consent  to  it.  Such  expedition,  however,  has
had  a  character  of  such  clear  distrust  toward  Mexico  and
of  such  absolute  independence,  that  it  cannot  justly  be  con-
sidered as  anything  but  an  invasion  made  without  the  con-
sent, without  the  knowledge,  and  without  the  cooperation  of
the  Mexican  authorities.

It  was  a  known  fact  that  the  Columbus  expedition  crossed
the  frontier  without  the  consent  of  the  Mexican  Govern-
ment. The  American  military  authorities  have  carried  this
expedition  into  effect  without  awaiting  for  the  consent  of
the  Government  of  Mexico,  and  even  after  they  were  offi-
cially informed  that  this  Government  had  not  given  its  con-
sent for  it,  they  nevertheless  continued  it,  causing  more
troops  to  cross  the  line  without  informing  the  Mexican  au-
thorities of  this  fact.

The  expedition  has  entered  and  operated  within  Mexican
territory  without  procuring  the  cooperation  of  the  Mexican
authorities.  The  American  military  authorities  have  always
maintained  complete  secrecy  regarding  their  movements
without  informing  the  Mexican  Government  about  them,
such  as  they  would  have  done  if  they  really  had  tried  to  obtain
cooperation.  This  lack  of  advice  and  agreement  was  the
cause  of  the  clash  which  occurred  in  Parral  between  Ameri-
can forces  and  Mexican  citizens.

In  conclusion,  the  Columbus  expedition  has  been  car-
ried into  effect  without  any  spirit  of  harmony,  but,  on  the
contrary,  under  a  spirit  of  distrust  with  respect  to  our  au-

ARMED  INTERVENTION  IN  MEXICO  75

thorities,  as  our  cooperation  was  not  only  unsought,  nor  were
we  informed  with  regard  to  military  operations  affected,  be-
sides the  expedition  was  organized,  carrying  artillery  and
infantry  forces.

Now,  then,  the  protests  of  friendly  cooperation  made  by
the  American  authorities  are  not  in  keeping  with  the  use  of
infantry  and  artillery  exclusively  destined  to  be  employed
against  the  regular  Mexican  forces.

If  the  Columbus  expedition  had  taken  place  with  the
consent  of  the  Mexican  Government  and  its  cooperation  had
been  sought,  the  use  of  artillery  and  infantry  would  have
been  considered  an  insult  to  the  Mexican  authorities  because
of  the  supposition  that  they  might  feloniously  assault  the
American  forces  which  would  have  entered  Mexico  in  pur-
suit of  a  common  enemy  confiding  in  the  friendship  of  the
former.  Nevertheless,  it  is  preferable  to  interpret  this  act
as  a  proof  that  the  American  forces  entered  into  Mexican
territory  without  the  consent  of  the  Mexican  Government,
and,  therefore,  ready  to  repel  any  aggression  on  the  part  of
regular  Mexican  forces  who  were  ignorant  of  their  pres-
ence.

All  of  the  above  facts  demonstrate  that  there  has  been  a
great  discrepancy  between  the  protests  of  sincere  friendly  co-
operation on  the  part  of  the  American  authorities  and  the
actual  attitude  of  the  expedition,  which,  on  account  of  its
distrust,  its  secrecy  regarding  its  movements  and  the  arms
at  its  disposal,  clearly  indicated  that  it  was  a  hostile  expedi-
tion and  a  real  invasion  of  our  territory.

27.  The  American  Government  has  stated  on  different
occasions  that  the  Columbus  expedition  had  no  other  object
than  to  pursue  and  destroy  the  Villa  bandits,  and  that  as  soon
as  this  would  be  accomplished  the  expedition  would  be  with-
drawn. The  facts,  however,  have  shown  that  the  intention
of  the  American  Government  was  not  the  same  during  the
conference  at  Ciudad  Juarez  and  El  Paso.  It  cannot  be  ex-
plained otherwise  that  General  Scott  should  have  insisted
so  emphatically  on  the  signing  of  a  memorandum  stating  that
the  American  forces  would  not  finish  their  withdrawal,  if
any  other  incident  occurred  which  would  mortify  the  belief

76      ARMED  INTERVENTION  IN  MEXICO

of  the  American  Government  in  the  ability  of  the  Mexican
Government  to  protect  the  frontier.

The  conclusion  to  be  drawn  from  this  insistency  of
General  Scott  regarding  the  signing  of  this  memorandum  is
that  the  Columbus  expedition  entered  into  Mexico  promis-
ing to  withdraw  as  soon  as  it  should  have  destroyed  the  Villa
band,  but  that  it  is  the  purpose  to  make  use  of  it  afterward  as
an  instrument  to  guarantee  the  protection  of  the  frontier.

28.  The  American  Government  justly  desires  that  the
frontier  should  be  protected.  If  the  frontier  should  be  prop-
erly protected  against  incursions  from  Mexico  there  would
be  no  reason  then  for  the  existing  difficulty.  The  American
Government  knows  of  the  difficulties  obtaining  in  the  pro-
tection of  a  frontier  line  in  which  there  are  no  natural  facili-
ties to  aid  in  its  defense,  and,  notwithstanding  its  immense
resources,  the  American  Government  itself  has  not  been  able
to  render  an  effective  protection  along  a  line  of  more  than
2,000  kilometers  to  be  guarded.

The  Mexican  Government  proposed  that  the  military
chiefs  in  charge  of  the  troops  in  one  and  the  other  country
should  discuss  a  plan  of  cantonments  along  the  boundary
line,  and,  notwithstanding  the  protestations  of  the  American
Government  of  its  desire  to  solve  its  difficulties  with  Mexico,
General  Scott  did  not  approve  the  above  plan  of  canton-
ments, which  is  the  only  thing  rational  and  the  only  plan
that  could  be  carried  into  effect  without  involving  the  sov-
ereignty or  territory  of  one  or  the  other  country.  The
American  Government  prefers  to  keep  its  troops  inactive  and
idle  within  the  territory  of  Mexico,  instead  of  withdrawing
them  to  post  them  along  the  frontier  in  accord  with  Mexican
authorities  who  would  do  likewise  on  their  side.  By  this
action  the  American  Government  gives  room  for  the  sup-
position that  its  true  intention  is  to  keep  the  troops  it  already
has  interned  in  Mexico  anticipating  that  it  may  make  use
of  them  later  for  future  operations.

29.  The  American  Government  has  on  all  occasions  de-
clared its  desire  to  help  the  Constitutionalist  Government
to  complete  the  work  of  pacification  and  its  desire  that  this
task  should  be  carried  into  effect  within  the  least  time  pos-

ARMED  INTERVENTION  IN  MEXICO  77

sible.  The  true  attitude  of  the  American  Government  in  re-
lation with  these  desires  appears  to  be  entirely  incongruous,
inasmuch  as  for  some  time  back  it  has  been  doing  things  indi-
cating that  it  does  not  only  render  any  assistance  to  the  work
of  pacification  of  Mexico,  but  that,  on  the  contrary,  it  ap-
pears to  place  all  possible  obstacles  to  the  execution  of  this
task.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  without  considering  the  great
number  of  diplomatic  representations  made  under  the  pre-
text of  protection  to  American  interests  in  Mexico,  which
are  constantly  embarrassing  the  task  of  the  new  Government,
whose  intention  it  is  to  reorganize  the  political,  economic,
and  social  conditions  of  the  country  on  a  new  basis,  there
is  a  great  number  of  facts  which  cause  the  influence  of  the
American  Government  to  be  felt  against  the  consolidation
of  the  present  Government  of  Mexico.

The  decided  support  given  at  one  time  to  Villa  by  Gen-
eral Scott  and  the  Department  of  State  itself  was  the  prin-
cipal cause  for  the  prolongation  of  civil  war  in  Mexico  for
many  months.  Later  on  the  continuous  aid  which  the  Ameri-
can Catholic  clergy  has  rendered  to  the  Mexican  Catholic
clergy,  which  is  incessantly  working  against  the  Constitu-
tionalist Government,  and  the  constant  activities  of  the  Amer-
ican interventionist  press  and  business  men  of  that  country,
are,  to  say  the  least,  an  indication  that  the  present  American
Government  does  not  wish  or  is  unable  to  prevent  all  the
works  of  conspiracy  against  the  Constitutionalist  Govern-
ment carried  into  effect  in  the  United  States.

30.  The  American  Government  claims  constantly  from
the  Mexican  Government  an  effective  protection  of  the  fron-
tiers, and,  nevertheless,  the  greater  number  of  the  bands
which  take  the  name  of  rebels  against  this  Government  is
provided  and  armed,  and  perhaps  also  organized,  on  the
American  side  under  the  tolerance  of  the  authorities  of  the
State  of  Texas,  and,  it  may  be  said,  even  of  the  Federal  au-
thorities of  the  United  States.  The  leniency  of  the  Ameri-
can authorities  toward  such  bands  is  such  that  in  the  ma-
jority of  cases  the  conspirators,  who  are  well  known,  and
wherever  they  have  been  discovered  and  imprisoned,  are  re*

78      ARMED  INTERVENTION  IN  MEXICO

leased  under  insignificant  bonds,  permitting  them  to  con-
tinue in  their  efforts.

Mexican  emigrants,  who  are  plotting  and  organizing  in-
cursions on  the  American  side,  have  now  more  facilities  to
cause  injury  than  before,  because  knowing  that  any  new  diffi-
culty between  Mexico  and  the  United  States  will  prolong  the
stay  of  American  troops,  they  endeavor  to  increase  the  oc-
casions for  a  conflict  and  friction.

31.  The  American  Government  claims  to  help  the  Con-
stitutionalist Government  in  its  task  of  pacification  and  urges
that  such  a  work  be  done  within  the  least  time  possible,
and  that  the  protection  of  the  frontiers  be  effected  in  the
most  efficacious  way.  And  nevertheless,  on  various  occa-
sions, the  American  Government  has  detained  shipments  of
arms  and  ammunition  purchased  by  the  Mexican  Govern-
ment in  the  United  States,  which  should  be  employed  to
hasten  the  task  of  pacification  and  to  more  efficaciously  pro-
tect the  frontier.  The  pretexts  given  to  detain  the  shipment
of  munitions  consigned  to  this  Government  have  always  been
futile  and  never  have  we  been  given  a  frank  reason ;  it  has
been  said,  for  example,  that  the  munitions  were  embargoed
because  it  was  not  known  who  the  owner  might  be,  or  because
of  the  fear  that  they  might  fall  into  the  hands  of  Villista
bands.

The  embargo  of  war  material  consigned  to  the  Mexican
Government  can  have  no  other  interpretation  than  that  the
Government  of  the  United  States  wishes  to  protect  itself
against  the  emergency  of  a  future  conflict,  and  therefore  it
is  endeavoring  to  prevent  arms  and  ammunition  which  might
be  used  against  American  troops  from  reaching  the  hands
of  the  Mexican  Government.  The  American  Government
would  have  the  right  to  take  this  precaution  against  such
emergency,  but  in  that  case  it  ought  not  to  say  that  it  is
endeavoring  to  cooperate  with  the  Mexican  Government,  and
it  would  be  preferable  to  give  out  a  more  frank  statement  con-
cerning its  procedure.

The  American  Government  either  desires  to  decidedly
and  frankly  help  the  Mexican  Government  to  reestablish
peace,  and  in  this  case  it  ought  not  to  prevent  the  exportation

ARMED  INTERVENTION  IN  MEXICO  79

of  arms,  or  the  true  purposes  of  the  American  Govern-
ment are  to  get  ready  so  that  in  the  case  of  future  war  with
Mexico  the  latter  may  find  itself  less  provided  with  arms
and  ammunition.  If  this  is  the  case,  it  would  be  preferable
to  say  so.

In  any  case,  the  embargo  on  arms  and  ammunition  con-
signed to  the  Mexican  authorities,  under  the  frivolous  pre-
text of  preventing  these  arms  and  ammunition  from  falling
into  the  hands  of  Villista  bands,  is  an  indication  that  the
actual  acts  of  the  American  military  authorities  are  entirely
in  conflict  with  the  purposes  of  peace  of  the  American  Gov-
ernment.

The  Mexican  Government  cannot  wish  war  with  the
United  States,  and  if  this  should  occur  it  would  undoubt-
edly be  as  a  consequence  of  a  deliberate  purpose  of  the
United  States.  For  the  time  being  the  above  precaution-
ary acts  of  the  American  Government  indicate  that  there
is  a  purpose  of  preparedness  for  such  emergency,  or  that,
which  is  the  same,  the  beginning  of  hostility  on  the  part  of
the  United  States  toward  Mexico.

32.  In  conclusion,  the  New  York  American  authori-
ties, alleging  that  they  act  at  the  suggestion  of  a  neutral
peaceful  society,  have  ordered  the  detention  of  several  parts
of  machinery  which  the  Mexican  Government  was  forward-
ing to  Mexico  for  its  ammunition  factory.  It  could  not  be
conceived  that  this  machinery  could  be  used  before  several
months  after  it  had  reached  its  destination.  This  action  of
the  American  Government,  tending  to  prevent  the  manufac-
turing of  munitions  in  a  remote  future,  is  another  clear
indication  that  its  true  purposes  toward  Mexico  are  not
peaceful,  because  while  millions  and  millions  of  dollars'
worth  of  arms  and  ammunition  are  being  daily  exported  for
the  European  war  without  peace  societies  becoming  im-
pressed by  the  spectacle  of  that  war,  the  New  York  authori-
ties are  showing  exceedingly  marked  interest  in  seconding
the  purposes  of  the  above-mentioned  humanitarian  socie-
ties whenever  it  is  a  matter  of  exporting  to  Mexico  any
machinery  for  the  manufacture  of  arms  and  ammunition.

Mexico  has  the  indisputable  right  just  like  the  United

8o      ARMED  INTERVENTION  IN  MEXICO

States  and  all  other  nations  in  the  world  to  provide  for
its  military  necessities,  especially  so  when  it  is  confronting
so  vast  a  task  as  that  of  insuring  the  pacification  of  the  in-
terior of  this  country;  and  the  action  of  the  Government
of  the  United  States  in  detaining  machinery  destined  for
the  manufacture  of  ammunitions  is  indicative  either  that  the
United  States  wishes  to  place  obstacles  to  its  complete  paci-
fication, or  that  this  action  is  one  of  the  series  carried  into
effect  by  the  American  authorities  as  a  matter  of  precau-
tion in  case  of  a  projected  war  with  Mexico.

33.  All  of  the  above-mentioned  circumstances  indicate
that  the  true  purpose  of  the  military  authorities  of  the  United
States  are  in  absolute  contradiction  with  the  continuous
protestations  of  amity  of  the  American  Government  toward
Mexico.

34.  The  Mexican  people  and  Government  are  absolutely
sure  that  the  American  people  do  not  wish  war  with  Mexico.
There  are,  nevertheless,  strong  American  interests  and  strong
Mexican  interests  laboring  to  secure  a  conflict  between  the
two  countries.  The  Mexican  Government  firmly  desires  to
preserve  peace  with  the  American  Government,  but  to  that
effect  it  is  indispensable  that  the  American  Government
should  frankly  explain  its  true  purposes  toward  Mexico.

The  Mexican  Government,  therefore,  formally  invites
the  Government  of  the  United  States  to  cause  the  situation
of  uncertainty  between  the  two  countries  to  cease  and  to  sup-
port its  declarations  and  protests  of  amity  with  real  and
effective  action  which  will  convince  the  Mexican  people  of
the  sincerity  of  its  purposes.  This  action,  in  the  present  situ-
ation, cannot  be  other  than  the  immediate  withdrawal  of
the  American  troops  which  are  now  in  Mexican  territory.

BY  ROBERT  LANSING
U.  S.  Official  Reply  to  the  Above  Protest

Washington,  June  20,  1916.
Sir:    I  have  read  your  communication,  which  was  de-
livered to  me  on  May  22,  1916,  under  instructions  of  the
Chief  Executive  of  the  de  facto  Government  of  Mexico,
on  the  subject  of  the  presence  of  American  troops  in  Mexi-

ARMED  INTERVENTION  IN  MEXICO  81

can  territory,  and  I  would  be  wanting  in  candor  if  I  did  not,
before  making  answer  to  the  allegations  of  fact  and  the
conclusions  reached  by  your  Government,  express  the  sur-
prise and  regret  which  have  been  caused  this  Government
by  the  discourteous  tone  and  temper  of  this  last  communi-
cation of  the  de  facto  Government  of  Mexico.

The  Government  of  the  United  States  has  viewed  with
deep  concern  and  increasing  disappointment  the  progress
of  the  revolution  in  Mexico.  Continuous  bloodshed  and  dis-
orders have  marked  its  progress.  For  three  years  the  Mexi-
can Republic  has  been  torn  with  civil  strife;  the  lives  of
Americans  and  other  aliens  have  been  sacrificed;  vast  prop-
erties developed  by  American  capital  and  enterprise  have  been
destroyed  or  rendered  non-productive;  bandits  have  been
permitted  to  roam  at  will  through  the  territory  contiguous
to  the  United  States  and  to  seize,  without  punishment  or
without  effective  attempt  at  punishment,  the  property  of
Americans,  while  the  lives  of  citizens  of  the  United  States,
who  ventured  to  remain  in  Mexican  territory  or  to  return
there  to  protect  their  interests,  have  been  taken,  in  some  cases
barbarously  taken,  and  the  murderers  have  neither  been  ap-
prehended nor  brought  to  justice.  It  would  be  difficult  to
find  in  the  annals  of  the  history  of  Mexico  conditions  more
deplorable  than  those  which  have  existed  there  during  these
recent  years  of  civil  war.

It  would  be  tedious  to  recount  instance  after  instance,
outrage  after  outrage,  atrocity  after  atrocity,  to  illustrate
the  true  nature  and  extent  of  the  widespread  conditions  of
lawlessness  and  violence  which  have  prevailed.  During  the
past  nine  months  in  particular,  the  frontier  of  the  United
States  along  the  lower  Rio  Grande  has  been  thrown  into  a
state  of  constant  apprehension  and  turmoil  because  of  fre-
quent and  sudden  incursions  into  American  territory  and
depredations  and  murders  on  American  soil  by  Mexican
bandits,  who  have  taken  the  lives  and  destroyed  the  prop-
erty of  American  citizens,  sometimes  carrying  American
citizens  across  the  international  boundary  with  the  booty
seized.

American  garrisons  have  been  attacked  at  night,  Ameri-

82      ARMED  INTERVENTION  IN  MEXICO

can  soldiers  killed,  and  their  equipment  and  horses  stolen.
American  ranches  have  been  raided,  property  stolen  and
destroyed,  and  American  trains  wrecked  and  plundered.  The
attacks  on  Brownsville,  Red  House  Ferry,  Progreso  Post
Office,  and  Las  Peladas,  all  occurring  during  September
last,  are  typical.  In  these  attacks  on  American  territory,
Carranzista  adherents  and  even  Carranzista  soldiers  took
part  in  the  looting,  burning,  and  killing.  Not  only  were
these  murders  characterized  by  ruthless  brutality,  but  un-
civilized acts  of  mutilation  were  perpetrated.  Representa-
tions were  made  to  General  Carranza,  and  he  was  emphati-
cally requested  to  stop  these  reprehensible  acts  in  a  section
which  he  has  long  claimed  to  be  under  the  complete  domina-
tion of  his  authority.

Notwithstanding  these  representations  and  the  promise
of  General  Nafarrete  to  prevent  attacks  along  the  interna-
tional boundary,  in  the  following  month  of  October  a  passen-
ger train  was  wrecked  by  bandits  and  several  persons  killed
seven  miles  north  of  Brownsville,  and  an  attack  was  made
upon  United  States  troops  at  the  same  place  several  days
later.  Since  these  attacks,  leaders  of  the  bandits  well  known
both  to  Mexican  civil  and  military  authorities,  as  well  as  to
American  officers,  have  been  enjoying  with  impunity  the
liberty  of  the  towns  of  Northern  Mexico.  So  far  has  the
indifference  of  the  de  facto  Government  to  these  atrocities
gone  that  some  of  these  leaders,  as  I  am  advised,  have  re-
ceived not  only  the  protection  of  that  Government,  but  en-
couragement and  aid  as  well.

Depredations  upon  American  persons  and  property
within  Mexican  jurisdiction  have  been  still  more  numerous.
This  Government  has  repeatedly  requested  in  the  strongest
terms  that  the  de  facto  Government  safeguard  the  lives  and
homes  of  American  citizens  and  furnish  the  protection  which
international  obligation  imposes,  to  American  interests  in
the  northern  States  of  Tamaulipas.  Nuevo  Leon,  Coahuila,
Chihuahua,  and  Sonora,  and  also  in  the  States  to  the  south.

For  example,  on  January  3rd,  troops  were  requested  to
punish  the  bands  of  outlaws  which  looted  the  Cusi  mining
property,  eighty  miles  west  of  Chihuahua,  but  no  effective

ARMED  INTERVENTION  IN  MEXICO  83

results  came  from  this  request.  During  the  following  week
the  bandit,  Villa,  with  his  band  of  about  200  men,  was
operating  without  opposition  between  Rubio  and  Santa  Ysa-
bel,  a  fact  well  known  to  Carranzista  authorities.  Mean-
while a  party  of  unfortunate  Americans  started  by  train
from  Chihuahua  to  visit  the  Cusi  mines,  after  having  re-
ceived assurances  from  the  Carranzista  authorities  in  the
State  of  Chihuahua  that  the  country  was  safe  and  that  a
guard  on  the  train  was  not  necessary.  The  Americans  held
passports  or  safe  conducts  issued  by  authorities  of  the  de
facto  Government.  On  January  10th  the  train  was  stopped
by  Villa  bandits,  and  eighteen  of  the  American  party  were
stripped  of  their  clothing  and  shot  in  cold  blood,  in  what
is  now  known  as  the  "Santa  Ysabel  massacre."  General
Carranza  stated  to  the  agent  of  the  Department  of  State
that  he  had  issued  orders  for  the  immediate  pursuit,  capture,
and  punishment  of  those  responsible  for  this  atrocious  crime,
and  appealed  to  this  Government  and  to  the  American  peo-
ple to  consider  the  difficulties  of  according  protection  along
the  railroad  where  the  massacre  occurred.  Assurances  were
also  given  by  Mr.  Arredondo,  presumably  under  instruc-
tions from  the  de  facto  Government,  that  the  murderers
would  be  brought  to  justice,  and  that  steps  would  also  be
taken  to  remedy  the  lawless  conditions  existing  in  the  State
of  Durango.

It  is  true  that  Villa,  Castro,  and  Lopez  were  publicly  de-
clared to  be  outlaws  and  subject  to  apprehension  and  exe-
cution, but  so  far  as  known  only  a  single  man  personally
connected  with  this  massacre  has  been  brought  to  justice  by
Mexican  authorities.  Within  a  month  after  this  barbarous
slaughter  of  inoffensive  Americans,  it  was  notorious  that
Villa  was  operating  within  twenty  miles  of  Cusihuiriachic
and  publicly  stated  that  his  purpose  was  to  destroy  Ameri-
can lives  and  property.  Despite  repeated  and  insistent  de-
mands that  military  protection  should  be  furnished  to  Ameri-
cans, Villa  openly  carried  on  his  operations,  constantly  ap-
proaching closer  and  closer  to  the  border.  He  was  not  in-
tercepted nor  were  his  movements  impeded  by  troops  of  the
de  facto  Government  and  no  effectual  attempt  was  made  to

84      ARMED  INTERVENTION  IN  MEXICO

frustrate  his  hostile  designs  against  Americans.  In  fact,  as
I  am  informed,  while  Villa  and  his  band  were  slowly  mov-
ing toward  the  American  frontier  in  the  neighborhood  of
Columbus,  N.  M.,  not  a  single  Mexican  soldier  was  seen
in  this  vicinity.  Yet  the  Mexican  authorities  were  fully
cognizant  of  his  movements,  for  on  March  6,  as  General
Gavira  publicly  announced,  he  advised  the  American  military
authorities  of  the  outlaw's  approach  to  the  border,  so  that
they  might  be  prepared  to  prevent  him  from  crossing  the
boundary.

Villa's  unhindered  activities  culminated  in  the  unpro-
voked and  cold-blooded  attack  upon  American  soldiers  and
citizens  in  the  town  of  Columbus  on  the  night  of  March
9th,  the  details  of  which  do  not  need  repetition  here  in  order
to  refresh  your  memory  with  the  heinousness  of  the  crime.
After  murdering,  burning,  and  plundering,  Villa  and  his
bandits,  fleeing  south,  passed  within  sight  of  the  Carran-
zista  military  post  at  Casas  Grandes,  and  no  effort  was
made  to  stop  him  by  the  officers  and  garrison  of  the  de  facto
Government  stationed  there.

In  the  face  of  these  depredations,  not  only  on  American
lives  and  property  on  Mexican  soil,  but  on  American  sol-
diers, citizens,  and  homes  on  American  territory,  the  per-
petrators of  which  General  Carranza  was  unable  or  possibly
considered  it  inadvisable  to  apprehend  and  punish,  the  United
States  had  no  recourse  other  than  to  employ  force  to  dis-
perse the  bands  of  Mexican  outlaws  who  were  with  increas-
ing boldness  systematically  raiding  across  the  international
boundary.

•  The  maurauders  engaged  in  the  attack  on  Columbus
were  driven  back  across  the  border  by  American  cavalry,
and  subsequently,  as  soon  as  a  sufficient  force  to  cope  with
the  band  could  be  collected,  were  pursued  into  Mexico  in  an
effort  to  capture  or  destroy  them.  Without  cooperation
or  assistance  in  the  field  on  the  part  of  the  de  facto  Gov-
ernment, despite  repeated  requests  by  the  United  States,  and
without  apparent  recognition  on  its  part  of  the  desirability  of
putting  an  end  to  these  systematic  raids,  or  of  punishing  the
chief  perpetrators  of  the  crimes  committed,  because  they

ARMED  INTERVENTION  IN  MEXICO  85

menaced  the  good  relations  of  the  two  countries,  American
forces  pursued  the  lawless  bands  as  far  as  Parral,  where
the  pursuit  was  halted  by  the  hostility  of  Mexicans,  presumed
to  be  loyal  to  the  de  facto  Government,  who  arrayed  them-
selves on  the  side  of  outlawry  and  became  in  effect  the  pro-
tectors of  Villa  and  his  band.

In  this  manner  and  for  these  reasons  have  the  Ameri-
can forces  entered  Mexican  territory.  Knowing  fully  the
circumstances  set  forth,  the  de  facto  Government  cannot  be
blind  to  the  necessity  which  compelled  this  Government  to
act,  and  yet  it  has  seen  fit  to  recite  groundless  sentiments  of
hostility  toward  the  expedition  and  to  impute  to  this  Gov-
ernment ulterior  motives  for  the  continued  presence  of  Amer-
ican troops  on  Mexican  soil.  It  is  charged  that  these  troops
crossed  the  frontier  without  first  obtaining  the  consent  or  per-
mission of  the  de  facto  Government.  Obviously,  as  imme-
diate action  alone  could  avail,  there  was  no  opportunity  to
reach  an  agreement  (other  than  that  of  March  ioth-i3th,
now  repudiated  by  General  Carranza)  prior  to  the  entrance
of  such  an  expedition  into  Mexico  if  the  expedition  was  to
be  effective.  Subsequent  events  and  correspondence  have
demonstrated  to  the  satisfaction  of  this  Government  that
General  Carranza  would  not  have  entered  into  any  agree-
ment providing  for  an  effective  plan  for  the  capture  and
destruction  of  the  Villa  bands.

While  the  American  troops  were  moving  rapidly  south-
ward in  pursuit  of  the  raiders,  it  was  the  form  and  nature  of
the  agreement  that  occupied  the  attention  of  General  Car-
ranza, rather  than  the  practical  object  which  it  was  to  ob-
tain— the  number  of  limitations  that  could  be  imposed  upon
the  American  forces  to  impede  their  progress,  rather  than
the  obstacles  that  could  be  raised  to  prevent  the  escape  of
the  outlaws.  It  was  General  Carranza  who  suspended
through  your  note  of  April  12th  all  discussions  and  negotia-
tions for  an  agreement  along  the  lines  of  the  protocols  be-
tween the  United  States  and  Mexico  concluded  during  the
period  1882-1896,  under  which  the  two  countries  had  so
successfully  restored  peace  on  their  common  boundary.

It  may  be  mentioned  here  that,  notwithstanding  the

86      ARMED  INTERVENTION  IN  MEXICO

statement  in  your  note  that  "the  American  Government  gave
no  answer  to  the  note  of  April  12th,"  this  note  was  re-
plied to  on  April  14th,  when  the  department  instructed
Mr.  Rodgers  by  telegraph  to  deliver  this  Government's  an-
swer to  General  Carranza.

Shortly  after  this  reply  the  conferences  between  Gen-
erals Scott,  Funston,  and  Obregon  began  at  El  Paso,  during
which  they  signed  on  May  2nd  a  project  of  a  memorandum
ad  referendum,  regarding  the  withdrawal  of  American
troops.  As  an  indication  of  the  alleged  bad  faith  of  the
American  Government,  you  state  that  though  General  Scott
declared  in  this  memorandum  that  the  destruction  and  dis-
persion of  the  Villa  band  "had  been  accomplished,"  yet  Amer-
ican forces  are  not  withdrawn  from  Mexico.  It  is  only
necessary  to  read  the  memorandum,  which  is  in  the  English
language,  to  ascertain  that  this  is  clearly  a  misstatement,
for  the  memorandum  states  that  "the  American  punitive  ex-
peditionary forces  have  destroyed  or  dispersed  many  of  the
lawless  elements  and  bandits  ...  or  have  driven  them  far
into  the  interior  of  the  Republic  of  Mexico,"  and,  further,
that  the  United  States  forces  were  then  "carrying  on  a  vigor-
ous pursuit  of  such  small  numbers  of  bandits  or  lawless  ele-
ments as  may  have  escaped."

The  context  of  your  note  gives  the  impression  that  the
object  of  the  expedition  being  admittedly  accomplished,  the
United  States  had  agreed  in  the  memorandum  to  begin  the
withdrawal  of  its  troops.  The  memorandum  shows,  how-
ever, that  it  was  not  alone  on  account  of  partial  dispersion
of  the  bandits  that  it  was  decided  to  begin  the  withdrawal
of  American  forces,  but  equally  on  account  of  the  assurances
of  the  Mexican  Government  that  their  forces  were  "at  the
present  time  being  augmented  and  strengthened  to  such  an
extent  that  they  will  be  able  to  prevent  any  disorders  oc-
curring in  Mexico  that  would  in  any  way  endanger  Ameri-
can territory,"  and  that  they  would  "continue  to  diligently
pursue,  capture,  or  destroy  any  lawless  bands  of  bandits
that  may  still  exist  or  hereafter  exist  in  the  northern  part  of
Mexico,"  and  that  it  would  "make  a  proper  distribution  of
such  of  its  forces  as  may  be  necessary  to  prevent  the  possi-

ARMED  INTERVENTION  IN  MEXICO  87

bility  of  invasion  of  American  territory  from  Mexico."  It
was  because  of  these  assurances  and  because  of  General
Scott's  confidence  that  they  would  be  carried  out  that  he
said  that  American  forces  would  be  "gradually  withdrawn."

It  is  to  be  noted  that,  while  the  American  Government
was  willing  to  ratify  this  agreement,  General  Carranza  re-
fused to  do  so,  as  General  Obregon  stated,  because,  among
other  things,  it  imposed  improper  conditions  upon  Mexico.

Notwithstanding  the  assurances  in  the  memorandum,  it
is  well  known  that  the  forces  of  the  de  facto  Government
have  not  carried  on  a  vigorous  pursuit  of  the  remaining  ban-
dits, and  that  no  proper  distribution  of  forces  to  prevent
the  invasion  of  American  territory  has  been  made.  I  am
reluctant  to  be  forced  to  the  conclusion  which  might  be
drawn  from  these  circumstances  that  the  de  facto  Govern-
ment, in  spite  of  the  crimes  committed  and  the  sinister  de-
signs of  Villa  and  his  followers,  did  not  and  does  not  now
intend  or  desire  that  these  outlaws  should  be  captured,  de-
stroyed, or  dispersed  by  American  troops  or,  at  the  request
of  this  Government,  by  Mexican  troops.

BY  NEWTON  BAKER
Proclamat'ion  of  June  iSth,  the  Calling  of  the  National  Guard

In  view  of  the  disturbed  conditions  on  the  Mexican  bor-
der, and  in  order  to  assure  complete  protection  for  all  Ameri-
cans, the  President  has  called  out  substantially  all  the  State
militia,  and  will  send  them  to  the  border  wherever  and  as
fully  as  General  Funston  determines  them  to  be  needed
for  the  purpose  stated.

If  all  are  not  needed  an  effort  will  be  made  to  relieve
those  on  duty  there  from  time  to  time  so  as  to  distribute  the
duty.

This  call  for  militia  is  wholly  unrelated  to  General
Pershing's  expedition,  and  contemplates  no  additional  en-
try into  Mexico,  except  as  may  be  necessary  to  pursue  ban-
dits who  attempt  outrages  on  American  soil.

The  militia  are  being  called  out  so  as  to  leave  some  troops
in  the  several  States.  They  will  be  mobilized  at  their  home
stations,  where  necessary  recruiting  can  be  done.

GERMANY  YIELDS  TO  AMERICA'S
ULTIMATUM

ABANDONMENT   OF  UNRESTRICTED    SUBMARINE  WAR-
FARE

APRIL  l8TH

WOODROW  WILSON  GOTTLIEB  VON  JAGOW

In  looking  for  the  decisive  moment  of  the  Great  War,  Admiral
Tirpitz,  director  of  Germany's  U-boat  warfare,  declared  that  his
country's  defeat  was  decided  by  the  United  States  ultimatum  of
April  i8,  1916,  or  rather  by  Germany's  yielding  to  that  ultimatum,  as
she  did  in  Von  Jagow's  note  of  May  4th.  Both  of  these  historically
celebrated  notes  are  here  given,  and  also  President  Wilson's  brief
speech  of  April  19th,  explaining  to  Congress  what  he  had  done.

The  dispute  reached  back  to  the  submarine  controversies  of  the
preceding  year,  which  had  culminated  in  the  sinking  of  the  Lusitania.
After  that  Germany  procrastinated,  apologized  and  continued  suggest-
ing modifications  of  international  law  at  sea.  Meanwhile  her  U-boats
torpedoed  an  occasional  American  ship,  or  slew  an  American  citizen
on  some  Ally  merchant  ship.  Such  attacks  were  denied  or  explained
away,  until  President  Wilson  after  almost  a  year  of  patient  expostu-
lation seized  upon  a  clear  and  undeniable  case  and  made  it  the  basis
of  his  ultimatum.

The  case  thus  emphasized  was  that  of  the  Sussex,  a  British  pas-
senger ship  of  obviously  pacific  character,  which  was  torpedoed  while
crossing  the  English  Channel.  Among  the  slain  passengers  were
several  United  States  citizens.  Germany  at  first  denied  the  torpedo-
ing, but  afterward  admitted  it.  In  the  interim,  the  Von  Jagow  note,
here  given,  made  the  required  promise  that  thereafter  U-boats  would
sink  no  peaceful  ship  without  giving  warning  and  providing  for  the
safety  of  passengers  and  crew.

This  restriction  so  far  reduced  the  destructiveness  of  the  U-boats
that  during  the  remainder  of  1916  they  ceased  to  be  a  serious  factor
in  the  War.  This  in  reality  was  only  a  temporary  pause.  One  main
cause  for  Germany's  apparent  yielding  was  that  her  old-style  subma-
rines were  proving  too  feeble,  and  so  many  of  them  had  been  de-
stroyed that  the  remainder  could  not  have  continued  a  very  vigorous
attack.  German  ship-yards  employed  the  year  to  complete  at  top  speed
a  fleet  of  new  and  far  stronger  submarines.  Hence  Von  Tirpitz's
lament  over  the  fatal  surrender  of  April  18th  was  not  because  of  the
temporarily  decreased  destruction  of  neutral  and  enemy  merchant
ships,  but  rather  because  of  the  weakness  of  seeming  to  yield  any-
thing whatsoever.  According  to  the  U-boat  admiral's  view,  this  yield-
ing only  encouraged  the  United  States  to  demand  more  and  more,

GERMANY  YIELDS  TO  AMERICA  89

and  so  at  length  led  her  into  the  War;  had  the  American  people  been
sufficiently  bullied  from  the  start,  they  would  never  have  dared  to
take  up  arms  against  so  terrible  a  Germany.  C.  F.  H.

BY  PRESIDENT  WILSON
Address  to  Congress  on  April  19,  1916

IN  pursuance  of  the  policy  of  submarine  warfare  against
the  commerce  of  its  adversaries,  announced  and  entered
upon  by  the  Imperial  German  Government,  despite  the  sol-
emn protest  of  this  Government,  the  commanders  of  Ger-
man undersea  vessels  have  attacked  merchant  ships  with
greater  and  greater  activity,  not  only  upon  the  high  seas
surrounding  Great  Britain  and  Ireland,  but  wherever  they
could  encounter  them,  in  a  way  that  has  grown  more  and
more  ruthless,  more  and  more  indiscriminate,  as  the  months
have  gone  by,  less  and  less  observant  of  restraints  of  any
kind;  and  they  have  delivered  their  attacks  without  com-
punction against  vessels  of  every  nationality  and  bound  upon
every  sort  of  errand.  Vessels  of  neutral  ownership,  even
vessels  of  neutral  ownership  bound  from  neutral  port  to  neu-
tral port,  have  been  destroyed  along  with  vessels  of  bel-
ligerent ownership,  in  constantly  increasing  numbers.  Some-
times the  merchantman  attacked  has  been  warned  and  sum-
moned to  surrender  before  being  fired  on  or  torpedoed ;  some-
times passengers  or  crews  have  been  vouchsafed  the  poor
security  of  being  allowed  to  take  to  the  ship's  boats  before
she  was  sent  to  the  bottom.  But  again  and  again  no  warn-
ing has  been  given,  no  escape  even  to  the  ship's  boats  al-
lowed to  those  on  board.  What  this  Government  foresaw
must  happen  has  happened.  Tragedy  has  followed  tragedy
on  the  seas  in  such  fashion,  with  such  attendant  circum-
stances, as  to  make  it  grossly  evident  that  warfare  of  such
a  sort,  if  warfare  it  be,  cannot  be  carried  on  without  the
most  palpable  violation  of  the  dictates  alike  of  right  and  of
humanity.  Whatever  the  disposition  and  intention  of  the
Imperial  German  Government,  it  has  manifestly  proved
impossible  for  it  to  keep  such  methods  of  attack  upon  the
commerce  of  its  enemies  within  the  bounds  set  by  either  the
reason  or  the  heart  of  mankind.  .  .  .

I  have  deemed  it  my  duty,  therefore,  to  say  to  the  Im-

90        GERMANY  YIELDS  TO  AMERICA

perial  German  Government  that  if  it  is  still  its  purpose  to
prosecute  relentless  and  indiscriminate  warfare  against  ves-
sels of  commerce  by  the  use  of  submarines,  notwithstanding
the  now  demonstrated  impossibility  of  conducting  that  war-
fare in  accordance  with  what  the  Government  of  the  United
States  must  consider  the  sacred  and  indisputable  rules  of
international  law  and  the  universally  recognized  dictates  of
humanity,  the  Government  of  the  United  States  is  at  last
forced  to  the  conclusion  that  there  is  but  one  course  it  can
pursue  and  that  unless  the  Imperial  German  Government
should  now  immediately  declare  and  effect  an  abandonment
of  its  present  methods  of  warfare  against  passenger  and
freight-carrying  vessels,  this  Government  can  have  no  choice
but  to  sever  diplomatic  relations  with  the  Government  of
the  German  Empire  altogether.

This  decision  I  have  arrived  at  with  the  keenest  regret ;
the  possibility  of  the  action  contemplated  I  am  sure  all
thoughtful  Americans  will  look  forward  to  with  unaffected
reluctance.  But  we  cannot  forget  that  we  are  in  some  sort
and  by  the  force  of  circumstances  the  responsible  spokesmen
of  the  rights  of  humanity,  and  that  we  cannot  remain  silent
while  those  rights  seem  in  process  of  being  swept  utterly
away  in  the  maelstrom  of  this  terrible  war.  We  owe  it  to
a  due  regard  for  our  own  rights  as  a  nation,  to  our  sense  of
duty  as  a  representative  of  the  rights  of  neutrals  the  world
over,  and  to  a  just  conception  of  the  rights  of  mankind  to
take  this  stand  now  with  the  utmost  solemnity  and  firmness.

I  have  taken  it,  and  taken  it  in  the  confidence  that  it  will
meet  with  your  approval  and  support.  All  sober-minded  men
must  unite  in  hoping  that  the  Imperial  German  Government,
which  has  in  other  circumstances  stood  as  the  champion  of
all  that  we  are  now  contending  for  in  the  interest  of  human-
ity, may  recognize  the  justice  of  our  demands  and  meet  them
in  the  spirit  in  which  they  are  made.

Ultimatum  Delivered  to  Germany's  Secretary  of  Foreign

Affairs,  April  18th

Information  now  in  the  possession  of  the  Government  of
the  United  States  fully  establishes  the  facts  in  the  case  of

GERMANY  YIELDS  TO  AMERICA  91

the  Sussex,  and  the  inferences  which  the  Government  has
drawn  from  that  information  it  regards  as  confirmed  by
the  circumstances  set  forth  in  your  Excellency's  note  of  the
10th  inst.  On  the  24th  of  March,  1916,  at  about  2.50  o'clock
in  the  afternoon,  the  unarmed  steamer  Sussex,  with  325  or
more  passengers  on  board,  among  whom  were  a  number  of
American  citizens,  was  torpedoed  while  crossing  from
Folkestone  to  Dieppe.  The  Sussex  had  never  been  armed ;
was  a  vessel  known  to  be  habitually  used  only  for  the  con-
veyance of  passengers  across  the  English  Channel ;  and  was
not  following  the  route  taken  by  troop  ships  or  supply  ships.
About  eighty  of  her  passengers,  noncombatants  of  all  ages
and  sexes,  including  citizens  of  the  United  States,  were  killed
or  injured.

A  careful,  detailed,  and  scrupulously  impartial  investi-
gation by  naval  and  military  officers  of  the  United  States
has  conclusively  established  the  fact  that  the  Sussex  was
torpedoed  without  warning  or  summons  to  surrender,  and
that  the  torpedo  by  which  she  was  struck  was  of  German
manufacture.  In  the  view  of  the  Government  of  the  United
States  these  facts  from  the  first  made  the  conclusion  that  the
torpedo  was  fired  by  a  German  submarine  unavoidable.  It
now  considers  that  conclusion  substantiated  by  the  state-
ments of  Your  Excellency's  note.  A  full  statement  of  the
facts  upon  which  the  Government  of  the  United  States  has
based  its  conclusion,  is  inclosed.

The  Government  of  the  United  States,  after  having  given
careful  consideration  to  the  note  of  the  Imperial  Government
of  the  10th  of  April,  regrets  to  state  that  the  impression
made  upon  it  by  the  statements  and  proposals  contained  in
that  note  is  that  the  Imperial  Government  has  failed  to
appreciate  the  gravity  of  the  situation  which  has  resulted,
not  alone  from  the  attack  on  the  Sussex,  but  from  the  whole
method  and  character  of  submarine  warfare  as  disclosed
by  the  unrestrained  practice  of  the  commanders  of  German
undersea  craft  during  the  past  twelvemonth  and  more  in
the  indiscriminate  destruction  of  merchant  vessels  of  all
sorts,  nationalities,  and  destinations.  If  the  sinking  of  the
Sussex  had  been  an  isolated  case  the  Government  of  the

92         GERMANY  YIELDS  TO  AMERICA

United  States  might  find  it  possible  to  hope  that  the  officer
who  was  responsible  for  that  act  had  willfully  violated  his
orders  or  had  been  criminally  negligent  in  taking  none  of  the
precautions  they  prescribed,  and  that  the  ends  of  justice
might  be  satisfied  by  imposing  upon  him  an  adequate  punish-
ment, coupled  with  a  formal  disavowal  of  the  act  and  pay-
ment of  a  suitable  indemnity  by  the  Imperial  Government.
But,  though  the  attack  upon  the  Sussex  was  manifestly  in-
defensible and  caused  a  loss  of  life  so  tragical  as  to  make  it
stand  forth  as  one  of  the  most  terrible  examples  of  the  inhu-
manity of  submarine  warfare  as  the  commanders  of  German
vessels  are  conducting  it,  it  unhappily  does  not  stand  alone.

On  the  contrary,  the  Government  of  the  United  States
is  forced  by  recent  events  to  conclude  that  it  is  only  one  in-
stance, even  though  one  of  the  most  extreme  and  most  dis-
tressing instances,  of  the  deliberate  method  and  spirit  of  in-
discriminate destruction  of  merchant  vessels  of  all  sorts,  na-
tionalities, and  destinations  which  have  become  more  and
more  unmistakable  as  the  activity  of  German  undersea  vessels
of  war  has  in  recent  months  been  quickened  and  extended.

The  Imperial  Government,  will  recall  that  when,  in  Feb-
ruary, 191 5,  it  announced  its  intention  of  treating  the  wa-
ters surrounding  Great  Britain  and  Ireland  as  embraced
within  the  seat  of  war  and  of  destroying  all  merchant  ships
owned  by  its  enemies  that  might  be  found  within  that  zone
of  danger,  and  warned  all  vessels,  neutral  as  well  as  bel-
ligerent, to  keep  out  of  the  waters  thus  proscribed  or  to
enter  them  at  their  peril,  the  Government  of  the  United
States  earnestly  protested.  It  took  the  position  that  such
a  policy  could  not  be  pursued  without  constant  gross  and
palpable  violations  of  the  accepted  law  of  nations,  particu-
larly if  submarine  craft  were  to  be  employed  as  its  instru-
ments, inasmuch  as  the  rules  prescribed  by  that  law,  rules
founded  on  the  principles  of  humanity  and  established  for
the  protection  of  the  lives  of  noncombatants  at  sea,  could
not  in  the  nature  of  the  case  be  observed  by  such  vessels.  It
based  its  protest  on  the  ground  that  persons  of  neutral  na-
tionality and  vessels  of  neutral  ownership  would  be  exposed
to  extreme  and  intolerable  risks,  and  that  no  right  to  close

GERMANY  YIELDS  TO  AMERICA  93

any  part  of  the  high  seas  could  lawfully  be  asserted  by  the
Imperial  Government  in  the  circumstances  then  existing.

The  law  of  nations  in  these  matters,  upon  which  the  Gov-
ernment of  the  United  States  based  that  protest,  is  not  of
recent  origin  or  founded  upon  merely  arbitrary  principles
set  up  by  convention.  It  is  based,  on  the  contrary,  upon
manifest  principles  of  humanity  and  has  long  been  estab-
lished with  the  approval  and  by  the  express  assent  of  all
civilized  nations.

The  Imperial  Government,  notwithstanding,  persisted  in
carrying  out  the  policy  announced,  expressing  the  hope  that
the  dangers  involved,  at  any  rate  to  neutral  vessels,  would
be  reduced  to  a  minimum  by  the  instructions  which  it  had
issued  to  the  commanders  of  its  submarines,  and  assuring
the  Government  of  the  United  States  that  it  would  take
every  possible  precaution  both  to  respect  the  rights  of  neu-
trals and  to  safeguard  the  lives  of  noncombatants.

In  pursuance  of  this  policy  of  submarine  warfare  against
the  commerce  of  its  adversaries,  thus  announced  and  thus
entered  upon  in  despite  of  the  solemn  protest  of  the  Gov-
ernment of  the  United  States,  the  commanders  of  the  Im-
perial Government's  undersea  vessels  have  carried  on  prac-
tices of  such  ruthless  destruction,  which  have  made  it  more
and  more  evident  as  the  months  have  gone  by  that  the  Im-
perial Government  has  found  it  impracticable  to  put  any
such  restraints  upon  them  as  it  had  hoped  and  promised  to
put.  Again  and  again  the  Imperial  Government  has  given
its  solemn  assurances  to  the  Government  of  the  United
States  that  at  least  passenger  ships  would  not  be  thus  dealt
with,  and  yet  it  has  repeatedly,  permitted  its  undersea  com-
manders to  disregard  those  assurances  with  entire  impunity.
As  recently  as  February  last  it  gave  notice  that  it  would  re-
gard all  armed  merchantmen  owned  by  its  enemies  as  part  of
the  armed  naval  forces  of  its  adversaries  and  deal  with  them
as  with  men-of-war,  thus,  at  least  by  implication,  pledging
itself  to  give  warning  to  vessels  which  were  not  armed  and
to  accord  security  of  life  to  their  passengers  and  crews;  but
even  this  limitation  their  submarine  commanders  have  reck-
lessly ignored.

94        GERMANY  YIELDS  TO  AMERICA

Vessels  of  neutral  ownership,  even  vessels  of  neutral
ownership  bound  from  neutral  port  to  neutral  port,  have
been  destroyed,  along  with  vessels  of  belligerent  ownership,
in  constantly  increasing  numbers.  Sometimes  the  merchant-
men attacked  have  been  warned  and  summoned  to  surrender
before  being  fired  on  or  torpedoed;  sometimes  their  pas-
sengers and  crews  have  been  vouchsafed  the  poor  security  of
being  allowed  to  take  to  the  ship's  boats  before  the  ship
was  sent  to  the  bottom.  But  again  and  again  no  warning
has  been  given,  no  escape  even  to  the  ship's  boats  allowed
to  those  on  board.  Great  liners  like  the  Lusitania  and  Arabic,
and  mere  passenger  boats  like  the  Sussex,  have  been  attacked
without  a  moment's  warning,  often  before  they  have  even
become  aware  that  they  were  in  the  presence  of  an  armed
ship  of  the  enemy,  and  the  lives  of  noncombatants,  passen-
gers and  crew,  have  been  destroyed  wholesale  and  in  a  man-
ner which  the  Government  of  the  United  States  cannot  but
regard  as  wanton  and  without  the  slightest  color  of  justifica-
tion. No  limit  of  any  kind  has,  in  fact,  been  set  to  their
indiscriminate  pursuit  and  destruction  of  merchantmen  of  all
kinds  and  nationalities  within  the  waters  which  the  Imperial
Government  has  chosen  to  designate  as  lying  within  the  seat
of  war.  The  roll  of  Americans  who  have  lost  their  lives
upon  ships  thus  attacked  and  destroyed  has  grown  month  by
month  until  the  ominous  toll  has  mounted  into  the  hundreds.

The  Government  of  the  United  States  has  been  very  pa-
tient. At  every  stage  of  this  distressing  experience  of  trag-
edy after  tragedy  it  has  sought  to  be  governed  by  the  most
thoughtful  consideration  of  the  extraordinary  circumstances
of  an  unprecedented  war  and  to  be  guided  by  sentiments  of
very  genuine  friendship  for  the  people  and  Government  of
Germany.  It  has  accepted  the  successive  explanations  and
assurances  of  the  Imperial  Government  as,  of  course,  given
in  entire  sincerity  and  good  faith,  and  has  hoped,  even  against
hope,  that  it  would  prove  to  be  possible  for  the  Imperial
Government  so  to  order  and  control  the  acts  of  its  naval
commanders  as  to  square  its  policy  with  the  recognized  prin-
ciples of  humanity  as  embodied  in  the  law  of  nations.  It
has  made  every  allowance  for  unprecedented  conditions  and

GERMANY  YIELDS  TO  AMERICA  95

has  been  willing  to  wait  until  the  facts  became  unmistakable
and  were  susceptible  of  only  one  interpretation.

It  now  owes  it  to  a  just  regard  for  its  own  rights  to  say
to  the  Imperial  Government  that  that  time  has  come.  It  has
become  painfully  evident  to  it  that  the  position  which  it  took
at  the  very  outset  is  inevitable,  namely,  the  use  of  subma-
rines for  the  destruction  of  an  enemy's  commerce,  is,  of
necessity,  because  of  the  very  character  of  the  vessels  em-
ployed and  the  very  methods  of  attack  which  their  employ-
ment of  course  involves,  utterly  incompatible  with  the  prin-
ciples of  humanity,  the  long-established  and  incontroverti-
ble rights  of  neutrals,  and  the  sacred  immunities  of  non-
combatants.

If  it  is  still  the  purpose  of  the  Imperial  Government  to
prosecute  relentless  and  indiscriminate  warfare  against  ves-
sels of  commerce  by  the  use  of  submarines,  without  re-
gard to  what  the  Government  of  the  United  States  must
consider  the  sacred  and  indisputable  rules  of  international
law  and  the  universally  recognized  dictates  of  humanity,  the
Government  of  the  United  States  is  at  last  forced  to  the
conclusion  that  there  is  but  one  course  it  can  pursue.  Unless
the  Imperial  Government  should  now  immediately  declare
and  effect  an  abandonment  of  its  present  methods  of  sub-
marine warfare  against  passenger  and  freight-carrying  ves-
sels, the  Government  of  the  United  States  can  have  no  choice
but  to  sever  diplomatic  relations  with  the  German  Empire
altogether.  This  action  the  Government  of  the  United  States
contemplates  with  the  greatest  reluctance,  but  feels  con-
strained to  take  in  behalf  of  humanity  and  the  rights  of
neutral  nations.

BY  GOTTLIEB  VON  JAGOW
Reply  of  May  4th,  by  the  German  Secretary  of  Foreign  Affairs

The  German  Government  handed  over  to  the  proper
naval  authorities  for  early  investigation  the  evidence  con-
cerning the  Sussex,  as  communicated  by  the  Government  of
the  United  States.  Judging  by  the  results  that  the  investi-
gation has  hitherto  yielded,  the  German  Government  is
alive  to  the  possibility  that  the  ship  mentioned  in  the  note

96         GERMANY  YIELDS  TO  AMERICA

of  April  ioth  as  having  been  torpedoed  by  a  German  subma-
rine is  actually  identical  with  the  Sussex.  The  German  Gov-
ernment begs  to  reserve  further  communication  on  the  mat-
ter until  certain  points  are  ascertained,  which  are  of  de-
cisive importance  for  establishing  the  facts  of  the  case.
Should  it  turn  out  that  the  commander  was  wrong  in  as-
suming the  vessel  to  be  a  man-of-war,  the  German  Govern-
ment will  not  fail  to  draw  the  consequence  therefrom.

In  connection  with  the  case  of  the  Sussex  the  Govern-
ment of  the  United  States  made  a  series  of  statements,  the
gist  of  which  is  the  assertion  that  the  incident  is  to  be  con-
sidered but  one  instance  of  a  deliberate  method  of  indis-
criminate destruction  of  vessels  of  all  sorts,  nationalities,
and  destinations  by  German  submarine  commanders.

The  German  Government  must  emphatically  repudiate
the  assertion.  The  German  Government,  however,  thinks  it
of  little  avail  to  enter  into  details  in  the  present  stage  of
affairs,  more  particularly  as  the  Government  of  the  United
States  omitted  to  substantiate  the  assertion  by  reference  to
concrete  facts.

The  German  Government  will  only  state  that  it  has  im-
posed far-reaching  restraints  upon  the  use  of  the  submarine
weapon,  solely  in  consideration  of  neutrals'  interests,  in  spite
of  the  fact  that  these  restrictions  are  necessarily  of  advan-
tage to  Germany's  enemies.  No  such  consideration  has  ever
been  shown  neutrals  by  Great  Britain  and  her  allies.1

The  German  submarine  forces  have  had,  in  fact,  orders
to  conduct  the  submarine  warfare  in  accordance  with  the  gen-
eral principles  of  visit  and  search  and  the  destruction  of  mer-
chant vessels  recognized  by  international  law,  the  sole  ex-
ception being  the  conduct  of  warfare  against  enemy  trade  car-
ried on  enemy  freight  ships  encountered  in  the  war  zone
surrounding  Great  Britain.  With  regard  to  these,  no  as-
surances have  ever  been  given  to  the  Government  of  the
United  States.  No  such  assurances  are  contained  in  the
declaration  of  February  8,  1916.

1  Unfortunately  this  entire  document  must  be  read  as  a  typical  product
of  the  policy  of  misstatement  and  deception  adopted  by  the  German
Government  in  the  War.  Britain  encroached  somewhat  on  the  rights
of  neutrals,  but  never  to  anything  like  the  extent  that  Germany  did.

GERMANY  YIELDS  TO  AMERICA  97

The  German  Government  cannot  admit  any  doubt  that
these  orders  were  given  or  are  executed  in  good  faith.  Errors
actually  occurred.  They  can  in  no  kind  of  warfare  be
avoided  altogether.  Allowances  must  be  made  in  the  con-
duct of  naval  warfare  against  an  enemy  resorting  to  all
kinds  of  ruses,  whether  permissible  or  illicit.

But  apart  from  the  possibility  of  errors,  naval  warfare,
just  like  warfare  on  land,  implies  unavoidable  dangers  for
neutral  persons  and  goods  entering  the  fighting  zone.  Even
in  cases  where  the  naval  action  is  confined  to  ordinary  forms
of  cruiser  warfare,  neutral  persons  and  goods  repeatedly
come  to  grief.  The  German  Government  has  repeatedly  and
explicitly  pointed  out  the  dangers  from  mines  that  have  led
to  the  loss  of  numerous  ships.

The  German  Government  has  made  several  proposals
to  the  Government  of  the  United  States  in  order  to  re-
duce to  a  minimum  for  American  travelers  and  goods  the
inherent  dangers  of  naval  warfare.  Unfortunately  the  Gov-
ernment of  the  United  States  decided  not  to  accept  the  pro-
posals. Had  it  accepted,  the  Government  of  the  United
States  would  have  been  instrumental  in  preventing  the
greater  part  of  the  accidents  that  American  citizens  have  met
with  in  the  meantime.

The  German  Government  still  stands  by  its  offer  to  come
to  an' agreement  along  these  lines.

As  the  German  Government  repeatedly  declared,  it  can-
not dispense  with  the  use  of  the  submarine  weapon  in  the
conduct  of  warfare  against  enemy  trade.  The  German
Government,  however,  has  now  decided  to  make  a  further
concession,  adapting  methods  of  submarine  war  to  the  in-
terests of  neutrals.  In  reaching  its  decision  the  German
Government  is  actuated  by  considerations  which  are  above
the  level  of  the  disputed  question.

The  German  Government  attaches  no  less  importance  to
the  sacred  principles  of  humanity  than  the  Government  of
the  United  States.  It  again  fully  takes  into  account  that
both  Governments  for  many  years  cooperated  in  developing
international  law  in  conformity  with  these  principles,  the  ulti-
mate object  of  which  has  always  been  to  confine  warfare  on

98         GERMANY  YIELDS  TO  AMERICA

sea  and  land  to  armed  forces  of  belligerents  and  safeguard
as  far  as  possible  noncombatants  against  the  horrors  of  war.

But  although  these  considerations  are  of  great  weight,
they  alone  would  not  under  present,  circumstances  have  de-
termined the  attitude  of  the  German  Government.  For  in
answer  to  the  appeal  by  the  Government  of  the  United  States
on  behalf  of  the  sacred  principles  of  humanity  and  inter-
national law,  the  German  Government  must  repeat  once
more,  with  all  emphasis,  that  it  was  not  the  German,  but  the
British,  Government  which  ignored  all  accepted  rules  of  in-
ternational law  and  extended  this  terrible  war  to  the  lives  and
property  of  noncombatants,  having  no  regard  whatever  for
the  interests  and  rights  of  neutrals  and  noncombatants  that
through  this  method  of  warfare  have  been  severely  injured.

In  self-defense  against  the  illegal  conduct  of  British  war-
fare, while  fighting  a  bitter  struggle  for  national  existence,
Germany  had  to  resort  to  the  hard  but  effective  weapon  of
submarine  warfare.

As  matters  stand,  the  German  Government  cannot  but
reiterate  regret  that  the  sentiments  of  humanity,  which  the
Government  of  the  United  States  extends  with  such  fervor
to  the  unhappy  victims  of  submarine  warfare,  are  not  ex-
tended with  the  same  warmth  of  feeling  to  many  millions  of
women  and  children  who,  according  to  the  avowed  inten-
tion of  the  British  Government,  shall  be  starved,  and  who
by  sufferings  shall  force  the  victorious  armies  of  the  Cen-
tral Powers  into  ignominious  capitulation.

The  German  Government,  in  agreement  with  the  Ger-
man people,  fails  to  understand  this  discrimination,2  all  the

2  This  statement  is  an  obvious  absurdity.  Every  human  Govern-
ment that  ever  existed  has  been  more  active  in  defending  its  own  citi-
zens than  in  defending  those  of  other  countries.  Hence  Von  Jagow's
words  are  presumably  intended  not  to  sway  the  U.  S.  Government,
but  to  arouse  angry  and  unreasoning  Germans.  The  appeal  is  typical.
Germany  having  herself  declared  war,  and  destroyed  her  victims  with
an  unparalleled  rigor,  Von  Jagow  now  assumes  that  it  is  the  duty  of
the  United  States  to  protect  the  German  people  from  any  sufferings
caused  by  that  war;  and  he  sneeringly  implies  hypocrisy  in  America
because  Americans  prefer  to  devote  their  first  consideration  to  pro-
tecting Americans,  and  their  next  to  protecting  other  neutrals.  How
could  any  people  honestly  prefer  to  help  a  starving  Belgian  or  Pole,
or  an  Armenian  shrieking  under  physical  torture,  when  they  might
instead  be  giving  help  to  a  well-fed  German !

Moreover,  readers  need  to  keep  in  mind  that  the  picture  of  German

GERMANY  YIELDS  TO  AMERICA

more  as  it  has  repeatedly  and  explicitly  declared  itself  ready
to  use  the  submarine  weapon  in  strict  conformity  with  the
rules  of  international  law  as  recognized  before  the  outbreak
of  the  war,  if  Great  Britain  likewise  was  ready  to  adapt
the  conduct  of  warfare  to  these  rules.

Several  attempts  made  by  the  Government  of  the  United
States  to  prevail  upon  the  British  Government  to  act  ac-
cordingly failed  because  of  flat  refusal  on  the  part  of  the
British  Government.  Moreover,  Great  Britain  again  and
again  has  violated  international  law,  surpassing  all  bounds
in  outraging  neutral  rights.  The  latest  measure  adopted  by
Great  Britain,  declaring  German  bunker  coal  contraband  and
establishing  conditions  under  which  English  bunker  coal
alone  is  supplied  to  neutrals,  is  nothing  but  an  unheard-of
attempt  by  way  of  exaction  to  force  neutral  tonnage  into
the  service  of  British  trade  war.

The  German  people  know  that  the  Government  of  the
United  States  has  the  power  to  confine  the  war  to  armed
forces  of  the  belligerent  countries,  in  the  interest  of  hu-
manity and  maintenance  of  international  law.  The  Govern-
ment of  the  United  States  would  have  been  certain  of  at-
taining this  end  had  it  been  determined  to  insist,  against
Great  Britain,  on  the  incontrovertible  rights  to  freedom  of
the  seas.  But,  as  matters  stand,  the  German  people  is  un-
der the  impression  that  the  Government  of  the  United  States,
while  demanding  that  Germany,  struggling  for  existence,
shall  restrain  the  use  of  an  effective  weapon  and  while
making  compliance  with  these  demands  a  condition  for  main-
tenance of  relations  with  Germany,  confines  itself  to  protests
against  illegal  methods  adopted  by  Germany's  enemies.
Moreover,  the  German  people  knows  to  what  considerable
extent  its  enemies  are  supplied  with  all  kinds  of  war  ma-
terial from  the  United  States.

It  will,  therefore,  be  understood  that  the  appeal  made  by
the  Government  of  the  United  States  to  sentiments  of  hu-

starvation  as  constantly  drawn  in  German  documents  is  merely  a
poetic  metaphor.  It  is  sketched  by  anticipatory  fear,  not  drawn  from
facts.  At  the  close  of  the  War  the  mass  of  the  German  people  were
in  better  physical  condition  than  those  of  even  the  unconquered  dis-
tricts of  France,  and  in  infinitely  better  condition  than  the  miserable
remnant  left  by  the  Germans  in  any  conquered  or  co-conspiring  land.

ioo       GERMANY  YIELDS  TO  AMERICA

manity  and  principles  of  international  law  cannot,  under
the  circumstances,  meet  the  same  hearty  response  from  the
German  people  which  such  an  appeal  otherwise  always  is
certain  to  find  here.  If  the  German  Government,  never-
theless, is  resolved  to  go  to  the  utmost  limit  of  concessions,
it  has  been  guided  not  alone  by  the  friendship  connecting
the  two  great  nations  for  over  one  hundred  years,  but  also
by  the  thought  of  the  great  doom  which  threatens  the  entire
civilized  world  should  the  cruel  and  sanguinary  war  be  ex-
tended and  prolonged.

The  German  Government,  conscious  of  Germany's
strength,  twice  within  the  last  few  months  announced  before
the  world  its  readiness  to  make  peace  on  a  basis  safeguarding
Germany's  vital  interests,  thus  indicating  that  it  is  not  Ger-
many's fault  if  peace  is  still  withheld  from  the  nations  of
Europe.3  The  German  Government  feels  all  the  more  justi-
fied in  declaring  that  responsibility  could  not  be  borne  be-
fore the  forum  of  mankind  and  in  history  if  after  twenty-
one  months  of  the  war's  duration  the  submarine  question,  un-
der discussion  between  the  German  Government  and  the  Gov-
ernment of  the  United  States,  were  to  take  a  turn  seriously
threatening  maintenance  of  peace  between  the  two  nations.

As  far  as  lies  with  the  German  Government,  it  wishes
to  prevent  things  from  taking  such  a  course.  The  German
Government,  moreover,  is  prepared  to  do  its  utmost  to  con-
fine operations  of  the  war  for  the  rest  of  its  duration  to
the  fighting  forces  of  the  belligerents,  thereby  also  insuring
the  freedom  of  the  seas,  a  principle  upon  which  the  German
Government  believes,  now  as  before,  that  it  is  in  agreement
with  the  Government  of  the  United  States.

The  German  Government,  guided  by  this  idea,  notifies  the
Government  of  the  United  States  that  German  naval  forces
have  received  the  following  order :

In  accordance  with  the  general  principles  of  visit  and
search  and  the  destruction  of  merchant  vessels,  recognized
by  international  law,  such  vessels,  both  within  and  without

'These  German  offers  of  peace,  as  we  have  previously  noted,  were
always  based  on  the  demand  that  Germany  was  to  keep  the  plunder
she  had  won.

GERMANY  YIELDS  TO  AMERICA  101

the  area  declared  a  naval  war  zone,  shall  not  be  sunk  with-
out warning  and  without  saving  human  lives  unless  the  ship
attempts  to  escape  or  offer  resistance.

But  neutrals  cannot  expect  that  Germany,  forced  to  fight
for  existence,  shall,  for  the  sake  of  neutral  interests,  restrict
the  use  of  an  effective  weapon,  if  the  enemy  is  permitted  to
continue  to  apply  at  will  methods  of  warfare  violating  rules
of  international  law.  Such  a  demand  would  be  incompatible
with  the  character  of  neutrality,  and  the  German  Govern-
ment is  convinced  that  the  Government  of  the  United  States
does  not  think  of  making  such  a  demand,  knowing  that  the
Government  of  the  United  States  repeatedly  declares  that  it
is  determined  to  restore  the  principle  of  freedom  of  the  seas,
from  whatever  quarter  it  has  been  violated.

Accordingly,  the  German  Government  is  confident  that  in
consequence  of  the  new  orders  issued  to  the  naval  forces
the  Government  of  the  United  States  will  also  now  consider
all  impediments  removed  which  may  have  been  in  the  way  of
a  mutual  cooperation  toward  restoration  of  the  freedom  of
the  seas  during  the  war,  as  suggested  in  the  note  of  July
23,  191 5,  and  it  does  not  doubt  that  the  Government  of  the
United  States  will  now  demand  and  insist  that  the  British
Government  shall  forthwith  observe  the  rules  of  international
law  universally  recognized  before  the  war,  as  are  laid  down
in  the  notes  presented  by  the  Government  of  the  United  States
to  the  British  Government  December  28,  19 14,  and  No-

Should  steps  taken  by  the  Government  of  the  United
States  not  attain  the  object  it  desires,  to  have  the  laws  of
humanity  followed  by  all  belligerent  nations,  the  German
Government  would  then  be  facing  a  new  situation  in  which
it  must  reserve  to  itself  complete  liberty  of  decision.

*  What  this  paragraph,  when  stripped  of  its  verbiage,  really  asks  is
that  because  Germany  has  yielded  a  very  small  fraction  of  her  many
and  obvious  breakings  of  international  law,  therefore  America  should
insist  on  Britain's  yielding  everything.  The  U.  S.  Government  imme-
diately and  positively  rejected  this  suggestion  or  request,  declaring  that
her  dispute  with  Britain  must  be  settled  on  its  own  merits.  She  was
not  going  to  bargain  with  Germany  and  pay  her  for  sparing  American
lives.    Germany  did  not  press  the  suggestion  further.

THE  DEPORTATIONS  FROM  LILLE

ENSLAVEMENT  EXTENDED   OVER  THE  CAPTURED  RE-
GION OF  FRANCE

APRIL  22  ND

JAMES  W.  GERARD  ARISTIDE  BRIAND

GENERAL  VON  GRAEVENITZ    BISHOP  CHAROST  OF  LILLE

HERBERT  HOOVER

In  grim  contrast  to  Germany's  appeal  to  "humanity"  in  the  pre-
ceding section  of  our  volume,  was  her  own  conduct — and  her  own
hypocrisy — in  dealing  with  the  people  of  northern  France.  She  sought
to  force  them  to  work  for  her  and  even  to  do  war-work  in  opposition
to  their  own  countrymen.  The  methods  which  we  have  already  shown
her  as  employing  in  Belgium,  she  employed  with  even  more  severity  in
France,  because  in  France  there  were  no  neutral  officials  to  watch  and
to  protest.

Germany  tried  to  compel  this  work  first  by  falsehood  and  after-
ward by  blows,  by  starvation  and  even  by  death.  These  terrors  were
employed  everywhere;  but  as  Lille  was  the  largest  city  of  the  captured
region,  Lille  suffered  most,  and  its  name  has  become  chiefly  asso-
ciated with  the  tragedy.  Moreover,  the  number  of  young  women
deported  from  Lille  was  unusually  large.  The  German  Government
reckoned  the  captured  populace  only  as  so  many  human  bodies  to  be
used  in  whatever  way  her  military  leaders  saw  fit.

The  charge  of  falsehood  against  the  German  Government  happens
in  this  case  to  be  particularly  glaring.  It  is  implied  in  the  brief
statement  of  the  American  Ambassador  at  Berlin,  James  W.  Gerard ;
and  this  becomes  more  clear  when  we  learn  that  the  Spanish  Am-
bassador at  Berlin  also  protested  as  a  neutral  against  these  deporta-
tions, and  sent  the  following  telegraphic  report  giving  the  German
Government's  attitude :

"The  German  Minister  of  Foreign  Affairs  has  declared  to  me
verbally  that  the  persons  referred  to  in  the  telegram  of  June  29th —
to  a  number  with  which  he  is  not  acquainted — are  employed  on  harvest
work,  for  the  benefit  of  the  occupied  provinces,  in  order  to  procure
food  for  the  inhabitants,  who  would  otherwise  die  of  starvation  as
a  result  of  the  policy  pursued  against  Germany  by  France  and  Eng-
land."

In  face  of  this  telegram  stands  the  fact  that  in  the  preceding  year
the  French  people  had  been  similarly  persuaded  to  raise  their  crops
and  then  these  had  all  been  taken  from  them  for  Germany's  use.
That  is  why  every  official  German  knew  that  it  was  useless  to  tell
any  Frenchman  of  the  most  ordinary  intelligence  that  the  crops  of
this  second  year  would  be  given  to  the  French.    Moreover,  the  mass

THE  DEPORTATIONS  FROM  LILLE  103

of  statements  summed  up  in  the  accounts  here  given  make  it  beyond
denial  (except  a  German  denial)  that  these  deported  people  were
forced  into  labor  of  every  sort,  whatever  was  most  wanted  by  their
taskmasters.  M.  Briand,  then  Prime  Minister  of  France,  speaks  offi-
cially of  the  deportations;  so  does  General  Graevenitz,  the  German
commander;  so  does  the  Bishop  of  Lille,  Alexis  Charost.  For  a
general  summing  up  of  the  case  Americans  will  ask  no  more  secure
word  than  that  of  Herbert  Hoover.  Yet,  months  after  full  reports
of  the  matter  had  reached  the  German  Government,  its  Imperial
Chancellor  and  Von  Jagow,  its  Imperial  Secretary,  put  off  neutral  am-
bassadors with  bland  assurances  of  ignorance  and  benevolence.

Note  that  the  constantly  repeated  reference  to  the  Allies'  "policy,"
which  appears  in  the  Spanish  Ambassador's  telegram,  is  really  a  cov-
ert threat  which  meant:  "If  the  Allies  do  not  give  us  all  the  food
[and  everything  else,  including  all  war  munitions]  we  want,  we  will
starve  and  destroy  our  captives."  That  is  exactly  what  Germany
meant,  and  what  except  for  American  intervention  she  might  have
accomplished."

BY  JAMES  W.  GERARD

JT  seems  that  the  Germans  had  endeavored  to  get  volun-
teers from  the  great  industrial  towns  of  Lille,  Roubaix,
and  Tourcoing  to  work  these  fields;  that  after  the  posting
of  the  notices  calling  for  volunteers  only  fourteen  had  ap-
peared. The  Germans  then  gave  orders  to  seize  a  certain
number  of  inhabitants  and  send  them  out  to  farms  in  the
outlying  districts  to  engage  in  agricultural  work.  The
Americans  told  me  that  this  order  was  carried  out  with  the
greatest  barbarity;  that  a  man  would  come  home  at  night
and  find  that  his  wife  or  children  had  disappeared  and  no
one  could  tell  him  where  they  had  gone  except  that  the
neighbors  would  relate  that  German  non-commissioned  offi-
cers and  a  file  of  soldiers  had  carried  them  off.  For  in-
stance, in  a  house  of  a  well-to-do  merchant  who  had  perhaps
two  daughters  of  fifteen  and  seventeen  and  a  man  servant,
the  two  daughters  and  the  servant  would  be  seized  and  sent
off  together  to  work  for  the  Germans  in  some  little  farm-
house whose  location  was  not  disclosed  to  the  parents.  The
Americans  told  me  that  this  sort  of  thing  was  causing
such  indignation  among  the  population  of  these  towns  that
they  feared  a  great  uprising  and  a  consequent  slaughter  and
burning  by  the  Germans.

That  night  at  dinner  I  spoke  to  the  Chancellor  about

io4      THE  DEPORTATIONS  FROM  LILLE

this  and  told  him  that  it  seemed  to  me  absolutely  outrageous ;
and  that,  without  consulting  with  my  Government,  I  was
prepared  to  protest  in  the  name  of  humanity  against  a
continuance  of  this  treatment  of  the  civil  population  of  occu-
pied France.  The  Chancellor  told  me  that  he  had  not  known
of  it,  that  it  was  the  result  of  orders  given  by  the  military,
that  he  would  speak  to  the  Emperor  about  it,  and  that  he
hoped  to  be  able  to  stop  further  deportations.  I  believe  that
they  were  stopped,  but  twenty  thousand  or  more  who  had
been  taken  from  their  homes  were  not  returned  until  months
afterwards.  I  said  in  a  speech  that  I  made  in  May  on  my
return  to  America  that  it  required  the  joint  efforts  of  the
Pope,  the  King  of  Spain,  and  our  President  to  cause  the
return  of  these  people  to  their  homes;  and  I  then  saw  that
some  German  press  agency  had  come  out  with  an  article
that  I  had  made  false  statements  about  this  matter  because
these  people  were  not  returned  to  their  homes  as  a  result  of
the  representations  of  the  Pope,  the  King  of  Spain,  and  our
President,  but  were  sent  back  because  the  Germans  had  no
further  use  for  them.  It  seems  to  me  that  this  denial  makes
the  case  rather  worse  than  before.

BY  ARISTIDE  BRIAND
Official  Statement  of  the  French  Government

On  several  occasions  the  Government  of  the  Republic
has  had  occasion  to  bring  to  the  notice  of  neutral  Powers
the  action  of  the  German  military  authorities  towards  the
population  of  the  French  territory  temporarily  occupied  by
them  as  being  in  conflict  with  treaty  rights.

The  Government  of  the  Republic  finds  itself  to-day
obliged  to  lay  before  foreign  governments  documents  which
will  establish  that  our  enemies  have  put  in  force  measures  still
more  inconsistent  with  humanity.

By  order  of  General  von  Graevenitz,  and  with  the  sup-
port of  Infantry  Regiment  No.  64,  detailed  for  the  purpose
by  the  German  General  Headquarters,  about  25,000  French
— consisting  of  girls  between  16  and  20  years  of  age,  young
women,  and  men  up  to  the  age  of  55 — without  regard  to  so-
cial position,  were  torn  from  their  homes  at  Roubaix,  Tour-

THE  DEPORTATIONS  FROM  LILLE  105

coing,  and  Lille,  separated  ruthlessly  from  their  families,  and
compelled  to  do  agricultural  work  in  the  Departments  of  the
Aisne  and  the  Ardennes.

Better  than  any  comment  which  we  can  make,  the  offi-
cial notices  of  the  German  authorities,  the  despairing  pro-
tests of  the  Mayor  and  the  Bishop  of  Lille,  and  extracts
from  the  letters  received  from  these  localities  will  throw
light  upon  this  new  outrage  committed  by  the  Imperial  Ger-
man Government.

The  Minister  of  War,  under  date  of  June  30,  1916,  gives
us  the  following  accounts  of  these  occurrences  :

"Not  content  with  subjecting  our  people  in  the  North
to  every  kind  of  oppression,  the  Germans  have  recently
treated  them  in  the  most  iniquitous  way.

"In  contempt  of  rules  universally  recognized  and  of  their
own  express  promises  not  to  molest  the  civil  population,  they
have  taken  women  and  girls  away  from  their  families ;  they
have  sent  them  off,  mixed  up  with  men,  to  destinations  un-
known, to  work  unknown.

"In  the  early  days  of  April,  official  notices  offered  to
families  needing  work  a  settlement  in  the  country — in  the
Department  of  the  Nord — with  work  in  the  fields  or  at  tree-
felling.

"Finding  this  overture  unsuccessful,  the  Germans  de-
cided to  have  recourse  to  compulsion.  From  April  9th  on-
wards they  resorted  to  raids — in  the  streets,  in  the  houses —
carrying  off  men  and  girls  indiscriminately,  and  sending  them
Heaven  knows  where.

"A  wider  scope  and  a  more  methodical  application  were
soon  given  to  the  measure.  A  General  and  a  large  force  ar-
rived at  Lille,  among  others  the  64th  Regiment  from  Verdun.

"On  April  19th  and  20th,  the  public  were  warned  by
proclamation  to  be  prepared  for  a  compulsory  evacuation.

"The  Mayor  entered  an  immediate  protest,  the  Bishop
tried  to  gain  access  to  the  local  Commandant,  local  worthies
wrote  letters  of  protest.

"No  effect !  On  Holy  Saturday,  at  three  in  the  morning,
methodical  raids  began  at  Lille  in  the  Fives  quarter,  in  the
Marliere  quarter  of  Tourcoing,  and  at  Roubaix.    After  a

io6      THE  DEPORTATIONS  FROM  LILLE

suspension  on  Easter  Sunday,  the  work  went  on  all  the  week,
ending  up  in  the  Saint  Maurice  quarter  of  Lille.

"About  three  in  the  morning,  troops,  with  fixed  bayonets,
barred  the  streets,  machine  guns  commanded  the  road,
against  unarmed  people.

"Soldiers  made  their  way  into  the  houses.  The  officer
pointed  out  the  people  who  were  to  go,  and,  half  an  hour  later,
everybody  was  marched  pell-mell  into  an  adjacent  factory,
and  from  there  to  the  station,  whence  the  departure  took
place.

"Mothers  with  children  under  14  were  spared.

"Girls  under  20  were  deported  only  when  accompanied  by
one  of  their  family.  This  in  no  way  relieves  the  barbarity
of  the  proceeding.  Soldiers  of  the  Landsturm  blushed  to
be  employed  on  such  work.

"The  victims  of  this  brutal  act  displayed  the  greatest
courage.  They  were  heard  crying  'Vive  la  France/  and
singing  the  Marseillaise  in  the  cattle-trucks  in  which  they
were  carried  off.

"It  is  said  that  the  men  are  employed  in  agriculture,  road-
mending,  the  making  of  munitions  and  trench  digging.

"The  women  are  employed  in  cooking  and  laundry-work
for  the  soldiers  and  as  substitutes  for  officers'  servants.

"For  this  severe  work,  housemaids,  domestic  servants
and  factory  women  have  been  taken  by  preference.

"No  servants  are  left  in  the  Rue  Royale  at  Lille.

"But  some  brave  girls  of  the  upper  middle-class  have
come  forward  and  refused  to  allow  the  working-class  girls

to  go  alone.    The  names  of  Miles.  B          and  de  B

are  mentioned  as  having  insisted  on  accompanying  the  girls
of  their  district.

"The  unfortunate  people,  thus  requisitioned,  have  been
scattered  from  Seclin  and  Templeuve,  as  far  as  the  Ardennes.

"Their  number  is  estimated  at  about  25,000,  from  the
towns  of  Lille,  Roubaix,  and  Tourcoing.

"The  Quartier  de  la  Place  at  Lille,  the  communes  of  Loos,
Haubourdin,  la  Madeleine,  and  Lambersart  are  said  to  have
been  spared."

Unequaled  emotion  was  felt  by  the  population  of  the

THE  DEPORTATIONS  FROM  LILLE  107

north  of  France,  without  distinction  of  classes,  during  these
days  of  Holy  Week.

These  measures  surpassed  in  inhumanity  those  previ-
ously adopted.  It  is,  however,  necessary  to  return  to  the
latter.

It  appears  necessary  to  compare  the  documents  annexed
to  this  Note  with  a  reply  given  by  the  German  Government
to  a  previous  complaint  relating  to  work  enforced,  in  vio-
lation of  the  Convention,  on  the  civil  population  of  Landre-
cies  and  Hancourt.

After  declaring  that  at  Landrecies  the  French  who  are
liable  to  military  service  have  work  suitable  to  their  profes-
sion assigned  to  them,  the  German  Government  asserts  that
at  Landrecies,  Hancourt,  and  everywhere  else  the  population
of  the  occupied  French  districts  is  treated  with  justice  and
perfect  humanity.

The  documents  annexed  to  the  present  Note  will  show
the  value  of  this  assertion.  It  is  not  a  matter  of  men  liable
to  military  service  having  been  forced  to  work;  women,  and
girls  between  16  and  20,  have  been  taken  into  captivity  and
sent  into  exile.

Does  the  German  Government,  denying  the  principles,  the
sanctity  of  which  it  accepted  in  the  Hague  Convention,  main-
tain that  a  belligerent  has  the  right  to  compel  enemy  civilians
to  work  ?

In  a  Note  dated  March  22,  1916,  it  stated  that  it  felt
compelled  to  "request  the  French  Government  to  issue  or-
ders to  all  commandants  of  internment  camps  on  the  subject
of  forced  labor,  and  to  require  a  formal  declaration  with
regard  to  the  matter."

This  declaration  was  made  to  the  Imperial  Government
on  several  occasions  and  in  the  most  definite  form.  How  can
that  Government  reconcile  its  claim  in  respect  to  interned
German  civilians — whom  it  declares  not  to  be  liable  to  forced
labor — with  its  admission  that  French  civilians,  liable  to  mili-
tary service,  but  at  liberty,  are  constrained  to  labor,  or  with
the  disgraceful  measures  taken  at  Roubaix  and  Lille  with
regard  to  women  and  girls?

In  orders  placarded  at  Lille  the  German  military  au-

io8      THE  DEPORTATIONS  FROM  LILLE

thority  has  endeavored  to  justify  the  wholesale  deportations
ordered  at  Lille  and  Roubaix  as  a  retaliation  for  the  attitude
of  England  in  making  the  provisioning  of  the  population
increasingly  difficult.  Nothing,  however,  can  justify  such  a
barbarous  measure.  Seizure  of  contraband  and  interference
with  enemy  commerce  are  acts  of  war;  deportation  of  the
population  without  military  necessity  is  not  an  act  of  war.
Moreover,  to  dispose  of  this  pretended  justification,  it  is
sufficient  to  show  that  Germany  has  not  only  stripped — for
her  own  profit — the  occupied  districts  of  all  the  products
which  would  have  insured  the  subsistence  of  the  inhabitants,
but  also,  previously  to  any  interference  with  enemy  com-
merce, organized  for  her  own  benefit  the  exploitation  of  the
labor  of  French  civilians.

To  show  this,  extracts  from  the  depositions  of  French
citizens  who  have  been  evacuated  from  the  invaded  Depart-
ments are  annexed  to  the  present  Note.

These  depositions  were  made  on  oath  before  the  magis-
trates of  the  districts  where  the  evacuated  people  found  asy-
lum in  all  parts  of  France,  by  refugees  from  all  points  of
the  invaded  Departments.

They  were  made  in  response  to  a  form  of  inquiry  in
which  the  question  of  forced  labor  was  not  in  contempla-
tion— it  was  too  much  at  variance  with  international  law.
They  emanate  from  persons  of  all  ages  and  conditions,  and
their  absolute  agreement  (more  than  two  hundred  have  been
taken)  proves  that  the  civil  population  of  the  Departments
occupied  by  the  German  troops  has  been  reduced  to  absolute
servitude  by  the  army  of  occupation.

Article  52  of  the  regulations  annexed  to  the  Fourth  Con-
vention of  the  Hague  permits  requisitions  in  kind  and  in
services  for  the  needs  of  the  army  of  occupation.  In  the
recorded  depositions  there  is  no  question  of  any  regular
form  of  requisitions.  Services,  sometimes  of  a  most  repul-
sive nature,  have  been  forcibly  imposed  on  the  entire  civil
population,  without  distinction  of  sex,  age,  or  social  position.
These  unhappy  people  had  to  present  themselves  for  the  work
imposed  on  them  by  night  or  by  day,  at  all  sorts  of  places
and  at  great  distances  from  their  homes,  sometimes  even

THE  DEPORTATIONS  FROM  LILLE  109

under  artillery  fire,  in  most  cases  without  any  kind  of  re-
muneration, in  others  for  a  few  crusts  of  bread.

The  German  military  authority  has  never  concerned  itself
with  the  care  of  the  population  which  the  war  has  brought
under  its  provisional  administration.  The  products  of  the
forced  labor  of  the  population  have  been  transported  to  Ger-
many in  spite  of  the  absolute  destitution  of  the  workers.

Finally,  it  can  be  established  from  these  depositions  that
the  German  authorities  have  not  hesitated  to  compel  the  popu-
lation to  take  part  in  military  operations  against  their  own
country;  they  have  even  obliged  them  to  assist  in  pillaging
their  own  countryside!

They  have  employed  them  as  direct  auxiliaries  of  the
combatant  forces,  either  by  placing  them  in  front  of  the
German  troops  to  serve  as  shields  or  by  compelling  them  to  do
work  in  connection  with  military  operations.

Where  this  working  material — for  there  is  no  more  a
question  of  human  beings  but  of  mere  machines  moved
from  place  to  place  as  required — where  this  human  material
gives  out  in  certain  districts  of  the  occupied  territory,  the
German  authorities  draw  without  limit  either  on  the  intern-
ment camps  where,  contrary  to  all  law,  the  mobilizable  men
belonging  to  this  territory  have  been  confined,  or  on  the
other  invaded  districts.  The  people  are  not  sent  back  to  their
former  homes.  These  civilians  are  formed  into  regiments
and,  although  the  Germans  themselves  acknowledge  that  they
ought  not  to  be  compelled  to  work,  they  are  sent  to  any  point
of  the  districts  occupied  by  the  German  army  and  compelled
to  perform  the  most  severe  labor.  And  when  France  de-
mands, in  the  name  of  some  agonized  family,  information  as
to  the  fate  of  an  unhappy  exile,  the  German  Government
replies  that  the  military  authorities  do  not  consider  them-
selves under  any  obligation  to  explain  their  reasons  for
these  transferences.  For  entire  months  it  is  impossible  to
find  out  what  has  become  of  the  unhappy  people.

The  indisputable  result  of  the  following  declarations,  read
as  a  whole,  is  that,  without  any  immediate  necessity,  not  in
the  excitement  of  battle — moments  which  might  excuse  the
violations  of  international  law  committed  by  the  German

no      THE  DEPORTATIONS  FROM  LILLE

authorities — those  authorities,  in  pursuance  of  a  deliberate
purpose  and  according  to  a  predetermined  method,  have
reduced  the  unfortunate  population  of  the  invaded  districts
to  a  condition  which  can  be  likened  only  to  slavery.

BY  GENERAL  VON  GRAEVENITZ

Proclamation  of  April,  1916,  by  the  German  Military  Commandant  of

Lille

The  attitude  of  England  makes  the  provisioning  of  the
population  more  and  more  difficult.

In  order  to  relieve  the  distress,  the  German  Government
has  recently  asked  for  volunteers  to  go  to  work  in  the
country.    This  offer  has  not  had  the  success  anticipated.

Consequently,  the  inhabitants  will  be  evacuated  by  order
and  removed  to  the  country.  The  evacuated  persons  will  be
sent  to  the  interior  of  the  occupied  French  territory,  far  be-
hind the  front,  where  they  will  be  employed  in  agriculture,
and  in  no  way  on  military  works.

This  measure  will  give  them  the  opportunity  of  making
better  provision  for  their  subsistence.

In  case  of  necessity,  it  will  be  possible  to  obtain  provi-
sions from  the  German  depots.

Each  evacuated  person  will  be  allowed  30  kilograms  of
luggage  (household  utensils,  clothes,  etc.),  which  it  would
be  well  to  prepare  immediately.

I  therefore  order  as  follows  :  Pending  further  orders,  no
person  shall  change  his  residence.  No  person  may  be  absent
from  his  declared  legal  residence  between  the  hours  of  9
p.  m.  and  6  a.  m.  (German  time)  unless  he  is  in  possession  of
a  permit.

Since  this  measure  cannot  be  recalled,  it  is  in  the  interest
of  the  population  itself  to  remain  calm  and  obedient.

Notice  Issued  to  Individuals  With  the  Above

All  the  inhabitants  of  the  house,  with  the  exception  of
children  under  fourteen  and  their  mothers,  and  of  the  aged,
must  prepare  themselves  to  be  transported  within  an  hour
and  a  half.

An  officer  will  decide  definitely  what  persons  are  to  be

THE  DEPORTATIONS  FROM  LILLE  in

taken  to  the  concentration  camps.  For  this  purpose,  all  the
inhabitants  of  the  house  must  assemble  in  front  of  the  house ;
in  case  of  bad  weather  they  may  remain  in  the  passage.  The
door  of  the  house  must  remain  open.  No  protest  will  be
listened  to.  No  inhabitant  of  the  house  (even  including  those
who  are  not  to  be  transported)  may  leave  it  before  8  a.  m.
(German  time).

Each  person  will  be  entitled  to  30  kilograms  of  luggage;
if  the  weight  is  excessive,  the  whole  of  the  luggage  of  the
person  concerned  will  be  peremptorily  refused.  The  pack-
ages must  be  packed  separately  for  each  person,  and  pro-
vided with  an  address  legibly  written  and  firmly  affixed.  The
address  must  bear  the  surname,  first  name,  and  the  number
of  the  identity  card.

It  is  absolutely  necessary  that  each  person  should,  in  his
own  interest,  provide  himself  with  eating  and  drinking  uten-
sils, with  a  woolen  blanket,  with  good  shoes  and  with  body
linen.  Every  person  must  bring  his  identity  card.  Any  per-
son endeavoring  to  avoid  transportation  will  be  punished
without  mercy.

BY  THE  BISHOP  OF  LILLE
Appeal  to  General  von  Graevenitz

Monsieur  le  General:

It  is  my  duty  to  bring  to  your  notice  the  fact  that  a
very  agitated  state  of  mind  exists  among  the  population.

Numerous  removals  of  women  and  girls,  certain  trans-
fers of  men  and  youths,  and  even  of  children,  have  been
carried  out  in  the  districts  of  Tourcoing  and  Roubaix  with-
out judicial  procedure  or  trial.

The  unfortunate  people  have  been  sent  to  unknown  places.
Measures  equally  extreme  and  on  a  larger  scale  are  con-
templated at  Lille.  You  will  not  be  surprised,  Monsieur  le
General,  that  I  intercede  with  you  in  the  name  of  the  re-
ligious mission  confided  to  me.  That  mission  lays  on  me
the  burden  of  defending,  with  respect  but  with  courage,
the  Law  of  Nations,  which  the  law  of  war  must  never  in-
fringe, and  that  eternal  morality,  whose  rules  nothing  car
suspend.    It  makes  it  my  duty  to  protect  the  feeble  and  the

112      THE  DEPORTATIONS  FROM  LILLE

unarmed,  who  are  as  my  family  to  me  and  whose  burdens
and  sorrows  are  mine.

You  are  a  father ;  you  know  that  there  is  not  in  the  order
of  humanity  a  right  more  honorable  or  more  holy  than  that
of  the  family.  For  every  Christian  the  inviolability  of  God,
who  created  the  family,  attaches  to  it.  The  German  offi-
cers who  have  been  billeted  for  a  long  time  in  our  homes
know  how  deep  in  our  hearts  we  of  the  North  hold  family
affection  and  that  it  is  the  sweetest  thing  in  life  to  us.  Thus,
to  dismember  the  family,  by  tearing  youths  and  girls  from
their  homes,  is  not  war;  it  is  for  us  torture  and  the  worst  of
tortures — unlimited  moral  torture.  The  violation  of  fam-
ily rights  is  doubled  by  a  violation  of  the  sacred  demands  of
morality.  Morality  is  exposed  to  perils,  the  mere  idea  of
which  revolts  every  honest  man,  from  the  promiscuity  which
inevitably  accompanies  removals  en  masse,  involving  mix-
ture of  the  sexes,  or,  at  all  events,  of  persons  of  very  unequal
moral  standing.  Young  girls  of  irreproachable  life — who
have  never  committed  any  worse  offense  than  that  of  try-
ing to  pick  up  some  bread  or  a  few  potatoes  to  feed  a  numer-
ous family,  and  who  have,  besides,  paid  the  light  penalty  for
such  trespass — have  been  carried  off.  Their  mothers,  who
have  watched  so  closely  over  them,  and  had  no  other  joy
than  that  of  keeping  their  daughters  beside  them,  in  the  ab-
sence of  father  and  sons  fighting  or  killed  at  the  front — these
mothers  are  now  alone.  They  bring  to  me  their  despair
and  their  anguish.  I  am  speaking  of  what  I  have  seen  and
heard.  I  know  that  you  have  no  part  in  these  harsh  meas-
ures. You  are  by  nature  inclined  towards  justice ;  that  is  why
I  venture  to  turn  to  you ;  I  beg  you  to  be  good  enough  to  for-
ward without  delay  to  the  German  High  Military  Command
this  letter  from  a  Bishop,  whose  deep  grief  they  will  easily
imagine.  We  have  suffered  much  for  the  last  twenty  months,
but  no  stroke  of  fortune  could  be  comparable  to  this ;  it  would
be  as  undeserved  as  it  is  cruel  and  would  produce  in  all
France  an  indelible  impression.  I  cannot  believe  that  the
blow  will  fall.  I  have  faith  in  the  human  conscience  and  I
preserve  the  hope  that  the  young  men  and  girls  of  respectable
families  will  be  restored  to  their  homes  in  answer  to  the  de-

THE  DEPORTATIONS  FROM  LILLE  113

mand  for  their  return  and  that  sentiments  of  justice  and
honor  will  prevail  over  all  lower  considerations.

BY  HERBERT  HOOVER
Statement  Issued  in  September,  1917

I  have  been  often  called  upon  for  a  statement  of  my  ob-
servation of  German  rule  in  Belgium  and  northern  France.

I  have  neither  the  desire  nor  the  adequate  pen  to  picture
the  scenes  which  have  heated  my  blood  through  the  two
and  a  half  years  that  I  have  spent  in  work  for  the  relief
of  these  10,000,000  people.

The  sight  of  the  destroyed  homes  and  cities,  the  widowed
and  fatherless,  the  destitute,  the  physical  misery  of  a  peo-
ple but  partially  nourished  at  best,  the  deportation  of  men
by  tens  of  thousands  to  slavery  in  German  mines  and  fac-
tories, the  execution  of  men  and  women  for  paltry  effusions
of  their  loyalty  to  their  country,  the  sacking  of  every  re-
source through  financial  robbery,  the  battening  of  armies
on  the  slender  produce  of  the  country,  the  denudation  of  the
country  of  cattle,  horses  and  textiles;  all  these  things  we
had  to  witness,  dumb  to  help  other  than  by  protest  and  sym-
pathy, during  this  long  and  terrible  time — and  still  these  are
not  the  events  of  battle  heat,  but  the  effects  of  the  grinding
heel  of  a  race  demanding  the  mastership  of  the  world.

All  these  things  are  well  known  to  the  world — but  what
can  never  be  known  is  the  dumb  agony  of  the  people,  the  ex-
pressionless faces  of  millions  whose  souls  have  passed  the
whole  gamut  of  emotions.  And  why?  Because  these,  a  free
and  democratic  people,  dared  plunge  their  bodies  before  the
march  of  autocracy.

I  myself  believe  that  if  we  do  not  fight  and  fight  now,  all
these  things  are  possible  to  us — but  even  should  the  broad
Atlantic  prove  our  present  defender,  there  is  still  Belgium.
Is  it  worth  while  for  us  to  live  in  a  world  where  this  free  and
unoffending  people  is  to  be  trampled  into  the  earth  and  to
raise  no  sword  in  protest?

THE  SINN  FEIN  UPRISING  IN  DUBLIN

GERMANY  LENDS  AID  TO  AN  IRISH  REVOLT

APRIL  24TH-MAY  1ST

PADRAIC  PEARSE
GENERAL  MAXWELL

JOHN  REDMOND
SIR  ROGER  CASEMENT

LORD  ROBERT  CECIL

American  sympathy  with  the  Irish  demand  for  complete  self-gov-
ernment has  always  been  so  strong  that  even  so  ill-advised  an  up-
rising as  that  of  the  Sinn  Fein  in  1916  aroused  some  degree  of  pity
and  even  of  approval.  The  central  and  bitterly  accusing  fact  of  the
uprisal  is,  however,  undeniable,  and  undenied.  It  was  undertaken
at  Germany's  instigation  and  its  leaders  allied  themselves  with  Ger-
many. At  a  time  when  Germany  had  been  for  two  years  revealing  to
the  world  her  utter  scorn  of  Democracy  and  her  trampling  on  the
rights  and  bodies  of  smaller  peoples  in  Belgium,  Poland  and  Serbia,
these  Irish  leaders  declared  that  they  believed  Germany  to  be  the  noble
and  trusty  friend  of  Ireland  and  of  freedom  and  Democracy.  At  a
time  when  hundreds  of  thousands  of  Irishmen  were  fighting  for  the
cause  of  Civilization  in  France,  these  few  thousand  Irish  at  home
struck  a  blow  which  if  successful  would  have  gone  far  to  ruin  that
cause  by  paralyzing  the  strength  of  Britons  and  Irishmen  in  France.

What  happened  was,  briefly,  this :  Sir  Roger  Casement  since  the
opening  of  the  War  had  been  trying  to  convince  his  Irish  country-
men that  now  was  the  time  for  them  to  fight  England  and  win  free-
dom by  German  aid.  Chiefly  he  had  tried  to  raise  an  army  for  this
purpose  in  Germany  from  among  the  Irish  prisoners  there.  In  this
he  failed  conspicuously;  but  in  April  of  1916  he  left  Germany  on
a  secret  German  ship.  Another  secret  German  ship  brought  arms  and
ammunition.  Both  he  and  the  munitions  were  captured  by  Brit-
ish ships.  At  the  same  moment  seven  leaders  of  the  Sinn  Fein  pub-
lished in  Dublin  a  proclamation  declaring  themselves  the  heads  of
a  free  Irish  Republic  and  summoning  their  followers  to  aid  them  in
revolt.  Padraic  Pearse,  one  of  the  signers,  was  declared  president,
and  James  Connolly  was  made  the  general  in  command  in  Dublin.
Some  thousands  of  Irishmen  joined  them,  chiefly  in  Dublin.  They
seized  the  Dublin  post-office  and  custom  house  as  fortresses  and  slew
a  number  of  unarmed  policemen  and  of  British  officers  caught  un-
prepared in  the  streets.

For  two  days  the  police  and  the  small  garrison  of  British  troops
could  only  hold  their  own ;  then  a  large  force  of  troops  under  Gen-
eral Maxwell  reached  Dublin,  surrounded  the  revolters,  and  attacked
them  with  artillery.  Three  days  later,  April  29th,  the  Sinn  Fein  lead-
ers abandoned  the  struggle,  but  fighting  continued  in  sections  of  the

THE  SINN  FEIN  UPRISING  115

burning  city  for  yet  a  day  or  two  longer.  By  that  time  all  who
could  not  escape  had  surrendered.  Some  eighteen  hundred  were  thus
made  prisoners.  Of  the  revolters  and  other  civilians  slain  with  or
by  them,  two  or  three  hundred  were  killed,  and  of  the  troops  an
even  larger  number,  beside  many  wounded  on  both  sides.

Pearse  and  fourteen  other  leaders  were  condemned  as  traitors  by
a  military  court  and  were  shot.  Casement  was  later  tried  by  a  full
British  court  and  was  hanged  on  August  3rd.  His  final  speech  is
here  given,  as  also  the  original  announcement  of  their  purpose  by
Pearse  and  his  colleagues.  John  Redmond,  the  noted  leader  of  the
Irish  "Nationalists"  or  main  body  of  patriots,  voices  the  condemnation
of  the  reckless  revolt  by  the  great  mass  of  Irishmen;  and  the  British
view  of  Casement  is  voiced  by  Lord  Cecil,  a  noted  lawyer  and  Minister
for  the  Blockade.  General  Maxwell  depicts  the  actual  fighting  in
which  he  commanded.  c.  F.  h.

PROCLAMATION  ISSUED  IN  DUBLIN  APRIL  24,  I916,  AND
SIGNED  BY  PADRAIC  PEARSE  AND  SIX  OTHERS

'HE  Provisional  Government  of  the  Irish  Republic  to  the

*■     people  of  Ireland:

Irishmen  and  Irishwomen,  in  the  name  of  God  and  of
the  dead  generations  from  which  you  received  the  old  tradi-
tions of  nationhood,  Ireland,  through  us,  summons  her  chil-
dren to  her  flag  and  strikes  for  her  freedom,  having  organ-
ized and  trained  her  manhood  through  her  secret  revolu-
tionary organization,  the  Irish  Republican  Brotherhood,  and
through  her  open  military  organization,  the  Irish  Volunteers,
and  the  Irish  citizen  army.

Having  patiently  perfected  their  discipline  and  reso-
lutely waited  for  the  right  moment  to  reveal  itself,  she  noxg
seizes  that  moment,  and,  supported  by  her  exiled  children  in
America,  and  by  her  gallant  allies  in  Europe,  by  relying  on
her  own  strength,  she  strikes,  in  full  confidence  of  victory.

We  declare  the  right  of  the  people  of  Ireland  to  the  own-
ership of  Ireland  and  to  the  unfettered  control  of  Irish  des-
tinies to  be  sovereign  and  indefeasible.  Long  usurpation  of
that  right  by  a  foreign  people  and  Government  has  not  ex-
tinguished that  right,  nor  can  it  ever  be  extinguished  except
by  the  destruction  of  the  Irish  people.

In  every  generation  the  Irish  people  have  asserted  their
right  to  national  freedom  and  sovereignty.  Six  times  dur-
ing the  past  300  years  they  have  asserted  it  in  arms.  Stand-

n6  THE  SINN  FEIN  UPRISING

ing  on  that  fundamental  right,  and  again  asserting  it  in  arms
in  the  face  of  the  world,  we  hereby  proclaim  the  Irish  Re-
public as  a  sovereign,  independent  State  and  we  pledge  our
lives  and  the  lives  of  our  comrades  in  arms  to  the  cause  of
its  freedom,  its  welfare,  and  its  exaltation  among  nations.

The  Irish  Republic  is  entitled  to,  and  hereby  claims,  the
allegiance  of  every  Irishman  and  Irishwoman.  The  repub-
lic guarantees  religious  and  civil  liberty,  equal  rights  and
equal  opportunities  to  all  its  citizens,  and  declares  its  resolve
to  pursue  the  happiness  and  prosperity  of  the  whole  na-
tion, and  of  all  its  parts,  cherishing  all  the  children  of  the
nation  equally,  and  oblivious  of  the  differences,  carefully  fos-
tered by  an  alien  Government,  which  have  divided  the  minor-
ity from  the  majority  in  the  past.

Until  our  arms  have  brought  the  opportune  moment  for
the  establishment  of  a  permanent  National  Government,
representative  of  the  whole  people  of  Ireland  and  elected  by
the  suffrage  of  all  her  men  and  women,  the  Provisional  Gov-
ernment hereby  constituted  will  administer  the  civil  and
military  affairs  of  the  republic,  in  trust  for  the  people.

We  place  the  cause  of  the  Irish  Republic  under  the  pro-
tection of  the  Most  High  God,  whose  blessing  we  invoke
upon  our  arms,  and  we  pray  that  no  one  who  serves  that
cause  will  dishonor  it  by  cowardice,  inhumanity,  or  rapine.
In  this  supreme  hour  the  Irish  Nation  must,  by  its  valor
and  discipline  and  by  the  readiness  of  its  children  to  sac-
rifice themselves  for  the  common  good,  prove  itself  worthy
of  the  august  destiny  to  which  it  is  called.

BY  JOHN  REDMOND

My  first  feeling,  of  course,  on  hearing  of  this  insane
movement  was  one  of  horror,  discouragement,  almost  de-
spair. I  asked  myself  whether  Ireland,  as  so  often  before
in  her  tragic  history,  was  to  dash  the  cup  of  liberty  from
her  lips;  was  the  insanity  of  a  small  section  of  her  people
once  again  to  turn  all  her  marvelous  victories  of  the  last
few  years  into  irreparable  defeat,  and  to  send  her  back,  on
the  very  eve  of  her  final  recognition  as  a  free  nation,  into

THE  SINN  FEIN  UPRISING

another  long  night  of  slavery,  incalculable  suffering,  weary
and  uncertain  struggle  ?

Look  at  the  Irish  position  to-day.  In  the  short  space
of  forty  years  she  has  by  a  Constitutional  movement  made
an  almost  unbrokenly  triumphant  march  from  pauperism
and  slavery  to  prosperity  and  freedom.  She  has  won  back
the  possession  of  the  Irish  land;  she  has  stayed  emigra-
tion ;  she  at  last  began  an  era  of  national  prosperity.  Finally,
she  succeeded  in  placing  on  the  Statute  Book  the  greatest
charter  of  freedom  ever  offered  her  since  the  days  of  Grat«
tan.    Is  all  this  to  be  lost?

When  the  war  came  she  made  a  choice  which  was  in-
evitable, if  she  was  to  be  true  to  all  the  principles  which  she
had  held  through  all  her  history,  and  which  she  had  just
so  completely  vindicated  on  her  own  soil — namely,  the  rights
of  small  nations;  the  sacred  principle  of  nationality;  lib-
erty and  democracy.  Moreover,  the  nations  for  which
through  all  her  history  she  had  felt  the  sympathy  that  came
from  common  principles  and  common  aspirations  were  tram-
pled, as  she  in  her  time  had  been  trampled,  under  the  iron
heel  of  arrogant  force.  What  has  Ireland  suffered  in  the
past  which  Poland,  Alsace,  Belgium  and  Serbia  have  not
suffered  at  the  hands  of  Germany,  and,  I  may  add  also,  that
portion  of  the  soil  of  France,  her  old  friend  and  ally,  which
is  in  the  hands  of  Germany?  What  has  been  the  record
of  Germany  but  the  suppression  of  nationality,  of  freedom,
and  of  language — in  short,  the  suppression  of  all  the  things
for  which  for  centuries  Ireland  has  struggled,  the  victory
of  which  Ireland  has  achieved?  Take  the  case  of  Belgium.
Has  there  not  been  there  that  same  ruthless  shedding  of  the
blood  of  priests  and  people  that  is  part  of  Ireland's  own  his-
tory?

Leave  the  question  of  principle  out,  and  consider  the
question  only  of  the  mere  interests  of  Ireland  herself.  What
did  the  situation  demand?  Neutrality?  That  was  impos-
sible. Hostility  to  the  just  cause  of  the  Allies?  Is  there
a  sane  man  in  Ireland  who  does  not  see  this  meant  the
drowning  of  the  newly-won  liberties  of  Ireland  in  Irish
blood  ?   Be  these  views  right  or  wrong,  this  was  the  opinion

n8  THE  SINN  FEIN  UPRISING

of  the  overwhelming  majority  of  the  Irish  people;  it  was  the
opinion  which  thousands  of  Irish  soldiers  have  sealed  with
their  blood  by  dying  in  the  cause  of  the  liberty  of  Ireland
and  of  the  world.  But  anyhow  it  was  the  opinion  of  Ire-
land, and  surely  I  need  not  argue  the  principle,  especially
with  anybody  who  professes  himself  to  be  a  Home  Ruler,
that  the  policy  of  Ireland  must  be  decided  by  Ireland  herself.
That  is  a  principle  which  has  been  accepted  by  the  Irish
race  everywhere.  The  millions  of  our  people  in  the  United
States  and  elsewhere  whose  generous  devotion  has  helped  us
so  largely  to  win  our  victories  for  the  Motherland  of  the
race  have  always  accepted  it.  However  bounteous  their  help,
never  have  they  denied  the  right  of  Ireland  to  choose  her
policy  for  herself.

That  doctrine  has  been  contested  only  by  the  very  same
men  who  to-day  have  tried  to  make  Ireland  the  cat's-paw  of
Germany.  In  all  our  long  and  successful  struggle  to  ob-
tain Home  Rule  we  have  been  thwarted  and  opposed  by  that
same  section.  We  have  won  Home  Rule,  not  through  them,
but  in  spite  of  them.  This  wicked  move  of  theirs  was  their
last  blow  at  Home  Rule.  It  was  not  half  as  much  treason
to  the  cause  of  the  Allies  as  treason  to  the  cause  of  Home
Rule.

This  attempted  deadly  blow  at  Home  Rule,  carried  on
through  this  section,  is  made  the  more  wicked  and  the  more
insolent  by  this  fact — that  Germany  plotted  it,  Germany  or-
ganized it,  Germany  paid  for  it.  So  far  as  Germany's  share
in  it  is  concerned,  it  is  a  German  invasion  of  Ireland,  as
brutal,  as  selfish,  as  cynical  as  Germany's  invasion  of  Bel-
gium. Blood  has  been  shed,  and  if  Ireland  has  not  been
reduced  to  the  same  horrors  as  Belgium,  with  her  starving
people,  her  massacred  priests,  her  violated  convents,  it  is  not
the  fault  of  Germany.

And  a  final  aggravation  of  the  movement  is  this.  The
misguided  and  insane  young  men  who  have  taken  part  in
this  movement  in  Ireland  have  risked,  and  some  of  them  lost,
their  lives.  But  what  am  I  to  say  of  those  men  who  have
sent  them  into  this  insane  and  anti-patriotic  movement  while
they  have  remained  in  the  safe  remoteness  of  American

THE  SINN  FEIN  UPRISING  119

cities  ?  I  might  add  that  this  movement  has  been  set  in  mo-
tion by  this  same  class  of  men  at  the  very  moment  when
America  is  demanding  reparation  for  the  blood  of  innocent
American  men  and  women  and  children  shed  by  Germans;
they  thus  are  guilty  of  double  treason — treason  to  the  gener-
ous land  that  received  them,  as  well  as  to  the  land  which
gave  them  birth.

Is  it  not  an  additional  horror  that  on  the  very  day  when
we  hear  that  men  of  the  Dublin  Fusiliers  have  been  killed
by  Irishmen  in  the  streets  of  Dublin,  we  receive  the  news
of  how  the  men  of  the  16th  Division — our  own  Irish  Brigade,
and  of  the  same  Dublin  Fusiliers — had  dashed  forward  and
by  their  unconquerable  bravery  retaken  the  trenches  that
the  Germans  had  won  at  Hulluch?  Was  there  ever  such
a  picture  of  the  tragedy  which  a  small  section  of  Irish
faction  had  so  often  inflicted  on  the  fairest  hopes  and  the
bravest  deeds  of  Ireland?

As  to  the  final  result.  I  do  not  believe  that  this  wicked
and  insane  movement  will  achieve  its  ends.  The  German  plot
has  failed.  The  majority  of  the  people  of  Ireland  retain
their  calmness,  fortitude  and  unity.  They  abhor  this  attack
on  their  interests,  their  rights,  their  hopes,  their  principles.
Home  Rule  has  not  been  destroyed;  it  remains  indestruc-
tible.

BY  GENERAL  SIR  JOHN  MAXWELL

The  rebellion  began  by  Sinn  Feiners,  presumably  act-
ing under  orders,  shooting  in  cold  blood  certain  soldiers  and
policemen.  Simultaneously  they  took  possession  of  vari-
ous important  buildings  and  occupied  houses  along  the  routes
in  the  City  of  Dublin  which  were  likely  to  be  used  by  troops
taking  up  posts.

Most  of  the  rebels  were  not  in  any  uniform,  and  by
mixing  with  peaceful  citizens  made  it  almost  impossible  for
the  troops  to  distinguish  between  friend  and  foe  until  fire
was  opened.

In  many  cases  troops  having  passed  along  a  street  seem-
ingly occupied  by  harmless  people  were  suddenly  fired  upon
from  behind  from  windows  and  roof  tops.    Such  were  the

120  THE  SINN  FEIN  UPRISING

conditions  when  reinforcements  commenced  to  arrive  In
Dublin.

Whilst  fighting  continued  under  conditions  at  once  so
confused  and  so  trying,  it  is  possible  that  some  innocent  citi-
zens were  shot.  It  must  be  remembered  that  the  struggle
was  in  many  cases  of  a  house-to-house  character,  that  sniping
was  continuous  and  very  persistent,  and  that  it  was  often
extremely  difficult  to  distinguish  between  those  who  were
or  had  been  firing  upon  the  troops  and  those  who  had  for
various  reasons  chosen  to  remain  on  the  scene  of  the  fighting,
instead  of  leaving  the  houses  and  passing  through  the  cor-
dons.

The  number  of  such  incidents  that  has  been  brought  to
notice  is  very  insignificant.

Once  the  rebellion  started  the  members  of  the  Dublin
Metropolitan  Police — an  unarmed  uniformed  force — had  to
be  withdrawn,  or  they  would  have  been  mercilessly  shot
down,  as,  indeed,  were  all  who  had  the  bad  luck  to  meet  the
rebels.  In  their  absence  a  number  of  the  worst  elements  of
the  city  joined  the  rebels  and  were  armed  by  them.  The  daily
record  of  the  Dublin  Magistrates'  Court  proves  that  such
looting  as  there  was  was  done  by  such  elements.

There  have  been  numerous  incidents  of  deliberate  shoot-
ing on  ambulances  and  those  courageous  people  who  volun-
tarily came  out  to  tend  to  the  wounded.  The  City  Fire  Bri-
gade, when  turned  out  in  consequence  of  incendiary  fires,
were  fired  on  and  had  to  retire.

As  soon  as  it  was  ascertained  that  the  rebels  had  estab-
lished themselves  in  various  centers,  the  first  phase  of  opera-
tions was  conducted  with  a  view  to  isolate  them  by  forming
a  cordon  of  troops  round  each.

To  carry  out  this  streets  were  selected  along  which  the
cordon  could  be  drawn.  Some  of  these  streets,  for  instance,
North  King  Street,  were  found  to  be  strongly  held,  rebels
occupying  the  roofs  of  houses,  upper  windows,  and  strongly
constructed  barricades.

Artillery  fire  was  only  used  to  reduce  the  barricades,  or
against  a  particular  house  known  to  be  strongly  held.

The  troops  suffered  severe  losses  in  establishing  these

THE  SINN  FEIN  UPRISING  121

cordons,  and,  once  established,  the  troops  were  subjected  to
a  continuous  fire  from  all  directions,  especially  at  night  time,
and  invariably  from  persons  concealed  in  houses.

To  give  an  idea  of  the  opposition  offered  to  his  Majesty's
troops  in  the  execution  of  their  duty,  the  following  losses
occurred .  Killed  Wounded

Other  ranks   89  288

I  wish  to  draw  attention  to  the  fact  that,  when  it  became
known  that  the  leaders  of  the  rebellion  wished  to  surrender,
the  officers  used  every  endeavor  to  prevent  further  blood-
shed ;  emissaries  were  sent  in  to  the  various  isolated  bands,
and  time  was  given  them  to  consider  their  position.

I  cannot  imagine  a  more  difficult  situation  than  that  in
which  the  troops  were  placed;  most  of  those  employed  were
draft-finding  battalions,  or  young  Territorials  from  Eng-
land, who  had  no  knowledge  of  Dublin.

The  surrenders,  which  began  on  April  30th,  were  con-
tinued until  late  on  May  1st,  during  which  time  there  was  a
considerable  amount  of  isolated  sniping.

Under  the  circumstances  related  above  I  consider  the
troops  as  a  whole  behaved  with  the  greatest  restraint,  and
carried  out  their  disagreeable  and  distasteful  duties  in  a  man-
ner which  reflects  the  greatest  credit  on  their  discipline.

Allegations  on  the  behavior  of  the  troops  brought  to  my
notice  are  being  most  carefully  inquired  into.  I  am  glad  to
say  they  are  few  in  number,  and  these  are  not  all  borne  out
by  direct  evidence.

Numerous  cases  of  unarmed  persons  killed  by  rebels  dur-
ing the  outbreak  have  been  reported  to  me.  As  instances,
I  may  select  the  following :  J.  Brien,  a  constable  of  the  Dub-
lin Metropolitan  Police,  was  shot  while  on  duty  at  Castle
Gate  on  April  24th.  On  the  same  day  another  constable  of
the  same  force  named  M.  Lahiff  was  shot  while  on  duty  at
St.  Stephen's  Green.  On  April  25th  R.  Waters  of  Recess,
Monkstown,  County  Dublin,  was  shot  at  Mount  Street
Bridge  while  being  driven  into  Dublin  by  Captain  Scovell,
R.A.M.C.

122  THE  SINN  FEIN  UPRISING

All  these  were  unarmed,  as  was  Captain  Scovell.  In  the
last  case  the  car  was  not  challenged  or  asked  to  stop.

I  wish  to  emphasize  that  the  responsibility  for  the  loss
of  life,  however  it  occurred,  the  destruction  of  property
and  other  losses,  rests  entirely  with  those  who  engineered
this  revolt,  and  who,  at  a  time  when  the  empire  is  engaged
in  a  gigantic  struggle,  invited  the  assistance  and  coopera-
tion of  the  Germans.

BY  SIR  ROGER  CASEMENT
His  Speech  in  Court  When  Condemned  as  a  Traitor

As  I  wish  my  words  to  reach  a  much  wider  audience  than
I  see  before  me  here,  I  intend  to  read  all  that  I  propose  to
say.  What  I  shall  read  now  is  something  I  wrote  more
than  twenty  days  ago.  There  is  an  objection  possibly  not
good  in  law  but  surely  good  on  moral  grounds  against  the
application  to  me  here  of  this  English  statute,  565  years  old,
that  seeks  to  deprive  an  Irishman  to-day  of  life  and  honor,
not  for  "adhering  to  the  King's  enemies"  but  for  adhering
to  his  own  people.  When  this  statute  was  passed,  in  135 1,
what  was  the  state  of  men's  minds  on  the  question  of  a  far
higher  allegiance — that  of  man  to  God  and  His  Kingdom?
The  law  of  that  day  did  not  permit  a  man  to  forsake  his
Church  or  deny  his  God  save  with  his  life.  The  heretic
then  had  the  same  doom  as  the  traitor.  To-day  a  man  may
forswear  God  and  His  Heavenly  Realm  without  fear  or  pen-
alty, all  earlier  statutes  having  gone  the  way  of  Nero's  edicts
against  the  Christians;  but  that  constitutional  phantom  the
King  can  still  dig  up  from  the  dungeons  and  torture  chambers
of  the  Dark  Ages  a  law  that  takes  a  man's  life  and  limb  for
an  exercise  of  conscience.

Loyalty  is  a  sentiment,  not  a  law.  It  rests  on  Love,  not
on  restraint.  The  government  of  Ireland  by  England  rests
on  restraint  and  not  on  law ;  and,  since  it  demands  no  love,  it
can  evoke  no  loyalty.  Judicial  assassination  to-day  is  re-
served only  for  one  race  of  the  King's  subjects,  for  Irish-
men ;  for  those  who  cannot  forget  their  allegiance  to  the  realm
of  Ireland.  What  is  the  fundamental  charter  of  an  Eng-
lishman's liberty  ?  That  he  shall  be  tried  by  his  peers.  With

THE  SINN  FEIN  UPRISING  123

all  respect  I  assert  that  this  court  is  to  me,  an  Irishman,  a
foreign  court — this  jury  is  for  me,  an  Irishman,  not  a  jury
of  my  peers.  It  is  patent  to  every  man  of  conscience  that  I
have  an  indefeasible  right,  if  tried  at  all  under  this  statute
of  high  treason,  to  be  tried  in  Ireland,  before  an  Irish  court,
and  by  an  Irish  jury.  This  court,  this  jury,  the  public  opin-
ion of  this  country,  England,  cannot  but  be  prejudiced  in
varying  degree  against  me,  most  of  all  in  time  of  war.  From
this  court  and  its  jurisdiction  I  appeal  to  those  I  am  alleged
to  have  wronged,  and  to  those  I  am  alleged  to  have  injured
by  my  "evil  example,"  and  claim  that  they  alone  are  com-
petent to  decide  my  guilt  or  my  innocence.

This  is  so  fundamental  a  right,  so  natural  a  right,  so
obvious  a  right,  that  it  is  clear  the  Crown  were  aware  of  it
when  they  brought  me  by  force  and  by  stealth  from  Ire-
land to  this  country.  It  was  not  I  who  landed  in  England,
but  the  Crown  who  dragged  me  here,  away  from  my  own
country,  to  which  I  had  returned  with  a  price  upon  my  head,
away  from  my  own  countrymen,  whose  loyalty  is  not  in
doubt,  and  safe  from  the  judgment  of  my  peers,  whose  judg-
ment I  do  not  shrink  from.  I  admit  no  other  judgment  but
theirs.    I  accept  no  verdict  save  at  their  hands.

I  assert  from  this  dock  that  I  am  being  tried  here  not
because  it  is  just,  but  because  it  is  unjust.  My  counsel  has
referred  to  the  Ulster  Volunteer  movement,  and  I  will  not
touch  at  length  upon  that  ground,  save  only  to  say  that  neither
I  nor  any  of  the  leaders  of  the  Irish  Volunteers,  who  were
founded  in  Dublin  in  November,  191 3,  had  quarrel  with  the
Ulster  Volunteers  as  such,  who  were  born  a  year  earlier.
Our  movement  was  not  directed  against  them,  but  against  the
men  who  misused  and  misdirected  the  courage,  the  sincerity,
and  the  local  patriotism  of  the  men  of  the  North  of  Ireland.
On  the  contrary,  we  welcomed  the  coming  of  the  Ulster  Vol-
unteers, even  while  we  deprecated  the  aims  and  intentions  of
those  Englishmen  who  sought  to  pervert  to  an  English  party
use — to  the  mean  purposes  of  their  own  bid  for  place  and
power  in  England — the  armed  activities  of  simple  Irishmen.
We  aimed  at  winning  the  Ulster  Volunteers  to  the  cause  of
a  united  Ireland — we  aimed  at  uniting  all  Irishmen  in  a  nat-

124  THE  SINN  FEIN  UPRISING

ural  and  national  bond  of  cohesion  based  on  mutual  self-re-
spect. Our  hope  was  a  natural  one,  and,  if  left  to  ourselves,
not  hard  to  accomplish.  If  external  influences  of  disinte-
gration would  but  leave  us  alone,  we  were  sure  that  nature
itself  must  bring  us  together.  It  was  not  the  Irish  Volun-
teers who  broke  the  law,  but  a  British  party.

The  Government  had  permitted  the  Ulster  Volunteers  to
be  armed  by  Englishmen  to  threaten  not  merely  an  English
party  in  its  hold  on  office,  but  to  threaten  that  party  through
the  lives  and  blood  of  Irishmen.  Our  choice  lay  between  sub-
mitting to  foreign  lawlessness  and  resisting  it,  and  we  did  not
hesitate.  I  for  one  was  determined  that  Ireland  was  much
more  to  me  than  empire,  and  that  if  charity  begins  at  home
so  must  loyalty.

Since  arms  were  so  necessary  to  make  our  organization
a  reality  and  to  give  to  the  minds  of  Irishmen  menaced
with  the  most  outrageous  threats  a  sense  of  security,  it  was
our  bounden  duty  to  get  arms  before  all  else.  I  decided  with
this  end  in  view  to  go  to  America.  If,  as  the  right  honorable
gentleman,  the  present  Attorney  General,  asserted  in  a  speech
at  Manchester,  Nationalists  would  neither  fight  for  home  rule
nor  pay  for  it,  it  was  our  duty  to  show  him  that  we  knew  how
to  do  both.

Then  came  the  war.  As  Mr.  Birrell  said  in  his  evidence
recently  laid  before  the  Commission  of  Inquiry  into  the
causes  of  the  late  rebellion  in  Ireland,  "The  war  upset  all
our  calculations."  It  upset  mine  no  less  than  Mr.  Birrell's,
and  put  an  end  to  my  mission  of  peaceful  effort  in  America.
War  between  Great  Britain  and  Germany  meant,  as  I  be-
lieved, ruin  for  all  the  hopes  we  had  founded  on  the  enroll-
ment of  the  Irish  Volunteers.  I  felt  over  there  in  America
that  my  first  duty  was  to  keep  Irishmen  at  home  in  the  only
army  that  could  safeguard  our  national  existence.  If  small
nationalities  were  to  be  the  pawns  in  this  game  of  embattled
giants,  I  saw  no  reason  why  Ireland  should  shed  her  blood
in  any  cause  but  her  own,  and  if  that  be  treason  beyond
the  seas  I  am  not  ashamed  to  avow  it  or  to  answer  for  it  here
with  my  life.

And  when  we  had  the  doctrine  of  Unionist  loyalty  at

THE  SINN  FEIN  UPRISING  125

last,  "Mausers  and  Kaisers  and  any  King  you  like,"  I  felt  I
needed  no  other  warrant  than  that  these  words  conveyed — to
go  forth  and  do  likewise.  The  difference  between  us  was
that  the  Unionist  champions  chose  a  path  which  they  felt
would  lead  to  the  Woolsack,  while  I  went  a  road  that  I  knew
must  lead  to  the  dock.  And  the  event  proves  that  we  were
both  right.  But  let  me  say  that  I  am  prouder  to  stand  here
to-day  in  the  traitor's  dock  to  answer  this  impeachment
than  to  fill  the  place  of  my  accusers.  If  there  be  no  right
of  rebellion  against  a  state  of  things  that  no  savage  tribe
would  endure  without  resistance,  then  am  I  sure  that  it  is
better  for  men  to  fight  and  die  without  right  than  to  live
in  such  a  state  of  right  as  this.  Where  all  your  rights  be-
come only  an  accumulated  wrong ;  where  men  must  beg  with
bated  breath  for  leave  to  subsist  in  their  own  land,  to  think
their  own  thoughts,  to  sing  their  own  songs,  to  garner  the
fruit  of  their  own  labors — and  even  while  they  beg  to  see
these  things  inexorably  withdrawn  from  them — then  surely
it  is  a  braver,  a  saner,  and  a  truer  thing  to  be  a  rebel  in  act
and  deed  against  such  circumstances  as  this  than  tamely  to
accept  it  as  the  natural  lc;  of  men.

My  Lord,  I  have  done.  Gentlemen  of  the  Jury,  I  wish
to  thank  you  for  your  verdict.  I  hope  you  will  not  think  that
I  made  any  imputation  upon  your  truthfulness  or  your
integrity  when  I  said  that  this  was  not  a  trial  by  my  peers.

BY  LORD  ROBERT  CECIL
Official  British  Government  Statement

No  doubt  of  Casement's  guilt  exists.  No  one  doubts  that
the  court  and  jury  arrived  at  the  right  verdict.  The  only
ground  for  a  reprieve  would  be  political  expediency,  a  diffi-
cult ground  to  put  forward  in  this  country.  This  country
never  could  strain  the  law  to  punish  a  man  for  the  same  rea-
son that  it  could  not  strain  the  law  to  let  one  off.

The  Irish  rebellion  began  with  the  murder  of  unarmed
people,  both  soldiers  and  police.  No  grievance  justified  it,
and  it  was  purely  a  political  movement  organized  by  a  small
section  of  Irish  people  who  still  hate  England  and  were
assisted  by  Germany.    There  was  and  is  in  this  country

126  THE  SINN  FEIN  UPRISING

the  greatest  possible  indignation  against  these  people.  There
is  no  doubt  that  Casement  did  everything  possible  to  assist
this  rebellion  in  cooperation  with  the  Germans.  There  can
be  no  doubt  that  he  was  moved  by  enmity  for  this  country.
The  contention  that  he  landed  in  Ireland  for  the  purpose  of
preventing  the  rebellion  is  demonstrably  false.  No  such  as-
sertion was  made  by  counsel  at  the  trial.

Casement  was  much  more  malignant  and  hostile  to  this
country  than  were  the  leaders  of  the  rising,  who  were  caught
with  arms  in  their  hands.  He  visited  military  prisons  in
Germany  with  the  intention  of  persuading  Irish  soldiers  to
throw  off  their  allegiance.  All  sorts  of  promises  were  made
for  the  improvement  of  the  conditions  of  these  men  to  in-
duce them  to  join  the  Irish  legion.  An  enormous  majority
thus  approached  refused  and  thereafter  were  subjected  to  in-
creased hardships  by  the  Germans.  From  among  these  Irish
soldiers  a  number  have  since  been  repatriated  as  hopeless
invalids,  and  they  subsequently  died.  They  looked  upon
Casement  as  their  murderer.

Nor  is  there  any  ground,  public  or  private,  so  far  as  we
know,  which  can  be  quoted  in  mitigation  of  Casement's  crime,
and  I  do  not  think  any  Government  doing  its  duty  could
interfere  with  the  sentence  which  has  been  passed  on  him.

ssible  to  assist
mans.   There' can
for  this  cottntry^

invali      .  ■  •  >d>se<Jggl

:,  public  or  private,  so  far

know,  which  can  be  quoted  in  mitigation  of  Casement's  crime,
and  I  do  not  think  any  Government  doing  its  duty  could
interfere  with  the  sentence  which  has  been  passed  on  him.

as  hopeless
ley  looked  upon

^    From  a  sketch  by  a
Max

-witness]  ^

BRITISH  DISASTER  IN  KUT-EL-AMARA

THE  SURRENDER  OF  A  BRITISH  ARMY

APRIL  20TH

GASTON  BODART  EDMUND  CANDLER

GENERAL  TOWNSHEND  MAJOR  CHARLES  BARBER

The  surrender  of  the  British  army  at  Kut-el-Amara  was  impres-
sive to  the  world  not  because  of  the  number  of  the  captives — they  were
but  a  tiny  body  as  compared  with  the  masses  captured  by  either  side
on  the  Russian  front — but  because  this  was  a  British  army,  and  the'
victors  were  Asiatics.  For  two  centuries  mere  handfuls  of  Britons
had  been  extending  their  rule  over  the  swarming  millions  of  the
Orient.  This  surrender  broke  the  tradition  of  their  power  upon  land,
as  the  defeat  at  the  Dardanelles  had  revealed  the  limit  of  their  naval
strength.

Any  Briton  will  tell  you  now  that  the  Bagdad  expedition  was  un-
wisely undertaken.  The  British  held  the  Persian  Gulf  region  se-
curely, but  had  no  sufficient  force  with  which  to  penetrate  over  three
hundred  miles  up  the  almost  impassable  marsh  country  of  the  Eu-
phrates river-valley.  Leaders  in  Britain  itself  disputed  with  leaders
in  India  as  to  which  should  spare  troops  for  such  an  advance,  and
the  authorities  in  India  only  yielded  under  protest.  Even  then  the
commander  in  the  region,  General  Nixon,  declared  his  forces  too
small  for  an  advance  beyond  Kut,  to  which  some  troops  under  Gen-
eral Townshend  won  their  way  in  September,  1915,  struggling  against
the  natural  difficulties  of  the  land  rather  than  against  severe  Turkish
opposition.

It  was  this  lack  of  Turkish  resistance  that  lured  General  Nixon
to  attempt  to  capture  Bagdad.  General  Townshend  was  given  com-
mand of  a  larger  column  for  this  purpose,  and  fought  his  way  against
an  ever-increasing  resistance  from  Kut  onward  as  far  as  Ctesiphon,  a
group  of  ancient  ruins  some  twenty  miles  below  Bagdad.  Here  Town-
shend fought  a  stiff  and  indecisive  battle  in  November,  and  realized
that  the  mass  of  Turks  had  grown  too  strong  to  be  pushed  further
back.  To  the  Britons,  to  stop  so  far  from  their  base  of  supplies  in
a  hostile  land,  was  equivalent  to  defeat.  Townshend  knew  he  had  no
course  left  except  to  withdraw.  He  conducted  his  retreat  in  a  masterly
way;  but  it  became  more  difficult  with  every  step.  When  his  out-
worn troops  reached  Kut  on  December  3rd,  Townshend  was  glad  indeed
to  let  them  rest  behind  the  secure  defenses  which  its  position  afforded.

In  Kut  the  Britons  had  ample  stores  and  at  first  regarded  them-
selves merely  as  defenders  of  the  outer  line  of  the  British  front.
The  Turks,  however,  in  ever-increasing  numbers  gathered  round  them

128  BRITISH  DISASTER  AT  KUT

until  they  were  shut  off  from  the  world.  By  January  of  1916  Britain
became  fully  roused  to  their  danger,  and  sought  to  rescue  them.
General  Nixon  was  superseded  by  Sir  Percy  Lake.  He  dispatched  a
strong  force  to  break  through  to  Townshend's  rescue ;  but  the  Turkish
commander,  Nur-ed-Din,  fought  the  relievers  so  vigorously  that  in
battle  after  battle  the  Britons  did  little  more  than  hold  their  own.

One  column  under  General  Aylmer  was  driven  back ;  another
under  General  Gorringe  won  its  way  up  the  Euphrates  to  within
twenty  miles  of  Kut.  Here,  on  April  22nd,  it  was  hurled  back  from  a
desperate  attack  upon  the  Turkish  entrenchments  which  barred  its
way  at  Sanna-i-yat.  The  repulse  sealed  Townshend's  fate;  he  sur-
rendered April  29th.

Townshend's  own  statement  is  given  here,  as  well  as  the  picture
drawn  by  one  of  his  officers,  Major  Barber.  The  Teuton  view  is  sup-
plied by  the  official  Austrian  investigator,  Dr.  Bodart.  The  story  of
the  relieving  columns  is  told  by  Edmund  Candler,  the  official  British
observer,  who  marched  with  them.

BY  GASTON  BODART

In  order  to  fasten  the  bolt  against  the  "German  impulse
toward  the  East,"  England  converted  the  fiction  of  1912,
regarding  the  independence  of  the  Sultanate  of  Koweit  into
an  actual  title  of  possession  and,  in  the  beginning  of  Novem-
ber, 1 9 14,  from  this  base  brought  the  Persian  Gulf  under
British  dominion.

An  Anglo-Indian  expeditionary  corps,  under  General
Nixon,  consisting  original^  of  6  Indian  infantry  brigades
and  one  of  cavalry,  marched  up  the  Shatt-el-Arab,  seized
Basra,  the  former  port  of  Bagdad  and  the  starting  point
for  the  Arab  incursions  into  India.  In  this  exploit  the  corps
was  supported  by  the  British  warships.  In  addition  to
military  and  political  motives,  economic  interests  also  came
into  consideration  as  regards  this  expedition,  inasmuch  as
the  concession  regarding  the  renewed  irrigation  of  Irak  and
the  exploitation  of  the  rich  petroleum  and  naphtha  wells,
which  lay  on  nearby  Persian  territory  along  the  Karun
River,  were  in  the  hands  of  English  companies.

From  Basra  a  group  of  the  expeditionary  corps  marched
to  the  Karun  region  in  order  to  occupy  it,  although  this  was
neutral  Persian  ground.  After  fights  with  the  Turkish
vanguard,  which,  however,  could  not  prevent  the  capture
of  Korna  at  the  junction  of  the  Euphrates  and  Tigris  (De-
cember 9th),  the  British  were  held  up  by  Turkish  counter-

BRITISH  DISASTER  AT  KUT

attacks  on  January  20th,  21st  ond  30th,  191 5.  Not  until
the  middle  of  April  were  they  able  to  break  down  the
resistance  (at  Shaiba  and  Sobeir)  by  reason  of  the  vigorous
participation  of  their  gunboats.  Thereupon  one  column
marched  up  the  Euphrates  and  another  up  the  Tigris,  al-
ways accompanied  by  gunboats  and  steamers.  The  Turkish
military  command  had  meanwhile,  in  the  face  of  great
difficulties,  concentrated  its  Sixth  Army  under  Nur-ed-Din
(later  under  Khali f  Pasha)  and  met  the  advance  on  both
rivers.  The  Tigris  column  under  Townshend  advanced
with  relatively  good  speed,  forced  back  the  Turks  before
Amara,  and,  on  September  29th,  19 15,  occupied  the  im-
portant point  Kut-el-Amara.  The  Euphrates  columns  of
the  English  under  Gorringe  met  with  defeat  at  two  places,
but  subsequently  captured  Nasariyeh  on  July  24th.

Made  overconfident  by  his  easily  won  successes,  Town-
shend, underrating  his  enemy  and  without  awating  rein-
forcements, advanced  impetuously  against  Bagdad,  encoun-
tered, on  November  22nd,  near  the  ruins  of  Ctesiphon,  4
well-intrenched  Turkish  divisions  and  suffered  a  severe
defeat.  Hard  pressed  by  the  pursuing  Turks,  who  were
now  commanded  by  Field-Marshal  Von  der  Goltz,  who  had
hurried  here  from  the  Dardanelles,  Townshend  was  com-
pelled to  retreat  to  his  point  of  support,  Kut-el-Amara,
where  he  was  surrounded  by  the  superior  forces  of  the
Turkish  army.

General  Percy  Lake,  who  had  superseded  General  Nixon
in  the  chief  command  of  the  expeditionary  corps,  from  his
base  at  El  Garbi  did  all  in  his  power  to  relieve  Townshend.
In  a  surprisingly  short  time  five  divisions,  including  the
Thirteenth  under  General  Maude,  which  had  shortly  before
arrived  from  the  Dardanelles,  were  put  in  readiness,  and,
as  the  Tigris  corps,  were  placed  under  the  command  of
General  Aylmer.

The  latter,  at  the  beginning  of  January,  1916,  encoun-
tered the  Turkish  besiegers  of  Kut-el-Amara  at  Sheick-Saad
and  succeeded,  after  continuous  fighting,  in  forcing  them
back  to  a  point  near  El  Gussa,  one  day's  march  from  the
positions  occupied  by  Townshend's  division.    Aylmer  suc-

130  BRITISH    DISASTER  AT  KUT

ceeded,  after  penetrating  the  first  Turkish  line  of  defense,
in  reaching  Fellahieh,  while  the  column  of  Younghusband,
which  was  advancing  along  the  southern  bank,  advanced
about  an  equal  distance  and  threatened  the  second  Turkish
line  at  Sanaaiyat.  But  the  English  forces,  weakened  by
heavy  losses,  unfavorable  weather  and  camp  diseases,  were
not  equal  to  the  task  of  breaking  this  second  line.

Although  within  ten  miles  of  their  goal,  they  were
forced  to  relinquish  all  the  positions  captured  and  to  fall
back  to  their  point  of  departure,  Amara,  leaving  the  brave
defenders  of  Kut-el-Amara  to  their  inevitable  fate.  Forced
by  hunger,  Townshend,  on  April  26th,  191 6,  surrendered
with  13,000  men  at  Kut-el-Amara.  This  was  the  worst
blow  which  English  prestige  suffered  in  the  war.

BY  EDMUND  CANDLER
Official  British  Observer  With  the  Relieving  Force

The  last  communications  from  Townshend  reached  us
[the  relieving  force]  by  wireless  on  the  morning  of  April
29th.  "Have  destroyed  my  guns  and  am  destroying  most
of  my  munitions,  and  have  sent  out  officers  to  Khalil  to  say
am  ready  to  surrender.  Khalil  is  at  Madug.  I  am  unable
to  hold  on  any  more.  I  must  have  some  food  here.  I  have
told  Khalil  to-day,  and  have  sent  launch  with  deputation  to
bring  food  from  Julnar."  The  next  message  told  us  that
a  Turkish  regiment  was  approaching  the  fort  to  take  over
guards  in  Kut.  "I  have  hoisted  white  flag  over  town  and
fort.  Troops  commence  going  into  camp  near  Shumran
2  p.  M.  I  shall  shortly  destroy  wireless."  At  1  P.  M.  a  pre-
arranged signal  by  wireless  indicated  that  Townshend's  last
message  had  gone  through.

Wireless,  guns,  revolvers,  rifles,  aeroplane,  ammunition,
compasses,  glasses — everything  that  might  be  useful  to  the
enemy,  was  destroyed  and  we  were  near  enough  to  see  the
blaze.  There  was  no  Hunnish  fury  or  obscenity  in  the  last
scene.  We  left  the  Turks  our  gramophone  and  records  and
anything  that  might  contribute  to  the  civil  uses  of  life.

Nine  thousand  fighting  men,  3,000  British  and  6,000  In-
dians, exclusive  of  followers,  surrendered  at  Kut;  and  it  is
useless  to  try  and  gloss  over  the  disgrace  which  is  attached,

BRITISH  DISASTER  AT  KUT  131

not  to  our  soldiers,  but  to  the  politicians  responsible  for  the
disaster.  There  has  been  no  surrender  on  the  same  scale  in
the  history  of  the  British  army.  The  nearest  parallel  to  it  is
that  of  Cornwallis  with  7,073  officers  and  men  in  the  Ameri-
can War  of  Independence.  But  in  Mesopotamia  the  relieving
force  lost  more  than  twice  the  number  of  the  garrison  in  their
attempt  to  save  them,1  apart  from  the  loss  of  prestige  in  the
one  theater  of  the  war  where  we  could  least  afford  a  fluctu-
ating standard.  The  Arabs  believed  Townshend  invincible.
Until  the  retirement  from  Ctesiphon  the  6th  Division  had
never  attacked  a  position  which  they  had  not  taken.  The
mere  abstract  record  of  their  achievement  was  worth  the  sub-
stance of  a  new  division  in  establishing  our  security  on  the
Tigris.  The  British  flag  had  never  been  associated  with  re-
verse. But  this  one  setback  showed  the  Arab  that  we  were
fallible  like  other  people.  Upon  the  fall  of  Kut  the  Med-
jidieh  and  Turkish  paper  money  fetched  its  old  value  in  the
bazaar.  But  the  respect  for  Townshend  was  not  greatly
diminished,  and  it  was  admitted  that  nothing  short  of  starva-
tion could  have  defeated  him.

Townshend  impressed  his  personality  deeply  on  the  Turk.
He  was  permitted  to  retain  his  sword;  his  progress  to  the
Bosphorus  was  almost  triumphal ;  and  when  he  arrived  at  his
island  he  became  the  lion  of  the  place.  Khalil  Bey,  the  Turk-
ish Commander,  spoke  of  him  with  the  most  profound  ad-
miration when  he  received  our  parlementaires  on  the  evening
of  the  surrender  "We  will  give  him  as  good  a  time  as  the
Russians  gave  Osman  Pasha,"  he  said;  and  he  was  evidently
anxious  that  he  should  receive  every  comfort  and  atten-
tion after  the  privations  he  had  endured  so  gallantly.  He
regretted  that  his  supplies  were  so  scanty,  and  welcomed  our
proposal  to  send  stores  to  the  garrison.  Two  barges  with  a
day  and  a  half's  iron  rations  left  our  camp  the  next  morning.
These  were  followed  by  a  hospital  ship  and  a  paddle-steamer
with  lighters  attached  loaded  with  food  and  canteen  stores.
The  hospital  ship  Sikhim  returned  with  the  first  batch  of  sick
and  wounded,  whom  we  exchanged  for  Turkish  prisoners.

1  The  total  casualties  in  the  advance  from  Ali  Gharbi  (Jan.  6th —
April  22nd)  amounted  to  21,973.

132  BRITISH  DISASTER  AT  KUT

The  Kut  garrison  at  the  time  of  the  surrender  were  well
treated  by  the  enemy.  Turkish  officers  gave  every  British
soldier  a  handful  of  cigarettes  as  he  left  the  camp,  and  Brit-
ish and  Ottoman  privates  were  observed  fraternizing  with
friendly  and  explanatory  gestures.  Rough  fare,  primitive
medical  arrangements,  and  a  wretched  sanitary  system  were
inevitable  in  the  conditions  existing  in  Bagdad.  These  hard-
ships were  shared  with  the  Turkish  troops.

To  turn  to  the  diary  of  the  siege.  During  the  first  month
the  garrison  were  fighting  for  their  lives  and  were  only
afraid  that  ammunition  would  give  out  before  the  relieving
column  could  reach  them.  They  reckoned  it  a  certainty  that
the  reinforcements  collecting  at  Basra  would  be  able  to  join
hands  with  Townshend  and  drive  out  the  Turk.  All  this
time  the  troops  in  Kut  were  receiving  full  rations,  and  the
question  of  supplies  seems  to  have  afforded  no  anxiety.  In
the  meanwhile  the  relieving  force  advancing  from  Ali  Gharbi
in  the  first  week  of  January  believed  that  Townshend  was
near  the  end  of  his  resources.  Aylmer's  force  was  far  from
fully  organized,  and  there  was  a  whole  new  division  on  its
way  upstream  which  would  have  doubled  our  power  of  of-
fensive. But,  as  we  have  seen,  every  hour's  delay  was  re-
garded as  vital,  and  we  wasted  our  strength  by  throwing  in
our  troops  in  detail  as  they  came  up  the  river.

As  soon  as  we  advanced  from  Ali  Gharbi  the  enemy  re-
laxed their  hold  on  Townshend.  There  was  no  longer  any
danger  of  ammunition  running  short,  but  the  check  at  Orah
made  the  question  of  supplies  serious.  The  civil  popula-
tion had  remained  in  Kut.  Upon  Townshend's  arrival  they
had  been  given  their  choice — to  stay  or  leave;  they  had  a
bare  twenty-four  hours  to  evacuate.  They  elected  to  stay.
Neither  they  nor  we  foresaw  the  dark  days  ahead.  The  few
who  left  the  town  in  the  first  days  of  the  investment  were
tied  up  by  the  enemy  and  shot,  and  the  Turks  made  it  quite
clear  that  they  would  execute  any  who  tried  to  escape.  To
expel  them  now  would  mean  the  wholesale  murder  of  the
Arab  inhabitants  of  the  town.  Thus  the  garrison  was  bur-
dened with  6,000  additional  mouths.

But  on  January  24th,  after  our  repulse  at  El  Hannah,

BRITISH  DISASTER  AT  KUT  133

the  discovery  of  considerable  grain  stores  hidden  away  in
the  houses,  mostly  underground,  opened  a  new  phase  in  the
investment.  These  were  commandeered  and  paid  for,  and
they  afforded  the  garrison  three  months'  supplies  on  a  grad-
ually reduced  scale.  The  Arabs,  who  had  previously  been
self-supporting,  now  received  rations  as  issued  to  British  sol-
diers and  sepoys.  Thus  the  story  of  Kut  resolves  itself  into
two  distinct  phases,  at  first  a  determined  siege,  and  then  a
protracted  investment.  And  in  both  of  these,  whether  in  the
gallantry  of  the  defense  or  in  the  endurance  of  privations,
whether  in  combating  the  Turk  or  hunger,  the  garrison  was
tried  and  proved  in  a  measure  worthy  of  the  most  glorious
traditions  of  the  British  army.

On  December  3rd,  when  Townshend  arrived  at  Kut,  the
force  opposing  him  consisted  of  four  infantry  divisions  to-
taling some  15,000  rifles,  1,000  camelry,  400  cavalry,  thirty-
one  mobile  guns,  seven  heavy  guns  and  some  thousands  of
Arab  tribesmen.  On  the  4th  he  reported  himself  on  the  point
of  being  invested.  The  enemy's  advance  guard  were  ten
miles  off,  the  main  body  five  miles  behind.  The  position
Townshend  held  was  a  peninsula  formed  by  a  loop  of  the
Tigris,  3,200  yards  north  to  south  and  1,700  yards  wide;
and  on  the  right  bank  he  held  the  licorice  factory  and  village,
which  he  fortified,  and  garrisoned  with  two  battalions.  He
was  invested  on  all  sides  except  the  west.  His  troops  were
worn  out  with  their  long  fighting  march  from  Ctesiphon,  but
they  began  at  once  to  form  a  strongly  entrenched  camp.  If
any  one  could  save  Kut  it  was  Townshend.  He  had  all  the
resourcefulness  and  personal  magnetism  which  is  so  essential
in  the  commander  of  a  beleaguered  garrison.  He  and  his
division  were  bound  together  by  the  strongest  ties.  They
were  undefeated,  and  the  retirement  from  Ctesiphon  had  de-
manded and  proved  even  higher  qualities  in  both  leader  and
men  than  had  been  called  for  in  the  victorious  advance
towards  Bagdad.  Also  Townshend  had  had  experience  of
sieges.  From  the  beginning  he  prepared  to  defend  Kut  with
the  same  resolution  and  resource  as  he  had  defended  Chitral
in  1895,  and  with  more  confidence  in  the  issue.

On  December  4th  and  5th  he  sent  the  steamers  and  barges

BRITISH  DISASTER  AT  KUT

and  most  of  the  mahailas  downstream,  retaining  one  steamer
only,  the  Sumana,  for  use  as  a  ferry.  On  the  6th  he  sent  off
the  cavalry  brigade  to  Ali  Gharbi,  holding  back  one  squad-
ron; they  fought  a  rearguard  action  all  the  way,  but  got
through  with  trifling  casualties.  The  Turkish  prisoners  taken
at  Ctesiphon,  1,400  in  number,  were  cleared  just  in  time.  On
December  7th  one  of  the  Turkish  divisions  had  moved  round
his  flank  four  miles  to  the  south  on  the  opposite  bank  of
the  river,  and  two  other  divisions  had  taken  up  a  position
on  the  left  bank  west  of  Kut.  On  the  9th  Nur-ed-Din  sent  a
letter  demanding  the  garrison's  surrender.  Our  refusal  was
followed  by  a  heavy  bombardment  from  northwest  and
southeast.  The  camp  was  attacked  from  all  points  of  the
compass  and  shelled  all  day.  The  bridgehead  detachment
was  driven  in.  At  night  a  gallant  young  sapper,  Lieutenant
Matthews,  R.E.,  swam  the  river  and  blew  up  the  bridge  on
the  Turkish  side  in  the  teeth  of  the  enemy.  On  the  10th
and  nth  attacks  were  pressed  severely  all  day.  Our  casual-
ties on  the  10th  were  129;  on  the  1  ith,  202.  The  enemy  had
now  dug  up  to  within  600  yards,  and  was  strengthening  his
works  with  sandbags  and  timber.  Townshend's  tactics  were
to  keep  a  central  mass  in  hand  with  a  minimum  force  ob-
serving each  avenue  of  approach.  In  artillery  duels  the  gar-
rison suffered  the  disadvantage  of  concentrated  hostile  fire
from  all  sides,  while  their  own  gunfire  directed  from  the  cen-
ter to  the  circumference  had  to  be  divergent  and  dissemi-
nated. The  Turks'  5-centimeter  guns  fired  rapidly  and  ac-
curately at  7,500  yards;  our  own  5-inch  guns  were  very  old,
and  little  use  over  6,000  yards  owing  to  error.

On  December  14th  our  casualties  dropped  to  eighty-
seven,  on  the  15th  to  sixty-four.  The  Turks  were  becom-
ing tired  of  these  ineffectual  attacks,  and  on  the  16th  a  gen-
eral apathy  was  apparent  amongst  the  enemy.  They  had
lost  at  least  a  thousand  men  killed  and  wounded  in  their
attacks  on  the  nth  and  12th.  During  all  this  time  the
garrison  made  repeated  sorties.  On  the  14th  the  small  force
in  the  licorice  factory  drove  the  enemy  out  of  their  trenches
250  yards  away.    On  the  17th,  in  two  small  sorties,  thirty

BRITISH  DISASTER  AT  KUT  135

Turks  were  bayoneted ;  our  casualties  were  one  man  slightly
wounded.

Townshend  estimated  that  his  garrison  was  being  con-
tained by  10,000  men;  but  on  the  24th  an  increased  boldness
in  the  attack  indicated  that  the  enemy  had  received  rein-
forcements. The  famous  52nd  Division  had  arrived  from
the  Caucasus  front.  The  fort  was  heavily  shelled.  Large
breaches  were  made  in  the  wall.  The  fort  garrison  was
driven  in  beyond  the  first  line,  and  up  to  the  second  line,  of  the
defense.  But  here  the  wave  was  held  up.  The  Oxford  and
Buckinghamshire  Light  Infantry  flung  in  a  gallant  counter-
attack, and  the  Turks  were  expelled.  In  another  fierce  at-
tack at  midnight  the  enemy  again  effected  a  lodgment  in
the  northeast  bastion,  but  were  again  driven  out,  and,  though
ejected,  came  on  at  breaches  in  the  walls,  bombing  us  at
close  quarters.  At  daylight  they  had  retired  from  the  bas-
tion to  their  trenches  500  yards  from  the  fort.  Our  casual-
ties on  the  24th  and  25th  were  315.  Prisoners  said  that  the
enemy  believed  Townshend's  ammunition  was  giving  out  and
that  the  garrison  must  fall  if  the  attack  was  pressed  hotly.
Hence  the  fury  of  the  assault.  They  described  our  fort  as
a  cemetery  of  Turkish  dead,  and  said  that  the  52nd  Division
had  been  annihilated.  On  the  29th  the  enemy  asked  for  an
armistice  to  bury  his  dead  and  remove  the  wounded  who
lay  in  numbers  outside  the  bastions.  Our  casualties  during
the  first  month  of  the  siege  amounted  to  1,840  killed  and
wounded.    The  enemy  must  have  lost  4,000.

The  failure  of  the  Turkish  attacks  on  December  24th
and  25th  introduced  a  new  phase.  The  enemy  now  turned
his  siege  into  a  blockade  investment.  There  were  no  more
infantry  attacks ;  only  the  daily  bombardment  and  raids  by
aeroplane.  The  artillery  fire  was  fairly  consistent  until
March  22nd,  when  the  Turks  fired  some  thousand  rounds
in  quick  succession.  After  this  they  reserved  their  ammuni-
tion for  the  evening  "strafe,"  generally  between  four  and
eight  o'clock.  The  shelling  was  mostly  confined  to  the
town  and  the  fort,  where  the  Union  Jack  and  the  observation
post,  with  a  battery  of  5-inch  guns  and  the  Headquarters
adjacent,  offered  good  targets.    The  Turks  had  some  naval

136  BRITISH  DISASTER  AT  KUT

guns,  but  the  majority  were  40-pounders.  On  the  right
bank  they  had  a  species  of  trench  mortar  christened  by  our
soldiers  "Petulant  Fanny."  She  fired  very  noisy  15-inch
bronze  shells,  always  in  the  same  place,  but  never  hit  any-
body.

On  January  2nd  the  first  hostile  aeroplane  was  sighted.
From  February  13th  to  March  22nd  the  aviator's  bombs
caused  more  damage  than  shell-fire.  On  March  18th  one
bomb,  falling  on  a  hospital,  killed  six  British  soldiers  on
the  spot  and  wounded  twenty-eight,  fourteen  severely,  of
whom  twelve  died  within  a  few  days.  On  March  21st  four
bombs  were  dropped  in  the  neighborhood  of  Headquarters,
killing  many  Arab  women  and  children,  and  the  aviators  sank
a  horse-boat  on  the  river,  which  carried  a  4.7-inch  gun.
After  this  the  aerial  bombardment  slackened,  probably
through  lack  of  ammunition.  The  bomb  that  exploded  on
the  hospital  with  such  appalling  fatality  was  no  doubt  aimed
at  Townshend's  Headquarters,  a  favorite  target  of  the  en-
emy's heavies.  The  Turkish  airman  who  dropped  it  ex-
pressed the  most  profound  regret  and  cannot  be  held  guilty
of  the  intention.  Osmanli  "fright fulness"  has  much  to  an-
swer for,  but  the  sinking  of  hospital  ships  and  firing  at  the
Red  Cross  is  not  part  of  the  code.

The  advance  of  our  relieving  column  in  the  first  week  of
January  drew  off  the  greater  part  of  the  Turkish  army,
leaving  a  minimum  force  to  carry  on  the  work  of  investment.
From  this  period  the  diary  of  the  siege  is  concerned  more
with  fighting  hunger,  and  the  postponement  of  date  which
was  given  from  time  to  time  as  the  last  day  the  garrison
could  hold  out  indicated  in  each  case  a  reduction  in  the  scale
of  rations.  Horse-meat  at  first  was  plentiful,  but  very  few
of  the  Indian  troops  were  willing  to  eat  it.  Their  loathing
was  more  physical  than  spiritual,  for  Townshend  communi-
cated through  wireless  with  the  leaders  of  the  chief  religious
communities  in  India  and  obtained  from  them  a  ruling  that
this  siege  meat  was  lawful.  Nevertheless,  the  sepoys'  re-
luctance could  not  be  overcome,  and  Townshend  hesitated  to
coerce  them.  In  lieu  of  horse-meat  they  were  given  a  larger
flour  ration  than  the  British  troops.

BRITISH  DISASTER  AT  KUT  137

The  days  following  the  setback  at  El  Hannah  were  a  grim
foretaste  to  the  besieged  of  the  evil  days  in  front  of  them.
With  the  further  reduction  in  rations  the  Force  became  fa-
miliar with  hunger.  The  continued  suspense  was  hard  to
bear.  But  at  this  time,  and  two  months  afterwards  for  that
matter,  there  was  no  question  in  their  minds  as  to  the  ulti-
mate issue.  They  only  asked  "How  long?"  Townshend
himself  was  the  chief  fountain  of  optimism.  He  was  always
on  his  rounds,  visiting  the  sick,  chatting  with  the  men,  in-
spiring confidence  and  cheerfulness  everywhere.  He  was  a
born  commander  in  a  siege,  as  great  with  his  back  to  the  wall
parrying  calamity  as  in  the  thrust  of  an  offensive.  The  per-
sonality of  the  man  may  be  read  in  his  communiques.  On
January  26th  he  issued  an  address  to  the  garrison,  taking
them  into  his  confidence,  explaining  how  things  stood,  and
exactly  what  part  they  were  playing.

General  Townshend' s  Announcement

"The  relieving  force  under  General  Aylmer  has  been  un-
successful in  its  efforts  to  dislodge  the  Turks  entrenched  on
the  left  bank  of  the  river  some  fourteen  miles  below  the  po-
sition at  Sinn,  where  we  defeated  them  in  September  last.

"Our  relieving  force  suffered  severe  loss  and  had  very
bad  weather  to  contend  against;  they  are  entrenched  close
to  the  Turkish  position.  More  reinforcements  are  on  their
way  up-river,  and  I  confidently  expect  to  be  relieved  some
day  during  the  first  half  of  the  month  of  February.  I  desire
all  ranks  to  know  why  I  decided  to  make  a  stand  at  Kut
during  our  retirement  from  Ctesiphon.  It  was  because,  as
long  as  we  hold  Kut,  the  Turks  cannot  get  their  ships,  barges,
stores  and  munitions  past  this  place,  and  so  cannot  move
down  to  attack  Amara,  and  thus  we  are  holding  up  the
whole  of  the  Turkish  advance.  It  also  gives  time  for  our  re-
enforcements  to  come  up-river  from  Basra,  and  so  restore
success  to  our  arms.

"It  gives  time  to  our  allies,  the  Russians,  to  move  towards
Bagdad,  which  a  large  force  is  now  doing.  I  had  a  personal
message  from  General  Baratoff,  in  command  of  the  Rus-
sian Expeditionary  Force  in  Persia,  telling  me  of  his  ad-

i3b  BRITISH  DISASTER  AT  KUT

miration  of  what  you  men  of  the  6th  Division  and  troops
attached  have  done  in  the  past  few  months,  and  telling  of
his  own  progress  on  the  road  from  Kermanshah  towards
Bagdad.  By  standing  at  Kut  I  maintain  the  territory  we
have  won  in  the  past  year  at  the  expense  of  much  blood,
commencing  with  your  glorious  victory  at  Shaiba,  and  thus
we  maintain  the  campaign  as  a  glorious  one,  instead  of  let-
ting disaster  pursue  its  course  down  to  Amara,  and  per-
haps beyond.

"I  have  ample  food  for  eighty-four  days,  and  that  is
not  counting  the  3,000  animals  which  can  be  eaten.  When  1
defended  Chitral  some  twenty  years  ago  we  lived  well  on
atta  and  horse-flesh;  but,  as  I  repeat,  I  expect  confidently
to  be  relieved  in  the  first  half  of  the  month  of  February.
Our  duty  stands  out  clear  and  simple.  It  is  our  duty  to  our
Empire,  to  our  beloved  King  and  country,  to  stand  here
and  hold  up  the  Turkish  advance  as  we  are  doing  now,  and
with  the  help  of  all,  heart  and  soul  together,  we  will  make
this  defense  to  be  remembered  in  history  as  a  glorious  one.
All  in  India  and  England  are  watching  us  now,  and  are
proud  of  the  splendid  courage  you  have  shown;  and  I  tell
you  let  all  remember  the  glorious  defense  of  Plevna,  for
that  is  what  is  in  my  mind.

"I  am  absolutely  calm  and  confident  as  to  the  result.
The  Turk,  though  good  behind  the  trench,  is  of  little  value
in  the  attack.  They  have  tried  it  once,  and  their  losses  in
one  night  in  their  attempt  on  the  fort  were  2,000  alone.

"They  have  already  had  very  heavy  losses  from  Gen-
eral Aylmer's  musketry  and  guns,  and  I  have  no  doubt  they
have  had  enough.

"I  have  done  my  duty.  You  know  the  result,  and  whether
I  was  right  or  not,  and  your  name  will  go  down  in  history
as  the  heroes  of  Ctesiphon,  for  heroes  you  proved  yourselves
in  the  battle.  I,  perhaps,  by  right,  should  not  have  told  you
of  the  above;  but  I  feel  I  owe  it  to  you  all  to  speak  straight
and  openly  and  to  take  you  into  my  confidence,  for,  God
knows,  I  felt  our  heavy  losses  and  the  suffering  of  my  poor
brave  wounded,  and  shall  remember  it  as  long  as  I  live,  and
I  may  truly  say  that  no  general  I  know  of  has  been  more  loy-

BRITISH  DISASTER  AT  KUT  139

ally  obeyed  and  served  than  I  have  been  in  command  of  the
Sixth  Division.

"These  words  are  long,  I  am  afraid,  but  I  speak  straight
from  the  heart,  and  you  will  see  that  I  have  thrown  all  offi-
cialdom overboard.  We  will  succeed— mark  my  words! — ■
but  save  your  ammunition  as  if  it  were  gold!"

The  different  units  saw  very  little  of  each  other  during
the  siege.  At  the  beginning  indirect  machine  gun  and  rifle
fire,  in  addition  to  shells,  swept  the  whole  area  day  and  night.
The  troops  only  left  the  dug-outs  for  important  defense
works.  During  the  latter  phase,  when  the  fire  slackened,  the.
officers  and  men  had  very  little  strength  to  break  the  monot-
ony of  the  siege  in  the  way  of  games,  exercise  and  amuse-
ments, but  on  the  right  bank  the  two  battalions  in  the  licorice
factory,  the  110th  Mahrattas  and  the  121st  Infantry,  were
better  off,  and  there  was  some  dead  ground  here,  a  pitch  of
about  fifty  yards  by  twenty,  where  they  could  play  hockey
and  cricket  with  pick  handles  and  a  rag  ball.  Also  they
fished,  and  did  so  with  success,  supplementing  the  rations  at
the  same  time.  Two  companies  of  the  Norfolks  joined  them
in  turn,  crossing  by  the  ferry  at  night.  They  appreciated
the  relief.

On  March  2nd,  owing  to  the  shortage  of  fuel  for  the
mill,  the  barley  meal  ration  was  reduced  from  a  pound  to
three-quarters  for  the  Indian  troops,  but  6  ounces  were  issued
for  parching.  The  death-rate  now  increased.  The  vitality
of  the  troops  was  very  low;  the  recuperative  power  of  the
sick  was  at  a  minimum ;  those  suffering  from  serious  diseases
could  not  hope  to  survive;  before  the  end  trivial  ailments
were  often  fatal,  and  wounds  would  not  heal.  Skin  and
flesh  lost  the  power  of  renovation,  and  the  surgeons  could
do  nothing  where  nature  would  not  play  her  part.  The  scurvy
trouble  among  the  Indians  became  more  and  more  aggra-
vated. As  many  as  1,050  cases  were  admitted  to  hospital
during  the  siege,  besides  those  treated  regimentally.  The
sepoy's  horror  of  horse-flesh  in  many  cases  cost  him  his  life,
for  in  the  end,  when  he  was  driven  by  starvation  to  eat  it,  he

140  BRITISH  DISASTER  AT  KUT

was  so  weak  that  the  power  of  digestion  and  assimilation  had
gone.  Those  who  ate  it  at  the  beginning  fared  better,  and
the  Gurkhas,  who  never  had  any  scruples  in  the  matter,  best
of  all.

On  March  9th,  after  the  unsuccessful  attack  on  the  Du-
jaila  Redoubt,  the  British  ration  loaf  was  reduced  from  12
to  10  ounces.  The  Dujaila  failure  was  an  even  greater  dis-
appointment than  the  reverses  in  January.  The  garrison
were  waiting  expectantly  for  the  relief.  It  was  understood
that  another  great  effort  was  being  made  by  Aylmer's  col-
umn, who  were  to  strike  in  the  morning,  and  that  they  were
striking  with  all  their  force.  At  4.30  a.  m.  the  men  besieged
in  Kut  were  standing  to  arms.  The  sound  of  guns  grew
nearer.  All  day  they  waited  with  eyes  strained  on  the  other
bank.  But  Aylmer's  force  did  not  appear.  Once  more  their
hopes  were  kindled  only  to  flicker  and  die  out ;  and  the  sus-
pense and  strain  left  them  weary  with  an  exhaustion  which
infected  the  body  through  the  mind.

On  the  10th  Townshend  issued  another  communique:

General  Townshend's  Second  Announcement

"As  on  a  former  occasion,  I  take  the  troops  of  all  ranks
into  my  confidence  again.  We  have  now  stood  a  three
months'  siege  in  a  manner  which  has  called  upon  you  the
praise  of  our  beloved  King  and  our  fellow-countrymen  in
England,  Scotland,  Ireland  and  India,  and  all  this  after  your
brilliant  battles  of  Kut-el-Amara  and  Ctesiphon  and  your
retirement  to  Kut,  all  of  which  feats  of  arms  are  now  famous.
Since  December  5,  1915,  you  have  spent  three  months  of
cruel  uncertainty,  and  to  all  men  and  all  people  uncertainty
is  intolerable.  As  I  say,  on  the  top  of  all  this  comes  the  sec-
ond failure  to  relieve  us.  And  I  ask  you  also  to  give  a  little
sympathy  to  me  who  have  commanded  you  in  these  battles  re-
ferred to,  and  who,  having  come  to  you  as  a  stranger,  now
love  my  command  with  a  depth  of  feeling  I  have  never  known
in  my  life  before.  When  I  mention  myself  I  would  also
mention  the  names  of  the  generals  under  me,  whose  names
are  distinguished  in  the  army  as  leaders  of  men.

"I  am  speaking  to  you  as  I  did  before,  straight  from  thi

BRITISH  DISASTER  AT  KUT  141

heart,  and,  as  I  say,  I  ask  your  sympathy  for  my  feelings,
having  promised  you  relief  on  certain  dates  on  the  promise
of  those  ordered  to  relieve  us.  Not  their  fault,  no  doubt.  Do
not  think  that  I  blame  them ;  they  are  giving  their  lives  freely,
and  deserve  our  gratitude  and  admiration.  But  I  want  you
to  help  me  again,  as  before.  I  have  asked  General  Aylmer
for  the  next  attempt  to  bring  such  numbers  as  will  break
down  all  resistance  and  leave  no  doubt  as  to  the  issue.  In
order,  then,  to  hold  out,  I  am  killing  a  large  number  of  horses
so  as  to  reduce  the  quantity  of  grain  eaten  every  day,  and  I
have  had  to  reduce  your  ration.  It  is  necessary  to  do  this  in
order  to  keep  our  flag  flying.  I  am  determined  to  hold  out,
and  I  know  you  are  with  me  heart  and  soul."

On  March  31st  rations  were  again  reduced.  On  April
8th  the  mill  stopped  working  for  want  of  fuel;  flour  had
been  ground  to  last  until  April  15th.  On  April  16th  the  flour
ration  was  reduced  to  4  ounces  for  British  and  Indian.  Small
opium  pills  were  distributed  among  the  sepoys  by  the  medi-
cal staff  to  sta  the  pangs  of  hunger.  By  this  time  all  Indians
were  eating  horse-flesh.  On  April  21st  the  4-ounce  ration
gave  out.  From  the  22nd  to  the  25th  the  garrison  subsisted
on  two  days'  reserve  rations  issued  in  January.  After  our
third  repulse  at  Sannaiyat,  on  April  22nd,  immediate  relief
was  hopeless.  The  only  chance  for  the  garrison  lay  in  the
Julnar,  which  on  the  night  of  the  24th  attempted  to  force  the
blockade  and  failed.  In  the  meanwhile  Kut  was  fed  by  aero-
plane. This  air  service  gave  the  garrison  another  four  days,
but  the  carriage  of  such  heavy  freight  was  too  great  a  tax
on  the  machines.  Previously  they  had  been  employed  for
dropping  light  articles  into  camp,  such  as  rifle  cleaners,  spare
parts  for  wireless,  dmgs  and  medical  dressings,  saccharin,
seine  nets  for  fishing,  and  at  one  time  cigarettes  and  tobacco.
But  as  it  was  impossible  to  supply  all,  Townshend  ruled  out
these  luxuries  as  introducing  a  form  of  privilege.  He  him-
self shared  every  privation  with  his  troops.

After  April  20th  many  of  the  Arabs  in  the  town,  feeling
the  pinch  of  hunger,  made  attempts  to  escape  by  river.  These
men  are  splendid  swimmers.    Two  of  them  got  through  to

142  BRITISH  DISASTER  AT  KUT

our  camp  with  the  help  of  the  strong  current.  One,  sup-
ported by  skin  bladders,  made  the  journey  by  night  in  eight
hours;  the  other  concealed  himself  during  the  day  and  ar-
rived on  the  second  night.  A  third,  the  sole  survivor  of  a
party  of  eighteen,  came  through  on  a  raft  with  a  bullet  in  his
leg.  The  Turks  fired  on  them  from  the  bank ;  four  had  been
killed;  the  others,  many  of  them  wounded,  dived  into  the
river,  and  it  is  doubtful  if  any  of  them  escaped.  These  Arabs
spoke  of  the  cheerfulness  of  the  garrison,  who  they  said
looked  thin,  but  hard  and  strong.  The  inhabitants  of  Kut
were  still  confident  that  the  place  would  be  relieved ;  this  con-
fidence in  Townshend,  based  on  his  personality  and  the
achievements  of  the  troops  under  his  command,  amounted  to
something  like  superstition.  They  abandoned  the  town  out
of  sheer  hunger.

Before  the  end  the  garrison  were  on  the  verge  of  starva-
tion. During  the  last  week  of  the  siege  the  daily  death-
rate  averaged  eight  British  and  twenty-one  Indians.  The
troops  were  so  exhausted  that  the  regiments  who  were  hold-
ing the  front  line  remained  there  a  fortnight  without  being
relieved.  They  were  too  weak  to  dig.  Men  on  sentry-go
would  drop  at  their  posts.  Colonel  Hehir,  the  senior  medi-
cal officer,  has  recorded  cases  of  Indians  returning  from  the
trenches  in  the  evening,  seemingly  with  nothing  the  matter,
who  lay  down  and  were  found  dead  in  the  morning,  dead  of
exhaustion;  they  simply  had  not  strength  for  the  effort  of
life.  He  doubted  whether  the  strongest  man  in  the  garri-
son was  equal  to  a  five-mile  march  carrying  his  equipment.
Still,  hope  was  not  yet  dead.  Our  machine  gun  and  rifle  fire
were  heard  at  Beit  Aieesa;  the  flashes  of  our  guns  were
seen  at  night ;  and  on  April  20th  General  Aylmer  wired :
"Stick  to  it.  Gorringe  will  relieve  you  in  a  few  days."  They
stuck  to  it.  They  hung  on.  On  the  day  of  surrender  the  men
in  the  trenches  were  too  weak  to  carry  back  their  kit.

The  bitterness  of  the  end  may  perhaps  have  been  soft-
ened by  the  knowledge  that  they  had  done  everything  within
mortal  bounds  that  could  be  done.  They  must  have  had  some
inward  sense  of  their  long  devotion  under  trial.  It  could  not
be  otherwise ;  for  messages  had  reached  them  before  the  wire-

BRITISH  DISASTER  AT  KUT  143

less  was  destroyed  which  bore  witness  to  the  recognition  of
it  by  their  countrymen  in  no  uncertain  terms.  But  another
crushing  disappointment  was  in  store.  A  passage  in  Towns-
shend's  last  communique,  dated  April  28th,  offered  hopes  of
release :

"These  considerations  alone,  namely,  that  I  can  help  my
comrades  of  all  ranks  to  the  end,  have  decided  me  to  over-
come my  bodily  illness  and  the  anguish  of  mind  which  I  am
suffering  now,  and  I  have  interviewed  the  Turkish  General-
in-Chief  yesterday,  who  is  full  of  admiration  at  'an  heroic
defense  of  five  months,'  as  he  puts  it.  Negotiations  are
still  in  progress,  but  I  hope  to  be  able  to  announce  your  de-
parture for  India,  on  parole  not  to  serve  against  the  Turks,
since  the  Turkish  Commander  says  he  thinks  it  will  be  al-
lowed, and  has  wired  to  Constantinople  to  ask  for  this,  and
that  the  Julnar,  which  is  lying  with  food  for  us  at  Magasis
now,  may  be  permitted  to  come  to  us.  Whatever  has  hap-
pened, my  comrades,  you  can  only  be  proud  of  yourselves.
We  have  done  our  duty  to  King  and  Empire ;  the  whole  world
knows  that  we  have  done  our  duty.  I  ask  you  to  stand  by
me  with  your  steady  and  splendid  discipline,  shown  through-
out, in  the  next  few  days  for  the  expedition  of  all  service  I
demand  of  you."

Instead  of  release  on  parole,  captivity  awaited  them  with
all  its  hardships  and  humiliations.  The  long-drawn  months
ran  into  years,  and  more  than  half  of  the  rank  and  file  suc-
cumbed to  the  hard  conditions  of  exile.  When  the  armistice
was  concluded  it  was  found  that  of  2,680  British  N.C.O.s
and  privates  taken  at  Kut,  1,306  had  died  and  449  remained
untraced:  that  is,  over  65  per  cent,  perished.  Of  the  10,486
Indians,  combatants  and  followers,  1,290  died  and  1,773
were  untraced.  "These  figures,"  says  the  report,  "give  the
exact  measure  of  the  meaning  of  captivity  in  Turkey."  Most
of  the  Kut  prisoners  perished  in  the  terrible  crossing  of  the
desert  between  Samarrah  and  Aleppo  in  June.  They  were
separated  from  their  officers,  and  those  who  were  too  weak
to  march  were  left  to  die  by  the  roadside,  stripped  of  their
clothes  by  the  Arabs,  exhausted  with  dysentery  and  starva-
tion, and  with  no  medical  attendance.    It  was  a  history  of

BRITISH  DISASTER  AT  KUT

brutal  callousness  and  neglect  which,  if  we  had  known  it  at
the  time,  would  have  left  us  no  illusions  about  the  Turk.

BY  MAJOR  CHARLES  BARBER

On  the  22nd  there  was  a  heavy  cannonade  in  the  morning,
and  we  could  see  the  bursts  of  H.E.  over  a  long  line  of  a
mile  or  more ;  but  the  result  was  another  disappointment,
for  the  next  day  we  got  a  communique  to  say  that  the  R.F.
had  not  taken  Sanaaiyat,  but  had  advanced  a  little  on  the
right  bank.  As  a  set-off  the  aeroplanes  made  fourteen  or
fifteen  trips  and  dropped  food.

It  was  Easter  Sunday,  and  Trixie  and  I  went  to  church
in  the  morning.  The  two  little  rooms,  still  intact,  were
crowded  with  officers.  Why  had  so  many  come  that  day?
Was  it  to  share  in  the  joyous  festival  of  Easter,  of  the  resur-
rection of  the  God-man,  or  was  it  the  growing  fear  in  our
hearts  that  the  service  would  be  the  last  of  its  kind  in  Kut,
and  that  the  future  was  so  full  of  uncertainty?

Be  that  as  it  may,  there  was  a  very  good  attendance,  and
after  the  morning  service  the  Communion  was  held.  One
by  one,  in  a  silence  that  could  be  felt,  the  gaunt  and  war-
worn defenders,  with  the  thoughtful  eyes  of  those  who  had
seen  much,  went  up  each  in  his  turn  and  knelt  before  the
padre.  A  deep  hush  fell  over  us  all,  and  in  those  few  mo-
ments men  got  near  to  their  God.  .  .  .

On  the  24th  a  quiver  of  excitement  went  through  us  when
we  got  wind  of  the  impending  attempt  of  the  R.F.  to  run
the  blockade  that  night  by  a  boat  full  of  food.  We  could
hardly  sleep  for  thinking  about  it,  and  were  up  on  the  H.Q.
roof  as  the  sun  rose.  There  she  was,  the  gallant  Fulnar,  over
against  Megasis  Fort,  stuck  in  the  mud  just  within  range  of
our  longest  guns,  with  her  splendid  captain  on  her  bridge
lying  dead  in  a  pool  of  his  own  blood.  So  pleased  were
the  Turks — so  one  of  their  officers  who  was  there  told  me
afterwards — with  the  gallant  bravery  of  poor  Cowley  and
the  other  man  with  him  on  the  F ulnar,  that  they,  then  and
there,  gave  them  a  special  military  funeral  in  recognition  of
their  magnificent  effort,  which  so  nearly  succeeded.  But  the

BRITISH  DISASTER  AT  KUT  145

enemy  had  her,  and  her  capture  sealed  our  fate.  Deep  down
within  us  we  knew  we  were  now  done  for,  that  our  people
couldn't  get  through,  and  that  for  us  it  meant  Bagdad,  or
Mosul,  or  God  only  knew  where !  We  did  not  acknowledge
it  yet,  however,  and  that  day  another  auction  was  held,  at
which  prices  ruled  higher  than  ever:  a  box  of  cheroots
fetched  206  rupees,  and  a  tin  of  fifty  Wills'  cigarettes  were
sold  for  over  £3 — surely  the  biggest  money  ever  paid  for
"Three  Castles" !

That  night,  after  leaving  us  almost  alone  for  a  day  or
two,  the  Turks  gave  us  a  bad  "strafing,"  and  followed  it  up
by  an  evening  hate  next  day  and  another  night  bombard-
ment, much  to  the  discomfort  of  a  Turkish  envoy  who
stayed  the  night  in  the  town.  They  also  accounted  for  at
least  one  of  the  aeroplanes  of  the  R.F.  that  had  been  work-
ing very  hard  at  our  food  supply,  but  now  got  interfered
with  by  the  Fokkers,  that  had  the  wings  of  them.

On  the  23rd  and  24th  we  had  eaten  our  first  day's  emer-
gency ration  split  "into  two;  on  the  25th  and  26th  we  fed
on  the  aeroplane  supply,  and  on  the  27th  we  broached  half
of  our  last  day's  reserve  ration.

The  following  message  was  received  from  the  Army
Commander:  "The  C.-in-C.  has  desired  me  to  convey  to  you
and  your  brave  and  devoted  troops  his  appreciation  of  the
manner  in  which  you  together  have  undergone  the  suffering
and  hardships  of  the  siege,  which  he  knows  has  been  due
to  the  high  spirit  of  devotion  to  duty  in  which  you  have  met
the  call  of  your  Sovereign  and  Empire.  The  C.-in-C. 's
sentiments  are  shared  by  myself,  General  Gorringe,  and  all
■the  troops  of  the  Tigris  Column.  We  can  only  express  ex-
treme disappointment,  and  regret  our  effort  to  relieve  you
should  not  have  been  crowned  with  success."

And  so,  with  a  farewell  from  our  friends  below,  we  went
into  captivity.

AUSTRIA'S  FIRST  GREAT  ATTACK  ON  ITALY

REPULSE  OF  THE  AUSTRIAN  INVASION  AT  ASIAGO

MAY   I5TH-JUNE  3RD

OFFICIAL  ITALIAN  STATEMENT
THOMAS  NELSON  PAGE  GENERAL  VON  CRAMON

For  almost  a  year  following  Italy's  entry  into  the  War,  the  Aus-
trians  had  allowed  her  to  wear  out  her  strength  against  their  well-
nigh  impregnable  mountain  frontiers.  In  May  of  1916  Austria  sud-
denly assumed  the  offensive.  She  was  facing  the  Italians  on  two
lines.  To  the  north  of  Italy  lay  the  Austrian  Alps,  the  region  known
as  the  Tyrol.  Here  the  Italian  "Alpini"  had  been  fighting  their  way
slowly  northward  over  the  mighty  mountains,  seizing  the  semi-
Italian  district  called  the  Trentino.  To  the  east  of  Italy  at  the  head
of  the  Adriatic  lay  the  Isonzo  River  section  of  Austria.  There  the
Italians  had  been  making  their  chief  attack  and  gathering  their  main
armies.

In  attacking  along  the  less  powerfully  held  line  in  the  Trentino,  the
Austrians  might  hope  to  break  into  Italy  from  the  north,  get  behind
the  Isonzo  army,  and  so  break  its  line  of  supplies  and  compel  its  sur-
render. The  attack  is  here  described,  first,  by  the  official  statement
issued  by  Italy  for  the  use  of  the  American  troops  who  were  sent  there,
second,  by  the  sober  judgment  of  the  honored  U.  S.  Ambassador  to
Italy,  Mr.  Page,  and  third  by  the  General  who  acted  the  part  of
"liaison"  officer  and  official  observer  for  the  Germans.

The  heavy  attack  at  first  swept  away  the  smaller  bodies  of  Italians.
Mountain  peak  after  peak  was  stormed  and  captured.  By  the  end  of
May  the  Italians  were  driven  back  across  their  own  border;  and  the
Italian  cities  of  Arsiero  and  Asiago,  the  latter  some  seven  miles
behind  the  frontier,  were  in  Austrian  hands.  This,  however,  marked
the  high  tide  of  the  invasion.  Count  Cadorna,  the  Italian  general,
had  by  this  time  strengthened  his  loosely  guarded  defenses  and
gathered  his  forces.  His  line  stretched  along  the  last  and  lowest
series  of  hills  by  which  the  Alps  sink  into  the  Italian  plain.  Vicenza
and  the  main  railroad  for  supplying  the  Isonzo  army  were  only  twenty
miles  away.  On  June  3rd  Cadorna  issued  a  general  order  to  stop
the  retreat  before  the  foe,  saying,  "Remember  that  here  we  defend
the  soil  of  our  country  and  the  honor  of  our  army.  These  positions
are  to  be  defended  to  the  death."

They  were  thus  held.  More  than  one  Italian  regiment  lost  two-
thirds  of  its  men  without  giving  way.  The  Austrian  advance  was
completely  checked.  The  main  fighting  was  around  Mounts  Ciove,
Pasubio  and  Sette  Communi.  A  final  assault  was  delivered  against
the  latter  on  June  18th,  and  was  repulsed  with  heavy  losses.  Gradu-
ally the  Austrians  withdrew  to  secure  entrenchments,  and  the  struggle
shifted,  as  described  in  a  later  section,  to  the  Isonzo  front.  Austria
had  attacked  bravely;  Italy  had  resisted  with  even  greater  strength
and  self-devotion.

AUSTRIA'S  FIRST  ATTACK  ON  ITALY  147

OFFICIAL  ITALIAN  STATEMENT

The  plan  of  the  invasion  of  Italy  on  these  weak  fron-
tiers was  the  most  familiar  to  Austria  in  all  its  military
manoeuvres,  the  most  studied  and  thought  over  by  the
Supreme  Command,  and  especially  by  the  Commander  in
Chief,  General  Conrad  von  Hoetzendorf,  who  was  wholly
in  favour  of  the  campaign  in  the  Trentino.  Germany  had
decided  on  the  destruction  of  France  and  the  British  Army,
and  Austria  had  decided  on  her  "Punitive  Campaign."

Conrad's  choice  to  attack  by  way  of  the  Trentino,  under
snow  until  spring  was  well  advanced,  and  the  necessity  of
regulating  the  Balkan  disturbances,  prevented  simultaneous
attacks.  The  undertaking  against  Italy,  which  would  be
invaded  and  forced  to  a  separate  peace,  was  a  foregone  con-
clusion in  the  mind  of  the  Austrian  General  who  had  long
boasted  of  the  merits  of  this  "Decisive  Blow."  The  cer-
tainty of  Conrad's  plan  was  such  that  the  Austrian  Com-
mand ordered  a  prolonged  and  careful  preparation  of  the
offensive.  This  certainty  was  based  on  two  decisions  which
later  proved  themselves  grossly  erroneous.

The  first  was  based  on  the  presumption  of  feeble  resist-
ance on  the  part  of  the  Italian  army  which  was  deemed  in-
capable of  facing  a  broad  and  decisive  frontal  attack,  in-
capable not  only  on  account  of  defects  in  preparation,  but
more  on  account  of  a  want  of  moral  strength,  whereby  any
retreat  from  a  good  position  would  have  speedily  become  a
rout.  The  second  was  based  on  the  impossibility  of
the  Russians  to  attempt  a  grand  offensive  after  the  ac-
tions of  January,  which  were  promptly  frustrated.

Strong  in  these  conceptions,  the  Austrian  Command,
deeming  its  eastern  front  secure,  drew  therefrom  her
finest,  most  warlike  and  most  faithful  troops,  with  a  vast
quantity  of  artillery,  and  these  with  others  selected  from
the  Balkan  front,  constituted  the  18  divisions  destined  to
attack  the  Trentino.

This  force  of  400,000  men  supported  by  more  than
2,000  cannon  the  half  of  which  were  of  medium  calibre,
with  40  pieces  of  305,  four  of  380,  and  four  of  420,  was
entitled  the  "Punitive  Expedition,"  a  title  which  breathed

148    AUSTRIA'S  FIRST  ATTACK  ON  ITALY

assurance  and  contempt.  This,  with  the  aid  of  a  concen-
trated artillery  fire  and  with  the  aggression  of  battalions
massed  on  a  restricted  front  defended  by  mountain  ranges,
would  rapidly  descend  on  the  Paduan  plains,  thus  obtaining
a  position  in  the  rear  of  the  Italians  on  the  Isonzo,  who,
caught  between  two  fires  would  be  driven  to  a  hasty  retreat.
The  successful  invasion  of  these  valuable  and  populous  re-
gions of  Italy  was  so  certain,  that  many  officials,  with
manuals  of  art  and  history  and  Baedekers,  were  appointed
to  follow  the  victorious  troops  and  to  collect  the  most
precious  treasures  of  the  country  from  Italian  museums  and
churches,  etc.,  and  pack  them  off  to  Austria.

The  scheme  failed  rapidly  and  utterly.  The  attack
chosen  by  the  Austrians  comprised  the  zone  between  the
Adige  and  the  Brenta.  The  bombardment  opening  on  May
12  became  terrific  on  the  14th.  An  apparent  offensive
spread  rapidly  from  the  Val  Giudicaria  to  the  sea  in  order
to  deceive  the  Italians.  This  the  enemy  could  well  afford
to  do,  as  the  massing  of  artillery  for  the  real  attack  was  not
interfered  with  by  those  feigned  elsewhere.  It  revealed  the
tremendous  superiority  of  their  guns.  On  May  15  the  in-
fantry assault  followed,  very  fierce  and  impetuous  on  the
lines  chosen  for  the  real  attack.

The  assault  by  their  right  wing  was  most  impetuous,
because  they  wished  to  drive  the  Italians  from  the  positions
dominating  Rovereto,  which  were  already  threatened,  es-
pecially as  a  swift  success  in  this  zone  would  have  decided
the  offensive.  Their  forces,  conquering  the  Vallarsa,  would
have  attained  by  the  road  from  Rovereto  to  Schio,  the  near-
est points  from  which  they  could  descend  to  the  plains,  and
they  would  have  established  themselves  on  the  rear  of  the
Italians  who  were  defending  the  tableland  of  Asiago.  In-
stead, four  days  after  the  attack,  the  right  wing  of  the
Austrians  was  absolutely  blocked.  After  an  orderly  and
tenacious  retreat  from  the  most  advanced  positions,  the
Italian  resistance  grew  more  and  more  stubborn  on  the
Coni-Zugna-Passo  di  Buole  lines,  and  maintained  itself
vigorously  in  hostile  territory  some  12  kilometres  beyond
the  old  frontiers.    Until  the  end  of  May  the  Austrians,

AUSTRIA'S  FIRST  ATTACK  ON  ITALY  149

realising  the  deep  value  of  the  defence  offered  by  the  37th
Division,  harried  them  with  ceaseless  attacks,  but  after  12
days  of  incessant  combat,  the  Buole  Pass  and  the  swollen
stream  of  the  Adige  were  filled  with  Austrian  dead.  The
swift  invasion  was  thus  arrested  on  the  right,  not  only
through  this,  but  because  of  the  stubborn  resistance  on  the
Pasubio  that  had  become  one  of  the  strongest  bulwarks
against  the  desperate  hostile  assaults  in  this  same  month.

The  left  wing  suffered  much  the  same  fate  in  the  Val
Sugana.  Here,  to  gain  the  end  desired,  the  Austrians  had
need  of  a  rapid  victory  along  the  course  of  the  river
Brenta.  The  Italians  had  to  be  thrust  back  from  Borgo
beyond  the  former  boundaries,  to  secure  their  left  flank
from  ulterior  menace.  Instead  from  May  15  to  May  25
the  Italians  retired  ever  fighting  from  the  most  open  posi-
tions and  selected  a  line  of  defence  slightly  to  the  rear  of
Borgo,  still  in  hostile  territory  at  about  18  kilometres  from
the  frontier.   Here,  every  attack  was  repulsed.

Thus  four  days  after  the  offensive  or  on  May  19,  the
Austrian  right  wing  was  held  up;  later  on  May  26  their  left
wing  was  also  held.  Both  wings  thus  weakening,  the  ad-
vance of  the  Austrian  centre  necessarily  lost  its  value,  and
this  on  the  tableland  of  Asiago  where  battalions  and  artil-
lery, crushed  in  a  restricted  zone,  were  all  but  smothered
by  their  own  advance.  Arsiero  and  Asiago,  the  chief  in-
habited spots  of  this  mountainous  and  wooded  region,  re-
linquished by  the  Italian  troops,  suffered  the  rage  and  fury
of  the  enemy  that  had  failed  in  victory,  and  were  sacked
and  burned.  On  June  2,  thanks  to  18  days'  gallant  defence,
the  Italian  Supreme  Command,  as  announced  by  Cadorna
in  the  Bulletin  of  the  succeeding  day,  could  consider  the
Austrian  offensive  absolutely  arrested  all  along  the  front.

BY  THOMAS  NELSON  PAGE1

It  was  to  Italy  that  many  eyes  were  turned  in  the  early
part  of  1916,  amid  the  gloom  of  the  destruction  of  Serbia,
Montenegro,  and  Albania;  the  invigoration  of  Turkey  and
Bulgaria;  the  obscurity  of  Greece;  the  increase  in  the  sub-

1  Copyright  and  reprinted  by  permission  of  Charles  Scribners'  Sons.

150    AUSTRIA'S  FIRST  ATTACK  ON  ITALY

marine  campaign,  and  the  murderous  persistence  of  the
attack  on  Verdun — Italy,  without  coal,  grain,  or  metal  save
what  she  could  obtain  with  difficulty;  with  scarcely  any-
thing in  sufficient  quantity — Italy  not  yet  at  war  with
Germany,  nor  certain  that  she  would  be ;  with  her  Sphinx-
like Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs,  and  her  strong  political
antiwar  element;  with  her  men,  amid  the  measureless
snows  of  the  Trentine  and  Carnic  and  Julian  Alps,  driving,
in  Arctic  cold,  under  incredible  hardships,  tunnels  through
mountains  of  ice  and  rock,  scaling  icy  precipices,  swinging
their  cables  across  vast  gorges. — Would  she  stand  it?
Could  she  stand  it?

As  the  spring  drew  nearer  it  was  evident  that  Italy  was
irrevocably  bent  on  getting  Gorizia  and  Trieste,  and  Aus-
tria-Hungary began  to  feel  the  need  of  some  action  that
would  weaken  the  incessant  drive  that  Italy  was  making  on
the  Isonzo  front,  and  relieve  herself  from  the  ever-
increasing  pressure  toward  Gorizia  and  Trieste.  More-
over, the  "gradual  advance  of  the  Italians  into  the  Trentino,
which  was  approaching  closer  and  closer  to  the  main  lines
of  his  defense,  aroused  in  the  enemy  a  desire  to  free  him-
self from  a  pressure  which  was  growing  more  threatening."
Russia  had  been  driven  back  sufficiently  to  give  Austria  a
freer  hand  on  her  western  and  southern  front,  but  was  pre-
paring for  another  attempt  later  on.  Germany  was  being
held  up  at  Verdun.  The  time  appeared  ripe  for  a  blow  at
Italy  before  Russia  should  be  ready.  Austria  accordingly
made  carefully  elaborate  secret  preparations  for  an  of-
fensive against  Italy  through  the  Trentino.

The  offensive  began  on  May  14,  with  an  artillery  bom-
bardment of  great  violence  along  the  entire  Italian  front,
from  East  to  West,  from  the  Carso  to  the  Giudicaria.  It
soon  became  evident,  however,  that  the  real  assault  was  on
the  Trentino  front,  on  the  sector  between  the  Val  Lagarina
and  the  Val  Sugana.  Here,  after  a  terrific  bombardment,
the  Infantry  in  great  masses  were  launched  to  the  attack
under  an  artillery  cover  unprecedented  on  that  front  in  vio-
lence or  effectiveness.  Eighteen  divisions,  or  some  400,000
men  and  some  2,000  guns,  were  employed  in  the  offensive.

AUSTRIA'S  FIRST  ATTACK  ON  ITALY  151

The  Austrians  knew  every  foot  of  ground:  mountain  and
valley,  and  their  attack  was  admirably  planned  and  well
carried  out.  Both  Artillery  and  Infantry  were  skilfully
handled.  The  Italian  advanced  positions  were  swept  away
by  the  flood  of  shell  poured  out  on  them.  Then,  under  the
tremendous  bombardment  of  the  great  guns,  moved  for-
ward as  required,  other  positions  were  rendered  untenable.
From  point  after  point,  position  after  position,  the  Italians
were  driven,  with  increasing  losses  in  men  and  guns.
Austria's  dream  appeared  on  the  eve  of  realization.

When  June  came  in  the  Italians,  after  two  weeks  of  as
fierce  and  unremitting  battle  as  had  taken  place  in  the  war,
with  every  advantage  save  one  against  them,  had  made
their  last  stand  above  and  across  the  mouths  of  the  valleys
that  opened  on  the  Venetian  Plain;  and  the  Austrians,  be-
lieving themselves  victorious,  were  pressing  forward  with
all  the  ardor  born  of  success  and  lust  of  loot,  and  height-
ened by  the  furious  desire  to  wreak  their  vengeance  on  an
enemy  whom  their  Emperor  had  denounced  to  them  as  hav-
ing betrayed  Austria.

A  few  days  later  (June  3)  General  Cadorna,  confident
of  the  stability  of  his  army,  now  strung  to  the  highest  pitch
by  the  peril  to  their  Patria,  announced  to  his  Government
that  the  immediate  danger  of  invasion  of  Italy  was  past.
The  Italians  had  stopped  the  Austrians.  The  latter  were
now  dashing  in  impotent  rage  against  the  Italian  lines.  The
Italians  had  been  ordered  to  hold  them  to  the  death,  and
they  held  them.

The  Italians  knew  now  that  Italy  herself  was  at  stake,
and  all  Italy  was  now  in  the  fight.  For  some  time,  notwith-
standing Cadorna's  encouraging  announcement,  the  issue
appeared  to  hang  in  the  balance.  Austria,  balked  at  the
very  moment  of  seizing  the  prize,  as  she  deemed  it,  was
loath  to  relinquish  her  aim,  and  continued  to  hurl  her
masses  against  the  Italian  positions,  only  to  break  in  foam
against  them.  Their  force  was  spent,  and  as  the  Italians
grew  stronger  the  tide  turned.

152   AUSTRIA'S  FIRST  ATTACK  ON  ITALY

BY  GENERAL  A.  VON  CRAMON

The  attack  had  originally  been  planned  for  the  ioth  of
April.  High  snow,  however,  made  the  realization  of  this
plan  impossible.  The  same  occurred  on  the  20th  of  April
and  the  1st  of  May.  Von  Hoetzendorff  raged;  he  claimed
never  to  have  seen  so  much  snow  on  the  heights  of  Southern
Tyrol  as  in  the  spring  of  that  year.  Others,  however,  who
also  knew  the  ground  well,  declared  that,  even  with  normal
conditions  of  temperature,  the  date  decided  upon  would
have  been  premature.

The  damage  resulting  from  the  constant  postponement
of  the  date  of  attack  was  naturally  great.  The  assembling
of  troops  in  all  villages  of  Southern  Tyrol  could  not  be
concealed  from  the  enemy.  Moreover,  a  deserter  of  Italian
descent,  who  went  over  to  the  enemy  on  the  plateau  of  Viel-
gereuth,  made  valuable  disclosures  to  the  enemy  regarding
the  intentions  of  the  Austrians.  Under  such  conditions  it
could  not  be  asserted  that  the  confidence  of  the  Tyrolean
leaders  was  particularly  great.  The  reports  of  the  German
officers  in  charge  of  communications  verified  this.  Power-
ful counter-measures  on  the  part  of  the  Italians  were  to  be
expected.

When,  at  the  beginning  of  May,  the  day  of  the  attack
had  again  been  postponed,  General  von  Falkenhayn  commis-
sioned me  to  ask  General  von  Hoetzendorff  whether  it
would  not  be  better  to  dispense  altogether  with  the  offen-
sive— which  would  no  longer  come  as  a  surprise  and  would
therefore  be  problematical — and  place  a  portion  of  the
troops  stationed  in  Southern  Tyrol  at  the  disposal  of  the
Western  Front.  This  proposition  was  somewhat  of  a  sur-
prise to  me  as  Falkenhayn,  during  the  winter,  had  been
averse  to  utilizing  Austro-Hungarian  troops  on  the  front
in  France.  Manifestly,  this  change  of  opinion  was  due  to
the  doubtful  situation  at  Verdun.

General  von  Hoetzendorff  declined  on  the  ground  that
the  offensive,  prepared  to  the  minutest  detail,  could  not  be
abandoned  now,  more  particularly  as  the  artillery,  per-
manently placed  for  the  attack,  could  not  readily  be  with-
drawn again.

AUSTRIA'S  FIRST  ATTACK  ON  ITALY  153

Finally,  on  May  15th,  the  avalanche  of  Vielgereuth-
Lafraun  was  launched,  the  first  attack  being  made  by  the
corps  of  the  Austrian  Crown-prince  Charles,  to  be  followed
two  days  later  by  the  army  corps  of  Graz,  operating  on  the
eastern  wing  and  commanded  by  General  Krautwald.  The
beginning  was  magnificent.  The  German-Austrian  picked
troops  of  the  attacking  group  recorded  a  great  achievement
and  within  a  few  days  brought  in  30,000  prisoners  and  300
guns.  Asiago  was  taken.  Von  Falkenhayn  sent  a  cordial
telegram  of  congratulation  to  von  Hoetzendorff,  whose
acknowledgment  was  equally  hearty.  At  Teschen  general
headquarters  everyone  was  beside  himself  with  delight.
We  German  officers  also  frankly  rejoiced  over  the  victory
won  by  our  ally.

On  the  24th  of  May,  however,  the  corps  of  the  Austrian
Crown-prince  came  to  a  standstill.  The  enemy  meanwhile
utilized  the  situation  and  brought  up  all  the  artillery  and
infantry  that  could  possibly  be  placed  on  the  "Terra  ferma,"
covered  in  every  direction  by  lines  of  railroad  and  high-
ways. I  was  informed  subsequently  that  the  troops  of  the
20th  Army  Corps  had  begged  to  be  permitted  to  make  the
leap  to  the  edge  of  the  mountains,  without  "drawing
breath,"  and  before  the  enemy  could  recover.  But  the  corps
command  would  not  permit  this  because  it  believed  that  the
heavy  artillery  would  first  have  to  be  brought  up.  In  this
way  the  Italians  had  been  able  to  gain  a  footing  once  more
on  the  Priafora  and  the  towering  rocks  nearby,  thus  setting
at  naught  a  continuation  of  the  Austrian  attacks.

On  the  other  hand  it  was  asserted  that  the  command  of
the  various  army  groups  had  so  placed  in  rank  the  reserve
divisions  that  it  was  impossible  for  them  to  participate  at
the  right  time.  It  cannot  be  our  purpose  here  to  enter  into
an  investigation  as  to  the  accuracy  of  these  charges.  It  is
my  opinion,  however,  that  it  did  not  require  an  entry  into
the  campaign  on  the  part  of  the  Russians  in  the  East  to
bring  the  Austrian  offensive  launched  from  Southern  Tyrol
to  a  standstill.  This  had  already  been  checked  and  could
only  have  been  continued  with  new  forces,  which,  however,
were  not  available.

THE  MIGHTIEST  OF  NAVAL  FIGHTS

THE  BATTLE  OF  JUTLAND  OR  OF  THE  SKAGERRAK

MAY  3 1  ST

W.  MACNEILE  DIXON
GERMAN  AND  BRITISH  OFFICIAL  REPORTS
ADMIRAL  VON  CAPELLE  ADMIRAL  JELLICOE

LETTERS  OF  GERMAN  AND  BRITISH  PARTICIPANTS

In  the  number  of  ships  engaged,  the  Jutland  battle  was  about  equal
to  Trafalgar,  that  greatest  sea-fight  of  past  centuries,  in  which  Nelson
destroyed  the  fleets  of  France  and  Spain.  In  the  tonnage  of  these
ships,  however,  Jutland  was  some  fifteen  times  as  great  as  Trafalgar,
and  in  number  of  men  about  twice  as  great.  Of  modern  battles  be-
tween ships  of  iron,  instead  of  the  old  "wooden  walls"  of  Nelson's
day,  the  nearest  in  size  to  Jutland  was  that  fought  by  Japan  and
Russia  in  the  Tsushima  Straits  in  1905.  At  Tsushima,  however,  the
Russians  were  wholly  out  of  condition,  beaten  before  they  entered
the  fight,  and  Japan  had  only  to  choose  her  firing  range  and  batter
the  enemy  to  pieces.  At  Jutland  both  sides  fought  splendidly  and
with  not  unequal  skill.

The  size  of  the  opposing  fleets  at  Jutland  was  also  more  equal
than  is  usually  realized;  for  while  the  British  navy  was  much  the
larger,  by  no  means  all  of  its  ships  were  concentrated  for  this  battle,
while  the  German  biggest  ships  were  practically  all  on  hand.  The
British  had  at  Jutland  twenty-eight  big  battleships  and  nine  "battle-
cruisers"  almost  equaling  the  dreadnoughts  in  power;  the  Germans
had  twenty-two  battleships  and  five  battle-cruisers.  Each  side  had  a
host  of  lesser  cruisers,  torpedo  boats  and  destroyers,  useful  against
the  giants  of  the  fleet  only  when  they  could  creep  close  enough  to
launch  a  torpedo  before  being  blown  out  of  water  by  the  huge  guns
which  could  reach  a  target  fifteen  miles  away.  Of  the  main  ships,  the
British  had  been  designed  more  for  attack  and  less  for  defense  than
the  Germans.  That  is  to  say,  the  British  had  bigger  guns  and  greater
speed,  but  the  Germans  had  heavier  armor.

The  results  of  this  showed  strikingly  in  the  battle.  The  German
main  ships  took  a  terrible  pounding,  many  of  them  were  badly  dam-
aged, yet  only  one  was  lost,  the  Lutzow,  and  she  did  not  sink  until
several  hours  after  the  battle.  The  British  ships  were  much  less
pounded,  yet  three  of  the  main  ships  were  destroyed.  They  blew  up
and  sank  swiftly,  with  the  loss  of  almost  all  their  crews.  In  men
the  Germans  lost  between  two  and  three  thousand,  the  Britons  twice
as  many.  Among  the  lesser  vessels  also  the  British  loss  was  the
heavier.

The  fight  consisted  of  an  attack  by  the  British  van,  which  re-
treated when  it  encountered  the  main  German  fleet.  This  in  turn  fol-
lowed the  British  van  until  they  reached  the  main  British  fleet,  which
endeavored  to  encircle  the  Germans.  Then  night  closed  in,  and  the
Germans  withdrew  silently  from  the  closing  circle.  A  wierd  and
monstrous  death-dance  followed  in  the  dark.  The  lesser  ships  of  each
side,  seeking  to  keep  track  of  the  foe,  hid  their  own  lights  and  stum-

THE  MIGHTIEST  OF  NAVAL  FIGHTS  155

bled  one  upon  the  other  in  the  blackness,  burst  into  sudden  flaming
volleys,  and  fled  away.  Men  fought  with  shadows  and  perished  in
the  unknown.

As  to  the  net  result  of  the  great  battle  during  the  night,  the  Ger-
man admiral  withdrew  his  battered  fleet  cautiously  toward  its  home
ports,  while  the  British  admiral  held  back  from  pursuit  for  fear  of
terrible  losses  in  the  dark,  either  from  mines  or  torpedoes.  Hence
there  was  no  decision  on  the  field.  The  British  fleet,  however,  con-
tinued in  even  more  complete  control  of  the  seas  than  before,  for
never  again  did  the  Germans  risk  a  similar  combat.

Immediately  after  the  battle  Germany  proclaimed  that  she  had  won
a  tremendous  naval  triumph,  basing  her  statement  on  the  admitted  British
losses  and  the  denial  of  her  own.  As  the  claim  was  never  withdrawn,
there  are  doubtless  Germans  who  still  believe  in  the  splendor  of  their
victory  and  wonder  why  nothing  further  ever  came  of  it.        c.  F.  H.

HAT  stern  and  decisive  conflict,  which  clinched,  as  it

J[  were,  the  naval  situation,  the  battle  of  Jutland,  was  in
respect  of  all  particulars  that  make  a  battle  great,  the  mag-
nitude of  the  forces  engaged,  the  scale  of  the  operations,
and  the  significance  of  the  results,  the  fiercest  clash  of  fleets
since  Trafalgar.

At  extreme  range,  to  avoid  the  deadly  torpedo  attacks,
the  great  war-vessels  pounded  each  other  amid  haze  and
smoke  screens,  behind  which  the  Germans  when  pressed
withdrew  from  sight.  Wounded  vessels  drifted  out  of  the
scene  and  left  their  fate  in  doubt;  destroyers  dashed  to
and  fro  attacking  and  retreating;  ships,  the  flames  licking
their  iron  masts  a  hundred  feet  aloft,  loomed  up  for  a  few
moments  only  to  vanish  in  the  mist.  As  "was  anticipated,"
the  Germans  put  their  trust  chiefly  in  torpedo  attacks,  easily
made  against  approaching,  difficult  to  direct  against  re-
tiring, vessels.  Throughout  destroyers  on  both  sides  played
a  magnificent  and  conspicuous  part,  the  "hussar"  tactics  of
a  naval  action.  But  so  numerous  were  the  vessels  engaged
and  so  dim  the  weather  that  a  certain  confusion  inseparable
from  the  conditions  reigned  the  entire  day.  Indubitably  a
long-hoped-for  opportunity  had  come  to  the  British;  the
German  fleet  had  actually  emerged  in  strength  and  "upon
an  enterprise."  Yet  emerged  only  to  withdraw,  to  tanta-
lize, and,  if  possible,  to  lure  the  pursuers  into  fatal  areas.

BY  W.  MACNEILE  DIXON

156    THE  MIGHTIEST  OF  NAVAL  FIGHTS

The  annoyance  which  Nelson  suffered  from  the  French
Admiral  Latouche  Treville,  who  used  "to  play  bo-peep  in
and  out  of  Toulon,  like  a  mouse  at  the  edge  of  her  hole,"  as
the  British  Admiral  expressed  it,  was  the  lot  also  of  Sir
John  Jellicoe.  Von  Scheer  repeated  the  tactics  of  Latouche.
His  orders  were,  no  doubt,  the  same,  to  show  the  "great-
est circumspection,"  to  risk  nothing.  But  this  "fettered
and  timid"  warfare,  as  a  French  writer  once  complained,
must  always  fail.  The  chief  hope  and  aim  of  the  British
fleet  in  the  present  war  has  been  the  same  as  Nelson's,  to
compel  a  decisive  engagement;  the  aim  of  the  enemy's  fleet
to  avoid  one,  a  perfectly  legitimate  and  perfectly  intelligible
policy,  with  which  no  one  can  quarrel.

Germany  consistently  refuses  all  actions  except  on  chosen
ground  at  her  own  front  door,  where  she  can,  when  the  odds
are  against  her,  withdraw  her  ships  immediately  within
her  protected  ports  and  slam  the  door  in  the  face  of  her  an-
tagonist.   There  only  will  she  fight,  within  a  few  miles  of
her  own  coast,  in  shallow  waters  suitable  for  the  operation
of  underwater  craft,  and  in  the  immediate  neighborhood  of
her  own  mine  fields.   Had  Nelson  been  alive  to-day  he  could
have  done  no  more  than  the  British  Admirals  have  done —
offer  battle  to  the  unwilling  enemy  on  his  own  terms.  Ger-
many takes  only  as  much  of  the  war  as  she  wishes,  Britain
takes  the  whole,  everywhere  and  all  the  time.  Repeatedly
Sir  David  Beatty  has  faced  this  situation  with  its  attendant
risks.    Repeatedly  with  his  cruising  squadron  he  appeared
within  sight  of  the  German  defenses,  four  hundred  miles
from  his  own  base.   If  he  could  engage  the  Germans  even  at
heavy  cost  to  himself,  "cling  to  them  as  long  as  his  teeth
would  hold,"  in  an  entangling  and  detaining  action  the  Grand
Fleet  might  reach  him  in  time  to  secure  an  overwhelming
victory.   That  was  his  hope.   And  let  it  be  frankly  admitted
the  hope  was  not  fulfilled.    At  Jutland  once  more  he  took
the  risks — some  say  unwisely,  for  why  do  more  than  con-
tain the  German  Navy  useless  in  its  ports  ? — he  incurred  the
inevitable  losses,  the  main  British  fleet  arrived  in  time  to
strike  a  shattering  blow,  but  failed  to  administer  the  coup
de  grace.   "I  can  fully  sympathize  with  his  feelings,"  wrote

THE  MIGHTIEST  OF  NAVAL  FIGHTS  157

Sir  John  Jellicoe,  "when  the  evening  mist  and  fading  light
robbed  the  fleet  of  that  complete  victory  for  which  he  had
maneuvered,  and  for  which  the  vessels  in  company  with  him
had  striven  so  hard."

To  understand,  even  in  a  measure,  this  immense  conflict,
one  must  bear  in  mind  that  the  British  Grand  Fleet  under
Sir  John  Jellicoe  was  on  May  30th  actually  at  sea,  to  the
north  of  Sir  David  Beatty's  battle-cruisers,  who  on  the  31st,
having  completed  his  sweep,  turned  away  from  the  south
to  rejoin  the  Commander-in-Chief.  About  half-past  two
Beatty  received  signals  from  his  light-cruiser  squadron  that
the  enemy  was  out  and  in  force.  A  seaplane  scout  went  aloft
and  confirmed  the  signals.  German  battle-cruisers  were  in
sight,  but  falling  back  upon  probably  still  stronger  forces.
To  engage  or  not  to  engage  was  hardly  Beatty's  problem.
Should  he  at  all  cost  pursue,  encounter,  and  detain  the  foe,
or,  avoiding  more  than  a  mere  exchange  of  shots,  continue
on  his  course  to  join  Admiral  Jellicoe?  Faint  heart  never
won  a  great  decision.  He  chose  the  heroic,  the  British,
way,  and  determined  to  force  the  battle,  "to  engage  the  enemy
in  sight."

We  may,  perhaps,  best  understand  the  action  if  we  di-
vide it  into  three  stages,  (a)  pursuit,  (b)  retreat,  (c)  again
pursuit;  the  first,  that  in  which  Beatty  was  engaged  with
the  enemy's  battle-cruisers  falling  back  upon  their  main  fleet,
which  lasted  about  an  hour,  from  3.48  when  the  opening  shots
were  fired  till  the  German  High  Seas  Fleet  showed  itself  at
4.38.  At  this  point  Beatty  swung  round  to  draw  the  enemy
toward  Jellicoe  approaching  from  the  north,  and  the  second
stage  of  the  battle  began  in  which  the  British  were  heavily
engaged  with  a  greatly  superior  force,  in  fact,  the  whole  Ger-
man Navy.  They  had,  however,  the  assistance  of  the  Fifth
Battle  Squadron  under  Evan  Thomas,  four  powerful  battle-
ships which  had  come  up  during  the  first  phase,  fired  a  few
shots  at  the  extreme  range  of  about  twelve  miles  and  took
the  first  fire  of  Von  Scheer's  battleships.  Steaming  north
now  instead  of  south,  Beatty  slackened  speed  to  keep  in  touch
with  the  heavy  ships.  This  stage  of  the  action  also  lasted
about  an  hour  or  more,  when  about  six  o'clock  Jellicoe  came

158    THE  MIGHTIEST  OF  NAVAL  FIGHTS

in  sight  five  miles  to  the  north,  and  the  third  phase  began.
Beatty  toward  the  end  of  the  second  stage  had  drawn  ahead
of  the  enemy,  pressing  in  upon  and  curving  round  his  line,
and  now  drove  straight  across  it  to  the  east,  closing  the  range
to  twelve  thousand  yards,  with  two  objects — first,  to  bring
the  leading  German  ships  under  concentrated  fire,  and  sec-
ond, to  allow  a  clear  space  for  Jellicoe  to  come  down  and
complete  their  destruction.  It  was  a  masterly  maneuver
which  enabled  the  Third  Battle-cruiser  Squadron,  in  advance
of  Jellicoe,  under  Admiral  Hood,  to  join  at  once  in  the  battle,
and  assist  in  "crumpling  up"  the  head  of  the  German  line.

The  supreme  moment  had  come.  Jellicoe's  great  fleet  was
in  line  behind  Hood,  bearing  down  on  Von  Scheer  in  over-
whelming force.  By  beautiful  handling  the  British  Admiral
effected  the  junction  of  his  fleets  in  very  difficult  conditions.
There  still  remains  in  naval  warfare  much  of  the  splendid
pageantry  of  old,  which  in  land  operations  is  gone  beyond
recall.  "The  grandest  sight  I  have  ever  seen,"  wrote  an  offi-
cer in  the  fleet,  "was  the  sight  of  our  battle  line — miles  of  it
fading  into  mist — taking  up  their  positions  like  clock-work
and  then  belching  forth  great  sheets  of  fire  and  clouds  of
smoke."  But  the  prize  was  snatched  from  the  British  grasp.
It  was  already  seven  o'clock  and  the  evening  brought  with  it
the  thick  North  Sea  haze  behind  which  and  his  own  smoke
screens  Von  Scheer  turned  and  fled  for  his  ports.  "Great
care  was  necessary,"  wrote  Sir  John  Jellicoe,  "to  insure  that
our  own  ships  were  not  mistaken  for  enemy  vessels."  By
half-past  eight  or  nine  practically  all  was  over,  save  for  the
British  destroyer  attacks,  which  lasted  far  into  the  darkness,
on  the  scattered  and  fleeing  enemy.  Only  two  hours  of  a
misty  daylight  had  been  left  to  Sir  John  Jellicoe  to  accomplish
his  task.

Then  came  night,  and  in  the  night  the  shattered  and
shaken  Germans  crept — one  is  not  quite  clear  by  what  route
— through  their  mine  fields  to  the  blessed  security  of  pro-
tected harbors.  Had  the  weather  been  different — well,  who
knows  whether  in  that  case  the  German  fleet  would  have  put
to  sea?  Now  as  ever  in  naval  warfare  commanders  must
choose  conditions  the  most  favorable  to  their  designs.  The

THE  MIGHTIEST  OF  NAVAL  FIGHTS  159

British  Admiral  remained  on  the  scene  of  the  battle,  picking
up  survivors  from  some  of  the  smaller  craft  till  after  mid-
day (1.15  p.  m.)  on  June  1st.  On  that  day  not  one  German
ship  was  in  sight  on  a  sea  strewn  with  the  tangled  and  shape-
less wreckage  of  proud  vessels,  the  melancholy  litter  of  war.

Perhaps  Jutland,  inconclusive  as  it  seemed,  may  be  judged
by  the  world  the  true  crisis  of  the  struggle.  While  Germany,
after  her  manner,  poured  forth  to  the  skeptical  world  tidings
of  amazing  victory,  Britain,  too,  after  her  manner,  said  little
save  bluntly  to  record  her  losses,  and  later  published  merely
the  reports  of  the  admirals  engaged.  They  are  very  plain
and  matter-of-fact,  these  documents  without  brag.  So  they
can  be  recommended  to  the  attention  of  seekers  after  truth.
For  lovers  of  romance,  of  course,  the  German  versions  will
afford  brighter  reading.

Here,  however,  is  the  unofficial  account  of  a  midshipman
on  board  one  of  the  battleships :  "We  were  all  as  cheery
as  Punch  when  action  was  sounded  off.  The  battle-cruisers,
which,  by  the  way,  were  first  sighted  by  your  eldest  son,  who
went  without  his  tea  to  look  out  in  the  foretop,  were  away
on  the  bow,  firing  like  blazes,  and  doing  a  colossal  turn  of
speed.  I  expect  they  were  very  pleased  to  see  us.  The  battle
fleet  put  it  across  them  properly.  We  personally  "strafed"
a  large  battleship,  which  we  left  badly  bent,  and  very  much
on  fire.  They  fired  stink  shells  at  us,  which  fortunately  burst
some  distance  away.  They  looked  as  if  they  smelt  horrible.
We  engaged  a  Zepp  which  showed  an  inclination  to  become
pally.  I  think  it  thought  we  were  Germans.  Altogether  it
was  some  stunt.

"Yes,  you  were  right,  I  was  up  in  the  foretop  and  saw
the  whole  show.  I  told  you  I  was  seventeen  hours  up  there,
didn't  I?  Simply  bristling  with  glasses,  revolvers,  respira-
tors, ear-protectors,  and  what-nots.  I  cannot  imagine  any
thing  more  intensely  dramatic  than  our  final  junction  with
the  battle-cruisers.  They  appeared  on  the  starboard  bow
going  a  tremendous  speed  and  firing  like  blazes  at  an  enemy
we  could  not  see.  Even  before  we  opened  first  the  colossal
noise  was  nearly  deafening.  The  Grand  Fleet  opened  fire.
We  commenced  by  "strafing"  one  of  the  "Kaisers"  that  was

i6o    THE  MIGHTIEST  OF  NAVAL  FIGHTS

only  just  visible  on  the  horizon,  going  hell  for  leather.  The
whole  High  Sea  Fleet  were  firing  like  blazes.

"It  is  the  most  extraordinary  sensation  I  know  to  be  sit-
ting up  there  in  the  foretop  gazing  at  a  comparatively  unruf-
fled bit  of  sea,  when  suddenly  about  five  immense  columns
of  water  about  a  hundred  feet  high  shoot  up  as  if  from  no-
where, and  bits  of  shell  go  rattling  down  into  the  water,  or
else,  with  a  noise  like  an  express  train,  the  projectiles  go
screeching  overhead  and  fall  about  a  mile  the  other  side  of
you.  You  watch  the  enemy  firing  six  great  flashes  about  as
many  miles  away,  and  then  for  fifteen  seconds  or  so  you
reflect  that  there  is  about  two  tons  of  sudden  death  hurtling
toward  you.  Then  with  a  sigh  of  relief  the  splashes  rise
up,  all  six  of  them,  away  on  the  starboard  bow.  On  the
other  hand,  there  is  a  most  savage  exultation  in  firing  at  an-
other ship.

"You  hear  the  order  'Fire!'  the  foretop  gets  up  and  hits
you  in  the  face,  an  enormous  yellow  cloud  of  cordite  smoke
— the  charge  weighs  two  thousand  pounds — rises  up  and
blows  away  just  as  the  gentleman  with  the  stop-watch  says,
"Time!"  and  then  you  see  the  splashes  go  up,  perhaps  be-
tween you  and  the  enemy,  behind  the  enemy,  perhaps,  or,  if
you  are  lucky,  a  great  flash  breaks  out  on  the  enemy,  and
when  the  smoke  has  rolled  away  you  just  have  time  to  see  that
she  is  well  and  truly  blazing  before  the  next  salvo  goes  off.
I  had  the  extreme  satisfaction  of  seeing  the  Littzow  get  a
salvo  which  must  have  caused  her  furiously  to  sink.  There
are  minor  side-shows,  too,  which  contribute  greatly  to  the
excitement.

"We  also  discharged  our  large  pieces  at  the  Rostock,  but
she  was  getting  such  a  thin  time  from  somebody  else  that  we
refrained  from  pressing  the  question.  Her  mainmast  and
after-funnel  had  gone.  She  was  quite  stationary,  and  badly
on  fire.  We  sighted  submarines,  two  in  number,  and  also
large  numbers  of  enemy  destroyers,  one  of  which  we  soundly
'strafed.'    So  soundly,  in  fact,  that  it  gave  up  the  ghost.

"Well,  when  I  climbed  down  from  the  foretop  late  that
night  I  was  as  black  as  a  nigger,  very  tired,  and  as  hungry
as  a  hunter,  I  having  missed  my  tea:    I  wish  you  could  have

THE  MIGHTIEST  OF  NAVAL  FIGHTS  161

seen  the  state  we  were  in  between  the  decks.  Water  every-
where, chairs,  stools,  radiators,  tin  baths,  boots,  shoes, clothes,
books,  and  every  conceivable  article,  chucked  all  over  the
place.  We  didn't  care  a  fig,  because  we  all  thought  of  'Der
Tag'  on  the  morrow  which  we  all  expected.  Destroyers  and
light  cruisers  were  attacking  like  fury  all  night,  and  when  I
got  up  at  the  bugle  'Action!'  at  2  a.  m.  I  felt  as  if  I  had
slept  about  three  and  a  half  minutes."

Look  now  a  little  more  closely  at  the  details  and  epi-
sodes of  this  engagement.  Picture  a  calm  and  hazy  sea
and  spread  over  an  immense  area  the  fleets  of  larger  ships
surrounded  by  screens  of  light  cruisers  and  destroyers  furi-
ously engaged  in  encounters  of  their  own,  battles  within  the
greater  battle,  and  one  sees  how  entirely  this  action  lacks
the  classic  simplicity  of  such  engagements  as  the  battle  of
the  Nile  or  Trafalgar.  But  the  main  movements  are  clear
enough.  The  heaviest  losses  of  the  British  were  sustained
in  the  earlier,  of  the  Germans  in  the  later,  stages,  when  the
efficiency  of  their  gunnery  "became  rapidly  reduced  under
punishment,  while  ours  was  maintained  throughout."  Hardly
was  Beatty  in  action  before  he  lost  two  battle-cruisers,  the
Indefatigable  and  the  Queen  Mary.  Later,  the  Invincible,
the  flagship  of  the  Third  Cruiser  Squadron,  went  down  with
Admiral  Hood,  who  had  brought  his  ships  into  "action  ahead
in  a  most  inspiring  manner  worthy  of  his  great  naval  an-
cestors." One  may  note  here  two  difficulties  of  pursuit  in  a
modern  action :  first,  that  the  enemy  fire  is  concentrated  on
the  leading  ship,  which  can  hardly  escape  punishment,  and
second,  that  his  fast  smaller  craft,  continually  present  on
your  engaged  bow,  discharge  torpedoes  and  drop  mines  if  you
attempt  to  close  him.  Three  armored  cruisers  and  eight
destroyers  shared  the  fate  of  the  larger  vessels.  The  Ger-
man losses,  on  a  conservative  estimate,  were  still  more  severe,
especially  when  "the  head  of  their  line  was  crumpled  up,  leav-
ing battleships  as  targets  for  the  majority  of  our  battle-
cruisers."  The  enemy  constantly  "turned  away"  in  the  last
stage  and  under  cover  of  smoke  screens  endeavored  to  avoid
the  withering  fifteen-inch  gunfire,  but  at  least  four  or  five
battleships  and  battle-cruisers,  as  many  light  cruisers,  and

1 62     THE  MIGHTIEST  OF  NAVAL  FIGHTS

six  or  eight  destroyers  were  finally  lost,  probably  twenty
vessels  in  all  and  ten  thousand  men.1

Throughout  the  day  of  thunderous  war  the  destroyers
dashed  to  the  torpedo  attacks  on  the  great  ships,  careless  of
the  heart-shaking  deluge  of  shells,  utterly  careless  of  life
and  youth,  and  all  else  save  the  mighty  business  in  hand,
and  when  night  put  an  end  to  the  main  action,  continued
their  work  in  the  uncanny  darkness,  under  the  momentary
glare  of  searchlights  or  the  spouting  flames  from  some
wounded  vessel.  And  all  the  while  the  unruffled  sea  ap-
peared, we  are  told,  like  a  marble  surface  when  the  search-
lights swept  it,  and  moving  there  the  destroyers  looked  like
venomous  insects — "black  as  cockroaches  on  a  floor."  Never
in  the  proud  history  of  her  navy  have  English  sailors  fought
with  more  inspiring  dash,  more  superb  intrepidity.

So  ended  the  battle  of  Jutland.  But  this,  you  may  nat-
urally say,  is  very  different  from  the  German  story.  There
is  no  denying  it,  the  discrepancy  exists.  Make  the  most
liberal  allowance  for  national  prejudices  and  you  cannot
harmonize  the  versions.  Which,  then,  are  we  to  believe?
There  are  no  independent  witnesses  that  can  be  summoned
into  court.  How  can  one  decide  between  statements  so  con-
flicting? There  is  one  way  and  one  way  only.  Victories,
like  everything  else  in  the  world,  have  results ;  a  tree  is  known
by  its  fruits.  If,  indeed,  therefore,  the  Germans  won,  as
they  claim,  a  great  victory, — they  were  certainly  first  in  the
field  with  the  news,  and,  lest  there  should  be  any  mistake  in
the  matter,  made  the  announcement  at  express  speed, — how,
the  announcement  apart,  do  we  know  of  it?  We  have,  of
course,  the  Kaiser's  assurances  to  his  people,  and  that  is  of
great  importance.  But  did  he  also  announce  that  the  British
blockade  would  no  longer  harass  Germany  ?  Oddly  enough
it  was  not  mentioned  and  since  the  battle  has  become  much
more  stringent.

On  the  other  hand,  let  us  ponder  these  facts :  Immedi-
ately after  the  engagement  the  great  naval  port,  Wilhelms-
haven,  was  sealed  with  seven  seals,  so  that  no  patriotic  Ger-

1The  final  German  report  of  losses  was:  I  battle  cruiser  (the  Lut-
zow),  I  old  style  battleship  (the  Pommern),  4  light  cruisers,  5  torpedo
boats  and  2,800  men.

THE  MIGHTIEST  OF  NAVAL  FIGHTS  163

man  could  look  upon  his  victorious  ships.  Britain  pro-
claimed her  losses,  Germany  concealed  her  wounds.  Later
she  discovered  that  she  had  accidentally  in  her  haste  over-
looked the  loss  of  a  few  trifling  vessels.  And  meanwhile,
steadily  and  without  even  momentary  interruption,  British
merchantmen  and  liners  pursued,  as  they  had  hitherto  pur-
sued, their  accustomed  journeys;  the  transport  of  soldiers
by  the  hundred  thousand,  of  supplies  by  the  million  ton,  of
artillery,  heavy  artillery,  by  the  shipload  proceeded  in  the
Channel,  the  Mediterranean,  the  Indian  and  Atlantic  Oceans.
If  these  results  are  possible  after  "defeat,"  how  magnificent
must  be  the  fruits  of  "victory."  One  inquires  for  them  with-
out much  success.  They  are  very  disappointing  in  fruit,
these  paper  trees.

FIRST  GERMAN  OFFICIAL  REPORT

Berlin,  June  1,  1916.
During  an  enterprise  directed  to  the  northward  our  high
sea  fleet  on  May  31st  encountered  the  main  part  of  the
English  fighting  fleet,  which  was  considerably  superior  to
our  forces.

During  the  afternoon,  between  Skagerrak  and  Horn  Reef,
a  heavy  engagement  developed,  which  was  successful  to  us,
and  which  continued  during  the  whole  night.

In  this  engagement,  so  far  as  known  up  to  the  present,
there  were  destroyed  by  us  the  large  battleship  Warspite,
the  battle-cruisers  Queen  Mary  and  Indefatigable,  two  ar-
mored cruisers,  apparently  of  the  Achilles  type;  one  small
cruiser,  the  new  flagships  of  destroyer  squadrons,  the  Turbu-
lent, Nestor,  and  Alcaster,  a  large  number  of  torpedo-boat
destroyers,  and  one  submarine.

By  observation,  which  was  free  and  clear  of  clouds,  it
was  stated  that  a  large  number  of  English  battleships  suf-
fered damage  from  our  ships  and  the  attacks  of  our  torpedo-
boat  flotilla  during  the  day  engagement  and  throughout  the
night.  Among  others,  the  large  battleship  Marlborough  was
hit  by  a  torpedo.    This  was  confirmed  by  prisoners.

Several  of  our  ships  rescued  parts  of  the  crews  of  the

1 64    THE  MIGHTIEST  OF  NAVAL  FIGHTS

sunken  English  ships,  among  them  being  two  and  the  only
survivors  of  the  Indefatigable.

On  our  side  the  small  cruiser  Wiesbaden,  by  hostile  gun-
fire during  the  day  engagement,  and  his  Majesty's  ship
Pommern,  during  the  night,  as  the  result  of  a  torpedo,  were
sunk.

The  fate  of  his  Majesty's  ship  Frauenlob,  which  is  miss-
ing, and  of  some  torpedo  boats,  which  have  not  returned  yet,
is  unknown.

The  High  Sea  Fleet  returned  to-day  [Thursday]  into
our  port.

FIRST  BRITISH  OFFICIAL  REPORT

London,  June  2,  1916.

On  the  afternoon  of  Wednesday,  the  31st  of  May,  a  naval
engagement  took  place  off  the  coast  of  Jutland.

The  British  ships  on  which  the  brunt  of  the  fighting  fell
were  the  battle-cruiser  fleet  and  some  cruisers  and  light
cruisers,  supported  by  four  fast  battleships.  Among  these
the  losses  were  heavy.

The  German  battle  fleet,  aided  by  low  visibility,  avoided
a  prolonged  action  with  our  main  forces.  As  soon  as  these
appeared  on  the  scene  the  enemy  returned  to  port,  though  not
before  receiving  severe  damage  from  our  battleships.

The  battle-cruisers  Queen  Mary,  Indefatigable,  and  In-
vincible, and  the  cruisers  Defense  and  Black  Prince  were
sunk.

The  Warrior  was  disabled,  and  after  being  towed  for
some  time  had  to  be  abandoned  by  her  crew.

It  is  also  known  that  the  destroyers  Tipperary,  Turbu-
lent, Fortune,  Sparrowhawk,  and  Ardent  were  lost,  and
six  others  are  not  yet  accounted  for.

No  British  battleships  or  light  cruisers  were  sunk.

The  enemy's  losses  were  serious.  At  least  one  battle
cruiser  was  destroyed  and  one  was  severely  damaged.  One
battleship  is  reported  to  have  been  sunk  by  our  destroyers.

During  the  night  attack  two  light  cruisers  were  disabled
and  probably  sunk.

The  exact  number  of  enemy  destroyers  disposed  of  dur-

THE  MIGHTIEST  OF  NAVAL  FIGHTS  165

ing  the  action  cannot  be  ascertained  with  any  certainty,  but
must  have  been  large.

Further  Statement

Since  the  foregoing  communication  was  issued  a  further
report  has  been  received  from  the  Commander-in-Chief  of
the  Grand  Fleet  stating  that  it  has  now  been  ascertained
that  our  total  losses  in  destroyers  amount  to  eight  boats  in  all.

The  Commander-in-Chief  also  reports  that  it  is  now  pos-
sible to  form  a  closer  estimate  of  the  losses  and  the  dam-
age sustained  by  the  enemy  fleet.

One  dreadnought  battleship  of  the  Kaiser  class  was
blown  up  in  an  attack  by  British  destroyers  and  another
dreadnought  battleship  of  the  Kaiser  class  is  believed  to  have
been  sunk  by  gunfire.  Of  three  German  battle-cruisers,
two  of  which  are  believed  were  the  Derfflinger  and  the  Lilt-
sow,  one  was  blown  up,  another  was  heavily  engaged  by
our  battle  fleet  and  was  seen  to  be  disabled  and  stopping,
and  the  third  was  observed  to  be  seriously  damaged.

One  German  light  cruiser  and  six  German  destroyers
were  sunk,  and  at  least  two  more  German  light  cruisers  were
seen  to  be  disabled.  Further  repeated  hits  were  observed
on  three  other  German  battleships  that  were  engaged.

Finally,  a  German  submarine  was  rammed  and  sunk.

BY  ADMIRAL  EDWARD  VON  CAPELLE
Official  Statement  Issued  by  the  German  Ministry  of  Marine  on

June  29th

The  High  Sea  Fleet,  consisting  of  three  battleship  squad-
rons, five  battle-cruisers,  and  a  large  number  of  small  cruisers,
with  several  destroyer  flotillas,  was  cruising  in  the  Skager-
rak  on  May  31st  for  the  purpose,  as  on  earlier  occasions,  of
offering  battle  to  the  British  fleet.  The  vanguard  of  small
cruisers  at  4.30  o'clock  in  the  afternoon  suddenly  encountered
ninety  miles  west  of  Hanstholm,  a  group  of  eight  of  the  new-
est cruisers  of  the  Calliope  class  and  fifteen  or  twenty  of  the
most  modern  destroyers.1

While  the  German  light  forces  and  the  first  cruiser  squad-

1  German  time,  which  is  an  hour  later  than  British,  is  rather  nearer
true  time  for  the  battle's  location.

1 66    THE  MIGHTIEST  OF  NAVAL  FIGHTS

ron  under  Vice-Admiral  Hipper  were  following  the  British,
who  were  retiring  northwestward,  the  German  battle-cruisers
sighted  to  the  westward  Vice-Admiral  Beatty's  battle-cruiser
squadron  of  six  ships,  including  four  of  the  Lion  type  and
two  of  the  Indefatigable  type.  Beatty's  squadron  developed
a  battle  line  on  a  southeasterly  course  and  Vice-Admiral  Hip-
per formed  his  line  ahead  of  the  same  general  course  and
approached  for  a  running  fight.  He  opened  fire  at  5.49  o'clock
in  the  afternoon  with  heavy  artillery  at  a  range  of  13,000
meters  against  the  superior  enemy.  The  weather  was  clear
and  light,  and  the  sea  was  light  with  a  northwest  wind.

After  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  a  violent  explosion  oc-
curred on  the  last  cruiser  of  the  Indefatigable  type.  It  was
caused  by  a  heavy  shell,  and  destroyed  the  vessel.

About  6.20  o'clock  in  the  afternoon  five  warships  of  the
Queen  Elizabeth  type  came  from  the  west  and  joined  the
British  battle-cruiser  line,  powerfully  reenforcing  with  their
fifteen-inch  guns  the  five  British  battle-cruisers  remaining
after  6.20  o'clock.  To  equalize  this  superiority  Vice-Ad-
miral Hipper  ordered  the  destroyers  to  attack  the  enemy.
The  British  destroyers  and  small  cruisers  interposed,  and  a
bitter  engagement  at  close  range  ensued,  in  the  course  of
which  a  light  cruiser  participated.

The  Germans  lost  two  torpedo  boats,  the  crews  of  which
were  rescued  by  sister  ships  under  a  heavy  fire.  Two  Brit-
ish destroyers  were  sunk  by  artillery,  and  two  others — the
Nestor  and  Nomad — remained  on  the  scene  in  a  crippled
condition.  These  later  were  destroyed  by  the  main  fleet
after  German  torpedo  boats  had  rescued  all  the  survivors.

While  this  engagement  was  in  progress  a  mighty  ex-
plosion, caused  by  a  big  shell,  broke  the  Queen  Mary,  the
third  ship  in  line,  asunder  at  6.30  o'clock.

Soon  thereafter  the  German  main  battleship  fleet  was
sighted  to  the  southward,  steering  north.  The  hostile  fast
squadrons  thereupon  turned  northward,  closing  the  first  part
of  the  fight,  which  lasted  about  an  hour.

The  British  retired  at  high  speed  before  the  German  fleet,
which  followed  closely.  The  German  battle-cruisers  con-
tinued the  artillery  combat  with  increasing  intensity,  par-

THE  MIGHTIEST  OF  NAVAL  FIGHTS  167

ticularly  with  the  division  of  the  vessels  of  the  Queen  Eliza-
beth type,  and  in  this  the  leading  German  battleship  division
participated  intermittently.  The  hostile  ships  showed  a  de-
sire to  run  in  a  flat  curve  ahead  of  the  point  of  our  line  and
to  cross  it.

At  7.45  o'clock  in  the  evening  British  small  cruisers  and
destroyers  launched  an  attack  against  our  battle-cruisers,  who
avoided  the  torpedoes  by  maneuvering,  while  the  British  bat-
tle-cruisers retired  from  the  engagement,  in  which  they  did
not  participate  further  as  far  as  can  be  established.  Shortly
thereafter  a  German  reconnoitering  group,  which  was  parry-
ing the  destroyer  attack,  received  an  attack  from  the  north-
east. The  cruiser  Wiesbaden  was  soon  put  out  of  action  in
this  attack.  The  German  torpedo  flotillas  immediately  at-
tacked the  heavy  ships.

Appearing  shadow-like  from  the  haze  oank  to  the  north'
east  was  made  out  a  long  line  of  at  least  twenty-five  battle-
ships, which  at  first  sought  a  junction  with  the  British  battle-
cruisers  and  those  of  the  Queen  Elizabeth  type  on  a  north-
westerly to  westerly  course  and  then  turned  on  an  easterly  to
a  southeasterly  course.

With  the  advent  of  the  British  main  fleet,  whose  center
consisted  of  three  squadrons  of  eight  battleships  each,  with
a  fast  division  of  three  battle-cruisers  of  the  Invincible  type
on  the  northern  end,  and  three  of  the  newest  vessels  of  the
Royal  Sovereign  class,  armed  with  fifteen-inch  guns,  at  the
southern  end,  there  began  about  8  o'clock  in  the  evening  the
third  section  of  the  engagement,  embracing  the  combat  be-
tween the  main  fleets.

Vice-Admiral  Scheer  determined  to  attack  the  British
main  fleet,  which  he  now  recognized  was  completely  assem-
bled and  about  doubly  superior.  The  German  battleship
squadrons,  headed  by  battle-cruisers,  steered  first  toward
the  extensive  haze  bank  to  the  northeast,  where  the  crippled
cruiser  Wiesbaden  was  still  receiving  a  heavy  fire.  Around
the  Wiesbaden  stubborn  individual  fights  under  quickly
changing  conditions  now  occurred.

The  light  enemy  forces,  supported  by  an  armored  cruiser
squadron  of  five  ships  of  the  Minatour,  Achilles,  and  Duke

168    THE  MIGHTIEST  OF  NAVAL  FIGHTS

of  Edinburgh  classes  coming  from  the  northeast,  were  en-
countered and  apparently  surprised  on  account  of  the  decreas-
ing visibility  by  our  battle-cruisers  and  leading  battleship  di-
vision. The  squadron  came  under  a  violent  and  heavy  fire,
by  which  the  small  cruisers  Defense  and  Black  Prince  were
sunk.  The  cruiser  Warrior  regained  its  own  line  a  wreck
and  later  sank.   Another  small  cruiser  was  damaged.

Two  destroyers  already  had  fallen  victims  to  the  attack
of  German  torpedo  boats  against  the  leading  British  battle-
ships and  a  small  cruiser  and  two  destroyers  were  damaged.
The  German  battle-cruisers  and  leading  battleship  division
had  in  these  engagements  come  under  increased  fire  of  the
enemy's  battleship  squadron,  which,  shortly  after  8  o'clock,
could  be  made  out  in  the  haze  turning  to  the  northeastward
and  finally  to  the  east.  Germans  observed,  amid  the  artil-
lery combat  and  shelling  of  great  intensity,  signs  of  the  effect
of  good  shooting  between  8.20  and  8.30  o'clock  particularly.
Several  officers  on  German  ships  observed  that  a  battleship
of  the  Queen  Elizabeth  class  blew  up  under  conditions  simi-
lar to  that  of  the  Queen  Mary.  The  Invincible  sank  after
being  hit  severely.  A  ship  of  the  Iron  Duke  class  had  earlier
received  a  torpedo  hit,  and  one  of  the  Queen  Elisabeth  class
was  running  around  in  a  circle,  its  steering  apparatus  ap-
parently having  been  hit.

The  Liltzow  was  hit  by  at  least  fifteen  heavy  shells  and
was  unable  to  maintain  its  place  in  line.  Vice-Admiral  Hip-
per, therefore,  transshipped  to  the  Moltke  on  a  torpedo  boat
and  under  a  heavy  fire.  The  Derfflinger  meantime  took  the
lead  temporarily  Parts  of  the  German  torpedo  flotilla  at-
tacked the  enemy's  main  fleet  and  heard  detonations.  In  the
action  the  Germans  lost  a  torpedo  boat.  An  enemy  destroyer
was  seen  in  a  sinking  condition,  having  been  hit  by  a  torpedo.

After  the  first  violent  onslaught  into  the  mass  of  the
superior  enemy  the  opponents  lost  sight  of  each  other  in  the
smoke  by  powder  clouds.  After  a  short  cessation  in  the  ar-
tillery combat  Vice-Admiral  Scheer  ordered  a  new  attack  by
all  the  available  forces.

German  battle-cruisers,  which  with  several  light  cruisers
and  torpedo  boats  again  headed  the  line,  encountered  the  en-

THE  MIGHTIEST  OF  NAVAL  FIGHTS  169

emy  soon  after  9  o'clock  and  renewed  the  heavy  fire,  which
was  answered  by  them  from  the  mist,  and  then  by  the  lead-
ing division  of  the  main  fleet.  Armored  cruisers  now  flung
themselves  in  a  reckless  onset  at  extreme  speed  against  the
enemy  line  in  order  to  cover  the  attack  of  torpedo  boats.  They
approached  the  enemy  line,  although  covered  with  shot  from
6,000  meters  distance.  Several  German  torpedo  flotillas
dashed  forward  to  attack,  delivered  torpedoes,  and  returned,
despite  the  most  severe  counter-fire,  with  the  loss  of  only  one
boat.  The  bitter  artillery  fight  was  again  interrupted,  after
this  second  violent  onslaught,  by  the  smoke  from  guns  and
funnels.

Several  torpedo  flotillas,  which  were  ordered  to  attack
somewhat  later,  found,  after  penetrating  the  smoke  cloud,
that  the  enemy  fleet  was  no  longer  before  them ;  nor,  when
the  fleet  commander  again  brought  the  German  squadrons
upon  the  southerly  and  southwesterly  course,  where  the  en-
emy was  last  seen,  could  our  opponents  be  found.  Only  once
more — shortly  before  10.30  o'clock — did  the  battle  flare  up.
For  a  short  time  in  the  late  twilight  German  battle  cruisers
sighted  four  enemy  capital  ships  to  seaward  and  opened  fire
immediately.  As  the  two  German  battleship  squadrons  at-
tacked, the  enemy  turned  and  vanished  in  the  darkness.
Older  German  light  cruisers  of  the  fourth  reconnoissance
group  also  were  engaged  with  the  older  enemy  armored
cruisers  in  a  short  fight.    This  ended  the  day  battle.

The  German  divisions,  which,  after  losing  sight  of  the
enemy,  began  a  night  cruise  in  a  southerly  direction,  were
attacked  until  dawn  by  enemy  light  force  in  rapid  succession.

The  attacks  were  favored  by  the  general  strategic  situa-
tion and  the  particularly  dark  night.

The  cruiser  Franenlob  was  injured  severely  during  the  en-
gagement of  the  fourth  reconnoissance  group  with  a  superior
cruiser  force,  and  was  lost  from  sight.

One  armored  cruiser  of  the  Cressy  class  suddenly  ap-
peared close  to  a  German  battleship  and  was  shot  into  fire
after  forty  seconds,  and  sank  in  four  minutes.

The  names  were  hard  to  decipher  in  the  darkness  and
therefore  were  uncertainly  established,  but  six  destroyers

i;o    THE  MIGHTIEST  OF  NAVAL  FIGHTS

were  destroyed  by  our  fire.  One  destroyer  was  cut  in  two  by
the  ram  of  a  German  battleship.  Seven  destroyers,  includ-
ing the  G-30,  were  hit  and  severely  damaged.  These,  in-
cluding the  Tipperary  and  Turbulent,  which,  after  saving
survivors,  were  left  behind  in  a  sinking  condition,  drifted
past  our  line,  some  of  them  burning  at  the  bow  or  stern.

The  tracks  of  countless  torpedoes  were  sighted  by  the
German  ships,  but  only  the  Pommern  fell  an  immediate  vic-
tim to  a  torpedo.  The  cruiser  Rostock  was  hit,  but  remained
afloat.  The  cruiser  Elbing  was  damaged  by  a  German  battle-
ship during  an  unavoidable  maneuver.  After  vain  endeavors
to  keep  the  ship  afloat  the  Elbing  was  blown  up,  but  only
after  her  crew  had  embarked  on  torpedo  boats.  A  post  tor-
pedo boat  was  struck  by  a  mine  laid  by  the  enemy.

BY  ADMIRAL  SIR  JOHN  JELLICOE
Official  Report  to  the  British  Admiralty

Sir, — Be  pleased  to  inform  the  Lords  Commissioners
of  the  Admiralty  that  the  German  High  Sea  Fleet  was
brought  to  action  on  May  31,  1916,  to  the  westward  of  the
Jutland  Bank,  off  the  coast  of  Denmark.

The  ships  of  the  Grand  Fleet,  in  pursuance  of  the  general
policy  of  periodical  sweeps  through  the  North  Sea,  had  left
its  bases  on  the  previous  day,  in  accordance  with  instructions
issued  by  me.

In  the  early  afternoon  of  Wednesday,  May  31st,  the
1st  and  2nd  Battle-cruiser  Squadrons,  1st,  2nd  and  3rd  Light-
cruiser  Squadrons  and  destroyers  from  the  1st,  9th,  10th  and
13th  Flotillas,  supported  by  the  5th  Battle  Squadron,  were,
in  accordance  with  my  directions,  scouting  to  the  southward
of  the  Battle  Fleet,  which  was  accompanied  by  the  3rd  Battle-
cruiser  Squadron,  1st  and  2nd  Cruiser  Squadrons,  4th  Light-
cruiser  Squadron,  4th,  nth  and  12th  Flotillas.

The  junction  of  the  Battle  Fleet  with  the  scouting  force
after  the  enemy  had  been  sighted  was  delayed  owing  to  the
southerly  course  steered  by  our  advanced  force  during  the
first  hour  after  commencing  their  action  with  the  enemy
battle-cruisers.    This  was,  of  course,  unavoidable,  as  had

THE  MIGHTIEST  OF  NAVAL  FIGHTS  171

our  battle-cruisers  not  followed  the  enemy  to  the  southward
the  main  fleets  would  never  have  been  in  contact.

The  Battle-cruiser  Fleet,  gallantly  led  by  Vice-Admiral
Sir  David  Beatty,  and  admirably  supported  by  the  ships  of
the  Fifth  Battle  Squadron  under  Rear- Admiral  Hugh  Evan-
Thomas,  fought  an  action  under,  at  times,  disadvantageous
conditions,  especially  in  regard  to  light,  in  a  manner  that
was  in  keeping  with  the  best  traditions  of  the  service.

On  receipt  of  the  information  that  the  enemy  had  been
sighted,  the  British  Battle  Fleet,  with  its  accompanying
cruiser  and  destroyer  force,  proceeded  at  full  speed  on  a  S.E.
by  S.  course  to  close  the  Battle-cruiser  Fleet.  During  the
two  hours  that  elapsed  before  the  arrival  of  the  Battle  Fleet
on  the  scene  the  steaming  qualities  of  the  older  battleships
were  severely  tested.  Great  credit  is  due  to  the  engine-room
departments  for  the  manner  in  which  they,  as  always,  re-
sponded to  the  call,  the  whole  Fleet  maintaining  a  speed  in
excess  of  the  trial  speeds  of  some  of  the  older  vessels.

The  Third  Battle-cruiser  Squadron,  which  was  in  advance
of  the  Battle  Fleet,  was  ordered  tc  reenforce  Sir  David
Beatty.  At  5.30  p.  m.  this  squadron  observed  flashes  of
gunfire  and  heard  the  sound  of  guns  to  the  southwestward.
Rear-Admiral  Hood  sent  the  Chester  to  investigate,  and  this
ship  engaged  three  or  four  enemy  light-cruisers  at  about
5.45  p.  m.  The  engagement  lasted  for  about  twenty  min-
utes, during  which  period  Captain  Lawson  handled  his  vessel
with  great  skill  against  heavy  odds,  and,  although  the  ship
suffered  considerably  in  casualties,  her  fighting  and  steaming
qualities  were  unimpaired,  and  at  about  6.05  p.  m.  she  re-
joined the  Third  Battle-cruiser  Squadron.

The  Third  Battle-cruiser  Squadron  had  turned  to  the
northwestward,  and  at  6.10  p.  m.  sighted  our  battle-cruisers,
the  squadron  taking  station  ahead  of  the  Lion  at  6.21  p.  m.  in
accordance  with  the  orders  of  the  Vice-Admiral  Commanding
Battle-cruiser  Fleet.

Meanwhile,  at  5.45  p.  m.,  the  report  of  guns  had  become
audible  to  me,  and  at  5.55  p.  m.  flashes  were  visible  from
ahead  round  to  the  starboard  beam,  although  in  the  mist  no
ships  could  be  distinguished,  and  the  position  of  the  en-

172    THE  MIGHTIEST  OF  NAVAL  FIGHTS

emy's  battle  fleet  could  not  be  determined.  The  difference
in  estimated  position  by  "reckoning"  between  Iron  Duke  and
Lion,  which  was  inevitable  under  the  circumstances,  added
to  the  uncertainty  of  the  general  situation.

Shortly  after  5.55  p.  m.  some  of  the  cruisers  ahead  were
seen  to  be  in  action,  and  reports  received  show  that  Defense,
flagship,  and  Warrior,  of  the  First  Cruiser  Squadron,  en-
gaged an  enemy  light-cruiser  at  this  time.  She  was  subse-
quently observed  to  sink.

At  6  p.  m.  Canterbury,  which  ship  was  in  company  with
the  Third  Battle-cruiser  Squadron,  had  engaged  enemy
light-cruisers  which  were  firing  heavily  on  the  torpedo-boat
destroyers  Shark,  Acasta  and  Christopher;  as  a  result  of  this
engagement  the  Shark  was  sunk.

At  6  p.  m.  vessels,  afterwards  seen  to  be  our  battle-
cruisers,  were  sighted  by  Marlborough  bearing  before  the
starboard  beam  of  the  battle  fleet.

At  the  same  time  the  Vice-Admiral  Commanding  Bat-
tle-cruiser Fleet,  reported  to  me  the  position  of  the  enemy
battle-cruisers,  and  at  6.14  p.  m.  reported  the  position  of  the
enemy  battle  fleet.

At  this  period,  when  the  battle  fleet  was  meeting  the  battle-
cruisers  and  the  Fifth  Battle  Squadron,  great  care  was  neces-
sary to  insure  that  our  own  ships  were  not  mistaken  for
enemy  vessels.

I  formed  the  battle  fleet  in  line  of  battle  on  receipt  of
Sir  David  Beatty's  report,  and  during  deployment  the  fleets
became  engaged.  Sir  David  Beatty  had  meanwhile  formed
the  battle-cruisers  ahead  of  the  battle  fleet.

At  6.16  p.  m.  Defense  and  Warrior  were  observed  pass-
ing down  between  the  British  and  German  Battle  Fleets
under  a  very  heavy  fire.  Defense  disappeared,  and  Warrior
passed  to  the  rear  disabled.

It  is  probable  that  Sir  Robert  Arbuthnot,  during  his  en-
gagement with  the  enemy's  light-cruisers  and  in  his  desire
to  complete  their  destruction,  was  not  aware  of  the  approach
of  the  enemy's  heavy  ships,  owing  to  the  mist,  until  he
found  himself  in  close  proximity  to  the  main  fleet,  and  before
he  could  withdraw  his  ships  they  were  caught  under  a  heavy

THE  MIGHTIEST  OF  NAVAL  FIGHTS  173

fire  and  disabled.  It  is  not  known  when  Black  Prince,  of
the  same  squadron,  was  sunk,  but  a  wireless  signal  was
received  from  her  between  8  and  9  p.  m.

The  First  Battle  Squadron  became  engaged  during  de-
ployment, the  Vice-Admiral  opening  fire  at  6.17  p.  m.  on  a
battleship  of  the  Kaiser  class.  The  other  Battle  Squadrons,
which  had  previously  been  firing  at  an  enemy  light-cruiser,
opened  fire  at  6.30  p.  m.  on  battleships  of  the  Koenig  class.

At  6.06  p.  m.  the  Rear-Admiral  Commanding  Fifth  Battle
Squadron,  then  in  company  with  the  battle-cruisers,  had
sighted  the  starboard  wing  division  of  the  battle  fleet  on  the
port  bow  of  Barham,  and  the  first  intention  of  Rear-Admiral
Evan-Thomas  was  to  form  ahead  of  the  remainder  of  the
battle  fleet,  but  on  realizing  the  direction  of  deployment  he
was  compelled  to  form  astern,  a  maneuver  which  was  well
executed  by  the  squadron  under  a  heavy  fire  from  the  enemy
battle  fleet.  An  accident  to  Warspite's  steering  gear  caused
her  helm  to  become  jammed  temporarily  and  took  the  ship
in  the  direction  of  the  enemy's  line,  during  which  time  she  was
hit  several  times.  Clever  handling  enabled  Captain  Edward
M.  Phillpotts  to  extricate  his  ship  from  a  somewhat  awkward
situation.

Owing  principally  to  the  mist,  but  partly  to  the  smoke,
it  was  possible  to  see  only  a  few  ships  at  a  time  in  the  en-
emy's battle  line.  Towards  the  van  only  some  four  or  five
ships  were  ever  visible  at  once.  More  could  be  seen  from
the  rear  squadron,  but  never  more  than  eight  to  twelve.

The  action  between  the  battle  fleets  lasted  intermittently
from  6.17  p.  m.  to  8.20  p.  m.  at  ranges  between  9,000  and
12,000  yards,  during  which  time  the  British  Fleet  made  al-
terations of  course  from  S.E.  by  E.  to  W.  in  the  endeavor
to  close.  The  enemy  constantly  turned  away  and  opened
the  range  under  cover  of  destroyer  attacks  and  smoke  screens
as  the  effect  of  the  British  fire  was  felt,  and  the  alterations
of  course  had  the  effect  of  bringing  the  British  Fleet  (which
commenced  the  action  in  a  position  of  advantage  on  the
bow  of  the  enemy)  to  a  quarterly  bearing  from  the  enemy
battle  line,  but  at  the  same  time  placed  us  between  the  enemy
and  his  bases.

174    THE  MIGHTIEST  OF  NAVAL  FIGHTS

At  6.55  p.  m.  Iron  Duke  passed  the  wreck  of  Invincible,
with  Badger  standing  by.

During  the  somewhat  brief  periods  that  the  ships  of  the
High  Sea  Fleet  were  visible  through  the  mist,  the  heavy
and  effective  fire  kept  up  by  the  battleships  and  battle-cruisers
of  the  Grand  Fleet  caused  me  much  satisfaction,  and  the
enemy  vessels  were  seen  to  be  constantly  hit,  some  being
observed  to  haul  out  of  the  line  and  at  least  one  to  sink.  The
enemy's  return  fire  at  this  period  was  not  effective,  and  the
damage  caused  to  our  ships  was  insignificant.

As  was  anticipated,  the  German  Fleet  appeared  to  rely
very  much  on  torpedo  attacks,  which  were  favored  by  the  low
visibility  and  by  the  fact  that  we  had  arrived  in  the  position
of  a  "following"  or  "chasing"  fleet.  A  large  number  of  tor-
pedoes were  apparently  fired,  but  only  one  took  effect  (on
Marlborough) ,  and  even  in  this  case  the  ship  was  able  to  re-
main in  the  line  and  to  continue  the  action.  The  enemy's
efforts  to  keep  out  of  effective  gun  range  were  aided  by  the
weather  conditions,  which  were  ideal  for  the  purpose.  Two
separate  destroyer  attacks  were  made  by  the  enemy.

The  First  Battle  Squadron,  under  Vice-Admiral  Sir
Cecil  Burney,  came  into  action  at  6.17  p.  m.  with  the  en-
emy's Third  Battle  Squadron,  at  a  range  of  about  11,000
yards,  and  administered  severe  punishment,  both  to  the
battleships  and  to  the  battle-cruisers  and  light-cruisers,  which
were  also  engaged.  The  fire  of  Marlborough  (Captain
George  P.  Ross)  was  particularly  rapid  and  effective.  This
ship  commenced  at  6.17  p.  m.  by  firing  seven  salvoes  at  a  ship
of  the  Kaiser  class,  then  engaged  a  cruiser,  and  again  a  bat-
tleship, and  at  6.54  she  was  hit  by  a  torpedo  and  took  up  a
considerable  list  to  starboard,  but  reopened  at  7.03  p.  m.
at  a  cruiser  and  at  7.12  p.  m.  fired  fourteen  rapid  salvoes
at  a  ship  of  the  Koenig  class,  hitting  her  frequently  until  she
turned  out  of  the  line.  The  manner  in  which  this  effective
fire  was  kept  up  in  spite  of  the  disadvantages  due  to  the  in-
jury caused  by  the  torpedo  was  most  creditable  to  the  ship
and  a  very  fine  example  to  the  squadron.

The  range  decreased  during  the  course  of  the  action  to
9,000  yards.  The  First  Battle  Squadron  received  more  of  the

THE  MIGHTIEST  OF  NAVAL  FIGHTS  175

enemy's  return  fire  than  the  remainder  of  the  battle  fleet,  with
the  exception  of  the  Fifth  Battle  Squadron.  Colossus  was
hit  but  was  not  seriously  damaged,  and  other  ships  were  strad-
dled with  fair  frequency.

In  the  Fourth  Battle  Squadron — in  which  squadron  my
flagship  Iron  Duke  was  placed — Vice-Admiral  Sir  Doveton
Sturdee  leading  one  of  the  divisions — the  enemy  engaged  was
the  squadron  consisting  of  Koenig  and  Kaiser  class  and
some  of  the  battle-cruisers,  as  well  as  disabled  cruisers  and
light-cruisers.  The  mist  rendered  range-taking  a  difficult
matter,  but  the  fire  of  the  squadron  was  effective.  Iron  Duke,
having  previously  fired  at  a  light-cruiser  between  the  lines,
opened  fire  at  6.30  p.  m.  on  a  battleship  of  the  Koenig  class
at  a  range  of  12,000  yards.  The  latter  was  very  quickly
straddled,  and  hitting  commenced  at  the  second  salvo  and
only  ceased  when  the  target  ship  turned  away.  The  rapid-
ity with  which  hitting  was  established  was  most  creditable  to
the  excellent  gunnery  organization  of  the  flagship.

The  fire  of  other  ships  of  the  squadron  was  principally
directed  at  enemy  battle-cruisers  and  cruisers  as  they  ap-
peared out  of  the  mist.  Hits  were  observed  to  take  effect  on
several  ships.

The  ships  of  the  Second  Battle  Squadron,  under  Vice-
Admiral  Sir  Thomas  Jerram,  were  in  action  with  vessels  of
the  Kaiser  or  Koenig  classes  between  6.30  and  7.20  p.  m.,
and  fired  also  at  an  enemy  battle-cruiser  which  had  dropped
back  apparently  severely  damaged.

During  the  action  between  the  battle  fleets  the  Second
Cruiser  Squadron,  ably  commanded  by  Rear-Admiral  Her-
bert L.  Heath,  with  the  addition  of  Duke  of  Edinburgh  of
the  First  Cruiser  Squadron,  occupied  a  position  at  the  van,
and  acted  as  a  connecting  link  between  the  battle  fleet  and  the
battle-cruiser  fleet.  This  squadron,  although  it  carried  out
useful  work,  did  not  have  an  opportunity  of  coming  into
action.

The  Fourth  Light-cruiser  Squadron,  under  Commodore
Charles  E.  Le  Mesurier,  occupied  a  position  in  the  van  until
ordered  to  attack  enemy  destroyers  at  7.20  p.  m.,  and  again
at  8.18  p,  m.,  when  they  supported  the  Eleventh  Flotilla,

176    THE  MIGHTIEST  OF  NAVAL  FIGHTS

which  had  moved  out  under  Commodore  James  R.  P.  Hawks-
ley,  to  attack.  On  each  occasion  the  Fourth  Light-cruiser
Squadron  was  very  well  handled  by  Commodore  Le  Mesurier,
his  captains  giving  him  excellent  support,  and  their  object  was
attained,  although  with  some  loss  in  the  second  attack,  when
the  ships  came  under  the  heavy  fire  of  the  enemy  battle
fleet  at  between  6,500  and  8,000  yards.  The  Calliope  was  hit
several  times,  but  did  not  sustain  serious  damage,  although,
I  regret  to  say,  she  had  several  casualties.  The  light-cruisers
attacked  the  enemy's  battleships  with  torpedoes  at  this  time,
and  an  explosion  on  board  a  ship  of  the  Kaiser  class  was

During  these  destroyer  attacks  four  enemy  torpedo-boat
destroyers  were  sunk  by  the  gunfire  of  battleships,  light-
cruisers  and  destroyers.

After  the  arrival  of  the  British  Battle  Fleet  the  enemy's
tactics  were  of  a  nature  generally  to  avoid  further  action,  in
which  they  were  favored  by  the  conditions  of  visibility.

At  9  p.  m.  the  enemy  was  entirely  out  of  sight,  and  the
threat  of  torpedo-boat  destroyer  attacks  during  the  rapidly
approaching  darkness  made  it  necessary  for  me  to  dispose  the
fleet  for  the  night,  with  a  view  to  its  safety  from  such  at-
tacks, whilst  providing  for  a  renewal  of  action  at  daylight.
I  accordingly  maneuvered  to  remain  between  the  enemy  and
his  bases,  placing  our  flotillas  in  a  position  in  which  they
would  afford  protection  to  the  fleet  from  destroyer  attack,
and  at  the  same  time  be  favorably  situated  for  attacking  the
enemy's  heavy  ships.

During  the  night  the  British  heavy  ships  were  not  at-
tacked, but  the  Fourth,  Eleventh  and  Twelfth  Flotillas,  under
Commodore  Hawksley  and  Captains  Charles  J.  Wintour  and
Anselan  J.  B.  Stirling,  delivered  a  series  of  very  gallant  and
successful  attacks  on  the  enemy,  causing  him  heavy  losses.

It  was  during  these  attacks  that  severe  losses  in  the  Fourth
Flotilla  occurred,  including  that  of  Tipperary,  with  the  gal-
lant leader  of  the  Flotilla,  Captain  Wintour.  He  had  brought
his  flotilla  to  a  high  pitch  of  perfection,  and  although  suf-
fering severely  from  the  fire  of  the  enemy,  a  heavy  toll  of

THE  MIGHTIEST  OF  NAVAL  FIGHTS  177

enemy  vessels  was  taken,  and  many  gallant  actions  were
performed  by  the  flotilla.

Two  torpedoes  were  seen  to  take  effect  on  enemy  vessels
as  the  result  of  the  attacks  of  the  Fourth  Flotilla,  one  being
from  Spitfire,  and  the  other  from  either  Ardent,  Ambuscade
or  Garland.

The  attack  carried  out  by  the  Twelfth  Flotilla  (Captain
Anselan  J.  B.  Stirling)  was  admirably  executed.  The  squad-
ron attacked,  which  consisted  of  six  large  vessels,  besides
light-cruisers,  and  comprised  vessels  of  the  Kaiser  class,  was
taken  by  surprise.  A  large  number  of  torpedoes  was  fired,  in-
cluding some  at  the  second  and  third  ships  in  the  line ;  those
fired  at  the  third  ship  took  effect,  and  she  was  observed  to
blow  up.  A  second  attack  made  twenty  minutes  later  by
Mcenad  on  the  five  vessels  still  remaining,  resulted  in  the
fourth  ship  in  the  line  being  also  hit.

The  destroyers  were  under  a  heavy  fire  from  the  light-
cruisers  on  reaching  the  rear  of  the  line,  but  the  Onslaught
was  the  only  vessel  which  received  any  material  injuries.

During  the  attack  carried  out  by  the  Eleventh  Flotilla,
Castor  (Commodore  James  R.  P.  Hawksley)  leading  the
flotilla,  engaged  and  sank  an  enemy  torpedo-boat  destroyer  at
point-blank  range.

There  were  many  gallant  deeds  performed  by  the  de-
stroyer flotillas;  they  surpassed  the  very  highest  expecta-
tions that  I  had  formed  of  them.

Apart  from  the  proceedings  of  the  flotillas,  the  Second
Light-cruiser  Squadron  in  the  rear  of  the  battle  fleet  was  in
close  action  for  about  15  minutes  at  10.20  p.  m.  with  a  squad-
ron comprising  one  enemy  cruiser  and  four  light-cruisers,
during  which  period  Southampton  and  Dublin  suffered  rather
heavy  casualties,  although  their  steaming  and  fighting  quali-
ties were  not  impaired.  The  return  fire  of  the  squadron  ap-
peared to  be  very  effective.

Abdiel,  ably  commanded  by  Commander  Berwick  Curtis,
carried  out  her  duties  with  the  success  which  has  always  char-
acterized her  work.

At  daylight,  June  1st,  the  battle  fleet,  being  then  to  the
southward  and  westward  of  the  Horn  Reef,  turned  to  the

178    THE  MIGHTIEST  OF  NAVAL  FIGHTS

northward  in  search  of  enemy  vessels  and  for  the  purpose  of
collecting  our  own  cruisers  and  torpedo-boat  destroyers.  At
2.30  a.  m.  Vice-Admiral  Sir  Cecil  Burney  transferred  his
flag  from  Marlborough  to  Revenge,  as  the  former  ship  had
some  difficulty  in  keeping  up  the  speed  of  the  squadron.
Marlborough  was  detached  by  my  direction  to  a  base,  suc-
cessfully driving  off  an  enemy  submarine  attack  en  route.
The  visibility  early  on  June  1st  (three  to  four  miles)  was
less  than  on  May  31st,  and  the  torpedo-boat  destroyers,  being
out  of  visual  touch,  did  not  rejoin  until  9  a.  m.  The  British
Fleet  remained  in  the  proximity  of  the  battlefield  and  near
the  line  of  approach  to  German  ports  until  11  a.  m.  on
June  1st,  in  spite  of  the  disadvantage  of  long  distances  from
fleet  bases  and  the  danger  incurred  in  waters  adjacent  to
enemy  coasts  from  submarines  and  torpedo  craft.  The  en-
emy, however,  made  no  sign,  and  I  was  reluctantly  compelled
to  the  conclusion  that  the  High  Sea  Fleet  had  returned  into
port.  Subsequent  events  proved  this  assumption  to  have  been
correct.  Our  position  must  have  been  known  to  the  enemy,
as  at  4  a.  m.  the  Fleet  engaged  a  Zeppelin  for  about  five
minutes,  during  which  time  she  had  ample  opportunity  to  note
and  subsequently  report  the  position  and  course  of  the  Brit-
ish Fleet.

The  waters  from  the  latitude  of  the  Horn  Reef  to  the
scene  of  the  action  were  thoroughly  searched,  and  some  sur-
vivors from  the  destroyers  Ardent,  Fortune  and  Tipperary
were  picked  up,  and  the  Sparrowhawk,  which  had  been  in  col-
lision and  was  no  longer  seaworthy,  was  sunk  after  her  crew
had  been  taken  off.  A  large  amount  of  wreckage  was  seen,
but  no  enemy  ships,  and  at  1.15  p.  m.,  it  being  evident  that
the  German  Fleet  had  succeeded  in  returning  to  port,  course
was  shaped  for  our  bases,  which  were  reached  without  further
incident  on  Friday,  June  2nd.  A  cruiser  squadron  was  de-
tached to  search  for  Warrior,  which  vessel  had  been  aban-
doned whilst  in  tow  of  Engadine  on  her  way  to  the  base
owing  to  bad  weather  setting  in  and  the  vessel  becoming
unsea worthy,  but  no  trace  of  her  was  discovered,  and  a
further  subsequent  search  by  a  light-cruiser  squadron  hav-
ing failed  to  locate  her,  it  is  evident  that  she  foundered.

THE  MIGHTIEST  OF  NAVAL  FIGHTS  179

The  enemy  fought  with  the  gallantry  that  was  expected
of  him.  We  particularly  admired  the  conduct  of  those  on
board  a  disabled  German  light-cruiser  which  passed  down
the  British  line  shortly  after  deployment,  under  a  heavy  fire,
which  was  returned  by  the  only  gun  left  in  action.

The  conduct  of  officers  and  men  throughout  the  day  and
night  actions  was  entirely  beyond  praise.  No  words  of
mine  could  do  them  justice.  On  all  sides  it  is  reported  to
me  that  the  glorious  traditions  of  the  past  were  most  wor-
thily upheld — whether  in  heavy  ships,  cruisers,  light-cruisers,
or  destroyers — the  same  admirable  spirit  prevailed.  Officers
and  men  were  cool  and  determined,  with  a  cheeriness  that
would  have  carried  them  through  anything.  The  heroism  of
the  wounded  was  the  admiration  of  all.

I  cannot  adequately  express  the  pride  with  which  the  spirit
of  the  Fleet  filled  me,

NARRATIVE  OF  A  GERMAN  SAILOR  ON  THE  LUTZOW

Suddenly  the  entire  ship  is  roughly  shaken.  The  colossus
heaves  far  over,  and  everything  that  is  not  fixed  is  upset.
The  first  direct  hit!  The  torpedo  pierces  the  fore  part  of
the  ship.  Its  effects  are  terrible.  Iron,  wood,  metal,  parts
of  bodies,  and  smashed  ships'  implements  are  all  intermixed,
and  the  electric  light,  by  chance  spared,  continues  to  shine
upon  this  sight.

Two  decks  lower,  in  the  Diesel  dynamo  room,  there  is
still  life.  That  compartment  has  not  been  hit,  and  twenty-
seven  men,  in  the  prime  of  life,  have  been  spared,  but  the
chamber  is  shut  off  from  all  others,  for  the  water  is  rushing
into  all  sections.  They  are  doomed  to  death.  Several  38-
centimeter  shells  squarely  hit  their  mark,  working  terrible
havoc.  The  first  hit  the  wireless  department.  Of  the  twelve
living  men  who  a  moment  ago  were  seated  before  the  ap-
paratus, there  is  nothing  more  to  be  seen.  Nothing  is  left  but
a  smoking  heap  of  ruins.  The  second  shot  again  pierced  the
fore  part  of  the  ship.  The  entire  forepart  of  the  vessel,  as
far  as  the  Diesel  motor  room,  was  past  saving.

Another  broadside  meant  for  the  Liltzow  fell  short,  but
a  torpedo  boat  close  by  disappeared,  leaving  only  a  few

i8o    THE  MIGHTIEST  OF  NAVAL  FIGHTS

odd  pieces  of  wood  and  a  smashed  lifeboat  drifting  around.
It  is  now  half-past  7,  and  the  hostile  circle  grows  ever
smaller.  The  Liitzow  and  the  Seydlitz  lie  with  their  bows
deep  in  the  water;  both  are  badly  mauled.  The  forepart  of
the  Liitzow  was  in  flames.  Shells  burst  against  the  ship's
side  in  rapid  succession.  A  terrible  sight  is  presented  on
board  the  Liitzow,  and  it  needs  iron  nerves  to  look  upon  it
coolly.  Hundreds  have  lost  their  lives,  while  many  have
lain  for  hours  in  torture,  and  the  fight  is  not  yet  over.  The
bow  is  now  crushed  in  and  is  entirely  submerged.  The  four
screws  are  already  sticking  half  out  of  the  water,  so  that
the  Liitzow  can  only  make  eight  to  ten  knots  an  hour,  as
against  the  normal  thirty-two.

The  Admiral  decides  to  transfer  to  the  Moltke.  He  gives
orders  to  turn  and  get  away  from  the  scene  of  the  fight,
but  the  Liitzow  has  not  gone  a  mile  before  she  receives  a
broadside  of  38-centimeter  shells.  The  entire  ship  was  filled
with  the  poisonous  fumes  of  the  shells,  and  any  one  who
failed  to  affix  his  gas  mask  was  doomed  to  be  suffocated.

It  was  three-quarters  of  an  hour  before  the  lighting  instal-
lation was  restored.  Then  for  the  first  time  could  the  extent
of  the  damage  wrought  by  the  salvo  be  seen.  One  of  the
shells  had  landed  in  the  sick  bay.  Here  there  were  only  three
doctors  and  fifteen  attendants,  besides  160  to  180  wounded.
Of  all  those,  only  four  remained  alive.  These  four  were
hurled  into  the  next  compartment  by  the  air  pressure;  there
they  lay  unconscious.

The  Liitzow  was  now  a  complete  wreck.  Corpses  drifted
past.  From  the  bows  up  to  the  first  30-centimeter  gun  turret
the  ship  lay  submerged.  The  other  gun  turrets  were  com-
pletely disabled,  with  the  guns  sticking  out  in  all  directions.
On  deck  lay  the  bodies  of  the  sailors  in  their  torn  uniforms,
in  the  midst  of  the  empty  shell  cases.  From  the  masts  flut-
tered torn  flags,  twisted  signal  lines,  and  pieces  of  wire  of
the  wireless  installation.  Had  not  the  lookout  man  and  the
three  officers  on  the  commander's  bridge  given  signs  of  life,
the  Liitzow  would  have  truly  resembled  a  ship  of  the  dead.
Below,  on  the  battery  deck,  there  still  lay  innumerable  wound-
ed, but  there  was  no  longer  a  doctor  to  attend  to  them,

THE  MIGHTIEST  OF  NAVAL  FIGHTS  181

Night  came  on  and  hope  was  entertained  of  getting  away
without  a  further  encounter.  But  at  3  o'clock  in  the  night
news  of  the  approach  of  two  British  cruisers  and  five  de-
stroyers was  received  and  just  at  that  critical  time  the  fore
and  middle  bulkheads  gave  way.

Orders  were  given  to  carry  the  wounded  to  the  stern.
Then  the  order  rings  out :  "All  hands  muster  in  division
order  abaft."  A  tumult  arises  on  the  lower  deck,  for  every-
body is  now  bent  on  saving  his  life.  It  is  impossible  in  that
short  space  of  time  to  bring  up  all  the  wounded,  for  they  are
scattered  everywhere.  Eighteen  men  had  the  good  fortune
to  be  carried  up,  but  all  the  rest  who  could  not  walk  or  crawl
had  to  be  left  behind.

The  twenty-seven  men  shut  up  in  the  Diesel  dynamo  cham-
ber had  heard  the  order  through  the  speaking  tube,  for  many,
mad  with  anguish,  screamed  through  the  tube  for  help,  and
it  was  learned  that  two  of  their  number  lay  bound  because
they  had  become  insane.  Inspired  by  their  sense  of  duty,
these  sealed-up  men  had  continued  to  carry  on  their  work
in  order  to  provide  the  ship  with  light.

The  torpedo-boats  now  quickly  took  off  the  crew  of  the
Liltzow,  and  those  left  behind  were  doomed  to  death.  It
was  resolved  that  no  piece  of  the  vessel  should  fall  into  the
enemy's  hands.  An  order  was  given  and  a  torpedo  cleft  the
waters.  Just  then  seven  men  were  to  be  seen  running  like
madmen  round  the  rear  deck.  Overfatigued  as  they  were,
they  had  apparently  dropped  off  to  sleep  and  only  just  awak-
ened. As  the  torpedo  exploded,  the  Liltzow' s  bow  quickly
dipped,  and  the  stern  rose  until  she  stood  on  end.  Then
she  heeled  over  and  sank,  forming  a  great  whirlpool  that
carried  everything  within  it  into  the  depths.

When  the  roll  was  called  it  appeared  that  there  were  1 ,003
survivors  of  the  Lutzow;  597  men  had  perished  in  the  battle.

BY  A  BRITISH  SUB-LIEUTENANT
Letter  from  a  Lad  of  Nineteen  to  Another  of  Seventeen
I  have  been  intending  to  write  and  tell  you  all  about  the
31st,  but  couldn't  find  your  address  and  could  only  remember
the  number.

1 82    THE  MIGHTIEST  OF  NAVAL  FIGHTS

I'm  so  awfully  sorry  you  weren't  in  it.  It  was  rather
terrible  but  a  wonderful  experience,  and  I  wouldn't  have
missed  it  for  anything,  but,  by  Jove!  it  is  not  a  thing  one
wants  to  make  a  habit  of.

I  must  say  it's  very  different  from  what  I  expected.  I
expected  to  be  excited  but  was  not  a  bit;  it's  hard  to  express
what  we  did  feel  like,  but  you  know  the  sort  of  feeling  one
has  when  one  goes  in  to  bat  at  cricket  and  rather  a  lot  de-
pends upon  you  doing  well  and  you're  waiting  for  the  first
ball ;  well,  it's  very  much  the  same  as  that — do  you  know  what
I  mean  ?  A  sort  of  tense  feeling  waiting  for  the  unknown
to  happen,  and  not  quite  knowing  what  to  expect ;  one  does  not
feel  the  slightest  bit  frightened,  and  the  idea  that  there's
a  chance  of  you  and  your  ship  being  scuppered  does  not
really  enter  one's  head — there  are  too  many  other  things  to
think  about.

This  ship  is  just  about  the  latest  thing  in  destroyers  and
we  all  transferred,  officers  and  ship's  company,  from  the
Beaver  here.

We  were  attached  to  the  battle-cruisers  and  were  with
them  throughout  the  action,  so  we  were  probably  in  the  thick
of  it,  as  no  doubt  you  saw  in  the  papers  that  the  battle-cruisers
stood  the  brunt  of  the  action,  and  we  were  in  action  for
about  three  hours  before  the  battleships  arrived  upon  the
scene.

To  start  with,  it  was  all  at  such  long  range  that  the  de-
stroyers were  rather  out  of  it,  except  there  were  plenty  of
15-inch  falling  round  us,  and  we  just  watched.  It  really
seemed  rather  like  a  battle  practice  on  a  large  scale,  and  we
could  see  the  flashes  of  the  German  guns  on  the  horizon.

Then  they  ordered  us  to  attack,  so  we  bustled  off  at  full
bore.  Being  navigator,  also  having  control  of  all  the  guns,
I  was  on  the  bridge  all  the  time  and  remained  there  for  twelve
hours  without  leaving  it  at  all.

When  we  got  fairly  close  I  sighted  a  good-looking  Hun
destroyer  which  I  thought  I'd  like  to  strafe.  You  know,  it's
awful  fun  to  know  that  you  can  blaze  off  at  a  real  ship  and
do  as  much  damage  as  you  like.  Well,  I'd  just  got  their
range  on  the  guns  and  we'd  just  fired  one  round  when  some

THE  MIGHTIEST  OF  NAVAL  FIGHTS  183

more  of  our  destroyers  coming  from  the  opposite  direction
got  between  us  and  the  enemy  and  completely  blanketed  us,
so  we  had  to  stop  firing  as  the  risk  of  hitting  one  of  our  own
ships  was  too  great — which  was  rather  rot.  Shortly  after-
wards they  recalled  us,  so  we  bustled  back  again.  How  any
destroyers  got  out  of  it  is  perfectly  wonderful.

Literally,  there  were  hundreds  of  "progs"  all  round  us
from  a  15-inch  to  a  4-inch,  and  you  know  what  a  big  splash
a  15-inch  bursting  in  the  water  does  make;  we  got  soaked
through  by  the  spray.

Just  as  we  were  getting  back  a  whole  salvo  of  big  shells
fell  just  in  front  of  us  and  short  of  our  big  ships.  The
skipper  and  I  did  rapid  calculations  as  to  how  long  it  would
take  them  to  reload,  fire  again,  time  of  flight,  etc.,  as  we
had  to  go  right  through  the  spot.  We  came  to  the  conclusion
that  as  they  were  short  a  bit  they  would  probably  go  up  a  bit
and  didn't,  but  luckily  they  altered  deflection  and  the  next  lot
fell  just  astern  of  us.  Anyhow,  we  managed  to  come  out  of
that  lot,  without  the  ship  or  a  soul  on  board  being  touched.

It's  extraordinary  the  amount  of  knocking  about  the
big  ships  can  stand.  One  saw  them  hit,  and  they  seemed  to
be  one  mass  of  flames  and  smoke  and  you  think  they're  gone,
but  when  the  smoke  clears  away  they  are  apparently  none
the  worse  and  still  firing  away.

But  to  see  a  ship  blow  up  is  a  terrible  but  wonderful
sight;  an  enormous  volume  of  flame  and  smoke  about  200
feet  high  and  great  heaps  of  metal,  etc.,  blown  sky-high  and
then,  when  the  smoke  clears  away,  not  a  sign  of  the  ship.

We  saw  one  rather  extraordinary  sight.  Of  course,  you
know  the  N.S.  is  very  shallow.  We  came  across  a  Hun
cruiser  absolutely  on  end.  His  stern  on  the  bottom  and  his
bow  sticking  up  about  30  feet  above  the  water,  and  a  little
further  on  a  destroyer  in  precisely  the  same  position.

I  wouldn't  be  certain,  but  I  rather  think  I  saw  your
old  ship  crashing  along  and  blazing  away,  but  I  expect  you
have  heard  from  some  of  your  pals.

But  the  night  was  far  and  away  the  worst  time  of  all,
and  an  awful  strain.  It  was  pitch  dark  and,  of  course,
absolutely  no  lights;  and  the  firing  seems  so  much  worse

184    THE  MIGHTIEST  OF  NAVAL  FIGHTS

at  night  as  you  could  see  the  flashes  absolutely  lighting  up
the  sky,  and  it  seemed  to  make  much  more  noise,  and  you
would  see  ships  on  fire  and  blowing  up.  Of  course,  we
showed  absolutely  no  lights.

One  expected  to  be  surprised  any  minute — and  eventu-
ally we  were.  We  suddenly  found  ourselves  within  1,000
yards  of  two  or  three  big  Hun  cruisers.  They  switched  on
their  searchlights  and  started  firing  like  nothing  on  earth.
Then  they  put  their  searchlights  on  us,  but  for  some  ex-
traordinary reason  did  not  fire  on  us.  As,  of  course,  we  were,
going  full  speed,  we'd  lost  them  in  a  moment,  but  I  must
say  that  I,  and  I  think  everybody  else,  thought  that  was  the
end ;  but  one  does  not  feel  afraid  or  panicky.  I  think  I  felt
rather  cooler  then  than  at  any  other  time.  I  asked  lots  of
people  afterwards  what  they  felt  like  and  they  all  said  the
same  thing.  It  all  happens  in  a  few  seconds,  one  hasn't
got  time  to  think,  but  never  in  all  my  life  have  I  been  so
thankful  to  see  daylight  again — and  I  don't  think  I  ever  want
to  see  another  night  like  that — it's  such  an  awful  strain;  one
does  not  notice  it  at  the  time,  but  it's  the  reaction  afterwards.
I  never  noticed  I  was  tired  till  I  got  back  to  harbor,  and
then  we  all  turned  in  and  absolutely  slept  like  dogs.  We
were  72  hours  with  little  or  no  sleep.  The  Skipper  was  per-
fectly wonderful — he  never  left  the  bridge  for  a  minute  for
24  hours  and  was  either  on  the  bridge  or  in  the  chart  house
the  whole  time  we  were  out,  and  I've  never  seen  anybody
so  cool  and  unruffled.  He  stood  there  sucking  his  pipe  as  if
nothing  out  of  the  ordinary  were  happening.

One  quite  forgot  all  about  time.  I  was  relieved  at  4  a.  m.,
and  on  looking  at  my  watch  found  I  had  been  up  there  nearly
12  hours,  and  then  discovered  I  was  rather  hungry.

I  had  my  camera  on  the  bridge  the  whole  time  and  took
several  photographs  when  there  was  a  chance,  but  all  at  rather
long  range  and  the  light  was  not  good,  so  I  doubt  if  they
will  be  good — especially  as  the  Skipper  tried  to  take  one  when
I  wasn't  there,  and  not  knowing  anything  about  it  took  the
front  off  instead  of  opening  the  back.  Luckily  it  was  at  the
last  film  so  I  hope  it  hasn't  spoilt  the  lot.  If  they  do  come
out  they  should  be  rather  interesting  and  I'll  send  you  prints.

BRUSILOFF  AGAIN  BREAKS  THE  AUSTRIAN

LINE

CAPTURE  OF  BUKOWINA  AND  THE  THIRD  ADVANCE  INTO

HUNGARY

JUNE  4TH-AUGUST

ROBERT  MACHRAY  GENERAL  BRUSILOFF

GENERAL  VON  CRAMON         AUSTRIAN  EYE-WITNESSES

The  changing  War  leadership,  so  marked  in  1916,  had  begun  in
Russia,  in  the  previous  fall,  with  the  dismissal  of  Grand  Duke  Nicholas
from  command  against  Germany  and  Austria.  In  his  place  General
Alexieff  now  took  control  under  the  nominal  commandership  of  the
Czar.  Alexieff  placed  in  command  along  the  Austrian  front  that
extremely  able  leader,  General  Brusiloff,  Russia's  chief  hero  of  the  War.

Brusiloff's  advance  in  June  was  certainly  a  most  amazing  evidence
of  Russia's  power  of  recuperation ;  and  if  the  Czar  could  have  re-
organized his  Court  and  Cabinet  as  successfully  as  Alexieff  and  Brusi-
loff rebuilt  his  army,  the  results  which  the  world  so  eagerly  expected
from  Brusiloff's  advance  might  have  been  realized.  His  successes
were,  however,  to  be  more  than  neutralized  by  the  treachery  of  the
Czar's  new  Prime  Minister,  Sturmer.

The  enthusiasm  of  the  western  Allies  over  Brusiloff's  success  is
well  depicted  here  by  Machray,  the  noted  expert  on  eastern  Europe.
What  will  probably  never  be  depicted  in  completeness  is  that  other
side  of  the  case,  the  Austrian  disarray.  So  sure  were  the  Austrians  of
the  strength  of  their  own  trenches  and  the  weakness  of  the  foe  that
they  seem  to  have  been  caught  wholly  by  surprise.  Their  camps  be-
hind the  lines  contained  every  luxury  for  the  officers,  and  gardens  and
grain-fields  for  the  men.  They  were  even,  at  the  very  moment  of
Brusiloff's  attack,  holding  an  official  celebration  on  the  birthday  of
their  commander,  Archduke  Frederick,  one  of  the  numerous  Haps-
burg  royal  family.  How  the  celebration  was  interrupted  at  Czerno-
vitz,  the  capital  of  the  invaded  district,  is  here  told  by  some  of  its
citizens.  A  more  official  Teuton  view  is  that  of  General  von  Cramon,
the  chief  German  "liaison"  officer  with  the  Austrians.

This  third  widespread  Russian  advance  into  Austrian  territory
penetrated  a  region  further  south  than  that  previously  occupied.  The
Russian  troops  now  spread  over  the  whole  of  the  Bukowina,  the
Austrian  province  bordering  directly  on  Rumania.  This  naturally  im-
pressed the  Rumanians  more  deeply  than  the  earlier  successes  which
had  been  in  regions  beyond  their  vision.  Moreover,  the  Carpathian
Mountains  being  here  less  formidable  than  further  north,  the  Russians
found  it  easier  to  speed  their  Cossack  cavalry  across  the  mountains
into  Hungary.  A  picture  of  the  terror  caused  by  these  raids  is  here
drawn  by  an  Hungarian.

1 86   BRUSILOFF  BREAKS  THE  AUSTRIANS

In  brief,  this  third  breakdown  of  Austria  seemed  to  offer  every
evidence  of  bringing  Russia  immediate  and  comprehensive  victory.
Then  came  its  breakdown,  as  told  in  the  later  sections  of  this  volume.

BY  ROBERT  MACHRAY

THE  4th  of  June,  191 6,  will  always  be  one  of  the  great
dates  of  the  War.  On  that  day  Russia  reasserted  her
might  by  opening  her  amazing  and  successful  offensive  under
General  Brusiloff  against  the  Austro-Germans  in  the  area
lying  between  the  Pripet  and  the  Pruth.

It  should  be  remembered  that  on  that  4th  of  June  the
prospects  of  Germany,  certainly  on  the  European  fronts  if  not
so  much  so  on  the  Asiatic,  looked  so  rosy  as  to  encourage
her  in  taking  a  complacent  view  of  the  situation.  It  could
scarcely  be  truthfully  affirmed  that  the  Entente  Powers  were
making  genuine  progress  anywhere.  At  Verdun,  which  for
months  had  been  the  center  of  as  bitter  fighting  as  was  ever
witnessed,  the  French,  in  spite  of  the  most  heroic  efforts,
were  decidedly,  if  slowly,  losing  ground.  In  the  Trentino
the  brave  Italians  had  been  compelled  to  withdraw  for  sev-
eral miles  into  their  own  territory  before  a  strong  and  per-
sistent Austrian  offensive.  During  May,  Russia,  according
to  the  experts  of  Petrograd,  was  anticipating  a  powerful
attack  by  Hindenburg  on  the  Riga-Dvinsk  line,  to  be  fol-
lowed by  an  advance  on  the  Russian  capital ;  and  there  was
a  violent  contest  near  Jakobstadt  on  the  Dvina  with  inde-
cisive results.  But  if  the  Germans  did  not  advance  in  this
region,  neither  did  the  Russians,  while  in  the  district  of  Lake
Narotch,  east  of  Vilna,  the  latter  were  thrown  back ;  south
of  the  Pripet  the  respective  combatants  held  the  same  trenches
they  had  occupied  since  the  preceding  autumn.  On  the  sur-
face, at  least,  things  looked  well  enough  for  Germany  along
the  whole  Russian  front  in  Europe,  and  she  was  sure  they
would  never  be  worse ;  on  the  contrary,  her  contempt  for  the
Russians  flattered  her  into  thinking  it  would  be  an  easy  mat-
ter to  make  them  better.  In  the  Balkans  some  of  the  forces
of  the  Entente  had  moved  northward  from  the  great  en-
trenched camp  of  Salonika  to  the  Bulgaro-Serbian  frontier,
but  otherwise  had  done  nothing  worth  speaking  of;  behind

BRUSILOFF  BREAKS  THE  AUSTRIANS  187

them  was  an  uncertain  Greece,  whose  king  was  even  then  play-
ing, with  the  merest  pretense  of  concealment,  into  the  hands
of  the  Germans  by  surrendering  one  of  the  best  of  the  Greek
forts  to  the  invading  Bulgars.  Such  was  the  general  posi-
tion in  Europe.  In  Armenia  the  Russians  had  been  checked
and  forced  to  retreat  by  a  clever  Germano-Turkish  scheme
of  attack,  which  for  a  while  was  so  strongly  pressed  as  to
threaten  Erzerum,  and  did  result  in  the  recapture  of  Bitlis
and  Mush  later.  And  if  the  position  in  Egypt  was  unfavor-
able to  Germany,  the  reverse  was  the  case  with  respect  to
Mesopotamia ;  and  large  Turkish  forces,  set  free  by  the  fall
of  Kut,  were  marching  from  Bagdad  and  Mosul  to  the  Per-
sian frontier  to  strengthen  the  troops  then  in  contact  with
the  Russians  and  drive  the  latter  eastward  again — which
was  what  happened.  Surveying  the  whole  field  of  the  War,
Germany  could  congratulate  herself.  She  invited  the  Allies
to  study  the  "war-map,"  and  late  in  the  spring  Bethmann-
Hollweg,  her  Chancellor,  boasted  in  the  Reichstag  that  she
would  never  retrace  her  "iron  step."  His  speech  on  that
occasion  was  couched  in  terms  very  different  from  those
which  he  employed  at  the  reassembling  of  the  Reichstag  on
the  28th  of  September,  when  he  made  another  review  of  the
War.  He  had  much  less  to  say  of  the  conquests  Germany
had  made,  and  a  good  deal  more  about  the  territorial  changes
the  Entente  Powers  desired  to  effect ;  he  still  protested  that
Germany  was  unconquerable,  but  ne  let  it  be  seen,  whether
intentionally  or  not,  that  he  was  not  quite  so  sure  about  the
irretractability  of  that  iron  step — he  knew,  as  a  matter  of
fact,  that  first  the  Russians  and  then  the  British,  French,  and
Italians  had  demonstrated  the  opposite.  In  the  first  two  or
three  days  of  June  no  suspicion  of  anything  of  the  sort  had
entered  the  German  mind.

Brusiloff's  wonderful  offensive  came  as  a  tremendous  sur-
prise not  only  to  the  enemy  but  to  the  vast  majority  of  the
peoples  of  the  Allies,  who  had  regarded  Russia  as  likely  at
best  to  remain  on  the  defensive  for  a  long  time  in  Europe,
because  of  the  serious  losses  she  had  sustained  in  191 5  and  her
tragical  deficiencies  in  munitions.  Throughout  the  West  it
was  indeed  generally  thought  that  Russia  at  that  time  was

1 88   BRUSILOFF  BREAKS  THE  AUSTRIANS

doing  nothing  more  than  making  a  gallant  attempt  to  relieve
the  pressure,  then  most  formidable,  on  the  Italians  in  the
Trentino.  When  an  official  Petrograd  communique,  issued
on  the  7th  of  June,  announced  that  up  to  noon  on  the  pre-
ceding day  Brusiloff's  operations  had  led  to  the  capture  of
more  than  40,000  men  and  nearly  eighty  guns,  with  fifty
trench-mortars  and  above  one  hundred  and  thirty  machine
guns,  it  was  perceived  that  the  Russians  were  in  strong  force,
and  that  this  was  no  mere  demonstration  but  the  commence-
ment of  a  powerful  offensive.

When  June  opened  the  Russian  armies  in  Europe  were  dis-
posed in  three  groups  along  a  front  not  far  short  of  nine
hundred  miles  in  length  from  north  to  south.  The  northern
Russian  armies,  then  under  General  Kuropatkin,  composed
the  first  group,  and  they  held  the  line  from  Riga  to  Dvinsk.
The  central  Russian  armies,  under  General  Evert,  formed
the  second  group,  and  they  continued  the  line  southward
from  Dvinsk  to  the  Pripet.  The  southern  Russian  armies,
under  General  Brusiloff,  were  the  third  group,  and  they  stood
on  the  front  from  the  Pripet  to  the  Pruth.  All  three  groups
were  under  the  command  of  General  Alexieff,  who  took  or-
ders only  from  the  Czar  himself.  Definite  figures  of  the
strength  of  any  of  these  groups,  or  of  the  individual  armies
comprised  in  them,  are  still  to  seek,  but  it  is  certain  that
Russia  had  from  two  to  three  millions  of  armed  men  on  or
immediately  behind  her  European  front,  with  plenty  of  re-
serves at  the  depots  in  the  near  interior.  In  all  probability
she  had  nearly  as  many  men  on  this  front  in  October,  1915,
but  not  a  million  of  them  had  rifles;  in  the  great  retreat,
which  was  caused  by  Russia's  melancholy  shortage  of  mu-
nitions, it  was  frequently  the  case  that  only  one  soldier  out
of  four  had  a  rifle.  According  to  a  German  estimate,  which
was  published  shortly  before  the  start  of  Brusiloff's  offensive,
that  general  had  at  his  disposition  in  this  area  forty-one  in-
fantry and  fourteen  cavalry  divisions,  or  something  like  a
million  men,  if  the  divisions  were  in  full  strength.  Under
him  he  had  the  Eighth  Russian  Army,  commanded  by  General
Kaledin,  in  Volhynia;  the  Eleventh  Russian  Army,  led  by
General  Sakharoff ,  in  Volhynia  and  Galicia ;  the  Seventh  Rus-

BRUSILOFF  BREAKS  THE  AUSTRIANS  189

sian  Army,  under  General  Shcherbacheff,  in  Galicia;  and  the
Ninth  Russian  Army,  commanded  by  General  Lechitsky,  in
the  Dniester-Pruth  valleys.  Opposed  to  him  were  five  Aus-
tro-Hungarian  armies,  with  which  had  been  incorporated  sev-
eral German  divisions,  all  under  the  command  of  the  Arch-
duke Frederick,  the  only  member  of  the  House  of  Haps-
burg  who  was  a  professional  soldier.  The  total  strength
of  these  five  armies  was  about  forty-one  divisions,  with  ten
divisions  of  cavalry ;  in  other  words,  the  Archduke  and  Brusi-
loff  had  much  the  same  number  of  men,  and  when  later
the  Austrians  claimed,  in  extenuation  of  their  defeats,  that
they  were  overwhelmed  by  the  vastly  superior  numerical
forces  of  the  Russians,  they  were  talking  unmitigated  non-
sense. They  had  besides  the  benefit  of  being  in  strong  de-
fensive positions,  and  of  better  railway  facilities.  Nor  were
the  Russians  much  helped  by  large  defections  of  Austrian
Slavs  in  this  campaign,  for  most  of  the  latter  were  in  the
Trentino,  and  the  Austrian  soldiers  on  the  Russian  front  were
drawn  from  Austrian-Poland,  Hungary  and  Austria  proper
— some  of  the  best  fighting  men  of  the  Dual  Monarchy.  The
truth  was  that  the  enemy  was  outgeneraled  and  outfought
in  the  field,  first  on  the  flanks  and  then  in  the  center.

No  other  operations  of  the  War  have  quite  the  same
impressive  character  as  those  which  Brusiloff  began  on  the
4th  of  June,  inasmuch  as  his  offensive  started  with  a  simul-
taneous frontal  assault  on  a  line  of  enemy  positions  over  two
hundred  and  fifty  miles  in  length.  One  of  the  reasons  for  the
success  of  Germany  had  been  her  ability  to  move  her  forces
quickly  from  one  sector,  where  little  or  nothing  was  doing,
to  another  which  was  being  heavily  attacked.  Knowing
this,  the  Russian  High  Command  determined  to  deprive  her
of  this  advantage  by  taking  the  offensive  over  so  long  a
front  that  it  would  be  extremely  difficult,  if  not  impossible,
for  her  to  employ  similar  tactics  in  this  instance.  Therefore
Brusiloff,  through  Kaledin,  Sakharoff,  Shcherbacheff,  and
Lechitsky,  attacked  the  Austro-Germans  not  at  one  point,  or
at  several  points,  but  at  every  point  of  their  two-hundred-
and-seventy-mile  line.  It  has  been  stated  in  the  Press  that
Russia,  in  her  solicitude  for  the  hard-pressed  Italians,  under-

190   BRUSILOFF  BREAKS  THE  AUSTRIAN3

took  this  vast  and  in  its  way  unparalleled  venture  earlier  than
she  had  intended.  No  doubt  she  was  most  desirous  of  helping
Cadorna,  and  she  has  never  hesitated  to  make  the  most  gal-
lant efforts,  not  without  heavy  sacrifices  to  herself,  on  behalf
of  her  Allies  in  their  need,  but  in  this  case  it  appears  that
there  was  nothing  unpremeditated,  nothing  that  was  not  in
conformity  precisely  with  her  own  plans.  Careful  and  ex-
tensive preparation  preceded  Brusiloff's  offensive,  every  fea-
ture of  which  had  been  studied  beforehand.  Staff  organiza-
tion had  been  perfected,  transport  and  the  means  of  communi-
cation improved  almost  out  of  knowledge,  and  munitions  of
every  kind  accumulated  in  adequate  quantities.  By  experi-
mental fire  the  Russian  gunners  had  learned  the  ranges  on  the
enemy's  front  with  exactitude.  The  element  of  chance  was
eliminated,  as  far  as  it  was  possible.  The  4th  of  June  was,  as
it  happened,  a  Sunday,  and  shortly  after  dawn  the  Russian
guns  opened  the  campaign  with  an  intense  bombardment  of
the  entire  Austro-German  line,  the  shelling  lasting  for  from
twelve  to  thirty  hours  on  the  various  parts  of  it  according  to
the  results  obtained.  An  Austrian  communique  of  that  date
reported  that  the  Russian  fire  was  especially  violent  in  Volhy-
nia,  on  the  army  of  the  Archduke  Joseph  Ferdinand  near
Olyka ;  in  Galicia,  northwest  of  Tarnopol,  and  on  the  Lower
Strypa ;  and  in  the  region  of  the  Dniester.  But  the  bombard-
ment was  intense  everywhere;  here  and  there,  as  at  Okna
across  the  Dniester,  it  completely  flattened  out  the  enemy's
trenches,  and  its  general  effect  elsewhere  was  to  cut  wide
avenues  through  the  serried  rows  of  wire  entanglements,
thus  providing  open  roads  for  the  advance  of  the  Russian
infantry  and,  where  practicable,  cavalry.  The  official  mes-
sage of  the  Austrians  also  noted  that  Russian  infantry  at-
tacks seemed  to  be  imminent  all  along  the  line.  Next  day
Petrograd  announced  that  fighting  had  begun  the  previous
morning  "from  the  Pripet  River  front  to  the  Rumanian  fron-
tier."

On  the  5th  and  6th  of  June,  Brusiloff's  offensive  really
began  to  develop  in  the  most  remarkable  manner.  On  his
extreme  left  flank  his  troops  forced  the  Austrians  to  retire
for  three  miles  from  their  first  lines  of  trenches  near  Okna

BRUSILOFF  BREAKS  THE  AUSTRIANS  191

on  the  former  day,  and  gave  General  Lechitsky  his  oppor-
tunity in  Bukovina.  Also  on  that  day  and  on  the  next,  the
Russians,  on  Brusiloff 's  right  wing,  having  crumpled  up  the
enemy's  strongly  fortified  positions  around  Olyka,  marched
on  rapidly  towards  Lutsk  (Luck),  and  energetically  beating
down  all  opposition  threw  the  Austro-Germans  into  such  a
panic  that,  abandoning  their  guns,  they  surrendered  in  thou-
sands, whole  regiments  laying  down  their  arms.

So  great  was  the  demoralization  of  the  enemy,  that  Gen-
eral Kaledin,  who  was  in  command  of  the  Russian  opera-
tions in  this  quarter,  was  able  to  capture  the  fortress  on  the
evening  of  the  6th  of  June  with  hardly  an  effort.  The  Arch-
duke Joseph  Ferdinand,  the  commander  of  the  Fourth  Aus-
tro-Hungarian  Army,  had  fled  from  the  place  only  two  or
three  hours  before  the  Russians  entered  it.  In  their  flight
the  Austrians  left  behind  them  many  of  their  heavy  guns,
without  stopping  to  unload  them,  and  vast  quantities  of  ma-
terial; they  did  not  even  try  to  clear  the  hospitals  of  their
wounded.  This  was  Brusiloff's  first  great  triumph.  Within
sixty  hours  of  the  initiation  of  his  offensive  he  was  in  a  po-
sition to  report  to  the  Czar  and  Alexieff  this  very  consider-
able gain,  in  addition  to  other,  if  less  striking,  successes  on
his  whole  front.  Late  that  same  night  the  Czar  telegraphed
his  congratulations,  and  bade  Brusiloff  tell  his  troops  that
he  was  watching  their  bold  deeds  with  pride  and  heartfelt
gratitude.

Fighting  all  the  way,  Kaledin  had  advanced  twenty-five
miles  in  two  and  a  half  days,  and  he  drove  on  without  giving
the  defeated  enemy  a  chance  to  recover.  On  the  7th  and
8th  he  forced  the  passage  of  the  Styr  and  its  affluent,  the
Ikva,  at  many  points.  On  the  8th  and  9th  he  fought  and
won  a  fierce  battle  thirteen  miles  north  of  Lutsk  at  Rojische,
a  junction  on  the  Rovno-Kovel  railway,  and  the  town  at
which  was  the  chief  crossing  over  the  Styr.  The  day  which
saw  the  capture  of  the  Rojische  bridgehead,  an  action  in
which  young,  untried  Russian  troops  gloriously  distinguished
themselves,  also  witnessed,  farther  south  in  Volhynia,  the
second  great  triumph  of  Brusiloff  in  the  storming  of  the
fortress  of  Dubno  on  the  Ikva,  the  district  in  which  Kale-

192   BRUSILOFF  BREAKS  THE  AUSTRIANS

din's  army  joined  up  and  cooperated  with  that  of  General
Sakharoff.  Of  the  three  fortresses  known  as  the  Volhynian
Triangle  Russia,  in  191 5,  had  retained  only  Rovno,  and
that  she  had  kept  it  then  was  largely  owing  to  the  fine  gen-
eralship and  the  characteristic  aggressive  resoluteness  of
Brusiloff,  at  that  time  one  of  Ivanoff's  army  commanders.
Now  the  two  other  fortresses  of  the  group  were  again  in
her  possession.  As  was  to  be  expected,  there  was  much  re-
joicing in  Russia  over  these  signal  victories,  and  the  other
Allies,  beholding  these  unmistakable  proofs  of  the  renewed
vigor  and  power  of  Russia,  were  greatly  encouraged.

Nor  did  these  successes  stand  alone.  In  Galicia,  south  of
Burkanoff,  General  Shcherbacheff  carried  the  line  of  the
Olekhoviets  by  the  7th  of  June,  captured  the  important  town
of  Buczacz  on  the  8th,  and  thereafter  pushed  on  some  miles
to  the  west  of  the  Lower  Strypa.  In  the  region  of  the  Dnies-
ter Lechitsky,  developing  his  victorious  assault  on  Okna,
took  by  storm  on  the  1  ith,  after  five  days  of  desperate  fight-
ing, the  strong  Austrian  positions  south  of  Dobronovtse,
fourteen  miles  northeast  of  Czernovitz,  and  laid  open  the
whole  duchy  of  Bukovina.

In  a  week  Brusiloff  had  gained  several  astounding  vic-
tories. His  general  offensive  had  succeeded  in  four  sectors
— Lutsk,  Dubno,  Buczacz,  and  between  the  Dniester  and  the
Pruth,  and  if  it  failed,  as  fail  it  did  at  the  moment,  in  the
district  about  Kolki  on  the  Styr,  and  on  the  Upper  Strypa,
there  remained  a  splendid  balance  of  achievement,  which
came  as  a  very  unpleasant  and  unexpected  shock  to  the  arro-
gant calculations  of  Germany.  The  most  disquieting  result
to  her  was  the  progress  made  by  the  Russians  on  the  Styr,  in
the  area  of  which  Rojische  and  Lutsk  might  be  regarded  as
centers,  and  on  the  Ikva,  with  Dubno  as  the  pivotal  point
there.  In  front  of  these  three  towns  respectively  were  three
Austro-German  bases,  Kovel,  Vladimir  Volynsk,  and  Lem-
berg,  the  first  and  third  being  of  the  highest  military  signifi-
cance, with  the  second  not  far  behind  in  value ;  and  all  three
were  menaced.

In  the  second  week  of  Brusiloff's  offensive  the  menace
grew  much  stronger.    From  Rojische  the  Russians  by  the

BRUSILOFF  BREAKS  THE  AUSTRIANS  193

end  of  that  time  had  advanced  to  Svidnikhy  on  the  Stokhod,
and  the  threat  to  Kovel  became  intensified.  Profoundly  per-
turbed by  the  Russians'  amazingly  rapid  and  successful  ad-
vance, Germany  took  steps  to  counter  it  by  sending  into  the
district  large  reinforcements  of  German  troops,  which  she
withdrew  from  Hindenburg's  armies  north  of  the  Pripet
and  from  the  German  Crown  Prince's  at  Verdun.  It  cer-
tainly was  high  time  for  her  to  bestir  herself.  Kaledin  was
only  a  little  over  twenty  miles  from  both  Kovel  and  Vladi-
mir Volynsk,  while  Sakharoff  was  about  sixty  miles  from
Lemberg.  The  Austrians  transferred  to  this  front  all  their
reserves  from  the  Trentino,  and  even  brought  up  troops
from  Serbia  and  Albania.

It  was  chiefly  against  the  Lutsk  Salient  that  the  Ger-
mans, who  relegated  their  defeated  Austrian  and  Hungarian
friends  to  entirely  subordinate  positions  of  command,  now
proceeded  to  start  a  powerful  and  for  a  while  not  unsuc-
cessful counter-offensive,  under  General  Linsingen,  about
the  16th  of  June.  Thanks  to  his  superior  railway  facilities,
the  enemy  was  able  to  concentrate  forces  in  strength  suffi-
cient to  counter-attack  Kaledin,  and,  with  more  powerful
artillery  than  was  at  the  latter's  disposal,  to  check  him.

On  the  8th  of  July  Kaledin  broke  through  the  Austro-
German,  or  rather  German,  front,  and  two  days  afterwards
was  successful  in  a  pitched  battle  at  Svidnikhy,  while  he
also  struck  a  heavy  blow  at  the  enemy  at  Kieslin.  A  week
later  he  repulsed  a  vigorous  German  attack  near  Sviniukhy.
Then  heavy  rains  interposed,  and  for  a  week  or  two  opera-
tions became  practically  impossible,  but  as  July  came  to  an
end  Kaledin  pushed  Linsingen  out  of  his  heavily  fortified
positions  at  Trysten,  four  miles  from  the  Stokhod,  and
forced  him  to  the  opposite  side  of  the  stream.  A  Berlin
official  statement  admitted,  for  once,  a  serious  defeat  when
it  said  that  "the  enemy  succeeded  in  penetrating  our  lines
at  Trysten,  and  obliged  us  to  evacuate  the  positions  we  still
held  in  front  of  the  Stokhod."

We  now  pass  to  review  what  Sakharoff  achieved,  far-

194  BRUSILOFF  BREAKS  THE  AUSTRIANS

ther  south  in  Galicia.  In  July  Sakharoff' s  front  extended
southwest  of  Lutsk,  across  to  the  Lipa,  a  western  tributary
of  the  Upper  Styr.  A  part  of  Linsingen's  counter-offen-
sive was  a  thrust  from  the  southwest  at  Lutsk,  and  for  it
he  had  concentrated  strong  forces,  admirably  gunned.
Guessing  the  enemy's  plan,  Sakharoff  anticipated  and  ab-
solutely defeated  it  by  what  the  Russian  High  Command
officially  characterized  as  a  "clever  maneuver."  The  Rus-
sians style  the  battle  the  Battle  of  Mikhailovka,  and  its  chief
feature  was  that,  forestalling  the  German  move  by  a  day,
Sakharoff  suddenly  and  unexpectedly  drove  hard  at  Linsin-
gen's flanks  and  crumpled  them  up.  On  the  16th  of  July
he  broke  Linsingen's  left  wing  at  Pustomity,  and  his  right
near  the  mouth  of  the  Lipa,  not  only  foiling  this  counter-
offensive  but  completely  smashing  it  to  pieces.  On  the  20th
Linsingen,  having  somewhat  recovered,  thanks  to  reinforce-
ments, attempted  an  attack,  but  was  quickly  checked  by
Sakharoff,  who  on  that  same  day  and  the  following  won
the  great  battle  which  the  Russians  have  denominated  the
Battle  of  Berestechko.

With  scarcely  a  pause  Sakharoff  continued  his  victorious
progress.  On  the  night  of  the  24th  the  third  of  the  series
of  his  big  operations  was  begun  by  his  breaking  through
the  Austrian  front  on  the  river  Slonuvka,  an  eastern  affluent
of  the  Upper  Styr,  here  flowing  in  Galicia.  Attracting  the
attention  of  the  Austrians  by  a  feint  on  Leznioff,  he  pressed
on  with  his  main  forces  across  the  Slonuvka,  a  few  miles
north  of  Brody,  towards  which  town  the  Russians  made
good  progress  next  day.  Early  in  the  morning  of  the  28th
of  July  Sakharoff  captured  Brody,  another  heavy  blow  to
the  enemy  and  an  appreciable  shortening  of  the  distance  of
the  Russians  from  Lemberg.

General  Lechitsky  had  perhaps  had  a  harder  task  than
either  Kaledin  or  Sakharoff  in  that  he  had  more  difficult
country  to  negotiate  at  the  start.  He  had  to  break  through
the  fortified  mountainous  barrier  of  Eastern  Bukovina,  and
to  get  across  the  wide  Dniester,  but  he  did  both.  Only  one
bridgehead  on  the  Dniester — that  at  Uscieczko — was  held
by  the  Russians  on  the  4th  of  June,  but  his  heavy  defeat  of

BRUSILOFF  BREAKS  THE  AUSTRIANS  195

the  Austrians  at  Dobronovtse,  previously  mentioned,  and
his  rapid  movements  thereafter  westward,  turned  the  nearer
of  the  Austrian  positions  on  the  great  river,  as  at  Zalesczyki,
and  led  to  their  being  evacuated  by  the  enemy  after  only  a
show  of  resistance.  By  the  nth  of  June  one  part  of  his
forces  had  taken  Horodenka,  while  another  reached  Snia-
tyn.  A  third  column  stormed  the  strong  line  of  the  Pruth,
and  on  the  17th  Czernovitz  was  captured,  for  the  fifth  time
since  the  outbreak  of  the  War,  by  the  Russians.

Within  the  next  week  Lechitsky,  by  a  fine  fighting  march
at  top  speed,  made  himself  master  of  Bukovina,  a  territory
half  as  large  as  Wales.  Pressing  on  from  Sniatyn,  he  was
the  victor  in  a  terrific  battle,  on  the  28th  of  June,  fought  on
the  ground  lying  between  the  Dniester  and  the  Pruth.  Fol-
lowing fast  on  the  heels  of  the  beaten  foe,  he  took  Kolomea
on  the  last  day  of  the  month  and,  steadily  advancing  west-
ward as  July  opened,  captured  Delatyn  on  the  8th — he  was
now  about  seventy  miles  from  his  starting-point  five  weeks
before.

Bothmer  was  now  deeply  outflanked  in  this  southern
area,  but  continuous  heavy  rains  prevented  Lechitsky  from
moving,  and  permitted  the  German  general  to  hold  his  posi-
tions. Both  the  Dniester  and  the  Pruth  were  flooded,  the
former  rising  ten  and  the  latter  sixteen  feet.  Not  till  the
end  of  July  was  Lechitsky  able  to  advance,  and  it  was
August  before  he  got  into  motion  on  a  big  scale.  About  the
7th  of  the  latter  month,  notwithstanding  the  most  violent
opposition,  he  stormed  his  way  through  Tlumacz  to  Tys-
mienitsa,  took  Niznioff,  and  occupied  Ottynia.  On  the  9th
he  captured  Chrpylin,  only  two  miles  from  Stanislau,  which
fell  into  his  hands  next  day,  after  an  obstinate  fight  on  the
river  Bystrzyca.  The  capture  of  Stanislau,  a  place  of  great
strategical  importance,  ranks  as  one  of  the  leading  events
of  1916.  Bothmer' s  army  on  the  Strypa  was  now  effectively
enveloped  from  the  south,  and  two  days  after  Lechitsky's
occupation  of  the  town  Bothmer  retreated  from  the  ground
he  had  held  for  nearly  a  year  to  the  line  of  the  Zlota  Lipa.

On  the  1 2th  of  August  a  statement  was  issued  by  the
Russian  High  Command  announcing  the  fall  of  the  last

196  BRUSILOFF  BREAKS  THE  AUSTRIAN S

sector  of  the  powerfully  fortified  rampart  which  the  enemy
had  erected  from  the  Pripet  as  far  as  the  Rumanian  frontier
during  the  preceding  winter.  "To-day,"  it  said,  "as  the
result  of  seven  weeks  of  persistent  effort  on  the  part  of  the
glorious  troops  of  Generals  Sakharoff  and  Shcherbacheff,
under  the  direction  of  General  Brusiloff,  the  whole  line  of
the  river  Strypa  fell  into  our  hands.  The  entire  sector  of
the  winter  base  position  established  by  the  enemy  in  front
of  Tarnapol  and  Buczacz  is  in  our  possession."

With  the  retirement  of  Count  Bothmer  from  the  Strypa,
Brusiloff's  marvelous  offensive  reached  a  definite  stage.  In
seventy  days  his  splendid  Russians  had  advanced  on  their
270-mile  front  from  ten  or  twelve  miles  in  the  center  to
sixty  and  eighty  miles  respectively  on  the  flanks,  had  fought
and  won  a  dozen  great  battles,  and  including  Bukovina  had
reconquered  several  thousand  square  miles  of  territory.  The
capture  of  prisoners  was  simply  colossal,  the  total  figure  ex-
ceeding 350,000  men,  while  in  guns  the  Russians  took  over
400,  many  of  them  heavy  pieces,  as  well  as  upwards  of  1,300
machine  guns.

BY  GENERAL  ALEXEI  BRUSILOFF

If  there  remain  any  Germans  still  hopeful  for  their
cause,  let  them  realize  that  to-day,  when  the  Central  Powers
have  lost  the  initiative  and  are  finding  a  difficulty  in  refilling
their  ranks,  Russia  has  not  yet  reached  the  zenith  of  her
power,  which  will  only  be  approached  next  year,  when  she
will  have  the  largest  and  best  army  since  the  beginning  of
the  War.  Next  year  we  shall  have  material  on  an  equality
with  the  enemy  and  a  superiority  in  human  resources,  which
should  steadily  increase  as  long  as  the  War  endures.  Our
new  levies  which  come  in  each  year  equal  our  best  troops,
and,  as  I  believe,  they  are  far  superior  to  anything  which
the  enemy  can  still  find  to  send  against  us  for  next  year's
campaign.

To  illustrate  the  desperate  shortage  of  the  German  ar-
mies, I  need  only  recall  the  well-established  fact  that  four
divisions  were  hurried  here  from  France  soon  after  June
4th,  when  our  offensive  began.    These  were  the  19th  and

BRUSILOFF  BREAKS  THE  AUSTRIANS  197

20th,  forming  the  10th  Active  Corps,  and  the  1  ith  Bavarian
and  43rd  Reserve  Divisions.  We  were  expecting  the  44th
Division,  but  it  did  not  appear.  As  usual,  the  Germans  had
underrated  French  powers  of  resistance.  Although  17  divi-
sions remained  before  Verdun,  the  enemy  found  it  im-
possible to  move  another  man  hither,  and  as  soon  as  the
British  armies  advanced  all  idea  of  transferring  troops  had
to  be  abandoned.  The  units  confronting  us  represented  the
maximum  effort  of  German)'.  They  were  moved  about
along  the  Russian  front  chiefly  to  the  southward,  in  order
to  fill  the  gaps  left  by  the  fleeing  Austrians.

BY  GENERAL  A.  VON  CRAMON

On  the  4th  of  June  the  great  Russian  attack  began.  It
was  stated  on  good  authority  that  a  decision  was  to  be
fought  for  in  the  East.  Verdun,  and  particularly  Tyrol,
had  forced  upon  the  Entente  the  beginning  of  the  fighting
some  weeks  earlier  than  was  expected.

Events  crowded  on  events.  On  the  northern  wing  the
positions  west  of  Rovno  were  lost.  The  report  that  Rus-
sian attacks  had  been  repulsed  followed  hard  on  the  news
of  the  defeat.  Our  reserves  had  been  used  up  with  astonish-
ing rapidity,  but  ineffectually.  The  ceaseless  torrent  poured
westward.  Lutsk  with  its  notorious  bridgehead  fell.  The
Russian  stood  on  the  western  bank  of  the  Styr,  and  before
him  were  only  the  shattered  remnants  of  divisions.

On  the  southern  wing  a  Russian  attack  pierced  the  front
between  the  Dniester  and  the  Pruth;  whereupon  one  part
withdrew  to  the  west,  the  other  crossed  the  Pruth.

In  the  center  of  the  front  the  Army  of  the  South  alone
maintained  its  ground.

Already  on  June  7th  the  Austrian  Headquarters  de-
clared that  the  situation  could  not  be  maintained  with  the
help  of  Austro-Hungarian  troops  alone.  "After  the  ex-
periences of  the  Fifth  and  the  Sixth  Armies,  it  is  quite  im-
possible to  make  any  prediction  regarding  the  Fourth
Army."  It  had  broken  asunder  west  of  Lutsk;  the  way  to
Vladimir- Volynsk  was  open.  The  Russian,  however,  did
not  pursue.   Whether  he  overlooked  the  extent  of  his  sue-

198  BRUSILOFF  BREAKS  THE  AUSTRIAN S

cess — something  that  has  happened  to  the  attacker  on  every
front, —  whether  he  was  anxious  about  his  northern  flank,
or  whether  he  did  not  have  forces  sufficient  to  continue  the
pursuit,  these  facts  cannot  be  determined  here.  The  point
is  that  he  missed  his  opportunity,  wavered  between  taking
the  direction  toward  Lemberg  or  Kovel,  and  lost  precious
time.

Army  hearquarters  did  not  consider  a  suspension  of  the
offensive  in  Italy.  It  invoked  German  aid,  pointing  out  that
the  Russian  attack  appeared  to  be  directed  exclusively
against  the  Austrian  front,  and  that  the  German  front  con-
tiguous to  it  on  the  north  could  spare  troops.  The  high
German  command  did  not  concur  in  this  view.  It  main-
tained that  it  was  engaged  in  waging  heavy  battles  on  the
western  front  and,  as  could  be  shown,  no  Russian  divisions
had  been  removed  from  the  German  front  in  the  East.  The
Austrian  army  headquarters  should  therefore  relieve  the
situation,  for  which  it  was  responsible,  with  its  own  troops.

The  situation  became  graver,  the  call  for  aid  more
urgent,  and  the  German  high  command,  with  a  heavy  heart
and  "with  a  temporary  suspension  and  limitation  of  the  aims
on  the  Western  front,"  was  compelled  to  give  up  several
divisions.  On  June  8th  the  respective  chiefs  of  staff  of
the  two  armies  met  in  Berlin.  It  was  decided  to  relieve  the
situation  by  a  counter-attack  from  the  direction  of  Kovel.
Germany  supplied  several  additional  divisions.  From  the
Italian  front  the  first  troops  moved  to  the  East  on  June
nth.  General  Linsingen  was  put  in  command  also  of  the
Austrian  Fourth  Army.  Archduke  Joseph  Ferdinand  was
replaced  by  General  Tersztyansky.

After  the  surprising  success  of  his  first  attack  the  Rus-
sian now  began  to  bring  the  weight  of  his  numerical  pre-
ponderance to  bear  in  the  South.  Ceaselessly  his  transport
wagons  rolled  toward  the  Austro-Hungarian  front.  Several
attacking  groups  were  formed:  against  Kovel  from  the
south  and  southeast,  and  against  Lemberg  from  three  con-
centric directions  and  south  of  the  Dniester.  The  Austrian
army  headquarters  still  refused  to  believe  in  the  necessity
for  the  absolute  termination  of  hostilities  in  Italy.  The

BRUSILOFF  BREAKS  THE  AUSTRIANS  199

order  to  this  effect,  indeed,  was  not  given  until  June  18th.
A  proud  hope  was  thus  relinquished.  The  Eastern  front
now  became  a  source  of  solicitude  to  all.

The  counter-attack  made  from  the  direction  of  Kovel
succeeded,  toward  the  end  of  June,  in  compressing  some-
what the  Russian  offensive  circle  west  of  Lutsk,  but  soon
came  to  a  standstill.  The  Russian  again  "had  the  floor."
In  the  beginning  of  July  he  penetrated  the  Styr  circle,  north-
west of  Rovno  and  forced  the  defender  back  behind  the
Stokhod.  The  German  high  command  had  been  opposed  to
a  voluntary  evacuation.  This,  now  enforced  by  the  enemy,
cost  many  lives.  The  Russians  were  not  successful  in
proceeding  farther,  that  is,  across  the  Stokhod  toward
Kovel.  The  front  remained  intact,  even  though  it  wavered
at  times.  It  was  a  mistake  on  the  part  of  the  Russian
leaders  to  make  their  attack  in  the  direction  of  Kovel  di-
rectly against  the  point  of  greatest  resistance.  In  the  direc-
tion of  Lemberg  a  success  west  of  the  Styr  would  have  been
certain;  against  Kovel  effective  resistance  would  have  suf-
ficed.

The  attack  on  Lemberg  was  made  from  three  directions :
west  of  the  Styr;  on  both  sides  of  the  railroad  via  Brody;
and  north  of  the  railroad  via  Tarnopol.

As  already  stated,  the  territory  affording  the  most  effec-
tive direction  for  the  thrust — that  lying  west  of  the  Styr —
was  not  supplied  with  troops  sufficient  to  secure  more  than
a  partial  success;  the  attack  stopped  at  the  Lipa.  On  both
sides  of  the  railroad  through  Brody  the  Austro-Hungarian
First  and  Second  Army,  by  the  end  of  July,  had  been  forced
back  westwardly  over  Brody  and  beyond.  North  of  the
Tarnopol  railroad  the  Russian  attack,  at  the  beginning  of
August,  had  advanced  beyond  the  upper  Sereth.  German
troops  had  to  assist  in  guarding  Lemberg.

In  the  center  of  the  front  the  Army  of  the  South  held
well.  It  bent  back  its  wings  so  as  not  to  lose  touch,  and
projected  forward  as  a  last  bastion  eastwardly  into  the
ranks  of  the  onstorming  Russians.  Both  leaders  and  troops
acquitted  themselves  admirably.    Finally  they  also  had  to

2oo  BRUSILOFF  BREAKS  THE  AUSTRIANS

give  up  their  positions;  voluntarily  they  withdrew  behind
the  Zlota-Lipa.

South  of  the  Dniester  the  westwardly  retreating  part
of  the  Seventh  Army  was  becoming  more  and  more  de-
moralized. A  counter-attack  by  German  troops  on  the
north  wing  in  the  direction  of  Obertyn  was  indeed  success-
ful, but  could  not  change  the  situation.  The  defense  had
to  be  transferred  back  west  of  Stanislau,  because  demoral-
ized detachments,  yielding  to  every  attack,  exposed  the
flanks  and  rear  of  bravely  struggling  troops.  The  valuable
oil  district  of  Boryslaw  was  seriously  menaced.  And  now
the  Russian  repeated  his  mistake  of  relinquishing  his  attack
on  the  position  offering  the  weakest  resistance  and  diverting
it  against  parts  of  the  front  more  strongly  defended.  He
transferred  part  of  his  forces  northwardly  across  the  Dnies-
ter and  attacked  the  Army  of  the  South.

The  divisions  of  the  Seventh  Army  retreating  across  the
Pruth  toward  the  southwest  and  south,  had  fallen  back  into
the  Carpathian  Mountains.  The  Russian  was  undecided  as
to  where  he  should  bring  the  greatest  pressure  of  his  pur-
suit to  bear.  Finally  the  pressure  which  he  brought  to  bear
against  the  Carpathians  became  so  strong  and  the  danger  of
an  invasion  of  Hungary  with  its  resultant  effect  on  Rumania
so  urgent,  that  German  and  Austro-Hungarian  reinforce-
ments had  to  be  employed  in  counter-attacks.  These  troops
took  the  passes  of  the  Carpathians  firmly  in  hand,  com-
pelled the  Russians  also  to  send  forces  into  the  mountains,
and  so  relieved  the  Stanislau  front.

The  Russian  massed  attack,  the  main  features  of  which
have  been  described  in  the  foregoing,  did  not  make  any
further  notable  progress.  It  succeeded  in  reaching  neither
Kovel  nor  Lemberg.  The  defense,  however,  had  been  suc-
cessful only  because  20  German  divisions  in  all  had  been
brought  here,  notwithstanding  the  fact  that  the  Battle  of
the  Somme  had  been  raging  since  July  1st  on  the  Western
front.  The  resources  of  the  Central  Powers  had  been  taxed
to  the  utmost.  The  Russian  attack  was  checked  just  at  the
right  moment:  the  Rumanians  arrived  too  late.

BRUSILOFF  BREAKS  THE  AUSTRIANS  201

NARRATIVE  OF  A  POLISH  LANDOWNER  NEAR  CZERNOVITZ

During  the  night  of  June  I2th-i3th  terrific  artillery  fire
was  heard  in  the  town.  Somewhere  near  a  battle  was  raging.
For  the  third  or  fourth  time  since  the  beginning  of  the  war
we  were  passing  through  that  experience.  I  went  to  the  army-
command  to  ask  advice.  A  staff-captain  had  just  arrived
with  news  from  the  front.  The  Austrian  troops  were  re-
sisting. Still,  after  the  front  between  the  Dniester  and  Pruth
had  once  been  broken  there  was  no  other  natural  line  for
resistance.  According  to  the  accounts  of  the  Austrian  offi-
cers, the  Russian  artillery  was,  with  magnificent  bravery,
driving  up  to  new  positions,  thus  preventing  our  men  from
entrenching  and  preparing  a  new  line.

"How  long  can  we  hold  out?"  was  my  question.  The
old  general  looked  at  me  and  answered :  "Only  our  rear-
guards are  now  engaged;  our  forces  are  gathering  a  few
miles  from  here.  If  our  flank  near  Horodenka  holds  out
overnight  we  shall  not  evacuate  the  town."

I  returned  to  Sniatyn.  Small  groups  of  inhabitants  were
standing  about  the  streets,  commenting  on  the  news.  Ar-
tillery and  ammunition  were  at  full  speed  passing  through
the  town  for  the  front.  A  few  regiments  of  infantry  marched
through  at  night.  The  horizon  was  red  with  the  glow  of  fires.
For  the  third  time  our  poor  villages  were  burning.  What-
ever had  survived  previous  battles  was  now  given  up  to  the
flames.  Homeless  refugees,  evacuated  from  the  threatened
villages,  were  passing  with  their  poor,  worn-out  horses  and
their  cows — all  their  remaining  wealth.  In  perfect  silence ;
no  one  complained ;  it  had  to  be.  Mysterious  cavalry  patrols
and  dispatch-riders  were  riding  through  the  streets.  No  one
slept  that  night.

In  the  morning  the  first  military  transports  passed  through
the  town.  The  retreat  had  begun.  Questions  were  asked.
The  Magyar  soldiers  quietly  smoked  their  pipes ;  there  was
no  way  for  us  of  understanding  one  another.  Only  one  of
them,  who  knew  a  few  German  words,  explained,  "Russen,
stark,  stark,  Masse"  (Russians,  strong,  strong,  a  great  mass).
The  approaching  violent  fire  of  heavy  guns  was  even  more

202   BRUSILOFF  BREAKS  THE  AUSTRIANS

enlightening.  Our  trained  ears  could  distinguish  their  voices.
Like  a  continuous  thunder  was  the  roar  of  the  Japanese
[Russian]  guns;  at  intervals  they  were  answered  nervously
by  the  Austrian  artillery.

Suddenly  the  gun-fire  stopped  and  the  expert  ear  could
catch  the  rattling  of  machine  guns.  The  decisive  attack  had
begun.  All  a-strain,  we  were  awaiting  news.  Some  soldiers
appeared  round  the  corner  of  the  road,  slightly  wounded.
Then  a  panic  began.  Some  one  had  come  from  a  neighbor-
ing village  reporting  that  he  had  seen  Cossacks.  Soon  refu-
gees from  the  villages  outside  were  streaming  through  the
town.  General  confusion.  Children  were  crying,  women
sobbing.  A  mass  flight  began.  Again  cavalry  and  dispatch-
riders.  Then  a  drum  was  heard  in  the  square.  It  was  offi-
cially given  out  that  the  situation  was  extremely  grave  and
that  whoever  wished  to  leave  the  town  had  better  do  so  im-
mediately.

We  had  to  go.  As  I  was  mounting  the  carriage  I  per-
ceived in  the  distance,  near  the  wood  on  the  hill,  a  few  horse-
men with  long  lances — Cossacks  from  Kuban.  They  were
slowly  emerging  from  the  forest  and  approaching  the  town.
"Drive  ahead!"  I  shouted  to  the  coachman.

NARRATIVE  OF  AN  AUSTRIAN  CITIZEN  OF  CZERNOVITZ

Even  the  fatal  day  of  June  4th  was  still  meant  to  be  at
Czernovitz  a  day  of  festivities.  The  town  was  beflagged
as  "an  Imperial  Eagle  in  Iron"  (ein  Reichsaar  in  Eisen)
was  unveiled  at  the  Rathaus  "in  memory  of  the  time  of  Rus-
sian invasion"  (cur  Erinnerung  an  die  Russenzeit) .  The
wide  town-square  was  filled  with  people,  and  General  von
Pflanzer-Baltin  himself  was  expected.  But  then  in  the
afternoon,  whilst  the  artillery  fire  in  the  north,  in  the  direc-
tion of  Okna  and  Dobronovtse,  was  getting  louder  and
louder,  a  dispatch-rider  arrived  with  the  following  message,
which  was  read  out  to  the  expectant  crowds  in  the  square:
"His  Excellency  General  von  Pflanzer-Baltin  is  prevented
from  taking  part  in  the  festivities  of  to-day,  and  gives  no-
tice of  his  absence."

Six  days  later  crowds  were  again  filling  the  town  square

BRUSILOFF  BREAKS  THE  AUSTRIANS  203

■ — no  longer  to  "commemorate"  the  Russian  occupation  of
Czernovitz.  On  Saturday,  June  10th,  at  6  p.  m.,  military
transports  began  to  traverse  the  main  streets  of  the  town,
moving  from  the  direction  of  the  bridgehead  of  Zhuchka
towards  Starozhyniets.  It  was  an  interminable  chain  of  all
kinds  of  vehicles,  from  huge,  heavy  motor  lorries  down  to
light  gigs  driven  by  army  officers.  The  waves  of  war  were
rolling  through  the  city.

As  if  at  a  given  sign  the  town  square  filled  with  peo-
ple. Frightened,  searching  eyes  were  asking  for  an  expla-
nation. Terrifying  news  began  to  circulate,  the  excited  im-
agination of  the  crowd  was  at  work.  Mysterious  informa-
tion was  passed  from  mouth  to  mouth,  yet  no  one  knew
anything  definite.  A  fever  got  hold  of  the  town.  With
bags,  boxes  and  baskets  people  were  hurrying  to  the  rail-
way station.  "Is  an  evacuation-train  leaving,  and  when?"
they  were  asking  with  the  persistence  of  desperation.  The
hours  were  moving  slowly,  and  the  night  came  over  the  city,
full  of  despondency  and  gloom.

And  still  the  endless  military  transports  were  traversing
the  streets.  But  no  longer  was  any  notice  taken  of  them.
The  guns  were  playing,  the  excitement  was  growing.  At
7  p.  m.  the  civilian  authorities  received  the  order  of  evacua-
tion. Everything  was  to  be  ready  for  the  train  at  6  a.  m.
which,  besides  Government  property,  was  to  carry  off  the
railway  employees  and  their  families.

The  coffee-houses  were  filling  with  people.  All  Gov-
ernment officials  put  on  their  uniforms,  all  Government
authorities,  even  the  police,  granted  leave  to  their  employees,
demanding  no  more  than  a  show  of  the  performance  of
official  duties.  The  town  corporation  paid  out  to  its  officers
two  months'  salaries  and  sent  them  off  to  Sutchava,  where
all  the  evacuated  Government  authorities  were  going.  No
official  was,  however,  to  leave  the  Bukovina  without  per-
mission.1

1  The  fact  which  naturally  is  not  mentioned  in  this  account  is  that,
before  leaving  the  town,  the  Austrian  authorities  arrested  a  number
of  prominent  citizens  of  Russian  or  Rumanian  nationality — among
them  the  Greek-Orthodox  Archbishop,  Dr.  Repta — and  carried  them
away  to  Dorna  Vatra,  and  subsequently  farther  on  to  the  interior.

204   BRUSILOFF  BREAKS  THE  AUSTRIANS

Suddenly — no  one  knows  how — the  news  spread  that
the  army  group  of  General  Papp  had  evacuated  its  positions
and  was  retreating.  Even  the  hour  of  the  event  was  known.
The  information  was  correct.  The  greatest  optimists  now
gave  up  all  hope.  The  safety  of  the  Bukovina  was  closely
connected  with  the  name  of  General  Papp.

The  gray  dawn  found  the  city  in  full  flight.  The
streets  were  filled  with  crowds,  the  tramcars  were  carrying
wounded  soldiers,  as  at  the  order  of  the  army  command  the
evacuation  of  the  military  hospitals  had  been  started.  The
square  before  the  railway  station  was  closely  packed  with
people,  but  the  police  were  admitting  only  railway  officials.
The  women  were  begging,  crying,  lifting  up  their  children.
They  had  to  wait — that  train  was  not  meant  for  them.

At  8  a.  m.  the  first  evacuation  train  left  the  city.  The
next  was  due  at  noon,  or  at  3  p.  m.  Many  people  preferred
to  fly  by  foot,  as  the  prices  of  cabs  and  cars  had  risen  to  an
incredible  height.  The  artillery  fire  was  drawing  closer
and  closer,  and  above  the  heads  of  the  crowd  appeared  a
Russian  aviator.    Their  hearts  were  shaking  with  fear.

The  prices  of  goods  in  the  town  were  falling  rapidly.
Tobacco  and  cigarettes,  which  previously  were  hardly  to  be
had  anywhere,  were  offered  at  half-price  without  any  re-
strictions. Women  from  the  suburbs  who,  not  knowing
what  had  happened,  had  brought  their  vegetables  to  the
market,  were  selling  them  for  a  third  of  the  usual  price,
only  to  be  able  to  return  to  their  homes  and  children.  For
the  merchants  in  Czernovitz  the  evacuation  was  a  catastro-
phe. As  they  had  been  supplying  the  army  with  goods,  they
had  gathered  stores  valued  at  millions  of  crowns.  None  of
them  could  be  carried  away ;  only  Government  property  was
being  removed.

The  news  that  the  town  would  soon  come  under  fire  led
to  a  sheer  panic.  The  crowd  in  front  of  the  station  was
seized  with  frenzy.  Against  the  resistance  of  the  officials  it
forced  its  way  into  the  station  and  invaded  a  half-empty
military  train.  The  same  happened  in  the  case  of  the  next
train,  and  to  all  the  following  ones.  In  the  course  of  Sunday
6  to  8,000  people  left  Czernovitz.

BRUSILQFF  BREAKS  THE  AUSTRIANS  205

HUNGARIAN  ACCOUNT  OF  THE  RUSSIAN  RAIDS  INTO  HUN-
GARY

In  the  Bukovina  the  fighting  continues  to  be  very  stub-
born, especially  on  the  western  bank  of  the  Moldava  and
between  the  Rumanian  and  Hungarian  frontiers.  The  Rus-
sian objective  in  fighting  these  battles  is  to  establish  a  line
which  will  enable  them  to  proceed  against  Hungary.  The
Russians  are  only  employing  their  Caucasian  divisions,  and
these  are  divided  into  small  reconnoitering  units,  sometimes
three  hundred  and  sometimes  a  thousand  strong.  The
smaller  ones,  under  N.C.O.'s,  advance  along  the  narrow
mountain  passes  and  paths,  and  when  they  encounter  en-
emy detachments,  whatever  their  strength,  they  attack  them,
thus  drawing  as  many  troops  as  possible  from  the  other
sectors  to  these  wild  regions.  One  of  these  Russian  units
succeeded  in  crossing  the  Hungarian  frontier  and  in  pene-
trating into  the  country  for  about  twenty  miles.  They  en-
countered, however,  a  superior  force,  and  after  a  regular
battle  lasting  for  many  hours  withdrew,  only  to  appear  at
another  point  the  next  day.  This  seemingly  unimportant
incursion  into  Hungarian  territory  by  a  small  band  of  Rus-
sian cavalrymen  set  many  thousands  of  people  on  the  move,
and  the  refugees  are  still  pouring  southwards.  Since  then
similar  raids  have  taken  place  every  day,  and  now  the  Rus-
sians appear  sometimes  in  three  different  places  simultane-
ously. It  was  noticed  that  in  these  minor  engagements  the
Cossacks  put  their  wounded  comrades  on  their  horses  and
took  them  away  with  them.  In  some  cases  they  even  car-
ried off  their  dead.

The  assault  on  the  Kapul  heights  in  this  region  was
conducted  in  a  novel  manner.  On  one  side  of  the  heights
the  infantry  attacked  in  columns,  and  on  the  other  the  cav-
alry dashed  up.  These  attacks  were  particularly  fierce.
The  infantry  were  almost  as  quick  in  gaining  the  summits
as  the  cavalry,  the  latter  having  at  times  to  climb  steep
places,  and  offering  naturally  a  much  better  target  than  the
infantry.  In  fact,  Russian  cavalrymen  have  shown  mar-
velous aptitude  in  the  fighting  in  this  most  difficult  region.

THE  CLIMAX  OF  THE  VERDUN  FIGHT

THE  BATTLES  FOR  LE  MORT  HOMME,  FORT  VAUX  AND

THIAUMONT

JUNE-JULY

GABRIEL  HANOTAUX  EDWIN  GREWE

NARRATIVES  BY  PARTICIPANTS
MARSHAL  JOFFRE  GENERAL  VON  LUDENDORFF

Perhaps  never  elsewhere  has  man's  fierce  love  of  battle  been  roused
to  such  a  frenzied  height  as  at  Verdun.  No  outside  account  of
the  struggle  could  portray  this  as  do  the  narratives  herewith,  told  by
the  men  who  actually  fought  there.  Their  passions  had  exalted  them
to  an  ecstatic  state  scarce  to  be  described  as  human.  Germany  had
indeed  brought  into  existence  "supermen" — though  in  a  fashion  she  had
little  reckoned  on.

The  general  meaning  of  the  stupendous  battle  is  here  explained  by
M.  Hanotaux,  France's  most  celebrated  historian.  An  outline  of  its
chief  events  is  then  given  by  the  British  historian,  Edwin  Grewe.
Then  comes  the  official  German  view.  Germany's  supreme  chief  of
staff  at  the  time  was  General  Falkenhayn.  Verdun  was  his  last  battle ;
for,  as  its  failure  became  manifest  to  German  eyes,  he  was  super-
seded by  the  mighty  Hindenburg.

The  real  story  of  this  deadliest  of  all  battles  is,  however,  best
told  in  the  personal  narratives  that  here  follow.  Verdun  became
the  awesome  and  eternally  unforgetable  event  it  was,  not  because  of
any  specific  consequence  or  result  achieved,  but  because  of  the  indi-
vidual intensity  displayed  in  will  and  action.  From  whatever  stimulus
the  sacrifice  arose  there  was,  upon  either  side,  a  most  supreme  con-
centration of  effort,  a  complete  surrender  of  self-interest,  in  devotion
to  the  State.

In  its  second  and  most  desperate  stage  the  Verdun  struggle  re-
opened on  May  20th  with  huge  German  assaults  upon  Le  Mort  Homme
(Dead  Man's  Hill)  west  of  the  Meuse  River.  The  next  day  equally
tremendous  fighting  broke  out  east  of  the  Meuse  on  the  scene  of  the
earlier  battling  around  Fort  Douaumont.  Slowly  and  at  enormous
cost  the  Germans  won  possession  of  both  these  heights.  By  June
they  began  an  equally  terrible  series  of  attacks  on  Fort  Vaux,  the
next  neighbor  to  Douaumont.  By  July  they  had  hammered  onward
a  few  rods  further  and  were  attacking  the  villages  of  Fleury  and
Thiaumont.  These  marked  the  high  tide  of  the  German  advance.
They  were  taken  and  retaken  day  after  day.  Thiaumont,  or  the  hole
in  the  earth  which  once  was  Thiaumont,  is  reckoned  to  have  changed
hands  twenty-one  times  before  its  final  recapture  made  it  French
forever.

THE  CLIMAX  AT  VERDUN  207

BY  GABRIEL  HANOTAUX

THE  persistent  attack  upon  Verdun  gave  increasing  proof
each  day  of  the  importance  the  Germans  attached  to  the
enterprise.  The  French  soldier,  the  "soldier  of  Verdun,"
should  be  told  the  causes  of  this  desperation  in  attack;  thus
he  will  be  convinced  that  he  not  only  fights  for  the  ground
he  holds  and  the  honor  of  victory,  but  that  he  defends,  at  the
price  of  his  blood,  the  very  life  of  France.

Each  minute  throughout  these  long  months  and  each  sod
of  that  earth  presents  a  unit  of  our  national  existence.  By
each  act,  each  moment  of  suffering,  our  soldiers  are  pre-
paring the  conditions  which  will  win  for  us  a  liberating
peace.  They  are  the  creators  of  the  future.  With  cannon
shots,  and  rifles,  with  bayonet  thrusts,  and  grenades,  they
are  destroying,  bit  by  bit,  the  "grand  German  plan."  The
Kaiser  decided  to  risk  his  highest  stakes  upon  this  card;  he
entrusted  to  his  soldiers  at  Verdun  the  supreme  ambition
of  Germany.  If  this  attack  failed,  the  whole  Pan-German
scheme  must  crumble  and  be  prostrate  on  the  earth.  The
monster  has  no  longer  any  hope  except  to  prolong  its  death
agony.

From  the  opening  of  the  war  the  German  plan  has  aimed
chiefly  at  Verdun.  The  Crown  Prince  was  placed  at  the
head  of  its  assailants,  because  the  decisive  victory  was  re-
served for  him.  The  movement  in  Belgium  was  to  turn  the
flank  of  the  adversary;  but  to  conquer  him  the  Germans  de-
pended— in  accordance  with  the  principles  of  the  elder
Moltke — upon  the  offensive  in  the  center.

The  principal  force  of  the  French  Army  has  been  in  the
east  from  the  beginning,  and  it  is  still  that  frontier  which
popular  instinct  calls  the  "iron  frontier."  Verdun  is  there
the  apex  of  resistance,  it  is  the  tooth  piercing  the  live  flesh
of  the  foe.  Without  Verdun  the  German  army  advancing
on  Paris  could  have  no  free  communication  with  Germany.
Without  Verdun  there  could  be  no  sure  protection  for  Metz.
Ever  since  that  ancient  treaty  that  divided  the  heritage  of
the  sons  of  Charlemagne,  Verdun  has  been  the  disputed
point  around  which  has  pivoted  the  history  of  France  and

2o8  THE  CLIMAX  AT  VERDUN

Germany.  Verdun  is  the  name  that  one  finds  again  and  again
on  every  page  of  our  history.

Topographically  Verdun  presents  two  incomparable  ad-
vantages for  the  German  attack.  It  commands  the  valley
of  the  Meuse,  and  thus  becomes  the  "hinge"  between  the
eastern  and  northern  provinces.  We  have  no  way  of  lib-
erating our  country  from  German  servitude  except  to  hold  on
until  death  to  this  central  position.  There  is  no  other  line
of  communication  between  Lille  and  Nancy.  To  allow  the
line  of  the  Meuse  River  to  be  crushed  would  be  to  wipe
from  our  history  the  battle  of  the  Catalonian  Fields,  the  battle
of  Valmy,  our  eternal  defense  of  the  Argonne,  and  even
the  battle  of  the  Marne  itself.  For  this  last  great  victory
was  but  a  repetition  of  its  glorious  predecessors.

The  geographic  value  of  Verdun  is  balanced,  as  we  now
know  from  the  luminous  writings  of  M.  Engerand,  by  an
economic  value  no  less  powerful  and  no  less  terrible  to  lose.
Germany  cannot  remain  mistress  of  the  world's  metal  in-
dustries, unless  she  can  keep  and  extend  her  possession  of
the  minerals  of  the  French  province  of  Briey,  and  the  neigh-
boring regions.  German  metallurgists  declare  that  Germany
could  not  have  continued  the  War  if  she  no  longer  con-
trolled the  iron  ore  of  Lorraine.  German  experts  declare
that  so  long  as  these  mines  are  threatened  by  the  cannon  of
Verdun,  so  long  will  the  economic  and  military  destiny  of
Germany  remain  at  the  mercy  of  French  dominion.  We
are  in  a  position  to  affirm  positively  that  one  of  the  chief  rea-
sons for  the  War  has  been  the  desire  to  conquer  the  Briey
basin,  to  seize  the  strategic  key  of  that  immeasurable  wealth
— Verdun !

The  reiterated  determination  of  the  Germans  to  conquer
at  this  point  may  be  gathered  from  their  own  avowals.
In  the  first  campaign  of  the  War  the  plan  was  to  capture
Verdun ;  and  because  Verdun  did  not  fall  the  German  Army
had  to  substitute  the  war  of  trenches  for  the  war  of  maneu-
vers. We  have  their  own  statements  on  this  subject.  One
of  their  historians,  Gottlieb  Egelhaaf ,  wrote :  "If  the  Crown
Princes  of  Bavaria  and  Prussia  had  been  able  to  take  Verdun
in  August-September,  1914,  and  thus  pierce  the  line  of  th/

THE  CLIMAX  AT  VERDUN  209

Meuse,  the  German  armies  would  have  broken  through  to
Paris  in  that  first  movement.  But  the  Princes  remained
nailed  at  Verdun;  so  the  supreme  commander  had  to  with-
draw the  right  wing  of  the  German  Army.  The  Germans
retired  from  the  Marne  as  far  back  as  the  Aisne.  Because
Verdun  could  not  be  taken,  it  became  necessary  to  change
the  plan  of  the  war."

Is  that  clear?  Do  we  need  any  more  striking  proof  ?  If
so,  let  us  recall  the  telegram  addressed  by  the  Kaiser  to
the  parliament  of  Brandenburg,  in  which  he  celebrated  the
taking  of  Verdun,  which  he  mistakingly  believed  to  be  an
accomplished  fact :  "I  rejoice  greatly  in  the  new  and  grand
examples  of  Brandenburg  energy  and  faithfulness  even
unto  death  which  the  sons  of  that  province  have  furnished
in  the  last  few  days,  by  their  irresistible  assault  upon  the
powerful  fortress  of  our  chief  enemy."

He  really  thought,  and  so  did  the  rest  of  Germany,  that
the  taking  of  Verdun  was  the  closing  of  the  war,  a  decisive
German  victory.  The  desperate  resistance  of  our  soldiers,
"the  French  victory  of  Verdun,"  has  been  and  will  be  for  him
and  his  followers  the  supreme  disillusionment.

That  is  why  our  magnificent  corps  of  leaders  and  our
army  now  responding  so  nobly  to  their  appeals,  realize  that
at  Verdun,  as  at  the  Marne,  we  must  conquer  or  perish.
Marshal  Joffre  voiced  these  unanimous  sentiments  in  his
telegram  sent  at  the  time  of  his  famous  order  of  the  day
on  the  Meuse :  "The  evening  of  the  same  day,  the  25th,  the
Commander-in-Chief  sent  to  General  Petain,  then  taking
command,  the  following  order :  'Yesterday,  the  24th,  I  gave
orders  to  hold  the  right  bank  of  the  Meuse,  north  of  Verdun.
Any  commander  who  gives  an  order  to  retreat  will  be  court-
martialed.'  "

BY  EDWIN  S.  GREWE

By  the  end  of  April  the  Germans  had  been  pushed  back
from  the  base  of  the  Mort  Homme,  and  the  safety  of  that
position  seemed  so  far  assured  as  to  justify  the  view  that
the  Germans  had  arrived  at  the  point  of  recognizing  their
failure.

2io  THE  CLIMAX  AT  VERDUN

With  the  beginning  of  May  these  theories  were  blown
to  fragments  by  the  reawakening  roar  of  the  German  howit-
zers, the  prelude  to  a  renewal  on  a  greater  scale  of  the  fight-
ing which  had  already  lasted  between  two  and  three  months.
More  guns  had  been  brought  up,  old  divisions  had  been  re-
organized, new  divisions  thrown  in.  There  was  now  no  idea
of  surprise :  the  German  purpose  was  to  smash  in  the  French
front  by  weight  and  determination.  It  might  cost  half  a
million  German  soldiers  and  run  the  stores  of  ammunition
low ;  but  the  French  must  pay  the  price  too ;  and  it  might  be
a  price  which  they  could  afford  the  less.  The  German  In-
telligence Department  knew  probably  quite  well  that  they  had
some  time  to  spare  before  this  murderous  game  of  hammer
and  tongs  could  be  interrupted  by  an  effective  intervention
on  the  British-held  sectors  of  their  line.  The  first  blow  was
struck  at  the  left  bank  of  the  Meuse  again.  Instead  of  at-
tempting to  storm  the  Mort  Homme  directly  the  German
Staff  aimed  at  securing  Hill  304,  which  lies  west  of  the  Mort
Homme  and  the  Meuse.  If  this  hill  could  be  freed  of  French-
men and  German  batteries  established  on  it,  the  Mort
Homme  position  could  be  caught  by  a  flanking  fire,  and  the
whole  ridge  of  the  Cote  de  l'Oie,  on  the  west  side  of  the
river,  would  fall  into  German  hands.  Doubtless  the  Ger-
mans knew  the  enterprise  would  be  costly.  They  were  pre-
pared with  the  price.

The  plan  of  attack  was  extremely  simple.  The  Germans
themselves  compared  it  to  the  strokes  of  a  wood-cutter,  who
hacks  alternately  at  each  side  of  the  trunk  of  a  tree,  and
at  each  blow  drives  the  ax  farther  in,  till  the  tree  totters.
Thus  on  the  left  side  of  the  trunk — the  western  side  of  the
Meuse — each  blow  strove  to  bite  through  the  Mort  Homme
position.  On  the  eastern  bank  the  assaults  were  symmetri-
cally reversed.  The  blows  of  the  ax  sometimes  fell  between
Douaumont  and  the  river,  but  more  often  on  its  eastern  side,
towards  Fort  Vaux.

After  three  days'  preparation  three  simultaneous  attacks
were  made  on  the  flanks  of  the  main  position  at  midday  on
May  7th.  One  was  directed  against  Hill  287,  which  is
a  northwesterly  spur  of  Hill  304;  another  against  the  Avo-

THE  CLIMAX  AT  VERDUN  211

court  Wood  positions  (west),  and  a  third  against  the  de-
fenses of  the  ravine  between  Hill  304  and  the  Mort  Homme.
A  bitter  fight  went  on  all  day  and  all  night.  At  great  ex-
penditure the  Germans  made  some  headway  towards  the  east-
ern ravine;  and  they  claimed  that  they  had  captured  the
whole  system  of  trenches  on  the  northern  slopes  of  Hill  304.
The  French  certainly  no  longer  attempted  to  hold  that  sys-
tem, because,  owing  to  the  steepness  of  the  slopes,  their  ar-
tillery firing  over  the  hill  from  its  southern  side  could  not
command  them.  They  held  the  crest,  and  tactically  the
Germans  had  made  very  little  headway,  while  the  crest  could
be  swept  by  French  fire.  The  convincing  testimony  to  a
German  failure  is  that  they  made  no  attempt  at  once  to  push
their  advantage,  as  they  always  did  when  it  was  a  real  one.
The  action  was  broken  off.

The  main  part  of  their  failure  was  on  the  French  left,
the  Avocourt  Wood,  which  the  French,  realizing  its  im-
portance, had  bought  at  a  stiff  price  some  time  before.  The
next  German  attempt  was  therefore  made  here,  with  a  view
to  easing  the  prospects  of  another  flank  attack  on  Hill  304.
They  made  two  heavy  cuts  at  it  on  the  evenings  of  May  17th
and  1 8th,  but  the  ax  did  not  bite  deep  enough,  and  lost  a  good
deal  of  its  edge.  But  all  the  while  new  divisions  were  pour-
ing in,  and  the  Avocourt  attack  spread  eastwards,  and  con-
tinued to  spread  till  the  whole  of  the  battle  front  from  the
wood  to  the  river  was  involved.  While  the  attack  was  kept
up  on  the  Avocourt  and  Hill  304  defenses,  the  chief  weight
of  the  blows  fell  again  on  the  Mort  Homme.  Part  of  the
main  assault  aimed  at  the  ravine  between  Hill  304  and  the
Mort  Flomme,  through  which  the  Esnes  brook  ran;  the
other  part  synchronizing  with  it  strove  to  cut  in  behind  the
Mort  Homme  on  the  river  side.  The  troops  of  a  German
division  newly  brought  up  were  told  off  to  push  through
the  latter  attack  from  the  northeast,  to  carry  Crow's  Wood
and  Les  Caurettes,  and  to  join  up  with  the  thrust  from  the
northwest.

Sixty  German  batteries  played  this  double  assault  in.
The  new  divisions  on  the  Crow's  Wood  side  had  little  suc-
cess, though  the  French  trenches  had  melted  under  the  Ger-

212  THE  CLIMAX  AT  VERDUN

man  bombardment.  The  Germans  occupied  the  first  line
with  some  loss;  to  the  second  line  they  fought  their  way
with  a  determination  undeterred  by  the  machine-gun  fire
and  melinite  which  barred  their  way;  but  they  could  not
hold  the  second  line,  and  supports  were  unavailing.  The
contemporaneous  attack  made  on  the  west  of  the  Mort
Homme  got  farther.  It  was  an  attack  made  with  a  resolu-
tion which  was  the  high-water  mark  reached  by  the  best
German  fighting  material.  The  slight  V-shaped  wedge
which  the  Germans  had  already  made  between  Hill  304  and
the  Mort  Homme  they  widened  and  deepened  to  a  big
U-shaped  depression,  which  on  its  right-hand  side  was
planted  in  French  trenches  south  and  southwest  of  the  hill
the  enemy  sought.  The  Germans  paid  a  heavy  bill  for  this
advantage,  which  looks  so  small  on  a  map,  but  which  had
nevertheless  solid  tactical  value,  for  the  Mort  Homme  was
no  longer  a  possession  solely  French.

For  some  days  the  battle  on  the  west  side  of  the  Meuse
paused — if  such  a  struggle  can  ever  be  said  to  pause  for  a
moment — while  the  Germans  gathered  themselves  together
for  another  effort,  and  the  French  deliberately  extended  the
area  of  conflict  by  a  great  counter-attack  on  the  other  side
of  the  river  at  Douaumont.  This  counter-attack  was  an
episode  in  the  history  of  Verdun,  but  it  was  also  one  of  the
most  daring  tactical  strokes  of  the  French  Higher  Com-
mand.

Douaumont,  since  the  day  in  February  when  it  was  de-
scribed, in  the  same  German  communique  that  prematurely
reported  its  capture,  as  the  northeastern  pillar  of  the  de-
fenses of  Verdun,  had  been  a  critical  point  of  conflict.  The
capture  by  the  Kaiser's  Brandenburgers  had  proved  of  ex-
aggerated value,  since  it  no  longer  implied  command  of  the
ridge  on  which  it  stood,  but  it  had  the  great  usefulness  of
furnishing  an  observation  post,  and  of  enabling  any  force
which  could  establish  itself  there  to  sweep  the  approaches
to  Vaux,  the  next  fort  to  the  southeast  of  it.  On  May  22nd
the  French  made  their  first  dash  to  shake  it.  The  Crown
Prince  was  at  this  moment  preoccupied  with  the  assault  on
the  other  bank  of  the  river,  where  the  new  attack  on  the

THE  CLIMAX  AT  VERDUN  213

Mort  Homme  and  the  neighboring  ridges  was  eating  up  men.
General  Nivelle,  who  had  succeeded  General  Petain  [given
command  of  the  central  group  of  armies]  at  the  beginning
of  May,  entrusted  the  operation  to  General  Mangin  and  to
the  Fifth  Division.  The  Fifth  Division  had  been  in  the
Vaux-Douaumont  sector  when  the  German  assault  on  Ver-
dun rose  to  what  was  then  believed  to  be  its  culminating
pitch  of  violence,  and  had  then  been  withdrawn  to  refit  their
sorely  tried  and  depleted  ranks.  When  they  went  on  leave
and  to  billets  for  this  purpose  General  Mangin  told  them
to  prepare  for  further  battles.  "You  march  under  the  wings
of  Victory,"  said  he.  Five  weeks  later  they  came  back  to
justify  his  confidence.

The  French  prepared  the  attack  by  two  days'  bombard-
ment of  the  battered  fort ;  and  they  heralded  the  assault  with
a  device  of  deadly  usefulness.  It  was  a  new  bomb  for  the
destruction  of  "sausage,"  or  observation,  balloons,  and  it
was  so  successful  that  a  few  minutes  after  the  aeroplanes
had  been  launched  to  pepper  the  German  observers  with
them,  six  of  the  German  sausage  balloons  had  exploded,
and  the  German  artillery  was  thus  temporarily  and  par-
tially blindfolded.  But  the  significance  of  the  act,  joined
to  the  bombardment,  was  not  lost  on  the  enemy,  who  began
to  pour  a  flood  of  precautionary  shrapnel  on  the  lines  where
the  French  were  in  waiting.  The  Fifth  Division  waited  pa-
tiently till  nearly  midday.  They  had  been  divided  into
three  sections  for  their  task ;  the  middle  section  were  to  strike
directly  for  the  ruins  of  the  fort,  the  others  for  the  trenches
which  flanked  and  protected  it  to  right  and  to  left.  They
went  forward  together  at  the  appointed  minute,  and  they
moved  with  great  swiftness  from  shell-hole  to  shell-hole.
In  eleven  minutes  the  129th  Regiment  in  the  center  had
reached  Douaumont  Fort  across  three  lines  of  trenches,  and
had  lit  a  Bengal  flare  to  signal  their  arrival.  On  the  left
the  36th  Regiment  had  carried  out  its  part  of  the  task,  and
held  the  road  which  led  from  Douaumont  to  Fleury.  The
sappers  began  now  to  come  in  behind  the  infantry,  and  got
into  the  fort  to  block  its  exits,  while  the  infantry  in  pos-
session covered  the  36th  Infantry  in  its  task  of  destroying

214  THE  CLIMAX  AT  VERDUN

the  flanking  positions.  All  was  going  well  on  this  side  of
Douaumont.  On  the  eastern  side  matters  did  not  prosper  so
fast  or  so  fully.  The  74th  Regiment  had  been  held  up  by
a  galling  fire  from  the  German  communication  trenches,  and
though  German  prisoners  were  being  sent  back  from  the
fort  to  the  French  lines,  in  the  northeast  corner  the  enemy
still  held  out — and  the  German  counter-attack,  as  the  French
Command  well  knew,  was  bound  to  come.  So,  restraining
their  men  from  pushing  on,  the  French  in  possession
strengthened  their  hold  as  much  as  they  could,  and  all  that
night  fought  hand-to-hand  combats  with  Germans  grimly
holding  the  passages  of  the  uncaptured  corner.

The  Germans  massed  for  their  counter-attack  in  Haudre-
mont  Wood,  and  on  the  morning  of  the  23rd  poured  in  their
turn  all  the  artillery  fire  at  their  command  on  the  fort  and
the  French-held  trenches.  They  sent  their  infantry  for-
ward on  top  of  the  bombardment,  but  repeated  assaults  failed.
All  day  long  the  129th  Regiment  held  on;  while  fresh  Ger-
man troops  were  brought  up.  They  were  too  few  to  hold  it;
their  work  had  been  done — its  hardest  part  began  with  the
dawn  of  the  23rd — and  at  last  orders  had  to  be  given  to
withdraw  them.  Two  Bavarian  Divisions  were  sent  up  by
the  Germans  at  the  close  of  the  day,  and  by  the  24th  the  ruins
of  Douaumont  had  again  changed  hands — for  the  last  time
but  one.

The  counter-thrust  had  served  its  turn,  but  it  had  not
diverted  the  Germans  from  the  pursuit  of  their  other  at-
tack on  the  western  bank.  On  May  23rd  they  began  an
attack  on  the  complementary  positions  of  Hill  304  and  the
Mort  Homme,  such  as  transcended  the  previous  one  as  an
attack  in  force  transcends  a  reconnoissance,  and  the  violence
of  which  may  be  estimated  by  its  duration  through  six  days.
But  if  the  German  effort  this  week  in  May  rose  to  greater
heights  than  ever  before,  it  met  with  a  resistance  that  was
less  penetrable  and  more  scientific  than  before.  The  French
had  learned  the  lessons  of  Verdun,  and  were  at  this  time
evolving  that  cooperation  between  the  artillery  barrage  and
the  infantry's  rifles  which,  powerful  though  they  proved  it
in  defense,  was  to  become  a  more  deadly  weapon  when  em-

THE  CLIMAX  AT  VERDUN  215

ployed  offensively  on  the  Somme.  The  75's,  beautiful
weapons  though  they  were,  could  not  stop  the  waves  of  Ger-
man soldiers  whose  lives  their  leaders  were  willing  to  ex-
pend with  such  prodigality;  but  the  melinite  shells  of  the
French  heavies,  when  massed  as  Petain  and  Nivelle  massed
them,  could  do  so.  This  barrage  stayed  the  German  rushes
in  bloody  confusion  east  of  the  Mort  Homme  on  the  first
day ;  but  between  Hill  304  and  the  Mort  Homme  the  residual
onrush  of  the  German  waves  got  through  the  curtain  of  fire,
and  on  to  the  first  French  trench  lines.  Flamm enwerfer
were  brought  up,  and  the  Germans  burnt  their  way  in  by
liquid  flame.  A  French  counter-attack  threw  them  out  at
nightfall:  renewed  German  attacks  continued  through  the
night.

While  the  French  were  fully  occupied  with  holding  on  to
the  Mort  Homme  and  Hill  304  gap  with  tooth  and  claw,
two  fresh  German  Divisions  were  flung  at  the  point  east  of
the  Mort  Homme  where  the  village  of  Cumieres  blocked
the  way.  There  was  little  finesse  about  the  German  method ;
a  few  hours'  bombardment  were  followed  by  waves  of  in-
fantry; when  they  returned  broken  the  bombardment  was
resumed  till  it  was  judged  time  to  send  in  new  waves.  By
this  elementary  but  resistless  expenditure  of  shells  and  men
the  Germans,  on  May  24th,  got  through,  and  reaped  the
interest  on  their  outlay.  For  when  the  line  at  Cumieres
was  broken  the  Germans  had  nothing  there  to  stop  them,
and  they  poured  on  through  the  disarrayed  French  defenders
till  they  got  right  down  to  Chattancourt.

The  cup  seemed  to  be  at  the  German  lips ;  but  once  again
the  French  counter-attack,  as  automatic  as  the  recoil  of  a
gun,  dashed  it  away.  The  French  infantry  in  reserve  bore
down  on  the  Germans  with  a  ferocity  that  would  not  be  de-
nied, and  fought  them  back  to  Cumieres,  where  they  held
them  through  the  night  of  the  24th.  The  Germans  could
not  again  get  up  the  momentum  to  carry  the  outskirts,  and
the  French  exchanged  rushing  for  bombing,  winning  here
a  barn  and  there  a  cellar  or  part  of  a  ruined  street.  After
three  days  of  this  two  assaulting  columns  were  brought  up
by  the  French,  and  fought  their  way  onward  on  either  side

216  THE  CLIMAX  AT  VERDUN

of  the  village,  taking  the  mill,  and  bringing  back  the  line  to
near  the  point  where  it  had  bent  and  broken.

The  Germans  counter-attacked,  but  their  counter-attack
was  not  a  recoil.  It  was  a  blow  struck  with  all  the  force
at  the  German  command,  and  though  aimed  at  a  wider  front
than  the  village,  and  with  a  greater  object,  it  comprised  the
Cumieres-Mort  Homme  sector,  and  made  it  the  chief  one.
The  first  attack  began  on  the  evening  of  May  28th.  It
did  not  get  through  the  curtain  fire,  nor  did  the  second  attack.
The  task  then  passed  to  the  German  heavy  artillery  for
twelve  hours,  as  a  preparation  for  next  day ;  and  next  day
five  new  divisions  went  forward  on  the  heels  of  the  de-
struction wrought  by  the  artillery  fire.  But  great  as  that
destruction  had  been  it  was  not  enough.  The  first-line
trenches  at  the  French  center  no  longer  existed,  for  it  was
there  that  the  German  fire  had  been  heaviest.  Here  the  Ger-
mans had  their  greatest  measure  of  success.  But  summed
up  this  did  not  amount  to  a  great  deal.  The  French  had  to
abandon  the  summit  of  the  Mort  Homme,  as  the  wedge
between  it  and  Hill  304  was  deepened,  and  they  established
themselves  on  the  western  and  southern  slopes.  The  crest
of  the  Mort  Homme  remained  untenable  by  either  side.  At
Cumieres  the  Germans  could  not  materially  improve  their
position.  Consequently  at  the  end  of  the  week's  battle  the
Germans  had  won  advantages  which  were  insignificant  from
a  territorial  point  of  view,  and  which  could  only  be  re-
garded as  important  tactically  if  they  could  be  pushed  home.
They  could  not  be  pushed  home ;  and  at  the  end  of  May  the
French  line,  running  from  Avocourt  Wood  over  Hill  304,
along  the  south  of  Mort  Homme  to  the  Bois  de  les  Cau-
rettes  and  the  remains  of  Cumieres,  was  as  capable  of  offer-
ing resistance  to  further  attacks  as  heretofore.

On  the  other  bank  the  Germans  began  a  more  piecemeal
reduction,  which,  though  less  magnificent  in  aim,  was  more
valuable  in  moral  effect.  Failing  to  place  their  occupation
of  the  ridge  on  the  west  of  the  Meuse  beyond  dispute,  they
determined  to  hack  at  the  flank  of  the  Douaumont  plateau
from  the  east,  advancing  up  the  wooded  coombes  by  which
the  plateau  declines  to  the  eastern  plain.   The  first  step  was

THE  CLIMAX  AT  VERDUN  217

to  capture  Fort  Vaux.  Fort  Vaux  is  situated  on  the  edge
of  the  ravine  which  lies  between  Vaux  hill  and  the  triple
southerly  bastions  of  the  Douaumont  plateau,  and  had  to  be
carried  before  any  further  operations  east  of  the  Meuse
were  undertaken.  The  Germans  had  other  reasons  than
these  tactical  ones  for  bringing  to  bear  on  its  capture  all  the
resources  they  could  command.  If  anything  was  to  be  done
at  Verdun  it  must  be  done  quickly,  in  order  to  anticipate
or  to  precipitate  the  Franco-British  push  which  was  in
preparation  at  some  other  part  of  the  line.

On  June  1st,  therefore,  the  attack  on  Fort  Vaux  was
launched,  preceded  by  a  bombardment  of  "extreme  inten-
sity." The  assault  was  calculated  to  encircle  the  fort  by
attacks  from  the  northeast  and  the  northwest,  as  at  the
Mort  Homme.  The  first  of  these  attacks,  advancing  under
cover  of  the  heavy  artillery,  spread  out  from  Haudremont
Wood  and  over  the  Douaumont  plateau  down  to  the  inner-
most of  the  triple-wooded  spurs.  This  was  the  Bois  de  la
Caillette  or  Caillette  Wood.  The  Germans  seized  it,  and  on
the  next  day  (June  2nd),  descending  from  it  into  the  ravine,
began  the  direct  attack  on  Fort  Vaux.  At  the  same  time
they  set  in  motion  their  attack  from  the  northeast,  and  cap-
tured the  village  of  Damloup,  which  is  in  the  ravine  on  the
other  or  southern  side  of  Fort  Vaux.  The  northern  attacking
party  tried  to  rush  the  fort.  They  were  blown  back  by  the
guns ;  but  more  and  more  men  were  brought  up  to  the  task,
and  late  at  night  a  brave  party  of  them  got  into  the  fort
ditch.  Here  these  desperate  men  remained  for  four  days,
unable  to  enter  the  fort.

Their  courage  and  their  plight  found  many  parallels  in
the  defense  of  elements  of  isolated  French  trenches,  where
men  held  on  under  a  pitiless  bombardment  day  after  day
without  water,  and  with  the  most  shadowy  prospect  of  re-
lief. This  individual  heroism  went  on  east  and  west  of
Vaux,  and  meanwhile  the  attack  on  the  fort  developed,  and
developed  in  a  new  way.  The  Germans  had  learned  from
their  failure  in  March  that  it  was  extravagantly  hopeless  to
try  to  encircle  the  fort  with  infantry;  they  therefore  fed
their  flank  attacks  with  fresh  troops,  and  maintained  so

218  THE  CLIMAX  AT  VERDUN

heavy  an  artillery  barrage  on  the  southern  slopes  of  the  fort
that  no  troops  could  get  up  to  succor  it.  The  whole  of
the  southern  approaches  were  closed  by  this  wall  of  burst-
ing steel;  the  fort  itself  was  beaten  into  a  ruin.  Yet  in  it
a  tiny  garrison  under  Major  Raynal  continued  to  resist.
They  could  not  get  out  except  at  the  risk  of  being  blown  to
pieces  at  every  step  they  took  in  the  open ;  they  could  com-
municate with  their  own  lines  only  by  signal,  and  imper-
fectly. The  heroism  of  Fort  Vaux's  defense  became  the
symbol  of  all  that  Frenchmen  did  and  endured  there.  As
on  the  "little  Revenge"  in  Sir  Richard  Grenville's  day,  the
cry  was  to  fight  on,  though  men  were  dying  of  thirst  and
wounds,  and  every  hour  renewed  danger  and  anguish  and
death.  The  Germans  advanced  on  the  higher  levels  of  the
walls,  but  the  Frenchmen  organized  the  debris  of  the  fort.
At  every  window,  behind  every  heap  of  bricks,  machine  guns
were  placed,  or  the  picked  shots  took  refuge  and  shot  down
every  enemy  who  set  foot  in  the  courtyard.  The  Ger-
mans, with  renewed  ingenuity,  tried  to  blast  the  defenders
out  with  grenades,  letting  basketfuls  of  them  down  by  ropes
to  the  level  of  the  windows  and  swinging  them  in  with  a
time  fuse  to  burst  inside.

The  fight  went  on.  The  limit  to  human  endurance  was
not  reached  till  June  6th,  when  Major  Raynal  got  out  his
last  message:  "We  are  near  the  end.  Officers  and  sol-
diers have  done  their  whole  duty.  Vive  la  France!"  A
few  soldiers,  among  them  wounded,  escaped  through  a
grating  and  crawled  towards  the  French  lines;  others  who
had  sought  to  escape  with  them  were  killed  on  the  way.
Fort  Vaux  fell  on  the  same  day  in  a  renewal  of  the  bom-
bardment. Its  defense  was  one  of  the  greatest  testimonies
to  that  spirit  of  cold  unflinching  endurance  which  before
the  war  we  associated  so  little  with  France,  but  of  which
they  showed  us  at  Verdun  an  example  the  peer  of  any  in  our
own  history.  Major  Raynal,  though  a  prisoner,  was  pro-
moted to  the  rank  of  Commander  in  the  Legion  of  Honor;
the  Germans  gave  him  back  his  sword — one  act,  at  any  rate,
to  be  reckoned  to  the  credit  of  the  Crown  Prince.

The  fall  of  Vaux  came  too  late  for  the  Germans.   In  the

THE  CLIMAX  AT  VERDUN

exaltation  of  Raynal's  defense  the  moral  effect  of  its  loss
on  the  French  was  negligible.  Its  value  to  the  Germans,
judged  by  the  standard  of  its  indispensability  if  any  further
attack  was  to  be  made  on  the  eastern  Verdun  lines,  was
considerable;  on  the  other  hand,  it  had  not  fallen  soon
enough  to  assume  the  character  of  a  dangerous  gap  in  the
defenses.  These  defenses  were  now  drawn  anew  on  a  line
from  Hill  321  (which  is  a  mile  north  of  the  Froide  Terre
Ridge)  through  Thiaumont  Redoubt,  Fleury  village,  and
the  woods  of  Chapitre  and  Fumin.  It  then  curled  round
through  the  woods  of  Chenois  and  La  Laufee,  which  look
past  Damloup  eastwards  to  the  plain  below.  These  must  be
turned  or  conquered  to  approach  Forts  Souville  or  Tavan-
nes,  part  of  the  inner  lines  of  defenses.  From  Verdun  on
this  side  the  Germans  were  now  less  than  four  miles  away.

There  was  a  long  pause  after  the  fall  of  Fort  Vaux
before  the  Germans  gathered  themselves  together  for  this
new  effort.  Then,  conscious  that  time  was  growing  short
and  the  need  of  a  superlative  effort  was  vital,  they  began
an  attack  which  retained  unchanged  all  the  old  weight  and
violence.  On  June  12th  they  had  tested  the  nature  of  the
new  French  defenses  by  an  attack  on  the  lines  from  Thiau-
mont Farm  to  Hill  32 1 .  A  road  runs  southwest  from  Douau-
mont  Fort  through  Thiaumont  Farm  to  the  Cote  de  Froide
Terre.  A  main  German  attack  was  bound  to  come  along  the
line  of  this  road.  Fighting  took  place  to  east  and  west  of  it.
The  Germans  made  some  advance  on  the  slopes  of  Hill  321.
Thiaumont  Redoubt  was  unscathed.  They  tried  again  on  the
15th,  having  found  that  the  Thiaumont  Redoubt  was  the
key  of  the  position.  Then  on  the  18th  and  19th  their  major
attack  developed.

It  bore  down  in  the  three  prescribed  directions :  ( 1 )
upon  Ridge  321;  (2)  Thiaumont  Redoubt;  (3)  Fleury  vil-
lage. The  Thiaumont  position  bore  the  brunt  of  it,  and
over  a  front  of  just  over  a  mile  it  was  assailed  by  three  divi-
sions. But  this  was  not  till  June  23rd,  when  the  attack  had
fully  developed,  and  the  whole  line  had  been  hotly  engaged
for  four  days.  The  great  attack  began  at  eight  in  the  morn-
ing; seven  hours  afterwards  a  slight  break  was  made  in

22o  THE  CLIMAX  AT  VERDUN

the  line,  just  east  of  Thiaumont,  and  into  the  gap  the  Ger-
mans flung  men  with  promptitude  and  burst  right  through.
They  had  got  Thiaumont ;  but  they  had  not  then  got  Fleury.
They  reached  the  village,  and  were  thrown  out.  It  was  not
till  the  25th  that  they  had  driven  a  wedge  in  the  French  po-
sitions and,  widening  it  as  before,  gained  the  village.  The
gap  was  now  wide  indeed :  but  before  they  could  exploit
their  success  at  Fleury  the  French  had  counter-attacked,  had
reached  and  held  the  outskirts,  and  were  reorganizing  their
line.  On  June  23rd  General  Nivelle  in  an  Army  Order  had
told  his  soldiers  that  this  was  the  supreme  German  assault
before  the  enemy  in  their  turn  would  be  assailed,  and  "lis  ne
passeront  pas,  Camarades!"  They  did  not  pass:  the  Army
of  Verdun  kept  its  honor  intact.

The  hour  was  fast  approaching  when  the  beginning  of  the
combined  operations  by  the  British  and  French  armies  on
the  Ancre  and  the  Somme  was  to  compel  the  Germans  to  put
a  period  to  their  endeavor  to  wear  the  French  down  at
Verdun.  The  Somme  battle  began  on  July  1st,  and  drew
an  ever-increasing  number  of  German  divisions  into  its  fur-
nace. Though  the  Germans  loudly  asserted  that  the  French
were  mistaken  if  they  thought  the  pressure  on  Verdun  would
be  relaxed,  guns  and  men  were  steadily  if  stealthily  with-
drawn, and  ultimately  it  was  pressure  from  the  French  side
which  broke  through  the  German  defenses,  and  compelled
the  relinquishment  of  gains  which  the  Germans  had  so  hardly
won.  Their  last  attempt  to  demonstrate  their  indifference
to  the  attack  on  the  Somme  was  made  between  July  nth
and  15th,  when  they  attacked  on  an  extending  front  from
Fleury  to  Damloup.  Their  chief  aim  was  to  burst  out  from
Fleury  and,  striking  along  the  southeasterly  road,  break
up  the  French  organization  between  the  Thiaumont  works
and  the  defenses  of  Fort  Souville.  This  raid  in  force
progressed  some  distance  before  it  was  stopped;  but  stopped
it  was,  and  by  the  15th  General  Nivelle  was  in  a  position  to
strike  back.  He  entrusted  the  counter-thrust  to  General
Mangin,  who  was  what  the  British  would  have  called  a
"thruster"  of  the  General  Foch  school.  Mangin  attacked
Fleury  furiously,  and  the  Germans,  instead  of  being  able  to

THE  CLIMAX  AT  VERDUN

develop  their  success  with  a  new  assault  on  Fort  Souville,
found  themselves  battling  to  hold  on  to  their  positions.  They
resisted  with  an  almost  indignant  determination,  and  Fleury
and  the  Thiaumont  work  changed  hands  several  times  in  the
succeeding  weeks.  The  French  won  Fleury  on  August  3rd :
the  Germans  regained  a  footing  there,  and  clung  on  till
August  10th.  Thiaumont  work  changed  hands  time  after
time;  the  ruins  of  Fleury  were  not  irrevocably  French  till
August  1 8th.  A  little  more  than  a  fortnight  afterwards
the  German  attack  flickered  up  once  more  for  the  last  time.
Instead  of  taking  the  southeast  road  from  Fleury  to  Fort
Souville,  they  came  along  the  road  that  runs  southwest  from
Fort  Vaux  to  join  it.  This  attack  of  September  3rd  shared
the  fate  of  its  predecessors,  a  slight  advance  immediately
extinguished  by  a  counter-attack,  and  for  six  weeks  there-
after the  Verdun  front  relapsed  into  snipings  and  regular-
ized exchanges  of  artillery  fire.

BY  A  FRENCH  VETERAN  OFFICER
Account  of  the  Attacks  on  Le  Mort  Homme  from  May  20th  to  24th

Nothing  that  the  manuals  say,  nothing  that  the  techni-
cians have  foreseen,  is  true  to-day.  Even  under  a  hail  of
shells  troops  can  fight  on,  and  beneath  the  most  terrific  bom-
bardment it  is  still  the  spirit  of  the  combatants  which  counts.
The  German  bombardments  outdid  all  previsions.

When  my  battalion  was  called  up  as  reinforcements  on
May  20th,  the  dugouts  and  trenches  of  the  first  French  line
were  already  completely  destroyed.  The  curtain  fire  of  the
Germans,  which  had  succeeded  their  bombardment  of  the
front  lines,  fell  on  the  road  more  than  two  kilometers  behind
these.  Now  and  then  the  heavy  long-distance  guns  of  the
Germans  lengthened  their  fire  in  an  attempt  to  reach  our  bat-
teries and  their  communications.  At  eight  o'clock  in  the
evening,  when  we  arrived  in  auto-buses  behind  the  second  or
third  lines,  several  shells  reached  our  wagons,  and  killed
men.  The  excellent  spirit  of  the  battalion  suffered  not  at
all,  and  this  is  the  more  to  be  noted,  since  it  is  far  easier  to
keep  one's  dash  and  spirit  in  the  heat  of  actual  battle  than
when  one  is  just  approaching  it.    I  have  read  a  good  many

THE  CLIMAX  AT  VERDUN

stories  of  battle,  and  some  of  their  embroideries  appear  to
me  rather  exaggerated;  the  truth  is  quite  good  enough  by
itself.  Although  they  were  bombarded  beforehand,  my  men
went  very  firmly  into  action.  The  cannonade  worked  on
the  ears  and  the  nerves,  getting  louder  with  every  step  nearer
the  front,  till  the  very  earth  shook,  and  our  hearts  jumped
in  our  breasts.

Where  we  were  there  were  hardly  any  trenches  or
communication  trenches  left.  Every  half-hour  the  appear-
ance of  the  earth  was  changed  by  the  unflagging  shell  fire.
It  was  a  perfect  cataract  of  fire.  We  went  forward  by
fits  and  starts,  taking  cover  in  shell-holes,  and  sometimes
we  saw  a  shell  drop  in  the  very  hole  we  had  chosen  for  our
next  leap  forwards.  A  hundred  men  of  the  battalion  were
half  buried,  and  we  had  scarcely  the  time  to  stop  and  help
them  to  get  themselves  out.  Suddenly  we  arrived  at  what
remained  of  our  first-line  trenches,  just  as  the  Boches  ar-
rived at  our  barbed  wire  entanglements — or,  rather,  at  the
caterpillar-like  remains  of  our  barbed  wire.

At  this  moment  the  German  curtain  fire  lengthened,  and
most  of  our  men  buried  in  shell-holes  were  able  to  get  out
and  rejoin  us.  The  Germans  attacked  in  massed  formation,
by  big  columns  of  five  or  six  hundred  men,  preceded  by
two  waves  of  sharpshooters.  We  had  only  our  rifles  and
our  machine  guns,  because  the  75's  could  not  get  to  work.

Fortunately  the  flank  batteries  succeeded  in  catching  the
Boches  on  the  right.  It  is  absolutely  impossible  to  convey
what  losses  the  Germans  must  suffer  in  these  attacks.  Noth-
ing can  give  an  idea  of  it.  Whole  ranks  are  mowed  down,
and  those  that  follow  them  suffer  the  same  fate.  Under  the
storm  of  machine  gun,  rifle  and  75  fire,  the  German  columns
were  plowed  into  furrows  of  death.  Imagine  if  you  can
what  it  would  be  like  to  rake  water.  Those  gaps  filled  up
again  at  once.  That  is  enough  to  show  with  what  disdain
of  human  life  the  German  attacks  are  planned  and  carried
out.

In  these  circumstances  German  advances  are  sure.  They
startle  the  public,  but  at  the  front  nobody  attaches  any  im-
portance to  them.    As  a  matter  of  fact,  our  trenches  are

THE  CLIMAX  AT  VERDUN  223

so  near  those  of  the  Germans  that  once  the  barbed  wire  is
destroyed  the  distance  between  them  can  be  covered  in  a  few
minutes.  Thus,  if  one  is  willing  to  suffer  a  loss  of  life  cor-
responding to  the  number  of  men  necessary  to  cover  the
space  between  the  lines,  the  other  trench  can  always  be
reached.  By  sacrificing  thousands  of  men,  after  a  formi-
dable bombardment,  an  enemy  trench  can  always  be  taken.

There  are  slopes  on  Hill  304  where  the  level  of  the  ground
is  raised  several  meters  by  mounds  of  German  corpses.
Sometimes  it  happens  that  the  third  German  wave  uses  the
dead  of  the  second  wave  as  ramparts  and  shelters.  It  was
behind  ramparts  of  the  dead  left  by  the  first  five  attacks,  on
May  24th,  that  we  saw  the  Boches  take  shelter  while  they
organized  their  next  rush.

We  make  prisoners  among  these  dead  during  our  counter-
attacks. They  are  men  who  have  received  no  hurt,  but  have
been  knocked  down  by  the  falling  of  the  human  wall  of  their
killed  and  wounded  neighbors.  They  say  very  little.  They
are  for  the  most  part  dazed  with  fear  and  alcohol,  and  it  is
several  days  before  they  recover.

BY  A  FRENCH  STAFF  OFFICER
Account  of  the  Struggle  for  Fort  Douaumont  on  May  20th-23rd

Verdun  has  become  a  battle  of  madmen  in  the  midst  of
a  volcano.  Whole  regiments  melt  in  a  few  minutes,  and
others  take  their  places  only  to  perish  in  the  same  way.  Be-
tween Saturday  morning  [May  20th]  and  noon  Tuesday
[May  23rd]  we  estimate  that  the  Germans  used  up  100,000
men  on  the  west  Meuse  front  alone.  That  is  the  price  they
paid  for  the  recapture  of  our  recent  gains  and  the  seizure
of  our  outlying  positions.  The  valley  separating  Le  Mort
Homme  from  Hill  287  is  choked  with  bodies.  A  full  brigade
was  mowed  down  in  a  quarter  hour's  holocaust  by  our  ma-
chine guns.  Le  Mort  Homme  itself  passed  from  our  pos-
session, but  the  crescent  Bourrus  position  to  the  south  pre-
vents the  enemy  from  utilizing  it.

The  scene  there  is  appalling,  but  is  dwarfed  in  compari-
son with  fighting  around  Douaumont.  West  of  the  Meuse,
at  least,  one  dies  in  the  open  air,  but  at  Douaumont  is  the

224  THE  CLIMAX  AT  VERDUN

horror  of  darkness,  where  the  men  fight  in  tunnels,  scream-
ing with  the  lust  of  butchery,  deafened  by  shells  and  gre-
nades, stifled  by  smoke.

Even  the  wounded  refuse  to  abandon  the  struggle.  As
though  possessed  by  devils,  they  fight  on  until  they  fall  sense-
less from  loss  of  blood.  A  surgeon  in  a  front-line  post  told
me  that,  in  a  redoubt  at  the  south  part  of  the  fort,  of  200
French  dead,  fully  half  had  more  than  two  wounds.  Those
he  was  able  to  treat  seemed  utterly  insane.  They  kept  shout-
ing war  cries  and  their  eyes  blazed,  and,  strangest  of  all,
they  appeared  indifferent  to  pain.  At  one  moment  anes-
thetics ran  out  owing  to  the  impossibility  of  bringing  for-
ward fresh  supplies  through  the  bombardment.  Arms,  even
legs,  were  amputated  without  a  groan,  and  even  afterward
the  men  seemed  not  to  have  felt  the  shock.  They  asked  for
a  cigarette  or  inquired  how  the  battle  was  going.

Our  losses  in  retaking  the  fort  were  less  heavy  than
was  expected,  as  the  enemy  was  demoralized  by  the  cannon-
ade— by  far  the  most  furious  I  have  ever  seen  from  French
guns — and  also  was  taken  by  surprise.  But  the  subsequent
action  took  a  terrible  toll.  Cover  was  all  blown  to  pieces.
Every  German  rush  was  preceded  by  two  or  three  hours  of
hell-storm,  and  then  wave  after  v/ave  of  attack  in  numbers
that  seemed  unceasing.  Again  and  again  the  defenders'
ranks  were  renewed.

Never  have  attacks  been  pushed  home  so  continuously.
The  fight  for  Cemetery  Hill  at  Gettysburg  was  no  child's
play,  nor  for  Hougoumont  at  Waterloo,  but  here  men  have
been  flung  5,000  at  a  time  at  brief  intervals  for  the  last
forty-eight  hours.  Practically  the  whole  sector  has  been
covered  by  a  cannonade,  compared  to  which  Gettysburg
was  a  hailstorm  and  Waterloo  mere  fireworks.  Some  shell-
holes  were  thirty  feet  across,  the  explosion  killing  fifty  men
simultaneously.

Before  our  lines  the  German  dead  lie  heaped  in  long
rows.  I  am  told  one  observer  calculated  there  were  7,000
in  a  distance  of  700  yards.  Besides  they  cannot  succor
their  wounded,  whereas  of  ours  one  at  least  in  three  is  re-
moved safely  to  the  rear.    Despite  the  bombardment  sup-

THE  CLIMAX  AT  VERDUN  225

plies  keep  coming.  Even  the  chloroform  I  spoke  of  ar-
rived after  an  hour's  delay  when  two  sets  of  bearers  had  been
killed.

The  dogged  tenacity  needed  to  continue  the  resistance
far  surpasses  the  furious  elan  of  the  attack.  We  know,  too,
the  Germans  cannot  long  maintain  their  present  sacrifices.
Since  Saturday  the  enemy  has  lost  two,  if  not  three,  for
each  one  of  us.  Every  bombardment  withstood,  every  rush
checked  brings  nearer  the  moment  of  inevitable  exhaustion.
Then  will  come  our  recompense  for  these  days  of  horror.

BY  A  FRENCH  LIEUTENANT
Account  of  the  Assaults  upon  Fort  Vaux  in  June

We  had  scarcely  arrived  at  the  right  of  Fort  de  Vaux,
on  the  slope  of  the  ravine,  when  there  came  an  unprecedented
bombardment  of  twelve  hours.  Alone,  in  a  sort  of  dugout
without  walls,  I  pass  twelve  hours  of  agony,  believing  that
it  is  the  end.  The  soil  is  torn  up,  covered  with  fresh  earth
by  enormous  explosions.  In  front  of  us  are  not  less  than
ceaselessly  and  all  together,  in  these  days  of  preparation  for
attack.  These  explosions  stupefy  the  brain;  you  feel  as  if
your  entrails  were  being  torn  out,  your  heart  twisted  and
wrenched;  the  shock  seems  to  dismember  your  whole  body.
And  then  the  wounded,  the  corpses !

Never  had  I  seen  such  horror,  such  hell.  I  felt  that  I
would  give  everything  if  only  this  would  stop  long  enough
to  clear  my  brain.  Twelve  hours  alone,  motionless,  ex-
posed, and  no  chance  to  risk  a  leap  to  another  place,  so  closely
did  the  fragments  of  shell  and  rock  fall  in  hail  all  day  long.
At  last,  with  night,  this  diminished  a  little.  I  can  go  on  into
the  woods!  The  shells  still  burst  all  around  us,  but  their
infernal  din  no  longer  makes  any  impression  on  me — a  queer
trait  of  the  human  temperament.  After  that  we  are  lodged
in  fortified  caves  where  we  pass  five  days  in  seclusion,  piled
on  top  of  each  other,  without  being  able  to  lie  down.

I  bury  three  comrades  in  a  shell-hole.  We  are  without
water,  and,  with  hands  that  have  just  touched  the  poor
mangled  limbs,  we  eat  as  if  nothing  were  wrong.

226  THE  CLIMAX  AT  VERDUN

We  are  taken  back  for  two  days  into  a  tunnel  where  the
lacrymal  shells  make  us  weep.  Swiftly  we  put  on  our
masks.  The  next  day,  at  the  moment  of  taking  supper  and
retiring  to  rest,  we  are  hastily  called  into  rank;  that's  it —
we  are  going  to  the  motion-picture  show.  We  pass  through
an  infernal  barrage  fire  that  cracks  red  all  around  in  the
dark.  We  run  with  all  speed,  in  spite  of  our  knapsacks,  into
the  smother  of  broken  branches  that  used  to  be  a  forest.
Scarcely  have  we  left  a  hole  or  a  ditch  when  shells  as  big  as
a  frying  pan  fall  on  the  spot.  We  are  laid  flat  by  one  that
bursts  a  few  yards  away.  So  many  of  them  fall  at  one  time
that  we  no  longer  pay  any  attention  to  them.  We  tumble
into  a  ravine  which  we  have  named  Death  Ravine.  That
race  over  shell-swept,  open  country,  without  trenches,  we
shall  long  remember.

At  last  we  enter  the  village — without  suspecting  that  the
Germans  are  there!  The  commanding  officer  scatters  us
along  the  steep  hill  to  the  left  and  says  :  "Dig  holes,  quickly ;
the  Boches  are  forty  yards  away !"  We  laugh  and  do  not
believe  him;  immediately,  cries,  rifle  shots  in  the  village;
our  men  are  freeing  our  Colonel  and  Captain,  who  were  al-
ready prisoners.  Impossible!  Then  there  are  no  more
Frenchmen  there?  In  two  minutes  the  village  is  surrounded,
while  the  German  batteries  get  a  rude  jolt.  It  was  time!  All
night  long  you  hear  tools  digging  from  one  end  to  the  other ;
trenches  are  being  made  in  haste,  but  secretly.  After  that
there  is  a  wall,  and  the  Germans  will  advance  no  further.

The  next  morning  a  formidable  rumor — the  Boches  are
coming  up  to  assault  Fort  de  Vaux.  The  newspapers  have
told  the  facts;  our  75's  firing  for  six  hours,  the  German
bodies  piling  up  in  heaps.  Horrible!  but  we  applauded.
Everybody  went  out  of  the  trenches  to  look.  The  Yser,
said  the  veterans,  was  nothing  beside  this  massacre.

That  time  I  saw  Germans  fleeing  like  madmen.  The
next  day,  the  same  thing  over  again;  they  have  the  cynicism
to  mount  a  battery  on  the  slope;  the  German  chiefs  must
be  hangmen  to  hurl  their  troops  to  death  that  way  in  masses
and  in  broad  daylight.  All  afternoon,  a  maximum  bom-
bardment; a  wood  is  razed,  a  hill  ravaged  with  shell-holes.

THE  CLIMAX  AT  VERDUN  227

It  is  maddening;  continuous  salvos  of  "big  chariots";  one
sees  the  380's  and  420's  falling ;  a  continuous  cloud  of  smoke
everywhere.  Trees  leap  into  air  like  wisps  of  straw;  it  is
an  unheard-of  spectacle.  It  is  enough  to  make  you  lose
your  head,  yet  we  patiently  wait  for  the  outcome.

The  barrage  fire  cuts  our  communication  with  the  rear,
literally  barring  off  the  isthmus  of  Death  Ravine.  If  the
attacks  on  our  wings  succeed,  our  two  regiments  are  prison-
ers, hemmed  in,  but  the  veterans  (fathers  of  families)  de-
clare that  we  shall  not  be  taken  alive,  that  we  will  all  fight
till  we  die.    It  is  sublime.

"Keep  up  your  courage,  coolness,  and  morale,  boys,  and
we  will  drive  them  back  in  good  time."

It  is  magnificent  to  see  that  our  last  recourse  is  a  matter
of  sheer  will;  despite  this  monstrous  machinery  of  modern
war,  a  little  moral  effort,  a  will  twenty  years  old  that  refuses
to  weaken,  suffices  to  frustrate  the  offensive !  The  rifles  do
not  shoot  enough,  but  we  have  machine  guns,  the  bayonet,
and  we  have  vowed  that  they  shall  not  pass.  Twenty  times
the  alarm  is  given;  along  the  hillside  one  sees  the  hands
gripping  the  rifles ;  the  eyes  are  a  little  wild,  but  show  an  en-
ergy that  refuses  to  give  way.

Suddenly  it  is  already  night.  A  sentinel  runs  up  to  the
outposts:    "There  they  are !  Shoot!"

A  whole  section  shoots.  But  are  the  outposts  driven  in  ?
Nobody  knows.  I  take  my  rifle  to  go  and  see.  I  do  not
catch  a  ball.  I  find  the  sentinels  flat  on  their  faces  in  their
holes,  and  run  to  the  rear  gesticulating  and  crying  out  or-
ders to  cease  firing.  The  men  obey.  I  return  to  the  front,
and  soon,  a  hundred  yards  away,  I  see  a  bush  scintillate  with
a  rapid  line  of  fire.  This  time  it  is  they.  Ta-ca-ta-ca,  bzzi —
bzzi.  I  hold  my  fire  until  they  approach,  but  the  welcome
evidently  does  not  please  them,  for  they  tumble  back  over
the  ridge,  leaving  some  men  behind.  One  wounded  cries,
"Frantchmen !"

I  am  drunk,  mad.  Something  moves  in  the  bushes  to  the
right;  I  bound  forward  with  set  bayonet.  It  is  my  brave
sergeant,  who  has  been  out  to  see  whether  the  Boches  have
all  run  away.   These  are  truly  the  most  interesting  moments

228  THE  CLIMAX  AT  VERDUN

of  war;  no  longer  the  waiting,  the  anguish  of  bombard-
ment, but  the  thrill  of  a  free  march  into  a  glorious  unknown
— oh,  that  intoxication!  I  sing  the  "Marseillaise,"  the  boys
jubilate,  all  the  successive  attacks  have  failed.  After  this
evening  the  offensive  is  going  to  slacken  for  several  days.

The  next  day  we  are  relieved  at  last.  Another  race
with  death,  this  time  with  broad  daylight  shining  upon  the
horrible  chaos,  the  innumerable  dead,  and  a  few  wounded
here  and  there.  Oh!  those  mangled  bodies,  still  unburied,
abandoned  for  the  moment.  The  danger  excites  us.  A  shell
falls  squarely  among  us,  jarring  us  and  bathing  us  in  flame.
My  knapsack  gets  a  sliver  of  shell;  I  am  not  touched;  it  is
a  miracle.  In  the  evening  we  arrive  at  the  river  ford,  and
have  another  race.  The  next  day,  at  Verdun,  the  Germans
are  still  shelling  us  at  the  moment  when  we  mount  the  auto
trucks.  In  the  course  of  all  these  actions  our  losses  cer-
tainly have  been  high,  but  they  are  nothing  compared  with
the  frightful  and  unimaginable  hecatomb  of  Germans  I  have
witnessed.

BY  GENERAL  MILLERAND
Official  French  Reports  of  the  Struggle  for  Thiaumont  in  July

July  1st. — On  the  east  bank  the  fighting  has  been  des-
perate all  day  in  the  region  of  Thiaumont.  This  morning,
towards  ten  o'clock,  in  the  course  of  a  very  brilliant  attack,
our  troops  carried  the  Thiaumont  work  in  spite  of  an  ex-
tremely violent  curtain  fire  delivered  by  the  enemy.

This  afternoon  the  Germans  redoubled  their  efforts  to
drive  us  out  again,  and  sustained  considerable  Josses.  In
the  course  of  these  attempts  an  enemy  attack  succeeded  in  re-
entering at  about  three  o'clock,  but  a  vigorous  counter-
attack gave  us  complete  possession  of  the  work  once  more.
(Second  capture  and  recapture.)

July  2nd  (afternoon). — On  the  east  bank  the  fighting
begun  yesterday  in  the  Thiaumont  sector  was  continued  in
a  desperate  struggle  for  the  possession  of  the  work  of  that
name.  After  a  series  of  furious  assaults  preceded  by  bom-
bardments the  Germans  succeeded  in  once  more  penetrating
the  redoubt,  which  was  completely  wrecked,  while  we  our-

THE  CLIMAX  AT  VERDUN

selves  are  established  in  its  immediate  approaches.  (Third
German  capture.)

(Evening). — About  ten  in  the  morning  our  infantry
dashed  to  the  assault  of  the  Thiaumont  work,  which  we  again
captured.  The  afternoon  was  marked  by  a  recrudescence  of
the  bombardment  in  this  region,  as  well  as  in  the  sectors
of  the  Fumin  and  Chenois  Woods.  (Third  French  recap-
ture. )

July  3rd. — On  the  east  bank  several  enemy  attempts
against  the  Thiaumont  work  in  which  we  are  established
were  easily  repelled.

July  5th. — About  2  p.  m.,  after  several  attempts  which
were  repulsed,  an  enemy  attack  against  the  Thiaumont  work
succeeded  in  capturing  it  for  the  fourth  time.  The  Ger-
mans, who  had  been  repulsed  six  times  during  the  night  in
front  of  the  Thiaumont  work,  smothered  it  under  an  ap-
palling bombardment,  and  finally  succeeded  in  taking  it  in
the  afternoon.    (Fourth  German  capture.)

July  8th. — On  the  east  bank  of  the  Meuse  there  was
rather  fierce  fighting  during  the  day  in  the  region  of  Thiau-
mont work.  The  Germans  successively  launched  several
attacks  preceded  by  bombardment  against  our  positions.  One
of  these  succeeded  in  getting  a  foothold  in  our  advanced
elements,  but  our  counter-attack,  developed  about  2  p.  m.,
enabled  us  to  reestablish  entirely  our  line,  which  is  main-
tained at  the  immediate  approaches  to  this  work.  All  the
other  enemy  attempts  were  repulsed  by  our  machine-gun  fire,
and  occasioned  him  serious  losses.

August  4th. — On  the  east  bank  of  the  Meuse  our  infan-
try, pursuing  its  offensive  action  on  the  Thiaumont-Fleury
front,  captured  during  the  day  by  a  series  of  successive  at-
tacks all  the  trenches  between  these  two  points  as  far  as  the
southeast  of  Thiaumont  work  and  the  approaches  of
Hill  320.

Several  counter-attacks  with  large  effectives  made  on  our
positions  in  the  neighborhood  of  Thiaumont  were  repulsed
with  heavy  losses  to  the  enemy.  Our  troops  in  the  course  of
the  fighting  even  succeeded  in  capturing  the  work,  which
we  subsequently  evacuated  under  the  force  of  the  bombard-

THE  CLIMAX  AT  VERDUN

ment,  whilst  bringing  back  ninety  prisoners  in  this  action.
(Fourth  French  recapture  and  fifth  German  capture.)

August  5th. — On  the  east  bank  of  the  Meuse  fighting
continued  all  day  in  the  Thiaumont-Fleury  region.  To  the
northwest  and  to  the  south  of  the  Thiaumont  work  all  enemy
attacks  undertaken  to  dislodge  us  from  the  positions  cap-
tured were  vain.  Not  only  did  we  break  the  enemy's  efforts
and  inflict  on  him  heavy  losses,  but  by  means  of  a  second  re-
turn offensive  our  troops  succeeded  in  capturing  for  the  sec-
ond time  in  twelve  hours  the  Thiaumont  work,  which  re-
mains in  our  power  in  spite  of  several  counter-attacks  made
by  the  enemy.    (Fifth  French  recapture.)

August  6th. — On  the  east  bank  of  the  Meuse  the  Ger-
mans attempted  by  furious  counter-attacks  to  drive  us  from
the  Thiaumont  work,  which  we  are  strongly  occupying.  The
struggle  lasted  from  9  p.  m.  yesterday  till  this  morning,  caus-
ing heavy  losses  for  the  enemy,  who  was  repulsed  at  each  of
his  attacks  without  succeeding  in  obtaining  the  least  ad-
vantage.

August  9th  (afternoon). — The  Germans  succeeded  in
obtaining  a  footing  in  the  Thiaumont  work  after  a  desperate
struggle,  which  still  continues.    (Sixth  German  capture.)

(Night). — On  the  east  bank  of  the  Meuse  stubborn  fight-
ing continues  on  the  whole  of  the  front  of  Thiaumont-Fleury.
With  remarkable  tenacity  our  troops  checked  and  repulsed
the  enemy,  who  attempted  by  his  counter-attacks  to  drive
us  from  the  ground  captured  by  us  during  the  last  few  days
to  the  northwest  and  to  the  south  of  the  Thiaumont  work.
Then  passing  in  their  turn  to  the  offensive,  our  troops  re-
occupied  all  the  trench  elements  where  the  enemy  had  ob-
tained a  foothold  in  the  course  of  the  battle,  and  again  en-
tered the  Thiaumont  work.    (Sixth  French  recapture.)

August  10th. — On  the  east  bank  of  the  Meuse  the  com-
bat round  the  Thiaumont  work  lasted  a  portion  of  the  night.
The  enemy  again  obtained  a  footing  there  after  numerous
attacks  repulsed  by  us.    (Seventh  German  capture.)

August  19th. — We  followed  up  our  offensive  by  driving
the  enemy  out  of  two  fortified  redoubts  to  the  northwest  of
the  fort.    (Seventh  French  partial  recapture.)

THE  CLIMAX  AT  VERDUN  231

BY  MARSHAL  JOFFRE
Official  Announcement  of  August  3rd  upon  the  Verdun  Position

The  great  sacrifices  which  France  has  supported  at  Ver-
dun have  given  our  Allies  time  to  build  up  their  resources,
have  enabled  us  to  mature  our  plans  and  carry  them  out  with
perfect  appreciation  of  the  necessities  of  all  fronts.  We
are  now  able  to  employ  all  our  resources  simultaneously  in
a  thoroughgoing  way.  I  desire  to  pay  homage  to  the  man-
ner wherein  all  the  Allies  are  fulfilling  their  part.

Drawing  on  her  inexhaustible  resources  Russia  has  been
afforded  time  to  bring  forward  men  in  ever-increasing  num-
bers, and  is  now  deploying  her  huge  armies  with  telling
effect  in  Galicia,  Volhynia,  and  Armenia.  Great  Britain,
too,  has  had  time  in  the  past  two  years  to  show  the  world
the  extent  of  her  varied  resources.  Her  troops  are  proving
their  splendid  valor  on  the  Somme,  showing  what  a  deter-
mined nation  can  do  in  such  times  as  these.  No  doubt  Italy
has  a  difficult  and  limited  part  to  play  in  a  more  restricted
sphere  of  action,  but  her  troops  are  fulfilling  their  role  splen-
didly. The  Serbian  army  is  beginning  at  this  moment  to
enter  the  firing-line  anew.

We  know  positively  that  our  enemies,  although  fight-
ing as  desperately  as  ever,  are  drawing  on  their  last  re-
serves. Up  to  now  they  have  followed  the  policy  of  trans-
ferring their  reserves  from  one  place  to  another,  but  in  face
of  the  Allies'  united  effort  they  now  find  it  impossible,  and
will  find  it  increasingly  impossible  in  future,  to  pursue  such
methods.    All  our  sources  of  information  confirm  that.

It  is  not  for  me  to  say  how  long  this  struggle  is  going
to  last,  but  the  question  matters  little.  We  know  that  the
rupture  is  coming.  You,  no  doubt,  feel  as  well  as  we  do,
that  we  have  reached  the  turning  point.  The  five  months'
resistance  of  the  French  troops  at  Verdun  has  shattered  the
plans  of  the  German  Staff,  and  brought  us  round  the  corner,
heading  for  victory.  Don't,  however,  imagine  that  there  is
yet  a  marked  weakening  of  the  German  effort  on  the  western
front.  Two-thirds  of  their  finest  troops  are  still  opposed  to
us  on  this  side.   The  English  and  French  face  122  of  their

232  THE  CLIMAX  AT  VERDUN

best  divisions.  On  the  Russian  front  the  Germans  have
50  divisions  to  which  must,  of  course,  be  added  the  Austrian
armies.

I  won't  go  into  details  on  the  condition  and  temper  of
the  French  army.  You  cannot  do  better  than  avail  your-
self of  the  facilities  to  see  our  troops  in  the  field  with  your
own  eyes.  You  will  see  the  army  as  it  is  after  two  years
of  the  hardest  fighting.  You  will  see  an  army  of  which
the  spirit  and  energy  have  been  vastly  increased  by  this
bitter  struggle.  To  that  I  can  add  that  the  number  of  our
troops  at  the  front  is  greater  now  than  at  the  beginning  of
the  war.  I  can  think  of  no  more  eloquent  fact  than  that  as
illustrating  France's  capacity  for  waging  a  just  war.  The
country  is  determined  to  see  the  war  to  a  victorious  con-
clusion. The  Allies  are  fighting  not  merely  for  the  respec-
tive interests  of  their  countries,  but  for  the  liberty  of  the
world,  and  will  not  stop  till  the  world's  liberty  is  definitely
assured.

BY  GENERAL  VON  LUDENDORFF
His  Summary  of  the  Entire  Verdun  Battle

Verdun  had  exacted  a  very  great  price  in  blood.  The
position  of  our  attacking  troops  grew  more  and  more  un-
favorable. The  more  ground  they  gained,  the  deeper  they
plunged  into  the  wilderness  of  shell-holes,  and  apart  from
actual  losses  in  action,  they  suffered  heavy  wastage  merely
through  having  to  stay  in  such  a  spot,  not  to  mention  the
difficulty  of  getting  up  supplies  over  a  wide,  desolate  area.
The  French  enjoyed  a  great  advantage  here,  as  the  proximity
of  the  fortress  gave  them  a  certain  amount  of  support.

Our  attacks  dragged  on,  sapping  our  strength.  The  very-
men  who  had  first  fought  so  heroically  at  Verdun  were  now
terrified  of  this  shell-ravaged  region.  The  command  had
not  their  hearts  in  their  work.  The  Crown  Prince  had  very
early  declared  himself  in  favor  of  breaking  off  the  attack.
That  offensive  should  have  been  broken  off  immediately  it
assumed  the  character  of  a  battle  of  attrition.  The  gain  no
longer  justified  the  losses.

ARAB  INDEPENDENCE  PROCLAIMED

THE  MOHAMMEDAN  RELIGIOUS  LEADERSHIP  LOST  TO

TURKEY

JUNE  27TH

KING  HUSSEIN  THE  ULEMA

Mohammedanism  ranks  with  Christianity  and  Buddhism  as  one  of
the  three  most  widely  spread  religions  in  the  world.  Moreover,  it  is
of  all  religions  the  most  militant  and  the  one  most  given  to  fanatical
outbreaks  of  frenzy.  Hence  the  question  as  to  whom  the  Moham-
medans shall  reverence  and  follow  as  the  leader  of  their  faith  is  one  of
the  utmost  importance  to  the  world.

For  centuries  Turkey  has  been  the  dominant  Mohammedan  power,
and  the  high-priest  at  Constantinople  had  been  looked  to  as  the  re-
ligious successor  of  Mohammed ;  while  the  Prophet's  spiritual  lord-
ship was  assumed  to  have  descended  to  the  Bern  Osman,  or  sons  of
Osman,  the  royal  house  of  the  Turkish  sultans.  But  the  vast  mass  of
Mohammedans  beyond  Turkish  territory  were  deeply  dissatisfied  with
the  course  of  the  ruling  Turkish  party,  the  "Young  Turks"  who  had
in  1909  declared  all  faiths  equal  within  their  empire,  and  had  then  in
1914  accepted  the  leadership  of  "Christian"  Germany.

Hence  the  movement  toward  both  religious  and  political  inde-
pendence in  Arabia  was  from  the  start  a  popular  one.  The  Hedjaz
is  the  western  coast  land  of  Arabia  between  the  central  desert  and
the  Red  Sea,  and  it  contains  the  "holy  cities"  Mecca,  the  Prophet
Mohammed's  birthplace,  and  Medina,  the  seat  of  his  first  kingdom.
Hence  the  high-priest  or  Sherif  of  the  Hedjaz  has  always  been  a
personage  of  high  religious  importance;  and  Hussein,  the  Sherif  in
1916,  claimed  direct  descent  from  the  family  of  Mohammed.  He
was  thus  of  all  men  the  most  fitted  to  claim  the  right  to  replace  the
impotent  high-priest  at  Constantinople,  as  the  true  leader  of  the  Mo-
hammedan faith.

Hussein's  official  account  is  that  he  sent  his  son  into  Syria  to
protest  against  the  cruelties  there  being  inflicted  upon  the  native
Arabs  by  the  Turkish  governor  Djemal.  The  envoy  was  not  only
defied,  but  an  attempt  was  made  to  imprison  him.  Thereon  the  chief
men  of  all  the  Hedjaz  gathered  in  council  and  decided  that  to  escape
from  miseries  such  as  Syria  was  enduring  they  must  break  from
Turkey  altogether.  This  they  did,  and  made  Hussein  their  chief,
as  "Hussein  the  First,  King  of  Hedjaz  and  Hereditary  Custodian  of
the  Holy  Cities."  On  June  9th  the  new  king  sent  out  three  armies
under  his  three  sons;  and  these,  traversing  the  Hedjaz  from  end  to
end,  deposed  Turkish  officials  everywhere,  and  defeated  the  feeble
Turkish  forces  in  the  land.  The  Turks'  final  resistance  was  at  Medina,
which  they  only  surrendered  after  a  considerable  siege.

234    ARAB  INDEPENDENCE  PROCLAIMED

The  news  of  Hussein's  assumption  of  leadership  of  the  Moham-
medan faith  was  celebrated  with  enthusiasm  in  the  Mohammedan
lands  not  under  Turkey's  control,  especially  in  India  and  Morocco.

BY  KING  HUSSEIN

Proclamation  of  the  Sherif  of  Mecca
In  the  Name  of  Gocl,  the  Merciful,  the  Compassionate

This  is  our  general  circular  to  all  our  Brother  Moslems

"O  Lord,  do  thou  judge  between  us  and  our  nation  with
truth;  for  Thou  art  the  best  Judge"

IT  is  well  known  that  of  all  the  Moslem  Rulers  and  Emirs,
the  Emirs  of  Mecca,  the  Favored  City,  were  the  first
to  recognize  the  Turkish  Government.  This  they  did  in
order  to  unite  Moslem  opinion  and  firmly  establish  their
community,  knowing  that  the  great  Ottoman  Sultans  (may
the  dust  of  their  tombs  be  blessed  and  may  Paradise  be  their
abode)  were  acting  in  accordance  with  the  Book  of  God
and  the  Sunna  of  his  Prophet  (prayers  be  unto  him)  and
were  zealous  to  enforce  the  ordinances  of  both  these  au-
thorities. With  this  noble  end  in  view  the  Emirs  before
mentioned  observe  those  ordinances  unceasingly.  I  myself,
protecting  the  honor  of  the  State,  caused  Arabs  to  rise
against  their  fellow  Arabs  in  the  year  1327  [1909  of  the
Christian  era]  in  order  to  raise  the  siege  of  Abha,  and  in
the  following  year  a  similar  movement  was  carried  out  un-
der the  leadership  of  one  of  my  sons,  as  is  well  known.  The
Emirs  continued  to  support  the  Ottoman  State  until  the
Society  of  Union  and  Progress  appeared  in  the  State  and
proceeded  to  take  over  the  administration  thereof  and  all  its
affairs.

The  result  of  this  new  administration  was  that  the  State
suffered  a  loss  of  territory  which  quite  destroyed  its  pres-
tige, as  the  whole  world  knows,  was  plunged  into  the  horrors
of  war  and  brought  to  its  present  perilous  position,  as  is
patent  to  all.  This  was  all  done  for  certain  well-known  ends,
which  our  feelings  forbid  to  dilate  upon.  They  caused  Mos-
lem hearts  to  ache  with  grief  for  the  Empire  of  Islam,  for

ARAB  INDEPENDENCE  PROCLAIMED  235

the  destruction  of  the  remaining  inhabitants  of  her  provinces
— Moslem  as  well  as  non-Moslem — some  of  them  hanged  or
otherwise  done  to  death,  others  driven  into  exile.  Add  to
this  the  losses  they  have  sustained  through  the  war  in  their
persons  and  property,  the  latter  especially  in  the  Holy  Land
as  is  briefly  demonstrated  by  the  fact  that  in  that  quarter
the  general  stress  compelled  even  the  middle  classes  to  sell
the  doors  of  their  houses,  their  cupboards  and  the  wood  from
their  ceilings,  after  selling  all  their  belongings  to  keep  life
in  their  bodies.  All  this  evidently  did  not  fulfill  the  designs
of  the  Society  of  Union  and  Progress.

They  proceeded  next  to  sever  the  essential  bond  between
the  Ottoman  Sultanate  and  the  whole  Moslem  community,
to  wit,  adherence  to  the  Koran  and  the  Sunna.  One  of  the
Constantinople  newspapers,  called  Al-Ijtihad,  actually  pub-
lished an  article  maligning  (God  forgive  us)  the  life  of  the
Prophet  (on  whom  be  the  prayer  and  peace  of  God),  and
this  under  the  eye  of  the  Grand  Vizier  of  the  Ottoman  Em-
pire and  its  Sheikh  of  Islam,  and  all  the  Ulema,  ministers
and  nobles.  It  adds  to  this  impiety  by  denying  the  word  of
God,  "The  male  shall  receive  two  portions,"  and  decides  that
they  shall  share  equally  under  the  law  of  inheritance.  Then
it  proceeds  to  the  crowning  atrocity  of  destroying  one  of
the  five  vital  precepts  of  Islam,  the  Fast  of  Ramadan,  or-
dering that  the  troops  stationed  at  Medina,  Mecca  or  Damas-
cus may  break  the  fast  in  the  same  way  as  troops  fighting
on  the  Russian  frontier,  thereby  falsifying  the  clear  Koranic
injunction,  "Those  of  you  who  are  sick  or  on  a  journey."  It
has  put  forth  other  innovations  touching  the  fundamental
laws  of  Islam  (of  which  the  penalties  for  infringement  are
well  known)  after  destroying  the  Sultan's  power,  robbing
him  even  of  the  right  to  choose  the  chief  of  his  Imperial
Cabinet  or  the  private  minister  of  his  august  person,  and
breaking  the  constitution  of  the  Caliphate  of  which  Moslems
demand  the  observance.

In  spite  of  all,  we  have  accepted  these  innovations  in
order  to  give  no  cause  for  dissension  and  schism.  But  at
last  the  veil  was  removed  and  it  became  apparent  that  the
Empire  was  in  the  hands  of  Enver  Pasha,  Djemal  Pasha  and

236    ARAB  INDEPENDENCE  PROCLAIMED

Talaat  Bey,  who  were  administering  it  just  as  they  liked  and
treating  it  according  to  their  own  sweet  will.  The  most
striking  proof  of  this  is  the  notice  lately  sent  to  the  Kadi
of  the  Tribunal  at  Mecca,  to  the  effect  that  he  must  deliver
judgment  solely  on  evidence  written  down  in  his  presence  in
court  and  must  not  consider  any  evidence  written  down  by
Moslems  among  themselves,  thus  ignoring  the  verse  in  the
Surat-al-Baqara.  Another  proof  is  that  they  caused  to  be
hanged  at  one  time  21  eminent  and  cultured  Moslems  and
Arabs  of  distinction,  in  addition  to  those  they  had  previ-
ously put  to  death — the  Emir  Omar  el-Jazairi,  the  Emir
Arif  esh-Shihabi,  Shefik  Bey  el-Moayyad,  Shukri  Bey  el-
Asali,  Abd  el-Wahab,  Taufik  Bey  el-Baset,  Abd  el-Hamid  el-
Zahrawi,  Abd  el-Ghani  el-Arisi,  and  their  companions,  who
are  well-known  men.  Cruel-hearted  men  could  not  easily
bring  themselves  to  destroy  so  many  lives  at  one  blow,  even
if  they  were  as  beasts  of  the  field.  We  might  hear  their  ex-
cuse and  grant  them  pardon  for  killing  those  worthy  men,
but  how  can  we  excuse  them  for  banishing  under  such  piti-
ful and  heart-breaking  circumstances  the  innocent  families
of  their  victims — infants,  delicate  women  and  aged  men —
and  inflicting  on  them  other  forms  of  suffering  in  addition
to  the  agonies  they  had  already  endured  in  the  death  of  those
who  were  the  support  of  their  homes?

God  says,  "No  burdened  soul  shall  bear  the  burden  of  an-
other." Even  if  we  could  let  all  this  pass,  how  is  it  possible
we  can  forgive  them  confiscating  the  property  and  money
of  those  people  after  bereaving  them  of  their  dear  ones?
Try  to  suppose  we  closed  our  eyes  to  this,  also  feeling  that'
they  might  have  some  excuse  on  their  side;  could  we  ever
forgive  them  desecrating  the  grave  of  that  pious,  zealous  and
godly  man  the  Sherif  Abd  el-Kadir  el-Jazairi  el-Hasani?
The  above  is  a  brief  account  of  their  doings,  and  we  leave
humanity  at  large  and  Moslems  in  particular  to  give  their
verdict.

We  have  sufficient  proof  of  how  they  regard  the  religion
and  the  Arab  people  in  the  fact  that  they  shelled  the  Ancient
House,  the  Temple  of  the  Divine  Unity,  of  which  it  is  said
in  the  word  of  God,  "Purify  my  House  for  those  that  pass

ARAB  INDEPENDENCE  PROCLAIMED  237

round  it,"  the  Kibla  of  Mohammedans,  the  Kaaba  of  be-
lievers in  the  Unity,  firing  two  shells  at  it  from  their  big
guns  when  the  country  rose  to  demand  its  independence.
One  fell  about  a  yard  and  a  half  above  the  Black  Stone  and
the  other  three  yards  from  it.  The  covering  of  the  Kaaba
was  set  in  a  blaze.  Thousands  of  Moslems  rushed  up  with
shouts  of  alarm  and  despair  to  extinguish  the  flames.  To
reach  the  fire  they  were  compelled  to  open  the  door  of  the
building  and  climb  on  to  the  roof.  The  enemy  fired  a  third
shell  at  the  Makam  Ibrahim  in  addition  to  the  projectiles  and
bullets  aimed  at  the  rest  of  the  building.  Every  day  three
or  four  people  in  the  building  itself  were  killed,  and  at  last
it  became  difficult  for  the  Moslems  to  approach  the  Kaaba
at  all.  We  leave  the  whole  Mohammedan  world  from  East
to  West  to  pass  judgment  on  this  contempt  and  profanation
of  the  Sacred  House.  But  we  are  determined  not  to  leave
our  religious  and  national  rights  as  a  plaything  in  the  hands
of  the  Union  and  Progress  Party.

God  (blessed  and  exalted  be  He)  has  vouchsafed  the
land  an  opportunity  to  rise  in  revolt,  has  enabled  her  by  His
power  and  might  to  seize  her  independence  and  crown  her
efforts  with  prosperity  and  victory,  even  after  she  was
crushed  by  the  maladministration  of  the  Turkish  civil  and
military  officials.  She  stands  quite  apart  and  distinct  from
countries  that  still  groan  under  the  yoke  of  the  Union  and
Progress  Government.  She  is  independent  in  the  fullest
sense  of  the  word,  freed  from  the  rule  of  strangers  and
purged  of  every  foreign  influence.  Her  principles  are  to  de-
fend the  faith  of  Islam,  to  elevate  the  Moslem  people,  to
found  their  conduct  on  Holy  Law,  to  build  up  the  code  of
justice  on  the  same  foundation  in  harmony  with  the  prin-
ciples of  religion,  to  practice  its  ceremonies  in  accordance
with  modern  progress,  and  make  a  genuine  revolution  by
sparing  no  pains  in  spreading  education  among  all  classes
according  to  their  station  and  their  needs.

This  is  the  policy  we  have  undertaken  in  order  to  fulfill
our  religious  duty,  trusting  that  all  our  brother  Moslems
in  the  East  and  West  will  pursue  the  same  in  fulfillment

238    ARAB  INDEPENDENCE  PROCLAIMED

of  their  duty  to  us,  and  so  strengthen  the  bands  of  the
Islamic  brotherhood.

We  raise  our  hands  humbly  to  the  Lord  of  Lords  for
the  sake  of  the  Prophet  of  the  All-Bountiful  King  that  we
may  be  granted  success  and  guidance  in  whatsoever  is  for
the  good  of  Islam  and  the  Moslems.  We  rely  upon  Al-
mighty God,  who  is  our  Sufficiency  and  the  best  Defender.

The  Sherif  and  Emir  of  Mecca,
El  Hussein  ibn  All

PROCLAMATION  OF  MARCH,  I917,  BY  THE  ULEMA  OR  BODY  OF

PRIESTS  OF  MECCA

In  the  name  of  Allah  the  Merciful.
Proclamation  to  the  Faithful.

We,  the  elders  and  lawyers  of  the  House  of  God,  are
among  those  whom  God  has  permitted  to  serve  the  faith
and  defend  its  truths.  The  world  and  its  treasures,  in  com-
parison with  truth,  are  not  worth  the  wing  of  an  insect,  for
there  is  no  other  purpose  for  man  in  this  life  except  to
prepare  for  eternity.

The  Moslem  soul  rejoices  in  beholding  the  Grand
"Kaaba"  in  the  first  streak  of  dawn  and  in  the  shadow  of
evening,  and  he  is  sanctified  by  dwelling  in  the  land  blessed
by  the  Prophet  of  God.  The  peace  of  God  be  upon  him!
Can  such  a  man  allow  his  faith  to  be  scorned  or  see  evil
befall  the  things  that  are  holy?  Even  so  it  is  with  us  who
dwell  in  this  holy  place.

We  have  discerned  the  hearts  of  the  usurpers  of  Os-
man's  empire.  We  have  learned  their  evil  purpose  with  re-
gard to  our  faith,  we  have  beheld  their  crimes  and  wicked-
ness in  this  our  holy  land,  and  our  faith  has  shown  us  the
path  of  salvation,  and  in  its  name  we  have  acted  according
to  our  duty  to  ourselves  and  the  Moslems  of  the  world.

Every  Moslem  who  would  consider  this  matter  should
seek  its  cause  and  ascertain  the  nature  of  evil  against  which
we  rose  in  arms,  when  we  found  words  were  of  no  avail.

As  for  us,  we  are  absolutely  certain  that  the  secret  com-

ARAB  INDEPENDENCE  PROCLAIMED  239

mittee  of  the  Young  Turk  Party  has  notoriously  disobeyed
God.  No  words  stayed  their  hand  from  crime,  and  no  oppo-
sition prevented  the  evil  consequences  of  their  actions.  Let
no  one  think  that  we  speak  vain  things.  There  stand  the
facts  and  events  which  every  man  by  inquiry  can  ascertain
for  himself.  We  shall  bring  forth  these  facts  and  lay  them
before  the  Mohammedan  world  when  necessity  demands.
Now  we  content  ourselves  with  begging  those  of  our  brethren
who  oppose  us  to  send  some  reliable  person  or  persons  to
Constantinople,  the  capital  of  the  Unionists,  and  there  wit-
ness personally,  as  we  have  ourselves  witnessed,  Moslem
women  employed  by  the  Government  and  exposed  in  public
places  unveiled  before  men  of  strange  nations.  What  do
our  true  Moslem  brethren  who  oppose  us  in  haste  think  of
this  matter,  an  example  of  an  evil  that  will  greatly  injure
us  if  it  increases  and  of  which  we  publicly  complain?

Would  the  obedience  of  people  who  do  such  a  thing  (and
it  is  the  least  of  their  crimes  against  Islam  and  Moslems)
be  a  true  obedience  or  would  it  be  disobedience  to  God?
Never,  by  the  God  of  the  "Kaaba,"  never.  To  obey  them
is  to  disobey  God.  Far  from  it  that  any  of  the  faithful
should  consent  to  this.

We  endeavored  to  please  God  and  avoid  a  rebellion  so
long  as  it  was  possible.  We  rebelled  in  order  to  please
God,  and  He  gave  us  victory  and  stood  by  us  in  support  of
His  law  and  religion,  and  in  accordance  with  a  wisdom
known  to  Him  which  would  lead  to  the  uplifting  of  this  peo-
ple. Every  Moslem  heart  in  the  Ottoman  Empire,  even
among  the  Turks  in  Anatolia  and  among  the  members  of
the  Turkish  royal  family  in  the  palaces,  prays  God  for  our
success,  and  God  always  answers  the  prayers  of  the  op-
pressed and  the  righteous.  There  is  no  doubt  about  it,  that
if  the  inhabitants  of  those  countries  which  the  Unionists
have  lost  through  their  alliance  with  Germany  in  this  war
had  revolted  against  those  oppressors,  just  as  we  did,  they
would  have  no  more  been  regarded  as  belligerents  and  would
thus  have  saved  their  countries  for  themselves.  But  if
things  should  continue  as  they  are,  no  territory  will  remain
for  this  empire.

24o    ARAB  INDEPENDENCE  PROCLAIMED

If  you  keep  this  in  mind  and  remember  what  the  Indian
paper  Mashrek  wrote  on  September  12th  and  19th  on  the
subject  of  the  disqualification  of  the  Beni  Osman  to  be  the
Caliphs  of  Islam,  you  will  understand  that  we  have  risen  in
order  to  avert  these  dangers  and  to  put  the  Islamic  rule  on  a
firm  foundation  of  true  civilization  according  to  the  noble
dictates  of  our  religion.  If  our  revolution  were  only  to  pre-
serve the  integrity  of  our  country  and  to  save  it  from  what
has  befallen  other  Islamic  countries,  it  is  enough,  and  we  are
amply  justified.

We  call  the  attention  of  those  who  oppose  us  to  the  neces-
sity of  saving  the  other  countries  from  the  calamities  into
which  their  inhabitants  have  fallen  and  to  deliver  them  from
the  destruction  and  ruin  into  which  those  criminal  hands  are
dragging  them,  if  any  true  religious  enthusiasm  is  left  at  all.
We  have  done  what  we  ought  to  do.  We  have  cleansed  our
country  from  the  germs  of  atheism  and  evil.  The  best  course
for  those  Moslems  who  still  side  with  and  defend  this  notori-
ous gang  of  Unionists,  is  to  submit  to  the  will  of  God  before
their  tongues,  hands,  and  feet  give  witness  against  them.

It  is  a  great  mistake  to  suppose  that  in  rising  against
this  party  we  are  rising  against  a  legitimate  Caliph  possessing
all  the  legal  or,  at  least,  some  of  the  conditions  qualifying
him  to  be  such.

What  does  the  Mohammedan  world  say  of  the  Beni  Os-
man who  pretend  to  be  Caliphs  of  Islam,  while  for  many  years
they  were  like  puppets  in  the  hands  of  the  Janissaries ;  tossed
about,  dethroned,  and  killed  by  them,  in  a  manner  contrary
to  the  laws  and  doctrines  established  in  the  books  of  religion
on  the  accession  and  dethronement  of  Caliphs — which  facts
are  recorded  in  their  history?  History  is  now  repeating
itself.  To  those  Janissaries,  grandsons  have  appeared  in
these  days  who  are  repeating  the  acts  enacted  in  the  days
of  Abdul  Aziz,  Murad,  and  Abdul  Hamid.  The  murder
of  Yussuf  Izzedin,  the  Turkish  heir  apparent,  is  too  recent
to  be  forgotten.

Those  who  oppose  us  and  side  with  the  Beni  Osman
should  do  one  of  two  things :  ( 1 )  Consider  the  Janissaries
and  their  grandsons  as  the  final  authority  on  the  question  of

ARAB  INDEPENDENCE  PROCLAIMED  241

the  Caliphate,  which  we  do  not  think  any  reasonable  man
would  do,  because  it  is  against  the  laws  of  religion;  or  (2)
consider  those  Janissaries  and  their  grandsons  as  void  of  au-
thority on  the  Caliphate  question,  in  which  case  we  should
ask  them,  "What  is  the  Caliphate  and  what  are  its  condi-
tions?"

Therefore,  it  remains  for  those  who  oppose  us  to  repent,
to  come  to  their  senses  and  unite  with  us  in  appealing  to
the  Moslem  world  to  use  all  effective  measures  for  the
strengthening  of  Islam  and  the  restoring  of  its  glory.

We  want  those  who  are  present  here  to  tell  you  who  are
far  away  that  we  shall  confess  before  Almighty  God,  on  the
last  day,  that  to-day  we  do  not  know  of  any  Moslem  ruler
more  righteous  and  fearing  God  than  the  son  of  His  Prophet
who  is  now  on  the  throne  of  the  Arab  country.  We  do
not  know  any  one  more  zealous  than  he  in  religion,  more  ob-
servant of  the  law  of  God  in  words  and  deeds,  and  more
capable  of  managing  our  affairs  in  such  a  way  as  would  please
God.  The  people  of  the  Holy  Land  have  proclaimed  him
their  King  simply  because,  in  so  doing,  they  would  be  serv-
ing their  religion  and  country.

As  to  the  question  of  the  Caliphate,  in  spite  of  all  that
is  known  of  the  deplorable  condition  in  which  it  is  situated
at  the  present  moment,  we  have  not  interfered  with  it  at  all
and  it  will  remain  as  it  is  pending  the  final  decision  of  the
whole  Mohammedan  world.

Salams  to  all  who  hear  what  is  said  and  believe  the  good
in  it.    May  God  lead  us  all  into  the  path  of  right.

THE  BATTLE  OF  THE  SOMME

BRITAIN'S  MIGHTIEST  EFFORT  OF  THE  WAR

JULY  IST-NOVEMBER

PHILIP  GIBBS  PRINCE  RUPPRECHT  OF  BAVARIA

LIEUTENANT  ALFRED  DAMBITSCH
GENERAL  STEINACKER

The  Somme  is  the  largest  of  a  series  of  small  rivers  which,  rising
in  the  low  hills  of  northern  France,  take  a  sluggish  northwestward
course  over  the  fiat  coastland  in  their  short  journey  to  the  English
Channel.  The  Bsitish  troops  had  at  first  guarded  only  a  small  sec-
tion of  the  great  French  trench  line,  their  forces  centering  around
Ypres  near  the  northern  end  of  the  line  and  close  to  the  "Channel
ports."  By  degrees,  as  their  numbers  increased,  they  extended  their
lines  southward  almost  to  the  Somme  River,  which  here,  about  sixty
miles  from  its  mouth,  cut  directly  across  the  great  trench  line  and
flowed  westward  from  Peronne,  where  the  Germans  had  their  head-
quarters, to  Amiens,  which  the  British  held.

It  was  up  the  valley  of  the  Somme,  and  over  the  low  hills  to  the
north  of  it  that  the  French  and  British  commanders  now  agreed  to
make  their  great  counter-attack  which  was  to  relieve  Verdun.  They
began  on  July  ist,  the  French  fighting  their  way  toward  Peronne
directly,  along  the  banks  of  the  Somme,  while  the  British  attacked  the
German  lines  in  the  hilly  region  north  of  the  river.  The  battle  soon
developed  into  a  mighty  duplicate  of  Verdun,  only  with  the  roles  re-
versed, the  Allies  making  the  tremendous  attacks  and  the  Germans
holding  the  defense.  There  was  the  same  endless  slaughter,  the  same
unbounded  heroism,  the  same  lack  of  decisive  result.

The  Britons  had  accumulated  enormous  quantities  of  ammunition,
so  that  their  bombardments  exceeded  even  those  of  the  Germans  at
Verdun.  Lieutenant  Dambitsch,  a  German  wounded  at  the  Somme,
gave  his  countrymen  at  home  the  narrative  here  retold  of  the  effects  of
this  awful  bombardment  upon  the  German  troops.  The  endurance
upon  one  siae  was  as  stupendous  as  the  splendid  resoluteness  on  the
other.  God  grant  that  men  may  never  again  be  plunged  into  such
a  frenzy  of  desolation.

Philip  Gibbs,  the  most  noted  of  British  observers  at  the  front,
tells  of  the  battle  as  it  looked  to  British  eyes;  and  the  German  chief
commander  on  the  spot,  Prince  Rupprecht,  voices  the  German  view.
France  bore  her  equal  share  in  the  battle,  though,  fighting  over  easier
ground  her  losses  were  less,  nor  did  she  have  at  her  disposal  such
a  mass  of  artillery  as  did  the  British.  The  German  view  after  the  War,
including  also  the  French  part  in  the  struggle,  is  well  summarized  by
the  official  German  historian,  General  Freiherr  von  Steinacker.

Only  the  winter  weather  of  November  at  last  checked  the  unending
assault.  By  that  time  the  British  reported  a  capture  of  38,000  prisoners
and  an  advance  over  about  fifty  square  miles  of  ground.  The  French
reported  an  equal  advance  and  the  capture  of  over  42,000  prisoners.
Peronne,  however,  still  remained  in  German  hands.

EXPENDITURE   OF   ARTILLERY   AMMUNITION    IN  MODERN

BATTLES

One  of  the  most  striking  developments  of  the  World  War  was  the  great
increase  in  the  use  of  artillery  to  precede  infantry  action  in  battle.  This  is
illustrated  by  a  comparison  of  the  expenditure  of  artillery  ammunition  in
characteristic  battles  of  recent  wars  with  that  in  important  battles  of  the
World  War.  The  special  features  of  the  several  battles  should  be  kept  in
mind.  Chickamauga  was  fought  in  a  heavily  wooded  region;  Gettysburg
and  St.  Privat  over  open  farm  land.  The  latter  battles,  together  with  Nan
Shan,  and  all  the  battles  of  the  World  War  considered  below,  involved  ar-
tillery preparation  for  assault  upon  armies  in  defensive  position.  The  ex-
penditures, therefore,  are  roughly  comparable.

The  high  mark  of  the  use  of  artillery  in  offensive  battle  was  reached  at  the
Somme  and  Messines  Ridge,  before  the  effective  use  of  tanks  was  developed.

Source  of  information:    Ordnance  Department.

Year

Battle

Days'
duration

Army

Rounds  of  artillery  ammunition  expended

Chickamauga

Union

Gettysburg

Union

St.  Privat

German

Nan  Shan

Japanese

Liao  Yang

Russian

Sha  Ho

Russian

Neuve  Chapelle

British

Souchez

French

Somme

British

Messines  Ridge

British

St.  Mihiel

Artillery  preparation  lasted:
a  35  minutes.
b  4  hours.

c  Intermittent  7  days.

STATISTICS  BRANCH    -    GENERAL  STAFF
WAR  DEPARTMENT

IMPROVEMENT  OF  FIELD  GUNS  SINCE  THE
NAPOLEONIC  WARS

The  limiting  factor  in  the  development  of  light  field  guns  has  always  been
the  continuous  hauling  power  of  6  horses,  which  is  about  4,000  pounds.  The
gun  has  been  as  powerful  as  possible  within  the  limits  of  this  weight,  which
includes  the  carriage  and  limber  as  well  as  the  cannon  itself.  Improved  tech-
nique and  materials  have  reduced  the  necessary  weight  of  the  cannon  from
1,650  pounds  in  1815  to  about  800  pounds  today,  permitting  the  use  of  weight
for  recoil  mechanism  and  shield  of  armor  plate  without  exceeding  the  limit.

The  800  pound  nickel  steel  gun  of  1918  fires  as  heavy  a  projectile  (12-15
pounds)  as  the  1,650  pound  bronze  gun  of  the  Napoleonic  wars.  The  im-
proved material  permits  a  more  powerful  propellant  charge,  which  results  in
greater  muzzle  velocity,  a  flatter  trajectory,  and  longer  maximum  range.
The  latter  is  due  in  part  also  to  improved  shapes  of  projectiles  and  the  in-
troduction of  rifling.  The  efficiency  of  artillery  is  further  increased  by  the
introduction  of  high  explosive  bursting  charge.  The  modern  75  mm  shell
contains  about  1.76  pounds  of  high  explosive  as  against  about  .5  pound  of
black  powder  in  shell  prior  to  1893.

Source  of  information :    Ordnance  Department.

Muzzle  Velocity

Type

Date      Feet  per  second

Early  rifled  guns
Later  rifled  guns
Early  quick  firers

Modern  quick  firers

Range  with  Shrapnel

Type
Smooth  bores

Date

Yards

Early  rifled  guns
Later  rifled  guns
Early  quick  firers

About  1900

Modern  quick  firers

Range  with  Shell

Type

Date

Yards

Smooth  bores
Early  rifled  guns
Later  rifled  guns
Early  quick  firers
Modern  quick  firers
With  stream  line  shell

About  1900

STATISTICS  BRANCH    -    GENERAL  STAFF
WAR  DEPARTMENT

THE  BATTLE  OF  THE  SOMME  243

BY  PHILIP  GIBBS

F'ROM  January  to  May  of  this  year  the  German  Com-
mand on  the  Western  front  was  concentrating  all  its  en-
ergy and  all  its  available  strength  in  man  power  and  gun
power  upon  the  attack  of  Verdun.  The  Crown  Prince  had
staked  all  his  reputation  upon  this  adventure,  which  he  be-
lieved would  end  in  the  capture  of  the  strongest  French  for-
tress and  the  destruction  of  the  French  armies.

He  demanded  men  and  more  men  until  every  unit  that
could  be  spared  from  other  fronts  of  the  line  had  been
thrown  into  this  furnace.  Divisions  were  called  in  from
other  theaters  of  war,  and  increased  the  strength  on  the
Western  front  to  a  total  of  about  130  divisions.

But  the  months  passed,  and  Verdun  still  held  out  above
piles  of  German  corpses  on  its  slopes,  and  in  June  Ger-
many looked  East  and  saw  a  great  menace.  The  Russian
offensive  was  becoming  violent.  German  generals  on  the
Russian  fronts  sent  desperate  messages  for  help.  "Send  us
more  men"  they  said;  and  from  the  Western  front  four  divi-
sions containing  39  battalions  were  sent  to  them.

They  must  have  been  sent  grudgingly,  for  now  another
menace  threatened  the  enemy,  and  it  was  on  the  Western
side.  The  British  armies  were  getting  ready  to  strike.  In
spite  of  Verdun,  France  still  had  men  enough — withdrawn
from  a  part  of  the  line  in  which  they  had  been  relieved  by
the  British — to  cooperate  in  a  new  attack.

It  was  our  offensive  that  the  German  Command  feared
most,  for  they  had  no  exact  knowledge  of  our  strength  or
of  the  quality  of  our  new  troops.  They  knew  that  our  army
had  grown  prodigiously  since  the  assault  on  Loos,  nearly  a
year  before.

They  had  heard  of  the  Canadian  reinforcements,  and
the  coming  of  the  Australians,  and  the  steady  increase  of  re-
cruiting in  England,  and  month  by  month  they  had  heard
the  louder  roar  of  our  guns  along  the  line,  and  had  seen  their
destructive  effect  spreading  and  becoming  more  terrible.
They  knew  of  the  steady,  quiet  concentration  of  batteries
and  divisions  on  the  north  and  south  of  the  Ancre.

244         THE  BATTLE  OF  THE  SOMME

The  German  Command  expected  a  heavy  blow,  and  pre-
pared for  it,  but  as  yet  had  no  knowledge  of  the  driving
force  behind  it.  What  confidence  they  had  of  being  able  to
resist  the  British  attack  was  based  upon  the  wonderful
strength  of  the  lines  which  they  had  been  digging  and  forti-
fying since  the  autumn  of  the  first  year  of  war — "impreg-
nable positions"  they  had  called  them — the  inexperience  of
our  troops,  their  own  immense  quantity  of  machine  guns,
the  courage  and  skill  of  their  gunners,  and  their  profound
belief  in  the  superiority  of  German  generalship.

In  order  to  prevent  espionage  during  the  coming  strug-
gle, and  to  conceal  the  movement  of  troops  and  guns,  they
ordered  the  civil  populations  to  be  removed  from  villages
close  behind  their  positions,  drew  cordons  of  military  police
across  the  country,  picketed  cross-roads,  and  established  a
network  of  counter  espionage  to  prevent  any  leakage  of  in-
formation.

To  inspire  the  German  troops  with  a  spirit  of  martial
fervor  (not  easily  aroused  to  fever-pitch  after  the  bloody
losses  before  Verdun)  Orders  of  the  Day  were  issued  to  the
battalions  counseling  them  to  hold  fast  against  the  hated
English,  who  stood  foremost  in  the  way  of  peace  (that
was  the  gist  of  a  manifesto  by  Prince  Rupprecht  of  Ba-
varia, which  I  found  in  a  dugout  at  Montauban),  and  prom-
ising them  a  speedy  ending  to  the  war.

Great  stores  of  material  and  munitions  were  concen-
trated at  railheads  and  dumps  ready  to  be  sent  up  to  the
firing  lines,  and  the  perfection  of  German  organization  may
well  have  seemed  flawless — before  the  attack  began.

The  British  attack  began  with  the  great  bombardment
several  days  before  July  ist  and  was  a  revelation,  to  the
German  Command  and  to  the  soldiers  who  had  to  endure  it,
of  the  new  and  enormous  power  of  our  artillery.  A  num-
ber of  batteries  were  unmasked  for  the  first  time,  and  the
German  gunners  found  that  in  "heavies"  and  in  expendi-
ture of  high  explosives  they  were  outclassed.

They  were  startled,  too,  by  the  skill  and  accuracy  of
the  British  gunners  whom  they  had  scorned  as  "amateurs"
and  by  the  daring  of  our  airmen  who  flew  over  their  lines

THE  BATTLE  OF  THE  SOMME

with  the  utmost  audacity  "spotting"  for  the  guns,  and  regis-
tering on  batteries,  communication  trenches,  cross-roads,
railheads,  and  every  vital  point  of  organization  in  the  Ger-
man war-machine  working  opposite  the  British  lines  north
and  south  of  the  Ancre.

Even  before  the  British  infantry  had  left  their  trenches
at  dawn  on  July  1st  German  officers  behind  the  firing  lines
saw  with  anxiety  that  all  the  organization  which  had  worked
so  smoothly  in  times  of  ordinary  trench- war  fare  was  now
working  only  in  a  hazardous  way  under  a  deadly  storm  of
shells.

Food  and  supplies  of  all  kinds  could  not  be  sent  up  to
front  line  trenches  without  many  casualties,  and  some-
times could  not  be  sent  up  at  all.  Telephone  wires  were  cut,
and  communications  broken  between  the  front  and  head-
quarter staffs.  Staff  officers  sent  up  to  report  were  killed
on  the  way  to  the  lines.  Troops  moving  forward  from  re-
serve areas  came  under  heavy  fire  and  lost  many  men  be-
fore arriving  in  the  support  trenches.

Prince  Rupprecht  of  Bavaria,  sitting  aloof  from  all  this
in  personal  safety,  must  have  known  before  July  1st  that  his
resources  in  men  and  material  would  be  strained  to  the
uttermost  by  the  British  attack,  but  he  could  take  a  broader
view  than  men  closer  to  the  scene  of  battle,  and  taking  into
account  the  courage  of  his  troops  (he  had  no  need  to  doubt
that),  the  immense  strength  of  their  positions,  dug  and
tunneled  beyond  the  power  of  high  explosives,  the  number
of  his  machine  guns,  the  concentration  of  his  artillery  and
the  rawness  of  the  British  troops,  he  could  count  up  the  pos-
sible cost  and  believe  that  in  spite  of  a  heavy  price  to  pay
there  would  be  no  great  break  in  his  lines.

At  7.30  a.  m.  on  July  1st  the  British  infantry  left  their
trenches  and  attacked  on  the  right  angle  southwards  from
Gommecourt,  Beaumont  Hamel,  Thiepval,  Ovillers,  and  La
Boiselle,  and  eastwards  from  Fricourt,  below  Mametz  and
Montauban.  For  a  week  the  German  troops — Bavarians  and
Prussians — had  been  crouching  in  their  dugouts,  listening
to  the  ceaseless  crashing  of  the  British  "drum-fire."

In  places  like  Beaumont  Hamel  the  men  down  in  the  deep

246         THE  BATTLE  OF  THE  SOMME

tunnels — some  of  them  large  enough  to  hold  a  battalion  and
a  half — were  safe  as  long  as  they  stayed  there.  But  to  get
in  or  out  was  death.  Trenches  disappeared  into  a  sea  of
shell-craters,  and  the  men  holding  them — for  some  men
had  to  stay  on  duty  there — were  blown  to  fragments  of
flesh.

Many  of  the  shallower  dugouts  were  smashed  in  by  heavy
shells,  and  officers  and  men  lay  dead  there  as  I  saw  them
lying  on  the  first  days  of  July,  in  Fricourt  and  Mametz  and
Montauban.

The  living  men  kept  their  courage,  but  below  ground,
under  that  tumult  of  bursting  shells,  wrote  pitiful  letters
to  their  people  at  home  describing  the  horror  of  those  hours.
"We  are  quite  shut  off  from  the  rest  of  the  world,"  wrote
one  of  them.  "Nothing  comes  to  us.  No  letters.  The  Eng-
lish keep  such  a  barrage  on  our  approaches  it  is  terrible.
To-morrow  evening  it  will  be  seven  days  since  this  bom-
bardment began.  W e  cannot  hold  out  much  longer.  Every-
thing is  shot  to  pieces."

As  far  as  the  German  troops  were  concerned  there  were
no  signs  of  cowardice,  or  "low  morale,"  as  we  call  it  more
kindly,  in  those  early  days  of  the  struggle.  They  fought
with  a  desperate  courage,  holding  on  to  positions  in  rear-
guard actions  when  our  guns  were  slashing  them,  and  when
our  men  were  getting  near  to  them  making  us  pay  a  heavy
price  for  every  little  copse  or  gully  or  section  of  trench,
and  above  all  serving  their  machine  guns  at  La  Boiselle,
Ovillers,  above  Fricourt,  round  Contalmaison,  and  at  all
points  of  their  gradual  retreat,  with  a  splendid  obstinacy
until  they  were  killed  or  captured.  But  they  could  not  check
our  men  or  stop  their  progress.

After  the  first  week  of  battle  the  German  General  Staff
had  learnt  the  truth  about  the  qualities  of  those  British
"New  Armies"  which  had  been  mocked  and  caricatured  in
German  comic  papers.  They  learnt  that  these  "amateur  sol-
diers" had  the  qualities  of  the  finest  troops  in  the  world —
not  only  extreme  valor  but  skill  and  cunning,  not  only  a
great  power  of  endurance  under  the  heaviest  fire,  but  a  spirit
of  attack  which  was  terrible  in  its  effect.

THE  BATTLE  OF  THE  SOMME

They  were  great  bayonet  fighters.  Once  having  gained  a
bit  of  earth  or  a  ruined  village  nothing  would  budge  them
unless  they  could  be  blasted  out  by  gunfire.  General  Sixt
von  Arnim  put  down  some  candid  notes  in  his  report  to
Prince  Rupprecht.

"The  English  infantry  shows  great  dash  in  attack,  a
factor  to  which  immense  confidence  in  its  overwhelming  ar-
tillery greatly  contributes.  It  has  shown  great  tenacity  in
defense.  This  was  especially  noticeable  in  the  case  of  small
parties  which  when  once  established  with  machine  guns  in
the  corner  of  a  wood  or  a  group  of  houses  were  very  difficult
to  drive  out."

The  German  losses  were  piling  up.  The  great  agony  of
the  German  troops  under  our  shell  fire  was  reaching  un-
natural limits  of  torture.  The  early  prisoners  I  saw — Prus-
sians and  Bavarians  of  the  14th  Reserve  Corps — were  nerve-
broken,  and  told  frightful  stories  of  the  way  in  which  their
regiments  had  been  cut  to  pieces.  The  German  Generals
had  to  fill  up  the  gaps,  to  put  new  barriers  of  men  against
the  waves  of  British  infantry.  They  flung  new  troops  into
the  line,  called  up  hurriedly  from  reserve  depots.

But  now,  for  the  first  time,  their  staff  work  showed  signs
of  disorder  and  demoralization.  When  the  Prussian  Guards
reserves  were  brought  up  from  Valenciennes  to  counter-
attack at  Contalmaison  they  were  sent  on  to  the  battlefield
without  maps  or  local  guides,  and  walked  straight  into  our
barrage.  A  whole  battalion  was  cut  to  pieces,  and  many
others  suffered  frightful  things.  Some  of  the  prisoners  told
me  that  they  had  lost  three-quarters  of  their  number  in
casualties  and  our  troops  advanced  over  heaps  of  killed  and
wounded.

The  122nd  Bavarian  Regiment  in  Contalmaison  was
among  those  which  suffered  horribly.  Owing  to  our  cease-
less gunfire  they  could  get  no  food  supplies  and  no  water.
The  dugouts  were  crowded,  so  that  they  had  to  take  turns  to
get  into  these  shelters,  and  outside  our  shells  were  bursting
over  every  yard  of  ground.

"Those  who  went  outside,"  a  prisoner  told  me,  "were
killed  or  wounded.   Some  of  them  had  their  heads  blown  off,

THE  BATTLE  OF  THE  SOMME

and  some  of  them  had  both  their  legs  torn  off,  and  some
of  them  their  arms.  But  we  went  on  taking  turns  in  the
hole,  although  those  who  went  outside  knew  that  it  was  their
turn  to  die,  most  likely.  At  last  most  of  those  who  came
into  the  hole  were  wounded,  some  of  them  badly,  so  that  we
lay  in  blood."  It  is  one  little  picture  in  a  great  panorama  of
bloodshed.

The  German  Command  was  not  thinking  much  about
the  human  suffering  of  its  troops.  It  was  thinking,  neces-
sarily, of  the  next  defensive  line  upon  which  they  would  have
to  fall  back  if  the  pressure  of  the  British  offensive  could  be
maintained — the  Longueval-Bazentin-Pozieres  line.  It  was
getting  nervous.  Owing  to  the  enormous  efforts  made  in  the
Verdun  offensive  the  supplies  of  ammunition  were  not  ade-
quate to  the  enormous  demand.

The  German  gunners  were  trying  to  compete  with  the
British  in  continuity  of  bombardments  and  the  shells  were
running  short.  Guns  were  wearing  out  under  this  incessant
strain,  and  it  was  difficult  to  replace  them.  General  von
Gallwitz  received  reports  of  "an  alarmingly  large  number  of
bursts  in  the  bore,  particularly  in  field  guns."

General  von  Arnim  complained  that  "reserve  supplies  of
ammunition  were  only  available  in  very  small  quantities."
The  German  telephone  system  proved  "totally  inadequate  in
consequence  of  the  development  which  the  fighting  took."
The  German  air  service  was  surprisingly  weak,  and  the  Brit-
ish airmen  had  established  a  complete  mastery.

"The  numerical  superiority  of  the  enemy's  airmen,"
noted  General  von  Amim,  "and  the  fact  that  their  machines
were  better  made,  became  disagreeably  apparent  to  us,  par-
ticularly in  their  direction  of  the  enemy's  artillery  fire  and
in  bomb-dropping."

On  July  15th,  one  of  the  greatest  days  in  the  history  of
the  Somme  battles,  the  British  troops  broke  the  German  sec-
ond line  at  Longueval  and  the  Bazentins,  and  inflicted  great
losses  upon  the  enemy,  who  fought  with  their  usual  courage
until  the  British  bayonets  were  among  them.

A  day  or  two  later  the  fortress  of  Ovillers  fell,  and  the
remnants  of  the  garrison — 150  strong — after  a  desperate

THE  BATTLE  OF  THE  SOMME  249

and  gallant  resistance  in  ditches  and  tunnels  where  they
had  fought  to  the  last,  surrendered  with  honor.

Then  began  the  long  battle  of  the  woods — Devil's  Wood,
High  Wood,  Trones  Wood — continued  through  August
with  most  fierce  and  bloody  fighting,  which  ended  in  our
favor  and  forced  the  enemy  back,  gradually  but  steadily,  in
spite  of  the  terrific  bombardments  which  filled  those  woods
with  hell-fire,  and  the  constant  counter-attacks  delivered
by  the  Germans.

"Counter-attack !"  came  the  order  from  the  German  Staff
— and  battalions  of  men  marched  out  obediently  to  certain
death,  sometimes  with  incredible  folly  on  the  part  of  their
commanding  officers,  who  ordered  these  attacks  to  be  made
without  the  slightest  chance  of  success.

In  all  the  letters  written  during  those  weeks  of  fighting
and  captured  by  us  from  dead  or  living  men  there  is  one
great  cry  of  agony  and  horror.

"I  stood  on  the  brink  of  the  most  terrible  days  of  my
life,"  wrote  one  of  them.  "They  were  those  of  the  battle
of  the  Somme.  It  began  with  a  night  attack  on  August
I3th-i4th.  The  attack  lasted  till  the  evening  of  the  18th,
when  the  English  wrote  on  our  bodies  in  letters  of  blood :
Tt  is  all  over  with  you.'  A  handful  of  half-mad,  wretched
creatures,  worn  out  in  body  and  mind,  were  all  that  was
left  of  a  whole  battalion.    We  were  that  handful."

"We  entrained  at  Savigny,"  wrote  a  man  of  one  of  these
regiments,  "and  at  once  knew  our  destination.  It  was  our
old  Blood-bath — the  Somme."

In  many  letters  this  phrase  was  used.  The  Somme  was
called  the  "Bath  of  Blood"  by  the  German  troops  who  waded
across  its  shell-craters,  and  in  the  ditches  which  were  heaped
with  their  dead.  But  what  I  have  described  is  only  the  be-
ginning of  the  battle,  and  the  bath  was  to  be  filled  deeper  in
the  months  that  followed.

The  tale  of  defeat,  of  great  losses,  of  grave  and  increasing
anxiety,  was  told  clearly  enough — as  I  have  read  in  captured
letters — by  the  faces  of  German  officers  who  went  about  in
these  towns  behind  the  lines  with  gloomy  looks,  and  whose
tempers,  never  of  the  sweetest,  became  irritable  and  unbear-

250         THE  BATTLE  OF  THE  SOMME

able  so  that  the  soldiers  hated  them  for  all  this  cursing  and
bullying.  A  certain  battalion  commander  has  a  nervous
breakdown  because  he  has  to  meet  his  colonel  in  the  morning.

"He  is  dying  with  fear  and  anxiety,"  writes  one  of  his
comrades.  Other  men,  not  battalion  commanders,  are  even
more  afraid  of  their  superior  officers,  upon  whom  this  bad
news  from  the  Somme  has  an  evil  effect.

The  bad  news  was  spread  by  divisions  taken  out  of  the
line  and  sent  back  to  rest.  The  men  reported  that  their  bat-
talions had  been  cut  to  pieces.  Some  of  their  regiments
had  lost  three-quarters  of  their  strength.  They  described
the  frightful  effect  of  the  British  artillery — the  smashed
trenches,  the  shell-craters,  the  great  horror.

It  is  not  good  for  the  morale  of  men  who  are  just  going
up  there  to  take  their  turn.

The  man  who  was  afraid  of  his  colonel  "sits  all  day  long
writing  home  with  the  picture  of  his  wife  and  children  before
his  eyes."    He  is  afraid  of  other  things.

Bavarian  soldiers  quarreled  with  Prussians,  accused  them
(unjustly)  of  shirking  the  Somme  battlefields  and  leaving
the  Bavarians  to  go  to  the  blood-bath.

"All  the  Bavarian  troops  are  being  sent  to  the  Somme
(this  much  is  certain,  you  can  see  no  Prussians  there),  and
this  in  spite  of  the  losses  the  ist  Bavarian  Corps  suffered  re-
cently at  Verdun !  And  how  we  did  suffer !  ...  It  appears
that  we  are  in  for  another  turn,  at  least  the  5th  Bavarian
Division.  Everybody  has  been  talking  about  it  for  a  long
time.  To  the  devil  with  it !  Every  Bavarian  regiment  is
being  sent  into  it,  and  it's  a  swindle."

It  was  in  no  cheerful  mood  that  men  went  away  to  the
Somme  battlefields.  Those  battalions  of  gray-clad  men  en-
trained without  any  of  the  old  enthusiasm  with  which  they
had  gone  to  earlier  battles.  Their  gloom  was  noticed  by  the
officers.

"Sing,  you  sheep's  heads,  sing!"  they  shouted.

They  were  compelled  to  sing,  by  order.

"In  the  afternoon,"  wrote  a  man  of  the  18th  Reserve
Division,  "we  had  to  go  out  again :  we  were  to  learn  to  sing.
The  greater  part  did  not  join  in,  and  the  song  went  feebly.

THE  BATTLE  OF  THE  SOMME  251

Then  we  had  to  march  round  in  a  circle  and  sing,  and  that
went  no  better.

"After  that  we  had  an  hour  off,  and  on  the  way  back  to
billets  we  were  to  sing  'Deutschland  iiber  Alles,'  but  this  broke
down  completely.  One  never  hears  songs  of  the  Fatherland
any  more."

They  were  silent,  grave-eyed  men  who  marched  through
the  streets  of  French  and  Belgian  towns  to  be  entrained  for
the  Somme  front,  for  they  had  forebodings  of  the  fate  be-
fore them.  Yet  none  of  their  forebodings  were  equal  in  in-
tensity of  fear  to  the  frightful  reality  into  which  they  were
flung.

BY  PRINCE  RUPPRECHT  OF  BAVARIA

Since  the  beginning  of  the  Anglo-French  offensive  on  the
Somme  sector — called  in  England  "The  Great  Sweep" — a
month  has  now  elapsed,  during  which,  according  to  earlier
announcements  by  our  enemies,  an  encircling  movement  was
to  be  completed  at  all  costs.  It  will  now  be  useful  to  examine
briefly  what  has  been  achieved.

Though  on  a  front  of  about  28  kilometers  [15^2  miles]
they  have  driven  a  wedge  of  about  four  kilometers  [2^/2
miles]  depth,  they  themselves  will  not  assert,  after  their  ex-
periences of  July  20th,  22nd,  24th,  and  30th  that  the  German
line  has  been  shaken  at  any  point.

This  success  cost  the  English,  according  to  careful  esti-
mates, a  loss  of  at  least  230,000  men.

For  an  estimate  of  the  French  losses  in  this  fighting  no
definite  basis  is  at  our  disposal,  but,  as  they  had  to  bear  the
brunt  of  the  battle,  their  losses  must  also  be  heavy,  in  spite
of  their  greater  military  skill.

The  total  losses  of  our  enemies  must,  therefore,  amount  to
about  350,000,  while  ours,  though  regrettable,  cannot  be
compared  with  theirs  so  far  as  numbers  are  concerned.

A  Later  Statement,  September  15th

Sunday,  Monday,  and  Tuesday,  September  9th,  10th,  and
nth  marked  the  culmination  thus  far  of  the  first  desperate
effort  of  the  Entente  to  force  our  positions.    My  officers

252         THE  BATTLE  OF  THE  SOMME

will  tell  you  the  result  as  we  on  this  side  see  it.  Our  losses  in
territory  may  be  seen  on  the  map  with  a  microscope.  Their
losses  in  that  far  more  precious  thing — human  life — are  sim-
ply prodigious.

Amply  and  in  full  coin  have  they  paid  for  every  foot  of
ground  we  sold  them.  They  can  have  all  they  want  at  the
same  price.  We  have  a  reserve,  constituted  of  trained  offi-
cers and  trained  men,  which  has  not  yet  been  drawn  upon.
We  are  not,  like  the  Entente  Generals,  forced  to  throw  raw,
untrained  recruits  into  the  very  front  of  the  fighting.

Whether  this  will  be  the  last  effort  we  cannot  know.  We
have  taken  measure  of  their  strength  at  its  maximum  tide  and
are  prepared  for  anything  they  can  deliver.  For  the  sake  of
the  thousands  whom  new  attacks  will  slay  in  vain  we  hope
they  have  learned  a  lesson.  So  far  as  the  interests  of  the
Fatherland  are  concerned,  we  are  indifferent ;  indeed,  inclined
to  welcome  any  further  folly  they  may  indulge  in.

It  saddens  us  to  exact  the  dreadful  toll  of  suffering  and
death  that  is  being  marked  up  on  the  ledger  of  history,  but
if  the  enemy  is  still  minded  to  possess  a  few  more  hectares  of
blood-sodden  soil,  I  fear  they  must  pay  a  bitter  price.

Prince  Rupprecht's  Statement  of  September  28th

This  Somme  offensive  brings  an  attack  of  unusual  vio-
lence every  six  days  on  the  average.  I  know  this  country
well  from  the  fighting  of  1914.  At  that  time  we  had  moving
warfare,  while  we  are  now  in  a  position  of  siege.

In  his  attacks,  beginning  in  July,  the  enemy  has  gained
some  ground,  but  a  decision  of  the  situation  is  not  to  be
thought  of.  One  cannot  prophesy  how  things  will  go  here,
but  one  thing  is  certain :  Everything  has  now  been  so  well
provided  for  by  us  that  one  can  quietly  await  coming  events,
be  they  what  they  may.

The  offensive  will  certainly  not  be  at  an  end  very  soon.
One  may  well  look  forward  to  an  offensive  of  great  endur-
ance, with  very  violent  attacks,  prepared  for  by  a  colossal
expenditure  of  ammunition.  We  have,  however,  taken  all
necessary  measures.

Our  artillery  has  been  strengthened  and  our  flyers  also.

THE  BATTLE  OF  THE  SOMME  253

In  the  last  few  days  our  flyers  have  again  had  some  good
successes  after  their  hard  fight  against  the  enemy  flyers.
The  fact  that  our  flyers  are  getting  the  upper  hand  is  of  prime
advantage  to  our  artillery.

Our  troops  have  given  their  all  and  the  nut  was  too  hard
for  the  enemy  to  crack.  I  am  of  the  opinion  that  the  enemy
is  seeking  a  decision  here  and  this  year,  and  in  this  he  has
failed.

BY  ALFRED  DAMBITSCH

In  respect  to  new  methods  and  machines,  the  present
French  and  British  offensive  is  the  last  word.  The  aim  of  any
offensive  in  modern  warfare  is  the  destruction  of  the  en-
emy. This  is  the  object  of  the  present  offensive,  the  idea
being  to  enclose  us  in  a  tactical  ring  by  simultaneous  bom-
bardment with  long-range  guns  from  the  front  and  the  rear.
Accordingly  the  greedy  beast  began  eating  at  the  back  lines
of  the  German  front.  First  of  all  our  third  and  second
trenches  were  incessantly  bombarded,  mostly  by  heavy  ar-
tillery, of  which  the  enemy  had  concentrated  unprecedented
masses  in  the  sector  of  attack.  It  was  dugouts  which  had
to  be  battered  down,  so  that  at  the  moment  of  assault  all  the
defenders,  except  a  few  survivors,  and  all  the  machine  guns
might  be  buried.  Our  second  and  third  trenches  were  bom-
barded in  order  to  prevent  our  bringing  up  reserves.  For
the  same  reason  all  the  communication  trenches  leading  from
the  rear  to  the  front  position  were  kept  under  incessant  fire.
On  the  Somme  every  one  of  our  columns  had  a  good  com-
munication trench  which  led  from  the  headquarters  of  the
battalion  to  the  front  trench.

But  the  attack  against  our  front  from  the  rear  extended
still  further.  All  the  main  and  side  roads  and  all  the  cross-
roads were  kept  under  fire  so  that  approaching  troops,
munitions,  supplies,  and  provisions  had  to  pass  through  sev-
eral lines  of  fire.  Bombarding  villages  and  places  behind  the
front  where  the  various  reserves  are  supposed  to  be  quar-
tered is  an  old  trick  of  the  British  and  French,  but  this  time
the  principle  was  carried  out  more  consistently  and  reck-
lessly than  ever.    All  places  up  to  a  distance  of  10  miles

THE  BATTLE  OF  THE  SOMME

behind  the  front  were  brought  under  incessant  heavy  artil-
lery bombardment,  which  often  started  actual  fires,  thanks
to  the  incendiary  shells  used  by  the  enemy.

The  battering  down  of  our  advanced  trenches  was  almost
exclusively  left  to  the  heavy  artillery  and  trench  mortars,
especially  the  latter.  The  French  have  made  great  improve-
ments in  this  weapon  lately.  For  the  destruction  of  our
trenches  they  exclusively  employed  those  of  the  heaviest
caliber,  and  they  now  throw  their  mines  with  greater  ac-
curacy and  over  longer  ranges  than  formerly.  Opposite  my
company  no  fewer  than  six  mortars  were  placed.  They
were  worked  uninterruptedly,  throwing  hundreds  of  aerial
torpedoes  on  our  position  from  the  first  to  the  third
trenches.  They  tore  up  our  wire  obstacles  from  the  ground,
poles  and  all,  and  threw  them  all  over  the  place,  crushing
the  dugouts  if  they  fell  on  them,  and  damaging  the
trenches.  In  a  very  short  time  great  portions  of  our
trenches  had  been  flattened  out,  partly  burying  their  oc-
cupants. This  fire  lasted  for  seven  days,  and  finally  there
came  a  gas  attack,  also  of  an  improved  kind.

The  deepest  impression  left  on  me  was  not  a  feeling  of
horror  and  terror  in  face  of  these  gigantic  forces  of  destruc-
tion, but  an  unceasing  admiration  for  my  own  men.  Young
recruits  who  had  just  come  into  the  field  from  home,  fresh
twenty-year-old  boys,  behaved  in  this  catastrophic  plowing
and  thundering  as  if  they  had  spent  all  their  life  in  such  sur-
roundings, and  it  is  partly  thanks  to  them  that  the  older
married  men  also  stood  the  test  so  well.

BY  GENERAL  VON  STEINACKER

The  failure  of  the  English-French  attempts  to  break
through  in  Champagne  and  Artois  in  the  fall  of  191 5 — an
offensive  planned  upon  a  large  scale — did  not  dishearten
the  enemy.  Immediately  on  the  termination  of  these  bat-
tles— exceptionally  costly  in  human  lives — the  preparations
began  anew.  The  English  command  was  particularly  active
and  displayed  the  utmost  celerity  in  getting  the  new  armies
ready  for  the  field.    Simultaneously  the  accumulation  of

THE  BATTLE  OF  THE  SOMME  255

war  material  of  every  description  went  on  apace,  in  order
that  the  enemy  might  be  outstripped  in  this  regard.  The
new  offensive  was  planned  for  June.  Although  the  drill-
ing of  the  Englishmen  had  not  been  quite  completed,  the
condition  brought  about  at  the  beginning  of  the  year  by  the
attacks  of  the  Germans  on  the  positions  at  Verdun  made  it
imperative  for  Sir  Douglas  Haig  and  General  Joffre  to
choose  the  above  period  as  the  latest  feasible  one.  The
attack  launched  on  July  1  was  regarded  by  the  German  high
command  as  one  fraught  with  great  significance  as  deter-
mining the  outcome  on  the  Western  front.  They  believed,
indeed,  that  it  was  designed  to  bring  about  a  decisive
change,  not  only  on  the  Western  front,  but  also  on  every
other  scene  of  action,  by  which  the  Central  Powers  would
be  irrevocably  forced  to  assume  the  defensive.  This  end
was  to  be  achieved  by  piercing  the  Western  front,  which
thereupon  would  crumble  throughout  its  entire  length  and
breadth.  The  intention  of  the  enemy  was  correctly  de-
duced from  the  magnitude  of  the  preparations  made.  Above
all,  however,  it  is  necessary  to  point  to  the  fact  that  both
Frenchmen  and  Englishmen  had  stationed  tremendous
masses  of  cavalry  behind  the  battlefront,  designed,  after  a
successful  penetration  of  the  German  lines,  to  fall  into  the
rear  of  the  enemy,  annihilating  such  bodies  as  had  not  been
directly  affected  in  the  first  onset.  The  British  command,
deviating  from  the  statement,  but  only  after  the  conflict
had  terminated,  gave  out  the  following  as  the  reasons  for
the  battle:  (1)  Relieving  the  pressure  on  Verdun;  (2)  pre-
venting further  levies  of  troops  from  the  Western  to  the
Eastern  front;  (3)  attrition  of  the  German  forces.

The  front  which  the  enemy  had  selected  as  his  point
of  attack,  extended  in  an  airline  over  about  40  km.  It  lay
in  Picardy,  between  the  villages  of  Sommecourt  and  Ver-
mandovillers.  This  territory  easily  resolves  itself  into
three  divisions,  the  northern  of  these  being  Sommecourt-
Hamel,  the  central  Thiepval-Curlu,  and  the  southern  Frise-
Vermandovillers.  The  position  of  our  army  had  been  ad-
mirably strengthened  since  its  occupation  a  year  and  a  half
before.   Many  villages  lay  along  the  first  line  and  these  vil-

256         THE  BATTLE  OF  THE  SOMME

lages,  generally  built  of  stone  and  containing  cellars,  served
as  valuable  points  d'appui.  Though  the  second  line  also
passed  through  as  many  as  ten  villages,  the  first  line  was  the
stronger  of  the  two,  and  here  the  greatest  resistance  was
to  be  made.  For  this  reason  the  second  position  had  from
one  to  two  lines  only  protected  by  extensive  wire  defenses.
It  was  so  situated  that  it  could  not  be  affected  by  the  fire
directed  against  the  first  position.  Although  the  enemy
spared  no  effort  to  conceal  his  purpose,  his  in  every  respect
well  considered  preparations  did  not  escape  the  observation
of  Crown  Prince  Rupprecht  of  Bavaria,  who  was  here  in
command.

On  June  22nd  the  enemy  prepared  his  attack  by  espe-
cially vigorous  artillery  fire.  By  June  30th  all  the  Ger-
man positions  had  already  suffered  greatly  by  reason  of  the
increasingly  vigorous  and  effective  drumfire.  The  battle,
which  began  on  July  1st  with  infantry  charges,  lasted  in
all  four  and  a  half  months;  that  is,  until  November  18th.
It  may  chronologically  be  divided  into  several  parts.  The
first  comprised  the  period  July  ist-5th.  The  attack  was
begun  by  one  and  a  half  French  corps  under  General  Miche-
let,  advancing  south  of  the  Somme;  by  one  corps  north  of
the  river  commanded  by  General  Fayolle ;  at  Maricourt  and
in  touch  with  the  French  stood  the  right  wing  of  the  Eng-
lish, the  fourth  army  (consisting  of  five  corps)  here  mov-
ing forward  to  the  attack  under  General  Rawlinson.

While  on  July  1st  the  first  German  line  was  taken  south
of  the  Somme  by  the  French,  who  also  advanced  north  of
that  river  as  far  as  Hardecourt-Curlu,  the  attack  of  the
English  on  both  sides  of  the  Ancre  did  not  go  forward  very
well.  Already  by  July  2nd  the  combined  attack  of  the
enemy  forces  resolved  itself  into  single  engagements,  which
resulted  more  favorably  for  the  French  south  of  the
Somme.  After  uninterrupted  attacks  lasting  five  days,  a
pause  ensued.  According  to  the  enemy's  own  reports,  new
grouping  and  relief  troops  had  become  necessary,  and  the
heavy  artillery  had  to  be  brought  up.

The  second  period,  July  7th- 19th,  presented  a  varying
picture,  but  resulted  in  important  advantages  to  the  attacker.

THE  BATTLE  OF  THE  SOMME  257

The  third  period,  July  20th-3ist,  was  a  fierce  struggle  in-
tensified by  the  entry  into  the  fight  of  German  reserves,
especially  of  the  artillery  division.  The  great  united  for-
ward movement  of  the  English-French  army,  consisting  of
seventeen  divisions  with  200,000  men,  continued  to  the  30th,
the  day  of  the  hottest  fighting.  The  only  result  of  these
conflicts  was  the  seizure  of  the  ruins  of  the  village  of
Pozieres  by  the  English.

The  further  development  of  the  battle;  that  is,  during
the  fourth  period,  which  included  the  month  of  August,
was  characterized  by  varying  attacks  along  the  entire  front
and  by  efforts  to  gain  important  points  of  vantage  and
points  d'appui,  such  as  villages  or  strips  of  forest,  the  initia-
tive being  with  the  enemy.  Here  and  there  a  slight  advance
was  made.

On  September  3rd  began  the  fifth  period  of  this  battle,
characterized  by  an  attack  north  of  the  Somme,  to  be  fol-
lowed on  the  next  day  by  one  south  of  it.  Yet,  although
conceived  as  a  unity,  this  general  attack,  owing  to  the  con-
ditions of  the  ground  and  the  direction  of  the  advances,
resulted  in  two  distinct  operations.  First,  as  to  the  move-
ment north  of  the  Somme.  Whereas  the  right  wing,  that
is,  the  French,  made  a  considerable  advance;  the  left  wing,
that  is,  the  English,  made  no  headway.  On  the  23rd  the
artillery  ushered  in  another  combined  attack,  the  infantry
charges  of  the  French  resulting  in  their  advance  north-
wardly to  the  stretch  Bouchavesnes-Combles,  the  latter  city
being  evacuated.  The  English  advanced  to  Thiepval,  and
at  the  end  of  the  month  stood  before  Le  Sars  and  Eaucourt-
l'Abbaye.  To  the  south  of  the  Somme  the  attack,  made  in
a  southeasterly  direction  on  a  front  of  20  km.,  also  resulted
in  the  capture  of  strategical  points.

In  spite  of  all  the  efforts  of  the  Germans  it  appeared
as  if  the  enemy  in  those  days  would  succeed  in  his  object.
The  measures  taken  for  defense  could  not  keep  pace  with
the  force  of  the  attacks  launched  by  the  enemy.  Only  on
September  25th  had  it  become  possible  to  so  strengthen  and
increase  the  artillery  support  of  the  German  positions  that
a  systematic  and  effectual  opposition  to  the  enemy's  forces

258         THE  BATTLE  OF  THE  SOMME

might  be  organized — as  the  General  German  Headquarters
put  it,  "A  harmonious  cooperation  of  the  artillery  of  all
divisions  toward  the  suppression  of  any  desire  for  attack
on  the  part  of  the  enemy."

Consequently  the  conflicts  of  October,  which  constituted
the  sixth  period  in  the  series  of  battles,  presented  an  essen-
tially different  picture  from  those  of  the  preceding  months.
True,  the  enemy  attacks  did  not  immediately  diminish  in
vigor.  On  the  ist  and  2nd  of  October,  as  on  the  7th,  the
attacker  succeeded  in  advancing,  Eaucourt-l'Abbaye  and  Le
Sars  falling  into  his  hands.  Nevertheless,  the  result  of  the
English-French  attacks  from  October  9th  to  the  15th,  which
were  directed  under  unified  command  against  the  whole
German  front  from  Courcelette  southeasterly  to  Boucha-
vesnes  and  which  belonged  to  the  most  important  combats
fought  here,  demonstrated  that  their  goal  would  not  be  at-
tained. The  German  Tenth  Army  successfully  repelled  the
attack  made  on  the  12th,  the  day  of  the  hottest  fighting.
The  day  of  the  last  great  battle,  October  18th,  resulted  in
gaining  for  the  Allies  a  little  ground  near  Sailly  and  north
of  EaucourtTAbbaye.  After  another  great  combined  at-
tack on  the  21st  had  been  shattered  with  sanguinary  results,
the  struggle  gradually  diminished  in  vigor.

The  great  Battle  of  the  Somme  was  ended  without
bringing  about  a  decision.  The  result  was  limited  to  a
"bulging  in"  of  the  German  position,  so  to  speak,  a  result
achieved  at  a  cost  of  approximately  three  quarters  of  a
million  lives.  The  losses  of  the  defender  were  well  below
half  a  million,  which  is  the  more  remarkable  in  view  of  the
fact  that,  according  to  official  reports,  about  76  per  cent,  of
all  the  wounded  were  able  within  a  relatively  short  time  to
return  to  the  front  in  fighting  condition.  A  utilization  of
the  successful  defense  made  was  impossible  for  the  German
command  owing  to  the  relative  strength  of  the  two  armies.
There  was  no  decision  reached  on  this  theater  of  war.  The
failure  of  the  attempt  to  break  through  resulted  in  a  change
in  the  French  high  command,  General  Joffre  being  replaced
by  General  Nivelle,  the  commander  of  the  Army  of  Verdun.

THE  FIRST  AMERICANS  TO  "PAY  THE  DEBT*

THE  THRONGING  OF  U.  S.  VOLUNTEERS  TO  AID  IN  DE-
FENDING CIVILIZATION

JULY  4TH

PAUL  HERVIER  E.  A.  McKENZIE

Many  United  States  citizens  did  not  wait  for  their  country's  formal
entry  into  the  Great  War.  Recognizing  it  at  some  earlier  period  as
a  war  upon  the  whole  human  race,  they  felt  the  call  of  duty  urging
them  to  join  the  Allies.  What  the  total  number  was  of  these  knights
of  humanity  can  never  be  known.  Many  went  secretly;  many  called
themselves  Britons  or  Frenchmen ;  for  at  first  the  Allies  were  not
expecting  such  aid  and  had  made  no  arrangement  for  receiving  them.
Except  for  the  well-known  French  "foreign  legion,"  there  was  no
corps  they  could  regularly  enter  as  Americans.  Forty  thousand
might  be  stated  as  a  rough  estimate  of  the  sum  of  these  young  war
heroes  who  were  too  eager  to  wait.

Among  those  who  sealed  such  service  with  their  death  was  the
poet  Alan  Seeger.  The  universal  acclaim  of  his  home  land  and  of
France  and  Britain  has  declared  him  a  genius.  To  many  a  comrade
soldier  and  to  many  a  woman's  heart  at  home  his  poems  have  seemed
the  highest  and  the  most  inspiring  of  the  War.  To  many  a  critic  also
the  poem,  "I  Have  a  Rendezvous  with  Death,"  has  seemed  a  climax
in  war  poetry.  Its  sincerity  was  proven  in  the  poet's  death.  Its  clos-
ing lines,  after  repeating  the  young  man's  joy  of  living,  cry  in  cour-
ageous repetition:

"But  I've  a  rendezvous  with  Death
At  midnight  in  some  flaming  town,
When  Spring  trips  north  again  this  year,
And  I  to  my  pledged  word  am  true,
I  shall  not  fail  that  rendezvous."

Read  Mr.  McKenzie's  account  of  his  death,  which  follows,  and  you
will  see  how  close  was  his  poetic  fore-vision  and  how  splendidly  he
kept  his  word  in  the  French  advance  near  the  Somme.

Hence  the  date  of  his  death — and  by  a  generous  coincidence  it
was  on  July  4th  that  he  fell — has  here  been  taken  as  the  typical  com-
memoration date  for  all  the  United  States  volunteers.  Which  of
them  all  was  the  first  to  be  slain  in  battle  no  man  can  know,  but  no
death  upon  the  field  was  more  costly  to  the  world  than  that  of  Alan
Seeger,  the  New  York  youth  who  at  the  age  of  twenty-eight  was
shot  down  in  a  French  uniform  in  the  French  village  of  Belloy  while
charging  on  the  German  machine  gun?

260  THE  FIRST  AMERICANS

BY  PAUL  LOUIS  HERVIER

HPHE  Americans  who  entered  the  service  of  France  after
1  the  outbreak  of  the  War  were  volunteers  recruited  from
all  classes  of  society:  Millionaires,  writers,  lawyers,  engi-
neers, soldiers,  boxers,  butchers,  explorers,  and  especially
university  students.  I  have  brought  together  the  data  regard-
ing these  gallant  volunteers,  and  again  and  again  I  have  been
thrilled  by  their  simple  anecdotes  as  by  those  deeds  of  ancient
history  which  we  love  to  repeat  in  all  our  books  for  the  lessons
they  teach.

Take  the  case  of  Norman  Prince.  After  serving  in  the
Foreign  Legion,  he  became  an  aviator,  achieved  remarkable
exploits,  and  was  killed  in  action.  Did  his  place  remain  va-
cant ?  No !  His  brother  filled  it.

Then  there  came  Dr.  David  D.  Wheeler.  He  left  his  as-
sured practice  in  Buffalo  to  come  and  care  for  our  wounded.
The  stories  told  by  the  injured  men  so  impressed  him  that
he  wished  to  share  their  dangers.  Abandoning  his  surgical
instruments,  he  took  up  arms.  He  was  wounded  by  a  dum-
dum bullet,  and,  though  exhausted  by  the  loss  of  blood,
dragged  himself  over  the  battlefield  and  used  his  waning
strength  in  comforting  other  wounded  men  who  lay  without
aid.

These  anecdotes  and  many  others  will  later  be  treasured
in  American  history.  At  this  moment  they  are  the  sacred
heritage  of  all  civilization  fighting  against  aggressive  bar-
barism.

The  American  volunteers,  who  wished,  in  August,  1914,
to  join  their  French  brothers  in  defending  the  ideal  repre-
sented by  the  word  "liberty,"  almost  all  entered  the  Foreign
Legion.  One  of  them,  Paul  Rockwell,  grievously  wounded
in  Champagne,  sent  to  a  New  York  editor  this  response,
which  is  sweet  to  our  hearts :

"In  the  Foreign  Legion  about  200  Americans  are  serv-
ing or  have  served.  The  bitterest  regret  of  my  life  is  that
so  few  Americans  have  come  to  aid  France.  When  we
Americans  were  in  need  of  aid,  Lafayette  and  his  followers
were  a  hundred  times  more  numerous  than  we  are  in  this

THE  FIRST  AMERICANS

war,  and  they  came  from  a  total  French  population  scarcely
larger  than  that  of  two  cities  in  America  to-day.  But  we
have  one  reason  to  feel  a  little  pride.  With  the  exception
of5  say,  six  or  eight,  all  the  men  who  came  to  pay  our  debt
to  France  have  proved  to  be  good  fighters.  None  came  for
money.  Some  came  for  the  simple  love  of  adventure,  but  I
believe  that  the  motive  of  most  of  them  was  an  ideal."

A  dangerous  but  attractive  arm,  that  of  aviation,  espe-
cially appealed  to  the  daring  of  these  young  Americans,  anx-
ious as  they  were  to  prove  their  courage  and  devotion.  Men
will  long  continue  to  speak  of  the  services  rendered  to  the
French  army  by  the  American  Escadrille;  they  will  long
recount  the  exploits  of  Norman  Prince,  who  died  for  France
on  October  15,  1916;  of  Victor  Chapman,  who  died  for
France  in  June,  1916;  of  Kiffin  Rockwell,  who  died  for
France  on  September  23,  1916;  of  Denis  Dowd,  the  skilled
pilot,  who  died  in  an  airplane  accident  at  the  Buc  airdrome  in
the  beginning  of  August,  1916;  of  William  Thaw,  the  Pitts-
burgh millionaire;  of  Elliott  Christopher  Cowdin,  of  Luf-
bery,  of  Bert  Hall,  of  Paul  Pavelka,  James  R.  MacConnell,
and  all  the  rest.

A  brief  article  such  as  this  cannot  give  the  names  of  all
the  brave  men  who  have  come  to  fight  for  us,  but  must  be
devoted  rather  to  the  significance  of  their  generous  and
fruitful  service.  This  is  what  has  stirred  and  touched  us.
Young  Americans  who  had  careers  awaiting  them  in  their
own  country,  who  in  many  cases  possessed  fortunes  that
would  have  given  them  all  the  material  joys  of  life,  and  in
other  cases  felt  within  themselves  the  rare  forces  of  talent
or  creative  genius,  have  by  their  coming  proclaimed  the
justice  of  our  cause  to  all  the  world.  It  is  not  a  matter,  then,
of  giving  here  a  list  of  these  who  have  achieved  the  supreme
heights  of  the  moral  task  which  they  voluntarily  took  up;
the  eulogy  deserved  by  each  is  swallowed  up  in  one  great
common  glory.

Nevertheless,  let  us  glance  at  the  golden  book  of  Ameri-
can volunteers.  We  shall  find  there  the  names  of  Edward
Mandell  Stone,  a  graduate  of  Harvard,  the  first  American
volunteer  killed;  of  Henry  W.  Farnsworth,  killed  in  Cham-

262  THE  FIRST  AMERICANS

pagne ;  of  the  poet,  Alan  Seeger,  an  idealist,  dead  for  France;
of  John  Earle  Fike,  a  former  American  soldier,  killed  June
16,  1915;  of  Russell  A.  Kelly,  killed  the  same  way;  of  Nel-
son Larson,  a  former  American  sailor,  killed  on  the  anni-
versary day  of  American  independence,  1916;  of  Frank  Clair
of  Columbus,  dead  of  wounds;  of  Rene  Phelizot  of  Chicago,
a  daring  hunter  of  big  game,  killed  in  February,  1915 ;  of
Harman  Edwin  Hall  of  Chicago,  killed  June  16,  1916,  etc.
We  shall  not  forget  their  acts  of  devotion.

Here  we  find  also  the  names  of  Frank  Musgrave  of  San
Antonio,  lawyer,  made  a  prisoner  by  Germany ;  of  John
Bowe  of  Minneapolis,  wounded  and  cited  in  the  Order  of
the  Day ;  of  Charles  Sweeney,  decorated  with  the  Legion  of
Honor  and  promoted  Lieutenant ;  of  Edgar  Bouligny  of  New
Orleans,  four  times  wounded;  of  Brook  B.  Bonnell  of  Brook-
lyn, decorated  with  the  War  Cross  and  the  Military  Medal ;
of  Andrew  Walbron  of  Peterson,  wounded  three  times;  of
his  brother,  Ernest  Walbron,  who  had  a  leg  carried  away
by  a  shell  on  the  Somme;  of  George  Delpeuche,  decorated
with  the  War  Cross  for  having  taken  five  prisoners  alone
and  unaided;  of  Frederick  Capdeville  of  New  York,  Charlie
Christopher  Charles  of  Brooklyn,  Charles  Trinkard,  Jack
Janz  of  Kentucky,  David  King  of  Providence,  Jack  Cordon-
nier,  Frederick  Mulhauser  (three  citations),  Michael  Stein-
fels  of  Chicago,  Eugene  Jacobs,  Bob  Scanlon,  the  negro
boxer;  Achille  dinger,  Jack  Moyet,  and  the  rest.

This  is  only  a  short  summary  of  the  heroic  chapter.  A
great  number  of  Americans  enlisted  in  the  English  army,
others  in  the  Canadian  army,  and  still  others  came  to  France
to  serve  in  automobile  ambulances.  They  have  saved  and
cared  for  our  wounded  with  ceaseless  zeal,  risking  their  lives,
and  often  losing  them.  At  the  end  of  January,  191 7,  seventy
citations  in  official  orders  had  been  merited  and  bestowed
upon  these  brave  men.   A  beautiful  history!

BY  E.  A.  MC  KENZIE

What  have  the  Americans  done?  Many  of  them,  the
very  pick  of  the  nation,  gave  themselves  as  volunteers.  The
great  Universities,  headed  by  Harvard,  have  sent  doctors

THE  FIRST  AMERICANS  263

and  hospital  staffs  to  nurse  the  sick  and  wounded.  Groups
of  rich  young  men  crossed  the  Atlantic  when  war  broke
out,  bringing  their  own  automobiles  with  them,  and  formed
the  nucleus  of  the  splendid  ambulance  services  that  have  been
of  incalculable  service  to  France.  In  Belgium  a  group  of
Americans,  Rhodes  scholars,  engineers  and  industrial  leaders,
headed  by  a  supreme  business  organizer,  saved  a  nation  from
starvation.  In  Serbia  a  brave  American  doctor  fought  al-
most single-handed  against  the  brutalities  of  the  Austrian
troops  when  they  swept  over  the  land  after  the  great  retreat.

Americans  were  so  eager  to  join  the  ranks  of  the  French
Army  that  military  laws  were  relaxed  for  their  benefit.  The
record  of  the  American  Flying  Squadron  in  the  French
service  is  one  of  great  brilliancy,  even  in  that  corps  d'elite
of  France.  The  British  roll  of  honor  gives  frequently  the
names  of  American  born  soldiers  who  have  laid  down  their
lives  for  the  Allies.

Look  at  the  record  of  Americans  who  have  died  for  Brit-
ain and  France.  It  is  a  very  remarkable  list,  more  especially
for  the  quality  of  the  men  enrolled.  There  are  Harold  Chapin,
born  in  Brooklyn,  at  the  beginning  of  a  brilliant  career  as  a
dramatist,  and  Alan  Seeger,  of  old  New  England  stock,
whom  three  nations  to-day  hail  as  poet  and  hero.  Kenneth
Weeks,  who  died  at  Givenchy,  twenty-four  years  old,  had
already  done  notable  work  in  letters.  Dilwyn  Starr,  of  Phila-
delphia, a  Harvard  man,  took  his  place  in  the  ranks  of  the
British  Expeditionary  Force,  won  his  commission,  and  died
on  the  Somme.  Officers  in  the  United  States  Army  like
Major  Stewart  and  Captain  Wood,  on  the  staff  of  General
Leonard  Wood,  resigned  their  commissions  to  join  us,  and
fell  for  us.  American  students  from  the  Latin  Quarter,  Uni-
versity men  galore,  sturdy  plainsmen  and  men  from  the
West,  have  died  side  by  side  with  the  sons  of  Britain  fight-
ing for  justice  and  liberty.  Many  others,  happily,  are  still
alive,  wearing  on  their  breasts  the  ribbons  of  the  medals  they
have  won  for  gallant  conduct  in  the  field.

What  drew  them  to  us?  Some  came  because  of  the  in-
stinct of  race  and  blood.  "The  army  of  my  race  and  tongue,"
said  Frederick  Palmer,  the  distinguished  war  correspondent,

264  THE  FIRST  AMERICANS

when  he  found  himself  with  the  British  Forces.  Some
came  because  of  historic  memories.  "I  am  paying  for  Lafay-
ette and  Rochambeau,"  said  Kiffin  Rockwell,  the  steel-
nerved  airman,  shortly  before  his  death.  Others  were  forced
to  join  us  because  of  what  they  saw  of  the  enemy's  methods
of  war.  Among  the  most  active  American  soldiers  in  the
Allied  ranks  are  men  who  began  as  ambulance  workers  or  re-
lief agents,  and  who  were  so  aroused  by  the  cruelties  they
witnessed  that  they  took  up  the  sword  to  fight  a  foe  whom
they  recognized  as  the  common  enemy  of  all  who  love  justice
and  freedom.

Alan  Seeger,  shortly  before  he  died,  gave  another  reason :

"Can  sneerers  triumph  in  the  charge  they  made,
That  from  a  war  where  Freedom  was  at  stake,

America  withheld  and,  daunted,  stood  aside.
Now  heaven  be  thanked,  we  gave  a  few  brave  drops;
Now  heaven  be  thanked,  a  few  brave  drops  were  ours."

The  Americans  in  the  fighting  ranks  were  only  representa-
tives of  a  vastly  greater  mass  of  their  countrymen  sup-
porting us  in  their  own  land.  The  women  of  the  United
States  banded  themselves  into  five  thousand  groups  and
circles  to  raise  money  or  prepare  comforts  for  the  Allies,
mainly  for  the  destitute  in  France  and  Belgium.  A  noted
organization  on  the  Rocky  Mountains  raised  a  fund  of  a
million  dollars  for  a  new  club  house.  It  was  to  be  the  finest
of  its  kind  in  the  world.  Then  an  eye-witness  told  the  mem-
bers what  was  happening  in  Belgium.  They  resolved  to
make  their  old  club  house  do,  and  donated  the  million  dol-
lars as  a  gift  for  King  Albert's  needy  subjects.  There  is  a
systematized  movement  throughout  the  elementary  schools
of  America  by  which  the  boys  and  girls  of  each  district  adopt
a  certain  number  of  Belgian  children,  and  make  themselves
responsible  for  finding  three  cents  a  day  for  the  feeding  of
each  child.

As  the  Allied  Armies  moved  ahead  on  the  Western  front
there  came  on  behind  a  group  of  Calif ornian  women,  work-
ing out  plans  for  rebuilding  ruined  French  towns  and  vil-
lages. America  aided  France  to  grapple  the  most  dreaded
secondary  result  of  the  war — tuberculosis.    American  hos-

THE  FIRST  AMERICANS  265

pitals  from  Devonshire  to  Salonika  helped  to  nurse  the  vic-
tims of  war.  To  mention  all  the  forms  that  active  American
aid  has  taken  would  be  to  transform  this  account  into  a
mere  catalogue  of  names.

Various  attempts  have  been  made  to  number  the  Ameri-
cans in  the  Allied  ranks.  Those  like  myself  whose  affairs
took  them  into  the  Allied  lines  were  constantly  surprised  to
find  Americans  in  the  most  unlikely  places.  Their  speech
betrayed  them,  whatever  declarations  they  made  when  join-
ing tip.  "If  you  take  a  map  of  the  United  States  and  go
up  and  down  the  American  lines  in  France,  you  will  find  no
city,  great  or  small,  which  has  not  sent  a  flying  man,  a
bomber,  an  artilleryman,  a  sniper  or  dispatch  rider  to  help  to
destroy  Prussian  despotism,"  wrote  Lord  Northcliffe,  after
a  visit  to  the  front.  "When  I  said  in  something  I  wrote
lately  that  the  American  soldiers  in  France  numbered  50,000,
I  rather  underestimated  their  strength.  I  made  that  calcu-
lation on  statements  supplied  by  French  as  well  as  by  British
authorities.  The  great  fact  is  that  more  than  50,000  young
Crusaders  have  crossed  the  Atlantic  to  join  an  Army  in
which  they  are  fighting  not  for  King  or  country,  but  against
what  they  realize  to  be  the  curse  of  the  world  at  this  mo-
ment— the  attempt  of  the  Germans  to  dominate  Europe  and
then  America."

The  most  spectacular  and  thrilling  side  of  the  work  of
the  war  is  found  among  the  Army  flyers.

The  American  squadron  of  the  French  Aviation  Corps
owes  its  existence  to  three  young  men — William  Thaw,  of
Pittsburgh,  Norman  Prince,  of  Boston,  and  Elliott  Cowdin,
the  Long  Island  polo  player.  Thaw,  a  well-known  Ameri-
can flyer,  volunteered  his  services  at  the  outbreak  of  the  war.
At  that  time  the  solitary  French  corps  open  to  non-French-
men was  the  Foreign  Legion.  He  joined  it  in  August,  1914,
and  it  was  only  with  considerable  difficulty  that  he  was  later
transferred  to  the  aviation  service.  Prince  and  Cowdin,  fresh
from  America,  came  a  little  later,  and  the  way  was  now
open  for  them  to  join  the  aviation  corps  direct.  A  fourth
American,  Bert  Hall,  a  Texan  cowboy  who  had  also  joined
the  Foreign  Legion,  was  transferred  to  the  air  service.

266  THE  FIRST  AMERICANS

Air  Corps  are  to  modern  armies  what  the  King's  Guards
were  in  the  days  of  the  Stuarts  and  the  Louis — the  corps
d'elite.  In  France,  the  army  airmen  rank  specially  high,
and  any  one  who  has  witnessed  their  marvelous  work  admits
that  they  have  earned  their  place.  For  foreigners  to  come
into  this  picked  service  was  a  severe  test.  Happily  the
Americans  were  tried  and  experienced  flyers,  and  their  rec-
ords soon  made  them  marked  men.  They  themselves  would
be  the  last  to  deny  any  claim  to  special  honor.  "Why  write
about  us,"  demanded  Kiffin  Rockwell  shortly  before  his
death,  "when  we  are  doing  only  what  our  French  comrades
are  doing  every  day  as  well  as  we  are."

The  Americans  urged  the  idea  of  a  separate  American
squadron  of  the  French  flying  service.  Other  men  were
coming  to  join  them.  Soon  there  were  six  American  pilots
who  had  passed  their  tests,  the  two  others  being  Didier  Mas-
son,  a  well-known  American  exhibition  flyer,  and  James
Bach,  who  came  from  the  Foreign  Legion.  Thaw  was  pro-
moted to  lieutenant,  and  the  American  Escadrille  came  into
being.

Among  others  who  soon  joined  up  were  two  more  from
the  Foreign  Legion,  Kifnn  Rockwell,  of  Atlanta,  Ga.,  and
Victor  E.  Chapman,  of  New  York,  son  of  the  eminent  writer,
John  Jay  Chapman.  James  McConnell,  born  in  Chicago,  a
graduate  of  the  University  of  Virginia,  and  one  of  the  staff
of  a  small  railroad  in  North  Carolina,  came  from  the  Ameri-
can Ambulance  Corps  with  a  high  record.  He  had  left  his
railway  work,  to  serve  as  an  ambulance  driver  at  the  front,
where  he  had  been  mentioned  in  orders  of  the  day  for  con-
spicuous bravery  in  attending  the  wounded  under  fire,  and
decorated  with  the  Croix  de  Guerre.  Convinced  that  the
cause  of  the  Allies  was  the  cause  of  freedom,  he  entered  the
active  fighting  ranks.  He  secured  his  license  a  month  and  a
day  after  he  entered  the  flying  school,  and  soon  earned  fresh
honor.

"All  along,"  said  Mr.  McConnell,  "I  had  been  convinced
that  the  United  States  ought  to  aid  in  the  struggle  against
Germany.  With  that  conviction,  it  was  plainly  up  to  me  to
do  more  than  drive  an  ambulance.    The  more  I  saw  the

THE  FIRST  AMERICANS  267

splendor  of  the  fight  the  French  were  fighting,  the  more  I
began  to  feel  like  an  embusque — what  the  British  call  a
'shirker.'    So  I  made  up  my  mind  to  go  into  aviation."

The  original  six  had  grown  by  the  middle  of  1916  to
about  fifty  pilots  and  men  in  training.  One  of  the  first
group,  Bach,  was  captured  by  the  Germans  when  going  to
the  rescue  of  a  comrade,  and  was  for  a  time  in  danger  of
death  by  court-martial  as  a  franc-tireur.  The  Germans  did
the  American  aviators  the  honor  of  ranking  them  with  the
English  soldiers,  as  objects  for  their  special  hatred.  Elliott
Cowdin  won  the  Medaille  Militaire  before  the  American
squadron  was  formed,  by  bringing  down  a  German  machine
on  the  Verdun  front.

The  first  member  of  the  squadron  to  lose  his  life  was
Victor  Chapman.  He  was  a  student  in  the  Latin  Quarter
when  the  war  broke  out,  and  at  once  joined  the  Foreign  Le-
gion. Soon  wounded  in  action,  he  was  on  recovery  trans-
ferred to  the  air  service  as  an  aerial  bomb  dropper,  and  later
qualified  as  pilot.  Chapman  was  a  superman.  He  took
every  opportunity  to  fly  straight  for  the  enemy's  country  and
to  attack  any  enemy  craft  within  reach.  If  there  were  sev-
eral enemy  planes  together,  so  much  the  better.  "He  flew
more  than  any  of  us,"  wrote  one  of  his  comrades.  "Never
missing  an  opportunity  to  go  up,  and  never  coming  down  until
his  gasoline  was  giving  out.  He  was  a  sieve  of  patched-up
bullet  holes.  His  nerve  was  almost  superhuman,  and  his
devotion  to  the  cause  for  which  he  fought  sublime."

Soon  he  had  the  destruction  of  seven  German  planes  to
his  credit.  On  one  occasion  he  attacked  four  enemy  planes.
One  of  them  getting  behind  him,  swept  his  machine  with
bullets,  smashing  the  rod  of  the  stability  control  and  wound-
ing him  in  the  head.  Chapman  grasped  the  rod  with  one
hand,  and  steered  himself  to  safety  with  the  other.  As  soon
as  his  wound  was  dressed,  he  mounted  again  in  a  fresh  plane,
looking  out  for  some  one  else  to  fight.

Chapman's  death  was  worthy  of  the  man.  He  knew  that
a  wounded  comrade  in  hospital  wanted  oranges,  and  he
started  out  in  his  warplane  with  a  basket  of  fruit  for  him.
On  the  way  he  saw  an  air  fight  far  over  the  German  lines.

268  THE  FIRST  AMERICANS

Four  Germans  were  attacking  three  French.  He  swooped
down  on  them,  destroying  one  of  the  Germans  by  machine
gun  fire,  and  driving  the  others  off.  What  followed  is  not
quite  clear,  but  apparently  as  he  passed,  the  bullets  of  one
plane  caught  and  killed  him.

The  French  official  army  order  telling  of  his  death  re-
corded his  glory.  "In  memory  of  this  citizen  of  the  United
States  who,  inspired  by  sentiments  of  lofty  idealism,  gave
his  life  for  the  cause  of  the  Allies."  When  news  was  brought
to  his  father  of  his  death,  he  declared,  "If  Victor  is  killed
in  battle,  I  am  resigned.  I  am  proud  that  he  joined  the
French  Army,  and  I  think  that  every  American  boy  ought
to  do  the  same."

The  reputation  of  Kiffin  Rockwell  equaled  that  of  Chap-
man. To  him  this  war  was  the  war  for  world  freedom,  and
France  was  the  champion  of  universal  liberty.  "If  France
were  conquered,  I  should  prefer  to  die,"  he  wrote.  "The
cause  of  France  is  the  cause  of  all  mankind."  His  fearless-
ness was  famous,  even  in  this  corps  of  fearless  men.  Taking
great  risks,  ever  ready  for  a  fight,  he  was  twice  wounded,  but
immediately  he  recovered  he  was  back  again.  On  September
23,  191 6,  he  attacked  single-handed  four  German  aeroplanes.
An  explosive  ball  hit  him,  four  thousand  meters  high,  and
killed  him.  "More  than  ever  I  want  to  live,"  he  had  written
shortly  before,  when  recovering  from  a  wound.  "But  not
from  an  egotistic  point  of  view."  "This  war  has  taught
me  many  things.  I  want  to  live  to  do  all  the  good  I  can.  But
if  I  must  be  killed  in  the  war,  I  have  no  fear  of  dying,  and
I  feel  there  can  be  no  better  end."  "The  bravest  and  best
of  us  is  no  more,"  the  chief  of  the  squadrilla  declared  when
news  of  his  death  came.

Norman  Prince,  of  Boston  (nephew  of  the  famous  psy-
chiatrist, Dr.  Morton  Prince),  one  of  the  pioneers  of  the
squadron,  and  himself  a  brilliant  flyer,  was  mentioned  five
times  in  dispatches  for  conspicuous  gallantry  and  decorated
with  the  Medaille  Militaire  and  the  Croix  de  Guerre.  Late
in  1 91 6,  he  was  seriously  wounded  in  a  raid  on  the  Mauser
Rifle  Factory  at  Oberndorf.  Despite  his  wounds,  he  suc-
ceeded in  flying  back  to  French  territory,  where  he  died.

THE  FIRST  AMERICANS  269

On  the  many  decorations  bestowed  on  the  American
airmen,  from  the  Cross  of  the  Legion  of  Honor  for  Lieu-
tenant Thaw  to  other  coveted  decorations  for  his  men,  I  do
not  dwell.  The  many  deaths,  many  for  so  small  a  group,  tell
their  own  tale  of  danger  and  daring.  Two  Bostonians,
Kenneth  Weeks  and  Henry  Harnsworth,  died  within  a  very
short  time  of  one  another.  "I  want  to  fight,  not  merely  to
look  on,"  said  Harnsworth.  "I  want  to  fight  for  France,
as  the  French  once  fought  for  us."  He  had  his  opportunity,
and  fought  to  the  end.  Weeks,  a  student  in  the  Beaux  Arts,
responded  to  the  call  of  France  when  war  began.  From  the
Foreign  Legion  he  graduated  into  the  air  service,  and  from
the  air  service  to  a  hero's  death.

The  story  of  the  American  Ambulance  Corps  will  not
soon  be  forgotten.  The  two  main  groups  were  the  Ameri-
can Volunteer  Motor  Ambulance  Corps  and  the  American
Ambulance  Field  Service,  the  latter  much  the  larger.  The
American  Volunteer  Motor  Ambulance  Corps  owed  its  ex-
istence to  a  group  of  wealthy  young  Americans,  headed  by
Mr.  Richard  Norton,  who  came  over  to  France  at  the  begin-
ning of  the  war  to  offer  their  services.  There  were  many
difficulties  in  their  way.  The  need  of  ambulances  was  tre-
mendous, for  the  military  cars  then  available  were  few,  and
anything  but  modern.  For  a  time  the  Americans  worked
with  a  British  group.  Then  for  better  organization  the
two  worked  separately.  Soon  the  American  Motor  Ambu-
lance Corps  consisted  of  three  convoys,  each  of  twenty-five
cars.  Its  staff  numbered  about  150  Americans,  all  of  them
volunteers,  most  unpaid  and  many  helping  to  support  with
their  money  the  work  they  were  doing.  It  has  been  in  every
"big  push."  It  has  been  twice  cited  before  the  Corps  d'Armee
— a  very  great  honor,  indeed ;  it  has  been  repeatedly  cited  be-
fore Brigades ;  honors  of  every  kind  have  been  earned  by  its
workers,  and  it  has  never  failed  to  respond  to  the  call  for  its
service.  A  number  of  members  of  this  Corps  volunteered  for
active  service,  both  in  the  British  and  French  armies,  and
several  of  them  died  in  the  fighting  ranks.  Some  joined  the
French  Flying  Corps.  The  case  of  Mr.  Dilwyn  Starr  is  typi-
cal of  others.    The  son  of  Dr.  Starr,  of  Philadelphia,  he

THE  FIRST  AMERICANS

was  conspicuous  at  Harvard  as  an  athlete,  playing  for  four
years  in  the  University  football  team.  At  the  outbreak  of
the  war  he  volunteered  for  service  with  this  Corps,  and  for
several  months  drove  an  ambulance  for  it.  In  December,
1914,  he  enlisted  as  a  petty  officer  in  the  Armored  Motor
Car  Section,  R.N.A.S.,  and  served  with  the  Duke  of  West-
minster's Squadron  in  France,  taking  part  in  the  battle  of
Neuve  Chapelle.  Recommended  for  a  commission,  he  was
gazetted  second  lieutenant  in  May,  191 5.  At  Gallipoli,  he
served  with  distinction  as  a  machine  gun  officer  in  the
trenches  at  Suvla  Bay.  Returning  to  England,  he  was  given
a  commission  in  the  Coldstream  Guards,  joined  the  Expe-
ditionary Force  in  July,  1916,  and  was  killed  in  the  great
mid-September  fight  on  the  Somme.

The  work  of  the  Ambulance  gave  its  members  full  ex-
perience of  actual  war.  "One  of  the  posts  which  we  served
from  the  Somme  Suippes  was  in  front  of  and  open  to  the
German  lines  at  Tahure,"  a  report  stated.  "We  had  been
frequently  shelled  there,  but  nothing  serious  had  happened,
though  the  hospital  tents  had  been  torn  to  ribbons,  and  the
cars  had  been  hit."  The  Americans  do  not  trouble  about
trifles.

The  crowning  experience  of  the  Corps  came  at  Ver-
dun. It  was  sent  to  the  Douaumont  sector,  where  the  work
was  naturally  very  severe.  The  one  road  to  the  trenches
and  the  poste  de  sec  ours  (the  advanced  dressing  station)
was  entirely  open  to  the  Germans'  fire,  and  could  only  be
traversed  at  night  time,  when  ammunition,  guns  and  reliefs
had  to  go  up,  and  the  wounded  brought  down.

Owing  to  the  blunder  of  a  doctor  at  the  front,  the  corps
was  ordered  to  send  five  large  ambulances  in  daylight  to  the
advanced  post,  close  to  the  front  trenches.  The  Americans,
knowing  what  was  before  them,  started  out.  Immediately
the  cars  were  sighted,  the  Germans  opened  up  a  very  heavy
fire.  Fortunately  their  range  was  defective,  so  that  most  got
through  safely.  Two,  however,  Wendell  and  Hollinshead,
were  wounded.  It  was  now  impossible  to  send  another  car
to  bring  them  back,  so  two  others,  who  had  just  gone  through
the  raging  fire,  begged  permission  to  return  on  foot,  and  to

THE  FIRST  AMERICANS  271

bring  their  comrades  back  in  their  own  cars.  The  journey
up  to  the  front,  exposed  as  they  were  to  the  shells  of  an
alarmed  and  anxious  enemy,  may  be  imagined.  The  two
wounded  men  refused  to  be  helped  until  other  wounded  at
the  advanced  post  had  been  aided.  When  darkness  came,
all  were  got  back.  The  four  Americans  engaged,  Wendell
and  Hollinshead,  McCreery  and  Harden,  were  all  decorated
with  the  Croix  de  Guerre,  on  the  representations  of  the
French  authorities  who  witnessed  what  they  had  done.

For  two  weeks  the  work  at  Verdun  went  on  night  and
day.  There  was  active  fighting  at  the  front,  and  the  wounded,
carried  by  stretcher  bearers  to  the  dressing  station,  must  be
brought  along  to  the  bigger  post  at  Verdun.  The  dressing
station,  the  Sappe  de  Bel  fort,  was  an  underground  shelter,
situated  partly  under  the  roadway  itself  in  a  very  exposed
part  and  fairly  close  up  to  the  German  line.  It  could  only
be  approached  at  night  time  in  absolute  darkness.  Even  a
cigarette  light  would  have  drawn  fire.

A  shell  struck  two  of  the  doctors  they  were  helping,  and
one  was  killed  and  the  other  wounded.  Several  of  the  am-
bulance cars  were  hit,  and  one  of  them  pretty  well  pounded
to  pieces.  The  journey  to  the  post  was  highly  exciting.
"On  my  first  three  trips,"  wrote  Mr.  Norton  to  his  brother,
"an  artillery  wagon  with  its  horses  and  men  was  knocked  out
immediately  in  front  of  me.  Night  after  night  this  went
on — past  the  ruined  and  silent  railway  station,  over  the
wooden  bridge,  round  Dead  Man's  Corner,  past  Shell  Street,
and  down  Red  Pepper  Alley  to  the  post,  beyond  which  flashed
the  French  guns  on  the  hill  forts  and  over  which  burst  the
Boche  shells  day  and  night.  By  dawn  we  never  failed  to
have  emptied  all  the  advanced  posts  and  to  have  brought  back
those  doctors  and  brancardiers  who  did  not  have  to  stay  out
during  the  day  on  twenty-four-hour  duty.  Having  got  them
all  to  Verdun,  I  then  kept  all  the  cars  steadily  at  work  until
in  two  or  three  hours  every  case  was  out  of  Verdun  and  in
the  hospital.  After  that  three  or  four  cars  stayed  on  all
day  at  the  Verdun  post  to  handle  the  casualties  which
streamed  into  that  spot,  not  only  from  our  division  but  from
all  around,  while  the  others  went  home  for  a  short  rest

272  THE  FIRST  AMERICANS

or  to  do  the  daily  duty  at  the  hospital  and  at  the  evacuation
train.  You  can  see  that  this  kept  us  pretty  fully  occupied,
but  everything  went  well,  and  I  can  fairly  say  that  the
friends  of  the  Corps  can  well  be  proud  of  the  steadiness  and
vigor  with  which  the  men  worked.  Considering  the  fact
that  for  many  hours  out  of  the  twenty-four  most  of  the  men
were  under  fire,  it  speaks  well  for  their  nerve  and  character
that  they  were  able  to  continue  so  long  without  breaking
down."

There  came  the  night  when  the  Norton  Ambulance  was
to  be  relieved  by  the  American  Field  Ambulance.  The  leaders
of  both  groups  went  up  together  that  the  newcomers  might
learn  the  lay  of  the  land.  On  the  previous  evening,  every
one  had  suffered  from  the  effects  of  an  attack  by  "tear
shells."  On  this  last  night,  a  very  heavy  gas  attack  was
made.  The  sight  was  extraordinary.  "Beside  the  gas,"
wrote  Mr.  Norton,  "which  was  so  thick  that  men  and  horses
were  dropping  round  about,  the  Boches  were  throwing  in-
cendiary shells  along  the  road  which  our  cars  had  to  follow.
Houses  were  burning  and  falling  in  the  roadway,  so  that  all
traffic  up  and  down  was  stopped.  There  was  an  absolute
block.  The  conduct  of  the  French  during  this  time  was
very  striking;  not  one  seemed  to  be  excited,  not  one  raised
his  voice.  Men  on  foot  marched  steadily  on,  while  the  drivers
sat  calming  their  horses  and  waiting  quietly  for  the  moment
when  they  could  hasten  to  their  destination."

The  cars  returned  to  a  sorely  needed  rest.  There  were
well-earned  decorations  waiting  for  them,  but  there  was
something  they  prized  even  more.  The  convoy  was  cited  be-
fore the  corps  d'armee.  This  was  equivalent  to  giving  an
individual  the  Croix  de  Guerre,  and  gave  it  the  right  to  paint
the  Cross  on  its  wagons.

There  were  Americans  in  other  branches  of  the  French
service  besides  the  Flying  Corps.  At  the  beginning,  most
of  the  American  volunteers — forty  or  fifty  in  all — went  to
the  Foreign  Legion.  There  was  a  memorable  scene  when
hundreds  of  young  Englishmen  and  Americans  living  in
Paris  marched  in  procession  through  the  streets  to  offer
themselves  to  France.    Gradually  they  were  removed  from

THE  FIRST  AMERICANS

the  Legion  to  other  branches.  Among  them  was  one  young
poet,  already  stepping  into  recognition,  Alan  Seeger  by
name.  An  artist  by  temperament,  he  passed  from  Harvard
to  New  York,  and  from  there  to  Paris,  where,  still  a  lad  in
the  mid-twenties,  he  settled  in  the  Latin  Quarter,  developing
his  poetic  soul.  Then  came  the  war.  The  Paris  of  his
dreams  was  shattered ;  the  stark  reality  remained.  He  faced
the  situation,  and  enlisted.

"Why  did  you  enlist  ?"  He  sought  to  answer  the  ques-
tion. "I  have  talked  with  so  many  of  the  young  volunteers
here.  Their  case  is  little  known,  even  by  the  French,  yet
altogether  interesting  and  appealing."  He  told  how  Paris
had  thrown  her  charm  over  them.  Without  renouncing  their
nationality,  they  had  yet  chosen  to  make  their  homes  there,
beyond  any  other  city  in  the  world.  Were  they  not  under
a  moral  obligation  to  put  their  breasts  between  her  and
destruction?

They  thought  they  were.  The  young  poet  found  himself
hard  at  drill,  attempting  to  learn  in  six  weeks  what  the
ordinary  recruit  in  times  of  peace  learns  in  two  years.
Less  than  two  months  after  enlistment,  he  and  his  comrades
were  moved  up  to  the  front.  Then  followed  a  monotonous
winter  of  hardships  of  trench  warfare  and  the  spring  and
summer  campaign  of  191 5.  In  the  autumn  they  took  part  in
the  great  Champagne  attacks,  a  splendid  and  costly  effort.

One  can  read  in  the  letters  of  this  young  man  that  have
been  published  with  his  poems,  the  development  of  his  man-
hood. He  had  broadened,  deepened,  and  his  admiration  for
France,  ever  intense,  was  now  taking  a  deeper  tone.  He  had
come  to  actualities.  In  the  hour  of  disappointment  his  af-
fection for  France  was  stronger  than  ever.  "We  failed,"  he
wrote,  after  one  fight.  "This  affair  only  deepened  my  ad-
miration for,  my  loyalty  to,  the  French.  He  is  a  better  man,
man  for  man,  than  the  German.  Any  one  who  had  seen  the
charge  of  the  Marsouins  at  Souain  would  acknowledge  it.
Never  was  anything  more  magnificent.  I  remember  a  cap-
tain, badly  wounded  in  the  leg,  as  he  passed  us,  borne  back
on  a  litter  by  four  German  prisoners.  He  asked  us  what
regiment  we  were,  and  when  we  told  him,  he  cried,  'Vive  la

274  THE  FIRST  AMERICANS

Legion,'  and  kept  repeating,  'Nous  les  avons.  Nous  les
avons.'  He  was  suffering,  but  oblivious  of  his  wound,  was
still  fired  with  the  enthusiasm  of  the  assault  and  all  radiant
with  victory.  What  a  contrast  with  the  German  wounded,
on  whose  faces  was  nothing  but  terror  and  despair."

Then  came  a  long  spell  in  the  rear,  which  gave  an  op-
portunity to  resume  some  of  his  literary  activities.  Back
to  the  trenches  in  May,  191 6,  he  proved  his  American  strain
by  going  on  voluntary  scouting  expeditions.  On  one  occasion
he  came  clear  up  to  the  German  barbed  wire  in  No  Man's
Land  and  left  a  card  with  his  name.  "It  was  very  thrilling
work,  'courting  destruction  with  taunts  and  invitations,'  as
Whitman  would  say."  It  was  arranged  that  he  was  to  return
to  Paris  on  Decoration  Day,  May  30th,  to  read  before  the
statue  of  Lafayette  and  Washington  an  Ode  in  memory  of
the  American  volunteers  fallen  for  France  which  he  had
written  at  the  request  of  American  residents.  But  his  per-
mission did  not  arrive  in  time.  The  days  of  the  great  July
advance  came,  and  Seeger  was  in  the  first  rush  of  the  Legion
that  stormed  the  village  of  Belloy-en-Santerre.  Six  Ger-
man machine  guns  caught  them  with  cruel,  enfilading  fire.
Most  of  the  storming  party  fell,  Alan  Seeger  among  them.
Reinforcements  followed  and  swept  the  enemy  on  one  side.
The  young  American  cheered  them  on.  As  they  left  him
behind  the  men  heard  him  singing  a  marching  song  in  Eng-
lish. All  night  long  the  wounded  lay  untended,  and  in  the
morning  Alan  Seeger  was  dead.  "One  day,"  wrote  Mr.
William  Archer,  the  famous  critic,  "France  will  know  that
this  unassuming  soldier  of  the  Legion,

Who,  not  mindful  of  the  antique  debt,
Came  back  the  generous  path  of  Lafayette,

was  one  whom  even  she  may  be  proud  to  have  reckoned
among  her  defenders."

Little  has  been  written  about  the  Americans  in  the  ranks
of  the  British  army.  It  is  not  that  the  British  people  have
not  warmly  appreciated  the  help  of  the  American  men,  but
there  was  a  desire  to  do  nothing  which  should  seem  in  any

THE  FIRST  AMERICANS  275

way  to  run  counter  to  the  American  official  declaration  of
neutrality.   America  is  the  guardian  of  her  own  honor.

The  majority  of  Americans  in  the  British  ranks  naturally
enlisted  in  the  Canadian  army.  At  the  beginning  of  the
war  a  large  number  of  Americans  resident  in  Canada
joined  the  ranks,  and  many  others  crossed  the  frontier  for
the  same  purpose.

Among  the  American  officers,  one  of  the  best  known
was  Major  Stewart,  who,  although  Montreal  born,  had
served  for  twelve  years  as  an  officer  in  the  United  States
Cavalry.  He  won  the  affection  of  every  man  under  him,
and  it  is  told  how,  in  his  last  gallant  charge  around  Maple
Copse,  he  cheered  his  boys  on  even  as  he  fell.  Lieutenant
Stanley  Wood,  of  Kansas  City,  fell  in  the  same  fight.  Major
John  Lewis,  an  American  who  had  become  a  British  subject,
fell  gallantly  when  holding  a  small  detachment  together
against  overwhelmingly  superior  forces  on  the  Somme.
Major  Houghton,  once  of  the  United  States  Navy,  headed  a
machine  gun  section  and  went  through  many  fights.  Ameri-
cans in  the  Canadian  ranks  earned  many  Distinguished  Con-
duct Medals,  Military  Crosses  and  Military  Medals.

Lord  Northcliffe,  in  an  article  already  quoted,  has  de-
scribed his  impressions  of  the  American  soldiers  in  the  Ca-
nadian ranks  in  France.  "When  I  saw  them  march  back
from  the  trenches  to  the  tunes  of  'My  Country,  'tis  of  Thee,'
'The  Star-Spangled  Banner,'  and  the  less  classical  and  more
modern  ragtime,  I  wondered  what  the  small  American
boys,  who  have  so  often  teased  me  on  Independence  Day
celebrations  in  your  country,  would  have  thought  of  a  factor
in  the  war  that  is  not  sufficiently  known."

"I  put  one  question  to  a  score  of  those  whose  mothers
were  not  ashamed  to  raise  them  to  be  soldiers.  I  asked
them  why  they  had  come.  The  reply  of  the  American  in
France  is  the  same  every  time,  whether  you  meet  him  with
the  Canadian  army,  the  British  army,  or  the  French  army.
They  all  say  words  to  this  effect:  'The  sort  of  thing  that
has  been  going  on  in  Europe  as  the  result  of  the  horrible
organized  savagery  of  the  Prussians  has  got  to  be  stopped.
We  want  to  stop  it  before  it  reaches  our  own  country.'  "

THE  FIRST  SUBMARINE  TO  CROSS  THE

ATLANTIC

THE  DEUTSCHLAND  APPEARS  IN  NORFOLK  HARBOR

JULY  9TH

CAPTAIN  PAUL  KOENIG  ROBERT  LANSING

The  Deutschland  was  the  first  merchant  submarine,  the  first  under-
seas  boat  capable  of  making  a  long  voyage  while  carrying  not  only
her  own  fuel  and  provisions  but  also  a  cargo  of  other  goods.  She
was  much  larger  than  the  submarines  of  1914  and  much  more  power-
ful in  every  way.  Thus  her  building  marked  an  important  scien-
tific achievement,  as  well  as  an  important  addition  to  Germany's  war
strength.

Germany  needed  a  great  many  commodities,  such  as  rubber,  nickel
and  the  rarer  elements  used  in  making  explosives,  which  the  still
neutral  merchants  of  the  United  States  could  legitimately  supply,  if
only  these  could  escape  the  British  blockade  and  so  reach  Germany.
The  Deutschland  furnished  the  means  of  transporting  them.

She  appeared  quite  unexpectedly  on  July  9th  in  the  broad  harbor
of  Chesapeake  Bay,  docked  at  Norfolk,  Virginia,  and  returned  to
Germany  in  August  with  an  inestimably  valuable  cargo.  On  No-
vember 1st  she  rose  out  of  the  waters  again  in  Long  Island  Sound,
docked  at  New  London,  Connecticut,  and  returned  again  to  Germany.
A  second  similar  boat,  the  Bremen,  also  undertook  the  voyage.  The
British  "destroyers,"  however,  managed  to  block  the  sea  road  for
both  the  big  submarines.  The  Deutschland  lay  idle  in  a  German  harbor.
Just  what  fate  overtook  the  Bremen  we  do  not  know.  She  simply
disappeared,  and  thus  became  a  mystery  of  the  sea.

Naturally  the  first  voyage  of  the  Deutschland  raised  new  questions
of  International  Law.  The  Allies  united  in  presenting  to  the  United
States  a  note  of  protest.  They  urged  that  the  Deutschland  was  really
a  warship,  not  a  peaceful  and  unarmed  merchant  ship,  and  that  therefore
she  could  not  be  allowed  to  rest  and  provision  herself  in  an  American
port.  Having  stopped  there,  she  must  be  interned  as  a  warship  until
the  end  of  the  War.  In  this  discussion,  however,  the  United  States
Government  upheld  the  German  viewpoint,  that  the  Deutschland  was
really  a  merchant  ship  and  entitled  to  harborage  as  such.  Doubtless
the  United  States  Government  was  glad  to  demonstrate  to  the  Ger-
mans that  it  would  still  be  fair  to  them  in  any  case  where  they  had
any  real  justice  on  their  side.

A  SUBMARINE  CROSSES  THE  ATLANTIC  277

BY  CAPTAIN  PAUL  KOENIG

THE  submarine  Deutschland,  which  I  have  the  honor  to
command,  is  the  first  of  several  submarines  built  to  the
order  of  the  Deutsche  Ozean  Rhederei  G.M.B.H.,  Bremen.
She  will  be  followed  by  the  Bremen  shortly.

The  idea  of  the  building  of  this  submarine  emanated
from  Alfred  Lohmann,  then  President  of  the  Bremen  Cham-
ber of  Commerce.  He  brought  his  idea  in  the  fall  of  last
year  confidentially  before  a  small  circle  of  friends,  and  the
idea  was  taken  up  at  once.  A  company  was  formed  under
the  name  of  "Deutsche  Ozean  Rhederei  G.  M.  B.  H.,"  and
the  Germaniawerft,  Kiel,  was  intrusted  with  the  building  of
the  submarines.

The  Board  of  Directors  is  composed  of  Alfred  Loh-
mann, President  of  the  Board;  Philipp  Heineken,  General
Manager  of  the  Nord  Lloyd,  and  Kommerzienrat  P.  M.
Herrman,  Manager  of  the  Deutsche  Bank.  Carl  Stapel-
feldt,  Manager  of  the  Nord  Lloyd,  has  taken  over  the  man-
agement of  the  company.

We  have  brought  a  most  valuable  cargo  of  dyestuffs  to
our  American  friends,  dyestuffs  which  have  been  so  much
needed  for  months  in  America  and  which  the  ruler  of  the
seas  has  not  allowed  the  great  American  Republic  to  im-
port. While  England  will  not  allow  anybody  the  same  right
on  the  ocean  because  she  rules  the  waves,  we  have,  by  means
of  the  submarine,  commenced  to  break  this  rule.

Great  Britain  cannot  hinder  boats  such  as  ours  to  go
and  come  as  we  please.  Our  trip  passing  Dover  across  the
ocean  was  an  uneventful  one.  When  danger  approached  we
went  below  the  surface,  and  here  we  are,  safely  in  an  Ameri-
can port,  ready  to  return  in  due  course.

I  am  not  in  a  position  to  give  you  full  details  regarding
our  trip  across  the  ocean,  in  view  of  our  enemies.  Our
boat  has  a  displacement  of  about  2,000  tons  and  a  speed
of  more  than  fourteen  knots.  Needless  to  say  that  we  are
quite  unarmed  and  only  a  peaceful  merchantman.

Our  boats  will  carry  across  the  Atlantic  the  mails  and
save  them  from  British  interruption.   We  trust  that  the  old

278    A  SUBMARINE  CROSSES  THE  ATLANTIC

friendly  relationship  with  the  United  States,  going  back  to
the  days  of  Washington,  when  it  was  Prussia  who  was  the
first  to  help  America  in  its  fight  for  freedom  from  British
rule,  will  awake  afresh  in  your  beautiful  and  powerful  coun-
try.

The  house  flag  of  the  Deutsche  Ozean  Rhederei  is  the  old
Bremen  flag — red  and  white  stripes,  with  the  coat  of  arms
of  the  town,  the  key  in  the  corner.  This  key  is  the  sign
that  we  have  opened  the  gates  which  Great  Britain  tried  to
shut  up  on  us  and  the  trade  of  the  world.  The  gates  which
we  opened  with  this  key  will  not  be  shut  again.  Open  door
to  the  trade  of  the  world  and  freedom  of  the  oceans  and
equal  rights  to  all  nations  on  the  oceans  will  be  guaranteed
by  Germany's  victory  in  this  struggle  for  our  existence.

Official  Joint  Protest  Sent  by  the  Allied  Governments  to
the  U.  S.  Government  Against  Treating  Any  Sub-
marine as  Other  Than  a  Ship  of  War

In  view  of  the  development  of  submarine  navigation
and  by  reason  of  acts  which  in  the  present  circumstances  may
be  unfortunately  expected  from  enemy  submarines,  the  allied
Governments  consider  it  necessary,  in  order  not  only  to  safe-
guard their  belligerent  rights  and  liberty  of  commercial  navi-
gation, but  to  avoid  risks  of  dispute,  to  urge  neutral  Gov-
ernments to  take  effective  measures,  if  they  have  not  already
done  so,  with  a  view  to  preventing  belligerent  submarine  ves-
sels, whatever  the  purpose  to  which  they  are  put,  from  making
use  of  neutral  waters,  roadsteads,  and  ports.

In  the  case  of  submarine  vessels,  the  application  of  the
principles  of  the  law  of  nations  is  affected  by  special  and
novel  conditions :  First,  by  the  fact  that  these  vessels  can
navigate  and  remain  at  sea  submerged,  and  can  thus  escape
all  control  and  observation;  second,  by  the  fact  that  it  is
impossible  to  identify  them  and  establish  their  national  char-
acter, whether  neutral  or  belligerent,  combatant  or  non-
combatant,  and  to  remove  the  capacity  for  harm  inherent  in
the  nature  of  such  vessels.

It  may  further  be  said  that  any  place  which  provides  a
submarine  warship  far  from  its  base  with  an  opportunity

A  SUBMARINE  CROSSES  THE  ATLANTIC  279

for  rest  and  replenishment  of  its  supplies  thereby  furnishes
such  addition  to  its  powers  that  the  place  becomes  in  fact,
through  the  advantages  which  it  gives,  a  base  of  naval  opera-
tions.

In  view  of  the  state  of  affairs  thus  existing,  the  Allied
Governments  are  of  the  opinion  that  submarine  vessels  should
be  excluded  from  the  benefit  of  the  rules  hitherto  recognized
by  the  law  of  nations  regarding  the  admission  of  vessels  of
war  or  merchant  vessels  into  neutral  waters,  roadsteads,  or
ports,  and  their  sojourn  in  them.  Any  belligerent  subma-
rine entering  a  neutral  port  should  be  detained  there.

The  allied  Governments  take  this  opportunity  to  point
out  to  the  neutral  powers  the  grave  danger  incurred  by  neu-
tral submarines  in  the  navigation  of  regions  frequented  by
belligerent  submarines.

BY  ROBERT  LANSING
Official  U.  S.  Response  to  the  Above  Protest

Washington,  August  31,  1916.
The  Government  of  the  United  States  has  received  the
identic  memoranda  of  the  Governments  of  France,  Great
Britain,  Russia,  and  Japan  in  which  neutral  Governments
are  exhorted  "to  take  efficacious  measures  tending  to  prevent
belligerent  submarines,  regardless  of  their  use,  to  avail
themselves  of  neutral  waters,  roadsteads,  and  harbors."
These  Governments  point  out  the  facility  possessed  by  such
craft  to  avoid  supervision  or  surveillance  or  determination
of  their  national  character  and  their  power  "to  do  injury
that  is  inherent  in  their  very  nature"  as  well  as  the  "addi-
tional facilities"  afforded  by  having  at  their  disposal  places
where  they  can  rest  and  replenish  their  supplies.  Apparently
on  these  grounds  the  allied  Governments  hold  that  "sub-
marine vessels  must  be  excluded  from  the  benefit  of  the  rules
heretofore  accepted  under  international  law  regarding  the
admission  and  sojourn  of  war  and  merchant  vessels  in  neu-
tral waters,  roadsteads,  or  harbors;  any  submarine  of  a
belligerent  that  once  enters  a  neutral  harbor  must  be  held
there,"  and  therefore  the  allied  Governments  "warn  neutral
powers  of  the  great  danger  to  neutral  submarines  attend-

280    A  SUBMARINE  CROSSES  THE  ATLANTIC

ing  the  navigation  of  waters  visited  by  the  submarines  of
belligerents."

In  reply  the  Government  of  the  United  States  must  ex-
press its  surprise  that  there  appears  to  be  an  endeavor  of
the  allied  powers  to  determine  the  rule  of  action  governing
what  they  regard  as  a  "novel  situation"  in  respect  to  the  use
of  submarines  in  time  of  war,  and  to  enforce  a  compliance
of  that  rule,  at  least  in  part,  by  warning  neutral  powers
of  the  great  danger  to  their  submarines  in  waters  that  may
be  visited  by  belligerent  submarines.  In  the  opinion  of  the
Government  of  the  United  States,  the  allied  powers  have
not  set  forth  any  circumstance,  nor  is  the  Government  of
the  United  States  at  present  aware  of  any  circumstances,
concerning  the  use  of  war  or  merchant  submarines  which
would  render  the  existing  rules  of  international  law  inap-
plicable to  them.  In  view  of  this  fact  and  of  the  notice  and
warning  of  the  allied  powers  announced  in  their  memoranda
under  acknowledgment,  it  is  incumbent  upon  the  Govern-
ment of  the  United  States  to  notify  the  Governments  of
France,  Great  Britain,  Russia,  and  Japan  that,  so  far  as  the
treatment  of  either  war  or  merchant  submarines  in  American
waters  is  concerned,  the  Government  of  the  United  States
reserves  its  liberty  of  action  in  all  respects,  and  will  treat  such
vessels  as,  in  its  opinion,  becomes  the  action  of  a  power
which  may  be  said  to  have  taken  the  first  steps  toward  es-
tablishing the  principles  of  neutrality  and  which  for  over
a  century  has  maintained  those  principles  in  the  traditional
spirit  and  with  the  high  sense  of  impartiality  in  which  they
were  conceived.

In  order,  however,  that  there  should  be  no  misunder-
standing as  to  the  attitude  of  the  United  States,  the  Gov-
ernment of  the  United  States  announces  to  the  allied  powers
that  it  holds  it  to  be  the  duty  of  belligerent  powers  to  dis-
tinguish between  submarines  of  neutral  and  belligerent  na-
tionality, and  that  responsibility  for  any  conflict  that  may
arise  between  belligerent  warships  and  neutral  submarines  on
account  of  the  neglect  of  a  belligerent  to  so  distinguish  be-
tween these  classes  of  submarines  must  rest  entirely  upon
the  negligent  power.

EXECUTION  OF  CAPTAIN  FRY  ATT

GERMANY  ROUSES  BRITISH  SEAMEN  TO  VENGEANCE

JULY  27TH

GERMAN  GOVERNMENT  STATEMENT
ARTHUR  BALFOUR

The  so-called  "execution"  of  Captain  Charles  Fryatt  roused  the
British  people  as  no  other  event  of  the  War  had  roused  them.  In  the
outer  world,  the  execution  of  Edith  Cavell,  or  even  that  of  Sir  Roger
Casement  in  connection  with  the  Sinn  Fein  uprising,  had  caused  wider
comment.  That  of  Edith  Cavell  was  lamented  because  she  was  a
woman  and  a  very  noble  one,  done  to  death  amid  falsehood  and  callous
seventy.  That  of  Sir  Roger  Casement  was  regretted  because  how-
ever mistaken  in  his  methods,  he  was  yet  struggling  for  the  freedom
of  his  people.  But  in  the  Cavell  case  there  had  been  some  legal  justi-
fication for  the  sentence;  and  in  Casement's  case  there  had  been  no
question  whatever  that  he  had  broken  the  long  established  law  under
which  he  was  condemned,  and  in  breaking  it  he  had  directly  caused
hundreds  of  deaths.  In  the  Fryatt  case,  however,  Germany  officially
broke  every  existing  form  of  law,  made  a  new  law  of  her  own  and
then  condemned  Captain  Fryatt  for  not  having  followed  this  law
before  it  had  existed.

What  Captain  Fryatt  did  was  to  ram  a  German  U-boat  with  a
British  merchant  ship.  And  the  world  in  general  hailed  him  as  a
hero.  What  Germany  did  was  to  wait  her  chance,  capture  the  captain
on  a  later  voyage,  and  condemn  him  as  a  "franc-tireur,"  which  means
a  disguised  and  secret  foe  who  under  pretense  of  being  a  non-
combatant  tricks  the  military  into  sparing  him  and  then  attacks  them.

The  German  pretense  was  too  shallow  for  argument.  Captain
Fryatt  was  absolutely  within  his  rights ;  and  the  real  German  purpose
was  manifestly  so  to  terrify  merchant  captains  that  they  should  not
dare  to  resist.

The  effect  upon  Britain  of  this  murderous  threat  was  extraordi-
nary. The  British  people  are  really  a  great  sea-faring  company,  and
to  interfere  with  their  long  established  sea-law  is  to  touch  them  in
their  tenderest  spot.  The  Fryatt  murder  was  thus  far  indeed  from
breaking  the  courage  of  British  sea  captains.  Instead  it  hardened  the
resolution  of  all  Britain  to  fight  Germany  to  the  bitter  end.  Mr.
Asquith,  then  Prime  Minister,  the  leader  of  the  nation,  solemnly  an-
nounced in  Parliament,  "His  Majesty's  Government  desire  to  repeat
emphatically  that  they  are  resolved  that  such  crimes  shall  not,  if  they
can  help  it,  go  unpunished.  When  the  time  arrives  they  are  determined
to  bring  to  justice  the  criminals,  whoever  they  may  be  and  whatever

282      EXECUTION  OF  CAPTAIN  FRYATT

their  station."  And  after  later  thought  he  added,  "This  country
will  not  tolerate  a  resumption  of  diplomatic  relations  with  Germany
after  the  war  until  reparation  is  made  for  the  murder  of  Captain
Fryatt."  Britain  meant  exactly  what  she  said.  The  War  thereafter
was  to  be  fought  to  a  finish.  C.  F.  H.

GERMAN   GOVERNMENT  STATEMENT  OF  JULY  28TH

THE  accused  was  condemned  to  death  because,  although
he  was  not  a  member  of  a  combatant  force,  he  made
an  attempt  on  the  afternoon  of  March  20,  1915,  to  ram  the
German  submarine  C7-33  near  the  Maas  lightship.  The
accused,  as  well  as  the  first  officer  and  the  chief  engineer
of  the  steamer,  received  at  the  time  from  the  British  Ad-
miralty a  gold  watch  as  a  reward  of  his  brave  conduct  on
that  occasion,  and  his  action  was  mentioned  with  praise  in
the  House  of  Commons.

On  the  occasion  in  question,  disregarding  the  U-boat's
signal  to  stop  and  show  his  national  flag,  he  turned  at  a
critical  moment  at  high  speed  on  the  submarine,  which  escaped
the  steamer  by  a  few  meters  only  by  immediately  diving.  He
confessed  that  in  so  doing  he  had  acted  in  accordance  with
the  instructions  of  the  Admiralty.

One  of  the  many  nefarious  franc-tireur  proceedings  of
the  British  merchant  marine  against  our  war  vessels  has
thus  found  a  belated  but  merited  expiation.

Supplementary  Statement  of  August  10th

It  is  only  too  intelligible  that  the  English  Government
attempts  to  justify  Captain  Fryatt's  action,  for  it  is  itself  in
a  high  degree  a  fellow-culprit.  Captain  Fryatt,  acting  as  he
did,  acted  only  on  the  advice  of  his  Government.

The  British  Government's  statement  intentionally  mis-
leads the  public.  Captain  Fryatt  did  not  attempt  to  forestall
an  under-water  attack,  without  warning,  by  the  submarine.
The  U-boat  was  above  water,  and  signaled  to  him  when  above
water  to  stop,  according  to  the  international  code  of  naval
warfare.  Therefore,  he  did  not  merely  attempt  to  save  the
lives  of  his  crew,  because  they  were  not  endangered.  More-
over, on  March  28,  191 5,  Captain  Fryatt  allowed  the  sub-
marine, which  was  approaching  his  ship  for  the  purposes  of

EXECUTION  OF  CAPTAIN  FRYATT  283

examination,  to  draw  up  close,  so  as  to  ram  her  suddenly
and  unexpectedly,  his  object  being  to  destroy  her,  and  so
gain  the  reward  offered  by  the  British  Government.  This
act  was  not  an  act  of  self-defense,  but  a  cunning  attack  by
hired  assassins.  Captain  Fryatt  boasted  of  his  action,  though
happily  he  failed  to  attain  his  object.  This  was  brought
home  to  him  during  the  trial  by  witnesses  from  the  crew
of  the  submarine  in  question,  whose  evidence  was  against
him.  The  British  Parliament  believed  he  had  succeeded  and
praised  his  conduct,  and  the  British  Government  rewarded
him.

The  German  War  Tribunal  sentenced  him  to  death  be-
cause he  had  performed  an  act  of  war  against  the  German
sea  forces,  although  he  did  not  belong  to  the  armed  forces
of  his  country.  He  was  not  deliberately  shot  in  cold  blood
without  due  consideration,  as  the  British  Government  asserts,
but  he  was  shot  as  a  franc-tirew,  after  calm  consideration
and  thorough  investigation.  As  martial  law  on  land  pro-
tects the  soldiery  against  assassination,  by  threatening  the
offender  with  the  penalty  of  death,  so  it  protects  the  mem-
bers of  the  sea  forces  against  assassination  at  sea.  Germany
will  continue  to  use  this  law  of  warfare  in  order  to  save
her  submarine  crews  from  becoming  the  victims  of  francs-
tireurs  at  sea.

BY  ARTHUR  BALFOUR

If  any  desire  yet  further  proof  of  the  value  which  the
Germans  really  attach  to  their  "victorious"  fleet  I  advise  them
to  study  the  German  policy  of  submarine  warfare.  The  ad-
vantage of  submarine  attacks  on  commerce  is  that  they  can-
not be  controlled  by  superior  fleet  power  in  the  same  way  as
attacks  by  cruisers.  The  disadvantage  is  that  they  cannot
be  carried  out  on  a  large  scale  consistently  with  the  laws  of
war  or  the  requirements  of  humanity.  They  make,  therefore,
a  double  appeal  to  German  militarism ;  an  appeal  to  its  pru-
dence and  an  appeal  to  its  brutality.  The  Germans  knew  their
"victorious"  fleet  was  useless;  it  could  be  kept  safe  in  har-
bor while  submarine  warfare  went  on  merrily  outside.  They
knew  that  submarines  cannot  be  brought  to  action  by  battle-

284      EXECUTION  OF  CAPTAIN  FRYATT

ships  or  battle  cruisers.  They  thought,  therefore,  that  to
these  new  commerce  destroyers  our  merchant  ships  must  fall
an  easy  prey,  unprotected  by  our  ships  of  war  and  unable
to  protect  themselves.

They  are  wrong  in  both  respects ;  and  doubtless  it  is  their
wrath  at  the  skill  and  energy  with  which  Britsh  merchant
captains  and  British  crews  have  defended  the  lives  and
property  under  their  charge  that  has  driven  the  German  Ad-
miralty into  their  latest  and  stupidest  act  of  calculated
ferocity — the  judicial  murder  of  Captain  Fryatt.

I  do  not  propose  to  argue  this  case;  it  is  not  worth
arguing.  Why  should  we  do  the  German  military  authori-
ties the  injustice  of  supposing  that  they  were  animated  by
any  solicitude  for  the  principles  of  international  law,  and
blundered  into  illegality  by  some  unhappy  accident?  Their
folly  was  of  a  different  kind,  and  flowed  from  a  different
course.  They  knew  quite  well  that  when  Captain  Fryatt's
gallantry  saved  his  ship,  the  Germans  had  sunk  without  warn-
ing 22  British  merchant  ships,  and  had  attempted  to  sink
many  others.  They  knew  that  in  refusing  tamely  to  submit
himself  to  such  a  fate  he  was  doing  his  duty  as  a  man  of
courage  and  of  honor.  They  were  resolved  at  all  costs  to
discourage  imitation!

What  blunderers  they  are!  I  doubt  not  their  ability  to
manipulate  machines.  But  of  managing  men,  unless  it  be
German  men,  they  know  less  than  nothing.  They  are  al-
ways wrong;  and  they  are  wrong  because  they  always  sup-
pose that  if  they  behave  like  brutes  they  can  cow  their  en-
emies into  behaving  like  cowards.  Small  is  their  knowledge
of  our  merchant  seamen.  Their  trade,  indeed,  is  not  war
— they  live  by  the  arts  of  peace.  But  in  no  class  does  pa-
triotism burn  with  a  purer  flame,  or  show  itself  in  deeds  of
higher  courage  and  self-devotion.  I  doubt  whether  there  is
one  of  them  to  be  found  who  is  not  resolved  to  defend  him-
self to  the  last  against  piratical  attack;  but  if  such  a  one
there  be,  depend  upon  it  he  will  be  cured  by  the  last  exhi-
bition of  German  civilization.

And  what  must  the  neutrals  think  of  all  this  ?  They  are
constantly  assured  by  German  advocates  that  the  Central

EXECUTION  OF  CAPTAIN  FRYATT  285

Powers  are  fighting  for  the  "freedom  of  the  seas."  It  is  a
phrase  with  different  meanings  in  different  mouths;  but  we
have  now  had  ample  opportunities  of  judging  what  it  means
to  the  Germans.  It  means  that  the  German  Navy  is  to  be-
have at  sea  as  the  German  Army  behave  on  land.  It  means
that  neither  enemy  civilians  nor  neutrals  are  to  possess  rights
against  militant  Germany ;  that  those  who  do  not  resist  will
be  drowned,  and  those  who  do  will  be  shot.

OFFICIAL  BRITISH  STATEMENT

On  March  28,  191 5,  a  German  submarine  sank  the  Fa-
lab  a.  It  is  well  known  that  the  Falaba  stopped  when  or-
dered to  do  so  by  the  German  aggressor.  Nevertheless,  the
German  captain  of  the  submarine  did  not  give  time  for  the
passengers  to  be  put  into  boats,  and  torpedoed  this  great
liner  while  non-combatants  were  still  on  board.  One  of  those
who  were  on  the  deck  describes  the  scene  as  follows :  "The
Commander  of  the  submarine  ordered  our  Captain  to  get
every  passenger  into  the  boats  at  once,  saying  in  good  Eng-
lish :  T  am  going  to  sink  your  ship.'  Then  followed  a
terrible  scene.  Some  of  the  boats  were  swamped  and  their
occupants  thrown  into  the  sea,  several  being  drowned  al-
most immediately.  Barely  ten  minutes  after  we  received  the
order  to  leave  the  ship,  and  before  the  last  boat  had  been
lowered,  I  heard  a  report,  and  saw  our  vessel  heel  over.
The  pirates  had  actually  fired  a  torpedo  at  her  at  a  range  of
100  yards,  when  they  could  distinctly  see  a  large  number
of  passengers  and  crew  on  board.  It  was  a  dastardly  thing
to  do; — nothing  but  murder  in  cold  blood."  One  hundred
and  four  men  and  women  lost  their  lives.

It  was  on  this  same  Sunday,  March  28th,  that  Captain
Fryatt  met  the  in  the  North  Sea.    In  the  afternoon,

when  on  a  voyage  from  Parkeston  to  Rotterdam,  the  Brus-
sels sighted  a  German  submarine,  at  least  three  hundred
feet  long,  with  a  very  high  bow,  a  very  large  circular  con-
ning tower,  and  without  distinguishing  marks,  on  her  star-
board bow.  Captain  Fryatt  soon  realized  that  the  speed  of
the  submarine  was  far  greater  than  his  own,  and  that  if  he
attempted  to  turn  away,  he  could  easily  be  torpedoed.  The

286      EXECUTION  OF  CAPTAIN  FRYATT

submarine  signaled  him  to  stop,  but  his  British  courage  re-
volted at  the  thought  of  surrender,  and  the  experience  of
German  methods  of  warfare  warned  him  that  surrender
would  be  no  guarantee  that  the  lives  of  his  crew  would  be
spared.  He  determined  therefore  to  take  the  best  chance  of
saving  his  ship,  and  to  steer  for  the  submarine  in  order  to
force  her  to  dive,  and,  if  she  were  not  quick  enough  in
diving,  to  ram  her.

This  was  his  undoubted  right  under  international  law —
to  disregard  her  summons  and  resist  her  attack  to  the  best  of
his  power.  It  was  a  contest  of  skill  and  courage  in  which
each  side  took  their  chance.  Captain  Fryatt,  therefore,
starboarded  his  helm,  and  gave  orders  to  his  engineers  to
make  all  possible  speed.  He  sent  all  the  crew  aft  to  a  place
of  safety,  in  case  the  submarine  should  fire  upon  him,  and
steered  straight  for  the  conning  tower.  The  latter,  when
she  saw  that  the  Brussels  would  not  surrender,  but  was  bent
upon  exercising  her  undoubted  right  of  resistance,  immedi-
ately submerged.  The  Brussels  saw  her  disappear  about
twenty  yards  ahead,  and  steered  for  the  place  where  she
had  been.  Almost  immediately  her  periscope  came  up  abreast
of  the  Brussels,  two  feet  out  of  the  water.  Captain  Fryatt
did  not  feel  his  ship  strike  the  submarine,  but  one  of  the  fire-
men felt  a  bumping  sensation.  The  submarine  reappeared
with  a  decided  list,  and  afterwards  vanished  from  view.
Captain  Fryatt  held  his  course  at  top  speed  until  he  was
safely  within  the  territorial  waters  of  Holland.

The  claim  of  the  Wolff  Bureau  that  Captain  Fryatt  al-
lowed the  submarine  to  approach  for  examination  is  utterly
false,  and  the  pretense  of  some  German  papers  that  he  sur-
rendered, and  afterwards  attacked  the  £7-33,  or  that  he  was
guilty  of  any  deception  or  any  underhand  dealing,  is  equally
untrue.  These  false  pleas  can  only  be  attributed  to  their
desire  to  conceal  a  foul  crime  under  a  cloak  of  lies.

Let  us  not  be  deceived  into  thinking  that  the  request  to
stop  was  any  evidence  of  humane  intention.  The  Falaba
stopped,  and  her  list  of  dead  is  eloquent.  Captain  Fryatt,
already  familiar  with  the  designs  of  German  submarines
from  his  previous  adventure,  sought  to  save  his  ship's  com-

EXECUTION  OF  CAPTAIN  FRYATT  287

pany  from  a  similar  fate.  Did  he  do  it,  as  the  Weser  Zeitung
of  Germany  pretends,  "from  ambition  and  lust  of  gain?"

No;  though  he  is  dead,  his  comrades  live,  and  through
his  courage  and  resource  they  have  been  saved  the  fate  of
the  women  and  children  on  the  Lusitania  and  many  other
ships  which  stopped  and  surrendered,  and  whose  passengers,
through  the  inhuman  conduct  of  a  German  submarine,  were
drowned  at  sea.

By  his  action  Captain  Fryatt  undoubtedly  saved  the  lives
of  those  under  his  charge.  At  the  date  of  this  gallant  act
the  Germans  had  already  sunk  without  warning  twenty-
two  British  merchant  ships,  and  had  attempted  to  sink  many
others.  The  German  Proclamation  of  February  4th  was
an  offer  of  attack  without  further  notice  to  any  merchant
vessel  flying  the  British  flag  in  those  waters ;  and  the  Captain,
in  acting  as  he  did,  did  no  more  than  defend  himself  against
the  illegally  proffered  violence  of  the  enemy.

The  British  Admiralty  presented  Captain  Fryatt  with  a
gold  watch,  suitably  inscribed,  in  recognition  of  his  services.
This  watch,  and  the  watch  awarded  by  the  Great  Eastern
Railway  Company  for  his  previous  exploit,  did  not  fall  into
the  hands  of  a  pirate  submarine,  but  are  in  the  safe  keeping
of  his  widow,  to  be  an  heirloom  in  his  family.  The  award
of  the  watch  by  the  Admiralty  was  announced  in  the  Brit-
ish House  of  Commons  on  April  28,  1915,  by  Dr.  Macna-
mara,  Secretary  to  the  Admiralty,  who  mentioned,  amongst
other  merchant  captains,  the  name  of  Captain  Fryatt,  as
one  who  had  baffled  a  German  submarine  by  his  bravery  and
resource,  and  had  been  selected  by  the  Admiralty  "as  de-
serving of  reward  for  specially  meritorious  services."

His  Majesty,  King  George,  in  a  letter  addressed  to  Mrs.
Fryatt  from  Buckingham  Palace,  lately  expressed  what  will
be  the  feeling  of  the  whole  world  when  he  said  :  "The  action
of  Captain  Fryatt  in  defending  his  ship  against  the  attack
of  an  enemy  submarine  was  a  noble  instance  of  the  resource
and  self-reliance  so  characteristic  of  his  profession."

Captain  Fryatt  sailed  from  the  Hook  of  Holland  on  the
evening  of  June  22,  1916,  more  than  a  year  after  his  last
recorded  encounter  with  a  submarine.    A  friend  who  shook

288      EXECUTION  OF  CAPTAIN  FRYATT

his  hand  as  he  went  on  the  bridge  found  him  calm  and
cheerful  as  ever.  The  Brussels  had  a  cargo  of  foodstuffs
and  some  Belgian  refugees  on  board.  But  when  well  on
her  voyage  to  Tilbury  she  was  captured  by  a  flotilla  of
German  torpedo  boats,  and  she  was  taken  as  a  prize  to  Zee-
brugge.  It  was  reported  at  the  time  that  there  was  a
suspicious  character  on  board  the  Brussels,  who  spoke  Ger-
man fluently,  and  was  afterwards  treated  with  the  utmost
consideration  by  the  Germans.  The  Amsterdam  Telegraaf
bears  testimony  to  the  quiet  and  dignified  conduct  of  the  crew
and  its  Captain  after  capture.  It  speaks  of  Captain  Fryatt
himself  as  standing  in  the  midst  of  his  officers,  his  face  as
calm  as  if  he  were  on  the  bridge,  comforting  the  weeping
Belgian  women  with  a  kindly  word,  and  thinking  only  of
others.

On  the  1st  of  July,  the  American  Ambassador,  in  reply
to  an  inquiry  from  the  British  Foreign  Office,  assured  Sir
Edward  Grey  that  the  officers  and  crew  of  the  Brussels  were
safe  and  well,  and  that  the  Master  of  the  vessel  "desired
that  his  wife  might  be  informed."  Nobody  suspected  at
that  time  the  import  and  terrible  significance  of  those  pa-
thetic words.

It  was  not  until  the  16th  of  July  that  the  Government
and  public  of  Great  Britain  first  learned,  in  the  columns  of
the  Amsterdam  Telegraaf,  that  Captain  Fryatt  was  to  be
tried  by  court-martial  on  a  charge  of  ramming  a  German
submarine.  The  British  Foreign  Office  immediately  made
inquiries  of  the  American  Ambassador,  and  requested  that
proper  steps  might  be  taken  for  the  Captain's  defense.  The
report  in  the  Telegraaf  was  only  too  true.

We  have  no  particulars  of  the  court-martial  which  was
held  at  Bruges.  It  is  not  certain  whether  any  independent
witnesses  were  present,  and  it  is  unlikely  that  the  Germans
will  ever  disclose  what  took  place  there.  Everything  ap-
pears to  have  been  done  in  the  dark  and  in  haste,  as  by  those
who  shunned  the  light  of  publicity  in  the  performance  of
their  sinister  work.  We  can  only  quote  the  bald  outlines
of  the  German  official  telegram,  which  stated  that :

"On  Thursday,  at  Bruges,  before  the  Court-Martial  of

EXECUTION  OF  CAPTAIN  FRYATT  289

the  Marine  Corps,  the  trial  took  place  of  Captain  Charles
Fryatt,  of  the  British  steamer  Brussels,  which  was  brought
in  as  a  prize."

A  postponement  of  the  trial  had  been  asked  for;  but
this  was  refused,  on  the  ground  that  "German  submarine
witnesses  could  not  be  further  detained"!  Upon  such  an
outrageous  pretext,  the  trial  was  immediately  held,  and  Cap-
tain Fryatt  was  "defended"  by  Major  Neumann,  "in  civil
life  an  attorney  and  Justizrat."  Under  what  principle  of
international  law  was  he  tried?  What  was  the  nature  of
the  impeachment?  What  are  the  names  of  the  judges  who
condemned  him?

According  to  the  German  official  pronouncement,  Cap-
tain Fryatt  was  condemned  because :  "Although  he  was
not  a  member  of  a  combatant  force,  he  made  an  attempt  on
the  afternoon  of  March  28,  191 5,  to  ram  the  German  sub-
marine, U-33,  near  the  Maas  Lightship."

That  resistance  to  such  an  attack  is  legitimate,  is  clear
from  the  prize  law  of  all  the  great  states;  of  the  British
Empire,  the  United  States,  Italy,  Spain,  and  others.  It  is
even  admitted  by  the  German  prize  regulations ;  for  in  an  ap-
pendix to  these,  dated  June  22,  19 14,  may  be  found  the  fol-
lowing clause :  "If  an  armed  enemy  merchant  vessel  offers
armed  resistance  to  the  right  of  visit,  search  and  capture
.  .  .  the  crew  are  to  be  treated  as  prisoners  of  war."

It  is  true  that  the  German  regulation  speaks  of  armed
merchant  vessels ;  but  that  can  make  no  difference.  A  mer-
chant vessel  is  none  the  less  a  merchant  vessel  because  she
is  armed ;  her  officers  and  crew  do  not  become  members  of  a
combatant  force  because  the  vessel  carries  guns  for  defense ;
a  merchantman  is  permitted  to  resist  an  enemy  warship,  not
because  she  has  any  combatant  quality,  but  because  she  will
be  captured  at  the  best,  or  if  she  meets  a  German  subma-
rine, probably  sunk  without  warning;  and  even  capture  is
an  act  of  hostility  to  which  a  merchantman  need  not  submit.

The  justice  of  these  contentions  has  been  admitted  by  an
eminent  German  international  lawyer,  Dr.  Hans  Weh-
berg,  in  his  book,  "Das  Seekriegsrecht,"  published  since  the
outbreak  of  the  present  war.  He  writes :  "In  truth  no  single

290      EXECUTION  OF  CAPTAIN  FRYATT

example  can  be  produced  from  international  precedents  in
which  the  States  have  held  that  resistance  is  not  permissible.
On  the  contrary,  in  the  celebrated  decision  of  Lord  Stowell
in  the  case  of  the  Catharina  Elizabeth  resistance  was  de-
clared permissible,  and  Article  10  of  the  American  Naval
War  Code  takes  up  the  same  standpoint.  By  far  the  greater
number  of  authors  and  the  Institute  of  International  Law
share  this  view.  .  .  .  The  enemy  merchant  ship  has  then
the  right  of  defense  against  an  enemy  attack,  and  this  right
she  can  exercise  against  visit,  for  this  is  indeed  the  first  act
of  capture."

The  opinion  that  such  resistance  is  illegal  is  scarcely  held
outside  Germany;  it  is  of  recent  growth;  and  its  chief  expo-
nent is  Dr.  Schramm,  who  is  legal  adviser  to  the  German  Ad-
miralty. It  is  not  difficult  to  conjecture  that  his  opinion,  and
the  opinion  of  his  friends,  was  first  conceived  at  the  time
when  Germany  was  making  her  final  preparations  for  an
assault  upon  civilization.

Moreover,  the  German  Government,  in  a  memorandum
which  it  handed  to  neutral  Powers  on  February  10,  191 6,
while  maintaining  that,  in  the  view  of  Germany,  merchant
vessels  were  not  entitled  to  defend  themselves,  stated  that:
"It  takes  into  consideration  also  the  contrary  conception  by
treating  their  crews  as  belligerents."

In  the  face  of  the  horror  and  incredulity  of  the  whole
world,  which,  despite  a  surfeit  of  German  barbarity,  could
scarcely  comprehend  this  latest  crime,  the  Germans  have  made
frantic  efforts  to  justify  this  judicial  murder.  They  have
justified  it  under  a  German  prize  rule  relating  to  neutral
ships !  They  have  argued  that  the  good  of  their  cause  de-
manded it — a  wicked  argument  which  can  weigh  with  nobody
outside  Germany.  They  have  argued  further  that  Captain
Fryatt  was  a  franc-tireur.

"One  of  the  many  nefarious  franc-tireur  proceedings  of
the  British  Merchant  Marine  against  our  war  vessels,"  states
the  German  official  telegram,  "has  thus  found  a  belated  but
merited  expiation."

During  the  Franco-German  War  of  1870,  various
French  irregular  forces  carried  on  an  intermittent  warfare

MPKe^^ustrian  Defense  of  Gorizia

The- river  and  the  cliffs  which
"^y  formed  tneXehief  barrier  to  the
Italian  ad

Painting  by  th<
Prof.  Hans

EXECUTION  OF  CAPTAIN  FRYATT  291

against  the  German  army.  Throughout  the  war  the  Ger-
mans shot  every  such  irregular  soldier  that  fell  into  their
hands.  This  brutal  conduct  aroused  the  indignation  of
many  peoples  in  many  lands,  and  now,  by  an  article  of  the
Hague  regulations  for  the  conduct  of  warfare  on  land,  such
irregulars  are  entitled  to  be  treated  on  the  same  footing  as
regular  forces  when  they  are  under  a  responsible  commander,
wear  a  distinctive  badge,  carry  arms  openly,  and  conform
with  the  laws  of  war.  Further,  even  the  requirements  of  a
responsible  commander  and  a  distinctive  badge  are  dispensed
with,  where  the  population  rises  spontaneously  to  resist  an
invader,  and  in  this  case  unauthorized  bodies  of  men,  armed
and  obeying  the  laws  of  war,  are  entitled,  if  captured,  to
be  treated  as  prisoners  of  war.

Here  then  is  an  exception  to  the  general  rule  that  a
fighter  must  be  a  member  of  the  authorized  armed  forces  in
order  to  make  good  his  claim  to  be  treated  as  a  prisoner.
A  similar  exception  has  existed  from  time  immemorial  at
sea.  And  indeed  the  difficulty  felt  by  the  Hague  Conference
in  granting  to  irregulars  on  land  the  right  to  be  treated
as  prisoners  does  not  exist  in  the  case  of  a  merchant  sea-
man. He  and  his  ship  are  on  the  open  sea,  and  in  full  view ;
he  cannot  change  his  clothes,  and  lose  his  identity  amid  a
crowd  of  civilians;  he  cannot  take  his  enemy  unawares.
From  the  moment  when  he  is  attacked,  he  is  permitted  to
defend  himself,  and  his  attacker  is  at  no  disadvantage.

Every  German  submarine  in  the  war  area  may  be  as-
sumed by  a  British  merchant  captain  to  be  engaged  in  carry-
ing out  the  orders  of  the  German  "Higher  Command."  The
presence  of  such  a  submarine  in  the  neighborhood  of  a  Brit-
ish merchant  ship  is  an  offer  to  strike  coupled  with  the
capacity  to  fulfill  the  threat.  It  is,  in  other  words,  an  offen-
sive act,  for  visit  is,  as  Dr.  Wehberg  says,  the  first  act  of
capture.  Under  these  circumstances  the  captain  of  a  mer-
chant ship  may  defend  his  ship,  and  is  not  a  franc-tireur
if  he  does  so ;  when  captured,  he  must  be  treated  as  a  pris-
oner of  war.  Captain  Fryatt  defended  his  ship;  he  was  not
captured ;  at  a  later  date  he  fell  into  the  enemy's  hands,  and
has  been  shot  because  he  dared  to  exercise  his  undoubted

292      EXECUTION  OF  CAPTAIN  FRYATT

legal  right.  We  say  "undoubted,"  because  no  doubt  arose
until  the  apostles  of  German  militarism  and  of  the  "freedom
of  the  seas"  were  perfecting  their  final  plans.

But  what  need  is  there  to  pay  the  German  Government
the  compliment  of  supposing  that  it  has  acted  under  any  mis-
taken view  of  law?  Consistently  with  itself,  it  has  but
complied  with  its  own  military  needs.  It  has  now  become
a  habit  in  Germany  to  reckon  as  a  franc-tireur  any  class  of
persons  who  are  particularly  obnoxious  to  the  advancement
of  German  militarism.  For  instance,  the  Rheinisch  West-
falische  Zeitung  of  August  I,  191 6,  published  an  article
calling  upon  the  German  Government  to  treat  American
volunteers  fighting  with  Allied  troops  against  Germany  as
franc s-tir curs  and,  when  captured,  to  shoot  or,  preferably,  to
hang  them.

On  the  30th  of  July  the  Telegraaf  learned  that  Captain
Fryatt  had  been  shot  towards  the  evening  of  the  Thursday
before,  on  an  enclosed  part  of  the  harbor  grounds  at  Bruges,
and  that  an  Alderman  of  the  town  had  attended  as  witness.
The  news  of  his  death  was  officially  confirmed  by  a  tele-
gram from  the  American  Ambassador.  No  further  details
are  known;  nor  probably  will  they  ever  be  known.  The
German  Government  had  learnt  enough  wisdom  from  its  ex-
ecution of  Edith  Cavell  to  know  that  such  things  are  better
done  in  secret,  though  they  had  not  learned  sufficient  hu-
manity, nor  won  enough  sense  of  justice  nor  common  sense,
to  feel  that  such  things  cannot  be  done  at  all,  without  outrage
to  the  feelings  of  the  civilized  world.

The  Germans  well  knew  that  this  latest  judicial  murder
would  arouse  the  indignation  of  the  whole  world;  but  they
were  resolved,  if  possible,  to  discourage  imitation  of  Cap-
tain Fryatt's  gallantry  at  all  costs.  "Doubtless  there  will  be
among  England's  sympathizers  all  the  world  over  a  storm
of  indignation  against  German  barbarism  similar  to  that
roused  by  the  case  of  Miss  Cavell.  That  must  not  disturb
us,"  wrote  the  German  Kolnische  V  olkszeitung  of  July  29,

The  Volkszcitung  was  not  disappointed.  A  shudder  of
loathing  and  detestation,  of  horror  and  incredulity  ran

EXECUTION  OF  CAPTAIN  FRYATT  293

through  every  neutral  country,  the  British  Empire,  and  the
countries  of  our  Allies.  The  universal  verdict  was  that
the  barbarities  of  the  world's  past,  even  of  the  German  past,
were  outdone.  The  voice  of  the  New  York  Herald  was
raised  in  protest  against  a  "Crowning  German  Atrocity."
The  New  York  Times  saw  in  the  shooting  of  Captain
Fryatt  "a  deliberate  murder — a  trifle  to  the  Government  that
has  so  many  thousands  to  answer  for."

In  Holland,  the  Nieuwe  Rotter damsche  Courant  of  July
29th  condemned  the  outrage,  and  said :  "At  the  time  that
the  Captain  of  the  Brussels  made  his  unsuccessful  attempt,
the  submarine  war  was  being  carried  on  in  the  most  brutal
manner  in  contempt  of  all  rules  of  humanity.  The  mere
sighting  of  a  German  submarine  meant  death  for  hundreds
who  are  now  called  'francs-tireurs'  in  the  German  commu-
nique. To  claim  for  oneself  the  right  to  kill  hundreds  of
civilians  out  of  hand,  but  to  brand  as  a  franc-tireur  the  ci-
vilian who  does  not  willingly  submit  to  execution,  amounts,
in  our  opinion,  to  measuring  justice  with  a  different  scale,
according  to  whether  it  is  to  be  applied  to  oneself  or  to  an-
other. This  is,  in  our  view,  arbitrariness  and  injustice.  And
that  touches  us  even  in  the  midst  of  all  the  horrors  of  the
war.  It  shocks  the  neutrals,  and  arouses  fresh  bitterness
and  hatred  in  the  enemy."

A  Swiss  paper,  the  Journal  de  Geneve,  denounces  the
German  crime  and  says :  "It  is  monstrous  to  maintain  that
armed  forces  have  a  right  to  murder  civilians  but  that  ci-
vilians are  guilty  of  a  crime  in  defending  themselves/'

THE  STORMING  OF  GORIZIA

ITALY'S  CHIEF  AGGRESSIVE  CAMPAIGN

AUGUST  9TH

GENERAL  CADORNA  EDWIN  GREWE

WALTER  OERTEL

The  Italian  forces  having,  as  depicted  in  the  previous  pages,  re-
pulsed the  huge  Austrian  assault  from  the  Alps,  were  now  ready  to
resume  their  own  aggressive  campaign.  General  Cadorna  had  been
long  preparing  a  main  attack  to  sweep  across  the  northeastern  fron-
tiers of  Italy  and  drive  the  Austrians  from  their  strong  positions  among
the  mountains  bordering  on  the  Isonzo  River.  Here  for  over  a  year
the  Italian  armies  had  been  held  in  check  by  lesser  Austrian  forces
secure  in  their  almost  impregnable  defenses.

Cadorna's  great  attack  was  launched  on  August  6th,  and  was  car-
ried forward  by  the  eager  Italian  soldiers  with  such  dash  and  en-
ergy that  in  three  days  they  swept  aside  the  Austrian  defenses  and
captured  Gorizia,  the  chief  city  of  the  Isonzo  valley.  The  success  was
brilliant  and  spectacular.

Unfortunately,  however,  Gorizia  was  but  a  single  forward  step.
Beyond  it  towered  one  mountain  range  after  another.  Trieste,  the
great  Austro-Italian  city  which  was  Cadorna's  ultimate  goal  was  only
some  score  of  miles  beyond  his  outposts.  But  almost  every  foot  of
the  way  would  require  a  costly  battle  against  great  natural  disad-
vantages. So  the  Italians  fought  on  all  summer  without  ever  get-
ting much  beyond  Gorizia.  They  compelled  the  Austrians  to  transfer
many  troops  from  the  Russian  front  to  hold  back  the  Italian  advance;
but  that  was  all.

Thus  the  Isonzo  battle,  like  the  even  greater  struggles  of  Verdun
and  the  Somme,  was  indecisive,  a  vast  hecatomb  of  human  victims,
another  long  stride  toward  the  utter  exhaustion  of  humanity.

BY  GENERAL  CADORNA
Official  Report  of  December  26,  1916

IN  the  spring  we  sustained  in  the  Trentino  the  powerful,
long-prepared  Austrian  offensive,  which  the  enemy  with
insolent  effrontery  styled  a  punitive  expedition  against  our
country.  But  after  the  first  successes,  which  were  due  to
the  preponderance  of  material  means  collected,  above  all  in
artillery,  the  proposed  invasion  was  quickly  stopped  and

THE  STORMING  OF  GORIZIA  295

the  enemy  was  counter-attacked  and  forced  to  retire  in  haste
into  the  mountains,  leaving  on  the  Alpine  slopes  the  flower
of  his  army  and  paying  bitterly  the  price  for  his  fallacious
enterprise  not  only  here  but  also  on  the  plains  of  Galicia.

Our  army  did  not  rest  after  its  wonderful  effort.  While
maintaining  a  vigorous  pressure  on  the  Trentino  front,  in
order  to  gain  better  positions  and  to  deceive  the  enemy  as
to  our  intentions,  a  rapid  retransfer  of  strong  forces  to  the
Julian  front  was  made.  In  the  first  days  of  August  began
that  irresistible  offensive  which,  in  two  days  only,  caused
the  fall  of  the  very  strong  fortress  of  Gorizia  and  of  the
formidable  system  of  defenses  on  the  Carso  to  the  west  of
the  Vallone.  Doberdo,  San  Michele,  Sabotino — names  re-
calling sanguinary  struggles  and  slaughter — ceased  to  be
for  the  Austro-Hungarian  Army  the  symbols  of  a  resistance
vaunted  insuperable,  and  became  the  emblems  of  brilliant
Italian  victories.  The  enemy's  boastful  assertions  of  hav-
ing inexorably  arrested  our  invasion  on  the  front  selected
and  desired  by  himself  were  refuted  at  one  stroke.

From  that  day  our  advance  on  the  Carso  was  developed
constantly  and  irresistibly.  It  was  interrupted  by  pauses
indispensable  for  the  preparation  of  the  mechanical  means
of  destruction  without  which  the  bravest  attacks  would  lead
only  to  the  vain  sacrifice  of  precious  human  lives.

Our  constant  and  full  success  on  the  Julian  front  is  wit-
nessed by  42,000  prisoners,  60  guns,  200  machine  guns,  and
the  rich  booty  taken  between  the  beginning  of  August  and
December.

Also  on  the  rest  of  the  front  our  indefatigable  troops
roused  the  admiration  of  all  who  saw  them  for  their  ex-
traordinary efforts  to  overcome  not  only  the  forces  of  the
enemy  but  also  the  difficulties  of  nature.  Our  soldiers  are
supported  by  the  unanimous  approval  of  the  nation,  by  faith
in  themselves  and  in  the  justice  of  their  cause.  They  face
willingly  their  hard  and  perilous  life,  under  the  guidance
of  their  beloved  sovereign,  who  from  the  first  day  of  the
war  with  a  rare  constancy  has  shared  their  fortunes.  Our
army  is  waiting  in  perfect  readiness  to  renew  the  effort

296  THE  STORMING  OF  GORIZIA

which  will  carry  it  to  the  fulfillment  of  the  unfailing  des-
tiny of  our  people.

BY  EDWIN  GREWE

The  expectations  of  distant  onlookers  may  have  been
disappointed  when,  during  the  latter  half  of  June  and  in  the
pnonth  of  July,  the  Italians,  though  apparently  pressing
on  a  rebuffed  Austrian  army,  had  little  to  show  in  the  way
of  captures  of  men  or  guns,  and  showed  no  great  per-
sistence in  pushing  for  positions  in  Trentino.  What  was  in
fact  happening  was  that  General  Cadorna,  though  making  a
great  display  of  activity  there,  was  quietly  withdrawing  men
and  guns  to  supplement  the  effort  which  he  had  from  the
first  projected  on  the  Isonzo.  By  the  first  week  in  August,
1916,  he  was  ready  to  strike  here.

The  capture  of  the  bridgehead  of  Gorizia  was  an  essen-
tial preliminary  to  any  attack  on  Austrian  territory,  or  on
the  Austrian  forces,  which  could  be  undertaken  at  anything
like  a  cost  commensurate  with  the  advantages  to  be  obtained.
It  was  deeply  wedged  in  behind  mountain  positions  which
had  been  strengthened  by  every  device  of  rock  trenching
and  tunneling,  and  by  every  caliber  of  fortress  gun  which
the  Austrians  had  at  their  command.  The  buttresses  of  its
defense  were  Mt.  Sabotino  on  the  hither  side  of  the  Isonzo
River,  with  ridges  running  south  from  Mt.  Sabotino  to
Oslavia  and  the  Podgora  plateau;  on  the  farther  side  of
the  river  was  the  rock  position  of  San  Marco,  and  farther
south  the  great  bastion  of  the  Carso,  jutting  out  into  Mt.
San  Michele  and  cleft  by  the  long  ravine  of  the  Vallone.

The  Austrian  front  was  defended  ty  the  Fifth  Austrian
Army  under  General  Boroviec,  whose  command  extended
from  the  sea  up  to  Tolmino,  25  miles  north  of  Gorizia,  where
he  was  joined  by  the  Tenth  Austrian  Army  under  General
Rohr.  It  was  on  General  Boroviec's  front  that  Cadorna's
attack,  supported  by  100,000  men  in  line,  was  launched.  The
first  assault  made  by  the  Italians  was  not  the  principal  one,
but  was  a  feint  attack  delivered  ten  miles  south  of  Gorizia
on  those  Austrian  positions  at  Monfalcone  which  lie  in  front
of  one  of  the  southern  buttresses  of  Carso.    The  inference

THE  STORMING  OF  GORIZIA  297

which  Cadorna  wished  the  enemy  to  draw  was  that  here  he
proposed  to  undertake  a  movement  to  turn  the  great  moun-
tain-block which  lies  on  this  side  of  the  Carso  and  is  sepa-
rated from  it  by  the  Vallone.  Plenty  of  fire  was  put  into
this  subsidiary  assault,  and  about  150  Austrian  prisoners
were  taken.  The  attack  fulfilled  its  object  of  drawing  Aus-
trian forces  to  the  threatened  point  and  of  provoking  a  strong
counter-attack.  August  5th  was  an  artillery  day  only.  On
August  6th  the  Italian  batteries  began  in  earnest,  and  this
time  neglected  the  Monfalcone  sector  for  the  points  selected
for  the  real  attack — the  Sabotino  block  and  the  San  Michele
height  which  forms  the  northern  boundary  of  the  Gorizian
Carso.

The  work  of  the  batteries  and  trench  howitzers  was  a
classic  example  of  the  concentration  of  fire  against  fortified
lines.  It  had  long  been  carefully  prepared;  the  ground  care-
fully examined  by  patrols,  photographed  by  aviators,  and
the  ranges  marked  to  the  yard.  The  tempest  of  fire  wrecked
the  Austrian  first  lines,  demolishing  the  shelters,  destroy-
ing the  observation  posts,  cutting  the  communications.  Then
the  infantry  advanced  on  the  model  taught  by  the  experience
of  the  Western  fronts,  one  artillery  curtain  going  in  front
of  the  infantry  advancing  in  column,  and  spreading  fanwise;
another  curtain  barring  the  way  against  enemy  reinforce-
ments. The  infantry  went  forward  with  Italian  fire.  They
flowed  over  every  obstacle  on  the  rampart  between  Sabotino
and  the  Gorizia  bridgehead.  On  the  heights  which  protected
the  town  from  the  west  a  column  under  Colonel  Badoglio
took  by  assault  the  defenses  of  Oslavia,  and  the  whole  po-
sition of  the  Sabotino  followed.  In  the  open  country  below
Oslavia  the  infantry  broke  through  the  entanglements  and
the  trench  network  constructed  by  the  enemy  between  the
southern  spurs  of  Podgora  and  the  Isonzo,  and  got  well
down  to  the  bank  of  the  river.  On  the  Gorizian  Carso  the
strong  lines  of  Mt.  San  Michele  which  had  broken  so  many
Italian  assaults  in  the  past  were  in  their  turn  broken,  and
a  long  line  of  trenches  was  carried  thence  southwards  to
San  Martino.  Finally,  towards  Monfalcone  the  attack  begun
two  days  before  was  renewed  by  a  battalion  of  Bersaglieri

298  THE  STORMING  OF  GORIZIA

cyclists,  who,  after  a  desperate  fight,  took  one  of  the  key
positions  and  held  it.

With  Sabotino  and  San  Michele  in  their  hands  the
Italians  had  now  to  turn  the  keys  in  the  lock,  and  to  sweep
the  ridge  which  lay  between  them  immediately  west  of  the
town.  Three  days  of  bloody  clearance  followed  among  the
deep-sunk  trenches,  the  fortified  and  armored  parts,  the
mutually  supporting  lesser  heights  which  formed  the  last
defenses  of  Gorizia.  But  with  the  help  of  the  artillery,  and
the  confidence  born  of  success,  the  work  was  done.  On
August  8th  all  the  heights  on  the  west  bank  of  the  Isonzo
were  Italian,  and  on  the  ioth  the  Duke  of  Aosta  entered
Gorizia  at  the  head  of  the  3rd  Army,  which  he  commanded.
The  fighting  had  been  too  close  and  continuous  for  the  cap-
ture of  many  Austrian  guns,  but  10,000  prisoners  testified
to  the  completeness  of  the  victory.

The  taking  of  Gorizia  was  one  of  the  great  feats  of  the
war;  it  was  one  of  the  greatest  in  Italian  military  history.  To
Italy  it  was  the  turning  of  the  tide,  the  assurance  that,  after
what  at  one  time  seemed  like  the  threat  of  disaster  in  the
Trentino,  their  feet  were  now  set  on  the  steps  to  victory
and  on  the  pathway  to  Trieste.  General  Cadorna  deserved
the  congratulations  showered  on  him.  From  the  beginning
of  the  war  he  had  played  a  waiting  game,  often  hampered
by  the  malign  influences  which  in  every  country  are  due
to  underground  German  intrigue,  but  watching  always  for
every  opportunity,  missing  none  that  was  offered,  and  hus-
banding the  precious  lives  of  his  men  for  the  moment  that
was  bound  to  come.

He  lost  no  time  in  following  up  his  success.  During  the
days  between  August  6th  and  ioth  the  Austrians  had  made
frantic  efforts  to  recover  Monte  San  Michele.  They  did  not
succeed,  and  they  also  lost  Baschini.  Cadorna,  as  soon  as
his  engineers  had  repaired  the  bridges,  sent  his  cavalry  into
the  wedge  of  the  plain,  and  forced  the  Austrians  back  to
their  positions  on  the  hills  east  of  the  Isonzo.  Here,  how-
ever, they  had  strong  positions  long  prepared,  stretching
from  Monte  Gabriele,  which  is  vis-a-vis  to  Monte  Sabotino,
across  the  river,  down  to  the  bulk  of  San  Marco,  which  is

THE  STORMING  OF  GOR1ZIA  299

east  and  south  of  Gorizia.  This  position  was  protected  by
flanking  batteries  on  the  Bainsizza  plateau,  and  the  plateau
itself  was  very  strongly  fortified,  as  the  Italians  had  found
when  they  had  tried  months  before  to  push  their  advantage
from  Plava.  Simultaneously  with  the  movement  in  the  plain
the  Italians  began  to  work  their  way  across  the  Carso.  It
was  a  task  for  supermen.  The  surface  is  undulating,  and
honeycombed  with  holes  and  caves  of  which  the  Austrians
had  made  the  fullest  use  for  purposes  of  defense,  linking
them  up  with  concrete  and  steel-lined  trenches,  and  con-
verting the  natural  features  into  modern  fortifications.  They
thought  it  impregnable;  it  might  have  been,  had  the  Italian
attack  been  less  scientifically  furious  or  the  surprise  less  ef-
fective. On  August  10th  Rubbini  followed  Boschini,  and  the
whole  of  the  Gorizian  plateau  at  its  northern  end  was  se-
cured as  far  as  the  deep  gash  of  the  Vallone.  On  the  nth
the  Italians  crossed  the  Vallone  and  occupied  the  village  of
Oppacchiasella.  Next  day,  irresistibly  pressing  on,  they
carried  further  heights,  and  stormed  the  position  of  Nad
Logem,  where  they  took  1,600  prisoners.  On  the  subsequent
days,  down  to  the  15th,  they  prosecuted  their  success  with  the
same  vigor,  carrying  their  lines  past  Debeli  and  Nad  Logem
up  to  Monte  Pecinka.  Then  they  settled  down  to  reor-
ganize their  lines  and  positions  for  the  next  push.  In  the
course  of  their  operations  from  August  4th  to  15th  they  took
18,758  prisoners,  of  whom  393  were  officers,  30  big  guns,
63  bomb  throwers,  92  machine  guns,  12,225  rifles,  5,000,000
cartridges,  3,000  shells,  60,000  bombs,  and  other  war  ma-
terial.

During  the  next  two  months  the  Italians  steadily  con-
solidated their  gains.  Much  that  had  fallen  to  them  had
been  the  fruits  of  surprise  and  of  swiftly-seized  opportunity.
The  Austrians  still  had  numerous  valuable  and  patiently
fortified  positions  and  had  every  incentive  to  prevent  the
Italians  from  debouching  from  these  that  had  fallen  to  them.
Between  mid-August  and  mid-September,  nevertheless,  the
Italians  took  the  San  Grado  position  northeast  of  Nad
Logem,  so  securing  the  northern  angle  of  the  Carso  com-
pletely, and  removing  the  damaging  effect  of  the  Austrian

3oo  THE  STORMING  OF  GORIZIA

fire  based  on  that  point.  Progress  was  necessarily  slow  on
the  Carso,  the  difficulties  of  supply  were  very  great,  and
on  that  parched,  desert-like  plateau  water  was  lacking.  But
the  capture  of  the  San  Grado  position  enabled  the  Italians
to  steal  down  in  the  plain  along  the  Vipacco  River,  and  so  to
turn  some  of  the  Austrian  lines  so  obstinately  held  on  the
higher  ground.  On  October  ioth  a  surprise  attack  was  suc-
cessfully driven  into  the  Austrian  positions  north  and  south
of  the  Vipacco  River,  and  conformably  with  this  success  the
Italian  line  on  the  Carso  pushed  forward  by  about  a  mile.
In  the  two  days'  fighting,  7,000  Austrian  prisoners  were
taken.

This  was  the  prelude  to  a  still  more  important  advance
on  the  northern  Carso  at  the  beginning  of  November.  It  was
made  along  the  northernmost  ridge,  which  commands  the
Vipacco  valley,  as  well  as  on  the  mid-Carso,  and  on  the
Carso's  chief  road,  which  cuts  across  it  from  Doberdo  to
Comen.  From  the  Vallone  ravine  (November  2nd)  the  as-
sault began  by  scaling  the  rocky  ascent  which  rises  in  suc-
cessive terraces  towards  the  east,  and  from  there  was  pressed
over  a  3 ^2 -mile  front  till  it  had  won  a  depth  of  over  2
miles  from  the  Vallone.  It  captured  the  two  Austrian  de-
fensive lines  of  Nad  Logem-Oppacchiasella,  and  the  line
running  through  the  village  of  Lokvica,  with  the  roads  radi-
ating from  Castagnevizza.  Two  days  of  incessant  fighting
did  not  exhaust  the  momentum  of  the  advance.  The  nth
Italian  Army  Corps  succeeded  on  November  3rd  in  driving  a
wedge  through  the  two  Austrian  lines  until  Monte  Faiti
was  reached  and  occupied.  On  November  3rd,  pivoting  on
that  height,  the  Army  Corps  moved  in  echelon  southwards
and  eastwards  till  the  whole  enemy  salient  was  cleared,  and
the  new  Italian  line  ran  from  Monte  Faiti  t©  Castagnevizza.
Farther  north  all  the  minor  heights,  where  the  northern  brow
of  the  Carso  slopes  down  to  the  Vipacco  River,  were  carried
by  assault.  The  whole  advance  covered  a  tract  of  ground
more  than  2  miles  deep,  and  the  total  number  of  prisoners
taken  in  three  days  amounted  to  9,000  men.  It  was  an-
other step  on  the  way  to  Trieste;  but  the  last  step  to  be  ac-
complished before  the  winter  storms.

THE  STORMING  OF  GORIZIA  301

BY  WALTER  OERTEL

Gorizia  has  fallen.  After  a  long  and  stubborn  resistance
the  city  of  violets  has  surrendered  to  the  Italians.  Once  a
beautiful  and  flourishing  city,  it  is  now  but  a  heap  of  ruins,  a
sacrifice  to  the  great  general  offensive  instituted  by  the  En-
tente on  all  three  fronts.

In  preparation  for  the  Italian  offensive  Cadorna  had  sent
large  bodies  of  troops  to  the  Isonzo  front.  Out  of  these,
strengthened  by  reserves  and  new  formations,  he  built  up
'a  new  army,  which  he  collected  at  Livorno  and  placed  under
the  command  of  the  Duke  of  Aosta.  The  appointed  task
of  the  new  army  was  to  capture  the  positions  on  the  plateau
of  Doberdo,  which  had  been  long  and  hotly  contested,  and  to
break  through  to  Gorizia.  In  the  latter  half  of  July  the
greatly  increased  activity  of  the  Italian  artillery  was  notice-
able on  the  left  wing  of  the  Austro-Hungarian  Isonzo  front.
Many  new  batteries,  among  which  were  numerous  guns  of
heavy  caliber,  including,  indeed,  some  of  the  heaviest,  joined
in  the  bombardment.  At  the  same  time  the  infantry  showed
increased  initiative  and  made  some  local  attacks,  which  were
in  each  case  sharply  repulsed.

The  5th  of  August  drew  near,  the  day  on  which  the  great
offensive  was  to  open.  At  five  o'clock  in  the  afternoon  of
that  day  the  Italian  artillery  began  to  pour  a  hail  of  shot
into  the  Austro-Hungarian  lines  from  Monte  Sabotino  down
to  Monte  San  Michele.  The  bursting  of  the  heavy  shells  one
after  another  soon  enveloped  the  defenders'  positions  in  a
thick  pall  of  smoke,  which  was  lighted  up  only  by  the  flames
from  new  explosions.  Nor  was  the  Italian  infantry  idle.
Mine  throwers  worked  by  compressed  air,  of  which  a  great
quantity  had  been  collected  before  the  beginning  of  the
offensive  and  set  up  in  the  Italian  trenches,  discharged  heavy
aerial  mines  unceasingly ;  winged  torpedoes  sang  overhead ;
while  underground  the  Italian  sappers  burrowed  feverishly
in  the  effort  to  push  out  their  long  galleries  far  enough  to
blow  up  the  Austro-Hungarian  trenches  from  below.  Under
the  terrible  hail  of  iron,  trench  walls  collapsed  and  dugouts
were  blown  to  pieces,  but  the  men — Hungarians,  Dalmatians,

302  THE  STORMING  OF  GORIZIA

and  Bosnians — held  out  stubbornly,  resolved  to  die  glori-
ously rather  than  to  give  up  the  positions  entrusted  to  them.
Whenever  the  Italians  attempted  to  carry  forward  their  long
bombs  made  of  gas  pipe,  from  five  to  eight  meters  in  length,
filled  with  ekrasite — similar  to  those  which  the  Japanese
made  use  of  in  their  Manchurian  campaign — a  well-aimed
Austrian  shot  whistled  over  the  spot,  and  whenever  an  Italian
cap  showed  over  the  breastworks,  it  quickly  dropped  back
again,  pierced  by  a  bullet.  Bold  volunteers  even  came  to
grips  with  the  Italians,  and  literally  tore  from  their  hands
the  destructive  instruments  with  which  they  intended  to  blow
up  the  remaining  defenses  and  make  a  breach  for  the  attack.

Protected  by  the  furious  drum  fire,  the  Italians  went
forward  to  the  assault.  Having  in  previous  battles  received
disheartening  proof  of  the  strength  of  our  positions  west  of
the  Isonzo,  and  especially  of  the  Podgora  position,  the  army
commander  decided  this  time  to  direct  the  main  weight  of
the  attack  against  the  two  wings,  so  as  to  be  able  to  approach
the  Podgora  from  the  rear.  The  first  attack  on  Monte
Sabotino  was  a  bloody  repulse.  Elsewhere  the  Italians
stormed  forward  in  furious  rushes.  They  fought  des-
perately, for  they  knew  that  machine  guns  had  been  set  up
behind  them  with  orders  to  fire  on  any  company  that  gave
ground.  According  to  the  accounts  of  prisoners,  these  or-
ders had  been  communicated  even  to  the  picked  storm  troops.1

The  defenders  bore  themselves  magnificently.  In  front
of  their  wrecked  trenches  the  bodies  of  the  enemy  were  piled
high,  but  new  Italian  battalions  were  continually  thrown  into
the  battle,  and  the  final  result  was  what  must  be  expected
when  the  odds  are  ten  to  one.

The  next  phase  of  the  attack  was  against  the  communi-
cation trenches.  These  molehills  turned  into  volcanoes  belch-
ing fire.  Machine  guns  in  shell  holes  spit  death  and  destruc-
tion;  rifles  cracked  incessantly;  hand  grenades  were  rained
upon  the  Italians.  But  however  many  fell  dead  or  dying,
new  waves  came  on  over  their  bodies,  until  at  last  the  trenches
were  entered.    Bitter  hand-to-hand  fighting  then  developed.

1  No  evidence  supports  either  this  charge  or  the  imaginative  num-
bers in  the  next  paragraph,

THE  STORMING  OF  GORIZIA  303

The  Podgora  was  opened  to  attack  from  the  south.  Let
us  see  how  the  battle  had  been  going  at  Podgora  itself.  A
frontal  assault  by  the  Italians  had  been  completely  repulsed
and  a  number  of  prisoners  taken.  The  Podgora  stood  like
a  rock  against  which  the  surf  dashes  in  vain.  Then  from
north  and  south  the  Italian  flood  surged  around  it.  Flanking
defenses  were  hastily  built  and  the  Podgora  was  held,  al-
though the  first  Italian  divisions  were  already  wading  the
shallows  of  the  Isonzo  in  order  to  advance  against  Gorizia
from  the  west.  Something  had  to  be  done,  and  a  decision
was  quickly  reached.  After  the  Podgora  had  been  isolated
by  the  fall  of  Monte  Sabotino  and  the  break  through  at  Lu-
cinico,  it  could  not  possibly  be  retained;  evacuation  of  the
position  was  inevitable.  The  garrison  in  good  order  aban-
doned the  heights  which  they  had  defended  so  long  and
gloriously,  taking  with  them  their  wounded  and  also  numer-
ous prisoners.  In  the  meanwhile  a  counter-attack  by  fresh
reserves  from  the  city  had  driven  back  across  the  river  the
Italian  patrols  who  were  attempting  to  enter  the  southern
railway  station.  As  the  last  man  of  the  Podgora  garrison
reached  the  Gorizia  side  of  the  Isonzo,  all  bridges  were
blown  up.

It  was  Sunday  afternoon.  But  no  church  bells  were
ringing  in  Gorizia,  which  was  now  under  heavy  fire  from
the  Italian  artillery.  Instead,  the  deserted  streets  resounded
to  the  crash  of  bursting  shells,  the  sharp  rattle  of  shrapnel,
the  roar  of  falling  walls.  Reserves  were  being  hurried  to
the  front ;  wounded  were  being  brought  back.  Through  all
the  bombardment  the  evacuation  of  the  city  went  on  calmly.
Only  six  guns,  on  fixed  emplacements,  had  to  be  destroyed
and  left  behind.  All  other  material  was  saved,  and  even
the  hospitals  were  evacuated.

The  battle  raged  on  the  western  edge  of  the  town.  After
the  west  bank  of  the  Isonzo  was  given  up  to  them,  the  Ital-
ians, favored  by  the  low  water,  threw  across  heavy  infantry
forces  to  make  an  assault  upon  the  city.  But  the  Austro-
Hungarians  still  held  out,  fighting  stubbornly  on  the  west-
ern outskirts  and  then  in  the  city  streets  until  the  evacuation
of  the  city  was  complete.

304  THE  STORMING  OF  GORIZIA

The  city  of  violets  belonged  to  the  Italians.

After  a  short  breathing  space  the  Italian  commander
struck  out  vigorously  from  Gorizia  against  the  Austro-Hun-
garian  key  position,  but  was  repulsed  with  heavy  losses.

The  loss  of  Gorizia  entailed,  of  course,  a  readjustment  of
the  Austro-Hungarian  front.  To  straighten  the  line  and
link  it  up  with  the  new  positions  east  of  Gorizia,  the  plateau
of  Doberdo  west  of  the  valley  of  Vallone  was  subsequently
evacuated.  In  this  last  great  battle  of  the  Isonzo,  Cadorna
has  to  his  credit  the  occupation  of  Gorizia  and  the  gain  of
territory  on  the  plateau  of  Doberdo;  but  he  is  still  far  from
achieving  the  strategic  object  of  his  great  offensive,  namely,
the  opening  of  the  road  to  Trieste.  A  chain  of  steel,  tough
yet  elastic,  which  he  has  not  yet  succeeded  in  breaking  at  any
point,  is  stretched  across  his  path.

THE  BLACK  BETRAYAL

RUSSIA'S  COURT  INTRIGUERS  BETRAY  BOTH  RUSSIA

AND  RUMANIA

AUGUST-SEPTEMBER

T.  Y.  SIMPSON  PAUL  MILYUKOF

L.  J.  MAXSE  RAYMOND  RECOULY

When  the  Russian  Revolution  broke  out  in  1917,  its  chief  cause
was  the  widespread  belief  among  the  Russians  that  their  governmental
officials  were  betraying  them  to  Germany.  Evidences  of  this  were
found  on  every  hand ;  and  the  new  leaders  promised  that  as  soon  as
they  were  in  power  the  secret  documents  of  state  should  be  ran-
sacked and  every  traitor  exposed.  This  promise,  however,  brought
very  little  result.  Either  treason  was  less  rampant  than  the  revolu-
tionists believed,  or  the  evidence  of  it  had  been  destroyed.  Only  one
important  public  trial  was  held,  that  of  the  former  Minister  of  War,
Sukhumiloff ;  and  while  proofs  of  his  mismanagement  were  many,  the
evidence  of  treachery  was  vague  and  indecisive.  Of  other  leaders
not  brought  to  public  trial,  the  suspicion  of  actual  treason  was
strongest  against  three,  Prime  Minister  Sturmer,  General  Rennen-
kampf,  and  the  Czarina.  The  latter  has  repeatedly  been  accused  of
conveying  all  possible  information  to  the  Germans,  and  specifically
of  betraying  to  them  the  secret  code  of  the  Russian  army,  so  that
Germany  knew  of  every  move  the  Russians  planned.  But  no  legally
convincing  evidence  of  this  hideous  charge  has  ever  been  produced.
The  charges  against  Rennenkampf  have  been  already  told  in  our
account  of  the  Tannenburg  disaster  of  1914.

There  remains  as  the  dastardly  betrayer  of  his  fellowmen  against
whom  the  charges  are  most  clear,  Boris  Sturmer.  He  was  afterward
executed  by  the  Bolsheviki,  who  did  not  bother  much  about  the  legal
proofs  of  his  guilt;  but  all  the  charges  made  against  him  in  the  fol-
lowing articles  seem  fully  established.  He  betrayed  Russia,  and  he
betrayed  Rumania.  Milyukof,  leader  of  the  conservative  wing  of  the
revolutionists,  gave  in  the  following  address  the  first  clear  voice  to
the  suspicions  against  Sturmer.  Maxse,  a  noted  British  editor,  sums
up  the  tale  as  it  later  became  clear  to  all  the  world.  General  Brusiloff's
victorious  advance  against  the  Austrians  was  blocked ;  and  Rumania
was  entrapped  and  handed  over  to  the  Germans  helpless,  for  their
devouring.  The  nearest  the  world  is  ever  likely  to  get  to  an  official
statement  of  Russia's  treatment  of  Rumania  is  the  account  here  given
"from  unpublished  French  and  Russian  documents,"  by  Recouly,  the
renowned  editor  of  the  Paris  Figaro.  c.  F.  H.

BY  J.  Y.  SIMPSON

THE  patriotic  work  of  the  "Zemstvos"  or  local  councils
of  Russia  during  the  War  had  been  enormous.  This
united  work  had  been  most  developed  in  the  case  of  the  con-

W.,  VOL.  IV.—

306  THE  BLACK  BETRAYAL

joint  Department  for  Army  Supply,  which  was  composed  of
five  members  from  each  of  the  Unions  with  the  Mayor  of
Moscow  (M.  Tchelnakoff )  and  Prince  Lvoff  at  the  head.
Amongst  these  is  distributed  the  supervision  of  its  five  main
departments,  one  for  distributing  orders  to  the  factories;
another  for  materials — concerned  with  coal,  iron,  leather,
wood;  a  chemical  department  dealing  with  sulphuric  acid,
nitric  acid,  gases,  masks,  etc. ;  a  Transport  Department,  and
a  Commercial  Department.  This  Council,  which  met  three
times  a  week,  had  also  a  member  in  America,  and  another  in
Petrograd.  Its  greatest  advance  was  in  the  increase  of  fac-
tories, particularly  for  making  explosives  and  shells,  but  also
other  necessities  such  as  saddles,  carts,  horseshoes,  articles
of  wood  and  army  clothing.  Hitherto  the  Orders  Depart-
ment had  been  buying  in  bulk,  but  difficulty  arose  as  the  rail-
ways were  no  longer  allowed  to  handle  in  bulk.  Again,
it  fixes  the  prices  for  goods  where  it  has  been  given  the
monopoly  in  a  commodity,  as,  for  instance,  leather ;  no  pri-
vate individual  can  give  or  take  orders  for  leather  goods.
This  Department  of  Army  Supply  was  directly  under  the
War  Office,  through  which  came  all  the  orders,  but  working
at  its  own  hand  it  effected  some  very  remarkable  savings.
Thus  on  a  9-million  ruble  order  to  three  firms,  the  De-
partment got  the  work  done  for  238,000  rubles  less  than
the  Government  allowance.  From  June,  191 5,  to  June,
19 1 6,  the  Department  was  given  orders  to  the  extent  of  75
million  rubles  by  the  Government,  and  arranged  the  con-
tracts for  the  work  for  62  millions,  thus  saving  some  13  mil-
lions to  the  country ;  63  per  cent,  of  the  contracts  had  been
completed  by  September.  A  second  order  from  June,  1916,
to  June,  191 7,  for  91  millions  had  been  placed  to  the  extent
of  74  millions  up  to  October,  19 16,  and  on  these  contracts
Sy2  millions  had  been  saved.  The  contracts  were  largely
given  to  young  firms  and  organizations.

It  is  apparent  that  activities  on  such  a  scale  and  con-
ducted in  such  a  spirit  of  genuine  patriotism,  contrasting
in  every  respect  with  the  administrative  work  of  the  Gov-
ernment, could  not  fail  to  appeal  to  the  imagination  of  the
people,  to  whom  and  to  the  army  the  synthetic  word  "Zem-

THE  BLACK  BETRAYAL

gor"  1  means  as  much  as  the  word  "Anzac"  does  to  us.  Yet
when  the  Union  of  Towns  proposed  in  November  to  convoke
a  Conference  to  deal  with  the  question  of  the  food  and  fuel
supply,  which  was  rapidly  becoming  acute,  Protopopoff
vetoed  the  project.  The  stupidity  which  forbade  grain  to
be  sold  between  adjacent  districts,  so  that  while  one  might
have  plenty  it  could  do  nothing  to  assist  its  beleaguered
neighbor,  and  which  enveloped  every  attempt  to  bring  food
into  the  towns,  was  too  colossal  to  be  normal,  and  the  im-
pression rapidly  grew  that  it  was  all  part  of  a  scheme  to
foment  popular  discontent  that  might  give  the  Government
an  opportunity  to  arrange  a  separate  peace  and  at  the  same
time  crush  the  people.  Simultaneously  measures  were  intro-
duced, e.g.,  to  make  violent  requisitions  of  grain  from  the
peasants,  to  compel  them  to  work  for  normal  wages  with
every  other  price  abnormal,  to  call  up  old  classes  of  re-
servists for  the  army  from  useful  work  while  it  was  not
possible  to  employ  them  in  the  army  owing  to  the  lack  of
arms  and  munitions — all  of  which  tended  to  disorganiza-
tion.

But  most  amazing  of  all  were  the  strikes  which  broke  out
with  systematic  regularity  in  the  different  "munition"  fac-
tories— one  day  in  the  Baranovsky  Factory  on  the  Viborg
side  of  Petrograd,  next  day  in  another  on  the  Vasili  Ostrov
side.  A  friend  of  the  writer  made  a  private  investigation
of  some  of  these  strikes.  In  one  case  his  emissary  received
the  following  reply  to  a  question  addressed  to  one  of  the
strikers  as  to  the  reason  for  their  coming  out.  "We  are
doing  nothing,  out  here  on  strike.  Comrades  arrived  and
said  that  there  were  traitors  in  the  Government  and  that
it  was  necessary  to  make  a  demonstration  and  so  go  on
strike.  At  6  o'clock  the  night  shift  arrived  and  found  the
factory  closed.  We  arrived  at  seven  in  the  morning  and
found  the  place  still  shut,  but  I  don't  know  why."  In  an-
other case  the  strikers  came  out  in  answer  to  a  leaflet  sup-
posedly issued  by  one  of  the  smaller  Socialist  parties.  It

'It  is  compounded  from  the  first  syllables  of  the  words  Zemstvo
(County  Council)  and  Gorod  (Town),  and  is  used  with  reference  to
the  Unions  or  any  of  their  activities.

3©8  THE  BLACK  BETRAYAL

ran  as  follows:  "We  invite  our  comrades  to  follow  the
example  of  our  comrades  in  Europe,  and  above  all,  of  our
comrades  in  Germany,  who  are  all  united  and  who  fight
against  the  War."  So  manifest  a  falsehood  could  not  have
been  signed,  in  the  investigator's  opinion,  by  any  genuine
party  Socialist.  His  first  probings  elicited  an  admission
from  one  of  the  signatories  that  the  statement  was  not  true,
but  that  it  was  necessary  to  exaggerate  to  make  an  impres-
sion on  the  people.  His  further  examination  left  him  con-
vinced that  a  majority  of  the  signatories  were  police  agents
in  disguise.

In  such  an  atmosphere,  amidst  the  mutter ings  of  the  com-
ing storm,  the  Duma  met  in  November.  So  far  M.  Proto-
popoff's  sole  piece  of  constructive  policy  was  an  attempt
(which  the  Duma  fortunately  thwarted)  to  increase  the
numbers  of  the  gendarmes  under  the  '87  law :  he  had  cer-
tainly been  having  them  trained  in  the  use  of  Maxim  guns
for  weeks  before.  But  what  lent  real  seriousness  to  the
meeting  was  the  knowledge  that  one  of  the  greatest  living
Russian  patriots,  M.  Milyukof,  had  realized  that  the  time
had  come  publicly  to  accuse  the  Premier  of  that  treachery
of  which  every  one  had  long  felt  morally  assured.

From  the  balconies  of  the  Diplomatic  Gallery  it  is  possi-
ble to  look  down  into  the  outer  vestibule  on  the  level  of  the
floor  of  the  Duma,  where  the  religious  service  is  held  that
precedes  the  opening  of  any  Session.  There,  within  two
paces  of  one  another,  side  by  side,  together  facing  the  priest,
stood  M.  Sturmer,  leaning  on  his  stick,  and  M.  Rodzianko,
stalwart  and  erect,  the  two  men  representative  of  the  worst
and  the  best  in  Russian  political  life.  And  during  the  beauti-
ful prayers  for  the  souls  of  the  departed,  added  to  the  service
since  the  beginning  of  the  War,  both  knelt  together,  along
with  the  whole  assembled  company.  Thereafter,  within  a
few  minutes,  the  President  was  thundering  in  the  Duma
against  the  idea  of  a  separate  peace  in  the  full  hearing  of  the
Cabinet.

After  the  opening  speech,  the  Premier  rose  and  very
deliberately  walked  out,  followed  by  all  the  Ministers  with
one  or  two  exceptions.   Of  the  later  speeches  we  may  refer

THE  BLACK  BETRAYAL  309

to  those  of  the  Ministers.  M.  Kerensky,  Minister  of  Justice,
is  a  remarkable  orator.  Very  youthful  in  appearance,  he
mounted  the  platform,  gripped  the  sides  of  the  reading-desk
firmly  with  both  hands,  paused  a  moment  or  two  until  there
was  absolute  silence  in  the  crowded  Chamber,  and  then
commenced  a  sustained  attack  on  the  Government.  Speak-
ing without  note,  and  passionate  with  scorn  till  his  voice
became  harsh  and  raucous,  he  looked  steadily  in  front  of
him  all  the  time,  never  even  deigning  to  turn  towards  the
two  raised  boxes  on  his  immediate  right  reserved  for  Min-
isters and  now  occupied  by  only  one  or  two,  and  the  as-
sistants of  the  others,  but  with  short  jerky  movements  of
his  thumb  in  their  direction  merely  referring  to  them  with
infinite  disdain  as  "ctl  liudi"  (these  people).  As  denuncia-
tion followed  denunciation  the  protests  from  the  Right  be-
came correspondingly  violent,  and  were  hardly  subdued  by
the  constant  agitated  use  of  the  Presidential  bell  calling  the
House  to  order.   Eventually  he  was  compelled  to  desist.

Quite  different  in  character  was  the  speech  of  Professor
Milyukoff.  Read  somewhat  closely  from  notes  in  a  sharp
incisive  way,  with  every  phrase  punctuated  by  movements
of  the  body  or  arms,  it  held  his  audience  from  the  first  word.
In  Russia,  that  land  of  natural  human  life,  you  will  often
notice  that  if  at  any  public  gathering  the  people  in  the  far-
ther back  seats  of  a  hall  have  any  difficulty  in  hearing  some
one  whom  they  wish  particularly  to  hear,  they  will  leave
their  seats  in  the  course  of  the  address,  creep  up  the  passage-
ways, and  stand  close  up  to  the  speaker  or  sit  upon  the  plat-
form at  his  feet.  So  was  it  that  day  in  the  Duma.  Milyukoff
was  ''saying  things."  With  remorseless  logic  he  impaled
the  hapless  Premier  on  the  horns  of  the  dilemma  of  stu-
pidity or  ill-will.  With  a  certain  generosity  he  attributed
the  greater  part  of  M.  Stunner's  activities  to  stupidity:  "but
if  there  is  any  ill-will,  it  is  treason;  and  he  must  go."  And
he  went — eventually  to  Copenhagen.  Then  came  the  un-
heeded warning  of  the  murder  of  Rasputin,  and  the  arrest
of  the  Labor  Members  of  the  War  Industrial  Committee.
But  the  limits  of  the  patience  and  long-suffering  of  the  Rus-

3io  THE  BLACK  BETRAYAL

sian  people  had  now  been  reached,  and  in  a  day  the  country
stepped  practically  alongside  of  its  Allies.

BY  PAUL  MILYUKOF

German  documents  have  recently  been  published  con-
taining rules  and  advice  as  to  the  best  method  of  disorganiz-
ing enemy  countries,  of  creating  disorder  among  an  enemy
people,  and  in  general  throwing  men's  minds  into  confusion.
If  the  Germans  had  spent  all  their  money  and  exerted  all
their  influence  in  Russia  for  those  purposes,  they  could  not
have  succeeded  better  than  the  Russian  Government  suc-
ceeded.

As  far  back  as  July  13,  19 16,  I  declared  that  rumors  of
treason  were  spreading  through  the  Russian  world,  and  that
these  rumors,  mounting  very  high  indeed,  spared  no  one.
Alas !  that  warning  was  not  regarded.  Now  see  the  result.
In  the  declaration  of  the  twenty-eight  Zemstvo  Presidents
who  met  at  Moscow  on  October  29,  19 16,  appears  the  fol-
lowing statement:  "The  painful  and  terrifying  suspicions,
the  rumors  of  horrid  treason,  of  dark  forces  working  for
Germany  by  trying  to  create  a  desire  for  a  shameful  peace
at  the  price  of  the  destruction  of  our  national  unity — all
these  rumors  and  suspicions  are  transformed  into  a  single
certainty.  Some  enemy  hand  is  secretly  directing  the  af-
fairs of  the  nation!"

Naturally,  these  rumors  attribute  to  the  Government  the
opinion  that  the  continuation  of  the  war  is  useless,  and  that
a  separate  peace  is  necessary.  How  shall  the  birth  of  such
suspicions  be  prevented,  when  a  group  of  hidden  personages
directs  the  affairs  of  State,  and  when  its  members  at  the
same  time  are  busy  with  affairs  of  basest  self-interest?

I  have  here  a  copy  of  the  Berliner  Tageblatt  for  Sep-
tember 16th,  which  contains  an  article  entitled  "Manouiloff
and  Sturmer."  Its  information  is  false  in  part.  The  au-
thor of  the  article  has  the  air  of  believing  that  it  was  Sturmer
who  put  his  private  secretary,  Manasevitch  Manouiloff,  un-
der arrest.  You  are  well  aware  that  this  is  not  true;  you
know  that  all  those  who  aided  in  the  arrest  of  Manasevitch
without  informing  Sturmer  were  expelled  from  office.  No,

THE  BLACK  BETRAYAL  311

it  was  not  Stunner  who  had  Manasevitch  arrested;  on  the
contrary,  he  had  him  liberated.

Perhaps  you  are  wondering  who  is  this  Manasevitch  Ma-
nouiloff  ?  Of  what  interest  is  he  to  us?  Manasevitch  Ma-
nouiloff  is  a  former  functionary  of  the  secret  Russian  police
in  Paris,  who,  in  his  day,  furnished  the  Novoye  Vremya  with
piquant  details  concerning  the  lives  of  Russian  revolution-
aries. Of  more  interest  to  us  is  the  fact  that  he  was  at  the
same  time  entrusted  with  secret  missions.  One  of  these  will
interest  you  particularly.  A  few  years  ago  Manasevitch
entered  into  a  series  of  secret  conferences  with  the  Count
of  Pourtales,  the  German  Ambassador.  The  latter  offered
a  large  sum,  said  to  be  800,000  rubles,  to  buy  up  the  editors
of  the  Novoye  Vremya.  I  am  happy  to  add  that  a  staff  writer
on  that  journal,  to  whom  Manasevitch  was  first  sent,  drove
him  from  his  apartment.  The  Count  of  Pourtales  had  much
difficulty  in  hushing  up  that  disagreeable  affair.

Such  are  the  missions  with  which  the  private  secretary  of
M.  Sturmer,  Minister  of  Foreign  Affairs,  was  entrusted.
Why  was  that  individual  arrested?  The  reason  has  long
been  known,  and  I  tell  you  nothing  new.  He  was  arrested
because  he  was  guilty  of  accepting  bribes.  Why  was  he  re-
leased? That  also  is  no  secret.  He  declared  to  the  ex-
amining Magistrate  that  he  divided  the  proceeds  of  that
bribery  with  his  employer.  The  article  in  the  Berliner  Tage-
blatt  mentions  two  other  names:  Prince  Andronikoff,  and
the  High  Priest  Pitirim.  To  the  intrigues  of  the  latter  is
attributed  the  nomination  of  Sturmer.

Let  me  give  you  a  few  details  about  that  nomination.  I
was  abroad  when  I  first  heard  of  it.  It  is  mingled  with  my
impressions  of  travel ;  and  I  will  tell  you  quite  simply  what  I
learned  along  the  way.  You  may  draw  your  own  conclu-
sions. Scarcely  had  I  left  this  country  a  few  days  after  the
resignation  of  Sazonof,  when  the  Swedish  newspapers,  and
later  those  of  Germany  and  Austria,  informed  me  of  the
choice  of  Sturmer  as  Russian  Minister  of  Foreign  Affairs.
Here  is  what  the  newspapers  said.

From  the  Berliner  Tageblatt:  "The  personality  of  Sazo-
nof gave  the  Allies  a  guarantee  of  stability  in  matters  of  for-

3i2  THE  BLACK  BETRAYAL

eign  policy.  In  that  domain  Sturmer  is  only  a  'sheet  of  blank
paper.'  He  belongs,  doubtless,  to  the  circles  which  regard
the  war  against  Germany  without  any  enthusiasm."

From  the  Cologne  Gazette:  "We  Germans  have  no  rea-
son to  complain  of  the  change  that  has  taken  place  in  the
heart  of  the  Russian  Government.  Sturmer  will  offer  no
obstacle  to  the  desire  for  peace  which  from  now  onward  will
be  born  in  Russia.'"

From  the  Neues  Tageblatt  of  Vienna :  "Although  it  is
not  now  the  turn  of  the  diplomats  to  speak,  it  is  comforting
to  note  that  the  statesman  upon  whom  lies  the  burden  of
having  begun  the  hostilities  is  retiring."

An  editorial  in  the  Nene  Freie  Presse  for  July  25th  is
especially  interesting  in  this  connection.  This  is  what  it
says :  "However  Russified  old  Sturmer  may  be,  it  is  never-
theless very  strange  to  see  a  German  directing  Russia's  for-
eign policy  during  a  war  that  had  its  birth  in  the  domain  of
Pan-Slavic  ideas.  The  present  President  of  the  Council
of  Ministers,  M.  Sturmer,  has  not  shared  the  errors  which
brought  about  the  war.  He  has  not  promised  not  to  make
peace  without  Constantinople  and  the  Dardanelles.  In  the
personality  of  this  Russian  Minister  of  Foreign  Affairs
we  shall  find  an  arm  which  we  can  use  at  our  own  will ;  for
Sturmer  has  become  a  man  who  satisfies  the  secret  aspirations
of  the  Right,  which,  before  all,  desires  no  alliance  with  Eng-
land. He  will  not  declare,  as  did  Sazonof,  that  it  is  neces-
sary to  annihilate  the  Prussian  military  caste."

Whence  comes  this  confidence  of  the  German  and  Aus-
trian journals  that  Sturmer,  in  executing  the  will  of  the
conservatives,  will  act  against  the  continuation  of  the  war?
It  comes  from  the  information  furnished  them  by  the  Rus-
sian press.  The  newspapers  of  Moscow  have  published  the
memorandum  of  the  "conservative"  Government.

This  memorandum  was  sent  to  the  Imperial  Great  Head-
quarters in  July,  just  before  Sturmer  went  there  for  the  sec-
ond time.  It  does  indeed  say  that  we  must  fight  until  final
victory,  but  it  also  declares  that  we  must  end  the  war  betimes,
otherwise  the  fruits  of  victory  "will  be  destroyed  by  revo-
lution!" This  is  the  usual  cry  of  our  pro-Germans.

THE  BLACK  BETRAYAL  313

The  Allies  have  given  many  proofs  in  this  War  that  they
have  admirable  perseverance.  They  have  also  proved  that
they  were  ready  for  any  sacrifice.  In  this  regard  they  have
disappointed  the  expectations  of  the  enemy,  and  have  sur-
passed our  own.  Russia  seemed  approaching  the  realiza-
tion of  its  hopes,  seemed  on  the  point  of  reaping  the  fruits
of  its  labors,  and  of  the  two  preceding  Ministries  of  For-
eign Affairs.  But  at  that  moment,  gentlemen,  in  place  of
an  experienced  pilot  enjoying  the  confidence  of  all,  for  this
is  vital,  in  that  place  we  find  a  "sheet  of  blank  paper,"  an
unknown  who  does  not  even  appreciate  the  A  B  C  of  diplo-
macy.

The  relations  that  have  existed  for  ten  years  cannot  be
destroyed  by  the  caprice  of  a  single  person;  and  the  allied
press,  like  our  own,  had  reason  to  affirm  that  the  change  of
Ministry  could  not  in  any  way  transform  the  policy  of  Rus-
sia. But  in  a  thing  so  delicate  as  diplomacy  there  are  nuances ;
there  is  such  a  thing  as  embroidery,  lace,  delicate  drapery,
and  there  is  also  common  sewing.  The  making  of  lace  is
possible  only  in  certain  circumstances,  under  favorable  con-
ditions. Well,  I  have  seen  the  destruction  of  the  most  deli-
cate fibers  in  the  embroidery  woven  by  the  Allies.  I  have
seen  that  destruction  at  London,  at  Paris.  That  is  what
Sturmer  has  done,  and  perhaps  he  had  a  reason  of  his  own
for  not  promising  us  Constantinople  and  the  Dardanelles.

I  asked  myself,  by  what  arrangement  is  all  this  change
coming  ?  I  went  to  Switzerland  to  rest  a  little,  but  the  same
obsession  pursued  me.  Even  on  the  shores  of  Lake  Geneva
and  at  Berne  I  could  feel  the  activities  of  the  old  "depart-
ment" of  Sturmer,  that  of  the  Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs
and  Police.  Switzerland  is  indeed  a  place  where  propa-
ganda of  all  sorts  spring  up;  for  that  reason  it  is  a  good
observation  post,  where  one  can  follow  the  trail  of  our  en-
emies' diplomacy.  The  system  of  "special  missions"  also  is
particularly  well  developed  there;  and  under  cover  of  these
latter  appear  missions  of  a  peculiar  sort.  Men  said  to  me :
Please  ask  yonder  in  Petrograd  what  the  celebrated  Rataieff,
a  former  functionary  of  the  Russian  secret  police  at  Paris,  is
doing  here  in  Switzerland.    Ask,  too,  why  Ladebeff,  an

314  THE  BLACK  BETRAYAL

agent  of  the  Russian  secret  police,  has  just  arrived  here;
and  why  he  frequents  the  drawing  rooms  of  certain  Russian
women  who  are  known  for  their  German  sympathies.

One  sees  that  Mme.  Wasiltchikoff  has  her  partisans  and
imitators.  She  had  extensive  relations  abroad  with  an  Aus-
trian Prince,  then  with  a  German  Baron.  Her  salon  in  the
Via  Cavour  at  Florence,  and  later  at  Montreux  in  Switzer-
land, was  well  known  for  the  pro-German  sentiments  mani-
fested there.  Now  that  lady  has  transferred  her  household
to  Petrograd.  Apropos  of  great  ceremonies,  her  name  has
appeared  in  the  newspapers.  I  also  found  fresh  traces  of
her  passage  through  Paris;  the  Parisians  were  scandalized
by  the  Germanophile  sentiments  of  this  woman,  and,  may  I
add,  by  her  conduct  toward  the  Russian  Ambassador,  though
the  latter  had  had  no  responsibility  in  the  affair.

It  is  necessary  to  recall  that  this  woman  is  the  one  who
directs  the  career  of  Sturmer;  a  few  years  ago  she  openly
solicited  for  him  a  post  as  Ambassador.  I  ought  to  add  that
this  solicitation  was  considered  perfectly  ridiculous  at  the
time,  and  that  it  had  no  results.

I  do  not  pretend  to  have  exposed  the  whole  situation  as
it  really  exists ;  but  I  do  assert  that  a  sort  of  shirt  of  Nessus
envelops  certain  of  our  circles  and  openly  favors  that  prop-
aganda of  which  Sir  George  Buchanan  spoke  so  frankly
in  recent  days.  It  behooves  us  to  start  a  judicial  inquiry
like  that  which  was  begun  in  the  Sukhomlinoff  case.  In
accusing  that  officer  we  had  no  absolute  proofs;  it  was  the
examining  Magistrate  who  discovered  them.  But  we  had
already  heard  in  that  case  what  we  hear  now,  the  instinc-
tive appeal  of  the  whole  country.

BY  L.  J.  MAXSE

To-day,  thanks  to  the  upheaval  at  Petrograd,  many
documents  destined  to  remain  forever  hidden  among  the  se-
cret archives  have  come  to  light.  The  explanations  they
furnish  are  as  unexpected  as  they  are  valuable.  Public  opin-
ion, ignorant  of  the  truth,  had  accepted  the  most  natural  ex-
planation and  had  attributed  two  capital  faults  to  the  Gov-
ernment of  Bucharest ;  but  now,  to  the  general  stupefaction

THE  BLACK  BETRAYAL  315

and  indignation,  it  became  evident  that,  far  from  being
guilty  of  carelessness  and  want  of  foresight,  Rumania  was
the  victim  of  a  terrible  plot  hatched  in  Berlin  in  concert
with  the  men  of  the  old  regime  at  Petrograd,  enemies  of  the
cause  they  were  called  upon  to  defend.

Irrefutable  evidence  shows  that  the  date  of  Rumania's
declaration  of  war  and  the  plan  of  campaign  were  forced
upon  her  by  the  Government  of  Petrograd,  presided  over  by
Messrs.  Sturmer  and  Protopopoff.  It  is  superabundantly
proved  that  these  men,  who  came  up  against  the  gentle  ob-
stinacy of  Nicholas  II.  every  time  they  tried  to  convince  him
of  the  necessity  of  concluding  "a  separate  peace,"  had  no
other  object  in  view  than  to  put  their  country  into  the  posi-
tion of  being  forced  to  do  so.

The  check  of  the  Rumanian  intervention,  on  which  many
fine  hopes  were  founded,  seemed  to  serve  their  purpose  to
perfection.  It  has  been  proved  now  that  the  offensive  of
Brusiloff  had  come  to  a  full  stop  at  the  beginning  of  August.
And,  still  more,  his  armies  were  running  the  risk  of  being
outflanked.  Arrested  at  the  passes  which  debouched  into
the  Hungarian  plain  by  the  army  of  Koewess,  General  Bru-
siloff had  been  obliged  to  turn  the  front  of  his  armies  to
the  northwest — toward  Lemberg — thus  exposing  his  flank  to
the  divisions  which  Hindenburg  was  bringing  up  against  him.

A  complete  defeat  of  the  Russian  armies,  for  which  they
would  have  been  responsible  to  the  Emperor,  to  Russia,  and
to  the  Allies,  would  not  have  suited  these  men.  The  defeat
of  Rumania,  which  they  could  impute  to  the  inefficiency  of
her  army,  would  lead  equally  to  the  same  end,  without  com-
promising their  personal  prestige.  At  any  price  it  was
necessary  to  turn  away  from  the  Galician  front  the  storm
which  was  threatening.

So  the  plan  they  conceived  was  put  into  execution.  On
July  1  st  the  Imperial  Government  sent  to  the  Rumanian
Government  the  now  famous  ultimatum,  the  brutality  of
which  is  equaled  only  by  its  perfidy.  It  was  the  first  docu-
ment of  a  correspondence  with  which  the  revelations  of  Gen-
eral Ifiesco  in  the  Matin  have  made  us  acquainted — revela-
tions completed  by  the  publication  of  Count  Czernin's  last

316  THE  BLACK  BETRAYAL

report  in  the  Austrian  Red  Book  and  loyally  confirmed  by  the
men  of  the  new  regime  in  Russia.  Nothing  is  more  dis-
tressing than  the  reading  of  this  correspondence.  On  one
side  the  constant  reminders  of  promises,  the  despairing  re-
monstrances ;  on  the  other  the  haughty,  sometimes  even  in-
jurious, tone,  the  feigned  assurance.  "Now  or  never,"  says
the  Russian  ultimatum  which  forced  Rumania  into  the  war,
"for  it  must  not  be  hoped  that  we  shall  again  permit  the
Rumanian  Army  later  on  to  make  a  military  promenade  and
enter  Austro-Hungarian  territory  in  triumph."

It  was  impossible  for  the  Rumanian  General  Staff  to
resist  the  imperious  orders  of  their  powerful  neighbor,  espe-
cially as  at  that  moment  no  help  could  be  hoped  for  from
England  or  France,  both  distant  and  both  entirely  absorbed
by  the  battle  of  the  Somme.  Despite  their  heroic  efforts
and  their  daily  successes,  the  British  and  French  armies  had
not  yet  succeeded  in  their  principal  object,  the  relief  of  Ver-
dun, against  which  Hindenburg  was  at  that  moment  pre-
paring his  last  attack  with  formidable  forces.  It  was  im-
possible to  hope  that,  under  these  circumstances,  France  and
England  would  oppose  the  wishes  of  the  Russian  Govern-
ment, especially  as  they  were  expressed  in  terms  which
left  no  other  alternative  than  to  advise  the  Rumanian  Gen-
eral Staff  to  come  to  an  understanding  with  the  Russian
command.  France  gave  a  last  proof  of  her  solicitude  for
Rumania  in  pledging  herself  to  come  to  her  help  by  a  gen-
eral offensive  of  the  Salonika  army,  which  should  begin
eight  days  before  the  date  of  the  entry  of  Rumania  into
the  campaign.

The  desire  of  France  to  help  this  new  ally  was  so  sin-
cere that  M.  Briand,  then  President  of  the  Council,  break-
ing all  precedents,  went  so  far  as  to  announce  in  the  Cham-
ber the  projected  offensive  of  the  Orient  forces.  The  trea-
son which  unfortunately  surrounded  this  army  on  all  sides
rendered  it  impossible  for  General  Sarrail  to  carry  out  this
plan  at  the  opportune  moment.  Warned  by  the  pro-Ger-
mans of  Athens  of  the  impending  attack,  the  Bulgarian
Army  made  the  first  move,  and,  attacking  on  both  flanks,
obliged  General  Sarrail  to  regroup  his  forces,  which  para-

THE  BLACK  BETRAYAL  317

lyzed  his  movements.  Thus  the  Rumanian  General  Staff
remained  alone  to  face  the  Government  of  Petrograd.

Obliged  to  yield  to  the  Russian  ultimatum  and  to  de-
clare war  on  the  day  fixed  in  it,  they  asked  the  Russian
higher  command  for  their  cooperation  in  the  plan  of  cam-
paign worked  out  by  them,  showing  how  impossible  it  would
be,  with  the  sixteen  divisions,  which  represented  the  whole
army,  lacking  heavy  artillery,  completely  unprovided  with
machine  guns,  to  cover  the  600  kilometers  of  the  Danubian
front  and  at  the  same  time  attack  on  the  700-kilometer  front
of  Transylvania.  They  proposed  taking  possession  of  the
bridgeheads  of  Rustchuk  and  Sistov  in  order  to  guard  against
a  passage  of  the  Danube.  To  hold  in  check  the  200,000
Bulgars,  reenforeed  by  several  Turkish  divisions,  whom
the  Rumanian  General  Staff  knew  to  be  concentrated  against
the  Dobrudja  front,  they  asked  for  the  help  of  seven  or
eight  Russian  divisions.

The  answers  of  Messrs.  Sturmer  and  Protopopoff  to
these  proposals  left  Rumania  no  longer  any  doubts  as  to  the
extent  of  the  sacrifice  demanded  of  her.  They  were  op-
posed to  all  operations  on  the  Danube,  declaring  that  they
had  been  categorically  assured  that  the  Bulgarians  would  lay
down  their  arms.  They  took  entire  responsibility  for  it.
On  no  account  were  hostilities  to  be  directed  against  them.
For  the  same  reason  they  judged  it  absolutely  useless  to  com-
ply with  the  request  for  seven  or  eight  divisions:  "Who
is  threatening  the  Dobrudja  front  ?"  said  a  message  coming
from  the  Russian  higher  command.  And  when  the  Ruma-
nian General  Staff  insisted  on  its  information,  according
to  which  about  eight  Bulgaro-Turkish  divisions  were  ad-
vancing toward  this  front,  a  new  message  arrived,  which
said  that  two  divisions  might  be  put  at  their  disposal.
These  indeed  arrived.  One  of  them  was  composed  of  Ser-
bian, Croatian,  and  Czech  prisoners  belonging  to  Austrian
regiments  captured  in  Galicia.  As  to  the  machine  guns,  not
one  could  be  procured,  and  it  was  only  later  that  M.  Proto-
popoff confessed  that  he  had  not  been  able  to  deliver  them  be-
cause they  had  been  placed  on  the  roofs  of  the  houses  in
Petrograd  to  put  down  the  threatening  revolution.

318  THE  BLACK  BETRAYAL

BY  RAYMOND  RECOULY

While  Rumania  and  Italy  were  persuaded  to  relinquish
their  original  neutrality  and  to  join  their  fortunes  with
those  of  the  Entente  by  the  same  arguments  and  motives,
it  was  a  much  slower  and  more  difficult  task  to  secure  ac-
tion from  Rumania  than  from  our  Mediterranean  neigh-
bor. England  and  France  were  geographically  close  to
Italy,  and  they  labored  in  perfect  harmony  to  win  her  sup-
port, knowing  that  they  must  succeed  and  succeed  quickly.
Italy  trusted  both  these  nations,  and  knew  that  they  would
keep  their  promises.  Rumania  was  in  a  different  situa-
tion. France  and  Russia  conducted  negotiations  with  her,
and  these  were  not  pursued  with  the  same  sincerity  and
unity  of  purpose.  France  had  a  single  object  in  view — to
have  Rumania's  help  as  soon  as  possible;  and  she  was  will-
ing to  promise  her  in  return  all  that  she  could  legitimately
ask — a  union  under  her  flag  of  the  Rumanians  still  living
beyond  her  borders.

Russia,  however,  was  actuated  by  a  different  spirit.  The
Government  at  Petrograd,  and  Russian  public  opinion  as
a  whole,  regarded  askance  the  proposal  to  create  a  power-
ful Rumanian  state.  The  Russians  were  eager  to  acquire
Constantinople.  They  realized  that  if  Rumania  were  made
too  strong  she  might  bar  the  way  to  the  Dardanelles.  More-
over, her  growth  tended  to  lessen  the  importance  of  the
Slav  element  in  the  Balkans.  She  would  certainly  have  the
enmity  of  Bulgaria,  for  whom  Russia,  in  spite  of  that  coun-
try's ingratitude  and  treachery — past,  present  and  future —
still  retained  a  feeling  of  inextinguishable  sympathy  and  in-
dulgence.

Naturally  a  proud  nation,  the  Russians  looked  down
on  all  the  Balkan  states  and  attached  minor  importance  to
Rumania's  aid.  They  thought  her  help  would  amount  to
little,  and  that  her  army  was  not  reliable.  They  did  not
like  to  see  France  take  the  lead  in  negotiations  which  they
felt  concerned  themselves  mainly,  since  they  related  to  East-
ern Europe.  They  would  have  preferred  to  handle  the  mat-
ter alone  in  their  own  way.   During  Russia's  early  military

THE  BLACK  BETRAYAL

successes  her  Government  did  not  want  Rumania's  help,
believing  that  it  would  win  a  victory  without  her,  and  that
her  participation  would  diminish  the  spoils.  So  Russia's
negotiators  held  out  against  offering  Rumania  more  than
insignificant  compensation.  They  haggled,  and  would  con-
sent to  annexing  only  infinitesimal  scraps  of  territory.

In  the  autumn  of  1914,  Germany  sent  a  new  Minister,
Herr  von  Bussche,  to  Bucharest.  He  arrived  with  his
pockets  full  of  money  and  instructions  to  secure  friends  for
Germany  at  any  cost.  He  at  once  set  out  to  purchase  every
man  whom  money  could  buy.  He  bought  private  con-
sciences and  newspapers  by  the  wholesale.  Our  French
Minister  had  little  money  to  meet  this  new  campaign;  but
he  did  possess  the  sympathies  of  the  people.  This  was
especially  true  of  the  students,  who  seized  the  slightest  pre-
text to  parade  the  streets,  shouting:  "Vive  la  France!"  or
to  mob  the  offices  and  hustle  the  editors  of  pro-German
newspapers.

In  February,  191 5,  General  Pau's  visit  evoked  an  en-
thusiastic demonstration  in  favor  of  France.  The  whole
city  was  a  cloud  of  banners;  ladies  threw  bouquets  from
every  balcony.  The  streets  were  black  with  people,  so  that
it  took  the  carriage  of  our  Minister  more  than  an  hour
to  pass  from  the  station  to  the  Legation.

This  gave  great  encouragement  to  the  war  party.  But
Bratianu's  Ministry  naturally  wished,  before  acting,  to  have
everything  in  black  and  white.  Following  the  precedent  set
by  Italy,  Bratianu  demanded  natural  boundaries :  the  Pruth
in  Bukowina,  and  the  Danube  and  the  Tisza  on  the  side
of  Serbia.  The  first  of  these  demands  was  promptly  op-
posed by  the  Russians,  who  declared  they  would  not  give
up  Czernowitz  under  any  circumstances.  France  backed
Rumania's  claim  to  the  utmost.  On  May  16,  19 15,  Sazo-
nof's  reply  arrived.  It  was  uncompromising,  although  the
Russian  army  was  in  precipitate  retreat  across  Galicia.
When  Bratianu  learned  of  this  answer,  he  was  stunned.
He  declared  that  under  the  circumstances  he  would  not  take
the  responsibility  of  advising  war.  He  could  not  compre-
hend why  Russia,  whose  army  was  in  such  a  critical  posi-

THE  BLACK  BETRAYAL

tion,  persisted  in  refusing  Czernovitz  to  Rumania.  He
said:  "Russia  wishes  to  remain  mistress  of  the  Pruth  so
as  to  corner  us  between  herself  and  Serbia."

Late  in  the  winter  and  early  in  the  spring  of  1916,  nego-
tiations were  resumed  more  actively.  On  the  10th  of  May,
Bratianu  told  the  Minister  of  France  that  the  King  was
ready  to  sign  the  order  for  mobilization  whenever  it  was
submitted  to  him.  But  he  insisted  that  before  this  was
done,  a  number  of  conditions  should  be  fulfilled,  particu-
lary  he  must  be  sure  of  assistance  from  the  Russian  army.
By  July  6th  he  was  ready  to  sign  the  compact  with  the
Allies,  subject  to  the  following  conditions:  (1)  That  the
delivery  of  munitions  begin,  and  that  France  and  England
engage  to  continue  these  deliveries,  at  the  rate  of  three
hundred  tons  a  day;  (2)  that  the  impending  general  offen-
sive be  not  countermanded;  (3)  that  the  Russians  retain
their  positions  in  Galicia  and  Bukowina;  (4)  that  Rumania
be  guaranteed  against  a  Bulgarian  attack,  either  by  Russian
intervention  or  by  an  offensive  from  Salonika.

Neratof,  acting  Foreign  Minister  of  Russia,  telegraphed
the  terms  offering  a  final  agreement.  These  were  the  prin-
cipal conditions  Russia  made:

"Rumania  agrees  to  declare  war  simultaneously  against
all  the  governments  which  are  fighting  the  Entente.

"She  will  employ  all  of  her  armed  forces  against  the
enemies  of  the  Allies.

"The  Allies  guarantee  Rumania's  territorial  integrity.
She  shall  be  permitted  to  annex  such  territories  of  Austria-
Hungary  as  she  may  occupy  within  certain  definite  limits.

"The  frontier  between  Russia  and  Rumania  shall  fol-
low lines  specified  in  detail.

"Rumania  shall  enter  the  war  not  later  than  August  7th.

"A  military  convention  between  the  General  Staffs  of
Russian  and  Rumania  shall  be  concluded  immediately.

"In  communicating  this  arrangement  to  the  Rumanian
Government,  the  Minister  of  Russia  has  the  honor  to  add
that  if  Rumania  does  not  feel  able  to  enter  the  war  by  the
date  fixed  (August  7th),  the  Allied  Powers  shall  not  be
bound  further  by  the  proposals  they  have  submitted  to
Rumania."

THE  BLACK  BETRAYAL  321

The  reader  will  see  that  the  Entente  rather  rushed
Bratianu  in  order  to  sweep  aside  his  last  hesitation.  But
that  gentleman  no  longer  hesitated.  He  was  sure  that  the
King  would  consent  and  that  the  country  would  support
him  with  enthusiasm.

Since  we  must  pay  for  everything  here  below,  Bratianu,
in  avoiding  one  danger,  fell  into  another.  He  made  an  ex-
cellent diplomatic  preparation  for  the  war.  Every  treaty
was  signed,  every  precaution  taken,  every  frontier  drawn
to  the  last  detail.

On  the  other  hand,  the  military  preparations  were  most
defective.  The  Rumanian  and  Russian  General  Staffs  did
not  work  well  together.  Rumania's  suspicion  of  the  Rus-
sians made  it  the  more  important  that  the  understanding
between  the  two  armies  should  be  clearly  denned.  In  that
respect  the  arrangements  were,  if  I  may  use  the  word,
"boggled."  The  results  soon  made  themselves  felt.  The
Russian  offensive,  instead  of  advancing,  was  stopped  pre-
cipitately. After  a  brief  preliminary  success,  Rumania,  left
wholly  unsupported,  was  defeated  and  invaded.

Early  in  19 17  I  was  commissioned  by  French  General
Headquarters  to  inspect  the  whole  Russian  front,  from
Riga  to  the  Caucasus.  I  reached  Jassy  toward  the  end  of
February,  in  the  heart  of  a  terrible  winter.  I  found  many
other  French  officers  in  the  old  Moldavian  capital,  where
the  Government  was  then  temporarily  installed.  The  in-
tense cold,  the  universal  distress,  impending  typhus,  and  all
the  ills  and  privations  conceivable  seemed  to  have  heaped
themselves  upon  Rumania  at  once.

Relations  of  the  Russians  and  the  Rumanians  were  far
from  friendly.  The  former  were  inclined  to  treat  the  latter
as  a  conquered  nation.  During  a  dinner  with  several  of
our  officers,  including  General  Berthelot,  we  received  the
first  telegram  reporting  the  revolution  in  Petrograd.  That
only  added  to  the  disorder  and  confusion,  which  thereafter
constantly  grew  worse.  The  revolution  was  the  reverse  of
fortune  for  Rumania.  The  Russian  army  speedily  became
demoralized,  until  it  was  an  undisciplined  horde.  Russia
was  no  longer  a  protector,  but  a  new  enemy.

RUMANIA  JOINS  THE  ALLIES

HER  ARMY  INVADES  HUNGARY

AUGUST  27TH

TAKE  JONESCU  ION  BRATIANU

KING  FERDINAND  VON  BETHMANN-HOLLWEG

It  is  typical  of  the  German  propaganda  system  that  the  moment
any  neutral  joined  the  Allies,  German  officials  announced  with  ve-
hement scorn  that  the  offending  nation  was  beneath  contempt,  had
betrayed  Germany  by  falsehoods,  had  joined  the  Allies  solely  for
money,  and  had  a  dozen  other  evil  purposes  beside.  So  the  Chan-
cellor, Bethmann-Hollweg,  here  judges  Rumania.  On  the  other  hand,
Turkey  and  Bulgaria,  having  joined  Germany,  were  always  mentioned
by  her  as  her  "noble  and  highminded"  friends.  Their  every  atrocity
is  extenuated  or  denied;  and  they  are  given  characters  above  re-
proach.

These  German  endorsements  and  condemnations  are  too  absurd  for
serious  discussion ;  but  it  would  be  well  for  us  to  be  cautioned  by  their
folly  and  so  avoid  running  into  a  similar  extravagance  upon  the
other  side.  Doubtless  many  mingled  motives  swayed  the  Rumanian
people  when  they  followed  their  Government  into  the  War.  One
essential  distinction,  however,  existed  always  between  those  States
which  joined  the  Allies  and  those  which  joined  the  Teutons.  In
seeking  the  Allies'  aid,  every  State  had  obviously  before  it  the  need  of
self-defense,  the  fear  that  Germany  would  seize  the  first  opportunity
to  destroy  it  as  she  had  destroyed  Belgium.  Joining  Germany  was
frankly  a  business  speculation,  so  much  chance  of  profit,  and  so  much
of  loss.  Defying  Germany  was  obviously  a  matter  of  life  and  death,
upon  which  no  people  and  no  government  would  enter  without  solemn
thought  and  a  high  resolve.

In  such  mood  did  Rumania  join  the  Allies.  Her  own  statesmen
will  here  tell  you  why.  Jonescu  had  long  been  the  parliamentary
leader  urging  such  a  course.  Indeed  he  had  been  forced  from  office
because  all  the  country  had  not  been  willing  to  join  him  and  face
the  awful  risk.  Ion,  or  John,  Bratianu  had  been  his  rival  and  suc-
cessor in  office;  and  at  last  Bratianu  also  was  convinced  of  the  War's
necessity.  King  Ferdinand  came  to  the  throne  in  1914  after  the  War
began.  He  was  of  German  descent;  but  his  wife,  Mary,  was  a  Brit-
ish princess  and  had  long  espoused  the  Allies'  cause.  Both  of  them
were  now  pushed  into  action  by  Russia's  insistence.  She  declared
they  must  be  for  her  or  against  her.

Immediately  upon  the  declaration  of  war,  the  Rumanian  army  ad-
vanced over  the  border  into  the  Rumanian  or  "Transylvanian"  re-
gion of  Hungary.   There  they  won  a  number  of  small  successes,  and

RUMANIA  JOINS  THE  ALLIES  323

pushed  on  as  far  as  the  city  of  Hermanstadt  in  the  south  and  Bistritz
in  the  north.  By  mid-September  they  held  about  a  quarter  of  Transyl-
vania.

BY  TAKE  JONESCU

RUMANIA'S  entry  into  the  war  is  simply  the  outcome
of  the  entire  history  of  the  Rumanian  people.  A  Latin
colony  established  astride  the  Carpathians  between  the  Black
Sea  and  the  Tisza,  the  Magyar  invasion  had  separated  us
into  two.  In  spite  of  centuries  of  political  separation,  the
intellectual  life  of  all  Rumanians  has  been  one  and  the  same,
and  in  every  epoch  the  national  aspiration  in  the  two  sides
of  the  Carpathians  has  been  for  union  and  a  single  inde-
pendent State.

Never  before  this  war  has  the  principle  of  nationality,
the  corollary  of  national  sovereignty — that  is  to  say,  the
right  of  every  people  to  live  according  to  its  own  genius —
been  declared  as  the  foundation  of  political  right  in  Europe.
This  principle  was  first  declared  by  immortal  France,  but
it  has  been  English  statesmen  of  this  present  epoch  who
have  given  it  its  definite  consecration.  So,  too,  are  the  Brit-
ish people  for  this  principle.  Yet  more  than  any  conquest
do  they  value  being  champions  of  right  and  liberty.  I
know  no  greater  good  fortune  than  to  be  able  to  assist  in
the  realization  of  this  national  ideal  while  serving  at  the
same  time  the  cause  of  civilization  and  permanent  future
peace.  Such  is  the  case  of  the  Rumanian  people  at  this
moment.

For  two  years  I  never  ceased  maintaining  that  if  Ru-
mania had  nothing  to  claim  for  herself  she  owed  it  to  her
own  feeling  of  dignity  and  honor  to  draw  the  sword  on  the
side  of  the  crusaders  for  the  right.  The  creation  of  a  great
Rumania,  which  will  convert  us  into  a  State  of  14,000,000
inhabitants,  is  not  only  a  Rumanian  but  a  European  in-
terest. We  must  put  Germany  into  such  a  position  that
she  will  find  it  materially  impossible  to  start  again  that
tragedy  of  armaments  a  outrance  which  fatally  led  to  this
monstrous  war.

We  must  put  between  Germany  and  the  Orient,  which
she  covets,  States  sufficiently  strong  and  representing  mili-

324  RUMANIA  JOINS  THE  ALLIES

tary  worth  sufficiently  great  to  be  able  to  resist  all  intriguts
and  sufficiently  distant  from  the  German  spirit  to  be  by
the  nature  of  things  soldiers  of  civilization  against  German
stupidity.  Magna  Rumania  will  fulfill  these  three  condi-
tions. With  our  amazing  racial  fecundity,  we  shall  have  in
forty  years  between  Tisza  and  the  Black  Sea  a  State  of
25,000,000  inhabitants,  and  for  France,  England,  Russia,
and  Italy  this  will  be  some  recompense  for  their  enormous
sacrifices.

BY  ION  BRATIANU

Declaration  of  War  Delivered  to  the  Austrian  Minister  in  Rumania  on

The  alliance  concluded  between  Germany,  Austria-Hun-
gary, and  Italy,  according  to  the  statements  of  those  Gov-
ernments, had  only  a  conservative  and  defensive  character.
Its  principal  object  was  to  guarantee  the  allied  countries
against  attack  from  the  outside  and  to  consolidate  the  state
of  affairs  created  by  previous  treaties.  It  was  in  accord-
ance with  these  pacific  tendencies  that  Rumania  joined  this
alliance.

Devoted  to  the  development  of  her  internal  affairs  and
faithful  to  her  resolution  to  remain  as  an  element  of  order
and  equilibrium  on  the  lower  Danube,  Rumania  never  has
ceased  in  her  devotion  to  the  maintenance  of  peace  in  the
Balkans.  The  last  Balkan  wars,  by  destroying  the  status
quo,  imposed  upon  her  a  new  line  of  conduct,  but  her  inter-
vention gave  peace  and  reestablished  the  equilibrium.

For  herself  she  was  satisfied  with  the  rectification  of  her
borders  which  gave  her  the  greatest  security  against  ag-
gression and  repaired  certain  injustices  of  the  Congress  of
Berlin,  but  in  pursuit  of  this  aim  Rumania  was  disappointed
by  the  failure  of  the  Vienna  Cabinet  to  take  the  attitude  Ru-
mania was  entitled  to  expect.

When  the  present  war  broke  out  Rumania,  like  Italy,
declined  to  associate  herself  with  the  declaration  of  war  by
Austria-Hungary,  of  which  she  had  not  been  notified  by  the
Vienna  Cabinet.

In  the  spring  of  19 15  Italy  declared  war  against  Aus-

RUMANIA  JOINS  THE  ALLIES

tria-Hungary.  The  Triple  Alliance  no  longer  existed  and
the  reasons  which  determined  Rumania's  adherence  to  this
political  system  disappeared.

Rumania  remained  in  the  peace  group  of  States,  seeking
to  work  in  agreement  in  order  to  assure  peace  and  to  con-
serve the  situation  de  facto  and  de  jure  created  by  treaties.
Rumania  then  found  herself  in  the  presence  of  powers  making
war  for  the  sole  purpose  of  transforming  from  top  to  bot-
tom the  old  arrangements  which  had  served  as  a  basis  for
their  treaty  of  alliance.  These  changes  were  for  Rumania
proof  that  the  object  she  pursued  in  joining  the  Triple  Al-
liance no  longer  could  be  attained  and  that  she  must  direct
her  efforts  in  new  paths,  especially  as  the  work  undertaken
by  Austria-Hungary  threatened  the  interests  of  Rumania
and  her  national  aspirations.  Consequently  Rumania  re-
sumed her  liberty  of  action.

The  neutrality  which  Rumania  imposed  upon  herself  in
consequence  of  a  declaration  of  war  made  independently  of
her  will,  and  contrary  to  her  interests,  had  been  adopted
as  the  results  of  the  assurances  that  Austria-Hungary,  in
declaring  war  against  Serbia,  was  not  inspired  by  a  spirit
of  conquest  or  of  territorial  gains.  These  assurances  have
not  been  realized.

To-day  we  are  confronted  by  a  situation  de  facto  threat-
ening great  territorial  transformations  and  political  changes
of  a  nature  constituting  a  grave  menace  to  the  future  of
Rumania.  The  work  of  peace  which  Rumania  attempted  to
accomplish,  in  a  spirit  of  faithfulness  to  the  Triple  Alliance,
thus  was  rendered  barren  by  the  very  powers  called  upon
to  defend  it.

In  adhering  in  1883  to  the  group  of  Central  Powers,
Rumania  was  far  from  forgetting  the  bonds  of  blood  con-
stituting between  them  a  pledge  for  her  domestic  tranquillity,
as  well  as  for  the  improvement  of  the  lot  of  the  Rumanians
of  Austria-Hungary.  In  fact,  Germany  and  Italy,  who
reconstituted  their  States  on  the  basic  principle  of  national-
ity, could  not  but  recognize  the  legitimacy  of  the  foundation
upon  which  their  own  existence  reposed.

As  for  Austria-Hungary,  she  found  in  the  friendly  re-

326  RUMANIA  JOINS  THE  ALLIES

lations  established  between  her  and  Rumania  assurances  of
tranquillity  both  in  her  interior  and  on  our  common  fron-
tiers, for  she  was  bound  to  know  to  what  extent  the  dis-
content of  her  Rumanian  population  found  echo  among  us,
threatening  our  good  relations.

For  a  period  of  thirty  years  the  Rumanians  of  Austria-
Hungary  not  only  never  saw  a  reform  introduced,  but,  in-
stead, were  treated  as  an  inferior  race  and  condemned  to
suffer  the  oppression  of  a  foreign  element  which  constitutes
only  a  minority  amid  the  diverse  nationalities  constituting
the  Austro-Hungarian  States.

All  the  injustices  our  brothers  thus  were  made  to  suffer
maintained  between  our  country  and  the  monarchy  a  con-
tinual state  of  animosity.  At  the  outbreak  of  the  war  Aus-
tria-Hungary made  no  effort  to  ameliorate  these  conditions.
After  two  years  of  the  war  Austria-Hungary  showed  herself
as  prompt  to  sacrifice  her  peoples  as  powerless  to  defend
them.  The  war  in  which  almost  the  whole  of  Europe  is
partaking  raises  the  gravest  problems  affecting  the  national
development  and  very  existence  of  the  States.

Rumania,  from  a  desire  to  hasten  the  end  of  the  conflict
and  to  safeguard  her  racial  interests,  sees  herself  forced  to
enter  into  line  by  the  side  of  those  who  are  able  to  assure
her  realization  of  her  national  unity.  For  these  reasons
Rumania  considers  herself,  from  this  moment,  in  a  state
of  war  with  Austria-Hungary.

BY  KING  FERDINAND  OF  RUMANIA
Proclamation  of  August  28,  1916

Rumanians !  The  war  which  for  the  last  two  years  has
been  encircling  our  frontiers  more  and  more  closely  has
shaken  the  ancient  foundations  of  Europe  to  their  depths.

It  has  brought  the  day  which  has  been  awaited  for  cen-
turies by  the  national  conscience,  by  the  founders  of  the
Rumanian  State,  by  those  who  united  the  principalities  in
the  war  of  independence,  by  those  responsible  for  the  na-
tional renaissance.  It  is  the  day  of  the  union  of  all  branches
of  our  nation.  To-day  we  are  able  to  complete  the  task  of
our  forefathers  and  to  establish  forever  that  which  Michael

RUMANIA  JOINS  THE  ALLIES  327

the  Great  was  only  able  to  establish  for  a  moment,  namely,
a  Rumanian  union  on  both  slopes  of  the  Carpathians.

For  us  the  mountains  and  plains  of  Bukowina,  where
Stephen  the  Great  has  slept  for  centuries.  In  our  moral  en-
ergy and  our  valor  lie  the  means  of  giving  him  back  his
birthright  of  a  great  and  free  Rumania  from  the  Tisza  to
the  Black  Sea,  and  to  prosper  in  peace  in  accordance  with
our  customs  and  our  hopes  and  dreams.

Rumanians!  Animated  by  the  holy  duty  imposed  upon
us,  and  determined  to  bear  manfully  all  the  sacrifices  in-
separable from  an  arduous  war,  we  will  march  into  battle
with  the  irresistible  elan  of  a  people  firmly  confident  in  its
destiny.   The  glorious  fruits  of  victory  shall  be  our  reward.

Forward,  with  the  help  of  God !

Ferdinand.

To  the  army:

Soldiers  :  I  have  summoned  you  to  carry  your  standards
beyond  the  frontier,  where  our  brothers  are  waiting  for  you
impatiently  and  with  hearts  filled  with  hope.  The  memory
of  the  Great  Voivodes  Michael  the  Brave  and  Stephen  the
Great,  whose  remains  lie  in  the  earth  which  you  are  going
to  set  free,  call  you  to  victory  as  men  worthy  of  the  vic-
tors of  Razboeni,  Capugareeni,  and  Paehna.  I  have  sum-
moned you  to  fight  side  by  side  with  the  men  of  the  great
nations  to  which  we  are  allied.  A  desperate  struggle  awaits
you.  We  shall  bear  these  hardships  manfully,  and  with
God's  help  victory  will  be  ours.  Show  yourselves  worthy
of  the  glory  of  your  ancestors.  In  the  centuries  to  come
the  whole  race  will  bless  you  and  sing  your  praises.

BY  VON  BETHMANN-HOLLWEG

Our  relations  with  Rumania  before  the  war  were  based
on  the  treaty  of  alliance  first  concluded  between  Austria-
Hungary  and  Rumania,  and  then  enlarged  by  the  accession
of  Germany  and  Italy.  The  contracting  parties  engaged
under  the  treaty  to  assist  each  other  in  case  of  unprovoked
attack  by  a  third  party.

When  the  war  broke  out  King  Carlos  with  all  his  energy
stood  up  for  the  idea  that  Rumania  owed  to  the  Central

328  RUMANIA  JOINS  THE  ALLIES

Powers  thirty  years  of  political  security  and  wonderful  eco-
nomic development,  and  that,  therefore,  Rumania  must  sup-
port the  Central  Powers,  not  only  on  account  of  the  pro-
visions of  the  treaty  but  also  for  the  sake  of  the  country's
honor.  The  late  King  regarded  as  sophistry  the  objection
that  Rumania  had  not  been  informed  and  consulted  in  re-
gard to  the  Austro-Hungarian  demarche  in  regard  to  Serbia.

But  when  the  deciding  session  of  the  Crown  Council  was
held  the  aged  King  did  not  succeed  as  against  the  Govern-
ment, whose  Prime  Minister,  notwithstanding  treaty  obliga-
tions, sympathized  with  the  Entente  Powers.  A  short  time
later  the  King  died  in  consequence  of  the  emotions  caused
by  realization  that  Rumania  was  a  traitor  to  her  allies.

The  Rumanian  policy  was  now  guided  by  Premier  Bra-
tiano,  who  attempted  to  gain  riches,  without  making  great
sacrifices,  at  the  expense  of  the  party  suffering  defeat  in  the
War.  The  main  point  was  to  discover  in  time  which  party
was  about  to  win  final  victory,  in  order  not  to  be  too  late.
Nevertheless,  during  the  first  year  of  the  war,  probably
after  the  fall  of  Lemberg,  Premier  Bratiano,  leaving  his
sovereign  in  ignorance,  concluded  a  treaty  of  neutrality  with
Russia.  After  the  fall  of  Przemysl  he  thought  the  time
had  come  to  reach  an  understanding  in  regard  to  pay  for
his  Judas-like  treason,  but  the  negotiations  failed.  Russia
desired  to  increase  her  own  vast  territory  by  taking  the
Bukowina,  while  Rumania  not  only  coveted  this  same  Buko-
wina,  but  also  all  Hungarian  territory  as  far  as  the  Theiss.

The  Russian  offensive  this  spring  made  Premier  Bratiano
believe  he  saw  the  breaking  down  of  the  Central  Powers.
Accordingly  he  decided  to  obtain  a  share  when  the  rob-
bery of  the  dead  body  began.  Furthermore,  the  Entente
Powers  had  a  freer  hand  in  conducting  negotiations  than
others.  Serbia  had  been  conquered,  and  the  protectors  of
small,  feeble  States  were  no  longer  obliged  to  show  any  con-
sideration for  Serbia's  former  wishes  in  regard  to  annexa-
tion of  territory.  They  could  be  more  liberal  toward  Ru-
mania.

In  the  middle  of  August  Bratiano  came  to  terms  with
our  enemies.    He  reserved  for  himself,  however,  the  deci-

RUMANIA  JOINS  THE  ALLIES  329

sion  as  to  the  time  actual  hostilities  were  to  be  inaugurated,
and  attempted  to  make  it  dependent  on  military  conditions.
The  King  of  Rumania  up  to  that  time  had  repeatedly  given
the  most  binding  assurances  that  under  all  circumstances  he
would  remain  neutral.  Finally,  the  Rumanian  Minister  in
Berlin,  on  the  order  of  the  King,  gave  to  me  a  formal  decla-
ration that  the  King  desired  to  maintain  Rumania's  neu-
trality and  that  the  Government  was  in  a  position  to  do  so.
Premier  Bratiano  declared  to  the  German  Minister  at  Bucha-
rest, Baron  von  Bussche-Haddenhausen,  that  he  fully  in-
dorsed the  declaration  of  the  King.

However,  we  were  not  deceived.  We  were  informed  con-
tinuously in  regard  to  Bratiano's  negotiations  during  Au-
gust, and  constantly  directed  the  King's  attention  to  the  secret
intrigues  of  his  Prime  Minister.  The  King  declared  sev-
eral times  that  Bratiano  was  not  bound  or  binding  himself
to  the  Entente.  As  late  as  three  days  before  the  declara-
tion of  war  the  King  said  to  our  Minister  that  he  knew  the
overwhelming  majority  of  the  Rumanian  Nation  did  not  de-
sire war.  To  an  intimate  friend  the  King  declared  on  the
same  day  in  the  most  categorical  fashion  that  he  would  not
sign  an  order  for  mobilization.

On  August  26th,  the  day  preceding  Rumania's  declara-
tion of  war,  the  King  said  to  the  Austro-Hungarian  Min-
ister that  he  did  not  wish  war.  I  add  in  passing  that  Bra-
tiano at  the  same  time  assured  the  Austro-Hungarian  repre-
sentative that  he  had  decided  to  maintain  neutrality,  and  that
the  outcome  of  the  session  of  the  Crown  Council  which  had
been  called  for  the  following  day  would  prove  the  truth  of
his  words.

As  late  as  August  23rd  the  Entente  Powers  had  not
decided  at  what  moment  Rumania  ought  to  declare  war.  We
knew  this  from  a  most  reliable  source.  The  Rumanian  army
still  lacked  preparedness,  and  particularly  lacked  munitions,
as  was  proved  later,  at  the  time  of  the  fall  of  Turtukai  and
Silistria.

Then  events  were  precipitated.  From  information  which
may  be  considered  reliable  it  appears  that  Russia  suddenly
presented  an  ultimatum  that  she  would  cross  the  unpro-

330  RUMANIA  JOINS  THE  ALLIES

tected  Rumanian  frontier  if  Rumania  did  not  begin  war  be-
fore August  28th.  Whether  this  ultimatum  was  a  piece  of
comedy  prearranged  with  Bratiano,  in  order  to  influence
the  hesitating  King,  I  leave  undecided,  but  the  die  was  cast.

M.  Briand,  in  his  latest  discourse,  praised  the  beauty
and  loveliness  of  Rumania's  procedure.  Political  condi-
tions of  such  a  nature  that  orders  of  Kings  and  Ministers
amount  to  nothing  show  the  doubtful  value  of  those  ideals
of  liberty,  justice,  and  civilization  for  which  the  Entente  pre-
tends that  it  fights.  Since  the  beginning  of  the  world  war
Rumania  has  followed  a  policy  of  piracy,  depending  upon
the  general  war  situation.  Rumania's  military  capitulatiop
will  prove  as  mistaken  as  her  political  capitulation  to  her  En-
tente friends,  which  already  has  been  proved  to  have  been
wrong.  They  must  have  hoped  earnestly  that  Rumania's  par-
ticipation in  the  war  would  cause  the  defection  of  Bulgaria
and  Turkey,  but  Turkey  and  Bulgaria  are  not  the  same  as
Rumania  and  Italy.  Firm  and  inviolable  stands  their  faith-
fulness as  allies,  and  they  have  won  glorious  victories  in
the  Dobrudja.

REVOLUTION  IN  GREECE

STRUGGLE  OF  THE  BULGARS  AND  ALLIES  FOR  SALONIKA

AUGUST  30TH

STEPHEN  DUGGAN  G.  WARD  PRICE

KING  CONSTANTINE

Of  all  the  European  states  which  were  ultimately  drawn  into  the
War,  Greece  struggled  longest  to  escape  its  misery  by  insisting  on
neutrality.  At  the  first  her  people's  sympathies  had  been  strongly
pro-Ally;  and  only  the  resolute  pro-Germanism  of  her  young  king,
Constantine,  kept  her  from  joining  them.  The  Greek  royal  family
were  originally  German  princelings,  but  for  three  generations  now  they
had  sat  upon  the  throne  of  Greece.  Hence  Constantine  was  a  Greek,
but  he  had  been  trained  in  the  German  army  and  had  married  a  sister
of  the  Kaiser.  His  queen,  like  the  German  Czarina  of  Russia,  cared
more  for  the  land  of  her  birth  than  for  that  of  her  husband.

In  the  case  of  the  Greek  sovereigns,  proof  has  been  given  since
the  War  that  they  both  espoused  the  German  cause,  secretly  but  com-
pletely, and  kept  Germany  fully  informed  as  to  their  plans  and  their
needs.  "Tino,"  as  the  German  queen  and  her  Emperor  brother
called  the  Greek  king  in  their  correspondence,  gave  the  Kaiser  his
positive  word  that  not  a  single  Greek  soldier  should  aid  the  Allies.

That  promise  was  hard  to  keep.  So  many  Greeks  wanted  to  join
the  Ally  cause  that  the  king  was  at  length  driven  to  overthrow  the
constitution  and  rule  by  force.

Later,  however,  as  Serbia  sank  in  disaster,  the  Greek  people  dreaded
a  similar  fate  and  lost  most  of  their  enthusiasm  for  the  War.  There
was  much  rioting  on  both  sides  and  much  distress  caused  by  the
commercial  pressure  by  which  the  Allies  sought  to  bring  Greece  to
join  them.  In  the  end  the  king  seemed  likely  to  have  his  way  and
to  keep  his  people  with  him  in  ostensible  neutrality.  In  May  of
1916,  however,  the  king  ventured  an  extreme  step ;  he  caused  his
soldiers  to  surrender  to  the  Bulgars  the  Greek  fort  of  Rupel.  This
was  a  great  help  to  the  Teutons  and  a  dangerous  menace  to  the
Allies'  army  at  Salonika.  On  the  other  hand,  it  roused  many  Greek
patriots  to  furious  rage  against  the  king.  Hitherto  his  people  had
thought  of  him  as  a  Greek  and  trusted  him.  Now  they  remembered
that  he  was  a  German.

Some  further  concessions  to  the  Bulgarians  roused  the  pro-Ally
Greeks  to  revolution.  On  August  30th  the  Government  which  ruled
Greece  to  the  end  of  the  War  was  set  up  in  Salonika  under  Allied  pro-
tection.   At  first  it  was  republican  in  form.

On  September  12th  the  king  took  an  even  further  step  by  sur-
rendering a  seaport  to  the  Bulgarians.  This  so  estranged  his  people
that  all  eastern  Greece  joined  the  new  republic.    The  king,  how-

332  REVOLUTION  IN  GREECE

ever,  still  maintained  his  control  in  Athens.  Not  until  the  summer
of  1917  did  he  find  the  last  vestige  of  power  slipping  away  from  him.
He  then  resigned  his  crown.    The  revolution  was  complete.

HEN  the  Great  War  burst  upon  Europe  the  states-

V  Y  man  who  had  become  known  as  the  maker  of  modern
Greece,  Eleutherios  Venizelos,  was  at  the  helm  of  govern-
ment. Venizelos  had  passed  most  of  his  manhood  in  an
effort  to  secure  the  union  of  his  native  island,  Crete,  to
Greece.  He  participated  in  the  rebellion  against  the  Ottoman
Empire  which  compelled  the  powers  to  intervene  and  se-
cure autonomy  for  Crete  in  1897.  Under  the  autonomous
government  he  rendered  splendid  service  as  minister  of
justice  in  reorganizing  the  laws  of  the  island,  and  was  finally-
elected  prime  minister  of  Crete  in  1910.  When  the  Greek
army  officers  who  formed  the  Military  League  assumed  con-
trol of  the  Greek  Government  in  1909  and  demanded  many
governmental  changes,  including  the  exclusion  of  the  royal
princes  from  command  in  the  army,  Greece  passed  through
a  year  of  anarchy,  which  finally  came  to  an  end  only  when
Venizelos  became  Prime  Minister  in  October,  1910.  He  was
as  successful  at  Athens  as  he  had  been  in  Crete,  securing
the  adhesion  of  the  Military  League  to  the  new  constitution
that  was  adopted,  and  introducing  many  reforms  in  internal
administration,  which  brought  upon  him  the  hatred  of  the
political  parasites  with  whom  Greece  was  so  plentifully  pro-
vided. As  soon  as  Venizelos  had  secured  the  necessary  re-
forms in  domestic  affairs,  he  turned  his  attention  to  the  great
problem  which  troubled  all  Balkan  statesmen,  the  Mace-
donian question.  His  success  in  foreign  diplomacy  was  as
great  as  in  domestic  administration.  He  was  the  animating
spirit  in  the  organization  of  the  Balkan  League,  which  de-
stroyed the  power  of  Turkey  in  the  First  Balkan  War,  and
it  was  due  to  his  skillful  diplomacy  that  Greece  emerged  from
the  Second  Balkan  War  with  territorial  profits  far  in  excess
of  any  other  of  the  Balkan  states.

After  the  Treaty  of  Bucharest  the  foreign  policy  of  Veni-

1  Reprinted  by  permission  of  the  author.

BY  STEPHEN  DUGGAN

REVOLUTION  IN  GREECE

zelos  was  determined  chiefly  by  two  principles.  The  first
was  the  necessity  of  protecting  Greece  from  a  war  of  re-
venge by  Bulgaria.  To  maintain  this  principle  he  and  M.
Pashitch,  the  Prime  Minister  of  Serbia,  had  committed  their
countries  to  a  defensive  alliance  against  attack  by  a  third
power,  and  Venizelos  made  the  maintenance  of  that  treaty
the  corner-stone  of  his  foreign  policy.  The  second  prin-
ciple was  the  necessity  of  securing  the  favor  of  the  mari-
time powers,  France  and  England.  Venizelos  believed  that
the  future  of  Greece  was  upon  the  sea  and  he  aimed  to
strengthen  her  maritime  influence  in  the  eastern  Mediter-
ranean. Moreover,  he  believed  that  the  expansion  of  mod-
ern Greece  was  to  follow  the  same  lines  as  that  of  ancient
Greece,  i.e.,  to  the  islands  of  the  yEgean  and  the  shores  of
Asia  Minor.  Hundreds  of  thousands  of  Greeks  dwelt  in
the  coast  cities  of  Asia  Minor  hoping  for  the  day  of  de-
liverance. To  realize  such  a  policy  demanded  the  friendship
of  France  and  England.  Hence  when  the  Great  War  broke
out,  Venizelos  made  no  secret  of  his  leanings  toward  the
Entente  Allies.  Nevertheless  when  the  new  session  of  the
chamber  opened  on  October  I,  19 14,  he  declared  that  Greece
intended  to  remain  neutral  unless  called  upon  to  assist  her
ally,  Serbia.

The  great  popularity  of  Venizelos  in  Greece  was  equaled
by  that  of  King  Constantine.  Constantine  had  been  com-
pelled by  the  Military  League  to  relinquish  his  command  in
the  army  in  1909,  but  had  been  reestablished  in  it  after  the
adoption  of  the  new  constitution  in  1910.  During  the
Balkan  wars  he  had  shown  himself  to  be  a  brave  and  capable
commander,  and  for  his  successes  against  Turks  and  Bul-
gars,  especially  in  compelling  the  surrender  of  the  fortress
of  Janina,  he  had  been  given  the  title  of  Constantine  the
Victorious.  Like  his  great  minister,  Constantine  was  a
strong-minded  man,  and  although  he  was  willing  that  in
domestic  affairs  Venizelos  should  have  practically  carte
blanche,  he  did  not  show  the  same  complaisance  in  foreign
affairs  as  did  his  father,  whom  he  succeeded  in  1913.  He
had  received  his  military  training  in  Germany,  and  like  many
of  his  general  staff,  was  a  firm  believer  in  the  invincibility

334  REVOLUTION  IN  GREECE

of  the  German  army.  He  was  married  to  the  Kaiser's  sister,
and  that  fact,  no  doubt,  had  considerable  influence  with
him.  He  viewed  Russia  with  distrust  and  like  most  Greeks
looked  with  concern  upon  a  Russian  occupation  of  Con-
stantinople, an  aim  that  some  Russian  patriots  put  forward
early  in  the  war.  He  also  shared  the  antagonism  main-
tained by  his  countrymen  toward  Italy,  whose  ambitions
in  Albania  and  the  iEgean  brought  her  into  conflict  with
Greece.  It  is  probable  that  Constantine  was  personally  pro-
German  at  the  beginning  of  the  Great  War,  but  there  was
nothing  in  his  actions  or  speeches  to  indicate  that  he  intended
to  oppose  the  desires  of  four-fifths  of  his  subjects  to  favor,
in  whatever  way  was  possible,  the  Entente  Allies.  In  the
diplomatic  struggle  for  Greek  support  which  at  once  com-
menced at  Athens  between  the  representatives  of  the  En-
tente Allies  and  the  Central  Powers,  the  former  had  prac-
tically everything  in  their  favor.  Only  unusual  blundering
could  prevent  success.

The  Central  Powers  had  little  to  offer  Greece  in  return
for  a  promise  of  neutrality,  but  that  little  was  definite  and
was  never  diminished.  They  promised  that  Greece  would
not  be  called  upon  to  undertake  hostile  action  against  the
Entente  Allies  and  that  her  territorial  integrity  would  be
guaranteed.  Their  success  in  securing  Turkey's  entrance
into  the  war  on  October  29,  1914,  decreased  their  influence
at  Athens,  for  if  Greece  was  to  profit  by  the  great  struggle,
it  must  be  at  the  expense  of  Turkey  or  Albania,  or  as  she
hoped,  of  both,  and  the  success  of  the  Central  Powers  meant
the  territorial  integrity  of  both  Turkey  and  Albania.  The
Entente  Allies,  on  the  contrary,  after  the  entrance  of  Turkey
into  the  war,  held  out  the  promise  of  Greek  expansion  in
Asia  Minor  in  return  for  Greek  support.  But  at  the  same
time  they  made  the  most  urgent  representations  of  the  need
that  Greece  agree  to  her  own  amputation  in  order  to  placate
Bulgaria.  Only  in  that  way  was  it  possible  to  revive  the
Balkan  Confederation,  which  would  prevent  any  junction  be-
tween the  Central  Powers  and  Turkey,  and  would  permit  of
the  elimination  of  the  latter  from  the  war.  Now  the  hatred
of  Greeks  and  Bulgarians  for  each  other  engendered  during

REVOLUTION  IN  GREECE  335

the  Second  Balkan  War  was  greater  than  that  between  any
other  Balkan  peoples.  The  territory  Greece  was  urged  to
relinquish  was  the  rich,  fertile  district  in  which  was  raised
the  celebrated  Turkish  tobacco.  And  of  the  statesmen  Bul-
garians looked  upon  as  responsible  for  their  disgrace,  no
one  to  them  was  so  blameworthy  as  Venizelos.  Had  a
group  of  European  powers  suggested  to  Germany,  in  1872,
that  for  some  common  good  she  return  Alsace-Lorraine  to
France,  and  that  Bismarck  undertake  the  negotiations,  the
favor  with  which  the  suggestion  would  have  been  received
in  Germany  and  the  faith  that  would  have  been  placed  in
the  proposal  by  France,  offer  an  analogy  to  the  situation  in
the  Balkans  in  19 14.

Nevertheless  Venizelos  considered  that  the  golden  oppor-
tunity had  come  to  realize  Greek  ambition  for  expansion  to
Asia  Minor.  On  January  24,  19 15,  and  again  on  January
30,  he  submitted  statements  to  Constantine  suggesting  that
if  by  retroceding  the  Kavala  district  to  Bulgaria  the  Balkan
Confederation  could  be  reestablished,  the  sacrifice  would  be
worth  while.  Greece  would  be  relieved  of  the  fear  of  an
attack  by  Bulgaria  and  would  receive  the  vilayet  of  Smyrna
in  Asia  Minor,  which  has  a  population  of  almost  one  mil-
lion Greeks.  Venizelos  had  secured  from  Sir  Edward  Grey
the  promise  of  Great  Britain's  benevolent  attitude  toward  the
acquisition  of  Smyrna  by  Greece.  Venizelos  afterward
stated  that  the  king  withdrew  the  objection  which  he  had
at  first  made  to  the  plan  and  authorized  him  to  proceed
with  the  negotiations.  But  early  in  February  the  Disconto
Gesellschaft  made  a  loan  of  $30,000,000  to  Bulgaria,  and
although  M.  Radoslavoff,  the  Bulgarian  prime  minister,
made  a  public  statement  that  the  loan  had  not  in  any  way
committed  Bulgaria  to  the  Central  Powers,  Venizelos  was
convinced  that  Bulgaria  had  determined  to  throw  in  her  lot
with  the  Central  Powers.   Hence  he  did  not  make  the  offer.

On  February  19,  19 15,  the  British  fleet  began  its  attack
upon  the  Dardanelles  forts,  and  at  the  same  time  the  En-
tente Allies  invited  Greece  to  participate  in  the  campaign,
in  return  for  which  she  was  to  receive  the  vilayet  of  Smyrna.
The  proposal  was  warmly  advocated  by  Venizelos,  and  early

336  REVOLUTION  IN  GREECE

in  March  the  king  called  a  crown  council  to  consider  inter-
vention. The  general  staff  of  the  army  was  strongly  op-
posed to  participation  in  the  Dardanelles  campaign.  To
strip  Greece  of  troops  to  engage  in  it  would  be  to  open  the
country  to  invasion  by  its  worst  enemy,  Bulgaria.  More-
over, the  general  staff  could  see  no  hope  of  success  for  the
Entente  Allies.  Before  the  war,  it  had  worked  out  a  plan  of
campaign  against  the  Dardanelles  and  concluded  that  suc-
cess would  require  a  very  large  army  to  cooperate  with  the
fleet,  a  far  larger  army  than  the  Entente  Allies  had  at  their
disposal.  Were  Greece  to  enter  the  campaign,  she  would
have  to  bear  the  brunt  of  the  fighting  for  a  territorial  re-
ward which  would  still  have  to  be  conquered.  The  political
consequences  also  were  dangerous.  During  the  First  Balkan
War,  the  Turks  had  driven  thousands  of  Greeks  out  of  Asia
Minor  and  confiscated  the  property  of  other  thousands.
Participation  in  the  Dardanelles  campaign  would  almost
certainly  have  the  same  effect.  So  hazardous  a  step  ought
to  be  undertaken  only  if  success  were  assured.  The  king
refused  his  approval  of  the  policy  of  intervention,  and  on
March  7th  Venizelos  resigned.

Upon  accepting  office  on  March  10th,  the  new  ministry
led  by  M.  Gounaris  issued  a  statement  of  policy  which  im-
plied that  Venizelos  had  negotiated  for  the  surrender  of
Greek  territory  to  the  arch-enemy  Bulgaria.  This  called
forth  an  indignant  protest  from  Venizelos,  who  a  little  later
demanded  that  the  Government  officially  deny  the  implica-
tion made  in  their  statement  of  policy.  Instead,  the  king
wrote  him  a  public  letter  in  which  he  asserted  that  Venizelos
had  proposed  the  cession  of  the  Kavala  district  to  induce
Bulgaria  to  revive  the  Balkan  Confederation.  Venizelos
then  published  his  memoranda  of  January  24th  and  Janu-
ary 30th  to  prove  that  he  had  suggested  the  cession  of  the
Kavala  district  only  as  a  last  resort,  that  the  king  had  au-
thorized him  to  conduct  negotiations  with  the  cession  as  a
basis,  but  that  he  had  not  made  the  offer  because  of  Bul-
garia's receipt  of  the  German  loan.  The  king  replied  on
April  6th  with  another  statement  denying  absolutely  that
he  had  ever  authorized  Venizelos  to  negotiate  for  the  ces-

REVOLUTION  IN  GREECE  337

sion  of  any  Greek  territory.  Poor  Greece!  Not  only  did
its  two  leaders,  both  respected  and  admired  by  the  people,
wholly  disagree  as  to  the  policy  that  the  country  ought  to
pursue,  but  there  had  developed  a  personal  antagonism  be-
tween them  which  boded  ill  for  the  country.  Meanwhile  the
French  and  English  press  were  lauding  Venizelos  and  de-
nouncing Constantine  for  their  respective  attitudes  upon
the  Dardanelles  expedition.  This  did  not  advance  the  cause
of  the  Entente  Allies  at  Athens.  Before  deciding  against
intervention,  Constantine  as  commander-in-chief  of  the
Greek  army  had  carefully  weighed  the  chances  of  success
of  the  expedition.  The  total  failure  of  the  campaign  proved
the  wisdom  of  his  decision.

As  Gounaris  was  opposed  by  a  majority  of  the  chamber,
he  first  secured  an  adjournment  for  a  month  and  then  a
dissolution.  But  in  the  general  election  of  June  13th,  de-
spite a  strong  bid  for  popular  support  made  in  his  state-
ment that  under  no  circumstances  would  he  alienate  Greek
territory,  but  on  the  contrary  would  seek  every  opportunity
to  increase  it,  he  was  defeated.  The  Venizelists  controlled
186  of  the  316  seats  in  the  new  chamber.  Gounaris  de-
layed the  opening  of  the  chamber  a  month  after  the  time
originally  fixed  and  resigned  August  16th,  when  he  was
decisively  beaten  in  the  first  important  division.  A  short
time  previous  to  his  resignation  the  Entente  Allies,  alarmed
at  the  rumors  of  Turkish  concessions  to  Bulgaria  in  the
matter  of  the  Dedeagatch  railroad,  made  a  final  effort  to
secure  territorial  concessions  from  Greece.  This  request  was
flatly  refused  by  Gounaris  who,  moreover,  forestalled  any
such  action  on  the  part  of  Venizelos  by  publicly  stating  that
not  a  single  inch  of  Greek  territory  would  be  ceded  to  Bul-
garia. As  Venizelos  was  the  only  statesman  that  could
command  a  majority  in  the  chamber,  the  king  on  August
23rd  reluctantly  asked  him  to  take  office.

Venizelos'  tenure  of  office,  however,  was  very  short.  On
September  21,  1915,  Bulgaria  mobilized  her  army,  Rado-
slavoff  stating  that  the  action  was  not  in  any  way  prepara-
tory to  war.  Venizelos  was  not  deceived,  however,  and  on
September  25th  ordered  the  mobilization  of  the  Greek  army.

338  REVOLUTION  IN  GREECE

He  did  more.  Under  the  provisions  of  the  Serbo-Greek
treaty  of  19 13,  in  case  of  joint  action  by  Serbia  and  Greece
against  Bulgaria,  Serbia  was  to  contribute  an  army  of  at
least  150,000  troops.  As  Serbia  was  preparing  for  the  im-
pending Austro-German  invasion,  the  impossibility  of  her
carrying  out  this  provision  of  the  treaty  was  obvious.  Veni-
zelos,  therefore,  inquired  of  France  and  Great  Britain
whether  the  Entente  Allies  would  make  good  Serbia's  de-
ficiency. Venizelos  was  convinced  that  neutrality  would
not  avert  but  only  postpone  war  between  Greece  and  Bul-
garia. Hence,  not  only  did  honor  demand  fulfillment  of  the
treaty  with  Serbia,  but  wisdom  also  dictated  that  a  war
with  Bulgaria  should  be  undertaken  under  the  most  favor-
able conditions  for  a  successful  outcome,  viz.,  in  union  with
Serbia  and  the  Entente  Allies.  When  troops  of  the  Entente
Allies  did  land  at  Salonika  on  October  2nd,  Venizelos  made
a  formal  protest  against  their  violation  of  Greek  neutrality
"to  keep  the  record  straight."  The  Serbo-Greek  treaty
came  into  effect  only  when  Bulgaria  attacked  Serbia,  and
that  had  not  yet  taken  place.  But  Venizelos  was  preparing
for  what  he  knew  was  about  to  take  place,  and  after  de-
fending his  action  in  the  chamber  on  October  4th,  he  was
sustained  by  a  vote  of  142  to  104.  The  next  day  he  an-
nounced his  resignation  because  of  the  king's  refusal  to  ap-
prove his  policy.

The  king  denied,  in  the  first  place,  that  he  had  ever  con-
sented to  an  "invitation"  to  the  Entente  Allies  to  send  troops
to  Greece.  He  stated  that  Venizelos  had  only  informed  him
that  an  "inquiry"  had  been  sent  to  them  as  to  whether  they
would  be  willing  to  replace  the  Serbian  contingent.  To  the
detached  student  of  Balkan  affairs,  it  is  futile  to  attempt  to
evaluate  the  relative  veracity  of  Venizelos  and  Constantine.
The  two  men  were  in  absolute  disagreement  as  to  the  policy
their  country  should  undertake  and  they  were  now  in  such
personal  antagonism  that  not  only  was  cooperation  between
them  impossible,  but  belief  in  each  other's  integrity  had
practically  disappeared.  When  we  consider  the  reasons  given
by  the  king  and  his  adherents  for  his  refusal  to  consent  to
the  cabinet's  action  we  are  on  more  solid  ground.   The  first

REVOLUTION  IN  GREECE  339

contention  was  that  according  to  the  provisions  of  the  Serbo-
Greek  treaty  Serbia  was  not  to  cede  to  a  third  power  without
the  consent  of  Greece  any  of  the  Macedonian  territory  se-
cured by  her  in  the  Second  Balkan  War.  As  Serbia  had
agreed  to  the  proposal  of  the  Entente  Allies  to  retrocede
most  of  Macedonia  to  Bulgaria,  she  thereby  rendered  the
treaty  null  and  void.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  Serbia  was  so
convinced  of  the  importance  to  her  safety  of  the  alliance  with
Greece,  that  one  of  the  reasons  which  for  more  than  a  year
had  prevented  her  acceding  to  the  appeals  of  the  Entente
Allies  was  her  resolve  to  do  nothing  that  would  endanger
that  alliance.  She  could  hardly  have  agreed  to  the  cession
in  question  without  some  kind  of  understanding  with  Greece.
The  second  contention  for  the  maintenance  of  Greek  neu-
trality was  that  the  Serbo-Greek  treaty  was  never  intended
to  apply  in  the  case  of  a  European  as  opposed  to  a  Balkan
war;  that  it  was  aimed  exclusively  against  a  Bulgarian  at-
tack upon  one  of  the  signatories  and  could  not  be  expected
to  function  in  the  case  of  an  attack  on  one  of  them  by  two
great  military  empires.  As  the  treaty  was  a  secret  pact,
the  provisions  of  which  have  not  been  divulged,  one  is  left
his  choice  of  accepting  the  king's  interpretation  or  that  of
Venizelos,  who  contended  that  to  desert  Serbia  was  a  viola-
tion of  the  spirit  and  intent  of  the  treaty.

The  fact  is  that  the  arguments  of  the  adherents  of  Con-
stantine  for  maintaining  neutrality  were  not  his  real  reasons.
Although  Greece  had  obtained  a  great  extension  of  territory
by  the  Balkan  wars,  her  resources  had  been  strained  almost
to  exhaustion.  The  Great  War  was  rapidly  enabling  her  to
recover.  The  mercantile  marines  of  France,  Italy  and  Great
Britain  were  engaged  chiefly  in  the  transportation  of  troops
and  munitions,  and  that  of  the  Central  Powers  had  disap-
peared from  the  seas.  Greece  was  rapidly  securing  a  monop-
oly of  the  carrying  trade  of  the  eastern  Mediterranean  and
did  not  wish  to  take  a  step  that  might  hinder  that  develop-
ment. The  chief  reason,  however,  for  the  king's  decision
was  that  prestige  and  power  were  with  the  Central  Powers.
When  Venizelos  resigned  on  October  5,  191 5,  the  Darda-
nelles expedition  had  totally  failed,  the  Anglo-French  "drive"

34o  REVOLUTION  IN  GREECE

in  the  Champagne  had  accomplished  nothing  and  Von  Hin-
denburg  had  driven  the  Russians  from  Poland.  There  is
no  reason  to  doubt  the  sincerity  of  the  king's  belief  that
intervention  on  his  part  would  result  not  only  in  the  rapid
overrunning  of  Serbia  by  the  Central  Powers,  but  in  the  de-
struction of  Greece.  He  is  a  good  soldier  and  at  the  be-
ginning of  December,  in  an  interview  with  the  correspondent
of  the  Associated  Press,  stated:  "Certainly  the  Allied  ex-
pedition to  the  Balkans  is  doomed  to  failure  if  undertaken
with  no  more  men  than  are  now  there  or  on  their  way.  The
minimum  army  that  can  hope  to  accomplish  anything  in  the
Balkans  is  400,000.  As  that  number  is  not  being  sent,  that
is  no  proof  that  it  is  Greece  that  must  suffer — Greece  that
must  pay  the  penalty  for  the  failure  of  the  Allied  Balkan
venture."

This  prediction  was  soon  verified.  The  advance  of  the
Anglo-French  army  up  the  Vardar  valley  into  Bulgarian
Macedonia  ended  in  a  fiasco.  The  army  would  have  been  an-
nihilated but  for  the  willingness  of  its  commander  to  retreat
into  Greek  neutral  territory.  The  Bulgarians  stopped  on
the  frontier,  anxious  to  avoid  offending  Greece,  while  the
Anglo-French  forces  hastened  to  Salonika,  where  they  en
gaged  feverishly  in  digging  themselves  in.  Though  the
great  majority  of  the  Greek  people  were  pro- Ally,  there  can
be  little  doubt  that  the  king's  decision  met  with  their  ap-
proval. The  Entente  Allies  were  undoubtedly  trying  to  force
Greece  to  exchange  a  safe  neutrality  for  risks  that  might  be
fatal.  Not  the  king's  obstinacy  but  the  Allies'  stupidity
brought  about  the  desertion  of  Serbia  by  Greece.  The  En-
tente Allies  were  always  rich  in  promises,  poor  in  perform-
ances. The  king  could  never  have  prevented  Greece  from
abiding  by  the  treaty  of  1913,  had  the  Entente  Allies  not
made  it  evident  that  they  expected  Greece  to  stake  her  des-
tiny on  the  campaign,  to  push  forward  her  army  in  advance
of  Allied  assistance.  The  Greeks  were  thoroughly  aware
that  Serbia  early  in  the  summer  had  suggested  that  the  En-
tente Allies  send  troops  to  its  support  and  that  the  troops
were  not  forthcoming.  They  had  no  reason  to  suppose  that
their  own  experience  would  be  different.

REVOLUTION  IN  GREECE  341

It  might  have  been  a  fortunate  thing  for  Greece  and  for
the  Entente  Allies  also,  had  the  latter  evacuated  Salonika
after  the  failure  of  the  Vardar  campaign.  The  Central
Powers  understood  that  Greece  with  its  long  seacoast  and
insular  possessions  could  not  afford  to  enter  the  war  against
the  Entente  Allies,  but  they  did  demand  that  as  a  neutral
state  Greece  should  intern  their  enemy  who  had  been  de-
feated in  Bulgaria  and  had  retreated  into  Greek  territory.
But  by  that  time  the  benevolent  attitude  of  the  Entente
Allies  to  Greece  had  given  way  to  one  of  coercion.  When
Venizelos  resigned  on  October  5,  191 5,  he  was  succeeded  by
Alexander  Zaimis.  His  ministry  existed,  of  course,  at  the
sufferance  of  Venizelos,  who  commanded  a  majority  of  the
chamber.  When  Bulgaria  attacked  Serbia  on  October  14th,
Zaimis  refused  to  enforce  the  Serbo-Greek  treaty  and  on
October  17th  declined  Great  Britain's  offer  of  the  island
of  Cyprus  in  return  for  active  Greek  military  support.  As
Venizelos  had  permitted  the  ministry  to  exist  only  provided
the  question  of  war  was  merely  one  of  time  and  not  of  doubt,
he  brought  about  the  defeat  of  the  ministry  on  November
4th,  by  a  vote  of  147  to  114.  The  king  then  called  M.
Skouloudis  to  office,  dissolved  the  chamber,  and  called  for
new  elections  on  December  19th.  Now  not  five  months  had
passed  since  Venizelos  had  received  the  approval  of  the  peo-
ple and  secured  a  majority  of  the  chamber,  as  the  result  of
a  general  election.  In  the  meantime,  a  large  part  of  the
electors  had  been  called  to  the  colors,  and  as  Greek  soldiers
cannot  vote  when  in  service,  a  new  election  could  not  be  at
all  representative  of  the  will  of  the  people.  Venizelos,  there-
fore, declaring  that  the  king  had  launched  upon  a  policy  of
arbitrary  government  and  that  his  action  was  unconstitu-
tional, requested  his  followers  to  abstain  from  voting  at  the
election  to  show  their  disapproval  of  the  king's  policy.  The
result  was  that  the  Skouloudis  ministry,  the  fifth  in  the  year
191 5,  secured  a  majority  of  the  chamber,  which  was  elected
by  a  minority  of  the  voters.

The  Skouloudis  ministry,  while  professing  to  maintain
an  attitude  of  benevolent  neutrality  toward  the  Entente  Al-
lies, firmly  opposed  any  of  the  latter's  demands  that  would

342  REVOLUTION  IN  GREECE

result  in  a  breach  of  strict  neutrality.  The  press  of  the
Entente  Allies,  therefore,  soon  adopted  the  position  of  Veni-
zelos  that  the  existing  Greek  Government  was  unconstitu-
tional, and  demanded  that  France,  Great  Britain  and  Rus-
sia enforce  the  treaty  of  1864,  whereby  "Greece  under  the
sovereignty  of  the  Prince  of  Denmark  and  the  guarantee  of
the  three  courts  forms  a  monarchical,  independent  and  con-
stitutional state."  As  Greece  was  no  longer  a  constitutional
state,  the  press  of  the  Allies  demanded  that  the  guaranteeing
powers  perform  their  duty  by  intervening  to  secure  such
a  state — which  meant,  of  course,  the  return  of  Venizelos
to  power.  Just  what  liberal  England,  Napoleonic  France,
and  autocratic  Russia  had  in  mind  by  the  term  "constitu-
tional state"  when  they  negotiated  the  treaty  of  1864,  it
would  be  hard  to  say.  It  must  always  have  had  a  very  vague
meaning,  for  when  the  army  under  the  Military  League  really
subverted  the  constitution  in  1909,  none  of  the  guaranteeing
powers  hinted  at  intervention.  But  the  exasperation  of  the
Entente  Allies  at  the  recalcitrant  attitude  of  the  Skouloudis
ministry  gradually  overcame  Sir  Edward  Grey's  reluctance
to  sanction  any  dealing  with  Greece  which  might  be  inter-
preted in  neutral  countries  as  smacking  of  "Prussianism."
Lack  of  space  permits  only  an  enumeration  of  the  chief
incidents  which  gradually  transformed  the  attitude  of  the
majority  of  the  Greek  people  from  one  of  enthusiasm  for
the  Entente  Allies  to  one  of  ill-concealed  hostility.

In  December,  19 15,  the  Entente  Allies  demanded  of
Greece  that  it  give  formal  assurance  that  the  Allied  troops  be
in  no  case  disarmed  or  interned  and  be  granted  full  freedom
of  action ;  also  that  all  requisite  railway  facilities  be  placed
at  the  disposal  of  the  Entente  Allies  for  the  transport  of
troops  and  supplies.  The  Greek  Government  declared  its
readiness  to  concede  such  facilities  as  would  not  transgress
the  limits  prescribed  by  the  observance  of  neutrality.  As
this  answer  was  unsatisfactory,  the  Entente  Allies  ordered  a
commercial  blockade  of  the  Greek  coast,  which  was  main-
tained until  the  Greek  Government  yielded.  This  action  an-
tagonized not  only  the  influential  commercial  class,  whose
vessels  could  neither  enter  nor  depart  from  Greek  ports,  but

REVOLUTION  IN  GREECE

also  large  numbers  of  the  poorer  people,  who  suffered  from
the  advance  in  the  price  of  food  products.  On  January  n,
1916,  the  Allies  assumed  control  of  the  island  of  Corfu  as  a
place  of  recuperation  for  the  Serbian  troops  that  had  escaped
annihilation.  The  Greek  Government  maintained  that  the
territory  of  one  of  the  Allies,  Italy,  was  near  enough  for  such
a  use  and  objected  to  the  violation  of  Greek  neutrality.  In
late  March  the  Allies  took  control  of  the  island  of  Cepha-
lonia  as  a  naval  base.  In  April  they  requested  permission  of
the  Greek  Government  to  transport  the  recuperated  Serbian
army  by  rail  to  Salonika  in  order  to  avoid  the  danger  of
submarines.  The  Central  Powers  protested  that  compliance
with  the  request  would  be  regarded  by  them  as  an  unfriendly
act  and  the  request  was  refused.

On  May  26th  occurred  the  most  serious  of  all  the  untoward
incidents,  one  which  went  far  to  convince  the  Entente  Allies
that  the  Greek  Government  was  working  in  the  interests  of
the  Central  Powers.  The  commander  of  the  garrison  of
Fort  Rupel,  the  strongest  of  the  forts  on  the  northeast  fron-
tier, surrendered  to  the  Bulgars  after  telegraphing  to  Athens
for  instructions.  The  government  that  had  once  asserted
that  it  would  never  cede  a  foot  of  Greek  territory  to  Bulgaria
defended  its  action  on  the  twofold  ground  that  resistance
would  be  useless,  and  that  in  view  of  what  the  Allies  had
already  done  in  Greece,  it  could  not  without  inconsistency
have  acted  otherwise  in  applying  the  principle  of  neutrality.
Moreover,  it  stated  that  it  had  secured,  not  from  the  Bul-
garian but  from  the  German  Government,  a  written  promise
to  restore  the  forts  in  good  condition.

The  Entente  Allies  looked  upon  the  surrenders  of  Rupel
and  the  neighboring  forts  as  evidence  of  a  deliberate  agree-
ment by  the  Greek  Government  with  the  Central  Powers  to
shut  up  the  allied  troops  in  Salonika.  In  conjunction  with
the  belief  that  the  Greek  Army  would  strike  them  in  the  rear
if  they  commenced  operations,  the  surrenders  certainly  had
the  effect  of  immobilizing  the  half-million  men  concentrated
by  the  Entente  Allies  in  the  neighborhood  of  Salonika.  The
Entente  Allies,  therefore,  determined  to  take  precautionary
measures.  The  only  reasonable  precautionary  measure  was  to

344  REVOLUTION  IN  GREECE

act  upon  the  suggestion  of  some  of  the  Allied  press  and  hold
the  king  responsible.  Instead,  the  Entente  Allies  proceeded
to  punish  the  whole  Greek  people.  They  not  only  resorted  to
a  commercial  blockade  of  Greece,  but  laid  an  embargo  upon
Greek  vessels  in  their  ports.  At  the  same  time  the  ministers
of  the  Entente  Allies  presented  a  note  to  the  Athens  Govern-
ment in  their  position  as  the  "Protecting  Power  of  Greece,"
making  a  clear  distinction  between  the  Greek  people  and  the
Greek  Government,  which  had  "evident  collusion  with  the
enemies  of  the  Allies."  The  note  demanded :  ( i )  complete
demobilization  of  the  Greek  army;  (2)  a  new  ministry
pledged  to  show  the  real  benevolent  neutrality  to  the
Allies  that  had  been  promised;  (3)  immediate  dissolution
of  the  chamber  and  fresh  elections  within  the  time  limit
provided  by  the  constitution;  and  (4)  dismissal  of  police
officials  that  had  insulted  the  Allied  legations  and  oppressed
peaceable  citizens.  This  demand  refers  to  certain  police
officials  of  high  position  believed  to  be  in  the  pay  of  the
Central  Powers  and  guilty  of  oppression  of  Venizelists.
The  Greek  Government  protested  indignantly  in  a  note
to  the  Department  of  State  at  Washington  against  the  in-
terference with  their  commerce.  The  note  stated  that
the  Allies  not  only  had  blockaded  the  Greek  coast,  but  had
seized  Greek  ships  which  they  sometimes  turned  into  trans-
ports for  their  own  purposes.  As  a  result  the  Greek  sea
trade  had  been  ruined  and  the  Greek  people  deprived  of  neces-
sary food  supplies.  Nevertheless  on  June  28th  the  Greek
Government  acceded  to  the  four  demands  of  the  Allies.

The  surrender  of  Fort  Rupel  and  the  other  forts  on  the
Bulgarian  frontier  was  a  strong  blow  to  the  prestige  of  Con-
stantine.  The  street  demonstrations  that  occurred  upon  re-
ceipt of  the  news  showed  him  that  public  opinion  was  against
the  government's  tame  surrender  and  would  not  back  him
in  withstanding  the  Allies'  demands.  Hence  he  yielded.
But  each  demand  of  the  Allies  in  violation  of  Greek  neu-
trality not  only  met  with  a  hostile  reception,  but  when  ac-
cepted, was  carried  out  with  reluctance  and  incompleteness ;
e.  g.,  the  army  was  never  completely  demobilized.  The  atti-
tude of  the  Allies  on  the  other  hand  was  always  characterized

REVOLUTION  IN  GREECE

by  vacillation.  At  one  time  it  was  peremptory,  at  another
apologetic.  The  Allies  were  determined  to  prevent  the  Cen-
tral Powers  from  reaching  the  Greek  coast  at  all  hazards,
but  instead  of  securing  their  object  by  adopting  a  bold  policy
with  the  king,  they  pursued  a  policy  of  pinpricks  which
injured  his  subjects  more  than  himself  and  gave  him  the
position  of  a  martyr.  On  September  14,  1916,  the  Allies  de-
manded that  the  Greek  Government  hand  over  to  their  repre-
sentatives the  telegraph  and  postal  systems,  on  the  ground
that  they  were  being  used  in  the  interests  of  the  Central
Powers  by  the  notorious  Baron  von  Schenk  and  other  Ger-
man agents  in  Greece.  Moreover,  they  insisted  that  Von
Schenk  and  his  confreres  be  arrested  and  expelled.  The
king's  adherents  had  no  difficulty  in  pointing  out  that  Ger-
man agents  were  active  in  the  United  States,  Spain  and  other
neutral  countries,  and  that  the  Allies  made  no  protests  to
the  governments  concerned.

On  September  12th  occurred  an  event  which  gave  the  Al-
lies an  opportunity  to  settle  the  status  of  Greece  in  their  own
favor  and  nevertheless  retain  the  sympathy  of  most  of  the
Greeks.  On  that  day  the  Bulgarians  occupied  the  Greek  sea-
port of  Kavala,  and  the  garrison  of  10,000  troops  was  sent
to  Germany  as  "guests."  This  event  roused  the  greatest
indignation  throughout  Greece.  The  Greek  garrison  at
Salonika  had  revolted  upon  the  surrender  of  Fort  Rupel,  and
in  union  with  discontented  civilian  elements  they,  on  August
30th,  established  the  "Provisional  Government  of  Macedo-
nia."

The  revolt  now  spread  to  most  of  the  Greek  islands,  and
the  kingdom  was  soon  divided  between  two  governments :  the
Royalist,  which  maintained  authority  over  most  of  old
Greece,  and  the  Nationalist,  which  controlled  the  territory
acquired  by  the  Balkan  wars.  The  latter  region  was  the
one  in  which  the  influence  of  Venizelos  was  strongest,  and
on  September  20th  he  issued  a  statement  in  which  he  said  he
"would  wait  a  brief  time  yet  to  see  what  the  government  pur-
poses to  do  before  deciding  on  the  course  it  will  be  best  to
adopt  in  the  event  that  Greece  does  not  enter  the  war."  As
the  government  apparently  purposed  to  do  nothing,  on  Sep-

REVOLUTION  IN  GREECE

tember  25th  Venizelos,  Admiral  Condouriotis,  commander
of  the  Greek  navy,  and  a  considerable  number  of  army  and
navy  officers  and  civilians  of  influence  left  Athens,  and  after
making  a  tour  of  the  islands,  landed  at  Salonika,  where  Veni-
zelos became  the  real  head  of  the  "Provisional  Government
of  Macedonia."

BY  G.  WARD  PRICE

Rupel  is  a  black  word  with  our  Army  in  the  Balkans.
When  the  Bulgars  suddenly  advanced  and  took  over  from  the
Greeks  (by  previous  secret  arrangement)  the  fort  that  com-
mands the  Struma  valley,  they  threw  a  five-barred  gate  across
the  only  way  by  which  we  might  later  on  have  been  able  to
advance  into  Bulgaria.  The  Bulgars  stopped  the  gap  we
might  have  gone  through.  They  put  themselves  across  the
path  of  any  advance  northward,  and  on  the  flank  of  any
advance  eastward.  Since  then  the  wall  of  strong  positions
over  against  us  has  been  complete,  and  to  achieve  anything
on  what  later  became  the  British  sector  of  the  front  it  was
made  practically  inevitable  that  we  should  first  attack  the
strong  position  of  Rupel.

Why  did  not  the  French,  whose  troops  were  on  the  Struma
at  the  time,  seize  and  hold  Fort  Rupel  before  the  Bulgars
got  there?  It  is  a  question  that  has  been  often  asked.  Cer-
tainly we  had  plenty  of  reasons  to  expect  that  they  would
advance  on  the  fort.  What  restrained  the  French  General
Staff  from  occupying  it,  however,  was  that,  with  the  limited
forces  which  General  Sarrail  had  at  his  disposition,  it  would
only  have  been  possible  to  send  a  regiment  (say  2,000  men)
to  hold  it  and  the  mouth  of  the  defile  which  it  protected.
This  would  not  have  prevented  the  Bulgars  from  coming
down  in  force,  and  the  destruction  or  the  capture  of  the
isolated  garrison  thrust  far  out  in  advance  of  the  main  Allied
Army  would  have  been  a  defeat  for  us  and  an  injury  to  our
cause.

It  was  on  the  morning  of  May  26th  that  the  Bulgarian
force  sent  to  seize  Rupel  appeared  in  the  valley  of  the  Struma.
At  first  it  was  reported  as  one  brigade  strong,  then  as  one
(division.    The  infantry  of  the  force  seems  to  have  con-

REVOLUTION  IN  GREECE

sisted  of  three  whole  regiments  and  part  of  another,  and
there  was  also  artillery,  three  companies  of  German  sappers,
and  some  Uhlans.  The  enemy  came  in  three  columns,  of
which  the  center  one  moved  on  Rupel.  The  fort  had  a  Greek
garrison,  of  course,  the  Greek  Army  being  still  in  occupa-
tion of  Serres  and  Demir  Hissar,  and  as  the  Bulgars  ap-
proached the  Greeks  fired  a  few  shells  at  them — a  pro  forma
resistance  evidently— to  which  the  Bulgars  made  no  reply,
but  instead  sent  at  noon  a  white  flag  to  demand  the  surrender
of  the  fort.  The  officer  in  command  said  that  he  could  not
give  it  up  without  orders  from  Athens,  so  a  delay  was  granted
for  these  to  be  obtained,  and  at  2.30  p.m.  the  telegraphic
order  came  that  the  Greek  garrison  was  to  evacuate  the  fort
and  withdraw  to  Demir  Hissar.  So  the  Greek  flag  was
hauled  down  and  the  Bulgarian  one  hoisted.  The  Bulgars
and  Germans  signed  an  inventory  of  the  contents  of  the
fort,  and  told  General  Bayeras  that  they  only  wanted  it  for
defensive  purposes,  to  stop  an  Allied  move  northwards.  A
telegram  to  the  Athens  Government  from  General  Bayeras,
who  commanded  the  6th  Greek  Division  at  Serres,  which
came  to  the  knowledge  of  the  French  General  Staff,  goes
far  to  confirm  the  idea  that  Rupel  was  surrendered  by  King
Constantine  to  his  friends  and  our  enemies  by  deliberate
previous  collusion.  "The  Germans  and  Bulgars  arrived  at
Demir  Hissar  station  this  morning  to  occupy  it,"  telegraphed
the  General  a  day  or  two  later.  "I  told  them  that  I  could
not  hand  over  the  station  without  previous  reference  to  you,
because  the  transference  of  Demir  Hissar  station  was  not
comprised  in  the  treaty."

Only  a  year  later,  in  July,  19 17,  did  it  become  known,
from  the  disclosures  made  by  the  reestablished  Venizelist
Government  in  Athens,  that,  immediately  before  handing
over  Fort  Rupel  to  the  Germans  and  their  Allies,  King  Con-
stantine's  Government  had  obtained  (as  the  price  of  it)  a
loan  of  £3,000,000  from  the  German  Government,  while  at
the  same  moment,  with  characteristic  duplicity,  it  was  trying
to  avail  itself  of  the  long-suffering  benevolence  of  the  Allies
to  get  another  loan  of  £5,000,000  out  of  them.

Demir  Hissar  station  was  occupied  immediately  after

REVOLUTION  IN  GREECE

Rupel,  treaty  or  no  treaty,  and  the  Bulgarians,  crossing  the
Greek  frontier  at  other  points,  waited  only  until  they  were
ready  to  make  a  simultaneous  push  on  the  other  flank  of  the
Allied  front  before  carrying  the  zone  of  their  occupation
down  to  Kavalla,  so  that  it  enclosed  our  positions  in  a  great
arc.  At  Kavalla  part  of  the  garrison  under  Colonel  Hatzo-
poulo  went  over  to  the  side  which  had  always  had  their  sym-
pathies and  were  carried  off  to  Berlin  for  "training."
Colonel  Christodoulo,  who  had  brought  down  a  contingent
of  anti-Bulgar  Greeks  from  Seres,  got  across  to  Thasos
Island  and  so  back  to  Salonika,  where  he  was  received  by
the  population  with  hero-worship,  and  later  became  the  first
General  of  the  Venizelist  forces.  Salonika,  as  a  part  of
New  Greece,  was  indeed  much  perturbed  by  the  invasion  of
the  Struma  valley  by  the  Bulgars.  Her  townspeople  re-
membered by  what  precarious  means  Salonika  had  become
Greek,  and  they  knew  that  the  Bulgars  aimed,  and  aim  still,
definitely  and  ardently,  at  recapturing  the  coveted  port  in
which  their  troops  temporarily  set  footing  during  the  first
Balkan  War.  There  was  a  large  public  meeting  of  protest
against  the  action  of  the  Greek  Government,  held  in  Salonika,
which  the  Royalist  municipal  authorities  tried  in  vain  to
prevent,  and  from  that  time  a  feeling  of  resentment  and
apprehension  grew  among  the  townspeople  and  the  officers  of
the  garrison  until  it  brought  about  the  "Revolution"  of
August  30th.

Following  upon  the  Bulgarian  descent  into  Greek  territory,
and  their  seizure,  by  connivance  with  the  Greek  Govern-
ment, of  the  fort  of  Rupel,  General  Sarrail  (on  June  3rd)
seized  the  control  at  Salonika  of  the  services  of  communica-
tion and  of  the  police  force  of  the  town.  The  step  was  one
essential  to  our  military  security.  It  was  the  knowledge
which  reached  the  French  General  Staff  of  the  telegram  to
the  Greek  Government,  proving  its  complicity  in  the  ad-
vance of  the  Bulgarians  against  us,  that  armed  Sarrail's
hand.  His  reply  to  the  surrender  of  Fort  Rupel  was  the
proclamation  of  martial  law  at  Salonika  and  throughout  the
zone  of  the  Allied  Armies,  and  the  military  occupation  of
the  public  buildings  of  the  town.    With  the  swiftness  and

REVOLUTION  IN  GREECE

decision  which  are  characteristic  of  Sarrail's  actions,  the  step
was  taken  on  King  Constantine's  birthday,  the  preparations
for  the  celebration  of  which  were  hastily  called  off  as  French
patrols  with  fixed  bayonets  suddenly  appeared  before  all  the
public  buildings  and  at  every  street  corner.  The  civil  ad-
ministration of  the  town,  except  Posts  and  Telegraphs  and
police,  was  left  in  the  hands  of  the  Greeks,,  but  several  offi-
cials who  had  been  particularly  active  in  their  hostility  to
the  Allies,  such  as  Troupakis,  the  head  of  the  gendarmerie,
were  expelled.

I  will  not  go  into  the  question  of  the  blockade  of  the  Greek
coast  by  which  we  brought  pressure  to  bear  on  Athens.
That  was  a  political  matter  ordered  in  the  first  place  by  the
French  Minister  of  Marine,  the  French  Government  acting
as  the  delegate  of  the  Allies  in  the  relations  of  the  Entente
with  Greece.  Several  times  troops  were  embarked  at
Salonika  to  go  and  lie  off  Athens  ready  to  land  if  the  Greek
Government  proved  obstinate.  Dense  secrecy  prevailed,  of
course,  about  these  movements,  and  rumors  of  the  greatest
variety  about  their  destination  would  spring  up  in  the  town
like  mushrooms  after  rain.

As  a  result  of  these  demonstrations,  we  won  some  pseudo-
concessions  from  the  Royalist  Government  at  Athens.  Thus
after  June  21st,  when  we  threatened  to  occupy  the  capital,
the  king  agreed  to  demobilize  his  army — but  he  proceeded
to  arm  civilians,  who  formed  bands  of  irregulars  in  our  rear
just  as  capable  of  giving  us  trouble  as  Greek  uniformed
troops  would  have  been.

At  length,  at  the  end  of  August,  1916,  came  the  "Salonika
Revolution."  This  was  an  outburst  of  the  indignation  of
the  Greeks  of  Macedonia  against  the  simultaneous  invasion
of  still  larger  tracts  of  both  Eastern  and  Western  Macedonia
by  the  Bulgars,  which  took  place  in  August,  when  they  occu-
pied Fiorina  and  Banitza  and  advanced  to  Lake  Ostrovo  in
the  west  and  pushed  on  to  Kavalla  in  the  east.

By  a  sudden  and  rather  dramatic  upheaval,  such  as  appeals
to  the  Greek  temperament,  allegiance  to  King  Constantine
and  the  Athens  Government  was  renounced  by  the  majority
of  the  Salonika  garrison  and  population  and  the  resistance

REVOLUTION  IN  GREECE

of  the  Royalist  minority  was  overcome  after  five  minutes'
fighting  in  the  dark.  The  "Revolution"  had  the  distinct
advantage  for  the  Allies  of  clarifying  the  situation.  The
transference  by  the  revolutionaries  of  their  adherence  from
King  Constantine  to  the  Entente  made  General  Sarrail's
authority  supreme  in  Salonika.  And  after  that  there  was
no  more  trouble.

A  revolutionary  feeling  had  been  growing  in  Macedonia
ever  since  the  Greek  troops,  under  orders  from  the  Athens
Government,  abandoned  Fort  Rupel  and  a  considerable  ex-
tent of  Greek  territory  to  Bulgarian  occupation.  The  jeal-
ous hatred  which  is  the  chief  feature  of  the  international
relations  of  the  Balkan  races  was  stirred  to  frenzy,  and  a
really  bitter  feeling  of  indignation  sprang  up  and  grew
against  the  pro-German  king  and  his  Ministers ;  nor  was  this
indignation  based  solely  upon  sentiment.  Well-founded
apprehension  had  no  small  part  in  it.  The  graves  were  still
fresh  of  the  victims  of  the  Bulgarian  massacres  at  Doxato,
in  the  very  district  which  was  now  tamely  surrendered  to
them.  The  hopes  of  this  Greek  pro-Ally  party  which  was
forming  at  Salonika  had  been  raised  for  a  moment  during
the  last  week  of  August  by  the  news  from  Athens  that  Gen-
eral Dousmanis,  Chief  of  the  General  Staff,  the  arch-enemy
of  the  Entente,  and  principal  pro-German  plotter,  had  lost
his  post,  and  been  replaced  by  General  Moschopoulos,  who
had  previously  commanded  the  Greek  Army  Corps  at
Salonika.  But  though  Moschopoulos  had  been  personally
friendly  with  the  Allied  Starrs,  he  was  above  everything  a
professional  soldier,  anxious  not  to  forfeit  his  post  for
political  reasons,  and  he  quickly  came  into  the  orbit  of  King
Constantine  and  the  pro-Germans  with  whom  he  had  to  work
in  Athens.

And  the  last  circumstance  which  encouraged  the  pro-Ally
party  at  Salonika  to  pass  from  sympathy  to  action  was  the
fact  of  Rumania's  entry  into  the  war.

It  must  be  remembered — though  the  recollection  is  bitter
now — that  it  was  then  expected  with  confidence  that  this
event  marked  the  beginning  of  the  triumph  of  our  Balkan
campaign.    Bulgaria  would  be  crushed  by  a  converging

REVOLUTION  IN  GREECE

attack  from  both  sides.  Russia — mysterious,  but  with  her
strength  as  yet  undoubted — would  begin  an  irresistible  of-
fensive at  the  same  time;  the  Allies  at  Salonika  would  march
victoriously  forward  through  the  Balkans.  There  would  be
redistribution  of  territories  and  a  recasting  of  frontiers,  and
from  all  this,  Greece,  as  the  pro-Ally  party  at  Salonika  felt,
would  be  shut  out  and  left  without  a  friend  in  the  world.

So  on  the  afternoon  of  August  30th,  a  proclamation  sud-
denly appeared  on  the  walls  of  Salonika,  addressed  to  the
Greek  people  and  the  Greek  Army  and  signed  by  Colonel
Zimbrakakis,  the  leader  of  the  movement,  by  Colonel  Mazara-
kis,  by  the  Venizelist  deputy  for  Seres,  and  half  a  dozen
other  lesser  personages,  over  the  title,  "Committee  of
National  Defense."  In  brief,  what  they  said  was,  "The
present  state  of  affairs  has  lasted  long  enough.  The  sur-
render to  the  Bulgars  of  Greek  forts  and  territories  is  a
betrayal  of  the  fatherland  to  foreign  interests.  The  time
has  come  for  Greece  to  place  herself  by  the  side  of  the
Powers  of  the  Entente,  who  have  always  been  her  friends."
The  proclamation  urged  the  Greek  soldiers  at  Salonika  to
reject  all  further  orders  from  Athens  and  to  join  the  Allies
in  driving  the  Bulgars  off  Greek  soil.

The  news  spread  through  the  town  that  the  Greek  gen-
darmerie— largely  Cretans,  and  therefore  Venizelists — had
joined  the  movement  in  a  body,  and  that  the  officers  of  the
three  Greek  regiments  at  the  barracks  were  holding  a  meeting
to  discuss  their  attitude.  Meanwhile  Colonel  Zimbrakakis,
at  the  head  of  the  gendarmes,  all  wearing  a  blue  and  white
silk  armlet,  which  was  to  be  the  badge  of  the  Revolution,  and
followed  by  a  nondescript  crowd  of  volunteers,  hastily
equipped  with  any  weapons  available,  marched  through  the
town  to  offer  his  services  and  theirs  to  General  Sarrail.  The
side-street  in  front  of  French  Headquarters  was  packed  with
an  excited  crowd,  for  the  Greek  loves  political  demonstration
above  any  form  of  entertainment.  Colonel  Zimbrakakis
made  an  impassioned  speech  from  horseback  amid  loud  cheers
of  "Zito!"  then  went  in  to  offer  the  support  of  his  adherents
to  the  Allied  cause  for  the  liberation  of  Macedonia.  Sar-
cail  accepted  the  proffered  services,  having  already  been

352  REVOLUTION  IN  GREECE

in  the  habit  of  taking  Greek  volunteers  into  the  French
Army  since  the  Bulgars  came  into  Greece.  At  the  same
time  he  issued  a  general  warning  that  he  would  intervene  if
public  order  were  disturbed.  Though  there  was  no  definite
repudiation  of  loyalty  to  the  Greek  Crown,  I  heard  many
cries  from  the  crowd  of  "Down  with  the  King!"  and  there
was  a  feeling  in  Salonika  that  night  that  trouble  was  in  the
air.  All  British  troops  were  ordered  out  of  the  town  at
dusk,  but  everything  remained  quiet  until  4.30  a.  m.  next
morning.

My  own  quarters  when  in  Salonika  happened  to  be  in  a
house  looking  directly  on  to  the  broad  parade-ground  which
lies  in  front  of  the  main  barracks,  and  I  was  suddenly  awak-
ened by  a  violent  rifle-fire  very  close  at  hand.  One  always
thinks  instinctively  of  aircraft  nowadays  when  disturbed  by
explosive  noises  at  night,  but  this  tumult  evidently  required
another  explanation.  It  was  a  pitch-black  night.  I  went
out  on  to  the  veranda  at  the  back  of  the  house  to  find  the
whole  of  the  parade-ground  flickering  with  the  flashes  of
rifles.  Bullets  were  flying  to  every  point  of  the  compass.
Some  hit  my  house,  which  was  at  right  angles  to  the  line  of
fire,  others  fell  in  Allied  camps  a  mile  away.  Then  came
much  whistling  and  shouting  and  the  firing  gradually  died
down  and  stopped.  But  the  creaking  of  wheels  and  the  noise
of  footsteps  and  lowered  voices  told  of  the  presence  of  a
good  many  men.  It  was  evident  that  the  revolutionary  gen-
darmes were  attacking  the  Royalist  infantry  and  cavalry  in
their  barracks.

Dawn  came  in  an  hour  or  so,  and  the  position  grew
clearer.  Overnight  the  revolutionary  gendarmes  had  de-
manded the  surrender  of  the  barracks  by  the  cavalry  and
infantry  that  occupied  them.  The  officers  of  the  latter  re-
fused, and  when  the  time  fixed  by  the  revolutionaries  for  the
evacuation  of  the  building  arrived  there  was  some  shooting.
Everything,  however,  was  soon  patched  up  and  the  Royalists
withdrew.

REVOLUTION  IN  GREECE

BY  KING  CONSTANTINE  OF  GREECE
His  Statement  of  January  14,  1917,  Addressed  to  Neutrals

All  we  ask  is  fair  play.  But  it  seems  almost  hopeless
to  try  to  get  the  truth  out  of  Greece  to  the  rest  of  the
world  under  present  circumstances.  We  have  been  sorely
tried  these  last  two  years  and  we  don't  pretend  to  have  al-
ways been  angels  under  the  constant  irritation  of  the  ever-
increasing  allied  control  of  every  little  thing  in  our  own  pri-
vate life — letters,  telegrams,  police,  everything.  Why,  do
you  know  that  my  sister-in-law,  Princess  Alice  of  Battenberg,
was  only  permitted  to  receive  a  telegram  of  Christmas  greet-
ings from  her  mother  in  England  by  courtesy  of  the  British
Legation  here?

Moreover,  by  taking  an  active  hand  in  our  own  internal
politics,  England  and  France  especially  have  succeeded  in
alienating  an  admiration,  a  sympathy,  and  a  devotion  toward
them  on  the  part  of  the  Greek  people  that,  at  the  beginning
of  the  war,  was  virtually  a  unanimous  tradition.  I  am  a
soldier  myself  and  I  know  nothing  about  politics,  but  it
seems  to  me  that  when  you  start  with  almost  the  whole  of  a
country  passionately  in  your  favor  and  end  with  it  almost
unanimously  against  you,  you  haven't  succeeded  very  well.
And  I  quite  understand  how  those  responsible  for  such  a
result  seek  to  excuse  themselves  by  exaggerating  the  diffi-
culties they  have  had  to  contend  with  in  Greece — by  talking
about  Greek  treachery  and  the  immense  sinister  organization
of  German  propaganda  that  has  foiled  them  at  every  turn,
and  so  on.

The  only  trouble  with  that  is  that  they  make  us  pay  for
the  errors  of  their  policy.  The  people  of  Greece  are  paying
for  them  now  in  suffering  and  death  from  exposure  and
hunger,  while  France  and  England  starve  us  out  because
they  have  made  the  mistake  of  assuming  that  their  man,
Venizelos,  could  deliver  the  Greek  Army  and  the  Greek
people  to  the  Entente  Powers  whenever  they  wanted  to  use
Greece  for  their  advantage,  regardless  of  the  interests  of
Greece  as  an  independent  nation.  •

There  are  just  two  things  about  our  desperate  struggle

354  REVOLUTION  IN  GREECE

to  save  ourselves  from  destruction  that  I  am  going  to  try
to  make  clear  to  the  people  of  America.  The  rest  will  have
to  come  out  some  day — all  the  blockades  and  censorships
in  the  world  cannot  keep  the  truth  down  forever.  Under-
stand, I  am  not  presuming  to  sit  in  judgment  on  the  Entente
Powers.  I  appreciate  that  they  have  got  other  things  to
think  about  besides  Greece.  What  I  say  is  meant  to  help
them  do  justice  to  themselves  and  to  us,  a  small  nation.

The  first  point  is  this :  We  have  two  problems  on  our
hands  here  in  Greece — an  internal  one  and  an  external  one.
The  Entente  Powers  have  made  the  fundamental  mistake
of  considering  them  both  as  one.  They  said  to  themselves :
"Venizelos  is  the  strongest  man  in  Greece  and  he  is  heart
and  soul  with  us.  He  can  deliver  the  Greeks  whenever  he
wants  to.  Let  us  back  Venizelos,  therefore,  and  when  we
need  the  Greek  Army  he  will  turn  it  over  to  us."

Well,  they  were  wrong.  Venizelos  was  perhaps  the
strongest  man  in  Greece,  as  they  thought.  But  the  moment
he  tried  to  turn  over  the  Greek  Army  to  the  Entente,  as  if
we  were  a  lot  of  mercenaries,  he  became  the  weakest  man
in  Greece  and  the  most  despised.  For  in  Greece  no  man
delivers  the  Greeks.  They  decide  their  own  destinies  as  a
free  people,  and  not  England,  France  and  Russia  together
can  change  them,  neither  by  force  of  arms  nor  by  starva-
tion. And  they  have  tried  both.  As  for  Venizelos  him-
self— you  had  a  man  once  in  your  country,  a  very  great  man,
who  had  even  been  Vice-President  of  the  United  States,
who  planned  to  split  the  country  in  two  and  set  himself  up
as  a  ruler  in  the  part  he  separated  from  the  rest.  I  refer
to  Aaron  Burr.  But  he  only  plotted  to  do  a  thing  which  he
never  accomplished.  Venizelos,  with  the  assistance  of  the
allied  powers — and  he  never  could  have  done  it  without  them
— has  succeeded  for  the  time  being  in  the  same  kind  of  a
seditious  enterprise.  You  called  Aaron  Burr  a  traitor.  Well,
that's  what  the  Greek  people  call  Venizelos.

The  impression  has  been  spread  broadcast  that  Veni-
zelos stands  in  Greece  for  liberalism  and  his  opponents  for
absolutism  and  militarism.  It  is  just  the  other  way  around.
Venizelos  stands  for  whatever  suits  his  own  personal  book.

REVOLUTION  IN  GREECE

His  idea  of  government  is  an  absolute  dictatorship — a  sort
of  Mexican  government,  I  take  it.  When  he  was  Premier
he  broke  every  man  who  dared  to  disagree  with  him  in  his
own  party.  He  never  sought  to  express  the  will  of  the
people;  he  imposed  his  will  on  the  people.  The  Greek  peo-
ple will  not  stand  that.  They  demand  a  constitutional  Gov-
ernment in  which  there  is  room  for  two  parties — Liberals
and  Conservatives — each  with  a  definite  program,  as  in  the
United  States  or  England  or  any  other  civilized  country,  not
a  personal  Government,  where  the  only  party  division  is
into  Venizelists  and  anti-Venizelists.

The  other  thing  I  wanted  to  say  is  about  the  effect  of  the
so-called  German  propaganda  in  Greece.  The  Entente  Pow-
ers seem  to  have  adopted  the  attitude  that  everybody  who
is  not  willing  to  fight  on  their  side  must  be  a  pro-German.
Nothing  could  be  falser  in  respect  of  Greece.  The  present
resentment  against  the  Allies  in  Greece — and  there  is  a  good
deal  of  it,  especially  since  the  blockade — is  due  to  the  Allies
themselves  and  not  to  any  German  propaganda.  The  proof
of  it  is  that  when  the  so-called  German  propaganda  was
at  its  height  there  was  little  or  no  hostility  in  Greece  toward
the  Allies.  It  has  only  been  since  the  diplomatic  repre-
sentatives of  all  the  Central  Empires  and  everybody  else
whom  the  Anglo-French  secret  police  indicated  as  inimical
to  the  Entente  have  been  expelled  from  Greece,  and  any
German  propaganda  rendered  virtually  impossible,  that  there
has  grown  up  any  popular  feeling  against  the  Entente.

Part  of  this  is  due  to  the  Entente's  identification  of  its
greater  cause  with  the  personal  ambitions  of  Venizelos,  but
a  great  deal  has  also  been  due  to  the  very  unfortunate
handling  of  the  allied  control  in  Greece.  When  you  write  a
personal  letter  of  no  possible  international  significance  to  a
friend  or  relative  here  in  Athens,  and  post  it  in  Athens,  and
it  is  held  a  week,  opened,  and  half  its  contents  blacked  out,  it
makes  you  rather  cross — not  because  it  is  unspeakable
tyranny  in  a  free  country  at  peace  with  all  the  world,  but
because  it  is  so  silly.  For,  after  all,  if  you  want  to  plot  with
a  man  living  in  the  same  town  you  don't  write  him  a  letter.
You  put  on  your  hat  and  go  to  see  him.    Half  the  people

REVOLUTION  IN  GREECE

in  Greece  have  been  continually  exasperated  by  just  this  sort
of  unintelligent  control,  which  has  irritated  the  Greek  peo-
ple beyond  telling.

The  fact  of  the  matter  is  that  there  is  even  now  less  pro-
German  feeling  in  Greece  than  in  the  United  States,  Hol-
land, or  any  of  the  Scandinavian  countries.  And  there  is
far  less  anti-Entente  propaganda  in  Greece  even  now  than
there  is  anti-Hellenic  propaganda  in  England,  France  and
Russia.  The  whole  feeling  of  the  Greek  people  toward  the
Entente  Powers  to-day  is  one  of  sorrow  and  disillusion-
ment. They  had  heard  so  much  of  this  "war  for  the  de-
fense of  little  nations"  that  it  had  been  a  very  great  shock
to  them  to  be  treated,  as  they  feel,  very  badly,  even  cruelly,
for  no  reason  and  to  nobody's  profit.  And  more  than  any-
thing else,  after  all  the  Greek  Government  and  Greek  peo-
ple have  done  to  help  the  Entente  Powers  since  the  very
outbreak  of  the  war,  they  deeply  resent  being  called  pro-
German  because  they  have  not  been  willing  to  see  their  own
country  destroyed  as  Serbia  and  Rumania  have  been.

I  have  done  everything  I  could  to  dissipate  the  mis-
trust of  the  Powers,  I  have  given  every  possible  assurance
and  guarantee.  Many  of  the  military  measures  that  have
been  demanded  I  myself  suggested  with  a  view  to  tran-
quillizing the  Allies,  and  myself  voluntarily  offered  to  exe-
cute. My  army,  which  any  soldier  knows  could  never  con-
ceivably have  constituted  a  danger  to  the  allied  forces  in
Macedonia,  has  been  virtually  put  in  jail  in  the  Pelopon-
nesus. My  people  have  been  disarmed,  and  are  to-day  pow-
erless, even  against  revolution,  and  they  know  from  bitter
experience  that  revolution  is  a  possibility  so  long  as  the  En-
tente Powers  continue  to  finance  the  openly  declared  revo-
lutionary party  of  Venizelos.  There  isn't  enough  food  left  in
Greece  to  last  a  fortnight.  Not  the  Belgians  themselves  un-
der German  rule  have  been  rendered  more  helpless  than  are
we  in  Greece  to-day.

Isn't  it,  therefore,  time  calmly  to  look  at  conditions  in
Greece  as  they  are,  to  give  over  a  policy  dictated  by  panic,
and  to  display  a  little  of  that  high  quality  of  faith  which
alone  is  the  foundation  of  friendship?

MACKENSEN'S  BRILLIANT  RUMANIAN
CAMPAIGN

RUMANIA  MISLED  AND  BROKEN

OCTOBER-  NOVEMBER

GENERAL  WOLLMAN  GENERAL  MACKENSEN

WINIFRED  GORDON

Rumania  entered  the  War  under  a  triple  misconception.  First,
Russia  had  promised  her  ample  support,  so  she  thought  her  northern
frontier  secure ;  whereas  in  reality  she  received  from  Russia  only  a
mere  shadow  of  support,  which  was  worse  than  useless,  since  it  lured
the  Rumanian  army  into  dangerous  positions.  Second,  Russia  had
assured  her  that  Bulgarian  neutrality  was  fully  pledged,  that  the  Bul-
gars  would  not  fight  their  Slavic  brethren.  Hence  Rumania  thought  her
southern  or  Bulgarian  frontier  needed  no  defense.  Third,  Rumania
supposed  Germany  to  be  exhausted  by  Verdun  and  the  Somme,  and
quite  incapable  of  lending  Austria  further  aid.  It  was  under  this
triple  misunderstanding  that  Rumania,  immediately  on  declaring  war,
sent  her  troops  across  her  northern  border  to  the  invasion  of  the
Hungarian  province  of  Transylvania.

Germany  had  been  awaiting  this  very  opportunity.  Her  prestige
had  been  disastrously  lowered  upon  the  western  front;  she  would
retrieve  her  fame  by  a  brilliant  and  easy  victory  in  the  east.  Hinden-
burg's  ablest  lieutenant,  Mackensen,  now  raised  to  the  rank  of  Field
Marshal,  was  sent  secretly  to  Bulgaria.  With  a  few  German  troops
and  a  mass  of  Bulgars  and  Turks  he  suddenly  attacked  the  exposed
Rumanian  southern  border.  The  forces  hurriedly  sent  to  oppose  him
weakened  the  Rumanian  army  in  Transylvania.

A  second  Teuton  army  now  appeared  in  Hungary  and,  on  Septem-
ber 19th,  checked  the  advance  of  the  Rumanians  at  Hatzeg.  Mean-
while a  third  column  of  Teutons  marched  secretly  through  eastern
Transylvania  and  got  between  the  Rumanian  army  and  its  own  coun-
try, seizing  the  border  passes  of  the  mountains.  The  Rumanians,  with
their  lines  of  communication  partly  cut,  had  much  ado  to  regain  their
own  country,  and  only  did  so  after  heavy  losses.

By  mid-October  the  Teutons  were  invading  Rumania  from  the
north,  while  Mackensen's  main  army  was  advancing  from  the  south.
On  October  22nd  he  captured  Constanza,  Rumania's  only  seaport.
After  this  the  Rumanian  resistance  stiffened,  and  more  Russian  troops
came  to  her  aid.  But  on  November  17th  the  northern  Teuton  armies
under  General  Falkenhayn  won  a  decisive  victory  at  Tirgujiulij.  This
enabled  them  to  sweep  straight  across  central  Rumania  and  unite  with
Mackensen's  forces.  These  now  fought  their  way  across  the  Danube,
and  Rumania's  defeat  was  manifest.    Her  western  provinces  were

358  THE  RUMANIAN  CAMPAIGN

occupied  by  the  enemy  and  from  every  direction  except  the  northeast
the  Teuton  armies  were  gathering  round  her  capital.  Its  fall  and
the  subsequent  Rumanian  resistance  are  left  for  another  picture.

HE  Rumanian  declaration  of  war  against  Austro-Hun-

1  gary  on  August  27,  19 16,  was  followed  on  the  next
day  by  a  declaration  of  war  against  Rumania  by  Germany.
On  August  29th,  General  von  Falkenhayn  was  transferred
from  his  position  as  Chief  of  the  General  Staff  for  "service
elsewhere."  In  his  new  capacity  as  commander  of  the  Ninth
Army,  von  Falkenhayn  immediately  marched  against  the
Rumanians  who  had  crossed  the  mountains  into  Transylva-
nia, drove  them  back,  and  during  September  wrested  from
them  the  Szurduk,  Vulcan,  and  Red  Tower  passes.  During
October  the  Rumanians,  helped  by  the  Russians,  put  up  a
desperate  resistance  to  von  Falkenhayn's  further  advance,
and  the  month  was  spent  in  heavy  fighting  with  victory  first
for  one  side,  then  the  other.  In  the  meantime,  immediately
after  war  was  declared  on  Rumania  by  Turkey  and  Bulgaria,
Mackensen  had  gone  to  Bulgaria  and  thence  led  an  army
composed  of  German,  Bulgarian,  and  Turkish  units  from
the  Varna-Rustchuk  line  over  the  border  into  Rumania  by
way  of  the  Dobrudja.

Under  the  delusion  that  Bulgaria  would  not  declare  war
against  her  and  might  even  break  with  the  Central  Powers,
Rumania  had  sent  the  bulk  of  her  forces  to  the  Transylva-
nian  frontier,  leaving  the  Bulgarian  front,  except  for  some
Russian  reinforcements,  weakly  held.  This  mistake,  made
at  the  very  beginning  of  the  campaign,  affected  the  whole
course  of  the  struggle,  and  after  Mackensen's  success  in  the
Dobrudja,  could  never  be  retrieved.

Mackensen's  object,  which  was  to  occupy  the  Dobrudja
and  thus  block  the  Russians  from  their  shortest  road  to  Con-
stantinople, was  accomplished  in  a  comparatively  short  time.
One  smashing  blow  after  another  was  delivered  against  the
allied  Russians  and  Rumanians.  The  bridgehead  at  Tutra-
kan  on  the  Danube  was  attacked  on  September  4th,  and

BY  GENERAL  WOLLMAN

Semi-Official  German  Statement

THE  RUMANIAN  CAMPAIGN  359

captured  on  the  6th,  at  a  cost  to  the  enemy  of  22,000  men.
On  the  day  that  Tutrakan  fell,  a  Rumanian  division  hurry-
ing to  the  rescue  was  routed  at  Sarsinlar  by  the  west  wing  of
Mackensen's  army,  which  subsequently  took  30,000  prison-
ers and  much  war  material.

On  the  eastern  wing  furious  Russian  attacks  in  the  re-
gion of  Dobritch  led  to  heavy  fighting.  This  ended  on
September  7th  with  the  complete  defeat  of  three  Russian-
Rumanian-Serbian  divisions.  As  a  result  the  Rumanians
voluntarily  evacuated  Silistria,  and,  pursued  vigorously  by
Mackensen,  retreated  along  the  whole  front  in  a  northerly
direction.  Between  Lake  Oltina  and  Mangalia  the  arrival
of  four  fresh  Rumanian  divisions  and  some  additional  help
from  the  Russians  enabled  the  fleeing  enemy  to  make  a  stand,
but  his  resistance  was  broken  in  a  few  days,  and  on  Sep-
tember 14th  he  was  driven  back  to  the  general  line  Cuzgun-
Cara  Omar,  forty  kilometers  north  of  Dobritch.

Here  also  his  stay  was  short.  Beaten  almost  to  annihila-
tion, he  soon  continued  his  flight  to  prepared  positions  be-
tween Rashova,  Cobadin,  and  Tuzla,  twenty  kilometers  south
of  the  old  Trajan  wall  and  the  railroad  from  Cernavoda  to
Constantza  via  Megidia.  On  this  line  he  was  able  to  stand
under  the  protection  of  Rumanian  regiments  drawn  from
Transylvania  and  of  Russian  troops  sent  by  sea  to  Con-
stantza.

As  announced  in  the  communiques  of  September  20th
and  2 1  st,  the  battle  now  came  to  a  standstill.  After  the
line  was  stabilized,  the  Bulgarians,  who  had  particularly
distinguished  themselves  on  the  east  wing,  erected  on  their
front  as  a  threat  to  the  Russians  and  a  sign  of  their  own
confidence  a  huge  placard  bearing  the  inscription  "Mackensen
leads  us."

The  results  of  Mackensen's  victorious  progress  up  to  this
point  were  important.  Eight  Rumanian  divisions  had  been
taken  prisoner  or  terribly  shattered ;  the  Russian  forces  sent
to  aid  Rumania  had  been  so  often  defeated  that  their  fight-
ing power  was  badly  shaken;  and  positions  on  the  lower
Danube  flanking  W allachia  and  the  national  capital  had  been
won.    In  addition,  any  invasion  of  the  southern  Dobrudja

360  THE  RUMANIAN  CAMPAIGN

by  the  enemy  had  been  rendered  impossible,  and  his  main
army  on  the  Transylvanian  front  had  been  weakened  by  the
withdrawal  of  troops  which  it  could  ill  spare.  These  were
now  shut  up  behind  Trajan's  wall.  The  Rumanians  were
compelled  to  wage  war  upon  three  fronts.

Before  undertaking  further  operations,  Mackensen's
army  needed  time  to  repair  the  losses  which  had  been  inci-
dent to  the  delivery  of  its  mighty  blows  and  to  replenish
its  war  material.  Heavy  artillery,  in  particular,  was  re-
quired for  the  reduction  of  the  enemy's  strongly  fortified
position,  and  this  could  be  brought  up  only  with  the  greatest
difficulty  owing  to  the  lack  of  good  rearward  lines  of  com-
munication. The  enemy,  on  the  other  hand,  had  the  advan-
tage of  the  railroad  which  ran  behind  his  front.

The  Rumanians  used  the  pause  in  the  battle  to  make  a
feeble  attempt  in  the  first  days  of  October  to  cross  the  Danube
farther  up  and  fall  upon  our  army  from  the  rear.  As  an
inadequate  force  was  detailed  for  the  venture — some  fifteen
battalions  of  infantry  without  artillery  support — and  Ra-
hovo,  the  place  chosen  for  the  crossing,  was  midway  between
our  two  points  of  support  at  Tutrakan  and  Rustchuk,  the
undertaking  failed  completely.  A  German-Bulgarian  force
sent  hurriedly  up  from  Tutrakan  practically  annihilated  the
attacking  battalions.  The  few  who  got  back  to  the  north
bank  of  the  river  fled  to  Bucharest,  where  they  caused  a
panic  among  the  inhabitants.

During  October  the  battle  for  the  passes  on  the  Hun-
garian border  developed  steadily  in  our  favor,  but  no  mili-
tary events  in  the  Dobrudja  were  reported  until  the  twentieth.
After  that,  there  were  frequent  bulletins  about  the  war  of
position  on  the  Trajan  line,  where  both  sides  were  extremely
active.  Each  day  brought  new  successes  to  Mackensen's
army.  One  after  another  the  enemy's  points  of  support,  in-
cluding Constantza,  the  chief  Rumanian  seaport,  fell  into
our  hands,  until  a  break  through  and  enveloping  movement
put  us  in  possession  of  Cernavoda  and  the  whole  Russian-
Rumanian  position.  Communication  between  Wallachia  and
the  sea  by  way  of  Constantza  was  cut.  That  the  Rumanians
despaired  of  restoring  the  line  was  proved  by  their  blowing

THE  RUMANIAN  CAMPAIGN  361

up  the  great  bridge  across  the  Danube  west  of  Cernavoda.

After  being  driven  out  of  the  Trajan  line,  the  enemy-
was  pushed  farther  and  farther  into  the  northern  corner  of
the  Dobrudja.  Finally,  however,  he  received  reinforce-
ments from  the  hinterland  over  pontoon  bridges  and  reached
prepared  defenses,  where  he  compelled  us  to  settle  down
again  to  a  war  of  position.  When  events  had  reached  this
stage,  that  is,  on  November  24th,  the  telegraph  gave  out  this
brief  but  highly  significant  piece  of  news:  "Forces  from
Mackensen's  army  group  have  crossed  the  Danube  in  several
places."

The  plans  for  this  undertaking  were  so  well  thought  out
and  the  cooperation  of  the  different  groups  so  carefully  and
secretly  arranged  that  it  was  carried  out  almost  without
losses.  In  the  misty  early  morning  of  November  23rd  the
advance  party  gathered  at  several  places  in  the  vicinity  of
Svistov  and  set  out  upon  the  river,  which  at  this  point  is
nearly  two  kilometers  wide.  The  enemy  on  the  north  bank
was  taken  completely  by  surprise.  There  was  therefore  no
interruption  to  the  transference,  on  pontoons  and  barges
towed  by  motor  boats,  of  additional  infantry  and  some  bat-
teries, who  built  up  the  position  into  something  like  a  bridge-
head. On  November  24th,  under  the  protection  of  these
forces,  the  construction  of  a  bridge  capable  of  bearing  the
heavy  artillery  was  begun;  in  twenty-two  hours  it  was  fin-
ished, and  on  November  25th,  at  five  o'clock  in  the  morning,
the  bridge  was  open  to  traffic.

As  soon  as  the  penetration  of  the  Danube  front  was  an
accomplished  fact,  Mackensen's  German-Bulgarian-Turkish
army  could  cooperate  closely  with  von  Falkenhayn's  Ninth
Army,  which  was  advancing  from  the  boundary  passes  of
the  north  and  west.  The  despairing  attempts  of  Russian
and  Rumanian  divisions  to  hold  off  or  to  turn  aside  the
fate  that  threatened,  availed  them  nothing,  in  spite  of  their
great  sacrifices.  After  the  decisive  three-day  battle  on  the
Argesh  the  capital  of  Rumania  surrendered  without  a  strug-
gle. On  December  6th,  his  birthday,  Field-Marshal  von
Mackensen  entered  Bucharest  amid  the  joyful  greetings  of

362  THE  RUMANIAN  CAMPAIGN

the  liberated  German  and  Austro-Hungarian  inhabitants

and  of  the  Rumanians  who  were  friendly  to  Germany.

From  now  on  the  Field  Marshal  drove  the  fleeing  enemy
ever  farther  to  the  eastward  between  the  Danube  and  the
mountains.  Bands  of  Bulgarians  crossed  the  river  at  Tutra-
kan  on  December  8th,  and  at  Fetesti  on  the  14th,  and  thrust
at  the  enemy's  flank.  The  fortified  positions  on  the  Jalo-
mitza,  on  the  Buzeu,  and  on  the  Putna  could  not  halt  our
invincible  troops.  At  Nanesti-Fundeni  on  the  line  of  the
Sereth  and  at  Braila-Vadeni  the  Russians  lost  great  numbers
in  dead,  wounded,  and  prisoners.  Their  efforts  were  vain.
Cooperation  between  Mackensen's  army  and  that  of  the
Archduke  Joseph,  who  was  driving  the  Russians  out  of  the
mountains  into  the  Moldavian  plain,  was  perfect.  Not  until
the  winter  cold  had  a  paralyzing  effect  on  friend  and  foe
did  the  fighting  slacken.

During  the  winter  the  two  opposing  armies  were  en-
trenched in  Wallachia  and  Moldavia  on  both  sides  of  the
Sereth  and  its  right  hand  tributaries,  and  in  the  Dobrudja
on  both  sides  of  the  branches  of  the  Danube.  Their  advanced
posts  and  artillery  clashed  occasionally  in  minor  engage-
ments. Galatz,  the  important  point  of  support  of  the  en-
emy's wing,  was  constantly  bombarded  by  our  heavy  artil-
lery. The  Sereth  marked  a  goal  beyond  which  our  army
command  did  not  mean  to  go ;  for  the  critical  point  of  the
War  was  no  longer  to  be  found  in  Rumania.  The  danger
there  had  been  obliterated.

BY  GENERAL  MACKENSEN
Letter  Addressed  in  the  General's  Own  Hand  to  His  Troops

The  troops  who  in  the  Dobrudja,  in  the  mountains  that
form  the  frontier  between  Transylvania  and  Rumania,  and
in  Wallachia  defeated  the  Rumanian  army  so  decisively  that
this  army  was  broken  up  and  compelled  to  seek  refuge  behind
the  protecting  Russian  troops  and  fortresses  on  the  Sereth,
will  be  accorded  in  the  future  even  higher  recognition  for
their  achievements  than  they  have  already  received.

March  3,  1917.  Mackensen.

THE  RUMANIAN  CAMPAIGN  363

BY  WINIFRED  GORDON

Russia  had  assured  Rumania  that  there  was  little  to
fear  from  Bulgaria,  as  the  latter  would  never  be  willing
to  fight  against  her  Slav  mother  Russia.  It  seems  incredible
that  any  one  could  have  put  faith  in  the  traitorous  char-
acter of  the  Bulgarian,  or  in  the  crafty  scheming  fox  who
occupies  the  throne,  and  who  was  using  the  negotiations  be-
tween his  Government  and  the  Rumanian  Minister  at  Sofia
regarding  neutrality  as  a  pretense  to  gain  time  for  his  at-
tack, using  these  diplomatic  maneuvers  in  true  Teutonic  style
as  a  cloak  to  conceal  the  dagger  beneath.

But  the  Prime  Minister  Bratiano,  strange  to  say,  did  not
believe  in  the  duplicity  of  the  Bulgarian  Government,  and
thought  it  possible  to  avoid  war.  Thus  a  grave  political  mis-
calculation determined  the  course  of  the  campaign.

The  element  of  surprise  counted  considerably  in  the  first
great  successes  for  the  Rumanian  Army.  She  was  able  to
throw  her  forces  well  over  the  Carpathians,  crossing  at
eighteen  points,  and  to  penetrate  deep  into  the  enemy's  coun-
try before  the  latter  could  assemble  in  force,  even  had  the
latter  had  at  her  disposal  sufficient  men  and  material  to  release
from  her  other  fronts  for  this  purpose — a  condition  the
Allies  did  not  believe  to  be  possible.  Of  the  four  Rumanian
armies,  the  third,  under  General  Asian,  was  left  to  watch
the  Bulgarian  frontier,  while  the  other  three — the  first,
under  General  Culcer;  the  second,  under  General  Averescu,
and  the  fourth,  under  General  Presan — were  to  operate  on
the  Carpathians.

During  the  first  few  weeks  the  Rumanians  made  a  rapid
advance,  all  opposition  being  overcome.  The  Central  Pow-
ers had  been  taken  by  surprise,  and  had  as  yet  no  time  to
bring  up  reinforcements  to  arrest  the  victorious  march
forward,  since  the  elan  of  the  Rumanian  troops  was  at  its
highest,  fighting  as  they  were  now  on  what  was  once  their
own  territory,  and  where  their  kinsmen  are  held  under  the
iron  hand  of  the  Magyar.

The  Czech  regiments  sent  to  oppose  these  Rumanian
units  simply  walked  right  over  to  them,  so  glad  were  they

364  THE  RUMANIAN  CAMPAIGN

to  join  those  fighting  against  the  Magyar  tyrants — "The
Prussians"  of  the  Dual  Monarchy;  and  indeed  as  a  Deputy
said  in  the  Hungarian  Parliament,  "they  just  disappeared
without  any  one  being  able  to  say  where  they  went !"

The  Tornos,  the  Tolgyes  and  the  Rothen  Turm  passes
were  in  turn  forced,  the  railways  and  frontier  towns  occu-
pied, and  the  Rumanian  Army  was  debouching  into  the  wide
country  of  rolling  hills  and  valleys — the  well-loved  land —
while  Hermannstadt  was  being  menaced.

It  was  a  triumphant  success,  and  the  hopes  of  the  little
nation  beat  high.  But  their  slender  forces,  in  a  country
both  mountainous  and  difficult  and  covering  a  frontier  of
no  less  than  three  hundred  miles,  were  widely  separated,
making  it  hard  to  establish  communications.  It  must  be  re-
membered they  had  not  yet  reached  the  river  Maros,  which
in  itself  would  have  given  them  a  position  of  comparative
security.

The  enemy  meanwhile  with  furious  energy  and  aided  by
his  splendid  railway  system  was  preparing  a  deadly  counter-
stroke,  of  which  the  Rumanians  with  their  limited  and  scat-
tered aeroplane  service  were  unable  to  gauge  either  the  ex-
tent or  full  importance.

It  was  at  this  moment  that  the  risky  nature  of  the  strategic
plan  began  to  make  itself  felt.  Bulgaria  had  held  her  hand
until  Mackensen,  who  was  in  the  Balkan  area,  had  been  able
to  make  his  military  preparations  and  assume  command  of
the  armies  on  the  Bulgarian  frontier.  Within  five  days  of
Rumania's  declaration  the  Slav  Judas,  Ferdinand  of  Co-
burg,  ruler  of  Bulgaria,  had  once  again  sold  his  honor  and
declared  war  on  Rumania  and  on  his  country's  liberator,
Russia.  General  Jostoff,  the  Chief  of  the  Bulgarian  Staff,
a  man  of  patriotism  and  honor,  who  was  strongly  opposed
to  the  German  domination  of  his  country,  was,  following
the  notorious  Enver  Bey  tradition,  "removed,"  his  body  being
found  riddled  with  bullets.  Such  indeed  are  the  rewards
for  men  of  this  stamp  in  countries  where  Germany  teaches
"Kultur" !

Mackensen  was  the  first  to  strike.  Massing  his  troops
with  great  speed  he  fell  on  the  scattered  Rumanian  forces

THE  RUMANIAN  CAMPAIGN  365

defending  the  fortresses  of  Turtukai,  and  Silistria  in  the
Dobrudja,  the  reduction  of  which  would  open  the  way  for  a
quick  advance  to  the  great  bridge  and  railway  over  the
Danube  at  Cernavoda,  linking  the  port  of  Constanza  with
the  capital.  Turtukai,  though  defended  by  fortifications,  had
been  left  with  a  very  inadequate  number  of  troops.  The  ut-
most gallantry  was  displayed  by  the  defenders,  who  were
seriously  handicapped  and  at  a  most  serious  disadvantage
on  account  of  the  superiority  in  men  and  guns  which  the
enemy  possessed.  Though  vigorously  contesting  every  inch
of  ground  under  the  most  terrific  fire,  and  repulsing  the  en-
emy again  and  again,  they  were  eventually  overwhelmed,  and
the  fortress  fell  on  the  6th  of  September,  just  ten  days  after
Rumania's  entering  into  the  war.

This  was  a  very  serious  reverse  for  Rumania,  as  the
fortress  covered  the  crossing  of  the  Danube.  On  the  Bul-
garian side  the  river  bank  stands  high,  dominating  the  low
Rumanian  bank  opposite,  and  the  advance  from  this  point  to
the  capital  is  only  thirty  miles.  As  a  consequence  of  the
fall  of  the  fortress  of  Turtukai,  the  evacuation  of  Silistria,  a
little  further  to  the  east,  was  decided  on,  on  the  ground
that  the  garrison  being  insufficient  would  have  merely  fallen
into  a  trap.  The  loss  of  these  two  important  fortresses,
within  two  weeks  of  the  opening  of  the  war,  was  a  disastrous
check,  and  placed  a  very  anxious  aspect  on  one  portion  of  the
campaign.

Meanwhile  the  Transylvanian  armies  had  been  weakened
by  the  transference  of  some  of  their  not  too  abundant  forces
for  the  defense  of  the  Dobrudja,  and  the  withdrawal  of  Gen-
eral Averescu,  the  ablest  of  their  generals,  to  command  the
army  there,  which  now  found  themselves  involved  in  serious
difficulty.

Rumania's  equipment  was  inadequate  for  a  war  which
she  had  hoped  to  limit  to  the  Central  Powers  alone,  but  which
had  now  developed  into  one  against  four  nations,  Germany,
Austria,  Bulgaria  and  Turkey,  all  combining  to  surround  and
crush  our  gallant  little  Ally,  who  was  still  awaiting  the  prom-
ised artillery  and  support  from  Russia.  Guns,  machine
guns,  aeroplanes,  field  telephones,  rifles,  etc.,  were  alike  lack-

7,66  THE  RUMANIAN  CAMPAIGN

ing  to  meet  the  wants  of  the  long  line  of  thirteen  hundred
kilometers  on  which  she  was  conducting  two  campaigns  si-
multaneously, and  to  combat  the  gigantic  fighting  machine
elaborated  by  the  enemy  during  two  years  of  war  and  con-
tinual experience.

The  Rumanian  Army  consisting  of  only  sixteen  divisions
was  now  having  to  face  thirty-seven  divisions,  accompanied
by  an  overwhelmingly  superior  armament,  twenty  divisions
of  which  belonged  to  the  elite  of  the  German  Army.

Rumania's  two  years  of  neutrality  had  not  availed  her
much,  for  the  Powers,  uncertain  as  to  her  decision,  would
not  assist  her  with  supplies,  and  it  was  only  by  the  long,
roundabout  way  through  Russia  with  its  interminable  de-
lays and  demoralization  that  she  could  get  any  munitions  at
all.  Furthermore,  the  hopes  she  had  built  on  the  promises
of  a  steady  flow  of  these  from  Russia  were  not  fulfilled.
The  treacherous  pro-German  Sturmer  Government  at  Petro-
grad  held  up  supplies  and  absolutely  vital  necessaries,  with
the  consequence  that  the  brave  little  nation,  cruelly  isolated  in
this  distant  corner  of  Europe,  was  for  the  most  part  left
alone  to  meet  the  combined  attack  of  the  four  Powers.

With  Turtukai  and  Silistria  in  German  hands,  Macken-
sen's  aim  was  now  to  push  on  to  the  great  Carol  Bridge  at
Cernavoda  (which  means  Black  Water) ,  the  only  bridge  over
the  Lower  Danube  for  a  distance  of  six  hundred  miles.  By
capturing  it  and  the  railway  across  it,  he  would  sever  Ru-
manian access  to  the  Black  Sea,  as  v/ell  as  cut  through  Rus-
sia's road  to  the  Balkans.  The  bridge  is  one  of  the  longest
in  the  world,  and  counting  the  causeways  is  twelve  miles
long  and  cost  £1,500,000  to  build.  The  railway  was  built  in
1882  under  Turkish  rule,  by  an  English  company,  and  cuts
through  the  wonderful  old  wall  of  Trajan  at  several  points.

The  greater  part  of  the  Russian  47th  Army  Corps  and
the  Serbian  division  were  now  supporting  the  Rumanians
in  the  Dobrudja,  the  whole  under  the  command  of  the  Rus-
sian General  Zayonchovski,  the  Serbian  division  being  com-
posed of  Jugo-Slavs  forced  to  fight  in  the  Austro-Hungarian
Army  and  taken  prisoners  by  the  Russians.  These  soldiers
were  a  splendid  lot,  and  begged  to  be  allowed  to  fight  on

THE  RUMANIAN  CAMPAIGN  367

the  side  of  the  Allies  and  to  strike  a  blow  for  their  kinsmen.
They  fought  with  stubborn  tenacity  all  through  the  cam-
paign, winning  the  admiration  of  both  Allies  and  enemy
alike.

Mackensen,  even  with  his  war  experience  and  superior
troops,  vastly  superior  artillery,  and  aeroplane  service,  which
gave  him  inestimable  advantage  over  the  Rumanian  forces
who  were  practically  without  "eyes,"  encountered  the  fiercest
opposition.  The  defenders  contested  his  advance  with  the
greatest  pugnacity  and  valor.  Even  the  German  report  ad-
mitted that  "fierce  and  fluctuating  battles  have  taken  place,
the  enemy  defending  himself  with  great  stubbornness."  So
much  indeed  was  this  the  case  that  they  were  able  to  inflict
serious  reverses  on  the  enemy  at  Kara  Orman,  where  they
lost  eight  guns  and  a  high-born  officer,  Prince  Henry  of
Bavaria,  nephew  of  the  king.  The  Rumanians  drove  the
invading  armies  back  in  complete  confusion.  Mackensen's
boast  of  the  "crowning  mercy"  that  was  to  be  his — the
Cernavoda  bridge — was  still  out  of  reach.

Apropos  of  the  death  of  this  Prince,  it  is  said  that  just
before  he  expired,  conscious  that  his  death  was  not  as  that
of  other  men,  he  murmured,  "Noblesse  oblige."  These  words
were  applauded  by  the  German  nation,  who  overlooked  the
fact  that  they  were  the  last  words  spoken  by  a  scion  of  a
Royal  German  House,  and  were  those  of  their  traditional
but  always  chivalrous  foe,  France.

The  Rumanians,  unable  to  bring  up  sufficient  reinforce-
ments, were  too  exhausted  to  pursue  their  successes.  All
through  October  battles  swayed,  alternately  success  coming
first  to  one  side,  then  to  the  other,  the  Rumanians  fighting
with  fury  and  desperation  to  arrest  the  enemy  advance  on
their  port  of  Constanza.

Their  forces  were  still  further  depleted  by  some  divi-
sions being  withdrawn  to  the  Carpathians,  where  the  passes
were  being  seriously  threatened.  Towards  the  end  of  Sep-
tember Mackensen,  strongly  reenforced  by  Turkish  and
Bulgar  divisions,  was  able  to  seize  his  advantage,  and  after
a  fierce  resistance  to  cut  the  connection  between  Cernavoda
and  Constanza,  the  latter  coming  within  range  of  the  Ger-

THE  RUMANIAN  CAMPAIGN

man  guns  and  unable  to  be  held.  The  Rumanian  troops
withdrew  under  cover  of  the  fire  of  the  Russian  fleet  in  the
Black  Sea,  and  amid  a  wild  storm  of  wind  and  rain  the  Bul-
gars  entered  the  city.  Everything  had  been  destroyed,  in-
cluding the  great  stores  of  grain  and  oil,  and  the  enemy  found
little  beyond  some  hundreds  of  empty  railway  trucks  and  a
few  locomotives.  By  this  Rumania  lost  her  only  seaport  and
the  principal  lines  of  communication  with  Russia  were  cut.

The  Transylvanian  campaign  had  been  launched  on  the
assumption  of  surprise,  and  unpreparedness  on  the  part  of
the  enemy.  An  historian  has  described  it  as  a  "gamble  be-
tween two  conditions  of  unpreparedness,"  in  view  of  the
political  conditions  and  the  poor  equipment  of  the  Ru-
manian Army  for  the  heavy  tasks  awaiting  her.  Austria
had,  however,  the  luck  to  hold  the  better  card.  Thanks  to
her  splendid  system  of  strategic  railways,  her  ally,  Germany,
was  able  to  summon  to  her  support  large  forces  from  Ver-
dun, the  Somme,  and  the  Riga  fronts,  while  Turkish  and
Bulgarian  hordes  rolled  up  from  the  south  on  the  brave  but
unfortunate  little  country,  which  found  it  could  count  but
little  on  the  promised  assistance  from  Russia.

The  forces  arrayed  against  her  consisted  of  over  nine
hundred  thousand  war-seasoned  troops,  picked  Bavarian  Al-
pine corps — sturdy  highlanders  accustomed  to  mountain  war-
fare— and  a  great  mass  of  artillery,  the  whole  under  the
command  of  General  von  Falkenhayn.  The  Rumanian  forces
were  depleted  by  having  to  send  several  divisions  to  the
Dobrudja.  They  were  short  of  big  guns  and  had  no  ex-
perience of  mountain  warfare,  for  since  the  outbreak  of
war  in  19 14  they  had  been  unable  to  practice  maneuvers
there  for  fear  that  they  might  excite  the  apprehension  of
the  Central  Powers  and  have  them  misconstrued  as  a  threat.

The  early  days  in  October  saw  the  great  German  offensive
in  the  Carpathians  launched.  Brusiloff's  advance  in  Ga-
licia  had  been  checked,  and  the  ill  success  on  his  left  wing
was  soon  to  be  followed  by  disastrous  consequences  for  the
Rumanian  offensive.  Supported  by  an  overwhelming  pre-
ponderance of  artillery,  the  Austro-German  command  deliv-
ered blow  after  blow  with  deadly  effect.

THE  RUMANIAN  CAMPAIGN  369

The  Rumanians  fighting  desperately  reeled  under  the
titanic  onslaught  of  massed  guns  and  superior  forces  and
v/ere  forced  to  retreat  towards  the  passes.  Slowly,  bit  by
bit,  all  the  ground  they  had  won  had  to  be  given  up,  and
soon  the  fifteen  thousand  prisoners  that  they  had  taken  and
their  depleted  forces  were  all  that  remained  to  them  of  the
great  adventure.

In  the  rocky  gorges  and  precipitous  roads  of  the  Car-
pathian passes  she  braced  herself  sternly  for  a  desperate  de-
fensive. Amid  the  blaze  of  color,  the  glorious  beauty  of
early  autumn,  a  fierce  resistance  took  place  in  the  narrow
defiles,  defended  as  strongly  as  the  slender  resources  of  the
Rumanians  allowed.

High  up  on  the  ledges  of  the  narrow  defiles  ran  the  steep
winding  roads  on  which  the  Austrian  high-explosive  shells
were  blasting  their  way ;  hundreds  of  feet  below  brawled
the  streams.

Again  and  yet  again  the  valorous  Rumanians  wrested
success  from  the  enemy  and  drove  him  back.  In  the  Jiu  val-
ley they  inflicted  a  crushing  and  humiliating  defeat  on  those
fiercest  of  Teuton  fighters,  the  Bavarians,  who  fled  in  utter
rout.  They  left  immense  stores  behind  them,  only  snatch-
ing time  to  shoot  1,300  of  their  horses,  which  they  hastily
buried  in  a  gigantic  funeral  mound  before  escaping  on  foot
through  the  ravines.  General  Dragalina,  one  of  Rumania's
exiled  sons  from  Transylvania  and  a  most  daring  and  capable
commander,  was  severely  wounded  here  and  succumbed
later  to  his  injuries.  He  was  a  brave,  strong  personality  and
greatly  beloved  by  his  men.

But  these  and  other  brilliant  counter-offensives  of  the
gallant  little  Rumanian  Army  could  not  stem  the  onward
sweep  of  the  Teutonic  hosts,  who  had  burst  through  the
mountain  passes  and  were  pouring  into  the  wide  rich  plains
of  Wallachia,  this  treasure  land  of  grain  in  Eastern  Europe.

Rumania  had  hardly  faced  the  disastrous  fall  of  Con-
stanza  and  the  Cernavoda  bridge  when  the  rude  shock  of  the
fall  of  Craiova,  the  chief  town  of  Ollenia,  "the  millionaires'
city,"  as  it  was  called,  forced  them  to  realize  the  imminent
peril  of  the  nation.    Out-gunned,  out-manned,  the  splen-

370  THE  RUMANIAN  CAMPAIGN

did  peasant  soldiers  of  our  Ally  rose  to  the  crisis  with  the
true  spirit  of  soldiers,  defending  their  country  with  despera-
tion, and  as  the  German  reports  admit,  "with  unsparing  en-
ergy."

The  small  Orsova  group  stubbornly  holding  on  to  its  po-
sitions at  the  Iron  Gates  of  the  Danube  was  left  far  behind,
as  the  main  Rumanian  Army  retreated,  and  found  itself  in
the  rear  of  the  advancing  enemy  forces.  Completely  cut
off  and  isolated  from  the  main  army,  this  valiant  detach-
ment of  seven  thousand  men  under  General  Anastasiu,  stub-
bornly fighting,  tried  to  escape  the  doom  that  they  knew
was  certain.  But  they  resolved  to  sell  their  lives  dearly,
harrying  unceasingly  the  rear  troops  of  the  enemy  forces
and  menacing  their  transport  traffic  on  the  Danube.

This  wonderful  retreat  lasted  three  weeks,  and  so  cour-
ageously and  determinedly  did  they  fight  to  the  last  that  they
even  earned  the  praise  and  admiration  of  the  enemy,  who
reported  that  "amidst  continuous  fighting  and  delivering  re-
peated counter-attacks  the  Orsova  group  withdrew  slowly  to
the  southeast,  constantly  resisting  and  fighting  for  the  honor
of  its  arms."

Decimated  and  lacking  in  everything  but  their  superb
courage  and  daring  which  resisted  to  the  bitter  end,  the  gal-
lant remnant,  under  its  heroic  General  Anastasiu,  were
forced  to  surrender  at  Caracalu  two  days  after  the  fall  of
Bucharest.

Meanwhile  on  the  Danube  frontier  Mackensen  had  been
able  to  force  a  crossing  at  Giurgevo  and  was  now  marching
northwards  to  cooperate  with  the  armies  advancing  from  the
west  under  Falkenhayn,  the  objective  being  to  close  in  on  the
capital.

Whilst  destroying  Giurgevo,  the  Bulgarian  forces  under
his  command  gave  full  rein  to  the  hatred  and  savagery  of
their  dour  natures.  In  a  few  hours  nothing  was  left  of
the  once  prosperous  little  town  but  scenes  of  wanton  de-
struction and  piles  of  grewsome  corpses — old  men,  women,
children,  girls !  What  the  flames  did  not  spare  was  wrecked
by  the  fury  of  these  heartless  brutes,  who  m  the  wav  of
the  furor  teutonicus  of  their  predatory  masters  had  notti»

THE  RUMANIAN  CAMPAIGN  371

ing  to  learn,  and  in  the  matter  of  murder,  rape  and  savagery
could  even  give  them  points.  They  were  well  aware  of  Ger-
many's order  that  "Rumania  should  pay  in  full  the  expenses
of  her  invasion."

The  German  Socialist  and  Labor  paper,  the  Arbeiter
Zeitung,  crowing  with  satisfaction  over  the  misery  of  the
devastated  peasantry,  remarked:

"Our  troops  could  not  possibly  have  marched  at  this
rate  had  not  Rumania  so  much  cattle,  so  many  geese,  pigs
and  poultry.  The  Wallachian  plain  is  covered  with  thriv-
ing villages  very  different  from  the  poor  hamlets  in  the
mountains  on  the  northern  border  of  the  country.  The  in-
vading forces  live  here  in  great  style."

The  extreme  gravity  of  the  moment  was  incontestable.
General  Averescu,  now  in  supreme  command  of  the  Ruma-
nian Army,  gathered  together  all  the  forces  he  could  muster
for  a  last  stand  on  the  river  Arges  and  a  decisive  battle,  on
which  the  fate  of  Bucharest  would  depend.

It  was  now  that  the  soldiers  of  the  Czar — two  divisions,
a  small  part  of  the  long-promised  help — made  their  first  ap-
pearance in  Wallachia,  although  this  was  three  months  after
the  commencement  of  hostilities,  at  a  time  when  the  little
nation  was  mourning  the  tragic  loss  of  more  than  half  her
kingdom.  Bleeding  and  exhausted,  she  was  facing  a  formi-
dable foe  flushed  and  exalted  with  success,  and  supported  by
a  crushing  preponderance  of  both  artillery  and  men.

The  narrow  line  of  the  river  Arges,  on  which  Averescu
was  giving  battle,  presented  no  formidable  obstacle,  being
not  much  more  than  a  wide  ditch.  Nevertheless,  General
Presan  delivered  a  counter-stroke  in  the  hope  of  driving  a
wedge  between  the  army  of  Mackensen  and  the  German  cen-
ter under  Kiihne.  Within  an  ace  of  achieving  his  purpose,
he  repulsed  the  enemy,  throwing  him  across  the  river  Neaylo-
vic  and  defeating  the  Turkish  division  as  well  as  the  main
body  of  German-Bulgarian  troops,  resulting  in  the  capture
of  fifty  guns  and  some  thousands  of  prisoners.

But  success  was  dashed  from  his  grasp,  for  espionage
was  rampant,  and  the  whole  place  infested  with  German

372  THE  RUMANIAN  CAMPAIGN

civilians  domiciled  in  the  country,  of  whom  fifty,  disguised
in  Russian  uniform,  were  arrested,  tried  and  shot  in  one  day.

General  Presan,  desperately  pressed  and  anxiously  await-
ing the  expected  reinforcements  which  were  purposely  de-
layed through  the  culpable  negligence  of  a  subordinate  offi-
cer, found  treachery  on  every  side.  General  Socescu — a
naturalized  German  whose  real  name  was  Sosek — command-
ing a  division,  left  his  post  at  night  at  nine  o'clock  without
authority,  and,  in  the  midst  of  this  supreme  crisis,  went  to
Bucharest.  The  position  occupied  by  his  troops  was  attacked
by  the  enemy  at  9.30,  the  line  was  pierced — General  Presan's
at  one  time  victory  was  turned  into  a  crushing  defeat  of
the  Rumanian  armies — and  the  way  to  the  capital  lay  open !

For  Rumania  these  were  indeed  terrible  days  of  anxiety.
Bit  by  bit  the  heroic  army  were  forced  back,  fighting  stub-
bornly under  overwhelming  odds,  exhausted,  decimated,  lack-
ing everything,  yet  constantly  winning  a  grudging  acknowl-
edgment of  valor  and  resistance  in  the  enemy's  reports.

The  treachery  of  General  Socescu  and  the  consequent
defeat  of  the  Rumanian  armies  had  fallen  on  the  capital
like  a  thunderbolt.  The  excitement  in  these  bitter  days  of
winter  was  indescribable.  The  cry:  "The  Germans  are
coming"  filled  the  populace  with  terror.

But  with  unquenchable  hope  and  faith  they  waited —
with  sinking  hearts  they  waited  and  hoped.  Where  was
the  promised  help  from  Russia?  Only  two  divisions  had
arrived.  Where  was  the  Brusiloff  offensive  in  Galicia  that
was  to  draw  the  enemy  off?  The  advance  from  Salonika?
But  the  Allies  were  too  busy  parleying  and  believing  in  the
false  protestations  of  neutrality  of  another  traitor,  Constan-
tine,  once  of  Greece.  And  Sarrail,  immobilized  and  para-
lyzed for  lack  of  men,  munitions  and  railroads,  could  not  ad-
vance for  the  promised  assistance.

Rumania  stood  at  bay  facing  her  martyrdom  alone.  A
tense  pause  seemed  to  hang  over  Europe  as  it  watched  the
mortal  struggle  of  the  little  nation,  the  cup  raised — to  be
drained  to  its  bitterest  dregs.

THE  VERDUN  COUNTER-ATTACK

A  FRENCH  DASH  REGAINS  THE  LOSSES  OF  MONTHS

OCTOBER  24TH

GERMAN  OFFICIAL  STATEMENTS
MARSHAL  HINDENBURG  THE  CROWN  PRINCE

FRENCH  AND  BRITISH  EYE-WITNESSES
GENERAL  DUBOIS

The  great  German  attack  upon  Verdun  had  slackened,  as  we  have
seen,  in  July  and  August.  By  fall  the  front  there  was  scarcely  more
active  than  other  portions  of  the  trench  line.  Then  on  October  24th
the  French  commander  there,  General  Nivelle,  launched  a  sudden  and
most  successful  surprise  attack.  Fort  Douaumont  and  much  of  the
surrounding  region,  which  the  Germans  had  battled  for  months  to
win,  were  wrested  from  them  in  a  single  charge.  Over  a  front  of
four  miles  the  French  advanced  to  a  depth  of  two  miles.  Fort  Vaux,
the  companion  defense  to  Douaumont,  was  then  assailed,  and  in  less
than  a  week  the  Germans  were  driven  from  it.  This  double  success
in  a  region  where  almost  every  rod  of  advance  had  once  been  her-
alded as  a  victory,  was  a  striking  triumph.  So  valuable  did  it  seem
to  the  French  that  General  Nivelle  was,  in  December,  made  Com-
mander-in-Chief of  all  the  French  armies  in  France,  taking  the  place
of  Joffre,  who  retired.

Naturally,  the  Germans  sought  to  belittle  their  loss  of  the  historic
Douaumont  and  the  ground  they  had  toiled  so  desperately  to  win.
Moreover,  General  Ludendorff,  since  the  War,  has  admitted  that  he
framed  his  official  bulletins  to  "keep  up  the  morale"  of  his  soldiers.
Whether  falsehood  was  the  most  effective  way  of  accomplishing  this
may  be  open  to  question — but  it  was  the  German  way.  Hence  in
giving  Ludendorff's  contemptuous  dismissal  of  the  French  "local"
success,  we  have  placed  before  it  the  account  of  Colonel  Frobenius,
the  semi-official  German  historian,  and  also  a  memorandum  by  General
von  Zwehl,  the  commander  on  the  spot.  This  was  received  by  Luden-
dorff just  before  the  attack.  We  give  also  the  more  honest  and  gener-
ous review  by  Marshal  Hindenburg  as  he  summed  up  the  French
attack  in  his  Memoirs.  The  pathetic  protest  of  the  nominal  commander
at  Verdun,  the  Crown  Prince,  crying  that  all  this  was  not  his  fault,
closes  this  not  uninteresting  conflict  of  German  accounts  of  Verdun.

The  intense  earnestness  of  the  French  spirit  in  the  assault  is  then
presented  by  a  French  staff  officer;  and  the  wide  triumph  of  the  Ally
world  over  the  victory  is  voiced  by  the  British  newspaper  report  that
follows.  Before  October  24th  the  Verdun  position  might  have  been
regarded  as  a  mere  lull,  a  resting  point  from  which  Germany  would
again  resume  her  advance.  After  October  24th,  Verdun  ranked  as  a
great  defensive  victory  for  France.     Germany,  to  win  the  ancient

374       THE  VERDUN  COUNTER-ATTACK

stronghold  now,  would  have  to  begin  operations  all  over  again,  almost
from  the  beginning.  On  December  16th  the  French,  now  under  Gen-
eral Mangin,  made  another  similar  assault  and  won  back  another  sec-
tion of  territory  even  larger.  In  both  of  these  counter-attacks  the
French  used  new  cannon  of  great  destructive  power,  and  their  loss
in  men  was  comparatively  small.  This  increase  in  artillery  force  and
the  resulting  conservation  of  human  life  was  one  of  the  most  notable
features  in  the  approaching  superiority  of  the  Allies.  c.  f.  h.

BY  COLONEL  FROBENIUS

JN  the  Battle  of  the  Somme  the  English  and  the  French  in-
deed succeeded  as  far  as  their  avowed  object  of  relieving
the  French  defenders  of  Verdun  was  concerned.  The  Ger-
mans, in  order  successfully  to  resist  the  onslaughts  at  the
Somme,  were  compelled  to  draw  heavily  upon  their  artil-
lery before  Verdun,  thus  enabling  the  French  there  to  pro-
ceed to  counter-attacks.

It  was  not  unknown  to  the  Germans  that  the  defenders
were  preparing  to  recapture  forts  Vaux  and  Douaumont.
The  artillery  preparation  for  the  attack  began  on  October
2  ist,  the  attack  being  directed,  on  October  24th,  from  the
lines  on  the  heights  of  Haudromont  over  the  crests  at
Fleury,  and  from  Vaux-Chapitre  toward  Damloup.  Against
the  troops  stationed  within  the  area  Douaumont- Vaux,  con-
sisting of  28  battalions  and  10  reserve  battalions,  together
with  130  batteries,  the  French  launched  three  divisions  with
an  additional  infantry  regiment  joined  to  each  wing.

The  attack  of  the  troops,  which  had  been  long  and  care-
fully detailed,  succeeded.  On  the  26th  the  German  position,
including  the  third  line,  was  in  the  hands  of  the  French.
Fort  Douaumont,  which,  in  consequence  of  the  bombard-
ment was  afire  and  had  become  untenable,  had  already  been
evacuated  on  the  evening  of  the  23rd.  Only  Fort  Vaux
held  out  until  November  2nd.

A  cessation  of  the  combats,  now  supervened,  the  Ger-
mans meanwhile  occupying  positions  farther  back,  their
operations  remaining  unmolested  by  the  enemy.  The
French  wished  to  renew  the  attack  with  the  utmost  rapidity,
yet  the  artillery  fire  accompanying  the  attack  of  the  24th
had  so  devastated  the  region  to  be  traversed  that  it  was
found  necessary  first  to  make  the  roads  leading  to  the  newly
won  positions  passable.    The  transportation  of  the  heavy

THE  VERDUN  COUNTER-ATTACK  375

artillery  was  not  completed  therefore  until  December  nth,
so  that  the  preparation  for  the  new  attack  could  not  begin
before  that  day.  The  goal  was  the  line  Bezonvaux  Forest
from  Courieres  Farmhouse  over  Chambrettes,  Louvemont,
Vacherauville.  Consequently  the  attack  had  to  be  made  in
the  form  of  a  wide  diversion  to  the  left.

Four  divisions  began  the  attack  on  December  15th,  and,
after  several  bloody  encounters,  succeeded,  on  the  18th,  in
attaining  their  goal.  With  this  second  undeniable  success
the  defenders  of  Verdun  remained  content  for  the  time.  As
the  Germans  also  had  no  motive  for  continuing  the  attacks,
the  heavier  combats  here  ceased  for  the  winter.  The  fight-
ing activities  were  not  resumed  until  March,  19 17.

BY  GENERAL  VON  ZWEHL

A  memorandum  delivered  to  the  commanding  general  just  before  the

French  attack

The  value  of  Fort  Douaumont,  leaving  aside  the  great
political  importance  of  its  possession  by  us,  lies  in  the  pos-
sibility of  our  artillery  dominating  the  terrain  in  front  of
it,  thanks  to  the  excellent  observation  posts  in  its  armored
turrets.  We  can  only  prevent  a  surprise  of  our  first  line  by
its  means.  Moreover,  to  a  certain  extent,  the  fort  gives
our  reserves  good  shelter  two  kilometers  from  our  first  line.

According  to  information  from  agents  a  French  attack
on  the  Verdun  front  is  to  be  expected.  Our  battle  position
must  be  held  at  all  costs.  Infantry  and  machine  guns  must
be  ready  to  repulse  French  attacks  at  any  moment.  The
greatest  number  of  grenades  must  be  carried  to  the  front
line,  the  reserves  and  machine  gun  reserves  at  Thiaumont-
Hang  and  Ablain-Schlucht  and  Minzenschlucht  must  be  pre-
pared to  go  to  the  front  line  at  any  moment.

BY  GENERAL  ERICH  VON  LUDENDORFF
Announcement  from  German  Headquarters  immediately  after  the  attack
The  projected  withdrawal  of  the  first  line  in  the  Douau-
mont- Vaux  sector  of  the  front  to  prepared  positions  was
accomplished  on  Wednesday  night.  Although  the  French,
favored  by  foggy  weather,  were  able  on  October  24th  to
idvance  just  at  the  time  when  this  withdrawal  was  in
progress,  and  thus  obtained  a  local  success,  the  methodi-

376       THE  VERDUN  COUNTER-ATTACK

cal  retreat  of  the  troops  from  Vaux  Fort  was  carried  out
on  the  night  of  November  ist  without  the  attention  of  the
enemy  being  aroused.  Moreover,  at  dawn  on  November
2nd,  the  deceived  French  opened  fire  on  Vaux  Fort  and
maintained  it  into  the  daylight.  French  assaulting  columns
made  an  attack  into  space  and  discovered  the  fort  had  been
abandoned.

The  forts  of  Douaumont  and  of  Vaux  played  an  im-
portant part  in  the  battle  of  Verdun  so  long  as  they  remained
as  French  forts  in  the  hands  of  the  defenders.  In  order  to
weaken  the  Verdun  position  they  had  to  be  rendered  inof-
fensive; deprived  of  their  fighting  means  and  largely  de-
stroyed, they  possessed  only  a  limited  value  for  the  assault-
ing party  from  a  tactical  point  of  view  immediately  the  at-
tack upon  Verdun  had  been  interrupted.  Further,  they  gave
the  French  artillery  excellent  objectives.  In  consequence
of  local  gains  by  the  French  in  the  neighborhood  of  the  for-
mer Fort  of  Douaumont  the  importance  of  Vaux  Fort  to  the
German  troops  had  become  less  than  nil  and  there  was  no
reason  to  make  great  sacrifices  for  the  maintenance  of  this
advanced  position.  As  also  the  ground  near  Vaux  was  not
suited  for  defense  toward  the  south,  the  fort  was  abandoned
and  the  German  battle  line  was  carried  back  to  a  more  favor-
able line  which  had  long  ago  been  prepared.  It  is  less  visible
and  less  exposed  to  the  enemy's  artillery  fire.  It  is  well  to
add  that  the  abandonment  of  Vaux  Fort  is  devoid  of  any
important  effect  upon  the  situation  before  Verdun.

BY  MARSHAL  HINDENBURG
From  his  Memoirs  after  the  War

Our  role  as  supreme  directors  of  these  battles  was
simple.  For  lack  of  men  we  could  not  contemplate  the  idea
of  a  relief  attack  either  at  Verdun  or  the  Somme,  however
strong  were  my  own  inclinations  for  such  a  measure.  Very
soon  after  I  took  over  my  new  post  I  found  myself  com-
pelled by  the  general  situation  to  ask  His  Majesty  the  Em-
peror to  order  the  offensive  at  Verdun  to  be  broken  off.
The  battles  there  exhausted  our  forces  like  an  open  wound.
Moreover,  it  was  obvious  that  in  any  case  the  enterprise

THE  VERDUN  COUNTER-ATTACK  377

had  become  hopeless,  and  that  for  us  to  persevere  with  it
would  cost  us  greater  losses  than  those  we  were  able  to
inflict  on  the,  enemy.  Our  forward  zone  was  at  all  points
exposed  to  the  flanking  fire  of  superior  hostile  artillery.
Our  communications  with  the  battle-line  were  extremely
difficult.  The  battlefield  was  a  regular  hell  and  regarded  as
such  by  the  troops.

When  I  look  back  now,  I  do  not  hesitate  to  say  that  on
purely  military  grounds  it  would  have  been  far  better  for
us  to  have  improved  our  situation  at  Verdun  by  the  volun-
tary evacuation  of  the  ground  we  had  captured.  In  August,
1 9 16,  however,  I  considered  I  could  not  adopt  that  course.
To  a  large  extent  the  flower  of  our  best  fighting  troops  had
been  sacrificed  in  the  enterprise.  The  public  at  home  still
anticipated  a  glorious  issue  to  the  offensive.  It  would  be
only  too  easy  to  produce  the  impression  that  all  these  sacri-
fices had  been  incurred  in  vain.  Such  an  impression  I  was
anxious  to  avoid  in  the  existing  state  of  public  opinion,
nervous  enough  as  it  already  was.

We  were  disappointed  in  our  hopes  that  with  the  break-
ing-off  of  our  offensive  at  Verdun  the  enemy  would  more  or
less  confine  himself  to  purely  trench  warfare  there.  At  the
end  of  October  the  French  opened  a  largely-conceived  and
boldly-executed  counter-attack  on  the  eastern  bank  of  the
Meuse,  and  overran  our  lines.  We  lost  Douaumont,  and
had  no  longer  the  strength  to  recover  that  field  of  honor  of
German  heroism.

For  this  attack  the  French  commander  had  abandoned
the  former  practice  of  an  artillery  preparation  extending
over  days  or  even  weeks.  By  increasing  the  rate  of  fire  of
the  artillery  and  trench-mortars  to  the  extreme  limit  of
capacity  of  material  and  men,  only  a  short  period  of  pre-
paration had  preceded  the  attack,  which  had  then  been
launched  immediately  against  the  physically  exhausted  and
morally  shaken  defenders.  We  had  already  had  experience
of  this  enemy  method  of  preparation  for  the  attack  in  the
course  of  the  long  attrition  battles,  but  as  the  herald  to  a
great  infantry  attack  it  was  a  novelty  to  us,  and  it  was  per-
haos  just  this  feature  which  doubtless  produced  so  im-

378       THE  VERDUN  COUNTER-ATTACK

portant  a  success.  Taking  it  all  round,  on  this  occasion  the
enemy  hoisted  us  with  our  own  petard.  We  could  only-
hope  that  in  the  coming  year  he  would  not  repeat  the  ex-
periment on  a  greater  scale  and  with  equal  success.

BY  CROWN  PRINCE  FREDERICK  WILLIAM
From  his  Memoirs,  abridged

When  the  situation  at  Verdun  became  so  acute  that,  in
view  of  the  futility  of  the  sacrifices  I  felt  unable  to  sanction
the  continuation  of  the  attack,  I  reported  personally  to  the
Kaiser  and  made  written  representation  to  the  G.  H.  com-
mand. Thereupon  the  Kaiser  adopted  my  view  and  granted
the  desired  cessation  of  the  attack.  After  the  resignation,
on  August  29th,  of  General  von  Falkenhayn,  the  head  of
the  Commander-in-Chief's  General  Staff  and  of  the  Opera-
tion Department,  the  orders  to  cease  attacking  were  issued
by  Field  Marshal  General  von  Hindenburg  on  September
2nd,  19 1 6,  together  with  instructions  to  convert  into  a  per-
manent position  the  lines  that  had  been  reached.

The  newspaper  at  home  were  cruelly  unjust  to  me  in
this,  representing  me  as  responsible  for  all  the  bloodshed.
They  even  called  me  "die  laughing  murderer  of  Verdun."
Our  soldiers  at  the  front  knew  better.  A  dozen  incidents
showed  their  affection  for  me,  and  their  knowledge  as  to
where  the  responsibility  really  lay.

PERSONAL  NARRATIVE  OF  A  FRENCH  STAFF  OFFICER

From  the  slopes  of  Souville  I  have  seen  victory  climb
and  crown  Douaumont.  Our  modern  battles  afford  no  spec-
tacle; they  are  cruel  and  mysterious.  There  are  big  empty
spaces  dotted  with  shell  holes  and  cut  with  long  furrows
which  mark  the  soil  as  the  veins  make  marble  patterns  on
the  hands.  There  are  columns  of  smoke  from  bursting
shells,  a  line  of  shadows  that  creeps  close  to  the  earth  and
disappears.  Those  who  are  in  the  battle  never  know  any-
thing more  of  it  than  one  episode.  But  the  victory  of  Octo-
ber 24th — I  saw  it  before  me  like  a  living  being.

Souville  Hill  is  the  only  one  of  all  the  heights  around
Verdun  which  reaches  the  altitude  of  Douaumont.  Between
these  two  rival  heights  rises  Fleury  Ridge.  Beyond,  upon  the

THE  VERDUN  COUNTER-ATTACK  379

crest,  lies  the  Fort  of  Douaumont.  I  so  often  looked  at
this  landscape  of  hill  and  ravine  that  I  had  it  in  my  eyes
when  on  the  morning  of  October  24th  I  took  my  post  at  Sou-
ville,  but  my  eyes  looked  for  it  in  vain.  A  thick  fog  pre-
vented my  seeing  anything  except  the  nearest  tortured  slope
and  here  and  there  a  mutilated  tree  trunk.

The  fog,  however,  was  by  no  means  inert.  It  seemed  as
though  it  was  being  stirred  about  and  labored  by  the  con-
stant and  invisible  flight  of  shells.  Their  whistling  was  so
continuous  that  instinctively  I  looked  up  as  though  I  had
expected  them  to  form  a  vault  of  steel  above  my  head.  Our
artillery  was  pounding  the  enemy's  positions,  and  I  recalled
the  terrible  days  of  the  end  of  February  when  the  shells  were
rushing  upon  us.  This  time  it  was  the  opposite  impression
that  I  got,  an  impression  of  our  definite  superiority.  The
guns  with  their  thousand  voices  gave  a  prodigious  concert
in  the  fog,  and  I  tried  to  analyze  its  skillful  orchestration,  to
identify  the  strident  plaint  of  the  "75's,"  and  the  big  bass
of  our  heavy  howitzers.  I  asked  myself  if  we  would  attack
in  spite  of  the  obscurity?  Would  it  not  be  disastrous  and
prevent  the  guns  from  accompanying  our  advancing  troops
with  their  fire?  On  the  other  hand,  might  not  the  fog  in-
crease the  elements  of  surprise?  Knowing  the  hour  fixed  for
the  attack,  I  looked  at  my  watch,  and  while  waiting  I  grad-
ually grew  more  and  more  anxious  with  the  fear  of  post-
ponement of  our  trial  and  the  adjournment  of  our  hopes.
I  knew  that  the  operation  had  been  minutely  arranged  and
that  our  troops  had  been  marvelously  trained,  but  I  also
knew  the  disproportion  of  the  forces  to  be  engaged  and  the
daring  of  the  undertaking.  Three  divisions  entrusted  with
the  duty  of  dislodging  seven  divisions  from  formidably  or-
ganized positions !  It  was  a  daring  undertaking,  but  one  con-
ceived in  the  proportions  of  a  masterpiece,  and  one  which
was  to  be  carried  out  so  precisely  that  once  it  had  been  exe-
cuted it  seemed  quite  simple.

I  had  upon  me  the  Order  of  the  Day  of  General  de  Pas-
saga,  in  which  he  stimulated  his  men  by  recalling  the  prowess
of  the  neighboring  division.  I  took  it  out  of  my  pocket  and
I  chewed  it  over  and  over  again  as  a  horse  does  his  oats.

38o       THE  VERDUN  COUNTER-ATTACK

During  the  long  wait  it  was  to  me  a  song  accompanied  by
the  orchestra  of  guns.  On  the  positions  which  I  knew  so
well  I  reviewed  the  divisions  ready  for  attack.  From  Hau-
dromont  quarries  on  my  left  to  Douaumont  Fort  in  front
of  me  lay  Guyot  de  Safins'  division  with  its  Zouaves,  its
Tirailleurs,  and  the  famous  colonial  regiments  from  Mo-
rocco which  retook  Fleury  on  August  17th.  To  the  right
lay  the  Chasseurs  of  Passaga's  division,  and  still  further
to  the  right,  towards  Vaux  and  Hardaumont,  the  fantas-
sins  of  Lardemelle.  I  imagined  them  for  I  could  not  see
more  than  fifty  yards  in  front  of  myself.  I  also  imagined
and  not  without  anxiety,  the  German  order  of  battle,  the
number  of  battalions  in  first  and  second  line,  the  trenches,
the  supplementary  defenses,  the  redoubt,  Thiaumont  work,
Haudromont  quarries,  and  at  last,  and  above  all,  Douaumont
Fort.  How  could  our  men  get  the  better  of  such  human  and
material  obstacles?

Every  now  and  again  I  pulled  out  my  watch.  Eleven
o'clock!  Eleven-twenty!  Eleven- forty !  The  time  fixed!
Had  the  attack,  which  I  ought  to  have  seen  rise  up  and  roll
down  the  ravine  and  then  sweep  over  the  opposing  slope,
had  it  been  launched?  Had  the  artillery  lengthened  its  fire?
It  was  impossible  to  know.  At  eleven-fifty  on  the  right  I
heard  the  tick-tick  of  machine  guns.  If  machine  guns  were
in  action  the  attack  must  have  been  launched.  If  machine
guns  are  firing  our  men  have  been  seen  and  are  meeting
with  resistance.  Then  I  heard  them  no  more.  The  roar  of
the  guns  drowned  everything  and  again  I  go  through  un-
certainty and  anxiety.  At  the  command  post  where  I  went
from  time  to  time  news  was  at  last  confing  through.  The
start  was  magnificent.  The  first  objective  is  reported  to
have  been  reached  already.  The  men  are  organizing  their
positions.  They  are  going  to  get  on  the  move  again.  They
are  off.

An  aeroplane-motor  hums  over  my  head.  The  pilot  is
flying  so  low  that  it  looks  as  though  he  is  going  to  touch  me.
I  see  the  enormous  bulk  of  his  machine  loom  gray  through
fog.  He  comes  down  still  lower.  I  was  told  later  on  that
the  pilot  had  been  able  to  shout  out  "En  avant"  to  our  men

THE  VERDUN  COUNTER-ATTACK  381

and  that  a  conversation  had  thus  been  exchanged  between
heaven  and  earth.

Towards  two  o'clock  a  strengthening  wind  begins  to
worry  the  clouds,  following  them,  chasing  them  away,  turn-
ing on  those  which  take  their  place,  and  finally  rending
them  and  putting  them  to  flight  just  as  a  storm  drives  clouds
off  a  mountain  pass.  In  the  intervals  of  their  flight  first  a
slope,  then  a  crest,  appears.  At  last  I  begin  to  see.  I  recog-
nize Fleury  crest,  the  ravine  of  Chambitoux,  the  slopes  of
Douaumont,  and  then  Douaumont  itself.  The  clouds  are  now
flying  so  fast  that  in  a  second  their  ranks  are  broken  and
the  landscape  stands  out  with  the  astonishing  clearness  which
precedes  or  follows  bad  weather.

Through  my  artillery  glasses  I  could  count  the  shell  holes.
They  are  all  full  of  water.  What  a  time  our  men  must  have
had  if  they  went  through  there !  The  landscape  is  not  dead.
Over  there  on  the  slopes  of  Douaumont  earth-colored  men
are  moving  about.  To  the  left  and  to  the  right  they  are
marching  in  Indian  file.  They  are  advancing,  climbing,  and
gradually  getting  nearer  their  objective.  At  last  there  is  one
whose  silhouette  stands  out  upon  the  sky  as  clearly  as  if  a
shadow  show.  Others  are  going  down  a  gorge.  They  are
going  to  be  seen.  They  will  be  mown  down.  Don't  show
yourselves  like  that.  It  is  crazy.  They  are  moving,  and
turn,  describing  a  vast  circle  around  conquered  Douaumont
as  though  they  were  dancing  a  "farandole"  of  victory.  I
want  to  shout.  I  must  have  shouted,  but  I  did  not  hear  the
sound  of  my  own  voice  in  the  noise  of  bursting  shells,  for
the  German  riposte  had  not  been  long  in  coming  and  shells
are  bursting.  I  must  have  shouted,  for  my  teeth  shut  upon
some  earth  splashed  up  into  my  open  mouth  by  a  shell,  which
had  just  fallen  close  to  me.  Douaumont  is  ours.  The  for-
midable Douaumont,  which  dominates  with  its  mass,  its  ob-
servation points,  the  two  shores  of  the  Meuse,  is  again
French.

BRITISH  POPULAR  NEWSPAPER  REPORT

There  are  two  ways  of  looking  at  the  brilliant  victory
gained  yesterday  by  the  French  at  Douaumont.    You  may

382       THE  VERDUN  COUNTER-ATTACK

say  that  Verdun  wanted  more  breathing-space,  more  elbow-
room,  before  settling  down  for  the  winter,  for  there  is  no
denying  the  fact  that  the  Germans  were  uncomfortably  close.
In  that  case  it  has  already  secured  a  great  part  of  its  ob-
jective. As  the  result  of  one  day's  magnificent  fighting  it
has  reconquered  a  strip  of  territory  which  it  took  the  enemy
months  to  win.

They  have  made  a  wonderfully  satisfactory  start.  They
have  proved  that  they  have  the  power  of  conducting  suc-
cessful offensive  operations  on  a  large  scale  on  two  widely
removed  sectors  of  the  line  at  one  and  the  same  time.  That
will  give  the  enemy  food  for  thought.

From  what  I  saw  at  Verdun  on  the  day  preceding  the
advance,  and  on  the  day  itself,  it  was  perfectly  evident  that
our  Allies  have  at  their  command  behind  the  lines  in  ad-
vance of  the  fortress  an  immense  reserve  store  of  guns.  Over
a  breadth  and  depth  of  many  miles  the  whole  country  was
swarming  with  troops,  and  guns  and  ammunition  and  aero-
planes were  everywhere.  The  fact  that  the  battle  was  going
on  all  day  over  a  front  of  about  five  miles  made  no  differ-
ence whatever  to  the  streams  of  convoys  moving  to  and  fro
along  the  roads  leading  to  Verdun  from  the  south.  The  men
in  billets  in  the  various  villages,  the  Annamite  and  Sene-
galese and  French  road-menders,  the  thousands  of  soldiers
busied  in  a  thousand  and  one  different  ways  in  the  block  of
country  behind  the  line  where  the  regiments  engaged  in  the
attack  were  fighting,  were  all  going  on  with  their  ordinary
work  for  all  the  world  as  if  nothing  out  of  the  common  was
on  foot.  There  seemed  to  be  quite  as  many  troops  marching
away  from  the  scene  of  action  as  towards  it.  There  was  no
extra  excitement,  no  fuss,  no  disorder,  no  hurrying  up  of
reserves.  Everything  had  been  carefully  and  systematically
prepared  well  in  advance  of  the  day.  All  that  was  neces-
sary had  been  done.  Some  days  before  the  attack,  General
Nivelle's  army  had  been  strongly  reenforced.  The  rest  de-
pended on  the  thin  blue  line  in  the  front  trenches,  the  in-
comparable work  of  the  gunners,  and  the  daring  of  the  air-
men.

The  actual  artillery  preparation  began  rather  more  than

THE  VERDUN  COUNTER-ATTACK  383

a  week  ago.  Then  came  a  succession  of  wet  days,  as  the  re-
sult of  which  the  men  whom  I  saw  coming  back  from  the
trenches  were  plastered  with  mud  from  head  to  foot  and
had  become  a  line  of  khaki  instead  of  a  line  of  blue.  The
attack  was  consequently  postponed  till  one  or  two  bright
days  (cold  enough,  even  before  the  arrival  proper  of  winter)
made  it  once  more  practicable.  On  Monday,  when  I  arrived
at  Verdun,  the  French  guns  and  aeroplanes  were  particu-
larly active.  The  resumed  preliminary  bombardment  was  in
full  swing.  The  air  was  clear,  the  sky  was  blue,  a  rather  cold
sun  was  shining  brightly,  and,  though  towards  evening  a
thick  mist  rose  from  the  Meuse  and  hindered  accurate  ob-
servation of  the  effects  of  the  gunfire,  the  rest  of  the  day
was  admirably  suited  to  the  French  plans.  Those  in  the  know
were  very  chary  of  giving  any  but  the  vaguest  hints  of  the
nearness  of  the  coming  event.

But  the  Germans  themselves  must  have  been  uncom-
fortably aware  of  what  was  in  store  for  them.  About  a
third  of  the  batteries  with  which  they  bombarded  Verdun
up  to  and  beyond  the  beginning  of  the  Somme  offensive  had
been  displaced,  or  at  all  events  had  for  a  considerable  period
of  time  been  silent.  With  the  rest  they  replied  to  the  in-
cessant fire  of  the  French  guns  with  all  the  vigor  at  their
command  and  sometimes  with  the  nervousness  born  of  ap-
prehension. On  the  evening  before,  for  instance,  owing  to
an  entirely  groundless  alarm  of  an  infantry  attack,  they  sud-
denly opened  a  barrage  fire  with  no  fewer  than  83  batteries,
all  firing  at  once.

All  day  long  on  Monday  and  till  late  in  the  evening,
when  I  was  obliged  to  come  away,  the  fierce  duel  went  on,  the
French  shells  falling  on  the  ridges  north  and  northeast  of
the  town,  the  German  round  the  French  batteries  on  the
nearer  slopes  of  the  ridges  and  in  the  valleys  and  ravines  be-
tween them.  In  Verdun  itself  only  two  or  three  at  the  most
exploded  while  I  was  there.  The  enemy  had  other  things  to
think  of  than  the  additional  mangling  of  those  shattered
ruins,  and  as  for  bombarding  the  citadel,  they  might  as  well
try  to  shell  the  moon.

But  outside  the  town  on  those  northern  heights,  on  and

384       THE  VERDUN  COUNTER-ATTACK

behind  which  half  a  million  German  soldiers  and  what  was
left  of  the  Crown  Prince's  military  reputation  have  perished,
the  continual  roar  of  the  guns  and  the  flashes  and  smoke
clouds  of  the  shells  were — both  in  themselves  and  for  what
they  might  mean — a  magnificent  and  cheering  sound  and
spectacle.  And  all  the  time  overhead  the  aeroplanes,  the
splendid,  dauntless,  far-seeing  eyes  of  the  French  Army
were  calmly  carrying  on  their  invaluable  part  of  the  com-
mon work,  sometimes  poised  apparently  without  motion  high
in  space,  utterly  disdainful  of  the  black  smudges  of  shrap-
nel bursting  all  round  them  as  a  German  battery  burst  into
a  furious  rapid  bombardment,  sometimes  whirring  noisily
as  they  darted  swiftly  towards  earth  to  deliver  their  mes-
sages.

On  Tuesday,  the  day  of  the  attack,  the  weather  changed
again,  to  the  disadvantage  of  our  Allies.  The  sun  was  hid-
den by  a  thick  blanket  of  clouds,  the  air  was  thick  and
heavy  with  moisture,  and  a  river  mist  added  to  an  occasional
drizzle  of  rain,  blotted  out  the  outlines  of  all  but  the  nearest
hills.  All  the  conditions  seemed  to  be  as  unfavorable  as  pos-
sible to  an  infantry  attack,  and  it  seems  to  me  more  than
probable  that  that  was  the  view  taken  by  the  enemy.

But  this  time  there  was  to  be  no  holding  back.  The
attack  was  carried  out  as  it  had  been  arranged.  After  seven
hours'  severe  fighting,  the  French  once  more  gained  the
mastery  of  the  fort  which  has  cost  so  many  hundreds  of
lives,  and  undid  the  whole  of  the  work  which  the  Germans
have  done  since  February  25th.

On  the  left  of  the  five-mile  front  the  attack  began  from
what  was  the  most  advanced  and  most  northerly  point  of
the  French  line,  at  the  Cote  du  Poivre  and  the  quarries  of
Haudromont,  about  two  miles  east  of  the  Meuse  at  Vacher-
auville.  Between  this  point  and  Thiaumont,  a  distance  of  a
mile  and  a  half,  the  first  advance  carried  the  French  infan-
try about  a  mile  to  the  road  running  west  from  Douaumont
to  Bras,  up  the  ravines  of  Couleuvre  and  La  Dame.  In  the
next  section  troops  starting  from  Fleury  moved  almost  di-
rectly north  towards  Douaumont,  up  and  to  the  left  of  the
Ravine  Chambitoux  and  took  the  Bois  de  la  Caillette,  so  that

THE  VERDUN  COUNTER-ATTACK  385

the  way  to  Douaumont  was  now  open  on  both  sides,  and
further  to  the  right  the  attack  was  pushed  forward  in  a
straight  line  between  Douaumont  and  Bezonvaux  till  it  nearly
reached  the  Fort  of  Vaux  midway  between  them.

As  far  as  .1  can  gather,  the  French  generals  themselves
were  astonished  by  the  rapidity  of  the  advance,  and  during
the  afternoon  extended  their  objective  to  include  the  cap-
ture of  Douaumont.  Artillery  and  infantry  fought  to-
gether in  perfect  combination  with  magnificent  courage  and
resolution.  That,  for  one  who  has  seen  them  lately,  was  a
foregone  conclusion.  The  French  have  recently  been  de-
scribed as  a  tired  army.  Nothing  could  be  further  from  the
truth.  Their  entrain  is  as  fine  as  it  ever  was  and  their  ex-
perience immeasurably  greater.  Personally,  I  have  seen  no
tired  troops  among  them.  Even  the  mud-caked  poilus,  fresh
from  a  long  night  in  the  trenches,  some  of  them  nursing
frostbitten  feet,  are  full  of  go  and  determination,  and  when
you  see  them  after  a  few  hours  or  days  en  repos  behind
the  lines,  with  clean  uniforms  and  faces,  they  look  as  if  noth-
ing could  stop  them.

On  Tuesday  nothing  did.  It  was  beautiful  to  watch  the
regularity  of  the  advance.  In  all  directions,  from  behind
and  in  front  and  from  both  flanks,  the  batteries  were  pour-
ing their  hurricane  of  steel  on  those  long,  low  hills  in  front.
Gradually,  as  the  afternoon  wore  on,  the  explosions  of  the
French  75-shells  and  the  double  German  barrage-fire  behind
and  upon  or  in  front  of  the  attacking  troops  moved  steadily
farther  and  farther  up  the  ravines  and  slopes.  On  the  crests
of  the  farther  ridges,  from  Haudromont  to  Douaumont,
and  well  past  it  to  the  right,  huge  pillars  of  black  smoke  kept
shooting  up  from  the  ground,  and  two  or  three  times  a  dense
volume  of  white  smoke,  colored  red  by  flame,  shone  out  for
some  time  against  the  sky  as  a  giant  incendiary  shell  set  on
fire  some  explosive  or  inflammable  material.  And  all  the
time  in  the  middle  distance,  between  the  French  field  batteries
and  the  burst  that  outlined  the  position  of  Douaumont  and
the  retreating  Germans,  shell  after  shell  churned  up  the
ground  over  which  the  infantry  fight  was  advancing,  and
filled  the  air  with  yet  other  clouds  of  earth  and  stones  and

386       THE  VERDUN  COUNTER-ATTACK

smoke.  Steadily,  foot  by  foot  and  trench  by  trench,  but
with  extraordinary  rapidity,  those  splendid  French  infantry
advanced,  driving  the  enemy  before  them — for,  remember,
when  the  attack  began  the  opposing  trenches  were,  as  always,
close  up  to  each  other — and,  taking  3,500  prisoners  by  the
way,  till  at  last,  after  a  final  severe  struggle  round  Douau-
mont  Fort,  they  shot  all  of  its  defenders  who  refused  to
surrender  and  won  it  back  for  France.

I  asked  General  Dubois  to  give  me  in  a  few  words  his
own  idea  of  the  strength  of  the  place,  and  this  is  what  he
wrote :

Statement  of  General  Dubois

"The  most  striking  thing  at  Verdun  is  the  pitiable  and
lamentable  failure  of  the  German  effort  against  all  the  mili-
tary organizations  of  the  town.  Their  present  certainty  that
they  will  soon  be  definitely  compelled  to  retire  (this  was
written  the  day  before  the  advance  on  Douaumont)  leads
them  from  time  to  time,  as  has  happened  again  within  the
last  few  days,  to  redouble  the  fury  of  their  bombardment.
But  it  is  trouble  lost.  During  eight  months  nothing  has
given  way,  nothing  has  been  seriously  injured  in  the  vitals
of  the  defenses.  The  old  enceinte  of  Vauban  and  the  citadel
itself  are  unharmed,  in  spite  of  the  storm  of  380  shells  and
projectiles  of  other  calibers  which  have  been  showered  upon
them.  Quite  the  contrary — and  it  is  hardly  necessary  to  say
so — the  whole  time  which  has  passed  since  the  beginning  of
the  attack  has  been  made  wonderful  use  of  in  putting  Verdun
in  a  state  of  solidity  of  resistance  of  which  the  Germans
have  no  idea.  This  considerable  reenforcement  of  the  means
of  defense  would  have  very  much  surprised  them  if  their  as-
sault had  succeeded.  Lastly,  the  bombardment  itself — a  de-
tail which  is  not  without  its  piquancy — has  on  more  than
one  occasion  facilitated  the  execution  of  important  works.  A
380  shell  is  sometimes  very  valuable;  it  can  do  the  work
of  50  men  for  eight  days.  That  is  the  way  in  which  the  Ger-
mans, without  suspecting  it,  have  collaborated  in  the  defense
of  the  fortress.  It  is  also  one  of  the  reasons,  and  not  one
of  the  least  original,  why  they  will  never  take  Verdun."

SERBIA  REBORN

THE  NEW  SERBIAN  ARMY  CAPTURES  MONASTIR  IN

SERBIA

NOVEMBER  IC)TH

G.  WARD  PRICE

Serbia,  as  our  previous  volume  told,  was  completely  captured  by
the  Teuton  powers  in  1915.  Most  of  its  army  was  destroyed  and  the
remnant  who  escaped  across  the  mountains  were  so  ravaged  by  dis-
ease that  they  seemed  specters  rather  than  men.  Italian  ships  saved
them,  Italian  supplies  nourished  them,  and  they  were  placed  upon  the
Greek  island  of  Corfu  to  regain  their  strength.

Now,  in  the  fall  of  1916,  they  were  once  more  healthy,  and  were
most  eager  for  revenge,  especially  upon  their  most  brutal  enemies,  the
Bulgarians.  Hence  they  were  sent  to  join  the  Ally  forces  at  Salonika
under  the  French  general,  Sarrail;  and  here  they  were  given  the
opportunity  to  fight  their  way  back  into  Serbia  if  they  could,  breaking
a  passage  through  the  hated  Bulgarians.

How  they  accomplished  this  is  here  told  by  a  British  observer
on  the  spot.  Their  first  goal  was  Monastir,  the  chief  city  of  southern
Serbia.  This  they  recaptured  on  November  19th,  and  immediately
thereafter  they  reconstructed  there  a  Serbian  Government.

Gradually,  in  the  course  of  the  next  two  years,  these  Serbs  fought
their  way  northward  over  the  martyred  Serbian  ground  until  once
more  all  Serbia  was  theirs.  It  was  a  long  and  bitter  task.  Yet  from
the  moment  Monastir  was  recaptured  the  new  Serbia  was  reborn,  the
Serbia  which  seems  now  to  have  before  it  a  fair  and  prosperous
future.

BY  G.  WARD  PRICE

THE  Franco-Serbian  counter-offensive  started  on  Septem-
ber nth  and  met  with  very  satisfactory  success.  The
Serbs  had  in  line  the  whole  of  their  Third  and  First  Armies
under  General  Vassitch  and  Voivode  Misitch  respectively.
Their  Second  Army  remained  where  it  had  been  since  before
the  Ostrovo  battle,  further  round  on  the  right,  facing  the
Bulgars  among  the  steep,  scrub-covered  mountains  of  the
Moglena.  And  in  cooperation  with  the  Serbs,  at  the  north-
ern end  of  Lake  Ostrovo,  was  practically  the  whole  French
force  in  the  Balkans,  with  a  contingent  of  Russians.  The

SERBIA  REBORN

Serbs  were  also  supported  by  French  heavy  artillery,  having
no  guns  of  their  own  bigger  than  120  mm.

I  returned  immediately  after  witnessing  the  attack  on  the
Macukovo  salient  to  the  Serbian  front.  By  this  time,  Sep-
tember 1 8th,  the  Franco-Serbian  Army  had  pushed  forward
to  within  a  few  miles  of  Fiorina  on  the  left  wing,  their  new
line  running  in  a  northeasterly  direction  from  there  back
towards  Kaimakchalan.  The  Serbs  took  back  thirteen  miles
of  lost  ground  in  three  days.  The  Gornichevo  pass  and
the  village  of  Banitza,  on  the  main  road  to  Monastir,  had
been  regained,  and  as  you  drove  along  it  you  passed  ample
evidence  that  the  Bulgarian  retreat  had  been  considerably
hurried.  Abandoned  guns,  to  the  number  of  nine,  and  thirty
limbers,  lay  by  the  side  of  the  road.  The  victorious  Serbs
had  not  yet  had  time  to  drag  them  away.  All  the  rubbish
that  a  hastily  retreating  army  leaves  behind  was  scattered
right  and  left.  Bullet-pierced  caps  and  helmets,  greatcoats,
broken  rifles,  ammunition  pouches,  marked  the  trail  of  the
retreating  enemy,  and  from  the  top  of  the  hill  at  Banitza,
where  the  road  drops  steeply  down  to  the  plain,  you  could
see  the  Serbian  infantry  spread  out  on  the  green  turf,  each
in  his  little  individual  shelter-trench,  while  the  enemy  shrap-
nel burst  above  and  among  them ;  and  beyond,  right  away  in
the  distance,  loomed  faintly  the  white  minarets  and  walls  of
Monastir,  their  goal  on  the  threshold  of  Serbia,  gleaming
faintly  through  the  haze,  like  the  towers  of  an  unreal  fairy
city.  There  was  to  be  much  fighting  during  the  next  two
months  in  this  green  plain  of  Monastir,  across  which  the
enemy  had  already  constructed  two  strong  lines  of  defensive
works  before  he  started  on  his  advance  to  Ostrovo.

And  this  is  the  moment  to  say  how  effective  a  contribu-
tion towards  the  success  of  the  Serbian  advance  from  Os-
trovo was  made  by  the  English  M.T.  companies,  which  had
been  lent  to  the  Serbian  Army,  the  Serbs  having  no  M.T.
organization  of  their  own.  If  I  remember  rightly,  there
were  at  this  time  three  Ford  companies  of  100  lorries  each
and  one  3-ton  lorry  company  attached  to  the  Serbians.  Ser-
bian generals  have  frequently  avowed  in  their  Army  orders
how  impossible  it  would  have  been  for  them  to  press  so  closely

SERBIA  REBORN

as  they  did  upon  the  heel  of  the  Bulgars  but  for  the  self-
regardless  assistance  of  the  officers  and  men  of  these  M.T.
companies.  The  drivers  threw  themselves  into  the  work  of
punching  those  little  Ford  vans  up  appalling  hills  like  the
Gornichevo  pass  in  a  truly  sporting  spirit.  It  was  up  to  them
to  see  that  the  Serbians  fighting  on  ahead  were  not  let  down
for  lack  of  ammunition  and  that  as  many  of  their  wounded
as  possible  should  be  brought  back  down  to  railhead  at  Os-
trovo.  They  worked  for  forty-eight  hours  on  end  without
stopping,  over  roads  crowded  with  troops  and  guns,  cheer-
fully giving  up  food  and  sleep  during  the  push.  Some  of  the
gradients  up  which  they  took  their  loads  were  so  steep  that
the  petrol  would  not  flow  into  the  carburetor,  and  the  only
way  the  cars  could  get  up  these  parts  was  by  a  sort  of  waltz-
ing movement,  the  weary  but  determined  driver  twisting  his
van  sideways  across  the  road  every  few  yards  to  get  another
gasp  of  petrol,  and  then  making  on  up  the  slope  a  little
further,  until  his  engine  was  on  the  point  of  stopping,  before
repeating  the  maneuver.  Perhaps  the  worst  of  the  many
bad  runs  which  these  Ford  companies  undertook  was  the  one
from  the  side  of  Lake  Ostrovo  up  to  the  village  of  Batachin
on  the  slopes  of  Mt.  Kaimakchalan.  I  made  one  journey
up  it,  and  though  it  was  once  my  fortune  to  chase  an  aero-
plane across  the  Swiss  Alps  in  a  100  h.p.  racing  car,  climbing
Kaimakchalan  in  a  "flying  bedstead"  of  a  Ford  was  a  sen-
sation yet  more  vivid.  As  the  car  zigzagged  up  the  hairpin
ladder  of  the  yellow  road  one  was  haunted  by  an  incon-
gruous memory  of  how

"The  blessed  Damozel  lean'd  out
From  the  gold  bar  of  Heaven."

For,  indeed,  one  might  have  been  on  some  celestial  bal-
cony. Ostrovo  Lake,  with  its  ragged  fringe  of  trees,  and
the  sandy  flats  upon  its  shore,  lay  far  below,  almost  sheer
beneath  one.  And  looking  down  upon  the  roofs  of  the  next
convoy  of  cars  following,  they  seemed  more  like  an  orderly
string  of  ants  than  of  vehicles  as  big  as  one's  own.

There  is  a  belt  of  splendid  beech  forest  halfway  up  Kai-
makchalan, but  beyond  that  the  bare  mountainside  stretches
nakedly  on  to  its  cap  of  almost  perennial  snow.    Its  sur-

SERBIA  REBORN

face  is  like  Dartmoor  drawn  up  at  an  angle  to  the  sky,  and
right  on  the  top,  where  the  north  slope  drops  sheer  away
to  the  Cerna  valley,  stand  the  white  frontier  stones  that  mark
the  boundary  of  Serbia.  From  here  there  is  a  magnificent
outlook  across  a  great  confused  stretch  of  rocky  hills,  which
from  this  height  appear  no  more  important  than  the  wrinkles
on  a  plaster  contour  map.

It  was  on  this  vantage  ground  above  the  clouds,  with
the  country  they  were  fighting  to  win  back  laid  out  in  full
prospect  before  their  eyes,  that  the  Serbs  fought  their  fiercest
battles  with  the  Bulgars.  The  Bulgars  had  such  casualties
that  one  battalion  of  their  46th  Regiment  mutinied.  Little
entrenching  was  possible  on  the  stonebound  mountainside.
In  clefts  and  gullies,  behind  outcrops  of  rock  or  under  shel-
ter of  individual  heaps  of  stones  collected  under  cover  of  the
dark,  the  soldiers  of  these  two  Balkan  armies,  not  unakin  in
race,  with  languages  closely  related  and  histories  that  are  a
parallel  story,  faced  and  fought  each  other  with  savage  and
bitter  hatred,  under  the  fiercest  weather  conditions  of  cold
and  exposure.  The  wind  there  was  sometimes  so  strong  that
the  Serbs  said  they  "almost  feared  that  the  trench-mortar
projectiles  would  be  blown  back  on  to  them."

There  could  be  little  artillery  at  that  altitude  to  keep  the
battle  lines  apart.  Mortar,  bomb  and  bayonet  were  the
weapons  that  worked  the  slaughter  on  Kaimakchalan,  and  so
fiercely  were  they  used  that  Serbs  would  reach  the  ambu-
lances with  broken-off  pieces  of  knives  and  bayonets  in
their  wounds.  You  came  upon  little  piles  of  dead  in  every
gully ;  behind  each  clump  of  rocks  you  found  them,  not  half-
buried  in  mud  or  partly  covered  by  the  ruins  of  a  blown-in
trench  or  shattered  dugout,  but  lying  like  men  asleep  on  the
clean,  hard  stones.  The  fish-tail  of  an  aerial  torpedo,  the
effect  of  whose  explosion  had  been  magnified  by  flying  clouds
of  stony  shrapnel,  usually  furnished  evidence  of  the  nature
of  their  death.  Not  only  for  days  but  for  weeks  after  dead
Bulgars  lay  there,  preserved  in  the  semblance  of  life  by  the
cold  mountain  air,  looking  with  calm,  unseeing  eyes  across
the  battleground  that  had  once  been  the  scene  of  savage
and  concentrated  passion  and  activity,  and  then  lapsed  back

SERBIA  REBORN

again  into  its  native  loneliness,  where  the  eagle  is  the  only
thing  that  moves.  Some  still  held  in  their  stiff  fingers  the
bandage  they  had  been  putting  to  a  wound  when  death  took
them;  here  was  a  man  with  a  half-eaten  bread-crust  in  his
hand.  On  others  you  could  see  no  sign  of  hurt.  They  must
have  been  killed  by  the  shock  alone  of  the  explosion  of  that
aerial  torpedo  whose  black  fragments  lie  among  them —
killed,  too,  at  night  probably  as  they  waited  for  the  dawn
to  start  fighting  once  more.  In  other  places  you  would  find
bodies  of  Serbs  and  Bulgars  mixed  together  where  they
had  met  with  the  bayonet.  Yet  on  none  of  the  dead  faces
that  you  looked  into  did  you  see  the  trace  of  an  expres-
sion of  anger  or  fear.  They  slept  dispassionately,  calmly,
as  if  finding  in  death  the  rest  and  release  from  suffering  that
war  had  so  sternly  denied  them.

Meanwhile,  in  the  broad  corridor  of  flat  green  turf  that
leads  northward  from  Fiorina  to  Monastir  the  Serbs  and
French  fought  unremittingly  to  drive  the  Bulgars  further.
Delay  was  caused  to  our  advance  by  the  fact  that  the  Bulgars
in  their  retreat  blew  up  the  railway  viaduct  across  the  gorge
at  Eksisu ;  and  the  need  of  pausing  while  the  French  wheeled
round  into  line  at  Fiorina  to  conform  with  the  right-angled
change  of  direction  necessary  for  the  advance  on  Monastir
allowed  the  enemy  time  to  settle  into  his  Kenali  trenches
which  held  us  up  for  six  weeks  more.  A  preliminary  Bulgar
stand  was  made  on  a  line  that  ran  through  Petorak,  Vrbeni
and  Krusograd.

It  was  open  fighting  in  the  fullest  sense  of  the  word.
From  the  crest  of  one  of  the  rolling  ridges  of  grass  you
could  watch  the  movement  of  every  individual  infantry  sol-
dier from  the  time  he  got  up  at  the  foot  of  your  hill,  through
all  his  two-mile  advance  in  skirmishing  order  across  the  bare
plain,  until  he  reached  the  enemy  wire,  which  was  clear  to
see  with  glasses  in  front  of  the  black  copses  of  trees  that
surround  the  villages  of  Petorak  and  Vrbeni.

Once  during  that  fighting,  on  September  19th,  I  saw  a
Bulgarian  attempt  at  a  cavalry  charge.  It  was  only  an
affair  of  two  squadrons  and  it  was  swept  away  by  machine
guns,  the  body  of  the  young  captain  who  led  it  being  found

SERBIA  REBORN

afterwards  on  the  ground.  But  cavalry  charges  are  rare
now,  and  an  open  flat  country  like  this  plain  of  Monastir,
where  you  could  gallop  till  your  horse  dropped  dead  with-
out meeting  any  obstacle  more  formidable  than  a  drainage-
ditch,  was  a  rare  setting  for  one.  The  Serbian  infantry
were  scattered  in  the  open,  not  in  a  continuous  trench-line,
but  in  those  little  trous  individuels,  like  the  beginnings  of
a  grave,  which  each  man  digs  for  himself.  The  Bulgar  guns
were  shelling  them  with  shrapnel  in  a  half-hearted  way.  It
seemed  a  slack  sort  of  battle-day.  Then  one  noticed  an  in-
distinct little  black  blob  moving  about  on  the  edge  of  Vrbeni
wood  four  miles  away.  The  glasses  revealed  it  as  horsemen,
formed  in  two  separate  bodies.  Could  it  be  that  they  were
going  to  charge  ?  Evidently,  for  they  began  to  move  towards
us,  keeping  their  close  formation  for  a  little,  then  opening
out  on  to  a  wider  front.  They  trotted  on  a  little  distance  in
this  way,  with  shells  beginning  to  drop  in  their  direction
from  batteries  which  had  noticed  the  unusual  phenomenon.
The  trot  broke  into  a  canter  and  then  the  two  squadrons  sud-
denly strung  out  into  another  formation,  a  long  diagonal
line,  and  lengthened  into  a  gallop.  It  was  a  gallant  sight,
and  when  the  Serbian  machine  guns  began  a  rattling  fire  that
eventually  stopped  the  charge,  one's  sympathy  seemed  drawn
somehow  to  the  horsemen.  For  one  thing  a  mounted  man
coming  down  is  much  more  dramatic  a  sight  than  a  foot-sol-
dier falling.  Horse  and  man,  if  it  is  the  horse  that  is  hit,
go  sprawling  and  rolling  over,  or  if  the  man  is  shot  and
falls  from  the  saddle,  the  horse  either  comes  galloping  on
riderless  or  else  rushes  wildly  away  on  his  own;  whereas
when  you  watch  an  infantry  advance  you  cannot  tell  which
men  are  dropping  because  they  are  hit  and  which  are  only
taking  cover  or  lying  down  to  get  breath.  Those  Bulgar
horsemen  never  got  up  to  the  Serbian  infantry.  As  soon  as
they  were  within  a  thousand  yards  the  leading  files  of  the
diagonal  lines  withered  away  before  a  hail  of  bullets  from
rifles  and  machine  guns ;  they  could  never  have  seen  the  troops
they  had  been  sent  to  attack,  and  indeed  the  whole  thing
seemed  a  very  futile  and  unpractical  sort  of  enterprise  to
have  undertaken  at  all.   What  was  left  of  the  two  squadrons

SERBIA  REBORN

frayed  out  into  a  line  that  became  more  and  more  ragged
till  it  just  broke  off,  and  the  survivors,  wheeling  round,  gal-
loped back  for  Vrbeni  wood  again.

The  right  use  for  cavalry  in  modern  war  was  shown  a
little  later,  when  the  Serbs  forced  the  passage  of  the  Cerna
River.  That  was  part  of  this  same  battle  for  Monastir,
but  occurred  when  we  had  got  a  little  further  forward  and
the  Serbs  were  pushing  on  to  the  right  of  the  town  so  as
to  threaten  the  enemy  line  of  communications  and  force  him
to  abandon  the  place.

The  continuous  trench-line  which  the  Bulgars  had  built
across  the  plain  of  Monastir  ran  in  front  of  Kenali  and  then
mounted  a  conspicuous  sandstone  bluff  forming  the  left
bank  of  the  Sakulevo  River,  the  line  of  which  it  followed
till  it  reached  the  Cerna  at  Brod.  East  of  Brod  the  Cerna,
hitherto  open  on  one  bank  to  the  flat  plain  of  Monastir,  en-
ters a  valley  between  rocky  mountains  as  it  begins  to  turn
north  again.  On  the  corner  which  the  Starkovgrob  heights
make  on  the  southern  bank  of  the  river,  like  a  high  bastion
looking  out  over  the  Monastir  plain  to  the  west  and  across
into  the  welter  of  stony  hills  beyond  the  Cerna  to  the  north,
the  commander  of  the  Serbian  Morava  division  had  fixed  his
battle  observation  post.  There  you  could  stand  among  pin-
nacles of  rock  and  watch  every  move  of  the  fight  across  the
valley.  Alongside  you,  concealed  by  the  crags,  French  field-
guns  pounded  the  stony  heights  that  rose  like  an  unbroken
wall  beyond  the  river,  where,  dotted  about  among  the  huge
bowlders,  you  could  see  the  Serbian  infantry  clambering  up-
wards to  the  assault.  To  make  their  horizon-blue  coats  more
distinguishable  against  the  slate-colored  rock  so  that  the
French  gunners  and  their  own  should  not  drop  shells  among
them,  every  man  had  a  square  of  white  calico  fastened  to  his
back  and  the  leader  of  each  section  carried  a  little  flag,  so
that  the  steep  slopes  opposite  were  dotted  with  moving  points
of  white.

Brod,  the  village  on  the  river  bank,  was  burning  and  had
been  abandoned  by  the  enemy.  Veliselo,  the  squalid  little
hamlet  above  it,  hiding  in  a  pocket  of  the  mountains,  was
the  Serbians'  next  objective.   And  suddenly,  as  we  watched

SERBIA  REBORN

the  Serb  infantry  climb  upward  among  the  rocks  with  their
screen  of  friendly  shells  creeping  on  ahead  of  them,  a  num-
ber of  little  black  figures  sprang  into  sight  on  the  hillside
above  and  went  racing  off  among  the  rocks  towards  Veli-
selo.  It  was  the  Bulgars  in  retreat.  And  soon  Veliselo
itself,  whose  thatched  mud  huts  were  plainly  to  be  seen,  be-
gan to  show  signs  of  panic-stricken  activity.  A  string  of
Bulgarian  carts  started  pouring  out  of  the  further  end.  With
your  glasses  you  could  see  stragglers  running  into  the  vil-
lage, dodging  about  among  the  houses  and  then  out  along  the
track  beyond,  on  the  trail  of  the  retreating  column.  The
Bulgars  were  in  full  flight  for  their  next  prepared  position
among  the  mountains  behind.  To  cut  off  as  many  as  possible
before  they  got  to  the  protection  of  the  new  line  the  com-
mander of  the  Morava  division  ordered  up  the  Serbian  cav-
alry. They  appeared  from  behind  us  down  in  the  plain  be-
low on  our  left — a  long  column  trotting  and  cantering  al-
ternately in  a  dry  stream-bed.  While  they  followed  that
the  Bulgar  and  German  gunners  on  the  rocky  slopes  be-
yond the  Cerna  could  not  see  them,  but  soon  they  had  to  leave
it  and  strike  for  the  river  bank  across  the  open.  It  was  a
splendid  spectacle — a  half-mile  column  of  horsemen  canter-
ing over  the  grass.  Shells  began  to  fall  about  them,  now  on
this  side,  now  on  that.  One  or  two  men  fell,  hit  by  flying
fragments,  but  the  rest  swept  on  and  crossed  the  Cerna  with
a  mighty  splashing.  Brod,  the  village  on  the  other  side,
was  already  on  fire  and  a  bombardment  of  it  was  begun
by  the  enemy  to  hinder  the  Serbian  cavalry  from  passing,
but  they  formed  up  under  the  cover  of  the  river  bank  and
then  squadrons  began  to  set  off  on  individual  adventures  after
the  flying  Bulgars.  One  of  them  captured  a  whole  enemy
battery,  limbers,  gun-teams  and  all.

While  the  Serbians  were  thus  fighting  with  gradual  suc-
cess upon  the  right  of  the  Monastir  sector  the  French  made
one  or  two  frontal  attacks  upon  the  Kenali  trenches  in  the
flat  plain,  and  the  Russians  had  some  rough  fighting  among
the  mountains  that  stretch  westwards  to  Lake  Prespa.  These
attacks,  of  which  the  chief  was  that  of  October  14th,  were
not  successful,  for  the  Kenali  lines  were  made  with  all  the

SERBIA  REBORN

skill  and  thoroughness  of  positions  on  the  Western  front,
while  we  had  nothing  like  the  same  weight  or  quantity  of
artillery  at  our  disposal  to  smash  them.  So  that  when  the
Serbs  carried  Kaimakchalan  and  began  to  get  on  in  the  loop
of  the  Cerna  River  on  one  flank  of  the  Kenali  lines,  in  such
a  way  that  if  they  won  much  more  ground  they  would  suc-
ceed in  turning  the  defenses  of  Monastir,  General  Sarrail
withdrew  troops,  both  French  and  Russian,  from  his  left
wing  to  strengthen  his  right,  and  put  these  French  rein-
forcements under  the  orders  of  Marshal  Misitch,  command-
ing the  Serbian  First  Army,  who  proved  worthy  of  his  con-
fidence. The  tactics  which  led  finally  to  the  recapture  of
Monastir  were,  in  fact,  maneuvering  and  pressure  along  the
whole  of  this  sector,  combined  with  a  definite  attempt  to
pierce  the  enemy  front  at  one  point,  this  effort  being  made
by  the  Serbs,  to  whose  persistence  under  most  severe  fight-
ing conditions  the  credit  for  the  winning  back  of  their  own
city  belongs.

As  November  drew  on,  the  heavy  autumn  rains  con-
verted the  trenches  in  the  Kenali  plain  into  a  swamp  of  the
utmost  wretchedness.  There  had  been  no  progress  there,
but  meanwhile  the  Danube  Division,  among  the  snow  on  the
heights  in  the  Cerna  loop,  had  taken,  first  Polog,  then  Iven,
and  finally  got  up  halfway  the  steep  side  of  Hill  1212,  one
of  the  main  positions  in  this  confused  tangle  of  mountains,
which,  however — as  is  the  heartbreaking  way  of  the  Balkans
— is  dominated  in  turn  by  the  next  height,  Hill  1378.

On  November  14th  an  offensive  was  ordered  along  the
whole  line  from  Kenali  to  the  Cerna.  Two  brigades  of
French  infantry  attacked  Bukri  and  what  was  now  the  Kenali
salient  at  noon.  Three  bayonet  assaults  were  met  by  such
heavy  machine-gun  fire  that  they  failed ;  but  at  2.30  the  at-
tack was  renewed  and  two  Bulgar  lines  at  Bukri  were  car-
ried and  held  against  two  counter-attacks — all  this  in  teem-
ing rain,  penetrating  cold  and  the  worst  mud  conceivable.
The  result  was  at  last  to  force  the  Bulgars  out  of  the  Kenali
line,  which  they  had  held  for  two  months,  and  back  on  to
the  next  prepared  position  on  the  Bistrica  River,  five  miles
behind,  towards  Monastir.

SERBIA  REBORN

The  Serbs  made  prisoners  in  this  fighting  no  less  than
twenty-eight  German  officers  and  1,100  other  ranks — a  big
haul  for  the  Balkans,  where  the  Germans  are  used  only  as
stiffening  for  especially  threatened  positions.  These  cap-
tives cursed  the  Bulgars  freely,  saying  that  they  had  bolted
and  let  them  down.

On  November  17th  the  Serbs  carried  both  Hill  12 12  and
Hill  1378  beyond.  On  that,  two  days  later,  without  further
pressure,  the  Bulgars  suddenly  left  the  Bistrica  line  and
abandoned  Monastir  itself,  falling  back  down  the  road  to
Prilep.

Like  many  things  long  and  earnestly  awaited,  the  evacua-
tion of  Monastir  finally  came  as  something  of  a  surprise.
It  seemed  when  the  winter  rains  and  snow  began  as  if  we
should  hardly  get  there  before  the  spring.  Even  the  night
before  the  city  was  actually  evacuated,  when  I  was  riding
back  to  Vrbeni  from  a  visit  to  the  Serbian  sector  of  the
front  with  some  English  Staff  officers,  and  we  saw  an  enemy
column  marching  out  of  Opticar  village  on  the  Bistrica,
while  earlier  in  the  afternoon  we  had  also  noticed  a  string
of  wagons  crossing  the  Novak  bridge  to  the  other  side  of
the  Cerna,  it  only  seemed  as  if  the  Bulgars  were  moving
troops  from  their  center  to  reenforce  their  hard-pressed  left.
I  slept  that  night  in  a  shell-riddled  house  in  Vrbeni,  which
I  had  shared  with  some  French  officers  who  had  moved  on
since  the  Kenali  lines  had  fallen.  It  was  a  dingy,  rickety
place,  its  shattered  windows  carefully  patched  with  sheets
of  German  maps  and  a  penciled  screed  on  one  of  the  doors
to  say  that  it  was  "reserved  for  three  Staff  officers  of  the
map-making  section  of  the  Staff  of  General  Mackensen's
Army."

Next  morning,  wading  out  into  the  river  of  fluid  .mud
which  served  as  the  main  street  of  Vrbeni,  I  met  a  Serbian
cavalry  officer  on  horseback,  clearly  in  a  mood  of  some  ex-
citement, who  waved  his  hand  and  shouted:  "De  bonnes
iiouvellcs!  De  bonnes  nouvelles!  Monastir  is  taken;  the
town  is  in  flames !"

It  was  not  the  first  time  that  people  had  assured  me
with  equal  emotion  of  the  capture  of  Monastir,  but  though

SERBIA  REBORN

one  still  felt  doubtful,  it  was  the  least  one  could  do  to  go
and  see.  So  the  mud-caked  Ford  car  was  turned  out  with
all  speed,  and  I  started  along  the  well-known  and  terribly
bad  road  that  led  towards  Monastir — twelve  or  thirteen  miles
ahead.

As  usual,  the  road  was  crowded  with  every  sort  of  trans-
port, from  creaking,  solid-wheeled,  bullock-drawn  ox-carts
that  the  supply  service  of  Charlemagne's  army  might  have
used,  to  three-ton  motor  lorries,  skidding  and  splashing
through  the  mud.  On  either  side  were  spread  camps  and
bivouacs  and  dumps  and  depots  of  every  kind;  heaps  of
carcasses  of  meat,  mounds  of  petrol  tins,  piles  of  long  black
cylinders  of  gas  for  the  observation  balloon,  timber,  tin,
wire,  carefully  scattered  supplies  of  ammunition.

One  thing  caught  the  eye  at  once  as  the  presage  of  a  day
that  would  live  in  history.  The  most  perfect  triple  rainbow
I  ever  saw  hung  over  Monastir,  spanning  it  in  a  brilliant
arch  of  color.  One  foot  rested  on  the  mountains  to  the  west,
where  the  Italians  had  been  fighting  shoulder  to  shoulder
with  the  Russian  and  French  troops  in  the  plain ;  the  other
was  planted  on  the  rocky  heights  beyond  the  Cerna,  from
where  the  Serbs,  worn  by  much  hard  fighting,  were  looking
down  upon  the  city  which  their  dogged  determination  had
done  most  to  win.

As  one  got  nearer  to  what  the  night  before  had  been  the
enemy's  line  on  the  Bistrica,  the  Monastir  road  became  less
and  less  thronged.  And  here  the  ability  of  the  German
road-engineers  forced  itself  upon  the  attention  by  a  remark-
able contrast.  Presumably  there  had  been  as  much  traffic
along  the  road  up  to  their  front  line  as  along  that  which
led  to  ours,  and  the  weather  had  certainly  been  the  same
for  both.  Yet  while  our  part  of  the  Monastir  road  had  a
surface  like  rock-cake  covered  with  mud  of  the  consistency
of  porridge,  directly  you  passed  into  what  had  been  until
that  morning  the  German  lines,  you  found  yourself  on  a
hard,  smooth  surface  as  good  as  an  English  road  at  home.

The  enemy  retreat  had  been  skillfully  arranged.  At
three  o'clock  in  the  morning  the  sentries  in  the  new  French
line  opposite  the  Bulgar  trenches  on  the  Bistrica  had  seen  a

SERBIA  REBORN

great  fire  start  in  Monastir.  It  was  the  barracks,  which  the
enemy  had  set  burning.  Then,  a  little  later,  the  French  pa-
trols reported  that  the  enemy  front  trenches  had  been  found
empty  in  several  places.  The  Bistrica  line  was  accordingly
occupied  along  its  whole  length,  the  Russians  wading  the
stream  breast-high,  and  the  Allied  force  began  to  feel  for-
ward to  get  into  touch  again  with  the  retiring  enemy.

By  seven  o'clock  the  advanced  patrols  reported  that  the
town  seemed  unoccupied.  They  were  then  at  a  distance  of
two  miles  from  it,  and  as  Prince  Murat,  a  young  French
cavalry  officer  and  descendant  of  Napoleon's  general,  at  the
head  of  some  mounted  scouts,  approached  the  town  he
caught  sight  of  the  last  German  battery  making  off.

At  first  it  scarcely  seemed  as  if  there  were  any  civilian
population  in  Monastir,  but  they  were  only  hiding  in  their
shuttered  houses,  and  when  the  French  marched  in  many  of
them  came  out  and  threw  flowers  or  hung  up  French  and
Serbian  flags,  which  they  must  have  hidden  somewhere  all
the  twelve  months  the  enemy  was  there.  The  British  con-
sulate flag — the  Union  Jack  with  an  official  "difference"  in
the  center — had  been  tucked  away  in  a  mattress  all  that
time.

I  turned  into  what  used  to  be  the  "Imperial  and  Royal
Austro-Hungarian  Consulate"  in  the  main  street  of  the
town.  In  the  hall,  littered  with  broken  packing-cases  and
other  signs  of  hurried  departure,  were  two  placid-faced
French  Sisters  of  St.  Vincent  de  Paul,  with  their  white-
winged  headgear  as  stiff  and  spotless  as  if  they  were  in  a
peaceful  French  country  town  instead  of  a  newly  captured
Macedonian  city.  They  had  come  there  to  try  and  reclaim
their  piano,  which  some  German  officers  had  commandeered
and  carried  off  to  their  quarters  at  the  consulate.

The  nuns  said  they  had  organized  a  hospital  at  their
convent,  which  had  been  under  the  supervision  of  German
medical  officers;  seventeen  dying  Germans  had  been  left  be-
hind in  their  charge  when  the  army  retreated  the  night  before.
"The  Germans  were  correct  but  brusque,"  said  one  of  the
Sisters.  "The  Bulgars  were  "  And  she  made  an  ex-
pressive little  grimace.

RUMANIA  RALLIES  IN  HER  MOUNTAINS

THE  CAPTURE  OF  BUCHAREST

DECEMBER  6tH

CONSTANTINE  ANGELSCU  COLONEL  SHUMSKY

QUEEN  MARIE  OF  RUMANIA

Though  known  to  her  people  as  Marie,  the  Rumanian  queen  was
christened  Mary.  She  is  a  British  princess  who  married  the  German-
Rumanian  Prince  Ferdinand  and  succeeded  with  him  to  the  throne.
She  has,  however,  completely  identified  herself  with  her  people  and
is  as  beloved  by  them  as  was  their  former  queen,  the  authoress  known
to  the  world  as  Carmen  Sylva.  Queen  Marie  tells  here  of  her  own
tragic  experiences  in  the  defeat  and  rally  of  her  countrymen.  The
official  Rumanian  outlook  as  to  the  extent  of  the  disaster  is  furnished
by  Dr.  Angelscu,  the  Rumanian  Minister  to  the  United  States.  Russia's
estimate  of  the  situation  is  given  by  Colonel  Shumsky,  the  most
noted  of  Russian  military  critics.  Naturally  he  makes  the  most  of
what  his  own  country  finally  accomplished  in  Rumania's  aid.

Bucharest,  the  Rumanian  capital,  was  occupied  by  the  Teuton  forces
under  Marshal  Mackensen  on  December  6th.  The  Government  and
the  army  had,  however,  escaped  by  flight.  The  northeastern  section
of  Rumania  is  very  mountainous,  and  there  the  still  resisting  soldiers
found  a  refuge.  Russia,  at  their  back,  furnished  them  supplies ;  and
they  were  thus  enabled  to  hold  about  a  quarter  of  their  country,
the  poorest  and  most  rugged  quarter,  free  of  the  invaders.  Their
battle  line  became  a  portion  of  the  long  Russian  line  which  formed
the  eastern  front.

BY  CONSTANTINE  ANGELSCU

Rumanian  Minister  to  the  United  States.   His  Official  Statement  Issued
at  Washington  in  October,  1917

THE  first  phase  of  our  entry  into  the  great  struggle  was
fraught  with  immense  sacrifices  and  sufferings.  Our
front,  more  than  1,200  kilometers  (750  miles)  in  extent,
had  to  be  defended  by  us  single-handed,  for  the  help  we
had  been  led  to  expect  did  not  arrive.  But  the  courage  of
our  soldiers  did  not  fail.

Unhappily,  we  sustained  losses  amounting  to  over  50,000
killed  and  150,000  wounded.  And  that  was  not  the  full
extent  of  our  calamities.    There  was  our  retreat  in  Mol-

4oo    RUMANIA  RALLIES  IN  HER  MOUNTAINS

davia,  the  heartrending  exodus  of  the  inhabitants  of  the
occupied  territories,  rich  and  poor,  old  men,  women  and
children,  abandoning  their  homes  before  the  advance  of  the
hated  enemy;  and  our  enforced  destruction  of  the  oil  wells
in  Rumania,  representing  hundreds  and  hundreds  of  mil-
lions of  francs  in  value,  as  well  as  of  our  stores  of  cereals
and  our  factories,  to  prevent  their  falling  into  the  hands  of
the  invaders.  To  these  indescribable  misfortunes  were  added
other  sufferings  which  culminated  in  an  epidemic  of  ex-
anthematic  typhus,  which  claimed  an  immense  number  of
victims.

In  spite  of  all  this,  however,  my  country  did  not  lose
faith,  but  remained  profoundly  attached  to  the  common
cause.  Our  sorely  tried  army  awaited  with  passionate  ardor
the  moment  when  it  could  turn  the  tables  on  the  enemy,  and
when  that  moment  came  in  1917  it  did  so  in  most  magnifi-
cent fashion.  In  the  battles  of  Marashesti  men  were  seen
to  throw  away  their  steel  helmets  and  their  coats,  and,  thus
freed,  fall  on  the  enemy  with  tremendous  fury.  Many  are
the  heroic  deeds  that  have  been  related  of  them.

When,  in  consequence  of  the  condition  of  internal  affairs
in  Russia,  the  order  came  from  Petrograd  to  stop  the  Ru-
manian offensive,  our  officers  and  men  wept  from  disap-
pointment. Later  Mackensen  assumed  the  offensive.  His
object  was  to  conquer  Moldavia  also  on  the  occasion  of  the
first  anniversary  of  the  entry  of  Rumania  into  the  war,
and,  once  in  the  possession  of  the  whole  of  Rumanian  ter-
ritory, the  Germans  had  the  intention  of  proclaiming  a  new
regime.  They  reckoned  without  the  valor  of  the  Rumanian
soldier.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  Rumania  saved  the  eastern
front.  The  offensive  of  Mackensen  was  definitely  broken,
and  the  Rumanian  Army,  with  our  chivalrous  King  at  its
head,  was  absolutely  confident  that  it  was  no  longer  pos-
sible to  break  through  the  Rumanian  front.

BY  COLONEL  KONSTANTIN  SHUMSKY

The  German  armies  advanced  upon  Bucharest  in  three
groups.  The  northern  was  under  General  von  Falkenhayn,
the  former  Chief  of  Staff;  the  western,  under  General  von

RUMANIA  RALLIES  IN  HER  MOUNTAINS  401

Delmensingen ;  the  southern,  under  Field  Marshal  von  Mac-
kensen.  Falkenhayn's  army  was  the  last  to  advance.  Be-
fore it  started  Delmensingen's  column  was  at  a  point  twenty-
six  miles  west  of  Bucharest  and  Mackensen's  army  was
eight  miles  south  of  the  city.

The  advance  of  Falkenhayn  to  support  the  other  two
marked  the  decisive  moment  in  Germany's  Rumanian  cam-
paign. Falkenhayn  after  much  severe  fighting  reached  the
railroad  at  Titu,  twenty-six  miles  north  of  Bucharest.  The
three  enemy  groups  then  formed  a  half  circle  around
Bucharest,  which  was  held  by  the  Rumanian  armies.  The
Rumanians  slowly  withdrew,  some  toward  the  northeast  and
some  to  the  east,  in  the  direction  of  the  Moldavia-Bes-
sarabia frontier.    Bucharest  was  gradually  evacuated.

Falkenhayn's  army,  which  was  moving  from  north  to
south  toward  Bucharest,  sent  forces  hurriedly  eastward,  in
an  endeavor  to  seize  Ploesci,  an  important  railroad  junc-
tion, valuable  for  the  retreating  Rumanians.  The  next  im-
portant railroad  junction  is  Buzeu,  by  occupying  which  the
enemy  might  cut  the  Rumanian  line  of  retreat  from
Bucharest  to  the  Moldavian  region.  This  might  compel
the  withdrawal  of  the  Rumanians  to  Galatz,  that  is,  to  the
Moldavian-Bessarabian  frontier,  and  thus  cut  the  Rumanian
army  in  two  parts — the  Moldavian  part  and  the  southern
part  somewhere  east  of  Bucharest.

This  menacing  possibility  made  the  German  move  against
Ploesci  of  vital  importance,  perhaps  more  important  than
his  move  on  Bucharest.  The  Rumanians,  therefore,  vigor-
ously guarded  the  road  to  Ploesci-Buzeu,  and  held  Falken-
hayn's army  back  from  Ploesci  until  Bucharest  had  been
completely  evacuated.

On  December  6th  at  noon  the  Rumanian  rearguard,
covering  the  departure  of  the  main  forces,  evacuated  the
last  of  the  eastern  forts  of  the  Bucharest  circle,  Ploesci  was
evacuated  at  the  same  time.  In  this  way  the  Ploesci-Buzeu
line  was  occupied  by  the  enemy,  and  the  Rumanians  began
to  fall  back  from  it  to  the  east,  in  the  direction  of  Buze;"
and  Galatz.

The  Germans  followed  up  the  retreating  Rumanians

402    RUMANIA  RALLIES  IN  HER  MOUNTAINS

with  great  energy  and  determination.  They  felt  that  from
a  military  viewpoint,  the  capture  of  Bucharest  had  fallen  far
short  of  complete  success,  since  the  main  objective,  the  Ru-
manian Army,  itself  had  successfully  withdrawn.  Hence
Falkenhayn  once  more  sent  a  considerable  force  along  the
Ploesci-Buzeu  highway,  in  the  attempt  to  deliver  a  blow
against  the  center  of  the  Rumanian  battle  line.

The  Rumanians  vigorously  resisted  this  attempt  to  break
their  center  between  Ploesci  and  Buzeu ;  and  the  Rumanian
rearguard  continued  to  defend  their  position  by  vigorous
counter-attacks.  As  a  result  the  Rumanians,  during  the
first  half  of  December,  held  a  new  line  to  the  east  of
Bucharest.  It  extended  from  the  Danube  opposite  Silistria
to  the  frontiers  of  Moldavia  and  Transylvania.  Conse-
quently, the  Rumanian  front  ran  nearly  north  and  south,
from  Bukowina  to  Silistria.

Falkenhayn  did  not  succeed  in  capturing  much  spoils.
Neither  did  he  succeed  in  trapping  the  Rumanian  Army,  or
even  any  considerable  number  of  Rumanian  soldiers.  Ac-
cording to  the  German  bulletin  of  December  4th,  the  cap-
tives did  not  exceed  10,000,  with  twenty-six  guns.  This
must  be  considered  a  quite  inconsiderable  booty,  in  com-
parison to  the  half  million  men  engaged  on  either  side.  It  is
true  that  Bucharest  was  evacuated,  but  the  Rumanian
armies  left  Bucharest  in  perfect  order.  Hence,  while  the
Teutons  gained  possession  of  Bucharest  and  Ploesci,  they
did  not  succeed  in  delivering  a  serious  blow  at  the  Rumanian
Army.  Instead,  the  Rumanians  made  a  vigorous  resistance
on  the  new  battle  line  east  of  Bucharest.

Falkenhayn's  main  success  was  the  shortening  of  a  front
725  miles  long  to  270  miles,  a  great  strategic  success;  but
the  effort  to  keep  the  Rumanian  Army  out  of  Moldavia
failed.

Neither  the  strategical  position  of  the  armies  nor  the
•haracter  of  Bucharest  as  a  fortified  place  permitted  a  de-
termined defense;  it  would  have  been  a  mere  repetition  of
the  disastrous  sieges  of  Liege,  Namur  and  Antwerp,  ham-
mered to  nothing  by  Germany's  heavy  artillery.  It  would
have  been  still  more  unwise  to  shut  the  Rumanian  Army  up

RUMANIA  RALLIES  IN  HER  MOUNTAINS  403

in  the  fortress.  The  Rumanians  came  to  a  wise  decision,
saved  their  army  and  effected  a  junction  with  the  Russian
battle  line,  forming  its  left  flank,  on  the  section  between  Buko-
wina  and  Silistria.

Notwithstanding  the  cold  and  the  mud,  the  warlike  ef-
forts continued.  Falkenhayn  extended  his  wide  movement
to  the  east  of  Bucharest,  from  Ploesci  to  Buzeu.  From
this,  it  is  possible  to  judge  of  Falkenhayn's  real  intention.
After  seizing  Bucharest,  he  transferred  the  center  of  his
advance  to  the  north,  planning  to  carry  out  a  larger  pur-
pose. He  hoped  to  capture  Buzeu  before  the  Rumanians  had
passed  safely  beyond  it.  Thus  he  would  cut  them  off  from
the  Russians.  This  plan  failed,  because  of  the  cooperation
of  Russian  forces,  especially  the  Russian  cavalry.

As  was  announced  in  our  Russian  bulletins,  large  forces
of  Russian  cavalry  advanced  before  Buzeu,  and  succeeded
in  checking  Falkenhayn's  attack.  The  cavalry  fought  both
mounted  and  dismounted.  Digging  trenches,  and  turning
machine  guns  on  the  enemy,  they  compelled  him  to  change
from  a  marching  column  to  fighting  order,  and  to  attack  in
regular  form.  The  cavalry  waited  until  the  enemy  was
fully  prepared,  then  mounted  and  hastily  withdrew  to  the
next  position  in  the  rear.  There  the  same  tactics  were
repeated.  Whenever  possible,  mounted  attacks  were  made
by  separate  detachments  of  cavalry,  further  delaying  the
advance  of  the  enemy.

This  sort  of  cavalry  work  involves  self-sacrifice,  vigor
and  great  speed.  It  was  admirably  accomplished  by  our
Russian  horse  before  Buzeu,  and  gained  for  the  Rumanians
time  to  withdraw  in  good  order  from  Buzeu  and  further
south,  from  Bucharest  to  Galatz.

Thus,  by  means  of  a  series  of  obstinate  conflicts,  a  new
battle  line  was  occupied  sixty-six  miles  to  the  east  of
Bucharest,  in  a  straight  line  running  from  Moldavia  to  the
Danube.  This  front  had  a  continuation  in  the  Dobrudja,
where  similar  attacks  were  made  by  the  enemy  with  con-
siderable forces.

Falkenhayn's  main  objective  was  gained;  yet  he  con-
tinued his  forward  movement.    His  purpose  now  was  less

404    RUMANIA  RALLIES  IN  HER  MOUNTAINS

strategic  than  political.  He  planned  to  give  such  an  im-
pression of  "uninterrupted  victories"  as  would  strengthen
the  hand  of  German  diplomats  in  the  game  they  were  pre-
paring to  play,  the  making  of  peace  proposals  on  the  basis
of  another  great  German  victory.

BY  QUEEN  MARIE  OF  RUMANIA

Distances  are  so  great  and  communication  so  difficult,
that  very  few  details  of  our  troubles  and  trials  reach  other
countries.  We  are  completely  isolated  from  all  our  Allies,
except  Russia,  and  have  had  to  stand  unheard-of  hardships
because  relief  could  only  be  offered  us  from  one  side,  and
that  side  needed  all  its  resources  for  itself.

The  winter  that  lies  behind  us  is  as  one  of  the  most  fear-
ful nightmares  man  ever  dreamed.  There  is  no  suffering
that  my  people  have  not  been  called  upon  to  endure,  no  fear,
no  sorrow,  no  pain — every  misery,  both  moral  and  physical,
had  to  be  borne  at  once.

And  I,  their  Queen,  suffered  with  them,  struggled  with
them,  wept  with  them,  shared  and  understood  their  every
grief.

I  too  had  to  leave  a  home  I  loved,  I  too  had  to  flee  before
the  invading  foe,  had  to  forsake  the  new-made  grave  of  the
little  one  who  was  torn  from  me  whilst  the  enemy  was  flood-
ing my  land  on  every  side.

All  have  I  known  of  mortal  anguish,  of  days  when  hope
became  less  and  less,  till  the  last  shred  had  to  be  surrendered
— my  child  and  my  country  both  at  once.

The  remembrance  I  keep  of  those  days  is  of  a  suffering
so  great  that  it  almost  blinded  me ;  I  was  as  one  wandering
in  fearful  darkness  wondering  how  much  anguish  one  sin-
gle heart  can  bear ;  black  waves  seemed  to  be  rushing  in  upon
me  threatening  to  drown  me,  yet  I  was  quite  calm  and  con-
tinued living  and  working  as  though  my  heart  had  not  been
torn  from  my  breast.

Strong  ties  of  sympathy  had  always  bound  me  to  my
people,  but  since  the  extraordinary  misfortunes  we  have  un-
dergone together,  our  mutual  affection  has  turned  into  deep
and  comprehensive  love.

RUMANIA  RALLIES  IN  HER  MOUNTAINS  405

The  grief  that  God  sent  me  whilst  so  many  were  mourn-
ing rendered  me  strangely  dear  to  their  hearts;  I  had  sud-
denly come  quite  close  to  them — they  felt  in  me  a  com-
prehension of  their  own  woes  that  had  not  been  mine  before.

An  immense  tide  of  sympathy  flowed  from  their  souls
to  mine,  giving  me  strength  to  bear  bravely  every  sacrifice,
and  not  to  give  way  to  selfish  despair.  Tragedy  had  come
upon  us,  recrimination  would  but  weaken  us,  complaint  lessen
our  courage — nothing  was  left  to  us  but  dumbly  to  bear  our
Fate.

Winter  came  and  with  it  retreat ;  hunger  came  and  sick-
ness and  death  in  every  form.

One  town  after  another  had  to  be  surrendered,  ever
smaller  became  our  country,  a  cruel  exodus  encumbered  the
remaining  provinces;  our  riches,  our  pride,  our  hopes  had
been  torn  from  us,  and  like  a  troop  of  emigrants  we  had  to
try  and  find  place  for  our  weary  bodies  and  for  our  sor-
rowful hearts.

Each  thing  we  thought  we  could  count  upon  crumbled
before  the  inflow  of  an  enemy  ten  times  too  strong  for
us,  who  knew  all  about  war  whilst  we  were  ignorant  and
had  everything  to  learn.  Nowhere  were  we  safe;  all  the
help  that  had  been  promised  us  was  not  forthcoming,  we
had  nowhere  to  turn  to  in  our  agony,  and  the  deadliest  of
winters  was  closing  in  upon  us  before  we  knew  if  we  could
remain  there  where  we  had  pitched  our  tents!

Amidst  this  constant  fear  of  further  invasion  we  had  to
gather  our  courage  and  our  wits  so  as  to  improvise  hos-
pitals, house  refugees,  feed  and  clothe  our  retreating  troops,
all  this  with  the  feeling  that  next  day  perhaps  our  efforts
would  be  in  vain,  that  the  work  so  painfully  accomplished
would  fall  into  the  enemy's  hand!

All  our  stores,  our  hoarded  treasures,  our  food,  corn  and
oil  had  been  torn  from  us  by  the  rapid  advance  of  the  foe;
all  that  remained  to  us  of  our  once  blooming  country  were
but  a  few  provinces,  the  poorest,  those  upon  which  in  the
days  of  abundance  we  had  counted  least.

That  was  but  the  material  side  of  our  distress,  and  to
that  must  be  added  every  anguish,  every  grief  of  departure

4o6    RUMANIA  RALLIES  IN  HER  MOUNTAINS

and  separation,  the  leaving  of  loved  homes,  the  haunting
pictures  of  devastation,  fire  and  ruin,  of  abandoned  graves
and  of  dying  heroes  who  could  not  be  saved.

With  a  fresh  wound  in  my  own  heart  I  stood  amidst
the  turmoil.  I  myself  empty-handed — I  myself  a  refugee!
What  had  been  mine  lay  behind  the  line  of  fire — also  the
lonely  little  grave  lay  there,  belonged  now  to  the  enemy,
and  with  it  all  the  torturing  remembrance  of  my  child's  illness
and  death.  He  was  my  youngest,  my  baby,  and  just  the
most  helpless  had  I  to  forsake!

But  there  was  no  time  to  cry  over  a  personal  grief,  in  the
hour  of  disaster  so  much  depends  upon  the  leaders  not
losing  their  heads.

To  piece  together  that  which  is  broken  is  no  easy  task ;
if  your  house  falls  down  around  you,  at  first  your  only  wish
is  to  sit  on  its  ruins  and  weep.  It  is  then  that  those  whose
love  and  courage  are  greatest  must  come  forward  and  help.
Those  too  grievously  smitten  cannot  immediately  lift  up
their  heads,  and  very  gentle  must  be  the  hand  that  en-
deavors to  lead  them  back  from  darkness  to  light.

For  a  while  I  thought  that  the  effort  would  be  beyond  my
strength,  such  was  the  hopeless  discouragement  that  had
taken  possession  of  every  heart.  No  good  news  came  to
gladden  our  spirits,  only  tidings  of  defeat,  disaster  and  dis-
tress, and  winter  lay  over  everything  like  a  pall  of  despair.

Then  little  by  little  hands  were  stretched  out  to  help.
French  and  English  doctors  offered  their  assistance  and  with
them  many  nurses  and  sisters  whose  devotion  has  no  name.

Little  by  little  we  began  building  up  what  had  fallen ;  at
first  only  those  whom  adversity  cannot  crush  showed  the
way,  then  others  joined  in — till  imperceptibly  a  great  new
effort  was  born,  and  with  that  effort,  new  courage  and  new
hope.

It  were  too  long  to  relate  all  the  weary  work  of  this  past
winter,  a  whole  volume  of  want  and  suffering,  of  devotion
and  charity  would  not  suffice.  So  many  single  incidents
rise  before  me,  so  many  faces,  so  many  efforts,  and  alas!
so  many  death-beds  that  I  hesitate  which  to  describe.

There  is  too  much  to  tell,  too  many  pictures  haunt  me,

RUMANIA  RALLIES  IN  HER  MOUNTAINS  407

pictures  of  what  was,  what  is,  and  of  what  we  hope  one  day
will  be.

I  look  back  and  see  visions  of  my  country  as  for  twenty-
three  years  I  have  known  it,  peaceful,  blooming,  full  of
abundance,  its  vast  plain  an  ocean  of  waving  corn  amongst
which  diligent  peasants  move  to  and  fro  gathering  in  the
harvest,  the  land's  dearest  pride.  I  see  its  humble  villages
hidden  amongst  fruit  trees,  I  see  the  autumn  splendor  of  its
forests,  I  see  the  grand  solitude  of  its  mountain  summits,
I  see  its  noble  convents,  corners  of  hidden  beauty,  treasures
of  ancient  art,  I  hear  the  sound  of  the  shepherd's  horn,  the
sweet  complaint  of  his  ditties.  I  see  long  roads  with  clouds
of  dust  rising  from  them,  many  carts  in  a  file,  I  see  gayly
clad  peasants  flocking  to  market.  I  see  naked  plains  and
long  stretches  of  sand  by  the  sea.

I  also  see  our  broad,  proud  Danube  rolling  its  many
waters  past  quaint  little  villages  and  boroughs  inhabited  by
motley  crowds  of  different  nationalities,  past  towns  of  which
the  rising  industries  are  a  promise  of  future  wealth.  I  see
our  port  of  Constanza  with  its  bustle,  its  noise  and  its  hopes.

Then  on  August  27,  19 16,  the  call  to  arms — War!

I  see  the  ardent  faces  of  my  young  soldiers  going  off
gayly  to  battle — I  see  the  trains  leaving,  the  flowers  that
decorate  the  cannons,  horses  and  men — I  hear  the  tramping
of  passing  regiments,  shouts  of  enthusiasm,  words  of  exul-
tation.

I  see  the  first  wounded  in  the  hospitals  of  Bucharest,
white  beds,  many  faces  all  turned  towards  me,  eager  hands
helping;  I  inspect  everything,  go  everywhere.  I  have  my
own  hospital  in  our  palace,  I  too  am  full  of  hope.

For  a  while,  a  very  short  while,  the  news  received  from
our  armies  is  good,  awakes  wild  enthusiasm,  awakes  dreams
of  glory  in  many  a  breast.  Then  the  first  ill  tidings,  a  shadow
on  the  expectant  faces — a  shadow  over  the  town  in  spite
of  the  blue  sky  above!

After  that  there  are  still  days  of  hope  and  confidence,
days  when  the  first  illusions  seem  to  take  form  once  more,
but  through  it  all  I  have  the  strange  presentiment  that  my
country  will  have  to  drink  to  the  dregs  the  bitterest  of  cups.

4o8    RUMANIA  RALLIES  IN  HER  MOUNTAINS

Airships  and  Zeppelins  become  a  haunting  dread  by  night
and  by  day;  our  country  being  narrow,  the  ground  is  good
for  such  cruel  sport.  Death  is  poured  down  from  the  skies
into  the  streets,  women  and  children  are  slaughtered  with-
out number,  and  as  though  in  defiance  of  the  laws  of  God,
the  days  they  choose  for  their  death-raids  are  the  days  when
heaven  is  bluest  and  the  sun  shines  most  brightly.

Having  been  designed  by  the  enemy  as  principal  culprit,
it  is  the  house  out  of  town  where  I  live  with  my  children
that  they  single  out  for  special  punishment,  and  on  a  glori-
ous autumn  morning  they  throw  seventy-two  bombs  upon
dwelling  and  garden  where  it  is  known  that  my  little  ones
are  usually  to  be  found.  But  on  that  day  God  did  not  wish
another  crime  to  be  added  to  their  lists!

Ever  darker  are  the  clouds  gathering  around  our  heads,
with  anxiety  we  look  for  the  help  that  was  promised  us;
Sarrail's  advance  in  the  south  ?  The  Russians'  offensive  in
Galicia?  Russian  reinforcements  in  the  Dobrudja?  But
we  wait  in  vain;  no  good  tidings  from  any  side,  and  the
Germans  have  not  yet  straft  enough!

Surely  this  proud  little  country  that  had  defied  her  must
learn  its  lesson  and  be  laid  low  in  the  dust.  And  as  in  the
time  of  the  great  flood,  our  small,  struggling  country  is
threatened  from  all  sides  at  once.  Our  frontiers  are  end-
less, without  reinforcements  our  own  resources  are  too
small,  we  begin  to  realize  the  inevitable  results  if  help  does
not  come  soon  enough.

But  my  cup  is  not  yet  full — amidst  all  the  turmoil  and
growing  anxiety  my  youngest  child  sickens  and  all  our  ef-
forts cannot  save  his  life.  During  three  mortal  weeks  we
struggle  to  keep  him,  but  Death  rules  supreme  over  the
world.  It  is  not  to  be.  On  All  Souls'  Day,  my  last  born,  my
little  Mircea,  passes  away — and  the  voice  of  the  cannon
sounds  closer  every  day.

After  that,  for  a  while  all  becomes  dark.  I  grope  about
as  one  who  has  lost  her  way.  Only  one  thing  remains  to
me,  the  intense  desire  to  alleviate  suffering  around  me,  to
go  there  where  despair  is  greatest,  to  drown  my  own  grief

RUMANIA  RALLIES  IN  HER  MOUNTAINS  409

in  the  grief  of  others,  to  move  in  places  where  my  own  tears
can  be  shed  without  shame.

So  I  begin  wandering  about  in  all  parts  of  the  country
that  have  remained  to  us.  On  all  sides  I  hear  the  dreaded
voice  of  the  cannon  calling  out  its  message  of  death  and
destruction.

I  penetrate  as  far  as  they  will  allow  me  to  go,  I  hunt  up
those  freshly  brought  in  from  battle ;  as  in  a  ghastly  dream,  I
move  from  bed  to  bed.

Every  form  of  suffering  do  I  see ;  the  last  look  of  name-
less dying  do  I  carry  away  in  my  heart,  and  all  the  while
I  have  the  absolute  certainty  that  my  country  is  becoming
smaller  and  smaller — I  am  in  a  hurry,  I  want  to  go  every-
where— everywhere  before  it  is  too  late.  But  in  a  sort  of
frenzy  of  grief  I  know  that  all  my  love,  all  my  devotion
cannot  hold  back  the  advancing  feet  of  Fate.

Then  comes  flight!  The  cruel  hour  of  parting  from  our
capital,  of  parting  from  our  home,  our  hospitals,  from  the
little  grave  so  freshly  dug — flight!

For  weeks  we  live  in  the  train,  not  sure  how  far  we
must  go  to  be  safe;  but  one  only  thought  moves  me:  put
the  living  out  of  danger,  then  return  once  more,  only  once
more  to  the  grave  of  the  dead!

But  it  is  not  to  be — even  that  consolation  is  denied  me
— Bucharest  falls,  I  can  no  more  return  to  my  dead.

My  people  know  that  I  am  absolutely  unafraid  of  con-
tagion, therefore  more  than  ever  was  I  claimed  amongst
them  during  this  cruel  epidemic.  I  penetrated  into  the  most
infected  corners,  giving  everywhere,  trying  to  carry  a  little
hope  and  help  into  the  most  forsaken  holes  of  misery.

I  think  that  few  queens  have  had  the  privilege  to  get  so
near  their  people.  I  have  really  gone  amongst  them,  there
where  very  few  go.  I  have  both  health  and  good-will  and
an  inexhaustible  desire  to  console  them,  to  sustain  them  and
to  awake  hope  in  their  hearts.

Certainly  there  were  days  when  everything  seemed  im-
possible, when  the  material  difficulties  were  such  that  the
most  energetic  spirit  quailed  before  the  morrow.  At  those
hours  it  was  to  me  as  though  I  must  stand  a  while  quite

4io    RUMANIA  RALLIES  IN  HER  MOUNTAINS

still,  squaring  my  shoulders,  concentrating  all  my  strength
so  as  to  lift  a  weight  almost  beyond  what  a  single  man  can
carry.  Thus  we  struggled  on  from  day  to  day,  from  hour
to  hour.  "Faith  removeth  mountains" — I  had  Faith !

How  often  here  in  Jassy — when  going  from  hospital
to  hospital,  trying  to  overcome  always  new  difficulties,  try-
ing to  supply  ever  new  wants,  did  my  thoughts  turn  to  my
own  hospital  in  Bucharest,  in  the  large  roomy  halls  of  the
palace  where  I  had  everything  I  could  want — I  remember
the  white  beds,  the  good  food,  the  many  helpful  hands,  eager
ladies,  books  in  plenty,  music,  flowers — a  lost  paradise  in-
deed!

Here  I  had  no  house  of  my  own  to  turn  into  a  hospital.
It  was  more  useful  to  divide  my  material  and  energies,  sus-
taining those  already  existing.  It  is  a  harder  way  of  doing
good,  less  personal,  less  satisfactory,  needs  greater  abnega-
tion, brings  less  comfort  to  one's  soul,  but  in  this  case  I
knew  it  was  best.

My  ear  had  to  be  open  for  each  cry  of  distress,  my  hand
always  ready  to  succor  or  to  give,  all  my  energies  strained
so  as  to  encourage  the  efforts  others  were  making.  I  had
to  go  everywhere,  see  everything  myself.

I  was  almost  a  stranger  to  the  town  of  Jassy,  thus  I
gained  their  confidence,  by  the  way  I  worked  with  them.  I
by  degrees  stole  into  their  hearts.

Those  who  have  never  seen  them  have  no  notion  of  what
Rumanian  roads  can  become  in  winter,  of  how  difficult  is
all  circulation,  how  communication  becomes  an  effort  al-
most beyond  human  strength — and  this  winter  was  a  winter
of  terrible  snow  and  frost.

Part  of  our  army  had  to  be  quartered  in  small,  miserable
villages,  cut  off  from  everything,  buried  in  snow,  transports
were  almost  impossible,  untold  of  hardships  had  to  be  borne.
All  my  energy  and  good-will  could  not  take  me  to  places  where
neither  motor,  sledge,  nor  carriage  could  go — I  knew  that
there  was  want  and  sickness  in  those  villages,  but  it  was  only
towards  springtime  that  I  could  reach  them  with  infinite
difficulty,  often  having  to  quit  my  motor  and  doing  the  rest
of  the  road  on  foot.

RUMANIA  RALLIES  IN  HER  MOUNTAINS  411

That  was  the  hardest  work  of  all,  that  going  about  in
those  fever-stricken  hamlets,  where  the  patient  troops  were
herded  together  in  wretched  mud-huts  alongside  of  the  few
remaining  peasants.

Food  was  scarce,  hardly  any  wood  for  heating,  soap  was
a  thing  almost  not  to  be  found,  linen  was  a  luxury  of  better
days — illness  in  every  form  broke  out  amongst  the  soldiers
and  many  died  before  we  could  give  sufficient  aid!

Ah !  Indeed,  I  have  seen  death  and  misery  very  near —
I  have  moved  about  amongst  them,  have  felt  the  despair  of
my  helplessness,  have  tried  with  insufficient  means  to  do
wonders,  but  alas!  against  sickness,  cold  and  hunger  good-
will alone  did  not  suffice — not  to  be  numbered  were  the
graves  that  overfilled  the  cemeteries ;  like  a  wood,  the  rough
crosses  grew  up  side  by  side.

And  yet  how  much  more  ghastly  is  the  fate  of  those  in
the  invaded  part  of  the  country,  where  no  help  can  penetrate.

Here  I  can  at  least  get  to  my  people — visit  them  or  send
them  food,  aid,  comforts — but  there  in  the  dear  regions  we
have  lost,  what  may  their  sufferings  be?  Who  succors
them  ?  Who  consoles  them  ?  Who  helps  them  to  hope  ?

The  enemy  must  have  taken  everything  from  them,  forc-
ing them  to  work  against  their  own  brothers,  and  probably
he  scoffs  at  their  misery,  trying  to  make  them  doubt  the
love  of  those  who  had  to  leave  them  to  so  cruel  a  fate !

That  thought  is  the  hardest  of  all !  And  to  be  so  help-
less— to  have  no  news,  no  details,  to  be  entirely  cut  off!

I  feel  it  is  a  rambling  tale,  the  tale  I  have  told — it  is  as
though  I  had  written  in  a  trance — maybe  I  have  often  re-
peated myself,  yet  I  have  only  said  half  of  what  I  had  to
say.  One  day  perhaps  when  this  period  of  suffering  will  be
a  little  more  distant  I  will  more  clearly  be  able  to  write  the
history  of  these  days  of  distress.

THE  GERMAN  TREATMENT  OF  PRISONERS

VIERORDE  MAJOR  C.  VANDELEUR

RUSSIAN  GOVERNMENT  REPORT
ROBERT  YOUNGER  DANIEL  McCARTHY

That  the  Germans  did  to  a  wide  and  even  terrible  extent  mistreat
their  prisoners  of  war  there  is  unhappily  no  question  whatsoever.
Rumors  of  this  began  to  spread  through  the  Allied  countries  in  1915 ;
but  not  until  late  in  1916  were  the  black  facts  clearly  established  by
official  investigation  and  convincing  proof.  Then  the  protest  was
world-wide  and  under  the  influence  of  neutrals,  and  especially  of  the
United  States,  the  worst  abuses  were  done  away  with.

Daniel  J.  McCarthy,  official  investigator  for  the  United  States,
made  a  detailed  report  and  afterward  published  a  book  describing
what  he  had  seen.  His  summary  of  conditions  is  given  here ;  and
as  he  certainly  was  not  trying  to  exaggerate,  his  report  may  be  con-
sidered as  presenting  the  best  possible  side  for  Germany.  The  full
extent  of  excuse  to  which  he  goes  is  that  the  crimes  were  not  national,
that  the  better  class  of  Germans  supposed  the  prisoners  were  being
well-treated,  and  that  the  guilt  thus  falls  chiefly  on  only  a  few  military
commanders.  Of  course  this  is  only  another  way  of  saying  that  mili-
tarism had  poisoned  Germany  to  the  very  soul.

On  the  other  hand,  in  reading  such  statements  as  that  of  the  Rus-
sian Government,  here  presented,  the  reader  would  do  well  to  bear
in  mind  that  the  Government  wanted  to  excite  its  people  against  their
foes  and  therefore  resorted  to  the  primitive  but  effective  method  of
painting  these  foes  at  their  worst.  That  is  to  say,  the  very  worst
examples  of  mistreatment  seem  to  have  been  picked  out  and  empha-
sized.

The  general  truth  is  thus  rather  to  be  gained  from  such  docu-
ments as  the  personal  experiences  of  Major  Vandeleur,  here  narrated
under  oath,  or  the  report  of  Mr.  Younger,  who  conducted  a  British
Parliamentary  inquiry  and  here  presents  in  carefully  restrained  fashion
the  conclusions  drawn  from  a  mass  of  testimony  as  to  conditions  in
the  worst  and  most  deadly  of  all  the  prison  camps,  the  "typhus-
camp"  at  Wittenberg.

In  brief,  the  indictment  against  the  Germans  in  this  matter  seems
to  come  under  three  heads.  First,  the  Government  had  long  taught
its  people  to  despise  other  races ;  now  it  encouraged  them  to  hate
the  others  and  especially  the  English.  The  result  was  a  coarse  mis-
treatment of  prisoners  by  the  German  public,  which  seems  to  other
races  the  most  disgraceful  and  disgusting  feature  of  the  whole.  This
mistreatment  rarely  resulted  in  loss  of  life,  and  was  a  shame  far
more  to  those  who  enacted  than  to  those  who  suffered  it.  The  first
evidences  of  this  coarse  spirit  may  be  seen  in  the  picture  of  the

GERMAN  TREATMENT  OF  PRISONERS  413

treatment  of  Belgian  prisoners  in  our  earlier  volumes,  in  the  com-
mands of  General  von  Bissing,  and  in  Lissauer's  "Hymn  of  Hate."
The  spirit  was  kept  alive  by  the  German  press  and  even  by  the  Ger-
man "intellectuals"  through  the  appeal  of  such  poems  as  that  of
Vierorde,  here  reprinted.

The  second  indictment  is  against  the  German  soldiers,  trained  in
brutality  as  we  have  seen,  and  especially  against  the  German  officers.
These  deliberately  ruled  their  prisoners  by  a  brutal  terrorism  in  which
beating  and  starvation  were  the  mildest  punishments,  and  a  deathblow
even  at  the  hand  of  a  savage  or  stupid  sentry  was  sure  to  be  con-
doned. Moreover,  German  commissariat  officers  deliberately  trafficked
in  the  starvation  of  their  prisoners.  The  food  officially  assigned
them  was  often  shown  them,  weighed  as  though  for  cooking,  and
then  sold  to  German  civilians,  who  eagerly  bought  it  at  high  prices.
A  meaner  form  of  thievery  can  scarcely  be  imagined.

The  third  indictment  is  the  most  serious  of  all;  for  it  is  not  against
the  coarseness  of  a  people  or  the  brutality  and  thievery  of  a  soldiery,
but  against  the  intellectual  and  political  leaders,  the  so-called  "upper
classes,"  the  "nobility"  of  Germany.  From  these  leaders  there  came
repeated  orders  that  prisoners  should  be  treated  harshly,  and  even
that  prisoners  were  undesirable  nuisances  and  had  better  die.  Hence
came  the  abominable  overcrowding  in  transit,  the  abominable  sani-
tary arrangements,  the  deliberate  abandoning  of  a  prison  camp  to
disease.  That  there  was  also  misery  suffered  by  Germans  in  Ally  prison
camps,  none  would  deny.  During  the  War,  Germans  talked  much  of
the  "horrors"  of  British  prisons,  but  afterward  abandoned  all  serious
charges  of  this  sort.  Since  the  War,  they  have  specially  directed  atten-
tion to  certain  French  camps  where  the  rule  seems  to  have  been  harsh
if  not  savage.  But  the  worst  individual  cases  evidenced  by  German
testimony  never  for  a  moment  approach  the  fully  established  and  cus-
tomary German  methods  pictured  here.  c.  f.  h.

BY  VIERORDE

Germany,  Hate!

O  my  Germany,  into  thy  soul  thou  must  etch  a  deep  and  in-
delible hate;

This  hate  thou  hast  lacked  for  a  long,  long  time.
Retribution,  vengeance,  fury  are  demanded ;

Stifle  in  thy  heart  all  human  feeling  and  hasten  to  the
fight.

O  Germany,  hate!

Slaughter  thy  foes  by  the  millions
And  of  their  reeking  corpses  build  a  monument.

Let  it  reach  the  clouds.

O  Germany,  hate  now!

Arm  thyself  in  steel  and  pierce  with  thy  bayonet  the  heart
of  every  foe;

414  GERMAN  TREATMENT  OF  PRISONERS

No  prisoners !  Lock  all  their  lips  in  silence ;
Turn  our  neighbors'  lands  into  deserts.

O  Germany,  hate!

Salvation  will  come  of  thy  wrath.
Beat  in  their  skulls  with  rifle-butts  and  with  axes.

These  bandits  are  beasts  of  the  chase,  they  are  not  men,
Let  your  clenched  fist  enforce  the  judgment  of  God.

BY  MAJOR  C.  B.  VANDELEUR
Sworn  Testimony  of  a  Captured  British  Major  Who  Escaped  in  1915

The  narrative  begins  at  the  French  city  in  the  invested
district  to  which  he  was  first  sent,  on  October  13,  1914.

"At  Douay  I  was  detained  on  the  square  in  front  of  the
Hotel  de  Ville  with  a  sentry  over  me,  and  was  subjected
to  continual  abuse  and  revilement.  On  the  arrival  of  the
other  prisoners  we  were  all  confined  in  a  large  shed  for  the
night.  No  food,  except  a  little  provided  by  the  French  Red
Cross  Society,  was  given,  also  no  straw,  and  we  spent  a
terrible  night  there,  men  being  obliged  to  walk  about  all
night  to  keep  warm,  as  their  great-coats  had  been  taken  from
them.

"On  October  17th,  in  the  morning,  the  French  Red  Cross
people  gave  us  what  they  could  in  food,  and  did  their  very
best,  in  spite  of  the  opposition  from  the  Germans.  At  about
2  p.  m.  on  the  same  day  we  were  all  marched  off  to  the
railway  station,  being  reviled  at  and  cursed  all  the  way  by
German  officers  as  well  as  by  German  soldiers.  One  of  our
officers  was  spat  on  by  a  German  officer.

"At  the  station  we  were  driven  into  closed-in  wagons,
from  which  horses  had  just  been  removed,  52  men  being
crowded  into  the  one  in  which  the  other  four  officers  and
myself  were.  So  tight  were  we  packed  that  there  was  only
room  for  some  of  us  to  sit  down  on  the  floor.  This  floor
was  covered  fully  3  inches  deep  in  fresh  manure,  and  the
stench  was  almost  asphyxiating.  We  were  thus  boxed  up
for  thirty  hours,  with  no  food,  and  no  opportunity  of  at-
tending to  purposes  of  Nature.  All  along  the  line  we  were
cursed  by  officers  and  soldiers  alike  at  the  various  stations,
and  at  Mons  Bergen  I  was  pulled  out  in  front  of  the  wagon

GERMAN  TREATMENT  OF  PRISONERS  415

by  the  order  of  the  officer  in  charge  of  the  station,  and,  after
cursing  me  in  filthy  language  for  some  ten  minutes,  he  or-
dered one  of  his  soldiers  to  kick  me  back  into  the  wagon,
which  he  did,  sending  me  sprawling  into  the  filthy  mess  at
the  bottom  of  the  wagon.  I  should  like  to  mention  here  that
I  am  thoroughly  conversant  with  German,  and  understand
everything  that  was  said.  Only  at  one  station  on  the  road
was  any  attempt  made  on  the  part  of  German  officers  to  in-
terfere and  stop  their  men  from  cursing  us.  This  officer
appeared  to  be  sorry  for  the  sad  plight  in  which  we  were.
I  should  like  also  to  mention  that  two  of  the  German  Guard
also  appeared  to  be  sympathetic  and  sorry  for  us ;  but  they
were  able  to  do  little  or  nothing  to  protect  us.

"Up  to  this  time  I  had  managed  to  retain  my  overcoat,
but  it  was  now  forcibly  taken  from  me  by  an  officer  at  a  few
stations  further  on.1

"On  reaching  the  German-Belgian  frontier  the  French
prisoners  were  given  some  potato  soup.  The  people  in  charge
of  it  told  us  that  none  was  for  us,  but  that  if  any  was  left
over  after  the  French  had  been  fed  we  should  get  what  re-
mained. This  is  in  accordance  with  the  general  treatment
of  British  prisoners  by  the  Germans,  who  always  endeavor
to  attend  to  our  necessities  last,  and  to  put  us  to  as  much  in-
convenience and  ill-treatment  as  possible.  We  subsequently
got  a  little  soup  and  a  few  slices  of  bread  amongst  25  Brit-
ish prisoners  in  the  same  wagon  with  me.

"On  October  18th,  early,  we  arrived  at  Cologne,  and
the  four  officers  and  myself  were  removed  from  the  wagon
and,  after  some  delay,  sent  on  to  Crefeld.

"I  said  that  52  prisoners  were  in  the  wagon  with  me

when  we  left  Douay.    These  were :  [here  follow  the  names

of  five  officers,  15  English  soldiers  and  32  French  civilians

of  all  grades  of  society.]    It  is  difficult  to  indicate  or  give  a

proper  idea  of  the  indescribably  wretched  condition  in  which

we  were  in,  after  being  starved  and  confined  in  the  man-

1  It  is  scarcely  necessary  to  emphasize  that  this  taking  of  a  prisoner's
clothes  is  as  unusual  as  it  was  wholly  unnecessary.  The  Germans  at
this  time  had  more  clothes  and  spoils  of  every  sort  than  they  could
possibly  make  use  of  or  even  carry  away.  Food  also  was  super-
abundant.

416  GERMAN  TREATMENT  OF  PRISONERS

ner  stated  for  three  days  and  three  nights.  As  is  well
known,  one  of  these  wagons  is  considered  to  be  able  to  ac-
commodate six  horses  and  40  men,  and  this  only  with  the
doors  open  so  as  to  admit  of  ventilation.  What  with  the
filth  of  the  interior,  the  number  of  people  confined  in  it,
and  the  absence  of  ventilation,  it  seemed  to  recall  some-
thing of  what  one  has  read  of  the  Black  Hole  of  Calcutta.
To  give  an  idea  of  the  state  of  mind  to  which  we  have  been
reduced,  I  got  one  of  the  better-class  French  prisoners  to
secrete  a  letter  to  my  wife  in  the  hope  that  he  might  be
able  to  get  it  out  to  her  when  he  reached  his  destination,  as
these  French  civilian  prisoners  were  being  treated  better
than  ourselves.  They  all  expressed  great  pity  for  the  way
in  which  we  were  being  treated.

"I  found  out  that  the  wagon  in  front  of  us  was  full  up
with  English  soldiers.  This  particular  wagon  had  no  ven-
tilation slit  of  any  sort  or  description,  and  men  were  crowded
into  this  even  worse  than  they  were  in  the  wagon  in  which
I  was.  They  banged  away  continually  on  the  wooden  sides
of  the  van,  and  finally,  as  I  supposed  the  Germans  thought
that  they  might  be  suffocated,  a  carpenter  was  got,  who  cut
a  small  round  hole  in  one  of  the  sides.

"I  am  strongly  of  opinion  myself  that  this  brutal  treat-
ment of  British  officers  and  men  on  their  way  to  a  place  of
internment  is  deliberately  arranged  for  by  superior  author-
ity, with  the  object  of  making  us  as  miserable  and  despicable
objects  as  possible.

"I  would  especially  call  attention  to  the  barbarous  way  in
which  British  soldiers  are  being  treated  in  the  various  laagers
of  the  Germans.  The  information  which  follows  has  been
obtained  from  the  British  orderlies  who  came  to  Crefeld  as
servants,  and  also  from  English  and  French  medical  officers
who  had  been  in  the  camps.  The  men  all  had  their  great-
coats, and  in  many  cases  their  tunics  as  well  and  their  money,
taken  away  from  them,  and  are  in  great  need  of  clothing,
especially  underclothing.  It  appears  that  the  Germans  sup-
plied them  with  wooden  clogs  when  their  boots  were  worn
out.  The  men  state  that  they  slept  on  straw  which  had
not  been  changed  for  months,  and  was  quite  sodden  and

GERMAN  TREATMENT  OF  PRISONERS  417

rotten.  All  the  men  who  came  as  orderlies  were  crawling
with  vermin,  and  half  of  them  were  suffering  from  the  itch.
The  medical  officer  had  to  isolate  these  men  before  they  could
be  employed  as  servants.  I  was  also  informed  that  the
feeding  arrangements  for  the  British  soldiers  were  very  bad
indeed,  and  as  the  men  had  no  money  to  supplement  their
rations,  they  were  in  a  half-starved  condition,  which  their
appearance  corroborated."

RUSSIAN  OFFICIAL  INQUIRY  REPORT

Whatever  mitigation  of  the  treatment  of  Russian  pris-
oners in  Germany  may  have  now  been  secured  by  the  Rus-
sian Government's  threat  of  "similar  treatment"  to  Ger-
man prisoners  in  Russian  hands,  the  behavior  of  the  Germans
to  their  captives  on  the  East  Prussian  front  and  the  Mazura
Lakes  region  at  the  beginning  of  the  war  was  of  the  same
kind  as  that  experienced  by  British,  French  and  Belgians
in  the  West.

Russians  made  prisoners  were  generally  deprived  of
their  overcoats,  boots  and  everything  else  of  any  value  by
German  soldiers,  and  even  by  German  officers.  They  were
sent  on  foot  to  the  nearest  railway  station.  The  slightly
wounded  had  to  walk.  During  such  marches  no  food  was
given  them.  They  had  to  eat  raw  potatoes,  turnips  and
carrots  which  they  tore  up  in  the  fields  along  the  route,  and
for  getting  these  vegetables  they  were  beaten  and  ill-used
by  the  Germans  of  the  escort.  The  senior  subaltern  of  the
2 1st  Siberian  Regiment — Raphael  Kochurovsky — witnessed
the  shooting  of  a  wounded  Russian  prisoner  by  a  German
soldier  for  leaving  the  ranks  to  pick  up  a  half-rotten  turnip
lying  in  the  road.

The  peaceful  inhabitants  along  the  route  traversed  in
Germany  showed  the  greatest  hostility  towards  the  pris-
oners, whom  they  reviled  as  "Russian  swine  and  dogs."
Women,  and  even  children,  threw  stones  at  them  and  spat
in  their  faces.  At  Allenstein  the  crowd  struck  the  wounded
men,  pulled  their  mustaches,  and  spat  in  their  faces.  En-
trained, they  were  conveyed  in  cattle-trucks  with  dirty,  stink-
ing floors,  with  a  thick  layer  of  dung.   The  normal  load  per

418  GERMAN  TREATMENT  OF  PRISONERS

truck  was  80  to  90  men.  The  trucks  were  so  overcrowded
that  it  was  impossible  to  sit  or  lie  down.  Before  the  train
started  the  trucks  were  tightly  closed  and  the  prisoners  had
to  obey  the  calls  of  Nature  where  they  stood,  using  their
caps  for  the  purpose  and  throwing  them  out  afterwards
through  the  small  window,  which  also  served  as  the  only
means  of  ventilation.

The  atmosphere  in  the  trucks,  as  all  the  prisoners  who
have  returned  home  declare,  was  frightful.  Men  were
half-suffocated;  they  fainted  away  and  many  even  died.
Hunger  was  their  constant  companion.  A  mug  of  bad  barley
coffee  and  a  small  piece  of  bread  in  the  course  of  two  or
three  days — this  was  all  the  prisoners  had  to  satisfy  their
appetites.  The  pangs  of  hunger  were  only  intensified,  in-
stead of  being  appeased,  when  the  train  stopped  and  the
trucks  were  opened  to  exhibit  the  prisoners  to  the  public  at
the  stations,  where  victualling  arrangements  existed  for  the
German  soldiers.  The  latter  were  then  regaled  with  abun-
dance of  food  and  drink  before  the  very  eyes  of  the  famished
Russians  looking  out  of  the  trucks.