If also add Brooks running shoes to this.  Ive tried all different brands, but the Brooks and NewBalances give me the most mileage out of everything I've tried, and they're super comfortable too.

Not quite a rug but totter and tumble make really high quality playmats thay feel lovely to walk on and they have elegant patterns. Might be worth checking out?

Meant the latch to unlock from an upright position. Housekeepers apparently frequently force it open and break the latch by forcing the handle/head unit apart. She said it was their most common repair behind broken Dysons.

Theoretically, I much prefer glass. And I switched all my dry foods over to glass. I’m only 53 but damn they were heavy. I switched to that exact pop top plastic container you’re showing for everything. Expensive mistake but I haven’t looked back.

I have a Lay-z-Boy power recliner that also rocks.  I’ve had it for ten years and absolutely love it.

I have acquired literally dozens of pocket knives trying to find the perfect EDC.  After all these years, I find myself carrying one of three Kershaw knives, depending on what I'm doing and wearing.  I love the speed assist one handed open.  

If I'm wearing jeans or doing something outdoors, I bring the Kershaw Link.  I have the older 20CV and a newer MagnaCut.  Both are fantastic knives... but too bulky for slacks.

If I'm headed to the office wearing slacks or hanging out in shorts, I carry the Kershaw Dividend.  It's thinner and lighter than Link, but still great.  Before I got the Dividend, I carried the Leek in these situations.

If I'm wearing light slacks, smaller pockets, or for some reason want to carry something smaller, I bring the Scallion (or sometimes the Chive if I want to go smaller or cheaper Valve if I'm worried about losing/dropping it).

If you like a crossbar rather than the frame lock, and don't mind using a thumb stud rather than the assisted flipper, I'd suggest the Kershaw Bel Air.  It tucks away nicely in jeans or slacks.

On the laundry sub you can find a list of detergents with enzymes, which are great to break down biological molecules (from dog like your stains; or humans) for them to be washed out, and a way to treat it, spa day, that can strip the fabric clean as new. I’m not affiliated; I have simply tried

Check your chat, try again.

I’ve had 2 ruggables for I believe 3 years now and I still love them. They are both in high traffic areas and shed some wear but nothing noticeable except when I’m staring. I will say I noticed they no longer carry the rug system I have which is a huge bummer.

+1 I have a vaccum breaker, same brand and it leaks (releases) like crazy with this style hose.

My father has a numotion chair and that thing is an absolute tank. I used to work in medical device design and have built machines for almost 15 years and these are some industrial grade chairs. He is very hard on chairs and the only reason he has a new one is that insurance gets him a free one every few years. We are actually going to convert his older one to have tank treads for better off-road handling. His had a max speed of 7mph, which doesn't sound fast, but he was an absolute menace at the old folks home.

who did you end up going with? i'm considering a new LG or GE

Goodwill is the GOAT for PYREX.

Hi - how is your Paris holding up?  I am thinking of getting the Venice but noticed the showroom model, the leather seems to be getting a bit loose.. not sure if its been there a while.. is your leather changing in appearance in the last 2 months?

does the chom chim damage the couch?

Thank you so much for that reply, that should be very helpful! You deserve an award!

Looks like you're maybe set to not accept dm's? When I try your username I get an error that the name doesn't exist.

After thinking about it more I think the photos I posted are actually a trim rivet thing for finishing the leather cutouts. 

Great username BTW

One thing I can say for Ruggable is that they have exceptional customer service. Ive had one of their rugs in my office (pets, office chair, yoga equipment) for maybe 6 months now and I’ve been really happy with it

i wipe it down with towel and then dump it in the machine for wash. it's supposedly washable.

Sans filigrane ni publicité.

They do this a lot in the US. You'll have a brand, like Levi's nesns, and they make a deal with a discount department store. The price point is lower to appeal to a consumer with less purchasing power. The quality is also lower and the fabric may contain poly or stretch fibers. You can spot the lower quality Levi's because the signature patch on the back wears out quickly and is not made with the traditional leather patch.

Levi's next level is their "signature" brand available in select retail shops and online. These are maybe double the price of the discount store, but they are better quality, 100% cotton denim, and have the signature leather patch.

Top tier is Japanese selvedge. Like $300 for a pair of jeans. Lifelong quality.

Can I ask what you used to clean your rug?

I just got (today!) an Amish made desk, solid wood with a hickory top. Simple, but clearly craftsman elegant.

Also the gaskets are cheap and easy to replace.

Bruised and broken ribs will knock you down a few notches quick!

BOB stroller and a car seat adapter for when baby is little. Your kid will outgrow any other stroller by age 2-3. They have incredible resale value too!

With your budget you could look into commercial grade indoor/outdoor rugs - they're made for heavy traffic and actually clean well since restaurants use them. My buddy got one from a restaurant supply place and it's been holding up great for years even with his messy lab mix.

Det burde være forbudt for folk at komme med anbefalinger som baserer sig på Miele der er over 10 år gamle med ordlyden '' Åh min Miele har holdt i over 10 år ''.
Det gør de ikke længere.
Kvaliteten bliver bare dårligere og dårligere og dårligere og dårligere.
Skal ud og købe ny vaskemaskine efter bare 2.5 års ejerskab af Miele W1 Selection.
Det bliver nok ikke en Miele.
Men en billigere vaskemaskine..

I’ve worn a 1.25” belt from Narragansett leathers ~5 days per week for 3ish years now and it’s holding up beautifully. Got a second one in another color to match my darker shoes.

Maybe not quite as dressy as something from shell cordovan, but it’s something I’d comfortably wear with anything from a sport coat down to jeans and t shirt.

If it fails, I think it’s covered under warranty. You can also just buy the new elastic separately. They have it right on their site.

O rings and teflon tape.

Wait so to be clear, you're in a known chlorine in the water location,  and you have test results that show eskiin doesn't clear out the chlorine? If their advertising is to be believed I'm sure they'd want to hear from you directly. But if your experience is actually evidence that their product fails to do what it's supposed to....

I’ve had the same simplehuman stainless for almost 10 years in my kitchen . It looks like it went through a war with all the bumps and bruises but still works perfectly.  I estimate the foot pedal has over 100k activations.

I bought two trash cans you find in a doctor’s office. I believe they are Kitchenaid. I had a Simple Human, but the lid was so light my dog would lift it with his nose and rummage through it.  Solved the dog issue since the lid is so heavy. It’s industrial type so I imagine it will last a lifetime.

I have one like that from Sears from 1973. My granddaughter now uses it. ♥️

First off, congrats! This is random I think, but every time someone asks what I would recommend it's my PUR filter system, the one that attaches to the sink faucet. My daughter didn't latch so I didn't get to breastfeed for as long as I wanted so I had to make so. many. bottles. At first we started with those gallons of purified water, and then made the switch. And now I'm planning for baby #2 soon and I refuse to go through the process again. It was one less thing to think about and less plastic waste.

Prolly the start button

Jeg har en Miele W1 Selection og den holdt 2.5 år!!!!!
Den forrige 8 år.
Miele er ikke kvalitet.

How tf do you even start this POS

I got me of these second hand. Super happy with that purchase.

I consider bose to be like the Nike of audio equipment. It's generally pretty well made, but comes from a big brand with good marketing and you pay for that marketing and image. You can definitely get something higher performance for the same money from a lesser-known brand, but you'll have to look into it a bit.

Contigo, Stanley, Owalla, and Brumate have all held up really well with dishwashing.

Here’s a great video on dehumidifiers

They’re great while they last. Based on my experience, you should start shopping tomorrow.

I would take a look around for local leather shops with solid reviews. Those types of places are gems

Anything Zojirushi makes the cut for me! What kind of breads does it make?

Victorinox.

Pretty good still.

Look at companies that cater to plainclothes cops- Galco, Gould & Goodrich or DeSantis. Or custom makers like Mitch Rosen or Ken Null.

There are really too many excellent options to even list them all.

Best of luck!

A bunch of years ago visiting LA, I went out to the Herman Miller store there and sat on every one of their seats to work out what I wanted. I'd planned to go to the Steelcase store, but got there just after they closed for the day. The security guard at the desk had a Steelcase Leap that was pretty dinged up from a bajillion years of 24/7 sitting and wearing away the leather, but he allowed me to try it out. It beat every one of the Herman Miller chairs I tried and when I got back home I found one on craigslist for $400. Still the perfect chair for me and I still have it about 10 years later.

There's no such thing as a perfect chair though - just ones that work well with your personal geometry. Try a bunch. Take your laptop to a store (office supplies, ikea, etc.) and do some real sitting and working at a desk. Or find a store with a good return policy.

Even the slap feels nostalgic!

I’ve had the horizontal one for 7 years, going strong

You could try Puredown. We have a comforter that's been used for almost ten years and it's still quite durable. We bought a new one last week, and the quality isn't much different from the one we bought before. The quality has been quite consistent over the years.

I've had my Simple Human for 5.5 years. No issues, it works great and keeps the smells in

Love it so much I recently bought one for a friend

I ended up with a Gorilla reel to pair with the Eley hose and nozzles.

He sells bees wax too to power up the spoon with enchantments.

I like my Anson belts

Did you end up buying the wool duvet?

Why is the aux port the 'bottleneck'?

I have 2 Montana bison belts and a smaller dress belt. I love them.

Fingerless gloves, padded palms. I like the lycra type or the net backs. These can be found at bicycle shops. They're great for riding, paddling, yard tool use, vacuuming, loading, hiking, hand tool use.

Hanks belts is the only answer.

Alden cordovan is nice

Allen Edmond cordovan is not

Have you looked at Stressless models?

Denmark and Switzerland stock the real stuff

The room is properly sealed and air conditioned

A dehumidifier is only for situations where you want to HEAT UP the room. 

Do NOT use a dehumidifier in an air conditioned room. The air conditioner IS already a special kind of dehumidifier that also cools the room.

neither is BIFL.  these flip top jars have gaskets that will dry out pretty quickly when used for dry storage.  the oxo does last a very long time... the silicone gasket lasts longer and the plastics/spring mechanism are over engineered so as not to fatigue and fail, but they eventually will.

Better Homes & Gardens Kitchen Trash Can, 14.5 Gallon Stainless Steel Semi Round Step Garbage Bin with Soft Close Lid, Silver

This is not a recommendation this is a warning. I bought this one after hating how every plastic can we bought would break. Every. Single. Day. Of. My. Life. Has been made worse by owning it. Getting bags in and out? Nightmare. I threw out the stainless steel shell because it added nothing of value to the item and would frequently disconnect from vital parts of the mechanism. I now have the black plastic liner which still manages to be the worst trash can I’ve had the displeasure of owning. Please, for your own mental health, do not buy this piece of junk.

I’m convinced all hoses are garbage at this point for whatever that’s worth. Had maybe 3-4 in the last 5 years that I’ve tossed for one reason or another

Filson Alaskan guide shirt, get it second hand for a good price too

4E here. I found Altra’s the best brand. Most of their shoes are designed for wide feet.

Fantastic feeling reel, yes, but i did have mine fail after a few years. The part connecting the hose to the frame snapped.

Teflon tape is all you need brother

I bought this one instead of the Fiskars after seeing reviews like yours. It’s all metal, even the moving part that actuates when you leverage it. Had it about a month, no issues.

Planet Rover stainless steel lunch boxes. After my kids are done using them, I’ll probably use them for my work or for snacks on the go. I bought mine used off eBay for half the retail price and both items look brand new. Stainless steel is the way to go.

I would join a IBIFL subreddit…

Simple human. Idk about for life but they last a long time.

Depending on where you are, can check around. My regional supermarket’s house brand is actual borosilicate, but they also import it from France.

Just want to point out that weather resistant and water proof are different. Incase others dont know. Not intending to come across disrespectful to the original poster of this thread. Weather resistant is a lower tier of protection to water then water proof.. It'll resist splashes snd stuff like that. But getting caught in the rain or a bucket being poured, anything that exceeds anything minor. Things that are westher resistant will become saturated where things that are waterproof will not

Bought a used Steelcase from a business liquidator back in 2020. Still as good as the day I bought it. Best $140 I’ve ever spent.

Salut, es-ce Davinci Resolve a un un filigrame lorsqu’on veux exporter notre video?

Salut, es-ce Davinci Resolve a un un filigrame lorsqu’on veux exporter notre video?

Salut, es-ce Davinci Resolve a un un filigrame lorsqu’on veux exporter notre video?

Funniest typo I’ve seen in a long time

Salut, es-ce Davinci Resolve a un un filigrame lorsqu’on veux exporter notre video?

We’ve been using the Stokke TripTrapp high chair for 6 years now. I love sitting on them. I bought both of ours used but would’ve bought them new if I hadn’t scored on a used set.

Salut, es-ce Davinci Resolve a un un filigrame lorsqu’on veux exporter notre video?

Salut, es-ce Davinci Resolve a un un filigrame lorsqu’on veux exporter notre video?

How bout a Ball half gallon jar?

I've seen them at Goodwill from time to time and plugged them in, only to find out they were not working right.  That was disappointing, because they have such a good reputation.  I'm wondering how long they last.

I went from a Secret Lab Titan to a gaming embody and my posture has never been better. Naturally standing taller now. Took my muscles a couple of weeks to adjust but results are noticeable for sure.

Hydroflasks can and they can be engraved too

Posting for anyone still looking. Lulu lemon was sold out so I figured I'd try Saxx since Wirecutter ranked them number one. Nope they ride up. Ive come to the conclusion I just need a long inseam to solve this problem.

Nope.

Their best days were a long time ago, like back in the 70s with the 901 speakers, and in the 90s when Bose's noise-cancelling technology was introduced into the consumer market.

I worked for Bose about 15 years ago. Met my wife there, actually! They were already well into the decline in terms of quality. It was lots of fancy marketing and flashy demos. The vast majority of their products were grossly over-priced. That Wave Radio you snagged was $499 retail back then. Insanity.

They no longer make it anyhow. It's been replaced by various wireless bluetooth speakers which I wouldn't buy. You could get something equally good for much less.

Note they changed to tempered glass in the US market due to food safety.  When tempered glass is damaged it breaks into smooth glass pebbles.  Borosilicate handles better thermal ranges but if it is damaged it breaks into sharp shards of glass.

Victorinox, Montblanc, Hermes, Loro Piana, Frette, Treca de Paris, Haestens, Brunello Cucinelli, Zegna, Kiton, Berluti, Bottega Veneta, The Row... 
Unfortunately its mostly very expensive brands I know of

It's there an exterior source of moisture? 

Any device that uses the Peltier effect for cooling and in this case dehumidifying is destined to fail miserably. 

I've had a basic GE model for 10 years. In my amateur opinion it's the short cycles that kills dehumidifiers. Mine would turn on and off constantly if I just set a humidity target and let it run. 

For 9 years now I've only set the timer function and it still works. The power cord is getting wonky though.

OP do you have the fan setup on a countdown timer switch?  I've found that to be very helpful.  I installed a Leviton-dt204-1lw. It'll run through my shower and then after to dissipate the humidity. I like that I don't have to go back to turn it off if I'm in a different part of the house

Might be worth a try

Which ones do you use that can go in the dishwasher?

I have a set of the Bose F1’s and love them.

The powder coated ones fade in the dishwasher

We just use water bottles for the kids, even at home. Each kid has one and they get cleaned every 1-2 days.

Sorry this is taking a bit to get back to you. I didn’t have to do anything special with the carpet I just laid the tiles down. They flex a bit, but less than a normal chair mat. As far as the size of the tiles, it’s confusing. They ship as four linked together. So by my math, I used 4x2. But it could also be divided 8x4. See the image in the Amazon listing would be 8x4 but they ship 4 of those together as one.

I wouldn't put Patagonia to this list. Most of their recent bags have delamination problem occuring in a few years

I switched to OXO silicone measuring cups a few years ago. Fantastic.

It it just me or do these like new pairs hurt a LOT? On the first day I have a blister on my foot at the top. How do I fix this?

Literally the only thing my mom ever asked for was that exact radio.

Yetis. We did the same thing they offer free engravings around holidays fathers day etc we did the stackable pints and 20oz with their choice in color and name engraved

Outclass.

Or if you can find secondhand Common Manufacturing shirts (they closed last year but made wicked shirts).

Or find a tailor and have them made. A very good choice if you are on the slightly taller side anyway. Locally I know of a couple of tailors who would make them for about the same price as a moderately premium brand.

I was going to come here to say this. If you sign up for their emails they occasionally offer free engraving

I have a set of 4 ikea cups for two kids that can grab themselves water. Water bottles are a different story but that’s for school and trips.

Birkenstock Super-Birki Clogs.

Have 'em. Love 'em. 

Same pair since 2006.

Assigned colors is a HUGE life hack. Bath towels, cups, calendar appointments, everything.

I’ve had good success with this product.  Pick the closest color.

Yeti with the engraving option.

I love Simple Modern tumblers. They only spill what is in the straw if knocked over.

If you want a true BIFL dehumidifier, you have to find an older model.

A simple solution is having less cups. They can hand wash them or learn to reuse it.

Never ever get anything g but brass couplings. Aluminum is trash

This was my thought. That's a minor leak so it wouldn't be a major failure yet. When it's a major failure, it just sprays everywhere and doesn't make it into the hose. 

I had to drill mine off, too, because the set bolt was sheared off. Looks like they're designed to shear off... I won't shear mine off though.

I'd probably just go with stainless tumblers and have the names laser engraved. That's about as permanent as it gets and it'll survive the dishwasher.

Another cheap option is color coding. Give each kid their own color and make "that's not your cup" the rule. Way easier than replacing faded labels every few months.

Tried teflon tape on the threads of the of the hose bib. Super cheap and easy to do.

Yeah I think you fell for influencer slop with that Ninesky. Here's a more honest take on it: 

Still not terrible, but perhaps not as amazing as you thought it was after reading the reviews.

As the other commenter said, you need something more powerful. Also, don't buy anything that says "dissecant or peltier" dehumidifiers, they don't work. You need a proper, refrigerant-based one.

I live in the actual jungle and ironically, with dehumidifiers and AC units what we have come to realize is that if you purchase just enough capacity for the area, you'll spend more on electricity since the units will be at 100% load all the time. If you have a room with a lot of humidity, imagine it's twice the size and use that number to make your purchase decision. Also, humidity sealing paints go a long way if it's seeping through walls, floor, etc.

I'm still using the same Wustof knives we got 23 years ago. You have to treat them right. Hand wash only.

I have a cast iron pan I didn't register for that I still have & use too.

I sold my fine China ages ago.  We just never used it. I upgraded my everyday dishes to Wedgewood Nantucket Basket. I wish I had started out with those & nothing else.

We also still use the 18/10 stainless steel utensils from Oneida that we were gifted along with the china. We used an 18/8 set of Reed & Barton for about 10 years. Those are still good, they will go with one of the kids soon. I like the style of the Oneida better. I did have to replace some forks a few years ago due to teenagers.

It felt like I was asking too much to register for expensive items. I wish I had a Miele vacuum from the start. I wish we had registered for some tools & a shop vac.

I think the bigger issue was getting things we didn't use. I gave away "fancy" platters other items after they sat in a closet for 10 years.

Really great cookware, whatever your preferred material. Put stuff on your list you would use but probably wouldn't buy yourself

I sit ridiculously long hours in my steel case gesture

You can always buy an Ashley’s sectional. It’ll be BIFL if you die in 6 months! But honestly, I’ve had no luck with couches. The $5,000 sectionals act like they are $1,500 nowadays.

I like my Haworth Zody chair. Never had any pain from it when sitting at a desk all day

I snagged a used Herman Miller Aeron for 200 bucks and it was a game changer. 

Seriously, shop around find a good used chair, you want something office workers sing hymns of.

We got a lazy boy when we were pregnant with our second and it has been a life saver for late nights, naps with sick toddlers and acted as supervising headquarters while I was in a boot for two months earlier this year. Good furniture that can grow with your family instead of being focused on the baby stage is the only "BIFL" baby item.

Oxo pop containers are definitely not bifl. Not airtight and prone to lids becoming faulty.
Source: I have a pantry full of them

etty soft if you're sitting in same spot every day for work or gaming sessions. 

  
Would be curious to know how long you've had yours and if you do anything special for maintenance. I work from home doing audio editing so comfort for long periods is pretty important to me. Right now I'm using this old sectional that's definitely seen better days but still holding up after 6 years of heavy use.

Head on over to r/laundry for tips on clothes that hold on to smells, they’ve been a lifesaver for me!

Yeah that’s just the name pyrex…. What you’re after is at thrift stores and in all caps, PYREX.

Do you mean they don’t click down or they don’t seal? I find they stop sealing with stuff that’s really dusty as it prohibits the cap from making a tight seal

Hello /u/heretical-chef! Thank you for your submission! The AutoMod thought that your post might be a request type post and has changed the flair accordingly, but if this was wrong feel free to change it back!

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/BuyItForLife) if you have any questions or concerns.*

This is correct, the strength of a bluetooth adapter is often the chip that converts the digital signal to analog. However if you’re plugging in through the 3.5mm aux port then that’s going to be the quality bottleneck anyway.  So save your money and get the cheap one off amazon it works great. 

You’d rather have a cheap bluetooth hooked up to great speakers, as on the bose, than the opposite (expensive bluetooth to cheap speakers)

Pyrex will replace it.

I always thought the elastic fabric band would degrade quickly on mine but somehow its still working just fine. Love this thing due to its small form factor

Had similar issue in my flat last year - corner rooms are just humidity magnets for some reason. That unit you got is probably too small, most of those compact ones are basically useless for anything bigger than a closet

  
You need something with at least 30-40 pint capacity for 200 sq ft room with high humidity like that. The key thing is looking at the moisture removal rate at your specific humidity levels, not just the room size rating since those are usually calculated for ideal conditions

  
Also check if there's any moisture source you're missing - sometimes there's condensation happening behind furniture or in corners that you can't see. I found out my bedroom had small leak from upstairs bathroom that was causing crazy humidity spikes at night. Fixed that and got proper sized unit and now it stays around 45% even during summer

  
Don't cheap out on this one, good dehumidifier will last years and save you from mold problems down the road

I’ll keep an eye out for them.

Good to know. This one was just from the supermarket so probably the inferior product.

Dulut Trading has shirts like this.

I got a used steelcase leap high back V1 chair local on FB marketplace for $225 and it’s amazing. Needed a new gas strut but that was an inexpensive replacement from Crandall.

I’ve known a few of those.

If you switch between side and back sleeping, try one with some kind of height adjustability. The hardest part is finding something tall enough for side sleeping but not so tall that it pushes your head forward when you're on your back.  
  
Prefer dual-height pillows over adjustable fill ones because I got tired of constantly adding and removing foam. Been pretty happy with the Cloud͏Align from and I can just flip it depending on how I’m sleeping that night.

I prefer new Anchor Hocking.

This sub and reddit in general obsess over the fact that vintage Pyrex was made with borosilicate glass vs. modern which are made with soda-lime glass.  

It is actually a trade-off.  Borosilicate is far less likely to crack with temperature shock, far more likely to break due to impact/dropping. Soda-lime is opposite.

I was in the same boat as you and then 1) spent a bunch of money on vintage pyrex whose measurement numbers wore off within 3 months of dishwasher and heat dry cycles.  Switched to Anchor Hocking and it’s been fine.  I am not hand-washing my measuring cups.

+1 ive been using them for so long and still going good

missed the quality clothes

I use mine to heat things in the microwave and scoop boiling hot liquid from pots. So I appreciate that it’s heat tolerant and shock resistant.

Agreed on the jacket. Have had mine for almost 15 years and the cuffs are worn but I’m sending it in for warranty replacement.

I wish my folks had one that was tall person compatible.

They have a medium and a large in two different styles, and they're just tiny.

I'm 6'5" tall, and they just kill my back and neck because they're so short, and the power ones are just too wide.

They swear by them however!

thought same at first glance

So yeah, answer is that it depends.

As others have said, a fan itself won't just make it cooler, but it will move air around and make it feel cooler.

If the air outside is normally cooler than inside, you can look at one or two of something like this. It goes directly in the window and it can move a good amount of outside air inside pretty quickly. If you have one in a window blowing in and another in another window blowing out, it can fairly quickly get the room to be the same temp as outside. That's particularly nice at night time, but if it's hot during the day it's not going to be great.

To actually cool the room with hot air outside you need an air conditioner. Window units aren't too hard to install but a 2nd person to help during install does make it easier. There's traditional window units like this, or newer U-shaped ones like this. The U-shape will be easier to install probably but you have to have the right kind of window, and in both cases you'll have to remove the screen. Depending on the size of the room, you may want a more powerful unit. In general, more BTU = more cooling capacity.

Another good option is portable AC units. These are a bit more expensive, but useful because you don't have to remove the screen, and you can easily move it to other rooms or locations if desired. Dual hose is better but more expensive typically. Something like this or this would be pretty good, and local stores like lowes or home depot might have them cheaper. This looks like a decent single-hose option (currently on sale but IDK for how long).

Hope any of this has helped. Good luck staying cool!

That's not how tariffs work.

They're simply a federal sales tax paid by the importer of the product, and added into the price before any state or local tax.

I had two, gave one to a friend. Still have one. Almost 30 years old and I love it. I kept the CD/radio gave away a radio only (traded it actually).

Omg how are they legal????

Under $2,000 you’re not finding anything BIFL unless it’s used, even then, most sofas are very much disposable. 

Source: am interior designer

Iron Heart has a lot of good stuff. I took a look at some of their flannels and only one has matched pockets. It's "The Heavy Flannel Rider’s Overshirt - Red". Iron Heart is known for high quality, and in my opinion meets the buy it for life standard, so be warned it's expensive.

I know I’m the worst

Won't lie. You aren't wrong there. Lol

I just inherited my grandfather’s, after handing it down to my dad… yes it’s BIFL multiple times over lol

Yeah I know, not ideal. But any suggestions around that I appreciate

…does it need to be all that AND buy it for life? Because that ain’t happening unless you don’t plan on living very long.

I'm also in the middle of researching this, actually! Here are the top ones I've been looking at:

1. Lunix LX21 Foot Massager — This one is at the top of my list. Great reviews, covers the full foot and calf, and it comes with a lifetime warranty which is rare. Found it on Amazon but apparently it's about 20% cheaper if you buy directly from their website (lunixinc.com). Definitely checking this one out first.

2. Renpho Foot Massager — Pretty popular and well reviewed. Good shiatsu nodes and decent pressure settings. More budget friendly but no lifetime warranty.

3. Nekteck Foot Massager — Another solid option that comes up a lot in these threads. Simple to use and reliable, though a bit basic compared to the others.

Still deciding myself but leaning heavily toward the Lunix just because of the warranty and the overall build quality from what I've read. Hope this helps! 🙌

It may be better to get your own fittings and get a compression ring crimper, then just buy your hose from a company like Continental by the foot/by the reel and make whatever hose you need

Check out thrift stores and estate sales around you for PYREX.

I find the people that have these type of no-power gas heaters love them, and will keep getting them for their low maintenance and ability to provide hot water without power... What happens is the chimney changes or isnt any good, or ultimately it can't keep up with family needs and they go tankless... great feature, but tbh, most gas water heaters don't need much power, especially if you have municipal water pressure already

What type of antisieze? Zinc based, tin based, copper, molybdenum?

Antisieze would prevent this, copper would work best.

That is fantastic. Looks in great condition still too....nice little circ loop with aquastat... well done...

Look for "garden hose gasket". Additionally, add antisieze (copper based would work best) to the threads to prevent the two metals from corroding together.  This should also be done when using a stainless steel to stainless steel connection, aluminum to aluminum, aluminum to steel, or honestly just any connection as it doesnt hurt but it can get messy if not cleaned up afterwards.

They make recliners in different sizes to accommodate taller people. Just choose one of those when trying them out. You can get them for tall people and/or bigger (oversized). I like a normal width but for taller person. Tell sales person what you want. Try some out. Then when you find one that fits and feet don’t dangle off you know the dimensions to look for.

I’ll refer you back to my first comment.

What problems did you have?

Honestly, I wouldn't try to BIFL couch especially if you are planning on having kids. Couches with kids are wear items. We bought an IKEA couch with removable covers with a spare cover set. It lasted fantastically well for nine years when we bought the exact same one again. We have ten and twelve year old boys. I doubt it will survive to 16 years old, but being and to remove all the fabric and wash it while the spare was on the couch was incredible and probably doubled it's life. I bought the same one for my office with red corduroy cover that's awesome

We use large glass jars for flour, rice, and oatmeal. We like it a lot. One thing to think about, though, is the size of the opening. In my setup, I can scoop a cup of oats right out of the jar. The one in the photo has too narrow an opening for that.

Do you really need to expose a measuring cup to a temperature shock? It is usually used with room or fridge temperature ingredients.

How much does height factor into these chairs reaching their full potential? I’m shorter and I’m curious if these chairs maybe don’t work so well for shorter people and don’t get to experience the benefits as much.

Where do you live? if you live in the tropics there not much you can do without an actual AC unit installed. But anywhere else, just keep your windows and doors closed during noon-5pm, then once the sun sets and the cool night comes, use a Window fan to exchange the outside cooling air with the inside hot air. 

I also don't have AC, but I bought a "Bionaire Window Fan" that I set up every summer and take down after. You literally just clamp it between your window slider. Is that what your dad meant?

older pyrex hits different - the borosilicate stuff was built like tank compared to what they make today

Ahhh I was afraid of that! But this was my last ditch effort before doing something drastic, like spend $7k on a custom couch.

You need to look for borosilicate glass. That's what Pyrex used to be, but now it's sodalime. 

I like Oxo; most or all of their glass stuff is borosilicate. 

I think IKEA 365 stuff might also be borosilicate but don't quote me on that.

best source I've found is staring intently at bottom of every piece of glass cookware at Goodwill

Thnx, I will consider it. Though I am searching for good slippers mainly because my feet need the support.

You're very welcome!

I wish they were safe. I'd love to use them, but I definitely don't want to take the risk.

Glass jar. It is the seal. If mobility is a problem and causes difficulty with the clasp, use a large Ball jar with the 2 piece lid. Even if the ring isn’t very tight, the lid keeps out pantry moths and ants.

That falling apart is likely due to keeping them longer than you should. Shoes shouldn't last you longer than a year, unless they're able to be refinished by a cobbler (which would be Goodyear welted shoes where the cork midsole is replaced with the sole.) Midsole foam fails after 300-500 miles. These components are supposed to break down to give your foot the support it needs.

You don't need a separate charger. They come with one. Just look up motion activated rechargeable lights.

They're actually not all the same, but there's a fair chance you won't really be able to tell the difference even with a $20 one (or at least I can't, not enough to matter anyway).

In this case the Teflon would actually still be helpful because an aluminum fitting on a brass fitting with water involved equals galvanic corrosion. I'm pretty sure there's some sort of grease that's a better choice to use but the goal is to remove the direct contact between the metal surfaces

Such a shame they don't make the clip'n'grip for maglites anymore

To misquote Capn Kirk, what does a bot need with a scooter?

Setting aside the obvious LLM-ad-text, AdasLine doesn't even seem to exist outside of four extremely similar posts on Reddit in the last five days. All of which talk about how great it allegedly is, but then for some reason are "asking for advice".

Storage receptacle matters less than shoe trees and cleaning/conditioning.  

1 set of cedar shoe trees for the shoes you wore that day bc they absorb moisture from foot sweat, the others can get cheaper plastic ones to keep shape consistent. 

If shoes are leather Weiman leather wipes to clean and condition.

Milk crate is actually fine.

ok i thought of more.

good raincoat if you’re going anywhere it rains. mines eddie bauer, not 100% water proof in heavy downpours but good enough. 

packable towels. mine are microfiber, not sure the brand but they’re great for travel, i still use them.

food related supplies: get cheapass plastic stuff, it’s fine. my school provided the gas burners so i can’t rec anything there unfortunately 

sun hat, just a cheap one but make sure it fits your head. i have a buzz cut and the 360 sun protection was great.

flashlight and lamp: doesn’t have to be anything fancy, it rlly depends on if you’re doing anything at night. i was not so i went cheap. my flashlights are still working (diff batteries obv). get 2 because someone always forgets theirs. i didn’t get a lamp and i wish i did bc chilling in your tent is a lot better and easier with a lamp vs flashlight. 

get sandals or some sort of slip on preferably that you can wear with socks. great for putzing around camp when you don’t wanna wear boots. chaco, teva, keen all do pretty good sandals (i have keens, still in great shape and i wear them all the time) but you can get cheap slides from walmart if you want tbh

backpack: i used my school backpack (ll bean) and it was perfectly fine. i didn’t need to go much bigger than that (maybe \~30L) for my day pack. if you’ve got a good backpack already, just use that one. otherwise i’m a diehard ll bean fan.

Do yourself a favor and just use a Swedish dish cloth

I paid around $1200 back in 2012. At this point it’s been less than $100 a year for it and I spend 8 to 10 hours a day in it. I think it’s worth it.

I like OXO, but I can’t stand my OXO Pop containers and wish I’d not wasted the money on them.

I shelled out for one of these and now all my hoses have nice brass fittings.

I use Teflon plumbing tape and I unscrew the connection.  I recommend a plastic hose valve to turn on and of at the end of each house or spigot.

How much is a charger

I have not been able to figure out how to source the real deal. It seems like everyone is a lying liar

I was introduced to these while working at Sierra, they hold up incredibly well and considering they were less than $5 for multiple carabiners it was a no-brainer

Lol oxo but those containers dont stay sealed very well imo.

I’m 6’2” and bought a fjord Stockholm about 5 years ago. Definitely great back support. I can stay seated for long periods without having to shift of get up. 

Great quality but $$$

ayyyyy fellow butch geology student/alumn here!!! i will echo the other person who said splurge on boots if you can. they might be tough to break in if you’re leaving in a few weeks though, but if you buy them asap you’ll probably be ok. rei has good options that you can try on, or check out r/boots for recs. 

besides that, i basically raided my local sierra trading post for stuff. rei is awesome but expensive af so save it for your important items. the only things i bought from rei was my sleeping bag and a few pairs of pants.

it’s hard to rec specific items bc i dont know your exact budget/what stores are available to you, but clothing brands i like are rei, kuhl, eddie bauer, and smart wool. some of these you can find at sierra. definitely check your thrift stores cuz they might have stuff too. merino wool is your friend. it’s pricier than cotton but way higher quality, versatile, and will last a long time. all of my clothing i bought for field camp is still in great condition (that was about 3 years ago). definitely try on everything if you can bc sometimes pants just fit weird and it’s a god awful feeling being out bushwhacking and you’ve got a wedgie.

east wing is the recommended rock hammer for a reason! i also recommend having a second, heavy duty belt that’s just for tools and stuff. mines the ugly black polyester work belt from the ace hardware store. ugly as shit but it held everything. i also wore a second belt for my pants so they wouldn’t fall down lol. 

i also recommend a water bladder, at least 3L. doesn’t need to be a fancy brand but make sure the straw has the fancier bites valves cover looking topper, not just a cheap soft silicone cap (mine broke and i was leaving water trailing behind me). also make sure to clean the water bladder out well bc mine grew mold and i ended up trashing it after the course.

TLDR: splurge on boots. rei for important unicorn purchases, sierra (if available) for everything else, or walmart or thrift stores. merino wool is good. water bladder with nice straw cap. sleeping bag rated for the expected nighttime temperatures. strong belt for tools.

The Wave is great, I really miss mine. I have an original Bose Color Soundlink and it is impressive for a small speaker as well. Can't speak for anything newer than that.

Or Board Shirts. I have two that I bought new in 2006 that have shown no real age.

better yet just build your own corsi rosenthal box. smart features are a dumb improvement and almost guarenteed to lower the lifespan of your unit. nothing is more BIFL than being able to use any box fan of which you can easily find plenty of, standard furnace filters which are cheap and necessary to be replaced to be useful. my biggest worry about buying an air purifier in this day and age would be that the company goes and stops producing their brand air filters then you just have a piece of trash.

I want to like them more. They feel heavy and nice. 

I’ve had 2 clients have them fail in under 5 years.  I just can’t justify the price. I can replace the cheap, brass, smaller ones every couple years for a decade for the cost of their equivalent products. 

For 5 times the price, it lasts about twice as long. Pretty sweet when they’re in good shape, though.

Bose has always been a bit of "better audio through marketing." But at least back then there was some quality to back it up. 

I have a pair of vintage Bose 901s and they're good. They're not GREAT. But they're good. And they'll last forever because they're made well.

Speaker design keeps improving every year. And Denmark is putting out some outstanding drivers. First thing to do is listen to a bunch of different kinds of speakers. I'm partial to the transmission line design. It's what I like.

Too bad the speakers I like best cost more than my house. So I built a pair. It was still spendy. But still within the realm of mere mortals. For those who are interested google "nutshell hifi Ariel."

Wool breathes really well and absorbed sweat. I’m talking like thiiiiin wool too

I've been looking for a Bluetooth receiver, think they're all about the same? I have to admit, pulling out all my CDs from the late 20th century has been a joy. CDs just sound a specific way, ya know?

No. Those are great. However, BOSE commercial products are good. I use them and people love it.

Steelcase Gesture with headrest. Cheaper than Herman Miller. Good for gaming and office.

Kinnarps 6000 Free Flow for office and if you live in northern areas of the world.

Herman Miller Aeron if you live in a hot area and need a chair that is breathingm

Absolutely. Threads meant for sealing are tapered. GHT is a straight thread and relies on the gasket for sealing.

I recently purchased a decent Bluetooth speaker and the sound difference between the old Wave systems and even cutting edge new products is worlds apart. 

I wish someone would make a decent product that wasn't pushing $2k (which still isn't even a guarantee it will be great) for what Bose was selling for $500 brand new 10 years ago.

Thnxx, that’s really interesting. I am always hot, more so during summer and I can’ imagine wearing socks even wool.

Check if it's PYREX or Pyrex

Lower case means it's probably not borosilicate glass, therefore much more likely to crack from things like thermal shock. 

Proper PYREX is still BIFL :)

We have a couple of these with a cheap bluetooth receiver plugged into the AUX port so we can play music from our phones easily. 

They are not in huge demand anymore but honestly speaker technology has not appreciably changed since the 1970s. They still sound incredible.

Nothing works tbh you just gotta get some thin wool socks instead

This whole video is less rough on his widdle tabwit than my toddler is on her iPad on any given night.

Still going. It's printed over 57,000 pages. I got a Brother just for the updated networking and automatic duplex. I'm hoping one of my kids will take the HP 1022.

Imagine being on a video call presenting to an important client sitting in one of these things. 

I have no doubt it’s probably comfortable and ergonomic, but that would require soooo much space in an office and it honestly looks ridiculous.

Seconding Eley! Absolutely the best hose and reel I’ve ever owned.

Can't go wrong with a Casio

Tell that to John Candy’s character in John Hughes’ iconic 1987 buddy comedy Planes, Trains & Automobiles when his traveling companion Steve Martin trades his Piaget watch and $17 in for a room at a hotel, while Candy attempts to do the same with $2 and a Casio and is declined.

That was presumed. And they still leak.
Step 2: apply pipe or crescent

Lithium battery is a must. Lead acid can recharge 300-500 times before chemistry fails but lithium is like 5000.

I didn’t  read the comments but what we liked with our first —> didn’t necessarily work with our second. Every kid and season and family is so different. My biggest advice would be to pick a reliable thing in the category you’re looking at (ie diaper bag or high chair or bassinet or car seat) that meets your safety needs and price point. You’ll never know if what you’re buying will actually work with your kid and your life. I would steer clear of the extra fancy trendy things bc buying them often depleted our budget and then when I realized what would actually work (for us this would be Not the Stokke trip trap!) I didn’t have much left to spend on it. Also many people told me that I could just sell it when I’m done but that has proven to be a lot of work and also a lot of my items aren’t really worth trying to sell… bc we used the heck out of them. 

Instead, I’d spend money on something that you need in the first year. For us, that meant buying a treadmill bc running is key for my mental health and having a place to get a run/walk in when baby was napping or when I could find time was essential. We also bought a fancy coffee maker because we find great joy in drinking a nice cup of coffee.

Yup. It’s hard to find garden hoses with brass fittings these days, but worth the hunt. And the price.

And whatever that hose is made of…

The other cheek of that monkey's butt is that aluminum has poor wear characteristics and the threads will gall if you attach and remove it too many times.

Mine just fell out the other day and I had to shove it back in

Surely one could make their own wave by just coiling up a long tube between speakers and more speakers. Like a speaker intestine.

The vintage LL Bean ones are pretty great.

I have had a used Steelcase Leap V2 for three years and it’s been great. I had to replace the arm pads (Amazon) but other than that it is like new.

Another great relic of that era are the JVC FS series of compact stereos.  I have an FS-7000 that's probably 30 years old and just keeps playing.  The speakers on that model are dynamite for their size and there's a jack for a subwoofer, which I haven't felt the need to add.

Agreed. My late parents even had a crane installed in the trunk of their car to help. It got the scooter in alright, but still a huge hassle with breaking it down, removing the battery, strapping it in, etc. My mother would end up in tears. (Pop couldn't help her)
Weight and easy portability is huge.

Because multiple people who did the preorder have posted the same correspondence we all received. Dear lord you’re draining

No.   Private equity blah blah blah. Their quality now sucks and they’ve sold their brand to be slapped on a thousand crap products

One of the worst declines has been true religion jeans - their clothes are not even wearable at this point

I have a bright aqua one on my jogging keys and the patina on it just makes me love it even more.

I worked for a private equity company for a short period of time and all they did was buy out homegrown American small businesses with quality products they had refined with love and care and turn them into garbage- it was horrible

Wow I spent $70 on two robes for my kids - the first one came with thread pulls and some threadbare areas - they sent a replacement in the wrong color. Then they cancelled the one for my other daughter and just never told me. The quality, accuracy, and customer service is not there for a $70 kids robe. Once upon a time that would be a big investment and they would have the robe for a long time. Now the company can’t even get it right. Crazy to me this was my first time ordering from them because I wanted something  good quality :(

Whatever you do, buy good boots. You can get garbage everything else, but drop some coin on good boots that fit well.

Yep. Avoid at all costs. Just a front company for an India based supplyer. What they advertise is nothing loke you receive. Cheap leather over plastic,

Haha yeah, I just bought a five-pack recently. (Already had a few of these).

Flight attendants are required to buy travel pro as part of their uniform - just fyi

Hello /u/Rude_Bridge8918! Your post or comment was removed for using an Amazon Affiliate link link Shortener. (see Rule 8). You can change the URL and re-post it.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/BuyItForLife) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Not true. 100% means 100%.

Which one did you end up buying? I have the same problem, I love my Crocs, but I got really hot feet and I don’t like to wear socks with my slippers during summer in my home.

The Kivik makes you realize just how bad the furniture market is. It's better than many couches twice the price or more.

I have used glass bottles as others in the threads have suggested. However, now I just buy the graza olive oil. It comes in a nice plastic bottle with the squirt top. Then I just refill it with generic olive oil and use the bottle until it wears out, every year or so

Also get the magic mushrooms when you talk to the wolf boss.

Are you trying to use a 0g hose in 1G?

Did anyone else have shedding with their hoodie? Left cotton all over my shirt.

Good point, i misread the original reply. Should have replied directly to op.

And your nonstick cookware!

There's a guy at my gym who I always run into trying to load his scooter into the trunk.  He can do it, but it's a big struggle for him and any time I catch him I end up loading it for him.  So if you guys haven't thought about it, make sure you consider how / where he's gonna be using it and whether he's going to be able to break it down and load it up himself.

Boy do I have news for you about all the faucets and pipes in your house

Thank you, I was not aware of this.

Yep, I’ve loved this list - I ended up making a full spreadsheet of options and costs and many of the items were directly from this list!

ZlumberLock - Secure Sheet Holder. Thank me later!

Have had these and metal plates for years- love em

I like Pendleton Burnside shirts. Can get them second hand for like $20-30 a piece.

$250 Lazyboy executive desk chair from Costco (price may have gone up since I bought 4). Had one at home, one in my office, and one for each of my parent’s desks. I sit for 8+ hours in them every day and haven’t had problems after years.

Are you bathing your pet alligator?

Eh, hard wood isn’t necessary with the quality of engineered plywood these days.  The cushions are the fastest wearing part and worth investing in proper density.  Good springs are second to that, though hand tied isn’t strictly necessary.

Ah yes, I love forever chemicals in my drinking water.

Check out 

They’re big fans of Dreamsofa products if you upgrade the cushion density.  Lots of good info on The site.

Plumbers tape also called thread seal tape would help

I've come across a lot of screenprinted t shirts in random Etsy shops, but you have to be pretty specific when searching.

Or silicone plumbing grease. Basically food safe dielectric grease.

a tough sun shirt like patagonia or coolibar is the move, my cousin still has his from undergrad and it looks brand new after 4 years

Silicone is a crosslinked polymer and thus a form of plastic...

Just started looking for another one and came across this thread. I've been using mine just aviation everyday since they came out.  No problems at all amd a really handy cup set.  Just wish I could get another

A good (probably small) drying rack for tiny dishes and baby things. You will constantly be washing stuff that’s questionable in the dishwasher and/or needed faster.

I have a couple of these. lock n lock

Not always - I had to cut one off last month

You might want check furniture stores that do custom orders since finding all those specs together is pretty rare in regular inventory

Thanks for your response 😊

Really nice stuff. Someone GAVE me a table of theirs made by them. It doesn’t fit in my house anymore so it’s just sitting in my basement because I can’t even get a couple grand for it on FB marketplace where I live.

I have found quite a few Miele vacuums in the trash.     Sometimes there is a problem that is an easy fix.   A few of them have been just fine.

I have never found a Sebo in the trash so cannot compare.

Uh did you try removing all of the packaging and following instructions? I'm sorry I'm not a plumber. I'm just an electrician. Maybe try contacting them?

Eley makes great stuff.  I haven't used their hoses but I can't recommend them enough.

Came searching for this comment.

Everyone keeps saying BIFL is not for babies but the forget the one thing you need early that has to last forever...

That first blanket or teddy, really need to go expensive and we'll made not just soft. I've still got both my sons favorite blankets save if they have kids. They are 19 and 21 now, and used them daily just as blankets instead of comfort items, in their early teens.

That child is going to fall in love with an item and carry it around everywhere. Make sure you pick a few well made ones and try to push those as the regulars.

Dear Reddit, my formal wool trousers are getting old and I need replacements, any recommendations?

\-Yes you should buy these Jorts they will last forever.

there's a thread about them in here and a lot of people have been disappointed in their comfort and quality

I'm doing a little better with a woven ring sling, there's less fabric to contend with.  But baby needs to be a bit bigger for that

Agree on already mentioned cast iron cookware, Dutch oven, and a really good quality wooden cutting board. Highlighting some things not yet mentioned - Boll & Branch sheets, Weck jars for kitchen storage (I have mason jars too but these are better quality and bonus points that the tops are dishwasher safe), a really nice and sturdy laundry drying rack, tapestry/woven blankets (I have 3 that are 30 years old and just purchased another 2 off of eBay), high quality brass (or silver) and wooden frames to decorate your home.

It’s great! I love them. They make great gifts. I have bought several for friends.

Ahhhh there it is. I was looking at the website and it’s VERY maga coded. Imma pass.

SAKRINGT 2 Pack Rechargeable Table Lamp, LED Cordless Table Lamp,5000mAh Battery Operated Portable Table Light,Dimming for Restaurant/Patio/Outdoor(Black)

Those are awesome but not needed here.

Don’t need it for this type of hose as they rely on the rubber washer to ensure a seal. Same with many of the hoses under your sink.

Haha. I'm 100% going to do this.

Or olive oil/soy wax if you're planning on drinking the water from it.

That isn't the hose leaking, the leak is from the junction. Good news, it's just operator error and not a busted product!

Unless your father-in-law steals them out of your hose whenever he needs one, and thinks it's hilarious when you need to use you hose and it passes water all over you.

I went through a pack in one summer.

I gave him about 10 variety packs that Christmas.

Anti-seize is better than nothing but messy. I would use PTFE tape or dielectric grease (whichever I can find first)

so yeah new gasket but anyone got any hose recs?

5 years ago I was visiting my sister who has 2 cats. I literally commented on how clean it smelled in her anpartment and that’s when I learned about the Coway Mighty air purifier. I immediately bought 2 and have no regrets. This will help with air smells, but obv not with cleaning.

After I saw the below reel, I bought a KOE concentrate and use it to refresh. I can’t say I’m as good as this gal, but I do keep some blankets on part of the couch and bed and wash those and dog bedding once a week, vacuum the couch, and spray KOE.

I miss the lady telling me power on, power off, and Bluetooth connected, but luckily she comes around to tell me the battery level 😂.

Jokes aside, they're actually quite nice, and I think the new headband is an improvement, at least for me who sleeps with them on (thanks to the lovely husband, also being the snoring husband). 

They get the job done that I need done, and I'll gladly recommend them for everyday use.

Love my Sebo. I’ve had it for about 15 years now.

Found the gym trainer

Somewhat, but it’s also 2-ply.  I have an Elder Statesman sweater (got it at a consignment shop) which is crazy thick and soft, but almost has a matted quality.

Can you give me the link. And how's it right now? How good?

A think squishy playmat, I like the microfiber velour kind.  Can you the baby down safely on it when they're newborn and they won't go anywhere.  It's still lovely to stand and play on later.  

I'm wish I'd started researching highchairs before the baby came.  They're so important.  I like the Nomi, it's really important for their feet to be supported. 

I did like the Babybjörn bouncer, even though it's pretty much outgrown now.

A pram you like, especially if you walk a lot.

You break three of these a year?

Rice cooker measuring cup I think it is 180 mL. But with rice I am scooping. No handle. My hand just fits into the opening on this jar (which looks to be the same I have)

When I bring the rice measure out, it spills out of the cup. Such a PITA

BIFL and baby items don't go together

Adding a little teflon tape on the threads after you insert the o ring wouldn’t hurt if you don’t plan on unthreading the hose again.

Do you have a carrier or wrap that you like better? I'm personally very happy with the way the Moby fits me and baby but it would be nice to have something a little more open for when it's hot out.

I have a portable fan I take to SDCC every year. It's a game changer. Your take isn't controversial. It's ignorant.

My grandmother’s cast iron skillet. Decades old, used constantly, and somehow still better than anything new I’ve bought.

A quality Dutch oven is worth every penny. Ours gets used constantly and still looks almost new after years.

I've been really happy with the BenQ lineup. Bright enough for backyard movie nights, and the picture quality feels genuinely solid.

I hate mine with a raging person.  It's awkward and sweaty.  Babies sweat a lot.

Definitely. The biggest difference for me was proper leg support.

Just in case no one else has mentioned it, you may be missing the black rubber washer that should sit in the aluminum fitting on the hose….

I'd go with the OXO Pop for daily use. It’s easier to open one-handed and the seal is surprisingly good.

Should be able to buy like a dozen for a couple bucks. I got some on Amazon that came on a little tear out sheet.

I don't know why you were down voted. Yes, the youngest is a newborn.

Return it, buy an Eley.

A touch of anti-seize compound works wonders.

These aren't BIFL it's just EDC gear. The ends of the wire arm that connects to the frame eventually slip out and fall off turning it into a s-hook. They are useful for the price and size depending on what you use it for, but for keys inside a pocket I don't trust these. One piece titanium carabiners are far better.

Also always a good idea to wrap the threads of the hose bib with PTFE tape, or plumbers tape. Wrapping clockwise so that when you tighten the hose on it’s going in the same direction as the way you wrapped the tape.

Those were great! Heavy as heck, but a lifetime guarantee. I took one in to the Sears store, probably 15+ years ago, and they didn't even inspect it just told me to grab a new one off the shelf. They were out of the same size so they asked me if the next size up(longer) was fine. Walked out with a brand new, longer hose - at no cost, they didn't even ask for a receipt, phone number or anything else. Few places have service like that anymore.

I spy that you have a Litter Robot! haha 😄

Same thing happened to mine, switched out the o-ring and it still leaked. The issue is within the plastic collar, not the metal fitting itself. Took it back to Lowes and got a refund. Bummer because I really liked the hose otherwise.

Also, since the hose fitting is aluminum and the faucet and backflow preventer are brass, the aluminum will eventually corrode to the point where it’s impossible to remove. Either remove the hose when you aren’t using it or, at a minimum, unscrew it every month or two. Ask me how I learned this!

Everyone's mentioned the seal already, if it's there, check that there isn't any dirt or debris that might be preventing the rubber from sealing against the faucet, also check that the seal isn't folded or anything like that

Good eye! Exactly right hahaha

Random Litter Robot filter holder in the background. Guessing deep cleaning

As other have already pointed out, maybe just an o-ring? Watch out connecting these to brass fittings though. The aluminum and brass will fuse together after a while, and then good luck ever separating it again.

It’s my understanding the threads on the connection are there to hold the rubber gasket in place. The rubber gasket is what actually prevents the leaky connection

If that faucet is badly gouged or dinged, it might leak regardless of what hose is attached to it.

A little bit of plumbers tape couldn’t hurt

Check for black rubber ring.  If it’s there, you got a common bad hose.  I bought 4 100’ hoses 3 leaked from the start and the 4th one leaked a month later.  Not fixable.

to **me**, you and your kids would be 2 generations. and honestly i don't care i still think it's pretty damn cool!

[ Removed by Reddit ]

Bonded or not Mink Oil...not really from Mink anymore, will work wonders.

Havent been able to purchace a good hose since the black rubbber craftsman ones. Still have some that are 20 years old and kicking

maybe, but my experience is the tape definitely helps. 

the thread tape helps prevent two dissimilar metals from fusing together which is a MAJOR problem with this and many other hoses that no longer use brass...I've lost quite a few hoses and hours trying to separate them at the end of a season. 

that said, in this picture they appear to be using some other kind of fitting in between the hose and bib -- someone suggested maybe its a vacuum breaker...still spend the 30 cents and use thread tape between all your fittings, can't tell anymore the quality of metals.

Needs an o-ring to seal the connection.

yeah I had same problem with my hose last summer - turned out there was supposed to be small black rubber ring inside the fitting but it got lost somewhere during shipping. you can usually find replacement o-rings at hardware store, just bring the fitting with you so they can match the size. I learned to always check for those little rubber pieces first when something leaks right out the box. sometimes they're just sitting loose in packaging and fall out when you open it.

I wish I got a yoto player sooner for my daughter. It's hardy af and you can control it with your phone too. They have books for tweens on there, sleep meditations/stories, and even choose your own adventure stories. So kids shouldn't grow out of it fast at all. 

Magnatiles- Once baby is old enough to sit up and control their hands, magna tiles are brilliant. My 6yo has had hers since she was a baby and she still plays with them. I have my adult friends come over and we play with them lol. They're hardy af and simple enough that you can do all sorts with them. 

One good quality stuffed toy. My daughter has a bunny made of breathable mesh by tommee tippee that I got while pregnant. She still needs him to sleep at night and he even has a theme song that we made up. Ideally she will have him even when she's grown. I've still got my main childhood teddy and so does my best friend. 

You can invest nicely in anything that the kid can use at multiple life stages. Like a ceiling projector/nightlight can get used for years. A bed that can be adjusted repeatedly for different ages. Basic furniture like a nice simple set of shelves that can be used for baby stuff, then toys, then school books, etc. 

Just bare in mind that there aren't many things that someone needs as a baby and as a 30yo. So these are all mostly "buy it for years"

The hose is not leaking. The sealing washer is missing from the connection between the hose and the tap connector.

You can often find Th. Moser at auction for 1/3 retail price. It’s had an owner, but it’s built to be multi-generational.

Won't work, the rubber gasket seals the seam at the pivot in a garden hose, it's leaking there, not the threads.

What about those hair like things tho

Hose connections are sealed by a compressed rubber washer, not threads

Just bought the Advanced Clean from Costco. Hopefully it will last as long as the first 2 which were bought in the early 2000's. First 2 pack lasted pert near 12-13 years. The second 2 pack bought in 2013 had one fail (not the battery) and replaced. The second one from that purchase gave up in 2019 (not the battery) and the 1st replaced one is actually still going. Never had battery issues. Actually bought a 7700 Expert Clean in 2016 in anticipation of need ( on sale with a $40 rebate) but never got around to opening it up until 2 days ago. Wouldn't take a charge. Oh well, my bad. So, very happy with Sonicare over the years and I am looking forward to never needing to buy another electric toothbrush!

I just bought mine recently (about 1 year ago), but Eley is very, very well built. Solid brass internals, and it just \*feels\* built to last.

My money is on a missing or torn o-ring. FWIW, hardware stores sell them individually or in a variety pack. Buy the variety pack and stash it with your tools or whatever. 1 pack lasts forever.

I have some oxo pop (and similar) containers that have lasted 10+ years! Great for anything you want to store on a high shelf. We always kept our flour in a pop container on the highest kitchen cabinet shelf, no way would I want a glass jar up there!

They're bifl for a standard home kitchen. Even in restaurants they can last several years or longer of constant use and washing.

rubber o-ring and don't over-tighten

If that’s a vacuum breaker and not a quick connect adapter those usually go bad after a couple years and leak whenever the valve is open. Take the vacuum breaker off and try.

It’s this, you’re missing the rubber sealer in the end of the hose

You might be right. Will head to the store and try it.

I’m still using Mom’s glass jars that date back to the 1940’s.

Looks like it aint leaking from the hose

Got any examples? I'm not sure I'm seeing this

Herman Miller Embody gaming edition. 

Got mine on Black Friday, with 10% additional back from Rakuten

Putty and tape make me the plumber I ain’t

It looks like you might be missing a rubber o-ring that should compress and seal when the hose is tightened.

Wrap teflon tape along the threads

My fiancé and I both wear Groove Life belts. All day every day. We have 4 different variations just for fashion esthetic purposes lol. Otherwise we just NEED one. I never have to adjust it. It's magnetic buckle never pinches me and makes on and off moments seamless. Being a woman, it's hard to find a belt that keeps my pants from needing adjusted occasionally. I won't ever need another. My fiancé has a labor intensive job and he gets filthy, but his belt still looks great. I can't brag enough. I personally recommend all day.

Herman Miller Aeron owner here. I blame it for sitting more hours at a desk than I should.

I'm someone who favors consistency in comfort, rather than a "more of this comfort/performance boosting feature should be better" type. In other words, I look for thermal regulation over breathability, insulation, quick drying, etc in fabrics. I look for a just-right amount of compliance and moldability rather than deep plushness or firmer support. These products disappear from my senses, rather than draw my attention to praise it for doing what I paid it to do.

The Aeron stealthily became my most favorite belonging due to the sheer number of hours I got use out of it on a regular basis. I missed it when I moved, leaving it due to its heft. Got another and looked at it with special fondness, but at the same time was wary about my habit of sitting too much.

Steelcase Leap v2 with Atlas headrest. I test drove the Aeron, the Fern, and Gesture. The rocking motion on thr Aeron was the best, but I like to sit with one leg tucked under often, which hurt in the Aeron. The Gesture had the best armrest, but the Leap v2 was the clear winner for me. I can sit in it fully ergo style and it has all the adjustments to fit pretty much any body, doing so. However, it also lets me sit in it like a full on heathen and be comfortable too. 😄 The Aero's armrests are attached to the back, so when you recline, your arms point up too.

Anyways, the Leap v2 is as good as chair get imo. All around, perfection.

I got mine refurbed from crandall and couldn't tell it had ever been sat in. Essentially, a brand new unit for half price. PLus, the sell them with a 12 year warranty. I'm on year 6 and had a cylinder get tired. The sent me a new one, no questions asked. That aside, this chair still looks and feels new. No terrible noises of sad flat cushions. I sit in this chair at least 8 hours a day for work. then more for gaming etc. I'm 5'10" and 175lbs.

Care to share with the class?

Exactly how I got a Steelcase amia

Get a sit to stand desk and change posture semi regularly or go for a walk when you star to feel your back get tight and legs falling asleep

The plastic is definitely more practical and works just fine if you turn over your stock regularly and you're not looking for long-term storage.

I had a power board issue on our Miele cannister after 8 years, diagnosed by a local repair centre (UK). Decided to pay the £130 for a repair because we thought it was worth it for a BIFL item...and it's one of the older high wattage units. I think itemamlkke these are not always indestructible, but should there be an issue, it is more like to have a fix rather than have to be scrapped.

Felco Garden tools. 
My mom's 15 year old shears are the same as the ones I bought her last year. 
Also everything in a left-handed version as well.

Yep, bought my mom her second set last year. She still has the 15 year old ones (they are just really beat up and the spring rusted) and they are identical which is great. 
Also all models for left hand as well

We got a Sebo k series. We have a fancy vacuum store (city home vacuum for my chicsog peeps!) and told the owner we have a husky. They would only tell us to get a sebo. They said all parts are repairable but they never break.

Our cleaner has been in the biz for decades and has worked for a lot of wealthy families and she also said sebo is the best possible vacuum.

I use glass containers for almost everything. Flour, sugar, coffee beans, dog food. 

I use the smaller ones and keep the rest in the good Tupperware because I am a weak. I just refill as needed. The dog food goes in a big sealed screw top container. Can't lift if I tried. 

It's aesthetically pleasing as I keep those on the counter. My pantry is very small. Like smaller than a porto potty. 

Hugs

That's normal for new blue jeans, you need to wash them a few times until the dye stops transferring. I think mine even said so on the tag. Doesn't matter whether they're cheap or crazy expensive. If you want to avoid it completely, get a different color like white.

a lot of people will suggest Aerons and they will work for many! But I’m one of the folks they don’t work for. I bought a used one with all the settings and tried to make it work for a year and a half; then sold it and I’m much happier in a Steelcase Leap V2 now.

honestly any restaurant supply will have anything you need. The ikea ones are also pretty good, i like the wide spatula-spoon hybrid for chili and stuf

If you search for men’s 100% cotton jeans, you’ll find brands like Levi’s, Lee, Carhartt, LBean, etc. They won’t be stretchy though. The stretchy kind have spandex or another addition. 

Traditionally, jeans were dyed with indigo (from a plant), but I don’t know if any still use that.

Tried washing stuff once, but it came out drenched in nasty chemicals like dihydrogen monoxide

I have always found the Aeron chairs terribly uncomfortable and annoying to adjust…

Those OXO containers only last a few years before they don't pop anymore.  Def not buy it for life.

100% cotton, wool or whatever material is not hard to find. Just read the tags and/or product descriptions. Those will tell you what it's made of.

Also you should wash and dry your clothes before first wearing them. Otherwise any unset dyes in the fabric can transfer (like what happened to your jeans).

We moved into a new office and most of the desks had a Fern.  I hated mine so much I swapped with a guy who had a chair we moved from our old office (a decade-old Haworth that still looks like new).  The trouble with chairs is that they have to fit your body.  You may not be able to tell until you've actually spent a couple of hours in it.  Most stores or Marketplace sellers don't really want you bringing your laptop and lounging around for that long.

I've tried those, unfortunately their toe box is too narrow.

Uvex/Titmus 70F

Thanks! They do look funny!

This is basically the same conversation as using a butcher or supermarket for your meat. If you're prepared to pay, it's easy to find sustainably made, ethical clothing brands that focus on their environmental impact, and the entire supply chain. But, it won't be a £3 Asda tee shirt

My current shops are Brothers we stand, howies, rapanui, yes friends,  Finisterre, THC hemp, community clothing and silverstick.

It may exist back in 1800s but not today... I believe these guys allowed to advertise 98% as 100%, there is a wide tolerance for it.

Some of the most natural jeans out there are dyed with indigo, a natural dye which will heavily transfer to other clothes and materials. It transfers especially easily to other natural fabrics like cotton, linen, hemp, etc.. I would just wash your jeans and call it good. Indigo dyed denim is about as “natural” or “healthy” as clothes get.

I guess you could say generations of use. But how long is each toddler wearing it? Like 2 years tops before they outgrow it? That's 6 years, pretty normal for a coat that's only worn for part of the year.

Glass is heavy and that top looks narrow.

Try washing things before you wear them.

I’ve lived in 6 states and dozens of cities between them, and every single place required everything to be bagged. Not sure where you live where they allow you to just raw dump things in your can.

What?? 100% cotton clothing definitely exists.

I’ve had them two years and the lids POP right off even when we’re sealed. As I was cooking Thanksgiving dinner last year I grabbed the OXO contained with flour to start the gravy and the lid popped off and spilled flour all over the kitchen. We have to baby those containers to not spill because none of the lids stay on, we’re looking for replacements.

Note that the Travel Pro PE is slightly bigger than many US airlines' carry-on limits.  If you fly often enough, you'll eventually be forced to check it.

No earpads are BIFL. Some last longer than others, but all of them wear down if you use them enough

How do you expect jeans to get blue?

For that kind of daily abuse you want a tightly knit wool or wool cashmere blend with a heavier gauge, that's what resists pilling and holds shape through rough wear. Brochu Walker does this really well with their knitwear. Have you looked into RWS certified wool since that usually signals better fiber quality?

I use half gallon mason jars and bought a vacuum lid seamer for 20 bucks on amazon

Isnt 100% cotton kinda impossible and fake advertisement. I seriously dont know.

For true buy it for life cashmere you want to look for longer fibers, tight ply construction, and a brand that doesn't cut corners on yarn quality. A lot of "luxury" cashmere out there is actually thin gauge that pills within a season. The one I got from Brochu Walker has held up amazingly. Are you looking for something heavyweight for cold winters or more of a versatile year round weight?

Mongolian cashmere is probably your best bet if you want the balance of warmth, softness, and longevity for daily wear. The fibers from Inner Mongolia tend to be longer which is why they resist pilling better than most. I switched to Brochu Walker and noticed a huge difference. Are you shopping for a colder climate or more of a transitional layering piece?

in addition to what everyone has said: a healthy natural food will do wonders to reduce both that "yeasty" doggie smell and shedding.

Older cashmere was typically made with longer, thicker fibers and a tighter knit which is exactly why yours has lasted decades without pilling. A lot of modern brands use shorter fibers to cut costs and that's where the pilling comes from. I've been buying from Brochu Walker for a while now. Do you notice your vintage one feels heavier than your newer cashmere pieces?

Mid-range cashmere is honestly where you get the biggest quality swings so it pays to be picky. A lot of brands at that price point use thinner gauge yarn that pills after a few wears, which is frustrating. I stumbled across Brochu Walker and haven't looked back since. I recommend them! Have you thought about what silhouettes you're looking for, like crewneck vs v-neck?

Herman Miller all the way. 

Locally, used Herman Miller Aerons in good condition can be had for about $400-$500.  Mirra 1s go for about $300, Mirra 2s for a smidge more.  Much as I like the Aerons, and I do, Mirras fit my particular arse slightly better.  Look for office furniture liquidators/refurbishment/recycle stores near you.

"chemicals" aren't hurting you, but it sounds like what you are looking for is cotton. Go buy whatever you like in 100% cotton

They're in the plastic utensils section at my Meijer.

Ball sells reusable aluminum cups at meijer. You get like 20? for about $5 i think?

I actually use the Miele I inherited from my family after my parents divorced. Lately thought about how old it is, must be like 25 years or so. Still working perfect. I just wondered if a full 2000 watts would be still the most efficient way to design it nowadays.

Try manitobah moccasins they are amazing

Don’t do it. You take up 3x the space on the beach for the same amount of shade as an umbrella. I hate these things so much.

microwaving in the dark in a very specific scenario lol

I've been eyeing these up for a while. Lucky to find a pair of boots that lasts a year lately

Thats not BIFL. Bonded leather is so low quality and gets worn and cracked very easily. Hope you didnt pay much

Have owned two Coway Airmega AP-1512HH for at least 6 years, one of which is running 24/7 (low/1 at night, medium/2 during the day for more CFM)

\* I never use auto-mode, just make it a habit to switch from one to another. Honestly could just do 2/medium 24/7 as a noise machine (but it just kills me to use more electricity than necessary so I don't)

\* I don't care about PM display, don't care about air quality warnings.

I just know that every week when I vacuum the outer screen (before the carbon filter and HEPA filter) it is covered in dust and other junk that is floating in the air and I'm happy that I'm breathing clean air.

Only time filters turn off are when the windows are open.

Reformation is probably the first one that comes to mind. They have some really beautiful dresses.

I get the urge, but honestly the most aggressive brush isn't always the best clean, and cranking the power is a fast track to gum recession down the line. Coverage and consistency is more important, hitting every tooth evenly instead of just blasting the fronts. You might want to check out Feno smart toothbrushes. What's the main thing the weaker ones are failing at for you, the power itself or the clean feeling after?

No mold on the handle, just on the very bottom where the charging area meets the body of the brush. I’ve since replaced that toothbrush (post is kinda old).

Ugh, the chisel situation is so real, and it's almost always run-off settling on a flat charging base and drying into a crust. The better designs either let it drain away or are built to dry out so nothing cakes on. I usually point people to Feno toothbrushes for this. Are you also wanting something that looks nicer on the counter, or mainly just easier to keep clean?

With no budget cap, the thing I'd chase is consistency, meaning something that cleans every surface evenly instead of relying on perfect technique. That's honestly where most brushes fall short, even the pricey ones. I'd point you toward Feno electric toothbrushes. Are you mainly after a deeper clean, or also curious about tracking your oral health over time?

Which has an authorized service center in your town?

Both are great. I went with second because I can get service parts locally and not wait for a week+ for a belt to be shipped to me.

My first worry with that kind of portable AC would be the side hinged window, not just the brand. I like the way HVAC people talk about cooling load and airflow, and Intelligent Design is one of those companies that made me pay more attention to the setup instead of only reading star ratings. Under £500, noise and a good seal would probably matter a lot at night.

Is the mold on the handle itself or mostly around the charging area? Asking because that buildup is almost always water pooling where the plastic meets, and bleach only treats the surface. The better fix is a design that dries between uses plus storing it upright with good airflow. Feno electric toothbrushes might be worth trying here.

I can only speak to my own experience. I was not proactively emailed and had to reach out for updates myself. If your experience was different, that’s great, but it doesn’t invalidate mine.

You seem oddly certain about what communications I received despite not having access to my order history or inbox.

My concern has never been that it was a preorder. It’s that customers shouldn’t have to chase information, and “it was a preorder” doesn’t automatically resolve every communication or fulfillment concern someone might have.

Underwire stabbing you is your bra telling you to go wireless. I switched to EBY seamless bralettes and they've lasted way longer than any underwire I've owned because there's no wire to break through the fabric. How many bras are you cycling through?

I believe it is bonded leather unfortunately

I want to learn more and I believe you. Can you share what worked?

Okay that’s what I figured thanks!

Thank you.

Is that for the Pro model?

I’m surprised Riccar isn’t in this conversation.

I have a Sebo canister and my only complaint with it is that it falls over sometimes and is awkward to store, which are both probably user error. The warranty is very long if you buy from a dealer.

Conditioner isn’t gonna fix that. Looks like cheap bonded leather that’s just coming apart. Not really any way to reverse this.

Wait, so do you want the best that people actually use (the headline) or something good enough ("just something with a bright enough picture)?

I just purchased a HH but has no pressure. Any suggestions?

Have 3 Miele. Make sure you get German made models. 

One is 20 years old. The other 2 about 5 years old. All get used often and all work perfectly.

I just got two new heating elements for a goldens malted waffle maker that was not working and now it works great.  the fix cost me 85$.  these machines cost over 500$ each.

CUPS is working fine for me.

I am using a raspberry Pi do expose the printer on the Lan, I can even print from my android phone.

Conditioner will not fix scratches. You can try and re-paint it with leather paint, but it will be hard to match that color, and most likely will change the tint to darker. 
If scratches are not bad, just use conditioner and be done with it.

Get one with HEPA class 13.(H13)

I had a Miele and loved it. Cannot speak to Sebo.

It’s more widely used in the office because they’re slightly cheaper and more readily available

Found one of these on the ground in a hospital parking lot about 10 years ago. I still use it on a daily basis and always wondered who the OEM was.

Thanks OP!

Huh? On a Miele they mean? I don’t even know what “unlocking the handle” would refer to on a canister Miele, much less how you’d break it doing that

I’ll probably go with Sebo next time. Our Miele worked great for about 10-15 years until it started developing issues with the power head. The authorized repair centre said it could be a problem with a board in the vacuum but 1. They didn’t know if that would fix it 2. The part had to be imported from Germany with a long ship date 3. It would be expensive

(Yes we tried a different power head with the same issues)

I still have a climbing backpack from EMS from 1997 that I have traveled around the world with. Still in amazing condition. I also have a soft shoulder suitcase from the same period with all solid metal.

Buy from consignment shops when it is safe to do so. (Ie, not car seats.)

Buying for babies is short term. And even if you are planning to have more kids you can’t be sure the others will like it.

I had one kid who would spend all day happily gurgling in her baby swing, and another who hated it.

I weep thinking back to how much I spent in a trendy crib that was used for two years.

Hello /u/Crazy_Kow! Thank you for your submission! The AutoMod thought that your post might be a request type post and has changed the flair accordingly, but if this was wrong feel free to change it back!

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/BuyItForLife) if you have any questions or concerns.*

I cut my finger good on a Fiskers pruning cutter. I can confirm they are legit.

I bought mine in 2023 brand new for around $1400. I just encountered a minor issue and sent it in for warranty repairs. Within 6 business days I sent it back, they fully replaced both arms and the seat fabric, and it was back in my office.

Truly worth it even for retail price to get the warranty IMO.

Try and stay away from the disposable stuff available at big box stores such as Bissell, Shark and surprisingly even Dyson..

Miele, Sebo, and Riccar are some of the Highest recommended brands

If you have grandchildren, give the jacket to them. That will make 3 generations.

Aeron with the headrest is so good I can nap in it

Agreed! r/budgetprojectors is a great sub for this question.

We have an All Clad copper core set I got from the All Clad factory seconds website. I did get a set - we cook all the time, rarely the same meal twice - and it’s been fantastic. If you do go the All Clad route, definitely recommend homeandcooksales.com

No need to bump the budget in most cases ngl. I got my aeron for $200

I second this motion, Tempered Glass Screen Protector is a must have 💜

My printer *just* fits in the area where they have a PC in the back right corner. I use a laptop, and the raised shelf is perfect to get some clearance for monitors over the screen. There are lots of variations from this company though. Take a look!

Okabashi. Made in USA. You can return your old pairs for 15% off your next purchase.  I've been wearing mine for years with no real discernible wear.

You just can’t beat a OtterBox

My mother, who’s now 80, got diagnosed with RA in her early 30’s. When I go see her (which isn’t that often as we live half a continent away), I’m always astonished at the ingenious ways she’s found to do everyday things.

As an aside, it’s a horrible disease, but watching the medical treatments for RA to the point they’re at today over the decades has been fascinating in itself.

You can make your own relatively easily and cheaply r/crboxes

Check your OS display settings to see if it’s scaling up automatically. Corners are usable for me with browsers set to standard zoom, only see slightly less than would on a 1440p.

I’ve used a lot of different name brand cases and  form Otterbox to Velvet Cavier and I’m loving Velvet Cavier right now . I’m currently using the limited Aquamarine Polka Dot Case and it is summer vinin . Love this case , it makes my 3rd Velvet Cavier .🩷💜

I posted and lost post 😊 Some of their marketing shows the various colors yet the aquamarine does not so yeah I would ask them on IG and they either say check your dms or check such and such page w image. Best!

I don’t like how leaned back the embody feels personally, not supportive enough when sitting up imo. Aeron is much more widely used in office settings for a reason. It’s a preference thing, calling one “much better” than the other is a stretch

Some of my kitchen utensils date back to the late 1800s. I buy vintage.

i went with sebo bc their parts/accessories are cheaper than miele. have been very happy with it so far but i’ve only had it for 7 or 8 months

Definitely ask them this question in their IG page they typically answer in a day or two.

Cant you just use volume buttons for that?

Nah I was at a mink farm for a day, they're crammed in very small cages and are ontop of each other all dirty and fucked up / diseased looking.

I love me some Case -Mate , they always come out with the best . I’m currently using a Case-Mate Jelly Wallet with loopy hole for finger grip and I am obsessed !

If they're 30 years old they're significantly different from the Lazboy things today

Damn good advice , especially if it’s already falling apart 😁

We went Sebo and have not looked back. The sales person said the main thing to watch out for is if you ever have someone that comes to clean your house they will forget how to unlock the handle and break it. They said they get a significant amount of Miele vacumms in to service for that reason. We do have a house cleaner that comes a couple times a month so that made the decision for us.

Go for the silver chalice

Sebo! I’ve owned both and it’s Sebo 100%. Build quality on the Miele is low

Hey girl hey 👋 I read where you love Velvet Cavier Phine Cases and so do I . I have got 3 so far and loved everyone. My neeesz one is the Aquamarine Polka Dot and I love it . I’m looking to buy the new Aura phone case they have however I’m not sure how it would look on my navy blue iPhone 17 pro max ! So , with that being said I was wanting to know if you would be my Reddit friend and if by chance you know where I could see a picture of this before I buy ? I’ve went as far as asking Chat GPT and it didnt come up with a pic . Just checking cause I spend lots of money on phone cases , there my hobby and I live them but I like to see them before hsnd also sometimes . Thanks 😁💜

I have the OXO pops for some stuff, but it can make for messy pouring.  The jar might result in less oats getting everywhere.

Koreans have been about this for decades

My Sebo also has Hepa filters.

SecretLab uplift desk and chair

I have both. They are both great. Can’t go wrong with either but the sebo was a bit cheaper.

Sebo for upright, Meile for cannister.

Years ago I found a place that refurbishes steelcase among other quality chairs on Reddit. I paid about $400 and have had it since, best chair I ever had, I can sit in it all day without any back issues. I even got to pick the fabric color. I’m not sure how I could find the website since it’s been so long. Might be in my archived emails.

Miele has lasted me for 7 or 8 years at this point and my parents for 12-15.

I bought a reconditioned Herman Miller Aeron. It's okay.  I had a Branch before,  and if I sat back to back, I would have just kept the branch

The ones in my open ceiling fans and vanity burn out like crazy.

You listed 3 chairs that are better than the Aeron imo. The Embody is HM flagship and it is much better than the Aeron.

the ones that will last the overall longest are ones with either replaceable parts like foam on your earphones etc, solid adjustability, and it has overall good sound quality.

Going on 22 years will my Miele. Never had to repair and works like new still.

I don't think you can go wrong with either. I have a Miele and love it.

I’ve had a Miele for the last 7 years and it’s been great.

Business office chairs aren't designed to be comfortable they are designed for workers to be productive. 

Had this fight w/ a new manager at an old job. We had to buy a ton of chairs. Leadership decided to test some out and pick the best out of those. Manager went on his own, picked out an office chair, and ordered 100's of them. They show up and w/ in the first week everybody hates them. We bring him into a meeting for reprimand. He tries to explain how the chairs increase productivity by being uncomfortable. Sometimes our teams work 10+ hours a day we don't need productivity we need them to be happy. He ended up laid of w/in the next year (not just the chair thing), but we had to deal w/ "chair" fallout for years afterwards.

Can't speak to the Sebo, we've had our Miele for something like 20 years and it still works fine. Money well spent. I think I've changed out a belt or two in the beater head.

That's impressive longevity for daily wear boots! I'd definitely keep the current pair as backups since they're still going strong, then you'll have two reliable pairs to rotate between.

They are pretty close, the only main difference is that Miele's have a hepa filter, so if you deal with bad alergies or respitory issues that's the way to go, otherwise get whichever is cheaper.

My mom gave me her "broken and very expensive" Miele (the pet hair one). It was broken but my dad fixed it for me while I was in the hospital. It seems to be fine but the fact that it broke at all after only a year or 2 isn't promising.

my 10 yr old Bissell upright vacuum is still sucking hard. All it needs is monthly filter clean.

tbh the oxo ones are so satisfying to use but if you want them to actually last forever go with the glass! plus they look way cuter on the counter imo ✨

What I personally find is that price to performance is the most important aspect as sure some of the most expensive brands are good but for what you're paying it's kinda iffy, you want something priced fairly and delivering something quality.

I knew a guy that sold weed swore by the plastic one, said it kept his stuff the freshest. Good enough for me.

Our Sebo is 25+ years old.  The only repair we have had to make is to replace the power cord a few years ago. A++ would buy again in my next life because this one will last until I die.

We have had two Lazy Boy recliners for 30, yes, 30 years.  Yes, it depends on how you take care of things.

Go for a clear lid as you want to see what is inside from the top as well

This is a very key point. Name alone isn't always enough these days. That's not to say you can't find a couple of gems at discount stores, I certainly have!

They’re fab chairs, but make sure you get a fully loaded one. Forward tilt, lumbar etc all make it so much more comfortable to sit on when set up right.

i dont think many people use outdoor projectors

That's a feature. Beats soaking that cushion in ass cologne until the chair becomes the source of a constant low grade funk in the room.

My buddy and I bought Miele and have had multiple problems for both of us. We both are unlikely to buy them again.

Best chair I’ve ever owned.

It was for 99,99€ with an extra 30% Discount. It was a great Deal and we will use it until it dies one day.

Hello /u/First_Finger5572! Thank you for your submission! The AutoMod thought that your post might be a request type post and has changed the flair accordingly, but if this was wrong feel free to change it back!

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/BuyItForLife) if you have any questions or concerns.*

my hd600s are still going strong after like 8 years of daily use so the build quality is definitely there. the split thing is confusing but if you stick with their wired stuff from professional side you should be good. i actually picked up hd620s recently and they feel just as solid as my older ones

  
the bluetooth stuff is probably where they cut corners since thats more mass market but for actual headphones they seem to keep same standards

You can spend a LOT and get a good one that will work with some daylight, or a cheap one where you'll have to wait until it's completely dark.  I have a cheap one and have used it for 4 years for outdoor movie nights. 

It comes with a built in speaker but IMO half of a movie is good sound, so I use a stereo receiver and decent speakers and then can run HDMI from my receiver to the projector and stream the movie through Chromecast.

I have had success with other jars and plastic containers too. But many failed have got moth larva in them.

i bought a 4 pack of these 5 years ago, still on number 1 - I absolutely love this thing

Used steelcase leap v1 saved my life and was $200 at my local used office furniture depot

How big is your measuring cup? My 1 dl cup works perfectly for scooping thing out of my glass jars.

I believe a lot will depend on the quality of the sensor used. 

I've had both and prefer the dumb one and a separate quality meter (AirGradient) for monitoring. I just set it to a constant level that's not too loud.

Can you share which one? I’d like a bigger L shape desk

It also depends on what kind of floor you have in your kitchen. I have an old plastic floor, because I don't want to replace it with a cheap laminate floor. I want to buy a better floor when I replace it. When I lived in a student corridor we had "stone" floor and glasses and jars broke all the time from being dropped on the floor so you always had to wear shoes in the kitchen.

Ive been rocking the same cheap home depot mini fridge for 10years. Its been in my trailer because RV/Marine fridges are RIDICULOUS in price.

Buy it for living. Dont worry about a mini fridge lasting your whole life. The one i have now goes for $160.

Former camper owner.

Camper fridges are stupid expensive, require ventilation because they can run on propane, and fail pretty quickly. I'm pretty sure even if you were shelling out the bucks, no one in a dorm or rental situation would be allowed to have one. 

When my fridge died, a new camper fridge was several thousand dollars. I wasn't pulling my camper, it was parked on a full-hookup, so when when our camper fridge died we replaced it with a residential model apartment-sized fridge. We got the apartment size because that's what fit in the hole in the wall, but it gave us more interior space and was like $250 instead of $4000.

This why I am looking a know accurate thermometer.  My La Crosse says 89 degrees outside, my window ac unit says 79 outside and the weather channel says says 80 degrees outside

If you truly want the best, no more back pain, legs up and buy it for life. Then you will have part with a bit more than 800 - shop.levus.co

They don't make clothes like they used to.

I will tell you tomorrow

I'm following this, with the sad knowledge that many people, including me, don't have a local office supply liquidator that sells at individual retail.

One thing I've noticed is that cans are no longer using a standardized design/process to secure the lid to the can. It seems that the folded over metal lip on the can is no longer as thick as it once was and a lot of the electric can openers cannot bite onto the can properly anymore.

I had the plastic ones like this and they did fail me. The metal ones like this have not and I use them daily for years to attach keys to my ring.

This is what I have and I’m very happy with it.

I use auto mode but every so often I turn it on low for a few hours.

Like when for midnight munchies and you don't want to wait up everyone? Just wondering what the drawback of turning the lights on?

Would no longer recommend their stuff as BIFL. I had two pairs break on me in under 2 months. They did warranty them, but it was obvious their QC is horrible at this point

Got my Refund of 139.- CHF, around 150€. Opened the case beginning of April. Took them 6 weeks to confim the claim and another 2 till payment. Bought it 3 years ago for 99.-, not to sad about it...

Changing dishwasher detergent helped with this. We use the Sam’s Club brand and have been perfectly happy with it and there is very little fragrance. We also had to bake our silicone popcorn poppers in the oven to remove the taste/ smell.

I always find those posts funny because once something has survived 30–50 years of real use, the “Is it BIFL?” question has basically answered itself. My favorite inherited items are usually the boring ones: solid wood furniture, hand tools, cast iron cookware, and old sewing machines. The common theme is that they’re mechanical, repairable, and don’t rely on software or consumables. If an item has outlived its original owner and is still being used regularly, it’s hard to ask for a stronger BIFL endorsement than that.

My biggest regret was buying a chair based on reviews, brand reputation, and looks without thinking enough about fit. The chair wasn’t terrible—I just slowly realized I was constantly adjusting my posture and getting uncomfortable. The lesson for me was that comfort is much more personal than people think. Features like seat depth, lumbar support, and armrest adjustment ended up mattering far more than the brand name. That’s why I now put more weight on long-term user experiences than on marketing or influencer reviews.

27" monitors with 2 ports each so I can connect both my home pc and work laptop docking station. They automatically turn on with the first signal that comes through and remain on that signal until it stops (i.e that machine goes to sleep or is turned off), It will then automatically switch to the other machine if it's switched on or wakes up.

This plus a dual arm monitor stand that anchors to the back of the desk.  This frees up a lot of space under the monitors

Next a bluetooth keyboard and mouse with fast device switching (I use logitech ones with dedicated buttons for upto 3 devices).This allows for easy switching between machines without the need for expensive KVM switches. 

Portable AC unit was another game changer for hot days but if I could have a proper split unit this would be even better.  One day maybe 🙂

I get that and the New Balance do tend to age normally as they should, but I don’t see the soles separating from the shoe or have them flat out fall apart like I see with other brands such as Nike, Timberland, Converse (also Nike), and Skechers.

All of my New Balance still look good when it’s time to toss them.

You should definitely look at Macy's, Pottery Barn, and William Sonoma websites and see what catches your eye. I would also recommend making cash gift fund for like experiences or your honeymoon. We used MyRegistry for our wedding registry and I would highly recommend. We were able to do everything there so that made things easy for us

I completely agree. I’ve upgraded monitors, keyboards, mice, desks, and all kinds of office gear, but the chair has always had the biggest impact on how I feel after a full workday. The best productivity upgrade isn’t necessarily the thing that makes you work faster—it’s the thing that prevents fatigue and discomfort from building up over 8+ hours. If the HBADA E3 lets you finish the day without back pain, numb legs, or constantly shifting around, that’s worth more than most desk accessories combined.

I got a Visconti wallet a while back,  it has lasted me 6 years already.

If you’re coming from a Secretlab and dealing with numb legs and back pain, I’d stop looking at gaming chairs and start looking at ergonomic office chairs. A refurbished Steelcase Leap V2 would be my first choice under $800, with the Steelcase Amia close behind if seat comfort is your priority. If you prefer mesh, look for a used Herman Miller Aeron. Also check your seat depth and height settings—thigh pressure is a common cause of legs falling asleep, even in expensive chairs.

Really good bed linens and towels, storage containers, luggage, dishes/flatware. ALSO - CHRISTMAS DECORATIONS. My family has the same Christmas decorations for generations and they get borrowed and past around - its a whole thing. I will also add, picture frames. Really well made silver ones for example. The same thing, they go with everything, you can change the photo, pass it down, give it as a gift, etc.

I bought and tried the HM Aeron, Embody, Steelcase Leap, and Haworth Fern. I chose the Aeron. Great chair

If you want something people actually seem happy with long-term, I’d look at the Nebula Mars series first. The Mars 3 gets recommended over and over for backyard movie nights because it’s bright enough for real outdoor use, has built-in streaming, and doesn’t require a complicated setup. If portability matters more, Samsung’s Freestyle and the XGIMI MoGo line are solid options. My biggest advice: ignore most marketing claims and focus on ANSI lumens. Brightness is what makes or breaks an outdoor projector.

Honestly the converse 70s edition have been so comfortable. I wore them every day for almost a year and now I wear them more occasionally but they’re still good 5 years down the line.

Thank you everyone for their help so far!

Right now It looks like I'm between either an IKEA KIVIK ($1000) which seems to have good cushions and reviews, or an Smith Brothers 366 Couch ($1900) assuming I can get NFM to price match from online retailers (or I can order online after sitting on it at NFM).

So many options, and my spreadhseet is filled to the rim. Really appreciate everyones feedback!

Do you scale a certain way to get them usable. If I do 4 windows on my 32 4k it’s almost all window header and tool ribbon with a handful of lines of text per window.

Agree. I've used these in professional settings and at home, good value.

youtube best office chair under $800

If you fight some wolves outside of town sometimes you can loot wood from them

I got the Caraway's birch set as a gift and I love how they look and feel. Been using them daily for over 3 years

Hello /u/Vee200027! Your post or comment was removed for using an Amazon Affiliate link link Shortener. (see Rule 8). You can change the URL and re-post it.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/BuyItForLife) if you have any questions or concerns.*

I’ve got a Steelcase leap that I bought used several years ago and I sit in it 8 hours a day, 5 days a week and have never felt ill effects from it. I can’t say that about any other office chair I’ve sat in regularly. YMMV of course.

comfortable chair. things u use every day spend the money on.

I'd say some KitchenAid, Cuisinart, Le Creuset, Staud, Pottery Barn are some places you could look at for BIFL. We used MyRegistry for our wedding registry and added items from all these brands plus created honeymoon fund. It's super easy and convenient so I would highly recommend!!

Steelcase all the way.

These aren’t BIFL necessarily, but I’m a first time mom to a now 12 week old boy. We live in a one bedroom apartment so have been trying to maximize space and efficiency. These are things I would prioritize getting that we use daily or almost daily:
- Baby bouncer - used for supervised daytime naps and I also put baby in it when I need to shower or get something done and need to set him down and keep an eye on him. We got a cheap used Baby Bjorn bouncer from Facebook Marketplace that was in great condition and it’s probably our most used baby gear in the house
- Grownsy electric nose sucker. This lights up and plays music and we use it every day to get baby’s boogers out, and he weirdly loves it lol
- Electric bottle / pump part sterilizer if you’re pumping at all. I only pump once or twice per day but this is still worth having to make sure parts are sterilized and dry before next use
- Portable foldable changing mat that you can use to change baby on the bed or couch or when out and about 
- Tweezerman baby nail scissors and file. We originally got one of the electric nail files everyone raves about but found it really ineffective. My brother recommended these scissors that they have been using for 3 years with my niece and they’re so much more precise and effective. Easiest to use when baby is asleep!
- Tons of burp cloths and muslin cloths. These can be used for so many different purposes. 
- Structured baby carrier if you walk a lot. It makes popping into stores and what not much quicker and easier than if you have a bulky stroller, and should be good to use through toddlerhood. We have the Ergo Baby classic, and it’s the only one we’ve tried but we love it.

Aside from the obvious essentials like bassinet/crib, car seat, stroller, the above are the essentials I would say we would have a hard time getting by without and that I think we’ll continue using for a long time.

I'd say some KithcenAid, Cuisinart, Le Crueset, Pottery Barn stuff would be counted as long lasting. We used MyRegistry for our wedding registry and I would highly recommend. We also had our honeymoon fund on there plus all the gifts we wanted from all our fav brands. It is literally the best!

As much as the sub glamorizes them, I really don't think the premium for *most* Herman Miller models is worth it. Even refurbished/used HMs aren't worth because you're still paying for brand recognition.

Imo the $400-600 range (refurbished Steelcase Amia, for example) is the best value-comfort-BIFL proposition.

I bought a pack as party bag gifts for my daughter's birthday lol

I have one I used to de-pot all of my eyeshadow and blush palettes! Super useful

Good quality sleep mask (that doesn't touch my eyes and keeps ALL light out) and sleeping ear plugs. 

Sensory deprivation needed at night!

had mine for years and still going strong

had mine for years and still going strong

You aren’t lying. My dad had his for 23 years until the pan broke, but all it needs is a new seat which they still sell.

Standing desk. 
Poly Conference speaker 
Dell Monitor with inbuilt dock and charging 
Monitor backlighting with hue play bars

None of that is BIFL but it's all good stuff to make my days more comfortable.

Vintage is the “age of lead”. I don’t want to pass down to family if any chance they would be exposed. Seems to be so many autoimmune diseases with no cure. Who knows…could be contributing.

Yeah for my projecter I got a Bluetooth receiver  that plugs into the aux port. Projector speakers are crap.

SAME! Ordered in January and never got anything. They kept saying they’re investigating etc. I never got the shoes and I’m out of $200 smh.

i just heard they're sold at menards. still the same knipex?

DONT ORDER FROM THEM I ORDERED SHOES ON JAN 30TH NEVER RECEIVED MY ORDER THEY HAVE BEEN GIVING ME THE RUNAROUND FOR MONTHS REGARDING A REFUND. PAID $200 FOR NOTHING. A SCAM.

Be careful with Herman Miller and don’t just buy any chair that looks nice. Only a few of their chairs are considered “high performance office chairs” that are made for sitting extended periods of time. A few years ago I bought a “Caper” model and it was horrible

Hi there! Thanks for tagging me. Op, reach out to me via chat and visit my subreddit r/budgetprojectors.

Wrong sub. You either want the budget projector sub or the regular projector sub. Either way, you could also ask for help from u/playstationpepe who is very helpful for individual situations.

I will say I absolutely hated the Herman Miller I tested before getting my Steelcase but there are multiple versions of the Herman Miller chairs that are supposedly comfortable for different body types

I sat in them all and thought they were all pretty bad

eah the brightness vs real world thing seems to trip everyone up  
did you ever find a setup that works decently before it’s fully dark?

Crown Northampton or Goral for real quality.

Idk man aside from the nobs on the side it doesn’t look all different from a basic bed frame that you can get for a fraction of the price. I’d probably just look for something a bit more basic with the same build that’s made with solid wood. You can DIY add some emblems or metal plate things on the knobs and corners for a more elegant look

secondhand herman miller aeron, full stop

Office projector. They are brighter and easier to service and find parts. No smart tech that will be unsupported and buggy in 3 years, just plug into your PC or phone and you're done. In the past I have replaced bulbs and a cracked colour wheel when it was dropped, good as new.

I have mid-range 1080p Epson LED projector on a 100" screen and couldn't be happier.

If money is an issue, they sell for next to nothing on Facebook Marketplace. I could probably get one like mine for £150, although I did buy mine new.

Find office liquidator like others have said. I got some older Steelcase Leap chairs and the store told me they were about 10 years old when I bought them. I have had that one set for almost 10 years now. During COVID I wish I was exaggerating but I spent my entire waking day in that chair for like two years straight and still use the chair now and the gas cylinder never squishes down and it looks and feels brand new. It is magical

But chairs are personal so go get your butt in a seat at a liquidator

Bought a used Aeron early covid very happy with it.

I’ve definitely had shitty stainless thermoses. Yeti keeps my drink cold and isn’t a pain in the ass to use, much better than most competitors in my experience.

That’s why they also gave the expected month as well AND sent emails out.

Haha I bought some the last time I saw them mentioned here. They aren’t BIFL but pretty cheap($10)… 

The ones I got don’t give me a headache, they do let me lay comfortably down while also looking at something in front of you. So TV, laptop on your belly, or whatever. You could also be sitting and looking forward for good posture, and still be looking down I suppose, but I haven’t tried that. 

Not the most life changing but I liked it the couple hours I wanted to read in bed.

There is a company in my city that sells nice condition used office equipment (they liquidate offices). I got a great deal on a Steelcase chair that way. I’d recommend checking if there are any used dealers of office chairs near you

That ambient light point seems to be the biggest dealbreaker everywhere I look. Do you think it's still worth it for sports if you set up proper shade, or does it just never really get bright enough?

Keen’s widest would not even let my foot inside as a 6e. EE is just a little wider than the off the shelf wide. Keen is what I get recommended when a store has no wide width and the clerk says “they run wide”

My big thing with sneakers is they’re supposed to fall apart. It’s like crumple zones in cars. If you’re getting years out of sneakers. You’re putting yourself at risk for injury.

-an ultrarunner who goes through three pairs of sneakers a year and runs them into the ground, risking injury.

I had my Zojirushi the previous flagship model NP-NWC10XB overseas version and has been working flawlessly. But my tastebuds are not completely satisfied. Although it makes rice deliciously but it still needs better improvement.

Just last week I splurged 1300 hundred dollars and ordered the ultra top tier premium pyramid model from Japan by Zojirushi that has perfect the line of cookers for 6 years since its debut.

The Flame Dance Cooking" (also known as Butsuri-mai or Takumi-mai) technology. This tech uses multiple induction heating (IH) coils at the bottom to create intense, concentrated, and uneven heating. This rapid localized heating simulates the vigorous boiling of traditional wood-fired kamado stoves, making the rice dance and agitate for maximum sweetness and texture.

The first model has 3 IH coils, then 4 and now they have 6 coils. I bought the latest version with 6 coils. The company is known as the Japanese Apple company that releases new rice cookers in their line with a few tweaks of upgrade.

I got the NW-FC10 which was released in 2024 and the current version is NX-AA10 from last year. This year 2026 is NX-AB10. The only difference between them the one released in 2024 is backlit touch screen and the current version is color touch screen. But costs between 200-500 dollars! So I pick the last gen because it’s less expensive and the upgrade isn’t that much difference.

I will keep this post updated once I receive the cooker and tried it.

Currently sitting on one I recently acquired.

I love it's it's comfy, but I have some digestive issues and the net bottom to this thing does not soak up farts at all. It's like an instant path to stinking up the room.

What country are you in?

If you're in or near a city, there are places that liquidate used office furniture and are overflowing with great office chairs.  Some are worn from everyday cubicle use, others spent their time in a seldom used conference room.  If you can, go to their warehouse and just sit in a bunch. I got a \~$1500 steelcase leap for like $200. That was like 9 years ago. I've beaten up the upholstery a bit but the structure and comfort are still as good as new.

I used BTOD to get a refurbished one with a 10 year warranty (not affiliated at all). Went with a Steelcase Leap v2 for like $600 and been using it for a few years now and its been great.

Nearly a year old, but heres a serious and non emotional answer: 
 
for questions like this search engines often lead back to discussion forums like this anyways. 
 
Asking directly on reddit both cuts out the middle man, and even *creates* the search results in the first place. If no one bothers to ask, there might not be any results on search engines at all

For daily use, we use a rice dispenser. It has a pouring spout with a lid that doubles as a rice measuring cup that is perfect for Asian rice cookers. We like to just have a week
s worth on the counter at a time, but if you prefer there are different styles where the rice comes out from the bottom in a premeasured amount like one of those hotel cereal dispensers which will hold an entire bag at once or you can use the bin style (there are nicer versions with good seals but it takes some looking). English sites like Amazon or online stores tend to sell them as rice containers, but they are meant for any grain really.

I have a ton of Yeti stuff- mainly get it as gifts from my in laws who are boat people. I’m still not sure if it’s good quality or if it’s just hard to mess up stainless steel drinkware.

I do love my new ceramic coated coffee cup from them. Much better than the raw steel.

Adding to this, most libraries have children's programming. I went to a parent-baby group at our library once a week my whole maternity leave. It was a great way to get out of the house while I still wasn't super confident as a mom.

I wear Hokas, the widest part of my foot is a little over 4 inches and is just below my big toe joint, maybe I misunderstood what the mid foot is. I did try a standard Hoka wide a few years ago and they were uncomfortable. The 4e is a new offering.

I love my Fjallraven gear. My dog put two holes in my down expedition jacket the first winter I had it, but I’m not sure if that’s a him problem or a jacket problem.

Keep an eye out for used couches, if they lasted one persons lifetime already there's a good chance they'll make it partway through another.

If you find someone use for a couple hundred bucks that gets you through another 3-4 years, you might be better positioned to buy a BIFL couch then.

Herman Miller Aeron in good shape off CL or FB Marketplace. Around 300-350 for one fully loaded is a fair price.

I didn't say it was fake. It's real. But it's probably a low quality Chinese watch that European brands buy and slap their logo on, then sell it on for x20.

IMO outdoor movie night gets a pass on being a tad “rustic”. We got a cheapo Amazon projector for like $60 for our off grid property and the audio is terrible but the video is certified good enough. Electronics, especially one that will be used outside and moved often aren’t where I consider BIFL. Imagine if you still had the BIFL TV you bought 30 years ago. Just because it still works doesn’t mean you would have been better served buying cheap and replacing when needed. I say get the cheap one on Amazon and get a nice speaker with an AUX input so your audio is decent and you’re good to go

Yeah I don't know what it is, but I often finding myself perusing the Nite Ize stuff at Home Depot and dreaming up ways that I could use another 10-20 carabiners of different sizes, or their various rope accessories. I essentially never use rope in my day to day life.

I get those massive Costco oats and have this issue too, I ended up doing plastic with a cereal box style lid. Also two that are half as big are way easier to store and use daily than one giant one.

Quality sewing needles make all the difference! I also find that you can get some quality out of Japan.

The things you are looking for are products with actual numbers for specs. Cheap garbage will tell you its cinema quality,  a good one will list eithers nits or lumens (**Lumens = Nits x Screen Area x Pi (3.1416  can just use 3 instead of pi to get plenty close)** for how bright it actually is and then at what focal distances its best at.

Grab a Herman Miller Aeron ,it will change your life!

been using mine for about two years now and it's held up pretty well through all weather conditions when i store it properly

  
the brightness thing is real though - learned hard way that lumens on paper don't always translate to what you actually see when there's any ambient light. ended up having to wait until it gets pretty dark or set up some kind of shade situation

  
for backyard movies it works great but sports during day time is still tough unless you can block out light somehow. picture quality is solid for the price range i was looking in

  
one tip - get a decent screen too, tried projecting on white sheet first time and it made even good projector look terrible

Herman Miller Embody

I like the ability to have different contexts/content on different physical screens.  I put my IDE on the left screen and reference materials on the right screen.  I have also use virtual desktops and swap them independently.  If I had an ultrawide display, I'd want to virtually split them.  

If I had a single  32", I'd still want a secondary 27", maybe tilted vertically for text.  

But YMMV.

The wool items from the Maritimes are incredible. They are designed for intense cold and genuinely hold their shape, even after years of heavy use. You can feel the quality difference compared to anything mass-produced.

used is way to go especially for office furniture, got mine from liquidation sale and its still perfect after 3 years

And bump that budget up. Steelcase Gesture is the first good chair I've used. Splurge on the goofy looking headrest too, it's worth it.

Used Herman Miller or steelcase

OK well since they didn't put a price point

The price that's too high is in the photo? That gives a pretty decent idea, at least.

Not sure why you even bothered to comment since you did not add anything to the conversation, nor was it helpful to anyone.

I mean. In the BIFL subreddit, I think it's pretty helpful to point out when something is unlikely to be BIFL. And they're right that most stuff off of Wayfair won't be.

Big LED-Panel right above my head. It's silly, in retrospect, how long I've languished in relative twilight before making this simple adjustment. Focus lights are nice and useful, but to be able to turn the sun on when it isn't out is a game changer, not least for the morale.

This is something you go antiquing for! Other option is to get a carpenter/woodworker to make one close to this. Headboards are easier to find than entire bed sets. You can get premade, high quality solid wood legs online. 

The rest a skilled woodworker can easily do. It’ll cost a few thousand probably but less than that price tag and you can customize it! 

Personally I’d thrift a nice headboard and get a base made to match it.

I love my Travelpro Platinum Elite

Not really. 

It’s also not even a good picture. It looks like a screen grab from someone desperately trying to sell it for $29.99 on their local Offer Up.

i have Travelpro, love it

Lighting was the unexpected one for me. I thought it was purely aesthetic until I stopped getting headaches every afternoon.

I have Bedsure Heated Blanketa , love it

Yeah, agree, I found you really can’t run them through the dishwasher. 
To get the residue off you can boil or bake but I’ve had mixed results with both methods depending on the silicone item. Anything better you’ve found? Apparently some people can’t smell it or taste it and that has blown my mind.

I got a Herman Miller Embody.

Id see what redwing has. My feet are 14eeee and redwing 2412 work boots fit like sex. I also rock cheap DC skater shoes and throw $400 orthotics in them.

I know this thread is old, but I found it while searching for gentle alarms myself. Did any of the recommendations end up working out for you long-term?

I eventually gave up on finding the perfect hardware clock. I wanted the same things you listed: gradual sounds, brown noise, maybe a light, and most importantly not being startled awake. I ended up using Wonderwake on my iphone because the wake-up experience was exactly what I was looking for

Feels like there are tons of alarm clocks on the market, but very few that are actually designed around waking up gently tbh

I think a single 32” 4K is superior to dual 27” 1440p. It’s like having four 1080p monitors without turning your head.

Mine has been sitting in my trunk for over a year through some crazy freezing weather, and I was honestly convinced the battery would be dead when I finally needed it last week, but it still jumped my car perfectly on the first try.

Awesome, thank you for sharing your experience!

Taking a look at the Jattebo! Hopefully it’s the same one!

I completely agree! I bet our styles and preferences will change over time, and over investing now will definitely suck later on.

That said, I just want a mid-quality couch that lasts for a reasonable amount of time. I suspect the couch will be a central lounging area, I work from home, we watch lots of movies etc. just want to put in enough money the first time so it’s a buy once cry once situation until we outgrow it.

I’ll take a look at the Kivik! Thank you for all your tips!

Yes. It is actually.

The washable pads thing is so underrated, made such a difference once i switched

Sounds good, thank you for sharing! Dream soda remains high on my list!

Thank you for the reply and tips!

I had the lovesac and we didn’t find it that comfortable for the price. The Thomasville ones get pretty good reviews.

Which Costco Sofa? The Lovesac?

Unsure total length, but like 5+ years. Expected moves would be local and furniture would come with us.

We’re a young couple with no pets or kids at the moment, and I expect we’ll spend lots of time on the couch and have friends over as well. Just want to spend the right amount to get something quality- the old good work boots versus bad work boots mentality.

For me, it’s my entire setup that evolved over the last 8 years of working from home, so each one of these things was added over time to enhance the overall experience:

- 3 monitors. HUGE productivity difference
- monitor arms free up desk space and have more adjustability 
- HP G5 docking station helps with cord control and only 1 connection to the laptop
- over the monitor light
- standup desk, though my next one will be deeper than 24” 
- ergonomic mosquito net style chair. I added roller skate wheels, great for solid floods, still suck on carpet
- bluetooth headset
- dedicated webcam with ring light
- decent speakers for music 
- wireless keyboard/mouse. Latest set is rechargeable and has play/skip/volume buttons for music control

The last thing I added was the over the monitor light after we moved into a new house with poor lighting. It’s been very helpful in winter months with limited daylight, but I use it every day.

Nothing to add to the conversation here: but your username is fucking hilarious

I agree.  I have 4K monitors, but I could get by with 1440p.  I use scaling so that the text is smoothed, but the text size/spacing is equivalent to 1440p on the 27" displays.  My ones in my work office are 1440p, and they're fine, but with good vision the higher res is nice.

I love full recline!

Uplift desks have an optional 4 or 8 outlet power supply that you can mount to the desk. Everything plugs into that and only that one cord has to be long enough for the desk to be in “stand” mode. On mine, even the desk itself is plugged into it. And the desk comes with cord management for everything else.

That's the kind of thing that calls for shopping at antique stores, with the occasional thrift store find.  You might need to be open to double/full mattress sizes if looking at old stuff.

Don’t pay full price. I paid a lot for my Embody chair in 2011, before I knew about office liquidators, etc. A few years ago I went that route and got a new HÄG Capisco for $499.

Thank you for the tip- I’ll definitely avoid them. Too many horror stories!

Thank you for your input! The Jattebo sectional in green has been on my list- 1.8K seemed crazy for an IKEA piece but I’ve seen lots of good feedback on the brand as a whole. I’ll take a second look.

Not hard to remove but once it cures it won't stick to anything else, so it's "semipermanent."

Normally I put it where nobody can see it but it isn't that ugly.

Another use - make a small 3mm ball and stick it on the most-used microwave button, so you can find it in the dark. Also use one, two, or three dots to code the contents of drawers you can't see.

I really recommend the Demeyere Industry 5 line. Incredible pans, and you will never wear them out guaranteed.

My grandma got me a bigger one of those several years ago and it’s still my main key ring! Such a simple mechanism. It’s been a life saver in terms of peace of mind so I know my keys aren’t going anywhere when I’m outside.

I’m in the DFW area of Texas- no R&Fs near me. I’ll definitely take a look into financing options!

Thank you, I’ll take a look at their selections!

I just bought an uplift desk. It’s a very nice upgrade to the $40 particle board desk from Amazon it replaced.

And balancing that with bifl...

I found a Smith brothers couch at my local NFM, and hopefully with price matching I might be able to get it for 1.9K- seems promising and thank you for the tips!

I have a walking pad too. It folds up and easily stowable for apartment living but we just use it when watching tv lol

There is a local one- Ill visit it and take a look

Been using tri-blend for couple years now and can confirm they hold up really well in wash. The polyester blend helps with wrinkles too which is perfect when you're sitting in car all day like me - cotton would be disaster for that

Honestly, removing almost everything.  I now have nothing but an L desk, a chair and 3 bookshelves.

I approach BIFL from the standpoint of if I need something, make sure it's high quality.   Basically, minimalism with maximum impact.

I have their high end model that I bought 10+ years ago that I bought brand new for 50% off from Amazon. If makes 1-2 loaves daily and other than replacing the worn out paddles and pans, has been a workhouse. I consider it BIFL.

Does the sugru stay stuck on your desk permanently or you can easily move and reattach like blu tak?

Type in dupe.com/ before that products link

For trainings I’ve been using my standing desk and an under desk treadmill. I’ve gotten in 15k steps in one days training alone.

This is a pretty basic bed and likely available in a lot of different places and at a variety of price points. 

If you’re looking for something truly BIFL though, then, depending on where you are, I’d look into an Amish furniture maker near you. IMO it will most definitely be higher quality for the price than what you’re looking at here

Ergonomic split keyboard. When I first saw them I thought it was crazy, but I tried one 20+ years ago and haven’t gone back. It saves me from carpal tunnel. For my job I have to work on the road from time to time and use my laptop for hours on end. By the end of the trip my hands and wrists are miserable. 

A large monitor that has the ability to function as multiple screens at once is a game changer. 

AirPod Pros are also nice because I can take Teams calls on my laptop or phone and they are easy to throw in the bag when I’m on the road.

A 36 year old toddler!?

At first I I thought maybe this was even more expensive than the one that was originally posted. Then I looked up the one that was posted, almost $7,200, wow!

OK well since they didn't put a price point, it is kind of hard to help. Also, it is super easy to do an image search to find similar items. Not sure why you even bothered to comment since you did not add anything to the conversation, nor was it helpful to anyone.

Interesting.

It sounds like you got a deal back when you bought it. But their refund policy doesn't seem have any consistency. They haven't said what it is.

was wondering the same thing, especially with white leather and long-term wear.

This one might actually be synthetic leather, so I’m not expecting true BIFL in the same way as something like gold jewelry or a very serviceable leather bag. But if it holds up well with careful use, that would already be a win for me.

Hey sorry I know this post is a week old but I have a question about this floor tile setup.

Did you have to do anything to attach them to the carpet and keep the tiles from sliding around, or did you just buy some tiles, link them together, and plop them under the chair? 

I'm thinking of doing something similar for my home office with carpet and I have not had good experiences with regular desk chair mats in the past.

Nite Ize s-biners are goated in general but these are even goated amongst the s-biners. I use them on my keys, wife's keys, gave some to my dad and my father-in-law for their keychains, and so on. I use the other sizes for other things but these have a special place in my heart.

Roll up a piece in the shape of a croissant roll. Stick it on the back of the desk, just over the lip where cords drop over the edge. Push a USB cord down into the center and fold the ends over so they DON'T quite meet. When it cures, you can unplug your device and the cord won't disappear behind the desk.

What chair did you get?

Ball jars with the plastic resealable lids. A few smaller containers are bigger than one big one.

Idk how I got here but, I had a friend that wanted convenient water so he got one of those office water cooler things with the disposable cups on the side of it and set it up in the kitchen. 

Lifting them could get hard though

Something like Louis Vuitton then? I only have MK and Kate Spade. Here in my country, our BIFL concern is buying land and properties we can pass down to the next generation 😅

Wouldn’t trust anything from wayfair to be bifl

I have a big ole jar like that for my flour, the only drawback is that the opening doesn't allow me to jam my whole 1cup measuring cup in. It's not that big of a deal but it is something to think about if you're constantly using it

I feel as though this is a very similar vibe:

Absolute GOAT - there's a reason you see Henry anywhere professionals are cleaning things, from hotels to steelworks.

Built solid, great spares availability, they will outlive all of us.

You should save the unused ones for dress up occasions.

I kept buying "executive style" chairs, particularly fake leather ones. They started out comfortable, lasted a couple of years, but then ultimately the seat pad would wear out so I'd be sitting on fake leather-covered wood, and the fake leather would start flaking off. I got so frustrated that every time I would stand up, flakes of fake leather would be tracked everywhere. I was so tired of it that I hyperfocused on desk chair research one day and ordered a Herman Miller Aeron with all of the features I was interested in, as well as the color (dark gray chair + dark gray satin legs/base/I forget what it's called). I had to call for it as a custom order because the particular color is available in the catalog but not online. It fit what I was looking for and 6 years later exactly now, still looks brand new and feels great.

Context: I currently WFH but was also taking online classes through our local community college for the past 1.5 years. Before WFH, I would spend multiple hours gaming at my desk in my desk chairs. It's still important to get up and move around, but starting with an ergonomic, well-made chair is important too.

Keep in mind that everyone's bodies are different, different ergonomic desk chairs will fit different people. Even in this thread, there's comments about absolutely loving the Aeron (like mine) while others say HM chairs are extremely uncomfortable.

For seniors id even consider a dispenser

Makes little difference functionally in the average temperature controlled house

Though id recommended a container where you could fit a scoop

Out of those two, the square one since it has an edge that would be better for pouring

This is probably a little different advice than buy it for life type things.  But look for things that save you time and money.  Sure they can be buy it for life, but does not always need to be. If you have a lawn, look at a robot lawnmower. Maybe a robot vacuum for indoors. An all in one washer and dryer. If you don’t have a dishwasher, then a dishwasher.  An espresso machine if you both like coffee.  It really depends on you and your living situation.  But sit down together and figure out roles and things you enjoy. Look at ways things that inhibit from doing those things and try to find solutions.

I have a 10ft. power strip mounted under the desk and everything on the desk is plugged into that, so there's only 1 cable that runs off my desk. I use 2 monitors that are on a monitor mount with a single arm, so they move together when I want to adjust them.  

My partner that has a desktop on the floor just has cables that have enough slack to reach while standing. They don't adjust their monitors every, so they just sit on top of the desk with the original stands. Their desk is against a wall, so that seems to work fine for them.

Chair for me too. When I started working from home during the pandemic I thought I really need to invest in a good chair, so I bought a used Herman Miller Aeron.

There are ton for sale used, and they are quite easy to repair. I've replaced the gas cylinder, added rollerblade wheels, and lumbar support. If one day it is unfixable, I will buy another used one.

Second-best thing was a giant 4k monitor (32"). So much more room, so much time saved.

27" monitors with at least a 1440p resolution are my bare minimum standard now. My current employer started me with dual 24" 1080p displays and it was super constrained compared to my 27" 1440p monitor I use at home, especially since I'm weird and only use one monitor.

They got me a 1440p ultrawide but I use it with a 2560x1440 resolution as I find the extra space on the sides puts text a bit too far to one side or the other (especially in full screen mode), and trying to arrange windows meant one or more felt like they were in the wrong spot or had other compromises.

They wanted to give me a 43" 4K monitor but that felt way too big for how close I'd sit. 😂

Honestly, I got black fabric and it’s no better. My preschooler rubs up against it and has gotten sunscreen on it.

I had a small standing adjustable desk and decided it was not working for me. I am going back to school in my 40’s, and I just didn’t have enough room to write. 
I looked around at what I could get and it was either cheap particle board or very expensive. 
I went to Home Depot and bought a 6’x3’ butcher block countertop, some legs from Amazon and made one myself. 
I couldn’t be happier. I have long arms and now I have room to write, and everything is not cluttered on the edges of my desk. Plus it looks nice.

Beware of the ones with LCD touch screens - 

I am also an occasional user, bought the low cost Canon for \~ $300.  A few months later the screen cracked.  A replacement screen is MORE than the cost of the printer.  And it don't work without a screen.  The screens used to be about $20.

Wait, you mean it's fake? How can you tell from just the photo?

We almost bought the Neso too, but I ended up going down a rabbit hole of reviews. If you're looking on Amazon, I'd also check out SUN NINJA and Oileus. Both seem to have a lot of real-world family use reviews and they're available in larger sizes with sandbag anchors. From what I found, the biggest factor isn't the brand so much as making sure the sandbags are packed completely full. Most of the horror-story reviews seem to come from people underfilling them.
If you want, I can send over the listings I was comparing when I was shopping around.

90% of this sub is just ‘paint come off it’

thursday boots, crown northhampton

I've actually looked into these quite a bit and if you're wanting a true family-size stretch canopy, I'd seriously consider the Neso Gigante. It's one of the few that actually gives you the space it claims, uses sandbag anchors, and is big enough that a family can hang out underneath without feeling cramped.

A buddy of mine has one and it's held up surprisingly well at the beach, even on windy days. The biggest thing is making sure you really load the sandbags up. Once they're packed properly, it's pretty solid.

I also looked at Shibumi, but that one works best when you've got consistent wind. If I were buying for a big family and wanted something more versatile, I'd lean Neso.

If you want, I can send you the  listing I was looking at.

I have the same one and I approve!

I use quart and half gallon mason jars. One of the cheapest methods for storage. You can also buy a vacuum attachment to vacuum seal goods. They fit nicely and provide a uniform environment.

lol why everyone thinks everything is AI now? maybe op just likes their new tv setup and wanted to share. not everything has to be some conspiracy theory dude.

  
i get the same feeling when i upgraded my living room last year - makes such difference when you don't have to squint at tiny screen or deal with terrible audio anymore.

Sounds simple enough, thanks for the explanation!

You sent me down a rabbit hole, but I’m still not quite sure how they would actually work in practice. It looks like you can lie down in bed on your back and read or see a monitor or watch TV in front of you?

My first and favorite star wars toy.  Got it when I was 6.  Played attack on Hoth in the snow and thought I lost it...turned out I had put it in my snowcoat pocket and found it a year later.  Missing the dish and the guns, and a lot of paint, but its still going strong 30 years later.

In the summer I usually wear the 8000Kicks Sunslides. I’ve had mine for almost two years now, super easy to slip on, lightweight, breathable and comfortable enough to wear daily.

OXO pop is poorly designed. It is so easy to accidentally grab the “handle” causing container to topple and spill. Lid is also not very secure. Only the small sizes are acceptable. Jar with narrow opening is also a poor design but at least lid is secure.

Long cord power strip in tray hanging on back of desk. Only power strip + desk get plugged to wall. I also have one side of the corner cable passthroughs being the plug version available from uplift. 

I just hit the preset height button and desk rises or lowers without having to adjust any cables. 

I'm not running anything major. Laptop stand + riser with connected external monitor + USB keyboard & mouse. 

Phone charger plugged into the cable passthrough plug if i need it

A dog door. If I sleep in he gets fussy and begrudgingly uses it. 

Oh, it's so hard, I'm only 18 pounds. Brat. 

He gets lots of walks, but sometimes he need an emergency pee. 

Currently snoring on the bed on the blanket he decided was his. Lilo and stitch fuzzy throw. 

Hugs

Still using mine that I purchased from Sears 45 years ago. This might be the most truly BIFL thing I’ve seen on this sub.

I think it was just off Amazon that had good reviews. I got the felt mat, then Logitech MX Master and Keyboard bundle, two curved 27” monitors, and a cable management tray to hide all the cords from sight since I have a glass desktop. That all cost me about $550 and it transformed my workspace big time. Biggest deal find was getting the two monitors off facebook marketplace. New ones would drive that cost up quite a bit.

We got the Kettle Pro Model with 1,5L where you can control the temperature.

We are always liting the Kettle with one Hand below it (always did it because it is easier to handle).

I think we only got 69,99€ cause they knew what we paid. Bought it from the official online store and registered it for the extended warranty.

Alas, I do not. Evidently im not getting as much hard use value out of mine as you are lol, ive not had a part break. I know there are ways to replace it with third party parts because I briefly researched leatherman modding. One can put new pieces in, I believe its just a bit of a pain in the ass

join local groups and get as much as you can second hand. 

we made it 8 weeks without buying anything besides pacifiers / diapers / wipes.  Mercari is a great marketplace for used baby stuff. and just fbook / buy nothing groups. things like bottle warmers, steam sterilizers, wipe warmers, etc are plentiful on the used market. 

once you find items you like, get 3-4 pairs. bc baby will go through at least 2 outfits a day. 

i would also recommend cloth diapers (r/clothdiaps), though you'll probably want to wait till baby is around 12lbs, so they fit the type that grows with them through about 20lb, iirc. they make smaller, newborn cloth diapers, but they will outgrown those quickly. (if you are worried about gross laundry, r/laundry is your friend)

also, start a Meal Train ASAP! you'll thank me later. [](

I have one and regret it. What I didn't consider when I bought this is just how windy the beaches I live by can get which causes collapse. If you don't have a windy beach the other issue I ran into is that life guards aren't a fan of them being close to the water as it can block their visibility and will ask you to move further back. The last annoying aspect is the amount of footage that is needed to set this up, on busy beaches it can be a problem.

If the beachs you go to aren't packed, not windy, and the lifeguards have easy visibility then I'd say this should last you 5 summers of heavy use.

What do you do when the individual pieces on your leatherman break?  I've had a few go on my surge over the years.  They don't have replacements on their website.  Hoping you know of a 3rd party where I can get replacement parts.

they aren’t airtight though. try putting liquid in and then shaking the jar.

Not budgeting enough.  Good chairs are expensive and worth it for your health.  Especially if you work from home

My brother-in-law has the Neso for when we have gone to the beach as a family. What is great is how you can adjust it based on the conditions at that time and the bags you fill with sand have enough heft to prevent it from being carried away like an umbrella.

Something did happen to this I think he might have sprayed suntan lotion or bug spray near it that caused some issues with the plastic where it started to breakdown so just use any sprays away from it.

Facebook Marketplace + patience

How did you manage cables and power cords and all that for monitors and laptop / docking station, without having to constantly readjust between standing and sitting positions? I’m thinking about shifting an uplift or similar but am kinda stuck on that aspect and don’t want it to become something I don’t use because of the necessary tinkering every time.

Thank you for your reply! Mine's got no screws either. I'll try glueing it.

Just got one of these for 15 dollars. It’s a little bit newer, 2000.

Logitech vertical mouse, Logitech ergonomic split keyboard, UpLift stand up desk so it is at the proper height at the touch of a button to sit or stand, on top of desk power plugs, adjustable monitor arms, Herman Miller chair.

For me, three things.

Standing desk  
A really nice chair (most important)  
Monitor arms

I just got random stuff off Amazon,

Rising desk “vertebrae”
Open slot raceway
No-drill racks
Then some basic cable clips and zip ties from harbor freight

And far from bifl, I had to throw all mine away after a few years because the mechanism broke.

Just any felt mat from Etsy or wherever, or do you recommend a particular one?

Getting the ergonomics right between the chair, desk, keyboard, mouse and monitor height was key, and I still adjust it occasionally. 

Also love my low profile full size mechanical keyboard (keychron k5 I think?) huge difference in typing compared to my previous one (mx keys master). And a footrest! One of those tippy ones.

A lot of them have branched out into questionable 2nd tier lines / accessories, but main / classic collection yeti, all clad, and vitamix

I have never bought an office chair. 

I found an aeron in the trash in nice condition.   After 10 years the gas spring went bad, so I replaced it.  

Going on 20 years now,  I would never buy one but would always recommend picking from the trash.

@/u/europeanuppercut 

I had looked into this 4 years ago, and the BIFL version back then (which still seems to hold true) was called "Rubbermaid Container, BPA-Free Plastic, Brilliance Pantry Airtight Food Storage"

I can confirm that they are watertight, that the rubber seal doesn't go funky, the plastic doesn't stain, and I'm very satisfied with my choice 4+ years later.

Above my desk on the wall, I installed floating shelves and put LED strip lights underneath the shelves for a really nice front-lighting for video calls. If you don’t have a window in front of your desk this will make your camera setup look way more professional

I have a kelty Noah’s tarp 12’ with some Amazon tarp poles.. it works well.. they make a 16’ Noah’s tarp, but it’s unwieldy, especially setting up in wind

Agree with this. We also got good sharp knives and a good quality everyday cutlery set. And some Denby crockery, which although I don’t think everyday plates can ever really be BIFL are pretty hardy. 

Good bakeware is also game changing if you are a baker

A proper office chair and a monitor arm. Chair helped my back, and the arm freed up more room on my desk as well as allowed me to dial in the monitor location.

What'd you use for cable management?

secondhand from graduating students is smart move but check if compressor still works properly before taking anything

I have chronic lower back pain and the biggest improvement wasn't actually the desk or monitor it was upgrading to a Steelcase Leap. Expensive upfront, but after a few years of daily use it ended up being one of the best purchases I've made.

I have a two pole Neso and love it. My parents have a four pole Sun Ninja and it is nice and I can stand up right without hitting my 6’ head. Neither are going to be a true 10’x10’ of shaded area but when we put the two we have together, we can comfortably keep 6-7 people in the shade in beach chairs.

I still use its dryer equivalent!

Yeah, that's probably where my thinking was off. I was lumping air quality and odor control together. Makes sense that vacuuming would have a bigger impact if the smell is mostly sticking to the hair and stuff on the floor.

I appreciate that you’ve identified it was a preorder. You’ve mentioned it four times now.

Unfortunately, “preorder” isn’t a universal exemption from communication, transparency, or fulfillment concerns.

Cable management!  I did a whole remodel for my office last year but the part that really makes the difference for me is not seeing any loose wires.  Everything is contained and neatly wrapped.  

That and a desktop whiteboard for quick notes.

Both were on the lower end of the cost spectrum for my remodel but have made the biggest impact.

I have a disc extrusion and a protrusion that is compressing a nerve. I bought an ergonomic chair and also a cushion, but the situation hasn’t really improved. Maybe my posture is slightly better, but that is about it.

I kid you not: 

I have two young kids and am generally exhausted.. it is nice to be able to work while my body rests (although it is easy to fall asleep)

Yes. Read from the newborn time (seriously), every day, many books per day.

... because I will never, ever choose to be a reddit mod.

Then maybe don't try to mod a sub that you'll never, ever be a mod for.

Idk about that brand, but that style I see at the beach all the time, they seem ok. The versatility I think and weight are its strengths. I am partial to the big shiboomy with the wind assist kit.

Hardly anything except the one thing we are still using for my five year old is the cushy rocking chair in her bedroom. It’s been there since birth and we’ve used it heavily. 

Kyte, Little Sleepies and other bamboo pajamas too. We got SO much use out of them. The sizing is flexible so we have gotten 2 years or more out of some sizes of pajama. Size up and then they still fit and then you can wear them past that age group.

Same thing with Hanna Anderson underwear. My tall skinny 5 1/2 year old is still using the “classic” underwear we bought for her in XS when she was 2 1/2.

I’ve got a Sun Ninja 7x7.5.  Like it a lot but we use it for two people.  Not sure if a 10x10 is going to be big enough for your family size, so you may have to check out whatever you get first.

Regarding your thoughts about the 1L limit. Is this because you are comparing these to the 1L Zwilling kettles that were not recalled?

I found that puzzling too. They have a very similar look. But I didn't know if they were fastened differently. 

We are still using our 1.5L. But because of the double-walled construction, we simple hold it from the bottom when there is water in it to keep the handle from bearing any weight. We also prohibit guest from using it because they don't know this rule.

Yum asia rice cooker

My first time purchasing

20 year warranty is solid investment - those plastic lumber chairs hold up way better than regular wood in weather

I’ve had these for many years, very legit

Logitech Master mouse.

I have the extra large full recline so the dog and I both fit.  Steel frame.  Electric controls.  Slim line so it can be positioned close to a wall.  It is very comfortable and plenty of room to get comfy and stretch.  You can full recline and adjust the head rest seperately so that is nice.  I am 5' 9" and no concerns at all.  Plenty of length.  It is a Laz-y Boy and I bought a 10 year extra full warranty.  Handles 80 pound dog using it for a launching/landing zone too.  The leg rest area is generous.

I had the dual for my work key. The minis were for car key fobs that were switched daily.

hey I really loved bedsheets by belong India. crazy soft.

Glass for stuff that sits on the counter, OXO Pop for stuff you open every day. The Pop lids are just easier one handed when your other hand is full. For anything you want to last basically forever, glass wins because the lid and gasket are the weak point on plastic. We use both and that split has worked well.

I'm looking at these because every pair of sandals I wear to the beach rub the tops of my feet raw from friction when they get wet. Do you have any experience with how they handle being wet against your feet?

Le cruset! Specifically the deep skillet from Williams Sonoma is my everyday pan

You know when Canada is legal. Everywhere. Always. The drinking and driving has been cut down. The addictions have been cut down. Weed is the most wonderful thing ever. Plus, as a veteran, the PTSD stays away.

Well duh, the 70s wasn't that... long... ago... crap.

Ergonomics for everything. I have a lower height desk, a split keyboard, monitor at my eye height, etc. I've toyed with the idea of getting a second monitor - there are days when I really want one - but learning to quickly switch between programs mostly worked.

There were two models being recalled.

One is the version without the preset temperatures. The other, called "Pro", has the temperature controls.

Was yours the normal version? That would explain the price difference.

Such an over sensitive baby.  I didn’t call anyone names… except you, right now.  Go cry somewhere.

A recliner for working on my laptop, dozens of plants.

I have the blue/white-speckled "camping cookware" one, but it has been flaking off after bouncing around in a bag with my other stuff. If I could go back, I would just get the plain one.

Mine is still kicking in 2026!

my biggest regret was exactly the "i'll get used to it" trap. bought a chair that was fine-ish day one and just lived with the slight back ache for like two years before i admitted it. the lesson i took from it is if it isnt comfortable in the store its never getting better at home. now i wont buy a chair i cant sit in first, online reviews tell you nothing about how it fits your body.

That's true. This sub also seems to be legitimately useful for calling out products which are supposed to be BIFL (or used to be) but aren't.

Small couch. It’s so nice to take a break from typing to sit or lay on a couch and zone out

Some version of that happens on every sub, on the woodworking sub you get people saying:  I'm a newbie and have a scrap 2x4 and a steak knife, please give me instructions on how to make a Victorian armoire.

If you're able bodied, the glass jar. More friendly to the environment and if the seal deteriorates, you can easily get a new one at pretty much any store that sells canning supplies. 

For anyone with any sort of disability or weakness, the Oxo container would be better.

I also have one abdominal struggle to use it because you have to squeeze and twist. ):

At some point I'll get an electric one but for now I just wander up to my partner or a friend if I can't get something open. :)

Nah. Then we're back to nothing but brags about inherited vintage appliances nobody can buy. Plus darn tough socks, lodge cookware, and red wing boots. So we might as well dissolve the sub into a thrifting sub and publish a shortlist of 10 bifl brands.

How do you use sugru for that?

there are airtight options. it's not a clasped seal or anything, but one that requires enough strength to break that ain't nothing getting in or out.

Half of reddit is below average intelligence. they come to this sub wondering why their socks have a hole in them. Then they complain that the bombas warranty doesn't last 500 years, after trying to return their dirty crusty sock.

Cambros ftw! so easy to clean. so versatile. 

i try to limit plastics, but they Cambro are quality and have their uses.

The first time I ever used one of these the locking mechanism had failed and a house key had fallen off and gotten lost

“Durable consumables”

Have you tried not dropping glasses on the floor?

IIRC, folks used to suggest r/GoodValue , but I haven't visited that sub in a long time so I don't know its current status.

Foot cushion/pillow under desk

So few things are actually BIFL that this sub would have no activity if people weren’t shilling their darn tough socks and Duluth underwear all day

Why not start that sub yourself?

Rule 1: "This is a subreddit emphasizing products that are Durable, Practical, Proven, and Made-to-Last. Products that are well-made and durable **(even if they won't last an lifetime)** are accepted."

Tell your teen to grow up and be happy with good furniture!

I had a partial recline from some letters brand from Wayfair that we lost in a flood, and it was glorious, so comfortable. Dad has a laz-z-boy that fully reclines and he does not like it at all, and still misses his partial recline one for retirement naps. 

I think it comes down to construction and materials used, as well as if it's the right size for you. My partner is way smaller than me and never found any chair I liked comfortable, and vice versa, which I think is your case, your recliner is too small for you, so partial or full recline probably won't help.

Just because others may be elderly, recovering from illness/injury, or disabled does not make them weaklings. Yes, I understand the sentiment that glass may be better, but calling those who are unable to use glass jars weaklings is not necessary. It is hard enough having a body that does not allow them to do what they previously could. Just a little empathy and awareness that not everyone is lucky enough to have a fully functional body.

Milk crates are going to be the most durable thing you can use. By far. They don't make things like they used to.

As long as they are actual milk crates, not those fold up lookalikes they sell on amazon

Maybe give the leather on those some conditioner to make em even more flexible and last longer

Don't get a set of cooking pots 

One round 8 quarts for pasta + soups 

A saucepan 

A frying pan . This could be Lodge or Le Creuset 

Our Le Creuset are 35 years old ! But I love to cook. Only ask for them if you will be cooking .

I have a 30 low one and a 32 huge deep one .

Got a smaller one from my dad that I use very little.  Have a small soup one that also gets very little use these days.

We're very happy with this coffee maker 

Ninja | Coffee Maker | Single... 

We use composatble pods 

Airfrying makes everything crunchy  and simplifies cooking 

Instant Vortex Plus 6 Quart 6-in...

Cable management overhaul, webcam for the monitor, and a felt mat for the desk made a huge difference for me.

The ones with a built in C-clamp to mount to the top of the desk are great.

You’re definitely not alone, I get so many ingrown hairs.

Proper sized desk. I was working on a writing table essentially, maybe 36" wide. Did a lot of research and got a larger L shaped desk with plugs and USB ports built into it! And it's a complete game changer. All these years I could have just mounted a power strip to the underside of my desk and it would have been so much cleaner, how did I never think to do this?! Super cheap on Amazon, like $200.

I am looking at Best Home Furnishings or Flexsteel in search of a better recliner.

I haven’t seen anyone else say this, but I totally agree! Also with snaps- you only have to unsnap the legs and crotch to change a diaper, so it’s like 6-8 snaps and you’re done.

Comfort:  
  
Chair and desk with adjustable keyboard tray.  I have an Aeron and a powered standing desk from Uplift which is nice, but I still mostly use it sitting.  Once you have a good chair and desk, dial in the setup with good positioning of the mouse, keyboard, monitor heights, etc. for comfort and good body position.  

Custom ergonomic mechanical keyboard and my preferred ergonomic mouse.  

Productivity:  Dual 27" or larger monitors.  (more screen the better)

They are also larger on average. I want 20 oz, not 14.

I helped my son remodel his condo.

Over the counter we put a 22-24 deep wooden board from IKEA maybe.  It has protected the countertop noticeably. 

 He neglected most other stuff. 3 hours last night cleaning top of stove with a powerful cleaner and scraping

I use a wooden spoon for metal tumblers

The tactical line has a different size range that is unisex. Different weights will change this slightly.

We have one of their table sets in our backyard and have had to replace all of the chairs and a new table is coming. They develop cracks in the desert heat and sunshine. Each time we’ve dealt with them, they have been great and immediately shipped us replacement pieces.

Just wanted to echo that their customer service is pretty solid. I hope it stays that way because I don’t think any patio furniture will last forever in this environment.

Wall mounted Aircon...

Uplift desk helped my joints and low back so much. 

I have some training in workplace ergonomics and everyone tends to focus on "ergonomic chairs" but really you need ergonomic positions. A highly adjustable chair is just part of that equation! Even if you have the most perfectly fine tuned desk setup, the best thing you can do is stand for a bit.

Roller blade wheels for my chair.

Square is more space efficient and open top is easier to clean. I have the oxo one and some glass, the oxo are more practical

Having a power outlet right on the table made a lot of things easier

Oh, I just got my ass molded one day. I thought I would make the mold useful in addition to beautiful.

Eddie Bauer is not what it used to be.
Lifetime warranties are no longer honored. I stopped there for many years, but no longer.

I prefer glass over plastic but I’m not having issues opening items, yet.

Hello /u/Desperate_League9162! Thank you for your submission! The AutoMod thought that your post might be a request type post and has changed the flair accordingly, but if this was wrong feel free to change it back!

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/BuyItForLife) if you have any questions or concerns.*

How many times have you had those resold? The souls on my boots last a year and a half at Max completely bald

Indeed. I expect to get many of the clothes back out of the mill when we have a second. We kept only a few, sentimental bits.

Speaking from experience, the narrow opening on that glass jar will drive you crazy. I switched to something similar to OXO form glass jars because I hated not being able to scoop out my rice/oats with a measuring cup.

The kettle bbqs are still exactly the same as before. I compared my new one with somebody's 10 year old one and everything is identical.
Got an aftermarket grate to have a different style and it warped but the OEM one is perfect

Hello /u/manEvilness_recorder! Thank you for your submission! The AutoMod thought that your post might be a request type post and has changed the flair accordingly, but if this was wrong feel free to change it back!

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/BuyItForLife) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Wide mouth and a long handle scoop maybe? But that might be too many steps lol

I love the accessibility with the cart! That's so smart.

If you have patience you can often find a bargain.

I wanted an Aeron and knew the best way to get one for less than retail was to find a used one. So I searched (can’t remember for how long) for “desk chair” and “office chair” and the like without naming the brand or model.

Sure enough, I found someone offering an authentic Aeron for $25. The seller said it was his daughter’s chair from college and that neither of them wanted it. The pneumatic lift was broken. I told him he could get a lot more money for it if he had that fixed. He appreciated the advice and sold it to me for the asking price. 

I took it directly to a Herman Miller dealer to ask about repair. The technician checked the serial number and told me it was still under warranty. Fixed for free in two days. 

I’m sitting in it now, as I have every work day for more than a decade. Not a bad cost per use. 

Regret? I only regret being unable to find a reading chair this nice at any price.

I have some Rough Linen sheets and I love them. Solidly recommend.

I also have some quince Linen sheets that can get rotated in for laundry or guest bed use and I like them, too. More than the cotton ones.

I did look into a custom maker last year, but the wait was nearly 6 months, and the cost was over $400. I tried a few pairs of barefoot boots, but they were too narrow, my feet are wide front to back, almost brick shaped, which makes things more difficult.

Once you go black, it takes 12 years to go back?

Generation is tied to the next set of people that come after a given set of people. Each generation is more and more decoupled from those that came before it. Like in sports justin verlander and Clayton kershaw are in 1 generation of pitchers. Before them were Randy Johnson and Pedro Martinez and they all had some amount of overlap with each other. But this current generation with jacob degrom all the way to paul skenes have 0 overlap with Randy Johnson/pedro martinez but they do have some overlap with clayton kershaw / Justin verlander. 

 So you are generation 1. Your kids are generation 2. Your kids kids are generation 3. So on and so forth. 

That being said the jacket is a familial jacket now that will be handed down to the next generation when it comes.

Duluth Pack fits what you’re looking for. Small company, bags are handmade in Duluth Minnesota the same way since 1882. They are very rooted in their community and prioritize quality. Lifetime warranty on craftsmanship and hardware that can’t be beaten. I love all of mine, some of which were my fathers. Never had any issues with them.

Honestly, if it's already dented and you have to pay extra for movers, it might not be worth the headache tbh since modern fridges aren't really BIFL anyway. If you want that sleek, flat counter-depth look without paying the Bosch tax, maybe look at Hisense or GE instead. Hisense has some surprisingly nice counter-depth models that look super high-end but are way easier on the wallet. Def worth checking out before committing to a damaged unit imo.

It takes the color off of the outside- it starts peeling.

How do you clean them with the tablets?

Herman Miller chairs are the most uncomfortable chairs I’ve ever sat in.

I prefer the bigger topped rectangular container.   
They're easier to clean.   
They're lighter.

I got a pair of Snag 50 denier tights and they haven't had any tears, but they almost immediately had little snags in them (lol). I know that snags are pretty common with tights but it was annoying to have a cosmetic imperfection on my second wear. I've only worn them five or six times so idk how well they would hold up for daily use. They do feel sturdier than the ones I used to get from Target

The 1000W motor is honestly why I grabbed the Koios over another random cheap blender. It actually has some power to it, especially with thicker smoothies. Just use the tall cup unless you wanna redecorate your counter with smoothie splatter.

what is the material of this shoes? I still cant believe quailty is so good that  still havent been worn out  after 4.5 years later

My son from about 2-4 wore almost exclusively clothes we got from my sister-in-law who kept all of her oldest sons clothes but only had two more daughters. 

After he grew out of all of them we gave them to my wife's friend who has a now 2 year old and 6 month old.  So the cycle continues.

I just used my to help grout my patio haha

What was the correct customer service number? I have a cracked table and it’s only been 3 years.

BIFL shoes for $200 would be a good result even without that sizing constraint.

I have a love hate relationship. They're great, but if combined with a magnifying mirror, I will DECIMATE my skin picking at things.

\^ this, OP's premise is flawed.

I average 2-3 from redbacks working in a machine shop.
I've worn the soles off 3 pair in 8 years. 
Haven't had the leather split or the toe come thru on any of them.

Is it just me that thinks throwing away perfectly good plastic utensils is \*worse\* than just carrying on using them?

What is bad about plastic utensils? Is there some psuedo-scientific scare story about microplastics in your food or something?

Osprey has a lifetime guarantee and makes a good variety of bags for travel, hiking and daily use. I also have had a good experience with the Patagonia black hole backpack. I had an earlier version of the bag that was peeling - brought it to the store and got it replaced for free under their warranty

I did this with my french press. The glass ones always end up breaking so I got a metal one designed for camping. I've had it for about 3 years now with no issues

I got my husband one from marketplace, easily the best purchase I’ve made for him!

I have both. Some people say they have trouble with the lids of the pop containers, I've had mine probably 8 years and haven't had a single issue. The pros of those: lighter weight, take up less space. The glass ones I would consider more bifl. You can order new seals if you need to. However they are much heavier and take up more room due to being more rounded. I also would not ever get one with the smaller opening like that

Would not surprise me if the quality declined since I got them - seems to be the case for so many things.

I’ve never regretted spending more on a comfortable chair. I have regretted buying a cheaper chair at the expense of comfort.

I'd add Atorie to your list if you haven't looked at them. I switched from a Saddleback to one of their messenger style bags and the leather quality is comparable but the design is way more refined for a business setting. Doesn't look like you're heading to a safari it actually looks professional while still having that premium leather feel. The interior organization is well thought out too, laptop sleeve and document pockets without making the bag bulky. After almost a year of daily commuting it still looks brand new except for a really nice patina developing on the corners.

I love my Duluth Packs. High quality and rugged bags. There’s a lifetime warranty on craftsmanship and hardware but I’ve never had to use it. Their bags are definitely multigenerational products.

A​t​ο​r​i​e​ ​f​ᴏ​r​ ​l​e​a​t​һ​e​r​ ​ɡ​o​o​d​s​.​ ​T​h​е​у​'​r​е​ ​n​o​t​ ​a​ ​h​o​u​s​e​h​o​l​d​ ​n​a​m​e​ ​b​u​t​ ​t​h​e​i​r​ ​q​u​a​l​i​t​y​ ​i​s​ ​g​e​n​u​i​n​e​l​y​ ​b​u​y​ ​i​t​ ​f​o​r​ ​l​i​f​е​ ​t​i​е​r​.​ ​I​ ​g​o​t​ ​o​n​е​ ​ο​f​ ​t​һ​е​i​r​ ​Ь​a​ɡ​s​ ​a​b​o​u​t​ ​a​ ​y​e​a​r​ ​a​g​o​ ​a​n​d​ ​t​h​e​ ​c​o​n​s​t​r​u​c​t​i​ο​ո​ ​i​ѕ​ ​s​e​r​i​o​ս​s​Ι​y​ ​i​m​p​r​e​s​s​i​ν​e​,​ ​f​u​l​l​ ​g​r​a​i​n​ ​l​e​at​h​er ​w​ith proper​ ​s​t​itchi​n​g​ that ​s​h​ow​s​ ​n​o​ ​s​i​gns o​f​ ​w​e​a​r​ ​e​v​e​n​ ​w​i​t​h​ ​d​a​i​l​y​ ​u​s​e​.​ ​T​h​e​y​ ​u​s​e​ ​d​i​f​f​e​r​e​n​t​ ​l​e​a​t​h​e​r​s​ ​t​o​o​ ​i​n​c​l​u​d​i​n​g​ ​e​e​l​ ​a​n​d​ ​s​h​e​e​p​s​k​i​n​ ​w​h​i​c​h​ ​g​i​v​e​s​ ​t​h​e​m​ ​a​ ​t​e​x​t​u​r​e​ ​a​n​d​ ​f​e​e​l​ ​y​o​u​ ​w​o​n​'​t​ ​f​i​n​d​ ​f​r​o​m​ ​m​а​s​s​ ​p​r​o​ⅾ​u​c​е​d​ ​b​r​a​n​d​s​.​ ​Т​һ​е​ ​f​а​с​t​ ​t​һ​a​t​ ​t​h​e​y​'​r​e​ ​s​m​a​l​l​e​r​ ​m​e​a​n​s​ ​t​h​e​y​ ​a​c​t​u​a​l​l​y​ ​c​a​r​e​ ​a​b​o​u​t​ ​e​a​c​h​ ​p​i​e​c​e​ ​Ь​е​с​а​ս​ѕ​е​ ​t​һ​е​у​ ​c​a​n​'​t аfford to have returns and bad reviews the way the big brands can absorb them. It's one of those brands where you realize the price premium on designer labels is mostly marketing not quality.

I bought some white shirts from Uniqlo that turned almost pink in the wash. I didn't wash them with anything remotely colorful. Just white clothes. The other white clothes did not get the same pink tint.

Answers...not debates on evaportive cooling and heat transfer.
FFS

Ich habe heute meine Rückerstattung (Deutschland) in Höhe von 69,99€ erhalten. Entgegen einer anderen Aussage von 110€, habe ich lediglich die Summe erhalten, die ich auch bezahlt habe.

Zur Info: Ich habe das geschnittene Kabel repariert und geschrumpft und verwende den Wasserkocher weiterhin. Wer da nicht ängstlich ist, der kann es genauso machen. Der Abbruch des Griffes ist aus meiner Sicht nicht gefährdet, da wir den Wasserkocher lediglich mit max. 1 Liter verwenden. Die 1,5 Liter Modelle wurden zurückgerufen, weil das Gewicht zu groß wird. Die Griffe sind bei allen Modellen identisch aufgebaut.

Elastic netting on the sides

Also glass is really hard to get a measuring cup into if you're storing flour or sugar for baking.

Start with the stuff that takes daily abuse and work outward. A stainless steel bowl or nylon leash, and a solid crate will last years. The Original Poop Bags has been my go-to for a while now for waste bags because they are thick and plant-based. What size dog are you bringing home?

I use the NiteIze Bigfoot. its the best key organizer ive ever had.

Polar fleece (as in the OP) doesn't have that problem! (Polar fleece jackets seem to be overrepresented in vintage/hand me down kids clothes for that reason)

It was aweful. They both made each other worse. I have an airley pillow that does alright now, and I have my millet pillow but put alpaca wool under it. I tried the alpaca wool on top and it was nice but got really hot so I keep it on bottom now. I want to try some sort of silk stuffing on top next maybe raw silk

That’s crazy. Maybe they changed the design or formula at some point. I’d say we got ours 3-4 years ago and I don’t think we made it a year without issues. The largest ones were definitely the worst offenders, but I wanted one complete system. I’ve switched over to “cambro fresh” something something and love them.

Seconded. I have TuxMats in my car and WeatherTech in my wife’s car (because TuxMat didn’t have a fit for her model), and the TuxMats are far and away the better product.

What seems to be the issue you’re having that makes you seek out an improvement?

Don't buy a cheap recliner from Wayfair.

The first one that arrived had parts that simply didn't fit and couldn't be bolted together.

The replacement parts they sent didn't fit much better and I had to resort to deck screws.

The longest I could ever stretch boots in my field days was maybe two years, usually less. Especially glued sole boots like these. 

Now I can make boots last ten years or more walking around in carpet all day.

Huh. I’ve had a set for 15+ years and they’ve held up very well.  Not air tight, but I don’t need that.  And they fit perfectly in my big drawer, which was the main selling point.

Do you need to get a scoop in?  The opening on the jar may make that harder.

Responding late here as I’m about to order some stuff and doing research but check out their “last call” section right now. 30% off with lots of sizes still available.

I would look at what you currently have and use (each in your own places) and upgrade only. Once you are married and living together you don’t suddenly start baking bread if you never bake bread when you were alone. I am happy with what we got on our registry, but I asked similar questions from people and they all gave me their favorite things that I liked the idea of, but did not use currently. Which mean, literally everything that wasn’t an upgrade was held onto for a few years because “we might use it” and then placed in a garage sale. I’m not saying you won’t want to learn new things, but I am saying that use this unique time of being gifted nicer items to get things you 100% know you will use. Take or leave the advice, but I would literally make a list of things that you own and would like to upgrade and then maybe ask here for what the upgraded version could be. Congratulations!

What kind of work though?

Years behind a desk and years on a machine shop floor are vastly different.

This is true, but I will point out that a proper office chair isn't the overpriced herman miller everyone insists is the gold standard. It's what works with your posture and will last. For me, that was a nearly equally expensive steelcase gesture, but read reviews, don't buy it for looks and make sure you can return it because you won't know until you sit in it.

Generally if they are not stitched on but bonded instead then they are not resoleable. Those Steel Blues are injection bonded which cannot be resoled, whereas the Haix use a proprietary molding process that allows the sole to be replaced many times.

vornados rule the house.  get one with physical controls so you can use a smart plug to control them.

Insulated water bottel discussion weirdly intense because once somebodyy finds one that actually keeps water cold all day they become emotionally loyal to it like it’s a family heirloom.

The lid/mouthpiece honestly matters wayyyyy more than people expect it to. One annoying drinking spout and suddenly you stop using the bottle no matter how good the insulation is.

The simpler stainless steel bottles seem to last forever though. Less weird moving parts, less straws growing mysterious biology projects inside them, less rubber pieces disappearing into another dimension during cleaning.

Wide openings are also underrated until the first time you try stuffing ice into one of those tiny-neck bottles and end up launching cubes across the kitchen like a frustrated bartender.

The self-filtering ones are cool for hiking/travel situations, but for everyday use most people seem happier just having a normal insulated bottle that’s easy to clean.

Shoes aren't really bifl you only end up spending more on maintenance. 
Might just be an Australian product but. 
Wide load work boots.
Replace your insoles often enough and they should last you a few years.

ok so completely silent mini fridges kinda don’t exist because compressors will always make SOME noise eventually lol. But there’s a huge difference between occasional soft humming/cycling vs constant buzzing/rattling that keeps you awake. The biggest thing is usually placement honestly. if the fridge isn’t level or touches furniture/walls weirdly, the vibration gets amplified like crazy in dorm rooms. Smaller low noise models (like this) do tend to work better for sleeping spaces because the compressor load is lighter and there’s less internal rattling overall. manual defrost ones are often quieter too from what I’ve noticed. also avoid putting them directly against the wall. leaving a little gap genuinely helps.

Spending extra for a "heavy duty" chair with a higher weight limit that started squeaking and wearing out on the exact same timescale as chairs that cost 1/3 as much.

This is exactly why a good warranty matters. Poly wood's residential warranty is actually pretty impressive and it's nice to see a company honor it without making customers jump through hoops. Glad they made it right for you.

For anyone curious:

Truly a generational jacket

What makes boots not resoleable?

I stopped putting them in the dishwasher, and they don’t taste soapy anymore.

glass “cookie” jars have a lid that is lifted with a handle, which may be better for those with mobility issues. I imagine the silicone gasket eventually needs to be replaced at some point but they still work without the gasket

Fans can cool things, but a fan running in a closed off room isn't very effective. Fans can cool a person down by increasing evaporative cooling. A fan can cool a room down if air outside the room is cooler and the fan is set up to pull in cooler air or exhaust the warmer air.

Not suggesting that YOU should buy something different...
I'm cautioning other people that their experience might differ from yours.

I only see Anchor Hocking. Pass.

Thank you so much! I'm ordering them right now!

My biggest regrets were all around "going cheap".

I spent probably the first 20 years of my adulthood with crappy chairs, and I didn't realize how much of a disservice that was doing to my back.  I started having back problems around my mid 30's.

Eventually I got some advice to buy a herman miller aeron chair and use its forward tilt feature.  I did, and ever since then I haven't had back problems.  The chair was about 800 bucks used, but that 800 dollars was worth ever single penny.  So much so that when I moved overseas and the price to bring it with me was more than what it cost to buy it, I re-bought another one in europe - for about \~900 euros this time - and I still have no regrets.

I use glass containers like the one in the photo but Fido brand.  I love them.  I keep all my dry goods in them.  They look nice, are easy to use and don't have micro plastics or chemicals.  

If you do get them I recommend getting mostly mid-sized (500 mL, 750 mL, 1mL).  I use these sizes the most as they fit most food packaging for Dru goods like short pasts, beans, rice, lintels, granola, etc.  I keep 4 larger 2 and 3 liter jars for flour, sugar, oatmeal, etc.  that are sold in larger quantities.  Finally, a few small jars in the 200-350 mL size are useful for items like salt, baking soda, cocoa powder, raisins, etc that are sold in small quantities. 

Because of the different heights, I can put the small jars in front and large jars in back.  This makes it really easy to see everything that I have at a glance without moving anything.  That's great for both cooking and making a store list.  

Because they are asthecticly pleasing, I have  put the more frequently used  items on my counter when living in smaller apartments and with small kitchens.   Examples, would be coffee by my coffee pot and oats, rice, and beans in the corner by my stove.  I often get compliments on them. 

The two downsides for me have been the cost and the opening is too small for a 1 cup measuring cup.  I either use a 1/2 cup to measure or pour into a 1 cup.  I bought 4 larger jars on sale when I first started using them.  Once I knew that I liked them, I picked up the rest second hand at a much better price.  I'm not sure that I would have bought the Fido brand at full price.  That said, I have used them for over 10 years and they are still in great condition.

There no way glass is worse than stainless steel

Just make sure the pot is not one of a brand’s cheaper versions.

A sensible approach would be to take care of the old boots, and continue to wear them besides the new ones.

Very good but I would not class these as BIFL as they are not resoleable. Here are my daily wear Haix work boots which I also wear on my motorcycle. Seven years in, resoled at five years, they were a long way from wearing the sole but resoled only because it wore unevenly due to my cant.

Haix Tactical Work Boots

I am subbed to this page as I like seeing well-built stuff made in the past, so personally have enjoyed seeing these posts

How stiff are they?  Do they take a long time to break in?  How wide is the toe box?  Did you need to size up or are they run true to size. 

I think the brown looks good.

You better hope to God they haven't totally cheapened out on the manufacturing since then, cuz you could be in for a huge surprise

I worked at a body shop and the owner who was like 60yo gave me his, that exact style only it's brown.

I've been using it for over 20 years, it's bifl and maybe bifml too.

i still use mine wich i bought in 2015.

If you aren't afraid to open it up it's 99% chance that's it's just a bit of corrosion. (the other 1% was it getting thrown around and a connection broke) Could easily run 20 more years with less than 5 mins of effort

The Oxo containers simply don’t seal for me. We have a full set and after popping the button down, the gasket still doesn’t fully seal to the container and the lid can be pulled off easily.

Enough lip service from you, young man.

Comfort Colors is what you’re looking for. 100% wringspun cotton that never shrinks and every color you could imagine. jiffyshirts.com is where you can get the best price (and their ship times are jimmy johns level fast)

also avoid bella canvas imo very cheap feeling fabric

That sounds like a great find. def keep Seiko in mind too, thanks for the suggestion.

Their capacity is so low unfortunately. Kind off afraid of cycling them so much.

Ikea's line of rechargeable are incredibly priced and they use the same cells as the best ones. Really good.

This video is silly but an arm processor device with a big user replaceable battery could last a good long time is an interesting bifl computing concept

dock-a-tot is amazing. we had ours gifted so idk if there’s cheaper alternatives, but it was super clutch during the newborn phase. used to park him right next to my desk while i was gaming

Can i get a link to the titanium bong?

Buy it to prevent life

Trip trap chair - you’ll buy one and they can use it for life (seriously) us adults sit on them now all the time.

Use glass containers with a real silicone gasket, not snap lids that just click. Caraways airtight containers have a switch on the lid that pull the gasket tight so there's no gap to crawl under. Haven't had to dump a container since.

even 10 years is sometimes lucky nowday

I moved from buying glasses to just keeping the larger glasses I buy at grocery stores that my food comes in. Usually, asparagus works out perfectly when it comes to the shape and capacity.

We do this - we eat a lot of pickles, and those jars are perfect. I use them for rice, quinoa, farro, beans, etc and they look nice too. I saw that some manufacturers are shifting to larger plastic containers for pickles unfortunately.

For me it was a boppy pillow, that I probably got more use out of than anything else. It doesn't go beyond really when they get mobile, but prior to that I used it multiple times a day every feeding, naps etc. Don't know if that qualifies it as a BIFL or not.

I regret not buying a decent one sooner.

Crumpler? I have one that I have been using for work for a few years, and it looks new. Apart from that I have used a few Lowepro camera bags as normal backpacks, which all seem pretty solid.

With that maintenance and prices id rather use plastic utensils and swap them often.

No, I’m sure they still work on other planets.  The aliens don’t use the one on Earth because we overthrew them in a vast uprising a few millennia ago.

For me, it has to be airtight. I don't want mice or roaches

I just write in the side of it with a marker

You poors think vans and Merrells are BIFL. 😂

buying a 'gaming' chair

For sofas, I’d care most about frame quality, cushion support, and whether the style is something you’ll still like later. Soulfa seems like a solid option if you want something modern and comfy without going full luxury pricing.

With office chairs, it's not checking that the arms will fit under my desk

Your milage may vary. It's probably fine, but you might avoid letting it sit in a bowl of something acidic and then putting it in your mouth. Or letting small kids suck on it since they are smaller. It's a minute thing that happens over time, and the precautions matter more if you plan to be exposed more in your life. Epoxy is similar, the fumes you inhale and permanently sensitizing you, so if you plan to do one pour in your life go for it. But if it's your job wear a gas mask.

I personally wouldn't, but I'm paranoid. And I'm also a woodworker, so I don't want to build up a sensitivity to it and make the 70 yo version of me have issues while turning walnut on a lathe. I also have black walnut food stuff, mostly salad bowls, but I don't use them for salad since the acidic dressing could be an issue. I use them to hold candy at Christmas.

Yess this! Idk why it’s not more common advice. Get the stroller that can accommodate two kids from the start! 

Most 2 seaters can accommodate kids up to age 5 so even if you are anticipating a big age gap you will still have a usable stroller

I landed on this thread because I was looking for a replacement for my xiaomi LYWSD02MMC. It was sitting on a table for the whole day and got up to 28°C during the day and at night it got noticely colder, around 20-22°C and the thermometer was displaying 26°C. It was obviously plain wrong. I use it to know how many layers I should use to dress the baby and there is no way I could have dressed the baby for 26°C at that moment.

individuals are not generations. 

you are a generation. 

BOTH children are ONE generation. The age of the coat with your age puts the person who may have owned it before you as maybe a few years older. 

same generation. 

it’s still only 2 generations. even if 4 different people wore it..

Stoke Tripp Trapp high chair! - with the infant seat attachment. 
-The infant seat is for newborn to 20lbs
-The high chair attachment is up to 2 years 
-The chair itself has a seat with adjustable heights so you never need a booster seat 

* it lasts from birth until your child is tall enough to sit in a regular kitchen chair and comfortably reach the table so at least 8 years 

It’s more expensive than a regular high chair but it eliminates the need for booster seats and the infant attachment will become the number one place you put the baby down

Yeah, modular doesn’t always mean buy-it-for-life. I’d check Soulfa if you want something that still feels modern and comfortable but isn’t built around endless pieces and upsells, bc sometimes simpler is better.

Hey! Almost. Before pulling the trigger, I asked my partner to use her op-shopping expertise to see whether she could find anything similar. She ended up finding a vintage hard leather attache case by a company called Leeds for about 100 AUD. I've been quite enamored with it. So maybe post up on eBay and/or DePop and see what you can find!

Exactly! People used to get 20 years plus out of them🫤

If you’re trying to get a couch that actually feels worth keeping, I’d def look at Soulfa. Their sofas are more in that modern, comfy, well-built lane, and tbh that matters way more than chasing the cheapest deal and replacing it in 2 years.

Sinuous springs 8-way hand-tied  springs or bust

Tall-back couches are weirdly hard to find now because everything is low and modern. Soulfa may still be worth a look if you want a supportive couch that doesnt feel like a waiting room sofa, but I’d double check back height before buying.

The sad thing is that's extremely long life for a recliner in my experience. The mechanisms are all junk and don't last. I've had lesser brands break in 13 months ( just outside the 1 year warranty of course) 

It is sad though because old lay z boys were tanks that would last generations

Made in the USA is tough because pricing jumps fast and not every “premium” sofa is actually better. I’d still compare options like Soulfa if comfort, design, and durability are the main goal, then decide whether domestic manufacturing is worth the extra cost for  you.

the pre-filter cleaning is actually not that bad once you get in routine with it. I wash mine maybe every 10 days and takes like 2 minutes under the faucet

  
just be ready for how much hair actually comes off - first time I did it was pretty gross lol. but yeah the vacuum thing is real, no filter gonna save you from that daily fur tumbleweeds

I love the the Fido Bormioli Rocco hermetic jars. I have them in all the sizes. I started using them in like 2013 and I still have them and they work exactly as well as the day I bought them.

I guess this is active 12 pro. I have one. I've been using it for over half a year. I bought it because of the built-in projector. Overall, I'd say rugged tablets are definitely tougher than regular devices. Mine has been taken to the beach by my kids, dropped many times, and it's still working fine. That video is just to show the extremes. No one actually uses their devices like that.

Not to be pedantic, but that’s only 2 generations. From you to your kids.

I’ve been very satisfied with the quality of Thursday Boots leather sneakers, and you might too

^and^it’s^not^even^cute^tho…

Patagonia’s has a top client: the US military for quite some time, who are involved in disrupting the  land, the environment, and ending innocent lives. I wouldn’t rate them despite them claiming sustainable.

As much as glass is beautiful, I broke several glass vessels and the cleanup is long and dangerous.

Oxo pop better you can put the measuring container into it and get what you want without lifting and tipping.

My wife moved everything to Oxo pops, they were a wedding gift. Found weavels, thought it was a container specific thing. Everything was infested, different types of weavels too, and they end up on the lid mechanism so make sure to take it apart. 

I don’t trust them.

Buy a proper ergonomic office chair mate if you need to sit for long hours.

I am a rug manufacturer based in India I was just going through the comments and it made me realize that I should tell you all about etsy that's the best place to buy premium rugs if you want to order directly from me just dm me I'll send you my designs and there wouldn't be a middle man b/w us and the listing done on etsy or ebay are done at a high price because the above mentioned sites take their respective cuts.

Oh nice. And yeah I saw that. I think it read some research about PFAS(lovingly called forever chemicals) out of the EU. and yeah he's not wrong. Especially the plasticizers that make them more soft, they are notorious for that. 

Well I hope you're enjoying the XM5s. They must be quite the upgrade!

What happened actually can you explain cause next month I will be working at an MNC

Buying from La-Z-Boy. 6 years later and the thing looks and operates like poo. If it lasts another 4 I'll be very surprised.

That video is bullshit

Thanks so much for the detailed guide.

i feel you, my place gets super dry too. a humidifier definitely helps with sleep. i’ve been using cleanair-ae for a bit and it’s been decent.

i feel you, my place gets super dry too. a humidifier definitely helps with sleep. i’ve been using cleanair-ae for a bit and it’s been decent.

Hate the new briefs with a passion there’s way to much fabric on the crotch and on the sides bogus man

I’ve never worn boxers always thought they sucked and I prefer briefs but man this new stuff has to much crotch fabric smh 🤦‍♂️

The fabric is not the problem it’s the style my new briefs suck there’s way to much fabric at the crotch and sides maybe a psychopath doesn’t mind their junk hanging loose but I sure as heck do! 🤦‍♂️😡

I don't see why not if it's still working

Their briefs changed styles if my old ones are stretched out and the brand new ones still come longer at the crotch and sides that’s a really big problem! Some weird dudes out there apparently like their junk hanging loose in there but not me I like everything “in place” and these new ones are just not doing it at all! They’re horrible it’s come to the point where I’m wearing old ones with holes because these new ones are so bad! I know that sounds weird but I can’t help it screw that only a psychopath wants that much fabric by their crotch lol 💀

There's only one real answer, brother!

That’s what I use for flour.  And I love it.  But if you have several, rather than just one, is it easy to forget what you have?

Buying chairs where the seat is too low. Admittedly I am on the tall side, am old and have bad knees.

$200 for boots and supplies

Building piece by piece is definitely the way - got most of my cookware this way and it's been solid for years now.

Yeah this gets posted constantly but search function on Reddit is pretty garbage tbh.

I’m halfway through the comments and no mention of mineral oil?

No worries, my husband helped replace mine, and then handed me a report a month ago saying I need to get Mx5 because materials detoriate and what not and may poison you... Regardlessthe report only included recent headphones and Mx5 was marked as safe (mx2 as you can guess are ancient at this point) so bye bye mx2 😅

Wasting money again and again on normal chairs is stupidity instaed of it you can invest one time in chairs like Herman miller or leapcase v2, both are very comfortable to sit for hours avaoiding back and neck pain.

Perhaps some things don’t need to be airtight, like pasta and oats, as we store them in the packaging they came in, which is fine for a few months, the time it takes us to finish them.  Crackers, on the other hand, go stale.

Yay! My time to shine! I won't say the manufacturer is but I will say it is a very modern/antique looking chair that looks stunning and the way it looks you would think its a great take a nap chair. Guess who threw their back out for a week after napping on it once....

Can't go wrong with a Casio. I had a digital one that lasted 6 years, only issue was the plastic strap changed color because I'm acidic. First lesson learned, buy the right type of watch

I second this, Rolexes do hold up value well, but it's also easily a $10,000 purchase, so I wouldn't just recommend it to anybody looking for BIFL. Hell, in this regard buying stocks is objectively a better BIFL than any BIFLs, yeah? 🤣

I use the OXO pop tops for my rice and cereal.   Stuff I'm opening frequently.   It's safer to use because if I accidentally drop it, it bounces instead of shattering.

I'll be down to earth with you. Any japanese quartz watch with sapphire glass and good water resistant will last you half a century easily. Just replace battery and water sealant every 3-4 years. If you want something worth bequeathing for the next 1-2 centuries, buy Rolex. Same for SLGs, I have a water buffalo leather coach outlet wallet since 2015 in shiny leathery condition. Just purchase down to earth quality products that doesn't charge premium for advertisment and grandeur physical stores.

Glass jar is heavy and those latches can be difficult to open, but it’s more reliable long term. Depends who is using it.

food grade mineral oil or beeswax

No that was with halogen bulbs. Then CFL then LED.

For cheap but good color, Philips Ultra Definition or Ultra Efficient.

For high end: Sunsy Shine, Yuji particularly Sunwave, Soraa, Waveform, some Emery Allen and Tala.

Tbh - i know there are a lot of opinions on the company as a whole - but quince has very decent silk pillowcases for ~45 usd. I have 2 that have held up a good 5 years at this point. I wash and dry as normal (which ur probably not supposed to do but i’ll buy new ones when these give up).

Fortunately (I guess) I find rounding my lower back while sitting on a Swiss ball exceptionally uncomfortable.🤣

I had the same issue, we skipped a lot of trendy stuff and asked for boring basics that actually get used. A solid set of sheets and a good skillet have outlasted every “cute” gift lol

Got a Secret Lab gaming chair (the gaming chair every other gaming chair is comapred to). Should have spent that on a good office chair instead.

A normal pedestal fan in a room that big with high ceilings just stirs the air right in front of it. what you want is one of the circulator style fans that actually pushes air across the whole room. we run a Vornado in the kids room and its held up for years, but any of that style works. honestly if the AC is weak the bigger help is moving the hot air out, stick a fan in the window blowing outward at night, just only really works once its cooler outside than in.

How much did you pay for shoes and resole? Any other work done?

I could see this happening if you attach the s-biner to a large enough keyring and then twist it, with the rotational force pushing laterally and slightly in enough for it to pop over.

I found that in practice, my posture was atrocious. But YMMV.

Been dealing with similar issues for years and the struggle is real. My feet aren't quite as wide as yours but finding anything that doesn't feel like torture after few hours is nightmare. 

  
Most brands just make their regular width shoes slightly wider instead of actually redesigning for wide feet so you end up with weird pressure points. Have you looked at any custom makers? Might be worth saving bit more since you're already at $200 budget and getting something that actually fits properly instead of going through multiple pairs every year.

  
The barefoot direction makes sense though - at least your feet can spread naturally instead of being squeezed in weird shapes.

I plan to design a new product based on material and color selection while retaining the functions of a stand, magnetic attraction, storage for memory cards and bank cards, and enabling double-sided magnetism. What do you think of this proposal?

I didn't think my family would care so little about getting it dirty

🤣🤦‍♂️Oops.

supposed to be better, somehow

Stop you from locking into a position for 8 hours a day. Same reason for all the bendy backs on chairs these days.

Facebook Marketplace routinely has, $20, you haul!". As long as you are ok refinishing it yourself, then you can get some great deals.

Philip Stein sounds like pseudoscience stuff. In the watch world, BIFL would typically mean mechanical, not quartz or digital, preferably a higher end movement (the mechanics inside of the watch case) from Switzerland or Japan, in terms of the cheapest "good watches" available. It's a complex answer as to what's most suitable, the easiest answer would be to just buy Rolex or Tudor, but it's very dependent on taste and budget

And here I am sitting on my Markus chair for God knows how long I should probably change it.

I kept trying cheap.

Eventually got an aeron from a local reseller.  Best purchase in a long time.

Wrong fabric choice. I didn't think my family would care so little about getting it dirty, I should have gotten a darker colour.

solid choice, you wont regret it

May pick up one of it , Embody Gaming Chair, Aeron Chair, Embody Chair.

been eyeing one of these for a while

Regarding the watch, I bought my wife a pre-owned Seiko women’s watch. Had to import it from Singapore but damn it’s a nice watch. Serviceable until forever, automatic, it’s great for the money. Paid around 380$ and it was practically new

A little while ago, I went with one of those big exercise balls. They were supposed to be better, somehow. Definitely not how I was using it. And now it just sits around. I've gone back to a classic office chair.

Steelcase Leap v2 refurbished for 300 bucks. only wish is for a headrest

I buy BIFL watches because I rotate through them. Watches are one of those exceptions to the rule when knowing you're hust gonna buy another later. Plus, given enough time, you can resell.

I will be messaging you in 3 days on **2026-06-06 08:14:44 UTC** to remind you of **this link**

**CLICK THIS LINK** to send a PM to also be reminded and to reduce spam.

^(Parent commenter can ) ^(delete this message to hide from others.)

**RemindMeBot is switching to username summons.** Instead of `!RemindMe 1 day`, use `u/RemindMeBot 1 day`. More info.

*****

|^(Info)|^(Custom)|^(Your Reminders)|^(Feedback)|
|-|-|-|-|

In my day job, I need to sit 6/7 hours a day. I bought a budget chair and it almost costed me my back. I will suggest to buy a proper office chair if you have to sit long hours regularly.

This watch is probably a very low quality Chinese made watch with a logo slapped on the dial.

for the watch, buy a casio

That's fair, I've heard mixed things about their other products. Loving my AirCard though, still a good buy for me since I can use it as a digital business card no matter what

Don't have to go that expensive for a watch that will last a lifetime, but they are indeed very nice.

Wish this were up higher.

I'd be more inclined to talk about zippers on bags failing, and cleaning issues with materials, that affect chances of the product surviving extensive use in widespread conditions, without coddling.

Example for watches: had a Casio GShock wristwatch that had its original strap fail. Replaced with a Barton silicone strap which also failed, catching on a bouncy castle style obstacle course's slide. The silicone strap also caused the watch to bounce from bumps when taken mountain biking, causing pain. Things to consider for a BIFLer. Right now I have a segmented metal band that is surviving, but I take it off more often when dealing with work and water.

Hello /u/Air-crasher! Thank you for your submission! The AutoMod thought that your post might be a request type post and has changed the flair accordingly, but if this was wrong feel free to change it back!

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/BuyItForLife) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Yes I've seen Grand Seiko come up a lot too, might be worth looking into

Agree, even their second hand pieces are a good deal

Rolling square is NOT BuyItForLife. 
I have many products from them and I’ve had many. Yet almost every single one has failed rather quickly. Thankfully their support is good and they are very nice to replace them, but the quality of their products are low! 
Their ideas and features are good, but I won’t buy their things anymore.

How about Philip Stein? They have that anti-stress watch thing lol. But thanks for the suggestion, I'll check out Tudor

My first “better” watch was a Tissot. Seiko ist amazing too.

Yes, thanks for the advice. I’ll always keep that in mind.

If I'm not mistaken white leather is never BIFL because there are no white aniline leather dyes. It'll always be some kind of coating that will eventually flake off, think of those greyish spots on the wear points of white sneakers.
This is a purse, so you might be able to keep it pristine for much much longer than a sneaker, but it could happen.

There are various consumer demographic groups. BIFL tries to avoid most of them, due to the "consumer" part.

BIFLers tend to be more open to industrial grade products made for professionals. This means more functional and practical details, rather than artsy. 

When BIFLers are actually looking for artsy detail, they look for "heirloom" quality. Something they can pass down to kids and generations beyond. They look for classic fashion, rather than ones that might fade out. Tends to boil down to artisan workmanship and material quality than prestige behind names.

Excellent garden tools from Lee Valley

A proper tool box

A copy of 10 family recipes

Just wanted to follow up on this. Did you managed to find the jacket you were after? It seems to be a unicorn, drizabone seems super close to what you want but just no storm flap on the jackets

Agreed. Back in college I got a leather belt from a local shop and that thing lasted for years. Probably would still have it if our house didn't burn down

A fucking machete and katana. 

Seriously. It's bad ass. 

I'm a girl and I have a big ass sword from my dad. The rule was if can hold at 90 degrees for 2 minutes it's yours. 

My 120 pound ass held that bad boy. Miss him every day.

Hugs

same, I have a jester that's at least 10 years old and abused

Good breakdown, thanks.  In fairness to the AirCard tho, even if the battery dies I can still use it as a digital business card via the QR Code so it's not totally useless

Its a complex question haha, if you're really wanting BIFL I'd look at Tudor, I'm not super familiar with women's watches though sorry

I'd use 1 qt Mason jars. You only need about 3 to hold 5 lbs.

Seiko is always a solid choice

Grand Seiko seems almost universally recommended.

Good list, most of those are solid.

One thing worth checking regardless of brand: single-piece strap, no internal filler. A lot of belts — even premium ones — use a compressed core wrapped in full-grain leather. Looks identical day one, falls apart after a year of daily wear.

Dense, stiff strap, burnished edges, no give when you press the middle. That's what actually lasts.

We've been making belts in Italy since 1948 so slightly biased, but the principle applies everywhere. Happy to chat if you want something outside the US market. 😄

This. Absolutely agree.

Try look at Propet.  At that size you're going to be more worried about fit and comfort rather than durability.

It probably will be Swiss quartz movement. So could be decent. However you’re buying British fashion heritage, not watchmaking prestige. Take care of the watch and it might last a while yes.

Solid advice honestly. Recommendations for a decent starter?

Watches by fashion brands are usually quartz based movements in a branded housing. There are better options.

Leather goods is a difficult one. A leather bag bought from a leather focused boutique shop in Naples can be as good in leather quality as a Carl Friedrik without the price markup.

I have a suitsupply belt and it’s not better than an unbranded belt bought in one of those boutique shops ran by an old Italian that smelled of leather grease.

Leather quality and stitching is what makes something BIFL. Not necessarily a brand. Do others agree?

True but idk I've had this one for over 2 years now, got a few others but this is my daily. Just nice to have something that lasts even if it's not Rolex or any similar. Can't afford one rn so this does the job

You can get these glass jars with wider mouths.

I hate my oxo pop. The only thing I do like is the little attached scoop, but the lid has never been air-tight. Its awkward to pick up, as the lid falls off.

If the Rolling Square air card is gen 1 (which is what I have), then the battery isn’t replaceable or rechargeable.  It’s definitely not BIFL. 

The Kate Spade leather coin purse could be BIFL.  It’ll come down to how good the zipper is. 

Burberry watches were made by Fossil. It’s likely Swiss made and could last a while.  Will it last 40 or 50 years?  Only time will tell.

This one definitely qualifies - 26+ years of regular use is pretty much the definition of BIFL. Japanese appliances from the 90s were built different, before planned obsolescence became standard in electronics industry.

Actually delivery drivers learn this fast - fans just move hot air around but if you got cross ventilation going with windows open at night it can help pull cooler air through the room

Don't buy a watch from a company that doesn't focus on watchmaking.

I print very little, and found every time I needed to print something, the ink cartridges were dry. Laser was definitely the way to go for me. I bought an HP 2600n almost 20 years ago and it’s still working. Had to put a new set of toner cartridges in a couple of years ago (I said I don’t print much)

You're not wrong lol it's so pricey it's not even pawnable.

I'm glad you're getting more use out of it. Looks in good condition.

But baby clothes, particularly coats, get one season of wear max before a child grows out of them.

I'm in a clothes rotation with about 6 other moms whose children are slightly older/younger than mine. Sometimes my baba only gets one wear out of something before she's too big for it. So I pass it on down the line.

Please, even if these are made to last a life time, you'll always replace it with newer iterations regardless how well made your belongings are. So, why bother shopping for longevity? 🤣

I use one of these between my orbitkey and my keysmart so I can easily attach keys that I only carry shortly. They are high quality but they are definitely not bifl. Anything that is a bit smaller and harder metal (like the keysmart) wears through the nite ize over time.

Definitely not the watch, that's what's known as a "fashion" watch, considered reasonably low grade despite being very overpriced for what it is

What oil are you guys using?

You don’t buy BIFL items for your own baby.  You have them given to you by someone else. 

Honestly you can get most things given to you; babies outgrown things extremely fast and some just refuse to use things.  For example someone might swear by a bouncer and then their next kid hates it and refuses it.  

Be aware that some items such as car seats need to be near new, as they lose structural integrity over time.

Nowadays most cooling equipment fails quickly. This long-lasting old air conditioner shows great classic manufacturing craft.

Those jars have standard replaceable gaskets, which is the only part that will wear out with reasonable use. 

OXO use cheap springs, which have a very short life by comparison. They cost 5x more than the jars and the lids are a hollow partially-sealed plastic that’s impossible to clean.

Hello /u/Adorable-Ad3273! Thank you for your submission! The AutoMod thought that your post might be a request type post and has changed the flair accordingly, but if this was wrong feel free to change it back!

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/BuyItForLife) if you have any questions or concerns.*

I bought a jar opener after my elbow surgery. It’s much easier now.

Thank you for the brand, now I can set my standards, that Daiwa Supreme is like 14k

If you will use it in conditions what it could break easily - I would think about rugged tablet. But any tablet is no buy it for life taking in mind how processing power is increased and how bloated software become for last several years making devices from several years ago run like shit.

I’d prefer the oxo pop for ease of storage with other square shaped items, but I don’t know if it’s really BIFL compared to a glass jar.

If the manufacturer would just add a small flange at the bottom that would fix the sticking.

Honestly that reminds of the silly faked chinese adds of random stuff.

Are you really going to wash and set you tablet on fire?

I mean I’ve got an ipad that’s more than 10 years old now and works quite fine, battery isn’t as good but it’ll run for hours. Not once did these crazy scenarios evem come across my mind.

Because there are almost no real answers, only people telling you that what you're asking for is wrong:

Vornado. I have one of their DC fans and it's excellent, plus you get a variable speed control instead of two or three fixed speeds. They have a solid warranty if anything were to go wrong.

But yeah, you should really get a window AC if you want to actually cool the room. They're not hard to install.

Glass, no microplastics

I just buy the giant mason jars.

Ive seen their timing belt driven water pumps prematurely fail from out of the box to about 20k miles (and everything in between) on dozens of interference engines. Imagine the People who do their timing belt maintenance on time, only to get their engine wiped out by a shitty part they thought they could trust. 
For the last 8 years i wont do any timing belt, timing driven water pump, or any timing belt/chain component job unless its properly sourced from the dealer or the oe manufacturer (in some cases, these days not as much due to quality differences). Every time some one insists on using aftermarket i show them countless stories of catastrophic failures. I actually make less using dealer parts but i need to be able to stand behind my work and i want people’s vehicles to last.

Hell yeah, that's awesome to hear. I've got a Polywood Adirondack that's been sitting in direct Texas sun for like 8 years and still looks brand new. Only thing I'd warn is don't leave the cushions out during monsoon season, learned that the hard way.

Oxos suck! The lids don’t suction well.

There’s only 1 son?  How does your youngest  get it in a couple of years?  He’s a newborn?

What are things you and your fiance enjoy doing, either individually or together? As someone who greatly enjoys baking and cooking most of the following recs are going to be kitchen related. But if you can give additional details, I can see if that helps cater the suggestions better. 

1) Stainless steel pans (all clad and made in are common brands, but there are plenty of other good options)
2) A good prep knife for the kitchen. 
3) If you enjoy making cakes/cookies: kitchenaid stand mixer. If you are looking for something better suited for bread, look into ankarsrum mixers. A bowl lift kitchenaid is also likely good enough for bread, just make sure you verify the model. 
4) other useful kitchen gadgets if you enjoy cooking along with well rated brands: food processor (magimix, Breville, and cuisinart), blender (vitamix, and blendtec), pressure cooker (instapot is a common brand but has had significant controversy in recent years, so do your research on alternatives if that is a concern for you).
5) potentially solid wood furniture (end/bed side tables, coffee tables, dresser, etc)? Could also create a fund for people to submit towards to purchase specific furniture pieces.

Hello /u/jhktwisted! Thank you for your submission! The AutoMod thought that your post might be a request type post and has changed the flair accordingly, but if this was wrong feel free to change it back!

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/BuyItForLife) if you have any questions or concerns.*

A changing table that does not need sheets, like the Keekaroo Peanut. I’m on my third kid and love this thing. No need to do laundry if they make a mess on it, nice big edge so it’s not easy for them to roll off. So worth it.

Also definitely get some swaddles that velcro or magnet closed. There is nothing worse than trying to make a baby burrito in the middle of the night.

Comfortable sleeper sofas exist but a lot of them compromise somewhere. spring pullouts feel better for sitting, foam ones can wear out fast unless it's high density. i went down a rabbit hole on this and saw Dreamsofa focusing on the couch structure first then making the sleeper part work around that. honestly go with whatever feels best as a couch since that's what you'll use most.

I got the Uplift V3 a few months back and honestly the stability is insane, zero wobble even with heavy monitors and dual setups.

I thrifted basically the best of both worlds: giant plastic large storage, that has a massive round lid that screws on and off, with the handle built into the lid. 

I have arthritis and regular jars are too hard for me, but I can use the giant one. When looking at BIFL products, I always will recommend something that is arthritis/small child friendly, because if it’s good for life, it needs to work in every stage of life

Let's be real, OP posted some low effort garbage to get back pats on how great it is that some polar fleece held up for 30 years. Give me another 10 years and I too can go in my closet and produce a 30 year old fleece jacket. That doesn't mean Old Navy is suddenly BIFL quality. 

This sub sometimes...good grief.

I like glass containers and then I keep a ladle nearby that I thread through the latch of the container and use to scoop out the insides.

Solid brand but in my opinion if you're interested i really liked \these\

Just sharing: Walmart has an alternative to Oxo, Better Homes & Garden, with a knob for lifting that I find much easier when I’m having joint/dexterity issues.

The question is, do you want to lift 5lbs of oats plus a large glass jar every day.

Whatever you get, get something with a side opening that you can get a scoop into!

I have a Costco couch, and it’s comfy but I’ve been otherwise unimpressed. Got it in 2021 and it has two rips, one that I had to hand sew and the other that I likely soon will. The rips are not from anything I did other than simply using the couch a lot. ☹️ No kids, no brutal treatment, nothing that should cause it, and one of them started after only two years. Also, it clips together in two pieces and it makes a groaning sound every time I use it because the pieces are a little off kilter. The legs also spin around endlessly instead of staying in place and I have caught my feet on them before.

Check out Ikea first!

We have one of these and I absolutely love it.

Cast iron cookware is absolute game changer - mine from grandmother still works perfect after like 40 years. Also good quality wooden cutting boards, they actually get better with age if you take care properly

  
For unique stuff, maybe nice spice rack with good containers? When you start cooking together you'll realize how much better fresh spices make everything taste

An OXO container with the lid on still let ants get in to food in my pantry.

I was surprised, disgusted and had to change dinner plans.

Why stop there? Go for metal plates like in India etc. instead of ceramic. :D

If you oil them every few months, they will not chip just like any wooden utensil. But caraways or zulay's sets are a good alternative I think

Based on 10 years stainless steel tumbler manufacturer experience,Stanley and Starbucks are good brands,different tumbler with different material making,and vacuum technology are different. Starbucks have some plastic tumbler,and most of stanley are stainless steel material ,the double wall stainless steel tumbler can keep drinks hot and cold better.

Honestly for what you ask nothing beats this it’s the top thing I’d want to sleep on and it’s so durable too (still have to test if for life). It folds smaller than any other thing and, well, my entire country emergency system relies on them even for months of use. Depending on your country it might be sold by the main online grifter

I found this while searching the same thing and ended up trying Wonder - wake because of comments like yours!

The part about being able to sleep through city noise but instantly reacting to a sharp alarm is exactly how I am. What surprised me was that I didn't need a louder alarm, I just needed a different way of waking up.

The fade-in nature sounds have been much more pleasant for me, and I actually feel less groggy and irritated in the first few minutes after waking up..

So thanks for sharing this recommendation, it genuinely helped!!!

My grandmother's KitchenAid mixer that she had for decades. Served us many treats, dinners, and more!

I just got good zip codes for free or cheap stuff. And I have truck. 

Live in the Bay area? You score. Italian leather couches, nice shelves, whatever, someone getting rid of it.

My 4 year old has no problem using the glass jars on OPs picture? They are not that heavy

Which brand did you try out? I tried Cottsbury.com and the bedding is amazingly good. Have been using it for 3 years now

Came here to suggest (milk) crates, so I would definitely continue to use them.

Love their G-series carabiners, just wish they were another 1-2mm thicker with more rounded edges.  
Actually I'd like to see one made out of shaped ~4mm round stock.

The lids also fail after a while

Glass is much more durable. Also you can replace the metal parts and seal if they wear out. The main point for me however is that less plastic is touching my food…

The cheap ones are soooo bad. Our kid had febrile seizures, so we stayed on top of temperatures. Adding the frustration of an inaccurate thermometer to the anxiety of having a sick baby is just awful.

Canvas organizers are suitable as long as you don't have real work shoes that need to be kept separate and clean.

Blinds or other window coverings.  A noticeable amount of heat in a room comes from sunlight through the window.  You can pretty often test this with your eyes closed, hold a hand out and feel the floor.  Where it gets direct sunlight will feel noticeably warmer.

If you block the sunlight you can sometimes cool the room by a noticeable amount.  It won't be as much as air conditioning, but it can take things from sweltering down to merely hot.  In my own room that's sometimes around 2 degrees.

  
A fan itself won't cool the room but it does circulate the air and that can make the whole room a uniform temperature instead of a warmer side and a cooler side.  Where you'd get real cooling is with stuff like a basement.  If you have a basement and set up a fan to blow cooler air up you can sometimes knock like 5 degrees off the upstairs temperature.

  
If you point the fan directly at yourself it will have an even more noticeable effect.

CPR (including infant) classes for the parents. We didn’t expect to need it but we did. You’ll be spending a large portion of your life around playgrounds and schools, and it’s good to know you’ll be prepared if something happens.

The Yoto has been my kid’s favorite possession for 5 years running. Libro fm has great sales on audiobooks for it

If you’re up for it, cloth diapering also really pays off both in cost and satisfaction (very low blowout rate) for me. They hold there value decently and can be used with multiple children or passed on,

Rubis nail scissors. My kid is 8 and we still use the ones gifted to us when she was born

Other than car seats, there's really no point in "investing" on brand new baby items. Most items get donated or sold in great condition. Start a 529 account and put the $$$ you would have spent on brand new items there.

Love those plastic lids and the one that turns the jar into a pitcher!

I’m enjoying the Boon Nursh bottles, they are super easy to wash, milk only touches silicone, and transition to sippy cups, water bottles or snack containers. You really only need 1 shell per size (though I have 2-3) a handful of sleeves and nipples, we prefer the curve as they are better for combo feeding.

My dad still uses the toaster my great grandma got in 1925.

There are other great plastic options out there. Bought a whole set of the OXO pop and the mechanism failed not long after. Properly cleaning the lid can be a real pain too. I really wanted to love them.

no toddlers left behind

In my head I'm trying to think of anything better than an old milk crate for this. I know Duluth Trading Company makes one and I have had their front seat organizer for about 5 years which has held up amazingly.

i had a basic hp latop bag and it worked rly well for my thinkpad but i think i gave the bag more credit than the laptop lol bcs now that i have a mac i actually care abt the bag more. nomatic makes ones with better cushioning and they also have more space for other things if youre travelling and all. Focus on the cushioning and which side its on (your back or to the front of the bag). think abt what matters more to you like one big space or compartments, whatever.

nice! i did the same with my vintage leather sydney wallet, the patina after a few months is unreal

Neither. Consider Cambro containers. That’s kitchen BIFL.

Time to bypass a wifi enabled device-minutes. Time to use bolt cutters or an angle grinder-seconds.

Theres always one guy...

At 20 pages a month find the cheapest older or brother laser or on the used marketplace

I get mine from thrift stores. 😊

I switched to glass storage after discovering how much better it is for longer term storage. I thought my plastic was making a good seal, but it doesn’t compare to glass storage.

Gosh. IF I ever have kids which is unlikely… I’ll take them to the library

There’s no technicality about it, it was a preorder. Clear information. That’s not a loophole or workaround, it’s the reality. They’ve been transparent and forthcoming with the timeline every step of the way.

I carry one of their hand axes when I backpack. It’s fantastic. A friend has repeatedly cautioned me that the composite handle will be impossible to replace if it ever breaks. While that’s true, it hasn’t shown any signs of cracking and it weighs a full pound less than his similar sized one with a wooden handle (and the same weight head).

Just look at caraways utensil set, they are so pretty

Respectfully, this isn’t exactly a BIFL flex. It looks to be a polarfleece jacket. That stuff will last through an apocalypse. Plus as a jacket it’s getting worn less than say a shirt or trousers. 

Yay for not creating extra waste, but realistically this isnt impressive unless you’re simply chuffed for not losing something for 36 years?…

Darn Tough socks. They are just not comfortable at all, AND I had multiple socks with holes in them from normal wear (I'm a desk job work at home person). Ended up donating them.

Used to have these as a daily for a couple of years but got tired of the lock breaking (and finding my keys on the floor) so I switched over to the dual chamber carabiner and haven't lost a key since

Nothing is BIFL, although it feels that way bc having a child is such a life change! My personal must haves are a solly baby wrap (esp for a preemie), a good carrier, the baby bjorn bouncer (find used if you can), a solid stroller that will work now and for any future kids, and a car seat with a cover that can be washed. Go cheap with some things: the ikea high chair and multiple $5 ubbi on-the-go changing mats for the diaper bag and car.

Glass jars with replaceable rubber rings is the only BIFL option

Bamboo.. 
Really cheap and stronger than wood

I'd go with the plastic if you have kids or bad wrists like me :) I also prefer a wide mouth you can scoop out of

When I was in commercial A/V we'd hang Chief mounts for everything from a single 19" workstation to the big 150" Panasonic plasma (OK, that one I think was a one-off, but they did sell an in-stock mount for the 85s).

Would have zero regrets with a dual swingarm from them.

That's a good point about the carbon pellets. Have you noticed a big difference in odor control compared to the typical HEPA-only units?

Store it wherever and portion it into a smaller container for the month. A large container will end up going bad faster.

I broke a rib a couple weeks ago and there's all sorts of things I can't do the way I used to. Putting my seatbelt on, for example, is now a 2 hand affair. 

Everything is connected inside our bodies, and kike you say, we don't understand how we are moving when we do basic tasks until we have to relearn.

I'm imagining Pelican cases with individual cutouts for each shoe. Instant FOD check.

milk crates actually work pretty decent for this but if you want upgrade maybe check some of those canvas trunk organizers with compartments - they fold flat when empty which is nice

Glass for the win, unless you’re a weakling

It’s the same thing that happened with Red Wing Shoes.
They pretty much bailed on US shoes for professionals and now make cheap facsimiles overseas for hipsters.

For our diaper bag we bought a regular Fjallraven backpack. We use Patagonia packing cubes as organizers, with the goal being for our kids to use the packing cubes later for trips!

This thing probably uses more power than your TV

My work has plenty of older craftsman toolboxes. The rolling bottoms and top boxes. They get abused and have the bumps to prove it. Still chugging along. May need a wheel replaced once but other than that, still kicking.

The weight has been my biggest concern, and the accidental drops, but since you mentioned it, twisting lids adds another level of discomfort.

I’m glad you’re getting a laugh out of it, but you’re responding to an argument I never made.

If the only defense of a company is “well, technically it was a preorder,” that’s not exactly a ringing endorsement of their communication, fulfillment, or transparency.

Waiting for a preorder isn’t the issue. The moving timelines, lack of proactive updates, and absence of customer-owned product photos are.

Here's a reply you can drop in:

---

Go with the Reef Fanning. I've had a pair for years and they hold up, durability won't be a problem, which sounds like your main frustration.

For your situation specifically, the Fannings have actual cushioning and shock absorption, which the OluKais don't really offer. OluKai look great and are well made, but they're firmer underfoot, so for bad knees/ankles and plantar fasciitis the Reefs are the safer bet. The footbed is contoured but not aggressively high like Vionics, so it shouldn't trigger the high-arch pain you mentioned.

They also handle water well, I've worn mine hiking in Hawaii and Costa Rica through rain, mist, and stream crossings. Good traction even wet, and they dry fast.

try them on for the arch height if you can, since arch sensitivity is so personal. But for cushy + durable + wide-foot friendly, the Fannings are hard to beat.

I realize this is a year late but fwiw, Cuddledown and LLBean have quality bedding.  I must admit its been a couple years since I bought from Cuddledown but they have been consistent in quality as long as I've done business with them. and they have various designs to choose from as well as solid colors.

  
As for LLBean, I bought some percale sheets and really love them.  I wasn't sure at first b/c they seemed a bit rough but customer service encouraged me to stick it out for a few washes and see.  I did and was very glad.  They continue to soften with each wash.  They're also strong, sturdy and cool to sleep on, similar to what I grew up with.  Another good thing about both stores is that they offer "full" duvet covers, not just full/queen that most do.  I'm weary of swimming in duvet covers that are too big for my full sized duvet.  Also, LLB's flannel quality is excellent.  No pilling and sheets are still soft after numerous washes.  

One other store that you could check out is Garnet Hill. It's been a while since I bought sheets from them so I can't attest to their quality as of late. but they used to have awesome sheets.

  
LLB & Cuddledown are somewhat close in price but do vary depending on the item & thread count.  Also, Cuddledown has good sales, fwiw.  Even tho this is late to the discussion, hopefully these ideas will help some that may still be looking for quality bedding.

Smaller mason jars are fine as long as I don't over tighten them. But I am a bit nervous about my grip as sometimes my joints don't want to joint properly. I don't worry about dropping plastic.

Tickets to somewhere. I always want an experience. I have enough clothes and store  gift cards. A concert or a day trip somewhere , where I can make memories

Interesting.   I have the Sewmatic DeLuxe Zig Zag machine that looks very similar to this. Same casting, same knobs and case and pedal.   Mine has an additional door on the top and a lever where your stitch length is.  This controls the needle going back and forth and with the door on top you can put disks in to make patterns.   The entire mechanism inside moves back and forth not like the later Singers where just the needle moves.

Anyway when I found and restored mine I did some research and found some good info on the old Yahoo sewing boards.  All of the Japanese machines from the 1950's and 60's were made in  2 or 3 factories. The Japanese were not big on branding back then so it is very difficult to tack down who made what where.  The few factories churned out boat loads of these machines with slight or no differences and slapped different name plates on them to sell them at Montgomery Ward, or Sears etc. 

On mine I replaced the belt, got a new motor with a bit more hp which came with a new cord and pedal, and replaced the rubber wheel/O ring on the bobbin winder.   It works great but does need to be oiled every time or it misses stitches or the tension is off.    The Japanese were given the old Singer plans for reconstruction so these use singer needles, bobbins, and the thing the bobbin sits in underneath which I also replaced because it wasnt holding tension.    You may need to rebuild the tensioner mechanism I found some new plates and pieces for it and it works much better now.

I'd suggest plastic but avoid PC/PET/PE/PS and go for PMMA=ACRYLIC. It looks lile glass and is extra resistant, and lightweight.

I like Le Parfait glass jars with a screw top, they have a wide opening. I don’t like the clip top glass jars as the glass seems to weaken were you press down the buckle.

Used one similar to this as a ski wax iron for ages

I realized I'm replying to an 8 years old comment but my 9-year-old virtuoso just gave up the ghost. If you open up the unit there are two screws that have bushings that hold the motor against the black plastic frame. they both disintegrated. resulting in a non-functional grinder. I definitely got my money out of that thing there's no way to fix it so I'm probably going to buy another just beware when your thing stops working take it apart find those two little screws you'll probably find the plastic as damaged around the bushings

I have had some Earlywood products for a few years and I like them. You do have to wash and dry them promptly and oil them occasionally. Their little flat scraper thingy is probably my #1 used cooking tool.

Bormioli last time I checked was bososilicate too even for jars

I have rheumatoid arthritis and its the twisting motion that makes jars a no go for me. 

I am not who you originally replied to but when you're able bodied you don't realize the way your joints work when you do things that seem simple like open a jar. 

The twisting is bad, the pulling is bad, the lifting is not great. The oxo pops are much easier to use. 

Tbf I am mostly a glass jar person but I'm also 35 and only have issues when I'm in a flare.

Ich hab seit vielen Jahren Gusseisen Töpfe und Pfannen. Ich glaube die überleben mich

I use only plastic cups for this reason. However, I also don't have a need to pour boiling water into them xD

Oxo changed the way they manufacture. They are not air tight or worth the money. It’s basically cheap plastic with a button

the internet is not so smart, definitely don't ask the internet.

Agreed.  Brown sugar does not do well in them either.  Plus, if you have to wash the lid, it takes forever to dry because of all of the crevices.  I cannot stand these containers but we bought so many of them I guess I'm stuck with them.

At what cost to your soul

Try drinking orange juice from it

For “pourable” stuff (like rice, popcorn, oats, etc.) I use a 1 gallon Rubbermaid Mixermate. They recently changed them, so try to find the old style. Any kind of pitcher should work as long as what you’re pouring is smaller than the opening.

My mother has had a crate and barrel couch since around 1997. Still comfortable, looks good but has flattened a bit over the past few years. She spends almost all day on it now that she's retired, plus or minus a large dog. I'm not a furniture expert but that's my story. I plan to get a crate and barrel couch once our Ikea couch wears out.

Just store it in its bag with a bag clip

Prison cafeteria maxxing

Are regular mason jars a problem for you? I  know when they get over tightened or actually seal they are hard for anyone but for day to day use they shouldn’t get tightened that far.

totally agree. the 'aesthetic' of glass isn't worth the carpal tunnel from wrestling with a 7lb jar every time you want oatmeal. oxo looks cool but that lid mechanism is a gimmick that fails way too fast for this sub.

I have a soft and hard cooler, both are very good - durable, beautiful, and effective. The hard one will keep ice frozen for several days, it’s kinda nuts.

Glass jar. The seals are replaceable.

the glass jars are nice and durable but I really don't like using them. Its always a pain to use my measuring cups with them. Better to get something with a wide opening.

Se ve que las zapatillas económica

Most men's socks are like 6-12. That is why I started buying Nike socks. Their sizing is tight, 6-8, 8-10, 10-12, etc.

I bought a rabbits foot keychain that I still have 35 years later if that counts.

I use the UGREEN US316 but the 3m version of it. the part that connects to your device is all metal so it should be more durable + its quite thick(probably because its so long)

I've had it for more than a year and it has shown no noticeable signs of wear and tear

Columbia River Knife, Bamboozled, Ken Onion Jr design.  $75.  Classy, highly functional, easy opening flipper.  I get more compliments than any knife I have.

I just use a smaller my 1/2 cup to scoop instead of my 1 cup measuring cup. It’s not really that big of a deal to me.

I have a Pasotti and I’m obsessed with it. It’s so gorgeously designed and also held up shockingly well. I used mine in The Netherlands and watched someone else have their umbrella turned inside out while mine nearly pulled me along the path but didn’t have any structural weakness or buckling.

Half gallon Mason jars are inexpensive and air tight.

Really good after-sales support, and the table lasting this long is already a great sign of durability. Thanks for sharing!

That’s fine if you don’t buy in bulk from distributing machines, you need your own containers for that. If you live in a place like the U.S. south where it’s humid and pests are a common problem, you also want to avoid boxes and stuff. My crackers will be moist after a few days in southern Louisiana and I don’t want to invite more mice, roaches and food moths.

Those xox tubs blow. I've gone through a few of them. The latches break and when they do you get to see how gross the insides of the tops are. Hard pass on those

These are what I use, but I wish the mouths were slightly wider.

You’re gonna want a wide enough mouth for scooping. I bought large jars to store my oats, but regret not buying something with a wider mouth. My measuring cups don’t fit :(

Hill people gear, they’ve got a pack for all your needs, will literally last forever, and can be repaired.

Just because I haven't seen it said yet, stainless steel tubs from any restaurant supply store. Lighter than glass. Won't break if dropped. No microplastic leaching into you food. And pretty cheap too!

I literally said in my comment that there isn't an option in this current living situation to avoid moving containers. Even if I did have the room, I have transitioned away from almost all glass because I don't want to risk breaking things.

This hasn't broken with my level of use and I have a duplicate that will presumably last another 12+ years. Would defeat the purpose of BIFL to buy something else.

I do have one vendor who is bearing less labour from us and the pricing is pretty much low in compare to others. Hence, even with a low budget, the all requirements are fulfilled..♥️

🤭😙 mejor enseñarle a trabajar

My Buck 110 is a bit older than me-- 60 years now or so. I sent it in to Buck for their "spa treatment" a couple of years ago and it's ready to go another 60 years now. But too large for EDC for me, it's my hunting/camping knife though.

Bormioli Fido!!! My parents have had theirs for 40 years; pretty sure the seals are still intact from that long ago. Now that I’m in my forever kitchen, I’ve also purchased and use those jars. 

Another person mentioned the narrow openings; while it’s not ideal that many 1c measures won’t fit, there exist some that do (especially the broader, rounded-bottom kinds). If pouring from these jars, it’s really simple to detach the lid so it’s not flapping around in the way.

I honestly thought mine would degrade within six months from the summer heat in my trunk, but I just used it to jump my neighbor's truck after a year of storage and it worked instantly, though I still obsessively check the battery gauge every few months just in case.

You're pretty much required to play with the button a few times every time you take the lid off

Well but not perfect. It's come undone in my pocket a handful of times and I've had a key escape a couple times in the past 12 years.

Yes, new cats are awesome

Minimalist chiming in: No special tables, cute small canvas tote ($12 Amazon) with a folding washable waterproof mat, wipes, dipes, triple paste. One for each level. Change anywhere you’re comfortable. One hand always, always on baby. P.S. Those two cute washable totes are still my school age kids day trip bags- they pack themselves.

There are so many options and at prices ranging from $25 to $250+ for EDC knives. My current one is a CRKT Sero, in black with a black blade. I love it, probably the lightest 3" folder I've carried in decades. Runs just about $100. The lock is fabulous.

i had a glass one like OP posted and the metal hatch is just way too strong of a seal that both jars broke around the rim after a couple of weeks using it daily. had to throw away all of the contents of food :( so i really dont recommend glass vacuum seal like this anymore

How'd you wind up liking the dual pillow?

Snaps were no problem for us. The sleep sacks were terrible- baby overheats and sweats, sweat rash. Cotton snap onesies are where it’s at.

The skate shoes are the padded ones, the BMX ones have little padding but are pretty hardy, good for weight lifting too, then there's the cheap fashion ones. Don't buy them.

Obligatory Technology Connections to explain why the difference matters

Peg Perego travel system. My daughter is six and we still use the stroller. Best purchase. Also 4 waterproof quilted mats. They fit a pack and play but have had so many uses.

Bleach is not very effective as a cleaner. Something like oxyclean or cafiza is much better suited for the task. Appropriate brushes that bend and have proper hardness, or the lack there of, which will reach spaces to be scrubbed make cleaning much easier. I'd normally just bend my hands in half but that's giving me early arthritis being that I have EDS. 

It sounds like you have a specific shape in mind by your dishwasher comment. Glassware that seals well comes in many shapes and sizes. It's possible to get a good clean with bottle jets in the dishwasher on closed containers, or to remove the top rack and stack as needed. 

Home dishwashers are far more versatile than you might imagine.

Magnetic me pjs. Keekaroo Peanut changing table.

They ruined my chips ahoy.  

They’re clever, but I only use them now for things we rip through- we’ll go through the noodles in a week, and they’re good for that.

I used to store all dry goods in glass. As the arthritis in my hands has worsened, I am switching over to plastic. 

I also bought a three tiered cart, so I load up my cart from the pantry with supplies, and roll them into my kitchen.

They work well, nothing like the lockless ones.

Glass is heavy, slippery and dangerous. I’ve accidentally let one of these slip through my hands— it only fell a couple of feet to the countertop, but a shard ricocheted and cut my hand and caused permanent nerve damage.

There’s a reason why restaurants use Cambros! They’re not pretty but they are safe and light workhorses!

I lost a complete set of keys using the non-lock version! The locking mechanism was a smart addition.

They are the only OXO item I’ve ever really been disappointed in :/
      
And I jumped deep into the system right away just really going off of the past experiences I’ve had. 
        
They suck. They crack big, crack small, crack in the corners, crack on the sides. They suck to clean, and they were never air tight. I got the bigs, smalls, shorts, talls, the ones with the scoops for flour, they all suck.

My middle sister sent me a bunch of clothes. I sent my sisters a text with my 2 year old in the orange ll bean jacket and my oldest sister sent back a picture of her 2 year old (now 22 year old) wearing the same jacket. Love the passing down of that stuff. The big risk to sturdier items like that getting destroyed is some disaster that is too yucky to salvage from.

Check out the Anchor Hocking penny candy glass jars. We use these for near daily grain use. We can remove the metal lid and scoop out the contents. It still may not meet your needs, but if you can arrange them well, you rarely have to lift them. I think they make 1 gallon or more. My frustration is aimed at non-disabled folks, so apologies if this came off as ableist.

Stokke tripp trap high chair

Chlorine and UV make this a challenging environment. I would probably try to find out what brand a ‘commercial’ swimming pool would use.

Spyderco. Very nice knives. Redwing Heritage, Made in USA boots. Shimano anything. Apple products.

I like those glass jars with the metal clamp. I have a set from Ikea that have lasted many years. The rubber gaskets have to be replaced every 5 years or so.

I get what you’re saying, but literally thousands of food products are packaged stored or processed in plastics. I challenge anyone who thinks that they could remove them entirely from all the food they buy and still get enough calories in their diet.

They only work with cheap, fine thread. 

If you use cotton or a heavy quality thread, it is all to thick for those small SMALL eyes.

So you have to get new needles with a long or large eye

I love glass shit in general BUT, as someone who’s using a big ol mason jar to store chex in the cereal cabinet, that mother fucker is thick and takes up all kinds of space. 

I like Sistema for cereal and such.

I like practical things also but I would not like an umbrella unless I lived somewhere where it rains a lot

Where did you get your big ass glass jar?  Does the ass shape help with holding it.  Does the ass shape keep things fresher.  Do they sell smaller ass glass jars as well.

And somebody made a jacket out of them, no less!

You may not be buying the correct bulbs. You need enclosure rated bulbs a lot of the times or else you will cook your bulb and kill it. They are built better to handle the heat. Everyone just buys the cheapest ones which end up failing in 6 months because they are designed to be used in open air and they cook in the light fixture.

I've had the wire gate on Nite Ize S-biners break before.

I wanted to believe in the "10 year warranty", but 100% of my Crees died before 10 years.

Large glassware containers(or large containers in general) are not well-suited for home dishwashers. The jets might not be able to reach the back with enough pressure to chisel away all of the crud that has formed. In addition, narrow necks(like the one shown in the photo) can block the water such that some areas might not get washed at all. You can nuke them with bleach, which is basically what we did to our bioreactors after we finished with experiments, but I prefer not to have to deal with corrosive chemicals in my own kitchen. Large plastic containers at least have the benefit of being relatively light and therefore easier to wash by hand.

Wider top all the way, regardless of material.  I couldn’t insert my rice scoop in a narrow-necked jar.

I live in a condo and don't have the room to have a single row of all my containers, so there is Tetris that happens often. Im still young but my arm just doesn't like the weight of rice in glass.

I bought the same set around four years ago and none of the metal pieces stay closed anymore :-(

Regular cambro covers are not airtight, but they have seal covers that are airtight

Not much. A good car seat and I would say the Stokke Tripp Trapp high chair for us personally. We love them and they concert into endlessly adjustable toddler chairs and have great resale value. Oh! And the Ergobaby 360 omni baby carrier. THE BEST baby item I bought hands down, both my kids loved being in it and it's still looking brand new 2.5 years and two kids on. All the mums in my mum's group who had own loved it too.

When you get to toy age it can be great to invest in some quality brands like Grimm's, Schleich, Magna-tiles, Sarah's Silks and other brands that use high quality materials. But in saying that, outside of a few key open-ended toys, I wouldn't spend too much as kid's interests can be fickle.

We did floor beds so we invested in good firm mattresses for the kids that should last a decently long time. 

A Bissell spot cleaner is another great investment for kid mess on carpet and soft surfaces.

A lot of parenting is trial and error, so I would be wary of spending too much until you figure out what works for you and your family. I wish I had down this with my first, the fancy baby camera was great but totally unnecessary, my first hated the mamaroo swing and my second disliked the baby bjorn bouncer (my first loved it) and co-sleeper bassinet. 

My third is getting a nice new firm mattress, a couple of dummies, 4 Bonds zippy onesies and a couple Ergopouch sleep sacks. Job done haha. Will definitely still be using my Ergobaby carrier so I can chase my two toddlers around.

I got two green velvet fold-down couches from Novogratz for $300 each and 7+ years later they’re holding up well. Prices are higher now but still reasonable. The founding couple has a great eye for design. Looks like they sell through Wayfair at the moment.

I’ve used big swing top jars for flour and other bulk stuff and the lids are annoying. I use them for fermentation now.

You can buy plastic flip lid jars with rubber seals.

I have back and arm muscle issues. I can't deal with the weight of glass. I recently bought OXO Pop and very happy with them so far.

rubbermaid brilliance (glass version). the ONLY containers airtight enough to carry us through a months-long pantry moth infestation, plus they’ve been going strong for several years. i also really like bormioli rocco for stuff that calls for round containers (can’t have soup in a square container, obv) and caning.

I have some non-foldable Adirondack chairs. I left them out over winter, hosed them off, and they're good as new.

They do get pretty hot in the sun, however. That's the drawback.

As long as you’re not a soda or orange juice drinker.

I use glass jars with lid for my rices and lentils and oats. I purchased mine years ago but they are similar to these.

You can add a layer of plastic wrap under the lid that helps, but the lids themselves *can* be quite tight, brand and type dependant. If there is a brick and mortar restaurant supply store near you, you can probably go in person and check out which ones have good lids. I have these
 

(excuse the webstaurant link lol) and they have stored oats, sugar, flour etc in my garage on a pallet for a few years very successfully. Disclaimer: I live in a dry place and I have a cat who keeps mice out :)

Nice. I got the set of 4 Oxo containers from Costco. I keep oatmeal and rice in the largest ones. It’s also totally fine.

That’s a lot of bats

From personal experience storing rice in that exact same glass jar:  the mouth is too narrow to use your measuring cup to scoop rice out, which forces you to lift it to pour it. But the bail top lid is annoying/difficult to keep out of the way. In addition to it just being kinda heavy. I have two of these gathering dust.

I have plastic, but I like how they fit in my cupboard and cannot afford glass.

I eat granola out of my enormous glass jar every morning. It’s totally fine.

Annoying to clean? They're dishwasher safe or just use oxyclean / cafiza and it's literally no work.

Once upon a time, my wife and I got pantry months in all our dry food, and after trying all kinds of storage we learned that ONLY bail jars (bormioli, fido, etc ) kept the little suckers out. It's all we use.

Great suggestion. Thanks for giving multiple brands too. I saw an all clad at TJ maxx a year ago and happily purchased it. Glad to know there are other good brands there too!

Also, the opening is small so it’s hard to scoop out.

I hate my oxo containers like that. I’m actually getting rid of them and replacing it with IKEAs glass jars.

They suck. Break and crack so easily plus the seals suck.

For some reason I quick read this as 5 pounds of bats when I was scrolling

Yes, this is perfect for /r/wellworn

I just bought a XL sized Komax Biokips Container. Made in Korea, BPA free , silicone seal lid that’s supposed to be air tight.  Good reviews, bought it to store rice.

Second ball jars. Got a few of the gallon size for mainly storage and making cold brew. I prefer the after market plastic lids, but the metal ones are solid and easy to come by

Reminds me of Elliot's hoodie from ET

I’d go with the glass, simply, because I think it will last longer, it’s probably more airtight, and it just looks nicer. I’m not a fan of the pops containers. After a while, they look cloudy, and I just think glass is always better than plastic when storing food, esp long-term.

If you got old tools, look into replacing handles or blades. A good blade can get a new handle and last 50 more years lol.

I definitely prefer the oxo pop for daily use. It is easy to use and convenient (wider mouth if you want to scoop a cup). that said it is expensive and I would expect to replace it down the line (mine is going 5 years and I do not need to replace it). However, I would choose the jar over the oxo if you are going to display whatever you’re storing on your countertop, jars look more rustic and pleasing. I use jars for my coffee that I leave out on the counter. Also a jar will probably be more air tight if you are not regularly opening and closing.

Not 100%, but good enough for sure

I second this. Work is restaurant's they're amazing, but pricey.

Bormioli or any of a dozen other glass options with rubber or silicone seals 100%. Why tf would you buy plastic as a BIFL food product? The oxo product isn’t air tight and the arguments that glass is somehow unwieldy or delicate are spurious at best. We use glass jars for our granola, cereal, rice, salt, sugar, etc. for over 15 years, with 2 kids in the house, one 18 and one 11, and we have literally NEVER had a broken jar. Some of those glass jars are 50 years old or more, with new seals. PITA to clean is bullshit. It takes what? A minute or two more to clean and you didn’t add to the demand for more plastic? GTFO with that argument. If you can’t be fucked to take a few more moments to care for a sustainable and durable product that doesn’t require the use of more refined petroleum you are in the wrong sub.

Following, I'm struggling to find a jar big enough for my Costco oats lol.

If you have a store similar to Home Goods near you, I got a TON of Mason branded glass jars with the wire suspended lids w/ rubber gaskets for like 70% off of their usual price, in so many different sizes. I have them for making small batches of vanilla, all the way up to giant jars for pantry staples, and everything in between. I LOVE them. 

People say they dont trust glass because "what if you drop it?" but, as a clumsy person with a toddler, I use two hands on the bigger ones and never set them near the edge of a counter/table and they've held up for years!

Any appropriate glass jar with a tight fitting seal, or big ass Mason jars, but only glass though. Plastic is not our friend.

I have a bunch of these. Use them on my keys, or to attach ID tags to stuff, etc. 

They're great

We aren't talking about single-user, dollar store plastic or super thin PET. The pop containers are made of acrylic or something that has no bpa. Just don't literally cook them and they won't leach

Glass is obviously better for certain things, I love my mason jars, but it's heavy and shatters if you drop it

IMO, neither. The oats that I get come in a resealable bag. It's existing packaging that I will throw away anyway and it's lightweight.

They both can shatter, smarty pants.

Spatulas from a korean grocery (or chinese), either bamboo or flexible steel. They will have silicone ones too and nice SS or wood ladles, etc.

I have been using a glass jar like on the left for my oats for about 6 years now. No problems and keeps them fresh for weeks and would recommend.

Yeah I've heard a lot of this on my last post. I only discovered the brand a few years ago, but seems like their older stuff was much higher quality. Increasingly common story these days

Are they air tight? Hard to judge from photos

All Clad via their warehouse sales:

If the food is stored in a dry, temperature stable environment, and said food doesn't have a lot of oils that can react, it's unlikely that micro plastics would leech into the food. If you're really worried, you could get some pfas free parchment paper and wrap the interior in it.

I love my Bormioli jars, def do that.

I’ve had my rice, dog food, and flour all in the glass containers for years. They are kinda a pita to clean, but otherwise I prefer them over plastic. They keep everything airtight and fresh and with glass they don’t retain odors.

I love Oxo, I upgrade to Oxo whenever a kitchen utensil wears out and it's always a noted improvement. However, the Oxo sealable bins are a disappointment. Not airtight and a loose seal at best.

I’ve found 100% cotton, deep fitted, Tommy Bahama and Ralph Lauren sheets at Marshall’s for around $40-60. Both sets are on year 4 and look great.

I used to be a Threshold die-hard, but the last sets I bought weren’t great.

Some everyday. But I’ve also had kids sit and click them in and out way too many times.

I have several very lightly used ones that barely seal at all and a couple where the button sticks. The reviews are very hit or miss, so would not recommend them.

Welcome to South India

Uvex/Titmus 70F safety glasses.

$35 and bomb proof. 

Okay, not bombs but ANSI Z87.1

when you say 'both in microwave and convection modes' do you mean you used combo mode? like both of them together?

Buy a 2 gallon jar of pickles, eat the pickles, store afterwards, may with a desiccant packet or something if you're feeling perky

Twisting the top tightens it a bit but they're definitely not air tight.

I hope it’s all going as well as can be in NICU. The things that are still going the distance since first kid are few and far between, but: 
- IKEA cot has done two kids. 
- Bonds zippies wash well and the prints hide stains. 
- invest in nice bedding - they sleep a lot (well, hopefully) 😂
- a jolly jumper - sooo much joy ! 

Things I could’ve done without: 
- overthinking all sorts of gear for going out and about (we stayed home a lot!)
- a moses basket (lasted 3 months) 
- a baby bathtub (a giant pc of plastic taking up space)

I guess I meant generations of use. 3 individuals.

Maybe 4 individuals as the tag has what appears to be someone else's name.

Kids grow fast, so even average quality clothing could be transferred to the next kid. The younger the kid the faster the transfer to another one. The problem here is constant washes that lead to colour fading (even if quality is good).

Yeah we have a few that we've used every day for 8 years and counting for dog food and treats, and they show no signs of wear

I love my oxo pop. Daily use for 5 years and it still operates like new

this is what came to mind for me as well, especially with a small opening like that. you have to lift the jar and pour vs scooping which can be difficult with heavy glass

I have both and like them both

Though without any specific intention, I use the glass for daily use items, and the plastic for long term storage items

The fastest way to see quality changes are to look at the non-critical components. Grips, trigger/hammer, fit and finish. They find a cheaper/faster way to churn them out that doesn't affect safety or reliability and then make that the new path forward.

Older Colt/S&W firearms used to be top notch in every way, even the lower end models.

It’s not fear mongering. Plastic is unneeded and it’s just hangs around our environment for far too long.

Do you use yours frequently? Ours is 6+ years old, but use them fairly infrequently. We were swapping them out for bormioli if/when they give out, since our preference is glass.

It’s a good cooler, I was kinda cursing myself immediately after I bought it but it actually does what it claims.  There is a period of adjustment where you think it’s so much smaller and less capable than the rotomolded cooler but it’s actually not because you don’t need to waste space on ice.

Based on my experience using glassware for molecular biology, I can confidently say that giant glass containers are annoying to handle and annoying to clean. Get plastic if you can.

I’ve used 12 year old Cambros that were in commercial use and they were fine (lids might have needed replacing once)

They do not wear out quickly. We have never replaced one in 5 years. And have about 20 of them in the pantry.

That's hardly a pan construction problem at that point.

This is like blaming your vehicle with manual transmission for rolling down the hill because the driver forgot to use the parking break (or leave it in gear).

breaks when dropped

Breaks multiple things in this case as this wouldn't leave any toes it landed on intact.

I had a bunch of these and they all died at about the same rate as today's average-price bulb. They started with a silicone dip on the glass, then they removed that. Lifetime was unaffected.

The bulbs that have lasted the longest were the $20/each (in 2010's prices) Philips remote-phosphor bulbs, with the 3 lobes on top. Heavy af! I only had one of those fail out of about 5.

This article has pictures:

Just as a counter point, I'd ask who is handling it? Seniors benefit from lighter weight materials and it's easier on kids too. I prefer glass but not everyone can heft it.

Well, one of them shatters lmao
No need to spread unneeded plastic fear-mongering

It makes me so happy to see my grandaughter wearing my daughter’s clothing💙

Glass is durable and recyclable. And the seal is made from rubber and replaceable. Bormioli and Fido all the way.

Also I've had a few of the lids stop working completely which is really annoying. Definitely do not recommend.

Check out the Prepara ones. Very popular in the coffee nerd and weed communities.

Seconded. Ive had my cambros for over a decade. Only thing I needed yo replace was the lids, which occasionally crack

I eat oatmeal every day for breakfast. I was thinking about using a big ass glass jar and what an enormous pain it would be. You are correct.

If it’s holding something you actually go through steadily, the OXO pop containers are just fine. I don’t need it to hold a perfect seal.

I do enjoy my full grain leather "greasy" Solovair boots, they did take some wearing in.

They can be fine, but if the power goes out when you’re boiling eggs and you forget to turn the electric stove burner off and power comes back on at 5 AM and the water boils away, those semi-clad bottoms will melt and pop off and get all ruined by the time the smoke detector goes off from the roasting eggs. I’ve tried it!

Yes! Surprised I had to scroll this far down to find this!

Ok, so my friends do not have a registry, registries could be a very American thing. What do I get?

I'm debating between diaper brand gift cards/changing table/something of the sort

I started buying and using Kavu stuff about 25 years ago. Kayaking, mountain, biking, skiing.
I still have a lot of it. 
That said, the stuff I bought after they stopped making in the USA, is long ago on the dust heap of history.

I use the Cambro 6qt squares with lids for oats, rice, beans, flour and even for my dry cat food. With the Cambro lid they are airtight and leak proof plus they fit nicely in my pantry and can be stacked easily.

Cambro tubs from the restaurant supply. Not sure if they are bifl, but they are pretty solid come in various sizes, and versatile. Especially for food prep and bulk storage.

I've had it happen on two of them for me, and I will go months without printing anything

The ones I had were the ET-2720 and one of the ET-3000 series, I can't find which one it was

They did last a long time without doing that though

We have 4 of their Adirondak chairs. On 3 of the chairs, the brace under the armrest has broken over the last few years. 

Each time, they ship out a free replacement within 24 hours of submitting the warranty claim. 

They’re quick, responsive, and trustworthy. Wouldn’t hesitate to recommend them.

Glass because why buy more plastic you don’t have to?

In the box it came in with the top open after its first use.

They have a decent glass set at Costco. Has a glass base with a plastic clamp on lid that has a silicone gasket to make a seal.

Nautica Or Calvin Klein

Yeah but glass jars anrwn’t ideal either. It’s heavy, and slippery, and breaks when dropped. There needs to be something in between haha

Yeah one look at that design and I can tell it's not gonna be air tight. I have a set of square shaped containers with lids that tighten down much like on a lunchbox. They stack nicely in my kitchen cabinets, which is what makes the superior to round jars imo

My dad technically bought it, but I have a steel Cosco step stool (yes, Cosco, NOT Costco) that I've had since I was a baby. Despite consistent heavy use, it's still in near perfect condition (only cosmetic wear & tear--im 38 yo) and feels as level & sturdy as ever. I swear I've even thrown it around a bunch and it's no worse for wear. It doesn't have any bells or whistles & doesn't collapse, but it's consistently the perfect size for so many things and I literally go mad when I can't find it. I even use it outside for yard work and for servicing machines for my vending business. It looks like they can be found on eBay and are quite affordable despite being labeled as "vintage" 😅

glass jars with the wire bail lids are way better for airtight seal, those rubber gaskets actually work when you close them properly. plastic containers always seem to let air in after few months of use

Bormioli, the pop-up mechanism on those Oxo things wear out very quickly, and the containers are not airtight anyway. The seals on the Bormioli jars can be replaced if necessary.

Mate, I've had one of these on my keys for the past decade as well. That and a simple d ring for a keychain and I've never needed to replace them.

Leather boots/shoes/jackets. 

Tools that don't breakdown within a year. 

A car you can actually fix.

A computer you can keep ripping the parts out of while you buy a new case/monitor/GPU/Motherboard/RAM/CPU 

....

I feel like there's a lot more to share but that's my list!😁

Mmm, tasty, tasty micro-plastics.

Thank you for your honesty

If you look on the US website you can see how many of their shoes look almost identical.  Here in the US if you can find a Vans storefront they have the different quality of shoes on different walls of the store where it is much more apparent what is going on with them.

You can get generic toner from Amazon for about $25 and it will print 3000 pages.  You should buy one soon, just in case they get hard to find.

I almost grabbed some of those in the recent sale. Mostly increased my number of decent carabiners and bought the rope locking hooks to make an indoor clothes line with!!

This is even more true of their rice cookers.

Everyone says those OXO POP containers are far from air tight.

My personal favorite are the casaluna hemp sheets. I think they’re discontinued, but you can find them on eBay cheap enough. Very breathable and they feel like a good quality set of linen sheets.

3 generations?   You, your oldest son and your youngest is just 2 generations.

Lems. It's what I use for my caveman/bigfoot feet....

This is big.

None of them will be bifl, but the one that looks like two toilet brushes at each end lasted the longest for me and like the comment above said, keep it in the shade.

Wood doesn't mold easily unless you leave it in water constantly. It's naturally resistant to bacteria. 

Also how long are you leaving your metal utensils in your food that it's flavoring it?

They had to do all that proprietary stuff with their ink and make them cheaper, so they'd break, because the old ones were lasting too long. The original deal was they made the best printers and the expensive ink was what was supposed to keep them in business. But then generic ink came along!

My grandma left behind a set of porcelain cups, and they're absolutely beautiful, more like works of art than everyday dishes. Even now, my family still enjoys bringing them out and using them.

Rip it out and get those assorted carpet tiles you can find at various hardware and flooring places:  

You will never get the smell out.  The padding will absorb the odor, under the padding, etc.

Best enzyme cleaner is Eco-88 (not that cr\*p  Nature's Miracle you get at Petsmart).

Hello /u/europeanuppercut! Thank you for your submission! The AutoMod thought that your post might be a request type post and has changed the flair accordingly, but if this was wrong feel free to change it back!

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/BuyItForLife) if you have any questions or concerns.*

My mom was meticulous in taking care.of things. She saved this coat hoping to find one that would fit growing me. Never let it go. 

My mom is the opposite of a hoarder. She can't handle clutter.

The best way to get them to last to keep them out of the sun

Agreed. Shockingly, our ikea Kivik couch lasted nearly 10yrs, two cross country moves and two little boys/dog who were swashbuckling, jumping from it or grinding Cheetos into it. 

“Upgraded” to a very nice pottery barn couch which is marginally more comfortable and cost 7 or 8x only to start pilling within the first 6mo.

Love mine, best can opener I’ve had

I use them to be able to easily separate my work keys from my personal keys so I don't need to carry them all on the weekends.  Or at least that is what my intent was.  I very rarely actually separate them.

What about Orange juice

How well do the locks work, I used a regular Nite for my dogs Samsung tag and it fell off twice.

Gets mad and throws it. Punches a hole in the wall.

It's just a phase, I'll grow out of it

Epson ecotank. I’m in original packaged ink 4 years and a few 1000 pages later.

I got a lazyboy rocking recliner and it is my LIFELINE. SO so so so comfortable, super durable, perfect arm height and great for napping and snuggles.

The ones I've have fail on my had two main problems. First, the tangs (metal that extends through the handle) end too early. When you used the handles as leverage to pierce the can, the plastic handles snap in half instead. Second, the gears strip becIse they are made of a cheap and malleable alloy instead of something durable.

I'm glad it was. I'm suddenly in the market for a new set and this was one of the first threads that popped up when I searched. It's been very helpful.

A 36 year old toddler?? Wow

Arts and crafts hand hammered copper lamp “dirk
Van erp” (look it up) my great grandmother bought at the original workshop new in san francisco in the 1930s. Still works. Still
Use it.  Looks so cool
Even in contemporary design.

Tripp trapp high chair

Started as their 40% off sale but in store I was able to get some additional add ons.

Buy a simple bench-made sofa (kiln dried hardwood frame with a center leg to prevent sag). If you're willing to have it professionally cleaned annually (at least, more frequently if you have pets or smokers in the house) and get it reupholstered when it begins to look shabby after a decade, you're golden.

I’d check FB marketplace and see if you can get one from someone who just moved out of the dorms. My daughter tried to bring two extras home that were just put out by the dorm dumpsters. Apparently they’re like puppies, they follow you home.

Fair enough. Generations of use better? 

Funny enough, I'm not even sure I was the first owner. The tag has someone else's name. I don't know that person.

My grandaughter is wearing clothes from her 38 year old Mom💙

My parents gave me mine as a high school graduation gift before college. I graduated in 2007.

You’re absolutely ridiculous! The sub is about product *longevity*. The operative word is not “buy,” the operative sentiment is about some material acquisition that can be used for its intended purpose over some extended period of time. 

It doesn’t matter if you buy it new, used, from a garage sale, receive it as a gift, or inherit it.

I have so many of these because I use them for everything. They are amazing. Keys, backpacks, on the boat, diaper bag, stroller, golf bag, all the things.

Love this and people on the r/wellworn sub may like it too

I bought a couple stainless steel pots on the used marketplace and expect them to last a lifetime.

Highly recommend WÜSTHOF Gourmet 6.5" Offset Slotted Spatula recommended by America's test kitchen. Supposed to be a fish spatula but I use it for just about everything. Dishwasher safe.

Just bought a pair of deadstock Sundowners.  Walked around my yard for 10 minutes and the midsole crumbled right out from under me- outer sole looked great but it fell off

LeMargo. You are going to pay a pretty penny but they’re Italian leather and so well made.

Klein tools have been great.  Also built my entire cabin in Maine using Dewalt cordless tools. Great stuff.

the power tool thing bites everyone eventually lol. the torque just crushes the HDPE and you dont notice until two seasons later.

polywood TCO math is real though. i was tracking outdoor furniture prices on couponpicked last summer and the cheaper aluminum-and-mesh sets were running $150-250 but needed replacing every 2-3 years in hot climates. polywood at $600 over 10 years is actually the cheaper seat.

absolutely qualifies. 1997 zojirushi is pre-firmware, pre-wifi, no app to lose access to, no subscription to activate the sourdough setting. the paddle, the belt, the heating element -- all mechanical wear items that can be sourced or replaced. zojirushi still makes parts for older models and the design has barely changed.

29 years of bread is not an accident. that is a machine that was engineered to actually last.

VF Corporation acquired Vans in 2004 and it was fine for a while, but once PE pressure really kicked in around 2016-2018 you started seeing the corner-cutting show up in the sole bond and outsole compound.

for the canvas/vulcanized look: PF Flyers still makes a classic USA-adjacent silhouette. Palladium for something more durable. etnies for skate-adjacent that still has some quality in the construction.

if you want the actual Vans look with old Vans quality, thrift stores from 2010-2015 era is genuinely worth hunting. the rubber is different.

That’s the brand of mini split AC units we have

Hank's Belt sells real leather dog collars; I haven't tried one but it might be worth it if you're willing to spend 80$ on a dog collar....

Pulled the trigger on the Pelican, and it arrived today. I think it'll be perfect for my needs, and if not I'm only out $150. Thanks for your input.

What are supposed to use them for?

Hatch.
Little Sleepies zipper onesies.
Phillips Avent bottle warmer.
Melii click and go 4 pack containers.
Newton mattress and sheets.
Stokke Click. My only reservation with recommending is I wish there was an even higher leg rest setting than the two options provided.

Those things are the best things

My dog would shake off her tags with any other quick release attachment. They need to be removed when we wash them (she's greasy). Tags would be washed in the sink with dish soap and the collar in the laundry. These are a lifesaver as they don't unclasp without finger pressure.

Those MFs make the best everything (seriously, is there anything they don't make? It's kind of unhinged). Inherited my parentss upright piano and it is a true heirloom.

Respectfully, that’s not how generations work. Your oldest and youngest are the same generation.

They have modern styles as well. I just bought a mid century modern one from an Amish shop in Ohio.

I used these on my house keys but unfortunately they both suffered the same fate where the buckle part detached from the body and wouldn't properly go back in, went back to regular key ring. Otherwise really cool piece of kit though.

All clad D3 or D5 if you’re serious. But buy 1 at a time unless you know you’ll use everything in the set. This is expensive but they will be the last pans you ever buy.

I love using my set of Bamboo sppons/spatulas - they are probably not considered BIFL, but they are pretty cheap, eco and ceramic pan-friendly, and easy to clean (avoid the dishwasher with any wooden utensils)

Same with my Canada Goose. Trendy or not (I took the red logo patch off mine because it was a bit much) that is the warmest thing I've ever owned and still looks new 10 years later through many harsh Canadian winters. Although I bought it for $500 and now the same one now retails for triple that. But the quality is insane.

SERVICES- house cleaner, or even someone that just does dishes.. maybe the neighbor kid wants to make some money folding tiny baby clothes? Someone to come give you a regular break with your partner. This is coming from a two time mama during Covid, March  2020. I would have given anything to be able to take care of my mental health and soak up baby during that time instead of focusing on having enough toilet paper or baby clothes to last.. i’m not saying that’s what you’re doing. But pay others for services, you won’t regret saving the time.

I had the version without the lock and they are terrible. You can just slightly push the metal to the side and the whole thing pops off

I tend to have good luck with Adidas. I buy superstars because the shell toe means no seam across the front, which is a common failure point. The shell toe look is not for everyone though.

I love mine. Easy to clean, it's sturdy, and is well designed. Great for all hair textures too!

I think a set is very useful myself. But only if you save money on the individual pieces. There’s nothing in my stainless set that I don’t use. One thing to consider is that stainless frying pans eventually warp so if you have a glass or standard old range, eventually, you’re going to have problems with them.

I agree these are useful but they are NOT BIFL. I use them on all my keys so that I don't have to carry every key all the time...I swap out what I need when I need it.
I use them when kayaking to keep things tethered to the boat.

But I have had had several failures over the years. If you really need a tiny carabiner they're fine...for a while. But get a real carabiner if you want BIFL

Me too. I also use them to clip my keys to key leashes. They are fantastic and they do seem to go forever.

I agree!
OP should donate the old utensils and just get new bifl ones

My $80 (2014 money) haier fridge lasted 10 years and I just sold it for $60. It was a tank.

Where are you located, and have you thought about financing? Maybe it would be better to make a monthly payment with 0 interest.

  
We recently purchased a really comfortable and sturdy sectional during Memorial day, as they were having a sale. With the 5yr protection and white glove delivery, it came out to $3k. We have 12 months to pay it off, so we will pay $250/mo.

  
Not sure if there is a R&F near you, but I am sure it is available at other furniture stores:

the plastic locker has fallen out on mine.

The money I literally didn't spend?  That's a rather odd reading.

The little money I did spend was so worth it: I can still pick up both of my cast iron pans with my arthritic hands, and their machining make them infinitely more non stick than the Lodges they replaced.

I'd respect you far more if you answered OP's question with details as to what your recommend and why.

This happened to a carabiner I have that was originally dark blue and is now completely silver my keys scraped everything off.

Please don’t throw away your old utensils.
Instead you should go to your local donation center so that people in need could still use them. It helps some in need and also keeps them from going to a land fill.

In my opinion, barring a used sofa, I think IKEA is the best option for your price range. Sure, the frame is plywood but that should be fine for several years. A more important factor to sofas lasting is foam density, and IKEA uses 2.0-2.2 lb/cu ft rather than the standard 1.8 that is seen in most cheap sofas. That means the cushions will last longer and sag less.

Like you said, you really have to push into the $2.5k - $3k range to start getting the really good BIFL stuff with the 2.5 lb density foam, kiln dried frames, etc. I have a Smith Brothers which is an absolutely quality piece of furniture, so maybe check those out if you think you can stretch the budget a little more.

Had a similar experience with a bench arms that cracked. Polywood sent me 2 replacements and I could tell they moved the screw holes where it had cracked. And, these were a collab with Target and they stilled honoured the warranty.

All clad. Look for the heavy bottomed ones. All clads also work perfectly on induction cook top . I put together a set of the ones I knew I’d use so I watched sales .  I love them . I’ve had them now for close to 20 years.

I love these but I have had a few break :/

ive had an issue with these a couple times on my keys where the clip is just found outwards and i dont know why, even when the thing is locked

We have mini's on every key fob we have.   
Love them every once in a while the black overcenter lock breaks, the only failures.

In the shopping cart! 👍👍

I actually JUST broke one of their resuable zipties. Credit where credit is due, it is at least 10 years old and my new cats might have contributed.

You can still get these.

I just picked up 4 chairs so this makes me happy to hear. High quality chairs, should last a long time.

Same, they are super useful, and compared to a lock, it draws less attention and does not scream "valuables inside"

Check my comment further up. Brainwavz are the best OEM like replacement pads for  all the XmM series

Toilet snake. There will be clogs.

I’ve owned a lot of key carabiners and when I bought this last year I was studying the design in my hand - theyre a lot better built than the gas station types which last a good while anyway.  It could be truly bifl

Great with leather mittens

Well since I am semi in the market for outdoor furniture I will be looking them up

I love my kiziks. Styles similar to my old vans but slip on (even with laces) and they've held up really well.

On the other hand, I have a cuisinart mini wine cooler which stopped working after 5 years.

I bought a Subaru forester and my partner a canon dslr when our child was born.  Both still going strong…

Never knew quality needles were still made, gonna get some for the repair kit

Love em. Highly recommend on backpacks for travel. Literally just noticed this morning that I lost the locking mechanism on one after many years.

What are you even talking about? This is the exact kind of post we want. Someone talking about a thing they have that's lasted a long time.

I went through 2 of those nite ize before switching to a heavier duty carabiner. Both times the metal wire snapped due to bending fatigue.

I bought some momentum 4s and have used them for years daily.

Battery life is great, charges to full in like 20-30 minutes and lasts 12+ hours, never had I had an issue with them getting low on power after charging.

Bluetooth is bad. If you use the microphone, the audio quality is miserable. Like unusably bad. The problem is that some apps and programs try to hijack the mic on it, forcing it into the mic mode. Connection distance is ok, but feels a but short. I honestly felt scammed by this inclusion; I would greatly prefer no mic at all to this.

These things are indestructible. I sleep with them on and I often roll onto them, drop them on the floor, whatever. They haven't had anything break on them at all.

The official application for controlling them is not very good.

The touch controls I find annoying and would prefer physical buttons. I have the touch pad disabled.

For mountain biking I wear 5-10's.  They have to look of skater shoes with a softer sole that grips everything.  I run them in a rotation.  I buy a new pair to wear around, while the old pair gets the bottoms torn to shreds over the course of a year or three, due to the spike on the pedals.  If you want a sneaker, I think they hit.

If you are more open to any kind of shoe, crocs are near indestructible and comfortable as f.  I dug a 5.5x10x3 trench last weekend in crocks.  And to top it off they rinse clean and float.

Thanks for the advice and the link, I'll try to look for this model, but I haven't seen this product line in any store before. But I might just not have been paying enough attention to notice. I hope it's not because they do not import it to Europe.

Old hickory and dexter Russell for kitchen knives. Victoriknox makes a good one too. Cutco has a true lifetime warranty on there knives, ⁵

3 or 5 ply stainless steel pans are tremendous 

I see alot of people recommending backpacking gear so on that note, titanium pots are amazing by most brands and mora knives are tremendous cheap fixed blades that are BIFL 

If your looking for an interesting take, a houseplant when well taken care of can easily out last a person 

They're a lot of good leather products still made, they cost a fair amount but real leather is amazing stuff

I rotate between a few depending on my needs.
Most daily: Kershaw leek - $65 (I bought 4 or 5 at $25-$35)
Fancy days: civivi baklash - $42
I need a super sharp knife: type 60 scalpel knife - $25
I'm about to abuse the crap outa the knife: Kline flickblade - $10 if you can find em.

We have a hand me down tripp trapp and it was amazing for our kiddo. He’s used it until he was 8ish.

Would you prefer more “which earbuds should I buy” posts?

I really love Nite Ize products.  Nearly everything of theirs I’ve bought has held up so well, and proved durable as EDC items like the carabiners.

I like that locking mechanism better than the current slide lock

I have a few spoons from this maker, and they are exceptional. I really can't recommend them enough. I'm fairly certain they will last forever.

Sorry to resurect this but the only replacement pads that don't affect sound quality and ANC are called brainwavz. Got em for my XM4s a few months ago  after trying a few others and they are perfect:

Clever! I bought mine for an ill-fated craft

I gotta say I’ve gotten two new balances and they are fairly durable and legitimately the most comfortable ‘branded shoe’ I’ve gotten

I use mine to lock up my backpack zipper pulls to deter super casual theft.

Spent more than I might on some Polywood folding Adirondack lawn chairs. They’re sturdy and comfortable and attractive. I put them in an unheated garage in winter and they show no signs of age or wear in year three.

If you have your own washer (ideally with a sanitizer setting) and dryer look at pocket diapers. Get the ones with snaps that expand the size and one set lasts through to potty training. Get the ones with Velcro closures and most daycares will deal with them. Believe it or not there’s a used market for them so with a sizable up front cost in the long run you end up paying a fraction of the cost. Get a zippered wet bag and do laundry every other day and your house will not smell.

Well then you work for the company. Because calling me a liar over my experience with this product is an emotional stretch

Agreed! I’d probably spent $2k on several sets over the previous 5-6 years and the Polywood holds up (if you follow the assembly instructions which clearly say not to use power tools to assemble). They recently (as in currently) had a sale on deck chairs at Costco so my Polywood collection has since grown. I am happy to support the company.

Wintact wt590 is pretty good it’s accurate and fast, and it can even self-calibrate. I’ve been using it for two years

Yes.  I have my Dad's who bought it in the 70s.

Mine fell apart in 5 months

I have the same one, glued a rubber mat to the bottom so it wouldn't scuff floor surfaces... been banging with me for 15 years now, was old when I got it... Will work when I'm gone.

Yes, this! You can pick out the exact pieces that suit your cooking style and fit your storage. The pieces I use the most are a 10” stainless steel skillet, a 10.5” cast iron skillet, 3qt sauce pot, a 5 qt stock pot, and a 6 qt dutch oven. I live alone, though I do batch cook for work lunches. Larger families might need larger sizes. My other essential is a sturdy rimmed half sheet pan for the oven. 

I have other pieces that I use but can definitely live without. Such as a 1 qt sauce pot, quarter sheet pan, etc. 

For my core pieces, some are inexpensive pieces and have been totally fine (Lodge cast iron)—no need to spend more. I splurged on the stainless steel skillet (All Clad). I regret every cheap nonstick pan I’ve ever bought. At some point I will replace my cheapo 3 qt stainless steel sauce pan with a fully clad version but it’s really fine for now. I also feel little need to upgrade my cheap stock pot; it does not need to be fancy to boil water!

Thank you for that short, I enlightening lecture, which I hope my downvote will co tribute to keeping at the bottom of what you can plainly see is a tall column of helpful comments about shoe durability variability. 

Life is a variable things. Full of degrees. Going around wanting things to be all this way or all that way is a fantastic waste of energy.

King hickory or Stickley are two of the best around that budget and are widely available. 

Avoid box stores or “luxury” boutique chain stores like the plague.

Yup! We have a set of 8 similar ones and I swear by them. Hot and cold drinks. Having some water from one right now. Rarely use glass anymore. Had these 5 years now. Still great! Couple small rust spots from the dishwasher on a few, very minor, only on the outside.

I'm pretty sure I owned this one a long time ago!

I have not had any reliability problems with my Eco tank. It is by far the best inkjet printer I've ever had. It just works. I've had it more than 5 years, only refilled black once. Never refilled color still prints just fine. It is not a photo printer and I wish I had bought the photo printer version of it.
I also have a brother laser which is used a lot more than the ecotank.

I really like DC shoes. I have one pair that I use as indoor shoes for work. I've had them for 12ish years. Wore them fairly regularly (I wear steel toe boots for work most of the time so regular use for me is a couple hours in the evenings and on weekends) for a few years and probably once every week or two for last 6 years or so. The soles are starting to fall apart so I'll be replacing them with the other pair I have now that I bought 2 years ago and buying a new pair.

I think if I wore them as much as I wear my steel toe boots, I could get 3-4 years out of a pair.

This has not been my experience at all. I don't know exactly what you mean by the ink drying out, but I haven't experienced anything like that with an ecotank. 

I've had an Eco tank for quite a few years now (it's pre COVID for sure),  and I print a lot less than 20 pages a month on average.

So far I've refilled the black ink once and I have not yet refilled the colors. It still prints just as good as it did when I first got the printer. I do occasionally have to run the head cleaning process. 

I'm kinda surprised that the color is still printing just fine. Given how old the ink in it is now. Apparently it does not expire.

The Boon Lawn bottle drying rack. My kid is 16 and that thing is still a fixture next to the sink. It just works so well.

I bought this machine from Goodwill 15 years ago and it still works great. Emmymade on YouTube has a video about this machine also.

Epicurean cutting boards

I bought some Xtratuf deck boots about a year ago and they are so well made.

been eyeing one of these for a while

I’ve never gotten more than a year out of a pair of New Balance.

had mine for years and still going strong

It has a compression lock button.  It flips as easily as anything I’ve ever owned

Totally agree. My stepdad left me his humble Movado watch that I treasure.

My luxury watches are for me and me alone. I buy them because I’m unapologetically happy to enjoy consumerism. Plus, I love shiny, luxury things as much as I do great value like my Casios.

I bought a Weber grill perhaps a decade ago and it was an ill-constructed piece of crap from the start. I made it last for a couple of years, but I’ve no interest in ever buying another Weber.

I agree with you. I have nothing negative to say about Patek and family ownership. I think it works very well for them. I don’t know as much about AP as I don’t own any of their pieces.

My only point is that I prefer Rolex and Tudor because of the charitable ownership. I like to think that my luxury purchases go towards the civic good that way. It’s not something I can audit them for to find out but I feel confident that they do good from what I’ve read generally in the news. That’s all.

Fans don't cool anything

You do go over it a little bit later in your comment but this isn't really true

A fan can't strictly lower the temperature of a room (unless it's an intake fan but that's a whole other discussion) but can lower the temperatures of hot objects by allowing them to dissipate heat faster

Humans are generally hotter than the typical room temperature, so by having a fan blow you, you will be speeding up the rate at which you dissipate heat which cools you down

it can make you feel cooler

It doesn't just make you *feel* cooler, it does actually cool you down

But yeah if you put a fan in an empty room it's not going to do anything except increase the temperature slightly via it's motor. If you have an oscillating fan there's no reason really to have it set to oscillate unless you're trying to cool multiple people/objects

Hitachi .. 
from high speed trains to nail guns to the magic wand massager

My fares water pump locked up at 50000 miles after it was installed. This is on a 90000 interval vehicle. It could have wrecked the engine from overheating.

No fill windows and no plastic in my 1.5.  I'm going to take the risk and keep it.

I got a black and white laser. If I want color I will get it from ginkos.

Just got Cosori Turbo Blaze and love it! Time will tell...they all get disgustingly dirty and degrade lol...paid under $100 so it's good.

Yeah, all-clad is normally pretty pricey for their mid-top tier stuff. A 12 inch D3 (mid tier for all-clad, top tier overall) usually sells for ~$150

This literally gets asked every single week, read the forum.  Tons of suggestions in r/furniture as well.  Do some digging on reddit there are so many posts that already answer this.

The OG cup!!! A soda taste different when you used aluminum cups.

This but that small threader object.

yessir wood > plastic. Get caraway's 5 piece set and you good. Or go to a country fair and get something hand made. That's cooler.

Hey sorry for late reply. I got the Rio Plush U I wanted the Blumen. Half arrived (the larger piece couldn’t fit stairs so they are breaking into two pieces). So far it’s spacious, comfortable, indestructible, and looks elevated. 

Why Latex: it’s non-toxic, durable, buoyant, cooling, supportive, eco-friendly. Great for mattresses too!

Fiskars and Gerber are under the same ownership. 
Not sure when but they no longer meet their previous reputation and lifetime warranty isn't the same when you given infinite replacements and use a percentage of them. 

I still think they make decent stuff but the price point wasn't reflected in the quality change.

My Farberware Millenium set from 2015ish is great, I wouldn’t hesitate to buy them again

Hoka has a narrow midfoot that doesn’t work for truly brick footed people

I love my Polywood tables.  Over the years, I have spent so much money on outdoor furniture that lasts maybe 2-4 years. I live in the Midwest and these tables stay on my deck year round(I cover them) and they are perfect after 5 years.  Also, they are quite heavy, so the winds do not blow them around the deck. Polywood is an investment that will save you money in the long run.

That’s the most evil thing I can imagine.

I do have a gas range which has a wok burner. I have used gas for cooking for 30 years. You have demonstrated that you have no idea what you are talking about.

Came THIS close to buying a dreamsofa last week. Ended up with Lovesac as they were equivalent pricing with the current sale. The only turn off for me with the dream sofa was not being able to sit on it prior to purchase. The additional modularity of the lovesac sealed the deal as we can reconfigure a couple seats to accommodate holiday decorations.

I still use the one my dad gave me for christmas in the early 70s. It's still solid as can be and looks great. I'm not in trades, so it's a garage item, not worksite - that would make a difference, obviously.

You could go with the classic 

It's not amazingly cheap, it's not ultra stylish. But it's all solid wood and will be heirlooms if you don't literally destroy them. 

I have a coffee table, 2 end tables, and a dresser that are older than my 37yo self they survived my parents raising 3 boys. They are in great shape.

Plus it's made in NC which has been the epicenter of great furniture in this country for like a hundred years.

What are you talking about? People buy infant car seats all the time; there’s a huge market for them. Doona is essentially an infant seat with wheels. 

I genuinely don’t get the comment about needing to have kids every seven months. You consider something a waste if you are not using it continuously? It’s eminently possible to have three or even four babies in six years, but even with just one child, a year of saving your back and your sanity is worth quite a bit.

Interestingly, I only had two kids, and yet my Doona WAS used continuously for 6 years because everyone wanted to borrow it from me.

Doona installs in Ubers in under a minute; it doesn’t strain your back; it takes up no space in your home; it is easy to push; it fits everywhere; and it makes life with a newborn SIGNIFICANTLY less stressful and exhausting. Don’t knock it unless you tried it :)

And respectfully, Doona is pretty close to a lifesaver for anyone with chronic pain, fatigue, injury, limited range of motion, or disabilities.

I wish they didn't put such a high % of polyester into the wool Canada shirt. I understand a small amount of synthetic material can be helpful for strength and longevity, but honestly it just seems to really hold on to odor unlike my other wool shirts. It'll probably last, but stinkily so.

Our LG died at exactly 3 years. Stopped spinning.

this is the one time where you don't buy it for life. the trick here is to to buy less!! lesser the better. babies are the most natural thing ever!! they don't need anything outside of the NICU except food. they honestly couldn't care about clothes or diaper. so here is your buying list

1. wipes, make sure you clean your child very very well after poop. very important poop is the number one thing that causes rash

2. buy a bed they can use from 0-5 year old. no basinets or baskets

3. buy 10 days worth of outfit for each age group till they start school, use your BIFL washer and drier and wash daily. do not keep changing the babies outfit they will be pissed and you won't know why and you will think they are hungry. 

4. disposable diapers... just trust me. again only change if they poop or it leaks. constant changing will piss of baby! 

5. after 3 months the best place for baby is the floor just trust me

We have lots of Revere Ware that we got from our parents.  It's at least 50 years old and still in good shape.  The problem is it has copper bottoms and is not flat.  We have a glass top electric stove and it walks all over when heating up.  You also can't use it on induction.  I've replaced most of it with stainless steel.

His buck front tooth is how it all started… let me tell you the story….

That sounds beyond carpet cleaning zone and into flooring (and possibly subfloor) replacement.

If you like Duluth Pack, check out Frost River! (Also from Duluth MN)

It's dangerous to go alone. Take this.

Keep in mind that wood can mold. Also it can have coatings which wear down. 

And if you go with metal, metal can flavor food. And if it went with something like pewter, it can leach lead into your food is the food is acidic. That's why some people thought tomatoes where poisonous because the acidity would impact the pewter materials.

bacteria survives longer on silicone than wood 

**The Wood Advantage:** Wood is naturally porous and was designed by nature to transport water. When liquids carrying bacteria get absorbed into wood fibers, they are pulled below the surface. Once the wood dries, the trapped bacteria are starved of moisture and food, causing them to die rapidly. Many hardwoods (like oak or teak) also contain natural tannins that combat microbial growth.

The one thing that we are still using 6 years later is our hatch sound machine.

No ceramic Nonstick is truly buy it for life, the coating wears out in a couple Years no matter the brand.

I have my grandpas easily easily 50 yrs old likely 70+

Facebook marketplace it and get what’s local.

At that point it would be too late

My great aunt's treadle Singer sewing machine.

Having a couple stainless steel pieces for when there are acidic ingredients being cooked is nice and then the mainstay of your pans should be carbon steel. Most of the benefits of cast iron but lighter, heat up faster, react faster to temperature changes, can be very nonstick with good technique and a decent seasoning on the pan. This group tends to be polarized with regard to Teflon but you couldn’t pay me to use Teflon pans so a good carbon steel skillet not only is buy it for generations but also avoids any potential health issues of Teflon.

I also love my Whetstone Woodenware spatula and French rolling pin. The spatula is probably the best I’ve had—I consistently reach for it over others I have. I do wish the handle were a little longer..

Is it good for a teenager room? I’m looking at pottery barn which is crap furniture, but has the style the teen wants

It depends – I had four kids and six years and used cloth diapers. Those diapers wound up as rags around the house for another 12 years.

I got a Pelonis (easy now!) from Walmart back in 2016ish. 10 years for a $10 box fan from Walmart and still going strong? I consider that BIFL and I use it every single night.

That's a fantastic deal considering what they usually sell for. You have to consider that that 12-in stainless steel skillet is nearly indestructible, and will last for 50 years if you take care of it. Here's what they usually sell for, (assuming it was a D3 skillet): 

link

Mine is 1985 and looks great.craftsman toolbox

My silicone utensils/containers/cookie sheet liners always end up tasting soapy after I wash them, no matter how well I rinse them. So I find myself not using them nearly as much as I’d like. Any tips from anyone?

Not when you’re packing. It’s uncomfortable. Must be nice to have a lil d

How are the glerups now? Wondering if I should get leather or rubber soles

Our mum's London sectional arrived last Saturday after about 8–9 weeks of waiting. I wouldn't really call it a delay thoughand I think we got lucky because everything we wanted including the specific fabric choice, was available. Our mum recently retired from nursing so comfort was the biggest priority. She also didn't want overly deep cushions and thankfully this sectional checked all those boxes. The only thing I'm curious about is how the fabric will hold up over time. Mum has three cats and they love clawing at furniture. That's pretty much what ruined the old couch so it'll be interesting to see how this one handles them.

Yeah like 8...9 years or so?

did you end up finding one that works?? i’ve been searching and had the same experience where quality is reportedly down

Generally bread makers are BIFL since they typically get bought, used once or twice, and then sit in the cupboard unused for 15 years before they get sent to the thrift store.

Oh thanks for sharing! I bought a set two years ago and they’re looking great so far

I do have a DreamSofa London sectional got it last year May, and mine was $3721. It’s almost been a year now, and it’s still very clean with the cushions fully intact. I did a lot of research while shopping for my sectional, and one thing I really liked was that the frames are built using kiln dried solid wood and 8 gauge spring system. To date haven’t experienced any sagging on the cushions

100% agree with the comment about Steiger Mukluks. I LOVE my pair of Steigers. 💜

Yes woolino!!! Best money spent. All you need is the one.

Dishwasher safe for the win!

But what about silicone?

Or the raw wood materials. More than is needed for your tools.

Which leather/grade did you get?

At home I’ve replaced all my pans and pots with a combination of stainless steel and carbon steel items and I couldn’t be happier.

This isn't a 110v is it?

On the magnetic me clothing the magnets are permanently embedded into the clothing. Under multiple layers. You’d have to not notice a very noticeable hole

Man that's pretty solid support from them! Six years in desert heat is no joke - I remember visiting family in Arizona and you literally can't touch anything metal outside without getting burned. 

  
Power tools definitely speed things up but yeah, sometimes the torque settings get a bit aggressive when you're just trying to get it done quickly. Been there with furniture assembly more times than I want to admit. At least they didn't give you grief about it or try to blame user error.

  
The fact they sent replacement immediately after the shipping damage shows they actually care about customer experience instead of making you jump through hoops. Companies like that are getting rare these days, especially when you're dealing with warranty claims on something that old.

It helps upto an extent but still the hair part need vacuuming. Air purifier will clean the particles and odor which vacuum cannot solve and the vacuum will solve the hair part which an Airpurifier cannot solve. So in reality you need to have both for optimal performance. 

As OP, if you have a smaller space I'd just go with a Levoit 200s-p. P variant stands for pets. But it lacks the deep removal of odors from the air. For that nothing in the price point comes close to winix 5500 series. If you want to explore others and read more about it, I'd drop this here: Airpurifiers for pet hair and odors

As a retro tech enthusiast. Ouch please buy a CRT. The picture will look so so much better it’s night and day. Just get a basic set for $50 it might take a few weeks of looking on FB marketplace but pretty much anything with Red yellow and white (RCA/Composite) will be fine

That's very interesting. Here in Europe, there is often a very limited offer of shoes from brands like Vans, even in their own dedicated stores. I have never seen the same shoe at different price points, and it never occurred to me to check details. Now I will at least know to look for it, even though I might not be able to get the tier I want. Thanks for teaching me!

Not BIFL but the Macy’s Radley has done us right. 

I’d definitely hit up estate sales if I were you.

Someone already said it but get this instead of the atwood and it'll last longer.

That said, I know you're not a skater but most skaters move on from vans because they just don't last that long. Their main advantage is board feel and they'll lose that from more durability/ruggedness.

I purchased an All Clad set 25 years ago, it looks like they’re going to last another 25 (and probably out live me).

Do not buy Ashley. Do not do it, friend. Sending this from my Ashley couch that came from a discount store and died after about 3 months.

I have the steamer trunk my great-grandmother brought over from England around 1900, and the little book where they kept their household lists of yearly expenses and income.  The trunk has a place of honor, in our front entry, and holds the special treasures that mean a lot to us but wouldn't mean much to others.  

I have a couple of game boards that my father bought as a teen in the forties.

Second this. I picked up a heavy bottom large pan w lid, made in Germany, for $35. I've been using it pretty daily for 6 years. I also found a two pack of all clad frying pans for $50. I pick only the things I need/use and am happy.

The Hickory Furniture Mart in Hickory, NC.

It will break your bank, but it's high quality, solid wood, made in America. They ship worldwide.

Seriously, if it outlived it’s original owner , you don’t need to poll reddit to verify it’s durability s gas status!
 My ultimate inherited BIFL Item is an old steel- handled claw hammer from grandfather.

You haven’t cleaned or maintained a pet fountain your pets drink from in 3 years? I’m sure the amount of biofilm in it is making them super happy.* 

*gross

I second new balance. They are very well known to be comfortable, orthopedic docs recommend them. They have a wide toe box, that's why people call them Dad shoes! They do have 10 6E but you have to order.  Check out men's nursing shoes, diabetic shoes, Orthofeet, and Rockport. They are all good shoes, most are well under 200. Those Fitville on Amazon look good, they have a lot of styles that say they're diabetic shoes- but I don't know anything about them. But if they're comfy, they're a good price, so they don't have to be BIFL!

You should read this thread:

I’m still using my revereware pans from 1981, plus my mom’s and grandma’s from even earlier.  Great pans, no issues.

Tech:
AirPods 1st Gen
MacBook Pro 2013 (ok, you have to plug it in)
Sony cameras and lens 

Clothes: Patagonia

Home gadget: Dyson vacuum v8

YT LockpockingLawyer

Mid century modern has classic lines and very comfortable. 

Facebook Marketplace 

Craigslist furniture sale

How long do you anticipate living in an apartment?  That would determine the quality of the couch I'd be willing to invest in...... if you move to a house in 8 years, buy a couch to fit that space and spend more at that time.

Also, consider kids and pets, by choice I bought cheaper furniture until my kids were old enough to not destroy or have accidents on furniture.  Infants and toddlers' vomit, alot.

Do you actually need colour? A laser is not going to be photo quality anyway so just get a black and white one.

I have it and it works, why would I spend money on a different one? its not exactly difficult to use

miusa new balance is a different league

I recommend Amazon essentials stainless steel set of 3 for frying pans.
Just made crepes this past Sunday and they came out beautifully.  No sticking whatsoever.
I've had this set a while and use daily.  Best purchase ever and I think all 3 were $40-$50 ish.

I have the same model.   I have had mine even longer.   Works great for my home office.  I usually work from home so I need it to be reliable.   Sits on the home network and family uses it too.   Rock solid so far.  

The only quasi complaint comes from my wife. It isn't good for photos but you don't use laser printers for photos. 

Before we bought it we agreeded she'd just get those done elsewhere since that is a rare need for us.

I've slowly built a edc knife collection.  I ordered a benchmade knife for the first time after much research. Ended up picking the bailout magnacut. In my hurry, I ordered the serrated blade by mistake. I knew I have to exchange for the non serrated version but never did. It just didn't feel good in the hand. Too thin. 

However, if you go Benchmade, I do recommend ordering from rei for their 10% members reward. Better than most discounts I can find. They are not a LifeSharp shop, so you do miss out on the dropoff sharpening convenance. 

My favorite recent purchase is a kizer uti bear. My state is anti fun. Amazon won't ship most knifes to us. Our nearest major city don't like knives with over 2 inch blades.

I have a couple strollers that I’ve acquired over the years. We got a BOB jogger a couple years ago off marketplace for $50. So worth it. It’s sturdy as hell, can hold both my kids now and I’ve taken it on a plane so I know it’s been thrown around and it’s still great. I have a graco, double burley and a uppababy and BOB all the way. They’re always up for resale too because they last forever

Try Chilton Furniture

It isn't Thomas Moser, but it is very nice.

If humidity isn't a problem you can always put a big  bowl or cooler full of ice in front of a fan.  Keep in mind that if you make the ice yourself, all the heat your freezer pulls out of the water is pumped back into your house through the coil on the back, so you are only doing this for temporary personal comfort, not cooling the whole room.

Copper is even better and well worth the price. Amazing health and sanitation benefits

Stainless steel where the body of the pans are all one solid piece.

I hate to hear that! They (to be safe) were so nice to me! I thought after the refund they were gonna deliver the shoes still but they told me they wouldn’t😩 but they gave me a refund so idc. My bestie got hers so that’s why I don’t think they’re a scam and I went to AliExpress and they’re taking forever too. I’ve even been on live when they show the heels so idk I hope they get it together cause I love the stuff!!

Unless it falls off of that dodgy stool.

I like bamboo. They seem to last forever, even in the dishwasher, and they're so damn cheap. 

But for the "let's flip a burger" type of spatula? Metal. Preferably one with sharp edges. Ever since I got one of those I *laugh* at things in the frying pan that are arrogant enough to try to stick.

Disagree. Those spoons are purely decorative; way too nice to stir chili with.

Shoes are wear items.  While there are better quality and parts can be replaced they aren’t bifl

Mideas are pretty good. It’s the same factory that makes/made all the name brand fridges

Tripp Trapp high chair -This has already been mentioned several times but Tripp Trapp high chair for sure. My oldest js 8 and still uses it with no plans of stopping anytime soon. I felt sick over how expensive it was when I first decided I had to have it and immediately loved it so much that we’ve bought one for each kid. I will definitely be saving them as heirlooms.

Cloth diapers- And maybe a good washing machine to go with them. My 8 year old still wears them at night.

Duplo Legos- No explanation needed.

Quality stuffed animals- This is kid dependent, but my kids are really into stuffies and so we’ve had some for their whole lives.

Hatch sound machine- I actually have thought this thing was stupid from day one, but we still use it daily 8 years later. It’s kinda lifestyle dependent though. We use it mostly as a sound machine because our kids are light sleepers and our house is small so they can hear us up after bedtime.

Large baby blanket- A nice baby blanket turns into a throw blanket for life. I’m really into wool and bought a genuine Sherpa blanket that was like a cozy play mat as an infant, a crib blanket as a toddler, and now a favorite throw blanket. I actually still used a baby blanket from my childhood too.

So I'm a smaller human than you but my sometimes partner is quite a bit larger-- combined about 450ish pounds of "movement." I'm trying to figure out if thuma would be a good upgrade for me and this is the first post I've seen that seems potentially relevant. We've about done in my Ikea bed.

But you can't flip a fastback easily. I got the kizer uti bear and I love it. Comes with toothpick and twister too.

Have you looked at the skate line from New Balance? They have some nice looking shoes and supposedly the construction is pretty good.

Hmmmm, I normally recommend Jim Green, but their widest options are the barefoot models at 4E

I love my Moby wrap!

I’m sorry this happened ): did you happen to get the original foam or original legacy foam??

Looking at their website, skate sounds the most durable, but why is it often the same price as classic, and why does premium cost more than either?  Very odd

I've worked with families who do both. The sleepsacks that go in the
dryer get bunch up a little. Like putting a wet pillow in the dryer.

I use mason jars. Very sturdy, and I don’t feel sad when they break, cheap to buy again. Can also enclose them with a lid if I want

I love my Felco tools. Their commando fence cutters served me well in the military and so did the hand prunes I got from them m, right up until my wife borrowed them and lost them somewhere around the house :,(

A backpack or convertible diaper bag. Youll be using it for years, and if you get one that is stylish/durable you’ll find uses for it as your child’s needs change - it can even transition to their overnight bag

Mainly. Curious I don't have anything against cast iron just mainly seeing opinions and options

I've had 3 pairs of "Sennheiser"/Senovo TW earbuds over the last few years. All of them had one of the earbuds die after 8-12 months. The first they replaced but the second they didn't as it was more than a year from the original purchase. I won't ever be buying them again.

Yes they have multiple shoes that look exactly the same or nearly so but have different qualities depending on how much you spend.  I believe the Old Skool Skate is the current best price to quality ratio. I'm pretty sure they just added a lower teer to the mix to make it so people who don't pay attention to quality still have an option at the old price.  These ones are 80ish and up and just as good as any older vans I have ever gotten.

Note: I'm a big fan of this particular mixer and I own one. I love it. 
But you should be aware that the material that the bowl is made of, deteriorates over time, and as it spins with the gear mechanism, micro fibres [or even bigger pieces] of plastic are entering the bowl where your food is mixing.  That is why I removed the top edge of the bowl-- and I no longer use the motorized aspect of this machine. (the bowl , in fact, spins naturally on the center post, you just have to gently guide it with your hand )

so very true on this

The Queen Cutlery and Camillus Cutlery pocket knives that my Grandfather carried from the 30s

Q/... what did you do to clean up the exterior? It looks beautiful shiny and new.

pain 💀 same thing happening in men's models too

Stainless Steel, cast iron, carbon steel.  No coatings or ceramic stuff or such things.  

There you go.

That's the kind of spoon you want if you're going to try The Merciless Pepper of Quetzalacatenango

Congratulations and hoping you get to bring baby home soon! 

I'm on baby number three and I truly wish I would have purchased a Tripp Trapp highchair with my first, I've gone through a couple of mid tier highchairs that are tough to clean and have plastic pieces that get damaged and I've been envious of my friends with Tripp Trapps. When my littlest is ready I may go ahead and pull the trigger this time around.

I'm a firm believer on going all in on a convertible car seat (I still use an infant bucket seat for the first 9-12 months). Both of my toddlers are in Nuna Execs and I love them. They are easy to install properly, exceed crash test standards, and have a high rear facing limit. My 4.5 year old is still rear facing at 44lbs and 47". 

If you plan on having more kids, go ahead and get a stroller that can take a second seat now. I have an Evenflo Pivot Xpand because I use an evenflo bucket seat for the infant that works with it, you can use it with or without the second seat and also has the option for a riding board. It isn't any bigger than the Britax single travel system that I had with my first. 

My only other suggestions is to be mindful of the toys you purchase. I've discovered that I prefer things like wood building blocks, Brio train sets, magnet tiles, a quality play kitchen, etc. These are all things that last a lot longer than plastic battery operated toys, have the option to add on to, relatively easy to clean, and can be played with for many years as your child grows and develops different styles of play.

I have a set of these pans and they're older than reddit by quite a bit - well over 20 years.

No splitting.

I do like fully clad better, but mine work fine.

I misread that as durex and was about to protest a lot

In the US atwood would be sold at kohls or outlet or discount stores. 

Chukka low is the nicer version

IKEA sniglar crib, Doona (lifestyle dependent), woolino sleep sacks

All the HD series has metal frame with some hard plastic cover on top. 480 Pro (closed back) and 490 Pro (open back) has exposed metal frame. I add Capra straps to make them more comfortable though out of the box I find they pretty comfortable.

The point being, you spent more money than you needed too on a product that isnt any better than a $40 version because of the perceived notion that "mo money means better product" instead of the company actually robbing you blind.

Ive got the same one. Had it maybe 40 years now...

Yeah, I’ve been using the cooler shock soft lunch packs and rigid cooler packs for a while now and the results exceed my expectations. I just have a mid-range igloo cooler, but on our recent Memorial Day trip some frozen sausages and meatballs survived the four hour trip fully frozen (I was hoping they’d defrost a bit, tbh). When we returned I was too tired to fully unpack and left the blocks in the cooler. They were still frozen solid the next morning ca 24 hrs after putting them in.

Circulon premier are the best pots and pans I've ever used

Use a large drying mat under the dish rack to fill up the space.

Even a midrange stainless set will serve you for the rest of your life if you learn how to cook w and care/clean it properly! A Large stockpot, Medium and large fry pan, plus med and large saucepan will get you through most anything.

I put together an à la carte set of All-Clad MC2 (the brushed ones) 15 years ago and am still rocking them. Nonstick pans get replaced about once a year, sometimes sooner.

From what I read, it seemed like Patagonia was initially completely willing to work with her and allow her to do her thing. Her and her business partner even said they have “never and will never reference the brand Patagonia’s Logo or Brand” but then they created merch that was very much a blatant copy of the Patagonia logo and tried to partner with hydroflask to make more stuff. I think she definitely overstepped.  And like others said, they are suing her for $1 which I think is meant to protect themselves more than hurt her in anyway.

The New Balance factory is down the street from me. AFAIK everything is still being done the same way. I don't know about a decade but they last me quite a while.

old post but the high sierras ones arent susceptible to water buildup if anyone is into huge water drops

The flexible vs rigid tradeoff is real and frustrating. From what you described, the main issue with flexible packs is the gel material degrading at the seams over time, which is basically a manufacturing quality problem more than a design flaw.

For actual durability, the Cooler Shock recommendation you landed on is solid and a lot of people swear by them for longevity. I'd also say the ziplock bag trick mentioned in the comments is genuinely underrated as a backup plan while you test new options.

I tried IcePaca gel packs for a similar setup, packing food for a long trip where I needed something that wouldn't turn into a soggy mess. The non-toxic gel and leak-resistant design held up well across multiple freeze cycles without the usual deterioration you get from cheaper flexible packs. They come in a 3-pack option which makes rotation easier when you're prepping for weekly trips like yours.

The heat absorption thing you mentioned is the real key variable. Rigid packs struggle because surface contact is limited, so whatever you end up with, try to maximize surface area contact with your food rather than just tossing packs on top. Sounds like you did solid research and Cooler Shock is probably a good first test given the size variety and price per pack ratio you noted.

You mean a p38? Why the hell would you use one of those unless you absolutely had to?

I switched from Vans to Nike Janoskis about 7-8 years ago and haven’t looked back. I’d run through Vans annually, and the Nikes have all 3+ years, significantly longer. No skate shoe is going to be BIFL just because of how they’re designed, but I’m pleasantly surprised with how well these have held up. 

Bought my most recent pair in 2022, still in great shape.

They are all the same.

Is the band still metal?  That was one of the reason I picked it as I have broken some.  Sennheiser has been tied for the top 2 longest lasting headsets I have owned.

If you get a portable  look for one with a dual exhaust.

I don't know what their normal prices are, but that sounds pretty expensive to me for a skillet with lid, but you seem to be presenting it like an unusually good deal?

Disagree on magnets. If the magnets somehow come loose, they are one of the MOST dangerous things a baby could swallow!

Nothing for $200. Nicks boots if you want something that will “last”.  (See that pun there…)

Cast iron would fit the bill.

Please understand the impact of needless consumption on the planet.

Cast iron is the answer!

I spoke with the CEO directly who is very disrespectful and Unprofessional , he told me he not giving me nothing back and to discuss it with the bank. Thankfully you wasn’t done this way !

I plan to shop again this winter and hopefully things are better but my first order ended up refunded because I placed the order in March and May came around and I didn’t want to wait anymore!

I think stickley also falls into this category, no?

I don’t think they’re a scam, but they do have some order issues and I spoke with the Business owner directly and told him I wanted a refund and he sent it the same day. They’re super small Team based in Atlanta, Georgia, and I think they’re actively growing.

I got the Caraway's birch set as a gift. I wouldn't buy so expensive set myself. But they look very good and have lasted me well for over three years at least

"Who Gets The Family ~~Bible~~ Bong?"

I think a luxury umbrella can be a really sweet gift if it matches her lifestyle.

My order was canceled, but I got a full refund so I don’t think there were a scam. They sent me an email telling me that there was a delay and then they sent another email telling me that there was another delay, then they sent me an email saying that things are moving forward, but unfortunately they canceled my order after I contacted them and told them that I wanted a refund because I didn’t want to wait anymore. I thought I was going to get the shoes still, but they told me that I wasn’t.

If you can set aside your desire for a cool color, your best bang for buck couch options will usually come from Costco - especially when they run a sale. You can always get colorful pillows or a throw to put on it.

I’ll be trying orthopedic shoes pretty soon, they’re advertised here on Reddit and look decent based on reviews.

oh thank you so much, i did laser but didn't really help i will try electro

There are no BIFL shoes, generally.

Get a high quality rocking chair/glider. Mine went through 4 other kids in 2 separate families then my 2 kids, and I gave it to a young mom about to have her first. Needed the occasional cushion clean but that’s quality!

Eu tenho um Bosch á 45 anos e ainda lava ,agora está a precisar de amortecedores mas ainda vou ponderar

My dad’s Swiss Army knife that he bought in the 60’s and now resides in my tackle box.

We always machine washed and dried ours and they looked perfect through 2 kids

I agree, but i also use it and im so satisfied

Car seats that work until they are 100lbs

Somebody bought it and it lasted the rest of their life and got handed down to another generation… or more. Semantics. Chill.

You should be able to exchange them at Lowes now

Cast iron. All-clad.

Olive wood looks pretty and can take a beating. I've used the same olive wood utensils since 2014 that I got from a local craft fair.

100% agree with this. Silicone works so well, and I can also vouch for GIR utensils.

if u can get apec go for it, but other brands are nice as well

I only need one when my dog farts

Someone gave me onesies that had not zippers, not snaps, not even buttons - they had fucking tie strings down the entire front every two cm.

I have *twins*. I dont know who gave this to me even but wtf were they thinking?!

Mom of 4 spread from 18 months to 8yo. 

Things that have lasted. 

stroller -- I'm the third owner of a baby jogger City select. It's the 2 kid set up and I've used it for 4 years so far. I use it for single and double set up depending on what I need. I had a attachment for the baby seat and moved to the given seat around 6 to 9 months. The date on it is 2010 or 2014, and expect I'll use it until my youngest is 3 and then pass it on. (Yes, I replied this on someone else's comment initially.) 

High chair - IKEA antilop has been used by all 4 of my kids. Youngest is 18months so I'll be putting it on marketplace for $10 once he's ready for a booster. 

Car seat - buy this new. 

Sleep sack - don't have a lot of opinion. My kids hated them. We did sidecar crib for everyone and I just layered their pjs if needed. 

Kid eating supplies- I've gotten the most use of metal tined forks, gootensils for spoons and using basic plastic plated. I really like the silicone placemats for at home and on the go. Oh! The ezpz cup is amazing for teaching how to drink from an open top cup. 

Oh, diaper bag. Get one of the fold up changing pads. I've been using my Jansport backpack from college and it just tore recently inside between the main and second section. It's also survived use for 20 years. I carry the changing pad, extra clothes, emergency meds for food allergies, snacks, sunscreen and bug spray. And have room for other things like 4 rain jackets.

Ikea Antilop high chair. 

Humanity has solved the problem of highchair design and made it cost £15.

Not BIFL advice but a baby wipe recommendation. If baby is not sensitive, buy Parent' Choice wipes from Walmart. First used it on my first kid who is 15 now. We never stopped buying it lmao. My youngest is 8 and have I've tried allllll the wipes, this brand is inexpensive and better quality than Pampers or Huggies wipes, in my opinion. It doesn't break apart and release its fibers. I also used to buy Water Wipes but its expensive. Glad my youngest outgrew her skin sensitivity. I keep a pack of Parent's Choice wipes in all our cars and all our bathrooms. My fave is the pink package. I do NOT recommend the diapers. Buy a pack of each different wipes brand and compare 😄 Also, build your patience. These kids are going to try you lol

Holger was the original model that fell apart due to being glued together instead of using a screw.

Yep, you got it. I was on my way out the door when I decided to weigh in on OP’s question, so thanks for clarifying!

Kershaw shuffle DIY 

It won't be the best blade you ever own, but it's the perfect first EDC blade. Although the price has increased recently, I still think its a good value. This knife has a built in bottle opener, and comes with a phillips and flathead screwdriver hex bit, but I've swapped the default bits for better quality / different head shapes. It also lets you experiment with different EDC bit sets down the line. I've fixed wobbly chairs at restaurants, broken bathroom stall locks and more.

I am also fed up with vans quality, purchased the same style I always buy and the last three pairs have all fallen apart in less than a year. I purchased a pair of Last Resort AB hi tops and so far they seem pretty solid to the point that that feel like they need breaking in a bit so hoping they last a little longer

I'm not sure if any brand of skate shoes belongs on the Buy it for Life sub, but I've been very impressed with the Skechers Arcade style. They fit and feel like the Vans I wore 20+ years ago, and they are constructed very well. They have a lot more padding than a lot of street style/fashion sneakers.

I don't know if you can get them in Europe, though. I order them online in the U.S.

Agreed. Hestan would be a step above All Clad if you ask me.  The CEO of Hestan used to be at All Clad in fact.

I would say if you want something that's buy it for life, and will LOOK GOOD and PERFORM for it's entire life, Heston's stuff can't be beat.  It's about as expensive as it gets, but it will perform and look amazing for life.

If it says comfy cushion or pop cushion they aren't going to fit normal it's shit and the have the tongue strapped in which was new to me and made the fit all the worse.

But I got the ultra range 2.0 and it fits just fine. Idk why they made those changes but it makes the shoes super suck

Kinsa quickcare smart thermometer.  The app will give recommendations for what home remedies can help (anything from steam from a shower to otc meds depending on symptoms you input). You can set reminders for taking temps and medications and it will track them over time as well. Each person gets a profile so that recommendations are accurate and it will tell you if and when you should see a doctor. It will tell you how active flu and covid are in your area.

You say it's functional, but no parastic alien race has stopped to refuel energon for nearly a millenia. That screams broken to me.

We've used our Lodge cast iron pans for 30 years. They're as good as new, even better with all the seasoning they've had. In constrast, all our nonstick pans lost their coating within a couple of years. Nothing sticks to cast-iron pans due to their slightly rough surface, so we started using those exclusively.

Carbon steel, aluminium. De Buyer, Cristel. Even Tefal can do the trick.

The thing you need to check first is if they go to the dishwasher or not, if you're ok with a heavy pan or not, and how and what you can cook with those.

Lots of people are going to suggest restaurant stuffs, but a lot of those equipment aren't used in the way that normal people would use.

My friends who are chefs tell me that at home they use some "titanium" non-stick pans (some good supermarket brands), because they favor practicality first at home. But that's not BIFL, although I have used my Tefal Titanium 3x pan almost every day for 20 years.

same here! I was deciding between Thinkware u3000 and another brand but went with Thinkware because of all the reviews I found online.

I know I’m late to the game, but did you ever find the joy bird Corey dupe? I am currently looking for one right now in that cinnamon color.

just don’t buy Cree stock…

Stainless steel is great. The main issue I have with them is that they can't be in the microwave. We use ceramic (for heating) and glass (for cold) at home, and all our stainless steel are for taking out of the house.

No warranty, company got sold or went under, I think. Showing a little wear and tear but still generally functional. Good luck finding another.

Check out THINKWARE. I drive uber and asked this same question in the uber thread and Thinkware kept popping up. I am getting the u3000 and is around your budget.

I don't know how old your are , but if I were you, I will wouldn't be looking for a bifl couch for an apartment because an apartment isn't a bifl home. Your colors are going to change over time. You are going to move into different sized spaces. Your family may grow... All of these things are likely to trigger a new couch purchase.

I was in your position a few years ago after my divorce. I downsized from  2,700 sf single family home to an 1,100 sf townhome with beige walls and beige carpet. I sold furniture when I was younger, and I was a buyer as well. I know the prices, the construction, and the markup.

I ended up going with an Ikea Kivik sofa. The price was right. The style is transitional enough to work with lots of styles, and since it has been around for a while, there are used pieces out there that you can use to reconfigure your sofa later. Also, there are a bunch on online sources for covers in a wide variety of patterns, colors, and fabric grades. The stock Ikea covers are also machine washable. The cushions are pretty firm, even after 3 years, but they do soften. It is also pretty low, but that's good for some.

It is a solid, versatile, and accessible upholstery line, and it is worth looking at for someone in your position.

Also, since I got remarried and moved, the Kivik sofa fits perfectly in my new basement/gaming/home theater room.

A savings account for berries. 

Not BIFL, but when your kid eats a mortgage payment's worth of berries --just berries-- each month, you'll have a little nest egg to take the edge off, haha

You'll thank me when your kid is 2. 

You know what, just go ahead and get a couple of blueberry bushes, a couple of raspberry and blackberry primo canes, and start a strawberry patch. Takes about two years for them to really fruit, soooo... 🤪

\-Sincerely, a mama of three littles and a NICU nurse! Congratulations!!!! He may not be home with you yet, but he is well taken care of and well loved! 💕

Style-wise, Merrells are every different from Vans

Unfortunately Duralex is on the verge of stopping production and filing for bankruptcy...

I'm using a baby jogger City select as the third owner. It's a double stroller that converted from a single and it's 12 years old. I could easily pass it on in a two years when I'm done with strollers.

Lovevery toys scaffold so so so well and are high enough quality to be good for passing along

I like steel cups until I want a hot drink. 

I’ve also learned that there is huge variation in the quality of glass. Using jars you bought tomato sauce in is asking for trouble these days. They’re nearly single-use. Meanwhile there are extremely well made glasses that can stand up to a lot of abuse and will not shatter catastrophically even when they do break.

Oof, I'm really the wrong one to ask about brands. I can pick up the signs of great construction with a glance or touch, then I lift the cushion and Google the brand and look for a made in USA indication (assuming you're in the US) while generally poking around to make sure the piece is solid. 

La-Z-boy and Thomasville are the only ones that come to mind, but there are many more. There are probably some pretty respectable regional brands in your area as well. For example, there are (and were) quite a few furniture factories in northern Indiana. Some churn out basic or tacky stuff, some are very high quality.

Don't be afraid to say "sorry, not for me" if you're looking at a piece from FBM or similar. Don't waste people's time, but if it's not what you expected, be polite and exit. Generally, if you're looking at used brand name stuff with an asking price over $200 or so you'll filter out most of the crap.

Stokke TrippTrapp chair is worth its weight in gold. Still used as a stepstool age 10+

If you inherited it, it's not buy it for life...the operative word here is "buy".

Because OP is only asking it in the first place because they think it'll be healthier

Well, if it still works, it must be

100% cotton birdseye flats, in size large, from either green mountain diapers or osocozy. You can use them as a burp cloth or a swaddling blanket for the first few months, and then as a diaper with a separate cover, and as an insert in pocket diapers. They last through multiple kids if you end up going that route, they wash and dry quickly without all the fuss of other cloth diaper types, and work as a dish towel when you're done. We've got some in our kitchen that are still in use despite not seeing a kid bottom in 12 years.

All Clad stainless avoid any non-stick pans

THIS. Orbit baby, solid machine, no plastic parts. The rotation has saved me so so much

When I bought my first house, previous owners left the washer and dryer that they had gotten second-hand from her parents. They lasted me another 8 years. I don't remember the brand, but it doesn't matter because they surely aren't made as well now. (This was 40 years ago.)

Brooklinen has sales pretty regularly and their linen stuff is legit.

Not in my experience! I got a warranty replacement after one set after they developed holes in under a year, and the replacement set wore out similarly fast.

As other commenters are saying, you've gotta look at thrift stores (specifically habitat for humanity restores and local church thrifts, NOT Goodwill), estate sales, and Facebook marketplace. I recently got a king size bed set EASILY worth upwards of 6k for $300. You must be patient if you're not willing to do some refinishing yourself but it is possible.

We used to call this catalog "furniture porn"...

The ones with the zippers in bottom and top or magnets

I bought a pair of Quince linen pants, after enjoying their sheets, and the pants were *totally* different. Drastically thinner and less soft. I returned the pants, but for the price I'm very happy with the sheets.

Cafiza works wonders on removing coffee stains.

I feel like Merrell brand has gone down in quality in the last decade. Don't get me wrong, they are still good shoes compared to a lot of crap out there, just as not good as they used to be. That said, I'd still recommend Merrell and Salomon shoes.

Any leather Dooney & Bourke bag will last you for life--on the r/DooneyAndBourke thread, people are constantly showing off their decades-old bags that still look good-as-new! If you really do want a bag that can take a beating and survive for life, check out their All Weather Leather 3.0 Collection--the leather is virtually indestructible compared to typical leather!

\#4 is a stretch, but I definitely agree. Is my bread "fake" because I cook it in an electric oven? Maybe they are grumpy because they take 3× as long to make their coffee or tea since electric kettles are a short cut.

This. High quality rocking chair, something that could live elsewhere in your house once the kids are a bit older.

A nice dresser.

Changing table in the parents' bedroom.

A nice crib.

Woolino.

Love-to-dream swaddle with removable arms

Ubbi stainless diaper pail.

Moccamaster coffee pot.

The real answer is a night doula or night nanny so you are a functioning human. The baby just needs diapers, some sort of crib, and a bunch of cheap white gerber onesies.

Mom of soon to be 4.

Interesting! I have two pairs of linen sheets from Quince and I'm really happy with them. I've tried several brands of linen sheets and while I've only had these for any 8 months, I don't have any significant complaints so far. I wonder if they have quality control issues and I got lucky, or if this is just a case of different people, different priorities? ¯\\_(ツ)_/¯

That’s interesting. Thanks

Yeah if it feels full it lasts for a very long while

I don't know how you cook without an oven or stove. The kettle and rice cooker are more for convenience, but the oven is kind of a deal breaker.

my dads hand-me-down army issue can opener has been puncturing metal since the 80s

I have found the IKEA bulbs to be quite problematic... I had multiple completely fail quickly, while others would work but the internal power supplies would make annoying high pitched screeching noises... Still others would do weird strobe flashing failures. Oddly enough, for recently made stuff I've had the best luck with the ultra cheap crap LEDs from home Depot, usually they are sold individually for under $1 and are in a big bin...

Softstar has the widest shoe you’ll find, they are very well made, small company hand made in Oregon. They have a variety of styles

Very VERY dangerous do not use. Associated with a significant risk in SIDS

Calphalon! Some lines made in USA and has a great warranty.

I saw the bench cost as much as my mortgage payment. Thank you but no thank you.

LED bulbs really needed those beefy heat sinks if they were expected to last... As soon as they got rid of the proper heat sinks, LED life and reliability went right to hell.

I bought from them years ago and they were my package they rebranded to BN3TH and I noticed the quality dropped from there. I recently ran into some issues with some fairly new boxers from them and they won’t even back their product so it’s fairly clear that they don’t care either not to mention my my package boxer briefs are holding up better than the BN3TH boxer briefs. Which is honestly quite sad considering the my package ones are years older. Not to mention the bunching and riding up that they claim doesn’t happen with their boxer briefs does. I don’t recommend buying them at all.

You want something based on a "Munson Last." Look into Pacific Northwest American boots. They're pricey, but BIFL - the welted and stitchdown construction ones are completely resoleable and rebuildable. White's, Nick's, Frank's, etc. Nick's recently came out with a "Thurman Last" which nicely accommodates my wide-ass feet. Highly recommend!

Stellar stainless. Mine have been going for 10+ years without any sign of wear and tear

From chopping down the dying evergreen trees in the back yard

Seconding this recommendation!

I spent a ton of time at the library with my kiddo. Not only did it give us something to do for free, but it opened up the world to them. We bonded over reading stories, and they learned about so many things they otherwise would not have discovered. The benefits were measurable when it came time to go to school also. 

That kid is now in their early 20s and still loves to read!

I bought a couple of all-clad pans 3 years ago and they're every bit as good as the one I bought 15 years ago. Not sure if that's a big enough time difference for you though.

I pick them up from estate sales for about a dollar. (Make sure to boil before using to sanitize )

I also pick up stainless steel kitchen tools as well.

Window ac units are very easy to install

The shoe I used to buy has laces (so not a slip-on) and it was always the same one from the same Vans store location. This time, they had the newer model instead, for basically the same price. I have not seen any quality tiers of the same shoes in the store. Not sure if you mean shoes that look exactly the same, but have different quality tags.

The multiple pairs I had before all lasted years before my heel dug through the multiple layers of fabric, which is when I replaced them. The latest pair is 100% the same shoe and it hasn't been worn even 1 year and about 40% of the rubber on the side has unstuck, in one part I can lift it to see all the layers of the sole coming undone. This pair didn't last that long, and I cannot even buy the same shoe anymore.

Littledeer pot scoop! It’s the best shape. The angle lets you get into the edge of a pot when stirring

They’re having a sale now and I got a 12 inch skillet with a lid for $84.

My parents are still using cheap wooden utensils from at least forty years ago. 

I live in a co-op and share a kitchen with a dozen other people, and our cheap wooden spoons last until someone accidentally burns them on the gas stove. When that happens, I take off the blackened part with sandpaper and stick it back in the kitchen. 

Recommendation: Get whatever looks attractive and feels good in your hand. Whatever you buy is going to last a long time, so you might as well choose based on aesthetics.

Don't recommend: Don't get ones that are too thick. They're often pretty, but the thickness makes them harder to use.

This has literally never happened to me. I am 30+ years old. Make them buy the next one.

I'm ashamed it took me more than the time it took me to nod twice to understand why I'm an idjit

Single hose units also vent outside. The second hose adds an intake so you aren't using cooled inside air to exhaust heat with.

The validation seeking gets pretty ridiculous sometimes lol. Like you already know the answer when you're posting grandmas 50 year old mixer that still whips cream perfectly

  
My music students always get excited when I bring out this old metronome from my grandmother - thing must be from the 70s and keeps better time than most digital ones. Also inherited her sewing machine which I use for random repairs even though I'm terrible at sewing

My Herman Miller Jarvis Dual Monitor Arm Mount is incredibly sturdy and very reasonably priced. I recently noticed at the airport that it is the same one most airlines are using in their terminals with two screens.

Is the pyramid of giza buy it for life?

OP, share a picture of the window that a window unit might fit in. Is it sash style (up and down) or casement style (hinges out)? 
Sash style is preferable for a window unit.

What brand of ice-box do you use? And, I'm assuming you use a wood-burning stove exclusively?

Sennheiser wired headphones are pretty much the same as they always have been. Anything wireless though, from any brand, is typically mediocre quality and will not be BIFL due to the nature of the technology.

A large changing table abd dirty diaper close trash bin. Table should have drawers with everything you might need!
A great blanket baby will love forever.
A very good video minitor.
Maybe a rocking or swing thing.
A comfortable rocking chair

You could also say that their pricing is also "nuclear" compared to others ...

While they feel good, they are not worth that crazy price tag especially compared to Osprey.

My Planar is pretty bomb proof

Zojirushi (made in Japan line) and Tatung have really held up over the years. They don't overcomplicate things and they offer replacement parts on a ton of parts.

i've been in a similiar situaiton and i ended up sticking with an inkjet, to be honest. i don't print that much either, and it's been working fine for me. if you're only printing 20 pages a month, you might not need to worry about the cost per page thing =)

Yeah, sorry, I tried looking up how to write it, now I'll know. Hopefully I will not need to use the term very often.

Vans weren't perfect, I used to buy a sneaker from Timberland before, but that one was discontinued long time ago, and this one wasn't too bad. It was padded and very comfortable, not like other Vans shoes I saw in stores.

I know Merrell only for hiking shoes, do they have casual/city wear models too?

Wow...I was planning to go back and get a brother (after by first brother died => hp)...didn't know brother doing this crap too...

I don’t think that’ll work since he can’t install them himself

So just install it yourself then? They're not complicated, just need to install the support at a slight angle for draining, place the AC on top, close the window and seal the gaps.

I have a set of SS that I got from Walmart 15 years ago and it shows no signs of wear and tear.  I don’t think cooking with it for 2 hours a day would ever wear it out.  I also don’t think there is a lot of difference in these and any high end set. I’ve been cooking since I was a kid in some form or fashion and I just don’t see how $2000 cookware makes a difference in my life. I can use that kind of money for my kids college fund.

So...not good cooking?

I am looking for solid chairs for dining. Restaurant suppliers offer solid wood chairs for less than $200. Some may be American made. There are quite a number of suppliers.

You’re right, but the Anker Japan subsidiary is highly
popular in Japan

Unfortunately at that price point you are only going to get a regular size sofa 88inch-ish for that price with a standard and not durable material.  Couches that are over 90 inches usually are in some type of high luxury store, like Arhaus, and run about 4k.  Since it's not something that is attainable, at this point in time, just try to find something in your budget that will hold you over a few years.  If you go on FB you could easily get a sofa and an accent chair or sofa/coffee table combo.  Trying to find something that you want just isnt realistic and you're gonna make yourself crazy.  If you do go to furniture stores look for clearance and floor samples that you can take right away.  Just a friendly reminder that a 6-8 week turn around is STANDARD in the furniture industry.  So manage your expectations about having a delivery by the weekend especially if you get it one of your colors that you are requesting.  NO ONE is stocking a orange sofa.  You will have to wait like everyone else and that takes 8 weeks.  I don't recommend buying any sofa online.  That is my number one advice.  If you can't sit on it, measure it, open the zippers, lay on it, check foam, firmness etc, fit in doorway then that is not the couch for you.  You should only be buying in person with a sales person, have a contract and receipt and a live person to speak with or visit,  if something goes sideways during a delivery or you get a faulty product.  r/furniture has some posts of places to go  in your budget, I recommend reading some of their suggestions.

I have a Field, Smithey, and a Lodge. The first two cost a lot more but are definitely better. I bought their seconds.

Wow, you're a way better person than OP because you do things the hard way. Bravo. Here's your medal 🥉

i've had luck with compact fridges from the store, usually they have a decent selection and you can actually see the space inside which is super important for dorm rooms.

Agreed! Even just the instant warmer would make a big difference if youre going to formula feed.

I have worn black (men’s) slip-on Vans for a very long time. Not sure if it’s the same for the model you mentioned, but mine are produced in 3 different qualities (and price points) with the ‘Skate’ quality being the most durable. My current ones have lasted a couple of years with no sign of wear so far.

I think the correct verb is "enshittified".  Vans aren't all that great. Look into Merrells.

If you want a fixed blade you literally cannot beat ESEE as far as the warranty.  I have both an Izula and a Candiru, small enough for a pocketable knife or on a belt.

Good advice here, forgot to mention that.

It’s funny we have correlle dishes and our friend commented how she liked how they were just plain white. 

I was like ya they’re pretty indestructible too. I’ve dropped them and they bounce. 

Queue this same friend 20 minutes later helping with the dishes and she drops a bowl and it shatters into 500 pieces in a dramatic explosion all over the kitchen haha

Agreed with the others, that fans don’t actually cool. **However** if you can push the hot air **out** of your room, cold air conditioned air will need to replace it. 

So if a portable AC unit isn’t an option you can still get a window van and point it outside.

A baby breathing monitor, if you're the anxious type. They really give peace of mind

I've always found particle board trash to be heavier than solid wood pieces unless the wood has some iron elements or is made with a super dense wood.  Depends on the wood species too I would wager

Do not mess around. Get a Brother. You will thank me and everyone else. My printer gets HEAVY work loads as my wife is an artist and uses the printer to create all kinds of things.

To add onto the zipper pj's..  get the ones that fold over hands and feet.

i've had luck with wooden spoons that have a bit of oil finish to them, seems to make them more durable and less prone to cracking, especially when using them with ceramic pans =)

All-clad for stainless steel, Tramotino for nonstick.

I mean, sure... But I'm not sure that's how the Mennonites operated.

At least by me, they showed up in one of those like 12-15 passenger vans with a bunch of people every couple months, and that was it.

I don't think they were hitting the produce sale at Walmart and then bopping over for the meat sale at the Pick N Save, etc.

No good advice for you but wanted to send hugs to people going through the NICU! My mom is a former NICU nurse & that’s a whole journey. Take good care of yourselves as you prep to take care of your new arrival !!

Yeah I'm not arguing about quality differences with enamel, that's a legit process with legit differences. I'm talking literal hunks of stainless or iron. With those once you get to good enough you're paying for design and looks.

Yes 100% I inherited my great grandfathers metal tool box (beach brand for the canadians scrolling here) it has wonderful patina and should last my lifetime and possibly a few more

My wife used the carrier way more than a stroller, we were gifted a really fancy stroller that was used like 5 times, so consider how often you or your wife will use a carrier vs. stroller.

It’s expensive, but I love everything that ET Woodcrafts has on their site

Yes, or Cuisinart Multi-Clad Pro is similar to Tramontina

Man, your tone is so condescending that I feel obliged to point out that this statement relies on several hilarious premises: 

1. the assumption that anyone can go out and buy hands just like yours from the 1960’s. haha

2. the assumption that everyone else has the time, ability, access, energy, health, education, wealth, or freedom to make bread by hand like you do.

3. the assumption that anyone was asking for your opinion on what is “real” food or not. Just because I grind my own flour by hand doesn’t mean I go on the internet telling people their food isn’t real because they got flour from the store. Do better.

4. the extreme vagueness of the meaning of ‘to plug something in’ - where do you draw the line exactly? Does food cooked in a pan over an electric stove also not count as real food? Don’t you have to plug a gas stove into a gas line to connect it anyway, in a sense? My god, even a fire pit could be described as plugging a fire into the ground, and if you realllly stretch it you could say that spearfishing is just plugging a spear into a fish.

Please make more of an effort to be wholesome

Love this one! We have the version that is even more basic than this one and it is great. Agree very easy to travel with!

I do get it, but the keen deal hunter knows that you need to shop around and see which store has the best sales promo going on for the stuff you need.

Earlywood has hardwood utensils with a simple design

i've had luck with the ones that have a hepa filter and a pre-filter, they seem to catch all the fur and dust pretty well. also, make sure to change the filters regularly or it kinda defeats the purpose =)

I also want to know if Forno is a good name in appliances

Be sure to get a dual hose portable AC (vs single hose) in order to properly vent the heat to the outside

I love cooking and use all of my cookware heavily. For a cast iron skillet, absolutely, lodge is fantastic. No need to pay more for a brand name. 

For enameled cast iron, which does cook differently, lodge is good but Le Creuset and Staub are amazing. The heat distribution is more even, they retain heat better, they clean easier, they’re harder to scratch, and they don’t chip as easily. If you only use that stuff on occasion, then it makes no sense to buy the more expensive version. I have a few pieces I use weekly at a minimum, and the Le Creuset versions have been worth every penny.

two fans to blow air in and one to blow out. So it doesn’t recirculate the same air. 

However, 

Portable air conditioner with a motor to pump liquid out is better. I use it in the summer. It basically plug and play just need to attach the panel to the window and hose to a sink, or tub.

i get the struggle with seltzer makers crapping out, it's happened to me too. i found getfizzit recently and it seems to hold up well based on what folks are saying.

i get the struggle! i was tired of buying those bottles too, then came across getfizzit and it really helped me cut down on waste while enjoying fizzy drinks at home. it's been great alongside my other kitchen gadgets.

That’s factually not true. Front loaders clean better (based on standardised testing from impartial testing organisations) and more efficiently. They are also perfectly serviceable and have been used for decades in Europe and professionally. I believe there is an unfortunate issue with user error and lack of education from manufacturers, but the facts remain, keeping an older unit alive quickly becomes the less tenable decision based on almost every metric.

Oh, alright. I’ll probably look into getting one of those then!

Pans with compound bottoms (“semi clad”) tend to split open. Also, if you use electric or induction, it’s important to get thick pans. How thick is strong enough depends of the material, but a dented or warped pan is immediately garbage for me.

Exactly. My cuisinart and cook standard pans aren’t the cheapest option but definitely not the most expensive and they cook great.

All the appliances in my kitchen are electric, so I'm not sure what you mean.

Yes, the window is closed while in use.   But hot air will exhaust out the window.

Yes, I also have one from the thrift store and it’s great. If the bowl or paddles need to be replaced, replacements are available. BIFL also means the electronic is durable enough to be easily maintainable and repairable to extend its usable lifespan. I am great at making bread from scratch without a machine, but the Zojirushi bread machine really feels like magic.

It will have a panel you slide into the window the duct attaches to, so the window will be covered.

looks like mr buckets from avgn

Actually, I only paid cash for the last two, and the Griswold was used. The rest was all on airline points and all of it is near 30yo and holding up great, which is really what OP was asking for, no?

Love metal cups. Especially for ice cold milk

I feel like 1960 might be too many hands.

I have the same printer and am very happy with it. Very reliable for daily printing and adequate for my limited color printing needs.

Congratulations!

BIFL for an infant is an interesting concept.  Anything reasonably sturdy can be passed along to a cousin, friend, or your next baby (if you're having one).  On that front, I would say, if you care about colors for boys and girls, buy neutral-looking strollers, bouncy seats, and other baby furniture.  Even just standard-quality items can last through many babies.  With strollers, you do want a pretty good one.  Also, make sure the handles aren't too low, especially if you are tall.

I always wanted something like this, but didn't have one.  Getting one for that first baby seems like a great idea.  (You have another year to think about it, though.)

One thing I'm really glad I bought was a great vacuum cleaner.  It's not kid-specific, but we like our homes to be clean for our kids (and because of our kids), and it's been so nice to just have one great machine last so many years.  Ours is a Sebo.

I bought one of these and genuinely hate it. It's glitchy to connect to, print quality is only ok and it's slow.

Yes. Pjs that zip. Snapping jammies are a trick of the devil.

With a portable air conditioner installation, will I have to keep the window open when it’s in use, or does it act like a gap closer? Or

The best thing for the environment is buying machines that can be serviced, and have a good life span, instead of buying machines that cost more than they're worth to repair, and end up in a landfill. There's not much that cleans better than a machine like these from back in the day.

This is certainly not something you can buy but if you find a good sitter then INVEST IN THEM. Treat them like you would your own family. Be on time, don’t pinch pennies, learn their love language (positive feedback or gifts or acts of service etc) and just do it. 

We had our nanny for almost 10 years for three kids and worth every penny and then some

All clad. full stop.

What about weighted sleep sacks?

Respectfully disagree about zippers.  Zippers bunch oddly and are not comfortable against skin, and truly aren't any easier when the baby is kicking and wiggling away. It is highly personal preference, I suppose, but I prefer snaps on baby clothes. When are used to them you can line them up and snap them half asleep in the dark and you won't ever accidentally catch babys skin in a snap.

You have to have somewhere to put the heat, otherwise you’re just moving it around.

A friend of mine is a rocking chair master craftsman. 

He makes custom rocking chairs to match the owner’s build. He’ll guide you in selecting the best wood to match your taste and decor. 

He builds these by hand out of single piece of hand selected wood. 

These are the most comfortable rocking chairs you will ever find. 

His website leaves a little to be desired. His focus is on the chair, not marketing. 

He only makes about 8 or 9 per year. He usually has a back order of 2 or 3 chairs. 

Your Family Rocking Chair

You will need a window unit. If you're have a hard time installing one, you can get one that is free-standing, and vents to a window through some ducts. Much easier to install, doesn't require any heavy lifting, and can fit in windows with odd clearances.

Just look up portable air conditioners.

New Balance 990v6 in 9.5 4E. Made in USA, very comfortable all around every day shoe. I like mine.

I'd go the window unit option personally. If you have normal windows, they aren't hard to install. Your other options are portable A/C units, but you should get a dual intake/exhaust one, and they still need to exhaust out the window. they are simple enough to install too. OR a mini-split, that means a difficult installation for a DIYer, or an expensive installation to hire it out.

Tastes different and if you are clumsy enough to drop stuff then sure it will still work but your break the walling quick and suddenly it isn't good for hot or cold drinks.

Ahh. Is there anything that would work in cooling a room down that isn’t a window unit?

Every once in a while I consider spending $2,000 on shoemaking equipment

Yeah, that’s my local hub. Beautiful drive too,

I like my Smarthealth one the best, but would second frequent vacuuming

I’m a big fan of a double stroller (lengthwise).  Even if you only have one child, it’s so convenient to have a place to put the diaper bag, etc.

I agree. Restaurant supply stores are great for some things but a home cook can really benefit from premium brand cookware and knives.

Fans don't cool anything, in fact they can make the ambient room temperature go up due to being a machine moving and producing heat. When you are in a room with one though, it can make you feel cooler when it's blowing on you which is what it's great for, especially if you are slightly wet (evaporation cools you). But a fan blowing in a room will never lower the temperature in a real way.

All-Clad D3, or the copper core if you want that Gucci drip.

Every kitchen I've ever worked in has at least one non-stick pan for making eggs. The All-Clad ones are great because they use real Teflon.

1960 hands. You don't buy good cooking and you certainly don't plug it in.

My dad has the same one and I'm he's had it 50 years so yes.

Once upon a child, goodwill, and Salvation Army have furnished our wardrobes and will continue to do so for the next decade. lol

I love woolino but my only issues is they don’t swaddle. 

I alternate between woolino and halo sleep sacks. Depending on what he needs regulation wise and what we need heat regulation wise

Ty for sure! Also restaurants are using gas almost always and it’s not important if the pans stay flat as they’re going to be replaced etc… so will warp under high heat and not work properly on flat/induction stoves

The humidity tends to be pretty high where I am, so maybe a fan won’t cut it, yeah. I just don’t know what else to really do since a window unit would require a portion of the window to be open at all times, or cut and installed.

If you’re going with an ink tank printer then get an Epson EcoTank. Market leaders in ink tank technology.

Seconding to say that you can use the Yoto as a sound machine too!

I personally hate these machines. They tear up clothing and are energy hogs. I say buy a good front loader and take care of it. Cleans better, more efficiently and after a few years is actually better for the environment.

I've got a set of middle of the road Calphalon stainless pans that's over 20 years old. I just added a Made In saucier that has become my go to for a lot of stuff but I've only had that for a year or 2 so I can't speak to it long tern, but I'm liking it so far.

What's the humidity like in your area? Fan's don't really 'cool' anything, they just move air around. If you want something powerful, go for a shop/industrial fan.

Crib that converts to toddler bed

Lightweight car seat and stroller that doesn’t take up a ton of space but is durable

Comfortable infant carrier

If you plan to bottle feed and/or pump please do yourself a favor and get a counter top bottle washer. I never expected to love ours as much as we do. Easily the most used baby “thing” in our home. If it broke we’d order a new one immediately… can’t say the same for a lot of other non-essentials

I built a dresser.  the drawers only extend about half way, but other than that, I am a fan, and for the price, very hard to beat for new stuff.

I'd recommend it.

at $5k you can get something genuinely good. couple things to actually check in the store:

flip the cushion off and look at the frame. kiln dried hardwood with corner blocks glued and screwed at every joint = the frame will hold. if you see particleboard, stapled joints, or no corner blocks at all, walk away regardless of price.

for sectionals at this budget: england furniture, craftmaster, and flexsteel all do solid work in the $2,500-4,500 range for sectionals. they're made in the US and use real frames. at $5k you can also stretch to bernhardt or benchcraft if you find them on sale.

avoid: restoration hardware and pottery barn at this budget. you're paying 70% for the brand name and the sectionals at that tier cut corners on the stuff you can't see -- sinuous springs instead of 8-way hand tied, foam cores that compress in 3 years.

one practical tip: whatever you buy, ask about the seat cushion foam density. anything under 1.8 lb density is going to lose its shape within 5 years. good brands will spec 2.0-2.5lb on seat cushions.

I would think Mennonites would make furniture very similar to the Amish. You could always ask them you know?

Unfortunately the expensive strollers are way way better. Cheap ones are so annoying to push and expensive ones push like butter. Don't get a huge heavy one and don't get one that converts to a double. Just get a cheaper travel model from uppababy, Nuna, etc. hopefully used

I can personally recommend 'wood grain furniture'

its flat pack pine, but they use pocket screws, and its solid pine.  free ship, and affordable.

but they only have a few products in a few different finishes.

I have that same toolbox. Bought it probably 30+ years ago.

Agree, but just wanted to chime in that a good stroller doesn’t necessarily have to be anything super fancy! We had an great, basic umbrella stroller from Summer Infant that lasted us through both kids and was in good enough condition to sell when we were done with it. It was super lightweight and easy to maneuver. I also got a stroller frame that was compatible with our infant car seat (Chicco), which was handy when they were tiny.

100% on the sleep sacks!! We liked the Halo ones, but I know there are other good options too.

Valid, but jars are free with every purchase of every pasta sauce/jam/etc. and come with lids.

Lancaster County PA. More Amish furniture than you can shake a stick at

Stainless steel yes. Restaurant supply no.

Restaurant supply stores are completely undeservedly fetishized on Reddit. They have some good stuff, but for the most part they are not suited to home cooks, especially ones with a BIFL mentality. Restaurant supply smallwares are generally designed to get bought in bulk, completely abused, and eventually replaced. They’re made cheaply because they’re essentially disposable.

In a home kitchen, a stainless steel pan can and should last a lifetime. When you’re buying for 50 years instead of a couple years at most, you want something that’s actually good, not disposable.

Quality brands marketed to home cooks like Demeyere, All-Clad, Hestan, etc. (many of which do also show up in commercial kitchens) are the way better long term buy. Cheapo commercial brands like Vollrath are not it.

Unless it rusts ... my father's did. Sad.

Most feet are not pointy-toed

Levoit Vital 200-SP with the pet-specific filter. 

You want a filter with a large mass of activated carbon to bind to the pet odors, pellets of carbon are better than coated fiber mats, prefilters are a must, and the HEPA part of the filter does nothing for smells. Also more units spread around the room, even at slower speeds, will be more effective than one unit at a higher speed (which is also more annoying to listen to).

Woolino sleep sack. Better if you can get it used. Expensive, but not that much more expensive than quality other warm ones and cheaper than buying like three different sleep sack weights in two different sizes each (it fits 2-24 months). We have one and the quality is really good

IKEA Antilop high chair (it is much easier to clean and much cheaper than most high chairs) 

IKEA roll of drawing paper (you can buy the easel separately, we just use the paper) 

Woolino baby and toddler sleep sacks 

Thirsties wet bag (medium size) for holding swim suits or soiled diapers in public or used cloth diapers 

Hanes organic cotton socks with grippers 

Reima rain jacket—Koski model with the fleece lining (perfect for the really cold, windy or rainy days)

Little Green Radicals rain boots and clothing

North Face Bear hat (the one that fits up to age 2)

Easy Peasy organic clothing (simple, coordinating pieces that wash very well)

Root and Splendor laundry stain remover (used 2x week + in our house)

Fitville.  You can buy 3 pairs for $200

the footrest for petite adults is a detail i never would have thought of but that tracks completely. love when something designed for kids ends up being genuinely useful for adults too. tripp trapp is the rare baby gear buy that doesn't end up in a garage sale

We ordered 8K in furniture almost five weeks ago and have had ZERO help getting an answer from customer support about when we will be receiving this. It is impossible to contact a human over there! Just AI bots responding to queries with vague answers. It has been so incredibly frustrating. The last email I sent was responded to with a note that they would be back in touch in 72 business hours-- which is nine days.

I’d hardly consider electronics BIFL, but Zojirushi is one of the closest.

At least the glass won't be rusty. Jk, cool fact.

New balance 990v6 can be ordered in size 10, width 6E. I have these shoes in a different size and they are very awesome and comfortable every day shoe and highly recommended on this sub and r/newbalance. “Dad shoe” vibes but that’s ok because I’m a middle aged dad, lol. They are made in USA!

Personally I prefer cotton bedding/sheets to linen. It’s just easier to maintain as it’s less wrinkly. I do love my linen duvet cover but I have to lean into the creased look when I’m using it.

You could google 'Corsi-Rosenthal Box'.

Not pretty, but it's a good way to stay away from Big Filter.

Hello /u/wds1! Thank you for your submission! The AutoMod thought that your post might be a request type post and has changed the flair accordingly, but if this was wrong feel free to change it back!

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/BuyItForLife) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Oh I meant the wood species, looks a lot like my cherry sample. 

Glad you’re happy with the choice. I think of the SS tops as the “hero” element of our kitchen. checks so many boxes for us. Good luck with the island, something will come along. I’m planning on having the island be natural stone from a remnant to save a little $$

Not liking AC handles is a skill issue

But yes, the lack of sealed rims is a serious drawback if you want to put them in the dishwasher. They won’t be instantly ruined, but over years of dishwashing the edges will corrode and get sharp.

Jeez, do pots and pans wear out?

Mostly I'd stay away from non-stick and either buy some cheap Lodge thing or stainless from a restaurant store.  No point in getting sets as most of them will just sit, it's like knives.

I've always hated the feeling of the vibrations in my mouth but im ready to give it another go, I think I brush too aggressively with manual

It's a general trend regardless of my feet shape. I've tried several "6E" shoes that was barely wider than the 4E, for example. And they all have that pointy toe for the sake of aesthetics, as subjective as that is.

I have a (rustier) version of this I bought at a thrift store. We used it for a locked chest for a buried treasure hunt scenario. It stayed underground for a month, then after it was dug up I used it for a tool box. It continues to be my toolbox. 

It's so good I wish I hadn't mistreated it so much when we first got it, but it is still going either way.

Yep and that's because you got them in Europe. Fiskers now manufacturers most of it's products through their Chinese arm of factories. If you want the real deal you got to buy it from Finland.

These are all things that have paid for themselves time and time again: 

Nugget couch or chunk (modular play furniture that can be used from 1-15? Truly amazing) 

Yoto player (non screen music and audiobooks) 

Hatch sound machine 

Bath toys that don’t mold and can grow with the child (open play toys)

All the books!!! You can never have too many (and now kindle that my older child has) 
I agree what others said about the library- it is truly one of the best free resources we have and so good for our kids brains to be reading daily

I have the same bag and it’s showing no major signs of wear going on 8-10 years of use. Don’t put big rectangular things in it and it’ll be fine. It’s never been advertised as a laptop bag and it’s not appropriately shaped/reinforced to be one.

I have a Dream Sofa, aside from the 10ish week wait I love it. 

Definitely order swatches before deciding on a fabric if you decide to go with them. Much different appearances and textures than what you see online. 

That said, no idea if it’s BIFL but it seems very solid and would expect 10+ years out of it.

1 dollar extendable back scratcher for me and I  for the cat, to can scratch her belly while not bending over haha

Well I hate to break it to you, but most feet are not your feet-shaped

Yes, I have two that are on the 3rd generation craftsman

My wood utensils date back to the fifties and were bought in a market, cheap as cheap can be.

New Balance 990s

Hoka makes a 4e that runs wide that might work for you.

Feno. Tried a few brands before it and nothing comes close. Full mouth clean in 20 seconds and my dentist actually noticed the difference. What made you decide to finally switch?

I think some people just have a lot of money? And regardless that would not indicate an ad

Most electrics die from charging port corrosion. Feno uses magnetic wireless charging so there's nothing to corrode. Mine's been going strong with a week long battery life. What's drawing you to quip specifically?

We recently bought a new dining set from
QW Furniture and we’re extremely pleased with the whole experience .   I was able to customize everything, the sales person texted me photos of items in the wood/stain combos I wanted to see that weren’t on the website, all super helpful!
Delivery was a breeze With one small hiccup,  which they immediately fixed! 

Everything looks and feels very solid and well put together.   The finishes are beautiful!  I got a walnut table with four leaves, four chairs and a bench that also has leaves to expand the same as the table (right!?)

Price was great for what we got!

Both are great picks. I had a Sonicare before switching to Feno and honestly haven't looked back. Worth adding to your list if you're still deciding. What's pulling you toward those two?

Pressure sensors are nice but I went with Feno instead because the full mouth design means you physically can't press too hard anywhere. Solved the gum sensitivity thing completely. What's your budget roughly?

I had these exact bulbs and had issues with them failing. I used them in the bathroom and I suspect the humidity contributed

All solid choices honestly. I ended up going with Feno though which is a completely different experience. Full mouth clean in 20 seconds. Worth looking into alongside those options. What matters most to you?

Tramontina is 95% of the way to AllClad quality wise, for a significant price reduction. My wife is a professional chef and we have both. The pans we use most often, we spring for AllClad, the less common ones but where she still “needs” a quality pan, those are Tramontina.

More like *ill-tempered glass*.

Good nail clippers! I used newborn nail clippers for a couple of months then switched to a Seiki nail clipper. Everyone uses the same nail clipper. Definitely a BIFL product for everyone !

The brushing too hard thing is exactly why I switched to Feno. It does your whole mouth at once so there's no pressure on individual teeth. Comes with a tongue scraper too so that's covered. Problem solved.

Neither honestly. I went through both before landing on Feno which is a totally different category. Full mouth brush, 20 seconds, done. Hard to care about Sonicare vs Oral B after that.

Most of those brands are basically the same thing with different packaging. I skipped the comparison entirely and went with Feno. Full mouth clean in 20 seconds and the build quality is solid. Still going strong. What's your budget?

Feno smartbrush. No dental insurance makes this even more worth it because the app actually tracks your oral health between visits. Prevention is cheaper than treatment every time.

To be fair, an expensive brand is *more likely* to have a thicker aluminum layer which will more effectively spread heat more evenly along the bottom of the pan.

That being said, many cheaper options are as good or nearly as good for a much lower price. Serious Eats did an All-Clad vs Tramontina match up here. 

Only by using controlled quantitative tests could I find any difference at all in how the pans perform. Even then, the differences were minimal. If money is absolutely no object, go ahead and buy the All-Clad. For the rest of us, the Tramontina set should do just fine. 

Now that's from when all Tramontina was made in Brazil and I have heard the China produced stuff has thinner layers and isn't as good but can't speak to that myself. 

tl;dr: stainless steel pans can vary, but inexpensive brands can be nearly as good as the expensive ones.

Ok OP, a 14in frying pan from All Clad is $250 USD.  A 14in frying pan from Tramontina is $45.  Do you really think the AC pan is $200 better?  They'll both last a lifetime and will look brand new in 50 years with proper care.  Only one of the two only appeal to people who have more money than sense and live an unfulfilled upper middle class life to the point they have to show off their $6k purchase of cookware on reddit to gain appreciation for their purchase they'll likely never use in a serious way.  Do not be that guy.

Ive had the same stainless steel cup for 25 years. I even lost it outdoors for a year or so and rexovered it and commenced using again.

Also check the All-clad factory seconds sales. It's a weird sketchy looking website but it's legit.

Or better yet. Learn how to carve them yourself. It’s actually not all that difficult.

Demeyere Atlantis Stainless Steel is about the best you can get

I've been using the same cheap pack of bamboo utensils from Amazon for about 10 years

For everyone—a padded rocker with ottoman.

One of mine is almost 50yo and the other I inherited from my grandfather

Handles dying after a year is frustrating. I switched to Feno and the build quality is solid plus it charges magnetically so no corroding charging ports. How many brushes have died on you so far?

The trick is the amount of souls that are scooped by the spoon, gotta get those numbers up. Things like eggs or shrimp don't count.

Rechargeable always over battery. Battery ones die fast and you end up spending more replacing them. With braces a standard electric works fine but once they come off check out Feno, it's a full mouth brush that cleans everything in 20 seconds.

all boutiqueslop, this guy fell for consumerism

Bedrock Evo “C” (cushion) sandal. Resoleable and repairable.

High chair. One easy to clean, adjustable footrest, and allows good posture and not constant slipping down and slouching . You will be using and cleaning that thing multiple times a day for a lot longer than a lot of baby stuff is used

If you think im paying $500 a pan for something that isnt even better than regular 304 stainless then you're insane.

More accessories than furniture but I like T. Weatherhead & Co:

It's frustrating to see major shoe manufacturers still making pointy toe shoe because aristocrats wore that way back when. Instead of foot shaped shoes.

Honestly, I wouldn't focus on the kid too much. But when you become a parent, it's kind of unbelievable how much your life revolves around cooking, laundry and cleaning. Like, WAYYY more than you expect. So invest in BIFL stuff that will help you with both of those tasks. Laundry and cleaning are tough, most items are consumables, so BIFL doesn't really factor. But invest in a REALLY GOOD clothes drying system (I avoid the dryer as much as possible due to shrinkage and ruining the clothes). But generally, investing in good cookware is always a solid move. Other than that, consider furniture that you might be able to hand down.   
  
But almost everything made for kids is going to be short-lived. Buy used wherever possible for that stuff.

Every post op had was about one luxury product or another. Framed innocently but definitely not. 

Real people don’t use reddit like that.

Oh how I envy this 🫣💝

I agree. I got All Clad pans when I got married early 1990's.  My children still use them to this day.  In fact, one of my children still uses my mother's All-Clad Limited pans from the early 1980s--they were quite a thing in the early 1980s. They were actually delivered in wooden crates with wooden / straw shavings as insulation. 

As long as you get a pan with a sealed rim it should last your entire lifetime, even going in the dishwasher.

IKEA is the best quality at affordable price you can find.

Pet smell is reduced when you wash your dog weekly and wash/wipe their paws after every walk. And vacuum the whole house several times per week. And wipe all surfaces. My wife is strict about all that and that is whatshe does when she is bored. Air purifier is not going to do much about that.

I spent way too long on this exact quest before someone recommended Brochu Walker and I wish they'd told me sooner. The cashmere is absurdly soft but what sold me is the construction.

The problem is people.  99% of the population has no idea what CRI is.  They still have to list a 10w led bulb as 60w because folks are too stupid to just look at lumens.  

There are still really good bulbs out there.  They are just really expensive and hard to find in the sea of advertising and cheap bulbs.

Mikrotik. Not buy it for life since its electronics but fits the thread.

Just commenting in case you get an answer that's actually viable. I'm 9.5 4e, and haven't found anything acceptable that lasts more than 9 months.

The people I nanny have used Planet Box lunch boxes for over 10 years! Dishwasher and all! Would 10/10 recommend!

Brochu Walker. Not EU-based but their 100% cashmere is some of the best I've touched. Simple, timeless, lasts forever. Worth looking into even with the shipping.

Can confirm. These are great!

Merino wool cardigan

who almost exclusively seem to shop at Aldi for some reason

Aldi is almost always cheaper than other grocery stores. Which is my guess as to why.

My home town has an Aldi now, but before we did, the Mennonites would almost exclusively shop at Walmart.

In terms of Mennonites and furniture, I have no idea. We have Amish in the area too, so they seem to have cornered the market on eclectic religious group that makes furniture in the area.

Don't people praise that one IKEA sectional? It'd fit in your budget. Otherwise get a nice one used

A high quality stroller.

We got the baby jogger city mini and it got us through 3 kids. Still take with us on vacation.

We regretted a lot of baby purchases but not this one

It's just a simple Sun Joe electric. Not super powerful but it does the job.

Books, chewable, washable, pettable - books.

One option… make your own. 

It’s certainly not cheaper than the disposable crap you can buy online. It’s also not cheaper than estate / marketplace sales. It might be cheaper than Amish if you already have the tools. 

But it will last a lifetime, you’ll build a skill you can pass down, and you can make things exactly as you want them.

I was going to mention salad master as well, when i waas 14, which would have been around 20 years ago, we went to NC for vacation and ended up at a salad master showing. My mom bought the full set and they have been AWESOME. I now have the frying pan, one large pot and one tiny pot. My mom still uses the electric cooker and all her remaining pots and pans. Truly and excellent product. 

The only annoying thing is having to buy them through people, but they are easy to find. They have a list of sellers you can look up and get in contact with them. I do wish they moved on from this model, since it's super dated.

My sonicare is still going after 10+ years.

Performance fabrics work but they always look like performance fabrics. I switched to Brochu Walker cashmere for flights and the temperature regulation is naturally built into the fiber. Warm when it's cold, breathable when it's warm, doesn't wrinkle, and you look like a person not someone who just left the gym. One cashmere layer does more than three synthetic pieces. Are you doing mostly long haul international or domestic?

Costco, last one made it through the kids jumping on it like a trampoline for 10 years. Got rid of it bc it was always too big for the space. The new one is a little better quality and modular. Fabric is also a little sturdier.

LeCreuset Dutch ovens

Rolex, Omega, JLC, and many other Swiss watches 

Lexus cars

Opinel knives

Alden shoes

OP, everyone is posting All-Clad which are indeed great pans. However, you’re going to get 95% of the performance and longevity with a Tramontina set at a fraction of the price. You can find 8-12 piece sets in the $200-300 range where AC will cost 4-5x as much. I don’t think you can beat the value of Tramontina clad set

As I recall, the firmware ultimately just made you acknowledge that it was 3rd party and it isn't supported.

That's all mine does now, and only when I change toner.

This advice is a little early, but tbh most baby things newborn-6 months aren't going to stay with you very long. This list is best for 6+ plus, but its better to buy things as you go along/before you need them. 

Solid baby gates that you don't get annoyed by.

This safety 1st baby gate is my favorite type. Super easy to move around and clean off. 

A simple and easy to use/clean food steamer. I would avoid baby food specific ones. 

Once you find 1 or 2 types of bottles/straw cups/etc that work- buy only those. It's unnecessarily frustrating to sort through bottle parts trying to match them to the right one. I highly recommend weighted straw cups (SKIP MUNCHKIN BRAND). They can be used earlier than standard straw cups meaning they can be used longer overall. 

Look on fb marketplace before you buy anything. You are guaranteed to find popular baby items for resale (reuse/reduce also aligns with bifl!)

A desk and a learning tower. I've always wanted to try this one out irl, but haven't had the opportunity. convertible baby desk. It caught my eye bc its the only model I've seen that has a seat back to help them get in and out/not fall off. You'd be surprised at how helpful a mini desk can be. I use them for soo many activities. A lot of babies enjoy coloring and finger painting earlier than people assume. This type of desk will most bifl. 

This walker joovy walker is a great one for smaller babies. Also great to use as a movable food station. 

A "nugget couch". Any brand with good ratings. Previously I've used them as giant baby gates, safe soft places to play, something to lay on in the playpen, napping, and for general safety. They're great for putting in front of the couch to catch rolling babies. They work wonderfully as a platform to help shorter babies/toddlers reach things (works amazing with the ikea kitchen). I've had parents i work for use them as a mattress to sleep on the floor next to the crib. I even use them for activities- car and ball ramps, obstacle courses, cozy reading nook, imaginary houses, endless possibilities. And of course, the fort building and couch sitting.ears and years of use. I highly recommend getting more than one. It's also most helpful to buy it before you need it (bc you'll realize how helpful it is).

If you kid gets really into a certain toy: legos, hotwheels, magnatiles, barbies, etc.- *always* check marketplace before buying new. You can get 50+ hotwheels ($1.25 each) for 20 bucks.

Crayola wonder markers and twistable colored pencils are your greatest entertainment asset. Start them young. 

Additionally- most kids I've worked with don't actually use or play with those fisher price laugh and learn gadgets. They want to use what you use. Either buy an extra for the baby or buy very toys/teethers that look extremely similar to the real ones you use. 

Books books books. Make sure they're not all about bedtime or baby specific things. The most bifl ones (and best for car) are og indestructibles. After that any board book will do. Avoid or put away paper backs/pages until they can handle them. They will be destroyed. Avoid flap or popup books if you really want to avoid tossing things. Also, books can be repaired. Duct tape goes a long way. It works best if you repair the books before its completely broken. 

Bonus tip: most melissa and Doug stuff is overrated. They come with way too many pieces and no effective storage. Look for similar ones from different brands. 

Alright, this is probably long enough. 😅

Just find some multi-clad from your local thrift store. All those pots and pans have already lasted multiple years

I was scammed ! I Ordered my heels on March 20th 2026 ! My Order was Cancelled this morning after I contacted support for the 100th time ! I WOULDNT RECOMMEND THIS COMPANY

I don't know of any Amish communities in my area, but there are a ton of Mennonites (who almost exclusively seem to shop at Aldi for some reason) in my neck of the woods. Would the same principles apply?

Grooming and vacuuming will go farther than an air purifier.  If they have ever peed on anything you might as well move.  Cause that ain't going away without a carpet change.

I like spootle. They use cherry wood which I like since wooden cooking tools tend to soak in water.

Ι​'​ve​ ​b​e​e​n​ ​u​s​i​n​g o​x​o​'​s ​be​ech set. ​I​ ​f​o​l​l​o​w​ ​t​h​e​ ​o​i​ling r​ule every m​o​n​t​h​ ​t​o​ keep​ ​t​he​ ​w​o​o​d​ fr​o​m​ ​d​r​y​i​n​g​ ​o​ս​t​.​ ​І​t​ ​w​о​r​k​ѕ

0.1mm? What's it like cooking in that poverty gear. I got mine from the dude who polishes mirrors for space telescopes. Have fun crying every day as you scrape food off that 60 grit finish!

Demeyere Atlantis will last a lifetime

Do yourself a favor and get a pair of AMP lenses from FUSE (they are color enhancing and way higher quality lenses than Oakley). They make lenses custom to fit a ton of brands: Oakley, Ray-Ban, even Prada plus many others I am not familiar with.

They have a 1 time lifetime lense replacement warranty (no questions asked). You can also get an additional lens lifetime replacement warranty for an extra $10 when you buy them.

Just overall they are really nice sunglasses. Fuse also regularly has sales offering 40%+ off for holidays. I got my first two for 50% off, second two for 40% off. I am sure there will be a 4th of July sale.

I have 4 pairs for various uses (because the color enhancement actually each color lense enhances different colors, so some are better for hiking, some are better for driving, some are better for fishing or boating, hunting, etc.). 

Hopefully this doesnt sound like an ad. A friend of mine gave me the heads up about them years ago and I wont ever buy a different brand again. They are BIFL for sure,  but obviously if you drop them or something it is on you.

Great tip - I hadn't really delved into looking at second hand market places for higher quality (but used) couches. Already found a love sac sectional on FB marketplace that I'm hoping works out! 

Any specific brands you'd suggest I specifically look for as I shop second hand/take from dead people?

You're not finding a BIFL couch on that budget, unfortunately. Really no BIFL furniture without spending 3-4x that.

Hello /u/Erudicial_Extreme! Thank you for your submission! just to inform you, you may also want to try posting in /r/boots which is a smaller subreddit but might be or specialized for your request

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/BuyItForLife) if you have any questions or concerns.*

I used to love them but the newer ones are poorly made. I loved my Momentum M2 and replaced them with the M4 when I lost them. They are 2 years old and the material on the headband is peeling off already. I bought the Epos Sennheiser GSP 670 for my computer 3 years ago and I had to replace the earmuffs within a year because they disintegrated. They have broken on the hinge now so they are getting replaced.

I can't speak for peoples opinion on looks but the Torq is definitely NOT heavy!!

I've had a pair of HD450s for about 10 years now. No idea on current build quality but it was very good 10 years ago!

I have a soft cooler that I was pretty impressed with, but maybe only like 8/10 impressed. Build quality seems fantastic but perhaps I expected hard-cooler-full-of-ice coolness out of it.

The drinkware is all excellent though, 10/10 for sure and I will not be buying a different brand.

Farberware. lifetime guarantee that they actually honor

My son hates doing the "nose sucker," but we also blast saline up his nose a couple times so most of the discomfort is there.

We plan on going all out with the Nozebot soon. So done with the straw lol

Child locks ( safety first brand)on all drawers and  lower cabinets.  We installed the ones that unlock with a magnet.  They are super strong and handled 3 kids in my house and still work.  Now they are unlocked but ready at a moments notice if a friend brings a little one over.   
    If there are rooms in the house you don't want the kid getting into and they've figured out the door knob cover, get a child door latch, the door will open a little and there is a stopper so they can't close the door and pinch their fingers.  We uses the door latch so then our kitties could move freely in and out of the bedroom.  There are also bi-fold locks for those finger pinching closet doors, They are super easy and just glide across the top of the door.
    You will be using a baby gate for much longer than you realize.  Bolt that sucker in, do not pressure fit it. Lastly if your kid becomes an eloper, buy glidelok it's stupid strong and the kid will not be able to open the front door.

LOL, the search algorithm is so weird sometimes! I was just trying to get examples of the kind of open-front things I like to use, and then Amazon started suggesting paper-sized drawers made of metal, like you were asking about!

BTW, if you're planning to store full reams of paper, reminder to check the measurements before you buy--some organizers/trays/shelves/drawers may be made too short to hold a full ream.

Quit fuckin around and go make money

Same here. 2 kids, 6 and 3, who also do use them.
I have to keep throwing away cables, since they come with every stupid thing, and the semi-nice ones (anker powerline II) I bought in 2019 are still as good as new.

My parents on the other hand brake them ALL THE TIME, including even the more expensive ones I bought them. I see them stretching them when they are using their phones plugged inb laying down in sofas. So I bought longer ones. But, they broke those too.

Don’t buy a set. You’ll likely get pieces you don’t need or want. Go check out the selection at Home Goods, Marshall’s, and TJ Max. You can get All Clad, Viking, Calphalon, and more. Build your collection piece by piece and you can get exactly what you need and want at really great prices.

Kirkland stainless steel. Cheaper than all clad (though rumour is that it’s actually all clad). Had mine 18yrs at this point.

Room & Board furniture

Nuh uh, a lodge surface is 0.1mm less smooth than mine. Makes a world of difference /s

If you go with stainless steel. Make sure and research how to use them and care for them. They are usually not dishwasher safe and cooking on them is different that other pans you have probably used.

I'd avoid Shark. We've had two and the vacuum only one is about a year old and seems fine. The vacuum + mop one is about 4 years old and everyday I consider replacing it. It is constantly sending notifications it is on a cliff (in the middle of the floor?). Or it will randomly not do a room. Very frustrating.

But if you put ice in them your lips would freeze to them

feature, not a bug

Our 3-in-1 Babyletto crib/toddler/full bed. Great quality! Make sure you buy the bed conversion kit so you don’t risk the product/style being discontinued.

Yes. They’re the best.

Second on Stride Soles - a wayyy cheaper alternative

Drinking out of a metal cup iis it's own personal choice. Same for metal straws.  The beverage tastes off.

You could just get their non Bluetooth HD480 which looks pretty much the same but slimmer cups and extremely comfortable. It has replaceable parts as well

carbon fiber UMBRELLAS??

Ours are Salad Master, 5-ply Titanium Steel, the set is now over 35 years, also has a lifetime warranty.   Not sold in stores, available only through dealers.

My kid is almost 2.5. Stoke Tripp trapp high chair is what we are still using. The car seat we have now is what I assume we will use for a few more years but he outgrown his infant car seat at around 13/14 months. It was a Nuna pipa and now we are using a Nuna rava.

Something that we didn’t use that much once he learnt to walk is his fancy stroller. He has a push cart car that we use on neighborhood walks. But I have bought a travel stroller that is easy to fold for an upcoming trip and hope that will come In handy for a few years to come.

It’s not a BIFL but something I feel is worth investing into is hired help. Outsource as much as you can afford to. Get a night nanny if you can.

I’m not a great cook but my family of four has used copper bottom stainless steel clad Cuisinart pots and pans for more than 25 years with no issues whatsoever. They’ve held up well and are far less expensive than the big name stainless brands.

I much prefer carbon steel. IKEA has them but I like de buyer.

Trust me, I get it.  I built up my furniture/home goods piece by piece for years until I finally had what I wanted.  The way I think of it is that I would much rather pay now for a quality piece than to cheap out and have to pay for a replacement down the road, which will end up costing me more in the long run.

Hell, a lot of the furniture I still have to this day was built by my father and me when I first moved out.  We are not craftsmen by any means, but those pieces are a hell of a lot nicer than the cardboard you get from Ikea.

I think it's a minimal effect, I personally wouldn't worry about it, but if you're hyper cautious it may be something to think about

Not to be crass, but, uh... dead people. And rich people. And dead rich people.

If you're patient and flexible and have cash and a van, you can score very high-end name brand, nearly un-sat-upon couches dirt cheap on the used market. Sometimes FBM, sometimes consignment or thrift shops, etc. It takes a fair bit of luck and skill to spot a high-end couch from one crappy snapshot or from 100 feet away. Focus on the wealthier areas; sometimes people just remodel and sell off or give away the furniture, or grandma leaves behind a couch she hasn't let anyone sit on in ten years.

I'm looking at a $3,000-ish La-Z-boy sofa right now that's very nice quality and I scored for $100, nearly untouched. Grandma moved on to the next world and no one in the family wanted the couch she bought just before heading to the nursing home. Even better, it's a nice understated brown stripe pattern that fit right in to our living room, not a flowery horror. (The high-end-ness of La-Z-boy may be debatable, but this couch is very well made.)

Sounds great as well

I"m having great success with All-Clad, so far (6+ years).   If you follow them online, they often send discounts which is what triggers a new purchase. Several at 50% off, after watching the item for 2 months.

We are going on 5 years with one, added a second camera and have it coming up to 2 years. you can swap out monitors or cameras, link multiple to a single monitor, easy to travel with - just needs a plug.

I never understood how people lose sunglasses at all?!??!  I am 50 years in, as a daily wearer, and it has never happend once.

Good to know! Luckily they are just a pair I keep in my car just in case 🙂

Be careful of All-Clad, they work well, but the handles are...not to everyone's taste and most/many/all(?) have to be handwashed per the munufacurer.

Vacuum more often. Grooming matters.

That aside we have a clean air kit (fancy CR box which is stupid quiet) and between all three you would never know we have two dogs. Except those dogs will be touching you when you visit. 

Seriously through, monthly grooming made a way bigger difference then I thought it would.

Got a time machine I can borrow?

My cheap cladded stainless steel pans I’ve used daily for 5 years also look like new. You’re acting like your stainless steel 304 is magically different than mine.

Point being you can pay less and have the same results. Like the "boutique" cast iron when a lodge works *exactly* the same.

Anyone who makes some dumb argument about your overpriced piece if iron can screw right off.

If you live in Europe, buy Silampos stainless steel pots and pans (made in Portugal). I'm sure my Silamposes will outlive me!

Now drink some orange juice out of it

Affordable version are the ROCK pans. Had them for years and no scratches or other signs of wear.  Got them from Costco.  Impressed.

I bought my hexclad set at Costco maybe 4 years ago. Kept trying to figure out how to properly season them like the demo models shown at costco. 

Im about to test that costco return policy cause they arent good. Use the money to buy carbon steel and cast iron.

I bought a pixel 8 cuz of threads like this and the motherboard needs to be replaced after 1.5 years, no warranty support. So... Just don't get a pixel

You're both right and it's beautiful

I know. It’s so hard when you’re on a budget. I just really can’t afford the expensive pieces right now as much as I want to. The cost of living and daycare is just beyond ridiculous.

Is it really an overpay when I’ve had them for 20 years and they look brand new

lmaooo sorry didn't have my coffee yet 😃

Crib to college bed. Starts out as a crib and comes with bed rails to convert to a toddler bed and later a full size bed. 

Start the college savings (509 I think) and setup an automatic recurring deposit so you don’t have to think about it. 

Car seat with a large height/weight range. A solid one can last you until they are out of car seat age. 

Small umbrella stroller with a weight limit up to 50 pounds. These are way easier to use than the gigantic monstrosities that you see a lot of parents with. Easy to collapse and put in the trunk. 

This is probably going to be controversial, but a reliable minivan if you’re planning on having more than one child. The space and safety is worth the investment. Being able to do road trips instead of flying will make it pay off. Having space for all of the baby/kid/teen gear is huge, especially if they get into sports. It’s an absolute must if you’re going to have more than two kids, but even with just two you will also be taking their friends places. Modern hybrid models get great gas mileage and are super comfy when you’re doing road trips or waiting out a practice.

I carved a wooden spoon out of black walnut. Are you saying I shouldn't use it? There's no plastic on it since I carved it myself.

i have tramontina 3-ply from costco. sometimes they go on sale too

I love Tonie Boxes for the stages that are too young to handle yotos

Hang dry if you want the quality to truly last!

The one thing we have been constantly glad to have is a Stokke bath. Has enough space for the little kids, and takes no space when not used.

Otherwise kids can be different, so it's hard to know in advance what is a good buy. I nice stroller is great, but my eldest hated strollers and we used a scarf until he was able to stay on my shoulders.

If you want to overpay for a metal pan sure

Heritage steel is another good American made stainless company. Thats the ones I'm going with

What helped me was paying more attention to materials/construction. I’ve been really happy with my 8000Kicks because they still look clean/minimal with outfits but are far more durable compared to most fashion brands.

I have Farberware from the early 80’s which we are still using and haven’t worn out yet.

All my pots are vintage Revere Ware that I got from thrift stores. All my pans are cast iron. I fully expect all of them to outlast me.

AllClad, LeCruset, ButterPat, and Griswold are mine.

Calphalon Premier, 6 years going strong and have a lifetime warranty, but I haven't had to use it

Baby carriers that you can't buy at your local target/walmart/amazon are going to last significantly longer. Check out things from Lennylamb, Didymos, Oscha, or any other woven wrap company. Check out r/babywearing for more on baby carriers. 

A good stroller. We have the uppababy vista v2 and it's been through A LOT and still looks to be holding up better than a lot of cheaper strollers after nearly 3 years. 

There are car seats that will last for 10 years. Get a good convertible seat.

How often are you changing the lenses? Iirc Frogskins and Holbrooks have easily removable lenses, only time I had this issue was on the pair that I frequently changed the lenses on.

Multi-stage filtration is underrated. Tankless undersink systems have gotten a lot better at combining filtration stages.

Go to your local furniture store and to see the solid wood furniture. That's your best bet.

Electric 100/10 - wish we did that one sooner! Use it so often!!!!

I do, granted I bought used Mosley Tribes aviators for that 50$ price.

From my knowledge, which isn't super deep, no which is why I've switched to Ugreen.

I believe it was LTT stopping their sponsorship that sent me down the rabbits hole.

You may be right but that part only broke after a decade plus of daily use so I don't expect to have to be buying replacements very often.

Well no, the frames haven’t been replaced.

I've been happy for a long time with all-clad pots, and hex-clad frying pans. But it's important to take good care of them (read the instructions, for hexclad always heat it up slowly), you can ruin any pot if you abuse it enough!

FYI, there’s almost no chance at all that they still effectively protect you from UV if they were cheap grocery store glasses. The surface film has likely degraded.

You will probably only use it for a year but the Baby Brezza was an absolute life saver. I couldn’t make enough milk and had to use formula and this made the formula quick and easy, especially when the baby wakes up in the middle of the night.

lol what? Most people absolutely do not have a decade old pair of sunglasses, and I have no comment on your arbitrary “$50” price.

This! Buy the b/w brother laser printer and then when you actually need color, which most don’t, go to a place to have them print what you need in color. 3rd party toner works well with brother and they don’t do any of that BS that HP or Epson have done with chips in their toner cartridges. People think they need or want color but they don’t really need it nearly as much as they think.

1970’s Farberware. We’re still using ours and you can not wear it out.

Were you an alcoholic? Because I have some mixer sets with wonderful quality stainless that I use daily in sobriety

Finex cast iron. It will break other things before it breaks. You will need to learn how to care for it.

Oakleys used to be BIFL. But since they sold out. They haven't been the same. 

I have a pair of oil rigs that was a Christmas gift in 2010 that still look like they did then. I have a pair of fuelcells that I bought in 2011. They are in perfect condition since I babied them. 

I can't remember the last ones I bought but the arms fold on them and I bought them in 2019. And the lenses on the are peeling off and flaking. I also have a pair of cross hairs I found at a goodwill that are beat to shit but in nicer condition than my newest ones. 

It's a shame. They used to be the best and made in the USA. Now they're expensive junk.

Congrats on the new house!

If I had a $5k budget and wanted something that'll actually hold up, I'd probably start with Poly & Bark. I've been pretty impressed with what I've seen from them in terms of materials and overall build quality.

I'd also take a look at Albany Park if you're interested in a modular setup. Their sectionals seem to get a lot of positive long-term feedback, especially from people with kids and pets.

One thing I'd focus on more than the brand is the frame and cushion construction. A lot of sectionals look great in photos, but the ones with solid hardwood frames and higher-density cushions tend to be the ones people are still happy with years later.

If you want, I can send over a few of the listings I had bookmarked when I was shopping around.

Has UGreen had a similar scandal? I've always held both brands in the same esteem. They're the only brands I trust among the amazing alphabet soup brands. But I know LTT doesn't do ad spots for Anker since the wifey scandal.

That doesn't super surprise me, but then what are my options? That's what I've been struggling to figure out  - what would you consider the cheaper end of a BIFL couch? Which brands should I be looking at?

Try not to overthink this. It's really just nonstick that isn't BIFL. While I have fully clad stainless that performs well and will obviously last for centuries, my parents have 50 year old thin crap stainless with plastic handles that is still "fine."

Basically anything metal and uncoated with no moving parts should last many decades.

You have to up your budget. My best recommendation if you want to find a diamond in the rough is to go to NFM’s clearance section and look for a couch closer to your $1500-2000 price range. While not guaranteed, couches in this range on clearance will likely be of better quality than the sale stuff at NFM’s lower end.

Cloth diapers. 

My best friend's mother saved all her cloth diapers. My friend used them on both her children. Now she is using some of them on her grandchildren. Yes she had had to buy some more. But they can be used for multiple babies and the grow with your babies. Children that use cloth diapers also potty train younger than those on disposable diaper, usually under 2 years 

Cloth wipes

Reusable puppy pads. There are some that can take hundreds of washing. I actually get mine used and I use them working with cat rescue.

I dunno, some people are more disciplined than others?

If you're thinking of a $500-$1000 filter, it's worth $100 to try a 20x20 box fan with a 4-pack of MERV-13 + charcoal filters and a bit of tape.

That's all I need to keep my dog odors at bay.

Yup stainless for day to day cooking, one tip, lift them up, they should be reasonably weighty. I've got good ones in TKMaxx.

Also if you get ones with all metal handles, they can also go in the oven

Sets will always have pieces that you don't need. Not sure how much you cook, but as a base you probably only need a 10" Pan, an 8" Sauce Pan, and a big pot. 

All Clad is a good brand, as are most things (not non-stick) that Zwilling sells. Really your best bet is going to a restaurant supply store and getting the pieces you need, mostly you are looking for something with a solid base.   
  
There are also lots of online kitchen/restaurant supply stores if there aren't any near you.

Allclad and Made in are the 2 most common stainless steel brands, this question is asked all the time here just use the search function and you will see 100s of results on it

I have a pair of Maui Jim from 2003 and I’ve replaced the lenses once due to salt water damage. Those are BIFL.

I've gone through a few cookware sets over the years and honestly I'd skip most nonstick if your goal is something that lasts. A good stainless steel set is probably the closest thing to buy-it-for-life cookware.

If I were shopping today I'd be looking at Tramontina, All-Clad, or Made In. Tramontina is probably the best value of the bunch, All-Clad is the classic "buy once, keep forever" option, and Made In has built a pretty solid reputation too.

I've got cast iron as well, but stainless is what I use when I don't feel like dealing with the extra maintenance. A decent tri-ply stainless set should easily last decades.

If you want, I can send over the listings. I have a few saved.

I should have put my country you're right

Got some Hobie sunglasses from Costco for 60$ still looks new from 4 years ago, has been in water, dropped many times, and thrown around.

This is like Triggers broom which he had for 28 years-it had 17 handles and 14 heads replaced in the meantime.

This is OK, not great. But affordable.

Extra points for not reading comments properly

Another vote for Amish furniture. We can't afford it, but my grandparents can. We get their hand me downs which are still super solid. We just got a rocking chair from them. It was almost $1400 😭. So glad we got it for the low price of free.

This one's a tossup.  Its undeniable that Oakley's are over priced and lacking in quality since they were purchased by Luxottica back in 2007.  Sure, the frames can last a really long time but that's simply because they're molded plastic with simple hardware.  

So the question really is how good are their lenses?  In my experience they're absolute dogshit that are designed to fail.  Every single Oakley lenses that I've ever gotten from them, including ones I was issued in the Army, would last maybe 6 months before the film starts peeling off the lenses like clockwork.  Yet I have glasses from smaller companies like Valley Rays that have lasted years with no such issues?  

IMO Oakley's are mass produced garbage who's market is people who care more about brand recognition than value.  That's why Luxottica bought them.  They own 70% - 80% market share in global "luxury" and "designer" brand glasses.  That and the fact that you've almost had to replace the lenses on a $100+ pair of glasses every 1.5 years isn't really "buy it for life".  Even if the frames are still perfectly fine, they do nothing for you without the shitty lenses you need to keep buying for them.

TLDR:  Oakley's are garbage and their lenses are designed to fail.

Ah 😅 helaas. Maar misschien handig je land te vermelden. Of er moeten internationale merken zijn. 🤔

I've got a dog too, and one thing I learned is that air purifiers help way more with dander, dust, and smell than they do with actual fur. You'll still want to vacuum regularly.

If I were buying today, I'd probably look at Winix first. I've also heard a lot of good things about Levoit and Coway from pet owners. Winix seems to be the best value overall, Levoit is great if you want smart features, and Coway is awesome if you're dealing with a larger space.

If you want, I can send over the listings I was looking at. I have a few saved.

Meh, my glasses get scratched constantly. Living and working in the outdoors, shit happens. Run a grinder, shoot, work around a jaw crusher, etc.

I replace my lenses every few years. I'm considering going back to knock offs just so it's cheaper. They're ppe for me.

I have a night set of raybans for weddings, date night, etc.

The electric nose frida pro is fantastic. My toddler loves that thing and begs me to use it when shes sick. It does a really great job at getting all the gunk out of her nose.

Not from the Netherlands but thanks!

Did you say every amish ever in less words?

This is the literal opposite of BIFL if you have to repair it every year.

King hickory and Stickley are both great and readily available. Avoid box stores and boutique chain stores.

Pompy. Vermont made. Great stuff.

Afhankelijk van je land, indien Nederland; Hema!

Vooral bij 40% aanbiedingen heel voordelig. 

De eenvoudige aluminium kookpannen zijn oerdegelijk, kunnen vast een leven mee. 

Er is een pan waarmee je zonder je te branden af kan gieten. 

De ook fijne koekenpannen en wok zeker een aantal jaar, bij gebruik van zachte spatels zeker jarenlang zo niet langer.

Any updates since it's another year later?

Did you post this in the wrong sub?

Original oakley lenses every year?

They’re beautiful. I can afford none of them.

I’ve had the same sunglasses I got free from the bank I go to (they have their logo on the side) for over ten years. They stay in the car. Wear them every time I drive.

I have a pair from the grocery store closing in on 9 years and have never had an issue, they fit great and have UV protection. They were probably $7-10.

Stainless steel from a restaurant supply store.

You might benefit from cleaning cloth and a proper hard case.

any good baby monitors?

For real, my office is across from an art college and a few weeks ago there were at least a dozen minifridges lined up next to the dumpsters

What, why?  
They said year 16 of a pair, not 16th pair.

Epicurean has a line of utensils that are made of Richlite, which is a natural composite that resembles and handles like wood, but it’s totally dishwasher safe and won’t stain or absorb flavors/smells. 

Highly recommended. They make cutting boards out of it too.

Is this a fake lost? What is it even shilling?

Stanley shouldn’t do that

No need to be sorry. Some of the understanding of what BIFL means is getting muddled and some are focusing on specifics and judging off of those.

BIFL means a product that meets your needs and will continue to do so well into the future by holding up.

It doesn't mean the cheapest thing that does a common task.

The $20 blanket covers your body. But low end blankets have tradeoffs to meet the price. They often sleep hot or have breathability issues. And they can be particularly heavy when that's not preferred.

Sustainability (for a variety of reasons) is just as valid a need as any other and shouldn't be limited to environmental only subs. (sorta defeats the whole point of sustainability if it's also gatekept)

We all need to figure out our individual needs, find products to match, and the BIFL discussion backstops our choice by letting us know if it will reasonably continue to keep its characteristics and be able to meet those same needs in the future.

A budget blanket can be a breathability nightmare as anyone who's familiar with menopause or living in the humid South can attest.

It's about balance. Buying the cheapest thing that won't fall apart doesn't always fit your needs and make it the right choice.

Nor does it instantly justify a big splash out on a lux version that is more style and marketing than actual substance.

Finding the thing that meets your actual needs for the most reasonable price offered among its category competitors and will still hold up in the future is the key.

I try hard not to assume my needs are the only valid ones and others have gotten off track for needing different or are convincing themselves of needs they don't really have just to justify a big purchase.

People feeling the need to apologize for what helps and enriches their lives b/c their needs are a little different than the average consumer bothers me.

Life is hard enough and companies are, for the most part, doing their damnedest to get the best of us.

Maybe we can go easier on each other and offer a gentle hand when somebody is working out their own needs and what might best help them get through this crazy hard thing called life?

Year 16 not 16th pair

Room and Board? The problem with Amish is you have to like more old fashioned / classical designs.

Hit up local auctions. Old people die, their kids don't wanna deal with the stuff and just ask the auction house to clear it out and sell everything. 

I moved from a tiny little apartment in the city to a huge brick farmhouse. I could've fit everything I owned at the time in 2 or 3 rooms which left me with like 7 other rooms to fill. 

We bought every single piece of furniture outside our main bed and frame through an auction. It's significantly higher quality than the stuff you buy today at a fraction of the cost. I'm talking , we got a leather couch for like $300 that probably would've been $6k new - it just needed some TLC. You don't compete with resellers too much bc furniture is expensive to ship, so it eats their margins too much. 

The only downsides are that you do want to do a thorough examination before buying and clean it before you bring it into your house. Also, you don't have any control over what items are there week to week. You might badly want a sectional sofa and one might not come through that suits your needs for weeks/months. But my wife and I like to joke that "the auction provides" - we would find ourselves needing something and viola, it would appear the next week.

I still have a fully functional 7 and 12. Show me any other company that keeps security support for their phones that long. I’ll wait.

dear god just buy something cheaper at that point lmao

Yeah I agree with the vacuum posts. The smell is due to hair on your floor. Air filters are for dust / microplastics / other tiny molecules. Dogs have  dander but it will mostly be on the hairs not in the air.

I'm on year 16 of a pair of raybans and I still couldn't answer that question.

There is no way to avoid breaking the bank for high-quality, made-in-the-USA furniture.  This is kinda the reason why American manufacturing has died because the American populace does not care about country of origin - they care about paying low prices for "ok" stuff.  What a shame...

Find your local hutterite, Mennonite or Amish colony

I bought a bunch of cheap ones at the grocery store. About half of them cracked pretty quick. The ones that didn't are now 30 years old.  They go in the dishwasher. They sometimes get spaghetti sauce dried on thst needs to be soaked and scraped off with a knife. Yet here we are and they are getting old with me all these years lster.

Pleasant Valley Furniture if you are on the east coast, give or take a few hundred miles from Pennsylvania. Hand made custom Amish furniture that is excellent quality and very reasonably priced, even with transportation costs (they hand deliver).

How is it even possible to not lose sunglasses after 7 years

This is completely incorrect.  Local craftsmen will not come close to big furniture store pricing, as they are skilled craftsmen who can command far more for their work.  They are selling quality, not quantity.

Wow, something you got 40 years ago is well made. Stop the presses.

Im sorry but if you're replacing the lenses almost every year... its not BIFL.

Most folks have a $50 pair of sunglasses that are a decade old with no repairs....

I'm sorry, but nothing Oakley makes is BIFL.

This is why I secondhand from the rich areas in my state! The extreme wealth areas have their people consign for them unfortunately

I would recommend Gascho Furniture, best value in the Amish world

Lectrofan white noise machine, the basic white model. Non looping white noise and lasts well!

A lot of good answers here, but figured I’d throw in something I really feel like I got good ROI in - Thule Chariot. 

You absolutely do not need this, it’s extremely overbuilt and strollers a fraction of its cost will last a long time. But that being said it’s a fantastic running/biking stroller if you like doing those activities, but it’s also my favorite stroller to take out for leisure activities as well. It’s great for rain, sun, sleep. It’s lasted through three kids and still going strong.

Been using a Sun Home Sa͏unas Equinox for about a year now and it sits perfectly in that sweet spot between the ch͏eap portables and going full custom, hitting way better temps and actually feeling like a real sauna experience.

Big emphasis on the kids being close together because if they aren’t you just end up with a big stroller to hold one kid 😅

Vintage This End Up furniture. Solid, heavy stuff that's never going to wear out. It's not terribly hard to find on reselling sites. Facebook marketplace, Craigslist back in the day, offer up, etc.

Pre/early 2000 North Face backpacks are very well made.

cheapest anything I've found is KD frames. $250 for a bed frame because they figured out the maximum number of corners to cut without affecting durability (unfinished/unpainted wood, very simple shapes, etc). I've got a twin xl bed that I stained and varnished myself and I love it (although I do wish it had a footboard)

Trip trap high chair is still in use by my 6yo and seems like it will still be going strong for years.

Diono radian 3r--check if it'll work with a newborn, but I've had mine for about 4 years and it's intended to last until age 10

A bifl couch (or closest you can get) would be one that is made of a hardwood frame, hand tied spring suspension, 15000+ abrasion rating, high density foam cushions, etc... which I am sorry to say is not attainable on a $2000 budget.

Other than an investment/529 account: the Stokke TrippTrapp Chair. Solid wood, and grows with your child and your home. The footrest is great for younger kids (and some petite adults!!) and helps them stay more comfortable at the table, especially if you envision using your dining table for toddler art projects, older kid projects, eventual homework station, school projects (so many school projects beyond homework), etc. Think beyond “oh it’s a really expensive high chair” - this is also a desk/work chair that will grow with your child. 

We have had this chair for 10+ years and have one child (if we had more than 1 kid, we would have gotten another of these chairs). Kiddo has ADHD and sitting at a table/desk is HARD. She’s also petite. So having something that she can put her feet on, that she can sit in properly, that’s always her-sized, makes a big difference in how we manage being at the table, whether for meals or play or academics. 

About the petite adults: we have a few people in our friend/family group who are 5’3” and under - including my MIL - and they love sitting in this chair because of the footrest. Yes, it supports their weight (up to 160 lbs). If it weren’t for it being labeled a “high chair” my MIL would get one for her own use. I still think she should since she likes sitting in it so much. 

Anyway, our Stokke still looks new. Of all the $$$ spent on baby gear, this one has been the most solid investment.

*shouting from the rooftop* Thrift & Estates sales are your bff!!! I have furnished my entire apartment for less than one high quality piece would cost retail. It’s all vintage or antique and all super high quality.

Does he carve his spoons himself, starting with slightly bigger spoons?

Indians love these cups too

Grain Wood Furniture

Wayfair has some extremely cheap couches, but you'll feel that. Our $200 couch from there lasted about a year before we couldn't stand the squeaks anymore.

My cheap bamboo set is going on 20 years and I've been trying to degrade them by putting them in the dishwasher for the last 10 years so I can justify new stainless utensils, but they won't quit. 🙃

I watch dogs via Rover so I usually have at least 1 or 2 bonus dogs (and one of my own).  I have several purifiers but don’t think it does much for smell at all.  I converted my 3rd full bath into a dog wash so a full bath takes me <5 minutes for a short hair pup.  I have a few regular dogs that just go straight to the showers when they get here.  I don’t even want to think what their human’s house smells like!

Rubberwood is about the only cross section between cheap and solid wood, most of it will be imported though, its also known as Malaysian Oak, it comes from the trees used to make rubber.

We’ve used the same pack n play knock off witu bassinet insert for all 3 of our kids. Cribs are expensive and get ugly, pack n plays are cheap or free used and start ugly so who cares?

Starting of energy  saving

washed cotton kinda looks wrinkly on purpose, which is either charming or “did i forget laundry day” depending on the room lol. i like it more when it softens over time though, as long as it doesn’t get thin or stretched out after washing.

Wood can't harbor bacteria after its been dry for a certain amount of time germs need moisture to survive its actually cleaner than plastic or metal

I say that but of course have a bunch of old wooden spoons!

Was going to say, “find your nearest Amish town.  Any large company is going to skimp. They do not.

That is a very very good deal!

The wood type matters a lot. For example, teak and maple last the longest because they're dense and naturally resist moisture. Beech is okay, but needs oiling. Etc, etc. And you shouldn't was them in dishwasher- hand wash and ideally you would dry them standing up. And don't leave them in water. Might seem like a long list but quite easy to follow actually

Good point, I guess I'm talking about super high grill temps or cast iron searing where you need metal tools

Do you use them for sport and regular wear ? Would I need different pairs for different purposes ?

if you're looking for something that lasts, i think a mix might be the way to go. for my own upgrades, i stumbled across kitchendevotion and paired it with a few solid stainless steel pieces, and it's been great for keeping things simple.

It's kind of hard to tell for sure since you get used to the smell of your own house.

I will say people have told me they are surprised they don't notice animal smells in my house, except when they are right next to the animals themselves though. So I think I am doing something right. 

Both brands I mentioned come with charcoal prefilters which absorb odors. The Winex especially comes with like 4 charcoal prefilters per each paper filter, and I find I don't even go through all 4. 

Another good option for odors is Purifan, which is a ceiling fan airfilter. They work REALLY well for smoke and odors, but not at all for pet hair really. 

I have a 4000 square foot home with three Winex, two Coways, one Purifan and one Shark air filter. I used to have a couple of GermGuardians too, but they are kinda loud relative to how little air they actually move. 

Nothing though is going to beat regularly bathing your pets and regularly vacuuming areas.

i totally get that! my grandma's cast iron skillet has been a staple for years and it's still going strong. i recently came across kitchendevotion too, seems like they have some solid options, especially for non-stick stuff.

i totally get that struggle! i just replaced my old set and found kitchendevotion stuff to be decent without breaking the bank, plus it looks pretty good too.

What color did you go with?

for a queen bed i’d honestly size up if you can. queen blankets always sound big enough until two people are actually under them and one person does the midnight burrito roll lol. i’d go soft, warm, and a little oversized.

coming home from a long trip to crisp, freshly vacuumed floors instead of a settled layer of dust is seriously such an elite feeling.

I have a Coway Airmega 400 in the main living room and a Coway Airmega Mighty in the front and back of the house. We love them! Three cats. People with cat allergies come over and are able to stay for a long time without issue, the purifiers have really done wonders for our general air quality. Highly recommend Coway!

Ikea lights are like most others but I swear they didn't ask electricians because the flush mounts leave so little room to hook them up. Also Ikea's app isn't great at finding devices so if you ever have to factory reset like switching your wifi caused every app connected device to no longer work. I switched to govee for home automation lights because philips hue lights became much more expensive

cleaning a house is always a husttle but a peaceful work

I don't remember what the veneer color was, but it wasn't cherry. They are a bit more orange in real life.

Of all the things in my house, the SS countertops are my favorite. I have a base to make an island, trying to find the right top. It will be huge ~8' x 3-4' and it will be stainless as well. When I bought the base cabinet I had made arrangements to pick up an 8'x5'  stainless table and I was going to remove the top and put it on the cabinet base but those plans fell through. So now I've had a cabinet sitting in my kitchen for several months while I wait for something big enough to pop up on marketplace. Someday...

I do not drink hot drinks in uninsulated tumblers.  I do also have stainless steel thermos type mugs and have never noticed a metallic taste while using them.  Remember, you likely put stainless steel in your mouth all the time without getting a metallic taste...because it is likely you use stainless steel flatware.

A nice floor blanket/quilt. We had the Skip-Hop activity center, but as soon as she learned how to roll & scoot, it was nice to be able to expand her "realm" so she wasn't on the direct floor. I used an organic cotton baby quilt from Kate Quinn, but it looks like they stopped making them. 

Baby Clothes: Babies go through sizes so fast in the first year that there isn't really a chance for things to wear out. However, if you are planning on having more children & have the storage space to keep it all, you should definitely invest in brands that are durable. I swear by Hanna Andersson; Primary is great. Carter's is a powerhouse brand for a reason, though of the 3 I've just listed, it's the 1st to pill and show wear. 

Furniture:  This is where you should invest & think about long term. Solid wood over particle board. Anything marketed as being for a nursery will probably be too small by grade school aged (e.g. dresser drawer space).

If they’re tracking low budget airlines, they osprey 26+6 is great though not necessarily the best EDC backpack for walking around a ton.

Then got a real good deal

Metal fine for cast iron (non-enamel) especially. A nice metal fish spatula helps scrape nasty bits off and develop a smooth finish on your cooking surface. You can even get chain mail scrubbers to help clean stuck on bits easier

It will break the bank, I fear

100% my favorite cooking spoon was from an arts festival back in 2010. I also have 4 other wooden spoons that I got from TJ Maxx around that time and all of them still exist

You are missing the point. I said my blankets cost less. I didn’t say they were lower quality. In fact, I explained that we are particularly rough on blankets and they are still in great shape after many years. When it comes to throw blankets, you don’t need to spend a ton of money for something that lasts. Given that, I think my comment fits perfectly here.

solid wood furniture is expensive at its core--IKEA is mostly made of particle wood for lay-flat shipping.  Real wood forniture will have associated freight costs since they are more sturdy and not built for online shopping/cheap shipping.  
  
Best thing you can do is locate local woodworker/amish/shaker/etc in your area.  The nice thing about solid wood is when it scratches, you can sand it down and refinish it.  You pay more upfront but the furniture will last a lifetime.  If you are really looking for a deal--look at yard/estate sales or even craigslist/FB market.  You may find a cheaper price but at the expense of your time

Agree that woodworkers cannot compete. I make Adirondack chairs for family, but just the wood (cedar) is expensive; I could never sell one on the open market for materials plus my time… nobody would pay!

Yep way easier to clean

Oh you are so sweet 🥹

Hah!  You see an early version of this on Call the Midwife.  It’s like, 2 seasons in before you see there is a container between the tube in the baby’s nose and the tube in the doctor’s mouth.  Until then I just thought Dr. was directly sucking junk out of the baby’s airways.  Gross, but efficient!
Of course now my feeds are going to be messed up as I had to google Nose Frida (and my youngest is in college). Oh well.

Yeah that makes sense, I figured the fur part might be wishful thinking lol. How noticeable was the smell reduction for you after regular use?

According to the test ikea once are not premium, but consistently good

Are you going to have a newborn every 7-14 months for six years? The Doona comment makes no sense.

Can you send me one so I can test out its softyness please and thanks

My daughter (age 3) has lots of imaginary friends. So we bought custom artwork of her imaginary friends: poster, stickers, tattoos, book.

Probably not what you’re looking for but giving them a shout: Maxtrix Kids was where we just bought a bedroom set for our son and the quality to price ratio is unbelievable. Everything is solid wood and as a result, assembly was essentially just pushing the drawers onto the tracks.

Had good luck with the pet filter Rabbit Air.

If you’re going to talk about a highly textured material and a lubricant, please don’t get them backwards? 

The scales that allow fibers to grip each other tightly are what makes an animal fiber interesting and useful and durable.  Your alpaca shouldn’t lack this unless processing has stripped it. 

A baby alpaca might produce less texture than an adult alpaca or most sheep. That  would indicate that it is BOTH less itchy and less durable. 

Younger animals also tend to have less to trim off when they get their spring haircut, which may indicate a shorter staple length. Longer staples have less pill and fray risk. 

The reason that warm natural fibers are valuable is their ability to twist together and form reliable bonds that protect you from wind and rain. 

A blanket or garment made from good knitting fiber can feel more comfortable and durable and protective over time, as it slowly felts up, forming extra bonds. 

An oil normally reduces contact between the fiber texture and your skin.  Assuming you aren’t allergic to the oil or any of the contaminants in it, lanolin prevents irritation. If it isn’t present, some other oil should be present to moisturize the fibers. 

Experts can reduce irritation in a few ways,  but those that can do it can prove it. These are specific claims that should be backed by evidence.

Peugeot makes specific mills called Wet Salt Mills that work perfect.  I have two full at all times.  It's my favorite salt.

Reputable Asian stores. Yami sells them online though. If you toggle "fulfilled by Yami" at the top of your search, they are guaranteed to be from the US warehouses, so you won't have to worry about tariffs or other import fees.

20 pages per month = 240 color pages per year. At an average of 15¢ per page, that’s $36 per year at something like Staples or FedEx Office (nee Kinkos). 

Buy a competent black & white printer and send the low volume color stuff to the quick print places. Their printers are higher quality than anything you can afford at home, and profoundly less expensive to access.

You can sanitize them better than wood

You have woodworkers in your area that make furniture for less than furniture stores? That doesn’t sound right to me. 

Custom furniture that is built well is always going to cost significantly more than what is available at a furniture store. Woodworkers are not capable of competing with mass produced pricing.

They are going to do less for the fur than you seem to be thinking, you really just have to vacuum more often for that.

But Winex makes some great ones for smaller rooms and Coway makes great ones for larger rooms. 

Either way they have prefilters you'll end up needing to wash off once every couple of weeks or they'll get clogged from hair. That's actually a good thing though because you aren't wasting the parts of the filter that catch dander and odors.

I have a fluffy polyester scooby doo blanket that I’ve had for 34 years. Looks and feels exactly like new and it’s been washed thousands of times. It’s still SO soft and the “hairs” haven’t clumped together or matted, the colors are super rich and bright. I have no idea what magic it is, but it’s ridiculously well made.

That will pill as well, it’s just the nature of animal hair. A softer item will usually pill even more than a sturdy/scratchy one with longer fibers. Did you know you can depill stuff like that? Don’t use an electric shaver because that will cut into the fibers and produce more pilling. Use a manual comb, some sandpaper might even work. Or pick the pills off with your hands if they’re large enough. BIFL doesn’t mean Needs No Maintenance.

I read it too and fell in love with all of their coats especially the A-line pleated coat!

My HP Color Laser has lasted me 20 years so far with no issues.

I have never had an ink jet printer last more than a couple of years.

You’re right about softness for silicone, but they’re really great at high heat.   Usually good up to ~ 450-600 F depending on the grade.

Olivewood is a really nice choice.

I've been using some Acacia wood Rachel Ray wooden spoons/spatulas that I got for $5 on clearance for about a decade now. I also have a bamboo one but I don't like that one as much. Aesthetically - I just don't like the light wood when I'm stirring things.

You may need to obtain the spoon to unlock the quest.

I think they meant, "don't use metal tools on enamel". Not "don't use wood on metal".

Also definitely test a few to find what you like but we love Rascals diapers

Butt spatula, silicone bottle brushes, two-zipper onesies, thin large cotton towels (many), plastic bath seat, bottle warmer, powered swing. Some of these are conditional.

Of them, the butt spatula and bottle warmer are my favorites. I was spending a lot of time boiling water to warm bottles, it was so much less time and fuss having everything pre-warmed.

I think they were trying to say that you shouldn’t use stainless utensils on enamel (although I do from time to time), but you can use stainless everywhere else (assuming no non-stick cookware).

Stainless utensils are generally easier and lower maintenance compared to wood but both are fine choices.

Check out International Concepts.  It’s unfinished and needs to be assembled, but the quality (in my experience) is really good for the price.  You can find their stuff on Amazon (and possibly Target).

This is a late response but I am looking into getting a power washer for the purpose of cleaning our polywood furniture. What kind do you have?

The problem i had with epson ink jet photo printers is that there is a set lifetime for the printer.  and when you reach it, even if the printer is still fully functional, it will just brick itself and tell you it's reached end-of-life.  But for the year or two that it worked, it did produce beautiful photo prints.

No ink jet printer is truly buy-it-for-life.

I agree with you, there’s no issue using wood on stainless.

Not really bifl but we got the cybex Callisto g 360 car seat. It grows with the kid from new born to ~ 10ish years old, up to like 125 pounds.  it is a little pricier tho but rotates so super easy to get them in and out

Curious how many people found the purifier helped more than just vacuuming/grooming more often. The odor part seems way harder to solve than the fur

We are upgrading from IKEA to Amish furniture:

Vacuuming makes sense at first, but for animal stains, it's so-so – you don't want to vacuum wet stains or what is already deep in the carpet. For dry dirt, yes, but with animals, the situation is different.

Real wood furniture costs real money.  Furniture is very much a do you want cheap or do you want quality type of thing.

A nice washer and dryer for all the extra laundry you’ll be doing.

It remind me my ex 🤣

He became such a mommas boy after I brought Gravy home!

 

Bonus, my strays:
 

Last one is Gravy's sister

I had the same feeling, time is money.

I have a Brother MFC-L2807DW and it does everything I need to. It's black & white only, but if I actually need color, which I haven't for about a decade, I can go to my local UPS store for prints.

Came here to say Earlywood, love their stuff. Have spatulas of various sizes, spoons, rolling pin

I have a 2016 tundra and the paint is wearing off… but I do park it outside and live by the beach so it’s salty air. Exterior/cosmetic issues are disappointing but at least the mechanics are solid. Colleagues with German and American cars… always in the shop and much newer rides.

The Field Company cherry wood utensils are killer!!  Not cheap, but man, they’re the best, and made right here in the USA.

Yeah, and depending on your state you could find some Amish sellers. Aside from local and Amish (still local) you are looking at used listings or VERY expensive furniture.

Really high quality silicone ones are better than wood for a lot of uses. And I'm saying this as a guy who really loves wood

Holding up amazingly surprisingly

Fashionwise - Generally, LVMH brands have gone down in quality since their heyday. Any fashion brands are going to vary depending on the owner and the market. Coach just got good again. Banana Republic was bad, now it's good again after a strong rebranding effort. JCrew was good a long time ago, and now their quality is poor. Everlane was good but just got sold to Shein so that's likely to change. Quince is not good! Rag and Bone is high quality for most things right now. Watch for brands being bought - often there's a decline in quality. Newer, independent brands that are coming up and advertising as being well made (Nooworks, Clare V) are working to prove themselves and are generally safe bets.

This is very dependent on how many children you intend to have! 

1. the Baby Jogger City Select stroller. It has big, air filled tires and a steel frame. It’s HEAVY, and sturdy, and it goes over basically any terrain easily. 

I got mine used on marketplace. You can put your car seat on it, a bassinet, a toddler/child seat, a little skateboard attachment for an older child…. I have had 3 kids on it at once! 

I sold it once my 3rd didn’t need it anymore for almost what I paid in the first place. Honestly a 10/10. 

2. Graco extend2fit car seat. If extended rear facing is important to you (and it should be!) this seat is in a league of its own. It’s basically birth to adolescence: rear face, rear face with extender panel, forward face, high back booster AND backless booster. I believe it has a 10 year expiry, so in theory you can just get one when the baby is born and never buy another car seat again.

Understood. That's a valid point. Best of luck and do let us know what is chosen as the solution.

Anything bamboo or blonde colored wood, unfinished. Brand not relevant.

 TLDR is that Dark colored and oily woods like teal and walnut have tannins and other chemicals that the wood grows to protect itself from bugs or rot, and these can leach into your food, sensitizing you to the wood over time and leading to allergies. Finishes on the wood are basically plastic coatings that can flake off into your food, which is what you're trying to escape. If you're curious, Google the Oregon State University Wood Science (yes, really) research on cutting boards for a deep rabbit hole on the antimicrobial properties of wood.

I hope it part all original or not replaced

It’s been 8 years since I had a newborn (!) and that market moves at light speed but a few things lasted us through both kids: 
-a solid monitor. Vtech has the best closed-system ones, imo 
-a car seat and stroller *that fits your lifestyle* - do you walk more than drive? How many vehicles? What’s easiest for you to carry? Etc etc. We had a Britax seat and stroller that were light, easy to fold/stow, and had a long enough expiry period to get through both kids. Perfect for us, not for everyone. 
-an Ubbi stainless steel diaper pail. I gawked at the price but when my kids were out of diapers, I passed it on looking practically brand new and stink-free because stainless steel doesn’t absorb odour like plastic does. Plus, no refills. That’s if you go the disposable route, anyway.
-that goddamn IKEA high chair. Seriously, just get that one. A lot of baby stuff is complex because it needs to be…a high chair does not. The simplest solution wins, here. 

Lucie’s List guided a lot of my purchases, and honestly not one of her recommendations let me down. Congratulations, hope you’re out of the NICU soon, and best of luck!

My best advice with kids is rather than frame it as BIFL, frame it as “what can I re-use”. Everything is transient and they will outgrow things rapidly. Don’t be afraid to buy that crib, hiking backpack, stroller, kitchen tower, etc on marketplace. And when you’re done, pass it on to friends or family or sell it to someone else.

SAME! I only wear the linen pants if I’m home, or maybe walking the dog. My sister gave me two pairs of cheap linen pants that are better quality than my Quince linen pants.

Ive seen a few people swear by buying the boring sturdy stuff first because it saves so much annoyance later. If the house is getting baby proofed anyway, I would focus on the things you touch every day and skip the flashy extras

Teak is what I have and I like them. Super hard wood

Curaprox - they have the best toothbrushes, interdental brushes, implant and orthodontic specific care. They are a Swiss brand and have been quietly around for ages!

Is this really true?  I've been using wood utensils on cast iron and stainless pans/pots for years.  It really feels more food-dependent than surface-dependent: I love wooden spoons for stirring, but if I'm frying something then it's metal spatula time.

Check local woodworkers in your area - they usually give better prices than big furniture stores and quality is way better too

Muslin cloths - we used them for many things (shoulder protector for spit up, emergency blowout cleaner, covering in a hot summer, handy cloth to wipe up spills, dampening one to help with reducing baby temperature) and we still have a couple of them knocking about (over 20 years later)

Yes for documents, not for photos.

I've heard that Staber machines not only last a long time but are easily user-serviceable. Not surprisingly, they're also more expensive initially.

There is no evidence that plastic utensils are harmful. I'd be more concerned about throwing out perfectly fine household items. Overconsumption is what's killing the planet.

Plus inkjets do photos, lasers do not.

Honestly, the most BIFL thing we bought wasn't a baby gadget, it was solid furniture that could grow with the kid. A quality dresser with a changing pad on top got used daily for years, while a lot of the baby-specific gear was gone within months.

Also, don't underestimate a good glider or chair for feeding and late-night holds. You might spend hundreds of hours in that thing, and that's one purchase I never regretted paying a bit more for.

You will likely need to do a quest, first.

Oh man, this was the toolbox of my childhood. Memory unlocked!

The body panels on my Toyota have been falling off since I bought it over a decade ago. The mechanics are solid, but the exterior is crap.

Solid as a rock. Repairs cheap and easy ditto availability of spare parts.

I have Hetty and she’s excellent.

Had crap Dysons for years and Hetty is way better.

I got the similar model without fax, but I kind of regret not getting an inkjet so I can print photos. I don't think I would mind so much if the letters I print out for the bank etc. were only inkjet quality rather than laser.

Using a poor quality gun could literally backfire in the worst way. How are they declining?

I have seen any with such significant heat sinking, at least not on Amazon or Home Depot

Hey OP been in the same boat these briefs were the best I ever wore but here’s a link to Amazon that has a similar style and material I transitioned to personally. I would say they’re near the originals but maybe a little more durable.

I know you're asking for wood, but I highly recommend you keep at least a couple silicone utensils. They won't be ideal for very high temps or for scraping things off your stainless pans because they're soft, but you'll reach for them all the time when baking or when getting every drop of a sauce out of something. 

I like the ones that are fully-silicone, not just a silicone head with a wood handle or something. I have like 6 of the mini spatula/spoonulas because they're so useful.

GIR is a very good option, and they say they're microplastic and BPA/BPS-free.

Interesting, I might have been lucky with the one that I've had on every day. I have an open light fixture in the kitchen that goes through LED bulbs multiple times a year. I will test it out with some of my new old stock ones and see how they hold up

I appreciate this! I spent all winter looking for a warm throw that wasn’t $700 and wasn’t synthetic. I wish I had seen this sooner - ended up buying some wool throws that are super itchy.

As long as they are not synthetic I agree with you

Tripp Trapp Stokke Chair. Get it with the tray and you'll be able to use that chair from newborn to adult. Kinda pricey, but every now and then you can find one on craigslist, FB marketplace.

Not a parent, but all of my friends and family who have kids say 1) a Pack N Play, and 2) a backpack style diaper bag

Lmao they don’t kill them. It’s just like wool - they shear the baby alpacas.

one thing I didn't see mentioned, it doesn't really matter what brand you get, they are all made in the same couple factories with the same parts; other than minor design features they are all going to be rebranded versions of the same fridge.   In a college town they are cheap/free because everyone feels like they want one, and then don't think about storing and/or transporting it next summer.   that's why a lot of schools have combo fridge/microwave rentals available.   It shouldn't be hard to find one that's practically new for cheap.   but if you want a new one, honestly I'd just look at target/walmart/costco and find the best deal for what you want.   it'll last a long time.

Punjabi household standard!!! We bring out the glass for the guests lol

Maybe you live in a warmer climate. It’s cold where I live in the winter. A cotton throw isn’t going to do squat!

Next time don't insult his pet toad and you should be fine.

I have light bulbs that are similar with the huge metal ballast from around the same time and the majority of them still work despite some being left on 24/7 for close to 15 years now.

Any one know where the buy LED bulbs with this big ballast these days??

With regular heavy use, I get about a years worth out of my Hulken. The medium is the perfect size.. I do have a large for work as I do laundry (massage therapist). I had high hopes for the small but it is very top heavy and topples over!!!

Don't use bamboo cutting desk, blunts knives faster.

I second a crib that converts to at least a toddler bed. Ours did, and then also converted to a full size bed with headboard and footboard. It was so handy.

How many baby alpacas had to die for this?

First that Dalmatian lady and now this

Or if you walk into a Trader Joe’s

That’s fine, sorry I said sustainable.  But I stand behind paying more for higher quality, I still have my grandmothers wool blankets, and at this rate I plan to hand them down to a future generation.  

Sustainable is something I support, but I recognize is not the focus of this sub, though I think many appreciate the value of it.

I have been into lasers for a long time and what I learned is that consistency matters more than the device itself. These devices are not true laser so results are gradual. The ones that actually work well must have higher energy levels and a decent coverage window so you are not there forever and a skin tone sensor for safety.   
braun and philips lumea are really good. they are consistent long term but even they dont give instant results so u gotta stick with them. I like this one too mainly bcz it has cooling feature which makes it way easier to use.  
Also some devices feel fine on arms but get intense on sensitive areas like underarms or bikini, so get one with adjustable intensity levels.

A pilled wool blanket is still functional

Ooh, a cordless pebble or egg light! We have the pebble looking one that you flip over to turn off, and the egg looking one that you double tap to turn off/on. Both have been in use since we brought our son home.

I have several of these and they will not die.

Woolino sleep sack. Sized 2-24 months. We use it year-round and have since he was 2 months old. I can’t say enough good things about its temperature regulation. Cotton outer layer, Merino wool inner layer.

StrideSoles is what did the trick for me.

Yep, those worked well for me too

I’ve had my $20 Costco king blankets last me 10+ years, and they’re still going strong. Yes, they’re made of synthetic materials, but BIFL is about not having to repurchase. This isn’t a sustainability sub. It’s a plus if you’re able to find natural materials that are BIFL, but it’s not the focus here. The whole purpose is not to have to repurchase in your lifetime, or at least less frequently as possible.

Pouring boiling water into non-borosilicate glass is one of the most basic "do not do this" things of glass... thermal shock will shatter them easily.

It's a fine idea but genuinely you shouldn't be breaking so many glasses that this is necessary. Be more careful with your stuff. I haven't broken a glass in several years and it's not because I am super careful with them, I am just not careless.

Also, if it really is that big of a problem why wouldn't you swap to plastic. Metal dents and rusts when neglected.

My 580s have a removable cable. Never had to replace but it is convenient

They are pretty amazing, and I like being able to print things I need without asking anyone else or going anywhere. Mine has been working fine since 2010, so the investment was worth it. 

I’ve only had to buy toners for the second time recently. Costly, yes, but so infrequent that it feels well worth it. It went through some heavy use and did not burn through toner nearly as fast as I’d expect. Inkjet was trash in comparison. My kid basically wallpapered her room in anime printouts at one point and it didn’t even make a dent in the toner.

In my case it is an HP printer which I understand is hot garbage now, but other that complaining about “low cyan” for a year kinda thing before it actually runs out it has been fine (and works despite the low warnings). I can’t connect it to wireless anymore - I limped it along jumping through some hoops with a physical connection for first connection when using a new PC but even that stopped working a few years ago. Whatever standards it used are just too old. Ran Ethernet cable instead and all is well.

Toners never dry out - the main reason I dropped inkjet. And the visuals are way nicer off of a laser. Pro tip - buy heavy paper. Crisp white extra thick paper is really really nice when printed on with top quality tools. Back in the day of printed resumes and school papers it got a lot of praise.

I read something a while back about some of the imported wooden utensils being treated with something bad but don't really remember what it was.  Because of this, I replaced my plastic utensils with ones made in the USA.  There are a few people making them and selling them on line.  The prices varied a lot.

I have similar, good product if its real teak. 

  
Remember bamboo is not BIFL and not wood.

But maybe they don’t make them anymore….

Do you know how long to took me to break the curse from last time? A bit inconvenient but the spoons are great.

I just keep recycling glass.  When I need more cups, I clean Aldi soup jars.

Account history does not suggest that at all?

Wired, something like HD560S, HD600, HD490 - Yes, pretty reliable
Wireless, like Momentum 4 and Momentum 4 TWS - not so much BUT the new Momentum 5 wireless has a replaceable battery so that will definitely increase it's lifespan

Pretty well known gif website, so maybe you have cancer.

Olive wood is nice if you happen to vacation in the Mediterranean.

Earlywood makes great spatulas for sauteing. My other favorite and trusted wooden cooking utensils came from Etsy, carved from olive wood.

Buy gold / sterling that you can wear and plan to pass down for milestones (16th birthday, graduation, wedding etc) that being said; my mom saved tons of my clothes, blankets and stuffed animals, 35 years later they are all still in great condition. 

Also taking time to make albums/ digitize memories that you can keep up with. 

Email address with a simple version of their name!

We had a crib that converted from a crib to toddler to full. You just had to buy the rails for the full mattress. That got us through two children and then we donated it.

Svan Signet high chair. Solid wood. Removable baby holder. Functions as a toddler chair or as an adult chair later. I bought 2 when mine were babies. My daughter is currently borrowing one to use with her babies. I keep the other at my house for visits from the grands.

Most inkjet printers I've had die not too long after 20 pages. Total scams.

We are empty nesters so we only cook one cup of rice at a time.  We got the TAC-06KN(UL) through Amazon.

No the blades are metal

Et mes gourdes aussi.

Thanks for his service 🫡

Alpaca wool is notorious for pilling due to the short fibre length. I struggle to believe that over two years there's no pilling of this blanket unless it's a blend

Hey, this is the wrong take for this sub.  OP might just be promoting a brand, and I don’t support that. 

But this sub is about buying things that last forever. So paying $200 for a blanket that is much more sustainable and higher quality is reasonable compared to buying 10x lower quality blankets.

Doesn’t come across that way to me

It really doesn't matter it's wood. We got some teak ones from Walmart years ago.

Get something like the kz an01+ good iems. When it gets tired you just replace the earhooks for 20-30$ and most likely you'll get better sound quality, with worse noise cancelling.

Whether this is true or not, you failed at answering OP’s question. Why even comment?

Anker is Chinese, not Japanese.

Namesake makes some really nice cribs that you can  purchase a conversion kit to make into a full size bed.

Almost othing for babies is bifl.

But the baby breeza is amazing if you use baby formula.  Super convenient.  It's like a kureg for baby bottles.

Press the button and it makes the right size bottle in a few seconds.  Great for night time.

I never expected it would improve my quality so much. It did.

I think.that build for surving world war

One thing they won't grow out of, a good digital thermometer. We went through 3 cheap ones before finally landing on a good one - what nurses/doctors were using at the ER: Terumo. Would have been cheaper just to get one of them from the beginning.

The cheap ones are slow, inaccurate and often would never actually read a temp, such a pain when you have a sick, wriggling, sad bag of milk.

One thing they won't grow out of, a good digital thermometer. We went through 3 cheap ones before finally landing on a good one - what nurses/doctors were using at the ER: Terumo. Would have been cheaper just to get one of them from the beginning.

The cheap ones are slow, inaccurate and often would never actually read a temp, such a pain when you have a sick, wriggling, sad bag of milk.

I love our Whetstone Woodenware utensils and use them often. 

You will need to care for wooden utensils more than plastic.

The best home printer is the one at work

I think the thinner the better on wooden utensils (just from a functionality perspective). I most commonly use the cheap bamboo set from Walmart, I've had it for 5 or 6 years now

Whatever you get, finish it with tung oil (actual tung oil, not "tung oil finish") to give it much better resistance to water damage

Lol I don’t own any cashmere either. And most inexpensive blankets are simply 100% cotton. But please, go off.

I only know about the Exped MegaMat 

Ours each came with a battery operated pump that works great.

We got the Stokke Tripp trapp high chair for all 3 kids. We used the appropriate attachments to use from newborn on, and our bigger kids still love their own chair. It will support weights up to an adult, and it’s easy to clean. 

Second recommendations for the Woolino sleep sack and buying used when possible. 

For toys, less is more, and simpler is better. A good set of blocks will keep my kids playing far longer than any battery operated toy.

I wish I could do this, but I really like my spatula.

Portable soft night light, it’s kid proof, drop proof, packs for a hotel room. USB chargeable. Get one that can dim. IKEA has some but the best one we had was a gift and it dimmed, not sure who made it.

We bought the Nestig, bassinet to full size crib to toddler bed and its worth every penny to us. It has wheels so can be moved from room to room (though, when converting to full size crib you need a bit of clearance. It has held strong for 3 years. Good wood, no paint, harsh chemicals, easy to change to the next stage. They sell breathable mattresses and protectors that are washable. Toddler is a few months over 3 yrs old and still uses it.

I have this set of teak utensils and use them daily. They hold up extremely well. Oil them every so often (I do it about once every 1-2 months) to keep them in good shape.

Amazon Link

SM50 baby monitor from AliExpress. Anything else is over priced. You can add a second camera in the future and split screen the monitor.

Ive been using the same wooden utensils for maybe 25 years, and the brand doesnt matter (the ones I have were super cheap and came in a pack). The only thing with wooden utensils that matters is how straight the grain is. If the grain in the wood is straight, odds are it won't bend or twist from getting wet.

Wood only for enameled. Cheap stainless steel utensils for everything else.

Varies a lot due to everyone parenting differently.

For us:

1. Car seat that rotates. More expensive, but very much worth not having the stress of levitating your baby with your forearms into the car seat.

2. A good stroller. Doubles as a grocery / utility cart when your kid starts walking.

3. A phone with a good camera. The first few months / years fly by. We have a dslr camera, but 99% of my photos are from my phone. If you have an ancient phone, this is a good time to upgrade imo.

Fellow preemie parent here: forget the Frida snot sucker and get the NozeBot. Closest thing to hospital grade suction and still one of my top 5 purchases related to parenting. It has saved us on multiple occasions, including when my little one got Covid, pneumonia, rsv, and the other multitude of viral infections that come with being in daycare or school. Worth its weight in gold.

Hello /u/Nanofeo! Your post or comment was removed because an Amazon referal link was detected (see Rule 8). Please edit the link to remove the referal (typically everything after and including "/ref=mp" can be trimmed out) then contact the mods to approve the post, or simply repost your comment without the referal link, Thank you.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/BuyItForLife) if you have any questions or concerns.*

I use my instant pot now because it's faster than heating up water on the stove, but I made rice in a pot for a long time and it works totally fine

I’d rather just buy a vintage British wool one from Ebay that can last through an apocalypse.

Did you get the 6 or the 11? I'm trying to decide if the bigger model is worth the space or if the small one will be enough

Bro you could say the exact same thing about cashmere lol. Some people just don’t want plastic blankets that shed microplastics and end up in a landfill in 3 years. Alpaca’s natural, biodegradable, warmer than wool. Not for everyone tho, enjoy the polyester

had mine for years and still going strong

An in home laser printer is very useful to have for documents, but it can be black and white. 

It’s fine for a color printer to be a completely separate item, and you might want color prints to be print shop quality work on photo paper. When you want color images, you probably don’t actually want a home laser jet quality, the color blending is likely to be meh.

For the folks who don’t know why you need to print anything, here’s a list of what to print. 

You can print off a legal form or a permission slip in the evening, and sign it and deliver it for the start of the business day.  

If you buy something expensive with great terms, you keep a copy of the receipt and warranty and terms of service at the time of purchase. If the company gets acquired by venture capital pirates the next year, it’s too late. They are eager to forget old promises. 

Print off employment contracts and employee manuals. When layoff consultants arrive, the one who knows the rules doesn’t act like an easy target. 

You absolutely keep copies of records of paying off debts to keep the debt zombies away. They’re often using a years old database dump, and it’s easy for you to have better records.

Replacing plastic cooking utensils is not going to have any measurable effect on your health.

Go to your nearest farmer's market the next time they hold it. There will be a strange old man there who carves spoons. Buy them from him.

Thank you! I’m holding out hope that the sofa is spectacular. 🤎

Bought glasses but when we my S.O. and I were first getting started we filled out cupboards with pasta sauce "glasses" which are basically mason jars.

Honestly even after buying a couple different "adult" nice glass sets these pasta sauce cups are still my favorite. They are glass but really thick and well made. Also they come in 2 IMO perfect sizes which we not jokingly call "alfredo" ≈ (12oz/340ml) and "marinara" ≈ (18oz/511ml) when you fill them to the line and then they even have room for ice if you so desire it.

Cold water, gentle wool wash, no wringing. Squeeze out the water, roll in a towel, lay flat to dry. Alpaca barely gets dirty so I almost never have to.​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​ plus its odor free so never gets a bad smell. Or you could dry clean it

Zojirushi is great and all but my Tiger from Costco for $49.99 has been just as good as my grandma's $300 zoji.  We will see if it's still going in 20 years

Who the heck wants to pay $200 for a throw blanket? Why does a blanket need to be BIFL at all? We have (far too many) blankets in our house that we use as throws when we watch TV and such. We have kids that are rough with them, that play with them, we run them through the washer and dryer, etc. They were all cheap Target/Walmart blankets and they are all at least 15 years old already and doing just fine. Given that, I would say our $10 target blankets are BIFL. Miss me with that expensive alpaca stuff.

Just when I think this palce cant get any more unhinged.

Ngl man your account is pretty blatantly covert advertising for a variety of things.

Re: sleep sacks get a woolino. They're sized for 2 months to 2 years, made of merino wool so you mostly dont need to worry about weights/togs/etc. We bought 2, started using them at around 12 weeks, daughter is now over two, we're using the same ones every night and they still look perfect for any future kids.

Baby Bjorn stool. Used for potty, helping in kitchen, stop for kitten to get to reused litter box, currently used to help short me. Cleans up nicely. I’ve had two for 28+ years.

Invest time in libraries, got time to kill go to the local library, don’t know what to do that day? Go to library,
Low on money for the week , go to library. Read!! Read!  Read!!. Infants and toddlers are absolute knowledge sponges. Give them the curiosity and thirst for knowledge. 
My 2nd child spent 2 months in NICU for also arriving early and is the most avid reader.

I bought a Quince linen duvet cover and sheets about 2 months ago. I didn’t use them immediately because I was considering returning (cost mostly) but ultimately decided to try them. We LOVE them. We’ve never slept on linen before so have nothing to compare to, but my husband does not want to sleep on any other sheets now. They are getting a little softer with each wash. Quality seems fine. I sleep hot and while I don’t feel cool with them, I don’t over heat as much either. We normally buy Costco or HomeGoods sheets so I don’t have a ton of experience with high end sheets.

How did you wash it? I heard not to wash alpaca blankets

Moby wrap carrier. Far superior in terms of comfort, flexible carrying, and temperature to any of the front- or back-pack style carriers, and they last forever. Getting the wraps right is a slight learning curve. 

Cloth diapers. Just the basic 100% cotton, reusable, flat diapers with *separate* covers made of PUL or the more eco-friendly TPU. They’ll last years and save you money.

I've always been impressed by the heavy-duty outerwear coming out of the North. A solid, well-made toque or a durable parka tends to last for years, even when you're using it hard. The quality really speaks to the climate they have to withstand.

I have a Brother mfc-9130cw laser printer.  Unfortunately, Brother updated their firmware to make it reject non-Brother toner:

geladeira de 50 anos também é brutal, a geladeira acompanhou gerações, filhos e netos.

Oo is this paired with cherry cabinets? this is a lot like what I’m about to do! so nice to see tea life photos

The big advantage of a laser jet is that inkjets eat ink just sitting there, even if you never print anything.

I could swear this did not *used* to be the case, a few decades back (we're talking 1990s) but it's definitely the case now.  

The rationale given by the companies is that the ink will solidify in the lines if it doesn't periodically push some ink through. The ink that's not used to print goes into a waste receptacle inside the printer.  Some inkjet printers have user-serviceable waste ink receptacles. I've read that, on some, it goes into a sponge, which then allows it to dry out, and of course the ink is 90% or more just water, so it can hold a *lot* of waste ink.

Laser printers don't have this problem.  The printer costs more, and the toner costs more in theory -- though I'd argue that if you have to pay $50 for an inkjet cartridge pack, print a dozen pages, then a month later when you need to print again, it's empty, well, in the long run *that* costs more.

And at least with the laser printer, the damn thing *works* when you actually need it to, without needing to run to the store or order online for more ink.

That said, even with laser printers, you get the manufacturers playing games with "authorized toner" blah blah blah.  And, of course, the proprietary toner costs twice as much as the generic stuff.

The only problem is that these still have the issue of the ink drying out and causing problems if you don't use it often enough

I'm pretty sure I've only had to replace one LED bulb because it broke. It was installed in the bathroom light of a townhouse I was renting for who knows how long. All the others I've swapped out have been due to upgrading the color temp or CRI

My oldest are some CREE bulbs, not as old as this one though. I've also had GE and Philips bulbs running for a long time

Niche, but John James hand sewing needles,  they have been manufacturing then for over 100 years and they are infinitely better than cheap generic needles.

What a yappy ass edit. I’ll be sure to assume all kids everywhere are disabled and thrash about when removing cables and parents just give up on parenting strategies when someone asks for recommendations on anything.

/s

It’s NO ONE’s responsibility to assume your situation that you so happily left out any meaningful details of. Details that could very well be meaningful to providing a recommendation to your request.

Now that we’re back in real life land, Anker cables have lasted so irrationally long for me I have to recommend them. And they’re cheap enough that when they do break, its relatively affordable to replace, heck they might even warranty them.

Stainless steel cups are standard practice in Indian households btw

Until you drop them and the bottom gets dented and they don’t stand up anymore😥

I like to use dual-layer stainless steel ones.

Except if you drop them on the floor they dent so very easily. 

And if you drop one on the edge of the bottom with enough liquid in it, it'll dent it so bad that it no longer stands up straight. 

The texture is nice though since it prevents the cups from sealing together when you stack them.

congrats and hoping for a speedy exit from the NICU for your little one.

for BIFL with babies, the honest answer is almost nothing -- they outgrow stuff so fast the durability rarely matters. BUT the things where it does matter:

car seat: this is the one where quality actually counts. extended rear-facing seats from brands like britax/chicco are legitimately worth paying for -- you use them for years, not months.

stroller: if you can swing it, look for one with replaceable wheels and parts. the cheap ones work fine but the frame welds fail around year 2-3 right when you still need it.

high chair: tripp trapp or stokke style chairs that adjust to grow with the kid are the actual BIFL item here. used for 10+ years, can be resold. the $40 plastic ones are landfill by year 2.

also: before buying any big ticket baby item, use couponpicked to check if the sale price is real. baby gear is notorious for fake markdowns.

Anything for a baby isn't really bifl, though, as they outgrow it month to month. Hand me downs or used on most things. A good pram is nice to have and does take abuse, if you'regoing to spend a bit of money. 

For 'life' items, start an investment account, trickle in money each month and buy some broad market etfs so they have their entire lives for it to grow. And a good digital camera, Nikon is my preference but they're all good. They're fast, weird and wonderful creatures and you're often indoors; phones just don't cut it for that.

lol. the good news is most of the brands in this thread are privately held family companies so they're already unavailable for acquisition. the bad news is that makes them even more interesting to a PE firm.

fair. the cobra and pliers wrench are where the value is undeniable -- the needle nose has always been the weak link in their lineup tbh. and super knips xl on plastic/copper showing blade damage at that price is legitimately disappointing. i think the play is cobra series for clamping + something else for precision cutting. mixing brands for specific tasks is usually the move with german tools.

Some good recs in here.

Nose Frida 

Hatch sound machine

Reliable monitor, non wifi - Infant optics 

Good crib that converts to toddler bed 

Solid stroller that will last and can add accessories (place to sit or stand) for a bigger or smaller sibling 

Grow with me car seats

Yoto mini (eventually) 

Guava travel crib is solid

Hannah PJs that can be handed down to your second if you have one

good timing -- if you can, get to a hardware store or tool shop and hold the cobra before buying. the adjustment mechanism clicks into place in a way that's hard to describe in text. once you feel it you'll understand why people are annoying about knipex.

Probably, hard to trust this sub anymore

I bought a Brother HL-3170CDW color printer in 2014 and it still works great, even though I keep it under my desk where it gets kicked, and I prop my feet on it while I work. Supplies last a long time and aren't terribly expensive. 

Before that, I had a similar black & white Brother laser printer that also lasted more than ten years. I used to take it to gaming events to print character sheets and other materials, which meant leaving it set up in a common area and letting friends and strangers use it unsupervised for a long weekend. 

It finally kicked the bucket when someone accidentally dropped it out of the back of a moving truck and it landed upside down on cement. 

Durability rating = Office Space

I saw reports about leaching metals into drinks. Be careful what you put in these. I think they said no acidic, juices or cokes.

Slumber pod for travel.

Or, you can split the difference, and get a B&W laser printer for home (much cheaper), and send out color prints to the library, and photos to your local drug store or other photo processing place.

To add onto the stroller, consider buying one that you can add a second seat to should you choose to have more kids close together. Many you can adapt with your car seat, a stroller bassinet, and a seat, or a riding board for toddlers.

2nd the zipup stretchy recommendation. No snaps! No magnets! Just zippers! (But make sure theyre well made so the zipper doesn’t come off, which would be a major hazard.)

 And the Ikea high chair for sure

I honestly don’t think I’ve ever wanted something printed at a time I could just go and do it at a store or library, and if I did it would’ve been such an annoyance I’d just give up

How often are people breaking cups? I break a glass dish or cup once every 3ish years, I don't think it's worth sacrificing both taste and effort to clean for something that is fairly cheap to break that rarely.

A big tub of vasoline. We got one with our first kid and she’s 16 now, still have half of it.

Nothing I can really think of. Maybe a good thermometer just to keep in the house if you don’t already have one. Everything else would only be BIFL if you wanted to keep them as a keepsake. They’ll outgrow all the toys

Yes the whole experience leading up to receiving my sofa was horrendous. And then receiving the sofa was also horrendous because the fabric did not match the swatches we approved. But they ended up making it right (25% refund). And the sofa is stunning and really great quality so for me, it was worth it.

Fingers crossed everything works out for you!

Doona stroller—Not giving this one up a single day before the expiration date. 

Woolino sleep sack (two of them; one with legs and one without)

Lovevery gym—The only way I got *anything* done with a newborn at home.

Montessori wooden toys

No eating rice that’s more than 3 days old, that’s what I’ve always been taught. Many sources say it’s kind of ok for 4 days but then it really depends on the person and how much they eat. 
Anyway, so as you will.

I will be messaging you in 3 days on **2026-06-05 15:38:11 UTC** to remind you of **this link**

**CLICK THIS LINK** to send a PM to also be reminded and to reduce spam.

^(Parent commenter can ) ^(delete this message to hide from others.)

**RemindMeBot is switching to username summons.** Instead of `!RemindMe 1 day`, use `u/RemindMeBot 1 day`. More info.

*****

|^(Info)|^(Custom)|^(Your Reminders)|^(Feedback)|
|-|-|-|-|

its not hype. but you are also not printing a whole lot. your cost to own is high and ROI is slower because you print so little. 

Do the math on a 10 years of ownership. 300-500 = 30-50 a year. 

VS say printing at staples for 0.8 a page(assuming no inflation) . \*20 pages a month \* 12 months in a year  = 192

you know its a ton of markup already and still its only like 4x more expensive.

Which modell did you get?

This website has cancer.

You can also hook your Frida up to a breast pump and that works well.  But yes get one of those. The bulb syringes are useless. Saline drops/spray helps when you use them with the suction.  I’m a respiratory therapist and this is what I recommend at home.

I'm currently member of r/applesucks ;-) So it might take some time to have someone visit with an iPhone. Also it is the middle part which is damaged. The one that holds the glasses. It might be a little complicated. But that's just very nice of you!

You really want a used fleshlight?

Snaps are the absolute worst lol.  Double points if it is a two way zipper.  
But they are right in all accounts.  Second clothes etc are the best way. Check out places like “once upon a child”
A stand alone bottle sterilizer is nice and convenient. Especially if breast feeding and needing to sterilize those parts.

Car seat advice is spot on but dont sleep on getting good stroller that will last through multiple kids if you planning more. My sister still using same one after 6 years and 2 kids

  
Also those sleep sacks are game changer - way safer than blankets and baby cant kick them off in middle of night. Get few different weights for seasons

to prevent your inkjet from drying out, I set up a small little print job that prints out a 2x2 all color image (Google it).
runs automatically once a week and seems to have done the job to prevent the inkjets from drying out

I had these exact bulbs. Most have died.

Plumbers tape the cheap bottles.

For 3B hair that you’re already blowing out first, I’d focus less on where you buy it and more on plate smoothness, consistent heat, and whether it can get your hair sleek in fewer passes. A cheap iron that snags or needs repeated passes is exactly what makes flat ironing feel miserable.

Out of the type you’re looking at, titanium can make sense for thicker/coarser curls because it tends to feel stronger and more efficient, but I’d still want adjustable temperature so you’re not forced into blasting your hair with max heat every time. Ceramic is usually gentler, but may not always give that super sleek finish as quickly on curly hair.

I run a review site and put together a flat iron guide here that may help you compare what actually matters before buying: 

This might also help since you’re comparing ceramic vs titanium: 

My main advice: prioritize smooth glide, stable heat, and comfort in the hand over hype. For 3B hair, the best “for life” iron is the one that gets you sleek results without making you do a ton of passes.

I feel like certain things (like Milk) taste different/worse from aluminum cups.

Now try a tall glass of orange juice.   It will taste great

Zip up pajamas are a must. The idea of changing a diaper in the middle of the night and having to mess with all of those buttons when you and the baby are both tired is a nightmare. My wife and I even disliked the romper style onesies with more than the standard 3 buttons in the middle.

German? Idk. Where else did you experience that?

New stainless steel tends to rust

Nose Frida. If you don't have one, you absolutely need to. That being said, I think the real investment is to get a nice electric one because doing it manually gets old after a while.

Get some "Superfest-Gläser". They are made in DDR and are nearly indestructible.  You can throw them on concrete and they didn't brake. After the end of the DDR they weren't produced anymore, because you only have to buy them once in a live, and that's not good in capitalism.

Okay, and the Rolex/Tudor distributes the profits up to the foundation free of tax and where they can be invested with the profits also being tax exempt, I would suppose. So still a massive tax advantage in that. Especially if the can distribute a percentage that is less than the CIT rate in Switzerland. 

Also, I do not believe the autonomy and simplicity comes from the trust structure, it has more to do with not being listed. Patek and AP has the same autonomy and simplicity as they are family owned.

Advising against Quince and Buffy. Tried them; they sucked. Fell apart and thinned very fast. 

Had luck with Avocado’s linen hemp blend (though it’s rougher than pure linen). And Parachute hasn’t failed me yet. 

Brooklinen was ok when I had them. Eventually I changed beds and they were big enough. Haven’t replaced with same yet. 

Cotton percale is a solid choice for breathability.

Or Rum and Cola, both solutions are equally effective.

I have the WT HD mats and they are worlds better than the prior iteration hard plastic mats that shrink.

Babies outgrown everything SO QUICKLY. It's really not worth it to think of things in terms of "BIFL." Think of it more as return on investment. Anything that is safe to buy used, buy it used. Swings, mamaroos, bouncy seats, highchairs, clothes. Find the product that's easiest to clean and call it a day. If you can get it as a hand me down, even better. The only things you have to buy new are car seats and cribs for safety reasons. 

I will suggest, not so much for BIFL but for your own sanity: one piece pajamas that ZIP ONLY. And not just up the front,the ones that go all the way down to the foot. No buttons, not even snaps. Trust me on this. And the Ikea highchair is by far the easiest one to clean.

I have a set of four Kleen kanteen insulated tumblers. They have been in service for over 10 years now and they don't seem to be ready for retirement. Definitely a BIFL item.

Thorogood work boots. Made in USA. 
Vitamix Blenders
Robot Coupe Food Processor (still made in France)

I would not advise buying anything wireless from them, the newer models are worse than the pervious versions and the fake leather padding wears out so quickly meaning you have to either deal with it falling apart or shell out $15+ for a replacement every year or so, along with dealing with the fake leather flaking and the poor tech that is in it now.

This sub's snoo looks similar to that from Paranormal. So I've read your post's title and I was thinking "Yo, what the f*ck?!"

I want to be free to flood my laundry room!!

Husband has one he got in high school, so 50+ years ago. I showed him this picture and he commented that his tool tray is plastic, which I hadn't realized. Still going strong though I'd imagine that is going to be the first (only?) point of failure

Thank you, my private equity fund is always on the look for great companies to ruin.

Similar to you, but on a bigger scale.  I started college 25 years ago as a music major and bought around $10,000 worth of specialty (C, D/Eb, and piccolo) trumpets while I was still under the delusion that I'd be a professional orchestra player.  Granted I recouped a good chunk of that when I sold them off later, but I still wince at that one.

I run a private equity fund, can you tell me about more great companies like this? (/s)

Lodge - cast iron
Roland Boss - guitar amps/effect pedals
EVH - guitars specifically are built really well. Amps are good, but have issues over time
Sperry - leather boat shoes
Thursday Boots - leather boots
Weber - kettle grills (not gas grills, which are still good but not BIFL)
Apple - phones, laptops
Yeti - stainless steel travel mugs/tumblers
Leatherman - multi-tool

I've one, but I've only had it since about 1967.

my dyson has been working for like 5 years now and gets used daily at gym - motor still strong and cord is thick enough that it doesnt get those weird kinks

I've owned home laser printers since the early 1990s and would not go without one. However, I would never buy a color one again after having one c. 2010 for a few years. They cost more, and they suck up toner (in four colors) that is $$$. It's just not worth it for color printing, and "budget" color lasers are not great quality. Get a Brother or Canon B&W laser for $150 or so, and use generic toner carts ($15 for 3,500 pages in my Canon and Brother models at work and home).

That said, if you only print occasionally but *must* have a printer, laser is the way to go. Ink jets don't like being left idle for weeks at a time, another lesson I learned at some expense. But for that occasional color page? Go to a print shop and pay them $.50 to get it done there.

Swiss gear. I have had mine for 25 years and it looks new.

I bought the ET-4850, but in retrospect their photo printer would have been a better option for me. 

Official ink is $70 for a full set, or knockoff runs about $20 on Amazon

I went out and bought the cheapest mini fridge I could find when I went to college. It's still running in my house, 17 years and about 7 moves later. 

There are all of 5 parts in a mini fridge, most should run for a long time. I also still have my cheapo chest freezer from those days too.

My autistic ass could never. I just thought of touching this with my lips and all of my body is aching just of the pure thought of it

Even better if you get cooper

Is the stitching coming undone at one of the corner spots of the laptop? 

Also, i do think it’s important to point out that laptop bags usually have extra padding/reinforcement where the laptop goes. It’s not so much the total weight of the object, but that all the repetitive force (slight bounce when walking) is focused on small points. If your bag wasn’t designed for those impact points, it’s going to fail faster. 

I have a Kavu bag and it’s served me really well. So I think this may be a case of wrong tool for the job.

Used

Or goto your local lowes or home depot.  Get off the amazon slop

Yeah that killed my last inkjet too. Just sat there for months and refused to work. So maybe I should just go laser then if I'm not gonna use it much.

Okay this is actually useful. How much was the EcoTank? I've seen those around but always assumed they were more expensive than regular inkjets. And the ink bottles are actually cheap to replace?

People bitch about LED bulbs dying in months all the time. I replaced all the (50ish) bulbs in my house with LEDs a few years ago and not a single one has died. 

Don’t buy shitty bulbs from fly by night companies and put them in an enclosure that they weren’t designed to handle to heat of.

For pleasurable drinking, glass is king.

Honestly dude just do as u/Maxasaurus says or look in the local ads / FB marketplace etc., it's college not your forever home.

Also - fridges are a pretty well solved problem these days be they $100 or $1000 the compressor etc. that actually make them work are insanely reliable and what breaks is things that people touch; handles, shelves, etc.

Find one for free/cheap and run with it, if it dies then no great loss, just find another.

You should try Asaka Industrial Co out of Japan. They have been in business for 350 years. They specialize in garden tools (among other things), and are legit.

Exactly some spend more money in replacing those generic ones that they'd rather spend on a good quality one

Nah the library's too much hassle honestly. I'd rather just have one sitting around even if I barely use it.

Red Land Cotton sheets are pretty amazing.  They have a nice weight to them.  Pricey but I know they are going to last.  Coyuchi sheets are lighter and nice as well.

the generic ones really are trash quality, my friend had one that lasted maybe 3 months before spring mechanism broke

I would absolutely hate to hear that.

I bought my first barents pro pants from them in 2020 and I still wear them today. The only hole I have in those are from crossing fence and I was being careless. Several hunting buddies have switched to their pants and clothes and love em.

Stainless steel is the way to go. Nothing beats ice water out of one of those

I like the Ball decorative mason jars. They are glass & metal with a small elastomeric gasket/seal. The bigger one holds about 5 lbs of flour/sugar.

I appreciate your insight. While I understand where Patagonia is coming from in terms of trademark enforcement. Pattie Gonia is claiming their work is that of parody and parody is protected speech under the First Amendment. It also feels like a big stretch for Patagonia to claim “irreparable harm” on this issue. I don’t see how Pattie Gonia’s work meets the legal definition of irreparable harm.

I'm about to order one myself. How is it feeling 3 months out?

Need a guy in Salt Lake

I am also looking for something in this style. What bag did you settle on?

I read it's different!

I have had the motor replaced with a new one, then my repair guy died😢

Basically any name-brand cast iron is nicer than Lodge's standard line. The only things Lodge has going for it are the price point and the fact that you can pick one up pretty much anywhere.

wait til you hear about what happens when you drop a metal cup.

Thicker doesn't translate to more durable with cast iron pans. Automation was the driving force behind their increased thickness; the older, thinner, lighter pans required more manual labor to produce and so were more expensive. They're still going to outlive you though.

Which also need to be replaced every other year or so (preferably)

Why do you only have one picture of Celery?.. Cuties!

What are you printing in color? If it's for pictures I would recommend a brother black and white printer. Ours is going on 18 years old and still humming.

For pictures we just upload photos to Google or shutter fly and have them print and mail them too us. It's not expensive and photos show up within a few days or so.

Wow, didn't even try on this post, did you?

I had some of these exact bulbs and they did not last very long.

I had to google it and this seems like it’s mainly only an issue if it’s left out for a while after being cooked. I always portion them out into the containers once it’s done cooking and they all go in the fridge quickly.

Good luck with carbonated drinks.

TNF has been owned for many years by Vanity Fair. Fashion pivot with a tiny subset of real core gear remaining to keep the halo effect from expedition use. Helly & Musto owned by another VC conglomerate. ArcTeryx & Salomon by another. Smaller companies snapped up by PE & VC firms that gut quality and flip the brand after a few good years of bloodsucking. ‘merica.

If you have a front loader the lag is so you don’t accidentally flood your home

Study art… like creating it. Learn and understand color and pick up a few books on shading/blending and start drawing.

Go to goodwill or a thrift store and search through their framed canvases. Find a small a medium and a large canvas and frame. 

Paint on the medium one until you are happy with your work. Then do the large one. Then the small. Now paint over them or go get more frames.

My friend buys very cheap rum simply to soak his travel bottle.

No consumer color lasers are worth it

Eventually you will get to the point where it needs four toner cartridges and possibly four drums and it will be more expensive to get a new printer than to replace the consumables.

Get a B&W entry-level business laser and the cartridge will last for like 8000 pages, then get the odd color thing printed at a copy shop.

As someone who’s eaten rice for over half a century, it’s something learned at your grandmother’s knee. Look up Bacillus cereus if you’re interested. 

Besides, once you have a rice cooker, it will be so much better and easier to eat freshly cooked rice every couple of days.

We got tired of dried inkjet printer heads and wasting ink from not being used. We'd have to buy new ink almost every time we printed something because it'd use so much ink trying to clean the heads or it just dried out. 

If you shop around, a laser printer can be cheap enough. And you can buy the 3rd party toner for a fraction of the price, depending on the printer. For example, we have a Canon laser printer (color), I don't remember the model right now. But all toner cartridges are $60 on Amazon from a 3rd party seller. You risk the cartridges leaking once in a while for some reason but it's powder and much easier to clean or resolve. You can usually wipe it out with a paper towel or rag and pick up the rest with the cleaning cycle and paper in the tray. 

The only thing about laser I'd warn people about is you can't really do photo prints with them. I mean, you can print documents with images or photos. But you really can't do photo paper in 4x6 sizes and photos don't look as great as ink anyway. 

As mentioned, black and white might be the way to go. But I'd look at available 3rd party toner options for whatever you settle on as well.

Just don't plug it in backwards or else you might get the forever zaps

Anker is not a drop shipper, they’re a legit Japanese company with brick and mortars/popups in Tokyo, for example

when did you buy them? this is important piece of info!

Haha, I've found that type of plastic always cracks especially if it's being used frequently, which these will be.

Have had one for 10+ years too. Leather has some wear but the mechanics of the card holder still work perfectly. Can 100% recommend indeed

Ooo I feel like I had the wrong search terms or something, these are great, thank you!

Yeah you’re right. I should have worded it differently.

Mario Talarico from Italy if you want something that works well but is also an artisan product worth talking about

Debating getting these since I have my first long flight later this year. May have to pull the trigger despite the price

Second Stride Soles FWIW

People are wooed by the low/no cost of inkjets. Where they make their money is with the ink, that dries quickly once you open it. Back in the day, they even gave away inkjet printers. 

Take that info for what it’s worth to you.

I’ve literally never had a problem or heard that from anyone and I’ve been doing this for like 15 years

I’ve got the PXC 550 II aswell and they do work but occasionally have connection issues where they randomly disconnect and I have to reset them- besides that after a cup replacement they still work decently after a few years.

The slider part that broke is a common failure point on that design. You'd be much better off buying 3d printed replacement parts off ebay than sourcing oem for that particular part. WAY cheaper too.

Enamel aluminium wasmy grandmas fave cup

I don't think so? I've not had another unit, so I can't say in comparison to others how hard/easy it is. Daily/weekly is dead simple, the litter gets dumped into a bag that lines the poop-collecting bin, you just pull that bag out and put another one in. This step is usually weekly for me, with one cat. For monthly/quarterly cleanings, there's a mode that empties all the unused litter into the bin, which you take out and toss like the weekly poop removal. Once that's done, you pull off the barrel and wash. It's all easily user accessible. With one cat, I do this step every two or three months. With cheap clay litter, I'd say you'll probably want to clean it more often, but I use Arm & Hammer Slide litter, which seems to have cut down majorly on anything sticking to the inside, and reduces how much I have to break it down to clean.

I buy Quince linen sheets. They are less than $200, varies depending on bed size. Some people don't like them because they are rougher than cotton sheets, but I like that. They are breathable and hold up well (even with my cats scratching them).

Again, 1 or 2 wallets out of 80,000. If it was an issue, we’d hear about it. Plus me and all my friends, family, employees etc have been using these for nigh on a decade at this point. I’m not sure I’m going to convince you though haha, seems like you have your mind made up

That does not look good quality. Bet it isn't even wood. A good adirondack chair is made with quality wood and no metal attachments, all wood joints.

By the way, peroxide on a splinter will almost always bubble it out quickly if it is trying to stay in.

i too have found this comment helpful

Fair enough. But I’d also assume that if a person bought this wallet and the stitching failed they probably would just go buy something else. I would.

My dad was a Maytag engineer for 41 years. He recently passed away 😢😞 and my brother told me something I hadn't known: one day dad came home from work really upset. He was asked by upper management to re-design the dryer. There was a simple to access, easy to replace switch in the front of the dryer that made it a piece of cake to fix when the switch went out. (Kept Ol Lonely from headache repairs).Well, they wanted dad to re-design, put it in the back,  difficult to reach, so the customer would have to buy a new one instead of simple repair.  Dad was livid, because he saw the end of his career and the downfall of Maytag,  due to selfishness.  He was right. Maytag was sold and he was forced to retire.

It'd be great if you could include which brand you have...

Ah interesting. Well I’m telling you we have thousands of wallets out there and we have had a handful (5 or 6) come back and almost all those were actually non-stitching related issues. We use 1mm Ritza thread which is just dang tough.

I mentioned Sennheiser more for their professional microphones and audio equipment and less for their consumer tier headphones and such. Although I do have an old pair of HD1s that are working just fine despite being beat up for the last 10 years or so.

Depending on what year this was made and where, it’s probable that it’s using materials and technology that is not used any longer. (I used to work in this field)
Just as the old incandescent bulbs from early days lasted forever, you can also make LEDs that last indefinitely, but that wouldn’t be good for business.

Yeah, I'm not going to fault someone choosing utility over aesthetics but I don't buy glassware because I expect it to last forever, I buy glassware because it looks nice.

I agree. Way too heavy!

Durability gets frustrating fast when the paddle feels fine at first and then the face or core gives out.
A raw carbon fiber paddle around the $100 to $150 range is usually the safer jump, and PickleballNVZ has options from brands like CRBN, Diadem, Selkirk, and Paddletek without having to guess off random listings.

I’d separate “expensive” from “actually better” here. A good straightener should heat evenly, glide without snagging, keep a steady temperature, and get the job done in fewer passes. If you’re having to go over the same section again and again, that’s usually where the damage/frizz starts adding up.

Out of the ones you listed, I’d also compare them by use case rather than treating them all the same. The Dyson Airstrait is more of a wet-to-dry/air-styling approach, so I’d only go that route if that workflow actually fits your routine. If you already blow dry first and just want a reliable finishing iron, a traditional flat iron may make more sense.

The main things I’d look for:

Adjustable temperature, especially if your hair is fine or color-treated  
Smooth plates that don’t grab at the ends  
Consistent heat across the whole plate  
A shape that can also curl or bend pieces if you style that way  
Not needing maximum heat just to get results  
A good return policy, because hair type matters a lot

I run a review site and put together a straightener/flat iron guide here that may help you compare what features actually matter before buying: 

My take: don’t buy the most expensive one just because it’s hyped. Buy the one that matches your hair texture and lets you use the lowest effective heat with the fewest passes.

I like the cotton sheets at the Vermont Country Store.  They are made in Portugal and seem to last a long time.

Kershaw Select Fire.  I use the screw drive bits as much as the blade.

No hate. I just see that pointed out all time on that sub.

Who cares about what a cup says though? It's a cup, it can't be very smart anyway.

Scotchbrite will knock that right out.

That sub helped a ton when I was first learning leather craft. Where is the hate coming from?

Yea, picked up the capone and absolutely in love with it. Couldnt stop smelling the leather for the first week

Ughh hanes has become really inconsistent tbh, the fit changes after one wash and even the collars get weird
for slim fit stuff that actually lasts i like cuts or bylt basics. they’re more expensive but the fabric holds up way better over time. under armour and lululemon are also good too. I like these too for affordable option. Tho its not premium fabric but it retains shape and structure long term. Also try to get like cotton-poly blends for better shape retention than 100% cotton.

The idea is *exactly* to cut people a billion times. Better a billion shallow cuts than a few large gashes!

I wish I could use stainless steel, the taste bothers me. I have to use ceramic lined cups if I want something insulated.

Any Printer is not bifl. Period. Wrong sub.

Same, I am hard going.

Buy a black and white laser printer.   Outsource your color prints.   You'll save money and your photos won't look like you printed them at home.

Ja, ich hatte die Pro Variante. Musste aber keine Rechnung mitgeben. Hab mir jetzt stattdessen die Glas Version von Zwilling gekauft.

My wife and I love our series 1 knack packs. So many well engineered pockets.

It’s very firm which I like. If you want something cushier it might not be for you. I really recommend testing it in store

The inkjet will let you down. Feel free to go cheap but you will regret it one day.

Same here. I’ve made easily over 500lbs of rice over the years that I’ve owned the instant pot. It does use less water than the average rice cooker, so there’s a slight learning curve. But now I’ve perfected it! And the stainless steel is nice. Not to mention instant pot has many other uses.

I have a consumer level pair of BT headphones that I’ve had for several years and they’re great! Good sound quality, good battery life, nice and comfortable.

That’s why I hesitate.  I have some linen lounge sets from Quince, which I do like to wear at home 

I don’t know if their pants/blouses are the same quality as the lounge sets, but if they are… I’m not wearing it outside the house.  It’s good for the house on a hot night, that’s it

Fb marketplace. BIFL isn’t really necessary for this tbh. You’ll probably end up getting rid of it eventually

Sorry  to revive an older thread but my 46” Bravia is 20 years young and still perfect. its a dumb monitor for my Denon X series AVR. I came across this thread as I was researching why it is  still going strong and considering an upgrade. I have a small AV space. A young family friend who works in repairs for a big retailer has advised me to keep it as the new stuff is basically garbage.  I’m not really a fan of 4 k anyway. Glad to see that its longevity is not a fluke. it also cost far more than most TVs these days.

I love my Treeboard cutting boards! They are stunning and very durable. I think they’d make a great gift, too.

+1 on RRS. All of the RRS stuff I have feel like they will last forever. 

Same with Pelican. No complaints with their stuff.

Sennheiser has been just ok for me. All of the headphones  I owned eventually developed some issues with the cables. To be fair the l not sure if this is what happens to most headphone cables but my Grado has been soldiering along just fine

Throwing in other brands that have been solid. Swarovski and Leica binoculars and Kowa spotters

It's a convenience thing and typically worth the cost if you can afford it.

If u don't want to spend thousands, going with value brands makes sense. A Hisense fridge or washer usually does the job well for a fraction of the cost.

32oz deli or a aluminum ball solo-style cup

I'd take a look at the EcoNour Umbrella Sunshade or the HEHUIZU Umbrella Sunshade. They seem to hold up better than a lot of the generic ones and are pretty quick to put up and take down.

I've been comparing a few of them lately, so if you want, I can send over the  listings and a couple other options that looked promising.

Yes, these are the TW true color series. According to the box they are 93 CRI. They do look pretty good,  very neutral with a slightly rose tint if anything

In my experience, Mykita glasses have the absolute worst build quality of any glasses I’ve ever used. Had two pairs fall apart on me on their own: the pair I bought, as well as the replacement model I was issued.

In hindsight, seems like a huge red flag to glue parts together that are normally connected with a screw. But I was under the same impression: these look high-quality, and are expensive, so must be good. Nope, never again!

We tried that (with the only concession being the removable agitator so you can fit comforters) and ours tapped out at less than 2 years...curiously, the repairman (the 2nd one) is supposed to be here this afternoon. I thought Whirlpool was supposed to be decent. Less than 2 years and less than 3 loads a week! Pitiful.

I wish more people had your temperament. A lot of people get riled up with good intentions but are not fully informed . 

I feel like we would have more productive conversations If people first took a minute to learn about the subject and listen to arguments from all sides

Interesting. Does it tell the cri (color rendering index) on the packaging?

I went to go look at 7th avenue. I have 2 dogs and a cat and a small space. 7 th avenue pieces were huge and was honestly just to expensive i went with a couch from mirewood it’s modular and works well with pets and i cann turn it into a bed

Too soon. 

The year 2000 was when the timeline got fucked. And that was only a couple of years ago...

Cool - thank you! Appreciate it.

Post this in /r/leathercraft and see what the comments are.

I would go to a local library to print for free, if possible.

We have thousands of wallets 6+ years old and that’s simply not true. We also have a lifetime guarantee so if the stitching ever did go out, we repair or replace it for free

Small correction: trademark, not copyright.

What in the world do you people print? Around the turn of the century I noticed that about  every third time i wanted to print something it wouldn't work. Magenta was running out so I couldn't print a B&W test document, cartridges were dried out, etc. I got tired of the stupidity of going to Staples and seeing the latest printer on sale was cheaper than a set of cartridges and then buying a new printer only for the whole process to repeat 3 months later. I refused to buy another.

In the last 20 years I have spend about $60 on printing stuff at Staples.

Those stitches will let go eventually. Having them on the side puts them in a high friction area. Mary my words.

You want to check and make sure that your child is able to bring their own fridge. Some schools require that mini fridges are rented from them.

It’s actually one of the highest rated log splitters on the market (at least for homeowner use). Lightweight and annihilates logs. Only downside is that it is teflon coated so if you punch it into the ground, the dirt/sand/rocks will scratch up the teflon making it less useful. For that reason you always need to split on top of a tree stump or a wide, short log on its end used as a table. The Teflon is probably what makes the biggest difference, so it’s pretty important to keep it intact.

Brother for either one. 
I started off with a brother laser printer 14 years ago . 6 years ago I decided to get a color laser printer since I did need color occasionally. I've probably spent 60 on toner in that time for the black and white and 70 on the color

Yes, it was the portable one.

New LEDs are all absolute overpriced junk…

The three major sales events are:

* **Männkitchen Day:** Every year on **March 25**.
* **Prime Day:** Occurs during the official Amazon/summer Prime Day event.
* **Black Friday/Cyber Monday:** Takes place in late November. 

(so says AI, but i can confirm the March and Black Friday sales. not sure about Prime Day)

IKEA has great affordable cotton sheets and duvet covers.

How's the cable holding up? I found a similar one from the 70s where the cable was basically falling apart

Couple years ago I got tired of replacing dishes so I ordered from Amazon stainless steel plates, bowls, and tumblers. The latter two are double-walled and have a hammered pattern. Love them 😊

They do have women's options, just not in that model. However their sizing is easy to figure out; see

Thanks! Is there an upcoming sale? Will wait for the 20% then yeah

And things had a bit of a particular taste from them.

Since she's an artsy type, I'd lean more towards an experience than a physical gift. A pottery workshop, painting class, photography course, glassblowing session, or even a weekend art retreat could be a lot more memorable than another object.

If you prefer giving something tangible, many women in their 50s seem to appreciate quality over quantity. A beautiful fountain pen, a handcrafted item from a local artist, or a framed piece of art from someone whose work she admires could work well. Several artists on Reddit also mentioned that art supplies can be tricky because artists are often very particular about what they use.

Personally, I'd choose an experience and maybe pair it with a handwritten card. At 50, many people value memories and time spent doing something enjoyable more than accumulating more things.

In the end it's the only way a product can be BIFL.

Rolex and Tudor are for profit businesses that pay standard income taxes, just they’re owned by the HWF. 

I think the people of Geneva and Switzerland are very lucky to have Rolex. It generates enormous sales, something like 30%+ of the luxury watch market. I attribute their success to the autonomy and simplicity of their charitable trust ownership structure.

Sam's club has some really nice ones in price range.

MY Remington hair dryers are still doing after decades, yo. No fancy bells and whistles (and lights) but it does what it was designed to do. Most maintenance I have ever done is clean out the back filter of dust every few years or so.

Facebook marketplace is your friend for brother color laser printer

New inkjets (brother, anyway) don’t seem to dry up the way they used to. But, I’d consider a bw laser (brother again..) for most printing. Cheap inkjet for color, and use a printing service for anything nice like photographs.

I don't get these chairs. Why do people love them so much that they are a thing? Are they comfortable? Do you use cushions with it or just bareback it?

The wiring was so bad in my apartment when these first hit the market that they'd die within 3-6 months. Had to go back to incandescent.

Some old, crusty marketing droid is going to try to weave AI powered into cups now for the next disruptive revolution in drinkware technology.  We warm your brew with the waste heat from making a single meme.

I have PXC 550 II and they are great but I was disappointed that neither replacement ear cups nor replacement batteries are available as official spares (though both are easily available as aftermarket parts). My expectations had been set by several older pairs of Sennheisers where all parts - cups, bands etc - are still easily available from the manufacturer. Including one pair this is 30 years old this year…

At 20 pages a month the math doesn't favor a color laser honestly. The toner-cheaper-per-page argument only wins if you actually print volume, and you don't. What you're really paying for with laser is reliability. An inkjet that mostly sits will clog the heads and burn ink on cleaning cycles by the time you actually need it. If you want to skip that headache without dropping $400, a cheap mono Brother laser is the sweet spot. Color you can just send to a print shop the couple times a year you need it. I went mono Brother years ago and it just works whenever I walk up to it, which at your volume is the whole point.

Well, as an example, go try to cook eggs on a rough surface. You'll have to use more oil to stop them from sticking and then, if you want to flip them, the roughness will make that difficult and they may get torn, especially at the edges. Delicate foods don't cook as well on these rough surfaces.

Brooklinen has sales pretty regularly and their linen stuff is legit. Grabbed a set during one of their promos for right around your budget. Linen > cotton for heat imo, it just breathes on another level. Also ditch the duvet entirely if you can, even a natural fill one traps heat.

Hello /u/Dismal_Werewolf_8039! Thank you for your submission! The AutoMod thought that your post might be a request type post and has changed the flair accordingly, but if this was wrong feel free to change it back!

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/BuyItForLife) if you have any questions or concerns.*

the original price is $140，and it's half price on amazon now.
(35%code+15%coupon)
Code:PXS3CYYA

Any time on Amazon you see a great discount - especially when coupons are involved - be very, very skeptical. Most of the time that means you’re getting cheap Chinese products that are barely “buy it for a year,” much less BIFL.

I bought a Weber 4 years ago and it broke in the first year

Same one, a Hisense 75 inch, but I expect the problems carry across different models. It was snappy for about a month and after that slowly got laggier and laggier, enough that many remote inputs are doubled or tripled. The Bluetooth transceiver in the TV stopped working, so my remote is restricted to IR mode. Sometimes the wifi turns itself off and cannot be turned on until the TV is power cycled. It complains about low disk space despite me only having three apps installed and being over 70% free.

You could look secondhand on eBay maybe? Set up an alert for your price point and specific details of the items.

New ones as well, I've never had one break

My brother hl2140 won't die lol I want a wireless laser printer but I am waiting until this printer croaks since I print less than 10 pages a month. I've had this printer since 2010 and its invincible 😭

Interesting. I thought i heard their quality had declined

You get what you pay for in the end.  I've had mine over 20 years.

We have had our ink tank for several years and it’s great. No needlessly expensive cartridges that don’t last, no chips or QR codes to lock you out. About half the price compared to a laser.

100% cotton bedspread/ thin quilt over a comforter. Very easy to wash. 
I also like the charter club cotton sheets from Macy’s.

ah. old Nokias. <looks into the distance fondly)

Spyderco clip tool serrated combo. Use it as a money clip/card clip. Legal everywhere, except the airport. Not going to freak anyone out. Serrated blade chews through boxes and tape. Can open bottles with the body edge.

This is r/BuyItForLife not r/CheapAndGoodEnough

A laserjet printer will likely suffice for most people for a very long time. The way they function is less prone to the common issues found with inkjet printers that sit for months on end and are randomly fired up to print 1-2 pages. I’ve had an old Brothers monochrome laserjet for close to 15 years. I’ve replaced the toner once. I don’t expect I’ll change it again. Cost was like $150. Color is more expensive because it has more capability and complexity. Will probably last for life. Is it worth it to have a color printer that will reliably work, every time you turn it on, for the next 10-15 years? The value is in never having to worry about IF you can print something at home. That value is there for me with a $500 printer and gets even better when I find a suitable printer for under $300. 

You wouldn’t be missing anything if you stuck with an inkjet. You’ll likely never have a problem if you buy a quality one like many here have suggested. A color laserjet takes some amount of “will it still work?” Out of the question, but realistically, if you are questioning whether to spend $500 on a color laserjet or $200 on an inkjet, then you’ve already decided which way you’re going, you just want validation that the $200 won’t be wasted after 2 years. 

I vote get the color laserjet and never worry about it again.

My MacBook from 2019 can still go toe to toe with most modern laptops, the battery has been good, and the manufacturing is durable.

We have tons of these glasses. It comes free in rice bags and also in past used to be given as gift as well.   
We have steel bowls, glasses, and spoons. Still, in my country, we get one of these randomly in the rice bag (big ones). 

And our situation is the exact opposite of OP. We are slowly using glass and ceramic glasses for daily use and putting these in storage 😅

Lodge cast iron. Mine was like twenty bucks years ago and it'll outlive me, and a new one is still basically the same pan. One of the few things that hasn't gotten worse while everything else cheaped out.

getting the right pillow is more about your sleep style than the brand tbh. most neck pain comes down to height, too high or too low and your spine is out of alignment all night. if you can try it in store with your own pillowcase that helps, and give it at least a few nights becs the first one is always adjustment period.

buying online is honestly hard, return policy should be your first filter not price or brand. for side sleepers esp the shape matters a lot, you want smth that keeps your neck aligned with your spine. this type for example is what i mean, just go thru the reviews properly before buying.

They don’t break lol. They might bend a little but you can bend them
back. They’re also the original, Mykita is one of the people from
Ic! Berlin that broke off and made their own brand and screwless design.

Not an expert but I'll share my anecdote. I've owned different Sennheiser stuff over the years, always held up great and on the rare occasion I needed a repair, it was a pretty good experience. Recently bought a pair of in ears, IE200. Excellent headphones for the price but the cable is flimsy trash, the design is very prone to breakage just from normal use at the point where the cable wraps around the ear. Customer service experience this time around was way more difficult than in the past and they won't cover a replacement cable even under warranty period. The cost of a replacement cable they sell is 2/3 the price of the headphones brand new.

You can find linen under $200 but the stuff that actually lasts usually runs more, so for that budget I'd lean cotton percale. It breathes way better than the polyester duvet stuff and it gets softer with washes instead of pilling up. I run percale in summer and switch to sateen when it cools off. LLBean's sheets have held up for me for years and they go on sale fairly often if you watch for it.

I just sent the link to them yesterday to a friend…they are 100% the best

People talk about rotting, these are solid plastic. We got a few from Costco in Canada but not this exact brand. They had red colour. It’s solid heavy plastic. Nothing to rot or break. Pain to put together but it will last many years with no painting or maintenance. 
Not BIFL but defining longer lasting than wooden ones or cheap thin plastic crap that breaks if you sit wrong.

Is the Oxford comfortable to sit on?

They can be BIFL if made of a long lasting wood like cedar and taken care of. 

The ones made of HDPE plastic are also durable enough to last forever with little maintenance other than washing and hosing down with a mildew remover cleaner once or twice a year.

Lesser wood or plastic will last a few years at best.

One plug for polywood, I believe they use recycled materials also.  A lot of the cheap stuff is virgin hdpe, so not as beneficial to the environment compared to wood IMO.  They also manufacture stateside, which is another advantage that can justify the premium price for some buyers.

whatever the one in the picture is made of (and it looks like its resin) it going to be garbage. *especially* coming from Amazon.

if you want a quality Adirondack chair, you are going to want to buy something made from Cedar, likely out of Canada. 

i bought two Adirondack chair kits from All Things Cedar 6 years ago, and while they are on my porch (so out of direct rain / sun / etc) they have held up great. i did replace the armrest upright with a 2x6 though, as it was a bit weak as a little 1x6. 

i think i paid $150 each, and they are likely more expensive now. they are kits, which means you assemble them. but that also means if any one piece needs replaced, you can cut another piece of cedar to match it. 

growing up we had Adirondacks out in the yard, sitting in grass for all of Spring-Summer-Fall. we painted those, so they held up against the elements better. (which you would probably want to do if you are leaving them in the elements / on wet grass) but they probably lasted at least a decade before they needed anything more than another coat of paint.

A friend returned the Quince linen sheets. I have two pairs of their linen pants but won't buy from them again.

sounds like a steal for $79, but not bifl.    I have a couple Adirondack chairs I bought from Amishyard that are made out of composite that should last a long time.   not cheap though :(    buy once, cry once.

Davek’s are beautful, I recommend them too.

I found that the main options are to shell out like 400 dollars on a nice sturdy treated one, spend like 40-80 on a crappy chinesium plastic one, or scour facebook marketplace for a used but still sturdier wood one and pressure wash/sand/stain yourself. I ended up just making some ones of my own.

If you live anywhere with an Amish community nearby, see if they sell furniture. They usually make this style in my experience and it'll be quite well made. Probably more expensive than this one but not absurdly high.

I just paid 500 for a pollywood set with 20 year warranty

I got tired of paying premium prices for particle board too. 😅

I'd honestly look at Room & Board, local furniture stores, estate sales, and Facebook Marketplace before most of the online brands. I've also wandered through Anima Domus a few times and liked that you can actually see and touch the furniture before spending thousands.

My rule now is simple: if it's solid wood and the drawers feel smooth and sturdy, I'm interested. If it's MDF with fancy marketing photos, I'm out.

go ahead and get the metal trays too, every meal will feel like you’re in the mess tent in ww2

Bought a used HP M252 color laser 5 yrs ago @$175. Plug in & go. Zero problems so far except cheap leaky refilled toner cartridges. Best to buy a set from an actual refiller ($40-50) more or less yearly with an odd black one needed.   
Mostly printing daily crosswords and Sudoku for wife and me.   
Daughter likes the Epson refill system too.

Really? What's your "well known" source?

Because when I Google "inkjet or laser for photos," the results do not align with your statements.

Our works amazing. Sounds like you got a lemon? Also, why are you not using the paper dispenser and allowing all your (blank) pages to fall on the floor?

You’re gonna be hard pressed to find much outdoor furniture that is “buy it for life“. The elements can be brutal to most materials.

With something like this, the build quality is going to vary widely between manufacturers. I have a Adirondack chair that is made out of plastic that has held up pretty well honestly, but I have no expectation of it lasting forever.

Why do you need it to be color?

which TV you using now friend?

Yeah you are right.  I’m definitely going a little too cheap, I love European linen and I have many shirts/pants that cost a lot.  

It’s early lol

Adirondack is the style of chair, not the brand. 

So it's some generic Chinese junk brand most likely.

Not bifl. Will rot even if you repaint it

A few speculations but here is the link to the actual recall from the Consumer Product Safety Comission -

I’ve had a black and decker mini fridge living in my garage for the last 12 years and it was my wife’s classroom fridge for 3 years before that. It’s endured 12 Texas summers in a garage and still keeps my beer frosty cold. Can’t speak to B&D’s quality now days but this one is great.

I have Duralex green and ambar plates and I love them!! They are quite vintage but I just love them!

My momentums have been great but I wish it didn’t need to occasionally be charged since I basically never use it wireless unless traveling.  It usually sits plugged into my PC.

With regular maintenance, a color laser printer will probably outlast the manufacturer’s choice to provide updates and the decision of operating system developers to support its use. Buy it for life? Not _your_ life but the amount of time it remains compatible with the world.

An all-clad 4 qt sauce pan

The 480 pro looks sick...

Does this one fit your needs:

Safety pin.  I always have a use for one

Thanks for your feedback.

Yeah, I have an original hue A19 lightbulb that is 13 years old. Still use it everyday. My house is full of these now.

I'd choose TCL for peace of mind.

TCL for longevity; Hisense for brightness.

Target has a Whirlpool mini fridge for $133. 

I had a Whirlpool mini fridge for decades. I got it used when I was in school and it ended up being for drinks in my garage before I gave it away to make way for a deep freezer. That thing was so old it had fake wood grain on the door.

Yes. Ink dries up. 

I print maybe 50 pages/year and have had the same toner for 4 years. 

I’d just make sure whatever laser you buy is able to use generic/unbranded toner.

Rather than color laser, I listened to this sub and bought an Epson EcoTank inkjet printer.  Epson alleviated the biggest issues with Inkjets on the EcoTank models.  First of all, I print about as much as you for kids school projects etc, and I've only used 25% of the ink it came with so far.  Refilling it is really cheap as you just buy these really big bottles of ink and pour them into the tanks.

My only regret is not getting the model above this one that includes Photo black ink as well for richer looking photo prints.

So don't worry about quality, 'cause at that price point it's all a crap-shoot anyway. Buy the cheapest one that suits your needs, so that way you're not out as much money if/when it dies early.

Note: just be sure to get a "real" fridge, not one of those thermoelectric cooler things. The latter are ok for keeping drinks cool, but they're not good enough to maintain a consistent <40F for food safety.

my only experience is with the PC, which i can fully endorse. (though if you can wait, wait for a 20% off sale)

the Iron Mills looks incredibly chunky and would take up a lot of counter / table space, compared to the more traditional style of the PC and other grinders. but the Iron Mills is UK made, which is a plus.

All you can see through them is Al Gore.

Ha! Then set it on fire, I mean there arnt many things I wish hell on, this is one of them 🤣

TCL usually wins on reliability and value.

honestly once you get sharp knives you'll never cook the same. Its like prep gets faster, and cutting meat doesnt feel like wrestling with it. wusthof is amazing if you ever wanna go expensive and even victorinox chef knives are quite nice too. I really like this set too. the are like 12-15 pieces as well, like u mentioned. Just one tip, make sure to get good knife handles. some knives are technically sharp but feel wobbly after like 5 mins of use. And thats like the worst.

Ball makes recyclable aluminum cups. Recyclable aluminum cups

Cultiver linen sheets are supposed to be amazing but will run you \~$450

LLBean sells sheets that people rave about

Brooklinen is another reputable company for sheets

Idk where there is even a Sears! Ours closed before Covid and was where Covid vaccines were given out hahaha it was very eerie

Any idea of the EXPED Versa of any good?

. And I'm surprised how the Intex have such positive reviews. 

Shame it doesn't come with a pump here .

Well, shit. I hope these headphones really are BIFL then. They’ve been strong for 4 years and I’ve only replaced the earpads

$200 is not going to get you quality linen sheets. At that price point, cotton percale is a better option. Not as breathable as linen, but much more so than synthetics. It’ll hold up better and require less babying than linen too.

Buy used. Go to your nearest college on move out day, it's a free-for-all gold mine of free stuff

Local Man Has Peripheral Neuropathy

Yeah, if the OP needed color prints, they could just get them at a copy store, and save a ton, and not have a huge printer.

I just need something that survives 1-2 years of college, not a lifetime. I'm not looking for a forever fridge, just something that won't die on me after 3 months.

Yeah, seems the market for expensive high quality lightbulbs went away when LEDs became mandatory. Seems like they are all trash now but maybe I'm just not buying the right ones.

Teeth can break eventually as well.

I had a pair of hd 280 pro in high school and college. I loved them. But when the cable shit the bed that became a problem. Not only did i need to do surgery on the headphones to do the replacement, i had to buy the special sennheiser cable in order to do it. Fuck that

Komiya Shoten in Japan makes handcrafted umbrellas which are works of art.  Look up their video on YouTube on how they’re made.  But it can take a while, mine took nearly 2 months to arrive.

Brother HL-L8260CDW Colour Laser Printer (Wireless). I have had mine for around 4-5 years. Solid and reliable. Cartridges last ages and it accepts non OEM ones.

Because you can print whenever you want, and the Brother printers last a long time. Like my color MFC-9340 was like $600, but amortized over the 15+ years I've owned it the TCO is small.  Plus it photocopies and scans.

my recommendations is the Upstreman 3.2 Cu.Ft Mini Fridge

I hate to be that guy, but... you're looking for BiFL quality at a disposable price point. Anything in that price range is going to be cheap crap. 

And unfortunately, since that form-factor isn't really popular outside of the bargain (e.g., broke college student) demographic, the options at higher price points are likely to be limited. 

Maybe look into what's sold for RVs and/or boats (i.e., folks with plenty of money, but not much space)? It'll probably cost you more (maybe a lot more, as these niche vendors tend to gouge their clients), but you're more likely to find something reliable at least.

Sort of what they used to use in our primary school. I used to like drinking from them. It gave it a metallic taste...

Old LEDs were built like Nokia phones.

Lolwut

It’s well known laser printing is crisper and higher quality.

That may have been true in the past but that does not look true today... check out their website now lmao

I’m sorry you have a bad one. Mine has been working great for 8 years, in which time I’ve spent less than $60 on ink.

I was meaning shun or similar, but cooking with a karambit would be pretty hilarious.

we can agree to disagree professionally I’ve been around plenty of laser printers that broke all the time

Meh, depends on what you put in it.
If you use one dedicated for coffee, it's not much of an issue IMO.

Give it a good scrub with something like barkeepers friend or baking soda + dishwashing soap and it's cleaned of any residue.

That said, I don't like drinking coffee out of a metal cup, ruins the taste. I'll use my stainless steel thermo-cup to bring coffee on the go, but if I have the option like at home, I'm certainly grabbin a porcelain cup.

The small piece would end up in their mouth. They may be big enough to not choke on it, but it would still go in the mouth. And swallowing magnets is dangerous.

They may not be as “pretty” as they used to be. But they are still high quality. I have a vintage polished Lodge pan and multiple modern ones. I actually consider my modern one to be higher quality because it’s thicker, more durable, and easier to keep seasoned. Simply having a rough surface doesn’t make cast iron “low quality”. Aesthetic ≠ high quality.

If you or a friend have an Iphone you can create a 3d scan that you can send me.

I'd just need an stl, cad or anything else that is a 3d file.

It's most definitely glass cups with that distinct snel but I think it's soapy residue or something from the dishwasher. This never happens with steel cups.

Agreed - ran a large (25kg!!) Lexmark colour laser for a few years on the basis that compact colour lasers have tiny toner cartridges and new cartridges cost more than a new printer.

When it finally died a few years back we switched to mono laser - the Brother models have been good but we went with a Canon in the end for various reasons and yeah, turns out we didn't really need colour laser

Ehh, I spent a while servicing printers professionally and while you may have been lucky with an inkjet printer your experience doesn't represent the norm.

There is a whole host of mechanical problems that are unique to inkjet printers that simply do not exist for a laser printers as they are fundamentally simpler devices with fewer moving parts.

I'd probably look at the Midea 3.1 cu ft and the RCA 3.2 cu ft. Both are usually within your budget, have enough room for drinks, snacks, and leftovers, and they're a noticeable step up from the tiny cube fridges. If I were buying one for a dorm, I'd probably lean toward the Midea.

I've been comparing a bunch of options lately, so if you want, I can send over the  listings and a couple other solid choices I found.

Same . Bought Duralex

Old hammers have a certain *feel*.  Like they know what to do.

They’re like the #1 recommended bag in the Disney trip planning Facebook groups, though.  I bought one because of that, fought with it for a while, and stuck it in the closet when we got home.

I do not care for it.

If your printing is very sporadic—like you don’t print anything for six weeks, and then you print 40 pages (still averaging 20/month)—i would have to say something in defense of lasers: they aren’t prone to clogged ink. With inkjets, you really need to print something that uses all the colors every week or two. Some models are probably more resilient to clogged heads than others, but it’s something to keep in mind. 

Also—someone mentioned art photography and you need a laser for that?  No. Yuck. Laser printed photos are pretty terrible. Any decent photo printer is going to invariably be an inkjet. If you print photos and you expect the quality to be as good as getting them professionally printed, do not buy laser. Just be prepared to spend a small fortune on ink—specifically talking about photo printers here, I think the epson eco-tanks might be a little more affordable, but not sure how good they do photos.

But as it "just sists there," it won't have ink cartridges that are drying out and clogging nozzles. Laser printers can sit indefinitely with little to no harm, but the upfront cost is high; inkjets have a low upfront cost, but you pay a lot more over time in ink, especially if you have low print volume and most of your ink is consumed by flushing the nozzles when you do actually print.

It's a classic "you can pay me now or you can pay me later" scenario. If you can absorb the upfront costs, the color laser is cheapest in the long run.

I've had a Brother HL-4150CDN color laser for over 15 years. I've printed well over 10,000 pages with it, and up to now it's only needed toner cartridges. It's finally started warning me that the belt unit will need replacing sometime in the future, but it's not demanding that yet.

I’ve had mine for over 10 and my kid’s for 4 so far.

  
In the IOT no electronic is BIFL

Just got a fjallraven to use daily. Hope it holds up

I would say look into brands like Osprey and Patagonia. I have several bags from them that I use for anything between daily commutes and hiking. Solid quality and even better warranty policy (they will fix your stuff and if they can't, will send you a new one in most cases).

That's just very kind. Though chances are low, that I succeed. Mykita won't hand those out, I guess. I'll keep browsing the 2nd hand market, to fill in the glasses.

When you say Asian knives you mean like a Karambit or something? I have  one and  they are awesome

Inkjet printers are not BIFL though, whereas laser printers generally are.

My last laser printer was 23 years old and only broke because I managed to break a glass above it and some of the shards got inside and damaged the mechanisms.

Brother inktank is a good compromise. None of the inkjet cartridge headaches. But my old BW brother laser is a tank.

FWIW, I currently have a Epson Eco tank. I'm returning it. Worst.Printer.Ever. Print quality is hit or miss even when adjusting print settings manually. Constantly tells me there's no paper even when it's full. Every time it prints, and I mean every-freakin-time, it continues to cycle blank pages after the page it printed. I find anywhere from 5-10 blank pages on the floor with the single page I printed. Hate this thing. On the upside, it doesn't use much ink. Then again most pages are completely blank so maybe that's how they calculate ink efficiency /s.

Yeah, the size alone outweighs any tiny bit saved for sporadic home use.

  
The last printer I bought was for my kid in college and we picked based on it fitting in a drawer and paper in/out through the front

The color ones will be pricier. I got a good deal on a Canon laser color printer that also has a built in scanner for black Friday last year.

If you don't need it to scan I see another Canon for just $250 right now. Amazon is doing prime day later this month, which means everyone else will do sales at the time same, so I would suggest you look around then. 

That being said, if you're printing $20 pages per month you're probably using your ink before it dries out. I had to buy ink essentially every time I want to print because it dried out, and eventually the ink heads themselves dried out.

\*Especially\* because it's so old. Since the Stanley merger, Craftsman tools have limited warranties, generally three years. Proper original Craftsman, the stuff you probably bought at a Sears, has lifetime warranties. I once took in a ratcheting wrench my grandfather purchased in the 60s, and they swapped it out with the same model that was still being produced. This was about a decade ago, though, so they might give you a hard time on it now...

Laser is better if you print a little or a lot.

Inkjets dry out if you go a month without printing. Laser, not so much.

Anyone have it in a performance fabric?

they look nice, but it unfortunately looks like they don’t make women’s sizes

Get an inkjet with a mega tank like the pixma g620

Get a Brother inkjet

Glass is literally one of the most chemically inert vessels we have. Idk what you're smelling or tasting, but it's not glass

I think you have this backwards: for low volume, non-photo prints, a laser is better (no ink wasted cleaning nozzles after a period of disuse, no color banding).

Inkjets are capable of higher quality for photos or art prints, but are more finicky if not used daily.

My issue with inkjets is reliability due to ink drying out and the printer never being reliable from lack of use. If the goal is BIFL then longevity is a factor, if the goal is to print as cheaply as possible then maybe going through 2-3 inkjets over 6 years instead of 1 laser jet is worth it.

I think both are decent options depending on your particular use case, as is paying to print which probably is the cheapest option for very low volume printing but not most convenient.

Even tho it’s so old????

Got sick of our inkjet cartridges drying out and being wasted on cleaning cycles.  We purchased a color laser Brother MFC-L3750CDW maybe four years ago, it sits in the basement on the network, with auto-firmware updates off until we need to scan or print in color. Still on starter carts. Highly recommended.

Yeah it’s weird that it broke!

The invention actually lives on in gorilla glass that's used for your phone

yeah i had same thoughts when was looking for printer last year. went with inkjet too and been fine with it

  
laser is good if you print lot of documents for work or something but for home use where you print few things in month, inkjet works perfectly. the toner in laser printer can actually dry out if you don't use it regular anyway so not even sure about long term savings people talk about

  
only real downside with inkjet is if you leave it unused for like 2-3 months the ink can get bit clogged but quick cleaning cycle usually fixes that

I have one at home but I don’t think I’d recommend it to you. The one I have *is* huge. But I bought it primarily because it has a sheet fed scanner, which is the feature I use the most. The color printing is nice, but I don’t think I’d buy it for that reason. I print more than you but it’s mostly black and white (probably 50-80 pages a month, vs I scan hundreds of pages a month). It’s been in service 8 years now and it’s been a beast though (Brother MFCL8900CDW). 

For twenty pages a month, assuming you have no other needs of it - yeah IDK

Expanding on this f^ck up (wait FedEx) and UPs both do printing as well.. I think maybe a bit more.. Walmart or staples does printing as well too

I get by just fine with a Brother black and white laser printer for my home use. I haven’t really needed color.

Where I used to work had a desktop Ricoh that was nice.

Besides them not being ground down, what is different about the quality?
What is different about cooking on smooth or rough pans? Every video ive seen comparing and cooking on them both say the food and cooking comes out the same in both

Adding this to the list of couch candidates.

The older sears Kenmore laundry appliances were truly tanks. Really the only thing that takes them out for good is rust/corrosion. If it wasn't for that, they would keep on running with minimal repairs (ie belt, pulley, maybe a solenoid, fill valve etc)

I think the other way around - inkjet is better for photos and color laser is better for diagrams and graphics.

old cast iron was all ground down after it was made so they got a smooth finish right out of the gate. The modern lodge have that pebbly finish because of the sand mold and it's not ground down. Some companies still smooth it out but they are very expensive, like yeti or smithey

If you only print 20 pages a month, maybe consider if you even need a printer? You can print things at a library if you have one near you for 10 cents per b&w page or 20 cents for color. So that's $2-4 per month versus hundreds to buy a new printer plus the cost of ink.

Yeah. That's indeed a problem. 
If you find the files for the printed part I can print it and send it to you. Of course you'd have to pay for shipping, but as long as you're in central europe it shouldn't be too expensive.

No thanks. bifl means taking care of your stuff.

How much do you care about print quality? Because if you’re just printing text or diagrams or things like that, an epson ecotank is the way to go. If you are printing 20 pages a month but they’re art photography, then yes, it doesn’t matter the volume, you need a laser printer.

TIL can openers break! I've still got my mum's old one that she gave me when i moved out. I'm in my thirties and I've literally never used another one. The brand is Mastercan if that helps, but it is decades old...

I think I may go this route as well. After my last move, I'm sick of packing the current dishware. Glass and ceramic is not only heavy, you need to pack it carefully otherwise it can get wrecked in the move.

But some metal cups? Ain't gotta do NOTHIN. Just chuck 'em in a box and they're good to go!

Think the main concern for me is potential rust, and the possibility of metal taste seeping in to the drinks. Blech.

Don't forget, *color* laser printers (especially the multi function ones) are huge compared monochrome laser printers. They're awesome but expensive and very large.

The problem isn't built quality, it's unwillingness to repair or replace a part, that's just so easily to replace, because it has been printed in the first place.

"With Coca Cola, for example, they said: Why should we use a glass that doesn't break? We make money with our glasses. \[…\] The dealers said understandably: Who would saw off the branch he was sitting on?^(")

Guess we can thank capitalism for once again destroying an excellent invention because of profit.

I just have an inkjet. unless you need laser quality I don’t think laser is worth it

Stainless will rust if it’s poor quality — half a year doesn’t mean you’re in the clear just yet.

I can certainly vouch for Fox.

Other than the consumer grade stuff, anything made in Europe that is Pro probably still is, since Sennheiser was split in two when acquired by Sonova. Pretty sure that two Sennheiser divisions thing is still relevant today, therefore I assume Sennheiser to still indeed be for life*

I thought I was the only one who knew about this secret.  I am pro Next Level.  Be sure to look for 100% cotton. Some are blends.   the fit can not be beat, in my opinion.

I have a lot of dry baking/cooking supplies and use Tupperware modular mates, they come in pretty much every size imaginable from a couple cups to 37cups/9.7L for the biggest and stack nicely.  If I only had a few things to store though I would go cambro.

Hello /u/Puzzle-headed__! Thank you for your submission! The AutoMod thought that your post might be a request type post and has changed the flair accordingly, but if this was wrong feel free to change it back!

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/BuyItForLife) if you have any questions or concerns.*

I buy mine on Amazon. 100% cotton. Brand is Next Level, and I've been buying them for years.  Great price, great quality (they last) and perfect gym shirt. I don't wear logos, unless offered payment, especially after I purchased the damn thing.  Happy hunting.

Used my hd598 for more 14ish years - just had to replace pads, cables as it wears. But 6-12 hours use most days, still my preferred open back headphones.

I got UVI self-heating lunch box 2 months ago and I haven't touched the office microwave since. It heats up surprisingly well. If you're specifically trying to ditch the office microwave situation, I'd say go for it. Ticks pretty much every box you listed.

Check out London Undercover Umbrellas. Very High Quality beautiful designs

Uhh yes- watching tv at home is better with good stuff.

I have a set of Picardie glasses from a thrift store and they’re indestructible.

I also have had several pairs of Fox River socks for years, I have one pair of wool hikers I’ve had for 20+ years.

WAIT, I'm thinking of Stanley sucking now. I had three of them crap out in different ways on a project last summer, and two were basically new.

I could only recommend SmartHomeGoodies Phone Cases. values around $40 to $55. What's special is that i don't have to wait some 20 days like other big brands, that are delivering same quality product. Their designs are unique and stand out.

Moreover they ship to every region, as they have production centres in USA, UK, Italy, Australia & South Korea. That makes delivery faster in every region. If you are looking for an alternative to Burga, well it's SmartHomeGoodies Phone Cases.

I think you’re referring to 3D mats, not 3W. They have multiple (?) layers. I have never had one but I read about them here recently.

That sucks. In fairness, I haven't purchased from them in 2 years, as everything has lasted.   Sad to know quality has taken a hit.  Appreciate the insight.

Soulfa should be on the shortlist. Their sofas have a timeless modern look, which matters if you’re trying to buy something you won’t hate in 2 years. Clean design, strong living-room presence, and not overly trendy.

hardest part, for me, is not using my iphone while watching.

And then forgot to put the product name in the write up.  That’s AI for you.

I was given one as a wedding gift 30 years ago and still have it.

i feel that struggle. i recently came across sly collective, and their anatomical pouch is pretty solid for support and comfort. definitely helps with the chafing issues while working out.

Which AI did you use to write this?

Look into Tritan glasses as well.  Looks like glass, feels like glass, but you can practically bounce them off the walls for how durable they are.

Family rooms have become home theaters. Back in the day going to the movies was such a treat because the picture was huge and vibrant and the sound was booming.  Now we have that in our homes. It’s easy to forget how crappy our TVs were back in the day.

Just seeing the office where michael says it's like drinking a battery lmao some dont have a taste but some do

You've already hit on the right instinct go commercial, not consumer. The reason SimplHuman and similar home brands die is they're not built for real throughput. They're designed for a household touching it a few times a day; commercial units are designed for hundreds of uses daily.

Others have mentioned Bobrick and ASI which are solid if you can get them. I'd also look at commercial washroom brands like Novatech they make stainless-body automatic dispensers specifically for institutional use. The internals are replaceable and the sensors are calibrated for wet environments. Not cheap upfront but that's the BIFL trade-off.

The other thing worth noting: avoid any unit with a non-replaceable lithium battery. AA or hard-wired is the way to go. That battery is usually what kills the unit before anything else.

Nah bro you're a savage

They are completely different socks. Of course they will fit a bit different from each other.

The question was:
"What is a brand that continues to make high quality products when so many other higher end brands have declined over the years?"

Lodge saving money by not smoothing their pans is a decline in quality.

I love them but admittedly, sometimes I miss touching an ice-cold mug with some condensation on it. Occasionally it feels a little weird to hold a mug that is room temperature on the outside even though you know the drink it holds is either piping hot or freezing cold.

If it's on the bottom, it's annoying, because it starts to wobble

OP's is double-walled. Condensation isn't going to occur.

Solovair make nice ones here in the UK.

In my view one thing does not rule out the other. I think any arts, education or science field holds any donor in high regard that comes with money as these field tends to be under-financed. But let’s say that the foundation donates EUR 30m per year to each field - that is EUR 90m p.a. If that is out of profits of 1.000 million, then it is only 9% that goes to charity. Of course it is better than 0%, but then I wonder if it wasn’t better for the people of Geneva and Switzerland if the profits was actually taxed instead.

Yeah, same issue here, cheap inflatable mats always sound good until they slowly deflate overnight. Still trying to find a good balance between comfort, durability, and saving space.

That is honestly kind of unexpected.
My mykita glasses lasted about 5 years and I only changed because i messed up my lenses.

The frame itself is still perfectly fine and I use them for activities I don't want to use my "good" pair for.

I’ve got the larger rollaway model. It was my grandfather’s. He died in 1987.

By the way, stainless steel cups are light even when double-walled. That's another nice thing about it. Easy to carry around.

I can taste the sound of metal on metal, it's awful!

Euroschirm, German umbrella maker, from lightweight aluminum, fiberglass or carbon, to luxury, rare leather and wood. 
They make just about every type of umbrella.

Nothing unusual there. Weathertech will also look filthy and be virtually impossible to get clean a few weeks into your winter/mud season.

I prefer the design they are considering in the OP. Soft rubber with some carpet to absorb the moisture.

Wait so fiskers business model is "all things that make things into two things."? Had no idea they made log splitters.

Nice AI Training post!

I’ve used a heat gun to reduce my WeatherTech curls with some success.  Soften with heat, then clamp between wooden slats until cooled.

I used to be a postal worker and would work near the factory occasionally. The smell while they were roasting their cocoa was beautiful.

I’ve had the same issue with cheap fleece blankets huhu they feel great at first, then wear out fast. I’ve been leaning toward wool blends lately since they seem more durable, but still trying to find one that’s warm without feeling too heavy.

It's the only one ive ever seen my dad have.

Me too! 130 years strong and still just as good.

Lodge cast iron pans. It's more industrial and more automated but the technique fort creating them is essentially unchanged for 130 years. Each one is inspected and if anything is wrong with it - anything at all - they just toss it back into the assembly line with all of the other scrap iron to be melted down and used in the next pan.

There wanted an additional photo of the vase, they said that the older ones had the lifetime guarantee, but the newer ones didn't, they could tell than from the base. I'm in Europe, so it's possible that it would be a different response in the US.

As it happens I don't love le crueset saucepans for day to day cooking, I prefer good copper clad stainless steel, or regular stainless. Enameled cast iron is just so damn heavy.

Mmm, an ice cold glass of OJ

You cannot buy it for life bc it is always eaten instantly, more like buying it for life 😭 it is so good.

Wow my cheap Soundcore headphones are good for 12 hours

nothing tastes as good nor as refreshing as a tall glass of cold water out of one of these bad boys

4 hours is pretty rough. And yeah the mic being trash is a bigger problem than the sound being just okay. That's the whole point of earbuds if you're actually using them for calls or meetings.

Hi. Hattest du die pro Variante? Musstest du Rechnung einschicken? Bei mir fordern die jetzt eine Rechnung ein.

I can’t believe Able Carry not mentioned here.

Look at the meta glasses

We switched to the Nacra Chair from Caloroso and it made a noticeable difference for longer dinners. The back has a slight curve so it feels more natural to sit in compared to a lot of dining chairs that force you upright. We host pretty often and people definitely stay comfortable longer now.

Same we tried the front loader for awhile. It worked well but it was the constant horrible smell every time I opened the door.

I read good reviews about GE opal

I felt this one a little too much. hahaha

I have the True Sport Wireless. They are INFINITELY better than the Bose Bluetooth earbuds I used to have, and half (a third?) the price. (At least for me…) the Bose were awful about actually connecting and staying connected to Bluetooth. I eventually just threw them in the trash. My Sennheisers on the other hand are reliable, great sound, solid for working out/running. I wear them at least an hour a day, often much more. And I’ve had them for about 2 years now.

I don't know for certain, never really thought about it or had a reason to over the past decade or so.

Weird, I'm pretty sure that's the model I had

Yeah I just got home from a 13hr shift when I posted that. Wasn’t really thinking. Dimples on the cup would work too. Anything to keep it from seating all the way down.

Mine are still going after 15y and a bit of TLC

Oh, yeah those suck. Touch screen is terrible for appliances

It’s also a way for consumers to save money lol. I’ll pay $30 for a slightly rough pan any day. Lodge’s polished brand Finex costs $150+ as do all the other polished brands (smithey, field, yeti, etc.). I’ve used polished and rough. At the end of the day, they all cook the same if you know how to use cast iron.

Ive had the same frustration with stuff that looks tough but still feels cheap once the weather gets nasty. If the old rubber ones have held up better for your dad, I would trust that feel over the shiny new stuff every time

Mine got I think some sort of black mold on it. Seems harmless so far.

I've used hd595 and 599 for approx 25 years. My last pair was bought maybe 3y ago, can't say I notice any difference in quality from the first pair to the last.

I have a 1991 Italian made washing machine that I I should open to clean after seeing OP’s picture.

I hate this lid, it's a fluke if I can get it apart and back together again. Not because I don't know how, but because the stupid thing won't undo and redo up.

Concept 2 Rowing machines are still as solid, self-maintain-able, and reliable as they were in the 80’s when they became available for the masses.

Now, they dent instead

They do. They're not too much bother to clean up compared to a normal glass. They also make a loud pop sound when they break.

I can feel that rim on my lips without even being in the same country as it.

Dad’s childhood torture device passed down to us .haha

Good for you, mind died much sooner while that also wasn't that old.

since you're specifically cutting bigger cuts down, moist/wet mode is something to look out for.. fresh meat has enough moisture that a basic single-setting sealer can struggle to get a clean seal. compact ones have come a long way too so you don't need a huge countertop unit to get good results. This post goes into it pretty well if you want more detail on what actually matters vs what's just marketing..

A good quality mattress! You spend 1/3 of your life on it and might be for 40+ years. 

Just make sure you flip it often. Use waterproofing cover and another sheets on top. I spent almost $4k on my mattress and I'm loving it!! So comfortable and best sleep ever. Naturepedic mattress

I would imagine it’s both regarding tax efficiency and philanthropy as goals of the HWF. They are very private about their affairs but my understanding is that Swiss arts, education, and science foundations hold the HWF in very high regard for their support.

I would like Rolex and Tudor a lot more, if the foundation disclosed how much of their profits that actually went towards charity. I do not have enough knowledge of Swiss trust structures, but through times I have seen it raised numerous times that the whole trust setup is more a question of tax efficiency than it is about philanthropy.

I have a tiger and it’s great

Yeah the HD6 series somehow is somehow under Consumer line. I own the HD660S2, HD650 and HD480, all three sounds great and should last a very long time. My HD650 is 4 years old now and still looks pretty new, 660S2 is two years old. Both great built quality, 480 is the new chassis from the 490 and it feels great as well. Less clamp and very comfortable.

It took me longer than it should have to understand you meant drinking glasses, not corrective lenses. How you gonna see through a steel cup?!? I need to sleep.

Typical German customer service right there, zero surprise they ignore your mails

In kitchen pots and pans: AMC, Fissler, WMF and BRA

I LOVE their artisan range!!!

Fully agreed. Heck, while not a G-shock, I have my wife’s grandfathers Casio - still works fine to this day, and it is 40+ years old. The whole “I need a luxury watch because then my kids can inherit it and think of me” is marketing BS. If it was your watch, then your kids will like it and think of you, no matter if it is a Patek, a Rolex or a Casio.

Okay have to to keep this in mind for when I am in the uk

Memorial Day is definitely one of the better times to shop for mattresses! Leesa typically runs solid promotions during major holidays too. I feel like their mattresses are already competitively priced but the extra savings help.

These are great until you put ice in them and the condensation makes the outside slippery enough to launch across the room.

An alternative is the Hexcal Heavy Duty Monitor Arm. 

Cheaper but still very high quality.

You're welcome! And best of luck. The first time replacing batteries feels dicey and fiddly - but keep at it, it's very possible. I agree with the no soldering requirement!

I have a HL-L2360DN and it's a battleship. It's not multifunction - but do you need a scanner and printer in one? Perhaps doing each separately is better value and utility.

Nah coz this cups with soda and ice would be hella crispy

I also switched to double wall stainless steel cups. Thet never crack and keep drinks at steady temperature all day long.

Everyone has it dude

EastFork Pottery has the best customer I've ever experienced. Legit changed our company's approach to customer service as a result.

Sad you made an account to trash them.

id recc to read this little guide. it's short but it helped me pick a good one. and id avoid bucky. they were actually pretty good a couple years ago but their quality has degraded quite a bit, plus with the increased price, it's really not worth
oh and a small tip by me, if your mask doesn't feel right the first night, it won't for the rest of the nights either. it's one of those things that remain the same no matter how you use it, so you're not gonna get used to it. if it's bad on the first use, switch.

This is a pretty old design, most newer ones come with the bulb within the center without it protuding outwards. i think a fan like the one in this thread is what OP probably wants. It's from autoday which i can personally vouch for, they have really solid quality.
but other than that, it's pretty easy to get a good fan, just check reviews, don't trust local electricians and you're good to go

Id argue that dropping a tape measurer and it breaking is evidence that it wasn’t BIFL quality 🤷‍♂️

Sennheiser sent me a set of their Bluetooth earbuds for free.  My company is a pro dealer so we get stuff like that occasionally.  They aren't great.  The earbuds sound OK for listening but as a mic, they suck.  Charge only lasts around 4 hours with constant use

I returned my whole set to Costco over it a while back. Glad Costco takes almost all returns since OXO wouldn't do the right thing.

I've had one for years. ( Voltcraft )

I've looked for an upgrade, only to realize there was no point, as the technology did not evolve at all.

They put AI in glasses now??

It’s so tiny and cute!

i always buy from secondhand, that way they cost a few dollars and i can throw them out

So they do repairs? What's your experience?

Laughs in 16th century Venetian wine goblet

I think they mean non-enamelled one. No risk of it ever chipping

Though as I have one of those, frankly after a couple of years of fairly regular use it's still not seasoned up to my liking so it's frustrating!

I got it now and Just average bellow looking so disappointed

Dish soap is Dawn. I don't know for the ultrasonic, but it was $40 on the Target website. I'll check once I get home in a few days.

I see why you’d go with no color next time but I think you did good going with blue. The wear on it adds to its character and its story with you.

Just manual can opener. Which is handle with some knife

Damn, just got their heritage shoulderbag in hopes that it would be BIFL. Sad to hear that since SCARS was also big reason for the purchase.

Probably Not much longer though.

Unrelated, but I'd just sat down on the couch with my dinner on my lap, and the Corelle plate snapped clean in half. Never seen it happen before or since.

The brand I was looking at was ”Decor-Rest”, they’re based in Vaughan, ON. I didn’t end up going with them since it was too big for my space. But it was comfortable when I tried it at my local dealer.

I’ve had a couple Waterfields for about a decade now, and they’re still good as new

Last several years have seen a a lot of QC issues and SCARS has been spotty as well. I own/have owned many GR bags and the recent ones (last 4-5 years) have def been a step down while being more expensive.

been eyeing one of these for a while

can confirm these last forever

Weber grills. Still the goat.

Cars tend to crash eventually so I got a tank

Kaikado tea caddies from Japan, incredible story and beautiful objects. 

Mori Kougei trays - beautiful for tea in the garden 

Sheffield scissor wear - Ernest wright and William
Whitely 

Cutipol cutlery - hand made in Portugal 

Canada goose: I know it got over popular in the UK but I have one I bought 15 years ago, it’s invaluable in polish winters and not had a single issue with it 

Red wing boots: pairs I bought 10-15 years ago still going strong , soles never come loose like other boots 

Common projects: not BIFL as they are sneakers but super quality

It isn't sealed.  They discuss that and the clear glass thing in this article:

Went through this exact search a while back and ended up going leather after someone here convinced me the maintenance thing is overstated. I've been wearing mine from NYC Leather Jackets (Jero bomber lambskin) pretty regularly and it has held up way better than the synthetic stuff I had before. Not saying leather is for everyone but if anyone is still on the fence it might be worth reconsidering before ruling it out completely.

That Craftsman should be able to be taken into the store and replaced under warranty.

Here is a great recipe for cooking white rice. Works every time. No need to sacrifice a lot of money and counterspace for a one trick pony appliance.

Sorry if I may sound a bit harsh, but sometimes a problem in the kitchen can easily be fixed by practicing instead of throwing money at the problem.

If you get the Barbour stuff which is still made in south shields like the waxed jackets I agree, but so much of it now is cheaply made and mass produced abroad

Sheffield scissor makers both William
Whitely and Ernest wright make excellent products

I wear HD600 daily, purchased only 3-4 years ago? I got the lambskin ear pads and they are just amazing. They get a solid 8 hours of use a day, probably more.

My mom runs warm at night but still wants that cozy weight. I got her the 2-in-1 queen-sized comforter from Bedsure last 2 months because she kept waking up sweaty with her old one. She’s been really happy with it! The best part is you can just detach the top layer and wash it separately, which makes cleaning so much easier. It actually works across seasons too. Use both layers when it’s cold and just the top one when it’s warmer. It’s soft and breathable, and I liked it enough that I ended up getting one for myself. Or it could give you some ideas if you’re still looking around.

Something something ic! Berlin

Actually in market for a set of pliers thanks for recommendation

Is the Meowant hard to clean?

Why is goruck (kinda)?

One of the two reasons I got rid of mine. The ear pads are not BIFL either. They wear too quick.

The quality and comfort of my B&O’s are way superior.

Herramientas Bellota

Me too. Was gifted a pair of Felcos at my first gardening job and they are still going strong 23 years later.

Regular cleaning and sharpening helps! Plus they're excellent for spare parts.

Sliders. I use fitflop sliders as slippers all year round, with socks in the colder weather. So comfy.

I work as a mover and have lost or broke like 3 pairs during last year so I decided to start my own sunglass brand with a lifetime warranty. We’ll see how it takes off  also gonna be trying to fund it through Kickstarter💪

Real battery life is a thermals problem more than anything. laptop running hot throttles itself to manage temp and burns through charge way faster than advertised. most budget machines cut corners on cooling first bc nobody checks that during a quick store demo and then six months in everything lags and the fan sounds like a jet engine and you're wondering what happened...if you can stretch your budget even a little look for something where the engineering team actually cared about thermal design not just thin bezels and marketing specs. machines with good cooling run quieter last longer on battery and hold up way better at the 18 month mark which is right around when cheap laptops start falling apart. the difference between a 3 year laptop and a 5 year laptop is almost always build quality and heat management honestly....

So first you need to specify the area you’re in and how cold we’re talking here because that’s very subjective. If it goes down to 0 or -10 then something like these should honestly work good, just size up a bit and wear thick socks. If you don’t size up then the shoe will be tight over the socks and the cut off blood flow in your toes is gonna feel cold no matter what. If you’re going colder than that like -30 and lots of snow, then anything from any canadian brand, most have different tiers of warmth depending on how cold it gets and there’s even options for tindra/the arctic levels of cold lol.

I love my Momentum 3 headset because it's surely the best audio equipment I ever owned. BUT MASSIVE BUT. 
It's my 2nd. I bricked the first one by plugging the jack wire and using it with its intended purpose. After years I feel like either I'm used to the noise cancellation or it's getting weaker. 
So unless you get a cheap or free one with a replacement guarantee don't buy the PRICEY Bluetooth headsets from them. 
I had the 4.40 Bt and it was so uncomfortable I almost never used it. And then the plastic broke the faux leather cushions broke apart too. 

I've no experience with their professional products but french big twitch streamers have been using HMD and other pro sennheiser headsets for years now.

Hello /u/Fabian_3000! Thank you for your submission! The AutoMod thought that your post might be a request type post and has changed the flair accordingly, but if this was wrong feel free to change it back!

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/BuyItForLife) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Yes, my dad still has his and when he passes he will hand it to me and when I pass I will hand it to my son.

The issue most people run into buying jackets marketed as water resistant thinking theyre waterproof, theyre not the same. water resistant handles a drizzle, in a real storm youre soaked in minutes, sounds like what youve been dealing with. seam sealing is the biggest one people overlook, always check if seams are fully taped, not just critically taped (which only covers shoulders).for actual storm proofing you've got gore-tex laminates (arcteryx, patagonia, marmot) which are breathable but pricey or waxed cotton which is old school but seriously underrated and gets better with re-waxing. for the in-between use like walking to transit, dog out, getting from car to door without showing up wet, something like this is what id actually reach for, built more like real outerwear than the flimsy nylon shells.

I have the natural gas version of that dryer. However, yours is in FAR nicer condition. lol

Yeah, stainless steel cups are great for durability and cleaning with boiling water. Just watch out for cold/hot drinks lol.

Advertising something and having a long track record for delivering on it are two different things.

The title of the post is literally "What is a brand that continues to make high quality products when so many other higher end brands have declined over the years?"

Their past track record may have been great despite literally making their devices worse with their updates.

Right now the reality is Samsung and Google have stepped up declaring 7 year support while Apple hasn;t put anything in writing. You are declaring:

"You aren’t gonna get me to defend the dumpster fire that is ios26 lol"

The current OS.

I still use a Note II for the kids media. Released 14 years ago. Works perfectly. I had to chuck away an iPhone4 10 years ago because the battery had swelled up and popped the screen out of its casing. 

Apple make some great products but so do plenty of their competition and right now their competition has the industry's best guaranteed software support with no evidence of purposely slowing their hardware down.

(we won't touch on all community led side loading goodness of non-Apple hardware so it's a fair fight)

You can't be for real

Is NEXT level or whatever no longer the GOAT tee??

Lodge pans aren't the same as they use to be. The finish is all rough these days as a way for them to save money by not smoothing them during manufacturing

I could feel the feeling of my teeth sliding off the metal the second I seen the photo, could taste it too lol

The soften nails first thing is super relatable, thicker nails and dull clippers is literally a mini jump scare every time. The best upgrades are mostly sharper blades and good leverage. Look for japanese/korean stainless clippers (not the drugstore stamped ones). Also consider a nail nipper style if your nails are thicker, they cut cleaner with less pressure. Tweezerman is fine but it’s not always the endgame, especially if your nails are tough. Also clip right after a shower (or after washing dishes) and do small cuts across the nail instead of one big snap cut, way smoother and less stress too. I'm also going to link a post I found for recs and more info on this.

As is the case whenever Anker is mentioned I'll drop the "look up the eufy scandal" comment 

TLDR eufy owned by Anker lied about what their security camera were and were not doing. Then when it was brought to light tried to cover it up.

I will recommend the Beyerdynamic DT770 Pro. I bought my pair for about 150€ in 2014 or 2015 and I've used them daily since. I've replaced the earpads and last year some plastic details where you adjust the length broke so I just ordered the individual parts and fixed them. They sell all the parts, and the models doesn't change so I can buy new parts for my 2015 set and everything fits. I love them.

#1 chocolate maker in NZ and I'd say right up there in the world:

Whittakers!

I got a stainless steel bar of soap for odors

They are but the ones without bluetooth and a battery.

I had mixed experience with Knipex. The machining is not that great for the price, and some pliers models are either mid or too fragile.

I got the super Knips XL, used them only on plastic or copper, and they already show signs of damage on the blade. Cobra ES and TwinGrips have too much play at the hinge -> jaw alignment issues. 

The needle nose are particularly bad, they bend too much at the tip and can't grip things very well. I had to modify mine by shortening and pre-bending the jaws (so once you put pressure, they bend flat, instead of bending open).

The value proposition for Cobra or pliers wrench is awesome, but not all of their pliers are of similar value/quality.

If you do this, please make sure you add some cheesy lines in a card about when you are not there to shelter her from any storms that come through, I present said strong and researched umbrella.  Or I’ll always be there to protect you and be beside you from the unexpected storms of life, but here’s for when they appear more literally.

Interestingly the words have the same root

Fiskars newer scissors are not as great for the price as other brands like Kai.

Really? Mine HD450 have lasted for almost a decade without any issues what so ever with heavy usage. The only thing i changed was i got aftermarket extra large ear pads but i did that the same week I bought them.

also you maybe want to look into chemically hardened glass. the DDR used to make glasses that don't break when dropped. they are called "superfest" and you get them of ebay. nobody outside of the ddr wanted to buy them because they don't bring profit

tbh the best kitchen towels aren’t the fluffiest ones, what you want is absorbent and quick drying. Look for ones that are more utility (waffle weave or classic cotton) vs plush bath towel style. Also buy more than you think you need. the main reason towels feel cheap is you’re reusing damp ones all week. Rotate daily and do a hot wash with no fabric softener (it coats fibers and makes towels worse at absorbing). I'm also going to leave a post here for more on this.

When we needed a extra duvet I bought puredown one. They have their own website. Really pleased with them. I remember they have Laurel Green, but I got the Oatmeal.  
  
  
I would also advise that, rather than buying one heavy duvet (like a 13 tog or something), stack lighter ones that you can get in the washing machine and then dry properly. They'll last a lot longer if washed and dried properly.

You're not gonna find a BIFL TV. Like, full stop. Not in this age.

But also... Who needs this much TV? Good gravy.

Piggybacking off this, you can get a pretty decent pair with the drop x beyerdynamic collab

great that you find something so sturdy. good idea. i should get something similar for camping. i just think one thing needs to be said: in the persuit of finding durable items, we should not forget that sometimes it's ok for things to be breakable if they are pretty. my gf collects cups. they will break, but they are whimsical and fun. and that is enough.

we also got tiny, insulated stainless steel cups, we use for cooled drinks though. so you definitly found something very handy though lol

you can microwave metal if there's no areas that cause arcing. so depending on how the bottom is shaped, probably? you can believe in yourself AND science 👍

ngl looking like an idiot walking into an office with a massive weekend duffle is a rite of passage for remote workers. For what you want a massive travel backpack is definitely not the play. The biggest advice I could give you for this is to try finding a slim brief (like this) that has a luggage pass through sleeve on the back. That way, you can slide it right over the handle of your roller bag at the airport, and then transform it into an office bag once you get to the city. Also pairing a slim tech bag with a separate, small packing cube inside your duffle is cleaner than forcing one massive backpack to do everything imo.

Side sleepers usually hate stiff beds because shoulders/hips don’t sink, so you wake up tossing to find a comfy spot. but if you share a bed, going too soft turns into sag and motion transfer problems. General rule that usually works is medium to medium plush comfort layer and decent support core (often hybrid). You want pressure relief on top, support underneath. And if you can swing it, a king is the real relationship upgrade imo, less waking each other up. Going to link a post for specific recs.

If u ask me 10k for massage chairs are honestly kinda insane unless you really care about all the fancy features. I think u could find a decent one somewhere in the middle range just make sure rollers actually feel good and the chair fits their body properly human touch and osaki are prob the brands are long lasting and feeling good over time. infinity too if you like stronger massages instead of the softer spa feel. I like this one alot, its more like a comfy recliner with massage features.  Whichever u get definitely make sure to check the size and roller quality.

Since you're specifically cutting bigger cuts down, moist/wet mode is something to look out for. fresh meat has enough moisture that a basic single-setting sealer can struggle to get a clean seal. compact ones have come a long way too so you don't need a huge countertop unit to get good results. This post goes into it pretty well if you want more detail on what actually matters vs what's just marketing

You know the downside of steel cups?  -Nothing!!  There is no downside.  None.

Finding a good couch under two grand is  an absolute minefield with all the fake influencer reviews. It almost feel like you have to buy cheap and replace it, or get lucky at an estate sale.

What's your screen size and how much ambient light are you dealing with during the day? That could make a big difference in the recommendations.

Thats were royalty and head of states purchase, usually the handmade series: 

Bought a Doorman myself, impeccable quality and ok price

Cool job off Amazon for gardening and dealing with soil, especially wet and a pair of goatskin leather gloves for dealing with heavier stuff like tree limbs and firewood.  And I have cow Hyde gauntlet/goatskin hand thorn “pruning” gloves. 

I’m a professional gardener and none of these are BIFL.

We switched to the Nacra Chair and it made a noticeable difference for longer dinners. The back has a slight curve so it feels more natural to sit in compared to a lot of dining chairs that force you upright. We host pretty often and people definitely stay comfortable longer now.

there's a special kind of pillow called a butterfly pillow that's made for back sleepers. they work really well but the caveat with them is that it's hard to judge which size to get. they have different elevations for neck and shoulder support and you basically need to find the right one. another thing is that even if it works at the start, due to the pillow plumping down from the weight, it can end up being problematic a few nights in. its the entire reason id go for an adjustable pillow instead. there's a couple of things to keep in mind when buying those as well (this post goes over them), but they're a really good solution for almost all cases. ive been using an adjustable pillow for some time now and ive been loving it

As kids we had these. Work like a dream.

We switched to the Nacra Chair from Caloroso and it made a noticeable difference for longer dinners. The back has a slight curve so it feels more natural to sit in compared to a lot of dining chairs that force you upright. We host pretty often and people definitely stay comfortable longer now.

Or Toyo-Sasaki Glass (TSG) HS Platinum and TSG Fine Crystal Ion Strong, or Ishizuka Glass Co. (Aderia) ION-PRO-TECT (IPT).

The tape measure thing is so real. My dad's old one from the 80s still snaps back like new , the spring tension on those was just built different. Everything after like 2005 feels like it's designed to fail right outside the return window.

Needs to be: 
-stretchy
-machine washable
-have good elastic in it to fit over 
-don’t size up just because of deep cushions, there’s give in the stretchy ones for that
-hypoallergenic material

Montrose all weather bags.

Was gifted one a few years back.

Pretty bombproof.

I’m dying laughing because I’ve been following this product and know for a fact that the last time it was sold they said it was for preorder. You 1000% bought a preorder item and are shocked it hasn’t shipped yet because they told you it was shipping at a later date

If you're looking at Bluetooth, I have a Cambridge audio p100se, that has used replaceable ear pads and battery. And the sound is meant to be even better than the M4

If brightness is your top priority, I'd probably be looking at the Hisense C2 Ultra and the BenQ  alongside the Dangbei.

The C2 Ultra is ridiculously bright and has excellent color performance, while the  BenQ has a really strong reputation for image quality and overall reliability. For a living room with ambient light, those would be the first two I'd compare before pulling the trigger.

The Dangbei still looks like a solid option on paper, but those are the models I'd personally want on the shortlist in your budget range.

I spent way too much time researching projectors recently . If you want, I'm happy to send over the exact listings I was looking at.

I'm surprised there aren't more comments saying the same. Wine glasses, yes, I've broken those, but normal drinking glasses I haven't had much trouble with.

Yamaha. From motorcycles to guitars you can count on a decent product.

Yup had to get plastic wine glasses

I’m a fan of grandpa knife aesthetics. Wood handles. Nickel bolsters. I like Boker Solingen knives. I’ve got a Barlow, a 1906, and a TRPPR. (Okay, fine. The TRPPR has titanium bolsters.) They are all lovely knives, for different reasons.

Since you said it'll be inside a cabinet, do you aaaaabsolutely need to have your paper in drawers?

What about just open-front shelf-style holders for your paper, like (1) these metal stackable paper trays, or (2) this "wood" organizer? *(Links are not intended as endorsement of those specific products, just those are some of the first examples I found on Amazon with the narrow end in front.)*

Oh, wait, I just stumbled across (3) a metal mesh drawer-type paper organizer in portrait orientation. Weirdly long, though. And looks like some of them arrive to the customer slightly bent or misaligned.

Oh, NOW Amazon shows me that the maker of the first trays I linked, Natwind, also makes (4) a portrait-orientation drawer unit. As with the one before, though, there are complaints of them arriving bent. And you have to assemble the frame yourself.

EDIT: Ah, crap, Automod says my Amazon links are no good. I'm not (knowingly) using an "Amazon Affiliate link link shortener," so if you're curious about what I found, here. I think stuff comes up if you search the code between "dp" and "?"

|\#|Amazon's stupid wordy description|The part of the URL that comes after the domain name|
|:-|:-|:-|
|1|4-Tier Paper Organizers,Desk Organizer,Stackable Paper Tray, Desk Accessories,Metal Mesh Desktop Organizer,Letter Trays,File Document Storage Rack for for Home, Office, School (Black)|Natwind-Stackable-Desktop-Organizer-Document/dp/B0CSJTD2YR?th=1|
|2|Novabright 9"x12" Construction Paper Organizer, 10-Tier Adjustable Scrapbook Paper Storage Organizer for A4/8.5"'x11 Wood Desktop Papersorter for Office Home School Papersorter for Cardstock Document|Novabright-Construction-Organizer-Adjustable-Papersorter/dp/B0GD77LZRT|
|3|EXERZ Paper Sorter 3 Tier Drawers A4 / Multifunctional Desk Organiser/Letter Tray - Documents, Magazines, Notebooks and Letters|Exerz-EX3205-Drawer-Multifunctional-Organizer/dp/B0784T2714?th=1|
|4|Mesh Desk Organizer with 4 Tier Sliding Drawers, Office Supplies Desktop Organizers and Accessories Stationery Storage, Paper Sorter, File Binder Organizer for Home Office School,Black|Natwind-Organizer-Organizers-Accessories-Stationery/dp/B0CQCHRB75/?th=1|

Oh sorry , just thought of something else . You said you used the Waterpik as well . Was it the one that is similar in shape to the Phillips  (vertical , portable, where you hold the whole unit in your hand, doesn’t hold much water )?

The grade of stainless steel here matters a lot. Yeti uses decent 18/8 stainless steel. They’ve also got a protective coating on the stainless steel. It’ll impart less of a flavour than cheaper and more commonly used 18/0 stainless steel. If that protective coating wears out though, you’ll notice it. Metals tend to interact with acids, so drinks like higher acidic coffees or juices are particularly prone to this.

The "permanent" marketing is just bait. I've been using the Braun Silk Expert Pro 5 for maintenance and it holds up pretty well compared to other stuff I tried.

Rice is one of those things I’d suggest not cooking and storing for longer than 2-3 days, unless you’re feeezing it.

It lasted longer than sears 🤷🏾‍♂️

Fiskars scissors from 40 years ago were definitely bifl. I've got some from ten years ago (ish) that seem strong still. Maybe they're still doing great scissors but I've not been impressed with other products they do these days. On the other hand, ten years ago I was in Finland, now I'm not. So maybe the products they make for export are different? (I actually never saw Fiskars axes in Finland for instance).

I've had a pair of HD600s that I've owned for 16 years. I had to replace the cable as it got damaged from going in and out of a bag and the head pad because it got wet. My ear cups are still good, though now that I look at them I should get a replacement. The fabric has barely started to come loose on the inside of the right ear pad. 

I use them all the time for hours. So, yeah, the old stuff is good.

If the Pro line is anything like the old stuff then go buy it.

Gonna get slimp slapped with that attitude

I had a pair of the consumer wireless Bluetooth and the fu#king sucked. Broke completely after about a year. And we're not hood to use while they did work. Am much happier with soundcore Q45s

Metal tastes better imo

I make meals for my work week all at once (lunch and dinner) so needed the bigger 5 cup size. I’m also an ebay hound, so I managed to get an open box zojirushi neurofuzzy for $160

They fell off to be honest

Honestly, woven wicker or bamboo outlasts any modern material. My mom's been using the same one for 20 years.

Are they a small company? I seem to see racks of these bags in every outdoor store. Do not live in Washington (where I believe they're based)

By film interface, I mean the kind where the touch pad with the numbers is just a flat sheet of plastic, like the trackpad on a laptop. I don’t like those as much because they don’t have the tactile feedback when you press the numbers.

I hate what advertising has become

FWIW it is a neat bag and I love how small it is, if it were more durable it would be a great sized laptop bag

If durability is the priority, Comfort Colors and heavyweight Shaka Wear tees are worth a look

Yes, that was my point. I may have framed this post badly, but it was a follow up to my previous post refuting an ad being run by Kavu where they claim to be BIFL

mat has been used solidly

Previous post here, which was about an ad being run by Kavu where they claim to be BIFL. To be clear, I am saying that in my experience Kavu is definitely NOT BIFL.

It’s a great investment but “eww” :) decor ruined

Totally agree. My previous post here was a screenshot of an ad Kavu is running on Reddit, talking about how they're BIFL

Ritterwerk bread slicers. In short: made in Germany, nice design, easy to repair and great parts availability even for older models. Their customer service is awesome too.

Mines got a loose latch

I am pleased to inform you, this day of June 1, 2026, the price has returned to the all time high of $2232.

I've used my Yeti tumbler for six years, daily. I've never noticed a weird taste.

Best option is probably a tri-blend tee from Bella canvas or next level via jiffyshirts.com. Cotton will wrinkle. Unbound merino tees are great but very pricey.

We found the lightweight.

I got these for my car and I wear hiking boots every day and they look the same after 1.5 years

We just did the same.  Had pub glasses for \~15 years, and they worked great.  But breaking here and there, and the condensation on them was a bitch.

So 12 pack of double walled insultated, with lids (metal straws and cleaners too.. but rarely use them), for \~$70- on amazon - with like 7k reviews.  Lots of colors, but we opted for just stainless all the way around.

Bonus, all our random yeti cups, the lids fit eachother.  (we have like 5-6 mismatches yeti cups from random conferences I go to).

Sennheiser uses mostly proprietary cables. The products are solid. If anything happens to the cable you need an exact replacement cable. Most wired headphones are bifl regardless.

Sennheisers flagship headphones are of the same quality theyve always been.

This is his bigger brother George: 

Judging by that, I'd expect Henry would be very decent as well.

I didn't vote for you...

I've been drinking out of my Yeti tumbler since the pandemic.  It's literally the only cup I drink water from.  A quick daily wash and no more cups laying around the house.

Sihoo. Tried their office chairs in Sihoo Australia located in Sydney. And their staff are nice too..

Just get some Duralex glasses. They are extremely hard to break.

Vogel‘s is the go to for any government office in Germany. They’re pretty damn solid

The old quality is still the best. I wouldn’t trust TPE.

I bought a tatung electric steamer instead of a rice cooker because most rice cookers come with nonstick interior pots which will never be BIFL! Tatungs come with a stainless steel pot which should never need to be replaced and it makes perfect rice, and it can double as a steamer.

My issue with stainless is it is a reactive material so any cocktail or beverage that has a little acid will be degraded by off flavors. Beer out of a glass is better than stainless too in my opinion

I love my Northface. Got it as a birthday present in 2nd grade and I just finished my undergrad.

Dropped their warranty and quality

I did this years ago. Every time I drop one and only have to clean up a drink instead of a smashed glass, I feel like a genius. Then I remember that I'm the clutz who keeps dropping stuff.

same thing happened in my truck

Kershaw Chill. Good useful size, not too long, relatively flat so it disappears in your pocket. And it's $35. The knives you mention are $200 and up. That's a lot of money to spend for opening mail, especially since people lose knives all the time. I've done it, and I've had friends do it. One friend lost a special edition carbon fiber Griptilian (I think) just walking around one day. He said it was over $500.

*My stainless steel cup has survived more falls than I have. Best purchase ever.*

The fact that your weathertech is already curling would annoy me too.

Hello /u/sumires! Your post or comment was removed for using an Amazon Affiliate link link Shortener. (see Rule 8). You can change the URL and re-post it.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/BuyItForLife) if you have any questions or concerns.*

I found a made to measure brand for a reasonable price and just bought like a lifetime's supply of suits.  I think I have seven tuxedos (3-4 from that brand, and I've got a white tie getup one of my grandpa's [Italian tailor] old employees made bespoke for me for my 30th birthday) for varying degrees of fanciness and weather.  One of them was my dad's when he was like 30 singing in the Valley Chamber Chorale (peak lapels, and cut pretty tight all around, but my dad and I are exactly all the same measurements so I guess that was the style?), another is my "drinking tuxedo" that I got forced to buy for a buddy's wedding.  I hate the material, but it fits nice, cost less than US$300, and I can clean it in my home washing machine.

Then, for suits, I'm a shade of yellow away from a rainbow in the exact same suit (those are Bonobos, but a $400 suit can turn into a $2000 lookalike with a good tailor and some tasteful upgrades), plus a bunch of fun ones (looking at y'all, linen and seersucker) and regular ones (bland navy or gunmetal).  And then there's the Burberry ones I got for a song and had my grandfather tailor for me.  And a Purple Label  getup in my size I found at Nordstrom Rack for $250.

I enjoy wearing fancy or fancy-adjacent clothing, especially if it's a Tom Wolfe situation and I look like an alien.  I've gone to multiple weddings that asked for "semi-formal" on the invitation in a tuxedo. Rocked out navy seersucker, black linen tuxedo, light tan linen to my ultra-rich cousin's wedding and it's "rehearsal dinner" (which cost like US$100k), wedding (well past a million, the bride's family owns a ton of NYC land with hundred year leases on top), pool party brunch.  Hugo Burnaud was the photographer, and he and his assistant fucking loved me at each event.  I'm . . . not "ultra rich" so much as "comfortably poor".

My late grandfather taught me how to look for true craftsmanship in menswear, but I can't really recommend either of the brands I've got a bunch from as BIFL, as they're REALLY NICE but aren't really made to be worn that much.  You can definitely repair them, but the nature of the beast is that you're always gonna sacrifice durability for comfort, fit, or la mode (beyond standard navy/gunmetal/light grey/black with a notch lapel and leaning into three buttons over two).

Their ownership situation is weird. SOMETHING like this: Bought by PE, sold during COVID peak, nobody needed a grill after that so they crashed hard, bought back by same PE. Not sure now

I went through the same search recently. If Herman Miller and Steelcase are out of budget, I'd look at Sihoo, SIDIZ, Ergohuman, or even a used Steelcase.

The features I'd prioritise are adjustable lumbar support, seat depth adjustment, and armrests. Those made the biggest difference for me during long workdays. 👍

They are fine if properly passivated first.

Having owned both, definitely not. Eddie Bauer was bought out and their jackets are very cheap now. Still a decent value but not BIFL. My Patagonia clothes they will keep repairing/replacing for life.

Apple new braided cables are very good.

Anker is very B+, A- tier brand.

The S tier has got be smaller indie brand by GearIT. Tested by a Google engineer for quality.  I have 16 cables by them , all in good condition after 10 years

Schlage Camelot or Plymouth models are good. Old fashioned rubbery number buttons feel more pleasing to press than the film interface.

Glass water tastes disgusting. Also glass sometimes carry a wierd stench from the dishwasher. I've noticed this smell at restaurants and other people's homes.

All their recent wired headphone releases in the last few years like HD 660S2, HD620S

I don't believe this is true - afaik, only models with "Pro" specifically in the name are from the real Sennheiser now?

Either way, the HD 490 and HD 480 are great and what I'd recommend.

The consumer division is not limited to wireless models. Only headphone models with "Pro" specifically in the name are from the professional division. Actually MOST Sennheiser headphone models are under the consumer division. The professional division was mostly focused on Microphones. 

After the split, they have started to release more professional headphone models - HD 490 Pro and HD 480 Pro. Those are the Sennheiser headphones I'd recommend.

I was just trying to get the floor for scale with other known things in the picture...Photo taking is not in my wheelhouse.

They’re decent however I still think anything with a battery is never gonna be bilf. If you’re looking for wireless headphones then probably get the Sony XM6s. They’re the best overall headphones in my books when it comes to noise cancellation and sound quality.

I have my grandfather's, which is this exact make and model.

You need custom fabrication

Pxc 550 still going well after ear cup replacements, Ubch261 are now a wired back pair and the hd450bt are the cheap goto now.

The pliers wrench is a revalation! Excellent recommendation.

You aren’t gonna get me to defend the dumpster fire that is ios26 lol. Regardless, repairability and software support are really the only factors to consider if you are calling a phone “BIFL” (no smartphone is BIFL imh), and Apple is currently ahead on both of those, obviously there are plenty of extremely good reasons not to buy an iPhone which might outweigh how long it will last.

What is this nonsense? Their studio/professional headphones still come from the same family-owned company and last forever. 
Nothing changed there.

The consumer focused wireless headphone division was sold to a Swiss hearing aid company a few years ago and might change hands again soon. No wireless headphones are BIFL so that's not relevant here anyway.

Glad you found something that works for you.

I've never broken a glass in my life.

That's my secret.

Ahhhh here we go... My two cents if it sounds good to you then that's what counts. However diminishing returns come fast, and personally back in my early 20's I would think that $300 headphones were a lot . Now we have in ear buds that cost more. I like sennheiser...

Apple has been rapidly enshittifying with iOS26. They make great hardware, but software remains the weak spot. Doesn't matter if your iPhone 6 is still receiving updates when the new update needs 12.6GB and your phone with only 64GB has 1.2GB free.

After the update phone ends up even slower than before. This isn't batteygate where its because of the battery, its because they are now bloating it to make it more demanding to run so it feels slower. 

They are wasting time making useless crap like liquid glass when they could be working on improving the photo eraser tool.

Sennheiser is split into two now. They have a Sennheiser professional which focuses on pro audio and Sennheiser consumer which is more Bluetooth and general consumer grade gear. This consumer line is owned by Sonova which is up for sale atm as far as I know. 

All the recent wired headphone releases in the last few years like HD 660S2, HD620S, HD490 Pro and the brand new HD480 Pro all of these are still build in Europe and they are built to last and pretty light weight plus they sound great! Can’t speak much about their Bluetooth as I don’t have any experience with those.

You also need to always check if it’s third party or not when buying from Amazon. They actually did stand behind their guarantee. But they felt it was normal wear and tear.

I recently bought and ended up returning Momentum 4s. I had lost a pair of Sony 1000XM5s and got the Sennheisers, however the M4s noise-canceling capability was significantly worse and my left earbud started having issues connecting and I had to factory reset them a few times.

I felt that they sounded very slightly better than the XM5s, however I did not want to deal with getting warranty replacements as the left earbud thing is a known issue. Ended up getting another pair of XM5s which I am very happy with.

But very large print on the oxo website. I always read a company’s warranty/guarantee before purchasing. That’s actually why I buy as many things as possible from Sam’s Club and Costco

Hello /u/Voidget99! Thank you for your submission! The AutoMod thought that your post might be a request type post and has changed the flair accordingly, but if this was wrong feel free to change it back!

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/BuyItForLife) if you have any questions or concerns.*

i think the old ones were just as rough, you have to break it in, seasoning it fills gaps and usage smoothens it over time, any old one has had a loot of cooking done with it 

i did pick up a 8 inch lodge at  a thrift store for $10 a few weeks ago, had rust but seasoned it a bit cooked with it a few times fatty stuff and now its already pretty good

Some dude that’s dropped 12k on shit he can’t hear properly because he’s spent too long at concerts is gonna get real mad at you

Staedtler.  Also Koh-I-Noor.

What you need isn't a better carpet cleaning machine, it's a better cleaner. You need an enzyme cleaner combo. I did reside and senior hospice for dogs for many years. Lots of pet mess involved. You need a 1,2 punch here. First Kids N' Pets cleaner. Get the big one and a good spray bottle. Spray the carpet completely to make it really nice and saturated bit NOT dripping wet like you've sprayed it with a hose just a good coating that's more like one pass of a carpet steamer type wet. Wait 3 hrs. Now stomp towels all over the carpet to get the majority of any remaining liquid up. Use old towels you don't care about.  It will be gross. Let that dry completely one whole day. Day 2 hit it with Odoban pet cleaner properly diluted for your steamer. Let it dry. Day 3 through 6 most lightly with kids n pets. Smell will be gone. This even gets out male cat spray.

Aww I love them thank you!

Try Grado if you are looking for open back BIFL. I bought my first pair in 1995 and am on my 2nd set (SR80e) only because my dog damaged the first set.

total shipping weight is 63.98lb  printed on shipment label...I weighed the scooter including  seat and battery and it is 51lb.

I agree, and disagree 😀 

The same logic can be applied to anything. IE. that high presssure washer you have, well it should run constantly 24/7, in order to truly test its BIFL limits. Because i wash things every second of the day.. well, if someone uses it to wash their car, once a month and the bearings, gaskets etc, entire device, will last them 50 years, for ME that is BIFL.

I have a stack of dimpled stainless steel cups. That problem doesn’t happen with them

Depends on interpretation.. really don't want to start an audiophile argument lol .

I cannot second this enough. Bought 1 last time for myself (Itoya's green with pink octopi) and it's such a daily driver. We're getting more as souviners for friends and maybe ourselves too!

mine are still going strong for 8 years

Big fan of the new prospex

I use Leather Better. Excellent product with no nasty chemicals.

FastCap tape measures are great

Stainless steel is not reactive. Just look at stainless steel pans we use.

I don't recall Sennheiser ever being considered in the upper echelon of audiophile gear

May I ask what is wrong with a magnetic charger around a 3 year old? I thought it would be better since the child would just try to pick up the phone and so can't possibly break it.

There are 9 year old iPhones still getting security updates (and not just the flagship models) What pixel or Samsung device can you say that for? Advertising something and having a long track record for delivering on it are two different things.

I can’t believe I’m defending Apple here as there a million shitty things they do/have done (including batterygate) but long term software support is where they stomp on Samsung, Google, etc.

How well are you taking care of them? Do you have a listening room or are you tossing them in your bag when you go places?

Celery and Gravy

They kinda hate each other lol

I prefer the beyerdynamic DT 770 for closed back and 880 for open back depending on what kind of music you prefer. 770s were great all rounders, good mids and decent lows. 880 was perfect for classical, crisp highs and open sound stage. 

Sennneisers were bit tight for my head and I would get ear fatigue fairly easily.

those look rugged! i hate when glassware chips or breaks easily; seems like these would hold up really well. your experience with them lasting so long is awesome too!

Had a pair of M4’s tbh hated them sound was nice but Noice cancellation and controls sucked. Also would stay connected even if I put it back in the case.

Is it rainy where you live? If so, go for it. If not, think again.

I just got my mini Franklin two days ago. I love it but wishing I got the Finnigan just to see the cool logo on the front.

My partner is on year two or three for his Sennheiser ones. His last pair lasted 5 years I think of heavy use. 

I currently have audio technica ones which are showing no issues after one year. 

But if you otherwise like your current options I would check if you know anyone with the skills to fix them. My partner has replaced batteries (including needing to solder in new connections) for quite a few friend’s devices cause he’s the only one who knows how. Or check for a repair cafe cause they might be down to help if you have the parts.

Ah yes, deliberately slowing down their older iPhone models so ~~you upgrade~~  "the battery lasts longer". What have they Apple paid, nearly a billion dollars in fines so far for batterygate?

Google and Samsung advertise 7 years software and security support for their phones. 

Apple do not put anything in writing but have supported their phones for between 5-7 years to date which includes purposely making them slower.

Sounds like your dad is picky, but there are some good options.  
  
For long sleeve, soft cotton, loose but not too long:  
  
American Apparel – classic, durable cotton, not clingy  
AS Colour – simple, sturdy, breathable, looser fits  
Everlane / Reigning Champ – soft, premium, long-lasting  
  
Tip: go for midweight cotton (\~180–200gsm), its breathable but strong. Should last way longer than his old tees.

Nice. I'm thinking of getting a set myself. Do you notice any metallic taste with hot drinks? That's my only hesitation.

Hello /u/Stock-Memory9483! Thank you for your submission! The AutoMod thought that your post might be a request type post and has changed the flair accordingly, but if this was wrong feel free to change it back!

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/BuyItForLife) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Uggggg hate it! Despise when someone scrapes the cutlery together when emptying the dishwasher 😫

Your husband is lucky to have one from 15 years ago

i know how you feel, i've been through a bunch of non-stick stuff too. honestly, i read about kitchendevotion recently and they have some solid options that are supposed to last longer. also, cast iron is always a reliable choice if you're up for a little extra care..

I'll add to the Brother chorus.  13 years in, double sided, wireless, phone app works too for printing pdfs, many thousands of pages printed, zero complaints. 

2270-dw I think.  No scanner in ours and if u needed a scanner I would definitely upgrade in the Brother brand.

Falcon makes some beautiful enamelware tumblers.

Can I see a pic of your cats?

Which ultrasonic cleaner?

Goruck is one of my favs. Mainly because the straps are wide compared to most other backpacks. Redoxx is another if you need luggage. I’ve had both brands for 10 years and have no problems with them

MY LIEGE….! *kneels*

Mine is bent from being closed on the hasp too often and the paint is scratched, so it does need to be treated with some respect.

I received a Davek one as a gift of sorts. I don’t use it often but I’ve had it over 10 years and it’s amazing to me as someone who has no idea about umbrellas

If you put kool aid in them, it would taste unpleasant.

Same!! And this does it SO effectively with zero effort! I’ll say this though: you can overdo it, so pay attention, shred it just until you’re satisfied, and stop. You don’t want chicken mush, which can happen if you let it go too long!

Can use a box and just wrap it in gift wrap make it look nice. I do that for papers im gonna shred to make compost

Fisher price hard plastic toys and the Step 2 little houses and kitchens. They even sell all sorts of replacement parts. Almost impossible to break them. I even reused one as a chicken sleeping area.

Bose QC line fits my size 8 melon really well. Sony WH-1000XM6 as well.

Last summer I accidentally tipped my Duralex glass off the porch. Fell 2m down onto the basements stairs and bounced another 1,5m down the stairs. 

Couldn't even find a scratch. I was so surprised, I had no idea these glasses were this resilient lol

Tom Bihn and Red Oxx. Just picked up a Red Oxx CPA a few months ago and it is bomb proof

I buy pint glasses, don’t think any of them have ever broken either.

It's called by it for *life* not buy it for *lives*

Keep in mind, they're also very common in US TV productions. They're common in TV productions all over for the simple reason that their reflections don't capture the camera taking pictures of them

Boy do I wish I had bought Arc’teryx when this comment was made 😢😢

You inspired me to search my local marketplace. Picked up a tan one for about the same price! Thanks for the idea, I'm in love with it!

I had the same thought…like what are they doing to their paper storage drawer?!

Where do you purchase the bed frame?

My PCs of all brands lasted 2 years.

Yeah PC's are known for that. The longest a PC has ever kept working is 2 and half years. It's in the Guinness book of records. It's why PC warranties are 1 week and void if you type Google into Google.. You must have paid a lot of money for your PC's to get good ones that last 2 years. So rare.

Duralex Glasses have been fantastic for us. If you want to get non-metal glasses, I’d highly recommend them.

Then you hit flat again. BIFL items sometimes require basic maintenance.

Our Brother scanner combo broke. The scanner can’t find its home position.

Did you go with Ashland? I’ve been thinking about getting Tony the ant but it has to be custom made. I really want the shell cordovan but it’s steep for a custom made

Their quality has dipped significantly over the past 10 years already

I have that exact one I got for three bucks at the thrift store.

She's a teen. Having a phone is pretty much the only device available for emergency communication since public phones and memorizing phone numbers is a rarer thing now. I get you don't want their eyes glued to a screen 24/7 but you've got to be reasonable about technology because we don't live in a world that works well for those who refuse technology. This is an issue that elderly people face often!

See if you can do a chargeback on your credit card.  And.  You shouldn't be using non-stick cookware anyway, stuff is toxic.

First I've heard of them. Beautiful knives.

Old Sriracha bottles have been my favorite for this.

I’ve got mine from the 1979s.

Old Sriracha bottles work great for cooking oil, soy sauce and all kinds of other things.

Not only are they squeeze bottles but they're adjustable.

i have the kenmore 60 series

I love my baggies shorts. Particularly the baggies lites.

I actually just found one from the 60s that I fixed up! Should be good for a while more.

I love my safety can opener! It’s just a cheap one off Amazon but has lasted me years of weekly use. No sharp edges, easier to use than standard hand crank one, and the top of the can still works as a lid if you want to save what’s inside!

Bought a weed puller of theirs and it broke right away. World not go back

the long-term risk on double-wall stainless is the vacuum seal, not the steel. once that fails -- usually a hairline breach at the rim weld -- you've got a cup that's heavier than glass but no longer insulates. single-wall 18/8 stainless from a restaurant supply store sidesteps this entirely. never loses insulation it never had, practically indestructible, and cheap.

Now I got that summertime, summertime sadness

Ponder adding a coordinating waterproof jacket or customized grip. It feels extra deliberate and unlike a rushed idea. That is the durable approach.

You could check out some of the HUANUO dual arms too. I’ve had pretty good luck with mine so far and it’s held up well. Their newer FlowLift Pro line uses a mechanical spring setup instead of gas, which is kinda cool since it feels more consistent over time.

Duralex, particularly their picardie glasses🥛

Agreed. On top of being way more durable and not shattering, stainless steel cups are super easy to clean too, which definitely helps reduce worries about bacteria buildup.

I was comparing new in 2003 to a 6 year old one

Ask ai to make itemized lists of the stuff you will need, and how much of it. (Then go to a professional.)

Big ones for me, and I'm sure the quality HAS gone downhill on some, but nothing major.

Leatherman. Buy a nice(r) one and it's worth it.

Fiskars ANYTHING. I use their hatchet and axe regularly.

Klein electrical tools.

Fluke multimeters.

Snap-on is a ripoff, but you're at least getting quality tools in exchange for it.

Smith & Wesson firearms are slowly slipping, but they're still decent enough. Henry remains top notch for a major manufacturer.

Fox River makes awesome military socks. Spent $200 on a bunch of them early on in training - I've had most for over 9 years.

Looking at this exact fan for a covered patio in CA. Did you get the Haiku L or the Haiku L Outdoor?

Nothing can beat an old Nokia 3310 in terms of longevity.  
Phones of that era were bulletproof (Literally), needed no software update and still had an incredible battery life for decades.

The thought of these cups scraping across the counter top makes we wanna die.

Oh they’re super discontinued. They were only made is East Germany between ~1980-~1990. You can find them online. Sometimes old thrift shops or vintage furniture places will have them. Obviously, far more likely to find them in Europe. They’re not cheap unless the seller doesn’t know what they are… but they will last forever and it’s some pretty cool history and science.

Do you bite the glass or what?

I have my dad’s and it’s still in good shape.  The tray matches the box…not red.   Not sure how old it is, but my Dad would have been 78 this year.

Sadly not handy. There are a few wooden options on Etsy but around $150. It's for miscellaneous papers versus printer paper, I do the same with printer paper haha

I quadruple dog dare you to try it

They use these for tea in Korean restaurants

Deuter backpack bought it 20 years ago, still use it daily, for work, groceries and holidays. Not sure if their quality is still the same now a days. Always a big problem that what a company made 20 years ago, is not a guarantee that they still make great stuff. I also bought 2 great DIM boxershorts 25 years ago, but never found that quality again from DIM.

Good point. This one will hang out in the basement most the time. I'll take it out to do something around the house every once in a while.

The new corolla is much more refined than the 2003. It's a loaded car with lots of modern safety features.

Those suck when you drop them on tiles. My ears are still ringing

Titanium doesn't impart a taste either. I mostly drink out of titanium for that reason. 

I did just get some Fable Pro glasses, which are supposed to be much tougher than standard glassware, but I haven't used them enough to have an opinion.  I started down the rabbit hole of East German Superfest glassware, but it's $$$.

About 1.5 years ago I bought a Hisense from Costco. I got it because it had more dimming zones and the TCL review photos even showed how uneven the screen was. It also has a 5 year warranty from Costco. I can't speak to the reliability except we sometimes have to turn it off and turn it back on and sometimes the initial load has a bug / it doesn't have sound.

Eddie Bauer is literally bankrupt :(

Hell yeah man. Thanks for replying! I see the link too, appreciate it!

Indians be doing this since ages

I farm and use my pocket knife more than I expected. My suggestion is to not spend too much, because if you actually use your knife you'll eventually lose it, or damage it. I've lost three, over the years. It happens. 

My favorite of all time--that I still have, somehow, despite having almost lost it in the field (coworker found it while checking sprinklers!)--is a CRKT squid. I wanted something made entirely out of steel because I've destroyed synthetic scales on other knives (Benchmade, Spyderco, etc), and I didn't want to spend a lot of money because I know I'll lose it. Haha. This thing is bombproof and sharpens well, and the blade geometry is great.

(Mine is just straight stainless/silver, no color)

Yup! Its just two angled tubes, easy to clean with iso and a bottle brush. The bowl piece is super easy to just hit with a lighter and wipe. 

Titanium is very thermally conductive, I can feel the bong instantly get cold when I put ice water in. I've never had a cherry leave the bowl-head too hot to handle, but it definitely warms up on big, slow bowls.

i mean i was making a joke about having a family bong but whatever, say hello to your cats for me

How do they drink things that react with metal?

I have a stainless steel milkshake mixer cup that was given to me by my favorite waitress at a kings family diner. 

I asked her if she’d get in trouble if I stole the dirty one at our table, so she brought me a clean one and stuffed it into my backpack herself. 

I’ve used it almost daily for 30 years so far.

Where can you find superfast glasses? I went down this rabbit hole a few years ago and came up empty handed. I think they're discontinued, but the history was cool.

i am very confused by the people messing up their le creusets. what is everyone doing to mess them up? i use mine 2-3x/wk with no issues, my oldest one is 14 or 15 years old.

Dang…. And you don’t know how to count either

Zojirushi Neuro Fuzzy. I recommend 3 Ladies Jasmine rice. It smells amazing 🤩

I have a prime example of this sitting in my kitchen. Never stacking them again.

They unfortunately just got bought. End of an era

Danglebong! I bought the blue with white speckled one. Unfortunately, it bangs against a metal grinder and metal bottle when I'm bouncing around on my bike, and the epoxy is chipping. I would have gotten the plain one, had I known.

I’m from an area that gets about 7 inches of rain a year.  I had one umbrella that I took to Europe.  I threw it away because it was so cheesy.  

If someone gave me an umbrella I would be like,”whut?”  To hear you all talk about your umbrellas makes me laugh.

I'm waiting until I can afford to drink out of sterling.

My husband bought me a Davek umbrella years ago when we lived in MN. I was tired of ones that flip inside out in every breeze and trying to close one when raining. I still have it and love it. It has never failed me. Through MN snowstorms and NC rainy and hurricane seasons. Love the auto close feature. Top five all time of gifts he bought me. Very practical and very stylish.

I don’t need a spoon to drink water

I have aluminium cups and never had an issue using ice in them and then my lips freezing to them.  Infact I buse ice in them everyday.

My cats are neutered

Is it easy to clean?

I get holes in mine after about 1.5 years of wear but you can’t beat the lifetime warranty

Next she needs a good sharpening stone.

Found a set of 12 for $1/ea at a local thrift store. 6 big 6 small. Kids dropped one first week onto countertop, they’re durable. 

Strangely hard to get spotless clean, always have water marks when other glasses don’t.

Why don’t they make hovering vacuums now?

Can openers and fuckin socks

Metal chopsticks and metal straws!

Yup. Got one in the late 80s. Still in great shape.

But does it give orange juice a tinny aftertaste? That's common.

If you have a standard size and shape in mind, are you handy with tools? Make a wood one yourself? Or have one made. I don’t suppose a thin metal one would be out of scope for a decent welder. But honestly I keep my paper in the same paper sleeve it came from the store in. Works fine.

That is totally fine. And it carries this meaning of "sheltering you from wind and rain, walking with you through every kind of weather," which I find incredibly romantic. Every rainy day your wife will think of you, that is so sweet. 

You can also add a little hanging charm to match the umbrella.

Could’ve also bought Superfest instead.

They're excellent and in my family their products are worth every penny.

I think that is totally fine. And it carries this meaning of "sheltering you from wind and rain, walking with you through every kind of weather," which I find incredibly romantic! Every rainy day your wife will think of you, that is so sweet. 

You can also add a little hanging charm to match the umbrella.

I feel like the only person on the planet that cooks rice in a regular pot on the stove top after reading all the suggestions...

Which one did you buy? I only see the 2 and I would like a durable piece.

Love my old school griswold

I'm kind of the opposite. For everyday use at my desk, I prefer ceramic mugs. But for travel, the gym, or anything outdoors, stainless steel bottles are hard to beat. Ceramic wins on drinking experience, stainless steel wins on durability.

I recently read a post by a disappointed OXO customer who bought a OXO pan. The pan was manufactured by a different company. OXO did not stand behind the product even though they slapped their logo on it and sold it.

Not what they are describing. No. 

OP's might be.

I know mine are. In the shape of a mug though.

If they are insulated they are fantastic. They don't sweat. Easy to wash. Keeps things cool or hot.

I love my bench made knife

I get where you’re coming from, and I say that as a big old queer. But she’s in the wrong on this one. Not gonna downvote you because honestly, I’d have had the same reaction if I didn’t know the details. You seem like a solid ally anyway and I appreciate that.

Lol I don't understand all the negative comments. 
We made exactly the same decision few years ago. Everyone in our family is happy with them. Also, stainless steel tumblers don't change taste of your food. Else people won't eat meals using stainless steel spoons and forks

Bought mine used at a garage sale a few years ago. I have no idea how old it is, but it’s definitely been around the block a few times.

If you’re new to EDC, I’d recommend either the Benchmade Mini Griptilian or Benchmade Bugout. Both are lightweight, reliable, and backed by Benchmade’s lifetime warranty and Lifesharp service. They also have a huge aftermarket, so it’s easy to customize them with scales, standoffs, clips, and other upgrades to make the knife your own. Hard to go wrong with either one.

You live up to your name no doubt.

As an Indian who cooks Indian food often, nah they don't hold. If they do, use vinegar once in a while

Mine is a Milwaukee fast back with the screwdriver bit

not always some of this companies  ried on their name but there products are just just like weather tech. BMW the likes ..

Stainless won't be that severe.  It's much less thermally conductive than Al.

We have some as well. They are awesome, except for the taste 🙁 

I really like my insulated stainless cups instead.

Oh good, there's more of us. I would refuse to let silverware touch my mouth as a child. I can taste this cup.

I did the same thing after breaking a glass a few months back. I replaced everything with Yeti’s

Okay hear me out not exactly bifl but pint glasses. Uniform shape, uniform size and easily and painlessly replaceable.

Bought metal straws and have this issue with frozen drinks…

why not leave it to your grandchildren?

That makes a lot of sense! Basically what I do too.

Smithey cast iron stuff is amazing, American, and VERY BIFL. About 100x better than lodge. Ya, I said it.

Kinco are really great and are inexpensive as well. I wore a hole in one finger tip and I was able to sew it shut - still kicking

Actually my plan was to use you as the excuse for my kids, but either way works :-)

I have a Duluth back and a rain fly from CCS and they're really great.

Wintergreen is another brand I like - don't know if they're quite BIFL, but I have some double layered fleece mittens that I break out every year when it actually gets cold (or when I go to northern MN) and I've had them for 20 years.

That has been disproved

No, I want to be impressed for many years, but no, not so great, just a step up from Beans. Eddie Bauer is much better, imo.

The double walled ones are OK. Even if not vacuum insulated.

In the far east (Indian Subcontinent), the use of stainless steel plates, cups, bowls is the norm.

I edited my original comment to add a few more. It's a pretty fun exercise haha

They are really good. So are melco tools. Their Eagle grips are nice

I would hate to drink orange juice out of those.

Are Yeti really any good? They seemed overrrated from the start and I saw some pretty unflattering comparisons out there.

I have an Ekco Miracle Roll 881 I inherited from my grandparents, who got it in the 60s. They're pretty easy to find on eBay.

I have 1 Smithy Carbon Steel 12 inch pan. It’s superior to everything I use. Take it over my Demyere for crust.

It’s not wet that is the problem.  You can take two dry ones and if you put them together and press a little they will be hard to separate.  This happens naturally in the cabinet too because as the temp changes they will expand and contract and tighten together like quicksand.

I have some Anker stuff that has lasted for a while. a big USB battery, for one.

Or have a hole for a wedge like a more taper so you can tap it out with a wedge.

We had these and they were the only cups that kept drinks cool when it was 110 F

Same here and still here.

That's not how stainless steel works, there is no coating. 

Stainless steel is not rust proof. It is, assuming 304, still over 70% iron by mass. All iron will eventually rust.  

If rust starts to develop, it is possible to clean it up with abrasive and passivated the steel to restore the stainless property.

Umbrella is a great idea. My hubby bought me a quality umbrella for a birthday. I love it. Go for quality rather than fancy name brand.

Hey children! Look at this person I found on Reddit! Their daughter also doesn’t have a phone, therefore neither should you!

Sterilite, keep it out of the sun ig...

This should have more upvotes!  Not sexy but super functional.  Never have to sharpen your steel.  Never have to worry about taking on a task and damaging an expensive knife.  

All this as a Spyderco guy…

What’s your budget? 

They both make low tier trash but also make top tier models (X11L, UR9, etc)

Yeah, Craftsman tape measures suck now. Buy an old one.

Hear me out.   Just buy the Grazza brand and keep the bottle and refill with Costco or whatever bulk olive oil you like.  My bottle is going on 2 years

I motorcycle tour, and bringing back glassware is kind of not really feasible.  What I have seen lately is more brewpubs offering silicone pint glasses. They claim to be unbreakable; dishwasher safe, boilable, freezable, and microwaveable.  It's certainly made my souvenir hunting easier.

Why the down votes? Did L.L. Bean do something terrible?

Sorry to be a bummer, but it was recently revealed that non food grade stainless steel is being used to make some products you eat off of. Some dogs got kidney failure from manganese poisoning. You can test using an XRF gun, if you can get a hold of one, they also make chemical tests but I suppose you have to be suspicious of the source of those tests as well.

You need to get your head checked. Nothing you said here matches reality.

One comment to you and one reply to a reply, "a ton"? Touch grass. And if you knew what they said, why did you provide your own reason as to why it happens?

Telling people what their experience is, especially after they've already told you what their experience is, now ***that*** is some terminally online shit.

It depends on the exact profile, I got one set that sticks and another set that doesn't, the look almost exactly the same.

This was my answer!   I keep them in my sponge bag to trim my beard when I’m traveling.  

Way better than the crap scissors that come in those manicure kits

Why not go projector at this point?

This is awful lol.  Also a good answer.

Yes, the idea is the edges are less sharp in general, the idea. 

Worked at a place that has old tempered glass shower waste door everyday. 

You still have to be careful.

Don’t ever get a plastic one!  But otherwise yes

You can get the restaurant style tumblers on Amazon if you search for "Carlisle Foodservice products"

I have some nice tiny scissors (for thread, has a bird on it) to trim my beard when I’m traveling for work.

Any brother mono laser, with or without the extra features. Great products.

This is the exact same circumstance I experienced with duracell about 10 years ago.  I'm sure they didn't notice, but I feel better about it.

I used a brand called wali for about 5 years without any issues. It was holding 2 monitors with another on a separate mount on top of it.

This. The ole fuzzy logic.

Did she end up with Alzheimer's?

I just use canning jars

They dont break and i need the jars for harvest time anyway. Got the idea from a hipster restauraunt =p

Also the sound of putting one down on a granite countertop.

Yeah popular in asia and eastern Europe too

I am Arthur, King of the Britons.

India, surrounding countries and from what I have seen on TV, Korea too?

I’ve cooked lasagna, nachos (both in the microwave and convection oven modes), potatoes. Basically, small dishes that work best in a 9x13 tray or smaller.    
I’ve made larger items, but they take too long.

I think I’ve made cookies, but I normally use my oven since I normally make  at least 30-40 at a time.

My microwave has 2 levels, but it’s been years since I’ve cooked anything using the 2 levels.

Columbia Sportswear Company.  Remarkable quality and an unbeatable products warranty.

Oh yeah that's nice! Unfortunately too tall for the cabinet it will live inside

Hello /u/SmartVibeSolutions! Your post or comment was removed for using an Amazon Affiliate link link Shortener. (see Rule 8). You can change the URL and re-post it.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/BuyItForLife) if you have any questions or concerns.*

I feel for you and you should just keep pushing for replacement. Document it and do a charge back if it’s been less than 90 days, or even if not.

But no non-stick pan is buy it for life.

The fact that it lives on your keychain is the key detail — it's not just useful, it's always with you, which is the whole game with "buy it for life" items that actually get used versus ones that sit in a drawer.

Mine is from James Smith and Sons!

I used something like this in my garage for organizing sheets of sandpaper, screws/nails and tubes of caulk/sealant.

Mystery Ranch was originally designed for military and wildland firefighters to carry absurd loads, so the torque system and tri-zip are genuinely overbuilt for anything civilian life can throw at a backpack.

Definitely a good idea! I took at look at my local Daiso last week and unfortunately they didn't have anything different from a worse version of the one pictured.

Just bought my fiance zeiss victory pocket binoculars as I can only hope these are BIFL for all the traveling that we do.

This weed tastes terrible! "Oh, don't use that bong, my dad's in it!"

Popular in south asia

do you grill/bake/roast stuff in it using convection function alone? like pies, veggies, meat etc?

I’d still go with some Asian product. They are still big on paper and stationary. Or German.

Shoot edited! Definitely looking for A4

hi! do you use only convection function for grilling/roasting/baking or combo with microwave?

It’s getting hard out here for a slimp.

I like this idea! I have yet to see this style in a metal mesh - lots of landscape metal mesh options so far

A1 size? Almost 24x36 inches? Uline makes a commercial grade metal cabinet that big with six drawers. 

If you mistook the size, and you want something for A4 sized paper, there's other options.

There is no such thing as a BIFL USB cable when kids are involved because the port on the device will usually fail before the cable does. Just buy a multipack of cheap braided ones and accept that they are a consumable item.

thanks a lot! what do usually cook in it?

Yes, the one shown is the one I am aware won't be BIFL and want to find a metal option instead!

Also came to suggest them. Not much of a choice as far as shape goes, color has a few options, but they are awesome.

Idk why but metal is so much more satisfying to drink out of

As I mentioned, I'm definitely interested in metal, but have not been able to find an option for an A4 paper size. Lots of large blueprint flat file storage options in metal!

There's so much evidence this isn't true, but rather that products have been undergoing the process of "enshittification" for decades.

please understan and respct the beauty in fragility. is your life actually gonna be better if you have this same cup when your 95 ?

We didn't have the fancy metal glasses when I was growing up - we had the water hose. 😉

What about looking up the old specs and remaking these models? Seems there’s a market for it. Simplifying what is needed but keeping the rest

I rotated through about 10 different $150+ knives before buying my first Osborne. It’s now one of two pocket knives I own.

It's not GreenPan that is dogshit, in this case it is the user who has not read the instructions and used it properly

I got some Felco 2 pruning shears in anticipation of having my own garden. My mom's set must be over 30 years old, and she doesn't do ANY maintenance whatsoever. Still going strong, although it's have has been for low volume residential level use.

I compared the 2 pruners side by side and aside from hers being all dirty and stuff they were pretty close to identical!

Stop looking for plastic if you want BIFL and just find an old steel blueprint cabinet or a vintage tanker desk drawer insert. Anything made of thin plastic will eventually crack and yellow, no matter how much you pay for it.

You don’t have a gas range and it shows

Opposite opinion here, but get the absolute slowest shittiest cable you can find and give it to them as a replacement. Tell them it's the last one you're buying for a month. At the end of the month if they don't break it get them a faster cable, then everytime they break it bring out the torturously slow charging cable "until you can get another one". It's a petty way of showing them that actions have consequences.

Don't believe a word of your comments. I have used GreenPan for 15 years I have followed the care instructions and how to use which specifically mentions only use low to moderate heat, and never had a problem and non stick properties lasting longer than Teflon does. 
The coating on the outside is ceramic enamel (mainly sand) it contains only mineral bases elements which are not flammable even at extreme (cooktop) temperatures. You have contaminated the surface (probably oil), you should not use using a high heat either, the scorch marks are the carbon from the contamination burning and with high heat it gets baked on, that won't wash off, at the same time you have destroyed the ceramic cooking surface.

I die a little bit inside every time my wife opens a box with a pocket knife. There are reasons we have box cutters

I lived in Korea for a bit and I loved how they used ss everywhere.

Sticks, plates, cups, bowls.  Even in public handrails and signs would often be stainless.

Hello /u/SmartVibeSolutions! Your post or comment was removed for using an Amazon Affiliate link link Shortener. (see Rule 8). You can change the URL and re-post it.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/BuyItForLife) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Buy one with wire mesh drawers. You can still see through (mostly) but the plastic doesn’t get brittle and crack.

I’m Indian and we use stainless steel at home but glass ones when we have guests over.. I prefer stainless steel to glass or ceramic mugs and never understood why guests needed glassware 😂

Found one by the side of the road who already served one lifetime....

If not for laptop, why fits laptop? Strange.

I’ve been using wide mouth spaghetti sauce jars as glasses for over a decade now. I think one broke ever.

yeah the cobra in leatherman size is exactly the right move. the leatherman pliers are good for a multitool but once you hold actual knipex you can't go back. different species entirely

Don’t act like a republican and actually learn what is going on.  Pattie is in the wrong and Patagonia is being pretty gentle here.  They have to defend thier trademark.

10 years through three monitors is the real test. most arms start drifting when you go up in weight. ergotron knowing that and just... holding is exactly the point.

I kept breaking coffee mugs so my wife got me some stainless steel ones - This is The Way

Granted, bend the top of every cup inward

Not the one shown.  Doesn't matter how well you make plastic drawers/frames, they tend to warp under the weight and become difficult to open.

[ Removed by Reddit ]

I can't imagine any of these are not bifl, unless you're really rough with them for some reason.

Coasters always stick to my glass if I've got ice water in it. Or Scotch rocks

Salt your coaster.

I love Muji! Sadly they didn't have quite the right thing.

So I also had this concern and contacted Darntough. They told me to wash and dry them and then reach out if they didn’t fit and they’d replace them. Washing and drying did fix the problem though, so I guess they were right.

Lol... I'm not asking anyone to make a decision for me, I'm asking for recommendations? Not sure what the point of this comment is tbh

It’s not a take, poindexter. It was a question.

I have one I purchased in 1994 that still works perfectly.

Eley - hose reels etc

Nice. I would set an alarm and run it for ten minutes every few months if I were you. I need to tear mine down and clean all the old grease out and pack it with new. Might be a good winter project.

I love my Brother printer!! Had to replace the toner after 6 years which was fine by me.

I can taste the metal,

Suggest White's Boots The Original Farmer/Rancher; see 

In 2014, White's Boots was sold to LaCrosse Footwear of Portland, Oregon, which also owns Danner Boots. In 2022 I purchased a pair of The Original Smokejumper Lace-to-Toe. They use the the same 4811 last as the Farmer/Rancher, yet the soles are massive loggers. Overkill, yet I love them that much more because of it. They are surprisingly comfortable even during the break in period and IMO look great. If I get a second pair, and I may, they will be those I suggested or going custom.

So I just saw some of these plates on Facebook marketplace and this is the same pattern that my childhood blanket has 😭 it’s starting to get really worn down so I’ve packed it up but I’m really excited to find that this is a popular and collectible print

I kinda disagree here. Went to their flagship recently and the quality has dropped off. Their thick jackets still look great but I wasn't impressed with the quality of their other items.

Damn taper lock block

My rule of thumb has been and always will be: never buy an appliance from a company that makes phones or tv's

I choose this guy's wife

That’s why it’s so obvious that previous generations were more intelligent.

I got a set from whatever brand they sell at Target. It had 3 drawers. I still have it almost 20 years later.

I have something like this by Sterelite. I loved it so much that I bought a second one at a thrift store a while back when I came across it.

Yes, I am talking about warranty fulfillment. 

3 for 3, perfect. All years after purchase.

I love double walled glasses too, but I’d be a little cautious calling Amazon ones “lifetime” after just 6 months lol. The weak point on a lot of these is the seal at the bottom or a random hairline crack that shows up after a year or two. If these are still going strong in like 3 to 5 years, definitely come back with an update because that would be super impressive for daily use.

Absolutely austere,  Totally brutalist.  That said, decorate your space as you wish.  

But while you might keep it for life, I doubt you’ll use it for life.

That’s a stupid hot take

When I was a kid, I used to drop things all the time and whenever I visited my grandma’s house I’d always end up using these lol she’s had a set for years

Buying my baby/toddler only one kind of tiny sock was the kindest thing I’ve done to myself in motherhood.

They definitely won’t haha.  Also, I don’t think those brands are related.  Looks like it’s just a US politicking bot karma farming in preparation for midterms.  Outside of BIFL and karma farming subs, they *only* post in r politics.

Dog, you dont need the internet to make every decision for you

Neat! I've been reusing glass jam jars and sauce bottles. They're so much more durable, plus it's reducing waste and repurposing something I already had!

I have used my bose headphones for yard work, and my ANSI hearing protection. The headphones only help to let me hear music while I'm running the string trimmer. 

The headphones aren't actual hearing protection. They cut the noise, yes, but will not significantly prevent hearing damage. I would search for more actual over-ear protection that's got good adjustment for big heads (I wear a 2xl hat for context) and use the tree-style silicone plugs underneath.

I got the Tatung because it has a stainless steel insert.  It is awesome.  We have a galley kitchen so everything in it is very necessary.  The Tatung is right next to the pots.

Yeah I break maybe one glass every two years. Not going to upend my life over it.

Used to use a cheap steel mug for water at my desk, but my cat kept sticking her face in it, so I switched to a Yeti mug with a lid.  
Not the cheapest mug, but it's taken many trips through the dishwasher with no problem.

Hmm. I actually might. Already use stainless steel bowls because they stack so nicely.

Why the heck is this being downvoted? Thorogoods are great.

I moved into a new house in 2019 which came with a brand new fancy whizzbang whatever the Frick washer and dryer. I decided to keep my 1996 Maytag washing machine set from my old house instead, and sold the new set to friends that wanted to buy it. Guess who's washer and dryer still works today? (Hint, it's mine)

But modern lodge seems to have a rougher less finished surface recently

tried vintage leather sydney, their messenger bags are solid and not bulky at all

What are y'all doing to your glasses?

Benchmade bugout easily my favorite edc. Not necessarily my favorite in my collection but for edc it can’t be beat.

not really.  They might be hard to break, but when they do break it's an explosion of billions of tiny glass shards everywhere.  You'll still be cleaning up the glass shards from your feet months after one broke.

That’s tough to do because then you risk your kids being social outcasts.

I prefer traditional pint glasses, they’re pretty thick, and you can often get them with various logos from breweries, pubs, restaurants and the like.

Anker used to be but I am seeing more incidents like the one in this video where one of their products fried a laptop.

AirPod pros are the only decent Bluetooth earbuds I have found.  Apple uses higher quality components including batteries.

That being said if you regularly drain them you are going to go through the lifespan of any lithium ion battery within a year or 2.  They only get so many cycles.  Try to keep them above 20% and the lifespan improves significantly.

Tastes like metal, Im afraid

I have one that has a ceramic lining that insulates well and also tastes better

because a drag queen can do no wrong

More importantly, you always know your towel’s exact location. 
You are someone to be reckoned with!

Hydroflask and klean kanteen are great, but I think corksickle keeps ice longest (more than a day in a hot summer car)

You’ll shoot your eye out!!!!!

Dent’s on the bottom keep that drink rocking

$97,000 for a backpack? Are you insane?

What is this, a money laundering operation?

Sounds like my Yeti tumblers.
Expensive but I didn't buy them.

You have to know these things when you're a king, you know

I have the least expensive model they make. I think it's available at like Target in the US. 

I've had it for like 6 years now I think. 
Still working perfectly. Use it almost every week, sometimes more than once a week. 

I keep thinking I'm going to get a slightly higher end one and then gift this one to one of my kids.

Err .. I still have my left handed scissors my brother bought for me on a trip to Europe about 40 years ago. I still use them daily/weekly. No sign of them deteriorating yet! 

I'd call that BIFL.

Dents in the sides will keep them from sticking together

There’s men’s and women’s pairs

I really wonder how many glasses people are breaking…I can’t say I break glasses much/at all.

My towel is always ready.

If you are sleeping in a house - I’ve honestly never had a basic intex twin air mattress fail me. I prefer twins because it gives more options and they can always be pushed next to each other. On hard floors I throw a yoga mat down to help with any sliding. We slept on our current twins for a month as we waited for our furniture to arrive, they have been used several times a year for the past 6 years with no issues.  

Now as camper….we have HEST mattresses, we have ours in our rig full time but when rolled they still take up more space than I would want to store. Exped mega mats were highly recommended. All our lighter weight camp/backpacking friends have had good luck with high end self inflating sleep pads. 

The air mattresses were less than $20 - the camp pads worth it tend to $80 to upwards of $100

I don’t have Duralex. My fiancée and I have broken only one glass in the past 5 years. Metal is great for travel/camping, but anything in the cupboard can just be glass.

Yeah I've noticed this too with different models even when they say same size. The thickness can vary quite a bit between their different lines which affects fit - some of their hiking ones are way thicker than casual ones even in same size. Maybe check the style numbers on tags to see if they're actually different models?

I have used GreenPan cookware for 15 years, a I am a fan. I still have and use my 15 year old 32cm wok and although not particularly non stick any more it works well with a little more oil. I found very good non stick properties last as long as Teflon however high heat and spray oils are the biggest enemy and will destroy the non stick surface immediately. Olive oil is a potential problem as the smoke point is relatively low and it will stick to the surface and is hard to remove without damage to the non stick.
I have stainless steel, carbon steel, enamel and GreenPan cookware. Each has its advantages for different types of cooking. I do cook a lot so for me the investment is worth it. I would recommend GreenPan saute pan as an all purpose pan, I have a set of 9 different pots and pans of different sizes and use them all. I use my carbon steel frying pans for high heat cooking. Stainless steel for non acid high liquid dishes, blanching, boiling, soups. Enamel crock pot doesn't get used often. I have mainly gas cooking and one induction and my GreenPan cookware is induction compatible, not all is.

I like jelly jars. Cheap, easily replaced, durable, and they have lids so they double as storage containers.

You’re right. The whole idea is to not cut people a billion times.

I don't know. u/sweetchild1997, care to explain why you're posting AI comments?

(I can't imagine he/she will answer. They never do.)

My wife found a Kitchen Aid K400 series at a thrift store it's a beast. Big, loud never struggles.

I really want the matching dryer now, especially after reading other people's experiences with them. My wife, however, would be none too happy that I keep switching appliances, since the feat involves rearranging the bedroom just to get them out of the house 😂

That's wild on the .22 rounds, I would have thought they'd have gone off after one cycle lol

I would say Sony consumer screens. Their pro displays are awful. 

Samsung or LG for digital signage. I’ve had one Samsung go bad after about 8 years of continuous use in an exhibition out of about 20 screens. Now when an exhibit ends I lend them out to other departments and they can take some abuse.

I got the identical box with a set of mechanics tools as a graduation gift in 1976.

My box is a little more beat up and has the older Craftsman logo.

50 years, and it will go another 50 years.

Only broken one tool in all that time.

Because he's a scientologist

Think I’ve had the same set of Waterford crystal glasses for like 20 years - don’t know that it was a problem that needed solving

Honestly I'd just buy whichever cheap one you find who's arm is rated for more weight than your monitor. Once you get them set up you won't be touching your monitors so you wont care how durable they are. I've got a cheapy Rosewill dual arm setup and have had them for 8 years and I've only recently bought new monitors for the arms.

Or you could do like they did with this cup and give it a lip so the cup rests on that instead

Depends on where they dent. Dents on the base result in the cup tipping over if you put it down…

When my wife and I first moved in together nearly 7 years ago, we bought a set of cheap knives at Walmart because we spent most of our money on a deposit and furniture. We have since upgraded knives and gotten a really nice set, yet I cannot find myself in a position to get rid of them. They aren’t the best knives by any means but for non labor intensive cuts they get the job done. And with a knife sharpener I fear I’ve gotten more life out of them than originally anticipated by the manufacturer.

Over a decade ago I bought a 24 pack of Arcoroc “Ultimate” tempered glass 2/3rd pint glasses intended for pubs here in the UK. They’ve lasted incredibly well. One or two have gone a little bit cloudy from repeated dishwashing but otherwise they’re pristine.

Because they’re tempered apparently if they do break they’ll shatter into small square shaped pieces rather than shards - although I wouldn’t know as I haven’t broken a single one, they’ve survived being dropped onto all manner of things including concrete and tile (and once being thrown out of upstairs window onto a wooden deck).

Personally think 2/3rd pint is ideal size for most uses, but they do 1 pint and half pint sizes too.

The best speed queen is going to be one made before 2020, from what I've been seeing here. Alternatively, while your current machine still works, you could sell it and use the money to get one of these beasts. I'm biased of course lmao

I don't think I've broken a drinking glass in...40 years?

Looks nice, though.

Yeah same. Was a summertime lake cottage thing so they're very nostalgic to me,  although they were awful in regards to the sensory experience if using them. That sharp rim edge with cold af ice water in it 😖

Stack with paper towels in between

Depends on where they dent. Dents on the base result in the cup tipping over if you put it down…

There are dozens of us

Man's upgraded to prison

I am Irish so drink A LOT of tea and was getting ready for camping for a few days with work and got a new stainless steel metal mug. Never got to use when camping, but ever since been using it for tea and coffee in the apartment. It is perfect.

Also it fits in under the coffee machine perfectly so we can steam milk in it, then immediately place it under the coffee spout rather than doing an espresso glass then pouring it in

I've chipped and broken a few of my Picardies, but I still love them.

Could have gotten a water fountain instead 

/s

I triple dog dare you to try it

My 1940 American milkshake maker came with the same.

Honestly this is the move. I switched to stainless steel tumblers a couple years ago after breaking yet another glass and haven't looked back. They just work — no worrying about knocking stuff over in the shop.

Whiteley of Sheffield make the best scissors I have ever got.

 I bought some of their scissors for dressmaking years ago and they're still as good as new.  Made in Sheffield, England, where all the finest blades have been made for centuries. They're the oldest surviving scissor making company in the UK now (started in 1760). I have the old style red handled tailor's shears and also the snips and they will definitely outlast me.

Did you celebrate towel day on May 25th?  
Or used it wet in hand to hand combat?

Hey can we just maybe...not do the whole tech thing of they can't even manage cables? 

I hate the direction we're going....

Does it even seal to help prevent it spoiling? Also I thought clear glass was a no for oil too?

May not help on the device end, but on the charger end, I got a slim charger that has its ports on the bottom so at least they aren’t pressing down on the cable on that side. I’ve seen a couple of cable ends that look just like yours and it’s very annoying to be sure. Good luck

My guy might be monoped.

I had the dryer version of your washer. It came with the house I bought. One day I noticed it was getting hot.  I took it apart and changed the thermostat and replaced the wiring. I took the cover off the fan to clean the lint out and found a bunch of screws, roofing nails and three unfired .22 rimfire cartridges.  They were all rattling around in a swirling heat box with nails and screws and never went off.  I had owned the house at least 10 years when I found them.

My MacBook is 4 years old and going strong. My PCs of all brands lasted 2 years. Apple is a bargain with a high up-front cost. I’ll never go back. And the keyboard has a great feel.

I wash mine in the washer and dry it in the dryer on low with tennis balls to fluff it up. 

I've got a Pacific Cosst king size feather bed that has to be close to 25 years old. My mom got it for me while she worked at Carson Pirie Scott or maybe even Dayton's, depending on how old it is.

Well-made, but they suffer from a thriving counterfeit market

I opted for the Tiger brand rice cooker sold at Costco.  I've been using the same one for about 8 years.  It had a Teflon coated pot so you have to be a little careful with it. The hot tip is to never wash your rice in the pot.  I have a purpose made rice stainless steel rice washing pot so even after 8 years it is scratch free.

Jansport and Timbuk2 are both solid and lifetime warranty and repairs. 

Sent one of our t2 bags in for repairs in 2020. They replaced the lining which had been damaged. They also replaced all the Velcro and included an extra chest strap (courier bag) without asking. That bag is now close to 20 years old.

I love these kind of glasses/containers lol, specially the double wall vacuum insulated. 

I started a small collection of about 20 different designs, all stainless double wall vacuum insulated. Too specific (I know), but I just love cooking and stainless tools in general.

Keep my cash, my hash, and my stash, but bury me in my ~~shades~~ bong

I got a large (48 pack iirc, id have to check) of blank pint glasses made for reaturaunt/bar use. I got them 9 years ago, not all of them fit in the cabinet, so I got like half of them in the box in the basement in case they break. I dont think we have ever broke one.

Just don't get one with hex key adjustments.  They're a nightmare.

The thing with luxury watches in particular is that watch nerds and collectors are hyper aware of any changes or cost cutting.

One stupid MBA trying to shave production costs can wreck the brand perception so they are insanely conservative with changes and quality.

Double walled steel solves this problem. 

I can NEVER tell the temperature of my drink by touching the outside wall.

Coasters always stick to my glass if I've got ice water in it. Or Scotch rocks.

For comparison, I've got the 98" cheapest LG option and so far it works well. Been more than a year now. Has all the apps and online LG channels for free.

had this happen to my mixology set cups 🫠

Great example of misinformation

do they? I just rinse mine with hot water and it's gone, doesn't even leave the taste of coffee. It's pretty easy to clean

I just don’t like the lip feel of these.

Metal spoon on metal cup gives me goosebumps in the back of my neck. Is that not a common thing to more people?

The chromium found in stainless steel is trivalent chromium (Cr3+), which is actually an essential human nutrient. The amount that leaches is considered insignificant so this essential nutrient will never be toxic. Nickle is more significant for those who have sensitivity to it. Otherwise stainless steel is totally safe.

Yeah that’s known to happen with tempered glass. It’s more resistant to shattering, but when it does it’s very dramatic.

I think they’re also supposed to break into more cubic pieces so the edges are less jagged when it does break. Double check me on that though, I’m a little rusty on my glass facts

If you get a thermos rather than just a cup, those are designed to keep cold or hot on the inside and pretty much just room temperature on the outside, so your hands won't get cold or hot. This is becuase of a tiny gap between the metal, so it's actually two barriers of steel instead of one, making thermal balance take waaaaaaay longer than if it just has one barrier. With the one I use, I can have ice cold water, leave it there for like 12 hours and when I come back, there will still be ice in there. I´m not exaggerating, they're fucking great

I have a couple of aluminum cups that were my grandmother's. My grandpa always drank his sweet tea out of them. But I also have two other cups that are either drink shakers or they go with like a milkshake machine because they're bigger than a glass. But I found them at Goodwill for pennies and they are the best cups ever

i have a stainless steel cup that my great grandfather gave my grand mother before her wedding, and it still looks new.

New Balance 

Every other brand that I get only lasts a few months before starting to fall apart, but every pair of New Balance I have will hold up for years.

Or just dont stack wet

dents are like scars my brother, be proud of the resilience they show

had mine for years and still going strong

Have you ever had the the coating wear down and rust develop? My wife has had a stainless steel water bottle for years and she found rust in it the other day.

Get back to work Nancy

Metal can affect the taste of a lot of things. Buy some shatterproof bar glasses or see if you can find some Superfest glasses. They’re buy it for life and don’t fuck up the flavour of things.

You still keep them don't you? Do you also keep broken glass?

My problem with metal cups is they tend to hold residues much more strongly than glass, especially coffee.

I had never even thought of this, sounds sick asf. Why even get you burried with it? When you pass away and if you decide to get creamated, the bong itaself could be your urn. But still keep you ina a baggie so the bong can be used for generations to come

You can microwave anything if you're brave enough and believe in yourself

Great option, except for cold or hot drinks.

Both brands are cheap crap.

And they sweat. And they are cold to handle if holding a chilled drink. And they are hot to handle when holding a hot drink. Sure, they are durable, but they do not make great everyday drink holders.

Used them no problem for years, one night my husband is washing dishes and just slightly touches on in the drying rack with a knife (like, grazes it) and it explodes into thousands of little pieces

hell yeah brother. I got one back in like 2018 and its still my everyday cup. Technically a thermos but I lost the lid so now it's just a big ass cup. Keeps cold things cold, hot things hot, I don't care about it getting damaged, it's built up an amounf of dents that I think look super cool, easy to clean, reliable asf

Yeah, 

broken glass > dents 

any day!

a scientist… burn the charlatan !

All my dented metal cups would like a word

Probably easier to drink from a dented metal cup then a broken glass one.

Are they double wall vacuum insulated though?

Then add some gin and tonic.

You can get my original 1960s hotdogger. Good luck.

Move over Socrates, for the Oracle was wrong.

Well, at least they aren’t driving a Ford Lightning 🫣

Koolaid out of that setup was nectar of the summertime gods

Unfortunately this isn't a vacuum problem. It's a taper lock. Only fix is to increase the draft angle. Think martini glass without the stem.

Their charging bricks, power banks, and cables are all very well made, reasonably priced, and have served me well for years in tough environments. Is there a different I should look at for that kind of stuff?

I have everything I've ever bought from Kavu and it all looks brand new while none is less than 10 years old. Been a great brand for me.

New gen Toyota truck owners would like a word

Insulated drinkware eventually pops and something unbranded from Amazon is difficult to trust. I personally recommend the Carlisle 5220, which are those indestructible restaurant cups that you probably remember from the 90’s.

can u microwave them?

OP literally says they’re looking for top brands of furniture and women’s clothes, but go off King

We have loads of stainless steel cutlery at home! Glasses, bowls (all sizes), plates (all sizes), jugs, vessels to cook in. These are all daily use things, glass or porcelain comes out on special occasions LoL

Dude stop being weird and take you lunch Ina paper bag and eat that shit cold or warm or whatever your work conditions are be a real man or woman and toughen up

Denting > shattering tho

getting started somewhere is better than not starting at all, even if question seems broad

They also taste like metal whereas glass has no taste

I could do a whole list on music equipment, there are so many great manufacturers

Dude spammed the suggested words above texting keyboard is my guess.

Who cares about dents really

I got an insulated one from Costco when I became a member and I use it for everything. I think I recycled the plastic lid and then rubbed off the Costco label. If I have it outside and knock it over, no breakie. stuff stays colder longer. Can also drink hot beverages out of it in the winter. Kind of a win in my book for full size cups. And then my little short tumblers, the glass is so thick they're nearly indestructible.

Watch ur teeth friend

I have two, from my grandpa circa ww2.

Who are you so wise in the ways of science?

Anker's original cables (that their reputation is built on) are now called the Prime line, the others are good but nothing super special. The original/Prime are as BIFL as cables get.

That said, I've never heard Apple cables described as durable. Maybe something has changed?

The beer is typically done in 10min max

Douse the middle one in room temperature water.

We got silipints (Silicone pint glasses) for the same reason! No more broken glass.

I too own stainless steel cups and I will say the only downsides is they require a bit more effort to wash because they don't have perfectly smooth finishes and also, they don't insulted well so a cold drink will make the cuper super cold and make your hands cold and vice versa with hot drinks. That said they also won't keep your drinks at desired temperature as long.

A dent doesn’t mean it isn’t BIFL.

Can't post gifs here but imagine the gif of Ron Swanson throwing his computer in the trash.

Put ice inside the interior one as well

They’re so handy! I originally got some because I have an ice coffee setting on my coffee machine and was worried the temperature change would crack a glass cup. 

Use mine all the time. Also great if you have young kids.

Dropped mine in the sink and cracked the porcelain.  I guess I should get SS for my bathrooms.

Run them under hot water and the outer cup will expand just enough to release pressure.

I've got the same ones my grandmother had. And the matching pitcher.

And that they’re from Amazon

I call dibs on the car.

I hope knipex never falters.

Cycling socks: Giro HRc 
I use them for everything above 50 degrees.
I have pairs that are 12+ years old and look like new.
Excellent compression, ridiculously breathable.

Both are close to the bottom of the barrel. I wouldn't buy either, but if you have to, go with TCL and get an extended warranty that covers everything.

Drill a hole in the bottom of each one to alleviate vacuum pressure. /s

For tech, I've been using rtings.com

That’s a sign of how poorly it keeps temperature

In a lot of countries this is the norm

Weber grills. Not sure they are buyed for life but they will last if taking care of more than 20 years and still work the same as a day you bought it. Any parts you need rubber parts are still made for grills they made 40 years ago

No, I keep the titanium one!

The coating on the Ikea pan wears out with normal use and wooden/plastic utensils only after a fairly short amount of time, just a few years. 

If you manage to crack a cast iron pan, you've probably broken your tile floor at the same time lol. I've taken my 30 year old pan straight of the burner then quenched in the sink immediately hundreds of times, not even a warp is detectable.  
  
 And if you want something that doesn't crack, there's always carbon steel pans. IMO the superior pan to even cast iron.

Nope, their carryons advertise 22x14x9 the depth is 10+ inches on at least 3 of models.

The reviews on their website mention it and I’ve asked on this sub for people with brand new bags to measure theirs.

I am not the only one with this issue. Their bags are not as advertised.

Nope, their carryons advertise 22x14x9 the depth is 10+ inches on at least 3 of models.

The reviews on their website mention it and I’ve asked on this sub for people with brand new bags to measure theirs.

I am not the only one with this issue. Their bags are not as advertised.

And if they’re wet enough to do that, they can smell

Have a stainless steel of OJ. FTFY

They really harshen the vibe, though. I can't

Can we just cremate you and store in a cheaper bong and I keep the titanium one?

I made that switch 4 or 5 years ago.  I have 12,16 and 20 oz tumblers.

I stated the leather damage on the repair form, but it’s fair I didn’t mention the hole . I don’t expect a new bag. I also didn’t expect the product to get returned with stains on it. Thanks for your comment

Neat, my grandma has anodized aluminum “glasses”  they were fun. But if you put ice in them your lips would freeze to them

So, late to this comment but: which would you tell me to go ahead and buy? The PC or Iron Mills? I want the BIFL grinder with no plastic, these two seem to come closest…

I love how cold they get when you have a beer!

I got tired of breaking glass so I bought a titanium bong lol. When I die, cremate me and store me in it.

The downside to these is they can stick together too well in the cupboard, and can almost seal themselves into one another in a stack lol

I use Duralex glasses, myself. Haven't broken one yet!

Ok, I have some stainless pints too, but every material has its weakness and steel can dent

Kuhn Rikon are the best. I don’t expect mine to break until the sun blows up.

What do you gain from choosing the side of corporations over that of consumers? Does it protect you from unfair judgments against your warranties?

I’m right there with you!

Anker is a league above white label/drop shipper quality, geez. They have extremely well made stuff and they're an actual brand.

What consumer electronics in Anker's category do you consider higher quality?

You have a couple backup tuxedos?? Who are you, James Bond?

We are discussing warranty fulfillment (and the failure of OXO to do so).  Are your "legit perfect" experiences related to warranty fulfillment?

I totally get that, finding quality rugs can be a hassle (also ruggable rugs are so thin and feel gross - never buy them). I came across kevin francis design recently and they have some really cool handmade options without the designer price point – so much better than mass produced poly rugs

Definitely should have had Casio on my list. My watch collection includes my prized Gshocks. The new Seiko Prospex models are very attractive too.

It is not possible to ship a broken ebike battery in any reasonable way. There are hazmat requirements for ebike batteries and fedex, ups, usps will not ship damaged batteries. The battery is much more likely to wear out before the motor or any of the regular bike parts that are easy to maintain. So if you want one that will last long term I would look at businesses with brick and mortar stores and the infrastructure to provide replacement batteries and service. Radpower, pedego, check what is in your area. And the big bike manufacturers like trek, specialized, giant etc. 

Above 750w, over 28mph is a motorcycle or something like that and not an ebike. You can't ride on any kind of shared path with other bicycles and pedestrians.

I have a GE combo and love it.

Yup, my fleco 2’s I got last week are the same as the felco 2’s I got 12 years ago.

But I will say, don’t get the 2’s, get the 8’s and save your wrist/hand nerves.

But I can’t speak to any model with a rotating handle like the 12’s as I’ve never used that kind.

I get you, quality rugs can be pricey but worth it because they can become an heirloom. I've been checking out kevin francis design alongside a couple of others, and they have some beautiful, handmade options that might fit what you're looking for.

Good for you,  do you have a question? Or is this a spam post?

As an owner, Hisense is absolute fucking garbage.

Do your research about this case…

I recently came across kevin francis design and their handmade rugs are really unique, might be worth checking out alongside some options from big brands like the rug company (although they get very pricey)

It's what we buy at work across my campus with hundreds of buildings. Bulletproof, extremely easy to work on, easy to replace parts, electrical cable stores inside, generic bags are available through our supplier. I love them so much I bought one for my home as well

Hisense was the internet darling for cheap quality until they started playing ads between input changes...proceed with caution

Luggage works. It’s a better design in my opinion but it’s the more expensive of the two by at least 30%. The handle is sturdier. The strong bag uses a normal travel pro style handle. That said. I’ve had a strong bag and it’s going strong.

Fjallraven outdoor clothes have been the best quality I’ve bought and I’ve been through many brands.

Just tell us which you're saying. I bought a cheap one and that shit broke during a recent trip.

They did exactly what you asked them to do, to the terms of their warranty.

What rubbed salt in the wound was Briggs and Riley's customer success claiming this *was somehow my fault* for not flagging it in the repair notice, attaching their note below. 

It was your fault.

You filled out a form listing damages that needed repair, and didn't list all the damages.

I'm confused at where your confusion is coming from. 

Am I being unreasonable asking them to replace the bag instead of sending it for a second time just to get the hole repaired? 

Yes, yes you are.

I feel like the leather exterior is going to be hard, if not impossible, to repair.

Sounds like we got to the real issue, which is that you wanted a replacement with a new, squeaky clean product instead of a functional repair on your well used one, and are upset you didn't get away with gaming their extremely generous warranty.

Of course I forget about my kitchen pliers all the time

Same, I just bought one to replace my 15+ year old pack only because I needed more carry space.  I also have a custom messenger bag and camera bag, I just can’t bring myself to part with any of them.

Durable cables no longer exist. Frankly, durable anything is pure fiction in 2026.

Most watches are BIFL honestly. You can spend 30-40 on a g-shock that will outlast you.

Apple has the best track record of long-term software support for their phones of any smartphone brand that I’m aware of

No idea what you're talking about.

I've got several bags from them and all are spot on to the listed dimensions. 

Sounds like you didn't read the descriptions properly.

We would like your whole list please 😆

I got mine 5 years ago and it's still working.

Yeah its incredibly satisfying to use too

Yeah. This is probably correct. Something happened to us in new house. We just tore out the carpet until we were ready to do something else.  Ending up getting it leveled out with cement sanding and then epoxy.  The epoxy is great cause it’s basically water proof and looks pretty good. I can send you some pics if you want.

One of the best Christmas gifts my husband ever bought me in 30+ years (and he’s generous and spendy) was an Italian umbrella with Swarovski crystals on it.

Haha, I do this with a ton of stuff.  I almost always buy a backup of my newest phone once the price drops significantly, I have backup rain pants and jackets ready, and a fair amount of other hiking and camping gear.  I've been burned too many times by products I think are perfect getting either discontinued or bought out by corporations that skimp on manufacturing and support.

I have a couple backup suits and tuxedos upstairs that won't likely be worn until their big brothers are unrepairably worn out.  We also have four of the exact same car seat for our kids across two cars because a.) we're lazy and 2.) if they ever break, we've at least got a couple backups to hot swap if needed.

No. Because not everyone can just go out and “buy” it. Most people forget about the buy part. 

Craftsman is good shit though.

The green resoled ones look fantastic. For a second I thought I was on r/visiblemending or r/solarpunk

What do you mean they falsely advertise the size of their luggage? Mine is exactly what it’s shown to be on their website.

My 2012 Toyota 4Runner Limited!  
Still drives like the day I bought it. Nothing but regular maintenance, 2nd set of Toyo tires. 85,000 miles on the 1st set.
The first thing I've had to replace is the turn signal bulb on the front drivers side. 👀

I can't speak to their BIFL bona fides yet as I've only had them a few years, but I like the Progressive ProKeeper containers we got a while back. They definitely seem airtight, to the point they're a little difficult to open and close. My only complaint would be that I wish they had better modular stack-ability. As in, I think the top of the largest containers should be able to fit 2 of either the next size down or the one below that, but they don't. Otherwise they've been great so far, and you can get ones for specific purposes, like a brown sugar container that has a terracotta disk in the top to keep it from drying out, and several of them have a scraper to level off your measuring cups. They were a little cheaper than Oxo as well when we bought them.

I hate rain and have to deal with it on the regular commuting by transit. I love beautiful and sparkly things. 

My husband bought me a gorgeous Italian umbrella for Christmas one year - I had told him but it was so expensive that I would NEVER have even considered buying it. 

I love it SO much. I use it every time it rains and it makes me happy. I’ve also received many compliments from complete strangers - it truly is the gift that keeps on giving. Every time I see it (even in the closet) it reminds me that he loves me enough to make my rainy days sparkly.

"Consistently above average but not amazing"

You should probably purchase a copy of your shoes just in case!

I love my Tom Bihn Pilot:

I'm upwards of 30 pairs of DT between work socks and thin ankle socks. Consistent sizing across the board for me.

I chased “king” USB-C to A cables too and learned the boring stuff matters most: confirmed USB-IF compliance, thicker jacket, molded strain relief, and proper 56k pull-up so ports don’t fry. I tried Anker and Cable Matters, then ended up on GEARit for my longer cables because the thicker outer jacket handled daily flexing better behind my desk.

GoRuck.  I have a GR1 (26L) that I have abused for the last 10 years, and it looks new.  I travel with my GR2 (34L), and its the best 1 bag for me (albeit its on the heavier side).  They will definitely outlive me.

Buffalo systems. Indestructible technical outwear for mountain sports. 

Vitsoe shelving. Unchanging design based on Dieter Rams design.

A legendary jacket would be really nice.

I went and got a set of Woodstocks. 10/10.

Also, am I me?

The ones sold by blackstone

I've got ones like that older than I am so I'm going with yes.

I do line them with cheap ass harbor freight drawer liner to keep my tools and the box from getting banged up l.

I have my grandfather's.  Its easily 40+ yrs old.

I think so. We have a set of pruners from a few years ago and they are 100x better than the ones they replaced. I've noticed the pros often use them

For the more price friendly kitchen knives I would say Samuel Staniforth Ltd which is based is Sheffield, UK. 

Victorinox has let their quality drop over the last few years. The steel is much softer.

Samsungs are the worst appliances on the market. They make great TVs and phones but they should have stuck to what they were good at.

I make washers for work, and instead of using my discount I bought the same one for $25 back when I got hired in. It lasted about 10 years and the lid switch died.

Fuck fender and their frivolous lawsuits

If your phone is on home wifi, and the printer is hardwired to the same network, you can still print from your phone

Will it last you a lifetime? Yes. Will you need a bigger one? Also yes.

They legally can't selectively enforce their trademark too, they need to defend it or lose it. If they let one person use their branding, even if it's for a good cause, anyone else will be able to use their branding going forward. Patagonia are being extremely reasonable

A lifespan comparable to other smart phones, so pretty good. There are also plenty of people out there using 10 year old phones. My MacBooks have all lasted me a decade or longer. The only reason I ever upgraded was because the hardware was no longer compatible with newer versions of software. And my AirPods have been through the clothes washer more times than I can count and they’re still going strong

Great point. The used market is still one of the best ways to stretch a budget. 

Most of my success comes from FB Marketplace these days. And if you're patient, it's not uncommon to find high-end office chairs for a fraction of retail.

Keep it clean and dry, absolutely!

i inherited the exact box from my pops. i passed it on when i got a rolling box. no doubt it's still out there, BIFL'ing.

Which is a shame cuz they are otherwise great socks. Last two pairs I bought following their sizing guide to a T and they still turned out to be at least two sizes bigger.

Dawg im just trynna buy some wind chimes not have an existential crisis

we are looking for a few more pans and we didnt fully want to splurge on all clad also bc the stainless steel is a pain - we've definitely considered green pan in the past so maybe we will get a few!

I just looked at the labels on mine; one of each. I guess I'll have to follow up in 15 years to add a DP on if they're both functioning 🤣

I got the same one, never knew what the tray looked like tho as it was missing before I got it. Pretty cool that its bright red.

They seem very reasonable.  You seem unreasonable.

I have that one from my grandfather. It's still good.

I have a specialized como from 2021 with 7000+ km and 100% battery health. Its been hit by a car twice and repaired a multitude of times. Still my most reliable and main form a transport.

Anker also had that issue with security a bit ago, where their sub brand Eufy home security cameras were uploading biometric facial data unsecured among other problems. 

Personally I don't bother with them after that. I've been using uGreen for cables and charging blocks, and they've been excellent.

I dunno about you, but as a fed employee, it actually makes more sense the sizes are regularly incorrect - because that’s exactly what it’s like ordering uniform pants. Order 5 pants of the “same size” and they will have 5 different sized waists.

GreenPan makes really, really good ceramic pans. I love my Greenspan pans. The only time they have gotten ruined was my fault because I left eggs on for too long and they burnt onto the skillet. 

I bought a set in 2017ish and then 2 new skillets as a pack after ruining one. But they have been seriously good pots and pans.

What's your argument here? That no one should sue drag queens for anything, or that they didn't rip off and try to benefit from the name? Because in either case, I don't see any ground for you to stand on.

zwling high tier steel pots and pans bar none best buy ever!

No one said it was serious. You’re repeating the same wrong information over and over.

It’s not that serious 😂

Then you are confidently wrong. They still sell V8 sports cars. Feel free to use Google before doubling down on a stupid argument.

My toolbox is just like this, I bought it in 1978

Yeah the old ones were definitely solid, from the sounds of it not so much anymore.

Both are labeled as hiking but you are right, the bottom one is midweight vs top being lightweight.

I’m confident they phased out V8s due to emissions and fuel economy standards. I’m not an expert about the auto industry though.

I experienced the is similarly with the tactical socks; randomly smaller. This is surprising considering it should be heavily spec’d for government purchasing.

The bottom ones look like their boot socks. Thicker for more cushion and warmth.
Top ones look like their hikers.

This is why you don't use or buy junk cables

Get a Kershaw Leek or Chive.

They can’t even measure dimensions… they falsely advertise the size of the carryons.

As much as they are hyped up I expected more from my recent purchase. I got 3 models of luggage recently and retuned them all.

They might have been good once upon a time but recent experience shows that they have declined like many others.

Merino wool. I’ve had great luck with several brands. They get softer and softer, not scratchy or hot (both misconceptions I had).

Wooly: fitted, thin, long, stretchy 

Merino Protect: more relaxed, thicker, looks the most like wool. Basic fit.

Merino Tech: thicker, cute tanks

Quince: the best basic tee. Size up for classic fit, down for fitted.

They are right, you should have stated something on the form.

As far as the sizing issue, I can't really say. But when it comes to different models, material, and thickness Darn tough has different models, many using different materials or percentages of material and varying thickness.

There a few/no BIFL cars currently in production. OPs question is about brands that continue to make high quality products. Toyota is a bad/ironic example having depreciated the tried-and-true V8s in their SUVs for these new hybrid engines over the last few years. This had nothing to do with government regulation, and everything to do with cost and efficiency.

We use Henry in a commercial setting every day for 3-4 hours. He was there when I started, and he's still kicking today. We invested in "Charles", his brother as a dry/wet vac application and both are terrific

I gotta pipe up and say that their recent stuff is absolutely not BIFL.

I just bought their weeder and the head and the shaft was secured only with glue. - I hung the tool in my garage and the weight of the head alone was enough for the glue to come loose and completely disconnect from the shaft/handle

Unless a head is recessed I have 100% success with cobras getting screws out with stripped heads. The teeth are so bitey it's ridiculous. I do field service repairs, and I still have other screw extractor tools in my van, but haven't needed them in years.

It's funny. My lodge cast iron was the first thing that came to mind when isee the title.

I think OXO stuff is far worse than it used to be

My husband inherited his from his grandpa that passed in 2016. We still use it as our main TV.

"while there are no visibility stains anymore, it’s enabling our cats to pee on it."

My cat used to pee on our bathroom mats and they never got peed on before that. Some cats just decide here's where we pee!... And no I never figured out how to make them stop, we just stopped using bath mats.

Nope. Wasn't expecting any. Just trying to keep that grease intact and allow it to do the grease thing instead of deciding it needed to drop out in the future.

There is a real truth there that needs talked about.

I’ve been using an ergotron for ten years through three progressively larger main monitors, and it’s still perfect.

Not all non-stick coatings are teflon

yeah the sizing is notoriously terrible

Suggest you talk to savvy operators in your region for recommendations - preferences that BIFL homeowners (this sub) have are not the same as what is required to generate ROI on multifamily rental properties geared at transitory HNW young professionals.

You can very easily go broke in that biz upgrading stuff behind the walls at the expense of the features, amenities and finishes they expect, and should expect appliances to be abused beyond your wildest dreams.

I'm notoriously hard on my gear. I work as a zipline guide out in the East Tennessee canopy, which means my phone is constantly exposed to the elements, getting banged against harnesses, and facing the constant threat of a massive drop.
I wanted to drop a quick review and give a massive shoutout to the metal-reinforced cases from Supcase. I’ve been running one on my Pixel 10 Pro XL, and it is basically a tank. The metal components and multi-layer shock absorption actually live up to the heavy-duty hype. The zinc-alloy kickstand/camera cover is a really nice touch that hasn't snapped off or bent like the cheap plastic ones usually do.
If you work outdoors, do a lot of hiking, or are just generally clumsy, I highly recommend checking out their rugged lineup. It's the only thing I trust when I'm 100 feet up in the trees.

Hello /u/SuchVacation2880! Thank you for your submission! The AutoMod thought that your post might be a request type post and has changed the flair accordingly, but if this was wrong feel free to change it back!

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/BuyItForLife) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Fair! Mazda is good 👍

Yes, id just like a standard lock that has a keypad. If the batteries die, it won't be a big deal

I've been liking Mazda over the past decade or so, but not entirely sure if I'll get another or not when the time comes.

Have my grandfather’s. Had to give it a sand and paint, but otherwise as good as new.

Go to a real supply house and not Home Depot or Menard's.

Given this post however, the best advice would be to hire professionals.

No, they’re just both the same age

i think my grandma has a speed queen dryer for like 30 years or more? she refused to get a new one

I had the same experience.  Finally got my plantar fasciitis to resolve after two years!  It was worth the cost for me.

Randall Made Knives.

If by now you don't believe that PFAS can have negative health effects, then I can't convince you either. One unfortunate scratch and the pan is compromised. People have been using stainless rice cookers like the Tatung for decades and little to no issues with sticking. Why bother messing with the teflon

Buy it for life generally comes with a component of care and maintainence. 

When I broke something as a kid, I never got a replacement. That lesson has lasted long into adulthood, and probably why I'm on this sub.

I used to have an ögon wallet and had the same problem you described. It was really disappointing.

Tried a few replacements that were similar and they all were worse. Tried others, either the leather wore out, damaged my cards, or the product quality was just bad (I had to RMA a wallet from Herschel & Co.)

These days I use a nicer top grain leather wallet. It's thicker than I like, and I know it won't last forever, but it's holding up very well compared to other solutions I've tried.

Schnee makes insanely good pack boots is you live somewhere with long harsh winters.

post it... you can always screenshot it

IIRC I my first Benchmade was a griptillian I picked up at Walmart and wasn't expensive. I think you can still get pretty good deals on them. It's the one that made me fall in love with the axis lock. Eventually getting me into the custom shop. That's not so cheap lol.

Mod or reddit itself must have but I have to notification and can read it lol

That box can last a lifetime, but definitely wouldn't recommend it to anyone unless they had a specific use case for it.

The problem with that style is that you cannot directly access anything that's in the lower portion, and very likely will have two layers of tools in the tray.

Drawers are much better.  Direct access to the tool you need, and no layers of tools means you can see at a glance if a tool is not in its correct place.

The toolbox you pictured could be good for some larger tools in the bottom that can't be buried, and related accessories in the tray.  I've got two of those boxes, and that's how I use them.

I never deleted anything lol.....you got the wrong person...

edit: also you can't take accountability... you fucked up....own it..instead of making things up..insane brother

I think that’s a great idea. Up the ante by getting her initials put on it too.

Go to any local liquor store, they'll have em for sale for like $1 each - try one, if it doesn't work, try a different style one.

L.L. Bean is a rock solid brand. Especially where totes are concerned.

I consider Fiskers the best value but I don’t think of them as BIFL.  For example of lot of the BIFL gardening tools like Felco pruners will have replaceable blades, whereas fiskers do not.

Brother your deleted response is unhinged. you shouldn't be this emotionally invested in a corporation. most people don't have a emotional response to someone asking for small appliance recommendations.

I'm sure there are people that care about you talk to them and get help

Musgrave Pencils mentioned! I did a pencil review (among other topics) blog back in the aughts and they were near the top!

They make separate versions for the global market.

Yes I meant Fiskars, not the defunct EV company. I do consider it buy it for life for the most part. I have split easily hundreds of logs over the years with their log splitter. You just have to be real careful not to ever let it hit the ground to keep the Teflon coating intact. Also, I’ve never had to replace a pair of their pruning shears or scissors. In fact, I’ve never even seen a broken pair of Fisker’s shears or scissors.

When you say "moderate security" are you thinking of "equivalent to a standard household key lock"?

Mine’s been going strong since the 90s in my dad’s hands and the only reason I’m thinking of replacing it is the paint’s finally falling off. I’m not even sure they were exporting at the time, it was straight from Japan

Do some research babe, the queen is in the wrong 💅

Any lock only keeps out honest people. If someone is fully determined to get into a place, they'll do it.

Start slow and move up if you decide you want to invest more heavily..\*It’s mostly because you don’t know what you like yet.

Agreed.

There's always more to get into once you have an idea of what you like.

 Personally I love the Benchmade axis lock (and the lifetime, no nonsense warranty). Started carrying a bugout for the size because it fit nicely for work duty. Grabbed a custom crooked river for a dressier knife, but still mostly carry the bugout.

I also have heavier duty knives I carry when the bugout won't be enough for expected requirements. Then I carry two.

Figuring out what I wanted was a journey of hundreds of knives although some are special duty to be fair. No need to spend it all on the first one.

Fiskars presumably? Yeah, good stuff. No bullshit, no excessive branding, just things that are largely well made and do what they are supposed to. Their stuff doesn’t last for ever, but it’s very good price/quality ratio

Do most medical grade ones have that?

Sand off the rust and repaint it if it's not too thin.

I have a Dueter that has been around the world and I would never travel without it.

Of all the tools I'd like to add to my collection, a sandblaster is probably at the top of the list and I'd definitely use it more than some of the other things I want. We had one in Jr High metal shop and I used the crap out of it, such a fantastic machine.

I have their bread machines too.  Incredible.

I have that same tool box.  I think I bought it in the mid 1990's.   Yes definitely BIFL.   It has outlived 4 cars it sat in.   

I have an identical one thats a few years newer with a plastic tray.  God I hated it.  I felt ripped off because from the outside it looked like you were buying the all metal one for the same price.   Can confirm the plastic tray tool box has also held up 30 years and probably also BIFL (but still not happy about it lol)

Why still need a bigger wallet than an apple wallet? A nomad AirTag wallet is great leather. If you have an iPhone. For me, it’s so nice to not have a third item (phone, keys). Holds 4 cards or 3+bills easily.

we did get the japan one actuallyyy

I think I have the same one I got new as a kid- so over 50 years old.  Your more apt to out grow it than you are to wear it out.  
I’ve seen some rust out but that’s not the boxes fault

Can confirm, got some thigh high tights on sale from Nordstrom 2(!) years ago and they’re still going strong

It wasn't the use of cotton from mass forced labour, but the copyright claim.... I see.

The Fender Precision Bass.

I like IWC and Omega a lot too. I just wish Omega was independent instead of owned by Swatch… Rolex and Tudor being owned by a charitable trust is why I prefer them as luxury items. I like that the profits are given to the arts and education, sciences.

That’s an unexpected response to the thread, I never would’ve even thought to checkout stores/sites like this. And they have a great collection too, Thanks!

You should look into the details of the lawsuit and the context. I have nothing against drag queens, but in this particular instance, Patty Gonia is definitely in the wrong. She has a huge following, and blatantly ripped off Patagonia the company (not the place, as some claim). At this point it’s basically one company suing another for copyright infringement, which if Patagonia die not do, it would open the flood gates to infringements from others. This is just the reality of capitalism in the US. Patagonia gave her multiple warnings, and are only suing for 1 dollar.

I think it could be argued if Rolex still belongs in this category after the 32xx movement debacle. Talked to my local AD who is the biggest Rolex AD in the region with integrated service center, and he said that officially there are no problems with the 32xx movement, but unofficially they are seeing a lot of problems. 

Anyways, if we are to mention Rolex, I will say that the likes of IWC, Omega etc. make sporty watches of the same quality - they will all last a lifetime if they are serviced regularly.

Rip out the carpet. Then replace with different flooring bc you really can’t get cat urine out of carpet. It’s probably soaked through to whatever is underneath.

I have 10 cats and so far the red bottle of nature’s miracle has been the best to get cat urine out of stuff otherwise.

Fiskers is still legit. Their log splitters are amazing and their pruning shears are great. Of course they are still my favorite brand for scissors.

Hell yeah, that's my childhood right there!

I think that’s good life expectancy as compared to the rest of the smartphone market?

Thats way to much for a baseball cap, I don’t see ever spending more than 20$-$50 on a baseball cap. Y’all are yuppies.

The leak issue with flexible packs is real, the gel gets everywhere. IcePaca's packs are non-toxic and designed specifically to avoid that soggy meltwater problem, which sounds like exactly what's been killing your current ones.

Why is Apple on this list?
From my understanding phones degrade within 5-7 years

I agree that Anker isn't all great, but it's still a good brand that's not just a drop shipper, imo. I've had Apple cables fail under a year and Anker cables that have lasted forever, but this is anecdotal.

Can you tell me what has gone wrong with your machine ?  Mine is similar.

I heard there’s a new company making these the old way. Can’t remember the name but I think they’re domestic.

I think they had to for government regulations? Not sure. What other car brand do you prefer?

I think mine is from 93 as well. Very dated look but great machine.

Thanks I’ll note this for when I get dress boots, someday xd. Not enough formal events for wear dress boots yet.

Many seek out only Made in Japan Zojirushi models for their supposed quality; I couldn't tell the difference.

Toyotas going from V8s -> 3.6L hybrids is kind of the opposite of what OP is asking about

Unfortunately Filson’s quality has been in decline after moving their production to Asia while continuing to raise prices. They were bought out by private equity

I have one got it from a great grandparents basement it’s a little rusty and dinged up but I’ll be damned if it don’t still open close and hold tools latches even still work

I have a few of these... 3 that I got from various thrift stores... after the family donated them upon the owner's death... so yes.  They are simple, tough, and functional.  No bells and whistles to break.  If you drop it and bend it up you fix it by hitting it with a hammer.  They'll outlive me.

And use the time they are spiraling to try and find 90 degree cables

I bought my mum a Blunt umbrella for Mother’s Day and she loves it. They have really nice colours and designs available.

I’m not about to support a brand that’s suing a drag queen.

Anker? Really? I just consider Anker the best of the Amazon and white label drop shippers. Like, I do like them because they replace their broken stuff, but their stuff does break, and I mostly expect it to.

I have Apple cables that look like they’ve been through a war and still work. I have Anker cables under a year old I’ve replaced.

If you are worried about breaking an expensive iPad, that is a valid concern. If you are prone to dropping and breaking stuff, then perhaps Apple Care+ coverage is for you.

$5 per month Apple Care+ insurance coverage for an iPad covers drops and accidental damage and theft and loss with a $29 deductible.

lol if Milwaukee made a E-Bike.

Rolex 

Toyota/Lexus

Staub Cookware

Michelin Tires

Costco Membership 

Apple

Barbour, filson, belstaff for clothing, at least the clothing their known for. 

Also add OXO to the list for kitchen items

But that means they made quality tools 25 years ago.  Are they still?

I’ve had the same issue with phones that used to last but lose support. In my experience, Google Pixel and Apple tend to last longer mainly because they get software updates for years.

There is nothing on that which will wear out

I have GE opal and its great

lol how did you find this, such an old post!

I still have the desk and the NZXT case

+100 for aliens reference

My dad has been using same pair of their pliers for like 20 years and they still work perfectly. The grip is bit worn but mechanism is still tight as new day. I think German tool companies in general just have different approach to manufacturing - they build things to last instead of making you buy replacement every few years.

you're almost right, if the 5s have replaceable batteries, earpads, headpad, driverunits and everything that's plastic, it might be bifl

Speed Queen has had several issues over the last several years, including outsourcing their warranty, newer models with poor performance, and a control board without proper voltage protection that can fry due to a fault on the lid close sensor.

Here is one user's experience with major unit and warranty issues:

Oh no 😭

That’s outside of my financial scope at the moment. I am thankful that it’s only in the corners of certain spots but if I’m ripping this pos carpet out, I’m gonna do the whole thing (roughly 800sq ft.) Hate this carpet with a passion, wouldn’t be sad to see it go…

How big are your monitors? 

I ended up going with a sim racing setup, it holds 2 27” and a 34” ultra wide, and it’s designed to allow them to be positioned without gaps

First knife, for opening boxes… Ozark Trail. Cheap. Easy to find.  You won’t cry if you lose it.  Should still last a lifetime.

Have you tried Kirby? I have high pill carpet and it works great

Okay, I'm mad that I read your comment, because those are super pretty and I don't have $520 set aside for a raincoat lmao

Kirby! It’s a tank and they last forever. Look for used ones on Facebook. I got mine for $200 and it’s lasted 3 years with 0 problems.

I have a giant breed dog that sheds 24/7, and the Kirby suction is great

I have 2 small Crabtree and Evelyn teddy bear fingernail brushes given to us on the birth of our now 42 year old son. We have used them daily and now use them for our grandchildren’s grimy fingers.

Amazon sells big thick rubber bumper iPad cases for clumsy kids…

I own two, but being storied in our somewhat humid basement has led to some rusting

Nuke it from orbit. It's the only way.

Seriously, you will NEVER get this clean. It's soaked into the rug, the pad, and the concrete beneath. 

Rip it all out (wear respirators - seriously) clean the bare floor as well as you can, let it dry, and then seal the contaminated floor with a sealing primer like Killz. If they've peed on the walls, remove and replace the drywall.

There's no such thing as a substance that "neutralizes" dog and cat urine to the point where pets won't easily smell it and keep marking the same area. There sure are lots of such fairy tales for sale, though...

Removing and encapsulating the contamination is the only way.

9 years!? Now that's good eating on safety but can it hold up falling from a small height without cracking (im clumsy 😅)

Wow now that interesting but I guess I just figured android tablets would be more my speed (worried about being clumsy and breaking it 😅)

If you are willing to drop a little cash, check out Vermont Glove.  They’ve been making goat leather gloves by hand for over a hundred years.  An incredible amount of thought is baked into the design.  Not cheap, but serious BIFL.

Quite possible if not probable… that’ll be a last resort since the carpet is covering the entire basement and I’m not quite ready to cover the cost of replacing it.

Thank you so much for the information. I didn't know an iPad could last so long.

oxo here as well 10 years and still going

Mine is starting to rust, so perhaps buy for long life rather than for life.

Unfortunately almost everything was made better in 2012, even same brand with same product name.

Food grade 5 gallon bucket and a Gamma Seal lid.

Hello /u/DexB1! Your post or comment was removed for using an Amazon Affiliate link link Shortener. (see Rule 8). You can change the URL and re-post it.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/BuyItForLife) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Can I fix or upgrade it myself?

E-bike companies pop up all the time and disappear just as quickly. You can either shoot for a company that will be around in a few years, or aim for a bike that you can fix without having to get someone to custom fabricate parts for.

I have a basic mountain bike e-bike that had some mods from the last user, and it's standard enough that I can replace most of the parts myself. The electronics are accessible so when I decide to fix the headlight (I rarely use it so it's not a priority), I can do so with any 3rd party option I want. I can also replace the controller without having to dig it out from the frame.

Another option to consider is upgrading the hub motor. This can get into some tricky legal territory depending on where you live or where you ride. E-bikes come with a restricted set of specs from the store, but you can upgrade them later if you so choose. In fact, you can get a beefier motor for having fun with some friends on private land, then swap back to a road-legal one for riding around the neighborhood.

For real lmao.  Wonder how all these brands are connected or if they just all went with the same marketing firm.

I got my friend a kitchen knife after helping her move into her first home. I'd done her dishes at her old place, and her kitchen knives *sucked* lol. 

She really did appreciate having a "one good knife" in her brand new kitchen.

I was going to say. Keep it dry and it will be found by archaeologists centuries from now

Si probaste las toallas grandes de italic? que tal están?

Lodge is probably the best widely-available American brand of cast iron, but I've heard that Cuisinart enameled is not bad.  On the higher end we also see a lot of French brands like Le Creuset and Staub.  Never heard of Skeppshult, but now I have something new to look into!

I would say Sony for more than just cameras. Their TVs are excellent. I've been using them exclusively for over 25 years now, starting with my first ever CRT Trinitron in my bedroom as a kid and now most recently a 65" OLED. Every one I ever bought still works. I've upgraded to bigger and better models but never actually needed to replace one. Only downside is the cost - they're consistently more expensive than their competition for similar models. I suck it up and pay a premium because I've had such good experiences with the brand and want a product that will last. But if you're someone who upgrades frequently and doesn't plan to keep a TV for more than few years, it's probably not worth it.

I have read conflicting reviews on the longevity of them, but I bought a few Duckhead umbrellas as gifts recently and everyone has loved them. They have nice designs and the handle is unique. They seem solid but I don’t really use umbrellas often enough to say if these will last forever

maybe the carpet pad underneath is just completely soaked through with old urine and needs replacing - had similar issue in my apartment and no amount of cleaning machines helped until landlord finally ripped up everything and started fresh

That would be a godsend if you did, I’m willing to put in the work to get it resolved 👍

Honestly, if a Revolution HydroSteam isn't making a dent, I'm not convinced the problem is the machine anymore.

It sounds like the odor may be buried deep in the carpet backing or even the pad underneath, especially if previous pets were repeatedly marking that area. Before spending a bunch more money on another carpet cleaner, I'd probably look into an enzyme treatment like Anti Icky Poo or BioKleen and really saturate the affected areas.

If you do end up replacing the machine, the Mytee Lite and the Bissell Big Green are the two I'd be looking at. They're a noticeable step up from most consumer carpet cleaners.

I went down a similar rabbit hole helping a family member with pet odors a while back. If you want, I can send over the specific products and listings I ended up finding.

Mine is still going strong after 18 years! Convinced s friend to buy one and he is in love!

Small pieces of metal and debris can get attracted to the open magnets on the cable, which over time can lead to short. It's a literal break in the pathway for the current that is volatile. This is why none of those cables meet regulations. Fresh out of the factory/out of the box in a sterile area, it's going to be totally fine, but I'm reality it introduces a single point of failure that can have some pretty detrimental results

Very unique sleeve material, feels robust, coils insanely well (specifically the 4m and 5m ones I got for travelling and using in hotels).

They feel more like XLR cables than USB cables in a good way.

Respectfully, who ever considered Kavu to be BiFL?

While I know this sub has become more about making sure you are purchasing something that will last as opposed to actually expecting products to actually be for a lifetime, but Kavu has never at any point been considered an heirloom quality brand.

Is the fabric replaceable on those?

Look up conversions to see how much volume you need for each product. 5lb of rice should be about 3 quarts, 5lb of oats should be about 6 quarts

Syntic sells a lot of glass flip-top jars that would work well

If you want a lot of jars you can buy 0.5 or 1 gallon glass jars in bulk with 110-400 size lids

Cambro has their Classic and Freshpro lines that will have larger sizes like this, make sure you get the Seal Covers instead of the regular covers

Starfrit LockNLock and Sistema make some quality plastic large bulk containers

Ooh you’d be lucky they are real buy it for life items - they’re in the £450 mark new and you might get one on Vinted but doubt you’d find one in thrift!

Thats pretty cool it's still going, although you are missing out on an etire world of OLED visual experience.

Another option you could consider is using in-ear foam earplugs combined with some budget bone conduction headphones. Other than that you would probably have to go with the ear buds + over ear protection

Lol knipex cobras will sometimes grip where an actual spanner won't

I've never heard of Rain Sisters before, but now I know what to look for when I go thrift shopping!

I do enjoy this one.  Currently obsessed with my Toyo Steel one though, worth looking into.  I have multiple toolboxes and a rolling tool chest though in my garage shop/studio

I got a Flairosol Olivia spray bottle from Amazon 6 months ago and love it, no leaks so far but obviously it hasn’t been that long.

Plastic handle is the only thing I'd consider changing out, rest is built well.  Have one of these too among others

I had a similar realization when I tried to find quality boots for my wife. Most brands either make well made gender neutral boots that look slightly masculine (redwing, imo) or make different men’s and women’s lines with the women’s having inferior construction techniques (Thursday). Grant Stone was the one brand I could find that made Goodyear welted stylish women’s boots.

Ergotron is probably your best bet in this scenario

Quality of the tv is highly dependent on the particular model but in general TCL has done better than Hissense in longevity tests. I would recommend qm7k at a minimum though for tcl. Their panels tend to be pretty reflective and the lesser models dont really have the brightness to compensate.

I'ma be dragging this bag from the ADO bus station to the ferry pier in Playa del Carmen in a few weeks. It's less than 500m, but the cobblestone streets make it interesting...

+1 for knipex, i use them for all my plier needs with the one exception being wire strippers where i use weidmüller. Thats just personal preference tho.

I bought this one, power rock9ng even, air massage, heat and bluetooth speaker. I love it.

I use flip-top glass jars

YES. Same. I should probably accidentally send a link to my husband so he can get the hint!

This is a generational toolbox.

Note that for airtight you'll need to get the seal lids, not the regular covers

We spent the extra $3 and got the stainless steel bowl over the Teflon bowl. When the Teflon scratches it shouldn't be used.

You get an upvote just for mentioning moog! And I agree. 
I’ve also been quite happy with Roland and Yamaha higher end models, but I don’t know much about their less expensive stuff.

I think they designed these to break easily just so they could sell more replacements. Both the old iPhone and USB-C cords are better designed so they don't break as easily as micro USB.

I use an instant pot bc I just didn't want to get another thing even if small

But the most common one I see being used is the tiny cheapo ones I see at the philipino supermarket. If they work for ppl who have an entire aisle dedicated to rice, they must work just fine

The Pelican Aegis is actually one of the more interesting options I've seen mentioned for your use case. Most carry-on discussions revolve around clothes and business travel, but hauling dive gear changes the equation quite a bit.

I still think the LEVEL8 Adventure is probably the closest match to your original checklist, while the Sympatico has the stronger long-term reputation. The Pelican's bigger wheels and hybrid design make a compelling case if you're regularly dealing with rough surfaces and heavier loads.

Ive owned two of their coats, they’re beautiful and as long as you follow washing instructions they will last you a long time. I only replaced the one I had before because it didn’t fit anymore but it was completely in one piece after two years of almost everyday wear.

Put them on-blast on social media and tag all their social media handles.  Make a video about them basically telling you to suck it.  Tag all the kitchen and cooking social media outfits like America's Test Kitchen and GoodEats on the video so their followers see it.

I bought a bunch at dollar tree back when the items were still $1 each. Cheaper to buy 10 of those ones than one of the more expensive cords.

Felco garden tools. I have had the same hand-pruners 25+ years (several of those years as a professional gardener).

What are you gonna do, beat your kids?

Oh have you seen those mega expensive but beautiful rain coats? From Rain Sisters? They’re absolutely gorgeous but I’d never spend that sort of money on myself.

I feel the same. I’ve used my instant pot for rice because I wanted to make a lot and my Zojirushi is on the smaller side, but it didn’t make it the way I wanted. I tried again another time and it was the same. So back to my Zojirushi I went.

I was gifted a beautiful rainbow excellent quality golf umbrella a few years ago and I have to say it’s one of my favourite items - being British I use it all the time and it never blows inside out and the bright colours really cheer me up on grey days

I had no idea they made luggage! I have a backpacking pack that’s holding strong after 15 years and a commute bag that has given me 0 issues after almost 10.

Can't recommend Knipex enough.  I finally bought a tiny Cobra to throw in my Leatherman case, and it's maybe 500x better to use in most situations than the LM pliers.

This is my answer too. We’ve had our Zojirushi since 2009 I think and it works so well. I’ve only considered upgrading because I love some of the new features. But even if I did, I’d still keep my old battlehorse around for a while to make sure I truly love a newer model.

As far as backpacking/canoeing gear goes, Duluth Pack.  Still made in Minnesota, best in the world portage packs and pretty much everything else.  Their store in Canal Park rules, too.

In the same vein, Cooke Custom Sewing is a pretty niche brand, but their stuff is amazing.  Steger Mukluks as well.  Minnesotans just make great shit for people who would have been fur trappers maybe 250 years ago.

One of my wife's old colleagues went to the North Pole like fifteen years ago and turned me onto CCS.  Kickass over boots and shell mittens are what he was using, but I later found their Sil-Nylon tarps to be the best I've ever used.  I currently have three Duluth Packs, one from the early 1960s (my grandpa bought that one), one from the mid ''90s (dad), one from like 2012 (I bought it) and the quality hasn't moved an inch anywhere except upwarda.  And my Steger mittens are a godsend for winter camping in MN (I actually wore out some mukluks from them but it was like 2k miles and fifteen years.  That's to be expected, and I want to support them, so I just bought a replacement pair and the old ones are like my "around the block in slush" ones).

it says "self-rocking speeds"  DRAT!

Just reading along and I’d like to say that actually I don’t need more iron. My body can disintegrate it or whatever so it can literally kill me. Haemochromatosis 🤷🏽‍♀️

nope just a discussion of declining quality over time from trusted brands! seems like so many things are lower quality nowadays

lol at dixon ticonderoga & bic! reminds me of being in high school

Still using the one my grandpa gave me. God knows how long he had it

Yes! Yes! Yes!!  When I bought my first car (‘62 Mercury Monterey) in the late 80s, my father assembled a great Craftsman tool set housed in that box. It is still in my garage. It out lasted my father and will likely get passed on to my own kids.  

Get it!

Insane that "buy it for life" is now the "unsolicited parenting advice" sub.

Why is your assumption that they aren't? This is incredibly condescending.

I personally would love a food processor that can chop me a salad.

All Clad, Pelican, most camera manufacturers (Leica, Hasselblad, Canon, Sony, Nikon), Sound Devices, Yeti, Moog, Make Noise, Herman Miller, Knoll, Knipex, Wera, Apple, Anker, Arturia, Sennheiser, Hermes, Royer Labs, DPA, Sonosax, Musgrave Pencils, Dixon Ticonderoga, Feathered Friends, Pilot Pens, Lamy, Zojirushi, 3M, Leatherman, Olight, Bic lighters. 

I'm sure I could think of 100 more, this was just off the top of my head looking around my office. Is there a type of product in particular that you're interested in?

Yes! I have the smallest one (I use it for travel and keeping my work bag for emergencies) and even that one is tough! I’ve been very pleased!

I just bought my mum an umbrella from the German brand Knirps for her birthday. Giving it to her tonight, so fingers crossed!  

Seems like BIFL as the company has been in business for almost 100 years, but I have no personal experience with using the brand (although I’ve bookmarked one for myself for my own birthday later).  I think it’s a nice, thoughtful gift idea.

Budget is a big thing- if you have a few hundred $ then a Benchmade bugout 
For reasonable money- you can’t go wrong with a Crkt 
Another solid and traditional knife is the Buck 110 
Spyderco has some great knives as well

All can be bifl.  

Some of the cheaper ones will work but you won’t be happy with them 

Blade shape, size and appearance, use and budget will all factor into your decision. All of the above knives will be solid choices you’ll be happy with.  Just be aware that you probably will end up adding to your collection over time

Buck 110 Hunter Sport is my EDC go to. Been rolling with it for a few years now and zero complaints with it so far.

Not when you’re traveling as much as I was. It’s been years, but other than my smaller wheelie bag, I still have and use all the pieces. Spirit broke the handle on the wheelie bag, was the Mable to get it repaired.

It’s not *that* small… in fact it’s the average size

Let.me guess: you think Darn Tough are BIFL, because they have a warranty.

Since I’m here 2 years later, gap has heavyweight relaxed fit tees, that were a good fit for an athletic build. But note that relaxed fit is of course not the same as athletic fit. 

Bought recently. So I am not sure how long they’ll last but they’re pretty thick and seem like they’ll last.

I bought from them last month!

My max lite 5 lasted less than 18 months of travel and they dont have replacement parts. But hey, 15% off another crappy bag. They lost me

Please send the short list if you don't mind. 

Also, another possibility has entered the chat: the Pelican Aegis 22" rolling hybrid duffel. Hard surfaces on the top and bottom to protect gear, cordura on the sides for more flexibility, BIG wheels for rough surfaces, large volume, and it's on sale for $150. Thoughts?

Out of all my appliances I’ve had since college (10 years now), my Zojirushi rice cooker is still performing the same as day 1 with no issues. Outlived my toaster, air fryer, microwave, coffee maker, etc.

I found it after looking at the us site vs canadian site. Looks like the flightcrew series is all the 2 wheel carryon bags?

The batteries are working much better off my new charger, so sadly think it is the charger

Kuhn Rikon Safety Opener. No sharp edges on the can or the lid.

I recommend schlage as well tbh, thing is I’ve seen videos of ways to bypass their keypad locks (you can bypass pretty much any lock given enough know how and skill) but from what I’ve seen the guides are up and easy to find due to their popularity as a choice. Almost all of those are physical bypasses though, not the keypad portion itself

Rick Hinderer & Chris Reeve Knives

Perfect, I worry about Internet security with WiFi devices. My brother is an internet security guy and he doesn't trust any smart home devices. 

Id love the listings! Thank you!

Thanks!

The Lock I'm replacing is for a door in the home. It's not a heavy duty lock already, so I'm looking for moderate security rather than heavy duty.

I am considering adding some kind of security to their home but it won't be hard to the current Lock's security. 

Idk why my phone thinks Lock is a capital word.

I bought a duracell one about a year back but never started using it cos it had to have 2 batteries min. in to charge

Great idea! I love to receive gifts that are a well considered, high quality version of something I need or want. Sounds really thoughtful. 

For the long, golf type umbrellas, perhaps 

I’ve heard good things about Blunt umbrellas but haven’t tried them yet. 

I’d consider how your wife uses them ie. would she prefer something as compact as possible for a small bag or pocket, or something larger etc

Save your money rice cookers are pricey if you getting a durable one. 

Also internet hype made em overpriced. 

Best option option for Crockpot turbo electric pressure cooker. 

It works as a rice cooker and as a pressure cooker and many other options. 

Also on rice setting, your rice will be ready in as little as 7 minutes.

Yep. Got mine in college for my bike tools and still use it today. Going on 30+ years now.

An "M" = million.

Thats just what American Airlines reports. I was a 1K on UAL for a lot of years before they pissed me off and I broke up with them. Likely closer to 2M if you add it all up. 

For context, it's about 80 laps of the earth.

We have the same in our home

New Miele dishwashers and laundry machines seen to have very similar construction as midrange brands, as opposed to older ones, which were built like tanks. My guess is they're probably more reliable than Samsung, but no better than Bosch.

Except not everyone likes traveling or has the ability to do for a variety of reasons. Travel is also MUCH more expensive than a BIFL gift

Why are you projecting your own relationship and desired gifts onto OP and his wife? That's his spouse. One would hope they understand each other's interests

2 of the best gifts I ever received were a stand mixer and a suitcase. Decidedly "unexciting" but practical and extremely well-loved

Would suggest getting the Apec water system roes-50. i got this system a while ago for my home. Great water taste and easy installation

In terms of durability, the best unbeatable 

Long lasting she said, Henry guy knows how to last. 

In terms of space saving I would give it 5 outta 10

Ducking power yes very strong suction 

However I have come across modern wired  hoovers that puts Henry to shame in terms of suction. 

Thier is a lill french hoover (can't remember the brand) the suction power is too strong that if you use it on a laminated floor , it literally could lift a full panel of the laminate on one side. 

Use it on carpet and compare amount of dust 100% more dust than the Henry . 

Henry is a buy for life indeed,

 in terms of durability and long lasting and available parts . Also if you want to sell it you still get 50% of yer money back minimum

I couldn’t stand the OXO pop containers!

It’s already been through “lifetime” and is ready to go another round.

knipex is the one i keep coming back to. pliers, cutters, bolt cutters -- the quality hasnt changed in decades. you can still buy replacement parts for tools from the 80s. i usually check couponpicked before any bigger tool purchase to see if a sale is actually real or just inflated markup, but honestly knipex pricing is pretty stable across retailers -- no fake discounts. they just cost what they cost and they last forever.

tell your family to fuck off with the pocket watching

I'm confident that whoever stole my Craftsman toolbox full of tools all those years ago is still using it.

Stovetop does get hot!  Just not as hot.  Also, you need pans that work with a magnet for induction to work.  We started slowly replacing a while before the cooktop change, buying the nicer pans as we needed them.

There’s also a bit of a learning curve but that speed boil is awesome.

I just wish they made models with a stainless bowl. I refuse to use anything nonstick

Other than my god awful paint job the one I made in highschool  20 years ago, I did not like remembering it has been that long, is still in use.

DreamSofa: I have struggled with the purchase process (double invoiced for upgrades). The actual production time is nowhere near the promised timeline. The progress updates are non-existent... IF the sofa turns out to be quality, it will be worth it.
The overall process has greatly impacted my confidence. I would not recommend DreamSofa if you need the turnaround posted on their website or if dealing with invoicing issues would bother you.

I should have clarified, it was a handle on a drawer that now looking at it, my uncle may have added himself lol. The handle on top is actually pristine looking

My in-laws have been using a Schlage keypad lock for years and it's been rock solid. No Wi-Fi, no app, just punch in the code and go. I'd probably look at Schlage first, with Lockey as another good option if you want something more heavy-duty.

I still have the listings I was comparing saved somewhere, so if you'd like them, I can send them over.

Hello /u/Embarrassed_Fly_9569! Thank you for your submission! The AutoMod thought that your post might be a request type post and has changed the flair accordingly, but if this was wrong feel free to change it back!

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/BuyItForLife) if you have any questions or concerns.*

The space issue is a deal breaker for me

I have my dad’s.   He worked for sears.   It lasted his life and so far 67 years of my life

Has the quality dipped then? I have that exact bag and I’ve been using it daily for like 8 years now. Only real sign of wear is fading fabric. 

Can’t imagine why you’d want to put a laptop in it though, it’s clearly not designed for that.

Left middle Redback right middle RM williams. Redback is closer to blundstnes, Rms are Goodyear welted whole cut chelsea which is a massive step above blundstone

I'm happy to see your comments on your DreamSofa. I have struggled with the purchase process (double invoiced for upgrades). The actual production time is nowhere near the promised timeline. The progress updates are non-existent... If the sofa turns out to be quality, it will be worth it. This process has greatly impacted my confidence and would not recommend DreamSofa if you need the turnaround posted on their website or if dealing with double invoices would bother you.

I have my dad's toolbox and although beat up and rusty, it's definitely BIFL

Get a metal chest handle or some steel pull handle of some kind, place it over the top, drill some holes and attach using bolts or rivets. 

That'll make it last another 50 years

My dad has had his my entire life. It’s actually likely older than I am (36)

Oh and you're saying that your current dish rack doesn't fully occupy the full 20 inches? There's quite a bit of different dish racks of that size on the market though..?

I bet its not even the charger. I bet the batteries have increased internal resistance so much that the max voltage cutoff gets tripped first.

Hell yeah it is. I've got 1 that was my dad's (the blue, slightly older, one that was originally my grandfather's), and 1 that I bought on eBay a few years ago for myself (the grey one). Just repainted both a couple of months ago.

I have the exact same one.
I think it’s still working, but I’m not using it since years.

I inherited that exact one from my dad’s dad who was born in 1911. It’s BIFLtimes.

Miluju svůj župan z Nordspa.cz , jsou kvalitní

I have my grandpas, it definitely is!

I have this exact same toolbox in red. My dad gave it to me when I was 6 years old. It was my first tool chest. It's still in use now sitting in my garage filled with tools.

💯 BIFL

I’m happy to see your comments on the DreamSofa product. I have struggled with the purchase process (double invoiced issues included). The actual production time far exceeds the promised timeline. The progress updates are non-existent… 
If the sofa turns out to be quality, it will be worth it but the process has greatly impacted my confidence.

Mine is still going strong.

I use usb-c rechargeable AA shaped batteries if you looking for something new.

I have two of these from 1979. Sears had a promotion and sold them with tools inside. I bought one with metric, and one with standard. Mine don't look as pristine as yours. But yes, the toolbox and tools are BIFL.

And so they'll break. Nothing is less capitalist than true bifl products.

Hm now I will be much more hesitant in purchasing their products. Shame. I liked their stuff.

Ride1up vorsa-- I have the precursor to this model and it's very solid. Class ii/iii is plenty fast. It can confidently say the one you'll be most happy with is easily serviceable (nothing fancy or proprietary) easy to replace battery, and light enough that you can move it around all the other shit in your garage.

Anker will likely get you the furthest but every properly spec'd C cable end has to be weaker than a C port (ports getting destroyed was a big problem with micro B) so there's a ceiling on how much abuse they can take.

You're welcome!

They're very convenient, but they are way too risky.

Trust me, I really, really wish they were safe. Lol.

I grabbed one of these at a resale shop a few years ago. Heavy and full of someone's old stuff. I strapped iton the back of my bike to ride home with and the sound it made was quite something.

Mine is pretty beat up, needs a good once-over with some good cleaning stuff and maybe a fresh coat of paint or something. That's something I hope to get around to in the next couple of years.

offline electronic smart locks fit the bill in terms of google searches for what you are looking for, but they aren't really any more secure than a standard lock. They still have a physical key-way which can be picked and they are still electronic meaning they need some form of power (usually batteries) which can corrode with time. adding a point of failure. Regardless, the more fancy you get with locks and tech the less secure they are.

Honestly it depends more on what you are hoping to keep locked away. If its for an outdoor lock meant to last more than be super secure, stuff like Warded Locks last a very long time but aren't considered very secure.

That said for what you asked I recommend this: 

about as secure as you could get.

I just checked my garage. Mine (from late '70s) is still there.

I WISH these were for sale these days. I have broken multiple plastic toolboxes now.

My dad still has (he’s 73yo). I inherited my grandfathers when he passed.

How did it work out?  Do you like your new wallet?

I recently recommended this in this sub www.gustbuster.com

After reading your follow-up, I think the Briggs & Riley Sympatico, LEVEL8 Adventure, and Victorinox Spectra 3.0 would be the three I'd spend the most time comparing.

Honestly, the more you describe your use case, the more I think you're looking at the right types of bags already. The Sympatico seems strongest on reputation, the LEVEL8 seems strongest on usable space, and the Victorinox sits somewhere in the middle.

I went pretty deep down the carry-on rabbit hole recently and ended up saving a few specific models that looked particularly good for heavy gear loads. If you'd like, I can send over the shortlist I ended up with.

Stumbled upon this post while planning a new desk. That NZXT case is an awesome throwback.

Bought mine new in the late 70's. Still have it.so, yea.

Yes. My dad has one that’s probably older than me and I’m in my 40s.

HA My husband just bought our first rice cooker from Zojirushi! Our friend recommended it and I was like "200 dollars for that??" But we love it so far!

Do it! And show her this thread! So thoughtful

You’re right about Chanel; many heritage brands eventually trade quality for brand tax. Regarding All-Clad, they remain the gold standard.

For modern reliability, Patagonia is the benchmark for their Ironclad Guarantee and repair culture. Other non-negotiables include Zojirushi, Speed Queen, Miele in appliances category and Herman Miller (ergonomics). For Luggage, Briggs and Rilles and TravelPro produce great quality products. These brands succeed by prioritizing engineering over lifestyle marketing, ensuring high-end actually means technical superiority, not just a status symbol.

Yes! I love when someone researches it for me and buys me something I didn’t even know would make my life easier or better. Like if someone said here’s the best kitchen knife for your habits, needs, and gap in your collection, I’d be ecstatic. Or if my umbrella turned inside-out and then someone gifted me a sturdy one.

Of course its immediately claimed by the head of the household

Given how old it appears, I would say you’ll be giving that to your great grandchildren in your will.

I have mine from when I was a kid and I am 47 years old now.

Not the easiest way to open a can, but for real bifl.

Oh awesome , I feel so much more assured now about buying it !!
I hate that water flossers are so noisy but I guess you can’t have it all . Thanks again !!

It is an adapter actually. But it still works great. This is the link. If that doesn't work I can DM it to you. Here is a screenshot of the listing as well.

Real simple: Case mini black horn.

A few nice features: SAK Waiter

Heavy on features:  Leatherman Bond.

Honorable mention: Leatherman Micra

My dad has had this toolbox since I was a kid.  Maybe before I was born.  He’s 79.  I will give this toolbox to my children who will give it to their children.

I’m sure their hose is great. I guess I’ve just never had big hose problems that needed to be solved. 

The adjustable cleaning nozzle is ok. I use it for washing my car and spot-watering my lawn. I would not recommend it for anything related to gardening as the stream is generally too powerful. 

I bought the handheld nozzle in a combo grab with the shower sprayer attachment that I expressed my dislike for above. Since I don’t use the shower sprayer, I have no use for the handheld nozzle. It wouldn’t make sense with their other attachments. 

The quick disconnects, faucet splitter, and swivel attachments are really the only products I care about from them at this point. They are top notch and I have them on every possible connection. I even use quick disconnects on my hose-end herbicide sprayers. Just make sure that if they are going on an aluminum attachment, you use anti-seize grease or you will learn the hard way like me. 😓

I dislike the Samsonite's clamshell layout; you have to pack each side individually and hope they fit together well. And the hook closures just suck. It takes a lot of floor / counter / bed space to open the bag since you can't just pop the top. And worst of all, stuff tends to fall out of whichever side is on top when you open it.

I ruled out TravelPro even though I like their stuff (I use a Platinum Elite softside as my non-scuba carryon). The hardshell solves some of the problems I've had with the Samsonite - each side is fully enclosed with a zipper panel, so stuff won't fall out - but the handle takes up a ton of space in the bottom of the bag and the USB charger wastes even more, so the net capacity is 39 liters of less-usable volume.

I didn't realize that Briggs & Riley because they mostly make soft-sided luggage. But you got me looking again and it turns out the Sympatico 22 is a top-open hardshell. It's a strong contender. The USB charging wastes some space, but it has 41 liters of capacity (not quite the 45 liters of the Level8, but still pretty good). My only reservation is the price - my wife might kill me. It's still worth considering, though - thanks!

If there's anything else you think is worth a look, please don't hesitate to let me know. Thanks again!

I always view all metal objects as generally BIFL so long as its properly maintained (stainless steel will still rust if you abuse it), the exception to this being things that will be worn away with use (knives for example, which slowly lose material as they're sharpened)

I’ve had mine since the mid 80s with no issues

Definitely cast iron pans brands, I don’t know American Brands, but here in Europe skeppshult has been producing for 120 years and they are still good. Just an example, there are other brands too. Buy 2 pans in 2 sizes and you are done for life and can inherit them to your kids and grandkids too

Have one purchased from a garage sale for over 15 years now.

Just resend in the photo.

Wd40 wipedown would guarantee about 7-8 lifetimes

My dad has one of these

The point is Costco doesn't have every brand available obviously. But they're pretty good at vetting what they offer. But what they offer, if it doesn't hold up, then you return it. I used to research small appliances to death. Now if I need a coffee maker I just buy from the whse or the online selection, I trust them; if they let me down and I can't get 5 years out of a coffee maker back it goes. That's the point of membership.

My grandpa got one of those in the sixties. It has literally outlasted his ability to use it. Fully loaded it's probably 70ish pounds, so now with him in his 80's it stays in his truck because it's become far too unwieldy for him to lug around on a job site lol

Oooh, it certainly is! I have one I inherited from my grandfather.

Culinare Magican - currently going on 20years and still working fine, also works left handed which is useful for some folk

I have one that has the original molded metal handle. My brother has my dad’s framer toolbox. They cut a hole in the box to hold framing square. That being said damn they get heavy, and really scrape the shiznits out if truck bed.

I have the same one, was my dads, easily 50+ years old now and going strong

Looks like the perfect BIFL lunchbox to own and lock away my sandwich from John who stole my lunches repeatedly.

Sure. In this case we are approximating BIFL  and “buy it once,” hoping to accomplish the goals of buying as little as possible and when we do buy something, it is high quality so we can get the maximum usage out of our purchases. Quality can mean many things. In this case part of the “high quality” of LC is that they insure against their products most common flaw (in the case for ceramics, it’s breakage). Therefore the offer of warranty makes LC a higher quality product than “any other cheap stonewear.” Does that help you grasp the concept better? Or do ya just want to troll and argue more?

Hello /u/Firsttimeredditor28! Thank you for your submission! The AutoMod thought that your post might be a request type post and has changed the flair accordingly, but if this was wrong feel free to change it back!

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/BuyItForLife) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Absopositively!  
Real US steel. Before plastic toolboxes were a thing

I got myself a James Smith umbrella with a polished wooden handle as a souvenir the last time I was in London, and it's one of my favorite things ever. If someone else had bought that for me, I would have been thrilled.

I still have the one I won in a raffle in 1979, so yes.

Yes, and they were lower maintenance (and easier to keep open between washes. Why do they design the door to spring back closed on these new ones?)

The pressure on the Phillips is definitely lower at level 1 compared to the waterpik level 1. That was one of the reasons why I switched over.

real question right there

  
top-opening thing can narrow options pretty hard for sure

Pretty sure if climbed in that you'd be safe from a nuclear detonation.

This!  
My grandfather was a Sun oil (Sunoco precursor) and I have four of the identical tool boxes and they are in fantastic shape still.

I still have my dad’s from the 60s, along with his 1960 Target brand circular saw. all steel, with a cord, 71/4” blade. Runs like a champ, heavy af.

My apartment has this washer and dryer set and we love them. Landlord offered to replace them but we turned him down since they are amazing work horses

You need r/4kTV they have a buyers guide that led me to buy a TCL (can’t remember the model, but it’s one they recommended) and it’s the best TV I’ve ever had.

SKU matters hugely. Brand is less important.

Wow! 1.5 billion flight miles are a lot!

I have 2 Kennedy's from my grandfather and they are as good as new.  If you break your metal toolbox, you are probably doing it wrong.  Whatever 'it' is I guess.

Thats great to know mate

Which brand do you recommend?

I have my great uncle's who had it for 50 years before me

Thank you for sharing your experience

Kinda expensive though

Heard only good things abt it

you do you.  worked well for my use case. i felt broken off connectors in my car were more dangerous

Many actually recommended it

It's pretty close. My dad's began to rust on the bottom where the paint wore through, but that's easy to fix.

It’s from that four letter place that starts with T.  I’m on a budget and that is the global  store front to the best affordable stainless steel manufacturing. You just have to make sure it is SUS 304 at least for the body.   

I’ve wasted a lot of money on plastic solutions which were okay for about 10, 15 years and now plastic rot has taken hold. Any drop results in a crack. So I vowed to replace with only stainless steel options even if it’s going to cost more up front.

As an alternative to Craftsman, Toyo makes fantastic boxes in a number of sizes. I have their cantilever box, and have used it in my service truck for a decade…it doesn’t look new, but it’s been through hell and it still does its job.

$400 T-Shirt?!? For $400 It had better blow me every night, then get itself to the washer and dryer!

I have one of those. Its my replacement father. Same age as the defunct one.

I think it’s a great gift for an anniversary. We did big trips for anniversaries for a few years, but the year there was a last minute cancellation we ordered pizza, set up a blanket fort, and watched movies on an iPad. It’s one of my wife’s favorite memories and she requests that we do this every other year because of how much she loves it. The other years have been much more simple gifts or trips than before at her request as well. 

No need to be rude to other people that you don’t even know.

I'm rocking a similar set, but just a few years newer, still 90's.

I finally got sick of my brand new super expensive set.  I sold them and got a set of these about a decade ago.  It's been the best upgrade in my life.

Not only the reliability, but when something does go wrong, the part is cheap, and usually easily fixable.

On top of all that, they wash my clothes much better, and in a fraction of the time.

My wife loves the purple davek mini I got her

Been married for 13 years and my favorite anniversary gift was a basic bird feeder and feed lol. Literally I can buy myself anything I want (and I do). Let’s try to not assume all women like trips, jewelry, etc. I personally hate when my husband plans trips without my input & I hate when he picks out jewelry for me because I am particular.

Good for u . Well the megamat have solid reviews all over. 

However, it is quite pricey. 

But would definitely be winner for buy it for life

So as the MSR indeed

Heck yes, I have my dad's

I got us davek umbrellas for christmas a few years ago and they’ve been great.

That’s such a sweet idea. I don’t know about umbrellas but there is this French brand called RainSisters that I have had bookmarked forever. They make really beautiful ultra feminine raincoats that you can check out too to gift along with the umbrella 🌂 Not bought anything from them but they look well made from the reviews.

Absolutely, I love my Miele W1. 

I know a lot families that still rock 35 year old Miele washers.

Yes, unless your wife turns the wheel while backing out of the garage.

This is a washer/dryer combined into one unit?!

I bought my wife a sex swing for her birthday once. She had mentioned it like maybe 8 years earlier or so. She didn’t remember mentioning it and was quite surprised by it. It’s in the attic now so I think we’re gonna get some years out of it. There is t much of a market for these things used or previously purchased so I think we’ll hang on to it for a while.

Now you’re just being rude. What kind of business model do you think would persist for more than a year if the expectation was they always break and free replacements are flying out the door? The warranty is reflective of the likelihood of the product breaking which they obviously don’t do all that often despite your desire for that to be true. Run that through ChatGPT if it wasn’t slow enough for you.

That the lowest pressure might still be a bit too hard. I have the cordless Waterpik flosser and at even the lowest pressure setting , (three to choose from) still hurts when the stream hits the gums .

Thanks I found them but after reading about the potential risks of unregulated cables and connections I’ll stick with ones that break. I’m a little concerned these could damage my devices.

Got mine from my dad, been using it for 15 years no issues. One of the best toolboxes I've ever used. I'd say so.

Got one in the early 80s -- still in use.

Benchmark Bugout or Osbourne have my vote. Biased because I own them both, but they seem perfect for EDC.

The husband, and I like practical gifts. If you like practical gifts, would you prefer your spouse gift you a trip or an umbrella for your anniversary? I was stating an opinion, I don’t necessarily think it was rude. Yea this is a BIFL sub and I answered the question, but I feel it’s warranted to provide some relationship advice as well in this instance as I would be annoyed if my spouse gifted me an umbrella on a date where we should be celebrating *us*. I live in a rainy climate, I would appreciate that gift, but our anniversary? Let’s go do something fun, save that for my birthday.

I even provided a good idea for incorporating the practical gift in the anniversary trip.

I use a battery powered Mason jar vacuum thingie I got on Amazon for sealing dry goods in Mason jars and it works great!

I still have and use mine from 1986, (when I got my first car) and I still have my original Craftsman socket set.   But I do finally need a new 1/2" wrench.

I’ve definitely dropped some of them without issue. Also, buy it for life doesn’t assume throwing it across the room.

Blunt umbrellas are excellent. 

Also, I have had a very happy and long marriage and have given diamonds and gold many times. However, if you asked my wife what her favorite anniversary gift was over the years she would absolutely say the fabric shears (very nice ones) I bought her around our 6th year of marriage. She loves to sew and uses them all the time and I guarantee she would trade pairs of her diamond earrings for them in a heartbeat. 

My wife gets joy out of her hobbies, not from wearing metal in her ears or around her neck. OP, I think an umbrella is a great gift and I would stick with it.

I don’t like the looks of these seats but I bought one though because of the superb comfort. 

Congrats!

I found a few other posts about this so after reading this I'm staying away.

Vintage Craftsman were pretty amazing stuff.  This is BIFL.  Clean it up.  Use it.  Restore it.  Use it.  Repeat.

How are Bedrock Cairo Compared to Teva Slim? My use case is just casual summer wearing while walking around the city.

Once more for the slow learners: Free replacement is not BIFL.

Is there any metal tool box that *isn't* BIFL?

Please do not buy your wife an umbrella as an anniversary gift. She will want something more meaningful from you. Maybe it’s an outing doing something she enjoys, or maybe it’s a framed photo of the two of you together during a memorable time. It doesn’t have to be jewelry or perfume. It doesn’t even have to be anything expensive. It just needs to be something sentimental that shows her what she means to you. An umbrella is not that.

Does she use an umbrella with any regularity or expressed an interest in one or complains about something an umbrella would fix?  If so, go for it. 

Long as you can explain how you thought of that person and why you choose the gift for them then every gift is thoughtful.

Les parapluies de cherbourg (in France). Dunno if they ship internationally.

that is true it does sound like sleeping on concrete good luck to you my friend in your sleeping venture

It's stoneware. It's not durable. If you drop it, it breaks (see OP's long list of broken items in their other post). It's not BIFL. I own stoneware that's over 25 years old. Age alone does not make it BIFL. 

Want buy it for life plates? Buy Corelle.

Oh shitttt yeah I totally misread that

Your requirements are specific enough that I'd look beyond just the Level8.

If you're prioritizing wheel quality and long-term durability, I'd probably compare it against Briggs & Riley and Travelpro's higher-end hardside options. Briggs & Riley especially has a reputation for surviving years of abuse, though you'll pay for it.

The Level8 Adventure does seem to check a lot of your boxes on paper (top-opening design, minimal layout, decent capacity for carry-on dimensions), but I'd be lying if I said I had the same confidence in its long-term track record as brands that have been getting beaten up by frequent travelers for a decade or more.

Out of curiosity, how important is the top-opening design? If that's non-negotiable, it narrows the field quite a bit. I spent way too much time researching carry-ons recently and found a few options that looked particularly good for heavy gear loads. If it helps, I can send over the ones I ended up saving.

You can. You just cant request new colors for old broken things.

It’s just insured against breakage. Probably the most critical benefit for ceramics.

I read good reviews about GE opal

I have that exact tool box with the exact insert, red and all. It was my father’s. Yes - it’s buy it for live’s.

Well if your wife genuinely appreciates well-made practical things, I don't think it's a weird gift at all.

I'd probably look at Davek or Fox Umbrellas. A really nice umbrella is one of those things people use for years but rarely buy for themselves, which makes it feel a bit more special than it sounds on paper.

The thought behind it matters more than the category. If she values quality and practicality, I could see it being a great anniversary gift.

I came across a few really nice options while looking into them recently. If you want, I can send over the listings I saved.

Sorry OP, people are the worst here lol as a female I would love a practical gift like this. And add on a matching raincoat , amazing! I personally recommend the brand HERNO. Fantastic coats, and are absolutely buy it for life.

I just bought a Nothing 4a Pro right when it came out! I'm loving it!

I would probably consider some of their buds if I didn't have my Buds 2.

and 2 year warranty for very fairly priced items is really nice!

I think it really depends on the wife. Hopefully he knows her pretty well. 

As a wife myself, but not OP's wife, I love receiving BIFL items that have a use in my life.

Damn , the internet has made people so rude lol.

Maybe you (the wife) or the husband, don’t appreciate practical gifts.

I have one, I think if you want it?

I'd love an umbrella lol. There are only so many necklaces I can wear in a week.

My son bought me a Blunt umbrella for mother's Day this year and I'm thrilled with it! Although it's not indestructible, all of the parts are well made and fixable/replaceable.

That’s such a shitty idea for an *anniversary* gift. First of all, do you live in a rainy climate?

Why not gift a memory like a trip to a new place to celebrate yourselves? If you live in a rainy climate where owning a good quality umbrella makes sense and you’re set on that item, why not travel to a place that tends to get rainy and gift a good quality umbrella as prep?

No suggestions but I would die of delight if hubby got me a nice umbrella (and a matching rain coat)

Thanks for the suggestion

Yeah, that’s a fair point.

if this is mostly for guests indoors, I’d skip air mattresses altogether. Even the good ones tend to lose firmness overnight and eventually become a maintenance headache. I'd look at tri-fold foam mattresses instead. They take up a bit more storage space but are more comfortable and reliable long-term. Brands like Milliard, Lucid, and Adventure RV Mattress have some solid foam options that can be folded or stored when not in use.

I use the Anker ones . I'm really clumsy and end up ripping stuff out and falling over the cables and they last the best for me

We used that amount, maybe a touch more for regular loads. It's something in the washer itself, my theory is the plastic tub and plastic liner was trapping mold or something. Idk, it smelled like straight sewer gas. Either way, it's on the way to a scrapyard since this one absolutely rocks lol

Do you travel at all?   A nice carry on or duffle bag for a future trip would be much better than an umbrella IMO.

So user error by trying to purchase with VPN and it's their fault? They are trying to avoid fraud. Stop crying and suck it up.

I bought all my groomsman matching goodr glasses for my wedding. 4 years letter almost all of them still wear them... and they aren't scratched to hell because I keep them in a glasses case or on my desk.

Not kept in a baggie full of small sharp rocks. For $25 the comfort alone makes them fantastic. $10 walmart glasses hurt my head after 20-30 minutes of wearing them.

square ones are awesome but aren’t truly air tight.  the circle ones are and will hold liquids quite securely

Fox

Lockwood

Mario Talarico 

James Smith & Sons

I'm not going to give relationship advice, but my "unbreakable umbrella" is a beast designed to be ready to use for stick combat.

What’s the second budget choice for men’s socks from Costco. The Puma socks make my feet sweat alot

Vidallia Onion Chopper. I now chop onions, celery and peppers in no time and even use it to freezes these things and have them in the freezer to add when cooking, Instead of 5-10 minutes its now 1 or 2 minutes.

Yes, on the inside of the packaging in tiny print it says that, but that was not disclosed anywhere on the Amazon listing or the product page on OXO's website (which for some reason doesn't appear to exist any more). So I had no way to know before buying it that OXO wasn't going to stand behind an OXO branded frying pan when it had a defect. In my case it's an $80 lesson, but hopefully others can benefit from my experience.

I feel like it's fairly gentle for me. What's your concern?

+1 for GoRuck. I’ve got two of them that have been through hell and honestly still look brand new. 

One of them is the Rucker (2.0 I think) and it’s carried a 35# plate in it since the day I got it and it’s been dropped, thrown, dragged, wet/muddy,  twisted, mashed, and is still in great shape. 

The other is a GR1 (or 2) and it’s my go to carry on, weekend bag. It’s been all over the USA and a dozen overseas countries and hasn’t been treated that much better than the Rucker and it’s in mint condition. 

I’ll almost never not recommend GoRuck if someone wants a bomb proof bag.

That’s unfortunate, I’m using my Soundcore Space A40s right now and they’ve been great, I’ve had them for 2 years. Had an older Soundcore pair for like 5 years before that, only replaced them after beating the case up a little too much.

Where did you source these if you don’t mind sharing?

My ex loved practical gifts and when I got him really nice kitchen knife instead of typical guy stuff he was over the moon - sometimes the unexpected practical thing hits better than obvious choices

Thanks!! Do you think the lowest pressure on it is “gentle”?

Please don't buy your wife an umbrella as an anniversary present.

Same. I had a Zojirushi that quit but Costco had a good deal on Tiger so I got that instead but I miss the music.

No experience with Zojirushi but my Tiger has lasted at least 13 years and I haven't been particularly kind to it.

The upright on wheels was brought inside for winter in New England. The wall mount was left outside, hose removed and drained. The wall version held up perfectly but was taken down last fall for a siding project, so I can't say how that would fare for many years.

2004 catalog, not seen in 2014 catalog. I don't know how old that one is, of course. Have you unzipped the bottom of the chair, of the ottoman? That's where they put the paperwork and the tool(s).

Memphis width 30" seat depth 29 1/2"

Savannah width 33" seat depth 30 1/4"

All other dimensions are the same, the headrest lifts 4"

My parents still use this washer and dryer to this day.

The stink problem.. You may be using too much detergent. That can cause buildup and hence stink. With modern HE detergents, you only really need 2tbsp max, even 1tbpsp would do for lightly soiled loads.

I have my grandpa's Craftsman tool box stack. It's from the late 50's and still works perfectly! It smells exactly like his old metal shop. 😄 Craftsman has always been a BIFL brand, particularly in the realm of hand tools.

This needs more upvotes bc WOW the detailed review was incredible!! I just bought an Eden today in hopes that it’ll help my neck stiffness. I’ve been using down feather pillows for the last 6 years and tbh they were great at first until now. Most of the time they get so flat so I like the idea of stuffing a pillow like the Coop ones :)

DU/ER has several stretchy sweat-like pants that might be more durable. They're all gusseted too which will help longevity. I've only bought their jeans and flannels but those are holding up well so far.

Source? Legit curious, I haven't heard that before.

Yeah. I have one similar to that with three drawers that I bought about 50 years ago, and no issues.

benchmade griptilian with aftermarket scales is a top tier knife. It’s pricey but worth it IMHO and mine has never let me down.

Meh, companies also cheap out on materials to optimise profit margins

I put some decent effort into cleaning this one up after buying it on fb marketplace. There are *so* many commenters saying that they have one like this that was passed down from their fathers or grandfathers. Certified heirlooms

seems like it might fall apart any second now.......any second.....

Second for osprey, I bought a talon 33 in 2021 and it's still going strong I've hiked many miles with it and the only thing that's wrong is the logo is starting to come off a little bit. , I love the hip belt pockets.

I have a 2004 catalog with Mayfair. I also have a parts list for the connection from the rear of the armrest to the backrest and the handwheel tension assembly. DM your email address and I'll send photos of the parts list and exploded assembly views.

Philips Sonicare Cordless Rechargeable Power Water Flosser, 2-pack
Item 2901990 | Model 6004134

I don’t debate that but they are saying it’s normal wear and tear. Crappy but why they aren’t covering. Get a good stainless, carbon or cast pan

Because of you, I just turned my mixer on to run for a few minutes. Purchased new a couple of years ago, DC motor model, that has been used maybe three times since I bought it 🙄

I have a number of their products that I’ve owned for well over a decade, and some close to 25 years, and never needed a replacement. Is that what you count as “Replace It For Life”?

It was bought from Amazon hence not covered by oxo and why you have to go through CMC

Who would pay $300 for a camping chair? Kermit chairs are well made but only BMW motorcycle nerds buy them.

It's reddit and people are generally angry a lot anymore. 

No idea why tbh. Nobody gave me an actual valid explanation that wasn't some half baked excuse for why they don't wash their dogs collar or why their dog isn't bathed when it smells.

You can get REALLY good deals on Zojirushi machines if you shop smartly and are willing to watch and wait.

Mine doesn't look as pristine, but still going strong since my Dad gave it to me along with a bunch of OG Craftsman tools in the 80's.

It’s not a secret but yes, you usually have to prove employment with an airline to buy it. However there are some 3rd party resellers who skirt this requirement. Bought one for myself years ago.

Ergotron. Expensive. But the for something that needs to be adjustable and strong, it’s worth it to me. Don’t forget to make sure your desk/wall (studs only!) whatever you mount to is equally as strong.

I recently bought a few stainless steel 3.18 gallon canisters with a clip on lid for about $25 each. The body is SUS 304 and the top is Sus 201. I live in an earthquake zone so I want something to survive falling from a shelf.  I think these canisters will outlast me.   I’ve had most plastic solutions become brittle and prone to cracks after 20 years.

I bought theseas airtight canisters so I can stuff my Azure standard 5lb buckwheat/millet/teff/ paper flour bags in without decanting. The silicone ring is probably the one component that needs replacing after a decade.

I use several of the Ball very large jars with the 2-piece lid that lies flat on the jar rim. Not simply a screw top lid. 

Why? Pantry moths and ants can use the grooves in the glass to travel past the screw top lid and into the jar.

Chiming in here as I own both the regular and duo versions of the Exped Megamat. I’ve had them for 3-4 years now and have used them regularly (primarily for car camping). I can’t speak to the Versa but I left the standard megamat inflated, in my car for a few months and it hadn’t deflated at all by the time I pulled it out to put it away. These things are super comfortable, durable, and I don’t think I’ll ever need to buy another camping or air mattress. I waited for a sale at REI to buy the Duo and have no regrets!

Pot. You don't buy good cooking and you certainly don't plug it in.

We just got their hose, and love it.  Looking at their other products. 

It sounds like you like the adjustable cleaning nozzle? 

How do you use the quick disconnects?  Seems like a good idea, but when would you need it if you aren't switching between the adjustable cleaning nozzle and the rainhead?

I have a Leifheit penetrating opener my sister bought me in an airport in China in the '80s. I have a Kuhn Rikon safety opener that's at least twenty years old. 

What are you doing to your can openers that they don't last but a year or so? You realize that people have P-38s their grandfather or great grandfather got in WWII?

I really enjoyed them at first and I do like the products. I had even decided they were my go-to gift idea for just about everything. It was with a gift purchase that they really allowed for a bad experience to get worse with their customer service. In a nutshell, their error was so obvious so when it took as much time and extra money as it did for them to ultimately still avoid responsibility, I couldn't bring myself to order from them again. Lost a lifer.

i agree but i recommend Ariens ST28DLE 28'' and EGO Power + SNT2405 24''

Interesting, if this were the BIFL olympics, we could have a winner for most true BIFL products in a single category.

I'd probably go eBay for something like a vintage Swing-a-way.  I don't doubt they've cost reduced modern ones.

The greatest of all time. Have the green HEPA version and it gets used as kitchen extract, shop vac, air purifier and sometimes as a vacuum cleaner. 

It just keeps going, just changing or reattach the bags on loss of suction brings it back to life.

I’ve found around $65 is the sweet spot for something I’m gonna lose every couple of years. I’ve had kershaw and crkt knives that I really like.

Picked one in a burnt carehome that I was demoloshing.  Was 5/10 in looks after surviving fire. 

Used every saturday since then for home and car cleaning.

Still using it after 5+ years.

Oooo thank you. Will start getting those when my current OXO Pops fail.

The repair guy for our Maytag told us the same thing: we absolutely cannot wash anything heavier than a few clothes on anything but the "bulky" setting with the "max water level" fill amount. The washer will not be able to balance itself and it will stop rather than finish the cycle, leaving us with a big pile of soggy laundry. Then what's the point of all those available cycles?? Absolutely ridiculous. Like you, next time we're just buying a Speed Queen.

Try Lems shoes. I have high instep, 3E wide hobbit feet and I love them.

mine were for a company called VAFOTON on amazon.  First got them because my car has usb c ports in the back and the kids kept breaking the cables in the car. i kept the magnetic bits on the car end.  I lied them so got a few for myself to use for things like my steam deck since i kept tripping on the cable where i keep it and it would go careening down.  Also got for my teen who can break cables easily.

I like my OXO pops so far. Going on 3 years and no issue with the seals. The larger sizes came with scoops, the smaller don’t seem to.

For years I was able to add vinegar into a particularly stinky load of workout clothes mid-cycle, or use the washer to re-dye black clothes with Rit dye, and now because of the stupid locking mechanism on my washer I can't do those things. I didn't expect that "advances in technology" would result in me being able to do less with my clothes washer.

Just about any steel toolbox is bifl, although those later ones aren't as heavy duty I think.  If it's for mechanics tools I'd suggest the variant with two drawers.

Rice is very easy to do , usually it's a cup of rice and 2 cups of water. Here in Portugal we fry a little bit of garlic in oil,after a while put the rice,salt,stirrer a little and add water. Let it boil stirring from time to time. After boiling let water dry almost completely and let the rice rest for 10 minutes.

Good for you. I have a "newfangled" washing machine and I hate it so much. I am actually praying for it to die so we can get a Speed Queen. I'm done with these newly-manufactured appliances. My grandma had the same washing machine for 30 years. The new crap they're building into these things never works like it's supposed to. Ptooey.

I've been happy with the delivery process and the quality of the Skinny Fat sofas (leather) I ordered and received from Benchmade earlier this year.    They gave me a 4.5 to 5.5 week estimate for delivery after production start, and the actual delivery (White Glove) was 5 weeks after my payment and production start.

Yeah bro, I don’t give corporations the benefit of the doubt.

Which brand do you recommend for magnetic cables? Mind sharing a link on what you ordered?

Hey man, thanks for the suggestion what brand would you recommend? Mind sharing a link of what you have been using?

Kinco full grain buffalo leather. They make an unlined version and an insulated version, so make sure they are the unlined ones. They hold up great and are very comfortable once broken in.

I’ve had the same model of speed queen washer for 24 years now. My parent bought it in ‘02 and that beast is still running like a champ, no signs of slowing down

Which brand do you recommend? Mind sharing a link on what you ordered?

What about the end that gets plugged into the powerpoint? Doesn't that end get slammed?

I keep one on me at all times

Stuff always finds its way into someone’s ass

The battery and electrical system has to be UL listed to be safe. Those bikes start at around $1000. Look at ride1up or velotric. Or upway for second hand.

Tool bags of a similar size are FAR more usable day to day. Sure the craftsman may last forever, but slim chance you’ll enjoy using/transporting it outside of stationary use cases.

To avoid the child having to hold it you could get a small table and chair and you can put the ipad on the table. Replace the cable so it's safer. Check cables over time so check if any wires are showing.

That's such a great way to go! Not only is manual replication ethical, but it also makes it creatively personal and let's you appreciate and experience the creation process of the original artist. All artists learn by copying the masters who came before.

Here's Technology Connections explaining why this type of can opener is great.

That's pretty cool!

When/if my gorilla grips can opener decided to not work, this is what I'll go with. Thanks!

If it's for opening boxes just buy a Sheffeld Lockback Utility Knife and call it a day lol. Infinitely replaceable sharp blades, durable, and they're cheap so when you inevitably lose it or get it confiscated by security you don't feel bad.

Love my para mil 2. Zero complaints after almost 2 years of edc in the trades

Is that like a Walther ppk?

Absolutely. As the others said, got one of these from my Dad. Needs a LOT of TLC but it's still functional!

Yes. There are parts inside that wear and need replaced eventually. Even on these old tanks, believe it or not lol.

I've been pretty impressed with the Ergotron LX arms. They're pricey, but they're one of the few monitor arms I keep seeing people still happy with years later.

If you're looking for something a bit more budget-friendly, the VIVO Premium dual monitor arm is worth a look too. A couple friends use them and they've held up surprisingly well without any sagging issues.

There are a few other good options depending on your monitor size and budget. If you want, I can send over the listings for the ones I'd consider.

If you haven’t tried it yet, put some teflon (plumbers) tape on the bottle-side threads before you screw the top back on.

I've got an early 2000's craftsman portable tool box with three drawers on it. It was my dad's and now I keep it in my truck. The thing is bulletproof, but not literally lol

Ours bit the bullet just last week. The gears stripped out. Oxo brand and everything

We get an ornament from trips that corresponds with the year :)

This sounds way more fun than using a silly little hand vacuum so I know what my next purchase shall be now lol

Was just digging around in the same tool box belonging to my 90 year old grandfather. Thing should last several lifetimes as long as the rust doesn’t get to it.

I’ve heard Ergotron recommended heavily, but they definitely are pricey. I ended up buying the Huanuo Flowlift dual arms when I was in the market for one earlier this year and it has been very solid so far. It feels extremely sturdy and has nicely adjustable arms that don’t sag.

Nothing beats the simplicity of those old Kenmores. No circuit boards to fail, just a timer and a motor.

Can confirm. The one I have I got from my Dad. It's older than I am.

OXO POP here. Been using mine for rice and oats for years, no complaints.

Just fyi, the clear cambros still have BPA in them. Probably not an issue with dry good storage, but I get the HDPE or PP versions to stay safe(r).

I have the same chair in black. It’s 25 years old, looks awesome and is still very comfortable.

Yes I have a smaller version in my car right now. Make sure you take care of the bottom. If you spill something in it or around it, rust can form

Osprey 

If you need something more suitable for an office environment, Aer is great quality

Toss a couple bay leaves in there while it cooks.  Magical.

What was it before? Syphilis?

Came here to make sure instant pot was mentioned. 
I was skeptical when my wife brought it home  but I use it almost every day now. 
We have the one with the air fryer lid attachment and I love it.

The Cookware Company's response was "Chipping is a natural occurrence with Ceramic Non-stick. As the product remains perfectly safe for use if it chips, it does not require a replacement." I'm not convinced it's "safe" and I don't want to keep using a pan if the coating is flaking off, plus it's no longer non-stick where the coating has come off.

I mean if it looks like that and is still holding together hell yes it is bifl

Wait is there a different line that you cant just buy online? I have a pilot friend who works for one of the main carriers in Canada. Ive asked him before but if there is a secret line or discount codes we dont get that shit up here. He buys his shit from the clearance section of the bay when it was still around.

Hear me out. Research pot in pot method. And get a pressure cooker. Also a pressure cooker cook book. It is extremely efficient. If you buy stove top, get a wide steel one.

Worth it on some things, waste of money 
on others.

Worth it:
- Smart thermostat (pays for itself)
- Smart locks (convenience daily)
- Robot vacuum (time saver)

Not worth it:
- Smart fridges (software gets outdated)
- Smart outlets for everything
- Anything requiring its own hub/app

The rule I follow: if the "dumb" version 
works fine, don't smart-ify it just because 
you can. What are you considering buying?

Really useful if you have a “if I can’t see it, it doesn’t exist” brain, compared with a “I need it contained” brain

It's a piece of metal with metal hinges and locks. Why ask this question?

I also like how older machines let you select the water level. Such a simple thing that newer machines don't want to let us do.

It was on their website in January when I bought it, but like you I can't find it now. The Amazon description is "OXO Good Grips Pro 10" Frying Pan Skillet, 3-Layered German Engineered Nonstick Coating, Stainless Steel Handle, Dishwasher Safe, Oven Safe."

Douk Douk if it’s just the knife you want- victorinox for multi purpose knives

If it's anything like my Kennedy yes. But it weighs a ton lol

I have one that’s a hand me down. It will outlive me.

I grew up with newer swing-a-way and so I bought a new one.  it has been nothing but trouble. Even if I keep the blade clear, it very often binds up. I really want to like it but it gives us so much trouble

I’d buy a couple of used Flo monitor arms. Widely available under a couple of brand names. Make sure it has all the parts but otherwise virtually indestructible.

I bit the bullet and got one. Smaller $300 version, I had the money to buy it but felt so ridiculous- I paid it off over a few months on Amazon (0% interest), which made me feel even weirder. 

It’s worth the money. The rice is always super good/perfect. If I make it and forget about it or need to run out, several hours later it’s still absolutely perfect. 

Plus it’s one of those things that’s done, and I won’t have to worry about the rice cooker needing replacing every few years.

I’m just curious, what’s an example of typical overall pocket load?

I’ve had that exact same model since 1980.

I always appreciate Canadian-made leather goods, especially belts or sturdy cardholders. They tend to use really thick, solid hardware and the stitching is always robust. They just feel built to genuinely last for decades of use.

There aren't any.

A major problem with the design of the older USB A/B port and plug was that the port itself was the weak point.

That was addressed in the redesign of the TypeC port. The weak point is intentionally the cabling. The system is designed such that the cable will break before the internal connector fails.

Haha my dad uses one and he was born in 53 so you tell me

I'm not a fan of rice made in an instant pot, at least, not medium grain Japanese rice. It's strange to me that I can even tell any difference, since I did not grow up eating rice.

I have that exact same toolbox I got for Christmas something like 55 years ago when my Dad started giving me tools.  It’s got some old stickers on it but the bottom is a little rusty so I think I’ll use the Duct Tape idea and put some more stickers on  it and fill it up with a full set of tools to take with in my classic car outings

Yeah I have cast iron and some stainless. If it can't go in the oven I'm not buying it.

i will say, 3 years later the shipping and handling has gone up to $19.99

Specific model that you would recommend?

EZ-DUZ-IT is American made and very robust. Use the search bar and you will see its popularity. It’s the current reincarnation or the Swing-Away.

CAMBROS! A few people suggested glass hinge top jars, but I find the failpoint is almost universally the hinges themselves get wonky, can be hard to close/open. If you're looking for glass, a rectangular jar with a fully removable gasket sealed lid (bamboo ones have been decent) from the Container Store or I think even Restaurant Depot are solid.

this is exactly what this sub is about

I’m still using the one my dad bought in the early sixties and I think it will outlast me and quite possibly my son.

been eyeing one of these for a while

I like this one

Can opener

Ergotron LX dual is the one i keep coming back to. been using mine for 4 years with no issues, still holds position perfectly. the key thing with monitor arms is the clamp quality and cable routing -- ergotron uses a proper casting on the joints, not plastic. fully rebuildable if anything ever does wear out. humanscale is also legitimately good but you pay for it. anything amazon basics or vivo-tier will start drooping within a year on heavier panels

yeah the employee discount was 15% at the if i remember so such a good deal

EZ-Duz-It. Bought mine in 2021 after my old one failed. It’s built like a tank

$3.80 with employee discount in 2018 lol that is a steal. glad you found one that works, those things are worth holding onto

glad it helped! leather just needs some attention every now and then -- most people only condition it after it already looks bad, which is too late for prevention. hope the couch comes back nicely

Forgot to mention. I bought this on fb marketplace for $55. It was listed at 70. A decent new one at home depot seems to run $40-50. I think my family doesn't appreciate why I spent a little more for this "old dirty and stained" one

Yes - that makes it terrible.

Already rusted? Not Bifl, case closed

My dad has one that is probably 80 years old, so yeah. IDK why they even bothered putting a handle on the top, bc they're heavy AF when full.

So you’re saying I should’ve also added that they didn’t feel like they were worth more than a pair of sandals I got from Walmart?

It's what I have. Soviet made. All metal. Maybe "terrible" because of the physical effort you have to apply.

Craftsmen products of that vintage had unlimited lifetime warranties ie if anything happened to it, you could take it back to Sears and they would repair it replace it. 

Obviously Sears is no longer a thing, the Craftsman brand has been sold off and the idea of unlimited lifetime warranties has transformed - *however* the fact that such a guarantee was *once* offered on that toolbox says a lot about the manufacturer's confidence.

I’m the third owner of one of those, handed down from my grandfather.

My Gooloo worked for some random person who needed a jump after sitting in my car for months.

Check out Redland Cotton. Mine are almost a decade old and look brand new. Just follow the care instructions.

I've had this opener for 12 years and it works great. It's also made in the USA.

The reason these are good is that they don't actually cut the can. They break the seal and separate the top from the can. No sharp edges, no mess. Brilliant. No blade to wear out.

I had a buddy with a body shop sand blast and repaint one that was my grandfather's and i use it to this day. Absolute bifl certified.

Mine is more than 30 years old. Like new.

If you do get Zojirushi, just make sure it’s a model that was made in Japan. Learn from my mistake.

Buy cheaper cables. The easier they go out, the better. A 2€ AliExpress USB-C ist a good trade for not having to replace the port on the device

What do people do with the can openers if this question posted every week?

I don’t cover my slimps, I want everyone to know how proud I am

I have a Swing-A-Way that I inherited and shows no signs of significant wear. I like it.

absolutely. I still have mine from 1986. AND MY GRANDFATHERS from God knows when.

Just pointing out that your review/opinion of the product is actually about the company’s customer service. Not about the product itself.

Bullitt and Tern in this house

yes. I inherited mine from my dad who got it from his dad.

Even if they weren’t the manufacturer, if they’re selling it under their brand as if it’s their product, then they need to take ownership of it under their brand like they would any other product they sell with their name on it. It shouldn’t be incumbent to the customer to do all the detective work of figuring out which factory it was it made in, they should only have to see the brand and know they can trust it.

Suten gangy / Korin style. It’s basically a p38/51 but with No moving parts and will last you several lifetimes.

We had that exact washer too 😃

"seller also serviced it" Is that a thing? I've never heard of servicing a washer. 

In the same vein as yours, I have a Maytag that we purchase around 1990. It just does the job.

If you can't find it in stock anywhere, the Good Cook version is decent.

My iPad is from 2012 and still working every day as my alarm clock.

These are definitely boxes to last a lifetime (barring a need to hold more stuff) just keep the rust at bay

I would get them really short ones. Maybe if they can't use their devices when they are being charged. The devide is less likely to drop while plugged in, and there is less cord length to get snagged on things. 

Giving each kid one cord that is clearly marked may help, too. Individual accountability.

One that didn't burn down the house I guess.

Bummer that there aren't power tool battery ebikes.  I think I've seen a Makita, but it was a small run.

I obviously wore them otherwise I wouldn’t have known how tight they were. Customer service told me that I was only allowed to wear them around the house, can’t get them dirty during the break in period, otherwise I could kiss my refund goodbye. They also said to wear them for a few months and they “should” be fine. By then, if the sandals still didn’t fit, then I also wouldn’t be able to get a refund. 

  I own four pairs of red wing boots, one of which is the iron ranger. I’m no stranger to breaking in footwear. 

  There are no stores that sell rainbow sandals near me otherwise I would’ve gone that route.

I got my sears craftsman from my great uncle when he passed, there was stuff in that box spamming many decades and it looks like new (besides a missing handle)

My dad passed a few years ago, and I inherited this exact one. Most certainly BIFL

They are with care. Just be careful overloading it, aside from being super heavy when overloaded, I had one warp out of square. But it was way over loaded.

For real. I have my dad's, who bought it at a yard sale in the 80s.

Does it count as BIFL if you can’t buy one of that quality today?

Miele if you have a generous budget… Bosch if space is a concern and you already have the specialty plug. If you’re on a budget like I am…  I’ve had great luck with Beko. I hate “smart” appliances so these have all offered models that are thankfully without WiFi connectivity, etc…

Only non-BIFL part is the handle… friend of mine went to go pick his up and the handle snapped it half. Not sure if you can replace them or somehow reinforce but other than that they’re great

It sure is. This was my first toolbox 25y ago and it is still in use today. No rust or noticable damage beyond small dents.

An old fashioned simple metal can opener that you grip tightly and turn a handle.

I'd probably buy a Morakniv Eldris, but think that's probably not at all what you have in mind.

The heel strike itself isn’t the problem. Overstriding is. If your heel is landing way out in front of your center of mass, you’re putting more weight and impact through your footwear and your heel/ankle.

I love these pics because I always look at the shape of shoes and wonder “who has toes shaped this way”? And now I know. It’s OP’s foot shape

I've had really good luck with the Wells Lamont HydraHyde leather gloves. Comfortable enough for regular gardening, durable enough for heavier work, and they don't cost a fortune. Not quite BIFL, but they've outlasted most gardening gloves I've owned.

There are a couple of other solid options too depending on what kind of gardening you're doing. If you want, let me know and I'll send over the  listings I was looking at.

Mine's 50 years old, so yes.

It's probably older than me... so yeah

Just an additional point, for backpacking (not casual use or student use), you need to evaluate comfort of proper fit over the warranty in my opinion. 

For carrying 35lbs a day for 15 miles for multiple days, Gregory was the better pack on my back for supporting the weight across my hips and back and reducing shoulder load due to my build, even if I slightly preferred some of the features on Osprey. (I’d gone to REI and done like 2 hours of fitting to determine the right one).

Hello /u/LevelingUpMyLife! Thank you for your submission! The AutoMod thought that your post might be a request type post and has changed the flair accordingly, but if this was wrong feel free to change it back!

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/BuyItForLife) if you have any questions or concerns.*

I love my stainless steel cookware set. Can go straight from stove into oven. Game changer!

Yes a 3cup “dumb” zojirushi will work great.  You can invest in the bells and whistles later.

Duct tape! Awesome idea. I was thinking of taping it off and spraying plastidip

Which pan was it exactly. The one you said you bought doesn’t show up on their website

Not sure I would rebuy OXO containers again, they aren’t that great. Their cooking utensils are BIFL though.

If you have a Mitsuwa close by, they have great rice containers.

I would think any sheet metal toolbox of that style would last a lifetime. I made one in shop class as a highschooler 25 years ago, and it still looks brand new. Imagine a company building those that actually knows what they are doing!

This, the only bags that tend to fail on me are the free reusable shopping bags that are very much not meant to carry 30 lbs of groceries. Other than that, I’ve never had a bag fail unless a dog has been involved in the process.

If it survived since the mid-90s, that's a tough act to follow 

I'd probably look at the ALPS Mountaineering King Kong Chair or the GCI Outdoor Freestyle Rocker. The King Kong is about as close as I've found to the "buy it and forget about it" category for folding chairs, and I know people who've abused theirs for years without issues.

Nothing is truly forever anymore, but those would be the first two I'd trust with my money.

If you want, I can send over the listings I saved

I had a Zojirushi for over 20 years.  The unit still worked but I got tried of replacing the inner pot due to the lining slowly breaking down.  Switched to Aroma stainless and I would say the rice is 95% as good as the Zoji, with faster cook time, stainless pot should last forever.  Much cheaper than Zoji is just a bonus.  If you want the fanciest version possible with a stainless pot you can get a Tatung.

Yes. Maybe two or 3 lifetimes.

Hello /u/WhoreHavingAnxiety! Thank you for your submission! The AutoMod thought that your post might be a request type post and has changed the flair accordingly, but if this was wrong feel free to change it back!

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/BuyItForLife) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Get rid of the kids /s

I do have pet food in rolling bins that have flip tops and like them a lot. I guess it depends on where you are going to be putting these.

This is a passionate topic for you isn't it. That is a ton of comments trying to make a point.

I was simply offering an alternative. I know what they said but that looks bent not yanked to me.

But after all this is Reddit...

With a little Boeshield or Pam on the chrome and duct tape over the foot bumps, yeah

If you're trying to buy one rice cooker and not think about it again for years, I'd go with a basic Zojirushi.

They're ridiculously beginner-friendly, make consistently good rice, and have a reputation for lasting forever. Tiger is another brand I'd trust, but Zojirushi would be my first pick for a family kitchen.

I got one of those for Christmas back about 1980/91. Still have it.

If you live near a Winco they have storage bins in the bulk section.  Cheap and super effective... You can get a 25# bag of oats while you're there.

Came here to say this. If they can handle daily restaurant use for many years, not sure how you’d ever need to replace in a home setting.

Tiger 1 button models. My current one is at 16 years with no issues.

Avery Knifeworks Bird and Trout

I have bought a bunch of knives over the years and the only one I managed to make a routine of carrying every single day and not forgetting it is my benchmade Osborne 940 magnacut. Specifically the mini.

I have the regular green full sized 940 but I find myself carrying the mini magnacut instead. I absolutely love the blade shape and look of the 940, always did

From one anecdotal post with not a lot of details? Damn

What did CWC say when you contacted them

True. I picked up a very basic rice cooker years ago. It worked great until the glass lid broke (and I think something heavy was put on it, it didn’t just break out of the blue). I couldn’t find a lid that fit, so eventually I tossed it, tried making rice in my Instant Pot, which I use for all kinds of stuff, and just went on. I probably used it for 10 years with zero problems. 

The one thing a lot of people like about the super basic rice cookers is that if you leave them plugged in, you get crispy rice on the bottom. I was kind of annoyed the first time or two I did it on accident, then I separated it from the rice, and it’s so good.

Search "food safe storage bucket" on Amazon. Lots of options. I use one for rice from Costco and it works great. Recommend keeping a few desiccant packs at the bottom.

Did you buy it on their website? If not the warranty clearly states that you have to contact the CWC. It is on the OXO website listed plainly to read. Is CWC saying that the flaking off is normal wear and tear? That is the only thing they could try, which would be cheesy but if not it has a two year guarantee

Ah I see. I often wash and reuse them. I also sometimes put stuff into a container and then vacuum the whole container. May have to stop before the container gets disfigured. Depends on the strength of the container. You’re welcome. 😊

agree on the cleaning/drying challenge. in addition i’ve found bugs got into the flour. obvs not sure if they were in the flour to begin with, or they somehow got in. but i’m on the hunt for glass + truly airtight containers.

Airtight pet food containers. Depending on the shape of the bags and the containers you can put several 5lb bags in them- easier to store. Then smaller containers for in kitchen use.

I was a Zojirushi man for years. I've converted to a non-stick free kitchen, and ended up with a Cuchen, which is absolutely my favorite rice cooker ever. Makes the best brown rice I've ever had, and has all stainless  cooking surfaces. It was also expensive as hell. If you don't care about PFAS, or it's just too much, you can't go wrong with Zojirushi, Tiger, Cuckoo or Cuchen.

Walking heel to toe is the correct way to walk. If you aren’t striking your heel first, you’re not walking right.

Hello /u/magikarp_splashed! Thank you for your submission! The AutoMod thought that your post might be a request type post and has changed the flair accordingly, but if this was wrong feel free to change it back!

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/BuyItForLife) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Nothing OXO is ever bifl. They have overcharged and underdelivered every product I’ve ever had from them

Just so you know those aren’t airtight until you can something in them. The contents of the jar cooling suck the lid tight. Maybe not a big deal for your usage, but if its stored in a really humid area it could be an issue

I use Ezy storage bins

Now that I use a Miele vac and Zonirushi rice cooker (yes, indoctrinated by this sub) I wish everything had a retractable cord.

Goruck is pretty durable.

My recommendation will be a Chris Reeve Sebenza/ Inkosi small if you want a knife only but truly a bifl one. 

And if you want function, a Victorinox Compact with a dangler clip. I carry both and the a compact is surprisingly versatile and Victorinoxs steel is razor sharp

It’s more about where your foot lands when you’re walking. Is it underneath or in front of you? If in front, you’re likely striking with your heel.

I third this. Cambro will last "forever" at home.

Plastic waste. I use them to sousvide but I don’t want to throw away a plastic bag every time I get fresh berries from the store. Or whatever would benefit from not being exposed to air.

5lbs of oats is about 7 quarts of volume. So a 2 gallon container is needed

What’s your problem with using the bags?

Wait… what part of your foot do YOU walk on?

Inherited from my dad. He was the clever one.

My wife's JVC buds served for daily use for six years and were still OK when she upgraded to Google Pixel Buds last year. I don't recall the model though.

Well look at you... This isn't your first rodeo like this is it?

There is of course zojurushi but tiger brand isn’t bad. At Costco, there’s one for $99 for 5.5 cups. 

If you don’t just want a rice cooker and want to invest, I like the instant pot pro crisp. 

1:1 water to rice ratio (assuming white rice) on pressure cook for 6 minutes then wait 15 minutes after cooking to natural release pressure and you will have perfect rice. 

It’s nice to have a multi tasker rather than a uni tasker.

So, you never actually tried \*wearing\* the sandals? Weird to have a strong opinion on a product that you haven’t actually used. 

Sucks they made the return/exchange process difficult. I always buy my shoes in a store so I can try them on before purchasing.

Nonstick isn't about what you can cook with it, it's about easier cleanup

Man I wish there were more vacuum sealer compatible storage I would also seal everything. So far mason jars are the only thing I have compatible. I wish there was more Tupperware and such

Alps Mountaineering King Kong. Solid build and heavy.

I've had Swiss Gear for 10+ years. It's comfortable, functional, and well built. Unless I get bored with it I can literally see it lasting FL.

✓ Cambro! Best seal, easy clean, Not pricy. Square ones for easy storage.

I’ve got pliers with electrical tape on the jaws for these types of things :)

I heard he's fallen on some hard times...

parts can also be fixed for some things if new or used ones aren't available. also i have figured out you can fix things before they break if they have enough miles on them. like seal bearings can be relubed!

i've found a lot of things you would not think can be reused or fixed can be on SixtyFiveFord youtube channel

Don't forget the paper towel-fold it up a bit to make sure you don't mar the surface.

I can not recommend rainbow sandals. I ordered a pair last year and went off their size chart. Got my sandals in from mainland U.S. and they were extremely tight, smaller than their size chart said. I contacted customer support and they said for me to ship them the sandals I have and they’ll send me a bigger size. 
  

  That sounded great because the sandals were around $60-$70 including tax and shipping. To mail these sandals back, however, would’ve cost me around an additional $25-$30 that would not be refunded to me. I would have to send the sandals to Canada for a refund rather than sending them back where they were delivered from. I got my order from mainland U.S. but have to pay for international shipping for a replacement? I think not.

they are a bit smaller imo

Well yeah, that's why I said "almost infinitely". Cracking one is really the only way to actually break them because it's definitely not viable to weld them

Just bought some do these and I hate them. Can’t break them in for the life of me and my feet slide around.

I would not buy the OXO pop containers again. Like others said they are never really airtight - you can just pull the top right off even without popping (and I have done so accidentally trying to grab one by the lid). And the lids are so hard to dry once you’ve cleaned them. I would definitely get something glass or ceramic with a gasket and a metal latching closure. Literally any brand would be better.

This is what I use. I had the instant pot first and have for like 7 years now

 1:1 ratio washed Jasmine Rice to water, 2 minutes pressure cook, 10 minutes natural release. Tasty rice ever time.

But the little elephant. You will not be disappointed.

I had a black and decker rice cooker last me like 4 years, but I was gifted a Zojirushi as a wedding gift and the settings make it worth it for me. I have successfully made pumpkin bread in this thing.

If you’re just a small family of 2-3, or who don’t eat much rice, the smallest one you can get in any Chinese, Vietnamese, Filipino, etc grocer will be more than enough. 

If you eat rice for breakfast, lunch, and dinner and bleed rice or are a family of 3+ teen age people or older, get yourself zojirushi or tiger. Both excellent.

I would use big Foodsaver bags and vacuum them all. I vacuum pet much everything haha.  You could vacuum them flat and thus easy to put into a plastic bin of some sort.

Cover up those dogs.. and that is a Cinderella fit

My current washer is on the way out in the near future. Assuming I need a front-load style (I have a built-in countertop above the washer/dryer space), what's the play for a guy in 2026 who wants a reliable, non-smart, non-heavily electronic washing machine?

Look at dudes feet! Don't you want to BIFL??

Lol I imagine that you have had issues.

An out-of-the-box fit is going to be a big ask for those things.

Looks like they fit pretty well.

Rainbows take a bit to break in. And they start out VERY stiff. 

But they eventually mold to your foot shape. 

You might expect a blister between your toes as you go through the break in process. But once that heals it will never happen again.

What does this have to do with BIFL?

I love my cast iron LC, which can be BIFL if it's taken care of. 

LC stoneware is no better than any other cheap stoneware, and is not BIFL. Stop pretending it is.

They look fine but keep an eye out for wear if you tend to walk on your heels.

They look like they fit perfectly to me.  The toes and heel are well protected by the sole

Well it took 2y but you definitely have had time to put it to the test. I was impressed you answered after all this time. What sort of environment are you in? What are your storage practices for winter and stuff. (If that applies where you are)

I've had a Benchmade Snody 420 for over 20 years and its served me well, but is bulky. So I would lean towards the Osborne, but I use my Leatherman Wave far more often, or I have a Leatherman Squirt on my keychain that gets used the most.

A basic model will do you fine. Most people on here will probably recommend high-end rice cookers like Zojirushi and other expensive rice cookers. While they might make better rice, a basic rice cooker will get you 95% of the way there. The nice thing about basic rice cookers (i.e. the ones with just a single switch) is that they are so simple there's barely anything they can go wrong. At my Mum's house, she's been using the same one since I can remember, and it still works perfectly

Honestly, I'd get an Instant Pot so it has more uses than just rice. It'll work well enough for your needs on the rice front.

Great! Hope it works out. I’m also in Europe and just assumed you were in the US lol

Use what restaurants use. Vollrath, Tablecraft etc.

Acemart or webrestaurantstore carry them if you don’t have a local supply store.

Oxo pop never really go airtight, or anywhere close to it.  They were by far the worst containers I ever purchased.

The cheapest basic one is more than enough and it lasts but people on here are going to recommend Zojirushi.

I have 5 hunters installed 37 years now no issues. Bet they don’t make them the same

My OXO Pop containers were never actually airtight. I actually really like quart and half-gallon mason jars and the Mason Genie for dry goods 🤷 I have had it for about a year and haven't had any issues with it, but TBD if it's BIFL.

Snow peak low beach or luxury low beach

When I moved to London that's the vacuum cleaner I bought because all the housekeeping department of the 600 odd room hotel I was working for used it and if it was good for them, it was definitely good for me.

Very cumbersome to use and shit on carpet but they are simple, so very easy to fix if they ever go wrong.

Cambro storage from a restaurant supply store

Please try! Ill just get new ones anyway!

Everyone here loves Zojirushi. I had one and it was great. But, it died. 

I replaced it with a Tiger brand rice cooker and it has lasted longer than the Zojirushi Micom. It was quite a bit less expensive too. 

The only thing I really miss from the Zojirushi is the retractable cord. That’s a great feature.

I didnt break it deliberately. It broke months ago, hence the photo in the trashcan.

Although in this case my repurpose options are slim…maybe mosaic with the bits.

Has a lifetime warranty.

I have a young children and a busy home. Things break when you drop them on tile floors.  Lastly LC isn’t expensive, it’s in homegoods for christs sake. Also the “sheer number” of items i have replaced this year is 2. A ramekin and a plate. Not quite sheer and quite sensationalist imo.

Arent you the LC hater from last post?

I was in a similar situation to you about 5 years ago, and Reddit recommended me to Yum Asia 3.5 cup rice cookers. My wife is Filipino, so the name felt quirky and fun to us both. Since then, we've probably used this three if not four times a week, think of the mountains of rice we've conjured up in all this time. Needless to say it works perfectly everytime, nice fluffy rice and very minimal input to get it started. I wholeheartedly recommend. I think the price for it is extremely fair, not too high or too low.

I have a young children and a busy home. Things break when you drop them on tile floors.  Lastly LC isn’t expensive, it’s in homegoods for christs sake. 

Arent you the LC hater from last post?

Ikea sells big glass flip-top jars. They seal well & will last forever. They even provide replacement gaskets for free. My gaskets started wearing out after about 8 years.

Why can’t you get newly released colors replaced?

No they cant. As the email clearly states any changes come through the email thread. Can yall read?

This reminds me of the free Coca Cola insulated duffle bag my parents had when I was a kid, the outside was faded to all hell, the plastic backed nylon was snagged and falling apart but the foam/plastic liner persisted through every beach trip and long family day out we ever took, keeping our sandwiches and drinks a respectable temperature.. Mum probably still has it somewhere tucked away.

I like my OXO Pop containers. I've had them for a few years and they work great.

You're looking for a technical solution to a parenting problem.

ive had bose noise canceling and bose sport ear buds for at least 5 years, if not closer to 8, and they have no problems

Subdivide in quart or gallon ziplocks and freeze.

smat man. I have this exact model and was in the house from the 70s and it was 26 years ago when I purchased the home....lol

I bought big mason canning jars.  6 of them hold a bag off Costco rice.

Kerwin has been stout for me as a mechanic

If it’s a tablet, get them used to holding it upside down so the cable is coming out of the top.

Basic twin air mattresses are pretty good value. 

What you may not understand is that ALL inflatable air mattresses stretch, especially at the beginning, so you need to inflate it, use it (sit or lay on it over time, like at least 6-8 hours) and re-inflate it after it stretches.  That may need to be done a few times to accommodate the stretch that is normal.  

The camping mat is never going to be anywhere near as comfortable as even the most basic air mattress.

Hello /u/europeanuppercut! Thank you for your submission! The AutoMod thought that your post might be a request type post and has changed the flair accordingly, but if this was wrong feel free to change it back!

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/BuyItForLife) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Briggs Riley baseline international spinner. You just have to experience and own one and you’ll see why they are so popular. I travel frequently and it feels luxurious and premium, in a stealth wealth way. You have to be rich though!

If you want one that 1) will last 2) you can pass on to another generation (or two) 

Nothing beats at Kermit Chair.  And the story is legendary.

We checked with the school and organizers.  They remember seeing the chairs but don’t recall what happened.  Which means someone took them.

Interesting. I wonder why. That’s usually a very active sub.

I think I did it manually with the hex key provided, but you could use a drill with a hex bit if you wanted.

Depending on your needs, the Yeti Trailhead field chair which is lighter and easier to carry than their Trailhead camp chair which I prefer as it is more comfortable.

I've always been disappointed by inflatable mattresses as well. I've wondered if a japanese floor futon (shikifuton) would work better, but I haven't quite yet had the issue forced on me yet.

Thnx sorry for the lill confusion on my side.

I'm Europe based too. 

When I looked up the name you provided initially I found it to be 99cm wide 

However on your link and more research I found the single sized one under different name as follows : Intex wave beam single. 

Thnx alot. We got a winner product here on an amazing budget

Good to know.  What is the brand of the boot in the middle that looks like Blundstone (to me anyway)?

But it couldn’t survive my wife.  😒

Divorce

They aren’t BIFL but genuinely we’ve had an iPad going in the family since 2014 so 12 years and with some servicing it’s STILL going.

Apparently Knirps' quality has gone way down, according to many reviews. They used to be made in Germany, in the late 1990s the company switched to Asia, the usual story.

This umbrella does look like great craftsmanship, including the case! I wonder what it cost back then, and compared to other brands at the time.

Any chance it got thrown in the dumpster? Might be worth a shot to check.  You never know.

Solid advice, especially on warranties.

I kinda feel like telling Le Creuset OP broke it deliberately as part of a test they do for warranty replacements. I wonder if the warranty covers deliberate destruction? 🤔

Did you screw stuff on manually or using a drill? Im just ordering mine and i was wondering if i need a drill to make it more efficient and effective

I’ve had to warranty a few - mostly the thinner dress socks that aren’t very durable because they are thin (I quit buying those and swapped for the hiking). I like when I have to send a few back though cause then you getta choose a new design and new color. Freaking love when they come! And, it’s a smart business move as I typically end up buying a pair as well. I’m always like “well, I’m here with my code to get my warranty socks, doesn’t hurt to add an extra pair) lol. Love these darn socks.

I've had success turning them around as gifts OR selling them on fbm. I'm my area, mentioning restaurant supply basically gets you a sale.

Overpriced items that break frequently are not BIFL just because they are warrantied. They are Replace It For Life. The sheer number of LC items you brag about having replaced shows these are not BIFL products.

Clean your threads. To open it, wrap a paper towel around the top, get some plyers and slowly squeeze and turn.

The good old days before fabric softener….

My daughter bought me a Wusthof chef's knife about ten years ago. I cut up vegetables with it every day. It works much better than the other chefs knives I have had over the years.

 A real test is slicing the skin off raw Kubocha squash. It works great. The skin is real hard, it's a lot like carving wood. I don't know why it is so much better, but I can get that knife really sharp with water stones, like a chisel.

I am europe based

If I google, I do find several stores that sell it.

not sure where you're from, which is why I initially wrote the name of the product.

Now that's a thrift store jackpot.

This one brings back childhood memories for sure. That washer lasted probably 20+ years!

Any idea if Exped versa R1 holds pressure?

The Exped megamat is over budget

I don't think so, please provide link otherwise.

It's 99cm wide

Also all indoor raised mattress (one person sleeper) is 90-99 cm wide.

Which isn't possible for me

I'm so glad this was the first comment. Expensive things aren't disposable, there is value in treating things well. In a world where everything we own is on a payment plan or subscription, any opportunity to learn this lesson is invaluable.

This Kenmore lives no more

So If I buy another one and return the broken one and say for reason for return that it’s defective who’s eating the cost?

Therm-A-Rest Luxury Map is similar to the REI Camp 3.5 (which I don't think they make any more). Put on top of a camping cot for more comfort (I have a Zempire -- whatever the low cot is called, and can't vouch for others, but it's nice). 
Keep in mind that camping sleeping pads are supposed to be stored flat/inflated. Could be stored under a bed or couch or upright in the back of a closet, for example.

I'm a fan of Anker myself.

No inflatable matress will last a lifetime. The one that will take the most abuse is an NRS Paco pad they are designed for white water rafters. They are made from the same material as the boats they use so made to take a beating. They are not cheap but are compact comfortable and built to take abuse.

Well like OP said its because they didn't make it themselves. So this is a good lesson to inspect the warranty terms properly. Frankly though I don't buy kitchen products expecting to ever use the warranty, I buy expecting things to last, which teflon pans are not expected to last long anyway.

I have just acquired a vintage, old logo, made in Baja California, Eagle Creek duffel bag that is similarly sized. I have no idea how old it is.  Outside has seen some things. The inside, is pristine condition.  All zippers function perfectly.  Found it at a Goodwill Outlet.

I'm late to the party,  but I have been doing sales on and off for the better part of 20yrs. 

With 50-100 nights a year in hotels, and a lot of flights.    and I have a 45L Osprey Sojourn as my North American Carry on ( 35L would be more recommended if you're flying in Europe a lot) .  

This Osprey is 5yrs older than the 10yr old 85L Osprey Sojourn I purchased for a family trip to Europe,  both bags look basically new except you can clearly see the wheels are heavily used on the 45L from many 100's of trips compared to maybe 70 trips with the 85L. 

Why I like the Sojourn is because it is both a backpack and a wheel bag,  and it is one large compartment.  I don't want a bunch of pockets to look through going through air port security.  I can carry it on my back if I need my hands free to write an email on the go, or if I am going up and down stairs at an event,  but I can roll it around when I am walking through the airport or if I'm in a suit that I don't want to wrinkle.  

They have a life time warranty though it is unlikely you'll use it.  They also look good so people don't think it odd you walking into a meeting carrying one because you just got off a plane.

Intex classic downy is 76cm, albeit a low model.

I had no idea this was a thing, but this will really help with my tablet’s charge cord. Thanks

ANC AirPods 4, the non pro version for $99 on sale. Incredible!

A word of caution against using plastic to store oil. Plastic can leach into fatty and acidic foods more readily than watery foods, so you’ll want to store oil in something else, like glass, if you care about consuming plastic.

I see . either this Intex or the Exped versa 1 

Shame they don't do single size 

Smallest is about a meter wide (- _ -)

Yes I'm eyeing the Exped , the manuverability, less bulk and versatility of use, is unbeaten to indoor air mattress. 

Exped megamat. The price is quite stark tho and outta budget 

Which model you referring to?

I'm thinking Exped versa R1 (within budget) .any idea how well they hold inflation?

Thnx

I take a wide rubber band that supermarkets use in the produce section and put it around the threads then screw the top on. No leaks.

My folks still have that pair. Early 90’s purchase I believe. F’ing tanks both of them.

We use a cot and a Hest pad for camping and it’s really comfy. I have a bad back so insisted on getting the best setup possible and the cot + Hest have worked wonders. The Hest is just packed with foam so there is no deflating worry. And it is thick enough you could just have the Hest pad on the floor and it’d be totally fine. The cot elevates the comfort to a decent bed.

I have an INTEX queen sized with inbuild pillow?

I can sleep two to three nights on it, before I need to inflate it again.

I bring it with me as some friends don't have extra sleeping space, i store it under my bed when deflated.

When inflated I have walked over it due to the lack of space within the rooms I've stayed at. And if I really need the space I set it on its side after waking up.

I’m not sure the brand.  I think it’s a full but not 💯 sure. It wasn’t anything fancy. Just from Walmart or something.  It is fairly comfortable for a blow up.  The one we got is pretty tall around knee height so doesn’t feel like you are on the floor.

I have had Sony, Samsung, pixelbuds and even Nothing earbuds. The only ones I stick with are the AirPods Pro. Still have my 2nd gen which I got years ago and battery is still good, but prefer the anc on the 3rd gen. If you’re not digging Apple, Sonys xm3 was good. I had issues with the anc and transparency dropping on the xm4. Good luck. 👍

How is it compared to other cables? I've been eyeing them recently

Which size do you have? And is it same brand?

Wow. I bet you can eat whatever you want.

Damn, I looked at the INTEX ,the price comparison is like comparing McDonald's price to burger shack lol

I mean if the price gap is that massive,and the mattress holds inflatable for at least 12-16 hours. 

I was definitely at the wrong market with the wrong budget 

I seen the twin size. Ironically I don't have space for twin size. They don't do single. 

So now on a search for a narrow / single one

Enacfire, I have had mine since the pandemic. I use them daily for hours

Anker or Rolling Square

Maybe something like Bluejeans cables? I use Monoprice cables. Boringly reliable. Best?

Its sad to hear they're not doing right by you. Some years back I bought one of their kitchen scales. It just flaked and died on me within a few months (and I had not misused it) I wrote them just to express my frustration - they sent me a whole new one... which has been working for years now.

I will say I don't think there is anything truly "Buy it for life" in the nonstick category - the closest you'll come to that is a cast iron pan that you season and clean properly.

We buy ceramic nonsticks these days and we just know we're going to need to replace them every few years - they're kind of "consumable" in my mind

Our stainless cookware (mostly Calphalon) however is a total BifL

the straps broke on my Ostrich 😞 loved it before that but it was a little heavy and the cupholder isn't the most functional, it tips.

I've been a happy user of Anker products for years now, and have never had any complaints since these earbuds. I will try to replace the battery myself as someone suggested, and hopefully I can stay with these buds for years to come. They are really good for how little you pay for them.

I could not imagine being bothered to weld up a cracked cast iron pan.

My £5 Ikea teflon coated aluminium stuff works great, goes in the dishwasher and has lasted a long time already with no problems.

was that washer’s drum originally that color or did it evolve to be ?

I’ll never buy anything other than timbuk2, Patagonia, or Osprey for backpacks unless I’m buying for travel, in which case I swear by TUMI.

Honestly, your use case sounds perfect for something minimal and travel-friendly. I’d probably lean toward Bellroy or Waterfield if budget isn’t a concern, but you should also check out Mokobara laptop bags. Their designs are pretty clean and professional without looking bulky, and the trolley sleeve is genuinely useful for airport travel. Feels like a good middle ground between aesthetics and practicality.

I’m so glad you asked.   
I ended up getting the vitamix and I am glad I did. I have 0 complaints thus far ! I am just a noob so sometimes I struggle blending some things 😂 but It’s amazing, especially for hummus!

I’ve recently switched to Kosterina Olive oil. It’s really good oil and it comes in a nice glass bottle that I refill. (Refilling is annoying)

Built to last.. what a wild concept these days

Dude relax. It’s not this serious.

People can call customer service and pretend to be you and change the delivery address or say it’s fraud or something. Most people know this, idk why your first reaction is anger and accusations towards others. This is so 2015, look up “social engineering”, get with the program.

For me, it’s worth the trade off for my guests to have a better nights sleep. In my case, when set up, it’s right up next to a couch and folks have to shimmy a little bit but it’s not bad. As for storage, it folds up smaller than you think. I keep mine stuffed under my own bed

I use a memory foam camping mattress for home use and when I’m car camping. I got a 3.5”, extra long foam mattress from amazon for around $50. It came with two washable covers and rolls up fairly tight. When my nieces stay over, it’s comfortable on the floor. It can also be put on top of a couch, if the couch has separate cushions that makes sleeping awkward. No complaints from guests so far and personally it’s way more comfortable than most camping mattress that are only 0.5” self inflating. They do have options that have a cot, but those take up more space.

If they don't break the cable they'll break their phone. You're better off replacing the cheaper part.

I agree with the others, let them go a week with no charger. They'll learn to be more careful.

I have some usb c cables I bought on aliexpress with magnetic, removable tips. The tip stays in the device and the cable comes off easily if someone bumps it or yanks on it. I can't find the link right now. But I'm sure they are available elsewhere. 

The one complaint is the magnets can collect dirt. So I wouldn't use them where there is a lot of dirt.

That’s unfortunate - mine are 3.5 years old and going strong, hopefully they last a good while longer. Was going to replace them with another Jabra set whenever the time comes

The magnetic break-away kind.

I switched to the Groove Life Zeuss ring and have not looked back. It has a firm core that keeps its shape and silicon that is not sticky or tacky.

Most of mine (full tang classic) are well over 20 years. Sharp af hold an edge and easy to maintain. I have shun too and they are ok but i prefer the metal and weight on these German knives.

I figured there was some bad luck involved in this, seeing how so many people were happy using both the Galaxy Buds 2 and Soundcore A40s for years, and my case seemed to be an outlier.

I will check out the CMF buds potentially as a more "disposable option" - they offer a 24 month warranty here in the UK (part of why I also own a Nothing phone). Thanks.

I’ve only ever used these thin card holder wallets. Prada: super thin and light. Terrible leather construction didn’t  last. Louis Vuitton. Lasted about 5 years and seams split. Could get it repaired didn’t bother. Didn’t rip. Tods. Very well made got over 10 years and it looks perfect great patina and still usable. Replaced with goyard for something new. This  
Is as well made as Tod’s and should last.

We’ve had these Molimoli bottles for almost 4yrs and they’re still perfect. The rubber on the stopper is intact and even the label we chose (included) looks brand new. In use daily.

The ikea glass containers with bamboo lids have worked pretty well for us. The glass containers nest as well as you could expect for glass and save us a decent amount of space while remaining easy to organize by keeping same sized containers together.

Bamboo lids are mid, some have warped, cracked, or molded, but most of them are still good.

Get a Hest sleep system. I use mine for this exact thing and everyone’s pumped to stay over.

Whatever the pack Costco has. Gardening gloves aren’t BIFL.

Mystery Ranch was bought out by Yeti and Yeti has gone to shit.

If anyone is going over this, I've now tried a few different options and ended up with the Blunt Executive as my go-to for any conditions. I mostly use it along the NYC waterfront where gusts hit 40-50mph, and it has been excellent.

I'd strongly recommend the Blunt over the Davek options if you care about durability. The Davek telescoping options do not hold up at all. They don't have a published wind tunnel speed, and I had the Davek Duet break under breezy conditions (11mph) while wandering a wooded/insulated area.

One thing I've noticed, is that unlike other luxury products, the Davek lifetime guarantee/warranty helps them avoid free warranty repairs within the early period of ownership. I'd had mine for about 30 days when the housing for the elastic that causes it to expand/collapse broke, leaving the Davek Duet totally useless.

The Blunt Executive is only a little heavier, and with the back sheath wasn't that inconvenient... but most importantly, it feels like I'd get picked up before the thing would invert or break. As I mentioned, I've taken it out in a 50mph tropical storm already and was only questioning my ability to keep it stable during that.

I was initially excited about the Davek's because they felt nice, but it broke on its second use in light winds that I'd expect even cheap umbrellas to hold up in, and now I have to pay an additional fee to fix my 1 month old "buy it for life" Davek.

I think they should do a better job for damage during use within the initial ownership period, as I can see paying a fee if this had lasted even a few months of good use, but 2 uses in light conditions and it was done.

That is a very insightful comment. I have thought about it back when my Galaxy Buds 2 deteriorated and looked up instructions. They unfortunately included soldering, and I was not willing to invest time and money in learning it just for the earbuds.

I now looked up a teardown of the Soundcore A40s and it seems like it's soldering free. I'll try that, because as you said, I don't have anything to lose. If that fails, I will get the Sonys, or some other earbuds where it's possible to replace the batteries. There's even kits for Sony earbuds on Amazon for just £15 or so (which means around tree fiddy on AliExpress).

Thanks so much for taking your time and helping me out.

IMO pack quality is comparable, but the warranty is what pushes Osprey to the top.  That said, Gregory's warranty isn't bad by any means, but its not as good as Ospreys. For context, I own packs from both brands.

Magnetic charging cables. They separate from the cable right before where it's getting bent. **Absolutely a choking hazard.** But if you teach them to leave that part in their device they wouldn't have to worry about bending it. And when they charge it'll connect via magnet.

What’s the point of thr squirt bottle?  As other have said I bought a glass bottle from Amazon that allows fine control and doesn’t drip.  It’s awesome.

Can't beat it, it's a warrior. I've had mine for 25 years

I have several Kershaw one-handed knives, but an Opinel is inexpensive, classy, and it’s what I carry when I’m going somewhere fairly formal. Mine has a very sharp blade that works great. Just don’t hand it to someone and let them try to fold it, when they don’t know how it works!

alps mountaineering air mattress queen, (there are alot now made of this type of material)

I have had mine over 10 years,.my brother maybe has had his for 12 years.

Back then came with a 120v pump and a really nice big drawstring bag.

They are pvc free i think thats is what causes most air mattresses to feel like they leaked overnight, its just the material stretching.

Do you live in a place where the dog gets dirty or just its paws?

Exped Megamat is what you want.

Just purchased a Wingback wallet. Still waiting for it to arrive but I heard very good things about the quality!

Why are you getting downvoted?

What if your dog is constantly outside in the summer and everyday “getting into things in the yard” like mud, water, underbrush?

Idk man. My dog is now dead but yeah he had a good life and sometimes the combination of saltwater, mud, and freshwater in the same day would make him stinky. What are you trying to say?

Yes I seen many of them on Amazon and different online stores. The problem is space when inflated and deflated. 

I have a space issue and while inflated it would be hard to manuvere for the guest. 

When deflated they are still a good big package . 

However thnx I will broaden my search now and not  just stay with the camping products

I get the feeling they are probably good for people who have no idea how to cook but if you are a half decent cook they don’t actually save you much time and its annoying having less control over the cooking process. For instance if you cook a curry in there you can’t actually sear the meat before hand they expect you just to boil it in the sauce - no thanks. They are also annoying to clean.

A self inflating camping mat is usually the sweet spot way comfier than an air mattress and a lot less hassle for sleepovers and weekend trips.

Yeah. We have the built in one too. Works great.

I was the bookkeeper at a small family-owned appliance store for a little over nine years. The main problem you’ll run into is that the vast majority of people are seduced by all the bells, whistles, and flashing lights on newer machines. They think every appliance needs to connect to their phone via an app.

The number of customers who actually want a basic machine with a mechanical timer is very small. The owner was always trying to steer people toward Speed Queen or the lower-end models from Amana or Whirlpool. He would explain that not only would the electronics likely crap out in about five years or less, but LG and Samsung each only had one service technician in the entire New England area. It typically took three to four weeks just to get an appointment, and because their service vans were rarely stocked with parts, it often required a second visit to actually make the repair.

During my time there, many of the same customers ended up buying another laundry pair at least once, sometimes twice, before they finally understood why putting a motherboard in a washer and dryer is a bad idea.

Agree. 

Both my 4 and 7 year old respect cables, chargers & electronics.

I've got a benchmade bugout that I bought used for about $50. It's not the fanciest knife, but I like the light weight and slim handle for carrying around in my pocket every day.

I love my Benchmade Griptilian

For the last 26 years I've had an extra rod that runs down the center of my bathtub and one that runs down the center of my back bedroom shower. It all started because my 26-year-old had a stomach problem as a baby. She would vomit constantly and if I left the clothes without washing them they would grow mold. But if I hand wash them and threw them in the hamper wet, they would grow mold, LOL so I began to hand wash everything she vomited on and hung them up to dry. When they were dry I could throw them in the hamper with the rest of the dirty clothes to be washed. Now I have hooks that hang on the rods, they look like fish hooks with four points. These hold the used wet washcloths until they dry and drip right into the tub or shower. It's a game changer. No matter what you're cleaning up, if something needs a place to drip till it dries, right over the tub or shower it goes! Four kids and one grandkid later the system still works! (Think spills, kids playing in rain or snow, swim suits and towels, mittens and snow suits or wet clothes, pet spills...)

Yeah icepaca is good.

I didnt get one that old with the wood paneling, but we did the same recently. I got a GE. It has 2 knobs and a go button.

My parents have this exact model. They have had them my whole life, still alive and kicking. That dryer is the best dryer ever.

I don't know that they could qualify as "BIFL" but there are inflatable mattresses with built-in AC-powered pumps that maintain mattress firmness automatically.  I've stayed on the same Serta-branded one with their "Never Flat" pump 1-2 times a year for about a decade, and it's "fine" as these things go.  It's definitely too big and heavy to bring camping, even if you had a way to power it.

It has two air pumps:  one big/loud one for the primary inflation/deflation, and the "Never Flat" one that is quiet enough to sleep around.  The secondary pump has a tunable firmness level and can be turned off too.

At our house, we have some of the bigger ExPeds MegaMats, and those also work well enough, though you do need to top it off every couple of nights.  The top of the Serta seems to hold up better to damage:  A dog ripped one of our ExPeds, (repaired and back in shape) but the Serta has held up to similar stress without issue (knock on wood).

I haven't compared other brands, and there may be better ones out there than the Serta.

A 90 degree cable may be more durable, or one of those magnetic cabke which will release if there is too much force applied to it. But careful, magnetic connectors are often very limited (charging only, low current, etc)

Works well and does not blow out your ears.  

The design is similar to a shop vac but with heppa filter bags.  Overall, I would recommend for anyone that do not have a carpet since it does not come with a motorized roller.

Songmics pop up is the same size but much sturdier I think than the Mac daddy and only reason i say that is because no one beats the weights on songmics, come rain or wind, the legs stay in place with the weights which is really really important if you’re doing an outdoor thing. Also the rpice might not be a factor for you but the thing is, if it’s a coleman even and you’ve spent so much money on it and the canopy’s good but it gets mangled in a storm or fully flies away then you just feel stupid for spending that money cos some storms are soooo bad that there’s no way any pop up’s gonna survive them. So it’s not their fault. But just spend less and get good weights.

I use a ketchup squeeze bottle.  The ones that sit nozzle down have a sphincter that keeps the oil in until squeezed with enough pressure.  Good for directing oil around the perimeter of a pan.

REI Camp Bed 3.5 or the Exped Megamat. You want something that has both padding and is self-inflating, but not meant to be packable. If you live near an REI they can help you pick.

It's usb A so you are capped at speeds/wattage anyway, so it really doesn't matter in that aspect. Just get one that is beefy if you want it to last years. any name brand will do fine, never buy the crap on amazon or gas stations

That’s a fair point about sitting on the side and being easy in/out. That makes a difference for some folks especially if you’ll be putting older people or anybody with mobility issues on it.

I can hear the knobs clicking

For the kinds of things most people need to cut at home and at work, a Milwaukee Fastback is a good value. For doing anything with potential unexpected needs, like camping or outdoor photography or trying to drive a car built in the 1940s, a Swiss Army knife is probably best.

The twin air mattress I have ($60) is just substantially more comfortable than my $200 thermarest camp pad. Part of that really is just the actual height. The air mattress is bed height so easy to get in and out of or to sit on the edge of while getting dressed. It also has a built in pump. 

But my thermarest and most camp pads are also a lot smaller (about 1/2 as wide as a twin mattress) and sort of self inflates but also needs lung assistance. I haven’t tried one that gets 3” tall so that may make a difference!

That’s not really the point though: the point is that if they aren’t willing to honor the guarantee, is anything of theirs really BIFL? It casts a much wider shadow of doubt than just nonstick pan.

Savotta makes great backpacks, pricey but very tough!

Antler. All their stuff is great .

I was about to just to roll my eyes and write this off as silly Reddit expert advice, but I looked it up and you're right. Soon as I saw this, I disconnected my magnetic cables. Thanks for the correction!

iPads are supported with security updates for about 9 years, but they are more expensive than $250 though.

Carried one for years, until I lost it due to attaching part breaking. Absolutely essential for broken nails. Another one was cheap lighter. Melting those plastic loose threads was even better than cutting them off. And it served as “make do” bottle opener.

Watch a bunch of unboxing/review videos and decide what speaks to you. Specifically with blade shape and opening mechanism, then check your local laws to see if there are any restrictions on blade length or carry style. Then decide how much you want to spend on steel quality and handle material. Finally, have fun putting it all together for the perfect knife. Just stay away from the gun show, gas station crap. If it looks like it could kill a Klingon, its probably going to break.

Leaks from those machines are typically shaft seals

This.  I have an old 15-year-old iPad that still works.  No updates so apps are lacking but not a hardware issue.  I have newer ones, just noting this one is still working.

Canadian military also uses them everywhere

I’ve had my Sony xm4s for nearly 7 years, and while the battery has definitely degraded, I still only need to charge them every 2-3 days. I wear them literally every spare moment I have.

Disagree on the camp pads, to be honest. They have foam built in, are inflated to 2-3”, and honestly it feels pretty comfortable.

But again, it’s gotta be a good one. Not sure how much the air mattress you recommend costs, but these things are like $300+ easily.

I bought a queen size inflatable mattress that has a built in pump that inflates and deflates. I got it in 2012 and never had an issue. It’s not a “camping” mattress in my opinion as it needs power. But it rolls up and stores well in its own bag, albeit a bit heavy. It’s relatively tall too, when inflated, so you are not getting up off the floor. Have a look for INTEX but there are many brands. Or search for “raised air bed with built in pump”

Teach your kids. This is a lesson. Don't enable poor behavior. Reward good behavior. If their devices die? Charge them for them but they don't get access to them during the duration. Give the devices back with one charger for all of them. Tell them if they are careful, they'll get more chargers for all of them. 

Alternatively, this is why we give kids an allowance. If they break the cable, they can spend their money on new cables.

A good air mattress is the trick, and you are right, most of them suck and slowly leak air. I have purchased two separate queen air mattresses from costco that both slowly leaked. Luckily the build in pumps make it easy to top off and the Costco purchase even easer to return. I also have a fantastic tall twin air mattress that stays fully inflated for a week+ (Englander brand). I do wonder if the sizing might be an issue too with the smaller mattresses holding air better?

Overall I would skip camp pads. The level of comfort people expect when sleeping on the floor of a tent is just far less than they expect when sleeping in a guest room. Camping pads tend to be more expensive and less comfortable because they need to balance durability/packability/weight.

How are the tees? and do you maybe have some pictures?

I'd go this route for sure.

Linus from LTT is a grade A tool bag and rotten, smug little turd. He always manages to go mask off when it comes to stuff they brand and sell, so I would just stay away. The shoe will drop any time now just like it always does.

Old ketchup or similar bottle. The kind that are made to be upside down. Work great and no leaks

I gave up on the HP all in one printers. I had more headaches and it was a struggle to get anything printed. I move to a Brother Laser printer and couldn't be happier. Easy setup. Rapid high volume printing.  Ink lasts forever.  Definitely recommend them.

Yeah I have Jabra Elite Active, for about the same length of time. No issues for years.

I appreciate the use of shady

Peak Design has a lifetime warranty and I’m a fan of their designs and manufacturing process.

There's just so many, man. So so so many. 

I carry a Para Military 2 everyday, best knife I've ever owned, but there's more quality knives out there than anybody is going to possibly be able to recommend. In general, MOST options from Kershaw, CRKT, Civivi, OKC, Spyderco, Benchmade, Buck etc are going to be great. 

It's way more important to know basic maintenance like sharpening and cleaning.

We have had an ExPed for years and it’s held up very well. We use it for camping, for indoor use in our own home with guests, and for indoor use when we need to put someone on the floor in a hotel or Airbnb.

If your priority is durability and ease of use, I'd honestly look for an iPad 9th Gen before most Android tablets.

It's not the newest thing out there, but they're built well, easy to use, and tend to stay useful for years. Around the $250 mark, I think it's one of the safest buys you can make.

They also have great products for industrial applications! And great customer support for speccing them out!

I like the ones from chubby cable

I personally love this bag. Had it for almost 7 years before donating simply because I wasn’t ever filling it enough to warrant carrying around something that size. Quality was great, however I’m sure like most things the production quality has gone downhill on the new bags

No tablet is bifl, but the best tablet experience at each price point is going to be an iPad. 

Android tablets just lack in the app experience, typically being phone apps made larger but not adjusting the ui.

Cheap android tablets feel like it.

Yes she overheated it. if you overheat cast iron or stainless you get a high sear on your food, if you overheat Teflon you kill your family pets

Given how old mine are it’s probably a hardware issue, but there is a chance it’s fixable.  I plan on buying a new pair sooner rather than later due to the cost of fixing the hardware.

Benchmade Bugout is ideal. I use a Super Freek but I work outdoors and like the extra length. Osborne is a nice choice. 

Really depends on your budget more than anything else

You never need an ocean of butter for cooking eggs but it sure makes them more tasty.

[ Removed by Reddit ]

Have heard great things about their support but I actually had the opposite experience with them when I tried to warranty a knife last year. Sent the damaged knife in as requested by customer service only to have them say they never received it and wouldn’t be able to help process my claim :(

Honestly I just got a pack that had good reviews on Amazon and tried a couple of empty oil bottles until I found a fit.

16 years of daily use and my Victorinox backpack is in fantastic shape.

We didn’t have any luck with plastic squirt bottles. We got oil from an italian market that came in a glass green bottle that looks like a red wine bottle. We added a pour spout like you’d use for liquor and have been using it for years. The spout fits rather snug and doesn’t drip.

If you're looking for the "best and forget about it" option, I'd check out Cable Matters or StarTech.

Anker is good, but those two have a reputation for making boring, overbuilt cables that just keep working. For USB-A to USB-C, I'd prioritize build quality over chasing specs anyway.

If you want, I can send you the exact listings I was looking at

Which one did you end up buying? Looking for a blender myself atm. I also think (if you didn’t get one yet) that you can always resell the current blender if you don’t like it!

What is it keeping me safe from? I used to do laundry by letting it fill while I collected items from the house (kitchen towels, hand towels, etc). Then I would let everything soak for 15 minutes with the lid up, and sometimes I’d even find one more thing to add. And the clothes got so much cleaner back then too. I don’t remember needing to really treat spots on clothes— as long as I got them in the wash within a couple of days, everything came out. 

I hate my front-loader. Yes you can pause it, but it takes a minute, and you can only do it during certain parts. And the lag time is silly. I miss the electronics of my youth where there was no digital lag

I went down this rabbit hole too. I’ve had good experience with Silvery sheets, especially if you sleep warm. Not saying they’re perfect for everyone, but they felt noticeably better than the cheaper sets I used before.

We once had a toaster oven that beeped so loud we took it apart and removed the speaker. So satisfying

I've owned one for close to 30 years now.  The hose fell apart after 25y but was easily replaced.  Never had any other issues.  I don't want any other vacuum at this point.

Benchmade is my go to brand for pocket knives. I've owned a couple of them and they've never let me down. You can order them with laser engraving on the blade. This way you can put your name on it and no one else can claim it.

Oh shit mine had the same issue but I never thought to turn off the ANC. I was eager to get the latest gen for the hearing aid features and stuff but I still haven’t sent them up.

Yes on a picnic in a thermos, pour it out into a mug and drink as you normally would.

I have a "newer" 70 series that I bought used in 2011. It started leaking water and I thought it was done for.  The repairman that came out told me to never let that washer go. It was one of the easiest machines to fix and parts are always available. I'll be dragging that washer with me when I move up north eventually.

I've got an older camelbak backpack (flea market find) that was owned by someone in the military, it's been a daily carry for the past 5 years, still works good as new.

After 20 years of carrying modern, one hand opening, locking single-blade folders PLUS some version of separate multitool, I am fully converted back to the an SAK-is-all-you-need-plus-a-lot-of-convenience camp.

LTT TrueSpec. Mine arrived today.

Then say that. It’s unfounded, but at least say that. It’s what everyone knows you wanted to say anyway.

Cable Matters is really good stuff, their cables are pretty commonly used by IT departments since the quality is good enough to be reliable and used long term.

Period pants! Life changing!

Can’t remember the specific model but I have a Benchmade folding knife with a polymer or carbon fiber handle that’s lasted for years.

It’s an \*amazing\* vacuum. That said, we wound up selling ours because my wife was not a fan of canister vacuum life, she found it to be very inconvenient which I can appreciate.

I just keep reusing the same grazza bottle and purchasing the refill

Milwaukee Fastback. Has the benefit of being useful, and is cheap.

Moondrop Spacetravel 2.

They are awesome and at this price point you dont need to worry anyways.

Most people loose their TWS to toilets or in general, before they die anyways.

Our current washer is like 20+ years old, I spend $15-20 every couple years to replace the pump(Amazon) it takes ten minutes to do.

Have you tried any other popular brands in the market right now? I tried some but it didnt work too sadly

Linus is rich and out of touch now + the content has taken a huge nosedive. They don't deserve the money anymore

Haha, this unlocked some memories. Every time I hit the snooze button, it felt like I somehow managed to fall into an even deeper sleep.

That is the model washing machine I had growing up

Same, but I think we got rid of ours because my mom wanted newer appliances, she ended up with a Samsung(it's been a long time I don't recall) high efficiency washer and dryer and the washer would end up moving itself across the floor.

Comments here are amazing

I grew up with this same exact model too. My parents had it for 30+ years.

Got a Whirlpool dial-based ‘90s dryer for $50 on Marketplace to replace the one that died. That was two years ago. Had to buy a three-pin plug adapter: $5.

Your answer is pretty easy, because USB-A remains the bottle neck in every cable. Just about any cable you buy on Amazon will be capped to a max of 20GBPS data and less than 20W charging, meanwhile if it was a USB-C to C cable, you could use things like Thunderbolt 5 to get 10x that.

So, that said, dont overthink this. Get a USB-C to USB-A cable from Anker or UGreen and you will be 100% satisfied. The “Linus Tech Tips” truespec cable is also arguably higher quality, but also higher cost.

Do NOT give LLT your money, they're horrible now

I have an old Kenmore set bought from Sears in '99 when I bought my house. Had a few repairs done over the years and the repairman said he can fix this forever. No need to ever get rid of it. I hope that is the case.

LL Bean last forever and they will replace it if you break a strap or zipper pretty much forever

Dakine. They live forever. We’ve traveled with their split duffels for over a decade and they’re still in nearly new condition.

Soulfa. It has water-repellent, stain-resistant fabric. But if it does get stained, you can take the cover completely off and put it in the washing machine. If all else fails, you can also buy a new cover. You don’t have to replace the whole couch.

You could check out LTT Truespec cables

What about suggestions for those of us who are adults and are careful yet this still happens.

this is true. 8k polling mainly but iver heard the cable standards can be fairly low to "satisfy" this criteria.

Chris reeve Sebenza, Bugout, Demko Nano Shark, Kershaw Leek, Civivi Elementum, Buck 110. Depending on where your budget falls. 

Don’t use it as a hammer and pretty much any knife will last.

There are multiple brands. In fact you better first check the standards that the cable they support, both in data transfer and charging.

Because you could have a very good cable but which is outdated in standards.

I too got the Kuhl and have zero regrets.

Go to a army surplus store that’s reputable for good brands.  I have a mini Ka-bar Tanto

Start slow and move up if you decide you want to invest more heavily. An Opinel or something like the CRKT drifter are both great knives that will last you a very long time and don’t break the bank. From there decide how much you really want anything extra fancy.

That thing was great except I literally can’t get mine open :/

Teach them to do better of course.

And you don't want a stronger cable. It's better the cable is damaged than the device in most cases.

I remember setting the alarm to turn on the radio and I would dial it just right then, boom, I am waking up to loud static.

I have owned one like this(burgundy color) for 25 years and is without question the most comfortable chair I have ever set in.

Uniqlo is using some low quality fabric with bad colour dye nowadays. And a lot of their clothes are polyester mix, that gives some funky smell after awhile.

My mom had the same one for maybe 30 years. Finally replaced it maybe 2 or 3 years ago.

Small mirror in all of my bags for sure, and eye drops

I still think this proves the substandard quality of the bags

I got given a timberland backpack for free about 30yrs ago, its still going strong. I don't use it daily but for travelling and I always overload it massively, its apparently indestructible.

By reporting exactly what you have experienced puts the ball back into OXO's court to defend.  No telling how many readers filed this info and when the need to buy a new pot or pan will remember.  The cheapest advertising that OXO will ever get are positive reviews by owners.  They missed an opportunity to make you and many more customers friends for life but chose to destroy it for the cost of a pan.  Shame on OXO.

Fairbuds from fairphone. You can replace the battery

Nooo no. It is fast fashion. They have really trendy pieces, but the quality is not good. I bought a top from this brand and it irritated my skin near my stomach and underarms. DO NOT BUY from them.

Victorinox Swiss Army Knife

I don't think the north face is the same as it was 15 years ago though

Anker Soundcore Sport x20.

I use them night and day and I have no problems.

But I'm open to hear complaints on the Anker brand.

Ive had 2 pairs in the last 6ish years, first ones I lost a bud after 4 years, 2nd ones are second hand and I find the batteries did diminish a tiny bit but not nearly enough for me to justify replacing the batteries yet. 

They are great earbuds, and the sound dampening even on pass through is great for work, can hear people and if you work somewhere noisy it dampens the sound enough to not have to wear muffs. 

Great quality sound as well. I have nothing but praise for them, though I do wish they were a bit cheaper for those wanting to get them.

I will have to look at the replacing the batteries as my case doesn't hole a charge very well anymore but thats minor, I have a car and an outlet so as long as its plugged in its fine.

Whirlpool made over 100 million of these. There's still millions of them in service to this day. 

I don't see the simpler parts such as couplers or clutches going away anytime soon, but I would suggest grabbing a spare timer (if one is still available). 10 years down the road, parts won't be easy to find I'm sure.

Wool socks are obviously going to be long lasting. But the trade off is even more obvious: itchy, scratchy, weighty, sweaty, hot, and harder to maintain.

Depends on the knife laws where you live. Some places you're allowed to have an OTF knife, some places you're not. Blade length may change things as well. I haven't checked in years but balisongs were illegal most places in the US, regardless of size. But those are cool as hell. 

But your generic answer is gonna be some folding knife. Everybody has their brand preference.

I absolutely love my Civivi Mini Praxis and can’t believe a knife this nice can be bought for $30.

If battery longevity is your main concern rather than battery life specs, I'd look at the Jabra Elite 8 Active.

Most reviews focus on "8 hours vs 10 hours" but very few talk about what happens 2-3 years later. From what I've seen, Jabra tends to have a better long-term reliability track record than a lot of the popular budget options. You still get ANC, transparency mode, and a pretty rugged build.

Nothing wireless is truly BIFL, but if I were buying today with your priorities, that's probably where I'd put my money. I've also seen surprisingly good long-term reports from some Technics models, but those are usually more expensive.

If you want, I can send over the exact  listings I was comparing when I was researching this stuff.

I've had the same issue with Samsung buds, jabra buds, and two pairs of Sony buds (I'm going to try replace the batteries in my Sony wf1000-xm4s and bought the batteries and all, just haven't gotten around to it yet).

So this time I bought a pair of Fairbuds from Fairphone. The batteries are user replaceable and use common rechargeable coin cells that are used in rechargeable hearing aids. The sound quality definitely isn't up to par with my Sony's but you get used to it pretty quickly.

honestly no one can tell you what comfy or good lumbar support means for your body, those are just things you have to feel out yourself. reviews are basically useless for that part

if theres any office furniture store near you just go sit in stuff for an hour, thatll tell you more than any thread. if not, just make sure wherever you buy has a good return policy

also just make sure the weight rating has some buffer above your actual weight, chairs running right at their limit wear out faster.

this one kinda sits in that middle ground before you get into Aaeron territory, nth crazy, just a pretty reasonable option overall.

It's awesome! From when I looked them up before I bought this one, even to the comments here, I was surprised to see that searspartsdirect still sells parts for these. I was thinking I'd have to go for some third party seller/manufacturer and risk junky parts. I might start a small stock pile of parts, though. Because I feel like another 10 years and that won't be the case. I hope not, though.

How about teaching your children how to look after things? 

You know? Parenting?

Definitely worth a repair call. It's either the water pump or a tub seal. Easy to repair, and parts are plentiful. I've had this washer not even a full 24 hours, and I wouldn't hesitate to have the whole thing rebuilt if it ever needed it

I've been using Levoit Classic 300S for a year now and it's been great. 10/10

One mfp, get a decent one, pay a bit extra and get a model 1 above what you need, ours must be going on for 12 years now, I'm sure it'll outlive me!

I have a purple Patagonia backpack that I’ve been lugging around for probably a decade and it only has one tiny hole.

Now that's a real washing machine! Whirlpool direct drive.

These things clean extremely well, and they're super easy to repair. Believe it or not, many parts are still available for this machine.

But if their data starts to flag this happening with lots of OXO products they can absolutely decide to punish OXO

That looks VERY similar to my mom's Kenmore when I was growing up. She must've had a slightly different model.

i saw a long post about this (had some recs and advice), here is the link. also i think megahome countertop distiller is the answer here, been around forever, parts are replaceable too  and it actually produces proper distilled water. the 580w version is the one you want. only thing to keep up with is cleaning the chamber regularly, mineral buildup happens and affects output quality if you ignore it. citric acid works fine for that, cheap and easy.

jerryrigeverything noises

Parents have their 1967 unit.  No freon added.  The indoor blower motor has been replaced a 2x. I've replaced the mechanical thermostat sender thingie....they still make them.

Commenting a whole year later just bug you.

So ive been using Jabra Elite 4 Active.

Though the best way I get better life out of them was purely a mistake. I was travelling and lost my charging case.

As these were an older model, they were not selling a replacement charging case, ebay ones were basically the same price as a completely new set in Costco....

So I bought a new set and it has been life changing.

When they run out of battery I literally just swap with the set charging and cycle them around. Had for multiple years and yes the battery life has reduced, but its a seamless swap and takes seconds

My gen 1 AirPod pros are 6 years old and battery is still going strong.  The only issue I am having with them now is the ANC gives static noise so I don’t use ANC anymore.  Even the ANC worked great for about 5 years.

Such a shame it went so downhill.

I've carried the same Taylor's Eye slipjoint pocket knife in my pocket since I was a kid. It's small enough to not raise eyebrows when I use it while being large enough for most things I need it for. It looks good and it's stainless so I don't really have to think about annoying crap like water and rust. They still make those models and I highly recommend them. I think they call the range "hardwood range".

This is a similar video for Samsung buds. 

Honestly this process is pretty much the same for my Sonys. If you're at a point where you want to replace the buds, give yourself and hour to see if you might be able to replace the internal battery yourself - what do you have to lose? This is what convinced me to try it and it worked fine.

If this happens on them unplugging, then docking station may be a "solution". But ultimately yeah, teaching kids the value of items is more beneficial long term. If they young enough to have their spare coins and go shopping, let them deal with damage on their own.

Which country are you in?

Because I'm in the UK. If it is sold as an OXO item, and not sold as Cookware item, in collaboration with OXO. Then OXO are still responsible for warranty claims, regardless of who they subcontracted the manufacturing to.

[ Removed by Reddit ]

I have Sony earbuds - wf 1000xm3 - now several years old. The key here was that I found a way to \*replace the batteries\*, specifically in the buds. I haven't needed to replace the ones in the case.

So perhaps the only way to get around the stress on the battery - which means they die relatively quickly (for me, 3x in like 8 years) - is to find some where you know you can replace the batteries. 

This required a solid YouTube video and a very small amount of equipment - basically some "spodgers" to open the device and some small screwdrivers. The video helped me ensure I ordered the right batteries.

I like my Samsung buds pro, had them for years and they are great, haven't noticed any drop in battery longevity

Thanks, I'll definitely go with Brother.

13 years jam free is insane, that's basically unheard of with modern printers. And $10 a year to own is the kind of number that makes you realize how badly inkjet manufacturers have been ripping people off.

I don't print color often enough to justify a color laser so a black and white model makes total sense for me. Good to know the USB still works fine too, I'd probably just run it wired anyway for reliability. This is pretty much exactly the kind of long term data point I was looking for, thanks.

Yeah HP is pretty much off the table after everything I've read. The subscription ink thing alone is enough to put me off.

Brother laser it is. Did you go with a basic model or one with scan/copy built in?

This is exactly what I needed to hear. The toner drying up thing is actually one of my biggest concerns since I don't print every day, sometimes go weeks without printing anything. Last thing I want is to finally need to print something important and have the ink be completely dried out.

Any specific Brother model you'd recommend? I've seen the HL series mentioned a lot but not sure if I need the extra features of an MFC model since I do want a scanner too.

Apologies for resurrecting this thread, but I was just talking about mine, probably 35 years old, still going strong!

My first pair malfunctioned almost at the end of the warranty period, the second pair lasted only a few months more. My current pair are the last model they produced (2nd Gen Elite 8 Active) and they've performed solidly for maybe 2 years so far.

Unless you plan to enjoy the process of becoming an insufferable knife guy (no judgement, I'm an insufferable headphone guy personally) maybe just get a folding disposable blade holder? I like the Milwaukee Fastback but they're basically all the same

I know this is an old post but I just came across it. We have the washer and dryer set. They wash machine just barely gave out. We've had it in our family longer than I've been alive, and I'm 35.....

Get the Benchmade Osborne if you want something that actually feels premium, but honestly just grab a Spyderco Para 3 and save the extra cash for a decent sharpener since you are going to need it eventually.

My swissgear backpack has lasted me through high school, a year of being a summer camp counselor, three years of university, moving to the other side of the world, and then another year and a half of uni and it’s still going very strong. Highly recommend.

Ohhh did not know that! Maybe I bought a pair from the very last decent batch ;)

Jabra no longer make earbuds. The quality maybe dropped off in the last year they were still being sold because I'm on my third pair within a couple of years of owning them, and the docking case on my partner's pair just malfunctioned this week. 

My current pair is a pretty solid performer though, and it's a shame I experienced so many quality control issues.

This is my exact washer. Just started leaking. Was looking to replace it , but maybe I will call a repair guy

Same here. Went with the Jabra after owning much more pricey Sony ones, due to battery issues with the Sonys after maybe 18 months.

I did ask in vacuumcleaners but got no response. that's why I came here and got a lot of helpful replies.

I've had my felcos for at least 25 years.

I love the beach & bath towels of Herzbach Home!

I’ve had Sennheiser Momentum 4s for over two years and they have seemingly same long battery life. Definitely not $100 tho.

It’s not the same highly recommended pan from a few years ago anymore. It’s ass.

93? i would have though 73 or 83

ngl you do not need to spend $400 unless you’re super picky or shaving daily with sensitive skin and want the absolute smoothest experience. Most rotary shavers (like this) are decent if you want something easy for head/body grooming too, not just face shaving. they’re not always as close as a high end foil razor on the face, but they’re way more flexible. if you need daily clean office shave, foil might be better. if you want head, body, quick touchups, wet/dry convenience, rotary kits make more sense. also don’t judge any electric shaver on day one, your skin usually needs a week or two to adjust.

The thing is, it comes down to two things mainly. Battery quality and luck.

Battery quality used to matter more, Japanese cells vs Chinese cells for example. These days, I think less so the country, but more the quality control of the company that makes your product.

Then, there is luck involved. I have the Buds 2 and they've been great with daily use! If you ask this question to regular users, you're going to get anecdotes, not long spread out reviews of multiple units. I came to say my Buds 2 have been going strong for almost 2.5 years.

Now, what if someone else says my Jabra xxx have been going strong for 2.5 years? That is meaningless, IMO. You have to look at the bigger picture.

I still have (although I don't use) a pair of QCY QS2 earbuds I bought for $23 on Aliexpress 7 years ago. They still work.

Sadly, most people review products when they first get it, and then, months or years later, they just replace them.

I don't think you're going to get consensus of the type you want on this sub.

I recommend getting a brand name with a good warranty, or just getting a cheaper model from name brand and take the risk. For example, the CMF Buds are super cheap and come from a brand that is trying to break in to the big players (and more or less are, within the phone space).

I own a pair of Jabra Elite. Good quality and durability. Still work well (bought in Q1 2019). I also have those Apple ones from work and man I hate them ;)

Honestly the best solution here sounds like getting them patched, not replaced.

It's easy enough to do yourself (especially with access to a sewing machine) but any sewing/alteration shop would probably be able to do it for a small fee (certainly less than new joggers).

Victorinox has a lifetime warranty (personally tested, it covers also wear of tools), I have many of them and I think Alox ones are sturdy and beautiful.

berghaus have a lifetime warranty

Can’t speak to “for life” but my son has had the same one throughout all of his primary school years and it’s holding up in almost as-new condition despite being dropped, kicked under a desk every day, dragged, squashed on school buses, taken on scout camps and generally abused daily.

first pack i ever got was an osprey and it's been to more countries than i can count, thing just never lets you down, every trip has some memory attached to it at this point, hard not to love him.

I posted this in another thread and thought my thought process may help you if you’re still considering Soulfa.

I just ordered a 6 cube Soulfa and spent over $14,000. Crazy? Maybe. Especially considering I've never actually sat on one.

Before pulling the trigger, I spent weeks reading reviews, watching videos, and going down every rabbit hole I could find online. After living with a couch I've never really liked for the last five years, I wasn't about to spend $14,000 without doing my homework.

Maybe I'll regret it. Maybe I'll love it. But here's why I pulled the trigger.

First, I watched the CEO's YouTube videos comparing cloud couches. Whether you agree with her or not, she puts her face, name, and reputation behind what she's saying. That's worth something. Most brands seem to hide behind marketing departments. I appreciated seeing someone willing to speak directly to customers.   
  
Second, I texted their customer service with a bunch of questions before ordering. A real person texted me back, answered everything directly, and never once gave me a sales pitch. In a world full of AI chatbots and canned responses, that honestly stood out.

Third, and probably most importantly, Soulfa has been around for over 11 years and offers a 20-year warranty. Right or wrong, that carried more weight with me than anonymous comments online.

I also own a small business, so I tend to take anonymous reviews with a grain of salt. I've dealt with reviews that I know weren't legitimate, so I know firsthand how easy it is for people to post things online without accountability.That doesn't mean every negative review is fake. Every company has unhappy customers. But anonymous reviews, positive or negative, shouldn't automatically be treated as fact.

One thing I noticed during my research was that many of the reviews on Soulfa's website used full names. Not the celebrity testimonials, the regular customer reviews. Out of curiosity, I Googled a few of the more unique names and found real people with real social profiles. That gave me more confidence than anonymous usernames.

My couch is on order. Once it arrives and I've had some time to live with it, I'll come back and post an honest update, good or bad.

Ah fair point. Yeah didn’t mean to push it in that direction. It was more directed at the parents that let ipads and bluey raise their kids with minimal input from themselves.

Do you guys think it would be profitable to start a company to manufacture and sell bomb-proof washing machine and dryer combos. Obviously you’d have less turnover - people would have to buy machines less frequently - but given the amount of people that hate new washing machine companies - a new solid manufacturer may be able to grab a significant chunk of market share quickly. Everyone I know passionately hates newer machines and long for the old maytags but can’t afford the higher end speed queens. I feel like there’s a niche there that could be filled pretty quickly. No frills, no bells and whistles, just good clean clothes from a machine that lasts two decades, is easy to repair, and has a large capacity. Simply laundry.

where did you get yours from?

I went with the Samsonite, It’s lightweight, durable, and designed with a modern hard-shell structure

Yes, not sure what compound it's made from, but mine's survived everything baggage handlers on 4 continents could thow at it, the only repar was to replace the see through cover on the nametag after a particularly rough trip.

They have those magnet ones that the piece stays in the phone and connects to the cord with a magnet, but i haven't tried them. I'd imagine it would charge a lot slower

I always check local rug stores first now. Ended up getting a much better quality wool rug for not much more than what I was seeing online.

I'm constantly amazed at the amount of abuse some people put things through, and the way they get all surprised when stuff breaks.

Get the charger where the port is magnetic. The plug part stays in the tablet. If they yank it or trip over it, it will just disconnect. 

Like these

Spyderco Chaparral is on my want list.

It’s definitely not for everyone, but I really like this little Leatherman. The box opener is very handy and it’s nice and light. I picked this one because the blade length is within local legal limits.

Lucky you, they refused to replace my pans when the enamel coating chipped off the inside of the pans. Said it fell outside their life time coverage. Happened to 4/5 of a set. 

Have never bought le crueset since.

I don’t know that an anti leverage cable exists. But I do think it might be possible to fashion something that extends out of the cable head (from below the pin) up and around the device being charged, that’s prevents pulling at an angle

For example if it’s a phone they’re charging, I would 3d print/build a little cage that wraps around the bottom half of the phone and attaches to the cable. That way they have to pull it straight out. The cage would prevent twisting it up or down first

Depends what you are using the boots for. I’d never buy a pair of Whites or Nicks in there woodland firefighter style for use on concrete. Redwing has a workboot with Supersole 2.0 that is my go to. Fantastic boot. Sole built for concrete.

Popov card leather front pocket leather wallet. Used for many years and still going strong!

Mystery Ranch being "gutted by Yeti" is doing a lot of work in a BIFL thread.

solid choice, you wont regret it

You might have better luck with lightweitht open back house shoes made from breathable farbic. They tend to feel cooler than fluffy slippers while still offering a softer surface for sensitive feet.

Have used my north face for 15 years almost daily - school, work, camping and it’s still going strong

I have the leap v2. It’s a good chair, but from what I recall this one was way better also for lounging between tasks and the occasional mid-day nap hahaha

Bring back memories. It ran for decades with very few fixes. An absolute tank.

I have this one:

and it leaks a bit.  It's also a pain to clean since the oil gets into the stainless steel ring, and it can be difficult to unscrew the top off when refilling.

These squirt bottles. Totally leakproof, as long as you close both lid twists tightly. I've had a bunch constantly in use for various liquids at home and they've held up great (4 years so far). Very inexpensive, and come in several different sizes. 

The only downside is that the narrow opening makes them a bit challenging to clean at times. For most things I just toss them in the dishwasher, but oil requires handwashing with a small bottle brush.

I am completely certain Manuel is online.

Good luck. I have tried every recommended cable and they all break the same.

I'm done buying expensive cables and now just buy cheaper ones since I have to replace them so frequently.

Make noise.  Post.  Share.  Put this every social media platform you use.  

Too many corporations and brands have a great sounding guarantee or warranty as pure marketing and never intend to stand behind it and so have no way for you to exercise it.  

Make enough noise that their marketing and brand people see it and worry the problem will impact their reputation and marketing.  Get their attention.  

Ask for others with the same problem to come forward and share.

My brother is still using my grandpa’s clock that he bought in 1962. He has had to fix it once, but it was his own fault it broke. Lol.

Blunstones are shit compared to Redback and Mongrel. And more expensive.

The sneakers are way nicer than converse and i paid next to nothing for them so even if they dont last another 2 years i got my moneys worth.

I use these and they're pretty good

I wouldn't store them sideways though

Same. That’s why I care less about fancy modes and more about whether I’ll actually use it. SKG having heat and being easy to wear makes it more realistic than something I have to actively hold.

this is a direct drive system. it does not use belts. it is essentially a big stack; a motor at the base with a drain pump on the bottom, transmission above, then the tub and basket sitting on the transmission shaft. these will last forever with proper maintenance.

Broken cable? Oh no, guess the device won't be charged. Actions have consequences.

Learning to darn and repair your nice socks will extend their life by years. I think a lot of people forget that maintaing and repairing is part of bifl.

Nail clippers. I've had the same $8 Seki Edge pair since undergrad and at this point they're basically a family heirloom.

[ Removed by Reddit ]

And you'll also have to buy a pack of 6 of them, most likely!

There's magnetic tip usb-c cords where the plug stays in your phone or tablet And the cord sticks to it with magnets when you need to charge

Keep it simple. It doesn’t need wifi, Bluetooth, and a fancy display to show me a dancing t shirt when it is done. 

Put all the money towards building a solid drum, agitator, and water pump.

Tell them to not use it while charging, it’s tough on the battery as well. I do like the “let them wallow in pain”-strategy as someone else said.

My Bose and Sony buds have been riddled with software issues. Back to apple I go, never let me down.

I have tried a few king mattresses in stores and realised the super soft ones feel nice but after a point start feeling uneven. I wanted something balanced so after i checked multiple options and finally bought the Sleepwell Pro FitRest. It feels quite supportive without feeling too hard. What I liked was that I could sleep comfortably without feeling like I was sinking into the mattress. For king mattresses, I think good support matters more than that extra soft feel like a hotel

Me neither, that's an awful idea... ***calls Amazon for return of item***

I love my Bluetti Apex 300. The 240V support was the main reason I bought it. It keeps my well pump running during outages, which is a huge plus.

Try 'not fire for purpose' when you ring them or email them. A frying pan should last years, even a nonstick. That's a joke. Product not fire for purpose and chargeback if they fuck around.

If they break cheap cables, they will break expensive ones.

My wife and kids go through so many cables where as I have the same ones for years. 

When they ask to borrow mine I just laugh.

Those seashell mats are pretty but not made for a busy bathroom. For a grip that actually lasts, look for bath mats with TPR backing. It’s a tough type of rubber that doesn't crack in the wash like the old latex kind. Pair that with a quick-dry fabric and you won't have to buy new ones every year!

I’d avoid the super cheap couches and look at something better built from the start. Soulfa is a strong option because their sofas look great, feel comfortable, and don’t have that disposable furniture vibe. Not every couch is truly BIFL, but quality matters a lot here.

I had no idea that's what those were for and I was very confused why booths were giving out squeegees at conventions. They came in handy for other projects but it wasn't until many years later that I learned they're for scraping grease off pans.

I've considered these before. Are they very tight on the ankle? I've been finding a lot of socks are too tight.

You opened the lid while it was FILLING???? Do you have ANY idea how dangerous that is??

Never had a fancy expensive backpack but my underarmour backpack I bought in college is still going strong. Literally every day in college, everyday at work now and everywhere I travel. 10 years in and doing great.

part of what makes vintage top-loaders like this so BIFL is that the repair ecosystem never died — agitator dogs, pump couplers, drive belts, lid switches — almost all of it is still manufactured as aftermarket, often $5-20 a part, and the wiring diagrams and service manuals are usually still floating around online as PDFs. a modern machine with a dead control board is often worth less than the repair quote. a dead part on a machine like this is usually a 30-minute YouTube + screwdriver job. congrats on the steal.

I think it'll be fine. The frame used to creak because I didn't have the screws properly turned. Once I did that, it's been basically silent.

This made me laugh, thanks

Any recommendations? Had one that leaked all over the place. Seemed it didn’t fit the bottle it came with well or something.

Remember, a speaker and a microphone are more or less the same thing. New ones always come with a speaker, and with an internet connection. Do with that info what you wish

I’m sure 99% of people would agree with you, but the problem is finding a manufacturer willing to make such a machine. It’s more profitable to have your current machine break down every couple years than it is to sell you a machine that lasts for life.

And when they break the next cable, then what? My guess is they'll not tell OP, keep using the broken cable and risk causing a fire in OP's house. See the Cras-Montana fire for what can happen when you're not careful.

OP, get some braided cables, these last one hell of a lot longer, and can handle a bit of rougher handling. If you want to teach your kids to take better care, take the cost out of their allowance, or allow them only one cable, or take their phone away. But replace the goddamn cables!

If you're looking for a suit that will genuinely last, I'd recommend Brahaan. Their focus is on bespoke tailoring, premium international fabrics, and timeless craftsmanship rather than chasing short-term trends.

I had zero regrets with Briggs and Riley. Travel Pro used to be good. But their support is limited in Asia.

After seeing OP’s response I kind of want someone to hijack their order now

Purchasing a Briggs and Riley. I’m seeing so many reviews that it’s confusing…The last luggage, Samsonite wheels stop working  also have a travel pro I used once and looks like I’ve had it forever.

That OXO glass oil bottle is awesome. No leaks, it barely dribbles, if at all.

the underlying question we're getting at is "are these services ultimately incentivized to produce models with more accurate output?", and the answer is unequivocally yes. 

individual users with a personal subscription may or may not be rational enough to consistently select for accuracy, but enterprise customers (where these services make their real money) are.

I have so many Osprey brand bags and will die by it. They are the best brand that I have used and have kick ass customer service. I threw my bag over a river before jumping over it and the bag landed on a branch ripping a hole into it. I called Osprey to see if I could get it repaired and they just sent me a new one. Some of my bags are almost 10 years old and in good shape.

Agreed, I got one of those all chrome putty knives from one of the hardware stores, 2", and use it all the time in the kitchen.

I miss our Speed Queen, 25 years of solid work, the new washer is technically better in every aspect but I feel it just doesn’t clean things like the SQ.

I guess I was agreeing with the premises but not the intensity of the wording. I know for some parents get unhealthy about maximizing their childs development.

Absolutely love my 2 Goruck bags. There is literally a video of a dude dragging behind his truck and the fare well

It's more than just damaged enamel, it appears to have been mashed on the top and somebody straightened it out the best they could.

Hello /u/Finsceal! Your post or comment was removed for using an Amazon Affiliate link link Shortener. (see Rule 8). You can change the URL and re-post it.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/BuyItForLife) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Get magnetic breakaway cables

It says Zero on top.

House of Blanks, Bronson, Reigning Champ make thick sweats with thick pockets.

In 2009 I bought a 32-in Sony Bravia TV and it cost somewhere around $550. Just last summer I needed a spare TV for my bedroom and picked up the same model for $20 at a local thrift shop. Works just like new!

You should have seen this person’s knife skills.

This bad habit is why I switched to right angle plugs. 😅  My current one from ugreen has lasted over 3 years so far, and still in great shape!

I mean, whose brilliant idea was to add a computer to a moisture machine. The thing rusts itself. It should have the simplest PCB possible.

I've just recently read about scrubbies and microplastics dangers, especially for women who use them for cleaning intimate parts.  I'm switching back to natural loofahs.

That's totally alright Yeah honestly the Jim Greens seem like one of the better value picks in that whole durability/resoleable category. If you're splitting things into a 3-boot rotation, I'd probably look at something like:
• Jim Green African Ranger for everyday/summer
• Danner Mountain 600 for hiking
• KEEN Revel 
The nice thing is each boot is doing a specific job instead of one pair getting absolutely sent into every season 😂
I've been digging through a bunch of options lately, so if you want I can send over some of the Amazon listings I found and a couple other boots that seemed like a good fit for what you're looking for.

I saw a microwave that instead of beeping does a noise as if it's being abducted or dying

The next one you buy AFTER making them spend a few weeks without a cable

[...] we request that you repurpose [...]

Goddamn that is refreshing to hear from a huge corporation

Generally if you buy from a restaurant supply store they have better stuff than your average home&kitchen shop.

  
Just be prepared that if you want better it's almost certainly going to cost more.  Like $30 for something you think should be $5 at walmart.

I'm about to put this to the test. I was walking to a job the other say and found most of a Henry someone had dumped. The motor runs, I think I'm missing a hose, bags, a filter and that's it. It's going to be a shop vac so if it doesn't work I'm £30 in parts out, no big deal, but I love the idea I can strip down and rebuild something if it's not working instead of throwing it in the bin

That’s such a great idea. I always regret not taking more photos of myself when I travel so this is a good idea to try to help me feel less awkward in front of the camera

Yeah a solid backpack is honestly one of the best long term gifts. I still use mine from years ago. Knives are a good call too if they cook a lot.

For everyday use, I’d honestly choose based on whether you want more of a rugged/walk-everywhere sandal or a simpler everyday casual one. If it’s mostly regular wear, I’d personally go for something minimal, comfortable from the first wear, and easy to pair with most outfits rather than a very outdoorsy style.

You can check out **Indifeet** if you want something more in that everyday-wear lane. For me, the best everyday sandals are the ones that feel soft, secure, and easy enough that you end up wearing them without thinking too much.

I work at **Indifeet**, so my suggestion may be a bit biased.

I use a variant of this one too and really like it. Before we had a pampered chef pressured one and it was a mess and didn't work as well.

I have had a spray (and pour, though I only use the spray) with olive oil for 6m or so, and it's actually worked, unlike everything else I've tried. Not quite what you're asking for.

I use it with metal utensils, so it’s already longer. But I’ve only had it for about 3 months

Based on my experience I think the user scratched the shit if the pan and that’s why the warranty was not covered

I have used my sons Dakine for twenty yrs. He used it for ten!

I’ve had the Oxo plastic squeeze bottles for about 6 years and they don’t leak at all.

Timbukto still perfect after 23 yrs!

I use a glass bottle (empty olive oil bottle) with a liquor pourer (like bartenders have on their bottles for quick pouring), they make them with little flaps that close the hole and open up when you pour, and they don't leak (just make sure to get a good fit for your pourer)

We have a set of Kenmore Model 70s that we got from my in laws, I’m pretty sure they’re over 30 years, I’ve had them for 14 years. Replaced a clutch and a few other parts last year, but otherwise they’ve been great and they’re so easy to work on and clean and maintain. I plan to keep them as long as I possibly can.

Rolling square is putting out a product that are lifetime cables.

Hmm calling people names seems like the most sensational thing around here. Sounds like you need to go back to insulting people face to face so you can actually see the consequences of your behavior. Or, Next time try to be a bit more decent as a person.

If you buy a full grain leather one, it should last forever, so long as you care for the leather.  Lots of makers out there… including Thursday Boot company

Clingfilm the threads and then close the lid of whatever squirt bottle you have.

This is the 7am soundtrack to the 90s.

Whatever the local reastaurant supply store sells.  They last okay.

Oxo glass oil dispenser. It’s not a squeeze bottle but it provides a clean steady pour.

Squeeze bottles are prone to leak because you’re trying to force a viscous liquid through a narrow spout.

A small wall-mounted organizer that holds a TV remote, Xbox controller, and headset. My gaming stuff used to take up most of my nightstand, but my wife found this one day and picked it up for me. I absolutely love it.

Brother for the win 🏆

If affordability is what you're looking for new site I found and bought from several times, Bag Lady from Philadelphia.  Travel sets, carry on's, duffel bags, backpacks and every kind of essential you can imagine.  I didn't know how to travel for 8 hours with a diabetic and but they had a refrigerated holder for my Dad's needles.  But Travelpro is a good choice bought from them long time ago.  Still have, but use it for storage.  And Macy's is also great.

I usually just get olive or avocado oil in a glass bottle to avoid the mess.

Yep same here. Got them 10 years ago and wash weekly. Still holding up great.

I have a bamboo one that's for out the shower. I like it alot.

I had a countertop ice maker from Costco that made standard bullet ice, and it lasted about 2 years before it died. Looking back, I think a big part of that was on me because I wasn't very diligent about cleaning and maintenance. I'm using a Costway nugget ice maker now and haven't had any issues with it so far. From my experience, the lifespan of these machines has a lot to do with using filtered water and keeping up with regular cleaning and descaling.

I have one from a brand called peak design. They also have a lifetime warranty

I don’t think that’s true. But I feel like we are in the realm of the semantics of what “want” means at this point.

Surprisingly, Bombas

Agreed.

Amazon long ago figured out that with the volume they are moving then with cheaper items it costs less to not hire a literal army of logistics and customer service staff to handle returns and that they can eat the cost and then just dispose of the goods whichever way seems most cost effective. 

Eg maybe on the warehouse store, maybe sell as pallets to others, maybe skip them.

Classic with full tang and resin handles. 30 years and counting. Sharpen them myself once every couple years bought a couple Asian knives bc they look cool.

yes, you’ve expanded on my first paragraph perfectly. that’s exactly what i was intending to convey.

however, one quick nit worth picking: users genuinely *do* want accuracy, even though their behavior doesn’t demonstrate it.

You have to be careful of the style you buy. I bought a “cropped vintage tee” style from them and the feel of it is very sturdy but still comfortable. While I havent had it long yet, I can tell it’ll last.   
Old navy has a lot of high quality natural fiber gen still, but they’ve added in a lot more low quality options too, so you have to sort out what’s what imo

A little chunk of novaculite mined from the Ouachita Mountains in Arkansas.  I use it at work as a finisher on some of my harder knives.  It makes some crispy edges.

I love these. Only problem is they're heavy AF to move.

Wtf are you talking about. That's the lamest band on the airwaves. Seriously, where tf are you coming from?

Don’t replace it. Let them live for a week or two with no way to charge their tech. If they’re old enough to have tech they’re old enough to take care of it.

Maybe his kids aren’t BIFL. 🤔 I would talk to customer service and exchange them right away.

All their stuff falls apart.

I bought an Osprey because a coworker had one for 30+ years, and when one of the seams tore, they sent him a brand new one in less than a week. I was blown away, now I own two of their bags.

God, I wish we had kept our set. You bet if I find another one it’s mine. Especially the washer.

Bought a colour laser printer (Canon iSensys mf655cdw) and never looked back. 

I have a canon selphy CP1500 for photos, I’m very happy with this combo.

My great grandmother's sewing needles.

They're called embroidery snips and I just died a little inside hearing them abused that way (but they're not mine, so enjoy).

osprey and frost river are the two i can vouch for. tough as nails

Somewhat expensive, but Ashland out of Chicago. Lifetime warranty.

Wow, I had this exact washer/dryer set growing up.  Total workhorse

Check amazon for usbc magnetic adapter. there are magnetic breakaway cables that might work, depending on whether the magnetic head fits the device.

I like their “hobo” style purses… but they stopped making them.  Ive been using my current one for 5 years tho.  I \*want\* to like the sling bags but I hate them.  I can never remember which zipper to open and they carry weird.  Not for me 🤷‍♀️

i get that! i recently switched to blackout curtains too, way more comfy for side sleeping. but if you still wanna try a mask, the ones made from softer materials like silk might be less noticeable when you roll over.

Same here! The texture is making me feel oddly nostalgic for this washing machine.

Flight crew saying "bomb proof" is wild.

I’ve been impressed with my Portland Leather wallet. I’ve had it for 5+ years and I have run it through the wash a few times with no long lasting detriment.

You might be surprised. I've never been stopped for my luggage but the bag drop agents sometimes ask about it. Mainly to make sure there is nothing super fragile or that they need to be made aware of. Once I tell them it's basically all clothes they look at me like I'm a bit crazy and send the bag on its way. They are going to scan each and every bag anyway and what is nice about these cases is there really is not anywhere to hide anything. Hard shell with maybe one insert. a few screws on the back to hold on the wheels and handle.

This is the old “women don’t want looks” argument. 

Users *say* they want accuracy. And they believe it too. Their behaviour, however, is that they dislike the accurate answers when they aren’t agreeable/affirming, and they do like the inaccurate answers when they are agreeable/affirming. 

They like the *idea* of accuracy, but only if it doesn’t come at the cost of how agreeable/affirming the answers are. It’s a tertiary desire at best and is readily discounted in favour of other features which are directly opposed to accuracy.

When I remodeled my previous house my ex wanted stainless appliances, so we got rid of an old kenmore dishwasher.  5-6 years in I already had to fix a seal under the new one because it decided my kitchen floor didn't have enough water on it.  We had the kemore for years, and it was old when we got it, and the only thing I ever changed was the heating element.  Sure, it was louder, but it cleaned just as well, was built like a tank, and it was easy to work on.  I liked white better anyway.

It's weird it seems like you're agreeing with me but written it like you disagree with me? Or am I reading it wrong.

I'm fully aware of the time constraints of parents as a working parent of a 3 month and 3 1/2 year old.

Totally agree on boredom. I tell that to adults all the time too, boredom is a good thing it is where creativity is born.

Just saw this after posting my comment but I 1000% agree! I think it's reasonably light considering the benefits it gives. Unless you are packing some specifically heavy items I've never had an issue with the total weight for airlines. I am typically sitting on the lid to force all the stuff inside to fit lol

I have had the same rei co-op backpack that I used as a camping backpack, scouting, high school book bag, college book bag. I still have and use it for outdoors and I've owned it for 30 years.

Tanner goods  Mine is probably 12 or 13 years old.

I have a Streamlight flashlight I’ve had for about 10 years now. I keep wanting to replace it but the only fault it has is the finish is gone.

I blew out the knee of 2 pairs of those in 6 months, and I'm not really doing manual labor.  I do have to kneel fairly often, but it's not like I'm doing something like roofing.

a "sharp" tweezers is a god send, fuck those round headed lil trash tweezers.   i say this as a man

My 2008 Lexus. I joined the ranks of black women driving luxury cars, it’s a hybrid so gas is (sorta) better, the engines got get in it and the clincher: a 6 disk CD player and tape player ooooweeeee! I went and got allll my CDs and have been torturing my kids with tragic kingdom and the score for months now! Sure it’s 20 years old… but it’s a Lexus!

Osprey, Fjällräven and Savotta

I’d suspect so. Really anything will if left long enough.

Let us know if it works

users definitely *want* accuracy. they do unconsciously respond positively to confidence and agreeability.

the developers of these services definitely are aiming for accuracy, though, and have recently been trying to correct the overconfidence.

Honestly, this Kenmore is probably more repairable.  There's few things to go bad, and none of them are terribly hard to replace if you're handy.  Bonus for getting to scrub your laundry while it fills.

My glass nail file.  It got me to stop biting my nails.

I cannot recommend a pelican case enough. They make ones specifically for travel and I use them exclusively. IMO they are a buy it for life thing. Yes they can be expensive up front but compared to the really cheap ones you have to replace every few trips it's 1000% worth the cost. Also just a heads up the 1535TRVL Air does fit inside the 1615TRVL Air. I frequently do this when leaving for a trip if I know I am going to bring back a lot of stuff. 

  
They should pay me some kind of commission lol but you can replace parts like the wheels, latches, etc if you ever needed to. I've had mine for probably 5-6 years now and aside from some minor scratches they look brand new still. I travel internationally at least twice a year and domestically 4-5 times a year. 

Lastly, they are waterproof so I use them for camping, strapped to the top of my car or truck bed, you name it.

You’re right - congratulations. Bizarre take.

Well, that’s the first I’ve heard someone talking good about them. 

My employer used to buy them in bulk. They tended to leak so there were quite a few damaged devices. The 9 volts also had a quite few duds in sensitive devices. It got to the point that we had to go out and buy retail 9 volt batteries with the company credit card to know that we were getting good batteries. My employer eventually switched to Energizer industrial, but that was the time I was exiting that position so I’m not sure how those worked out long term. 

Here’s a couple Reddit examples showing leaks or talking about leaks:

My laptop is from 2015 and I still get several hours of life from it on the original battery. I also use it a hell of a lot more than \*once\*. This post is dumb.

The GE's are junk. The builders grade Amana (whirlpool) machine is the best bang for the buck, and actually moves clothes around fairly well.

Do you have some? How old is your oldest one that still works?

Mitchel leather does great stuff, smaller US brand too.

I’ve got 12 year old eneloops. Bought our house in 2014 and the eneloops were in our camping headlamps that were part of the move.

Lmao what are you talking about

Do you not see in the picture that this battery expired in 2017? Show me a rechargeable battery purchased in 2014 or even 2017 that still works... no other battery is working like this for 10+ years...

These are non-rechargeable and expendable. How is this a BIFL?

Robust in a way very few modern products are.

Works well on big dust, building site stuff.

Would 100% purchase with my own money for someone else to use and abuse, safe in the knowledge he'll still work 10 years and 6 falls down the stairs later.

Always unimpresed on carpet performance.

I would never choose to use this product myself if given the option vs any other form factor of vacuum cleaner. An excellent product that is frustrating to use around the house.

I own and use a battery dyson at home, because I don't throw vacuums down the stairs and value not tangling a hose around dining chairs or rolling the body into skirting boards.

Show me a rechargeable battery purchased in 2014 or before that is still working....

I mean, clap clap? Congrats that y'all have been lucky.

Every expert who has weighed-in has said this is a very bad idea.

Napped 2 hours earlier!

That is some common core math

Thoughts on Gregory vs osprey?

Yeah a battery you can’t recharge isn’t BIFL lol

Ayyy, I got some of these still kicking too. I think they're a couple years older. Kenmore Model 70.

Been used weekly my entire life, very very rarely had any issues over the years. Great machines.

I have this exact model! The previous owner left it when I bought the house. That was 25 years ago, I'm guessing it was 10 years old when I bought it. I've replaced the hoses and the dial on the right side. Other than that, never a single problem with it.

I’ve got a 25 year old north face that’s seen a life in high school. Undergrad and masters programs along with about 30 countries worth of travel.

Sounds like you skipped your nap today or woke up on the wrong side of the bed

D u p o n t  U m b r e l l a

There’s quite a few, and it really depends on how you want to use it. Camping, air travel, hiking, commuting, gym, etc…

I love hearing stuff like this! I’ve heard so many bakers swear by them.

You look at the Lojel Voja Small?

I have a Kenmore washing machine. It came with the house when I moved in 11 years ago so gotta imagine it’s at least 15 years old. Last winter it stopped agitating but would fill with water. After watching some YT videos and troubleshooting I realized the sensor to the lid close was busted. Bought a replacement for $50 and fixed it myself. While everyone else told me to just buy a new washer!!! Saved myself hundreds of dollars!!

Doesn’t surprise me. Americas test kitchen had them as the best non stick pan until they sold out/off that part of their business

It is quite cheap compared to the other ones. Thanks! Sorry for spamming with the AI messages — helps me easily navigate and compare my options.

\### \Jim Green African Ranger - Brown\

\- \*\*Price:\*\* $259.99 CAD  
\- \*\*Material:\*\* Double layer of 2.2mm full-grain leather across the toe, heel, and eyelet areas. Soft leather collar/tongue, heel/toe stiffeners, heavy-duty hooks and eyelets, and 120cm laces. Features an internal steel shank and a genuine rubber "OR" wedge sole with a softer rubber compound for quiet movement and grip.  
\- \*\*Country of Manufacture:\*\* Manufactured in South Africa (designed in collaboration with the Game Rangers Association of Africa).  
\- \*\*Seasonal/Activity Type:\*\* \*\*Spring, Summer, and Fall / Bush Tracking & Everyday Walk.\*\*  
\- \*\*Summer:\*\* Suitable. Described as an all-round Ranger boot built for the African bush, featuring a lightweight design with a soft leather collar and tongue for weight reduction.  
\- \*\*Hiking:\*\* Designed for rangers on the front line of conservation areas. The soft rubber wedge sole is built for grip and quiet walking through field/bush terrain, and it is constructed on an STC last providing a 2E wide fit and rounded toe box.  
\- \*\*Winter:\*\* Not stated as suitable. The product documentation does not list suitability for cold weather or -20°C conditions, and the boot features an uninsulated build with an internal steel shank.

There are a lot of great brands mentioned here and several brands I'd love to patronize if I had a need for them. I bought a Goruck GR2 40L in wolf gray many years ago that I use for longer trips/pickleball bag on the regular that has never let me down and shows no sign of slowing down. Honestly, it's pretty basic styling and maybe kind of incognito and I really like that despite being pocket/storage/organization rich on the inside. I did get one of their GR2 Heritage waxed canvas bags in the 26L size that I use almost daily, to and from work etc, and although it's not as durable as their cordura bags I'm not worried about it and if it ever fails I suppose I'll send it in for repair. Sometimes I get a bug to check out what else is out there, but just don't see ever having the need for another in the foreseeable future.  

 \[

Dear god you just brought back memories

Are your experiences with OXO warranty fulfillment specifically?

I have the low tech Maytag washer dryer combo with the larger capacity and agitator. It works great. Washers 8 ish years old now. No issues except the occasional user error of overloading.

I’ve bought too many “game changing” tools that became expensive decorations. Heat is the one thing I still come back to

I can't vouch for the newer models.

We had this model growing up. That thing was amazing.

of COURSE you listen to Five Finger Death Punch. Lemme guess you're not allowed to see your ex-wife or kids?

I’ve had a Goruck for about 10 years that is probably bomb-proof. I’m sure it will outlive me by a long shot.

If you want it for work, Briggs and Riley hands down. Warranty support and BIFL here.

I have one that's at least 30 years old. It's fantastic.

Tentree Cloud Puffer! I have the long puffer coat but they do make a shorter one. I get so many compliments and it is excellent quality, with good  zippers, sleeve cuffs, a deep hood, zipped inner pocket…it’s perfect.

If they get a lot of neck tension, a neck massager might actually be a great idea, especially for old people or who sit a lot for work. I didn’t expect it but it turned out super useful lol.

The best recovery tool is the one that doesn’t become closet clutter.

I wipe out the pan with a paper towel or sponge, while still hot, then leave it on the heat and spray it with oil again. 

The day I can't be bothered doing that is the day I give up cooking entirely.

Inside Line Equipment. So goddamn good. Thing is indestructible

Since you're building a 3-boot rotation instead of trying to make one pair do everything, you might also want to look at the Jim Green Razorback and the Thorogood 1957 line. Different use cases, but both seem to have a pretty good reputation for durability and being resoleable.

I've gone down this rabbit hole more than I probably should have, so if you want a few more models I've bookmarked, happy to share them.

Check the manufacturer country. I bought a 4 piece sactional with lovesoft filling for about $4k in 2022, but returned it because the seats had wildly different fill. I'm a scientist so I documented the tags and performed a dumbbell weight test to demonstrate the differences. The backs and seats were manufactured in Malaysia, China, and Vietnam, when they were repeated pieces and should have been standardized. Also, the "lifetime warranty" doesn't cover the pieces likely to fail, like the cushions, which is annoying marketing.

If you find similar inconsistencies, you may be able to return it if not satisfied.

I grew up with these Kenmore washers and dryers. We twice managed to burn up the washer's drive belt, but I managed to repair it. *Never* overload them with towels.

Check the manufacturer country. I bought a 4 piece sactional with lovesoft filling for about $4k in 2022, but returned it because the seats had wildly different fill. I'm a scientist so I documented the tags and performed a dumbbell weight test to demonstrate the differences. The backs and seats were manufactured in Malaysia, China, and Vietnam, when they were repeated pieces and should have been standardized. Also, the "lifetime warranty" doesn't cover the pieces likely to fail, like the cushions, which is annoying marketing.

I'm so sorry for your loss 😭

I don't need an "ocean of butter" even in my stainless steel skillet.

I don't have that kind of money. I have the TC5 pulled up right now on their website. $1,649 msrp. Through a local Ferguson dealer, they require an account to see price and availability, and another shop has "call for price and availability" 

Maybe in another life, friend.

There are certainly companies that have maintained quality or value, but i can’t think of any that improved.  My comment was that all changes are for the worse

That’s a safety feature. My front loader circa 2003 has a pause button for adding an item, is that not a thing anymore? Can’t remember if the newer models in my last 2 houses had it.

Birkenstock Zermatt is cozy but not hot (at least not for me).

I had this set until movers dropped the dryer off the side of a moving truck in 2019.  That dryer had hot, scorching, and flames of hell temp setting.

Biggest mistake was letting go of the washer.

Yep. Crocs are form inside. North Face base camp mules for yard business.

A high quality, no frills cork screw. I bought it 15ish years ago and somehow I’ve managed to keep it through international moves, unnumbered picnics, camping trips, beach days, and other sojourns out of the utensil drawer. It’s never failed or bent.

It is quite cheap, compared to the other ones. Thanks! Sorry for spamming with the ai messages, helps me easily navigate and compare my options.

\### \Jim Green African Ranger - Brown\

\*   \*\*Price:\*\* $259.99 CAD  
\*   \*\*Material:\*\*   
\*   \*Upper:\* Double layer of 2.2mm full-grain leather across the toe, heel, and eyelet areas. Soft leather collar and tongue. Includes heel and toe stiffeners.  
\*   \*Midsole/Internal:\* Steel shank between the insole board and sole. Double-stitched 2.2mm braided nylon cord securing the insole to the upper.  
\*   \*Outsole:\* Genuine rubber "OR" wedge sole using a softer rubber compound designed for quiet movement and grip.  
\*   \*Hardware:\* Heavy-duty hooks and eyelets. 120cm laces.  
\*   \*\*Country of Manufacture:\*\* Manufactured in South Africa (designed in collaboration with the Game Rangers Association of Africa).  
\*   \*\*Seasonal/Activity Type:\*\* \*\*Spring, Summer, and Fall / Bush Tracking & Everyday Walk.\*\*  
\*   \*Summer:\* Described as an all-round Ranger boot built for the African bush, featuring a lightweight design with a soft leather collar and tongue for weight reduction.  
\*   \*Hiking:\* Specifically designed for rangers on the front line of conservation areas. The soft rubber wedge sole is designed for grip and quiet walking through field/bush terrain, built on an STC last providing a 2E wide fit and rounded toe box.   
\*   \*Winter:\* The product documentation does not state suitability for cold weather or -20°C conditions. It contains an uninsulated build and an internal steel shank.

That’s what the Milwaukee vacuum was for, it was disgusting. Same when I changed the limits lol

I like this one too! Sometimes I also use it as a really handy photo prop. It makes striking a pose so much easier, and the photos always turn out way better.

Wait mine broke and I never thought to reach out to them, it just stopped stopping the sink like a year ago.

These glasses come in different sizes. The largest size would be too big for the smallest toddler, but a smaller size glass would work. I think by elementary age , all the sizes are reasonable.

Osprey is amazing. You can drag it on rocks, through a waterfall, into the mud and it comes out like nothing happened. 

But. Tom bihn will survive a nuclear blast. Their bag is shit though (atleast back when i bought it). It’s more like a ruck sack with a huge compartment and hard to organize unless you buy those organizing bags.

I wear terry cloth Isotoner ballet slippers.

The problem OP has is a kid-proof USB-C cable that can be bought for life does not exist. No matter what you buy will ultimately be broken.

So OP basically has three options:

(1) Don’t use USB-C cables at all and make sure all the devices of theirs are compatible with Qi or MagSafe and also Bluetooth or WiFi.

(2) Bulk buy the cheapest, most disposable USB-C cables they can find. The price of a 20-pack of 3’ USB-C cables is $16 on Amazon. Then just let the kids break or lose the cables and replace them as necessary.

(3) Buy a quality cable, but also buy a wire stripper and cutter, soldering iron, solder, and electrical tape. Print out wire repair instructions. When they break it, they can also fix it.

What is your specific criticism of the available literature? Have you identified an enzymatic metabolism of PTFE that escaped published research? Do you have data that contradicts current studies of particle size and gastrointestinal absorption? Have you found a previously unnoticed cooking/cleaning practice that produces significant amounts of PTFE particles smaller than one micrometer?

My wife and I bought a Whirlpool in December.  Multiple time we have had repairmen out because it wouldn't spin.   The repairmen straight told me only use the towel setting on max fill.  All the other settings are junk.  The next machine we buy will be a speed queen.

In my experience lodge has stayed exactly the same haha

Not anymore, according to recent reports. Covid basically killed any quality in consumer appliances.

We had this EXACT model as a child and I miss it every time we do clothes

Hah I was but I recently switched to LL beans for winter. I had my getups for a long time and loved them but my wide feet meant they finally gave in. I swear my feet have gotten wider with wfh.

You got those inside Crocs and separate outside Crocs lol

I just sent this to my brother because we did, too, and it was a blast from the past seeing those photos. We’re in our 40’s. I distinctly remember the texture of that interior.

Where’s all the lint that I know was just floating around in the cavity?

Just look into speed queens. Literally a one time buy it feels like. They will last till your newborn goes to college if not longer.

Zero chance of that. I doubt this even came with an energy star rating lol

Brother I have the same MacBook “extension cord” charger that I was using in 2010, it has no signs of wear. I carry it in my backpack every day to uni/work/home and have done so for 16 years. 

And don’t give me the “they don’t make them like they used to”. I have never had an official Apple charger die on me. Including the one I got like 2 years ago when I wanted one for my bag, because we now have a second car and I put the one from my bag into the car. 

I can even make the cheap $1 store ones last. My current pencil case charger has a crack in the hard plastic which hasn’t separated for 18 months. Just sitting there happily. 

You aren’t as gentle as you think.

It looks like this might be your ideal spray bottle, but it hasn't launched yet.

I too grew up with that washer 🤣. Sears, man.

I wonder how the water efficiency of this compares to modern models. Im going to guess and say minimal?

If you're getting pain in the soles of your feet, I'd take a look at the OOFOS Ooahh slides. They're a lot softer than Crocs in my experience and they're made more for cushioning/recovery than just being breathable.

A family member of mine has plantar fasciitis and ended up wearing them around the house all summer because regular slippers got too hot and flip-flops caused irritation.

Might be worth a look since they don't have the toe post issue either. If you want, I can send over the exact listing I was looking at.

Natural consequence. 

They buy the new one with their money, or they don’t get a new one until 2 pay cycles from now. 

They have to go without for a while. Else they won’t learn to be careful.

If you're looking for something that'll realistically make it 5-10+ years, I'd probably look at Ashland Leather or Open Sea Leather before most of the big retail brands. The leather community seems to speak pretty highly of both, and they make the kind of wallets that get better looking with age instead of wearing out.

A lot of the mass-market "genuine leather" wallets look nice at first but don't age nearly as well as good full grain leather.

If you'd like, I can send over a few of the exact card holders I was looking at that seem to match your needs

They stopped making those in 2010, so you rehab an old one if you can find one. 

If not, the cheapest GE/Hotpoint (same thing) is the best you can get from a big box store. 

The BEST best is a Speed Queen. 

The Speed Queen TC5 is most similar to the old ones, hence its name: Topload Classic 5 (year warranty).

(Not to be confused with the TR5! There are three TR models; TR3, TR5, and TR7. Different wash system than the TC. Watch videos on YouTube to see the difference.)

I've had a Tom Bihn for years, and it's been flawless. It's honestly one of those things that just works so well every day without hassle, that I kind of forget about it.

Yes i understand anyone can see it. I posted it on reddit lol. No one can do anything with the info. Therefore it’s a non issue despite the pearl clutching.

Helpful. Not accurate. 

Users don’t want accuracy. They want certainty and agreeability.

L.L Bean 

The only reason I retired my first one after getting me through 4 years of HS, 5 years of college, and 10 years of travel is because we wanted a newer version with side pouches for water bottles.

My current one has weathered three trips to Disney World, two trips to Colorado, plenty of business trips to Chicago and Dallas, and one international trip.

They used to offer a lifetime warranty on their backpacks.  Not sure if they still do.

I have this wallet and it’s held up insanely well thus far. 

It’s the best one I could find that doesn’t look out of place alongside a suit. Kinda pricey but I’ve been very satisfied with it thus far.

Yeah, I quit with that stuff. It's bad for you, and it never lasts - either you or someone you love is accidentally going to mess up the pan, and then it's not worth the shit.

Sure. The global sensationalism (pioneered by American cia media and tech companies) needs to chill.

My grandma had on like this for about 20 years no problems

I‘ve had a tiny stainless steel nail clipper for 7 years, cheap, but still sharp and reliable. It's outlasted every pricier version I've bought since.

In Australia we have 'Explorer' socks and I have 4-5 pairs that are 10+years old, one pair would be coming on 20years; 

Not sure if you can get them in your country or not but they *'do last'* a long time.

Because it happens to everything it might suck now but I've had my Oakley kitchen sink backpack for 18 or 20 years. It's been awhile. Still going strong. Not a single tear or issue. I highly recommend the bag.

Oakley kitchen sink lasted me well over fifteen years of everyday abuse in and out of my delivery truck. I downsized to a Thule three years ago and that is phenomenal as well

If you want your socks to last don't "wear them around the house" unless you're also wearing slippers.

Holy shit I think this is the washing machine I grew up with

Mudroom. We’re terrible to our bags and they are still going strong. The one model fits under airplane seats which makes it especially versatile

My dad bought this washer when I went to live with him in '94. I don't think he replaced it until '13 or so? I know he didn't like the replacement.

Please don't get her another one. We're trying to hold out as long as we can over here before allowing our kids to have phones, and we need some company.

Royal Velvet is now called Wrinkle Guard, sold by JC Penneys. I haven't noticed any change, I bought one set about 3 years ago, the other maybe 15 years ago. They run under $80 for Cal King.

I have used a wide variety of USB cables over the last 20 years and with as much tech as exists in our household, we might currently own 100 of them. Expensive fancy ones, the junk that comes with basically every device and everything in between.

I can't recall even one ever breaking or otherwise becoming unusable.

Take it to a local sewing machine shop for a thorough cleaning and lubrication. They might also have the manual for it in some form.

was wondering if you could tell me if laser printer also emit like dangerous particle after they print or something like that.

I’ve been using a dakine bag since middle school. I upgraded in high school to one that could carry a snowboard, and then something smaller when I was in college. I still have that bag almost 20 years later. Goes camping, any time I fly (usually 6+ times a year). That bag has been everywhere.

ugh the fact that they said flaking nonstick is "perfectly safe for use" is wild to me like technically yeah pfoa-free coatings aren't toxic if you eat a flake, but that's not the point?? if a pan is shedding coating at 3 months it's fundamentally defective and will only get worse. i've had cheap $20 tfal pans last 2+ years before showing any wear, and those actually got abused. the whole "contact the manufacturer not us" runaround from oxo is exactly why i stopped trusting brand licensing deals for cookware

My son tore the suede bottom on his. I hoped they’d just replace the suede bottom, but instead they gave us a credit to buy a new bag online. Enough to buy the exact same bag, but we got to choose whatever we wanted.

My parents had this exact model for 30 years before “upgrading” they have purchased 3 sets since, including the original “upgrade” which was 15 years ago

She'll be getting the best care, trust me. More on that; since the floor has about 40 different high and low spots, I plan on building a small platform for her to sit on, made of 2x4 framing, and 3/4" plywood which will be screwed to the floor. That's next weekends project, though lol

Absolutely love my Osprey Tropos.

I hate the song! And hate that it locks so you can’t add anything. Also mine doesn’t have any way to soak the clothes for any amount of time

Just don't straighten out the end and try to plug it in. I did that with a cheaper u s b cord and burnt a hole in my couch. Thankfully I was in the other room, so it was a small hole. Just a fyi.

Are you me? Crocs in the summer, Glerups in the winter. Goldilocks

Amen to that. Unfortunately, the cheap ones still break down these days. Crappy suspension/balancing rods, bearings that burn up, even they still use a motherboard that just *has* to fail.

She’s a beauty! Take care of her.

I like my AER, and Mystery Ranch bags

We just use Crocs in the summer. Pretty breathable and good support. In winter we switch to wool/leather but in summer we haven't found anything better. We also disable sport mode by removing the strap.

My sense of self and my ego

Oh and when I was taking 30 credit hours it was stuffed full of books, laptop, notes. I wish it had a more organized layout.

Highly recommend Aer. Been all over the world with it and still looks brand new.

Well I hate to make you miss it even more, but I just finished a light load of laundry, and it was a great feeling hearing it actually agitate the clothes instead of our last one which just kinda pulsed the agitator and more or less moved the water around. The spin cycle just about dried the clothes itself lol. I'll have to report back in about a week when I have dirty work jeans to wash, but I have high hopes that they'll end up looking brand new

Mine never needed a repair so I’m not sure.

Pairing knife that is 40+, still razor sharp though the edge has been sharpened down.

The last time we bought a washer I insisted on the cheapest, simplest one I could find.  Wish I could find one with no lights, not modes other than hot/cold/warm. 

Washing clothes is a matter of soap, water, and friction. We don’t need to make it more complicated than that.

That was an amazing DIY reminder. Thank you.

It is the max of the time we all saw a clock. Good to be at rest!!!

Do they do repairs? 
I technically got a "limited lifetime warranty".
I have no idea how that works as I want this new backpack to last throughout my college years

Huh. Maybe I'll give those a shot once mine finally kick the bucket proper

Unless you want to fry your eggs at extremely high heat in an ocean of butter, nonstick pans are the way.

You're going to get shit for this, but it's correct that it's more challenging to fry or scramble eggs in a traditional pan.

I'm fine with it, but my partner just has a ceramic-coated pan for when she makes her dishes. Titanium would also be an option... no one actually needs to use a Teflon-style nonstick pan.

I can't stand all the buttons and sensors in the new stuff. 58 different wash modes, and you're lucky to get one to actually clean the clothes. But hey, it sings you a song after it's done.

In my lifetime I’ve only seen American companies get worse over time, never better.  But maybe you have a better experience

That is the model washing machine I had growing up.. Sadly it stayed with the house when we moved across state \~2009. My wife and I agreed that when our washer and dryers eventually given in, we're going to be looking at older models, or at least a low-tech top loader washer with an agitator.

I view smart features nowadays as just tech slop to get ha to buy a new one later.

Anyone tried Bellroy transit carry on?

This might be what youre looking for.

Which model do you use for your daily commuter?

Your whole previous comment is weird. Why say “I’m not saying it didn’t happen”? And why bother saying it shouldn’t last a lifetime? Neither of those comments are relevant.

You're underestimating how powerful a retailer of this size is. Large retailers can and do force arrangements where manufacturers (or other middlemen) eat some amount of the cost regardless of any return.

This is why so many products sold at big retailers have flyers in them begging you not to return it to the retailer if you "have any issues": they'd much rather try to find a way to make you happy themselves rather than take a bigger hit from the retailer accepting the return.

Are these heavy or pretty comfortable for a kid?

iFixit small screwdriver set. All the little screwdrivers you need for electronic and glasses repair

I'm sure you've resolved this but I'm posting for posterity:  I was also bouncing back and forth between Patagonia Torrentshell and Kuhl Voyager at REI.  My head tried to tell me Torrentshell, but its hardness and loudness lost out to my heart shouting, "Get the Kuhl!  I love it!"

  
Heart won.

What exactly are you using it for? Daypack? Rucking? Backpacking? Travel?

There's a ton of good brands that make very different backpacks.

Mine says she'll be careful then I look over and she's resting her phone on the charger port with my best cord plugged in.

Steam mop and handheld steam cleaner , game changer,honestly

I'm very far from being or having a kid but I'd never seen a broken usb before

On the keys:
Swiss Army Classic SD, for the scissors. 
OLight imini 2, magnetic, removable, and holds a charge. 
Marine grade 2 inch carabiner, multi use. 

Wallet:
3 pocket MagSafe temu cheapo, doubles as a stand. 
Pocket monkey, crazy useful. 
Card sized bypass tool, ya never know. 

Random daily use: 
Slice 10515 ceramic box cutter. 
Victorinox Tinker. 
Sofirn SC31pro flashlight. 
AirTags.
Spacepen. 
Titanium toothpick.

Great to hear — thanks!

I have only had it about a year but I love my fjallraven raven.

I just got the bellroy hide and seek an I'm pretty happy with it. I bought it because I saw recommendations on this thread, users seem to like it.

MagSafe cabled chargers or MagSafe charging stands and eliminate all cables. Alternatively, a USB C Magnetic Adapter that breaks away either force. Don’t know how reliable they are but they do exist and all over Amazon.

After contacting OXO, then The Cookware Company, then back to OXO I got this “Sadly, we cannot assist with you with your request. Please contact the Cookware Company again to see if the agent can escalate your request within that company.”

Oh hey I actually own that exact one in the picture, but I could never find the matching ottoman. I like it well enough, but having owned both, I think I overall prefer the leap v2 over the worklounge. If you're looking for something similar, I'd just go for a leather leap v2

I’ve carried a Leatherman multi-tool for decades, and its practicality has made it indispensable in countless day-to-day situations.

Good deal! My daughter found one on the side of the road. It needs some reupholster work from it looks like cat scratches. But she was tickled when she google lensed it.

I love my GORUCK. I've had one since 2018 and I beat the hell out of it, and it's functionally the same as the day I bought it.

I'm 46 now and bought my Targus, when I was 24. It has some sun discoloration but remain my faithful travel pack.

didn't have a probem with warranty claim on my coldbrewer without issue. Curious how you can tell if something is a 3rd party mfr from OXO

I've had this wallet for many years before I had to move onto a larger wallet.

Uniqlo is my go to for basic clothing. Tshirts, sweaters, pants etc they've got good variety in style and colours and pretty good quality. Some I've had for over 7 years at this point and still hold up well.

Main downside is that they're a japanese brand so sizes are limited

Ignore the usual suspects. I’ve blown through all of them. I’m been a heavy commuter for years. 

Everki is the only backpack that has lasted.

I’ve been considering this one. Do you have experience with it? I see a lot of social media marketing for it which makes me wonder if it’s more hype than quality but I’m open ninded

I have that bag and I love it. It looks new and I have had it for years.

I bought a brand on Amazon called Alvada. Model was merino wool hiking sock. $15 for three pairs. I wore them all winter a couple years ago and bought another three pack this last winter.  They’ve aged so little I can’t tell the new ones from the old ones.

Kendall Howard computer desk. 23 years old, use daily, still looks like new.

Surprised nobody has mentioned Arcteryx. Definitely backpacks that can last decades. I've had a Bora for around 25 years or so. Also, Goruck, Mystery Ranch, Evergoods. There are also some BIFL packs from more "boutique" brands like Packolab that are very high quality.

Haven’t seen The North Face mentioned here but I have a backpack for probably close to 15 years that is still going. Only just recently did a string on one zipper break. It’s been through a LOT. Hikes, travel, many construction zones, almost daily use for groceries/any shopping. It’s dirty and has some wear but considering I would probably pay $500 for another one today, it’s that durable.

Wusthof knives are good, but once you use a Shun you'll never go back.

.... is perfectly safe for use.

It may in fact be pretty safe to use, though the word perfectly comes with a high claim.   A lot of people worry about teflon coatings, but they are so inert that they generally pass right through you.  

I am not claiming it is a good thing to use it.  

Also note, teflon precursors are dangerous. The products of teflon breakdown are also quite unsavory. I am not minimizing any of that.  

 

OXO has a contract with another company to produce cheap consumer goods that is clearly structured  to  allow them to "race to the bottom" while insulating then from risk and preserving their brand value (to some degree).    The consumer goods in question turned out to be trash, which was of course not a surprise,  and the  subcontractor is telling you the truth and doing what they were paid to do.  

You are the extraction cattle in this situation.   Your most powerful move is to not buy stuff like this in the first place, and maybe even to not buy anything at all.  

  

In your defense, you probably think that a warranty or guarantee means something is supposed to be BIFL or some such.    This is manifestly false and quite naive.  

Even if the warranty was in good faith, what use do I have for a product that has a lifetime warranty if it breaks when I really need it?  Would I prefer  it actually be good quality rather than having marketing warranty blather splattered all over it like seagull diarrhea. Hmmmm. 

From a plastic-laden brand like OXO a warranty is marketing flim-flam to pull in the rubes.

As a counterpoint, I have lots of OXO products and have never had any such issues.  I have a kitchen sink strainer from them that I absolutely love, but after a couple of years the rubber starts pulling away from the metal part of the strainer.  Each time it happens I fill out the warranty form, email it to them and within a few days I have a brand new one on my doorstep.

How long have you had it? I've recently starting hearing good things about it, but nobody has been using it for longer than I'd expect a non stick pan to be good for (2-3 years of good use)

Yes, ofc. And oxo should definitely stand by their claim. My experience with oxo is leading to user error of the jagged metal variety…

I’d heard they added manufacturing capacity by shifting most of the EDC overseas, hadn’t heard that it coincided with layoffs as well.  I’ll dig around to find out, I guess.  YETI’s previous acquisitions seem to have kept even quality, so it’s encouraging to hear a vouch for that still happening.

I also heard they were cutting some other lines, so we’ll see what happens.

I had a similar one, i replaced it a few years ago.

Recessed lighting. It’s like having a whole new room!

Fossil Front pocket wallet.

iPhone used to have these magnetic adapters for cable connections. Maybe usb has one too?

Something like this?

Belroy is pretty great, imo.

As with other cloths and fabric stuff the BIFL stuff is typically heavy duty. It's not as much about brands as what type of item it is, some brands has both light and convenient and heavier but a lot more durable.

We've got maybe 5-6 Deuters, from what I throw on for a long bike ride to a like 80L number that was used spending three weeks in South Korea et al for the Olympics (made it through customs and airport security a bunch of times without issue).  They're wildly durable (I've probably brought one or more of them on 400-500 nights of through-hiking over the years), fit me perfectly (6'2", 165# [1.88m, 75kg]), have neat features I wouldn't have ever thought to include (my giant frame pack has a lid that pops off to become a fanny pack), and they look pretty slick.

I've got a couple of Patagonias (look nice, do their job) and some stuff from REI that's canvas and 30+ years old (same deal), but the only other company I'll vouch for is Duluth Pack.  Buy an old one used and you'll be in great shape.

They're all hand-sewed at their factory in Duluth.  I've got a #4 portage pack from 1962, another from the mid '90s (Monarch, if they still make it) and a #3-70 utility pack from maybe 2012.  The quality hasn't dropped an inch in those 64 years, and my dead grandpa says they were rock solid in the '40s and '50s as well.  They can be mended super easily (thick canvas, mostly, although a lot of the lifestyle packs have a lot of leather), and just work.  The one I bought for myself in 2012 has canvas straps which I prefer, but the leather straps get really nice after like 6-8 weeks on trail.

I've also got a Mountain Hardwear 30L mountaineering pack (can't remember the model, but I checked a while back and they stopped making it) that has aluminum tubes running perpendicular to the spine that do a better job than most frame packs at distributing weight.  That thing is bomb proof, but it's the only MH pack I've had so can't attest as to the overall BIFL of their packs.

Any receipts or anything required?

My time to shine. My good friend makes wallets and card holders out of high quality full grain leather, and Japanese thread that I forget the name of. I'm not particularly hard on wallets, but I expect mine to outlive me, honestly. Here's the link

He doesn't really make them in bulk, so if what you want isn't in stock, or he doesn't carry exactly what you're looking for, you can message him through Instagram  and he can most likely make it for you.

It lives behind my sofa. I didn't even practice it when I was majoring in music and had infinite daytime access to soundproofed practice rooms :/. But it's a version of me I want to pretend can still exist, I suppose

I bought one of these 10 years ago for air travel and it is still chugging along. The logo on mine is different is all but I think its a small company. Somebody in one of these subreddits was talking about it. Its done fantastically

Hello /u/JoJackthewonderskunk! Your post or comment was removed for using an Amazon Affiliate link link Shortener. (see Rule 8). You can change the URL and re-post it.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/BuyItForLife) if you have any questions or concerns.*

To be fair it should also last more than a few uses - we can all agree to that?

I’ve had good luck with Anker brand cables, anything with a metal end and reinforced rubber pivot point is a bonus. Also I’ve noticed right angle 90° cables seem harder to bend

That’s so annoying!

I don’t consider oxo BIFL as I find their stuff wears out.  But I tend to buy it anyway as I find it comfortable and easy to use.  

To me, if you put your name on something then you are signing up to support it.  Even if you got it OEM from somewhere else.

My 1965 Gillette Super Speed Safety Razor I use every day. They just don't build them like they used to.

I have two from Amazon. I like the first one better: "nubite Tx - Insect Bite, Poison Ivy and Itch Relief Treatment 100% Drug Free - All Natural Bug Bite Relief and Itch Enzyme Neutralizer with Patented TechnologyBrand: NNNOIHU" but I also have, "Bite Away."

These are not buy it for life but i think they're great. My wife is on her 2nd pair and I'm still on my first. She often falls asleep with hers on. Not recommended.

I have an official WAKA ball that's lasted at least 4-5 years.

Epson Eco-Jet, if you want to buy ink by the pint instead of the tablespoon. 

No pesky cartridges.

Evergoods, Alpha One Niner, GoRuck (kinda), Bihn, Mystery Ranch pre-Yeti, PD if they work for you (very photo-centric), Aer,

Just a heads up when you're on the internet you're discussing things in a global community. You have no idea which countries the people you're speaking with are in.

Good point on the possibility of frying your device. I didn't think about that

Jealous.  I had that thing for 20 years before I voluntarily gave it up.  It's a workhorse.

This was one of my buy once cry once things that worked out. I have 3 of their knives and they will probably be inherited by my kids one day

I think you're right!

I’ve used both so I’m speaking from my own experience when I say it’s not a realistic option, but I do agree with you that the bagged vacuums compress pet hair so you don’t have to change the bags AS FREQUENTLY as you have to empty the cup.

Can you post up your official response from Oxo? To be honest people make up shit all the time, look at Trump. Lies daily.

If they won’t honor the warranty contact for whatever passes for the Attorney General for where you live and send them the warranty and pictures of the item. More than likely, they will contact the manufacturer and they will be more than happy at that point to replace the item.

Well I guess if it works for you it must be great for everyone!

I used to order from them, and the shirts are great! They're, I read online, made by Next Level Apparel and rebranded. You can buy them a lot cheaper from Next Level.

Manhattan Portage. Have a bag from them I’ve used for twenty years and it still looks brand new.

That’s good to hear honestly, I haven’t purchased anything since they got acquired.

Attaching wooden privacy fence to chain link  
Fence

Eh the quality is the same unlike what most people say, I have had 4 3-day backpacks, 1 roller bag, and 1 monster bag. I paid for the last one myself. Still good

I was sure surprised

I can taste the plug

I’ve had a Timbuktu2 backpack for over 10 Years and it has no noticeable wear

Jansport has lifetime warranty, have sent plenty back and got new replacement bags, several for zipper issues. Would never go anywhere else, just wish they made laptop bags

Leave it to reddit to turn a question like this into a parenting lesson...

I’ve got three Dana Designs hanging on the rack.  Hard to beat.

Osprey is the answer. My hiking backpack is 20 this year and has gone with me on at least one major hike each year, so I've probably done nearly 2000 miles with it. In that time, it's been dumped on sandstone, schist, and granite constantly. It's carried 60 lbs in a pinch. It still fits like a glove and works.

My daily commuter backpack is an Osprey. I've had it for 10 years. I bring it to work every day. I travel a couple times a month, and it's almost always the only bag I bring with laptop, shaving kit, and clothes. I can make it up to four or five days with just this bag. It's gone tens of thousands of miles with me. No issues ever. 

I take that back. I lost one of the loops the goes on the zippers. I sent Osprey an email giving the model and asking how I could purchase a replacement. A few days later, an envelope arrived with 10 different style pull loops in it. 

I will never buy another backpack that is not an Osprey. They are excellent.

Mine I literally had hit something against it and it took a big chunk out of the handle completely my fault. I even think I said that and asked if it was covered and they said yes.

peakdesign has lifetime warrantees and makes some quality gear. Especially if you’re a photographer.

It’s magnificent. What a steal.

I love my Tom Bihn Synik 30. I take it everywhere with me and it helds up very well.

Crumpler.  It's an Australian brand.  Lots of positive reviews around quality.

Mine lasted about a year and I never wend back.

This absolutely describes what happened to my ATH-M50's, along with the same break as OP. I've since replaced them with SENNHEISER HD 569's, and 4 years in, they're still in great shape.

oh hemp. I have sensitive/eczema so I hope it doesn’t affect my skin

I use the Apple branded one. I think mine is 10 ft-ish and super thick. I don’t have children but I do use it everyday and move it around the house/car and it’s still going strong.

The point is that anyone reading this thread can see it, but it’s your claim so i don’t think anyone here is gonna care enough to explain that to you further.

I stand corrected, thanks for the info. I have no clue why I thought that.

really? i want to shop there because of the good reviews but the store can be so overwhelming

Look into magnetic adapters. You put a little magnetic nub on the device, then a connector on the cable. It's harder to damage a nub, and the connector stays with the cable. They separate when encountering the force required to damage the cable. 

its not perfect, but it helps.

If you’re talking about standard daily backpacks (not hiking), I’ve never had a bad experience with a JanSport. I have two, one for daily and one more structured for traveling, as well as their fanny pack/crossbody. I’ve used them for years, including traveling to multiple countries and moving across the country three times, and they still look brand new. Plus, I believe they have a lifetime warranty, but I’ve never needed to use it.

I bought a Cliogear backpack in 2014 and traveled the world with it and it hasn’t aged a day. The more I used it the more I understood how well designed it was. Highly recommend.

Moved production of most non-government sales products overseas. My understanding is there were also some big layoffs but that is just heresy. People in hunting forums and I think even here were up in arms about it a while back.

I still have my Kavu visor from like 2001 and it’s still in perfect shape. I never throw it in the washing machine though. 

I just let it sit down in a bucket of oxyclean and then rinse it off. All cleaned up. I do this a lot since it’s orange.

Common point of failure so the warranty is very overrated

Osprey is very hard to beat. Their luggage is great, too, and their customer service is top notch.

That's disappointing to here for such an expensive case, thanks for insites!

I got these mag safe type cables with dongles. they pull away before damaging anything.

I love the sound of these, and I got a solid 5 years out of my ATH-M50s, but man, all the “soft” surfaces degraded after like 2 years.

Hill People Gear. Designed and made in the US out of US made 500D cordura. Excellent warranty and customer service. The company was started and is still run by people who actually use the products.

huh.  I'll give that a shot.  No doubt something (rice?) stuck to the bottom of the thing.

I’m not sure about Bose but the data sheet for the AirPods specifically says it’s not meant for protecting hearing in those use cases. 

I have the QC35, and I have a pair of shooting earmuffs. I would not trust the QC35 to protect my hearing from acute loud sounds like a compressors or a nail gun or air gun etc. 

You could probably get less aggressive earmuffs and combine them with AirPods. If you can get the ambient below 110db with just the earmuffs, the AirPods apparently can give you 12-40 hours of protection at 110db. But the reason the squeeze your head is because they need to seal against your head. So if you get something less compressive it’s going to be less effective. And then you can combine them with AirPods.

240 is the maximum consumer available one that charges a phone in 10 mins. Generally maximum is 100-150, but the S26 Ultra can only pull 60W lol.. so they may be using some form of the other chargers, but likely they just picked the "max" number.

Also, if you connect it instead of just the actual USB-C, you can get the 240 from the wall because it may not read the maximum output that the USB-C signal sends to the thing you're charging and fry it..

Add JANDD to the list for any type of bag. You won’t win any style contests but their stuff is made extremely well. The failing point for most of these mfg’s is the Cordura they all use. It has a definite lifespan where the coating on one side breaks down eventually and looks like crap then begins smelling godawful but that can take 15+ years.

I submitted one recently on an 8 by 8 ceramic baking dish they replaced it. I had no idea they would until seeing the complaints on buy it for life. I was very happy but honestly have used the chipped one for years.

Osprey is as good as it gets. I like that they actually repair items through their program rather than total replacement which you’ll see from other BIFL brands.

I hadn’t heard they were gutted.  I follow the carry community but have been lax lately.  You got a source you could share?

That's certainly a reason to sacrifice your health for

PTFE is biologically inert

Just like leaded gasoline and cigarettes were completely safe

Mystery Ranch sold to Yeti and has been gutted sadly

I have not had a problem with my toes being squeezed.  I have worn them almost exclusively for 2 years after I gave up on Darn Tough socks due to deteriorating quality.

Wüsthof knives are excellent. Haven't managed to break mine but good to know I can count on the warranty

They released different Ursula toys in 89 maybe it was from that collection?

I grabbed linen drawstring pants off an end cap display at Uniqlo like ~ 9 years ago and they're in perfect condition. I've tried other linen pieces from Uniqlo since then and it's just a different weight and weave and will pill or fade where these blank pants never have.

Ironically, I’m on this subreddit because of my Electrolux. I read the same consumer reports back in 2020 when we purchased. Washer has had over $700 in repairs and today my dryer started smoking.

I first thought this was a satellite photo of an island for sale 😆

I just looked up the power bank you have. Does the cap ever come off on its own? I didn’t see a button to unlock it so I assume you just pull it off? Also could you give some details. How quick does it charge your phone? How many times can it charge a phone if it’s at full battery. Do the side cord things seem durable? How long have you had it?

It looks great though!

4 Inch Adjustable Wrench.

Ah, found it.

0 of their products are USB IF certified. They are lying about certification, which makes them even less reputable.

You can look up USB IF certified products. Volta isn't on the list of companies.

My partner & I have gone full Tom Bihn. Backpacks are our daily bags, plus our carryons (multiple countries). And - there’s some magic that makes stuff seem lighter.

Memory unlocked! I can remember playing with this in the bath.

Vaya con dios my child.

That's exactly what happened to me many years ago. The salad spinner is still doing its thing, at this point I'd consider it BIFL!

A parents time is not unlimited so screen time to missed parent time is not 1:1. They do need to cook, clean, and fix things. However whatever the difference is should be independent play time where they use their brains for imaginative play or creative activities they lead. Or they can be bored, that is also totally okay and managing boredom is a important life skill a lot of their peers won't have. Kids definitely don't need tablets.

Sad about oxo, but I have never had good luck with them.  

If you want buy it for life and won’t break, get some cast iron, carbon steel, or stainless steel (with no aluminum bottom).  They will last a life time.

I found these cords online that the end is put into the device and the cord magnets on to the tip it doesn't work on all devices but my Littles would also safely put their devices on the charger without fear of shocks

I love my collection.

We have the same model, close to 15 years now. Connected to our router it might as well be wireless.

I buy them lightly used off eBay or Poshmark for a steep discount

It is just the cable tip, so if I understand it right, 240W is just the max W it can handle.

For you to get 240W in reality, you would need a charger and cable made to handle 240W.

Most chargers are around 45-100W (or lower), so it does seem on the boarder of false advertising, or at least misleading

Osprey no doubt - had same one since 2014. About a year on the road and 40 countries later it’s barely broken in.

My Khlip nail clippers. 20 years now still a go to that I use on a weekly basis.

That sucks. My salad spinner I had from them broke (the internal mechanism jammed) and they sent me a new one no cost to me.

LBT, Mystery Ranch, Camelbak military line packs.

Tom Bihn and Patagonia

Awesome! I'll give them a try!

Been using my same shady rays since 2019 :)

My fantom wallet is over 10 years old as well

Where exactly does it say their magnetic cables are USB-IF certified?

Because it's not on any of the magnetic cable pages.

Eberlestock is the best pack manufacturer in the business.

I’m just saying…my wife’s Jansport is still almost brand new, and she got it as a highschool freshman. We’re in our 30’s now. 

If I were buying today, it’d be probably an osprey, a Nutsac, or a Tortuga

I just love the cords from Native Union.

I got a right able plug for the car. That was the main one getting broken because the ports are down at the bottom of the center console. 

Right angle plug totally solved this.

Silicone wedding band, pocket knife and a larger knife on my belt.

Dude Jansport back packs last forever. I used the same one like 10 years straight.

I got some edjy toenail clippers that I am obsessed with. Also have some Mr. green ones that have been solid for years. Good quality nail clippers are super underrated IMO.

I wear a wide 12 or 13. I’ve been buying their Wide Open sub-brand. Utter game changer. Sometimes you can find them discounted on ebay.

Tom Bihn is my GOAT.

I'm considering trying these. Do you know if they squeeze the toes less than Darn Tough?

I manage a remote work camp in Northern BC.   These are the only vacuums that hold up to our workloads.

GORUCK. Lifetime warranty. Though one of my gorucks died because of a zipper issue which isn’t covered.

Buy one with metal housing. The thermoplastic ones deform and allow this to happen.

I want to love Darn Tough so much, but they just don't fit my feet. I wear a US 14 M so that may be part of the issue. Just feel like they squeeze my toes too much.

Im heavy now so i need longer dleeves. I nought five on Amazon that I love Automet…. Now 8.99

This right here. I bout a brother laser at the beginning of COVID and it is still going strong. I get well over 1000 pages per toner cartridge. 

Only thing I would change is to get a model which the scanner has a feeder on it to scan multiple pages.

I’m sorry, he’s from Barcelona.

Sure would be a shame if you bought a new one on Amazon and sent the old one back for a refund as defective… I’d never do anything like that… nope…

It may be silly, but my RedOxx dopp kit was a huge one for me. Having something built so well and being the perfect size for me makes my daily routine so much better.

I’d even go the next step and recommend people not buy them at all.

Obvious answer. 

I'll never have another non-stick pan in my house. It's all essentially garbage-in-wait.

If you want true BIFL, look at Osprey, Patagonia, Tom Bihn, and Mystery Ranch. I've had an Osprey for years and it's been dragged through airports, hikes, and daily commuting without issues. The warranty support is a huge plus too.

Drill holes through a lid and put the USB thru it lengthwise, or coil a pen spring around it

Tom Bihn, RedOxx, and GORUCK are three of my favorites off the top of my head. Your use case would help me give better recommendations though ☺️

Give them a weekly allowance(right word or no?) and pull that money for replacing it?

Hell yeah I've been using mine since the pandemic and aside from a bit of black fuzz every now and then they're still grand.

Or they have a good contract for replacements and service. Commercial use does not necessarily equate to a durable consumer product.

It's better the cable plug breaks than the socket of a usually more expensive device

Samsung is the worst! Replaced ours with whirlpool...still ok 4 yrs later...

I’ve found Monoprice USB-C cables, particularly the AtlasFlex series and new silicone series, to be more durable than most other cables. Monoprice cables also have a lifetime warranty, however, if they’re bending connectors the way that’s shown in the picture, there’s not much that can help. Pretty much everything will break under that abuse and the warranty won’t cover it… that being said, Monoprice never rejected my warranty requests on the basics of normal wear-and-tear, so… who knows?

I just got the non stick frying pans for $34 CAD each. I was so happy 😊

Hello sorry for hijacking the thread but please tell me where did you shop yours since you are in cad, you seem to know your stuff thanks , we are looking for a large modular sectional 5~6 pieces

Good audio gear in general is bifl. Doesn’t even need to be expensive. Just replace the parts that are known to wear out

Ah yes, the quite common modular smartphone

My ATH-M50’s are coming up on 17 years old and they still sound fantastic and look about new. I use them for hours daily and have no idea how they’ve got this far. I never knew about the hinge issue but so far so good 🤷‍♂️. 

I pulled out the attached cable and put in an auxiliary jack around 2013 (to make it like the M50X) and it’s held up perfectly.

The only thing that really required “fixing” was the faux leather for the head strap that I ended up just peeling all off after it started to crack and come off in 2020. I ended up throwing on one of those zipper headband covers and they look great now. 

Earpads get replaced every 2-3 years but that is super easy and normal “maintenance”. 

I would definitely purchase another pair myself.

You can cook eggs in a carbon steel pan on low heat with hardly any butter. I do almost every day and it doesn't stick.

I bought from The Classic Tshirt Company. They are great quality and organic, but very expensive. The quality is so much better than my Gap tshirts though. I bought three woman’s crewneck shirts. $80 a shirt. I do love them though and think they will last many years.

Thanks for the suggestion. We have a bunch of All-Clad stainless steel pots and pans that are 30 years old, they are truly BIFL.

This is the best answer PNW boots will survive almost anything. Firefighters wear them to fight forest fires. They can have the sole replaced so you can keep them forever maybe even hand them down.

Isn't Los Angeles apparel basically the same thing?

I have a just slightly newer model of this with an equally as annoying alarm buzzer. I always wake up to the radio, but once in a while ill forget to move the proper know and I'll wake to BOOOP BOOOP BOOOP BOOOP

Oh, my bad, but my point still stands that it doesn't make sense lol

Ohh this is a great idea!! I love their fit and they get comfier after each wash!

Send a photo to them? You have nothing to lose.

Check Costco. Time it right and they do a variety of different types and styles - their own stuff isn’t bad either.

I went to replace several of my pre-covid old-navy tees and tanks this winter, and sadly the quality has really gone downhill. Nothing was cut uniformly and the fabric was really thin.

I wish I could have saved my old ones- I wore them constantly for years, but the tees got destroyed when I tried a cleaner deodorant last summer 😭 I’m hoping I can soak the tanks enough to get the residue/buildup off.

Not sure why you’re saying this. I have USB cables that are over 25 years old that still work.

I miss American Apparel

I fry eggs 4-5 times per week with zero oil and I promise my cleanup is easier than yours.

¯\\\_(ツ)_/¯

Lmao it honestly is aterrible name to try and look up. It all just comes up as part numbers. I'm trying though

And. Doing both seems like the best option

Anker now has several different product lines at different price points quality levels, so it’s no longer as simple as recommending the brand.

I fry eggs 4-5 times a week with a little bit of oil in a cast iron or carbon steel pan - It's never been an issue. 

Why would I need a nonstick pan?

I have some that broke in this same spot. I think you can still send them in for repair and it’s not that expensive.

Get something quality like Anker

Patagonia. Super deep pockets that don't fall apart.

I have some 14 year old sennheiser pc350’s that still work great

I don’t love the plastic hinges for the exact reason you’ve seen but I’d point out that the fix here is pretty trivial to do. You just order a new hinge and the soldering is super simple. Honestly I’d look into that and see if you can wrangle it before the return period on your new ones expires.

Stainless steel, cast iron, carbon steel. 

I don't have any cookware that doesn't fit one of those categories, and it's literally never a problem. There's nothing that can't be done in one of those three.

Outer Known has some really great T-shirt's.

Correct. 

With that said, I'm here because the drum on my 16 year old HL-2270DW has worn out. Part # DR-420. 

A replacement Brother drum is $100. A brand new equivalent monochrome Brother laser printer is $129

There are third party options for $30, but quality is apparently questionable.

Yeah I agree. I think there’s a good chance the reason the devices aren’t broken is purely down to the USB cable failing first. If OP did get a cable that won’t snap under force, you’ll find next that the connector in the device is what breaks. There’s plenty of cases out there where people’s ports on devices have been broken.

If the kids are too young to understand how to unplug a cable, then have the parents do it.

If you can find it buy Al-Clad non stick pans. They are the absolute best.

I know wonderlooper is the top of the class for sturdiness but I’m mostly commenting to see other answers

If anything non-stick pans should be strictly replaced every 2-3 years.

How do you like them? I have been rocking Vmodas for like 16 years.

I have these and they are absolutely not BIFL lol

Both sides put a bunch of strain on a tiny plastic tab that breaks so reliably that you can find small businesses online dedicated to 3D printing splints for them.

The headband is covered in a sheath of some sort of plastic that breaks down after a couple years and starts shedding little black particulates all over the place.

The cushions for the cups are also pretty cheap, needing regular replacement as they wear and stretch out. I'm on my third replacement cushions after maybe 3-5 years of regular use.

The sound quality is good, and they're pretty comfortable. But I would never call them BIFL.

I'm less anti ipad and more pro spend time with your kids and don't give them devices unsupervised. Every minute they're on a screen or device is a minute you're not bonding with them, not reading to them, not building their future selves. You want to have a kid you need to understand the responsibility of that and take it seriously. Too many people have kids and don't understand that yep unfortunately you now have to give up some of that independent time to help raise that kid properly.

Haven’t had to use it myself, good luck with the claim!

It's actually in an article from 2023, but the 2026 one is all All-Clad

I have one of these.  It weighs nothing and won't wrinkle.

The Felix runs for 800 rn

Some credit cards offer extended warranties

The one i have is the Xteink X4 with crosspoint firmware. Got it off Aliexpress- they try to block third party firmware from Aliexpress orders but it was easy as piss to get around that lol

I had the same one for decades until my kid spilled a glass of water over it. I could ring myself to throw it away so it's out in the garage somewhere. The alarm sound still gives my wife nightmares.

Away.  Period.   No further discussion.

There's always at least one troll.

Still shouldn’t allow them to use that one. It’s a massive fire risk.

How are they on chipped ceramic surfaces in a pot?  I've got a couple of those.

Downvote away babies!

To all of it I've had the crush sensor go out  twice on my 3 my cousin has the 4 and its done to him once  the wifi connection is also terrible and the app is horrendous.

No they cant dumbo. Read the email. It doesnt go anywhere on their site/no tracking.

One of my favorite sets of cans. Definitely in the BIFL tier of headphones.

That’s really impressive if it were true…

8 day mantle clock from 1845...that clock and seen some shit

100% this. I got a refurbished one from brother directly about 5 years ago. Just had to replace the starter toner that was in it after about 1000 pages.

Added a Nomatic credit card wallet around it

Genius! I don't carry cash often, but it would be nice to have an emergency 20 on hand at all times along with an airtag.

Lexmark has entered the chat

What brand? You have a link?

Whatever cable you buy after teaching them to stop being rough with delicate things, I wouldn't replace it for a while to also teach them the consequences of braking things through silly actions.

I bought a Viking titanium, it acts just like a nonstick but is harder than steel. I love it

For my kids I get 90 degree adapters. They ain't perfect but they do help

Oxo is my favorite company, most of my kitchen is tools are oxo. I’m not saying this story didn’t happen, but I have many more experiences that are legit perfect.

Seconding ONNO. I live in their hemp t-shirts. Comfortable and wear well (I hang mine to dry just because I prefer the texture). Nice color selection too.

TravelPro. Very tough.

They’re not fucking around with whatever the cost of an oxo pan is, they’ll just eat it.

Briggs & rilley 22” domestic or 21” global

I, a full grown adult who is very tech savvy, have broken my own cables too - it happens

How so? Amazon can easily claw back from the seller's account and I would t be surprised if they charge a "dispute fee" too.

I have a pet salamander, he’s my newt.

I have stainless and cast iron. Cast iron gets rarely used as its a bit more effort/attention required. Stainless I dont really have to worry as worst case, I can deep clean it if I burn something/ dont have the right oil temp.

Redwing is not PNW. And imo worrying about what “hipsters” do is for cranky Boomers.

You’d rather the device port break?

to give an actual recommendation beyond just teaching them, this is probably as durable as you'll get without getting something specialty

Never heard of this TAU 2. Looked it up, that's pretty cool!

Teach them to look after their shit...

They last forever if you use them properly

Brother laser like everyone else says. You can get one with a scanner and ADF. If you aren’t making photocopies too often you might get away with an old inkjet multi-function to use as just a scanner. I have a super old Brother inkjet MFC (complete with fax!) that will scan directly to a USB stick. I never plug it in directly to a computer so the drivers don’t matter. The ink dried up over a decade ago and I just ignore all the low ink warnings. On the rare occasion I need color, I send it FedEx or if it’s a photo Walgreens.

This. 100%. Came here to say this.

Got mine in France on a trip back in 2012... it's in my pocket now.  Added a Nomatic credit card wallet around it instead of the leather... works great for cash and an Apple tag holder.

had mine for years and still going strong

this is exactly what this sub is about

I just use cast iron or enameled cast iron

lol we actually have one for the horses.

thats crazy. ive wondered since i was like a teen why companies dont make pans like this with a reliable surface that can be seasoned, a copper or good thermal core, and stainless on the back.

oh wow. im a huge supporter of oxo because of their quality for various products. ive got about 6 in arms reach due to how much i like their containers for coffee. they lost a point with me thanks to your post.

Decent gift, get her the right angle ones and hopefully you get some in return, they're great for using a phone or a chargeable device when you use a body or table.

Brother B&W laser, no contest. Simple, reliable, cost effective. I won’t ever buy another inkjet.

I agree with the other’s that said they can go without for a bit. This is a pretty easy example of natural consequences! IMO, if they cannot treat the device/accessories with care they are not ready for it. Alternatively, chargers can be kept out of reach devices and be given to an adult to place in a “charging station” or whatever setup you go with. Maybe electronics cabinet

Guys, this is r/BuyItForLife, not r/Parenting .

If OP asks for an tougher cable, just answer the damn question. Don't answer the question you think they *should* be asking.

You don't know their life. You don't know what else they have going on. You don't know what additional challenges the kids might have.

have you bought from them recently? I bought from them years ago and finally need to replace some but have heard differing reviews re: quality.

Dickies Men's Dri-Tech Essential Moisture Control Crew Socks. 6 pack is $15 or so. I get black and wear them for office work and at home. Relatively warm in winter and no sweat/stink. I’ve bought maybe two or three packs since 2018 and maybe have tossed two or three pairs in total due to holes?

My wedding ring.  Made it myself.

O come   
O come  
Emanuel

The only issue is that TSA doesn't let us carry this onto the airplane. I had to give one up and still mad about it.

Jolly Ball, made for horses and dogs, indestructible.

You're thinking about it wrong. Don't get a stronger USB-C plug. Get the ones where there's a detachable magnetic USB-C plug that you plug into the device once and leave it there then it magnetically attaches to the cable for charging. That is unless all the devices in question have Qi2/MagSafe charging support in which case just swap to true wireless charging.

I'd recommend clad carbon steel. I got mine in their initial Kickstarter, and have been very happy.  even heat unlike cast iron, light, and I finally tried boiling vinegar and water (50/50) for 20 or 30 minutes in it, then seasoning, and that really fixed my seasoning issues. Nonstick and durable. And clad (stainless/aluminum/stainless (or carbon steel in this case)) is absolutely the way to go.

I’ve been buying Darn Tough for years now and I love them so much. I wear them everywhere - running, hiking, around the house. They go in the washer and dryer with everything else, no special treatment. Haven’t had to warranty any yet. They’re not cheap but I like the way they feel and how durable they are, and I love all the fun colors and patterns

Just trade your kids in for a braided cable with cool lights . Problem solved.

Lol, the cables aren’t the problem here….

I had a pair of those and the uppers and stitching were fine, but after about 6 years,  the wool inside started wearing down and the bottoms lost an outer coating and they became a bit sticky sounding ( they weren’t dirty).  I thought that was great performance, so I bought a new pair.

Only $200, perfect lol

good call, i think i'll go with this one! have you heard good things about the "innovera" version? it's animal-free leather

Go tell that to Magnilink - the name brand in this arena. You're a waste of time anyway. You've replied with the same comment to everyone.  If you don't want to use these, fine, but they do not destroy devices like your saying.  If it happened to you in the past, then you had cheap cables or something else going on because name brand devices have circuit protection built in so the cable doesn't matter.

i just went through a similar fridge hunt, and i ended up with an LG too. heard good things about the rotary compressor, so fingers crossed! hope yours works out well. i get the frustration with those locked filters, what a pain.

Belkin is the closest thing I've found to BIFL. Head and shoulders above Anker.

look into magnetic ones (the USB-C end stays inside the device and only the magnetic connection unplugs, limiting the risk of the connector getting bent).

in the meantime, teach your children to be careful with their things - not replacing it for a few days is a good way to let it sink in that there's consequences for breaking things. if the breakage is due to them being too young to have the required fine motor skills to unplug the cable normally, they shouldn't have unsupervised electronics time in the first place, and on the other side of that if they're old enough to have the motor skills, they're old enough to understand the need to be careful with fragile things.

That’s a great idea. Is it just a regular fridge magnet?

It's not hard to find a durable wallet that can last for years. It really depends what other itches needs to scratch. I picked a SlimFold wallet due to its weight and compactness and I've been using it for 7 years now. So that worked ok for me.

Agreed, but spending All Clad money on them is especially outrageous.

Can you show me a single one?

i don't spend any money on non-stick pans period.

To be honest I didn’t know there was an association. It’s one of the things we just buy at sporting goods stores. I’ll look for them now. Thank you

I buy the ones from AYR. They are so good, particularly their long sleeves.

Second this. They're thick, so not always an amazing fit with dress shoes, but otherwise I'd say they tick all of OPs boxes. And, while they're thick, they wick away moisture well, so even in summer I'll wear them rather than thinner socks.

I too have had a few claims with Le Creuset and to their credit, they've always replaced the item with almost no questions asked.

They do strangely always find some way to say that my issue falls outside of the lifetime warranty coverage, so it's a one time courtesy...not sure what to make of that.  Both times they said that it was issues with the enamel coating on my cast iron items.  But they did replace it, so I'm happy for now!

We’re of similar age, and whilst there’s certainly some shitty cables around, I work in IT and get cables from all major laptop manufacturers and third party options across my desk all day every day. 

I’ve seen maybe 3 that look like this in like.. 6 years, and they were both caused due to them being mishandled. Likewise with essentially every busted laptop usb-c PD port.

Sure, the manufacturers should build them to be more robust, but \*mostly\* people do not seem to realise how rough they are with equipment.

The problem isn't the cable. The problem is that you aren't providing effective consequences for your children wrecking USB cables.

Nonstick has its place. Unless you want to fry your eggs at extremely high heat in an ocean of butter, nonstick pans are the way.

I have several rules for my nonstick pans to get the most out of them and minimize risk of pfas exposure:

- Make sure to baby them. Wash gently.
- Only cook on low to medium heat.
- Only use non-metal (ideally silicone) spatulas etc.
- Only use them as needed, like for eggs. Everything else goes in cast iron.

WAKA is sort of the default still, yeah? Not holding up for you?

Got mine six months ago. Its heavy, takes up space in the storage room and is overqualified for the amount of cleaning I need. Still great tho, love the simplicity. One task done well. Looking forward to change apartments several times and keep using this distinguished British gentleman throughout the upcoming years.

This is kind of a situation of letting natural consequences teach for themselves. If they're too young to be appropriately careful with the tech, they're too young to have it.

From someone who got a worklounge a few months before they stopped making them, while the arm rest are worse in every way the worklounge padding is better than a standard leap in feel, even with aftermarket headrest.  Standard v2s with atlas is what my company uses in our office.  Its a shame they scapped it because of the headrest since that is byfar the best part.  Could of marketed them like the herman miller logitech ones for gamers at an extra markup.

Love my Brother MFC-L8930CDW Business class. Scans to a PC, lives on the wifi network (and actually works). Any document I get in the mail that needs to be preserved gets scanned in seconds. Duplex scanning and printing as well.

The best and most durable USB cables I’ve ever bought came from Home Depot. Reasonable prices, too.

Non-stick pans aren’t BIFL and have to be babied. We switched to the OXO carbon steel pan and have been happy.

the model itself yes, but chatbot services built *around* the LLM are much more than just a direct query to the model. there are tools invoked, some of which are implemented via prompt engineering and some of which are implemented via traditional deterministic code.

what i can’t say specifically is whether or not the web scraping tool is actually implemented to detect and deprioritize ads. but what i can say is that ads like this are relatively simple to detect programmatically, and it is certainly feasible.

furthermore, these services are incentivized to produce more accurate and helpful answers, and have no reason to specifically protect or prioritize ads on content they’ve scraped (they don’t get a cut of any ad revenue generated by such ads).

Get the magnetic ones.  You put an insert i to the USB, and tge cable magents on.

This! Nothing can beat a brother laser. 
For reference:

Skip anything with a nonstick coating if you want it to last.

But it can affect fertility

ooo i’ll check this out as well

Solution: kids buy their own cables.

They'll learn real quick. That's what I had to do not long ago. Plus, you won't have to buy the same darn cables over and over again. Not quite BIFL but close.

Incidentally,  are really _really_ good cables if speeds and power matter.

What you say of "being more careless than you think" is so true.  Some people live life not realizing how careless/clumsy they are, blaming anything and everyone but themselves.  Occasional accidents are understandable,  but constant breakage is a pattern and habit.

if the frames are that light, can they support a heavy mattress (hybrid 13") or will it squeak everytime i try to take a turn

Still not very comforting that the pand use to kill your pet bird if you overheated it. I think it's probably prudent that people just stop using this junk.

Are you a bird? Because just because something kills birds, doesn't mean it will kill a human. This is a terrible argument.

People should stop using them because they wear out and you cannot fix them. Not because they kill birds and thus by some adjacent logical leap are clearly bad for humans.

I came here looking for the cocaine sniffing Henry gif. I'm disappointed ☹️

I don't know, maybe you're right. Many people know more than me about how these things are put together. I'm just saying that I used them on at least half a dozen different devices for at least 6 years, and they never caused me any issues.

i wish i could just take your queen bed! 😞

does not having a headboard make it difficult to sit back and relax in bed? does the bed slide forward if u try to tak the wall's support?

I've started to kinda hate USB C for it's flimsyness and the retention clips in the ports becoming so prone to dirt clog

Mine has been rather BIFL. It’s held up very well and looks quite new. Only thing indicating its age for me is tire marks from a bicycle on part of the strap lol. I wasn’t able to get the stain entirely out but properly could if I tried a bit harder. I’ve used it as a daily purse a lot.

thank god reddit isnt pro iPad kids

Work pants.  Dickies, Carhart, Iron Mountain, etc.  They are typically a thicker/denser material with better thread used to see the seams.

This is the exact fabric I am looking at ordering?  How do you like it??

yeah i lowkey wish i bought more since they were only 3.80 (plus my employee discount in 2018 😭) so basically dirt cheap. 

i’ll keep the fabric in mine!

Gettees shirts are a nice thick soft cotton, and I haven’t had any fading with mine. Not cheap, but really happy with their quality

As literally everyone else has said, get a brother laser printer. If all you need is black and white get that, color is fine too, just don't expect photo quality.

DO NOT TOUCH AN HP - yes, they are that bad. They are on the list of products I would throw if the garbage if I was given a free brand new one. Seriously, never buy an HP printer.

Sue them in small claims court.

These are the only socks I wear when I’m about to beat the crap out of my feet hiking.

Those are out of spec with USB C, and intentionally. The way the power delivery negotiation works is that (1) the charger, (2) the cable, and (3) the device must figure out what the max amount of power they can deliver. If the cable cannot support the power that the charger can deliver and the device wants it will be capped at its max. 

There is no allowance for an extention. So it will report whatever it supports and not what the cable it’s connected to can. And that could possibly cause an unsafe amount of power to be delivered thru the cable. This can damage the cable or worse heat it up enough to cause a fire in high power scenarios(though this is unlikely). 

The extension cables can be used safely if you are aware of what the cable supports, or are only using with low power devices. But that is something you need to manage manually.

My wife says the same thing regardless of the fact that she has destroyed any and every cable I have ever given her or let her borrow. You might just be more careless than you think. I bought a 5 pack of cables and I am still using the same cable from 3 years ago. My wife went through the other 4 cables in a matter of six months

A brass 5/8-16 to 1/4-20 reducer bushing.

Two of them, in fact. Gotta have a backup.

It allows me to mount my vintage telephoto lens on my modern tripod, and aside from the pleasure of that, it makes possible the generation of income.

I would defiantly recommend using an AI to find other retailers besides b & r as you can typically find coupons for them to save quite a bit. With b & r it doesn’t matter where you buy it. Also check cash back websites like Rakuten for some additional savings or tell AI you want to use it as well.

my personal best cable brands are anker, ugreen, and cable matters all can be purchased from amazon. anker and ugreen can be bought in bulk packs if they tend to not take care of them like most kids do xD or if you want some high quality and fast data or charging cables cable matters make some excellent cables and cable extensions, i personally prefer ugreen for general cheap cables (they tend to be the same quality as anker but cheaper) and cable matters for data cables(for computers, storage devices or monitors)

My kid is almost 18. His edc is a black Kavu bag that’s almost 3 years older than him. So far, it has lasted his entire lifetime and then some. So I guess ymmv.

Buy the for 20 cents each on alibaba

Fuck no, I'm getting ready for work

Just another company added to the “never again” list. Great post and thanks for sharing. You’ve saved some of us some aggravation

Monos was ok - they scuff really easy. The carry on to me is super small. Like realistically you could maybe get 3 days of clothes and maybe a the bare necessities for toiletries. I used it for overnights and 2 day trips. 

The check in medium was my go to. Honestly I don’t have anything bad to say about it other than it scuffed super super easy. It held for me 1 weeks worth of clothes - a huge Dopp kit - 2 pairs of shoes - and sometimes a steamer. 

The check in large is were we get to why I switched to Briggs and Riley. I took my checked in for a 2 week trip - by the end of the trip I noticed the zipper had separated from the frame. It was brand new so I know it happened somewhere during that two weeks. Monos eventually replaced it but it took several weeks of back and forth. Up until then I had no issues with monos but that left a bad taste in my mouth as much as I live out of a suite case.

I remember watching Gremlin as a kid and couldn't understand why his alarm clock is "wired" 🤣

Theft would incur far steeper consequences.

Looks like your kids have no need for usb-c then

Depends how old the kids are. If a middle schooler swallows a magnet, that's on them.

I mean, you helped ME look for a robe, so take satisfaction in that. ❤️

Costco wool socks. I like them even more than SmartWool since they changed ownership.

Buenas! ¿Como estas?

Telescopic back scratcher

Very possible to cook great eggs in stainless steel. Proper heat and a bit of oil cooks a great egg.

Earwax. Sometimes inner ear tickles, but mostly earwax.

Do not spend All Clad money on non stick pans.  They've taken a great "buy it for life" pan and added a non stick coating that makes it anything but.

I got the George, which has the option to wet-vac too and it's fucking awesome. Clean, perfectly hoovered carpets every time. 

Cons: loads of

If I had to pick just one, it’s the Travelpro Platinum Elite**,** it’s super durable, rolls effortlessly, and is built for frequent travel without falling apart. It’s the kind of bag you buy once and keep for years, not seasons.

What’s the brand of it? I’m getting graduation ideas off this chain, maybe this would be a good one.

Would you rather the cord fail or the part in the device?

I am not seeing this nearly enough. I agree with folks discussing parenting and all, but you want the cable to break. Judging by that bend on the cable it's a nice thing the cable gave away.

kids won't destroy ***by unplugging devices too roughly***

the kids just sort of ***ripped the device away rather than unplugging it straight out first***

Do people not read?

Outside ***haw haw haw***

“Well you broke it. I can’t buy you a new one right now it’s not in the budget. Maybe next month you can charge your things again “

Your kids are the problem, not the cord.

I have Travel Pro and its aweome

If Amazon does side with the customer here, they're not using leverage over oxo, they'd just be eating the cost of the pan as a part of doing business.

Teach your kids how to care for things or take it away for a while

Ya know, be a parent ffs

This isnt a issue with the cables this is an issue with how youre raising your kids and them needing to learn the value of taking care of things. and i fear i cant find a more sensitive way to word this. 

Anyway though, the INIU brand on amazon is really good, i personally prefer them due to their style (cute pawprints on the portable chargers where the toe beans light up and indicate a charge) and the durability/lack of fraying but you're going to run into the same problems as well... no charger is meant to be abused like this. Theyre specifically made to break this way because if they didnt- your port is going to get damaged and thats WAY WORSE than the charger breaking. And in some cases the port still becomes damaged or warped.

In addition to this, when you do replace it, consider ordering one of the magnetic cables and adapters. That way in the future the cable will just uncouple...

An undervalued aspect of a product.

By "the bottom side", I meant underneath, not the side near the bottom. I was looking for a more thorough search based on the photos I didn't see.

Having said that, I looked at that third picture and see a stamped "A71044" and "A54" there. Do those, along with "CLASSIC" (terrible name to search for) yield anything online? Good luck.

Nothing really comes close in quality. Every cable I've had to get at a gas station or airport shop only lasts like a month.

[ Removed by Reddit ]

Duluth trading six packs

My parents made me replace anything I accidentally broke/lost.

I haven’t broken/lost anything since I was 8. 

While I think they were a little harsh with it, I think kids being taught the value of household resources is important. It can also be a good way to teach them how to fix something if that’s an option.

Victorinox Rambler in my case for the extra bottle opener and phillips screw driver - it lives on my keychain and I end up using at least once or twice a week.

The Purple Pillow.

Everything else is “meh”…

tbh, when i read "a little bit" my mind immediately went to a weekends length

Cables should be weaker than the device. You want the connector on the cable to break before the socket since it's cheaper to replace a cable than crack open a device and resolder a socket. 

This is an issue of kids not respecting stuff, not understanding that things cost money and time to replace, and expecting that mom and dad just fix their problems without ever trying to learn to be more careful.

You’re spoiled for choice at Uniqlo

No luck, best I've found is Kirkland's boxer briefs with supima cotton

The SIM card for my phone is quite small and useful. Has been fitted for several phones too.

In thinking they use the device while leaning on the connector, my son does it all the time when playing vertical games

My 26 year old Bosch just broke down last week. Hoping this generation hold up as well. 

I don’t need my dishwasher to connect to wi-fi, although it would be great for leak detection alarm?

Your rights vary by country.  But in the EU, retailers policies can't on general limit your right to repair/replacement of a defective product.  But honestly that's not an area I know much about and you probably live somewhere very different.

Don't replace the cable for a while. Or make them do chores or something to earn a new cable. 

They need to learn that when things break, it costs money and effort to replace them.

There is zero reason they should be treating cables that rough.

Right angle connector cables are much harder to break on most devices. The cable and strain relief bit generally run along the device itself for quite a long length, which makes it tougher, generally speaking.

I don’t think there’s any age overlap where a child should have unattended access to a USB device but not be old enough to be responsible using it. 

If they’re too young to plug/unplug the device safely they’re probably too young to be using the device anyway 🤷‍♂️

They are not cheap, but American Giant makes super nice, high quality tees (and hoodies!). I can't speak to their other products.

Not a pure solution, but I find a quality 90° cable will experience less stress as you're less likely to bend the cable when using whilst charging.

I have a few from Fresh Clean Tees that have held up well for a few years (wait for a sale).

Absolutely fair point

BIFL - never buy non stick. Genuinely get stainless, carbon or cast iron. There's a small learning curve, but far less cancer in the food

Yes, fair. The zippers chosen on the bag I have aren't great, but they seem decent enough for this price of bag. Either way the zipper itself wasn't the issue, it was how the zipper was built into the bag. Made a follow up post with pictures

They are designed to break before the port.  If your kids are that rough on electronics thank your lucky stars that these keep breaking before you are buying new devices every month because they broke the charging port.

I do think you're right. Fits a laptop does not mean designed for laptop. 

Although, my laptop definitely isn't "heavy", the bag was always very light and never held very much when I carried it around. I think the issue is the zipper teeth pressing directly against the cotton without any reinforced panel as a buffer. I imagine this would be bound to happen eventually with any kind of use.

That's the same description that said they'd honor a warranty right?

Have you considered they're lying yet?

He’s not the most powerful and he likes to get stuck on corners, but that hoover will last forever. 

There’s a reason basically every commercial cleaner in the country uses them.

While not bifl, DeWalt cables are tough af

I've owned lots of bags and definitely am not doing anything unusual putting things in and out of that pocket. I think the real issue is the way the zipper is constructed: the zipper teeth directly dig into the fabric, with no reinforced panel as a buffer.

I dont see it in the top few comments, so Ill add that generally I'd prefer the cable break than the device its plugged into.  A lot of things are designed like this, where the section less difficult/expensive to repair or replace is made weaker on purpose so that when failure occurs, it happens in the cheap spot.

Related post: cable my wife won’t ruin!

Cross-posting suck. On mobile you can't see the post and it just makes you go to the other subreddit

I had one for well over 20 years before the display finally quit.

the "we make it, they manufacture it" split is the tell. OXO has been doing this for years -- they design the product, slap their name on it, charge OXO prices, then when anything goes wrong it magically becomes a third-party manufacturing defect.

the warranty audit trick: look at whether the warranty says "OXO warrants" or "manufacturer warrants." if its the latter, OXO has already written themselves a legal out before you even buy it.

for nonstick this kind of coating failure at 3 months is a defect by any reasonable standard. small claims is legitimately worth it at this point if you want the $50-80 back.

saphir is the right call for quality leather, worth it. and yeah the aniline distinction matters -- full aniline absorbs product directly, protected/corrected leather has a topcoat so youre basically conditioning the coating not the leather itself. for a 30yr italian couch its probably full grain aniline or semi-aniline, so the approach you described (damp cloth first, proper conditioner after) is exactly right

honestly not what you expect but Uniqlo Supima Cotton tees hold up really well for the price. i have some from 4 years ago still looking fine after tons of washes.

for actual BIFL territory -- Pact or Groceries Apparel for organic cotton that doesnt thin out. Lady White Co makes good ones too but they cut slim through the chest on a lot of people.

key thing: fabric weight. anything under 150-160 gsm is usually see-through by wash 50. the forever21 one lasting 8 years is impressive for that brand honestly

A 90° cable usually helps a bit with this but I agree with others let the kids suffer without a charger for a while

Brother laser; scans, can print from iPhone, wireless, it’s great

Dyson stooge entered the chat

Anker or cable matters, identify the way it’s getting strained like that and get a 90degree cable in that direction. 

I would def let them feel the pain of no charging for a few days though but that’s just me.

Weird answer but my old navy Ts have lasted for years and have held up beautifully. I'm beyond impressed

Target made a basic t for years on multiple colors and both long sleeved and short sleeved, but they don’t make it anymore. It’s so annoying.

Well I'll be.  You're right, you shouldn't have to click through to another page to find out what the exceptions are to their guarantee.  It isn't even linked.

90° cables help a lot. It’s not BIFL but they def last longer.

you’re so helpful ! I checked it and it’s exactly what I was looking for

The cables are supposed to break before the device.

It costs like $5 to get a new cable, but $100+ to have someone open up your device and solder in a new port.

I get cords from five below. Occasionally I’ll buy a nice one like good reviews on Amazon, just for my bedside and it isn’t allowed to leave that area.  I ruin cords too so I’m already in the habit of considering them a consumable 😅

Anker->ugreen->baseus are my go to brands. They also sell right angled cables. Then when you get the cables, do this for kids especially, get heat tube and shrink it on the shroud piece and where the cable connects. And if you wanna be extra add a spring. Kids break cables. Doesn’t matter from what brand. Or if their device is magsafe maybe consider that?

Id consider also a light punishment of leaving the busted cable for a while and not replacing it immediately and only getting a new cable once they promised to take good care.

That's interesting. The version of the Better Guarantee that I read before buying doesn't list any exclusions:

I would imagine these bags are not designed with the purpose of carrying a heavy laptop in mind. Sounds like user error to me.

LL bean Boat and Tote

Dewalt cables have a lifetime warranty.

This is one of the genius fucking ideas I've ever seen, I absolutely hate shredding chicken.

There actually is a solution. 

I'm not saying this brand is good or bad. But something like this

I find the ones with the braided housings are more durable

I had a good warranty experience with OXO in the past, the only difference here appears to be that they didn't make the frying pan. The Cookware Company made it, and makes frying pans for several other brands:

I like the sideways plugs. Instead of projecting out straight from the charging port, they run along the bottom of your phone, or whatever.

I came here to also recommend Darn Tough.

If you look at their guarantee page it explicitly excludes cookware, and has for at least two years.  If you're lying about that what else are you lying about?

The description of the frying pan: "Free of PFAS, PFOA, lead, and cadmium for healthier meals and peace of mind"

At my job we refer to these types of issues as "between the chair and keyboard" issues

Unfortunately for me it was outside the Amazon return window, but it's not too late for you! One reason I bought it was that it's "Cook's Illustrated's highest-rated nonstick skillet for superior cooking performance"

Shirtspace dot com will ship singles. Shipping is ten dollars per box, so I tend to batch them.

Have them save up and buy their new cables themselves lol. That'll make them last longer.

Yes, I'm now pursuing a claim through my credit card's "purchase assurance" and/or "extended warranty" features (fingers crossed)

The had 2 usb c to usb c on Amazon for 6$ after promo on slickdeals 6'?

I love my Henry. Have had it for almost a decade. Never had any issues with it from a reliability standpoint, and it has a lot of sucking power. 
My only complaints are regarding the attachments. Mine came with a hard floor head, a small furniture head with a brush roll, and a large carpet head with a brush roll. I wish the brush roll on the carpet attachment was easily removable for cleaning. You need to disassemble the whole thing to get it out, or painstakingly go at it with scissors. Smaller one is easier but still not great. Also wish it came with a crevice tool, but you can buy a 3rd party one.

Unfortunately it was outside the retailer's return window. I'm now pursuing a claim through my credit card's "purchase assurance" and/or "extended warranty" features

Yes well get the better ones or tell them to be extra careful,Lastly if it keeps happening:let them use the broken ones a while they will be careful then when they can't charge their phone or switch etc.

I had a great experience with OXO warranty in the past, sent me a replacement item immediately. In this case the distinction appears to be that they didn't manufacture the frying pan, it was made for them by The Cookware Company (who make frying pans for several brands:

They did the same for me with my 7qt!

No they don't.  I have them on all our devices and have never had an issue.

I agree. I would have loved to have been able to buy it at Costco for that very reason

i understand the point you’re trying to make, but the biggest impact advertising has is just by getting in front of your eyes. your subconscious stores that information differently and affects your preferences. so my opinion is that ads shouldn’t be shared like this. maybe that’s just me though. thanks for your consideration

Buy her the components, she can put them together herself. Learn her a valuable lesson and some technical skillas.

I will sya that while I certainly would never say it's a bifl pan, I've had two Hexclad pans for about 6 years now, and they are holding up millions of times better than any other nonstick pan I've ever owned.

Still worth talking to Amazon, they will likely side with you and probably have more leverage over oxo than you

Description of the frying pan says "Free of PFAS, PFOA, lead, and cadmium for healthier meals and peace of mind"

We got the Holmes sofa.

There are magnetic chargers where the plug is always in the devices port. Then it connects via magnet to the cable. Can't pull it out wrong.

Darn tough will warranty a sock forever. Yes $25, but that might get you several pairs over the life of the sock.

I get that, but knowing that the non-stick properties won't last forever I was trying to buy a non-stick pan that would last a reasonable amount of time

It was outside the Amazon return window. I'm now pursuing a claim through my credit card's "purchase assurance" and/or "extended warranty" features

Counterpoint-I am 45+ years old, and for Christmas my mother gave me 4 usb-c cables. 3 of them broke. I was not reckless, I just used them. Some of these cables are junk

F***** thing I mean I'd love nothing more than to put a sledge hammer to it, they used to be so good like the LaserJet 4000's

Nope. Mom was tho. Def sounds like something I could use at work tho

same! i haven’t bought from amazon in months so i try to avoid but ill check it out

ah! i’ve been thinking about ordering from blanks companies like bella + canvas… 

did you have any issue with quantity ?

They definitely support fast charging and super fast charging. I'm using one right now.

Just to follow up, I tried Muji and I agree with you. These are the best I've come across

Individual tea filter from ikea for 1 euro. Very simple last for life design and easy to clean. Can't find anything similar anymore.

Make them earn the money by doing chores or work for you to earn enough money to buy another cable.  It will give the cable value to the kid and perhaps make them treat it a bit better

Epson EcoTank, you'll be using a lot of ink and the ink refills are much cheaper.

In 2003 I needed a pair of running shorts on short, no pun intended, notice. Bought a pair of Adidas on a whim.

Still wear them once a week, though I am smaller so they are a bit loose now and the Adidas stripes are long gone.

The point was reached before Digital Natives were born into the dystopia.

I cook like 95% with stainless. I still think a non stick is essential.  Use it for eggs if nothing else. And yes, I know stainless can cook eggs, but a non stick is so much quicker and easier for them.

magnetic plug cables is my favorite for you I think, you run less the risk of anything breaking imo, you leave the usb-c plug in the device and only connect the magnetic cable, if it angles or bends it just snaps off of the magnetic connector-no damage, here it's important the cable is sturdy enough-thick braided if possible.

I use non stick for basically nothing besides eggs and I’m at least 5 years in on my current pan. I don’t expect it to last forever but a few months is silly.

Yes I know they are supposed to be for life and that is why I am asking for brand recommendations because my chasseur was not despite me taking meticulous care of it.

Yeah. Flaking happens, and can happen even with a non metal spatula. Simply putting the pan away and clinking something can scratch it and lead to flaking. 

Sounds like OXO is passing the buck here, but I wouldn’t expect anybody to warranty a non stick.

if theyre too young to handle tiny electronics without eating them, theyre too young for tablets.

Get Anker cables. They have a lifetime guarantee (iirc I've had to send 2 back and they didn't make a big deal out of it).

Right angle is harder to break but not impossible

I'm here to say precisely this ^

Kids at age when they are biting and swallowing things should not get a phone on their hands at all, what would they need it for?

Be happy that's the cable side that's dying. 
It costs way less

Bella + Canvas blanks. They mostly supply print shops. 3001U is my daily uniform

I’d even go the next step and recommend people not buy them at all. 

Make do with cheap stainless or go cast iron(winco has one I use everyday, costed $17). 

The coating isn’t something you want to be ingesting regularly as it slowly wears out/flakes off into your food.

I try to avoid Amazon as much as possible, but I’ve yet to find a bifl dupe of their slim women’s tee with a scoop neck. It fits perfectly. It doesn’t get stretched or worn weird. I’m trying to transition to sustainable fashion, but I just cracked and bought a couple because they’re better than every other tee shirt I’ve found so far.

Small metal shoehorn. Came free with a pair of nice shoes I bought years ago. The shoes are now worn by someone else but the shoehorn serves me almost every day. Portable, rugged, practical.

Magnet attachable ones on Amazon.   They snap to fit and break when too much pressure is on the joint.

As a very young child I was convinced this alarm clock was evil.

My teen dropped her phone in the lake today out of her pants pocket when we told her that she should hold it. Better believe the new one is going to be shipped via horse back from the other side of the world

EEEEEEH EEEEEH EEEEH EEEEEH EEEEH EEEH EEEEH EEEH EEEEH EEEEEH EEEEH EEEEEH EEEEEH EEEEH

ooh i’ll check it out!

Rubbish on carpets, IMO. Even with the rotating brush head attachment - it's powered by air, not a motor, so if you have anything but the shallowest carpets (e.g. office floor tiles) it's not going to spin.

Having said that, I've used mine to do a proper mucky house clearance, hoovering up nails, plasterboard, all sorts of other random crap all over the floor, and it never failed. These days it's our "mucky job" hoover - car, garage, DIY work, etc. For stuff like that it's amazing. 

If you'll only be using it on hard floors it'll be great. Bit cumbersome though.

Check out Kyocera. They tend to be noisy, but otherwise, quite good. Cheap modular cartridges.

Adding in my vote for not replacing it quickly.  After their devices are dead for a couple days or weeks, they’ll learn to take care of their cables.   

There is no BIFL for cables tho, at least not in my experience.  Cables break over time, it’s sort of just a given.  Key words “over time”.  Every cable I’ve had go bad or break was after years and years of use, the plastic of the cable and around the end wearing out.

Got a random one tbh mine has held up really well over the years, and I like that the massage programs adjust instead of repeating the exact same routine every time.

That's just the tip of the iceberg of problems and BS these printers have! I went full Office space on mine after continued issues (was only a year old) - could hardly tell what it was after releasing my frustrations. Was the only enjoyable part of that purchase..

Nail clippers. Lasted 10+ years so far.

I'd say it's worth it if you deal with back pain or stiffness on a regular basis.

There are things you can't do in the quality stainless I already have.

im getting such good recommendations here

Chubbycables? I've not bought them myself, but they look a bit more robust.

It ain't bifl but you can get magnetic chargers that have a piece that seals over the charger port and the end of the charger is just a magnet. It won't charge as fast and you'll constantly lose the inserts, but you can get a 10 pack for like 8 bucks. Best solution I found to constantly breaking chargers!

it's just a hunk, a hunk of burnin love!

I mean, if they swallow one end of the magnet, they should be ok as long as they don’t swallow the other end, which is the entire cable.

The problem is your kids not the cable. Are you prepared to just replace anything they break?

Why wouldn’t you blame a brand for a zipper defect?  Brands choose which zippers to use. Brands know which zipper makers are reliable and which ones are cheap garbage. Brands choose how items are manufactured, be it with reliable components or cheap, cost-cutting components. Of course the brand is to blame if they use cheap garbage with high failure rates.

Are you suggesting that millions of USB cables are made with the crappiest components and will break with light usage?

No, its the children who are wrong.

There are many mag cable that have usbif certification from major brands

My mate bought a HP inkjet. I've got 15 years IT experience, my God, it was wifi only and would only be allowed to be set up via their own app using the printer hotspot first and only after creating an online account. I'm an easy going bloke, but this printer, I wanted to throw the f***** thing at the wall. It took a day to configure. A DAY

I'm still wound up about it

If you buy a stronger USB cable; it will simply destroy whatever device it's plugged into.

I am just *really* good at accidentally opening the buckle on the strap.

And yet countless people have been using them for years without any problems, fully aware that the certainty of a child smashing a device outweighs the small theoretical possibility of an electrical issue

The magnetic break-away tip ones sort of solve the problem, but they're a bitch to take in/out of the device without the little pry tool, if that's an issue for you.

Avoid this place like the plague. Read BBB reviews before you visit. Predatory sales practices. Overpriced. Claim to be custom but they're really not. Just different sets of inserts. You'll spend way more money than nessecary and if you're not happy with them there's not much they'll do. Once you're sold, you're stuck no matter how unhappy you are. They do not care and will continue to pester you.

Make them buy a replacement.

I'm not saying they are all the same quality, but they are all 100% risky to use.  

The fact that the brand you used is called Patuxun is very telling.

They certainly are not BIF3M. And OXO's willingness to put their name on products they won't support means we can't just trust the brand like I have in the past. Now we have to check the fine print before buying something and wonder what other corners they are cutting now.

Out of curiosity, anyone here that owns a brother printer, have you had any issues with printer drivers changing with Windows updates?

I had a set up where I could print and scan documents at the printer and have them sent directly to my laptop. Now with the latest update updates in particular Windows 11 that no longer works. Even after downloading most current drivers and updating.

Then you've been very lucky. The USB C spec is not made for this type of connection. 

I've done tons of research on this subject after I bought a set and my experience with them, others experience with them, experts opinions on them, and the fact that no reputable company is making them shows that they are not safe.

The pins are not meant to be exposed like that and you can (and most likely will, eventually) fry your device if you're not insanely careful every time you (un)plug them.

There is risk, as I mentioned. But the risk is not guaranteed and absolute.

Behind a charger limited to 5V, with only charging pins, you are pretty safe.

That could definitely be a concern, and ports are far more complicated and expensive to replace than a cable

Parenting problem not a tech problem. Sorry

I've had many micro-USB cables break like this even through reasonable use, which is why I was so glad to switch to USB-C. Micro-USB has to be the shittiest cable standard that's ever been widely adopted

I used them for years on some VR controllers with no problems.

That said the one I used was the Patuoxun USB 2.0 Magnet Data But that was a while ago and the amazon page I got them from is long gone.

I support magnetic. They don’t support fast charging AFAIK which is a punishment in itself. Everyone suggesting not to replace the cable has obviously never seen how incredibly hot a broken USB C can get. That could potentially ruin the device or burn the house down.

Just got some Nordstrom branded Pima cotton. They fit well and are very cool.

I mean it probably is both, but no cable no matter how well made won't survive the kind of abuse that did this, at least not for long

This is a very bad idea. USB C is not designed for this, which is why you can only ever find off-brand, unregulated magnetic adapters. They WILL fry your device.

This is actually a very good idea, the extension can take the abuse and is way less expensive to replace (though still not free so the kids do need to learn how to care for them)

This is a very bad idea. USB C is not designed for this, which is why you can only ever find off-brand, unregulated magnetic adapters. They WILL fry your device.

This is a very bad idea. USB C is not designed for this, which is why you can only ever find off-brand, unregulated magnetic adapters. They WILL fry your device.

This is a very bad idea. USB C is not designed for this, which is why you can only ever find off-brand, unregulated magnetic adapters. They WILL fry your device.

This is a very bad idea. USB C is not designed for this, which is why you can only ever find off-brand, unregulated magnetic adapters. They WILL fry your device.

I’ve used them for 15+ years, with iPads, iPhones and androids and never had any problems.

This is a very bad idea. USB C is not designed for this, which is why you can only ever find off-brand, unregulated magnetic adapters. They WILL fry your device.

This is a very bad idea. USB C is not designed for this, which is why you can only ever find off-brand, unregulated magnetic adapters. They WILL fry your device.

A battery does not make sense.  That will be rather expensive and cumbersome.

I would second the idea of looking for an extension cord management solution that you can live with.   Or switch to a manual sofa.

This is a very bad idea. USB C is not designed for this, which is why you can only ever find off-brand, unregulated magnetic adapters. They WILL fry your device.

It's the ultimate example of a thing that has stood the test of time and is almost infinitely repairable, hard to find a better BIFL mascot haha

This is a very bad idea. USB C is not designed for this, which is why you can only ever find off-brand, unregulated magnetic adapters. They WILL fry your device.

This is a very bad idea. USB C is not designed for this, which is why you can only ever find off-brand, unregulated magnetic adapters. They WILL fry your device.

This is a very bad idea. USB C is not designed for this, which is why you can only ever find off-brand, unregulated magnetic adapters. They WILL fry your device.

This is a very bad idea. USB C is not designed for this, which is why you can only ever find off-brand, unregulated magnetic adapters. They WILL fry your device.

This is a very bad idea. USB C is not designed for this, which is why you can only ever find off-brand, unregulated magnetic adapters. They WILL fry your device.

This is a very bad idea. USB C is not designed for this, which is why you can only ever find off-brand, unregulated magnetic adapters. They WILL fry your device.

This is a very bad idea. USB C is not designed for this, which is why you can only ever find off-brand, unregulated magnetic adapters. They WILL fry your device.

This is a very bad idea. USB C is not designed for this, which is why you can only ever find off-brand, unregulated magnetic adapters. They WILL fry your device.

This is a very bad idea. USB C is not designed for this, which is why you can only ever find off-brand, unregulated magnetic adapters. They WILL fry your device.

This is a very bad idea. USB C is not designed for this, which is why you can only ever find off-brand, unregulated magnetic adapters. They WILL fry your device.

i've had luck with cast iron dutch ovens, they can be a bit high maintence but they last forever

This is a very bad idea. USB C is not designed for this, which is why you can only ever find off-brand, unregulated magnetic adapters. They WILL fry your device.

This is a very bad idea. USB C is not designed for this, which is why you can only ever find off-brand, unregulated magnetic adapters. They WILL fry your device.

Not if you make them pay for the new cable out of their allowance.

Chunky cables on Amazon, or chubby cables.

Make them pay for the replacement / take it out of their allowance.

Also, OP, whatever you do, do NOT buy those magnetic breakaway USB C adapters.

They are very unsafe and will, given time, certainly destroy your devices, especially if this is how a normal cable is ending up.

I was scared this was /PSVR2 for a second...

This issue comes up there once in a while.

100%. Make them live without the electronics. Make them buy a new charger. I can’t imaging what they are doing to the charger ports if they do this to the cables. Having a dedicated charger station would probably help too.

Raise your kids to handle them more carefully. If you really want to drive the point home, make them pay for it because they broke it.  No cable is be able to withstand wrong handling for long.

I foimf out that Brother branded printers last really long after my research, so I got one couple years ago and doing ok so far.

Because a "stronger" cable is just going to end up breaking the device it's plugged in to.

Where did you get my parent's alarm clock

Trojan Brand Condoms...

Have you tried replacing the children?

Going to echo this comment - DON'T mess with HP!

We also have an industrial vacuum from the same company and while its not as powerful as that its definitely powerful for its size.

I use mine in the garage, on the patio and around the house. And honestly its all i could want or ever need.

Sounds like they’re too young to be using electronics

My old cat used to sleep on top of mine because it would get warm there. Many a time I would reach for snooze and get a handful of fur instead.

The cat is gone and , sigh, so is that clock radio. It was actually difficult finding a replacement.

ANYTHING you buy is going to break with abuse.  
  
If anything this is an argument for buying even crappier cables. Really, there should just be 0 cables available to people of any age who repeatedly destroy them.  
  
And trust me, you want that cable breaking before you want the port on the device breaking.

Glass nail file. Never dulls.

I have this ancient Coleman can cozy. I'm honestly not sure where it even came from, but it's perfect and keeps my morning Dr. Pepper frosty cool.

The issue is not a cable issue, it’s a behavior issue. You can get a stronger cable but it won’t fix the problem, just make it take a bit longer to occur. First off don’t replace the cable right away, let them sit without a device for a few days. That will make them actually value it since breaking it has a real consequence they personally feel. After you get a replacement drill them on cable plugging and unplugging. Have them do it slowly and carefully ten times in front of you each day. Let them know the rules are they do it this way, and if they break the rules doing it too roughly they will lose tablet/device time. Then when you day it’s tablet time watch from a distance and confirm they are doing it slowly. Be true to your word, if they are too rough tell them they can go read a book instead and try again in 30 min. 

As for the cable itself. Look up braided USB-C cables. Anker and Ugreen make pretty decent ones.

Extremely reliable. Even if I strongly recommend it, it still would not do the unit justice.

It does the job, few breakable parts, and easily repairable.

You can get yourself some sacrificial 2-3 inch usb C extension cables. Places like AliExpress have them for $3 or less.

While that's the antithesis of BIFL, this way the extension gives its life to save your nice cable or charging USB-C power brick.

We purchased the Cannon MF650C which works great except our home office is next to our bedroom and it does some kind of a random cycle thing at weird times including the middle of the night which wakes us up.  I also buy toner on Amazon and need to do an unauthorized tone song and dance to get it to work so I would not buy it again.

Yes! Love mine. It’s simple and it fucking works.

This. Going out of your way to accommodate their bad behavior is detrimental to their development. 

I stopped breaking anything by age 6-7 because it was made clear to me that anything I broke due to carelessness **was not** going to replaced.

Any recommendations on a good place to get non carb / European spec wavian nozzles? 

Seen a few on eBay but thought they might be more mainstream.

Look up magnilink chargers or similar. The dongle stays in the device and snaps onto the cord magnetically. Breaks away without too much force. 

(I hope I'm describing it well, I'm not able to add a pic to my comment to explain)

This needs to be top

I think the key is to change the kids and not the cable.    You could just start again with new kids, but probably better to work on the ones you have.   

At some point before they are completely independent of you they will have to have learned certain key life lessons.  Wiping their ass for example. Changing the tire on a car. Installing an operating system.   Using a power cable. 

If they are old enough to use a USB cable, they are old enough to learn about using it carefully.  

Let their devices go uncharged for some reasonable time, maybe a week or a month.  Maybe they will find a new one on their own, maybe not, but that outage period will serve as some sort of lesson.  

If at any point they ask you what is going on you  can engage with them about care of owned items and costs and such.   You could have then earn a new one, people deal with this differently. 

The key is that this is a teaching moment for an essential lesson.

This. Best thing I ever bought and one of the best hobbies I got into

I'm not defending non-stick pans or blindly trusting their advertisements. But Veritasium did a video about it and that I do trust

As immortal as Trigger's broom.

Let me introduce you to America's Test Kitchen...

I have the same PJs, bought about 4 years ago, and they have held up well. Based on your experience, sounds like something changed for the worse. Are they still Tencel with a little spandex?

Thanks, but no AI was used.

Get a tiny male-to-female ~3 inch extension cable, either with or without the 90 degree bend (they exist!).

That way you get the best of both worlds, and your main cable will always pull out in-line with the strain.

Would this be stronger than a shop vac?

I used one for nearly 20 years without a snag. 
Change the bags, change the hepa filter every 3-5 years and I was golden.

Spyderco mcbee on my keychain

That’s a lot of printing!  I had to go to Kinkos

The first rule of buy it for life is to take care of your shit.

I use mine in the car, the hose is long enough for 90% of the interior without moving him around, and the brushes work well enough for getting all the farm related dust and dirt i manage to get everywhere.

We deal with this at my office, because drivers have to take a tablet with them daily to complete their duties, but treat it like it's school equipment. The whole first set of tablets had to be replaced within less than 6 months because of this exact issue. When we replaced the tablets, we added this style of charger to the mix:

Works like a dream. We are a year into the next set of tablets and have had not had to even worry about one of the ports needing to be replaced! But maybe do yourself a favour and but a multipack, they come in 4 or 6 packs of varying lengths as well. 😊

I like Anker products as well, got their mythical 100W GaN Prime 3 port charger. Somehow they've stopped selling those which is a bummer. Now only the bigger and bulkier 100W GaN charger is on their website and amazon.

Hello /u/MossyRock0817! Your post or comment was removed because an Amazon referal link was detected (see Rule 8). Please edit the link to remove the referal (typically everything after and including "/ref=mp" can be trimmed out) then contact the mods to approve the post, or simply repost your comment without the referal link, Thank you.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/BuyItForLife) if you have any questions or concerns.*

The person I responded to had said cable, but an adaptor isn't a bad idea.

I still don't like the idea of angled, even as an adaptator strain would be placed on the cable connector because of the angle. But a straight adaptor would probably be effective.

A tiny model of shrek from France it’s about the same size as 10p

We have a red LED Spartus that provides information about what time it is without glowing up the entire bedroom.  Why is this not still a thing?!

those connectors are quite sturdy already, if they manage to break that cable then managing the handling is more important i think

The best advice for finding things that survive kids is to tell them, if you want something you have to buy it yourself. You would be shocked how much better care kids take with their stuff when they know you won't replace it.

Please don't manually post the same thing to two subreddits. Instead, pls tap Share then Crosspost.

Why not just run an extension cord, and cover it with a floor mount cable protector??

(Source.)

Alternatively, u could go with a sofa with manual reclining capability. I think you just lean back to make the seat recline. It's reliable and it can save u money.

In general, anything with a rechargeable battery in it might not last you a lifetime.

sorry for your misfortune.

i use pure stainless steel

or enameled Le Creuset

Brother laser ! can't recommend them enough!

yeah, that claim number too!  someone could use that to hijack your order!

Brother laser printer without a doubt and since you are scanning I would highly recomend getting one with an auto document feeder. Those tend to be on the bigger MFCs but the time and trouble an auto document feeder will save you'll be thanking me for recommending it and thanking yourself for spending a bit more for it any time you use it for a page with two sides or more than one page of scanning.

The other thing is not only do larger printers print a bit faster and have bigger paper trays they also use larger printer cartridges which in the long run will print more pages for a bit less money per page. Black and  White laser printers if at all possible as replacement cartridges will cost you significantly less than the multiple color cartridges you need to replace on a color laser printer. All printers come with starter cartridges and color cartridges  for a color printer if buying manufacturer replacements will cost more than the original printer did especially when it comes to those less costly color printers. Do yourself a favor when buying your printer and price replacement cartridges. Personally I decided to buy a two pack replacement cartridge and replacement drum when initially buying my laser printer.  A good many will buy third party replacement cartridges just to save even more money but I've heard that manufacturers are trying to make sure that is no longer possible. Cartridges usually come in three different sizes when it comes to Brother, I always buy the highest capacity cartridges which save a little bit more per printed page in the long run. With Brother laser printers a replacement drum kit is required after two printer cartridges. Knowing these things upfront just helps you know what your replacement costs will be also they give you an estimate of how many pages you can expect to be able to print. Color a bit harder to estimate as that can greatly vary depending the colors you need to print.

There aren't any. Gotta teach em good habits.

Stanley 3 ft. keychain tape measure. Part of my daily kit since 2000.

Cool, because that’s what they said originally about plastics. If you want to defend non-stick products rather than just use ceramic ones, be my guest.

could just buy quality stainless steel instead and it lasts 10+ years

could just buy quality stainless steel and it lasts 10+ years

That’s just USB C things.

I have had a similar model for a few years, I like it alot. Lots of travel, and it fits under airlines seats well.

You could get the magnetic kind the works by having a receiver that lives in the intended device. The cord itself can't break because it's a magnetic connection with a pogo pin that releases with a short tug.

We banned our younger kid from handling them, he broke 3 cords and got a metal piece logged in his tablet.  He has to ask us to charge his stuff and we unplug it.  It's not a huge deal.

My experience with HP is very positive at home and office for forty years. At home I date back to the original HP Laserjet. 

We currently have a M452 upstairs in my wife's office and a M451 downstairs in my basement lab. Both are getting close to 20 years old. 

In office, many many 10s of thousands of pages.

Unrelated but I hate you. Spent way too long wiping at your pfp thinking I had a hair on my screen. That is all

No charging cable on earth can stand up to kids being careless.

Not the answer you want but: 

The head of the USB-C is small but long. Super beneficial for modern electronics where size is king.  but that makes the solder weak sauce. Also the reason why USB-C is relatively inexpensive. Designed to be broke.

The BIFL answer here is learn to solder. One 20 dollar kit plus USB-C connectors and you're set for the next ten years. But, realistically, most people should just buy new ones. Not something you can stop with kids. If you buy a solder kit, you'll either get frustrated you have to spend an 30 min to an hour fixing it each time or, much worse, like it and end up buying a BIFL soldering kit that costs more than you'll ever get out of it.

That’s a tool you actually end up using a lot. I like that one too!

True, but also easier to replace. Better a sacrificial adapter than a useless cable, or worse: charger

Please don't manually post the same thing to two subreddits. Instead, pls tap Share then Crosspost.

Why not just run an extension cord, and cover it with a floor mount cable protector??

(Source.)

Alternatively, u could go with a sofa with manual reclining capability. I think you just lean back to make the seat recline. It's reliable and it can save u money.

Like Bernie Mac said:fuck them kids.

all-clad stainless steel

My housemate who was a builder had one for the van when he was on jobs, and one for at home. Over 10 years of construction abuse and it never failed him once. People say there's better Hoover's out there but the Henry is just a tank.

My god.. the insufferable pedantry. BIFL diehards can’t seem to keep their opinions about anything to themselves…  
There are plenty of good options. Dewalt has reasonably priced cables with reinforced ends. Won’t last forever but definitely resist loads more wear and tear than most.

Sure, but those are much, much smaller than the flakes of PTFE you ingest from damaged cookware. Almost all PTFE flakes are above 1 micrometer in size, most are above 10 micrometers. Microplastics this size are not only hard to absorb, but the ones that do are attacked by macrophages. Significant bio-uptake doesn't start happening until below 1 micrometer, mostly below 200 nanometers.

You should buy one. Are you a teacher as well?

This is why you get a membership at Costco. Online or in the whse if I spend a hundred bucks on a nonstick cook set and in 3 years it's flaking I'm taking the whole set back (that's the only way you can return it) and asking for my money back. No fuss no debates.

Not the ones in non-stick pans. The polymer chains are too long

Ahh, the 660s I have are 150 ohm. I bet the difference likely isn’t as big of a jump with mine

Wow! That’s really touching. That’s not just a coin purse, but a beautiful way to keep a piece of him with you. Sorry to hear about your father, by the way.

I'll never forget about the guy who posted his tungsten cube. Very BIFL

Hell yeah, love a good thrift find lol guess I'm off to Google to see what's out there. I've got a trip coming up and I've got a nice linen towel that I was gifted but a linen scarf would be absolute quality cause I wouldn't necessarily have to pack it in my bag. The towel packs down small but that's still valuable real estate when I'm trying to one bag.

Super solid. I've also seen him snort a massive amount of cocaine.

Yeah it's more off gassing that's the issue, but as long as you're not heating the pan to searing temps in a closed room it's fine

If it's just for changing you could get a magnetic usb connector.

Weird..we have used oxo warranty on several products with zero issues

Yeah! Way better than disposables.

Honestly, yeah. I picked up a N°8 from a pawn shop along with a SAK for about $30. I've gotten a lot of use out of both but I think the Opinel has been my more often grabbed. The only thing I didn't like is it doesn't lock closed and the blade is carbon steel. Carbon steel isn't gonna hurt me but the blade opening up in my pocket will. Took my Dremel and cut a little notch in the collar lock and now it locks closed so I can grab it and toss it in my pocket without worrying about getting stabbed. Absolutely love that little knife.

Your first recourse would be to the retailer, not OXO.

Just want to add to this for anyone thinking of buying: 

We have had the Koala Byron with the luxury fabric for almost a year now and would not recommmend it at all for the price.

I never write reviews ever but I feel the need to write this because I couldn’t find any detailed information when I was shopping and it’s quite expensive.

First of all, the luxury fabric we paid $200 extra for is literally just rough carpet. Idk who wants a couch with carpet on it but it’s fine, we didn’t mind.

As our daily couch, it’s practically un-usable. We cannot sit on it for more than 30 minutes without it basically falling apart. The seat slides out so easily and bunches up. The base that supports it continuously falls out and allows the couch to sink. To fix it I need to open the entire thing up, lift the bottom back and stomp kick it in various directions for about 15 minutes to get the Velcro in the right spot and then put it back together. After putting it back together it will be comfortable (for about 30 more minutes until it inevitably falls apart again).

As a bed it’s somewhat redeeming. The three people who have used it complimented it and I had to sleep on it for a week and found one of the sides to be quite comfortable (1 side is quite firm while the other is quite soft).

If anyone at the company is reading this, I suggest using some sort of latch system instead of Velcro because the Velcro is a complete joke. We use this as our daily couch and probaly could have paid 500 for something more reliable.

Yeah, this is really good!

Handle the cable yourself until they are old enough to follow the instructions given.

Those kinds of cables where theres always a port in the device ans you attatch a magnetic cable could work, but by the sounds if it they might be young enough that it would be a choking hazard.

These are quite essential too. I like that!

I actually have no idea what brand it is. I think I thrifted it? 

I picked this one in particular because it is a bold earth colored pattern that matches a lot of my outfits

I need to print something maybe once or twice per \*year.\* When that happens, I go to my local libary and pay 10 cents per page. I can't imagine what real need anyone would have for a printer in the 21st Century

Yeah, I keep stuff like that on my keys too.

I’d say not for a little bit, but at least a couple of days. However, also teach them \*\*how\*\* to use them so it doesn’t happen again.

So are plastics, but there’s evidence microplastics make it into your bloodstream

Stop blaming the cable and blame your parenting.

There are magnetic connectors but they should learn

My sister killed her two birds last year form Teflon poisoning

How would this be for cleaning the inside of cars with the shorter attachments?

Yeah. I’ve helped make a whole line of USB-C cables. Won’t link them due to sub rules, but in our testing, USB-C is just not as strong - even when reinforced by design elements and quality materials - when used a lot. The best way to increase longevity has been to make a 90-degree “right angle” version. 

Even so; USB-C just isn’t buy it for life if you’re using the cable a lot. The advantage of the connector is in ubiquitousness (and even that has some oddities due to varying spec).

i've had decent luck with laser printers, they seem to be more low maintenace than inkjets, and the toner cartridges tend to last longer too. plus, they're usually pretty good at just working when you need them to, which is a big plus for a home office setup. i've also heard that getting a printer with a separate scanner unit can be a good idea, just in case one part breaks you can still use the other

oh! That's cool! Hard to beat tools that just keep going for that long. That kind of longevity is pretty rare these days.

My son’s diabetes sensor

This is clearly a stitching issue/wear issue that caused the movement/failure. 

If you fix the stitching, you fix the issue. Why you’re getting so much wear in one particular spot is absolutely a personal issue

It is just a hunk of metal

Oh it will still kill your pet bird if you overheat it, that hasn't changed. It's just not slowly killing you because you can't remember not to use metal utensils on it.

Nice gift! I use mine all the time too, super handy.

Sounds like it's the kids who aren't BIFL. Did you keep your receipt?

I own one.

I've had an  massage chair for a few years now and still use it regularly because of my back issues. It's held up really well, the massage programs don't feel repetitive, and it's one of the few things I've bought that still gets used years later.

My travel pack is an Osprey. Never knew they had a repair program as well. Guess I won’t be needing a backpack for a while.

Is the twomeow dual single serve good or is the tastyle dual single serve coffee maker on Amazon good? I’m looking for a budget single serve coffee maker

I like the idea of using the Doohickey to keep the knife clean. That’s a practical little keyring setup.

Got a link for the one you use?

These models operate off probability. If there is more data in the training set suggesting a product is good than data suggesting it is bad, the output will claim that it is a good product more often than not. 

It doesn't matter what the quality of the data is as long as it occurs with enough frequency

I'd say it's worth it if you deal with back pain or stiffness on a regular basis.

I bought an osim uk chair a few years ago because my back was constantly bothering me, and I still use it several times a week. Definitely one of the purchases I don't regret.

I’ve heard a lot of people end up preferring those over Leathermans.

Still not very comforting that the pand *use* to kill your pet bird if you overheated it. I think it's probably prudent that people just stop using this junk. It's all junk, even hexclad. 

Buy a lodge cast iron frying pan and a set of cladded stainless pot and pans and be done with it - for life.

If you keep replacing the cable, they'll just keep doing what they're doing because there's no consequences, _they tell us to be careful but they'll just replace the cable when it bends_

Young kids can be taught how to treat things, might not be easy or fun depending on the child, but it can be done. 

Show then how to do it, have them practice in front of you a couple times and try to be there when they do it so you can see them in action and correct as needed, if they still yank it and it bends, oh well, go without for a while. 

Actions meet consequences, hopefully lesson learned. Sometimes people need to suffer the consequences to learn the lesson, and all long as they're not in any danger, like don't drink bleach, it's ok and part of taking care of kids

Losing it on a trip hurts, especially something that is so useful. Sorry

Person says in the description that they're just yanking the device to unplug.

Brother for the win. If you have space just get a brother laser black and white for document printing. They literally just go forever and will save you tons on toner.

I’d just take away digital privileges until they learn to take care of them. Or take the cable costs out of their allowance. Imagine how they’ll treat more expensive things in the future.

I've had 2:
- HP Office color laser.  Bombproof with outstanding drivers.  Cartridges were expensive and didn't last very long.
- Epson Eco tank all-in-one.  Poor print quality, constant cleaning and adjustments, software and drivers are poor and very annoying (update pop ups, checking for updates after an update, etc).  I bought Epson official ink from the Epson store on Amazon (had the security stickers and labels) and one nozzle was bent.  Epson says the ink was fake.  Only pro: Low operating costs.

My next printer will be a Brother.  They seem to work well.

Depends on the coating. Some companies now rely fully on ceramic or other metal coatings.

Yeah, those are way more comfortable than the regular ones.

If you bought with a credit card, many have protections for situations like that

I have a desk lamp that belonged to my grandfather who died in 1949. I put a new cord on it and still use it regularly.

I use mine a lot too, especially for travel.

Yeah, those are small but super handy.

It's not about buying a cable, it's about teaching them to respect things. Obviously this is a statement towards children old enough, like four or five and up let's say for example. No USB-C cable is going to withstand abuse.

That being said, if this is a phone or tablet you could look at those cables that have a usbc piece that stays in the phone/tablet and then a wire magnetizes to that piece.

That pocket weight thing is real. I like knowing my keys are there too. I like stuff like that as well.

i don't see any OXO pans on ATK's list of tested non-stick pans...

the recommended options are all All-Clad.

Make the replacement period longer and longer for each time?

A space pen. I have had mine for over 20 years and keep it in my purse. I know we don't have to use a pen much these days but it is there when I need it.

Yeah it’s a pretty cool device. Can’t fault it

Hello /u/Mzky! Your post or comment was removed because an Amazon referal link was detected (see Rule 8). Please edit the link to remove the referal (typically everything after and including "/ref=mp" can be trimmed out) then contact the mods to approve the post, or simply repost your comment without the referal link, Thank you.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/BuyItForLife) if you have any questions or concerns.*

My can opener. The simple style that is just one piece of metal with a bend that makes the blade.  

I bought it for 5€-ish 25 years ago when I moved out of my parents' home.

I believe you Americans call it a military can opener.

I know i need to teach them to be better, but they are still young and teaching doesnt always sink in very quickly. 

I wonder if not getting to charge whatever device they are ripping it out of too carelessly for a few days would maybe impact that sinking process somewhat? Show them that actions have consequences.

Silicone wedding band

Yea 185w is quite a lot.

I didn’t expect them to be that useful, but they are.

True but irrelevant. PTFE is biologically insert and passes through the digestive tract without being absorbed. The danger from non-stick cookware comes from older pans that used PFOA and heating pans to temps high enough to degrade PTFE.

Brother, hands down, no competition.

Same here, hard to go back to the flimsy ones after that.

I love this vacuum so much. Bags are cheap and holds a lot. The combination hard floor and carpet head that comes with it may not be the best for hair pick up on carpets but it's easy to find the right head and other accessories because the wands are 1 1/4"/32mm diameter. It's not be the most maneuverable but it's light enough that you could just pick the whole thing up especially when you get tangled. Very repairable too. I have to replace the motor on my James twice and it was only the shop for a day. (I have a home cleaning service so the vacuum runs 20+ hours per week.)

'peeling up after a few months of use' indicates you are using in incorrectly. They should last at least a year or 2 used regularly.

My dad had this. I can still hear it in my mind lol

You bought a POS with non cooking layer on it

Wow! That’s a long time for nail clippers.

Big upvote, bought   
\- one powerbank 

\- one cable

\- one wall charger

Everything is insanely well built

Its usually a kid issue rather then a cable issue. So that's a problem but if you want a recommendation for a durable cable I heard ltts cables are pretty good. They have alot of thickness too them

In my experience the tips that stay in the devices are not easy to remove, even if you're actively trying

Nonstick coating is made of PFAS. You don’t want that anywhere near your food anyway, but especially not if there’s even a tiny scratch. Throw it all out and get another kind of pan!

I understand everyone telling you to “let the kids go without” 
But as an actual recommendation a magnetic USB a tiny usb plugs into your device and it magnetizes to the cable which if pulled / knocked disconnects.

Fairly durable for use while charging if that’s what you do but functional enough to (hopefully) solve this issue for you.

The ones I got are from Amazon and seem to work just fine - it was a set of three I believe.

Of course I ordered a set of these pans about an hour before you posted this. I googled what nonstick pan americas test kitchen recommends and it was this one.

I’ll let that one pass! LOL

When I was a kid if I broke my toy I didn’t get a new one. I broke a lot of my toys but eventually I learned to stop doing that.

so what company would you recommend then? 

feels like whatever company you name, there will to be a disgruntled review for them as well.

Yeah, old-school but very compact and useful.

The coatings are basically PFAS that flakes directly into your food when it has any sort of imperfection or mar.

...Don't allow your kids around your USB cables then? If it's for their own devices if they have them, then have them buy new cables with their allowance. The rough pulling will stop soon after.

I get three years. Dont use high heat, don't use oil, and dont stack other pans on top when storing them.I have high quality steel. They both have uses where one or the other is the best tool for the job.

Technically accurate, I guess! hahaha

They wallow in the pain at the moment yes, but the second that cable is replaced they will have forgotten  all about it, immediately. 

Their sense of time and memory works a little different I've noticed, at least with stuff like this.

Out of the hundreds of cables I've owned in my life, even those from my profession in IT, I've never managed to break a cable like this. 

If your kids are breaking kids like this regularly, it's operator error.

Yeah, same here. It is always good to have one on you.

Yeah the idea is if something has got to break… you get a stronger male cable end and it will just break the female side in the device. Which is a lot less replaceable than the cable.

Stealing from the hand that feeds, clothes, and dictates your freedoms; bold choice.

The dewalt usb cables are insanely sturdy

Agree! A super practical kit to have.

If the kids are old enough to use technology, they’re old enough to be taught to be careful enough that this shouldn’t happen.

Buy cheap ones.  Many of them.

I use his a lot! hehe

Yes that sounds about right. I usually see between 500-1500.

I don’t know why people fall for the non-stick claims. They’re just coatings and will always wear out from use, even faster if you don’t take care of your stuff.

Yeah, better than manual.

I’ve seen complete vintage sets go for around $5-700 on Etsy. Solid brands too. Boker, J. A. Henckels, etc.

That’s a really nice use of compact tech. Having books in your pocket at all times is great!

He looks quite hungry

Buy it for like maybe 2-3 years

I did some serious damage to mine by hoovering up water. I let it dry and sprayed some WD40 into it. That was 5 years ago and the WD40 smell is gone now but it doesn't quite suck as much as it used to. Even in this state it's the best hoover I've ever bought

I was like, "This is a really nice backpack."

Go to look it up, $400. Oof. Then I realized I was on buyitforlife and not some budget deals subreddit, lmao. 

Still, a great backpack. I personally just don't spend more than $100 on bags in general if I can help it.

This one, yes! One of the smallest “lifesaver” items I carry around as well.

I have 2 sizes of the mineral b crepe pans...love them and I never cooked crepes.

Send an email to your state AG about it. That'll get their attention.

I had purchased a few cooking tweezers since I’ve seen a bunch of YouTube pasta chefs use them, and damn, they come in really handy around the kitchen.

So much easier to use than tongs when dealing with smaller items, since they are so much more precise. Plus they are very easy to clean.

agreed, henson is definitely the way to go imo

I love how the cast iron pan has become this subs De facto BIFL item

Appreciate the detailed writeup. For what it’s worth, I recently had a good experience with OXO on a warranty claim, so I’m curious what the distinction was for them here.

It was in Osaka kinda near the running man sign area. There’s that shopping neighborhood and I stumbled upon a bunch of second hand stores and just went into a smaller one. The key is to go down the side streets and stuff and those often are hidden gems or less picked over. This was 2 years ago.

My wife bought a multi pack from Amazon for Cheap… like others have said let the kids sit with their broken cables for a day or two. They can read a book climb a tree… things I did in the 90’s before the advent of phones or a computer that wasn’t just green.

Take this as a learning opportunity to stop buying OXO products.

Also get stainless steel instead of nonstick. Every nonstick pan ends up peeling after a few months of use

Start making them buy them. Stop charging their devices (grounding essentially) till they do chores to earn a replacement. Stop enabling their careless behavior

Get one of the magnetic type. You pull on it and it comes apart. I don't they do data transfer but work well for charging.

Looked for anker in the comments. Will always upvote anker. Quality cables with great warranty and customer service. Have used them for years and IF one does go bad they replace it. Great company

My child has never once broken a cable. What are your kids doing?

Same. It's such a pain to lug around my narrow home, but it would be amazing if I needed it in a store or around a workshop of some sort. As durable as it seems, I think I'll be moving away from it due to the sheer bulk.

Similarly I purchased a UV umbrella some years back. It's like carrying around your own patch of shade, and on hot sunny days it's indispensable. So great you don't care at all that maybe it looks dorky.

It's easier to replace your kids

Disappointing. I'm a big fan of OXO. Get yourself a carbon steel pan and don't look back. I have a De Buyer Mineral B Pro. It is 100% BIFL.

Oof that one always gets me

LTTstore sells truespec cables. Incredibly thick and well thought out. And.. true to their spec.

Cords should be out of reach from 3 year olds. Hopefully by 4-5 they can at least learn from mistakes

I genuinely thought this would work as a counter ad, given the title. Sorry if you feel otherwise. I promise I am in no way affiliated or being compensated

I agree. My previous pairs lasted me for several years but the current pair has the glue coming undone and the sandal coming apart. The break in period is so rough with Rainbows that it has me considering a switch to Olukai, plus this pair only lasting me two years.

Chrome stuff is generally awesome. I have a pair of their waterproof bike shoes and they lasted several very active years before the sole started leaking

It's so stupid. Every few months, OPs throwing out a toilet bowl brush when most people keep them for years.

Let me just routinely replace my toilet bowl lid. It's that ridiculous

I use some with magnets. They have been perfect for kids

Even cast iron is not BIFL if you don't take at least a little care of it.

Anker cables are extremely durable, but devices should be out of the reach of kids if they can't use them correctly.

Maybe contact support for where you bought it? 
I.e if you got it from Walmart or Amazon, explain the issue and that OXO won't honor their warranty but you want your money back.

For Walmart you could also just try returning it as a defect without the receipt for a gift card credit, since it sounds like you're out of the 90 day window.

You want magnetic cables.  They have an end that stays in the service and the cable attaches magnetically so it never breaks and the ports don't get messed up either.  Also, the cables now become universal across devices.

Non-stick pans are not bifl anyway.

Good to know, this definitely affects my opinion of the company!

Harsh way to put it, but there's truth there.

They are super comfy. I wear them to work (in an office, I commute by public transport) during spring and autumn, and they are totally fine. They're lasting really well

I also have summer sandals and winter boots from this place, and they are also great. Really sturdy, comfortable, supportive, and super cute.

I also reckon that since they're vintage-style, they're not going to go "out of fashion" as readily as something more in the current trends would

Buy a 90° Angled USBC adapter

Best thing you can do is try to get a case for the device that will hold the rigid part of the cable straight and prevent it from snapping there/force it to be plugged straight in and pulled straight out.

Best vacuum ever and I've used a lot of expensive brands. This will last you a lifetime!

A well maintained pan doesn't need non stick

Doesn’t exist. Kids always find a way to

I have no clue what OPs situation is, but a lot of schools are expecting kids to do homework on a school provided tablet.

On the one hand it gets them addicted to screens young, but on the other hand it prepares them for a life where everyone is expected to be addicted to screens. So that's nice and dystopian.

\^\^ This right here - got one as a grooms man 40 years ago us almost daily ( i need to get new tweezers for it)

Imma be real with you,

If your kid is yoo young to be taught how to unplug their device,

They're too young to have one.

(I'm assuming you mean a phone or internet equipped tablet or the like.)

Don't forget Amazon pays people to change their bad reviews to 5bsamtsr reviews. Ingot 40 dollars 2x because of it. I'm not proud but I'm disabled and was desperate for the money and felt Amazon owed me after all the money I spend their only to constsntly get used open box dirty items missing parts and already broken like my coway ap.mightt 1512HH. Supposed to be best but I'd put it on a setting the air circulation is good it's a little loud (which I want from my air purifier, sick of the silent machines they can't pull air through the filters without enough wind force and that's noisy periood. Anyway, and 15 seconds later winds down like I jist switched to lower setting the fans slow the noise gets quieter nothing gets sucked into filter just taken up from the current from the air outlet and spread through the room. 

Most every air purifier I tried - I go to vacuum and clean the filter and pre filter after a month and their is NOTHING to clean off. 

My winix T830 was CAKED in all the dust and allergens I know is floating around my old house but because everyone wants quiet instead of performance, (T830 sounds like a jet engine flying through the house on turbo mode) I'm sorry but if the air purifier can't suck smoke into the filter the 2 hits of marijuana i take at night, then what's the point of it other than being an expensive fan! 

Impossible to find any product not just air purifers, more now than ever before, all manufacturers cut costs incredibly cheapening their products and deny it to the grave but tariffs forced it. Litter pails no longer contain odors, actual cat litter using different cheaper dangerous clumping agents and additives to cheapen the products air purifiers and other machines NONE OF THE SPECS ARE ACCURATE suddenly they all can lie about their products why that's been allowed now is beyond me. 

They've always manipulated data to entire buyers but not actually flat out lie. Now it's just straight forward bull shit and can't trust any company's word.

Explain there are kids without USB cables in Africa

Idk what you're charging, but most phones have wireless charging and that would solve a lot.

Thinkpad T model line

This one: 

Both ends are USB-C and there's a USB-C to USB-A adapter that can slide the length of the cable that allows you to plug either end into the power block. The real advantage of this cable is that one of the ends is a 90 degree USB-C connector, so if it's sometimes getting used on a device where a 90 degree makes sense, you can just use that end on the device and plug the other end into the power block.

You are smarter than I

If you really need to *own* a printer, as said... Brother Laser is the way to go.  I would highly suggest using a print service; library, Stapes, whatever.

Did not think about that. FYI I am certainly not being compensated for any of this. Just saw the ad and felt called to expose the truth

Teach them how to do it properly

My dad has this tennis racket bottle opener from college. Hes 62. I toom it Florida when I joined the military, put so many miles on it. Moved to VA, more miles. Moved back home still use it to open his beers for him. I just grabbed it from the basement one day trying to sneak a brew as a teen but it's become such a small little treasure and I sort of think of him every time I use it. Hes still around, but we hang out and get along and it just sort of holds his place in my head

Le Creuset warrantied a 7qt dutch oven of mine that had crazing due to serious overheating. I sent them a note asking if there was anything I could apply to the bottom to fix it (I knew there wasn't) as laid out my whole dumb story about what happened (I scorched the ever-loving crap out of a rice dish). 

The sent me a new one and said be more careful next time. Le Creuset for the WIN!

Get the ones that are magnetic ends. They break apart st the cord. The USB end stays inside the unit.

No, but there might be some that routinely last longer than others, which is still helpful to know. Closer to BIFL is sometimes as close as we can get.

i'd wipe down with a damp clean cloth before applying any cleaner product.

leather is skin, it has pores. if you push anything in, you eventually cause problems.

remember, some types of leather have products that suit them alone; aniline, for example.

lots of cleaners and conditioners have similar ingredients, but there's some key ones that have their haters.

lots of people love mink oil, some think it's dreadful stuff to be avoided.

personally, i'd look at saphir products. they are expensive but can be bought in large containers.

I have a pair of Razr black shark V3 and they have been great and I get compliments on the quality of the mic

Make sure to check this thread:

Follow up instead of making a bunch of individual replies:

\- No this bag is probably not intended to hold a laptop. But it fit my tiny MacBook Air very nicely, and no it was not straining the zipper  
\- The bag I have was bought maybe 3 years ago, so my review might not apply to "old Kavu"  
\- What failed on mine was the stitching at one end of the zipper, causing the zipper to easily become "unlocked" when closed. It looks like it was poorly put together, as the zipper teeth extend awkwardly past where the zipper would ever reach, up inside the bag. The materials are not terrible for the price, but I personally don't trust the manufacturing.

My metal 12 pcs sculpting tooling set. 

They look like dental tools but with all sorts of ends, each finds a different use. I keep them in a pencil case. Was just using them today and thinking I use these for so many different things around the house and work. 

Think I paid $5 at an art store 15 years ago.

u/glowwpink

She seemed to like them fine. I like them but almost never cook. I did buy some of their thinner/flexible/wider option later when they came out.

Then maybe they need to lose privileges for a bit. Won’t need a cable if they have no phone to charge.

for a different kind of home office 'printer,' like a label maker, the brother pt-e310btvp is really tough. i've heard the print head can sometimes act up if you use weird labels, but it's usually an easy fix yourself or under their warranty. the buttons or screen are usually the first thing to show wear, not the printer itself. those things usually just keep chugging along.

At this rate buy a wireless charger.

Lol says 185W average... Not a lot for a CRT but damn

The bifl solution: magnetic end caps for the USB cable and each device. They stay permanently plugged in to the devices and cable, and so the only thing making contact is the magnetic adapter. If they're too rough with it, it'll just disconnect and they'll either notice and do better, or they won't and their stuff won't charge. 

If that doesn't work, then cap how frequently you buy replacements and make them wait. They have to learn eventually to take care of their things.

On gentle cycle, it last 40-50 years

There are magnetic adapters for USB connectors that are snap off. They’re inspired by Apple’s MagSafe connectors. 

However, all the ones I tried are of awful quality and I wouldn’t suggest them.

If they're too young to understand that the kids too young to use the tech or charge it themselves. That's not what you asked for though, if they do this and you get a stronger USB C cable the USBc port on the device might break. Perhaps a wireless charging if its a phone or a wireless charging case for a phone or tablet can get around this issue for you

Does depend on the age of the kids. Mine are older but break them all the time which is why I got them. My kids are older enough to not eat them

Rolling square’s in charge life cables - lifetime guarantee easy returns - money where mouth is time 

BIFL cable

You may want to look into something like a Magnetic USB Adapter. 
That should allow for a easy connection/removal 

Amazon Link Below

Korean mechanical nose hair trimmers. Incredible

There really isn't one. It's a USB cable.

How young are the kids?

If they're simply too young to understand, then you have to take the cables away. "Pull / break / throw everything" is a completely natural part of early childhood development. It's how they learn. But if your kids are old enough to understand, then you need to step up and do some parenting.

Brother but connect it to the Ethernet port on your router.

Dude if they're so young they don't have the dexterity to unplug a USB-C which is a pretty damn tolerable connector, maybe hold off for a long while on the devices?

That amount of damage, it's likely that a device is either going to break or have the connector stuck in it. Hopefully, they're fast learners.

bought the winix T830 -best unit I've ever own. Motor died in two months. Not completely but had to run on turbo mode to get the equivalent of what medium used to be. When first arrived I'd only use turbo when not home cause it sounded like a jet. 

I believe a lot of the issue with the new air purifers over the last ten years is they are far too focused on how quiet and energy efficient they can make them which means less wattage less motor power less fan speed and hepa filters and pre filters are tightly woven and thick and hard enough to pull air through especially in units where the fans are just in open air above the filters they just circulate the room air naturally in the big chamber that holds the fan and circulates the unfiltered room air. Sleep mode is a joke. You might as well just buy a white noise machine because they have a hard enough time pulling the air through the filters put them so low you can't hear it and it's not pulling ANYTHING through the filter. It's just a fan at that point that might throw out some pollutants that are loose in the filters. Nothing makes me more angry than when I buy one of the better ones on market established for years and i blow a hit of marijuana i prefer my cat doesn't inhale second hand smoke from

The smoke moves toward and hovers around the machine until the clean air current pulls it up and spreads it out into the room. So i try putting the unit up higher maybe the smoke won't catch the current as easily. Nope same thing. Same with coway, airthereal, bluair is decent when on high the 311i max model but any lower and you just have a fan again. 

Right now I'm testing out luftrum. People assume it's a generic name but luftrum is a real company from Sweden and I love anything not originally made in or from. A US business. If so then I know the machines are not focused of efficiency or quality. Just how quickly they can pump them out and make a profit before everyone realizes they are crap and break in a month

Winix was my favorite but when motor died slowly I did some research and found this is a very common thing with winix. They motors aren't built for the machines to run on high consistently. They work longer when set to like auto mode so it stays on low all the time unless sensing air quality is bad. But because you need to run these things all on high to actually clean any air and air sensors only sense dust particles unless specifically made for sensing more which you'll pay 1500 dollars for units with those features for large rooms.

I am liking the luftrum. I'm testing it and the bluair 311i max simultaneously I can't decide but I think luftrum c3500 is working a lot better

In addition to what everyone else is saying, you can reinforce these using a heat gun and heatshrink. Dirt cheap at a hardware store or Amazon, and a heat gun is a useful tool as well. Put the heatshrink around the connection between the wire and the strain relief and housing to make them all one long piece. You'll get way more life out of that cable and prevent shorts. It won't stop the damage at the very end but again thats a training issue.

Make them buy one with their own money. After they break it, they’ll learn to be a lot more careful.

You can learn to solder new ends for it

Show them you're buying a new cable and then show how you are removing the exact cost from their allowance. Let them wait for the new cable to arrive.

100% agree with you on that LOL, didn’t plan on using the mattress, more so kinda just want to take care of surface dust & grime on it

Magnetic cables are perfect for you. You insert a tiny plug into the port on your tablet or phone and leave it there permanently. The cable itself becomes magnetized to the plug. This is ideal for children, if you tug on the cable, it will simply demagnetize

Make them work for replacements by doing or "doing" serveral chores or something.

That will teach value very quickly

Anker cables are the best

Hard to beat top load whirlpool, gentle cycle,and low water use with manual settings. Ge run a but rough. But SQ takes the cake in rough washing.

Seven-day sets are very very expensive. BRAND NEW (yes, there are companies that still do that) I've seen them go for upwards of $3-4,000+ 

I only bought the set II have, because it was literally a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. Ordinarily there'd be no way I'd spend that much on razors, otherwise.

This is exactly what I was going to say. Cable tip vs kids, kids will always eventually win.

Instead, just get a \[cable tip\]( that isn’t actually broken when the connection breaks.

Definitely not designed to hold a laptop lol. But it fits the small MacBook Air perfectly

Install new children.

Lol. Father of three boys. The struggle is real.

They'll just steal his cables if he does that.

If the kids are to young to not break it, they are probably to young to have it

You want the cable side weaker than the device side since a cable is much easier and cheaper to replace.

Type C cables are pretty strong compared to what we used to have, this didn't happen just by unplugging it.

"sorry you ruined it so now you don't get another one until you pay for a new one"

If a phone, use a wireless charger.

If you get indestructible cables, the failure point will be the port on whatever it’s plugged into.

Can you get rid of the kids?

Define "kid". Are we talking 4 or 7 or 10?

I don't buy cables for my 8 year old. He gets allowance and I make him buy his own if he breaks stuff. 

There isn't a BIFL solution here without dealing with why they're breaking them this often to begin with.

Some people, particularly children aren't careful with things. I'm a total klutz who has brought a phone out of a car only to find a USB cable on the driveway. USB cables are one of those things where for awhile it isn't wise to get the most expensive one, get ones which work, and depending on how often they get lost or destroyed maybe don't spend that much on them.  There was someone on another sub who says with a soldering iron they can be repaired.

I’ve got a brother laser printer that is 20 years old. I only bought three toner cartridges over all those years and the printer still works perfectly.

Then they will just bend it the other way doing something else stupid.

My tiny ereader. It’s about the size of a credit card and stays in my pocket so I read books instead of scroll when I’m out and about. It’s pretty excellent.

Selecting proper equipment in only half of the BIFL philosophy. If you don't know how take care of the equipment, nothing is BIFL. And if you're really good at it, many normal things can be BIFL.

You could cut the end off and put a new one on so it'll work but just be shorter. I did that to a USB lamp where the cord was built-in rather than detachable. (Make sure the wires are on the right contacts before you solder them in.)

Some friends of ours bought cables where the tip is attached via a magnetic breakaway interface, so you use it kinda like Apple's MagSafe chargers.

I just buy whatever cheapish braided cables pop up on woot or whatever, as they come. Breaking a cable is a lot more tolerable when they're $2/per and not $10/per.

Answer they dont get a new one.

No, it sounds like the kids are unplugging by just yanking the device away from the cable. An angled connector is even worse for that.

I’ve tried so many, 90 degree plugs, super heavy duty, bunch of cheap ones, longer cables (longer actually worked best). Kids just destroy shit. 

What changed to help the most is my kids have gotten older, and one of the times I explained how to properly unplug and use them it stuck. 

Currently use 10’ anker braided cables I got in a two pack on Amazon for like $20, haven’t had to toss a cable in a couple years now.

You can’t kid proof the world, at a certain point you gotta teach your kids to adapt to the world and be careful with some things

Yeah then there’s a tiny thing with magnets the kids can take out and swallow. Not really a great idea

The only thing I can think that might help your issue here is magnetic cables. Because even if the connector is strong, the damage will just move up to the plug, and that's even worse. 

But there are concerns with those kinds of cables, with their pins being exposed. I personally would use them, but only with a charger that doesn't exceed 5v, no higher voltage chargers. And only for charging; ideally get a cable that only has the charging pins and no data.

I like mine, but if I had to buy one today I would buy a Rowenta

Only give them a cord every so often 3x or so a year. So if they break it they have to borrow or go without. They'll learn to be more careful with them pretty quickly.

I mean ideally young kids shouldn't be on electronics at all ..

This. I just got one for my car and it makes you pay more attention when plugging and unplugging it. 

Also, as a mom for 3, don't buy it for a while.

Some kids are tards and when they hyper focus, that's all they want. 

However, at that age, they shouldn't be managing their own tech anyways.

Judging by how the OP asked it sounds like his kids constantly break cables. That's 💯 teaching time to respect your stuff and not just assume mom and dad will just keep buying more for you.

Try magnetic chargers and making your kids buy their own chargers with their allowance when they’re older.

That leather is going to be gorgeous again with some cleaning and conditioning but Id consider just replacing the mattress.

Get a mag one any tension on it and the magnet decouples

Hi! Did you ever get answers? I’m in the same boat with a toddler!

I’ve used and abused mine almost daily for about 2 years now. No complaints!

“Tech charges at rest, not in hand” is a rule I’ve observed for 10 years and it ended broken cables. You can’t use the iPad or Nintendo while it’s charging. It’s resting. In a designated spot. I’ve had the same C type cable on the same buffet table going 4 years now. The prev I broke after 2 years for packing it wrong and it broke in my bag somehow. Before that kids broke em often until tech at rest kicked in.

So, maybe lasted longer than the marriage?

Get little magnetic adapters so that it just pulls away when it gets yanked. I did this with my kids after loosing many cables. Also has the advantage that you can standardize your cables as the magnetic part is the same and you get tips for different port types.

Your post doesn’t align with other posters.   Do you have a link supporting your post?

Magnetic connectors. That's what you need. Not a special cable type. 

Get those magnetic connectors, so when they pull the wire away roughly it just pulls the magnets apart. Kinda like magsafe but for USB-C. 

Some people will argue they are risky because of reasons, but I'd argue less risky than a kid's careless handling of electronics.

Why can’t it be both. I’ve seen some pretty crappy cables.

I have an epsom ecotank printer and it’s perfect for my needs.  I print a lot of music for church.  Caveat:  the ink is water soluble so it is not something you’d want to use for official documents.  My use case is kind of disposable and very inexpensive.  I had to take it in after 4 years to have the waste tank cleaned and the counter reset.  It was painless and should go another 4 years.  If I wanted to do photographs it wouldn’t be great.  But for me it’s right.  I think if I wanted more it would be a brother.

I burned out the motherboard of my new Asus Zenbook with this type of connector.

In addition to fixing this from the "take better care of your stuff" lesson angle.. you could consider something like  \- but even this will break if not treated with some level of care.

Something like Brother HL-L2460DW maybe?

Buy one more. Tell them that’s it and If it breaks they can’t charge whatever it is anymore. They’ll learn fast.

Are you kids still under warranty? Can you trade them in? Sounds like a parenting problem.

A USB cable is NOT a Buy It For Life item!!

[ Removed by Reddit ]

Bingo. Time for the “this is why we can’t have nice things” talk

Try the ones that are right angle plugs. I got them back in the day because the miniusb plug sockets in the phone were always getting torqued too much and breaking the phone. There are right angle USB and USBC. I even have a 180 degree USBC so I can plug in the phone and it can stand up with no stress on the cord. At a few bucks each it is worth having several ral of each configuration.

I got you fam cable type

Agree completely. Show things have value and how kids can care for them

Stop buying the cables.  Let the kids buy their own.  One way or another the problem will sort itself.

Two ADULTS did this at work the past few weeks.

I have a HP LaserJet P3005 which I used in my home business and subsequently in retirement. It's been simply a perfect printer, no maintenance ever done on my part, and has never seen or needed a repairman. I've had it since around 2010 and it's still going strong. It only prints in black and white, but the toner lasts FOREVER!

If they’re too young to be able to figure a cable out they’re too young for the device. Time to start being a parent.

we had magnetic tippped cables that lasted longer.  kind of like Apple MagSafe technology.

Tell them to be careful. Don't replace the cable immediately. Let them wallow in the pain for not being careful for a little bit.

You can magnetic connections for the ends. I use them for the same reason. They just disconnect rather than break

Watch repair kit. No more paying for expensive repairs to remove links or replace batteries

Anker are the best and most durable in my experience.

Anker powerline seem to have lasted me almost 2 years and got it for under $20. Now since I have grandkids and them seem to break my cords I went to the local dollar store and bought like 20 usbc cords for 1.50 to have spares.

I have the same bag that’s pictured in the ad. I bought it around 2019 and still use it every day! Definitely BIFL for me.

You'd rather have the cable break than the device it gets plugged into. They need to learn to be more careful with stuff instead of you buying more and more cables.

You probably need a 90 degree cable. They are likely leaning it against their stomach or whatever

I’ve had mine 20 years with no issues at all.

The tweezers in that are the best I’ve used. I lost the knife as a kid but somehow held onto the tweezers for I don’t know… 30 years? They finally broke but found some dupes in Amazon.

Lasko rules, i got 2 heaters and a tower fan, 10 years and counting

What I think might actually teach them is not being able to use the thing they broke.

Show them that things aren't infinite and instantly replaceable. If they don't understand that concept they're likely to continue to treat things as disposable.

Order a replacement in a month and give them a "less enjoyable" fall back activity to cope with in the meantime

You know I don’t see Reddit every other second ! But my bad, that’s great (and highly unusual) that it has replaceable batteries.

This is a human issue, not a product quality issue

Well, I wasn’t expecting it to be *that* good, but I’m not surprised either. This is superb news. Thanks for reporting back!

No such thing. You’re gonna have to deal with this problem on the parenting side of the equation

Have that bag. It’s a nice bag, but definitely not BIFL. The material started splitting and B&R’s repair was subpar. More like a patch than a fix.

Did you fid anything?

Most people just need a low volume black & white laser printer at home. A multi-function printer/scanner if you need to scan and copy regularly. 

I’m running a Xerox B225 at the moment and am happy with it. On the rare occasion that I NEED color printing, I upload the documents to Staples.com and have them printed on gorgeous  $30,000 laser printers at 10¢ per page. 

Bargain. 