Was away for a bit, is it true the war is over

There's a reason the smart leaders with smart advisors never did this. It's not like we didn't have the ability to beat their asses militarily.

Cardboard to sleep.

fuck happened :(

You appear to be an investing expert, what's the next play, daddy?

The bottom-bottom is in. Buy everything.

Amazon didn't make a profit for 9 years.  AI is a legitimately useful product there definitely is money to be made in providing it.

Portillo’s?

Then why do i have zero money and zero friends

This lil twat is probably older than your girl friend's dad

Famous last words, retard. 

Congratulations though fuck you

Friendly reminder that you could literally have more than doubled your money on Knicks win today with them 3 points in the lead with 7 minutes to go in the 4th 🤣

Wait, no. Foh

Dance you ball gargling parasites. Your only value is my entertainment. Make me feel and look cool.

you couldn't crust up the hjs behind Wendy's to reach diamond

I think red tomorrow then green friday

Refinance with what?

MSTR at 120 and you sold 35 shares, that timing is just brutal man

Hear hear

# FAKE ASS LOW VOLUME DUMP DIAMOND HAND NIBBAS

\>diversifies  
\>they all go down

Its not that bad honestly.... anything over 214.40 and your green still. As long as nvda doesnt plunge tomorrow that is....

So he sold the top?

See ya lata 🐊

Green by open. We’ve seen this before

If you know you're an idiot doesn't that count for something?

From Dell and HPE earnings, enterprises don't buy custom ASIC AI chips. It's all about modular x86,  GPUs, maintainable, upgradeable, re-useable servers. They're running AI locally with open source LLMs. This is the dot com build out all over again with standard networking equipment. Hyperscalers custom ARM chips with everything integrated is cheaper but a toaster. You can't repurpose it. One bad memory chip and you'll end up e-wasting everything. No CTO is going to take this approach. It's a bubble.

I spent 18 years with them already. I made the kids with my balls and they still have potential

MSTR moving 5% in an hour. Yeah okay Mike.

Chill out McKenzie Shirilla

XOM 6/5 170??

!remindme 1 week     let's go let's go let's FCKNG GO AHHHHH 🤌 🤌 🤌 🤌

Not this 2021 pump and dump again

de\_dust2

If Saylor dumped all his BTC rn he could single handedly cripple the entire crypto market for years if not permanently.

I paper handed 😭sold 20 shares @ 450$

Ye calls

# NY KNICKS BABBYYYYYY 😝

Knicks money going to MU calls

Tess from Suits is kinda hot ngl

Its about to be tomorrow

MU has a forward P/E of like 12

Exactly what I’m thinking. Not fast money but free money

Shit like this makes me believe more and more that getting this rich makes you more detached from humanity.

This is incredible

That makes sense. I appreciate you taking the time to reply. Are you still holding those $PURR positions you mentioned a couple days ago? I had to cut them after seeing BTC dive off of a cliff this past week.

760$, i pay cash

Wall Street is going to be in a good Knicks mood tomorrow.

Why the fuck to meme players get mad when the companies cash in on the windfall? Fuck, the ape movement really distorted people minds with the whole "it's my money and I want it now" bullshit.

Thought futes would be worse actually

Reddit took all our emojis, mods powerless

MRVL holding up well here after AVGO dump and broader market dump means bigly green later when we punp

Can’t say why but you guys need to check out FCEL

Lmao randy giving hj and bjs left and right calm down bro

if you zoom out, the buttcorno V is so tiny, its invisible to the chart =(

I just started buying shares at its current price … mind as well start again

True story.  Got accepted into a niche Bean subscription service after 4 years of waiting today.  Lost thousands of dollars in the market but couldn't be happier I get to spend $50 on beans every quarter now!

theyre definitely breaking into the NYSE

Anyone playing Planet Labs earnings tomorrow.  I think they will be good

I got 100 @ 198, a win is a win :)

Leaps will print. The same thing happened with Dec earnings call

Daaaarkness

deminions!

Annnnnnnd its gone.

Can we see the month chart

Brunson have my children

If I wanted a handy, I'd give it myself. Keep the bag and the fries. I don't trust that sauce.

Waiting for this stroke paralysis to pass.

I’m buying 80ps tomorrow. Wont go too hard, but I would make the play if I didn’t believe in it.

I hope you print! Good luck 🍀👍

Realtor: 30 years total mortgage

Micheal: wait I thought you said 10 years

Dwight: whoaaa you'll be paying this off in your seventies

LMAO I would literally eat shit if that happened. We'll be lucky if we can just avoid bleeding further this week. Friday might be another bloodbath though

Depends on how outsiders value those dollars.

I already brought calls in AVGX, MRVL, VRT, GEV…. Just didn’t buy calls in AVGO cus of earnings but now I’m more then tempted to due to this pull back

calls.

How much can I get for a kidney?

Me neither but wow $515 after hours rn. Thats a $20 jump (i know 4% only) in one day. My call went up 100% since yesterday

He’s just realized that lack of liquidity has made MSTR the biggest bagholder of all. He bought so much it might as well be a meme coin on pump.fun.

Marvell pivoted and they’re gaining traction on that pivot now. Long story short, they’re giving data centers more performance per watt with optical driven processors. It’ll continue to boom as long as data centers continue to boom. And based on what I’m seeing in data center construction, that looks like it’ll continue for at least 3 more years.

*This “pivot.” Is it in the room with us now?*

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Talking about these billionaire fucks... Cool you wasnt alive last time that it happened, thats evident

Game, blouses

All the friends I make along the way are broker than I am.

Brunson the doctor

😡 it's *de minimis* 😡 not "de minimus" or "deminimis" 😡 you idiots 🤡

I need Googl moon manana 😭

Crapto already recovering. We got deal. Green AF at open

She was basically asking why he thinks financial institutions would double down on a failed bet. Because they won't, not on the down slope of a speculative bubble, especially when the overvalued asset is a bit of computer code an anonymous rando thought up that can be rendered completely worthless by an act of Congress that couldn't even be challenged under the takings clause.

Money isn’t real

No, it’s about the money we lost along the way.

For sure, delta class was worth the wait. I'm gonna bag til 2030+

Just bought a share.  Hope it helps

Do you like pitching or catching?

Every single semis stock has rebounded after a post earnings dip and YOU 🫵 are still bearish?

Trading is not kind to hippie do-gooders, Lmao

Just tell the CEO to come out and dance like an idiot on stage

Very glad I didn't hold calls on anything overnight

Mean is higher. There are a lot of 7-figures here and a few 8-figures.

Making a deal badly 🤲

pay down the single highest interest loan. it will free up some cash.

Mrvl im very disappointed

I didn't buy SPCE. 
I bought Black Berry and already made more than 3x my money.
When do I exit?

So you read the worm article too huh ?

Ill hover up some cheaper AVGO tomorrow, overreaction.

Nice realized gains!  Enjoy the summer.

How much did you make

forget banana peels AVGO got hit by a blue shell

All part of the 6-D master plan!

This game is hard

the last part of this especially 👆

The government is not going to bail out a Bitcoin wallet are you fucking stupid lmao? Are you a joke account?

*So you are telling me the music is gonna stop and we will be left holding the biggest bag of odorous excrement ever assembled in the history of....*

*Capitalism*

Dude she’s so hot for real

I don't hold positions overnight, I'm good 👍

Where 🥭at?

Seed phrase🤡 blockchain🤡 de minimus🤡

Probably red until Friday/Monday imo

Damn man. At least give me 5 mins to sell my puts!!!

Man that correction was bad today. Back to green everyday from now on here on out

wsb mods once again bring back the charlie munger emoji please

Might have to start over

Bought MU in 2018

I think most will have decent rebounds on open tomorrow. after 20 mins after market open is anyones guess

You violated the WSB Convention: Buy High Sell Low

$NOW 150$ by friday

U dont trade on the Nairobi Stock Xchange?

Oh shit. SPXC is the real SpaceX symbol.

Heyyyyy Gojira catching strays here

You are only supposed to whisper that

Quite possible. Fuck if I know what moves these markets. It´s not sound investing, I can tell you that.

this is true, but on the other hand, there *was* a big move!

It’s un related but so absolutely cringe.

At open? Why not buy AVGX now?

Market always does the unexpected, CALLS IT IS!!!!!

so saylor has 800k bitcoins sold 32 and buttcorn dumped 10% if he sells all 800k ill buy all of them at $1

Please don't vote with your money...

what we buying tommorow/

I am a n00b, what does this mean? Can anyone help me understand this.

I’m balls deep on the shares I’m with you

wally world

You guys are expecting this bubble to run for three years?! Jesus, you’re going to be bagholding by Halloween.

Some shitty ass nuggets?

Every1 in this sub wishes they could get rich doing something this stupid and instead they're ruining their lives on worse odds

Well that was a quickie for CRWV

*Hate to say it, but John, after all these years I still want the money*

God speed fellow regard

You can buy me as a friend for a million

How much spce did this regard buy? Best guesses below..

It's on the blockchain.

Maybe the real gains are the bags we filled along the way.

i ride my failures into expiration as a form of options seppuku.

Iconic. Love her.

Live TV - U.S. Live Event - Bloomberg

Before my June 12 calls expire? Lol

they better pull toothbrush too 🤮

Am I the only dumb one buying AVGO calls?

I truly don’t think SpaceX is gonna have anything to do with SPCE. But, with that said, I do think SPCE will have a great Q3 and Q4 and will go up a lot in value. It will be a hot stock pretty soon.

#Ban Bet Lost

/u/Godworthy-Sins made a bet that AVGO would go to 519.64815 within **1 day** when it was 494.903 and it did not, so they were banned for a week.

Their record is now 6 wins and 47 losses

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

Short it then pussy

how about u eat my ASS

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

She did get an answer. "yaaaaaaa"

Death penalty if the Spurs lose. New 4th quarter tradition if they win.

Im starting to think AI models deliberately fuck prompts up to use up more credits so we buy a subscription

They´ll just whip out more lashes...

Lmao. I screw up, sir. I am sorry.

my bad. you are correct

if only i couldn't read! then i wouldn't have listened to claude when he said AVGO was the next DELL/HPE set up 😞

Simply be born with wealthy parents...

to all ghe retarded acoustics here, how y'all function daily ? i can't 😢

Cycle peaking but GOOG raising 80B?

Why sell🤌

That fish head wife thing is hilarious and is going to live rent free in my mind forever

Gen-Z boss in a mini?

32.33...repeating of course percentage of green tomorrow

No, they will just be going for like .01-.20 per contract 😂

Oh jeses

Not raising. But they are there as helpers, feeding, cleaning. Helping clean house.

Or nah? Bad idea

This lady has to sit next to Joe Keenan for two hours a day.

Suicide hotlines pulling overtime tonight

Rbrk call, they usually go up 10 to 15% after earnings.

The numbers were fine. Give it a week or two to bounce back. Too much drama

I've bet against other companies bc they hired eejits I previously worked with.

It's because you only have to see your wife and kids on weekends

Mark Cuban maybe?

And people say you can’t time the market lol

How about parents? Siblings. You arent close with them or travel/see them?

Holy shit, stop with SPCE trolling. Inverse WSB is tempting me hard to buy in. You Intel hating morons missed a 5 bagger mocking grandma's sweet little angel.

99% portfolio diversity, trying to hide it from WSB? Who do you think you are, king of the retards?

RIP YA WINGZ OFF

Hopium 🚀

Most publicly traded companies also explicitly prohibit employees from shorting their stock so you'll be fired the second they find out

Probably green by open

lol the calls will be zero at market open unless the drop is some sort of algo trippin'

As much as any other day.

When they win the title, I wonder if Knick fans are going to calmly take the W as gentlemen or act like insanely obnoxious jerks.

I was strong on lulu put. But Given everything is upside down. Lulu call might be the way to go..

Elon gonna pop this bubble to fkin hard

This tells me to buy calls

38.329%

He’s tryna blow up and act like he don’t know nobody

This is AI, right.  Right?

Yes, sir. I will retire a millionaire. 🫡

Puts?

Lol.. shares

Well congrats on living ig

Maybe next week ngl

Just think if I was regarded enough to put half that amount at my 67 average. I’m not regarded enough

+100% then -15% is still a good run

Thanks for this

He already missed the slight correction when he posted his first fud

In 1984 (novel) they had essentially mandatory group video meetings over public TV for everyone to exercise. This makes me feel the same sense of dread and loathing.

Always

If you ever get rich, I’m sure you will gain some friends.

To match the American ones tomorrow

I wouldnt call btc down 25% in a week a litle red

It could still be green by morning. Don’t give up hope with this regarded market. But seriously should think about selling those calls at market open

Do you do drywall?😉🍻

Diamond hands. 👅

Why would you want other people raising your children

Ever since joining WSB I have become a better husband and father!

I'm telling ya. These threads are WAY MORE FUNNY when the market is actually red.

Charlie Munger was cool. I'd play bridge and drink some coke with him. If I knew how to play bridge.

green by open

Cost basis and shares?

No he said "deal very soon". There's a difference, and if you don't understand that I can't help you

Why Asian markers down bigly

Dude got rejected by the pedophile club bro ouch

(girls FTW!)

Scout Master Kevin?

You will regret those words come Friday.

This shit got the j hueng blessing, its going to the moon now

he hasnt realized yet he & his circle are the crazy bastards this whole time 🥭🤡

Is there any chance of recovery tomorrow

How did you do?

I have a question. What is the possibility of turning green tmr

I thought he sold the puts?

yessir

I think of ..... Wendy's frosty

Shares or wings?

Not familiar with the app, is the margin listed unsettled cash?

Your not alone

i caught norovirus from their shitty ass nuggets as a kid so that's a short

Yeah I came to comment on that too - at 0:45 seconds Jeff Park goes from a bald guy to a young asian guy then back again... weird.

I already know what my future trades is going to be and I think it will be very profitable

Shit gets a little red and all the real regards come out

Don’t worry, bro. It’ll come back down.

After turning broke, I just come here for the laughs.

You gotta find Togi or Stevewilldoit

I also know that if I got in, I’d trigger an immediate cosmic dump event

👨‍🦼‍➡️

The zuck

Time for SOXS

that's my GOOGL position thank you very much

I will do better next time. 🤣🫡

This is actually my goal of making money

When you’re alone late at night, do you think of your portfolio?

Then we return the favor to Saudi Arabia and their new towers

Another day of depositing and full porting into spce waiting for SpaceX to ipo

Bessent gonna plant a HOT seed DEEP inside the indices tomorrow morning

Is this ai generated?!

What’s the ticker!?!

Taylor Swift

Yeah I fuckin said it

Girl just wrote songs and is hot, simple

Imagine getting assigned 2800 shares of reddit. Wouldn't that be 400k owed, after you've given back the premium?

Am I missing something here? Why would Robinhood allow a 4,000 dollar account to do this?

Market rotating into Spurs in 7

Open the strait you crazy bastards!!!

Puts on Pork

That might take four or five more magic words between now and then. I think two after quantum we'll have sexbot or something.

The best I can give you is a box 🪤

Fuck my friends, I want my $150K back. Since I stopped buying beer they haven't been around 😉🍻

We yes WE are all gay jolly little bears 🎀

Eh the cool ones don't give a fuck about what people think about them so they don't feel the need to be public figures

You should’ve bought all calls and not buy shares that would’ve been a yolo play

Sybau

Have we run outta juice?

I bought some today

whose POV?

Bitcooooooooonect vibes!

Hahah clocked that immediately

Anyone playing Tyson foods?

Tell your parents that they’re some cool ass motherfuckers

Beat the Bussy up!

I have some pregnant cows. I call them beef futures. Happy to sell if you want.

This post has real “community member” vibes

everyones name should have it as a tag right next to it

This is proof the top is actually here, told by a bottom.

That’s what I call my penis

Whoa wow wowee that’s funny

That's why you missed SanDisk

is the top in boys?

I'm glad AVGO didn't overreact

Jerry, all these big companies, they write off everything!

If bitcoin has no more haters then I’m dead

On margin, Zoiby wants buy on margin

Speak for yourself buddy

should i buy btc 2x inverse leverage etf

META for value, AMZN for low end of bullish risk range, AVGO dip for more regardedness in chips.

Still keeping cash.

No Patrick, -15% and then +1% is not a rebound

Been 1 day, was $495 when i posted this now its $515 AH.. my 500 call lookin real nice huh

hes got money, but why risk his integrity to make a few more billion?

Embiid mvp

This guy invests in $FAGS

Can I rock paper scissors a rich dude for a house?

Who else buying Voo

If you’re looking for a bottom on July 4th you should probably check the White House

HIMS can peptides save this market?

I know it will. Coz something similar has happened a few times in the past. Has kinda made me numb to money tbh

once the tits are hanging out i get more tips anyway

Cool so theta fucked till whenever the fuck?

To every MSTR Holder:

oh yeah, that is what I meant. I am not withdrawing it

I just couldn’t stand the fees associated with Coinbase. Once I sold all btc I had, I stopped using it. I also sold my coin shares. I finally sold hood shares when I realized how correlated it was with crypto.

No, it’s PDT removal

Hey, for a while the market said that $1 of bitcoin purchased by saylor was worth $2. Selling stock to buy bitcoin was accretive. Can you blame saylor?

I remember looking at SPY puts last night thinking these look cheap right now. lol

You keep da frens.

We can start playing the game, Michael Saylor or The Office?

1. You miss 100% of the shots you don't take.

Michael Saylor or The Office?

2. I declare... BANKRUPTCY!

Michael Saylor or The Office?

3. I'm not so naive as to think that everybody always succeeds, right?

Michael Saylor or The Office?

Fucking bols are short btc in their magic margin account

The stock market is trash but at least I’m not holding 🌽 that is at 50% of its ATH

I expect to see more of this reaction image.  Don't dissappoint me.

See if your 401k has the option of a Stable Value Fund. Move your money to safety if shit goes south without getting fucked by taxes and penalties.

Alright, I audibly laughed at that one, touché.

Bagholder spotted.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Cycle peaking: fun fact 3 yrs leading up to March 2020, Sox returned ~450% which is the exact amount returned 3 yrs leading to today. P/S higher than dot com, enterprise backing away from AI due cost, margin cracks showing, vendor financing and a very very very leveraged investor in SK. Money managers moving flows from EM due to over exposure. That will hurt DRAM. List goes on but memory is always the biggest losers. And then, normalized environment, too much capacity and margins crash.

What if the bottom is around July 4th

that shit was hilarious

$SPCE to 🚀🌚🌞🪐⭐️

now that jensen knows he's good for a 90B pump on demand what else is he pumping next

Still remember how long it took the market to recover post the dotcom and 2008 crashes?

Uncontrolled greed may make your family homeless! Be careful!

Wish you all the best!

!The ticker split today<

Me neither 😭

Never had a friend.  Never made money.  Wendys is what its about.  See you at the dumpter.  No shame in giving bjs after being the one receiving them in the past.  It is the circle of life.

Can’t remember the last Green Day

How much can you make doing this weekly?  Say.. with 1000 dollars investment..

Mods need to go back to banning people who talk about crypto this is stupid

Fellow cash bros happy right now what dip we buying? or we still waiting on the sides?

What do these guys do again besides make memes?

Mr.Diamond hands over here

Silver looks like a tapeworm

I hear they're giving away free 🌽 back there now

You know, I like the Dave's Double. And sometimes I even get a shake!

The Woz

Dude was taking a selfie on the court with not a single player in the shot...

#AVGO basically declared bankruptcy LMAO🤌

it's what they put in your arm at the hospital. mostly just saline solution but depending on circumstances you can be hooked up with a dope drip !

Wall street bets sounds way better in Spanish

Happens to all of the greats unfortunately. Aidra Fox is the one that makes me saddest.

Sell a kidney if you must, but keep the btc🫠🫠🫠🤡

Dumbasses who told you to buy btc stocks

that was yesterday

I’ve lost more friends over money than I’ve gained

Fuck you

What the shit

It’ll still drop. He’ll hold until red

Gonna be a rough day in the corn mines tomorrow.

Hurray for the poors (me), PDT is getting eradicated tomorrow

when he talks  u  can  just hear the ghey ooze out.....gives me the hebejebes

Fuck stocks. Fuckin hate stocks 🥲

Talks are going well

Publix prices have been highway robbery the past few years

green by market open

I'm hoping we open under 750 then we have a chance to get calls

Before she bogged herself with surgery🫣

Told ya

This is very good grade A meme

The friends money we lost along the way.

Lmao so glad I didn’t

JFC this is the cringiest shit I've ever seen/heard. Rip BRC bulls

would you *want* to eat a banana you bought/got at wendy's?

HELL yeah brother. I only put in 5k for July 100ps but they’re still treating me well

They’ll get around to it

Visa is the 7th fucking option when I type “V”. Actually fucking insane. Like actually, like genuinely, who? Fire them. Now. Like seriously.

You're not worry the war isn't ending and the supply chain across East Asia isn't going to break? SPR oil has six weeks left. Countries used their reserves thinking it's a temporary disruption and everything will be restored. These are physical assets that you can't print out of thin air. I'm guessing by the end of June is when people realize this is the status quo. It could get worse. 

If Israel with boots on the ground can't get rid of Hamas from Gaza that's 25 miles long and 5 miles wide after years, how can the US topple Iran with air power only? Iran is only 4,515 times bigger than Gaza. Invest wisely.

Lol for real. But I guess trading without knowing what you don't know is less scary than trading when you know what you doing know. 

When I studied options and derivatives in college my class was taught by an actual Nobel laureate. (He hadn't won yet then but he'd already done the work that won him the prize.) I'm well aware of what I don't know about options, and I've forgotten how to do half the math. If I tried I could teach myself again, but I've got other things I have to do instead.

Idc if we go up or down but i dont wanna have my time wasted with 0% days 😒

SaaS will rise again

This very company started the melt down in 2000?

How does one be a bear? You get happy when things go badly? Weird

I will be messaging you in 5 years on **2031-06-04 02:53:24 UTC** to remind you of **this link**

**CLICK THIS LINK** to send a PM to also be reminded and to reduce spam.

^(Parent commenter can ) ^(delete this message to hide from others.)

**RemindMeBot is switching to username summons.** Instead of `!RemindMe 1 day`, use `u/RemindMeBot 1 day`. More info.

*****

|^(Info)|^(Custom)|^(Your Reminders)|^(Feedback)|
|-|-|-|-|

Some people may be fearful of SpaceX, but they are so greedy that their brains lock down reason. The "fomo or fomu" for this IPO is the "fight or flight" reflex version of investing. And virtually every fund seems to choose fomo. If you want to be greedy when others are fearful buy housing or software.

Lela Star

you are an absolute buffoon

Back to the Wendy’s dumpster

this shit isn't worth anything

WTF 😄

This is absolutely going to be on the documentary about the downfall of this Ponzi scheme when he's in prison for fraud

You are buying calls on 2x sndk etf? A stock that's up like 5000% ina year😬

so you mean a vampire

thanks fren ;-;

De los bagholders que conocemos en el camino

Btc “rebound”

It's only Ʌ from now on

More like that plus some more in thousands lol

Bears so down bad they’re celebrating bitcoin shitting itself? Newfound levels of cope LAMO

al sharpton........raisin

Bit late for that tho

Literally bought them at the top ~195.

Over $3 million in gains. Feelsgoodman

I'd be like "how the fuck did I get in this Right Hand drive vehicle"

Maybe that’s the play, get the market depressed and restock as much 🤷🏾‍♂️ man’s dollar cost averaging downwards.

We’ll have to see how this ages in the next few years.

/remindmebot RemindMe! 5 years!

I really hope she's aware how goated her reaction was. Golden meme for the ages.

calls. got it.

HOT LIQUIDITY INJECTION coming up

Port 1% badge

I literally get a hard on seeing red futures bc 90% of the time my boner is right and the market is up the following session

27b to sell on a -1% move. We’re well past that bud. 

Good luck 🫡

Africa so big yet no major stock exchange yet

the fuck kind of name is chet puts on his parents

Both are ugly as fuck ngl

Love a good troll but pls help me haha I see it everywhere

They need to get rid of that shit, or at least let you choose. Why is crypto showing up first on every ticker is beyond me

12000 mean 400 median

Gonna order a luxurious meal tonight after losing a part of my port.

Makes me feel like that CEO from Margin Call.

Silver is one weird looking dude

U r asking too many questions my friend.

Hood popping off what happened

thats a weird thing to call 20 bucks

Post AVGO losses pls.

Currently making meme of knicks as deer bating the shit out of spite with bats

So you had a wet dream, but 🌈

Just enough for a Wendy’s biggie bag

Me either! We bag holders stand strong 💪

How's that investment going champ?

Watching spurs, buying and selling calls and puts (SPX / XSP). Casino still open.

adam silver looks like a jewish vampire

I will consider it a berish day if Mu goes below 1000

Well I give up, but from what you’re saying is that you made a bank shit their pants and short -1200 for you. I will however be rooting for you, friend. In class with my laptop open at market open. 

I don’t believe in god, but if NVIDIA opens green I may reconsider.

Technical recession

That’s what blackjack dealers say right before they take everything I have.

I lost a shit ton of money today, that’s it

Mods should go back to banning people for talking about crypto.

How heavy are your space bags?

What is that hand??

Just watch. All red moves have been cancelled. They are just teases that V.

Real winners would run to mommy crying lost it all, but not tell her you won big 🏆

Oh my gourd! 

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Just choking on that shit at this point aren't ya 🤡.

Damn bro.. 30k is really hard to not cash out

the real tragedy is that i am biggest clown of them all

I was sad that I lost a fuckton of money today. 

But realized I got the top 1% badge today too. More than makes up for it ☺️

I thought it was AI slop. Holy shit.

Nah foo, it's all about the money.

Cmon where you at overnight V?

Refinance at dumpster behind wendys，I got you bro

I wonder what the average account balance of the regards here actually is

Who’s uglier: Chet Holmgren or Adam Silver?

hamptons blows anyway, bunch of look at me dooshbags...u have much more fun it the hood, except for the might get moidered part

cant wait for NVDA to go down with the market but not recover with the market

Pride comes before a fall

Aw man, shit sucks balls. I hope it turns around for you 🫡

10x forward PE still, not very insane at all

I don’t care if your stocks went up. I want my stocks to go up

Why didn’t I think of that?

Bagholder spotted

I posted below. See buy history here. Just been holding as I truly believe this stock, even now, is undervalued. As AI grows, memory demand increases. This is MU time to shine ⭐️

She did the best dirty talk mayne.

hahaha i am unemployed

which website i already tried xhamster

Even if was being added to S&P500 it wouldn’t hardly make a dent in anyone’s portfolio. That’s just not how those work.

Lmfao

believe it or not, calls.

he feels that way in his loins

i fucking hate you all, in fact, my main goal to make money is to never fucking talk to any of you again

Ill do anything for $20

50% cash 50% stock. It's on the website.

Tom Lee gonna need to start pimping out his wife for eth money

I shoulda known...

What a load of rubbish!

Big guy your play is smarter than like 75% of this entire subreddit

Cooked

told yall Knicks

Almost as corny as the Microsoft event, where the execs all came out on stage and danced.  To this day that is the most cringe moment in history.  This makes the list though!

Why does bro turn into an old white guy from a middle aged Asian guy. Is Satoshi a morphling?

ok retard bot

Used to be banned im pretty sure like regarded is now

CAD is not real money anyways

You gay ?

ok retard

That too, it's a wonderful invention

yeah your on to something

Happy Pride!

Canada doesn't matter.

You know what, on second thought, let's actually abolish human creativity and leave it all to AI.

Must be Jane

I appreciate your sacrifice.

Don't bring goog into this

whats sleep?!

I’m in it for the money

Yes- Abraham, Benjamin, Robert, George those guys know how to party

better than in the dumpster

Here’s an argument that should make sense, because it’s a volatile, high beta asset. You can make money off it when it goes parabolic.

All markets red but canada the least red 😏

You see, a wagecuck like you and me would have answered that question and expose your weakness. Michael? A CEO man like him will say no and refuse to elaborate.

POV would mean the little dude is driving, which also works.

...and half cock

Money laundering

Shorting it maybe

I just sold half today and went in on NASA calls. don't tempt me

Feels like I have a third testical 

Puts on my fertility and scrotum

Down 90% on SNXX today. :(

Saylor is gonna need to refinance with half cash half stock

Im selling 10% of what i have after seeing this, no joke.

Knicks is spanking that booty hole

leveraged to the tits that’s why

Bagholder spotted.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

THE BITCOIN RECOVERY BEGINS LFG LFG LFG BTC TO THE FUCKING SAYLOR MOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOON  🤌 🤌 🤌 🤌

Sorry, my fault, I bought 😞

Thanks for sharing the post man. I'm currently long chips, so a genuine "best of luck to you tomorrow."

Thoughts on mstz (inverse Mstr) 2x

Personally I’m waiting to see the Bitcoin CEO give the Bitcoin earnings update before I invest

The meme is so old it's aged a bit

🏳️‍🌈😍💦🐻

so calls?

To the MOOOOOOOOO(n)

happened to me too LOL

MRVL or MU

This is still gonna end up green tomorrow. Impossible for any down to survive.

Honestly SPCE might be the best play at this point

Limited supply. Duh 🙄

I need that luck lmao lost a buncha money today lol

What’s your reasoning, just curious

Masa? 😜

Don't worry...it's time to start learning how to fill out the bankruptcy form.

Wow entire world global markets all red today

u/Super-Activity-4675

Stonks only go down … AI Bubble Crash of 2026

Bers got the PTSD from Axios articles and Truth social posts

I thought they closed yesterday

thanks vlad LITECOIN crapto is exactly what i want to see as the first search result when i type LITE

Just put it all on red again… how fucking slow are you?

Avgo is where it was a week ago and everyone panic sell at loss? Gg guys.

Averaging down on those $110 Walmart leaps finally going to pay off.

If they’re torqued you’d know it

aye you win lol

Cosmically enhanced Gojira level cringe we haven’t seen since the bank merger U2 song.

Is it a Wendy’s ??

Yeah a job there must be so sweet.

Holy shit def not SNDK the prices are insane

Calls it is

it's direct deposit these days thank you very much

it is an election day

There a good chance that micron sees $200s again by the end of year. Cracks in the system; bubble is a nasty one.

That's an insult to children

Appreciate you.  --Bubbles

judging by the % gain and his cost basis, he's incredibly leveraged.

If you can point me to a single uber rich person that is actually cool I'll wait

Pretty sure the stuff just ruins you inside

best regards

Flat as Zendaya's boyfriend by open 🥱

V between 9:45 and 10:30 ET tomorrow. The sooner the harder.

Nokia had such a strong core business that nobody even knows about.  Any other new endeavors are a bonus.  Nokia has been criminally underpriced.  

You know who else seems like an obvious winner in this AI moment?  The big three wireless companies.  They have ridiculous low PE, and they have a choke hold on a lot of this AI deployment to the edge. Maybe they’ll start some bullshit AI capable plans lol.

Because it trains.

yeah my buddy said the same about quantum networks

it just shows you how much is priced into these stocks. Beating estimates is a given. They're priced for blowing estimates out of the water.

So think what's gonna happen when they miss. Maybe not even miss, just the rate of increase for revenue and margins slows.

bro the korea stock market is closed today.

lookks like he’s aging rapidly mid-rally or something

Every time I talk shit about Zuck I get one downvote.

I know you’re here you fucking loser.

*world

wait how did you even get that much on mu

Indeed

Hock Tan Cok Tan what year are we in ….

I'll not see you the. Pantone 542.

Try to be smart when everyone else is being a goddam retard

Tell her i miss her and the kids deeply

Compton aint what it used to be, they have Whole Foods now

in God’s hands

Tax evasion tool 🙂

Sunk cost fallacy dude. You don't know if it will or will not recover. If it gets worse you'll be fucking kicking yourself. Everyone on this forum is telling you to sell dude.

SaaS rhymes with ass

Not even the first time AVGO painted the market red in the last year.

He moo’d? Buy it.

SNDK, MU, MRVL, or AVGO jan 2027? I gotta pick one fellas help me decide on this glorious fire sale

no because i have ASTS positions too 😢

My giant pussi?

Xxxto xxxxxxXxxxxxxX10x64^64. Corn is easy to transport. Put it on a ship. Dehydrate it. Freeze it. Vacuums seal it. Package efficiently. Do all cheaper. Text EVERYONE. RINSE REPEAT RESPIRAR PURPOSE PREPAY OUTDOORSY YOUR DEBTS ALA TAXES.

So obvious, shoulda know.

Fuck that guy

Was going to Summer in the Hampton’s. Now I’m  Summering in the Compton’s

Would investing a larger part of your life savings in the spacex ipo be a horrible idea? I thought we’re supposed to be greedy when others are fearful

This AI?

You doubt the overlords?

Good.

[ Removed by Reddit ]

KR only down 1.85% m not worried LMAO 🤌

Shut the fuck up! Don’t you want to see his loss porn 😂

crazy if you think marvel going to pump and dump. massive hype overreaction rebalance short term, or some shit like that. Long term the fucker gon' plow.

This is the kind of DD I expect from you regards.

youre a complete idiot, you know that right?

Why are red days so relaxing

Omg all this time i tought people invested in corn but it was bitcoin😂. Thanks

N*gga please

I agree your wife and I have gotten incredibly close ever since you started investing

They're like top 10 in QQQ

Bitcoin found some short-term support around $61,000. That's slightly above the February low of just under $60,000. It makes sense that there would be some initial support there. So far it's bounced over $2,000 off that low. Let's see how long it lasts.

no because i am an ass clown whose limit was slightly out of the IV bounce range. 

at least $24k of that is shares

This is my 13th reason why and I give zero shits about crypto.

Aaron Eckart

I have never heard a single cohesive argument for why crypto is valuable

It might even jump over the moon

Yeah be grateful, you b**ch

s t f u OP.

Every couple weeks they come through and throw my house in the garbage...

Ah hell

Apparently they have 1.5k employees. Real question is why the fuck do they have so many employees and so many executives and how much money goes to compensation. A company that just holds some bitcoin that can get looked at on a dashboard.

i've already been charged with drug felonies in my earlier years, will have to pass on advertising for a recidivism charge

Best case scenario: Docusign changes the entire narrative tomorrow and signs the deal for the whole thing

We're all fucked.

Directions were unclear. 2/3 of my portfolio only bought a mchicken

He sold some Bitcoin, about 2 million worth. First time in years.

Coopenmendus. To the Ultima. And. Down.

Trying to wait until I can knock 100% of them out. We shall see

Taco Thursday eh

I want off Mr. Bones Wild Ride!

Avago Technologies acquired the original Broadcom Corporation for $37 billion in 2016 and assumed its iconic name. Avago retained its legacy ticker symbol, which is why AVGO remains the identifier.

Duh.

tactically wont mention renewed (lowered) optimism. what a clownxios 🤡

pretty sure the directors are required to have meet a certain stake threshold at NOK

Ouch… you bought at 8.24???

You know shit's a changin' when one of the few stocks up is WMT

lmaoooo

You must be a behr

Even Blackmirror couldn’t have predicted this

That 49% gain is beautiful but those diamond hands through that cliff dive must've been brutal

But hungover. Slow open

C you son.

Time flies

Shit rides up 5% a day consistently and then it's down for one and now it's a "gangbang"

You call it ceasefire. I call it love taps.

We are not the same bro  - 🥭 maybe

He bought otm options on triple leverage etf. What is that, infinite leverage?

bro..

Madison Ivy

These are the people who we rely on to panic sell to get better prices though.

I invested in two of them last year. 18 months of gains gone.

Remember waaaaay back in in 2021 BTC hit an ATH of $61K then plunged to $16K a year later. Then went onto hit another ATH of $122K in 2025. Ya, crypto cycles. The next BTC halving is in 2028. Every halving period (4 so far) BTC has moved onto a new ATH. We'll see what 2028 holds.Buy and hodl some BTC, SOL, ZCASH, and MON. If BTC goes onto another ATH, those altcoins should 10-20X their value.

Crypto finally moving to its true value (zero)

No, this is Pride. Gey bers are self-loathing and have no pride.

What’s a good ticker to wheel? Everything seems so unreliable right now.

Would this be different if I had 2 full time nanny/au-pairs. In house to help.

So you're speculating / know nothing.

Saylor testing waters. he softening the blow of scheduled selling , if I had to speculate.

2040: Nasdaq 1000000 , godl 50000, bitcoin still 70k  

wmt always rebound fast 

Yeah, I'm the dummy. I should inverse you.

Something a 🌈🐻 would say

Thanks for dragging down the market, AVGO.😑

ceasefire deez nuts

See? I told you to sell but you were stubborn. I sold 2/3 of my portfolio at peak and bought a successful business. Easy life now!

Dam. She's 44 now?!

Yeah, WMT - right on

Everyone hoping AAPL saves the market tomorrow?

Wendy’s? You’re in over your head, clown. My AVGO position is worth more than your life. For entertainment purposes, I’ll share — 840 shares. That’s a bit over your tiny head, buddy. As I said, you have no clue what you’re talking about. You’re another uneducated RDDT idiot pretending like you have skin in the game. You don’t.

How you think charlie paid for the house on pebble beach?

Always wondered why it wasn't BCOM or BRDC or something

Oh damn really, ill have to grab some when this market crashes

Exactly. Not just wsb, most of reddit, outside of /investing,,buys the biggest beta stocks in the market. So yeah, SPY is down a percent. Something like Asts or HOOD are down 8 times that

i am having a baby in january!!!! he already cost me $200k so $12k on AVGO options ain't shit in the grand scheme of things

GOOG can stop bleeding though.

yeah seems like everyone’s areeing to agree again

quite the epiphany you had there

Hay que ahorre my stock sheet. Put Jay Swayzee on blast. Aka PLPS. 115x 7x 4

You about to be in a cult of SPCE bagholders

SOXX gonna maintain 600 support 👀

My man

Lil Lupe 🫣

A man of riddles I see

One of $NOK directors bought almost $1m commons at 52-week ATHs and it plunges a few days later

Perhaps they may be one of us

Love it, Watching them grow up and learn and experience things is amazing. The secret to raising kids is grand parents. They watch the little shit while you go out and get plastered. Or rotate watching weekends with the spouse. You still get a lot of freedom post-kid.

Oh yeah I’ve been short since 83k at the 200 day, now long on MSTU right at the pico bottom when it hit the 200 week but this is a scalp. Last cycle it held the 200 week for 1 day then drilled another 20%

has anyone ever seen barack obama and barak ravid in the same room

Axios at 8 am tomorrow: U.S. and Iranian negotiators express renewed optimism in reaching an agreement soon

Damn it. I've been targeted once again.

He looks like Jimmy hoffa

Why call bitcoin corn?

They are opening it actually lol

Haha I noticed that too

Who the fck okayed this for release to the public? There ain’t no way in hell a genz marketing girly okayed this

Bagholder spotted.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

HEY HEY HEY BITCONNECTTTTTTTTT

Always Very Greatly Outnumbered (by bears)

An ETF exists that is named “defiance autism impact ETF”. just thought yall should know. ticker ASD

u just told yourself......u were bound to be right about something, atta boy

Not gonna fight you on that. All I´ll say is that I disagree with Morningstar. The fair valuation of SpaceX isn´t half it´s IPO target. It´s 20% of it.

Avago acquired broadcom a long time ago. Hence AVGO

The best part is the ever so subtle head shake in disbelief after she questions.

No, but they are changing the rules to fast track it into major indexes that will.

Get back in the game son! You really need to sell some BTC puts to correct your error overnight.

MSTR is going green lmao

Haven't thanked Obama in a while 

Thanks Obama

i paid off all my 8% student loans thanks to wall street bets (41.5k). It is so freeing

Ceasefire = minimal firing. 🤏

I'm tired of all this winning

Sold for a profit teehee

yes not ready to full send into regardlessness just yet

They're alphabet challenged

Do you have a deep freeze.

Diamond hands. 🙏🏻

Lmao what now? Sold for a profit 😂

I think crying actually does make you feel better

Release some dopamine or something idk

Anyways yeah Im baggholding saas how did you know

most expensive earnings call in history

wow it's actually kind of crazy AMZN is holding up better than most in this sea of red

\- me as the AMZN overnight dump began

"It aint over yet..." 🌊🚀

We need a 2x DRAM fund

Pretty sure 21k ≠ 21m

Refract then second relapse

These are rookie numbers son

Last headline I saw was that Iran was launching missles at their neighbors

He's got mad tops for him chunky self.

Should we cash out?

Also def want to rule out a torsion. Your balls are your best friends.

Cheers mate. I'll give up trading right now.

wrong. 

I had a condor. it finished itm. i got assigned on one wing but the other expired worthless.

Schwab stepped is and shorted -1200 shares to control the volatility. otherwise i would have been long 2500 shares tomorrow morning.

That’s a big boy bounce. Corn can really drill though.

Bitcoin

Gee, thanks.

Not sure what happened here.

What does AVGO even mean? The company name is not even related...

An industry pump and dump

Hmm good thesis

No, the worst thing you could possibly do is open a million dollar play and not have the shares or funds if and or when things go wrong like OP. His 2nd leg could've also been ITM today.

Blocking out the portfolio diversity but it still shows a 9 so it’s probably around 90% of his money

I was kicking myself for loosing money on spce dip. Wtf, all i see is red and everywhere I pulled money from is red af anyhow. I was gonna loose money regardless

I'm old too

Those panciking know they bought at the top and they are pissed bc they knew that when they bought them but were just too greedy

damn, that Playbear picture on the wall

Good job

Uh oh

The Brother. The Heir Apparent is jefe now and the bathroom door is closed.

Fk yea

There’s a lot of value in this sub, Reddit, but there’s also a lot of little bitches. Like we get multiple half a percent 1% one and a half percent days where we just go up and up and up but we get one red day and everybody freaks the fuck out and I think it’s the end of the world like dude this is perfectly healthy and you can make money both ways just so you know how about you jump up and down and get the sand out of your vagina

I mean it's illegal but if he is desperate....it would work.

No one forgot

honestly after getting burned by RDDT and MSFT in Q1 this isn't that bad.

What this guy said. 

Other than vacations with just my wife, the biggest thing I look forward to these days are my kid's basketball games.  The other one's cool too.

Thanks 😅 and good luck to you too bro!

That’s tomorrow’s problem. Tonight you should scope out which dumpster behind Wendy’s you can be the most profitable.

The problem is the “he thinks” part. Plus the hornets nest he rattled. They aren’t just going to let things go back to the way it was before. He woke up a ghost that’s been waiting for this for 40 years. Plus Israel won’t let him.

Please fly again

Fuuuuuuck why do you have to remind me of that

I'm tryna see this other girl lol she is also from work.

What’s the tldr? At work and can’t listen right now

Bitcorn

No fuckin way

Batcorn seppuku in real time

Jenna Haze

as the markets collapse tomorrow, I want you all to remember this whole market was inflated for AI to begin with, then we got it constantly pumping on 'lower rates soon' for 2 yrs, then tariffs, then no tariffs, then war, then peace, then warpeace, then we got one more AI pumperoo, and we're here now at 755, instead of where we belong at big beautiful 505.

what about second relapse

How did you know?!?

You're ira autobuys ipos?

There will be udder madness!

All i can say is the whole point of btc and crypto fell a part! Plz take me back to 2000

anything stocks green in overnight???

Is this a fucking bot post?

Format of the OG post + this answer chain (has anyone? Yes they have, so much money, where did you see? Oh here) is literally identical to the youtube comment bot chains under every singke finance youtuber video ever

Uh oh port down 4%. Freak the fuck out and sell ?

Dude needs to get in the gym with dirk immediately

OMG, the stuff people can trade on is ridiculous.

Call the police in this one.

Weapons

It does. That's why we have the fed. Elon took out huge loans from every bank for Space X

*It was at that moment mango new he fucked up*

Whats corn

Buy and hold futures until maturity

Guys, stock up on dry rice, beans, and can goods. Trust me on this

Omfg. I had a chance too. Didn't take it

Straight to 700 spy huh

admit it, it's painful

What a fucking legend! Good luck, brother!

Watch him buy now and make money buying low and selling high

to that tard who started spamming pron stars in this thread. FUCK YOU for making me relapse 🫵🤡

what are these "profits" you speak of? i am curious to learn more about that

I’m thinking puts on $PL if market sentiment from today is any indicator

Would

Me too. Fuck John Fredrickson. No idea how he made it out ok

IBM please don't dump all the way down to my entry i don't want to regret not selling at 340

I’m not supposed to get red candles in them!

Holy fuck. This thing just keeps going. Not gonna touch it though. Happy for you, OP

On Cloud? On? ON?

I'm sorry you bought Spce.

Did you just call Becky Quick "this lady"?

not great

My 1/28 540C leaps definitely need to hear this. 

Twins ain’t cheap.

Gary Busey

Who can afford cardboard?

Wemby is 3-13 FG 😂

OVO OR ONO?

Never should have trusted a guy named Hock 😤

🤣 right!

Cattle futures

Fine I won't tell you then

Th...this is AI, right?

Isn't Ukraine hammering Russia? Their oil supplies are going down and not reaching the world's market. Worst case would be gulf completely closed from all sides and pipes going out east get destroyed. Russian supplies drop significantly as drone attacks become more lethal as manufacturing hits peak throughput. It's easier to destroy than to build.

So, on that dip to 107 after the BO explosion, I closed my $108 CCs for a 5k loss, and then yolo'd 5k on 105c weeklies, and made a 8k profit 💀

So now, I'm just holding my 1400 shares and hoping for the best 🫪

Every time I went to cash in anticipation of such event, it would have been better just keeping everything in SPY in the end

What's the XXxXX now?

Bruh, hope you took profits

Billy Bob Thornton

You didn’t need to sell your 401k, your 401k woulda bought it for you

shes good at clapping aint she 👏🍑👏🍑👏🍑👏 🥵🥵

what, you can't do math?

Then file for bankruptcy

pls don't tell me the last two weeks was the pre-IPO pump and now space stonks just going to dump straight down 💀

I can't wait for John Oliver's episode on this where he plays this video in full

Yes. Sorry. But yes. I'm tired.

If not Friday

my prophecy was sun rising from the east, clock striking 12 and me making billions on my calls wow this shit is easy

Unexpectedly expected beat fails to match expectations

What a time to be alive

Kornferry?

I know a guy who knows a bird law expert.

Imagine buying MSTR so he can liquidate

Shortage of *demand* for

You mean

I bought my puts when MSTR was at 180-190 cause that was the likely top for BTC at the 200 day moving average. You’re just waiting for now?

Alright, after 43 minutes of conversing with a chatbot, I’m gonna give this a second try.

You shorted 1200 shares of NVDA.

Then you created an Iron Condor. Condor being some kind of bird, what the fuck do I know.

One of your “wings” got assigned. I still can’t tell which one, but whatever happened apparently scared both you and Schwab’s risk department.

Then we have the 215 put you sold, giving someone the right (but not the obligation) to sell stock at $215. If they exercise it and NVDA is below $215, congratulations, you’re now buying their shares at a price higher than the market.

From what I understand, every dollar NVDA drops below $215 is another dollar of pure assfuck.

Somehow you managed to assemble this entire financial IED with a $16k account while exposed to $500 000+.

No wonder Schwab Risk Management is calling you personally and shorting stock.

What the fuck, man. Genuinely what the fuck.

But ass tastes so good 😫

Shape-shifter

I've spotted the cat.

Wait...the beef comes from an animal? Stfu you serious dawg? And people what, sell them? Why? You can just eat them all yourself, you can't eat money.

I chose the wrong week to sell CSP’s on space sector

I may be fucked

🌽 down AGAIN

No-balance-sheet-having ahhh 🤣🤣

Nah you can always return them if prices go down

Most headlines from the admin that have been propping up markets come from Axios. Basically using Axios for market manipulation given that the headlines are mostly lies.

Idiot lol

"one red day, account away", this is how leveraged these goons are

Hes old, his names Hezbollah, pretty well known

I’m oddly enough not worried, yet. Mostly due to every dip being brought up on minor good news. Gonna wait to see what happens Friday before panic selling unless we rebound tomorrow

The FUCK is all this red shit on my screen!?!

AVGO gon drop to support in the low 300’s. Load the calls then!

What you mean

the loss is much bigger if you consider the price someone will buy their bags

You are wrong, Spacex is to big to fail now. If you are an engineer, this post makes so much sense to. Regard!!!!

Was full ported in AVGX. Fuck.

Saylor acquiring all the 🌽 was the end of any pretense that it would be a decentralized currency.

You already have a bet going - AVGO to 430.0 before 04-Jun-2026 04:57 PM -05

btc to 30....

Testicular cancer is easily treated early but becomes extremely deadly fast. Get it checked

!banbet bears touching themselves to some AI companies being red and thinking this is the end, meanwhile GOOG and every other company is increasing investments.

can't believe i swithed to shorts on MRVL and NBIS yesterday - should probably take profits at open as this market can't dip for more than an hour even if aliens invaded.

Call your GP. See your ayfuologust

Not tomorrow

whoa, you gon be gon for saying the J word o7

Don't be an regard, go they can only help you

Jeff in bottom left area turns Asian briefly at 22? Thanks Mike!

Who doesn't

I mean yeah but not the homeless part lol

It's gey ber month. Probably why market dumped

Me praying my buy orders don't actually hit because it means that shit just tanked! 😭

Lmao 🤣I just went to Aldi and got two strips that were 15 a piece that would be 40 at Publix and we ate good.  Just saying.

Dang I envy you bro.

If Knicks pull this off, we back to 🚀🚀🚀🚀 tomorrow because the wall st will be 🔥

If you had enough money.

Would hiring 2x full time nanny make a difference to anything?

My crash prophecy was bitcoin leading the crash, the KOSPI has a pullback, semis have a weak day, and the selling / rolling margin calls begin.

Mind you, I was on ketamine and passed out in a basement during that vision. But I'm having deja vu.

I don't understand your question.  Half stock half cash

“$200 a contract for $35 for Sandisk Leaps is too fucking expensive”

This is likely real.

Its collateral damage and the baby thrown out with the bath water. You can see it has done a lot better during this sell off than other crypto has and thats indication it isnt over for purr/hype

Pretty sure it’s against the rules to post about fake and gay unrealized gains. That’s probably why.

Then again, we did have to put up with 18 million posts about spce per hour…

Bols trying to sleep with one eye open tonight 🤭🐻📉📉

So who plays Michael Strategy in the 🌽apocalypse movie that will come out

Mango better get on his jet and fly to Iran and beg for a deal or else this market is going to get ugly

14-18 May DRAM lost 8%
And then next 2 rallied 40%
Stop panic. MU, Samsung and Sk hynix will rally up in a few days. Probably in Monday.

YES. CME has circuit breakers. Which is really what's mostly trading. But, no, blue ocean doesn't.

If you like hard drugs go for it

Why would you ever have sex

Cathy has a wood ? 👀

arent we all bots?

Shortage of hygiene products being reported in India, this is all bad

Btc needs to go back to 70K this is stupid

I farted. Breathe that

We the people can help him refinance

May have to hold in the freezer depending on the call date

Why does #2 have an extra leg? Is that pepe's limp dong?

Laughs in I live in Texas. Neighbors would be fighting for them.

Stock is a laggard.

Did you get a nanny/baby sitter.

Tomoro

Just a breather guys

Shhhh let me hold my year’s salary of savings and pretend I’ll be fine

DJs wish they were CEOs. And CEOs wish they were DJs. Always.

What is the connection between them? Probably cocaine.

I don't think people would care as much as he thinks if we just left

Ayumi Shinoda

Tomorrow.

if nvda opens above 215, i can sell and make a profit. if it falls 6%, then my account gets wiped. i am essentially holding 1/2 million in stocks with a 16k account, so you can imagine a small % swing can take me out

No bear trusts red anymore ahahah they all got mindfucked

When does marvel hit ath again

day trading is complete garbage

Just thought “I should sell and pay off my 7% student loans”. But then I thought “no, that would be regarded”

Yo yo to. Bag holder bot.

Grrreat

Everyone is so crazy over leveraged, doesn’t take a huge drop to cause a snowball effect.

Wait….the entire board isn’t supposed to be red

Valentina Nappi

You can always refinance in the banana stand

My testical hurts but I don’t wanna go to the doctor

Don’t purchase any beef in 2026, invest in Chicken.

Whenever I feel like unsubscribing from this sub, shit like this pops up and reminds me why I subscribed in the first place.

For how many days??

Who else is buying spce calls tomorrow?

RKLB this ASTS that... Just put a rocket ship in my ass and call it a day bro 😭

Holy shit people have been saying this since the Covid era pump.

Astronaut

Woah futes are still selling off? My dip buy is cooked

Super Regarded, definitely belongs in this subreddit.

Burt corn

no its not

Bears aren‘t gloating in here. Guys I‘m actually worried that means the dump is coming.

Saylor getting fucking bitch slapped lol 😆😆😆😆

It's a vegetable with lots of bits

Why are the mods regards in this sub?

I bought a shit ton under $50 so I'm good.

Please tell me this is ai

What the hell is CORN?

Tell him this

receipts or gtfo

it has it's pluses though

The cat is smelling my room. Y'all cooked.

[ Removed by Reddit ]

They’ll recover right? 

…..right?

Right, I don’t disagree with you about the allocation. 

I’m just trying to say that there are countervailing forces. Meaning, even though what you say is true, if the Spacex valuation is based on a certain TAM for direct to device, that helps AST valuation in theory because it is set for a certain percentage of that TAM. That will push AST values up while the reallocation like you mentioned pushes it down. 

That’s just my thought anyway

Gives a very r/fellowkids feel

Pro athlete

But what if I'm **built different**

and can sustain a cardboard box lifestyle

💪💪📦

Tom Lee and Saylor laughingstock of WSB now.. how times have changed

Old people are basically big babies.

I DEMAND A DUO WITH THIS GUY

Some of you are dumb asf lmfaoooo

eh its like $15k not the end of the world

Imagine ever holding anything overnight. couldn't be me

Who else is buying spce tomorrow?

Only bag holder around here is ur mom’s mouth on my nut sack

Only people I don’t feel bad for losing money is: SPCE tards, Crypto “bros”

Call me whatever you want but blowing bubbles is fun as shit.

Even with savings you can do that

Yeah, to option out CCBs on the whip.

I actually do like Guinness. I like Pilsbers morequeñl.

Axios keeps reporting that Trump claims we are close to a deal over and over and over

At least that’s what I think the meme is

Jewish man lie for 🥭

Make market 🚀

Fuck no

Lmao. Thought it was AI. This is fucking real. My eyessss

200 week moving average bounce

This Ber comes out of the woods to chirp every red day LMAO

So now you are forced to buy a net 1300 shares at $215 on the open? And if it opens above $215 you can somehow still make money on the spread? Like sell more shares short at $217 and use those short shares to cover the 1300 at $215?

What are the mechanics of your ideal scenario tomorrow?

Ow!  My calls!

What I the actual fuck.. avgo is back to where it started at the beginning of the year

DRAM getting gangbanged

Tom “fat cuck” Lee with a -$9B loss on BMNR

Dude... I think you might need a bottle of Jack after that earnings report

Probably not. I will be buying Anthropic though

Diamond handed my 401k through Covid, April 2025 Tarriffs, the start of the iran war, but this just feels different. I don't mind selling at 750 and putting in a money market account to allow myself to think

Don't be retarded, buy an old rickety freezer from a Chinese restaurant for $35. Freeze that shit, rip all the pricing labels off the meat. Reprice with DarkChippyMeats.com packaging and crank the price up. 

Also when you're done selling meat, you can use that domain for whoring yourself out or a gayber porn site. Or both.

I wouldn't suck any of their dicks

This feels like it will be 'Exhibit A' in future litigation

Israel and Lebanon Agree to Ceasefire Deal as US and Iran Trade Strikes - Bloomberg

it does make sense though.  

if you are already dead, you cant die again.  you have to be alive to die.

They are cooked

I know musk is mad because no one will have money left to buy his IPO 😂😂 (I'm bagholding space stocks, those are tears)

I would just buy bitcoin puts. I think it's time to stop going through the derivative scammer with more derivatives.

get outta here im baitin’

I'm talking to the Green Idle right now.

Melody Marks

Folks keep talking about the S&P 500 announcement Friday as if it's a done deal. I hope it is, but it's not guaranteed.

Be gayer than this how Michael?

Uhhh if you live in the U.S. you can end up homeless and without healthcare pretty easily with no savings

I dont think anybody can predict the exact timing. But what I do know is that just like housing in 08, it wasn't until debt couldn't be serviced that we had problems. And people were screaming bubble and crash as early as 06, 2 years before it actually happened. It could be years out still. I dont think its months away. Not for the "big one" anways. Certainly panic could induce another 20% drawdown but not the 5-10 year loss with a 50% + drawdown.

How long will it take for space x to make a profit since it’s operating at a loss right now?

Every time Hock Tan opens his mouth, the entire market takes a dump.

Dude gotta stop talking during Earnings calls

When spy puts ? Feel like it’s just gonna chop then rip

Maize

Bruh 💀

Just buy cows.

Shit's catching up

Try 100x10x6.

WOW! AVGO dropped from 480 to 420 since market close today. That’s insane!!

That reminds me of my RGTI, RKLB and ASTS doing the same thing since last week! lol. 

Markets going to hell in a hand basket. 

ARE WE ON THE VERGE OF A RECESSION/COLLAPSE?!!

Pay your debt, your loan shark (mom), and the IRS. Now you’re playing with the house money. 🎰🎲💉

Ow my balls!

Am I going to lose a lot of money from this? Yes. Am I worried? Actually also yes

What’s your thought on how, or if, the dip BTC/ crypto would affect purr? Did you add more July contracts or go to Sept now?

M-O-U            S-E

Well there's your problem, donkeys and cows are different...

So Monday it was 'We are not talking and we will block the straight of homos as long as we can', and today is 'we are talking again?' BS...

Dry age the suckers while you are at it.

Because he's young but buying mstr calls and you quickly

I might pull out of m 401k account. Diamond handed it through covid, April 2025 tarrifs, and the start of the Iran war but this feels different.

Just shaking everyone out to climb higher.

About 90-99% of all penny stocks go bankrupt and get delisted. This shouldn’t at all be surprising.

Claude took my job and fucked my wife. Fuck my fucking chud life.

just curious whose risk is he managing because it sure isn't yours

Do you guys ever use your savings?

What the hell am I even saving for?

An extra Big Mac in twenty years during the water wars?

Upfront that dan straight.

Nope. Also planning to adjust my retirement account so that doesn't auto buy it either.

Someone fill me in on the Axios meme

Dead cat bounce on 🌽

From tendies to uddies…. WSB got you covered.

I need $NVDA to invest another $1b into $NOK please ty babes

you made me laugh so hard bro, thank u so much for this; i bow before u, have urself an A1 day homie

Holy Trinity of Regards: Michael Saylor, Tom Lee, Cathy Wood

That fact that fartcoin had any value at all maybe should have been a clue that bitcoin was a scam.

[ Removed by Reddit ]

I bought puts at open man.

oh no...... anyways

You forgot the ketchup bud. I swear this is why you work for Wendy's.

MU down 3% after hours. Market overreacting to Broadcom being an extremely poorly run company where the CFO starts the call with 1 year ago a results

Why's it still moving down? 😭

Who tal got Sunday?

But how are you going to pay her "allowance"?

Shut up dork

look at LAES

Silly, we will only crash *after* July 4th. Can’t be red for America’s 250th birthday

This is pretty good guy for an old, white dude

India is running out of gasoline lmao

U didn’t get the girl, but at least u have this ⭐️

You shouldn’t be trading.

Buy avgo dip?

We gotta bust that hormuzzy wide open

I once knew a guy who paid me *5 dollars a pill* (like a smoker who's always quitting so they don't mind) for Viagra. He was too embarrassed to ask his doctor. So I walked right in, got the prescription made out to Wang Fail (my fake name) and told the doctor what a limp-dicked loser I was and then made a beeline right to CVS. I miss that guy. I'd still be selling him Viagra to this day.

He literally can’t do anything now but leave the Middle East. His pride won’t let him. Too much at stake for the party.

Tech names like avgo,babe, crdw all going down after earnings might be a sign of things to come.... 🤌

AI takes your job and says fck your calls

What is corn

Well looks like back to cold sweats and sucking my thumb in the fetal position tonight. Hopefully my Jan 2027 $450 calls are okay

Hey at least you didn’t do AVGO instead

Y'all gonna buy the actual SpaceX ipo?

It beat the expectations but it didn’t beat the expectations of how much expectations to beat🤷  same thing happened with nvda and others

If they didn't semis would be down 30%.

It's gonna be like that one oil futures guy except people are gonna start getting assigned live cattle

everyday

STRC...this will be interesting to watch

Bro 💀

Yes, it’s right over there in the cuck chair

Notice they didn't say Hezbollah.

Buy btc+MU puts ➡️ generational wealth

more to come

FUCKED AND I MEAN FUCKED

Don’t say I didn’t warn you.

barbie pink or oppenheimer brown either or

carry on then

I don´t see BC meaningful below 40. I think, there is still a tardbottom for now. But who knows.

Breakfast 🌯 time

Half stock half cash. Its on the website

They also diluted by selling more shares tho

bag holder spotted

If the spurs win everyone buy AMC

That way you’re screwed one way or another.

Are the cronies dancing real or some kind of video magic? If real then all their names should be called out for lunacy equal to saylors lol especially the guy with the big Citi logo on his picture, wonder what their board thinks of that

Privatized gains socialized losses...

When it all collapses and all these to big fail cocksuckers start screaming they need a bail out guess who is paying for it all............... again!

Market remix of Papa Roach:  Fuk my ass into pieces, this is my last pair of shorts! Capitulation, no thank you! Don't give a fuck if MM's keep my wallet bleeding!

because leverage is a mf

160? Thats light work. Try 300

Saylor testing waters. he softening the blow of scheduled selling , if I had to speculate. The ruse is up though.

Cool.

this is hilarious

Here come the dip buyers adding to their bags

? I thought recession cancelled ber r fuk ?

I want frankie mcdonald to come on and due an extreme tornado siren for the markets right now.

I bought at 310 smh

What’s your gain past 1 month lmfao

Mikhail Strategy soon

Market didn’t like the guide

We will, at least, have water-pumping, sun-sheltered, underground football fields full of computer hardware to live in when this all goes south.

Barak Ravid's on it

Congrats

Schwab must have been making a bunch of money off this guy in the past. He must be a high roller at Schwab.

you think that will be all? lol no way

Let winners run.

Fuck that house fr, never forgiving them

So buy puts and get rich.

damn looks like we getting the 1ply shit tickets this week folks

They have a goddamn jet. Why? To buy Bitcoin for above market. I guess they have to get there quick. Or it's a ponzi. One of the two.

no it just needs to be re-priced - it won't be that bad but a bunch of regards will get killed like they did after covid market crashed

Nooo don’t risk the ASTS like that

Holy fuck they’re in the red now? Bahaha how long can they last?

I don’t want to believe that. 

But I do. Fuck. 

I was pro lifting the PDT rule but now I’m pretty sure I’m not.

This lady kinda does have the "incredulous Pam" face lol

Its funny seeing MSTR buy like 600k BTC in the last 2 years and the price does nothing. Sell 32 and it goes straight to hell 😭

Refinance where

Ppl acting like the market is falling. the actual crash is btc

Things that sound cool but make no sense for 100

nice bounce on corn

That's why they'll never get more than Dos Commas

When are you seeing this unwind? I was thinking December/January but now I've seen some people say as soon as late August/early September

HOLY SHIT that comment is genius.

I got some Italian beef dipped with peppers

Best of luck man. 

I was just in a similar situation with AMD. I also hate that Schwab does not allow you to group options and instead lists them out one by one. But, I realize now I need to step into condors, not buy it all out right if I try doing these again.

noose is already tied.

Yes. I have no intention to get out of this trade. I actually added today another 20 contracts and several hundred shares.

Nah I think it’ll consolidate at 40-45k

Not that I like agreeing with burry…

It´s meaningless. There is no economic power behind it. Just liquidity. It doesn´t corelate to anything meaningfully over time. I don´t know how often I wrote it: BC crashed 50% or more 7 times in 13 years. It´s a dumb indicator. Right now moth liquidity is drawn to other fomo lights.

Just coming here to confirm my bias 🐥

Yep. Still needs to get through the Senate and even if it passes,Trump can veto it if he so chooses. It’s a token political protest, not a genuine obstacle.

In Alabama it does

And is this rebound in the room with us now?

Why buy now when it’s def going to 40k

Michael Burry responded to my craigslist ad looking for someone to mow my lawn. "$30 is $30", he said as he continued to mow what was clearly the wrong yard. My neighbor and I shouted at him but he was already wearing muffs. Focused dude. He attached a phone mount onto the handle of his push mower. I was able to sneak a peek and he was browsing Zillow listings in central Wyoming. He wouldn't stop cackling.

That is to say, Burry has his fingers in a lot of pies. He makes sure his name is in all the conversations.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Okay dipshit. As I said, you have no clue what you’re talking about.

Would suck 🥭 if he personally shouted out SMR

Enigmas never age, ya know?

Where is that dude that argued with me a few days ago that COIN was ready to rip

I’m not fucking leaving

Fk yeah 🤟

No same 🤣

It’s fine, they can just refinance.

*Michael Burry said he sees $CORN going down to $40K.  I think he's being generous.*

14000 loaded

wtf i thought OP used AI to make this. holy shit i can’t believe this was from saylor

time for axios to save the day

what is dead may never die

CONL ripping a hole in my ass right now. Probably tomorrow too

what is dead may never die

Sleeping in, peace & quiet, going wherever you and your girl want when you want. As long as you don't like those things youre golden ✨️

Hock Tan, spit on that thang!

It’s still there regard cool your titties

They actually make money

Her name is Margie

Open the strait you crazy bastards!

this will be good for the movie

It was mentioned quite a bit. I remember it because I ended up buying dumb fucking wulf instead 6 months ago. Luckily i got out with a profit of a penny a share. But I'm certainly not complaining.

but everyone is talking about it

It rules, it sucks, it changes your life (for the hours they are awake). Any man here who doesn’t enjoy it either is a miserable piece of shit or their wife sucks

buuu bbbuuuttt muh spaceships got chips and AIs. they are what spaceships need

🥭 please save us

Calls on beef belly

Americans are so weird…

COWABUNGA

Do you hold them in your hands or leave it in your cart?

yeah right

MSTR sold 32 BTC and then it dumping 10% was not worth the sentiment shift and freeing a few mil capital lol 😆

Oh thank god 🌽is rebounding. Gives me a better entry for more MSTR puts tomorrow

The electricity used to mine is the cost not the value

*So now that Saylor has all the $CORN what's he gonna do with it now?*

*Somebody about to lose a shit ton of money.*

they’ll exercise, they expired in the money

Another red day tomorrow might be worse then 08

If/when the AI trade actually unwinds, it will be painful. Like 08/1929 painful. And with warsh at the fed there is no bailout. It might sound cool for puts but I promise you your 1000$ account is not going to be enough to cover your ass when the economy goes into a full recession and job losses soar with defaults and a systemic credit collapse.

I saw that earlier and had a good laugh.

well the house just passed a resolution to end the war but we'll see

What the hell happened to AVGO? Looks like it beat

amazing how bitcoin and semiconductors both best and worst performing and I own /short both

Humiliation ritual

Bout 🌽🌽🌽 50x at 61500 i think I should uninstall broker now. Gains are too insane 💸

Because the customers are in the same disorganized mess probably, which allows a situation that might be described as "margin all the way down."

The war and the SpaceX seems like a big problem here. That 2 trillion has to come out of somewhere.

I bought some

Why are they so damn corny 😭

3 legs is better than 2.  #2 for sure.

Buy more shares and HODL

Tomorrow easy

Make that a large 🍟

They did that 2 months ago.

It’s “en route” you dumb fucking bot <3

But what if the contracts don't exercise and simply expire, isn't that possible? Then you wake up with the condor closed out and you are still short -1200 shares, right?

I don't do options just trying to understand

Well move over Warren Buffett…

Haha!  Good luck with that and hold on tight.

You know, you can swallow pennies and then when you poop them out they are shiny!

How did we have like 14 months of straight green, and then on the first red.day, half of the people here act like they're now insolvent

Y'all. Jon told AMZN. To print ......🙄

Yes, the top is in. One red day (half a point at that) and it's over forever. It was a nice ride fellas.

Not even one single nanosecond of it bro

pasta is better without ketchup

Which is only nearly a billion worth

I lost my ass on live cattle futures.  Buyer beware

Hit them all

hardly  a drop

I know the feeling ... Lost my azz with pos msft after a killer earnings

You didn't fall for the end-of-day "breakout" on MU did you? LOL

relax its only down 1% after 30% runup

Hope you have enough cheddar on the sideline to buy kneepads

Unless you are a female, I wouldn't worry about it

I think many people tend to ignore one glaring fact, spaceships need actual jetfuel to fly; and where does it come from? You need the hormuz like wideee open for this, like the circumference of your butthole after all these bleeds out

Are you still in on your purr positions?

Holy fuck, no way this is real.

Not buying MRVL here is like not buying MU the other week when it dropped down to the 600s.

I been playing Magic Sort

Stellar

Broadcom had good earnings and taked a beating aftermarket. This is gonna get ugly. I think all stonks in the red tomorrow

Feel so professional and serious when I use the ibkr desktop app

How the hell does this joke of a company have a 44 billion market cap

Proof or ban bruh

Then what is it?

Job finished?

Wtf did my top 1% badge go  yo

define regret

Those special shares paying 14% though. How can we lose!?

DO IT BABY. MAKE IT HAPPEN

Well I bought at the bottom today so, yeah, I do. It was at this price like 5 days ago or something and jumped 15 a share.

WMT always rebound so fast

This has gotta be the worst thing I’ve seen after Steve Balmer

It actually made it earlier for me to read because I'm retarded.

Still can't believe you referred me to "Find the cat" game

The bank charter is UPST's last hope. If not, UPST is a money loser.

This was almost me. Dude I was getting nervous. If one more person has mentioned a reverse split I probably would have

Cuz that's what Growth hormone deficiency do to you

😂 in this timeline it's reality

Go fuk yersef !1

A lot of people here do not know how to read a chart let alone look at multiple throughout the day lol.

Who here has kids?

Do you regret any part of it? Or nah

# Love these opportunities to buy stocks on sell when everyone is scared LMAO🤌

Lol

Half reeee, half finance

Can u please explain the refinance thing? I don't really get it, but want to take part in the fun

"time to make a YouTube video to show my 1 success but not the 99 failures"

Like musk didn’t already exist for the same reasons lmao

Did you french fry when you should have pizzaed? Again?

You ever looking at your trading app or site and just basically see an online casino

The coins are going much, much lower.

“It’s different this time”

🤡

Jesus. When people here discover you can buy cow futures…it’s going to moooooon.

We’re using the term design a little to liberally here

Still can’t believe CRWD AVGO dropped the markets

I feel sorry for that poor fuck who replaced his 401k portfolio with Bitcoin and other crypto

We’ve been green most of the year…

MU was at $1015 yesterday lol

ok, tard, i want ketchup.. kkeeeetttccchuuuppp. did you get it ?

MSTR down less than 2% over night is laughable. Prob fking with ppl holding MSTZ lmao

You mean over past 2 days?

Craving tacos...

I think I will be losing money tomorrow

so she can take care of your broke ass?

First attempt at a bounce on futures got sold off. Ruh-oh.

Bought 5 btc at 61500 wish me luck

Lmaooooo

**"bErs WaNNa See ThE WORld BUrn tO Make A fEW huNDreD BuckS."**

*Looks at +3k today.*

# Yah? LMAO

# ╮ (. ❛ ᴗ ❛.) ╭

^(KEEN TOCKY)

I think you will find that is also most tech assets.

Can't short my company anymore - they got acquired by some conglomerate. Yes, the work environment has went downhill substantially since the acquisition. They keep trying to change things and force new products (their products) that none of our customers want .

sister doesnt count you fool 🫵🤡

wait until they sell too

Average sofi day.

Whereas I lost $27k today simply based on my shares across over 100 different companies haha… but they’ll all bounce back to higher levels. 

But unless you sold or already got puts, you’re too late. 

MRVL stock already majorly dropped after hours. So hopefully you sold and took profits or already bought puts on mrvl… which doesn’t sound like you did, you already missed the window.

See also: Elon Musk.

BTC’s Imagine moment.

Its not even a crash.  Whats crazy is its just nornal selling.  No huge drops.  Wait till we see major dumping it will be glorious.

It’s dumping right now

I no joke sold SOXS for like a 30% loss yesterday

3rd one is not a leg tho 🫪

hopium

How did he do that?

The only majorly profitable part of spacex is starlink so asts is probably the only one worth buying. And rklb but I like the ceo.

Not trying to sound dramatic but I don’t think I can do another red day this month.

What stop loss

How much is that in Yen, like tree-fitty?

No, they're just trying to arrest the dump by pumping it a little. You see it all the time with penny stocks lol. But we're talking about 10s of billions here. So, yeah, they're more incentivized but who in their right mind would actually buy back in?

Go to bed Warren, the Ambien is fuking with you again!

We probably dropping due to fake headlines of avgo earnings miss.

yeah always rebounds fast

Jesus I need a taco 🌮 Thursday

Wtf lol

I delete comments with typos 😞

Mines retarded so it will not be okay

MSTR didn't fail because 🌽 failed, MSTR failed because it tried to be the champion of 🌽.  

🌽 doesn't give a shit about MSTR.  MSTR doesn't eat 🌽, 🌽 eats MSTR.

Damn.

still $70 overvalued

Mother of God. I always thought the "Refinance where, Michael?" thing came from The Office.

I sold 1DTE naked puts a couple weeks ago on MU chasing fat premium, then it dumped and I got assigned 200 shares at 775. Was instantly down 20k and got hit with a reg T call from Schwab. I sold some other stock to barely cover the call but was holding like 100k on margin. Managed to wheel my way out and made like 30k so there’s always hope.

Wtf SOXS lost like 98% last year? Time for a reverse split

I wouldn’t bet on $LULU. Based on my pick history, I know nothing. 

But the market has been absolutely hammering retail companies this earnings with the exception of Victoria’s Secret. 

Hasn’t seemed to matter if you beat or raise guidance. And with current market conditions, it seems like algos are looking at earnings like they are liquidity events rather than rewarding good performance. So, they could beat and still crater. 
But what do I know? I bought $AVGO 😫

Light locker room  shooting among buddies

I have a gf so everything will be okay

2 the obvious choice 
Coz it has 3 legs

no, nobody cares about bitcoin or crypto

both, but IBIT is better if you don't want to do extra KYC for coinbase or other brokers

i thought labor day was gonna be next week 🤯

am i retarded ? 🤯

We'll just roll it forward lmao

My poor covered calls, oh wait.

I did yesterday. Only thing that served me well today

SpaceX currently owns 18,712 bitcoin

Saylor Moon about to run for another life boat

Is this a joke? Are people involved so dumb to believe this has any chance of success?

listens*

Present tense regard, we're actively ignoring you.

After hours dip and sell offs theories:

Market was hot AF and due for a pullback or big profit taking as we hit key earnings.

War Iran uncertain of outcome for resolution or resumption.

People getting liquid for space x ipo

People planning for summer trips and need money

I suck at market and stocks and eat crayons

All of the above

All of below

well i have 5k in lotto puts expiring friday dawg

The most effete investors anywhere, nothing to worry about

After June 12th and this shitty IPO

Your ASTS got exercised?

America’s least fit city.

no way

Bit.com is going to the shadow realm

It also owns 2% of SpaceX😏

My signals are telling me I'm going to lose money either way.

It's for the best, will be $3.50 soon anyway

LMAO SOLANA IS BELOW $70

Goated interview.  He is a WSB founding member

Dance fucking monkeys lol

Ignore the idiots talking about war. Its profit taking, avgo and crwd barely beating expectations and cool off of bull run

How those calls doing, king??

what was the rationale

Yes, there is one “I” in RuG

entered wmt 120c today. looks good

lol dummy they literally sold some. you think they are only going to sell $3 million?

why not buy HOOD instead they have their own issues but they won't go out of business from crapto dying

Baffled the bitcoin funding rate isn’t negative yet

Why does he look both 6 and 60?

$1500 (and below) is the sweet spot. I dont think its going anywhere, and that would be some of the lowest price action its seen in 5 years

All the optioners here (which is about 80%) are about to FA—FO.

Come on SOXS back to $20

Calls

yep but if BTC keep this downtrend...

this person is as regarded as it gets, this is for them.

This morning was lower lol

is btc crashing the first shoe to drop?

It’s de-minimis Becky!

Saylor should be nominated for a Sam Bankman-Fried award

PUT YOUR HANDS UP dabblesest!!! POLICE ARE ENROUTE! PREPARE TO BE BOOKED FOR PROVIDING ILLEGAL FINANCIAL ADVICE!

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Back of the napkin math. Bitcoin going to $30k. MSTR back to $60-80. And if it overshoots then $40-60. I’ll buy some shares if it goes that low.

He gets dik pills on the dark markets

apes were loud af lmao

Holy shit

If you think the purpose of AI is LLMs, you are not smart

And uhhhh IBM right...right?!?

None of my signals are flashing sell yet despite this down move. Meaning this selloff may reverse before we get the real one. Ill wait for that second entry when the signal is confirmed.

I can you slippingggggggg

Subsea equipment, some ROVs etc for oil industry basically. Tons of FCF. Just keeps having solid ERs so I never sell

Yea that was the sell signal right there.

Looks like I'm moving back to the HOOD soon

weyland yutani says otherwise

MSTR selling just getting started

Are you speculating or did they actually confirm that? Either way, I believe it. Who could have guessed?

Is this real

My account going vertical tonight thank to btc shorts. never taking profit until maybe 3k or something, the 2018 low .

because they're retarded. everyone thinks their stock is being singled out and they dont zoom out to see it's affecting the broader market

MSTR puts are like guaranteed free money. It can't be this easy right?

Prison time for this.

Sofi really dumped 10% today ? LOL

those -1200 will be bought when the contracts exercise

Damn you must have been balls deep in some risky shit. I was down 4% from my highs on Thursday and I've been annoyed. I was only like 60% invested though now more like 35% oncluding my inverse etf plays. Got 30k shares of soxs and 5k shares of sqqq right after close so we'll see where that takes me.

Idk they’re one of the few big dawgs who were in the green when spy -.79%

no HOOD didn't even have crapto trading on 2021

me when i get the chance to buy the dip that i wanted just one day ago: "im not touching this shit"

I think 61.3k was peak fear for tonight. Maybe tmrw night we shall see.

do we think coin $150 is possible

# One red day and the entire sub is overflowing with cope LMAO

# ╮ (. ❛ ᴗ ❛.) ╭

^(KEEN TOCKY)

I should buy some puts then :/

Spoken like a true AI!

To say it has "no intrinsic value" is wrong. The value is the electricity used to mine. Now to say it is stupid, now you are on to something

Something tells me these COIN 200c I bought today are not going to print

Heh that Jeff dude at the bottom magically turned bald and got hair and bald again

Everyone was given abundant  warning to sell or short btc. No BTC  reserve, Saylor dumping , Quantum risk, $ flowing into AI

Helping JD with his couch.

He also said deal over last weekend.

**Ban Bet Created:** **/u/ksved** bet **ASPI** goes from **7.35** to **8.0** before **10-Jun-2026 10:21 PM EDT**

Their record is 0 wins and 4 losses.

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

It wasn’t a ramble… it was a rant… you F tard

*Bored Ape NFT anyone? The future of money.*

!banbet ASPI $8 1w

As a long time crypto bull… I think Bitcoin ded this time

Its a wild interview. Dude is on some serious drugs but ya gotta "sell it".

50% bitcoin 50% debt

True hype somewhat died quickly imo

#told all of you space stocks is a scam and y'all about to find out now. 

They don't even make any revenue, and even with their tiny revenue it's still a net loss yet being worth 50-100B dollars. There's nothing in space folks get scammed like the bitcoiners

Would you like lobster?

Zoidberg levels of investing.

Okay… is this AI or did dude get in the studio to record this monotone shit?

I figured most people joined HOOD in 2021 during that massive crypto bull run... specifically to buy crypto, but I guess I could be wrong.

here comes sub 60k . MSTR selling just getting started

Why are people asking why their individual stock is going down?

Do you not have other charts open? Such as futures or SPY during the day. 

One fucktard at market close asked, “why’s us ORCL going down”?  I swear to god. 

Why are you trading? Stop.

Feels like deja vu with FTX

Does anyone think Nvidia will bounce back at all?

And Grandpa tells you he's a 🌽vestor now.

Lol poor ber gonna learn

DTCR might be the most underrated etf. Definitely opening green tomorrow.

Mine have been red since last week.. RGTI, RKLB and ASTS

Oh this is chefs-kiss.gif

did he actually get assigned

Probably. He won’t know for sure until sometime in the wee hours of the morning. I feel like when I’ve faced assignment through Schwab, the shares have hit my account at like 3 or 4 am. No way to know if it happened until it happens.

he could still be ok even if it closes below 212.5

The contracts expired today. The shares never dipped below 212.5. Those puts all expired worthless. OP could have force exercised those puts, but that’d just be locking in a max loss. Either way, those puts can no longer help him now. Schwab did a solid by letting him short a portion of it, but that’d lessened the potential losses, it didn’t completely eliminate it.

Pretty classic pin risk playing out.

If that happens, I'm fine with that. Its been trading in the 2k-3k range for years now, so not really worth it at this level imo

Damn was that really the top? Some guy yesterday was posting that chart of the two full 100% extensions since the bottom of April

this was such an obvious signs to load up on puts 🤦‍♂️

All realized gains. I have no positions at this time, all cash.

There was only BTC summer, and it was when a whole bunch of stupid people were given stimmy money over covid and they used it to buy fake money. That will never, ever be repeated.

Munch my penny

I actually think the current selloff is much more bearish than normal..just a few percent a week is showing that there isn't much speculation going on with it. Just money casually flowing outwards and into other things.

Big spicy drops are like waving a string in front of a car. It triggers the buy reflex. Slow meltdown is bad news.

you cant spell rug without AI

It's on the website.

Squeeze deez nuts you fuckin nerd.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Hurting my feelings

Relax nothing they do sticks anyway

#deminimis

Sorry man.

It was spammed earlier this year tbf

Maseca. You can buy it at any grocery store. Use any recipe on the internet you want. One bag cost like $4 and you can make about 120 corn tortillas and they will be the best you ever had!

Healthy pull back we will continue ripping very soon

But what if your short 215p option doesn't get exercised, you are still short -1200 shares, and NVDA opens +10% 

Could Schwab's hedge end up fucking you that way?

Live Cattle Futures, LE, also has futures options. Double Leveraged, double the fun.

Just sent him the hotline bling numba

Compared to Trump's Truth Social posts, this is nothing.

Go to Costco, buy 10k worth of beef. Hold, wait for prices to go up, then dump them on FB marketplace.

it's only down $0.033. a dump for ants

What a bunch of losers, would sell my stock in Microstrategy if I owned any based on this video.

I wouldn't even wanna advertise this obvious bubble.

Looking down my watchlist…why tf was WOLF not mentioned during the semi/AI run recently? I know there was the initial run but boi 😭

Nah I only post loss porn /s

Ok salty bro, I’ll go to sleep. It’s just my gambling account anyways. My main port is way bigger (mid 8 figures)

O no back to this mornings prices

My large stake in soun is sweating seeing your low winning percentage

And if it does?

I don't know about the long term but the next couple weeks don't look good for you.

Semi bulls about to experience what SaaS bulls have been going through for the past 5 months

I hear you. I just have high volatility stocks so when they swing, they swing hard

You don’t loose money until you sell, one red day after a lot of green is not the end of the world.

Thank fuck I switched from June to September BB calls holy fuck

more like bounce back to 760!

Keep it up man 🫡

Until it doesn't

You can exercise your protective put before 5:30pm ET per FINRA regs. You should have exercised the 212.5’s and taken the loss - called it a learning experience. Now you’re no longer in a defined risk trade…you’re fucked, or it’s gonna pop tomorrow and you’re account will double 🤣🤣

Semis dead

Get fucked bools

(Green by open)

Winter is coming

i bought at the top they are already red, tomorrows gonna grab me by the nuts

why do i only hear about these stocks when they go up?

*You know $CORN has jumped the shark when you see ads for it on television.*

one lives in a cardboard box and one lives behind a wendy’s

No but I got some sunshine academy for toddlers education for ya, no one ever went broke taking profit.

He sold naked puts? Isn’t that like the worst thing you could possibly do? Loss could be unlimited in theory?

elitist on top of that

Yea bitcoin is getting really boring.

whats ur buy in price?

Fries in the bag bud.

What's his average price again?

Only a few more hours until europoors further trash my portfolio

i guess i'll need to swing by kensington to see how the zombies manage to use corn to tranq up.

fartcoin is still worth .13 so this dump is not over

AMD is next

The Asians can’t save us. I need a hug 😭

Watch it go up insane on the 12th after all this shit talking from WSB

depends why it's going down, if it's mostly from liquidations that money aint rotating lol

i didnt sell naked options

ok tard, i want ketchup. keetttccchuupppp.. did you get it ?

🥭: In that part of the world, ceasefire is when you're shooting in a more moderate manner

Mango Mussolini actually redefined what “ceasefire” means today to mean “more moderate shooting.” Yes, he actually said that.

You’re an idiot

MICHAEL SAYLORRRRRRRRRRRRRRR

*Probably*

I got out but i still lost 20% of my port, if this keeps up the rest of the week itll be panic for sure

Bruh, MU is up like 900% the past year, expect corrections

DELL is bleeding

Reminds me of that Microsoft dance party from thirty years ago

So mstr puts at open?

Lots of air dicks in this video

$NOK STOP GOING DOWN REEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE

Gonna shoot up to 2300 in no time while you keep waiting

Oh interesting I wonder if all brokers are offering that now.

Wtf marvel and micron doing?

Everyone freak the fuck out and panic sell everything it's fucking over

ummm theres no circuit breakers on the overnight is there

Yeah… 40k in SOXS yesterday… this might work.

I'm not convinced. Get in your chair!

cry because i once again bought calls at top gg

Maybe he shat himself to an early grave.

touché and 🥂cheers!   (I just talk a lot of shit) / forgive me.

Prayers going unanswered rn bro

Yo don’t fake pump my SOXL

AVGO cap was 2.2T?! wtf?

Sanctimonious cult members vs degenerate gamblers

'Refinance where, Michael' and 'That's a pretty straightforward question' within three months is a generational meme run for Becky Bangers.

Mstr will never buy another btc lolol

I heard 🥭hasn’t been seen in public for 8 days 👀

He agreed to buy shares if the price fell...  It fell so now he had to potentially buy many shares..

Imagine an asset

Where most assets are valued at a combination of intrinsic value (like having a lot of data centers) and extrinsic (maybe they will be worth more one day!)

This asset my friends, has no intrinsic value!!!!

It could be worth nothing or something!! 😉😉😉

Wanna buy some from me? 😉😉😉 

That's bitcoin

Tesla currently owns 11,509 Bitcoin

Congrats TSLA put holders! 🥳🎉🍻🎊

Mrs. Pac-Man was superior!

I still prefer gas cars on road trips than my TSLA. Those charging stops are brutal

Thanks! It’s def a personal best for me with options, still doesn’t beat my AMD share position, but that took over a decade to take off haha

This would be so big for those two little countries

They been bidding it up the last few days every time we went red

Dude. This is a casino. Stop rambling.

[insert-James-Franco-first-time?.gif]

Lulu puts

I am going to place a superposition bet on this.

Cause Iran has been quiet

He said deal over the weekend

serious question where is 🥭 ?

Ceasefire framework > statement of Iran giving up nuclear dream > Iran denying it > US attacking Iran to pressure them > Iran retaliating > statement of deal is almost final > Iran denying any discussion and suggesting full retaliation > announcement of ceasefire discussion by US 

cycle continues...

I bought avgo.

Wrong enough to make an average Americans salary in a day

Yesterday was way too green. We were due for a little pullback today

💎🫡 Been a hell of a ride over the years!

You just need to listen to Saylor for 2 minutes to realize he’s a lunatic.

They were this confident all the way from 69k down to 15k back up to 126k and down again.

pls stop and join team bidet!

He’s not letting it crash until after mid-terms.  Try again.

Im so happy for you. So much happy. My happiness is off the chart for you.

Hindsight is 2020. If only bought more nokia leaps at the 1200% I have mow i could buy a house. But I'll just have to settle with a Down payment.

Fuck the bitcoin. I bought bitcoin like over 12 years ago to originally pay for an illegal NFL subscription on a site called nfl2go. I also bought some bitcoin to pay for some stuff” I wanted to buy on a website, but it happened to get shut down right before I did it. At one point I had two bitcoin, but at the end of the day, I was able to turn it into cash before you had to report on any of it and eventually used it on a down payment for a house.

isnt he Satoshi? cant he, I dont know, change the price?

yeah not a bad thesis. my realization came when everyone started talking about being able to now trade in BTC using coin base cards but if you looked how the actual transactions took place it was still over usd/currencies. the card would just sell ur shitcoin, make the transaction in local currency, and then buy more for the vendor. once i saw that i was like holy this shit is regarded

Chill. The market has to take a breather. Been running really hot

True that. But I wouldn’t say I buy his story. I can’t imagine any mom being that kind of unhealthy enabler.

My gas bill is 2x what it was in December but I’m fucking bullish.

Love me some Becky

I tried to get help for this on AI and this is what it said 🤷🏻‍♂️

"lol, lmao!"

He's the Angry...

Video Game...

🅱️erd

👓🎮

Turns out that mild rally on crypto was a massive bear flag all along.

Unless it catches a bid tommorrow, right where it has twice this year, it's going down another 10-20%

Could be worse you guys could be like Floyd Mayweather and lose a billion dollars

quick can i take out a personal loan denominated in buttcorn while it's still worth something

Guys 🥭 has been quiet. No attempt to pump the market. Did...did he buy puts? Fuck. I'm panic selling everything tomorrow, who's with me?

I'm gonna need something dramatic to happen in order to recover

Well I bought the top yesterday so I am counting on Amerifats

Do you actually want receipts? Do you want to see my big boy port, cuz it’s way bigger than my degenerate gambling account lmao

yall say spce is done for then why is it showing up there?

I have BTC that I got at $5 but forgot the password

!Bambet ASTS $130 5 days

You get corn for the price you deserve!

Most people I know still haven't heard of MU or what the stock market has done, in general, so far. 

Not even close to the top.

You sound like a douche.

So I'm on team Other Guy.

You’ve been saying this everywhere please post proof or stop spamming

AI posts in this sub are always the ones that attract the morons that don’t know anything. People are actually doing shit like trading options without understanding the absolute basics makes me lose my mind.

Europoors can't even afford the dip

This might be the gayest thing I’ve ever seen.

thats like 1 month of any random tech stock

Is there a more unlikable public figure?

All AVGO had to do was raise guidance by 2 dollars. Thats it.  But nah -13%

Need ETH to drop a bit more for me to load tf up

Da fuck is this bounce go to 50k

Nope. Just resting.

Ironically, shit post written by AI.

Holy fucking cringe, this is bad

FUCK MSTR its a ponzi scheme

Looking at the chart losing 200 only is a big win.

Cant say grocery prices are up if 🌽 is going down

there will be a use case for crypto any day year decade now!

Drugs that's it

MSTR is at a major consolidation point though….. so I’d say now it’s not so “easy”

lol what most HOOD users were using it way before crapto was even added

So what's the degen full port move tomorrow boys

And then another time, Bitcoin went allll the way to $126k and then it CRASHED all the way to $60k.

Dont buy Bitcoin, it's going to crash

What’s the difference between a 🌽 bro and a SPCEtard?

Diamond hands over here...

Razzlekhan 2.0

Hell yes, I’m rooting for ya!

She does have that chubby faced  "I would absolutely if no one would find out" vibe, however

lulu- put

Imagine drinking that kool-aid

We’re gonna have to get through all the billionaire-glazing cucks like whoever downvoted me, brother, but I’m fuckin’ hungry 🤤 let’s eat

Haha wish I saw that. I'm going to look for a video of it.

Brunson actually playing like ass tonight

AI and Confucious say :  Strategy (formerly MicroStrategy) holds approximately 843,706 Bitcoin, acquired at an overall blended average purchase price of **$75,699** per coin.  This on loan.  I remember people posting these equations about some momentum equation with Greek letters about how the borrowing money would pay them back and some effective profit.  Just a few issues they never mentioned in this math:  Strategy has employees and medical benefits they need to pay their employees, building facilities and overhead.  Those never showed as variables.

Holy cringe pedophiles

My spy calls will probably be red tomorrow

Nah it’s a commercial regarding air conditioning

Yeah man it’s at levels we haven’t seen since *checks notes* yesterday 👍

SPY you mofo better hold 750!

5 hours more until the Europoors decides to buy the dip and ruin all the fun

Shit actually did dump again after

DRAM and MU BLEEDING overnight down 5% after hours today. Tf? Might sell it all fr

For some reason as soon as i check the price of equities or whatever investment it always starts going the other way

Jensen: say no more!

corn died for our sins lmao!

If I had any bitcoin I'd sell it just to know I made him lose even one cent just for how cringe ts was.

Wut how🤯

Nice work!  I bought a bunch of the $115p on Monday and thought for sure the ETFs wouldn’t let it drop below 65k. Gonna be ITM any minute now lol. Walked with a few hundred at least.

DRYS. Dryships, or as I like to call it, dryshits. Was a legendary company. A true pioneer of extreme reverse stock splitting

I bought 1 share of btc in September just so it would go down and now I think I have powers what now

$SEAS? or Seadrill? I caught one of those 11 breaker days on the upside, shit was hilarious. Some scammy ass Greek shipping companies. Good times.

They are all convinced that they have synced periods

Yeah I’m not claiming to have some divine wisdom.

I won’t be surprised if it’s 300k by the end of next year

No war . No Axios . No 🥭. How the fuck are we supposed to PAMP??

🌽 gg, I’ll start buying after MSTR goes under

Jim Carrey is funny if you're a child. If you think he's funny as an adult you need to apply for dor a specific driver's license.

ETH easy 100-200% gain from current price point in a couple years or may be even sooner.

Y yo T to BT To DT. To MTN

OMG 61500 🌽🌽🌽  is such gift my grand kids will take puzy in rocket ships

If you have to ask that question you should go hire a money manger. Regard.

Damn did you go 0/4?

People actually selling or the mm lowering everything so they can fake pump tmrw intime for the PDT rule and then tank some more on Friday??? LOL

There's nothing gayer than wanting a recession to happen.

people came to HOOD for crypto... stayed for options. HOOD will be fine.

I feel like by end of week donny going to announce some AVGO deal and it fucking moons. One can hope

The world economy is run by stupid children

I’m in it for $1000

loss orgies

Trust me bro

You can eat your tortillas you but you can't eat that corn it's just computer nonsense. Kinda like Ai.

Why are people into crypto like Saylor so unlikable? Seriously go to Miami people like him are a dime a dozen. Crypto going to zero fucking these people over is hilarious.

I’m getting HAMMERED last few weeks. 

Seems like Iran war wages on causing market depression. 

Space stocks continue to lose value. I suspect many companies/individuals are selling their positions in the various space stocks so that they may purchase position in Space X upon IPO. 

ALL OF IT IS CAUSING MY ACCOUNT TO NOT JUST BLEED MONEY, BUT LITERALLY HEMORRHAGE MONEY!

I worked so hard to pull my account from being down 30% to being up and in profit 35%. 

I’m
Now back down to a profit of 8% or so. 

Killing me!!! 

I’m concerned this is the start of our recession!!! 

… matter of fact…. I was watching some videos about the market and someone mentioned the “bubble” and all time highs of I think it was SPY. They showed a chart of the last 4 times we have stretched this far into being overbought. And guess what happened each time?! …. YEP… a collapse of the whole market!!

How much further can we overextend? How much further can we overpay or over value these stocks? Eventually we will see a great collapse. 

And I honestly wanna be all cash at that time. I’m
Thinking it might be time to take my losses and sell everything and go ALL CASH. 

Any educated thoughts/opinions?

Used Lambo market about to take a tumble 😂

You retards ppl didn’t buy SPCE because they thought it was SpaceX. They bought because people will mistaken it for SpaceX on IPO day. Seen it with AMCR when AMC shortsqueezed. It’s to happen again

Fuck fuck shit fuck fuck

Why is this?

Turns out it's useless

he's busting dust & cobweb. those nuts are long dried out

Well, sounds like you are in the right place!

I'm catholic. CATHOLIC.

Dang congrats big bro

We have deal

MRVL bulls please dont dissapoint me tommorow!

the corn collapse would be funnier if my port didn't somehow become collateral damage.

still funny, though.  

there will be a use case for crypto any ~~day year~~ decade now!

Is MU done?

Quantum is an overhyped pipe dream, just like Cold Fusion or people thinking that AI will solve problems related to the Halting Problem. If you regards want to jump in by all means but don't be the last one holding the bag.

Rising tides sink small boats, bruh.

What are you a cop?

A bunch of large pension funds bought it last year, so that’s how I knew. My personal theory is that it took this long to get to a point where there was enough grift and influence from crypto onto the financial markets to try to make it legitimate finally. The playing field was finally tilted in favor of bitcoin. But all you have to do is follow the money and realize that by the time this happened late last year, the tide was already turning against bitcoin. It’s not a coincidence that bitcoin and companies that had large bitcoin holding such as Tesla and Robinhood and not bitcoin related, but software industry was shorted before any other major asset in the fall of last year. Who was around the beginning of October that point had its last ATH put the stock market kept pumping into November and then into the end of January.

Good bot.

The got fuk from corn and then buy the top in shit AI bubble and get fleeced as that bubble pops. Hilarious

Every ~4 years Bitcoin has a halving where the amount of bitcoin produced per block is cut in half. 

The faucet is slowly turning off.

Nothing beyond what we already knew, no!

This guy sucks, but 22% isn’t a big deal….yet.

What’s going on with corn?

22.28% is oddly specific but yeah makes sense

This might be the most well thought out and articulated response I’ve ever seen. You exude intelligence! #sarcasm #goodluckinlife #someonegotadoubledoseofpissintheircheeriohs

What are you talking about

Not looking too hot yet lol.

this is not the peak ai bubble yet but it's getting scary how slowly but surely it's starting to resemble the dotcom bubble perfectly with these insane ipos this year and also GOOG raise

People selling 🌽 to buy memory, semis, and SpaceX at IPO

Lmao you didn’t sell premium, you sold your soul to Jensen and the risk desk is just there to watch the show.  

At this point you’re not a trader, you’re involuntary long NVDA like a hostage.  

If it rips you’re a genius, if it nukes you’re “a valuable learning experience” in Schwab’s training manual.

Make them yourself. Super cheap and easy and better than even the ones you get at food trucks or restaurants.

T W O  W E E K S

Preice Jay. You owe me 100 USD.

So are futes

😬😬😬😬😬

Called JP Morgan personal investments today. They had an automated number for if you want to know about spacex ipo and how to do it. Not a good sign.

22.28% so far

Bottom for bitcorn is usually oct-dec id wait

Im no cryptard but when clarity act passes senate vote in july and crypto rips theres going to be a lot of sad people who wished they bought these levels. Btc might hit 50k but it will recover like it always does.

IPOs are always a great investment! I remember when AirBnB IPO’d in 2020, a company that actually is profitable, growing revenue in the low teens, cash flow positive etc. etc. and not trying to colonize mars and their stock is still worth less today than it sold for at IPO 🤣🤣🤣🤣

i just enabled it. hopefully it works by 3am

How much stock do I need to buy for it to stay above $215? We should rally around this I also would love NVDA to go up because anyone who hates NVDA hates America 🇺🇸

Peter schiff must be busting a nut rn

Excellent.

Red days are meant for buying

RIP crypto bros

Watching 🌽 die really gets me hard

His brokerage is helping him out so debt will be smaller because they felt nice today

61500 🌽🌽🌽 bought 50x, easy lambo.

i understand some smart people made money buying bitcoin, but the people who have bought and continued to buy the last 5 years are the "literal idiots" you sometimes hear about

Oil futures are traded like other commodities. With the constant peace deal on again off again, traders are reluctant to go long risking a rug pull that will drop oil prices dramatically.

Once actual supply of oil diminishes, reality will set in based based on actual supply shortage (as opposed to speculation) which will dramatically increase prices.

Quantum is going to be the new magic word. Like crypto and then AI.

Btc journey to the center of the earth

I did. I learned you are a degen

That is one hell of a dead cat bounce on 🌽

Why is corn so cheap, yet my corn tortillas are so expensive😒

The brown water is satisfying for some reason

If I wasnt poor I wouldve sold all my bitcoin when this got posted

It's hard for me to see it falling below the price it was when the ETFs went live, which was about 48k.  So I highly doubt it falls below 50k.

Absolutely sickening, all these people are greedy jerks that are using gullible investor money to enrich themselves.

The trainwreck CNBC interview where he ignored the "Refinance where, Michael?" question, here's the video

How much BTC was TSLA still holding? 😂

In the search to add another arm to my account, i found DBMF and am currently on a 3hr going on 4 rabbit hole of adaptive ETFs.

Now I'm gonna dig into the managers and pit them against each other in some sort of financial bloodsport, where only a select few will emerge the victor and claim their rightful place in my most sacred of accounts.

*EDM intensifies*

Prepare for Mortal Kombat.

Good, the regarded need to be treated with dignity and not left running wild out in the open like that.

wouldn’t be surprised to see the NIKKEI falling 5-10% & the KOSPI 7-29%

Like?

I am a whore. Thoughts ?

damn that position size at your entry point is pretty solid, quantum security gonna be massive in few years when everyone realizes how vulnerable current systems are

Corn predicting a bloodbath

Planet Fitness. Never owned stock, but it's the grandest shitshow I've ever witnessed.

713x100.

I ain’t go to college but I turnt it down just to do this, just to grind from the stocks

bro I was fucking amazing at arcade donkey kong

You know you can sell shares in overnight trading with thinkor swim right?

maybe HOOD will finally come to its senses and stop showing crapto as the first few ticker search results

idk maybe oil related 🤷‍♂️

Of course all the fun is happening after hours

Why is worthless internet money dumping?

Refinance where, Michael

What is this cycle that 🌽people talk about?

I don’t buy stocks of companies with 4 letter last name CEO that start with M.

Waiting for Saylor to post that he bought 20bill BTC at 80k last week

Drake again.

May the odds be in your favor.

Bari Weiss shouldn't have so much power over American media. She's not even semi attractive.

Got my knife and fork and bib and high chair. Ready to go! Just say GO.

Just know someone made bank with 100x leverage with this dump or even unlimited leverage

X1050.

No shit. 

God I didn’t realize WSB had actual regards in here…

Can’t spell 🌽 without O

Is this a cuck chair situation?

Corn dead

Does anyone here still own btc???

One of the 🥭 boys gonna pump 🌽 soon

Haven’t checked my MSTR leaps in a while how they doing

Who wants to play me in RL?

“Hey Michael, we’ve been trying to reach you regarding your collateral. Please call us back. Pronto”

Wait until it updates at 9:30

We must be thinking of 2 different people

Yeah should have sold the calls before earnings and buy puts for after

Paper handed my MSTR puts.

ya.. so glad i got AVGO

Bold of you to assume the average wsb participant started with any significant cash

lol, losing twice at the same time is peak tech fuked!

An interview with Michael Saylor where he said if Bitcoin price drops lower he will just refinance MSTR's loans to buy more Bitcoin. 

She asks him "Refinance where, Michael?" And never got an answer

I bought credit spread 410/440 and 420/440. Am I a well regarded too?

when I get to heaven the first thing Im doing is getting the book of my life and asking it how many miles of TP ive saved using the ol shit and shower

Moral will improve upon the ceasefire IPO.

🌽 going to fkng zero, whoop in a microsecond 🤣

No. Fucking. Way. 

Bitcoin is going to zero now lmao

cus it doesn't do anything and nobody uses it

Peak cringe

mstard the harbringer of crypto winter 🫵🤡

ok enough with crying in the casino. what are we thinking for tomorrow? 

PL, DOCU, RBRK- put 

Lulu - call

MRVL sure... AVGO ?

Sometimes you get excited about a company and you get stuck holding bags of bullshit. It happens man, glad it wasn't a big roadblock for you

after this lulu put prints ($115 2dte) ill buy the pit boss some whores

Well you’re down on AVGO and MRVL now if you didn’t sell after posting this.

Versabank babyyyy

Damn Big Balls! Leave a little poon for the rest of us son!

wouldnt it benefit stocks because people will rotate their money?

Look it up and learn something tonight

Ok thank fucking god 🌽is bouncing. I need to get another good entry for MSTR 80p’s tomorrow

99.9989988899999999999999999999999999999999999999999999%. Bot count that. 713.

Oh no... Anyway

It will. Could be in a week or two years though lol

I was doing a daily dca that I turned off a week ago

🌽 bros swapping into AI stocks at the top 

☠️☠️☠️

a lot of you never experienced sitting on the floor in SEARS, in front of a rear projection tv playing Sonic the Hedgehog for the first time. those were immaculate times.

Loser scam artist buys into biggest scam around. What's so hard to believe?

beileve it or not, calls on MRVL, NOW, AVGO, MSTR, and RKLB

Broo 😭

I will because I’m a woman lol.

Melania. He parle FRANÇAIS.

Buy puts or inverse ETFs

turns out saylor moon was literally the only buyer

MRVL !!

Imagine holding crypto lmaoo

Those MSTY dividends ain’t paying for this drop 😭

In the greatest bol market in American history you chose crypto

So just roll it forward?

For now.

All the poor gonna flood in

Why corn selling off so hard??..  any particular reason or just being a weak dick bitch like usual?

like 30 years ago

Next time do a position like this and call it good!

I predict 40-45k consolidation, especially when the panic kicks in

Wow, you made bank.

I’m beginning to think this administration doesn’t know that words have meaning…

Why aren’t we eating these mfers

These MRVL puts print tomorrow unless 🌮 opens his mouth.

What security does a contract have when they're constantly broken?

Damn so they sold off the whole bounce with MRVL

Or not...

Wasn't there an oil tanker company that used to split like once a month

At least if you FOMO'd into AVGO and other tech stocks at the top, you can hold it and you might eventually break even

How strong is your conviction that 🌽 will ever go back to $120K+

hock tan: taking AVGO private at 420.69 funding secured

Jim Carrie died?

I just got a kidney donation ad on my feed. Can’t make this shit up. How do they know I’m broke

MSTR Still has a 44B market cap, fucking hell

Literal 🤡 market

I'm coming sin carrier Calgary.

Slightest of pullbacks I know...but hoping MU can get back over 1070 tomorrow and market sentiment as a whOle is better than the shit show is was today

You’re welcome. I’ve been spamming it for weeks

AVGO 420 is the bottom

So tempting to buy CONL

Crypto bros are such retards.

Now, back to my wildly OTM options contracts and triple leveraged ETFs I have a good feeling about…

Don’t come back here as much any more but so far this year been in main for both spy 700 & the end of corn. Amazing

Corn under 60k today？

So they are relaxing PDT tomorrow yeah? Mother of all theta days or the most volatile day known to mankind?

I would buy it if you gave me a $1 so deal!

Lmao bag holder? Not me bud. I’m up Bigly.

There’s no way this dude really posted this lol

Guess people prefer physical 🌽 than the ones with 0 and 1s in it

Alert after alert. Goddamn

Thank you to whoever got me on the MSTR story this is a zesty wipeout.

I think we're past Human Centipede and are now into A Serbian Film territory.

S&P never had a chance tonight lol

"🌽 is officially dead"

4x price of previous cycle low. (thats 100% per year)

Btw, we are at this cycles low.  

this is me on my old acct

Anyone send a reddit cares to Michael Saylor?

what does this mean "dude was able to short Q mil of NVDA to buffer the assignment"

I pray this is AI

We have semis now, boomer

Panic selling for 🌽.

Honestly not a good sign for the market, but I made insane money on MSTR puts so I’m not complaining:

Green by open. Meta and AMD will carry the NASDAQ since meta just find another money printer

We know its going to 0 but even 20% in a couple days is bad for MSTR

This hurt my heart

Saylor is proof that no amount of money (or fake internet money) in the world can make some people cool.

lol what’s this from

Last chance to buy 🌽 at 60K!!!!

☠️☠️☠️

corn picking up some momentum, need to update the time of impact

TA has Bitcoin hitting 45,300 … lets see this play out

If you think you fucked up today just remember: the Dallas Mavericks rostered Jalen Brunson and Luka Doncic at the same time and traded them both away.

I fucking hate it

Just like Everyday the last 2 Week... Short MSTR, no brainer better the going long on AVGO

It’s ai

Nice, great entry point for BTC

Digital scarcity so scarce it's gonna be worth even more at 0 when it's the scarcest

The more BTC they sell today the more they have to sell tomorrow yikes

1 day BTC chart is the exact portfoligone meme

You'd think the btc bulls would at least have enough brain cells to do basic pattern recognition, this is like the 4th btc winter and mfs still fell for the obvious dead cat bounce lmao

On top of the $1.36 today, just realized Robinhood paid me another $2.78 in interest 2 weeks ago, which is $4.14, just enough for a Wendy’s 4 for 4, so I’m good…

Or just invest in the sp and hold no matter what

God damn corn

100$ buying power and asking if he should keep or sell? LMFAOOOOO

It is a leading regardation indicator. Meme stocks are next

Honestly, I will just buy a real 🌽, grill it with butter than spend money on 🌽 that Saylor is bagholding

under 60k and no way this doesn't have collateral damage to stonks

So you are saying companies are going to shift from on prem, to cloud, back to on prem?

Sounds regarded.

I did and of course it went down 😭

CRWD is a long term. but you're still right.

Just scrolled down this feed. Mostly saw comments about Crypto, Corn, a space scam stock, more crypto and a guy talking about his small penis. 

This place has really blossomed. The elders would be impressed.

Facts. That will stop. Melania. Front and center. Félix Tempo Ordiansbte.

Degenerate gamblers are opening up their crypto casino apps during halftime and realizing how royally fucked they are

Remind me why the US is at war with Lebanon again?

I sold my 140p for 6.00 when I got them for 1.50 - Now they are nearing 20 🤡

Everyone thought it would be NVDA. It was actually AVGO that killed the market

How much did you make doing this?

Damm haha, I feel your pain. I also put $30K in AVGX, but no options… hopefully, a miracle happens tomorrow.

BUTTCORN BOLS

corn is in full mcdonald's mode

Michael Saylor in 2013 - "Bitcoin's "days are numbered".  Says it will suffer a similar fate to online gambling.  You got them mixed up.

To my regards who dont wanna blow their account tomorrow do inversed 2x etf better than buying puts and getting wrecked if taco wants a peace deal.

Corn down this big means more blood red tomorrow

Thinking about that Sears commercial where it’s a really hot summer day and the wife says “you’ll call today” and the husband says “I’ll call now”

Y’all got crazy pics 😭

Which one is the money maker? ^^^please ^^^don't ^^^be ^^^the ^^^bad ^^^one! :-(

What a knob

Gotdamn dude

This is some weird ass shit.

$IREN

said it last week. we’re actively watching the death of bitcoin in real time

He is in some kids ass right now. Let's not call him.

I very much hope OP survives this, sounds rough.

Swapped QQQ for GBTC this week

Oh absolutely, I’ve closed most of my positions, just letting like 8% ride.

If there’s a bounce back though I’m going back in. It feels like lower highs, lower lows territory

Did u short rklb?

I bought a Prius two years ago to save on gas

Bro...  How? Otd? Spy calls?

Cooked

Holy shit corn in absolute free fall

It's stupid no circuit breakers and Market makers use your money against you

Corn dead

Yeah but nobody is going to do that when they have an easy off the shelf option

Fuck me went back up 3k after hours and now back down 🤠

i bought IBIT at like 60k last year and rode it up to 120k and sold this april or some shit for 65k that was quite the trip

So he didn’t make $100,000

WSB is going to be so fun the next couple weeks as the market drills to earths core. Finally some fun

It’ll just expire after you lose the 16k

Imagine buying crypto currency 🤡

lol stupidly any bad news immediately dump the port? No wonder so few are rich

I can't believe RC bought corn

You dirty girl

🌽 gonna be 50k at the open 

LOLLL

There’s no halting on 🌽 so this is just in free fall LOL

I am glad i am here during bitcoins final bow

Wyckoff distribution pattern

Climax, upthrust

wtf kind of degen shit is this you are into?

No one fucking shits the bed the way CRWD does on earnings

You could have grabbed MSTR 127P for $4 a contracts 2 days ago they are worth $70 right now.

Come on 🌽, just a little further to zero yah shitter!

Saylor should have just sold more than 25 lol

So we're never getting back into the $2s for gas right?

They Dollar Menu'd our gas, it's never coming back

😔

How do I make money tommorow when everything is gonna go down? Currently in 100% cash

🤣🤣🤣🤣

I give it 24 hours before Israel violates it!

Don't be shocked to see Saylor and Tom Lee next time you are behind the Wendy's dumpster

I wanna rip my ears off

Tbh probably. I like playing both sides. It’s rare I don’t go with straddles/strangles, but this was just too obvious.

Ok but corporations are lazy and won't take a risk on something unknown that will potentially cause chaos if something fails

I’m done playing earnings for a bit 🫩

Half cash...

r/RileyReid

61.9k now

Send them hell johns.

Markets flat tomorrow. Every trader who matters will be hung over from this game

I just got $3 in jpst. Going to throw it into schd. Warren Buffet 💅

Obviously not

Already -16% today

Umm, yeah. Pyramid scheme.

Why file all those forms to get a loan when you can just use margin👌

jfc BTC is at 62k 💀

🌽 dying really feels like things healing

Bmnr going back under $10 easily

also what’s a stop loss??

What’s the main corn sub

careful we are near the bottom.  it might go in to the 50s though.

Eating good for lunch Marina Bay.

I've been trying to find a good summary of the bull, or at least neutral, position for weeks and I think you nailed it

BTC WTF!

It turns out having a crypto president isn't good for the market

They’re getting expensive for obvious reasons…

I don’t think the floor is in though. It might have a dead cat bounce though.

temu strategy

Gotta fight fire with fire if you want to win

Zoom out to the monthly chart and stop crying in the casino. Lol seriously killing the vibe and scaring the hoes.

I'm a buyer at 215

of all the stocks people might give up on, you're betting fucking $MU?

corn is the wsb code word for bitcoin. wsb doesn't like it when you mention BTC for some reason

To 0... bwahahahahahahaha

It's up to overnight Eurpoors to get us out of this.

Sleep well

all of them wdym

Looks like it's going to hit the bottom again and go lower.

I think my iPhone is melting.

Praying for you bb

Nobody has double cheeseburger money! Jr. Cheeseburgers are on the value menu and still expensive!

Go K-Town!

coincidentally this happens the day before PDT rules are gone. tomorrow will be the mother of all chain yankers.

Very true. Problem is, no one really knows exactly what will trigger the spike. Some airports in the UK briefly ran out of jet fuel on Sunday, so shortages are already hitting Europe. It’s just a matter of when refineries and/or countries start buying en masse, and it seems like everyone is just asleep at the wheel

I hope your job pays well cuz you’re gonna need money. Thoughts and prayers 🙏

Actually, my whole account was in there, I just lost half.

Spy down 0.05 and crypto mins 30,000 cause it's useless 🤣

after hours turnin' straight nastyyy

I have a sneaking suspicion my Jun 5 $505 AVGO and $340 MRVL calls may be in jeopardy

Tried to warn you all, but nobody ever listened

$60 ear of corn not bad.

Oh shit oh fuck

My god 🌽 is following the exact same Wyckoff distribution pattern it did in 2021/2022. Which means $30k is coming this year.

This week has been tough after this Friday I'm going to take at least two days away from trading

Bought a lot of puts and then bought more, and I’ll buy more tomorrow!

Wait.. you might be right... He might have sold calls and puts.. and a put spread..

Then they loaned him shares to .balance it out..

And then calls?

Refresh.

Michael ButtfuckBurry is itching to post about “AI Bubble” again after a tiny correction after 10 straight green dildos

yo dawg, I heard you like frameworks, so I put a framework in your framework so you can framework while you framework on your framework from your last framework to your next framework

The whole 🌽 m00rkit doing an avengers assemble to liquidate Michael Strategy

Tesla at $428.50 at open.

Lmao love this 😂

QNT IPO'd and will be trading tomorrow.  Awful timing

Tom we lost 1.5 billion dollars this week in eth

If the short put got exercised why does it say you’re short 1200 shares instead of long?

Too bullish tbh

I’m not a genius, but I believe  🌽 will consolidate at 45k, MSTR should drop significantly below 100

corn boys getting burnt again

wrong, correct ticker is 🫱(‿¤‿)🫲

ye true i don't have those shares yet. have to see tomorrow what it's going to do. i hope it pops

SMX.

2 reverse splits this month alone.

What a sh* show.

I sincerely appreciate the $1.36 in interest from Robinhood. Feels great after all the losses I’ve had…

Everyone saying corn is down but it looks flat to me

Prob a scam site

Shit lemme check those contracts

Last time they made it was 1999 🫣

I'm buying mstr with half monopoly money half used toilet paper

A true fuckin' genius regard

If this 🌽 apocalypse keeps up I'm gonna own MSTR at 110 when shit is trading at 80 huh

The algos absolutely believe it because my oil stocks took a hit the second this concept of a concept was reported.

Is it going to be another ceasefire where they keep shooting at each other?

Are you me?

But you will still have a smol pp

Dumbass

apparently Lambo has a no refund policy.

I will not stop!

Shake your money maker...

With the sell off after hours, next IBM buying traunch 292-270 Zone.

Op has 16k. Has 25 puts in the money and is getting margin called. Each contract is a block of 100 shares.

I said double cheeseburgers Rick.

Under $60K he starts getting in trouble

Wait. It can fall farther.

Ok then this is definitely financial advice

No you can’t. You underestimate your own inherent retardium which has been shown to you

It’s on the website!

I got lucky and made 1500 bucks. If you end up wanting to close the trade before open just make it a limit ‘ext’

It can go lower!

Why put a juju on him for taking a risk?

The Knicks making it to the finals was a sign

speak for yourself, i'd buy it at a dollar

Crypto is collapsing.

Him and his quant

This Bitcoin dip feels way more violent than big ones in the past. Feel like the walls are closing in for crypto tards

Brother I'm sorry...

I'm in it big

*Tom "Fat Cuck" Lee CEO of Bag* *Holder.COM* *announced today that his 3 million dollar price target on $CORN by EOY 2027 might be a smidge too high.*  

*BMNR ATH 161 today's close $19*

I believe that is to Confirm your indication of interest. Doesn't mean (just yet) that you got those shares. Price git raised again, IPO upped share issuance size.

We need 🥭because he will make crypto great again! - Crypto bros.
😂😂😂😂😂😂😂

***BREAKING NEWS:*** SpaceX IPO confirmed at $420 a share, ticker symbol: (o)(o)

Quick, someone email saylor the hotline number

imagine thinking that saylor or tom 'cuck' lee gonna get any sleep tonight

Ha! Goldfish memory.

Barbie pink?

Where da fuck Bill KOSPI at?

My bro made like $100,000 on one of the sports betting sites and they just closed his account and banned him - customer support email just bounces, it's not even a real email

Look, two Jr. Cheeseburgers is two Jr. Cheeseburgers, people can judge if they want!

It’s not too late guys, go hard on MSTR puts at open tomorrow. Shits going below 90 by end of month.

Obligatory: this is not financial advice. I made over $3 million on puts since I made that post… if anyone can check in on u/odd_neighborhood969 I’d appreciate it. He helped me spite buy more than I was planning.

Do you have the cash to buy?

Based on what?

PUT YOUR HANDS UP dabblesest!!! POLICE ARE ENROUTE! PREPARE TO BE BOOKED FOR PROVIDING ILLEGAL FINANCIAL ADVICE!

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

How much lower will it go

Self made at 19 eh? How.

Erherium is 1700🤣 1700 to much if you ask me

Nokia has no moat here. A lot of other companies (QKD, NET, SKM, Juniper) all have post-quantum solutions that meet FIPS 140-3 post quantum requirements.

In my opinion, it’s generally best to sell these because you’re already dependent on this company for your paycheck. You don’t to be all-in on just one company, unless of course you know something we all don’t. 😉

Apac, sorry but North America fucked it up again

I guess no more Saylor yacht in Georgetown

Makes sense. It's only real purpose is to disguise crime. Ppl finally getting clued in.

Remember: Corn has a very strong resistance at $0

What exactly would that look like? I'm super curious and intrigued.

Go-down stock must go-up soon

Make stocks green again

Futes are turning into a real bloodbath

Cannot fucking wait

No positions.  No post.

And a U in the ticker

All the normal reasons

🌽, the E bolo of crypto

I’ll buy one at $69 just for LOLz

What you do, buy or sell calls/puts?

so what happened, you had to sell at a huge loss?

No it’s not and hasn’t been for a while. Look at Dow and Nasdaq and VOO and spy for the year.

Now… look at btc. 

No one fucking cares and hasn’t for a while.

Please come naow I think I'm fallin

Thanks for your submission! 

To keep things interesting, we want to see big gains and big losses! 

So we've set the following thresholds for Gain, Loss, and YOLO flaired posts:

* YOLO posts must be a minimum of $10,000 of options or $25,000 of shares and recently opened.

* Gain / Loss posts must show realized gains or losses of more than $2,500 for options or $5,000 for shares. 

We want to see the actual trade. What you got in at, what you sold at. Then tell us why you did it. Give us the story of why you're a fucking genius (or idiot).

This is what a great post looks like:

$17.2K Gain on AMZN - OP described his gain in the title, has a clear screenshot showing both the entry and exit, meaning his gains were locked in, and they explained their reasoning in the comments and what they learned. All around a great post!

Here are examples of what could get your post removed:

* $300,000 SDC Loss. Still not selling - Even though this is a tremendous loss and something worth posting about, **the position hasn't been closed yet**.

Here are examples of amazing posts which could have been even better:

* $75,000 DDOG Loss. - This is a great post and one that won't get removed. However, the OP could have talked about *why* they entered the position in the first place, what their target price was, and what went wrong. OP didn't stick around in the comments to answer any questions.

* $1.1MM Loss, No details - OP simply posted a screenshot of their overall portfolio balance. It's definitely a big loss, but it's not that interesting without OP talking about what trades they were in and why. OP didn't answer most questions in the comments which left many readers speculating on what happened.

---

All that being said, we are here to help. We want to make it as easy as possible for you to post to our community. We have to balance this with making the subreddit interesting for our readers. 

If you need some guidance, don't hesitate to reach out to modmail and we'll give you some pointers!

Holy shit. It's Chad Dickens.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

There ain’t gonna be no crash. We’re just going to keep inflating the dollar - so dollar value goes down, asset prices relative to the dollar go up. The reason market’s pumping is actually because your dollar can’t buy shit anymore. It’s just asset preservation at this point. Just short the dollar instead of shorting SPY.

Taking it with a bucket full of salt for now, for me I would better invest my money now into other companies which will profit over the year and compound.

🌽 getting dumped like preparing for upcoming apocalypse

🌽 -20% tomorrow 

LMAOOOOO

Goat shit you took risk hopefully shit goes to 55k lol 😆

Well - enjoy a man then

Just refinance the debt saylor moon

If I would’ve sold while up 12k on oil, I would have won. I have a bad case of Lenny grip strength, so I’m down 1.5k at the moment, but you can win

Holy shit. It's Chad Dickens.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Bitcoin would be higher if it didn’t go down!

With the market likely down tomorrow and the recent slide in quantum stocks, I don't think it will fly.

Thanks for your submission! 

To keep things interesting, we want to see big gains and big losses! 

So we've set the following thresholds for Gain, Loss, and YOLO flaired posts:

* YOLO posts must be a minimum of $10,000 of options or $25,000 of shares and recently opened.

* Gain / Loss posts must show realized gains or losses of more than $2,500 for options or $5,000 for shares. 

We want to see the actual trade. What you got in at, what you sold at. Then tell us why you did it. Give us the story of why you're a fucking genius (or idiot).

This is what a great post looks like:

$17.2K Gain on AMZN - OP described his gain in the title, has a clear screenshot showing both the entry and exit, meaning his gains were locked in, and they explained their reasoning in the comments and what they learned. All around a great post!

Here are examples of what could get your post removed:

* $300,000 SDC Loss. Still not selling - Even though this is a tremendous loss and something worth posting about, **the position hasn't been closed yet**.

Here are examples of amazing posts which could have been even better:

* $75,000 DDOG Loss. - This is a great post and one that won't get removed. However, the OP could have talked about *why* they entered the position in the first place, what their target price was, and what went wrong. OP didn't stick around in the comments to answer any questions.

* $1.1MM Loss, No details - OP simply posted a screenshot of their overall portfolio balance. It's definitely a big loss, but it's not that interesting without OP talking about what trades they were in and why. OP didn't answer most questions in the comments which left many readers speculating on what happened.

---

All that being said, we are here to help. We want to make it as easy as possible for you to post to our community. We have to balance this with making the subreddit interesting for our readers. 

If you need some guidance, don't hesitate to reach out to modmail and we'll give you some pointers!

Fuk it! I'll do it raw!

The one time I bought soxs weekly puts. Lmao.

energy,nuclear, robotics

No crying in the casino

If counterparty didn't exercise, then you would just be short 2500. Might as well go 50/50.

They react to our markets. We don’t react to theirs. They are a day in front of us yet truly behind.

Lol, maybe you are.

NVDA 200 before open

Yeah bro this is r/wallstreetbets not r/investing. What more do you want from a thesis?

Wanna buy more of these from me? I’ll even go in naked.

RemindMe! 1 day

That new spider man good

The best way to make money on crypto these days is scamming people that want to get into crypto.

Bonds and oil and war and profit taking… same as everyday.

No positions.  No post.

Wen margin call on Saylor?

I will be messaging you in 1 day on **2026-06-05 01:54:39 UTC** to remind you of **this link**

**CLICK THIS LINK** to send a PM to also be reminded and to reduce spam.

^(Parent commenter can ) ^(delete this message to hide from others.)

**RemindMeBot is switching to username summons.** Instead of `!RemindMe 1 day`, use `u/RemindMeBot 1 day`. More info.

*****

|^(Info)|^(Custom)|^(Your Reminders)|^(Feedback)|
|-|-|-|-|

🌽hitting max gheyness

Bonds and oil and war and profit taking… same as everyday.

I’m dabbling already. Will continue to dabble, this one probably has a lot more room, granted it’s already up bigly this year but, so is a lot of shit.

🤣😂🤣😂🤣😂🤣😂

I’m not sure whose more retarded, me or the guy selling 0 dte put options

My $100 to $10k mission is going well. So far at $804.. lost $14 today on SPY calls.😂

I’ll buy corn at 20k thanks

One time I had the sell side of my call spread on spy exercise on dividend and left me with a 1 million dollar short ($20k in the account), they called me at 730 and told me I have 15 minutes after market open to liquidate. Twas a stressful time.

it's a moonshot for sure

So is the war over for the 8th time again?

Look i did a 3500 to 2.5M to 1.7M last yr so I felt the agony when I read your post. My 809k loss was in one month, after making a fortune rolling 30dte spy calls for like 8 months. And hitting a 10x when unh fell apart.

What bros? There are none left… everyone sold.

Space

$5 baconator is a steal.

There is zero, which is the right amount!

BTC - Hedge against inflation. Store of value.

I’m sure Saylor would offload his bags…

Meanwhile, I made $3 million of MSTR puts the past three weeks:

You can check out the docs here. I’m also already very bullish on Nokia but having this integration would give them a pretty massive edge assuming all of the claims are true. And I doubt Nokia would partner with them without doing their own due diligence.

!remindme 1 day

I don't believe you!

Bitcoin gonna have contagion effect if it goes below 60k imo

Needs more tiny images with tiny print.

We have deal now?

And what do you think happens a day after the spcx launches?… let me say this, just don’t be the last to sell.

You have better chance betting  🌽 under 62k for the same outcome

Depends on your point of view εつ(‿ˠ‿)

Sold 32 for hookers and blow and ended up tanking the whole 🌽 market

I feel bad for you if you didn’t sell

What does PDT thing change, I live in igloo so no fukin clue

🌽 is down big. Isolated incident or is this a harbinger for stocks?

$5 aws credits and $1 digital media credit on Amazon

Been watching this company since 2021 and the bank charter thing is basically their last shot - if that fails they're pretty much done for

Wouldn’t be surprised if he’s calling banks himself to ask if he can borrow more.

Does Dollar General take stock orders?

Probably energy sector and tech again

Not really

He can Burry that dih in my ass

Congratulations to both them and you. I’m happy you all are in a situation where this could happen! I’m not shitting on the fact your parents gave you money to invest. I’m shitting on the fact you made terrible trades with said money that your parents gave you.

People keep saying the market is crazy and referring to investors but you really have to wonder if it's the analysts who are crazy as well.

We all know AI is not profitable yet but we're dumping money into it because there's demand. Broadcom reaffirms this but apparently 149% increase in revenue in a year is "not good enough" and "lower than what analysts expected" and that's reason to panic sell everything apparently.

ok, i think i got it. 

OP "sold" a contract that said, he will buy the stock at X dollars if the stock goes under X dollars by a certain date. 

Other people bought the contract and paid OP some money for it. 

Now the problem for OP is, it looks like stock will go under that X amount, and OP will be forced to buy the stock at the X amount (which is less than market value)

I fail to see major issue here, OP will still end up with NVDA shares which can go up if he just holds them. Is that issue that he will be forced to arrange funds for the purchase?

# MU capitulation will be epic.

Damn must suck to gamble all this money and not even have the house comp you a hooker. They just take your money while fking your wife

this pdt removal is not as bullish as everyone is making it out to be

how do you think these regards got those small accounts they got it betting against the market

and now those regards are going to be apeing into puts every chance they get

Believe it or not, calls. Your best, regarded.

nvstly

I can’t convey how much I made off this play.

All because a redditor doubted me, I went hard out of spite.

"too late for condom, might as well start sucking coqs" 🫵🤡

Burry got a boner looking at this

how that AI and crypto are officially over, what's gonna inflate next?

Did he actually get assigned? He could still be ok even if it closes below 212.5, with both strikes ITM.

Can confirm. Am pumping.

fukkin' RDDT!

You call this a dip? Is this for ants?

Not a strangle, but debt speed I think.. could be wrong

Saylor about to wakeup to 18 missed calls from his bank. Think of those voicemails increasing in tone "Hey Mike! Just wanted to check in and say hey................MICHAEL give me a call back AS SOON AS you get this, we need to talk about that loan. NOW." 💀

Corn is not having a good time 😬

I wish I had Balls like him🤡

This is the moment the tides turn to the downside. Just takes 1 major player to wave a red flag

Yes. I've shorted ACN for about a year now. They keep making me money.

i suggested op liked 🌈’s and got a 3 day ban. how 💁is that?

Those lowlife motherfuckers.

So calls?

I think I had that beat by my 30s, and I'm a chick.

Why would you do this? Genuinely. What was your thesis? And I'd ask how you decided on a profit target and stop-loss figure, but something tells me you didn't have one. 
Thanks for the laughs, though. 
Best of luck in the future. (Honestly)

There is not enough Nokia talk in the chat

I understand both bull cases, I do like ACHRs bull case more for long term. I plan on holding for 5+ years. I could get some exposure in joby or beta, we’ll see.

Imagine the headline "SATOSHI NAKAMOTA SELLS"

Dude there are SO MANY channels on youtube soley dedicated to jacking off Shitcoin holders. And they have millions of subs. WTF?

It’s really not at all

Quantum is far far away to be prime time like energy

It’s too late for protective puts, so that leaves calls

Yes. Tired of looking at every stock on Earth go up a trillion dollars in 1 week. Seems healthy. Tweet AI. Get rich. Tweet deal. Get rich. Tweet both. 1 zillion upsies after hours lol

He probabky signed up through his broker and was approved for 100 shares.

Hoping SPCX sucks all the liquidity out of the SaaS and SEMI stonks.

I forgot about this until lunch today. I looked back and the period of interest ended yesterday. 😢. I’ll try to scalp some tomorrow though.

To ghey-dt?

Never feel bad for the boogers that chanted “have fun staying poor”

iwill giveup my apple for it

Going long on oil  = going against Mango. He is filled with some much retardium you won’t ever win

Stupid comment, do better

The bitcoin liquidity is moving to equities and prediction markets

1/3 cash, 2/3 stock.

Si señor

I missed mu but the highlight brought my eyes back to it

Didn’t you see the post about how it’s already priced in with capital letters a couple weeks ago ITS PRICED IN

In Feb, it took 8 days for 🌽 to drop from 90k to 62k. We are at Day 3, and we are at the 62k bottom.

Company needs another U in its name.

So your average price for MU was $22.86? Meaning you bought around December 2016 and never sold for 9.5 years? I'm calling bullshit right now

*$CORN bros = crickets*

Google is hard

Whelcome to take my order, this is wendeez

Saylor hasn't even started...

Meh. If that's the case, you'll be sleeping in her bf's basement. Basically, still married. Not even separated.

I did Regetti today but tomorrow I will buy SPY calls😂

Why are we seeing this 2 weeks after on a 1 DTE play? Grow a pair like the rest of us

This probably isn’t earth shattering news because Nokia is already the backbone of telecom transport. Now, I own a ton and keep buying more because I think it’s criminally undervalued for what it does now, but yeah hey linking it to quantum is cool if it helps it take off.

WELL THIS WAS FUN, CSCO PRINTED, LOST IT CHASING SPY TO 750, NVDA GHEY AT EARNINGS.... was in the hole....not a glorious one....DELL PRINTED,.. TOOK My money out, tried to run it back with DG, GOT shit on, but didnt full port, tried to AVGO run, clearly that wasnt good, at open tommorrow i expect the account of what i left in from the dell lotto to be gone, in a 30 day return stand point i came out ahead.... but now its time to put my apron back on a turn the fryer on.......right after i full port this 17K payday loan on a lulu put

Having just had my most expensive gas fill up ever, I am certain that $150 oil is way higher than when demand destruction would begin. At $120 people are not taking that extra trip to grandmas this summer

Oh shit pdt changes tomorrow

That’s what Saylor used to say.

195p, 185p and then a bunch of 150p lottos that apparently weren’t that far fetched.

I bought way more than I was planning on out of spite for the reddit naysayer that responded haha

yeah only because it fell off a cliff in june 2021 lol

So why were we dropping today?

I keep seeing this, please someone explain wtf this meme means (origin) ?

Rough crowd

I got fucked in the markets worse than I'm going to get fucked behind a Wendy's dumpster tomorrow.

No it's not dumb. And while the match is going on, do some online casinos while you're waiting for it to end

Wait how’d you get in something pre ipo?

assuming we dont go down further tonight

80. Up 45% since purchase.

"...tom Lee is pull out his hair..."

...does anybody speak English in here?

But FCEL

While statistics aren't inherently racist, that one in particular is used by racists to push a racist conclusion: that Black people are inherently violent. But the data doesn't support that explanation. When you control for poverty, the racial gap in violent crime shrinks dramatically. BJS data shows poor white people and poor Black people have nearly identical violent victimization rates (46.4 vs 43.4 per 1,000), while the gap between poor and high-income people is huge. Poverty predicts violence far better than race does.

I feel like you should invest in HIMS. Like, as a customer

Clarify who we mean by "Asians"

Talking about retards who bought this week, chud.

Can someone check on that BMNR guy?

Indonesian Rupiahs

imagine bagholding fake internet money 😂

You'll be fine even if u have to sell at 214 it's only a 1.3k loss

You didnt hear? Theres totally a ceasefire now. Not between the nations causing the oil crises and the strait isnt open still but hey that means the problem has basically been fixed

Stop making fun of my 🍆

$600 on the knicks for a lil +$2400?? Dumb?

Market was down during the war, up after “ceasefire.” I’d ask you to stop being retarded but your inbred dna probably doesn’t work like that

Save us, Asians

Friendly reminder that bitcoin is a leading liquidity indicator and it's not looking good moving forward.

We need leather jacket man to bless is with a trillion dollar price tag or my calls are cooked.

You have time, so maybe

The world mad and makes no sense

So your plan might actually work

No but more mudered women and children will cancel it again.

Add another one to the mountain sized piled of people writing contracts on the assumption they will never be assigned.

Well, it’s currently 214.75. 🤞 for open.

He’s an idiot savant

we gotta pump something tommorow for the pdt change

Dump it

June 4 SpaceX Roadshow starts!!! I put all my tooth fairy money and emergency dinosaur nugget fund into 27 SPCE shares. If the stock goes up, I'll finally be able to buy the ultra-deluxe gaming chair with cup holders on BOTH sides so my best friend and I can each have our own juice box during Fortnite night!

Also another option might be to have risk management exercise your long put to negate your assignment.  They should be able to exercise even if it's not in the money.  This should actually be the safest way instead of shorting the shares prior to assignment.

I will touch it when they start selling it at the Dollar Tree

my goat

Pesos right?

Solid policy! Are you a roofer or just have debilitating autism?

Congratulations on your luck, you've got a second chance! If I were in your shoes I'd cash out and pay off the card and put the rest in a hysa for now. Leave 5k in the brokerage and start learning and practicing a strategy using a much smaller trade size. The more capital you conserve now, the less you'll have to dig out later when you become regularly profitable

We abt*

btc is below its 2021 high

Stop deflecting and deleting your incorrect comments. Remember when you said that the market has been down. Hahahaha

If he actually combats inflation by raising rates, I will not care what that does to stocks. We have to get off this crazy train.

I mean 375 will never happen I think
Investors be losing their minds if they think it is this bad

“in that part of the world, cease-fire means shooting in a more moderate manner “… 😂😝🤔

Oof most definitely not safer. Higher EV but awful tail risk. Would suggest spreads or trading European style options like SPX to avoid the assignment headaches at least

So true.  I just heard the CNBC analysts talking like the high is had and nothing but huge stock losses ahead today.  And yesterday they were discussing how this upward momentum could go on for a long time.  

Everyone needs to stop overreacting to a one day move and stop with the emotion.  It’s a bit of a tightening and consolidation and positioning.  It will happen many times the rest of this year and into the next.  Spending is still going up on AI buildout…more earnings beat in a lot of company’s earnings ahead…at least thru 2027 if GOOG, AMZN, MSFT, META, and maybe if AAPL starts too, are to be believed.

I did sell a little going up, and now have some cash to buy something that may go a bit down.  

Keep your ears out for another sector/market that is going to have some shortages, buy into that, sell when it rockets or hold because those sectors and markets are going to reap further rewards.

I have been trying to find what may be next.

Been increasing MSFT, META, AMZN, and opened a 140 share position in CRWV for data center use.  Had 65 shares of GLW for about $9 cuz I had that since 2009 or so.  Sold 5 shares of that almost at $200.

One new thing I found, because of GLW gains and talks of fiber optics, was the EUV etf.  Bought about 100 shares and will be adding more if I see dips.

Err…shit….I mean stonks go up!

🌽 fair value is 3.50

Think about to see the worst trade of all time

Why,  for the love of god?

Higher for longer because it looks like ir did that every other correction.

I’m sure that 32 he sold will carry him through this bear market 😂

You are a fucking RETARD! Fuck you for not doing an ounce of dd. I hope your entire portfolio goes to 0 and you get homeless

fries 🍟

in the bag 

por favor

Losing more than the maximum loss is truly regarded

Not until shortages arrive.  Still too much SPR being dumped and this retarded market thinks the war is what matters, as if Trump can just taco the strait open.

super contrarian take bro wow

No BTC is digit AIDS

will you pay me to buy corn, dear kind sir 👀

im about to regretti this a lot tomorrow arent i

Don't worry, he'll take good care of her

I cry

There's been a big one ask me how I know

thank god. Would like to invest my money in stocks that are not tech memes or 5 trillion dollar companies everyday

RemindMe! 18 hours

big if true

Even as a big time 🌽 bro hater. Gotta feel a little bad for them right now

All companies have two choices for funding , when cash flow is not sufficient to cover expenses:  (1) issue equity, (2) acquire debt.   Because high growth but nascent companies are not cash flow positive, debt is very expensive.  So they issue equity.

Everything about it is damn near flat-earth levels of fart sniffing. If you have one really go into it with you, it only takes a few minutes to realize "this person is fuking regarded!"

\^\^\^\^ This \^\^\^\^

Watch space x make this market dump like there is no tomorrow. Everyone is expecting this once of a lifetime stock to move the market but watch it make it dump

Let's see if they come back for the follow-up treatment tomorrow.

speaking of bad decisions I took the fanny pack money I made from spce and bought Microsoft calls🥴

No se si parecido pero estoy apostando en contra de la moneda local de mi país. de momento va bien, mi posición lleva subiendo al menos 0,5% diario. Una lástima por la gente esté perdiendo su trabajo pero quienes deben hacerse cargo de eso no lo hacen

Sell everything I have a call.

I will full port 🌽 when it hits $10 tomorrow 🚀

I was referring to the part of the OP where these companies would often follow up the split with dilution.

Did you scream bankruptcy into the phone? I did that when I got margin called for over 150k. I sent them a check in the mail and moved to Thailand before it bounced

cnat sell, the options haven’t exercised yet

Made seven figures with MSTR puts the last two weeks

I don’t care how much it gaps down tomorrow, I’m buying more lmfao

its de minimus

Why the hostility? 

I know this is Reddit and it’s often a waste of time to provide an example to help someone see that maybe their view of a situation is more limited than they may realize, but I’m sure we can both see that others agree with my stance.

I’m not trying to polish the knob of people selling AI/ML as the solution to everything, everywhere, and always. It’s often overkill with respect to resource utilization for easy tasks and underperforms for tasks it’s not well trained for but sold to be good at. 

However, with respect to its impact to the field of protein engineering for structurally biology and drug discovery applications, saying that “it’s pretty fucking great at suggesting which of my ideas is more likely to succeed” is such an understatement.

just asked the room, the answer is that we cannot

Right there with you. I’m a grown adult male. College educated and pretty average level of intelligence. I can’t even begin to understand any of it

This is crude's destiny

save what ? that ass is long gone ( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°)

IBM got the ass blaster today, same for ORCL

Thank you for putting me at ease. I got in at 590. I know it’s a little
High but goddamn what isn’t high in the tech world!?

Who tf is that??

saylor its time to learn how to say "welcome to mcdonalds may I take your order" buddy

[ Removed by Reddit ]

What a baller. Calls

Welcome to Wendy’s, may I take your order?

Congrats, what was the trade?

Amazing! Congrats!

why you gotta put mu in parentheses like it’s a secret code

i think the problem if we get a massive dip sometime next year is this regard kevin warsh does not seem to want to support the stock market

When you thought marvell was about spider man and shit

Liquidation coming

Sell now lol

They shoot first and investigate later, sorry new Kash rules!

And crude is red again, fuck this ghey as market

Overnight already broke 215 at some point, you could've sold. If not just set a premarket sell order for 215

SPY is up 77% last 5 years. BTC is up 75%. Get fucked crypto retards.

When you're feelin' sad and low
We will take you where you gotta go
Smilin', dancin', everything is free
All you need is positivity

Colours of the world
Spice up your life
Every boy and every girl
Spice up your life
People of the world
Spice up your life
Aah 🎶🎵

That song has been stuck in my head all week. Now it is stuck in yours. You are welcome.

They think if you don’t support Israel you automatically love Iran. It’s like nah leave em both alone

Micron will never crash
And yes memory is safest risky investment lol

I bet they have stories...  They probably shake their head... But honestly they probably deal with this stuff..

Op, this could work out well..  hopefully

Probably no solid resistance till around 50-48k but that’s just my take on it. Shorting BTC and still pumping tech might still be an option right now. Could go either way tho

busy jackin' it

If 40K doesn’t hold then the pattern has completely broken. All bets are off, at that point I think you would see complete and utter capitulation as even the big guys start dumping

I can’t help but send love u/odd_neighborhood969 ‘s way

He truly didn’t see the signs.

Text doesn't matter. 
#chartgang  #visualgains

2$ fair price take it or leave it

boyfriend was the counterparty

tx.   
aint no way 10k bro.  
  
now can i suk u for free ?

maybe buy in when it hits 60k

you're specifically talking about something called "revealed preference," which, again, a lot of (mostly behavioral) economists would argue is really dubious. given that behavioral economics is an attempt to do economics according to \*how people \*\*actually\*\* behave\*, i lean in that direction.

whenever you're talking about decision making and you say something like "you don't actually perform this exercise, but it's happening!" your next step should be skepticism

economics isn't a hard science. "revealed preference" is an attempt to reify certain rules to make it more scientific, but that doesn't magically elevate it into the realm of "how people actually behave"

Let it settle down first

this is some black mirror episode where everyone ends up broke and commits

Dumping everything

Zoom out on that MRVL chart 🤡🤡🤡

not worth it, wait for it to drop and buy some as every single tech company that dropped this season is already back up, arm and now are up a lot. I'm down about 12% on my avgu position and that sucks but it will bounce back. There's over 50k of calls on avgo expiring on friday with strikes over 500. Those were so expensive and now they are worth nothing.

Hullo!

Hey guys did you see !!??! Another cease fire !!!! Thank you fifa peace president

My wife said to me that if mu and mrvl will be red tomorrow  , she will leave me for her bf.

Saylor should have sold more to save his ass

The plan has always been the same. Buy calls on the dip for 2-4 weeks out and then sell 3-10 days later and be rewarded handsomely

The only thing not addressed is what happens to Google and Microsoft if a lot of their data centers go dark because these AI companies go under?  That’s gotta be a big hit, no?

#can we please stop dumping oil FOR 5 FUCKING MINUTES

Hasan piker has had sex with roughly 300 women in the last 15 years. That's one new girl every 17-19 days.

post this in their sub LOL

Besides AVGO and PANW, this is literally everything I did, too.

63k rejected fast, might be getting the big one soon

I have no idea. Could go up, down, up then down or down then up.

Boomers that defend Israel are sick

r/investing

What the fuck is all this red shift on my screen!?!

Are Koreans doing anything?

*Lift Off Mobile (LFTO) jut priced their IPO at $23.  Did any of you other regards file a COTP for shares? It has to moon, it has Liftoff right in its name.*

we just have to make it to the $2K account balance

I know people say EuroPoor, but damn, should you really be gambling?

Down 20k on now calla, 30k on ibm calls

Yeah. You have to wait til we’re closer to the halving. Can accumulate closer to 2027. This is a straight up bear market. You don’t want to buy into this.

Yeah it'll fill that gap. At which point it'll probably be a raging buy

I feel like Michael Saylor must have banged the moms and dads of 90% of WSB members. Some real angsty emo teen resentment. I dig it.

What's the over/under until Israel violates the ceasefire first by bombing again? Last time it was 24 hours.

Buttcorn LMAO

Sure bro here hold mine for me too

BTC legitimately gonna be in the 45k range by Saturday lol

I turned my phone upside down and was confused why I still couldn't read the text

Them trolls

higher for longer

no problem. if this was the real crash, intel would've been down 30% already lol

Damn soxx holding up nicely. Let’s see where this shakes out tomorrow. Everything else still taking a shit so it might very well be a red red day tomorrow

Someone out there has bought my SoFi and Uuuu calls expiring tomorrow and has some loss porn to share. Come out, don't be shy!

dildo pink

I need Robin for my call tmr

some classic American chickens, Not you  ofc

The shares issued in a reverse split are not additional issuances, if that is what you mean. 

The existing shares are reverse split. For example if you have a 1 for 3 reverse split, for every 3 shares you already own,  you end up with 1 share. That 1 share is the same overall ownership percentage you had before. So instead of 3 shares worth $1.12 each, you have 1 share worth $3.36. If it is 1 for 10, the 1 share is worth $11.20.

Dump your winners and double down on your losers.  Great strategy.

Well if you're screwed already, might as well stick around and get some popcorn 🍿

I mean memory is the only think still doing well this week
What price did u buy at?
Anyway long term you should be completely fine WDC will follow micron and sandisk

Curious how with Brent and WTI both looking thick, how Dow futes are pumping? What are delusional people hallucinating about why that works?

40k is first buy zone. If that dont hold then this shit is going to 10k

How are there sellers left?!

I've been hearing it for a year and a half, it's pretty clear young people can't afford homes and are complaining to that effect. Housing prices are already dipping and buying is stalling.
Wen? 🤷‍♂️

It will soon. There were many retards buying it at $330 yesterday.

What’s less than free?

i activate the face down uno reverse card i played 3 moves ago

Just because you don't understand it, doesn't make it stupid...

Japan risks return to stagnation without early rate hike, ex-BoJ policymaker says - BusinessWorld Online

Ahhh okay, got it.

I guess my next question is why do these with 0dte? Why not a week out or something?

Hi, is this schwabs? I heard you were cool with regards

I'm down bigly for no reason other than reckless risk management today, I am extremely fucking regarded my friend

How do you got -276%?!?!

I guess you can go past a 100% decrease

BTC dragging down the rest of the damn market with it

Guys let’s start a comment thread of why you think this market will crash or will stay high for longer

To the moon, my sweet flip baby.

You already have a bet going - RKLB to 170.0 before 19-Jun-2026 05:47 PM -05

$SPCE is going to $10 on IPO week and there is nothing you regards can do about it

!banbet what color should my lambo be taking recs

gotchu。哈哈哈哈哈

The Asians will save us! These semi bags aren’t too heavy.

at what price will y'all load up on leveraged btc etf ? trying to get a feel on y'all thoughts

for real? i bought NASA calls just in case SPCE doesn't play out at least I make some money off the rest of space stocks rally. What are the chances SPCE is the only space stock that doesn't rally next week

Wishful thinking and manifestation is fake.

Puts on IBIT

i am 1/3 cash and ready to buy the dip but i'm not sure there will be a big one

You buying?

MSTR put holders about to become overnight millionaires

Didn't realize CRWD is going a,4:1 split.

Options about to get a lot more manageable

avgo to 300

I just know the "never going to sell btc" guy that manages MSTR just sold 32 btc recently.

Props to u/bad_neighborhood969 for convincing me to buy way more than I was planning on.

Made a nice seven figures on that play.

(G)A(Y)I

There will be lots of loss porn tmr on Avgo including myself lol

It’s on the website

My brother in Christ. Some of us are regarded

Did your AI GF dump you?

MU dipped hard on earnings too. I’m buying.

You can on mobile? Click the picture and zoom?

Show us your puts

And so bitcoin drops 50% and they drop 75%?  Or how does that work

I mog you to oblivion. I’m a 6ft gigachad and you are manlet.

Marvell hasn't even had a down day since 80 a share lol

this will just pump

Elon to the moon. I wish we have a very vigorous and intense selloff in semis so Elon can fund his mission to mars.

Will ladder every strike to avoid wash sale. 🧠

Rope on discount for all 🌽 holders

right

i have 120 shares at $65

Lakers in 3

Can’t wait for the oil market to actually care about the supply and demand for oil again instead of whether 🥭 will announce a fake peace deal

The greatest feedback loop of all time

BTC Selloff --> MSTR Selloff --> More BTC Selloff --> Even More MSTR Selloff

Believe it or not, calls

ETH price in June 2021: 2500
ETH price in June 2026: 1700

Crypto bros really wasted 5 years with their money tied up while stocks have been pumping

They also hold bitcoin

Who the fuck is on AMPG? $20 BY THE END OF THE YEAR. LFGO

Now we just have to make it to the $2K account balance starting tomorrow to have unlimited day trades. Someday we'll make it there bros. Just another 90% to get there. The $2K American dream account balance.

Michael Saylor here. Fuck you. I got diamond hands. ( billions in convertible bonds).

Be somebody.

it’s okay i give you permission babycakes

is pdt really gone tomorrow ?

Rat poison

nah that was today

....ok, tomorrow too

If I take Hostage of SPY do you think FBI will come to rescue?😝

It was already trading at an insane multiple. AVGO is garbage

Gold is down 3 months in a row

My guy, you have 1300 shares of NVDA.

# NOWtards and MRVLtards, show yourselves and your loss porns 🤗

Chinese stocks capitulating

Did I say Iran was great?

I can’t wait for ai to have its bitcoin moment 🤌🏿

How do I short corn to get all my bags back?

The corn people are ridiculous calling their scams “projects” and the top scammers “devs”

Dude is going to run to North Korea

I hope not. I have a call expiring this week lol

Well it’s 14.75 currently. May the odds ever be in your favor.

Anyone have Saylor’s number? He can come clean my 8,000 square foot property. I’ll even let him sleep on my boat on the mooring 😂

I was looking for the 21mil

Spurs in 6 I fear

Is BTC the digital gold? Because gold is going up unlike crypto. Lmao​

Thanks for your submission! 

To keep things interesting, we want to see big gains and big losses! 

So we've set the following thresholds for Gain, Loss, and YOLO flaired posts:

* YOLO posts must be a minimum of $10,000 of options or $25,000 of shares and recently opened.

* Gain / Loss posts must show realized gains or losses of more than $2,500 for options or $5,000 for shares. 

We want to see the actual trade. What you got in at, what you sold at. Then tell us why you did it. Give us the story of why you're a fucking genius (or idiot).

This is what a great post looks like:

$17.2K Gain on AMZN - OP described his gain in the title, has a clear screenshot showing both the entry and exit, meaning his gains were locked in, and they explained their reasoning in the comments and what they learned. All around a great post!

Here are examples of what could get your post removed:

* $300,000 SDC Loss. Still not selling - Even though this is a tremendous loss and something worth posting about, **the position hasn't been closed yet**.

Here are examples of amazing posts which could have been even better:

* $75,000 DDOG Loss. - This is a great post and one that won't get removed. However, the OP could have talked about *why* they entered the position in the first place, what their target price was, and what went wrong. OP didn't stick around in the comments to answer any questions.

* $1.1MM Loss, No details - OP simply posted a screenshot of their overall portfolio balance. It's definitely a big loss, but it's not that interesting without OP talking about what trades they were in and why. OP didn't answer most questions in the comments which left many readers speculating on what happened.

---

All that being said, we are here to help. We want to make it as easy as possible for you to post to our community. We have to balance this with making the subreddit interesting for our readers. 

If you need some guidance, don't hesitate to reach out to modmail and we'll give you some pointers!

Holy shit. It's Chad Dickens.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Would I be stupid for buying IBIT?

No one’s believing this dip. We will push past ath Friday so get your calls in early tomorrow and hold until past noon Friday

Yes. It was a pump and dump and I missed the pump

Spurs in 4

Down -34% from HOOD's 🌽 giveaway. I've always said they just wanted to unload their bags

Guessing mkts are gonna dump semis bc most are at all time highs and rotate into mag7 to keep this mkt afloat until SpaceX ipo next week...

You should write a strongly worded letter to the manager

It sounds crazy but I’ve been doing this for years just running scenarios in my head. I have a 10k put spread position on soxl that I hope should neutralize any margin call issues with my hedge positions as backup.
Mostly I just trade around my qqq and vgt positions, which I never sell and never plan on selling.

I have been waiting a while to see this.

I bought the dip

Calls on wash sales disallowed

I’m Batman?

I don’t go to work on days it’s windy

My Nokia 5125 still working

My wife is going to need another boyfriend for me to go all-in on this one.

Okay boomer

Artificial inflated anyway

Totally man!! Appreciate you

My only hope is that the price falls so much that it either doesn’t get included in an index or the price falls so much that I am ok with my retirement buy in at that price.

Revenue is a record of limitations.

at least you can afford good lotion with that 100k portfolio, some of us are using tears

Why does it say, “Investing” in the top left?

Hey man I bought shares of NVDA today so that means it’s going down… sorry

American long ear corn futures

Ain’t reading that novel

# MU is the next casualty of the AI doombust.

Facts dude. Was up 50k last week. Just a cool down

My question is why open a condor spread apparently without knowing how they work?

Fuck, my buy order triggered. If there's a dip's dip I'm fuk

Mods, we really need to ban sure things.

Also, it’s going below 90

get portfolio margin to unlock easy mode. 6:1 leverage!

Lfgggg bull

interesting

With no PDT rule tomorrow, I will attempt to make 1 trade per minute.  390 minutes, 390 trades. 😈

You still got 100 grand, quit crying.

Good job 🍪

Y'all Rex Ryan isn't impressed.

Sometimes you screw the pooch sometimes the pooch screws back

Regards who end up green today I have big questions for you! Are you inside traders or what?

With what money? 😩

Does MSTR just hold bitcoin? Or what else do they do

this is the most regarded thing i seen today

Knicks in 5

hahaha. This is the DD we all need

If Asians buy us out of this dip, I promise not to tell more racist Asian jokes 🙏

If it breaks through $17 it is going $12.  Save what you can?

I think they won the last 2 or something. Good call

I’m from the future, people think SPCX is a leveraged ETF of SPCE

Yes, you need to use ThinkOrSwim instead of the normal Schwab app.   NVDA trades 24/5.

lol, we are blood brothers

Eat my dongus you fuckin nerd.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Lil sticky. We live the earth. It is our Pandey.

god i need someone to ai that into reality

This is the cease fire we are trying to force Israel to agree to because Iran told us that the war won't end as long as Israel is attacking Hezbollah. 

It is thinly veiled begging to stop the quagmire.

We don't mention the D word anymore

Lower

**Ban Bet Created:** **/u/gervs99** bet **MSTR** goes from **124.08** to **100.0** before **17-Jun-2026 09:39 PM EDT**

Their record is 1 wins and 0 losses.

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

parents are related or what?

!banbet $MSTR 100 2w

That’s very regarded. Godspeed.

Corn in shambles

Chungy Eggy 🥰🥰

I ran a fucking node. I was fully onboard.

muh 🌽hole, muh 🌽hole

Tom Lee and Saylor fighting for business behind a dumpster somewhere rn.

Sell in May and go away looking to be right on the money

no sir this is casino

No. I'm bored. And, it's Mr. Rex Adonis Neptune. 

#u/imustbegthequestion

I can't touch myself when i'm down 70% i can't focus

First one to the moon gets to claim the land?

that sounds highly regarded

Roadshow is tomorrow. You will hear more

It is based on the spread. BOJ has been trying to support the Yen over the last month and been failing miserably. Every time they interject, the market just gobbles up that free money and pushes the currency right back where it was. They are essentially being forced to raise their rates (reducing the spread).

Once this happens, people will have to sell their equities to "make whole" their borrowings back in Japan. Most of those equities are sitting in US markets. US markets have the highest amount of leverage (margin) on use right now. So when the Japanese borrowers are forced to sell, this will trigger margin calls. And because the market is overextended, this will be a compounding effect of selling.

Inflation was falling and the FOMC needed to support a doomed economy. Currently inflation is rising and if you believe Trump, our economy is booming.Two completely different scenarios. I still maintain the that FOMC will hold rates steady but they will adjust wording to be more hawkish (and potentially adjust the dot plot). Those two things will drive up the long end of the curve (beyond what the market is already doing).

Hey no fair! It took me a month to figure out what you regards were talking about. I thought the sub all of a sudden cared about commodities!

No way, I was holding the same $215/212.5 credit spread! Difference is I wasn't greedy enough to hold it into the pin-risk shadow realm. Closed that shit early. Good luck tomorrow, regard.

We are  winning

Do it regard

Be mad at trump for not letting him buy qualcomm and staying in hardware instead of going all PE on enterprise software

No CIO who just spend a bajillion dollars on an upgrade recently is going to allow some hipster to vibe code the company’s major system of record.

Getting your calls in early tomorrow will be crucial

hopefully it doesn’t bother him more

#This month is the pride month so bears will win the month LMAO🤌

Buy the dip?

Can’t do it without cash!

He is worried because it’s the house money

Cheap food for all.

Hey, I got $7 of dividends. That's a win in my book.

Cost to extract isn’t the main problem, supply is. The only reason SA is not at max capacity is because the strait is blocked and storage is full.

I’ve made $3 million on this play in the last 2 weeks 😬😂

Nana's life savings

Thank you Norway. Y'all know how to print after all.

Avgo needs indian CEO to reach its glory

You have to dress sexy ai sex bots.

I remember when nvda was the darling of this sub

Ah, lovers can be so fickle

What are all of those poor fucks living Puerto Rico gonna do?

META had a good day. So there's that.

This whole thing started off some fucking drama over soybeans I stg

i just peeped the MSTR sub and they’re all dooming minus the permabulls LMAO

Thanks

I told you to buy PEP for the dividend instead of TECH calls for earnings. 😂

Sanctions.

Holding MSTR puts waiting for BTC to go to zero.

Wtf dude. Semis down less than memory .

Make it make sense

Same guys with $300 ports

good news: my NASA calls are holding steady

bad news: my SPCE calls are down

Should I sell my NASA calls and go full in SPCE?

So, how it go?

I’m holding 760c June 8

Wasn’t it the software earnings were less than perfect?

Currently pouring apple juice down the drain. Sewers add Come Zero to my Sewers.

Thanks for your submission! 

To keep things interesting, we want to see big gains and big losses! 

So we've set the following thresholds for Gain, Loss, and YOLO flaired posts:

* YOLO posts must be a minimum of $10,000 of options or $25,000 of shares and recently opened.

* Gain / Loss posts must show realized gains or losses of more than $2,500 for options or $5,000 for shares. 

We want to see the actual trade. What you got in at, what you sold at. Then tell us why you did it. Give us the story of why you're a fucking genius (or idiot).

This is what a great post looks like:

$17.2K Gain on AMZN - OP described his gain in the title, has a clear screenshot showing both the entry and exit, meaning his gains were locked in, and they explained their reasoning in the comments and what they learned. All around a great post!

Here are examples of what could get your post removed:

* $300,000 SDC Loss. Still not selling - Even though this is a tremendous loss and something worth posting about, **the position hasn't been closed yet**.

Here are examples of amazing posts which could have been even better:

* $75,000 DDOG Loss. - This is a great post and one that won't get removed. However, the OP could have talked about *why* they entered the position in the first place, what their target price was, and what went wrong. OP didn't stick around in the comments to answer any questions.

* $1.1MM Loss, No details - OP simply posted a screenshot of their overall portfolio balance. It's definitely a big loss, but it's not that interesting without OP talking about what trades they were in and why. OP didn't answer most questions in the comments which left many readers speculating on what happened.

---

All that being said, we are here to help. We want to make it as easy as possible for you to post to our community. We have to balance this with making the subreddit interesting for our readers. 

If you need some guidance, don't hesitate to reach out to modmail and we'll give you some pointers!

Holy shit. It's Chad Dickens.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

It's literally terrible for all of its supposed uses. Doesn't fight Inflation, terrible to use as money.

You did it bro

Yes cause my life depends on it

market will crash in late August or September. this is just a pullback. i suggest everyone buys Intel towards the end of July. it's forming a bull flag and will do whatever MU just did (so go up like 150% or so) before we crash

This is a good reminder.

Lisan al gaib in the audience, rapping about Louis v sandals. Good for him being a Knicks fan

I know 🌽 wont die, but there's that chance if it goes to zero, the world would be a better place

🌽 is the roller blading of the 21st century

Everything should be priced in what feeds you for an afternoon.  It's the only truly tangible thing that wont ever change (besides your appetite).  And it will keep you grounded in reality.

Shitcoin only 100% off its ATH

Holy shit. This whole time I thought people were actually trading corn in this sub.

Like on the cob

Did you day 14?

They did not do so great in software revenue is why

Is SAP worth buying at current levels?

I’ll bring chips!

Aaaah man what is this the 50th time?

AVGO green by open?

WELL THIS WAS FUN, CSCO PRINTED, LOST IT CHASING SPY TO 750, NVDA GHEY AT EARNINGS.... was in the hole....not a glorious one....DELL PRINTED,.. TOOK My money out, tried to run it back with DG, GOT shit on, but didnt full port, tried to AVGO run, clearly that wasnt good, at open tommorrow i expect the account of what i left in from the dell lotto to be gone, in a 30 day return stand point i came out ahead.... but now its time to put my apron back on a turn the fryer on.......right after i full port this 17K payday loan on a  lulu put

how was the AVGO guidance so bad wtf is hock tan doin

what about when elliptic curves get outmogged by sigmapilled bitmaxxing quantum computers

Bitcoin

I'm not the one imposing tariffs on other countries using slave labour buddy.

You buying more buddy? Oh, your account is suspended... ofc.

What about 800 trades a day

Jon. Pricy Manta Ray. Can I eat at your ristorste please? I promise to use your card and tip in £

The funniest part about the crypto bros is that they all know that if they sell any of it the whole house of cards will collapse and their fortunes are worthless.  Trapped in a prison of illiquidity.  Classic lol.

So much red my greedy little heart can't take it

Buy RKLB 200c 3 weeks and you can buy millions and millions of bottles of Tylenol

If I buy in at +30% compared to last week I can make it big next week for sure.

wen next boj intervention. usdjpy edging 160 👀

Ah this is why market went down.

Like you have 800 comments today bro. Do something with you life please

I may be a idiot but I think it’s a etf tied to physical corn

Ankle looks fine bro.

Bounce back to 490? Lol y'all sre fuuuuuucked

Are ya winning son🫵

look, just pick a cheeseburger and stick to it.

The top is close!!!

avgo will probably be flat by morning

Walsh is all about the crypto nows a good time to nickel and dime it while it falls fr

AVGO popped the AI bubble. It's fucking over now

A negative loss is a gain

bro saw HPE and DELL and decided to yolo AVGO rip bro

Quantum computing makes it irrelevant unless it evolves

The purpose is letting us know who is gay

I just asked claude and they said it's not a ponzi

Try doing puts on Cienna and lmk how it goes. I’d buy it myself but I’m broke

yeah i learned my lesson im not doing options anymore or atleast im certainly not doing these ridiculous fucking earnings call 2 day options i cannot handle it justi snt for me

Like October 7, 2023 ?

Onds such fucker dilution shit, sorry, I got rid of them few months ago… no regrets 🥴

I wonder if he gets desperate and shorts on hyperliquid 100x

Not this stupid shit again

Did you sell?

Aaaaahhhhh shiiiiit🫠🫠🫠

Freedom everyone.

Sold puts on shares they dont own for premium and now owes a boatload of cash in the morning unless stock go up.

Statistics isn’t racism

what the avgo doing

Go to IG tonight. We coming. Bey is on.

It’s feeling gassed.

Buying Bitcoin here. I don’t care how much you hate it. It will be around forever and will have a purpose

Today was so weird

The famous bit coin

Everytime they talk about frameworks at the job I feel it

My guy, you have 1300 shares of NVDA.

...cannons amirite?

what the 🌽 doing

This is the best use of ai honestly. Calls.

Never asked any questions brother, simply stating well known facts.

You can say anything you want from behind a hidden history account and online, it doesn't make it true.

Calls it is

Ok I'll bite.

If they find him. 

He's going to Iran for sure.

Anyone else obsessively checking their stocks in AH?

Thank you, what should I bring?

yeah i know oyure right i just odnt kno wwhat to do should i sell it right now and take the loss its so much though its like a massive fucking loss or maybe i should just wait for it to recover a bit i feel like it has to recover

Lmaoo

Once the GPU craze reaches its max, they will pivot back into improving the algorithms so use less power

*This “pivot.” Is it in the room with us now?*

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Damn dude I knew it was going to do this because Palo did the same thing. CrowdStrike dropped too and I’d also be willing to bet Cienna will drop after earnings. I’m thinking of buying puts but of course that will end up being the one company I’m wrong about.

Which is your preferred premium brand, outside?

SpaceX is a real company

That's shackled to the blackhole known as xAI.

The first stock I ever bought, Sun Microsystems, in 2007.

Fucking welltower 3 dollar cock spike straight to the fucking money

Fuck this is brutal. I’m sorry man.

That’s what I lost yesterday in SPX calls

I would wish AVGO even on my enemies 😤

Iron condor. He creates two spreads. Sells a 215P and buys a 212.5P. Sells a 235C and buys a 237.5C. 215P is closer to the money so he collects a credit using the 212.5P as collateral. Bull credit spread. Again, 235C is closer to the money so he collects a credit using the 237.5C as collateral. Ideally, NVDA stays inside these bands and all options expire worthless. The risk is a breakout in either direction. The underlying went in the money and the trader exercised the 215P contract. Meaning OP is assigned 2500 shares (25 contracts x 100 shares) at a strike of 215 that OP is obligated to buy. Unless NVDA opens above 215 and all options expire worthless and OP keeps the premium. Looks like he risked $1000 of credit collected based on the risk of being obligated to buy 2500 shares worth over $500,000.

The problem is OP might not have $500,000 to buy 2500 shares. In which case Schwab reserves the right to liquidate his holdings and take him to collections.

If SpaceX raises only 75B, why you say that investors need to sell smth else (like MAG7).

75B is peanuts, sometimes in one day random MAG 7 can lose 100B in CAPEX?

E.g. Google is 4T Capex, so 75B is what? Like 2% drop? That's it, 2% drop in Google covers whole SpaceX shares that will be sold in public market?

This like a actual corn etf or what am I missing

Yea when I bought it

The liftoff ipo must be a scam right? Their front page case study is from ios 14 era lmao 

“The results of buying non-personalized traffic at scale with Liftoff are encouraging, giving us confidence in our continued investment in programmatic. With the release of iOS 14, our long-term partnership with Liftoff is more important than ever.”

Honestly probably. Like cool what are you buying bitcoin for? Shits trash

My avg is 315

I’ll sell you some ATM TSM calls. Not cheap. My baby has hell of a coke habit

I think like 600

"...What's wild is that the US has the biggest prison factories in the world lmao..."

...ironically posted using your internet access device assembled by Asian slave labor - hypocritical much? - grow up...

Just Tarriff Hormuez and leave, itll overturn 3 months later anyway. 

I need to be an advisor

Isn't it just crypto winter? This happens every 4 years

This meme is ridiculously meta and I’m annoyed I understand it

Still a trillion dollars in this shit

What’s strike

Who sponsors the Silver Arrows, Scuderia Ferrari, and Papayas. Don't say it's done again? I'm going to chistes rica.

whats corn???

In 2008 I asked compliance if I could buy Put options to hedge my guaranteed bonus in case the firm went bankrupt and they said: No.

A few months later the bank went bust and I didn't get my bonus lol. I deeply regret asking those assholes.

Are you liquidated yet

He probably did. Old habits die hard. Gambling is a bitch

She’s beautiful. Who is she?

bought 10k because you got the earnings date wrong and your solution was to add 20k on margin during the dump. this is art

It’s already up back to $290 bruh

Corn absolutely relentless. You think Michael saylor moon doing interpretive dancing to somehow have the universe resurrect his baggies

hock tuah

"6% down?  Those are rookie numbers"

- Space bagholders

Cut your losses if they're small, otherwise ride the wave to 0

I’m jacked to my tits on DRAM 1/27 calls. See ya at Wendy’s or the Bahamas.

Yeah bro, all of us have 10+ years of experience, have super high risk tolerance and over $1 million net worth and liquid assets. 😜

Was only like 32 fake coins.. dude must be sweating hard rn

Wasn’t MSTR like $400 at one point

There's a difference between being fooled and being regarded - the latter is what the regarded are hoping for.

I rather have all these MU bs posts instead of this bitcoin 🌽bs.

Yea its terrible, also they have Market makers like winter mute whose whole game is using your money to liquidate you

When weren't we?

I was just thinking that. Hard to say but today was weird.

even if you are assigned, you will be long and you might be able to walk away with profit, if the stock falls below your purchase price after assignment you owe money, if Nvda moons you sell at open market and walk away with profit, a neat lotto ticket

Money 💰 

What money?

Siemens

Deserved honestly...

So your paragraph seems to suggest puts and soon. But you’re also long oil?

Lolololol absolutely wrecked

that's still 40k too much

Hock Tan and Lip Bu Tan are kissing cousins.

cant wait for monday to see what saylor will accomplish during the weekend

Crypto is collapsing because the USA just straight up jacked Iran's crypto and everyone is realizing it's fake and ghay...

Related to that... the rotation from crypto to stocks is about halfway done... 

Iran or w.e doesn't matter when there's so much money rotating in while people find a new home to park their money

Prob keep grinding higher until butt coin is around 10k and there's not much left to squeeze out of it

Then the market will return to normal...There will be no crash... Crypto bros are reluctant to sell..  So they will prob just hold their stocks forever and outperform stock bros...

Anyways...

Everybody give it up for SPCE!, homeless dude

Soccer is Canada game

I ain’t selling shit

Mine was like a fanny pack that I then proceeded to  buy Microsoft calls with😔

gg brunson tweaked his ankle hard. raise the banner already

So retarded. Just stop and get mental help

Saylor trial is going to be a great Netflix documentary 5 years from now

phone call from mr bank man sound really scary.

Most people won’t make enough money in their lifetime to make that write off work

Just short it go both ways like your dad

how about u eat my ASS

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Best of luck but I think you’ll be fine

to whoever bet $10 i will ask for $5 and kick you on the nuts

you'll be fine. it'll probably pop back up to 215-220 after you close it all.

I'm jealous of OP. My portfolio is literally 10x bigger than his and Schwab still doesn't approve my account for spreads. The fact they let an account with only $16,000 trade spreads makes me realize I just fucked up the application.

What's your favorite movie?

Man yall so dramatic. Also who cares about Bitcoin shits going to 40k

Tf is AVGU?

Ber slaughter party tomorrow. You’re invited. Mark my word

Llámame.

I don’t get it, if you’re concerned just sell? You guys know you can just sell right?

corn going thru a k-hole rn

Bitcoinz= caca

Like father like son

no they do not.

My understanding is the Yen carry unwind is dependent on the spread between Japanese bonds and US bonds. The unwind has more to do with the BOJ hiking. Also, there isn’t going to be a rate hike in the US. Look at how the Fed supported the economy with rate cuts in the first half of 2008 even though inflation was 4%.

Happened to me a few times, ended up making a tiny bit of money, it’s no big deal. Big tech stock like NVDA has tons of liquidity so its easy to derisk immediately after a surprise assignment.

Scuderia Red is very expensive. 🚒🫴

Just outright selling short shares and making the position print

Is MRVL done? Should I cut my losses or still hopeium?

MSTR was $35 3 years ago. Look out below

Dumped today because retail will go stupid tomorrow with no PDT... might be approaching the end of the line

Oil losing a day's gains based on nothing...

Space stocks are selling off in preparation to buy spacex

I’ll shit and piss if it’s fucking green by open

What is corn?

Lmao. That comment tells me everything I need to know. All you do is echo mainstream media talking points. You don’t actually know anything about the area and the complex history of the country. You definitely didn’t even know it went through a civil war. Because if you did, you wouldn’t be asking such a ridiculous question like how groups of Lebanese obtained weapons. 

“I’ve done far more than you”. Strange empty statement. Well I was born and raised in Lebanon and my extended family still lives there so yeah, I doubt that. I’m done with this conversation.

FUCKEDFUCKEDFUCKEDFUCKEDFUCKED

I can not convey to you all how much money I’ve made with MSTR puts the last two weeks.

Needless to say, thanks Michael, you’re a fucking moron.

Sold 32 btc I believe

"Store of tax writeoffs"🌽

Less rumor than fact. Trouble is, they either have to buy to cover later, or else draw from SPR to deliver, which only drains the tanks faster.

It all depends upon how long one expects the Strait to remain closed. If you believe it’s opening next week, short oil. If you believe we’ll still be ‘negotiating’ in 2-3 months time (if indeed a hot war hasn’t restarted by then), you’d want to be long. It’s a bet on geopolitics more than anything else.

Rush the fast protocol.

Unless you’re a member of the highest level of management, you aren’t considered an insider. 

If you aren’t required to disclose your purchases or sales of company stock, it isn’t insider trading.

Powered by Quantum nuclear energy!

You just enjoy being k holed

Corn looking real juicy... gonna start a position tomorrow if it drops to <$60k

Shouldn’t he be buying

Green by open?

Sitting back, listening to Enya.

banbet! RDDT 195 9 days

Goddammit, Richard.

Draft King ads pop-ups on national television mid play 🥀🥀🥀

A buck an ear?

“Store of value” 🌽

You have options too. Amazing. 

No crying in the casino

my pure commons port was down 5% today so i guess it's 5.0 beta lmao

So good 😂 fuck MSTR!

Reverse split arbitrage can be a money maker.

Your profile pic makes your comment funnier

Clearly you don’t speak English. It’s so sad to see. Oh well

I hear iran is nice this time of year.  Though you might get a charles schwab sponsored JDAM dropped in your head right now.

is scam lee capitulating? this is wild

Interesting

I was up $30k on GRPN calls last week, and now am down $7k. 🙄

This drip process uses considerably less energy. The RPP is just as good as virgin and is being/will be mandated in many countries and states. 70ish cent per pound premium out of Ironton but we expect larger plants will cut input costs considerably.

Your mom gave you 10k to gamble?

Psa for anyone using investing.com, the price of corn is wrong (it's much, much lower)

MSTR to 80 by end of June.

Saylor will have to refinance, but where?!

It’s to reset technicals. Most of trading is done by algos and this was waaaaaaay overextended. Idk what could’ve been said in the call to make it better

Yet they lost LESS money than SpaceX… so there’s that

oh and tomorrow PDT is gone. Small portfolios can go full regard now

You deleted your dumbass comments saying the market has been down. You lost. Youre dumb. You deleted your comments cause they were wrong. See ya broke ass

Same buddy.

Ceasefire cubed electrobombero

SPY is now so large a 1% down day is apocalyptic.

lol god that’s not a good sign is it

At this point ,POS  avgo should be delisted

Didn’t he liquidate some of his position recently? I thought that is one catalyst for corn free fall

Go Knicks 

Abolish AI

that sounds pretty retarded to me

🌽 right now LOL

ben stiller looks like a dyke tbh

So my boomer physician father managed to lose $3.5 million this week on TSLA calls 😮 he absolutely loves Elon, maybe even more than I do…

He didn’t read the Q2 2025 numbers. He accidentally read the semiconductors segment numbers. He clarified this later in the call.

“Turning to semiconductors.

Q2 revenue was a record $15 billion as I said before, as we grew 79% year on year. Driving this growth was AI semiconductor revenue at a record $10.8 billion, up 143% year on year, and above our outlook.”

You forgot robots

I don't even want to look at the BTC sub because all it will say is HODL. Who doesn't love some good concentration risk though.

wheres my money, michael

give me back my money, michael

you motherfucker

🌽 is different from other investments because it has no circuit breakers!

Hear me out:  🌽 in space

you shouldve bought NBIS also

I'm in this picture and I don't like it.

1x10x10. Go to jail. Go directly to jail. Do not speak. Do not plea. We'll really don.

This admin is a joke. They do self defense in a quasi island, then Iran does self defense in Kuwait. What does DoW do? We did not pay them for self defense!

You're thinking of my cousin, Sitting Queen

Both works, I’ve been to both and prefer Yosemite

margin be calling saylor non-stop, stupid crack hoe he hiddin'

Best post ever.

Yea but not the cease fire from Saturday. That one still sticks.

you guys only have *one* job and it's to post market moving breaking news like this *asap* 😤

Nah. It may be a fuck up but it is *my* fuck up

he’s a broken clock without any arms

U are a proud owner of 2500 (more) shares of NVDA. For your sake, pray that and video stock price goes above 215 in the next couple of days if margin call will be an issue - or you just take the loss.

Cuddle fish!  I eat this for yooooo kyroooo!

its a full time downvoting any posts that don't mention stocks I hold.  I think it will pay off though

Hugs for WSB

Dude is sweating bullets

i would never wish to be born gay & retarded, instead, im both  🐻🔫  
what am i ?

Michael Saylor was Mossad? 😱

Joe Rogan Experience

7,249,875 views

January 31, 2027

bro needs to be banned from being within 100 feet of a publicly traded company.

Would love to do this lol, can’t short the company you work for either :(

prolly cuz its the shittiest thing to liquidate first and gamble on

Lmfao same pretty much to the cent

Dad Cherokee.   Mom black from DC.

That makes me a fucking idiot cause I said it’s down 2% today?

so do korean traders actually frequent this sub

Watching your wife get fucked by her boyfriend?

Bankruptcy proceedings aren’t that bad from what I hear.

If corn can't hold 60, sub 50 will come fast

Sounds about right

#Betting for world cup opened. I'mma put all my money on Canada winning the world cup. LMAO🤌⚽🥅

Modern problems require modern solutions. Byah!!!!!!

Saylor’s avg is $75k don’t forget 😂

Lebanon "We agree to stop being invaded"

This is the new Turing test. Good luck formulating a response, bots.

¿Por que no los dos?

Ai > Fake meat money cycle underway

Let's talk. I'm free in 3 weeks.

[banbet!] [ticker] [timeframe]

Snoop eine with Tha jane.

Its so satisfying to see corn taking a dive into the abyss.  
Ironically, actual real corn, as the kind you eat has also been selling off the past month.  LOL

no mames pendejo

that’s my dream as a kid

It’s down 21% in a month and 40% the last year you fucking idiot.

The allocation isn´t according to the TAM:

  
"Space"-ETF has $1 billion under management.  There are 7 stocks in the market. Their total market cap is $200 billion. It´s allocations according to market cap was:

  
10% - random supplier ($100 million )

10% - random supplier ($100 million )

10% - random supplier ($100 million )

10% - random supplier ($100 million )

15% - space company A ($150 million )

20% - space company B ($200 million)

25% - space company C ($250 million)

\- - - - - -

100 % of capital deployed

  
\- - - - - - 

Now company D enters the space sector valued at $1.8 trillion. The total market cap of all 8 companies is now $2 trillion. "Space"-ETF still has $1 billion under management. Distribute the money so that the companies are represented according to their market cap.

I got $10k at 2x AVL - currently down $2500

can you really sell at 3am on schwab?

Nah he liquidated 32 bitcoins this week, I’m sure that should cover it.

My moves likely will be to strangle myself. Thanks for asking. 🙄

leg down after leg down, corn will eventually reach $0

I saw a pigeon today . Forgot to tell you guys

only 920 more days like this and he breaks even. the comeback is on

You can check on yahoo finance for future reference

Where's that guy that just went balls deep on AVGO?

CNN confirms that saylor sold another 2000 🌽

Imagine not full porting RIVN

1x10x6 leverage.

Farmers market opens soon in the colder regions 

Bullish on 🌽🌽🌽

If you cant afford rent because of 20$ you have bigger issues my friend, all in calls $SPCE

In the works

I met a girl named Sasquelachanda. Guess what race she is? Please no racist responses.

No deal, very shitty fan.

You are delusional. AVGO just popped the AI bubble that every analyst said didn’t exist. And they call us regards. This will be an elevator straight down for semis over the coming months.

Its on the website

Last time 🌽 did this was one month before the “war” started….so SPY 700 July?

I just read Tom Lee is offering preferred stock too lmao.. these two gotta be insiders to literally destroy crypto at this point 🤣

Trillion dollar idea :

Put an AI agent on the blockchain inside the metaverse, only accessible with a VR headset. 

Multiplicative bubble power!!!!!

Btc 200 week average at 61800. If that doesn’t hold rip

Haha it's just getting started 10% down in a day is noting when up 100% in a month....Bers should be posting their extreme losses since end of March

Even 1$ for 🌽 seems like kinda a lot for what it is.  Wait, what is it exactly?

That’s why we have guardrails so the occasional dumbass developer doesn’t bring down the company. We use it extensively for triage, AIOps, analysis and documentation and feel like we are just barely scratching the surface of what is possible.

what level does he get royally fucked at

Shit, Captain. It’s shit.

You got what you wanted. Moderators took it down.

The only thing I find funnier than bears losing money is corn tards losing money.

futes are not futing bro

I snort ketamine everyday to treat my retardation

So… betting on the orange turd “making a deal”, or shit hitting the fan?

TAAAAAAAACCCCCCCOOOOOOOO Tues--wait Wednesday

Umm Corn bros 🫣

run, just run and never look back

Est-ce que c'est une pipe?

And if he wins the CRA will likely tax him. I'm going to guess they consider options trading day trading.

20% this week

Everything.

RIP 🌽. 

🫡🏅🏳️‍🌈⌛️

Shout out to all the HODLers trying to figure out how to get into their cold wallets from 4 years ago tonight to transfer to an exchange to sell before their retirement plan goes to zero

Who let Saylor do this same shit again 26 years later?

What about selling the shares in the overnight just after getting assigned?  There should be enough liquidity on a name like NVDA.  I'm seeing bids and asks with close to 1000 shares being thrown around right now in the extended session.

Sorry for all the questions but I'm curious to know the best way out of this because I often sell spreads.  Mine was about 6 months ago and it was a $2M assignment I woke up to the next morning.  Risk management sold the shares for me fairly quickly but I was at major risk for hours and I didn't even know it.  I did take a $20k loss.  My account is a little larger at 200k but it still stung and could've been catastrophic.

Okay.

Are you alright?

Disculpa. Mérida

When is the next new moon? Tomorrow.?

Crashing 🌽

I've done far more than you. There's a reason hezzbollah is considered a terror group. They don't seek peace, shit if they truly did, they would have been north of the Litani like they agree too in both 2096 and 2024.

Their hubris in thinking Israel wouldn't invade after firing hundreds of rockets while Israel was fully mobilised is looking stupider by the day

Pumping a bit overnight so it can fall further tomorrow

God wouldn't let those satellites in heaven because he committed adultery.

stop talking you’re convincing me this dump was coordinated AHH

Be bleeding this bull market till the day it flips trend

You lost me at jaded bear that just means you're wrong most of the time lol

yay my puts are finally +2% today

still -23% all time though

USDA confirms screwworm in Texas calf

Now click the week to date chart, then the month to date chart, and then the ytd chart

The Ferrari Ev poor people hate is sold out for the next two years 🤌LMAO

I announced buying a big 150p on MSTR when it was at 196 like 2-3 weeks ago.

Some dumb fucking coin bro responded telling me to post my losses.

Spoiler: that one play earned me more than his entire family is worth lmao

The baby is sick of corn. It had comic.

Hey, don’t cry.

In a few weeks we'll have a concept of a plan of creating a committee to design a framework to discuss peace.

Sailer must be getting liquidated

I CANNOT wait for the NFLX doc on the rise and fall of Saylor

You 🫵 thought you would get rich of SPCE hahahahaha 🤣🤣🤣 but instead your a 🤡

The Air Force always prints.

Ok I see, but also ADP is on friday, if early derisking happens overnight, what could schwab even do here to this account, they couldnt just put your account to 0 or negative can they?

You put half your account in a 0DTE call. Congrats you belong here

it's profit taking time. crazy thing is that even a small mini pull back has us still up high still and a 10% one still has us at elevated levels too. but none of this is happening. we'll see a -1% day and go back to ripping up the day after.

\-5% = 7240

\-10% = 6860

Well they aren't going to blow themselves up, are they?

Who would buy additional issuances?

Sounds like a great idea.  I'm gonna goon and go to sleep

1x10x05. Japan's won leverage.

Corn chart curving so hard it may actually start going backwards

You're going to live bro, lick your wounds and come back swinging.

Joby is the winner

Time to turn off RH notifications. At this point it should just say, CRYPTO FUCKED SELL EVERYTHING

This dip is de minimus. We ride at dawn

Did the SPCE dilution already happen or is it in the future??

This is a small street bet post

I hope not, I'm out of beer to celebrate the occasion.

Always be Buying, Never be Selling - I'm a long term investor

I wonder how saylor feels watching bitcoin march down towards his liquidation zone

put the fries in the bag

Why. This is a casino.

I thought expiry was tmr. Good luck.

It's on the website. 50% cash 50% stock.

b-b-b-ut 🌽 iS a StoRe oF vALue LikE GoLD

If it's 5. I'll go make a drink.

Not everyone enjoys being with women that are being paid to pretend to like you y’know?

Music stopped. Post the lost porn you cock suckers

Parents

I don't recall ever seeing someone start by fucking up the wrong quarter and year earnings tbh

Why didnt u sell at 494?

google pin risk

All the producing countries will be fine but resource nationalization is an unbelievable bad idea because it never stops with just one and eventually it leads to ruinous price increases, way more destructive than would otherwise have been the case via normal demand destruction.

I'm already looking at the moon.

Gonna stay up all night to make sure AVGO goes to 300

MRVL will rip tomorrow

BTC is hitting support levels after a 20k straight line down and you think now is the time? I was repeating everyday to short MSTR at 180 and 190 why didnt you guys listen

#I can't believe how badly AVGO missed earnings (just as I predicted) LMAO🤌

no.

i got assigned on one of my iron condor wings, while one expired worthless.

one will get exercised tomorrow and i will be obligated to buy 500k worth of nvda at 215. 

i can sell it asap and close the position but if NVDA opens down 6% i lose everything

yeah ted’s guitar solo fits the energy of winnng today

Bitcoin is down 2% who tf cares??

BREAKING: Michael Saylor on suicide watch 😦

January 5 years ago.

Oh damn it might be green tomorrow after all. Thx for the update good sir

Go Pack Go PNC. LET'S GO CANES

As a jaded gay bear, the stocks will drop 0.5% tomorrow and then the day after that, pump up 1000%

I too will buy a single share... let's gooooo

fucking funny... and sadly fucking true

Dirty ass Spurs

I notice all these random comments from people. Is it even English?

Remember very much piso johns? Their crust sticks now. Go order dominios till the Tar Heels win a men's tennis championship.

You and me are the only ones asking this, did you get approved and lose it before

This really is a casino, jfc

Corn has been a straight line down ever since it struck midnight on June 1st 🤌

Bitcoin and semiconductors

I’m the biggest retard of them all for selling my mstr 140ps for tsla 405ps today. Took profits but fuck … woulda been up like 5000% rn 😭😭😭 me am WSB

I was up 1.2k with my hood leaps.. now down 200 wtf

A very acceptable agreement to be agreed upon that is basically all but agreed

Just woke up now and what the fck just happened? MRVL wtf

It's more like making peace with the South Koreans when you're at war with the North.

Can whoever bought 🌽just dump it all and buy more AVGO?

Yosemite better

That average sucks. You’re gonna need more time.

Some more todayyy v

Take this pic of me down pls

Completely incorrect.  Archer likes to confuse people by stating paper achievements that make it sound like they're the leader, but in fact in the real world they are far behind.

Joby, Vertical, and Beta have all transitioned their eVTOLs with a pilot on board.  Archer is literally the only one that has never accomplished this task.  In addition, Archer has only one aircraft that they have transitioned.  It's an engineering prototype manufactured in 2024.  Archer has been flying it for years to make transition videos, but meanwhile the aircraft required significant redesigns.  The last 2 aircraft Archer released have never transitioned.  One in 2025 only flew CTOL.  Another released this year has only hovered.

It's easy to get confused when you just read Archer's press release, as technically the exact things they say are true, but you need to dig deeper to understand the true meaning.  Easiest way to know who the leader is, is to just look at whose flying and what the current aircraft are capable of.

Joby has 4 production prototype eVTOL aircraft flying right now.  They have flown in Osaka, Dubai, Korea, and through commercial congested airspace in NYC out of JFK and out of Oakland International Airport in The SF Bay Area.  Archer flew their CTOL only aircraft in Salinas and their old engineering prototype made back in 2024 in UAE.

To answer your question, the reason this is commonly stated is that Joby is far ahead of ACHR by years.  Do some DD, and dig deep and ask questions and see the truth through the Archer press releases.

I’m trying to make some money. What’s the move ? Where should I buy puts ?

Supply disruptions incoming. Better buy CLX now. GLAD bags will all be holding this IPO.

Last time corn did this the market corrected. Then bitcoin started rising again before the market went on its run. Kinda predicts the future

I’m new to stocks can someone explain this. I’m not retarded but so confused how this happened

Riding shorts like how ur mom rides me when im wearing ma jorts 😎

I’m trying to make some money. What’s the move ? Where should I buy puts ?

Yes, a group of Lebanese citizens that has found ways to finance and arm themselves like every other military group in the world. I’m confused on who you think they are? You clearly know nothing of the history of Lebanon. Do some basic research.

Where do you get the $134k to lose in the first place

Are you implying the People's Militias of the Donetsk People's Republic and the Luhansk People's Republic are a foreign occupying army in Ukraine?

Where’s MRVL at AH I got strangles

I'm going to send myself a dick pic to let myself know I want to goon

Have you not paid attention to the last couple months?

Claro them cheeks. Hablo HIbižÁ.

holy shit the opportunity cost here lmao you could’ve 3xed your port by now by not being a bear during a historic run

Cant imagine amount of fresh porn on cornhub.com tomorrow

blowout, and the stock will barely move, maybe even lose a few bpp

Egotistic, goin' ballistic, why God?

  
Born warrior, lookin' for euphoria

Same shit. Google, Amazon. And Onds murdered me dry today

Bitcoin just had its lowest daily candle close since october 2024 lol

MRVL I have faith

It’s okay gang

it looks beautiful

everyone was investing in dell, corsair, and nokia while saylor was losing 6b in a day

The catalyst is that people have an appetite for risky investment with dubious payouts. Essentially ai is taking its thunder with higher payouts and lower short term risk, and the war is over so investors feel more confident about higher risk.

So the war would have to end, and the ai bubble would have to deflate without causing a recession. Your only other hope is the clarity bill.

Its not looking great

Just jealous of the gainZ

how does one get 15x margin

Sell em puts in the morning to get that sweet IV, then rebuy in the late afternoon

Okay wait, I will try my best to assess the situation:

So OP borrowed 1200 shares, immediately sold them, now he owns the bank 1200 shares. Why is he stating that he hopes for NVDA to open over 215? Wouldn’t he need to buy back the shares for more?

And what the heck is an iron condor? I’m way out of my depth here…

Corn actually dying?????

Cool, Cool...Anyway so we're down 13% after hours.

There are, despite what POTUS might claim, physical limits to what anyone, including him can actually get away with, geology doesn't give a shit you're the president.

Wish I told my enemies to invest in spce and btc.

Omg I never thought of semi data centers 🤡🤡🤡 they def take are one for one

bers furious that MRVL hasnt plummeted to $10 

Imagine the fury when its $800

What's the margin now in Won?

Brazil and Colombia are both oil and bbl exports so they fix the price making sure their industries can consistently pay for oil in bbls

tinfoil hat time

was your broker pressuring you to unwind?

🌽 must die so our AI gods can live.

RIP bear market. 

June 3rd, 2026 4:15 PM - June 3rd, 2026 9:15 PM

Don't worry, it will happen again..

Bros you gotta go to Yellowstone

Put the corn chips in the bag 🌽

60% of the time, it works every time. It's science.

please oh please oh please

Under 60k by midnight

Je suis chef.

I bet all my savings on the Knicks tonight

Cornplosion 🌽📉

i live in a trash can

gaylor is biting the pillow real hard r n as bond holders are prying out the cold storage wallet from his prison purse ( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°)  🫱(‿¤‿)🫲  👛🫲( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°)

why would i? 

All i have to do is close my position at open.

Fuck they guy he was right the past few years in a raging bull market. Let's not mistake his luck with skill

Delete your SSN

At least AI can answer questions and do stuff. mining is just converting energy into heat.

I'm very curious to see how the AVGO situation plays out given that it started tanking the second the CEO read the wrong quarter report to kick off earnings

It always drops after earnings but this was an odd situation

Corn is already below the Feb low. Wonder where the bottom on it is (0).

Hey you. Yeah you! what are you still doing here? pack up and go. its joever!

Y'all den the Li car?

Hahaha bruh, you're down 50%

My mother wouldn't even give me $100 to trade, and if she did I would buy her flowers instead.   
We live different lives lmao.

buckle up boyo those AVGO options expiring next week are gonna hurt tomorrow

we want the rebound now!!

I may be going to work at Wendy’s next week, but at least Saylor will have some good stories as manager.

At this rate, 🌽 needs about 60 hours to go to 0.

I just did that with Tesla last week, ended up short 10 contracts and bought them out for a $7k loss, if I would have waited for the end of the week I could have made 15k

I dont know the code for it.  don have Ai subscription

30k into 2x avgo means double the ride or die

7k was profits and $5k is expiring eow so should be aight.

I know a great securities attorney when you need it.

I better start playing ramen futes

The contracts are voided? The contracts are voided?! Holy fuck!

Tesla news ?

Of ftw.

SAYONARA 🌽

on that, you and I are aligned. It's coming.

I think the rest of the week is going to be an absolute certified bloodbath unfortunately.

When it was at $177 in late April, I did a deep dive on puts.  Just dug up my notes.  August puts at the time were about $20 for $120 strikes, and $11 for $100’s.  

Glad I didn’t pull the trigger.  I would’ve been dead right on the movement, but completely wrong on the product.  Would’ve lost something like 30% on them as of right now.  MSTZ was the cleaner play.

My calls for friday are F*ck. Thanks Avgo. The house wins today. Lol

yeah instead the planet will benefit from a million data centers

Tokyo can print. #4.

he was so arrogant lol

obviously San Antonio has learned how to color coordinate

Are we watching a death spiral right now on 🌽?

hey no problem man - you told us you own like 20 properties and are making a killing flipping these right, no problem for you

What's the next ticker?

refinance with what , michael ?

good night saylor moon

Refinance where Michael?!

What do you mean the man is never wrong

yes i will have to keep the 575 maranello for a while more 😞

What the Schwab risk manager was likely describing is a protective risk action due to the uncertainty of assignment on your 25 short 215 puts.

If Schwab expected you could be assigned on all 25 contracts, you’d potentially go from:

* Short 1,200 shares
    to
* Long 1,300 shares

overnight.

To reduce their exposure to a large directional move, they may have shorted 1,200 shares as a hedge or “buffer.”

The logic is:

* If you get assigned on all 25 puts → you receive +2,500 shares.
* The extra -1,200 shares they shorted offsets part of that, leaving you closer to a neutral position.
* If assignment doesn’t occur, the hedge can be removed later.

This is common around expiration when:

* Options are very close to the strike.
* Assignment outcome is uncertain.
* The account could wake up with a large stock position.

AVGO single handily fucked every call in the book 😭

🫡. Mumbai you're up.

AVGO will drop more & go under 400....

And will rebound in a few weeks

Saylor did the same thing in 2000 and coin bros thought he wouldn’t do this to BTC LOL

The area I live in had a bunch of homes go off-market recently

like sellers going "fuck you i know what i got 😢"

MRVL and AVGO already flying up? I will respect my asian brothers forever if they manage to pump this shit

Believe it or not, my SPY756C weekly call is going to make me +$60

I bought MSTR 150p’s when it was above 195 and posted about it here.

Some dumb fuck told me to post my losses.

Spoiler: gaaaaaaiiiiiiiiiinnnnnnnnnzzzzzzz

Someone explain prosze.

I’ll be rooting for you. So you essentially sold opened spreads on both the put and the call side? It looks like it’s sitting at $215. You might be able to get out with more of a flesh wound vs a mortal injury. Remember one of the more difficult parts is exactly how you’re gonna play it after open. Good luck bro try to at least get a few hours of sleep!

One less competitor still good in my book

Saylor is probably crying under the bed

I believe this is the reason or part of the reason behind the recent meeting between the us and China. China saw this coming and doesn't want to go to war and definitely doesn't want to be left behind when the new monetary order is created.   Taiwan and Iran were brought up in the discussions, I'm sure.  But China ALSO doesn't want to upset the global system as it stands because it is still incredibly fragile.  Bringing all the tech CEOs to the meeting likely to discuss investment in chip manufacturing outside of Tawain.  If they are no longer pivotal to chip manufacturing then China can do with them as they please was probably the consensus.

Microslop begs to differ

I almost did this too

Targeted and recycling.

If you read the board’s press release the decision was “mutual” (he was fired).  One storyline is that his contract was under negotiation, and losing a major account likely sunk a large raise.  

I wonder if the interim CEO might be able to bring Avis back with an accommodation in their contract?

i made half million this month but yes on spce i m down!

Bitcoin pod racing to the bottom

The credit risk is *de minimis* at this point

Work the pile.

Yeah they are good

Bring on the flood, baby jesus

GOODBYE CORN

I say nepenthe. You ever seen merlin?

‘Reload’

100k on $biti

God this is so true. It's awful lol.

This is the way

Where you check this at

Right?

i just know brunson is scared shitless of these spurs guards

I cannot convey to you how much money I made with MSTR puts the last two weeks…

And we ain’t done. 80 by eom

That last paragraph sounded communist as fuck buddy ur going to jail

AVGO is retarded

(Have to)

wait how does tom "fat cuck" still have a job?

BREAKING: US House votes: 🌽  is now illegal

They will all just shift to providing power for data centers

Thank god you’re on WSB now

Because it’s the best value in the market and only mega cap that hasn’t ran up

Avgo and crwd flat by open

Loading the boat with my boy beyond cuz they always fly when the market dips

don't worry he'll gamble it away on more puts before that😁

Research shows you made the choice to be a top 1% commenter

Once again, a gey ber thought.

FL drug dealer. Dea dick en.

Hezbollah is a group of Lebanese citizens that live in south Lebanon.

A group of Lebanese citizens that are armed, trained and lead by Iranians? What?

FUCK YOU AND FUCK YOUR STUPID LMAO 🫵🤡

I WILL FIND YOU AND FUCK YOU IN THE ASS 🫵🤡

( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°)

🫱(‿¤‿)🫲

👏🍑👏🍑👏🍑👏 🥵

Things you'll never see in your lifetime and 100+ years after you've expired.  
\#1 A colony on Mars.

“Allowed” 
Like any one is ever going to do anything if DT draws reserves down below the “allowed amount” lol

Brunson needa lock in

Alright, all I need is a 30 point gap up on SPY, and I won't have to suck peen again

Because this entire sector is shit and the only people dumb enough to invest in if are gonna dump their off-brand SpaceX shares for the OG.

Hablo español voud Tonto. Quando al quien te preguntaté una pregunta, tú, niñitititito. Cállate.

Yup that’s what I tell myself

Bro if corn goes to zero think how much better our planet would be without these mining operations

how? it’s only down 2%

It’s ok Korea you tried, gg everyone 🫡 ):

#Ban Bet Lost

/u/No_Needleworker9613 made a bet that CRSR would go to 25.846 within **1 week** when it was 12.923 and it did not, so they were banned for a week.

Their record is now 0 wins and 1 losses

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

I love bricks and minidicks

Ted Nugent - Fred Bear

It's ok - you told us you make at least triple that in a single paycheck at work right

It looks to me someone assigned early and the short is that assignment but you short options assignment hasn't updated and may not untill tomorrow or at market open... Very strange I've had it happen before myself with 500 shares of Google back when it was 2k a share. Ended up in a " margin call " and ended up Google opening up with the position in profit... Chalk it up to a someone didn't move the decimal place error... It's fine or it's all on them. Yeah you will have to get an attorney if they try to be slick, but chances are you will end up ahead IMHO. Besides if they have you that much leverage that's the brokerages fault.

This will go up lol, next week is when others will start piling in, I’ve already seemed it starting to be recommended

Are you implying Hezbollah is a foreign occupying army to Lebanon? Hezbollah is a group of Lebanese citizens that live in south Lebanon.

Imagine posting back-to-back 3 posts in a row and not being a top 1% commenter

Them Crazy Rich Asians buying the fucking dip

Fuck the Knicks, but I hope Brunson is okay. Not how I want them to lose

i think the la dodgers win 3 sets to win the match

Don't give them any ideas

I like watching 🌽 plummet

Nice upvote, nerd.

Almost green

Current Bitcoin mining costs are 87k per coin 😂😂😂

#Research shows that people are getting dumber LMAO🤌

So do a legitimate banbet pussy

What is the catalyst for bitcoin bouncing back want some mstr calls but don’t know if it’s the right time

The dominoes will fall like a house of cards. Checkmate.

Source?

Make the argument on why?  Short term bounce predicted close to $5, $8 by summer.  The business was only grazed, the foundation is sound.

Live in the moment!  WSB jr motto

I have obliterated $7000 usd in two days probs will be $10k tomorrow open

Why did meta randomly pump today?

Why would you risk so much money on the assumption that a highly volatile ‘classically cyclical’ semi stock just coming off insane all time highs, wouldn’t sell off a bit?

Why does this permabear have wolfman porn on his wall?

Unless I am wrong, all I can read from this is Schwab derisking themselves ahead of this becoming a problem?   
  
Secondly im still new to this but, risk management should have stepped in the minute you tried buying these spreads on an account this size against leverage no?  
  
 Lastly, is this strategy even worth the risk? Seems you can give back a whole account worth of gains overnight?

Just go to the gym? Don’t be weird

VENEZUELA

Come on Eileen.

You will be fine.

Turslura yai

what if leveraged etf

Big finish y'all. Come on Eileen.

It only funny if we win $$$$

Yesterday was a deal, the day before is talks. Today it is a “FRaMEWoRK”

thank lord I do VT & Chill. I didn't understand a word here.

Bring back Snapple facts

Mstr back in the shiter crypto bros when should I get my calls

AVGO back to where to where it was in December. Deja vu to a similarly disastrous earnings call

Just sell some deep ITM CC's to guarantee you get assigned.  The premium basically locks you in to selling at current price even if stock continues dropping

You're an idiot

It’ll cause a liquidity crunch in US equities. Forced selling to cover the carry trade will then trigger forced selling because of margin calls. It’ll be a snowball effect. 

FOMC meeting on June 16/17 could also cause more selling if the FED has a surprise rate hike. I don’t expect a rate hike, but I could see them release more Hawkish terminology in the speech/minutes and in the dot plot. 

Already 3 dissents last meeting to have a more hawkish tone on rates. Powell probably joins that chorus and makes it 4.

Sounds like you need it to go to 312 tomorrow.  I'd bet on 312 by end of next week.  But maybe not tomorrow.

Levers af. Georgia Tech. Print.

Happy for you boss.

Then bull trap

I try my best to tell everyone not to play any more after its has had its run. There are bagholders and some who want to see if they can squeeze a little more out before they sell.

Probably neon green tomorrow because it would be funny

Use Gemini.

If a swing like this makes you consider rope (no pun intended) stick to ETFs or get out of options

banbet me.  Reddit stock to 190-200, end of next week or week after at the latest.

Bet you are under 30 with a minimum income job.

It truly ain’t ez being fucking retarded hahaha. Keep watching your boyfriend get fucked, freak

Well, at least it wasn't all option

Why use DD tag when LOSS tag just as good

They brought in a whopping $1.3M in revenue last year. Sounds like a winner

Ɛho are they paying?

This war isn’t ending any time soon and peace talks are nothing but market manipulation Ggs

Keep it up, you're killing it.

Finder.?

ok GOOG

It'll make it.

Tom Lee has lost over 9 billion😂

Calls of Wemby

There’s no bears left

My Cost average is $310, So long term, not really worried.

pounding wont stop until no more ghe 

( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°)

🫱(‿¤‿)🫲

👏🍑👏🍑👏🍑👏 🥵

I read that in that mustached guy's voice from Family Guy.

Netanyahu has been paying hezbollah and it's affiliates for years. I have family in Lebanon and it's widely known hezbollah is Netanyahus dog.

Trying nope to rope myself due to AVGO

Who’s going to win the basketball game tonight?

I sold my port. I know its going to tank one more day tomorrow then bounce back

You know the saying owe a little money it's your problem, owe a lot of money, it's the banks problem?  

I sold a spy put vertical once and spy closed right between the two. I was -$4M in the hole over the weekend. They must have cleared it up, but risk never bothered to call me.

Shoulda got out at 1.23 am today 😵‍💫

Rip op

Melbourne. Let's play some tennis.

He sold 21 BTC

The Knicks definitely had AVGO calls

Can confirm. Am dumping.

would be funny if claude slopus found a security bug in corn network

We'll see. Parabolic move is much crazier now

AVGU? More like AVGuh

Stop this please! 😭😭 my anoos hasn’t even healed from all the pounding yet

No reasons, just a hunch

Bers counting their money way too early

RIP KNICKS

If crypto fails how are racist anime picture twitters gonna afford to live?

Keep rolling

This is my only avgo contribution

Patient my friend. People are allowed to take profit

It never sat right with me that AVGO went from 293 to low 400s a couple months ago I hate that stock

coin rotate to spy

My mstr naked put is getting rocked right now. Looks like I’m buying shares 😭

Already did.

Back to your den ber

Bro. I need people to buy or I'm a dead man

gold gonna be range bound for another 100 years now

You're now silence.

My mouth wide open to accept shrek

Please save my calls Me netyahu or whatever his last name is🙏

take your meds bro

I am full port at 35k

When sells though

Freddy's midnight rivers now y'all. Come on...

Rich people want to be astronauts and they have more money than God. Supply and demand.

iron condor, which i think is the same. the 212.5 expired worthless.

You seem nice. Nice to have some civil discourse rather than everyone being so violently confrontational all the time on here. 

Like fun is fun but it gets exhausting.

I hope you have a nice day and make some honest money, and by WSB standards that of course means i hope you die in a fire of your own burning money

Based off my AI tendy bot built thanks to GPT, buy puts on everything

Dammit block and reddit print.

Trump gonna attack this weekend. Without a doubt, load on puts during the morning bump

The worst dip to buy is the first dip

Reuters: BTC bros im shambles

He's gonna know what a wendys uniform feels like soon

Asians saving our semi bags. True heros

Kiwis in the Haus.

What was pumping? All I saw was dumping.

Trump owns NOW and AVGO too

Any space stocks literally go up

Joby has aircraft already built and systems already in testing with the military and a partnership with one of the world's largest Defense Contractors, L3Harris.

\* S4-T - Already built and flying.  Joby and L3Harris recently hosted a demo of the S4-T with the US Army.  It's a hybrid Turbo-Electric VTOL that's already demonstrated VTOL takeoff and transition to winged flight.

\* SuperPilot Autonomous Flight System - Joby has already had the military test their SuperPilot flight systems for autonomous flight logistics in multiple military exercises in the Pacific.

\* JAI30 - Hybrid Electric CTOL drone in testing with the US Military at Yuma Proving Grounds.  Been flying for over a year, reportedly flew for 24 hours without refueling. Suspected persistent loitering surveillance and/or forward operating communications drone.

In terms of FAA certification, Joby's civilian S4 is far ahead of Archer.  It's been flying piloted through transition for over a year, and Joby is currently flying 5 copies of the S4.  Joby has also flown it piloted through congested airspace in NYC and San Francisco.

Archer is the only major US eVTOL player who still has not transitioned their aircraft with a pilot on board.  Joby, Beta, and Vertical have all accomplished this.  ACHR is far behind Joby.

Oof. Go for the grand slam I guess.

That’s just SPY propaganda, it’s so easy to beat it.

Hey cuzza 👏🏿👏🏿👋🏿🐐🌈🎊🇬🇧🥭🥰👀🤷🤡💁🏿‍♂️🏴‍☠😌😳😭😂🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣

im nice to people man, and the guy probably knew i sounded pretty worriedz

Bagholder spotted.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

I said fuck fuck fuck fuck shit shit shit shit shit shit

Bitcoin is so over

I know that the ability to articulate a well-reasoned thought without computer assistance is beyond your capabilities, but you are more than welcome to plug that comment into every AI checker on the Internet and come back to report your findings.

Only the 10th ceasefire, hopefully this one works out.

A new generation of bagholders will be born

Oil market is such a scam

The Asians are buying the dip but not on MSFT 🤣🤣🤣

It's down less than 2% which is pretty tame for them

Thanks for your submission to Wallstreetbets!

With over 16 million subscribers, you've got to be pretty quick with the news stories or someone else will have already posted it.

We removed similar news stories even if they're from different sources.

Again, thanks for trying and everyone appreciates the effort.

dude, you think I'm someone else. lol i've never said anything like that. get a grip go find the real person you hate.

Liquidity suck

Google probably gonna blow a big chunk of that 80b at broadcom

i guess because they dont want the risk after hours? they said it was an option when i called the second time, but they didn’t know if all contracts would be exercised

Oh what, drug money on computer go bust? I never would’ve guessed🤡🤡🤡🤡

crypto bagholders in shambles. 6 months ago retards were yelling 150k 🌽

Don’t worry, to make you feel better 

I lost 30k on AVGO

OP's source isn't even Iranian.  It's literally based in the UK AND funded by the Saudis. 🤦‍♂️

When it tanks, we know who to blame.  🤔

BTC at 63K yikes. And Saylor hasn’t even started selling yet

This has nothing to do with $TTWO or $MSFT why are we posting about Middle East here I’m tired of them.

They can print.

Oooops

In hindsight that phasing sounds a little dramatic.

don't leave us hanging, continue, did he found his two asshole friend or was it another person?

This fake overnight pump is cute

Or if he has options that expire in the future. Some random date like, oh, I don't know, mid july

Penis implant

Lmao u deleted ur comments or got banned. Get fucked “its been down since the war started “ you really are a gay retatd

The big dump may still be coming.

Nah Kospi is a meme stock. It absolutely doesn't matter what it does

considering we had apes and retards in here the past 2 weeks. I'd think my post is an upgrade.

But you told us you were the smartest guy in the room and could lose "a couple million easily" and still have your mansion, 8 figure account balance etc.

Oh sure, sure. Saw one of those the other day, very spooky.

Paging OP. How you feeling now?

Put ban bet on it

Lemme get a bounce back to 430 on AVGO and I’m out

Leveraged shares baby and got liquidated

You’re telling me I wasted my 20’s being a “stock trader” for nothing?

MRVL is melting

North Korea

AVGO ASIC rev. not as expected, I think u would be just fine

I don’t believe in the “velocity”  causes inflation Mularky.

Is the grave in the room with us now?

Fu*k everybody who posted SPCE in the past three days, fu*k you for shilling this POS trash!

Maybe limited coins, but you can divide a coin into a billion pieces

please don't liquidate yourself

Green by open

Do you think Israel is invading Lebanon for fun lol. Some of y'all just wanna keep hating Israel because that's the cool thing on social media. But the facts are that Hezbollah has been launching rockets at northern Israel continuously for years. They're entering the FAFO stage, just like Hamas did.

You guys could make millions informing communities of your intended bets. But somehow that would be wrong too.

You got a Put Credit Spread right? 
If your 215P gets assigned then you can ask Schwab to exercise 212.5P so you are buying at 215 and selling at 212.5 a total of 2500 shares which is max loss of 6250. I am not getting how your loss can be more than this?

What did plp think of the RDDT call?

Those crazy asians might actually do it

Goldman Sachs needs to tells us where this $5.3T in new financing is coming from. Are they digging for trillion-dollar-coins in the shaggy upholstery?

Oh no we are upset about the coins! NOT THE COINS!

Buying some ETH here

It really should. Maybe not tomorrow.  But soon.

Only fans account

I will be messaging you in 1 day on **2026-06-05 11:00:00 UTC** to remind you of **this link**

**CLICK THIS LINK** to send a PM to also be reminded and to reduce spam.

^(Parent commenter can ) ^(delete this message to hide from others.)

**RemindMeBot is switching to username summons.** Instead of `!RemindMe 1 day`, use `u/RemindMeBot 1 day`. More info.

*****

|^(Info)|^(Custom)|^(Your Reminders)|^(Feedback)|
|-|-|-|-|

Doakes.jpg

Nice entry

"I value 1 Bitcoin at 15 million by 2030"- retard schizo investor writing for a random rag

My weekly comment of “does Iran know?”

It’s literally the cycle of ignoring Iranian demands and making up irrational deals.

lol at bumrushing ATH

Understandable mistake. Trading on cash account under 25K was the PDT loop hole. Now it’s no holds barred, volatility should be interesting tomorrow.

If KOSPI drills, the nasdaq will be a bloodbath tomorrow.

Sndsk

I'm back and u/Paul_Robert_ is not to be found yet 😼

SPY 770 end of june

That’s actually pretty cool they’re helping you out instead of feeding you the sausage

I'm holding long NVDA ($105) and MRVL ($73).   I sold out everything else last week and Monday.   

Tomorrow is sit and wait.   If AVGO gets below $400 I'll be very tempted to stand up.

long term yeah I get, but for the past 12 years, I beat it. so 1 year isn't so bad. also thanks for the Snapple fact LOL

I requested hella LFTO. Knoe nothing about it but the name gonna make it fly🔥🔥

will they show me their cannons and make me their sex slave and tell me my wife has fish head?

Does anyone trust Israel to honor a ceasefire at this point?

Jeez AVGO pumped and dumped again? I remember when I bought a dip like this one after earnings last year in December and I was a bag holder for like 4 months before I broke even

Now it's goyte. Call my phone number if you dare.

Yes.  But it won’t until folks actually realize what has happened over the past three weeks.  I’m DEEP in AI.  Our customers have blown through their monthly token budgets in 3 days for the entire month.  This thing is absolutely not scalable.

!remindme tomorrow at 11:00 am

Btw op… my genuine guess is that it will go up.

I plan to risk $9k on a similar strategy, though hours might become days. Not weeks though.

No crying in the casino, you’re killing the vibes and scaring the hoes

Appreciate this thank you

I was under the impression that you aren’t allowed to short a stock that you are working for. Huge red flag.

they said im like 99% likely to get assigned

Rotating from fake internet currency to fake real life currency

You know how to spell?

At least it’s NVDA

Framework? More like framechill

lower

Keys to ferry wasp.

yes but they don’t want to open a 1/2 million dollar short on nvda

Yearly bitcoin chart brutal 👨‍❤️‍👨

Call much McConnell.

U know you're fucking old when it's 9pm and you fall asleep in the chair and immediately start snoring loudly

I sure hope so, buddy. I bought a yacht with some pals and they keep dropping off, so now I gotta Lotta yacht payments

Just sell shares before 930 , pre market.  

Or at market open sell itm puts lol

Or just sell the shares at open

Don’t listen to me though, I’m just a random Redditor.

27 days and 16 hours from right meow

90% of people can't beat the SPY 500 on a long term basis

Dónde?

I too will buy one share. We got this.

How do I invest in ropes for hodlrs

He’ll be fine

My guy, you have 1300 shares of NVDA.

Downvotes this guy. He #BanBet #AbuDhabi GP.

Here's a link to my earlier portfolio writeup, it has my entire portfolio, my positions haven't changed:

Venezuela

dont think so. i kept the premium already and anything over 215 is profit, right? assuming schwab doesn’t unwind me right at 9:30

Not even close bruh

Everyone is expert untill bull run. Once big whales and hedge fund decide this is it, real crying will strat in casino.

Maybe I'm not understanding it, but if they shorted the entire 2500 shares wouldn't that fully protect you getting assigned on the short 25P options?  

And what about only shorting it for you if you get assigned - is that an option?

ugh i'm actually losing to SPY YTD by 1%. fuckin bitch. I blame NKE.

If you liked it at 120k, you'll love it at 60k

I told myself to buy mrvl put this morning but didn't

🫱(‿¤‿)🫲

Is this bullshit? Yes! Will stocks rally anyway? Also yes!

He sold that's why it's crashing lmao

Bets barf it up good.

What does that mean lol

So green tomorrow? Or blood by ceasefire

LoL people definitely have opinions about Elon but looking past that SpaceX is a real company doing things that were only imagined a few years ago. If I had access to the IPO I would buy. The SpaceX IPO is going to set valuation for other companies like RKLB and ASTS which I own shares. Good luck everyone

Why do you think their earnings will be that good

Eggs are cheap.

I tripled my portfolio, lost 80%, and then doubled it in 20 days…..multi six figure position….there’s always hope, but you gotta get lucky. 

Don’t go full regard

cuz at first i was really worried

Seems like a decent chance with NVDA. Will you lose anything at $215?

People who bought corn at 120k, show yourselves.

They don't know it's spicy sauerkraut.

chinese russian iranian and barron

Go for it bro!

Kicking myself for not selling Monday EOD

Does he have any weed I can buy

At least bitcoin goes through it it has its ups and lows unlike this goofy ah market that only goes up.

LOL CORN ! 🫵🤡

fym ouuu shii

it’s like ragu but overpriced

muh 🌽, muh 🌽

Yep. Then the stock went from $18 to $125

When does saylor go tits up

hope it holds up til tomorrow morning

Ah. My cash account is just another account I buy shit in, but stuff i don't want to sell any time soon.

you mean first bear?

I just hope we can all stay friends forever even after we get rich from stocks

👉👈

Call your GP.

Visitation no longer comes by, seems like they forgot about me

Yeah people holding the bag is definitely not gonna be happy but they still have potential going above 500 imo.

AVGU???

Congratulations OP for your new baby asshole

Interesting. It's not showing signs of a bottom?

That’s what I was just considering…

its spooky. if NVDA drops 6% i lose it all. 

guy on the phone sounded angry and worried.

hope it doesn’t tank tomorrow

Hi - i’d love to know your full PF.  I have some KOS, BSO calls, but want to find a few more names

Call your sensor rn.

Ouuu shiii

A cruise for her and Derrick

Rockets' red glare, bombs bursting in air

Just give Iran the fucking nukes at this point.

muh diamond hands

didnt mean right away necessarily

Why did you answer the phone?

Stonks down. Btc down. ETFs still cruising away. Seems suspest. ETFs are there own thing now i guess.

Naw man this is the one. Mother of all crashes incoming

AVho 🥭🤡 DORT NICO MINAJ

The plan is to put data centers in low orbit using satellites, to run off unlimited sun energy while sitting in the ultra freezing vacuum of space. Not putting them on the moon.

Hawk Tua got owned

Loose on cash. Tight on other things.

Is it too late to lock in for summer?

They sell BTC to buy more BTC? Meet me at the pyramid.

muh corn to $1M

these days you cant just scalp you gotta _want it_ want it

# shitcoin is completely worthless that is nothing new but it's crazy how all of sudden everyone have been realizing it since Oct 25.

# CRAZY

I remember my first beer

Eminem y'all. Guess the song. Down. Down down.

Cash account ≠ Cash gang. 🫣

AVGO like 3 months ago was at 340 😂 it does this every earnings

I think Hyperliquid and Zcash are good crypto to slurp the dip on during the crypto crash

Nasdaq futes up 40 basis points since the moment WSB was calling an end to the bubble. Green by open

Congrats everybody, we got our weekly ceasefire! 👏👏👏

Don’t think I’ll rest in peace 

I YOLO-ed and died

We eating ramyeon tonight.

Dude. Day trading in college is not worth it. That's the kinda shit that makes students kill themselves. It's not fucking worth it. You're down a bit, just fucking sell and go into ETFs and mutual funds and shit. You will not make it back gambling more. Trust me dude, I tried this kinda crap in college and it was genuinely the worst thing I ever did. Sell it, get something longer term, and just go back to studying and partying. Trust me dude.

It’s $215 right now, so you’re good?

Looks like rotating back into space 🚀

Lemme see your numbers, just go into this last month lol

Purple burglar alarm

But we all have expiring options 🤔

am I missing something? your put is just slight ITM and u already collected premium, unless leather jacket puke on boba milk tea tomorrow, you should be just fine

Is there a cult sub yet???

My father in law keeps asking when is bitcoin is going to arrive in the mail

Drink up. I'm cooking tomorrow.

Corn is kill

1 red day lol

We had 3 red days in May in a row

MSFT gae again?

Drug/human/wepon traffickers

So, can you updates us every 30 minutes on how you're feeling, lol. 215.22 currently and Iran lobbed some more missiles,  best watch vix, the futures, asia market is open but check it around 10 pm est and 11 pm est, Nikkei and KOSPI.From 2 to 4 am Europe comes online check ES1! Premarket watch the SOX Futures SOXXX. Oh and ZN1! Futures as well.

That's actually pretty reasonable

I own shares so thanks for the advertisment!

Bitcoin mining companies will all shift to being AI data centers. Bitcoin will soon be mineable with a laptop.

Where ya at?

The -13% is definitely an overreaction but still I AVGO@420 is great price so expect people to buy them overnight and probably you could see some of your losses turning into green I guess.

🌽bros be hodl'n their diks

"Concept" of a ceasefire

It used to be the moonshot play, but now it just does nothing

Yeah but they added a third country so technically it's not the same ceasefire.

Here's a link to an earlier writeup, it has my entire portfolio, the weightings have moved slightly with the market but positions are unchanged:

Rich college kid gives live advice on Reddit. Classic.

Ms. You dumbass. How dare you back the tesla IPO. Me  JPM. Buy them. WFC. TFC. PNC. Finance it. Call DBZ. They owe me a favor. Genau?

Some of you down vote the daily threads and it shows.

At this point, hang it with pride like a Degree.

That one guy who bought spce at $8.2

up 20% tomorrow, imma buy some shares on margin

bags build mental fortitude and diamond hands

Both can be true.

Waiting Italian market to open to pump Rigetti, very solid pasta company

Corn is a buy at $20k

Corn bros gonna be up all night watching a line only going down

doesn't matter, calls

Plane ticket back to the third world you got her from

Your the one whose making these long post. If you can’t explain your thoughts within one paragraph than people will just ignore it.

Yes. Now print. Crypto. Hedge ether. Let's see Apple call their debts.

beaten down so much, victoria secret crushed earnings, ozempic made a bunch of people buy new clothes

I’m locked up, they won’t let me out

Tf is this Hawaii shirt grandpa with cigar 🤣

because apes fomo'ing into things that already went vertical

L$0wer

Takes a special kind of person to reply to their own comments

remy g'd up

crapto is just over who is buying this shit

They bearly survive 😂

Colin powell

Brother why the f would you by sofi calls ever

You better hold 750 SPY mutha fucka!

Whatever it is, include chocolates on the side. That decadent shit.

Bibi will ABSOLUTELY not allow a peace deal to ever stand. Ever. Nukes have to fly or there's no deal, because he's going to prison if they don't.

I'm down 20%

Literally the only crypto play holding up is $hype and only because you can trade stocks 24/7 😂

Why not. He is the king.

Spcx stocks

Is tomorrow a -1.5% to -2% day for SPY?

she looks like she’s having a stroke

Should I buy options during underwriting on home purchase???

at least in the past it was fun with huge swings. Now its just boring; that's what will kill it tbh.

I sold the dip and then watched it soar as I clutched my purse strings

A hedge against what, making too much money?

You didn't learn. Snakes in the grass.

SOON ITS GAME OVER ISRAEL.

Crypto Cratering

Is it tight or loose?

I feel a Lil more confident saying we pamp tomorrow.

Yo my the rest of my Lulu package came today pretty strong bull case

highly doubt

They're all Mormon *is* enough evidence.

what to buy for my gf 30th birthday ?

You bet your ass insrael will just start blowing up another country a minute after peace deal will kick in.

Early insert. Remenee the paper club?

Considered it, why do you think?

THERE IS LEAKED INFORMATION FROM PAKISTAN THAT IRAN NOW HAS NUCLEAR WEAPONS !!!!!!

Lol ok bro

Don’t talk wit me if you don’t wanna read all that

Anybody else’s panties starting to get a little wet on this uptick?

Those asshats

homeless dog in the ghetto 😔

How come I've never learned Korean!

THERE IS LEAKED INFORMATION FROM PAKISTAN THAT IRAN NOW HAS NUCLEAR WEAPONS !!!!!!

Please post your lost porn

Need to make 15k tomorrow. Any recs?

"Gay I" maybe

With everything else looking dumpy, looks like BTC is going to dump below the 63k support, right?

Bought the dip, hopefully we dont dip more

OP had an iron condor on Nvidia. Instead of closing their position, they let it ride and the stock closed between their puts. This means the short put was ITM and got assigned, but the protective long puts expired worthless. OP ends up with a small mountain of shares at 215 tomorrow morning.

If NVDA is above 215 at open tomorrow, they can sell their shares for a profit. If it opens below 215, they will take a loss. If it drops below 212.5, the strike of the protective put, they could take a loss bigger than the “defined risk, max loss” that they would have seen when entering the trade.

God speed, OP.

Its on the website

Wouldn't be surprised if avgo recovers lol

You don't need crypto when you have "Space Money", official currency of Space King.

$RKLB 200 by July 4

Where you want?

Oh it's 2025? Sorry 2026 Q2 is not public yet

I was going to guess Taco Bell.

You were right and I'm glad I sold the dip

he sold iron condor on NVDA but the put leg got in the money so he got assigned 2500 shares of NVDA. I guess broker shorted -1200 shares for him. I don’t know why don’t they short 2500 to make it delta neutral

Should I deploy the 14% cash in something or hold it as dry powder in Treasury holdings in my brokerage account?

Kid chichi.

I longed just now btc 🫣

L$0wer

Release my money HOOD GREASY batata.

"In theory" is up there with "everything's computer"

Somehow I’m not using any margin at all rn… where we dropping boys

Who's we? Analyst or gpt?

Now you can watch it go sideways for three more months like I have

bro yea , when he said that i was like “what the fuck”

"Thanks for the cheap sats"

We live in a 🤡 shown. Dr Oz actually picking up 🥭’s insane talking point about how “acing” a dementia test is somehow impressive. Literally just shows he doesn’t have full blown dementia. 

This is whose decision making the market is largely resting on these days. God help us all. 🌮 TRADE

“Aight, you right it’s fucked” -Tom Lee

Twice bitten 3 x shy I guess. AVGO why

As WMT sits at $118 AH... GG

Taco creating another crypto entry for himself lol

RDDT is the oil for AI ✊

Cryptobros are getting gaped while SPY and QQQ make new highs every day. Fucking love it

/Agile

It's funny you say that. Yesterday I was checking retail traders' performance trackers and the top traders last year were all 100% short-side traders shorting garbage stocks like this.

It's recovering!

They had yesterday off

And AVGO scared them

how low can you go?
to fucking 0 crypto bruh

If you are close to retirement and didn’t cash out or diversify during this bull run you deserve the shitty senior home across town

Can you send me your full portfolio?

Slightly up in the overnight is giving me hope

I'm racing over to the 🌽 sub for the sweet, sweet cope.

And the Band Played On, and then The Normal Heart from HBO

Holy fuck dude that’s awesome you can retire in another 2 months at this rate lol

Love it. Some dumbass at the fed is already prompting AI to produce it.

The US cannot supply world demand.  The only reason US sells abroad is because our infrastructure is not designed to process US oil.  The US needs heavy crude and we mainly produce light sweet crude.  The blockade hurts US consumers regardless of US production.

damn rip bitcoin

Something's goin' down in K-town...

I've traded futures the last 17 years, including WTI, and I agree 100% with your analysis and assessment that a spike in oil prices seems inevitable as current inventories are drawn down (including floating). I've argued as much in recent WSB comments here and here. Others have said the same thing lately, and repeatedly, famously including Exxon and Chevron bosses.

In fact, EVERYBODY has been saying this for many months now. You will be hard pressed to find any outspoken oil bears.

And therein lies the rub: when has EVERYBODY been right when it comes to markets? Anytime EVERYBODY knowns what markets will do next, it always turns out that those really in the know were quietly executing accumulation or distribution campaigns, using the liquidity of those narratives as they played out.

I still believe oil has to spike, no matter what happens in Hormuz. But I am increasingly worried about how popular that narrative has become and wondering if we have a surprise ahead of us.

I have spoken.

Parlaid the Knicks winning, Iran winning, and a dildo color with my life savings this is investment advice

bitcoin

**ethereum**

# cryptocurrency

But there’s a balance out because Spacex values the ASTS TAM over 700B. Spacex is pulling money away from the market, but high Spacex valuation also helps ASTS.

The concept of the framework

Bought AVGO in after hours at $415 🥵

Do we think TSLA pumps from here until SPCX IPO

full port on ceasefire PUTS it is

Semis erasing all losses. Marvel green very shortly

Yeah, I’m always looking for my tiny violin when folks at FAANG companies are crying about layoffs. They make like $300k + at those companies and their money comes from AI anyways lol

"I've seen worse" LOL

Mister MU I don’t feel so good

Yeah like the flat earth theory

Like it will ever be low enough for cash gang cowards to buy anything

The problem is that most large businesses are extremely idiot resistant. They have to be, or they would all collapse.

The only time I genuinely would have shorted my workplace, it was a startup that wasn't public yet (and would never be, I was right) so all I could do was run for the exit.

Maybe I need to get more retarded

**1-for-20 reverse share split**

Why is everyone talking about kimchi retards?

L$0wer

Wow. Bitcoin took a bit of a tumbly wumbly

Hah he started reading the wrong report

Ok slim thicc

hoping for that too but i think it will take a decade here..

Mr Bitcoin I don't feel so good

Calls on wemby

i would prefer a green crayon right now

rooting for the knicks bc the spurs ruined my parlay last series 🫩

Sold my $200 worth lol

A twentieth plane has hit MU

my portfolio trending down
my bmi trending uP

biggest regard of the year award goes to saylor

Even if this recovers the seed of doubt has been planted. Time to ring the register and everyone is thinking it

Why do you guys even care about how many dollars a coin is worth? It is the future of the world remember guys and not even enough for all the people in Ethiopia to have one!!!

Sadly, it's still irrational. 735 is the low point. Enjoy the moment of clarity the markets had.

🌽 really taking Ber month seriously

Even he couldn’t save the ponzi scheme

# inwembywetrust

give it to the Knicks I wanna see Gotham rise

Rising tide only lifts all boats if it isn't a worthless piece of shit scam being 5x overvalued.

Also all these space companies also trade at stupid absurd valuations woth no prospect of ever returning capital to shareholders

These stocks are all pump and dumps with hype behind them, buy them whenever they dump 50%, sell them when they rip 100%, never pay attention otherwise. None of them trade on any fundamentals whatsoever. 

Yes RKLB isna good launch company and has a diverse business, but it will never justify its current valuation.

ASTS could possibly justify its current valuation, on the future, when it actually makes money. Maybe. Definitely not now.

Down 850 fuck off

A thousand time lol

essentially; they just dont want me holding 500k tomorrow at open

🌽 is fuk

Try a different flavor 🖍️

cornapocalipse

Today was a bad day to buy my mom a car

To quote the shirt my kid wears, "sounds gey.  I'm in!"

Except sometimes it remains down and flat.

Behind you?

Green by morning and up 1% by 10:00 AM.

Why the fuck is google raising money? Shouldn't this spell disaster as far as ai goes

It’s alright. It’s going to run tmw

Thanks AVGO for fucking me in the ass. Very nice.

People finally realizing Bitcoin is fake and ghey

WTF man why do they have to sell that bounce with MRVL fuck!

Ditto!  But then I started a Schwab Think or Swim Acct solely for 0 DTE's! ;D

Imagine getting ready for retirement and your portfolio looks good but then the AI bubble pops

She may be a big booty Latina but her face looks like melted plastic

"It's a hedge against inflation"

Green by open

[ Removed by Reddit ]

Jesus?

Nah liquidity for SpaceX crypto is not relevant anymore

First rule of WSB. Never talk about WSB. second rule of WSB, btfd.

5 kallax 3x3's but I think I fit all my board games in.

To be fair, the time for that was yesterday.

Can you tell when I started trading options?

How tf does a big man like Wemby hit 3s consistently? Just creepy tbh

All it took was corn dumping. ELECTRIC

lol it’s definitely going to run again

Hail Elon!

That instant fucking 6 drop fuck you

Have stocks not already been rallying?

I see what they’re doing. I think you’ll actually be fine. The war is over for the 11th time. The sell off today was a double whammy of profit take and avgo disappointment.

ehats going on

Bingoooo hahaha (this is me btw)

been there. 

i just hope i dont lose it all tomorrow because of being 10c outside of an iron condor.

Bitcoin collapse is wild, probably has something to do with Iran

Fuck you get MRVL back to 300

Don't worry guys I heard Warsh accidentally broke the money printer on his first day

but the maintenance guys are on it and it'll be fixed before the holiday

They are waiting on parts from O'Reilly's

Similar month for me

LMAO Amazon employees mad because AI took their jobs

Bahahaha

Lol, I wouldn't consider that being "right about this". Guess you were just trying to panic more people to pump your puts.

I wouldn't be surprised if you're using Chatgpt to write this hateslop yourself 😂

Please, tomorrow? 

That one was always dumb AF. I was just dumb for not realizing how dumb AF people were.

Anyone need an herbal enema?

Whale oil beef hooked

Knicks in 4

Hahahaha you poor bastard.

I'm making *the biscuits* ☺️

I don’t have a series s

I bought some shares of SOXS after hours as a hedge and it’s already losing money. lol how do bears survive?

Buy the ticket take the ride

essentially, they put a buffer of -1200 shares so when i get assigned overnight, ill end up long 1300. Instead of making me short -2500 and risk spy gapping higher overnight

They regularly offer me over 50% margin. Like, spam my inbox letting me know I just need to hit accept

Might buy BMNR at $10 for shits and giggles

Since when your engineers make any money? But all jokes aside, SpaceX is coming on June 12 so there might be some catalyst. The cash you have you can save to purchase once the IPO goes public and try to sell for some quick profit. Otherwise j pow leaving etc are all negative news

Don't worry AI will quit it for you.

And zooming out just a bit means theres lotttt of room to fall if shit hits the fan

They are gonna eat ass pretty soon

community member

Pride cometh before the fall

Sls calls

I don't think we're supposed to say the full name, for some reason (Mods are ghey is the reason)

Does no one understand anything about the stock market? Regime cycles? Quartley cycles ? Monthly option expirations ?

It's called the black hole of liquidity

My fam owns a safari place in Africa. This is indeed true.

Haha I just started last year, had one great payday, then lost it all and got freaked and gave up.  Got gutsy again at new years, and honestly, it's gone way better than I was expecting.

Oh my gourd! 

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

63k for fake internet money, hmmmm

Does ur mom know you’re gay yet?

*Wendy’s dumpster.

Don’t u know this is pride month, it’s the Gay of Hormuz now

nvda likely to do the opposite, a stock buyback. they're swimming in cash with nothing to do with it

MRVL nearly hit 300

victoria's secret

OP you are safe. The war is cancelled for the 9th time. Congrats

today i gained moni AMA

Bers 🫵🤣🫰

Head over to /thetagang if you haven't already.

Great bbq

im in good mood rn AMA

Ok bers you git your 1 red day for the month hope you made enough to last the rest

tbh they probably run again closer to the ipo

KA-CHOW!

IM LIGHTNING MCQUEEN!

BECAUSE THAT'S HOW FAST I WILL QUIT MY JOB SOMEDAY

Not really. Street wanted a raise over $100B and the gross margin "decline", no matter how they tried to explain it, didn't go over well.

I'm not so sure the dip will be bought on this one, but will see.

so where does the money go

Lmao don’t trust Habibi, he’s gonna bomb that shit out the same day ceasefire agreement reached

lol what? It was a put spread. They only shorted to curb the volatility

fake and ghey?

That’d be a better allocation prob

Can you send me a link to the smart people's Discord?

Watching super tall people like Wemby run, is like watching a newborn giraffe walk for the first time.

How heavy are your bags? There was lot of opportunities to do 100 to 300% quickly

It's called starch.

rq = Right Qow?

I bought LCID in 2021 at $10, the stock went to $70, never sold, and now is less than $1 with the reverse split 

  
Shitty as company, it couldn't even masturbate for months because of this

Saylor recently learned the hard drives he stored the BTC on has rocketed in value

Rumors that Xerox will be printing the final redraft of the first draft of the a peace deal in the Axios HQ.

Play stupid games…

But Summerdayengineer said to buy calls

yeah I need to stop I do not have experience needsd to do this shit I just got too much FOMO and I couldn’t seem to control mtsekf I need to buy VOO or something

Fucking eh it will

R u telling me it wasn’t priced in???

M2 is still rapidly printing. This redness has about an hour or two at most before shrek starts getting hard

You good. Shit will bounce

Green by open

So many people irl thought this guy would be great for crypto its so funny now actually when I talk to them

Ahh I see 🤔

The 3579 successful Ber trap this quarter

Bers get to eat Shake Shack tonight but tomorrow they go back to eating Wendy’s

Lol. The Nissan Leaf is the biggest hunk of unreliable shit with no power and hardly any market share.

They missed the part where they tell the world their combined wealth is 60 which is literally how big capital calculates their wealth

Sell my MU and split it between DRAM and MRVL? Just feel like MRVL has alot more room to run than MU

Cash account boys, remember to turn on margins at open because WE GOT UNLIMITED DAY TRADES STARTING TOMORROW!

0️⃣ PDT — THIS IS NOT A DRILL!!!

Part of my tax strategy plan now

4th time this week

When will the cease fire of the cease fire happen?

I had lots of oil tankers until recently, I sold them all and bought thermal coal.

Me with 97 dollars of profit

because it was always a shitty asset and people are finally figuring it out. 

Oh... and how much bitcoin does SpaceX own? Musk might be the first trillionaire, but he may also go bankrupt the way he leverages shit. That would be a consolation prize when it destroys life as we know it.

Watching Brokeback Mountain is a must during pride month

Corn tards 🫵😂

They’re dated for September slim

Don't worry, this is one stock you diamond hand, I have full confidence in their ability to execute, i think Lumentum will be a 200 billion company soon in a few years

What strike, if you’re right I’ll send you 2 dollars

Thank you KOREANS

But our rocket won’t be available for 1 year so credit will expire worthless!

Ber actually thot

Fill it with short puts and wait

Not space

Yeah, they’ll love him for this trick LOL

I use CH as a broker and this is blowing my mind. They do keep trying to get me to use 20k free margin, though. They send me alerts that I’m approved constantly. 

This, though… I’m not sure what to make of it

You can't possibly be holding onto semi bags, when did you buy 5 hours ago?

SpaceX is sucking the oxygen out of the room. See what I did there.

i need this v to go all the way bigly green

214.26 currently.  I feel like I'm on death watch.  What regard gave this guy so much leverage.  

I think you could tell them they failed to confirm you are a sophisticated investor.  This is on Schwuab.  I am shorting it now.

Short the market

Going long on this yesterday was retarded

The big pump may still be coming.

You never go full conductor

Reading things like this tells me that a lot of people are going to be fucked raw by this IPO and about to lose all they have.

I’m here with you brotha, it’ll be fine

Stock just slipped on a banana peel

I sold my only call before close lol but I do own shares. That was a bad dump. Avgo diesnt dump like that

I am also considering selling all of my shares within a very similar company. It's run like a Chinese circus, without the peanuts or child labor. Chinese children would do better than my managers.

Baddie in pink, orange section.

Honestly I agree

Bottom = peak fear

What's scarier than this?

자, 가자‼️‼️📈📈📈

because they like cock in their ass.

chat is it over?

I sold the dip a long time ago and made 120k

LFGGGGG KNICKSSSS

I like how MSTR basically turned Bitcoin into a fucking bomb instead of pumping it lmao

It's pollen

4,021 at $14 basis, it was cool being up 200% but im chilling, red week this week, mega green shrek dildo spacex week

I maxed out my brokerage rewards tier on day 4 of the month. Did I overdo it

Delulu

SPY calls slightly OTM for Monday

Gonna give 🥭 a call to try and sort out this whole strait fiasco... will report back soon, maybe in a few hours.

Remember when NFT’s were the hot thing?  There are a few AI Bored Ape equivalents now.

I bet on the companies that don’t hire me. Does that count?

CRWD getting added

This 💩 already V on the overnight??

puts on life.

this post would be more popular if 80% of wsb wasn't long congrats

The US infrastructure is not built to handle the handle US oil.   We export most of our light sweet crude and import heavy crude to process.  

The people who know what will happen have already placed their bets and will profit.  The rest of us are fucked.

Bruh got cooked 💀

10%+ on CRM, +2% on SPY and +2% on XLE by Friday

Cool! So how does Hezbollah feel about this? The Lebanese govt basically has no control of them.

Congress votes to limit his war powers, he claims Iran wants to make a deal, supposed ceasefire between US, Israel, and Lebanon (not Hezbollah) but the market still red. Looks like the lies don’t work anymore

Come on mango! One tweet about legalizing cannabis to pump my TLRY calls and I won’t make any 🧃 jokes for the rest of the week

Shout out to all the 🇰🇷 in here, it was nice having savings, soon to be 0.

I think it just might

I got a feeling LULU gonna pop tomorrow, with victoria secret massive beat, and ozempic causing them to buy new yoga pants as the catalyst

Refinance, where Michael?

should i buy puts and save all your asses?

Hopefully 735 yet this week.

In japan and korea, they don't have sell button in their app

*chuckles confidently* we’ll just refinance the debt!!

Buy spcx at highs no.

corn will go to $0 and $mstr will trigger the bubble to burst, just like back in the 00's

Rope by open

It's short for butt corn

Fukery going on avgo. 🤔

hmmmmmmmm what to do tomorrow

$16k is not his max loss

I need to turn 7k to 20k tm what do I buy

Lol, I did too!

I ate so much bread today

Did you know they sell loaves of bread for a couple bucks at the store?

🫵 Now you know 🥖🍞

One of the most! highly regarded!

Bro dont sell DRAM, MRVL is great but Samsung, SK Hynix and Micron are trading at forward PEs of less than 15 the former 2 less than 10. Even with the crazy high valuations DRAM is an immense value prop

Half stock, half bitcoin?

We should all start putting in orders for 215.50 , or shi*,  250  Help a brotha out.  

We can do this!!

Go team regard!!!!

My retard ass made a call lmfaoo

EBay better acquire gamestop.

Because short gain is not a name or the start of a sentence

Totally. So much of the market is actually still down and we're being held up by the semis. There's at minimum going to be a rotation attempt before we collapse, and even then, it probably won't be until at minimum the SpaceX IPO.

Volatility is vitality.

Jesus Christ, just get to the game..

It's part of the ceasefireverse

spacex isn't lifting the sector, it's draining it. institutional money is rotating out of smaller space names to free up allocation for the IPO. less rising tide, more black hole

Bro I thought they were literally trading the commodity for a month

If NVDA and INTC could somehow get back to ATHs EOW….I promise to Warren Buffett I will start buying commons

Wen V for GOOG

Always happens

Mstr deserves to go to 0

why do people keep saying gay bear? i know what being a bear means in the market but why gay?

Fuck you nikkei, where's that gung ho from yesterday

Not marvell I know that

I only speak in memes. It doesn't have to make sense. Nobody knows what it means, but it's provocative. It gets the people going!

cant hurt me, i got leaps and i deleted the app 🖕

What about stonks

Sell the fucking chips, Koreans.

There's a little translate icon to the top right of my comment, it's blue~

No love for FET or any oil tankers?

Are the europoors going to panic sell later today?

Who the fuck full ported Broadcom thanks a lot lol 😆

Nah cause it’s not his money, it’s his investors, so technically he’s chilling

Saylor selling 🌽 should be a bottom signal tbh

MRVL goes up 1%, MRVU goes up 2%. MRVL goes down 1%, MRVU goes down 2%. 🥂

Cuz the pump happened in may. You already missed it

Fuck.  

You're more of a multi ETF guy.

You've bought every Reddit Chatter ticker there is.  

Stop.

Almost everything was down today. Some nonsense in the Middle East I fear.

Saylor announces friendly takeover of CLFD

Shorting 🌽 is free money until I do it guys, so out of respect, I will not be doing that.

And keep convincing everyone that the 4 year cycle is dead and no longer valid.

I'm sure you're going to be okay

Just dropped 17.5k on marvel shares wish me luck

All you have to do is buy $500,000 worth of NVDA stock. Nbd

How many died last “cease fire” …. Yeaahhhh suuuurrreeeee

Damn I thought I had to bad when I sold $75k of soxl today and because of a violation on the account I can’t buy in again because my buying power is too low.

Rest in peace

I dont what you wrote, but I like it.

I only need six figures to breakeven since I started options

Hell just refinance bro.  Roll it over.

!Remind me 15d "SPCE stock price"

Saylor announces a hostile takeover of EBay. It’s on the website.

Hell yeah Korea! You bros are doing gods work out here. Save our bags, we will return the favor.

Reminds me about Mullen.

My question rn is do I submit a limit order @ $375 or buy futures tomorrow when price drops to $400

The fuck is all this red shift on my screen!?!

The real dump on Corn starts this weekend

🌽 lmao.  Crashing in real time.

Shout out to all the Koreans in here

# 🇰🇷🫡

fake futes

Mango going to the nba finals 😳

There were actually people who thought bitcoin would hit $100k+ by EOY 💀

4 real?

Explain the x2 leveraged for me

Profit, playboy.

okay elizabeth holmes

sales team brings the investments in (clients in, ie ALL of the top players, google, openai, anthroptic etc)

ceo brings the ROI

OH LORDD

Every other Chip getting smoked and AMD still green. Lisa Su is built different .  AMD $1000 by end of year

damn corn rip

FOMC, Federal Oily Molecules Committee.

That ship sailed bruh

lost on CRWD  😢

Bers are going to wake up poor and gay!

Iran International (Persian: ایران اینترنشنال, romanized: Irān Internašnāl) is a Persian-language satellite television channel and multilingual digital news operation based in London, United Kingdom. Established in May 2017 and funded by Saudi Arabia,[1][2][3][4][5][6] it actively promotes former Crown Prince Reza Pahlavi as the next ruler of Iran.

Yes agreed

Don’t worry, it will be 0 and after your call expires, it will double

his mom, on her twitter account that elon has access to and posts on, says he's a very special boy

I made some money on Palu and HPE, but lost on AVGO and CRWD. Tomorrow, I'm going big on Rubrik shares.

Top is in

why is marvell capitalized but not short gain

Seeing your win loss record, I'm curious about your thesis.

Self-destruct sequence initiated.

hey guys! I've been in a coma since last summer, just woke up. I saw inflation has been through the roof!! Can't wait to see how my 🌽 has performed as a hedge!!

At this rate, mstr is going to go below $80...

RDW stands for Relax, don’t worry. So don’t worry kitten, it will all work out well in the end.

Can we follow up offline and circle back on this?

BTC. Took me like a year to figure that out

Haha, thanks! Good luck to you too!

Hot dude

Insignificant and money moving to the real deal.

Same brother, applying for Wendy’s

Their last launch was successful and they’re being awarded contract after contract.

Now That's What I Call a Red Day!

Volume 7

💿🎧🧸📉

I'm assuming you're fairly young. You'll make it back (ideally not by gambling!)

I know seylor shitting himself rn

the person you are replying to is referring to the fact that sears was victim of Edward Lampert, who, as CEO, had sears accept predatory loans from his hedge fund, ESL investing, which is a private equity company. Additionally, private equity has a rather established track record of being bad for the company.

!remind me: June 18th

I was somehow cognizant enough to realize that in realtime; but I’ll see you tomorrow!

My issue is I hold MU and DRAM, im a small account and dont really wanna sell my MU. But considering selling my DRAM for MRVL

The only stocks worth owning are Tesla and SpaceX.  Elon is the smartest, most handsome boy on the planet.  We love you Elon!!!

so s&p is announcing rebalance on 6/7.. are we just gonna go down til then? hahaha

What is corn stock am I dumb

Clearly you don’t have fun friends.  Traveling doesn’t have to include any of that.  90% of my favorite experiences are doing wild shit spur of the moment.

I CAN FEEL IT COMING IN THE AIR TONIGHT

This makes zero sense in this context lol. How about coming up with something original for once?

Who knows what the fuck that means

Right meow

It's a trillion dollar company. What's there to even consider. MRVU. 🥂

PUMP!!!

Big green dildos confirmed

From my entry, soon as I typed that it stalled anyway

Buy more tmr

Me too bro

Wen V

You saw the 48% drop in 2 days and thought it’s a good time to ride this?

*This “pivot.” Is it in the room with us now?*

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Premiums on nvda are dogshit why did you risk that

Don't do it

So anyways, I started pampin

If you’re going to hold an option in profit, write an OTM contract against it - this can guarantee a profit, or seriously off-set a loss. If the long is purchased when IV is low, or the actual contract is undervalued, and spot is reasonable, when it spikes, IV will often as well, so higher profit is possible both ways. (A good way to get good prices is to undercut with a GTC before open, algos will fill only a few at a time, though.) This is also a great way to make the trade free with a negative cost basis on the spread. It works for any expiry but ODTE/same week, and as a bonus, gamma makes the front expiry even *more* expensive at times. (I do this and regularly keep over 1k% gains.)

IBM - Instant Bankruptcy Machine
NOW - Net-worth Obliteration Weapon

It had a Kanye and Daddy Punk poster once. Got it off AMZN. Lemme check my cart.

Poison IV

Its msft, as long as people here are holding, its going down

A lot of people who were planning on losing everything with corn have decided to sell and instead lose it all with SpaceX.

Holy fuck 🌽 bros rip

Don’t tempt me… should had bought at 280

Institution will be dumping semis to rotate into SPCX. Semis are at sky high prices, so they deserve to take some profits and buy the new grift.

Yeah, so anyways, I got my fucking cunt kicked in today.  I’m ruined bois.  Fucking ruined.

I mean, there wouldn't have been invasion had there not been hundreds of rockets fired

Idk man I’d have to disagree I’ve been in tech for a long time and work at a MSP currently and most companies are buying and implementing Claude into their infrastructure.

Just got approved for options in my ira

Did NY win the baseball game?

BTC never did confirm the 62,800sh level for a bottom 🫣

The rug pull on space stocks happened a week before the ipo… because they’re smarter than you. 

You all thought the rug pull would be the day before, that’s EXACTLY why they all pulled out of asts and rklb and lunr a week before.

It already says "provides industry AI-powered enterprise analytics software" on their description

Korea I promise I’ll always be so good if you pump us to green, 🥺

Look, I'm a Ber that pretends to be a Bull.  This is when Bulls need to pretend to be a Ber. It won't last long (I hope). Think accordingly.

That’s a stretch.  In back of Wendy’s is more appropriate

Our Asian brethren are putting in a strong shift rn 🫡

Inshallah

Yes yes stfu about crypto.  The miner companies are literally switching to AI datacenters. It's not a coincidence

Crazy recession there

Roblox to the moon Q3

because it's only effecting US markets right.

They can’t make good rockets

Is corn going to be under 60k tomorrow morning? LMAO

you have to be ai because u are unreal with this comment

Bro its down 2% wdym

엔비디아가 우릴 구원할 거야 형제들!

Bearish, apparently

gotta love the random shot of troops being corralled into a room during the national anthem while looking completely bewildered. wonder if they'll even get to see the tipoff

KEEP GOING KIMCHI FRIENDS

I’m just trying to help you guys out by being the voice of reason so many bots that spread FUD & Copium  in here it’s crazy.

You mean a Memorandum of Understanding, unless Miranda is involved and then, well, no one fuck with them.

If the army was a foreign occupying army, suee

Idk I thought the same for $FIVE and it crashed despite awesome earnings. Sometimes these things are just as bad as we think they’ll be lol.

I lolled

Buy me a dildo. I accept AppleCash.

Here, you dropped these 👉 ,.,.

I can’t wait for my endgame coffee grinder to get here

More of a ski jump

I'm handing out pins that say I survived the recession of June 3 2026 if anyone wants

KSP username?

Everything bouncing back. SOXL $300 by end of the week

+ downgrade of the Elmo scam

Because no one believes in crypto anymore.. it’s a downward selling spiral, especially with Saylor himself selling for the first time.

Because we need 13,500 for each spacex contract we want to sell and that money has to come from somewhere may as well come from the competitors so we don’t lose diversification

Nvda green broadcom reversing its all going 🆙️🆙️🆙️ 💎

“This credit expires within 30 days”

Go fuck youself

Lebanon or hezzbollah? Because Lebanon has been very outspoken about hezb not talking for them

I’m gonna saw these calls in half

When oil a billion dollars

Pump it

Really considering buying this MRVL dip... decisions 🤔

But it's going to be worth a kajillion dollars at the next halving, right 🌽bros? 🥂

Avg was 16 sold at 36. Fomo at 39 too before the BO mishap

Once left in the money contracts open accidentally and got assigned 200 000 worth of SPY. Hilariously it rallied overnight and should have woken up to an accidental 40 000 gain that the brokerage actually pocketed. They said there risk management (caught it) but it seemed a little dodgy as the afternoon before they basically told me to hope it doesn't go against me. Either way, I had a very green day after for being so damn obsessed with the overnight movements. Hopefully this works out better than you think.   
"Play silly games, win silly prizes"

Saylor going to move on to trading AI stocks just in time for the bubble to burst

Guhhh

27 and a half

What is this a dip for ants?

Travis Scott. Houston. Print. Pay your taxes and we move on Abbott.

exactly what I was thinking as I held all of these contracts

No one’s ever seen anything like it!

Corn literally free falling

Jassy is a fucking criminal. Been bagholding this shit for like a yr

Is crypto being liquidated to pump the markets??? 🫨🫪

For one AH session. That is all

MRVL is so back

I'm on the #struggletrain

Only 99% of my savings on calls gone 😂😂

Oh we’re getting towards the end of the week?? *Ceasefire*

It’s the beginning of the week??
^WAR TIME^

Yeh. #SensationalBrilliance

MMs and hedgies pump the shit out of other tickers to do pairs trades and arbitrage trading

I bought some Lulu calls for earnings cause it cant be possibly half as bad as everyone knows it will be right?

Did we get one?

I love you Korea! Please save my semi bags you beautiful peninsula

What was your entry cost?

Israel known followers of ceasefires

MRVL!!!!

Well then, downvoted by a virgin. Lmao

Bloodbath tomorrow

Are u ok bro

Going to be hilar when SPY rockets back up to 765 by Friday

How do you download a picture on here?

TSMC shareholders meeting in Taiwan soon so let’s see if it can save some momentum for semis

Shhhbbro

donald wrap this iran shit up man wtf you're fucking with my portfolio

im not even american and im getting fucked for what

MVLL GREEN BY MORNING

Exacto mundo needs to come back. We need a flair of that.

up 13% in 5 days. Down 13% on a ‘beat’ 🥱Scamerica

Then share your knowledge with the class to explain why

ok but why is this so accurate tho

tldr: high options volume

I think Martha Stewart did that shit and went to prison??? Hmm

Sorry man.

Always set your exit

Looking forward to Axios and Barak Ravid releasing AVGO signing a ceasefire news tomorrow morning.

and there it is

For today.

Everyone hedge the market with NVDA!

grabbed some 6/4 spy calls before close at 1.75 average

So many MRVL puts they had to get liquidated tomorrow morning

Bools told me the market can never go down.

Just in time to pump the markets for Thursday and Friday baby and then back to failed talks over the weekend 🙏

SOXL V for the record books

Iran won't accept shit unless they are allowed nuclear capabilities and Lebanon is left alone. Those are two stipulations that Trump or Netanyahu appear to be willing to give

Puts on $WEN?

That’s a problem for tomorrow, not today.

Soothing female AI voice: "You don´t want that <insert username>. It is scary out there. Dangerous. <insert clip famine\_war\_naturaldisaster> Stay with me a little longer. This is your safe place."

thanks. i started doing spreads to try and get away from long options. though they would be safer.

How the hell did schwab give you portfolio margin with only 16k? You need a minimum of 140k for you to approved. Hmmm interesting.

Oh pussy you’ll be fine

It’s it already firday?

lolz  🐺 🦊  🤣

Saylor killed it

Concept of a plan

I am relieved for you to see that bounce back down at 213, may it not fall again. Godspeed fella

Lmao at least it's only $1600! A cheap tuition.

MRVL is literally at 300

Holy fuck. What’s going on? 

Wsb is alive again

Not at 15x leverage he won't be lmao

GET FKED MSFT YOU POS

not if i go negative with a 500k notional 💀

I am gonna jinx it for everyone. AVGO is moving up after hours

Cause everyone thought space stocks would rise all boats

I was down bad on MUU and MVLL but shits climbing, they better not be fucking with me

What about options on whey futures?

Fool me once…

# All money will be harvested to SPCX and routed to Elon's bank account.

45th cease fire this week

Gotta give it 2-3 weeks

🌽 45k is inevitable

Jane wanted so badly for me to close my soxs  short from this morning but these hands? 💎

💎 Gonna ride this puppy down to a dolla 💎

TACOOOOOOOO

When the froth is rolling over the lip of your cup, it's time to think

Daniel Negreanu

It’s on the website

It’s only 16k you’ll live

Well AVGO is getting cooked right now

LMAOOOOO

Damn... See this is why I mostly trade oil, I don't know shit about wheat or soybeans. 

I do still like distressed cyclicals tho so I'll probably stick it out, as you said, they'll probably be alright.

Best of luck in your farming endeavors, I hope the fertilizer costs and weather doesn't fuck up your yield.

this is where CEO's prove their worth. $HOOD is taking ANOTHER -50% haircut if Vlad doesn't do something to distance his baby from the corn collapse

Nvm boys im keeping MRVL

I like this rain, we needed the moisture

Walked in the break room for coffee and seen BB on MAN saying him and Trump are still friends. That’s when I knew it was over

why is corn going down 😞

Americans are pussies look at euro and asia markets for advice fucking hold keep compounding no wonder y'all live in group homes and asia/europeans are your landlords

Pls let them save my SOXL calls and I’ll never be a bad boy again. Promise

Did they buy puts or calls? Or do they take turns ?

despite posting record revenue and operating profit in its fiscal second quarter....

Broadcom's third quarter revenue outlook and AI chip sales forecast disappointed the Street..

The company said it expects revenue for the current quarter to come in at $29.4 billion, compared with a consensus estimate of $28.61 billion....

.....

Die space stocks die

I’m Crip Mac & I’m the sponsor of SpaceX IPO. Imma keep it 55th street, the float is finna be 555,555,555 staring at @ $135 shares, you 5 me?!

It will when 30 year mortgages are at 10%

We might actually be green by open. Market wants to go up so bad it's unreal.

Sure thing bud

you do it because it's fun when it works out and when it doesn't you still get that emotional response that keeps you glued to the screen as you're hoping it will turn around. But look at it this way, you're at the age where it doesn't really matter if spy shits the bad for a few years, it always comes around with a vengeance. People overdo this thing where they remind everyone how much their money will be worth in 40 years, but there's truth to it. Not as in don't buy yourself a slice of pizza cause that $5 will be 300 in 40 years, but as in don't waste large amounts for no good reason. You are basically breakeven ytd, don't know about your all time but it doesn't matter, you still have a huge pile of cash on your hands. Hold on to your avgx and crdo and rklx and astx and similar, those are very likely to recover. Crdo had every analyst raise the pt based on the earnings call and still dropped, it will go right back up. Avgo will too. I bought armg for earnings, down 30% for a couple of weeks, now up over 100% and that was less than 2 months ago. Just don't spend your time stressing over shares and even etfs of good companies, and don't buy short dated options, that's all there is to getting back your peace of mind and getting back your life.

Even k-bros have run out of steam 😳

Time to dump everything except oil

This shit is RUNNING back towards ATH lmao

It was a joke not a scam.  The ticker belongs to a different company. It’s just a pump and dump play.  Not sure where the scam is…just a gamble like every other meme style play

The hype train is real my guy

Sure, two more weeks right?

broadcum inc

very likely

It doesn't have to be. The market doesn't care about the math anymore, just enjoy the ride while you can.

Cmon market show me your V

🌽 ain't cooked till it closes below $50k.. else it just trading what it was trading back in Feb.

You was saying….

Can't wait for the 10th war is over pump!!!

I think this was a market maker shake out and with pdt changing tomorrow and spacex next week they wanted to sit on some cash to manipulate market next week

Sold? U r fuk

The forbidden cheese

Where's my promethazine.

Follow the Koreans they're pumping KOSPI back up now! 

Ahhhh.....Attack!!

What am I looking at here

Theyre rich from holding samsung and sk hynix

I have 11c calls fuck me

Sleep soundly knowing you contributed exit liquidity for a hedge fund manager who will ride out the second great depression, eating $12k cans of caviar with Ritz crackers and cheez wiz on his private island.

Bers enter like Francis Ngannou, a few bad hands is all it takes to erase your gains.

Feed up them with greed with weeks of green, once they decide to over leverage and go all in with the calls drop the bers and wipe them all out.

The cycle repeats.

Pay your mom and the CC company, re-invest the rest and then you can actually spend

Fake pump to give hope lol

Doubtful. This area down to low 50-60s is one of the thickest support levels it has. Likely to chop in the 60s and then 50s for months before the last leg down

Finally, somebody who understands subtext. Truth is I bought 10 ES 7640 call for June 5 when it started dumping because they were dirt cheap and if we’re gonna do mean reversion, it usually happens within two days

Yeah it could go either way, I’d rather just take the cash. Today I closed out the rest of my IBIT puts for 400% profit and now after hours it’s down even more. It’s just how it’s goes sometimes

The correction is over!!

was wondering why schwab would be wishing luck at all

its me I'm crashing the DOW with my mind

I’m not behind the Wendy’s dumpster, I am the dumpster, cum dumpster #AVGO

I feel your stress in that screenshot

I am not paying, pal

Some many haters in here

Koreans FOR ONCE showing some fucking balls

So it’s 597% instead of 600% and will probably go up 20% in the next month. Let’s all freak out

luckily we have ceasefire new to pump it tomorrow

Bro my god!! Are the Koreans saving my bags??? What happened

Jeff Bezos customer service representative telling ASTS Boss, "We have applied 5 dollars off credit to your account for next attempt".

What’s that?

Found an infinite money glitch

Strike London at 1600 GMT.

**Ban Bet Created:** **/u/MustBeHere** bet **SPCE** goes from **4.02** to **4.44** before **10-Jun-2026 08:33 PM EDT**

Their record is 21 wins and 4 losses.

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

!banbet spce 4.44 1w

What happen

Same. Hope mu comes to rescue tomorrow as well

Shit is so dumb dude.  I missed out on AMZN from 210-260 precisely because I didn't want to buy the top, yet it just kept going up. 

But the day I buy in on a dip, it fucking shits the bed for 3-4 days straight. 

What in the actual fuck.

Found an infinite money glitch

I want what this guy is drinking ☝️

That would be wild

who’s excited about the legendary quad witching event later this month

RUN MRVL!!!!!! RUNNNNNNNNN!!!!

I know a lot of people are mocking you but it's a stressful situation - I was in a similar situation when I started to sell options (spreads) a while back.

Hey man, at the end of the day, you can make more money. Learn from your mistakes and you will be better for it.

Hopefully the market bounces over night and NVDA ends up over $215. It managed to close above the support so you have a chance. Also, this current market is "buy high and sell higher" type of trend.

I’d appreciate if the Korean market shit the bed

Knicks fans don't deserve happiness.

Tomorrow ima full port calls, throw my phone, then giggle and run away like Peter

U all acting like its doomsday, bullish! Green by open

Who are buying Broadcom AI chips?

Generation bag holder found

LOL Saylor sold 32 and nuked the entire fucking system.

That's because wallstreet was just begining to rotate back into them but when Iran head lines start flying, the most recently purchases end up on the chopping block and most of them just had earning reports so was used to lock in profits. Did you see SNOW?

When not even Michael saylor wants 🌽 then you know your really in trouble

If you bought 10k worth of BTC one year ago, you now have 6k 😂

293 and climbing right now

We haven't even gotten the headlines of reserves reaching critical levels

You can’t do TA on indexes bra

Pm buddy

Blue Origin explosion last weekend.  Also, incredible gains in last 3-6mos - 15% slide is nothing.

Dude it’s not over just sell and rebuy a long calls AVGO still have solid revenue this year so still got room to grow stock undervalued due to stop loss being sold

AVGO is green by open btw

Is corn cooked?

Spurs in 6

I can send you some shirts, most have pot leaves on them, too. 420 mean anything?

RKLB and ASTS are extended amongst others. FLY has a 1.5 billion backlog and only trading at a p/e of 6x which is like 1/10th of the others.

Dumbledore: "A lot of gay crying in the casino today"

Snape: "...always."

So martinis are vodka only ?

Is this the opening scene of Alien Earth?

Wendy’s

Rainbows go up then down. Crash coming at the start of the 15th

Congrats and fuck them all

Bro I've been in these names since the war was even a possibility, sat through everything and I still don't feel there at any point has been something really bad priced in, we just went from fine to fine to slightly less fine to fine.

Nah thats normal.

*Open the Strait you crazy bastards!!!*    

......(Day #94)

Green by open

It’s the big risk equation, and Mother Nature holds an Ace. Crops yields don’t respond linearly to fertilizer, so for example your first 50lbs/acre of N might increase your yield 100 bushels, but then your next 50lbs might only increase your yield 20bu more, and in some cases not at all (it’s actually fairly hard to predict, and has year to year variance). Total supply of crop is typically going to correlated to weather much more than fertilizer use.

to the moon

Knicks in 7 I reckon

pyjama regards pumping avgo

the pumps seem artificial. Shit is going to 0

Pretty sure there a number of stop losses placed right below 60k. It's hunting season.

Refinance, where michael?

Good news crypto bros you’ll be able to afford bitcoin soon when it goes under $500 soon as Michael Saylor flees the country

Yea I got absolutely cooked

I saw GOOGL in the median panhandling for ai money today

just hoping to not lose it all at this point.

regard thinks spacex ipo is a catalyst, its the top for all of space sector regard

I'm down 15k today (not in avgo) so you're not alone...but that $59 drop overnight is a hard pill to swallow calls are fucked

When does saylor get margin called

And to think I almost YOLOd into MRVL at 310 this morning

Wtf are we gunna do in Space dawg?

I don't think since may I've had more fun then this loool

Crypto boards must be funny right now

SK Hynix down 3.7%. Not sure if that's a lot or not.

MU saved my portfolio today thank you memory shortage

Micron to the Moon

I do genuinely feel bad and wish you the best

But also this is you, retard

I really hope this is a joke or you're a multimillionaire and this is just pocket change lol

Man my broker liquidates my one 0DTE SPY at 3pm and they let you risk getting long 1300 NVDA with 16k?! I’m switching to Schwab.

You're gentle.

In eill ipen in green

Yeah, YoY sales increases of 100% are stupid.

I'm blocking your dumbass so in the future I don't need to waste the 10ms of my life reading the empty typing of a scared, low-level paper pusher threatened by AI.

Computa, show me life without WSB

Noooo

If by bouncing you mean down 15%

Cause I'm FREEEEEEEE free falling

These valuations are in the short term do untenable that asset managers need to sell off other holdings to but spacex etc

How the fuck did you manage to turn me agreeing with you into an argument 😂

I guess some part of the stock market does

Was busy working. why did we go down today?

Next time, VTI and chill.

Strike Hawaii. We're prepared this time.

No not a retard scam guy

Math. There is a certain amount of institutional money that is earmarked to be invested in "space." This amount will be distributed mainly through market share. The public market for "space" will be 90% SpaceX. So investors would have to sell 90% of their existing  space assets in order to buy SpaceX to actually represent "the market." Of course it´s not exactly that simple or drastic, but it explains the general function how the IPO of SapceX would have to hit smaller space stocks hard.

Miami suicide hotlines experiencing record-high call volume tonight 😦🤌

Mainlining green lines all day

Might buy one tbh then

The -100% is already covered

You’re gonna have a long night, but nice of Schwab to try and help a bit

21 mil? 

Bro no one cares that you’re a dude or dudette we all assume we’re dudes around here

What the actual fuck

I'll leave it at that

You sold 0DTE credit spreads... why? I always hated credit spreads because of assignment risk, it just isn't worth it when you get caught in the grey zone.

Strike NYC.

Did you mean to convey something with that? Because you didn't.

Ⓜ️
                                                                      🌕

            E

                                                      🚀
                       ✝️
                                          🏹

                                   🅰️

Good thing you were smart about it by starting with small options while you learned to minimize losses………………..right?

Why are we buying short dated calls on $MU?

Strike ATL.

Idk why i have the urge for calls just to lose again

Frumunda cheese

Good thing I’m well positioned if it does fall

That’s nothing man I’m down 20 bucks right now

Twi the cornhuskrrs to sell.

Corn gonna lose 60k tonight? Damnnn

I hope other company decouple themselves from pos avgo and ends up in green tomorrow

Gonna ride MSTR puts all the way down

Need ninja market to buy dip

Crypt-NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO

Housing inflation is inflation.

I thought the bears were moving to Indiana, it seems like they are moving to wall street instead

Next week

bitcoin literally freefalling irl 😦

have to wait til morning to unwind anyway

Aren’t the old unqualified people the ones who repeatedly keep crashing the economy? Isn’t Ben bernanke a Christian scientist

AVGO bouncing back tomorrow 👆

damn never looked at it that way😂

Yessir

Anyone who is actively in the red on MRVL is no good at this.

No way they let this shi red two days

Ok unc

Man that slight pop to 215 twenty minutes ago was the cuck coughing in the dark corner of the room

fk spurs tbh

Housing and college tuition has far outpaced inflation 4x over

Strike f1 10:30 am msT.

1mil is not enough for all that in 2026, just yolo it on MU $2000 calls frfr LMAO 🤌 nfa

Ate shit today and not scared, just realised I was playing like a total dumbass

You’re bullish? Ai is a made up thing that will cause Nasdaq to fall 92% and you’re bullish?  I’ll be scooping up Microsoft and Google in the single digits soon.

Sir, my Puts thank you.🙏

Give it time

Big explosion

Corn is storing too much value

Marvel broke into the green.

What the fuck?

bull trap at open

Since when did we allow poverty posts

Have you seen the charts for asts? I still have my limit buy I set less than a month ago at 64, the prices were more than double of that, its about time it came down a little

Why the fuck anyone takes the Israeli's or American's word on a ceasefire is beyond me at this point.

BTC lmfao

Spy goes up for six months then has six months of losses in a week, then recovers. . You’ll also see a year of losses in a month, and a recover

Nice. Wake up. The casino is open.

Bitcorn to 25K when?

Bro has just discovered inflation.

Now the bears are back and y'all are scared now. Play around more

I feel the same way about Rolex, bruh.

At 10:30 sometimes later

This is it. The Big Enchilada; total collapse coming.

agree

20th ceasefire

Think of it as a buying opportunity

Time to switch to puts

There are so many young, unqualified people in the crypto industry giving financial advice. They think they are smart just because they bought into Bitcoin early and made some money. But they are also too young to know the old saying, "don't confuse brains with a bull market."

BTC needs to bounce so I feel less bad about selling my puts early

What am I referring to?

No crying in the casino

Akshually, this is a concept of a cease fire framework yet to be designed but ideated from the initial concept framework based on the akshual framework in reference to the concept of a cease fire based on the concept of a war between Iran and the US

its gonna go down 30%+ btw

Do you crypto?

are you holding 2dte or something?  just relax

Berocalypse

Everyone’s ports blown: looks like I won’t have to tip my DoorDash driver so they can lose money driving to my house 🤌

These dips are so boring

Walk to your nearest Wendy’s dumpster. We can be roommates

Thanks bro 🙏

I hate that memory has been getting hit harder than semis on drops when memory makes so much more money and is at such lower multiples

Those $420 avgo puts I sold got me sweating now

But a series s is affordable.

MRVLous

That’s not what he’s referring to

I actually thought about buying SOXL today. I don't think there's a surer sign of a top.

Reporter: What are you doing with the $1m lottery winnings?

1996: "Paying off this house, my parent's house, buying one at the beach, new cars for the family, college for my kids, big vacation, retiring, and investing the remaining half"

2026: "Downpayment on a new house, paying off the civic, my college loans, and my mom's hospital bills too, if I'm lucky."

the only puts I have are on INTC and BRKR. and guess what happened 😂

Open by green

The company I worked for I got stock at $74 sold at $161 and made $25K. That stock is now $800. I sold because a financial advisor told me it was best not to hold company stock. Very regarded indeed and now I never listen to financial advisors or talking heads.

Which means spacex is losing value lol

almost 50% of male gen z are virgins...

Maybe it’s possible that their work and my work and other people’s work differ considerably from your’s. 

Some of the software tools that we utilize that either directly use ML models to generate data to solve problems, or they analyze the models output data and meta data to solve problems. 

To arrive at the same quality solutions without AI/ML would take anywhere from “100x longer”, to, “we would never arrive at it”, because we as a species don’t have that level of statistical, biological, chemical, or physical insights, money, personnel, etc. to solve these types of problems at that scale.

So while most people’s experience with AI/ML is social media and office work, a lot of ours’ is not.

[ Removed by Reddit ]

I own and I agree. Shit is ducking ridiculous. Building homes EVERYWHERE near me but builders keep jacking the price up so all houses stay up. Corps buying up homes and investors fucks it too

Here’s V

did they automate putting the fries in the bag?

Bro please tell me MRVL will go back to 312 or im taking a 6k hit right now this very moment

Sorry but the demand will keep prices up

So really just gambling. Or did you have some reason to think NVDA was headed back up today?

Saylor hanging out at the Wendy's dumpster in San Jose

Go up not down

What time do you go to bed?

Bitcoin is absolutely tanking

OH SHIT

Godspeed

Lmao dude they agree every single day at this point, just tune out

Yes that is the current day you are experiencing right now.

What stocks?

We're gonna see money rotate to Mag7 💯

"Everyone is a genius in a bull market" I can assure you I am not

Highway to the...

with one green day lol

Wtf! How? Why?

What have you done?

What are you holding that resulted in such a big drop today?

are you on your deriod

Iran will a have a new ceasefire deal anyways and then back to attacks just like the past 90 days, nothing new. Is Mr. Market so slow it would not have realized that it would continue to extend the closed strait forever?

Cancel Gemini

Arianna is back Austin...

avgo afterhours was sad to look at, never seen a price movement that extreme. i've only been trading for 3 months though

When do they expire?

If 750 support doesn't break it's back to chopping a best

Look at the market since the iran war started. Is it up or down? Fuckin retard. Bridge. Find it. Jump.

Space stocks only go up

I'm sure you would notice a 13% drop in AVGO if it was in your portfolio right now, sub or no

..."today"?

Tomorrow at open I will bleed heavy. I feel sick to my stomach right now.

Call Palantard!

I'm cashing out at iPod.

Housing needs to crash like 30% 

These boomers are insane

Do all of these ceasefire agreements go towards donny’s Ending Wars count?

I wouldn't worry too much. I read an article that says all of this is just a fucking simulation anyway. You're fucked in the simulation tho.

Did AVGO bring the whole AH market down or do I need to open my news app…

Correct

ORCL. What a turderino.

Yes the sole reason

It's why he's in the situation to begin with.

I don't trust oracle. Audit them pwc.

Ah I don't have those on the app at my closest big city but I do have some amazing pizza places that sell out fast. And some not so fast. Yeah donuts, pizza and bakeries in that order of how much stuff.

But I also have some cool things like fancy handmade ravioli on the Portland one

What % of your funds is that? Christ

Calling the RKLB stock trash is one thing, calling the company trash is beyond ignorant.

Opens at 135, ends the day at 44 and Elon announces that we're going to build data centers on pluto, since it's colder.

Bro was gambling on a plane with 10k he casually got from his mom.

Believe me, he won't regret anything, no matter the outcome lol

They beat revenue and guided higher, but it was likely priced in

just joking man, lots of people on here have a serious gambling problem

Are Virgina going orbital?

The country that constantly breaks ceasefires is actually in the list. And the reason Trump's deal last week got torpoedoed was because that country invaded Lebanon. So maybe, maybe! this time it holds.

day 96 of waiting for a rapid overnight repricing of volatility, equities, & the vast widening of spreads.

Alot of gay crying in the Casino today.

Good luck

Acting like it wasn’t at $330 this morning

Post the loss porn.

I don't do this level of options, can someone explain this?

You seen MRVL?

I don't know how to call someone on tiktok. Do you have "FinGuRUNotAScAm2207" 's phone number?

boys we're saved

For every one of these, dozens have gone to zero. You just never know 😭

No crying in the casino

It’s ok to be wrong. You’re too fucking retarded to realize you’re retarded. Just don’t drink too much bleach

Who is Jason?

OP is confused on how this works.

Today sure, they're pussies every other day though

What is this, a dip for ants ?

You have to buy in at the subfloor before it shoots to the basement!

I just lost 600k on AVGO calls. What do i do?

It's Yesu day. Going to rain.

never, they are delisting

Imma need Jeff Amazon to get his peepee sucked by his big booty latina and lock in tomorrow.

I wanna know how you die. Wolverine doesn’t die. So how tf do you die in game?

Pizza buffets hand out stupid amounts of food. Somehow they’ll jam 7 pizzas into a box and say $5 lmao.

Look, I'm gonna post this exact quote again....

There may be cheaper ways to get kicked in the nuts repeatedly, but what do I know?

#BanBet

Will MRVL ever get back to $300

Okay. Play Rocket League. I'll see you later.

People who think this is how this works have no idea how debt functions, and how it's extremely common for two entities to owe each other debt for future contracts and the debts don't subtract from each other.

Like I don't blame OP or those who believe this, as you'd assume it doesn't make sense to do it like this, but if you've actually gotten a business education, researched it yourself or have job experience then you know the OPs statement is completely incorrect on how this works.

If I wasn't on this sub I wouldn't even notice, you all freak the fuck out over any minor inconvenience.

I guess even the signature doesn't work now. It's gonna chop around until all bols and berz are dead

My moves tomorrow.  

Sell amazon after open pump.  
Buy Archer at peak of morning sell off.  Archer recovers back to open pricing by noon, sell all.  
Then buy Netflix if it tanks around or below $80.  

Easy money

He jinxed it lol

I'm literally ashamed of my body count. I'm a serial fucker

Your bank and financial adviser.

Jan 2027 $450

Okay Randy Bo Bandy

Just a note about going short. It’ll probably play out here soon because the data is getting harder to ignore and with earnings behind it we’ll focus on the real world for the next month.

However, as soon as there’s a real deal actually signed…even if we get bad data through the next year directly from this it won’t matter since the worst will be behind us. Anyone who traded during covid will know all the bad shit will be priced in and we’ll be mooning on the 5 year outlook when it’s all back to normal.

I'm sorry you're short dated calls still expire worthless. However, the doomers and panicans saying it's over because they got gaped on shitty options from a overnight correction are just walking liquidity.

Congrats. You are down 2% while VOO is up 10% YTD

heavy bags huh

That looks like a cup and handle. Time to double down

You’re 19 years old and gambling with over $80,000. You really can and should sell all that and put it in an index fund. You have one of the best assets in your pocket and don’t even realize it: your time. You have so much time ahead of you to get better at investing there are many envious of you. 

Honestly, focus on your studies for whatever career path you chose and put down the addictive robinhood. In fact, move your shit out of robinhood to a less visually appealing brokerage like fidelity or vanguard. Robinhood is literally designed to make you want to keep buying and selling. They don’t care if you lose money.

Print Mumbai.

Watch the dip get eaten overnight

You mean the world cup.

Skunks - PP le pew

Are you retarded you gay cuck. You’re the one that never replied. Probably out there sucking dick. “Lmao u think this market cares about the Iran war anymore” 

I guess it does, dumbass cuck. You probably keep a chair in the corner of your bedroom to watch other dudes fuck your boyfriend

They don't even play volleyball!

Imagine

That was the cake 🍰 

But it was struggling already between the new eye 👁️ ran attacks and new tariffs

I'm convinced they do it on purpose once a month to pump and dump

🥭 suckered everyone in as exit liquidity with the peace deal talk. Things will unravel now.

Meta is inverse SPY ETF

Only that one guy had the balls to come clean.

So I was in the record shop and I walk by the Spoken Word section and at the front of one bin there’s this record. It’s 45 minutes of this guy who pioneered talk radio interviewing people about UFOs, pressed in 1966. The interviews are from ‘55-‘65. 

Just got really baked and now I’m listening to it. Pretty great. 

I haven’t had any actual large plays in weeks man somehow it seems wildly regarded to be either a bull or a bear right now and shit is somehow too volatile but also feels flat and, personal opinion, this is the most fuckass market since Pre-Covid. 

So I’m sitting here on shares like some type of fucking boomer. Maybe I’m just getting old. God damn it.

All due to data centers in space... makes no sense.

I'm pumping hyoerbeam tonight. Msgiksrps. Units.

They tend to do that

Nvidia. Broadcom. Micron. AMD. Long ago, the semiconductor nations lived together in harmony. Then, everything changed when Broadcom pooped the bed on their earnings call. Only the Bolatar, master of memory, foundry, display, and vibes, could stop them, but when futures needed it most, Bolatar vanished. A few hours passed and my regards and I discovered the new Bolatar. A KOSPI-pumper named Korea. And although its overnight green candles are great, it has a lot to learn before it’s ready to save anyone. But I believe Korea can save the semis.

I worked there when I was 16. I would throw extra sandwiches in the bag and always made the fry boxes bulging. I gave out any sauce someone wanted and gave out the toys too. If my manager was backing me I couldn't. But once they went into the back office I was extra with it. I.just couldn't give extra nuggets cause someone else did that and they would probably tell on me because they would have to be constantly frying nuggets. Lol

Just buy T-bills and get a hobby. Wtf bro

Just tell them the check's in the mail and ride it up to valhalla as it bounces into end of week back above $225 and you make bank

Hello all, so, HOOD said AI this week and yet it is not up 27,000x, it has been more than 13 minutes, I don't understand what's wrong. Is it broken? Who do I call?

So much good framework out there right now!

Oh… no I’m not like you. I wait until IV is lower the day after earnings to scoop up cheap calls

My condolences though

When you buy the dip and it keeps dipping 🥺😢😭☹️😔😞😟😿

why is the market down? I thought it was time to go hard on this shit!

That's not how you secure gigabaggers in a day tho

It does.  Zoom out.

Buy this guy an echo.

Of course you would have been fucked by 1k credit card debt...

with a mum who casually gives you 10k to gamble with... on a plane.

Knicks about to lose the world series

#change my mind

Dumpster runs 24/7 bruh 😤

I mean you're just holding some shares of the biggest company of the world and you can just sell anytime. Not really a big deal.

Oh you meant much earlier dip. Sorry ;(

cry me a river bro

Thank god i dont have the worst amzn entry

But what kind of cheese?

The gays are bussin it open

Why Iran is exactly it. Why does the US keep fcking with the middle east? Profiteering politicians.

Find a bridge

Strike meta. I like Luxottica.

This kind of research is the reason I pay the big bucks to subscribe to WSB.

Just put the fries in the bag

It’s ceasefires all the way down.

got out of work early today

One more trade to make it all back

Bears fuck.

Ceasefire. Israel and Lebanon.

Because MVRL taking their share

Which is why the original ceasefire only asked Israel to refrain from Beirut and suburbs where Hezbollah were not mainly found (in as great numbers) as in the far south

Literally over abundance of donut shops on the app, this isnt like telling them there are whole foods meat bags

Wait oops

is that the only reason the market is down?

The Schwab team... sent you their regards

🤣😂🤣

Bulls rule!

Jeff bezos keeps blowing up asts’ satellites

If we just pump meta, I’ll look the other way on this one.

You retarded or something?

It’s alway me😭😭

no. this is all i have

Am Violently Getting Off

the lost picture is my positions at close, avgo and crwd has yet to be shown it rippled my positions. 

It's 95% irand news as my first picture was from monday and I'm down 20k in unrealized gains

There are people on here that never experienced sex

Bravo

Wouldn’t that be things must go wrong?

Dude fuck the goddamn market, fuck stupid fucking AMZN. 

I bought it on Monday near open, after about a 3% dip from ATH's.  The shit then proceeds to dip all day Monday, all day Tuesday, and now fucking all day Wednesday. 

I'm fucking 6% in the red on this bullshit in 3 days.  What the actual fuck dude. 

And it's not like it's been straight down, there have been recovery pops, but never enough for me to exit.  And it just fucking sucks ass looking at being 12k in the fucking hole.  Thinking that had I just bought a day later, I could have ridden one or two of those upward movements and be green instead of fucking 5 figures in the red. 

And thinking about recovery, if/when AMZN does recover, it's a 12k movement up just to get back to 0.  Imagine if I had bought on fucking Tuesday or fucking today.  I could eventually be sitting on a fucking 12k gain.  What the fuck dude.

trading is also buying these type of stocks, expecially for rich traders, to lose 5000 usd is like nothing but they can make 25000 on it.

Godspeed

I bought at 95. I’m not up as much as I was a few days ago obviously but still up quite a bit. 

So am I lying or am I down big? Please pick one so we can end this after I share a screenshot of the position

Your pussy ass never replied to me yesterday. Why are you so gay

Anyone betting on cboe and cme? Hyperliquid concern seems to be way overdone

A V G O 

Al
Value 
Gone
Overboard

NVDA is showing resilience while everything else can't keep their pants on. Good luck!

So AVGO missed revenue because the software segment was weak, and ended up dragging both SaaS and semi stock down with it 💀

They've been saying ts for years now. Wen?

Took profit on nbis months ago. Doubled my money when I could have quadrupled it. You never know

Scalping season is open. Momentum on hold.

It's an AI chat now.

TY CSCO

Shut the fuck up.

Each MRVL contract cost me $298. Almost sold this morning for $3.9K each.

Won’t be surprised if we’re green by open tbh

Until I make money on it

Stay awhile, stay forever

Isn’t there someone you forgot to ask?

You can not believe it and also still buy calls, which coincidentally is the right answer.

It's the ceasefire that ceasefires the ceasefireses that ceasefired before this ceasefire. 

Get up to speed regards, we're here to make money not babysitting

I got some in the fridge.  Need a cup?

wait why are all of you scared? should i be scared? is it over?

the smartest move

Heh, good one. Every retard I know is happy sipping on their caprisun and eating their grilled cheese

Oh wow its down .5% im the retard

Calls on chart going to the right LMAO 🤌

I'm going to buy a share tomorrow, would you prefer pre market or at open?

Rookie numbers

Ok so you had 1k cc debt - mom gives you 10k and you don’t immediately pay the cc and trade with 9? I don’t get why you did that 

Also it worked this time - you got lucky very very lucky don’t think it will work out this way every time

Naw that shit is for losing money.

Farmer buys tools from blacksmith. Farmer sells produce to store. Blacksmith buys produce from store. 

Bubble

I got off to it while imagining it up myself

Lost 15k today on my SMCL unrealized gains :)

They already launched rockets today so

Lol, USA agrees to disagree over commonsense human agreements.

I just opened it. All clear!

He single-handedly derailed the bull run.

I mean if it was true you’d be down bigly but I also think you’re poor and lying. Hope that helps explain things for you my low IQ friend.

Normal volatility.

I started ~~investing~~ gambling 9 weeks ago, and I don't understand why the market crashed today.

You guys are killing my buzz

He’s pro hiding his other account which has plenty of money

Anyone else have autism?

LITEs graph today is the weakest thing I’ve ever seen

Best day to fly is thirsty Thursday.

Saying that like that’s not a 2% gain lol

The gamestop situation had its shares shorted at 140% therefore it was vulnerable to a short squeeze where the people shorting would eventually be forced to buy regardless of the price.

SPCE is being shorted at 26% and is not vulnerable to a short squeeze. SPCE is a failing company that most people have completely given up on. There was a “rally” based  on outside influences that was based on no fundamentals or logic. It was an obvious pump and dump and most people realized that and were trying to get in on it then exit early before the dump. A lot of people succeed and got out in time, but of course that means many people didn’t get out in time.

A V G O

Another Valuation Getting Obliterated

Squeeze deez nuts you fuckin nerd.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Yeah, for some godforsaken reason SAM companies still make sense, but I am allergic to being this late to the party. 

MU went up 10x in the last year alone, and memory is a cyclical bitch. I cant find it in me to pull the trigger without enough discount. Like, I would buy NVDIA at close to $200, others I am not too sure. 

What are your picks?

loss for ants

I thought you were talking about FAANG for a second and I thought I hit my head or something

Tomorrow

Here let me get my magnifying glass to look at those losses

It's right next to the Any key

It's red light green light

That’s exactly why they rushed so much

Starbucks flights.

Stock market will go to zero before bitcoin. It doesn’t need earnings or people to have value.

Stone Age wen

Now I visualized this a bit too much

This guy Trudeau.

the smartest move

Heh, good one

as a non financial advice but as a gambling advice i would say that if in the possiblity, parking 1000 usd on SPCE and let them go has for sure a -100%+2000% risk reward at this price, don t miss your chance

I really don’t know how people manage to lose this much playing options. Longer dated options with decent risk management should prevent this so easily

only when it’s in lieu of a raise or profit sharing

Should have sold my HPE at 64

Read the Daily Mail.

Why the gap up ?

Whatever news had no impact whatsoever 😂

So they figured that out and went for the signature quickly

It's not even down a percent

Koreans arent pussies like us

Buy into Nikkei.

Euphoria at this level not seen since 1929

The speed of the selloff after hours and then liquidity means that if institutions want tomorrow, there will be a massive squeeze, potentially to even higher highs, but these conditions do also allow for a potential real selloff tomorrow, but we could also just stay in a straight chop zone with the range widening while the market picks a direction

So in short, anything could happen just like every day.

Idk what any of that means. I just buy and sell

Microstreetbets soon lmao

i’ll go ahead and add that loss porn to my spank bank

And selling Solaris.

I lost 14k from ASTS after Blue Origin decided to larp hiroshima - if that makes you feel a bit better

Buying 2DTE puts on that thing tomorrow.

Nope. The shovel guys are the guys with the power plants.

Or, at least, with pre-existing take-off agreements.

Remember to buy the dip

What am I suppose to do with my 77 cents I have left

Ctrl + Z, or CMD + Z on a mac

This might be one of the healthiest pullbacks we ever have for the rest of the year

It's 4 am in Brussels.

Sounds like calls on google.

That means Israel is buying time to reload

Whitehouse.gov

Half cash half stock. It's on the website

U bum

Leaps, depends on your entry

So glad I sold my 2X ETF before… welp

you're good man, just don't be so hard on yourself. You are young and have a bunch of money for some reason, just play with a small amount. you are doing better than most people here in every aspect, had more money than most to begin with and your losses are very small relative to the portfolio. You need to understand that people throwing money on weeklies either cannot afford to buy anything else cause they only have a few thousand dollars and are stuck in a poverty vicious circle where they lose it, save some more, lose it again, or people with so much money they don't care about losing some on fun plays. you don't belong to either of those categories, so stop gambling with life changing money.

I never invested in this company because I already have enough agricultural stock in my port. Thank gods I am ignorant.

Don’t even care

you're kinda right on time but the party sucks ass

spoke too soon.

Indexes will probably V and stay flat come morning... 

Or another silly unverified Axois news about talks going better than expected.

I would kill a man to be down 8% today

The strait is still closed!

CoreLeave and AVGone 😭

40x10x4 Wɔn.

Two ceasefire don’t make a ceasefire.

Some things are so regarded that its best to not understand

1 day strangle is peak retard

lol all the losses from the house vote on oil is almost recovered. 

Buy FANG to recoup those shit loses boys. Only worth 56 billion compared to your 🌈 trillion dollar stocks. Texas Oil for days.

He got me to the tres commas club

LMAO 🤌

Thinking about how absolutely hysterical it would be if the bubble popped right before the SpaceX IPO

pray for green tomorrow

We are seeing incredible levels of post-nut clarity in real time folks

A near 13% drop is crazy 😭

I used to work at McDonald’s also.

The owner franchise would rather throw food that was made for orders but not bagged in the garbage than allow employees to eat it. Even though it would not be sold/served to customers and was only ~ 20 min old. 

There were some super poor folk that worked there that could use a free lunch

Still your problem. Inflation is a bitch.

No surprise

They dont actually need the money from us. Theyve blackmailed their way into all kind of industries and have a whope cyber invasion via cyber stocks.

Buy an Xbox. Series s.

I sold mine early- at 1071

Ya cause we waking up with Much less dollars than we had yesterday

Fucking ECG ass port value over the last couple of weeks but still in profit which is all that matters

rode them down quite a bit. my credit was $1000 yesterday

avgoingtozero lmao

There was le pump and now le dump

Why stock market bad?

Buying more in the morning if it's still over 10% down.

Only 30 or 40 people so far so you're early

Call Uber eats and buy an Xbox.

Don't worry guys I got Donnie T on the cup and string telephone right now. We are gong to straighten this whole thing out by open tomorrow.

Every game is pretty boring. Zero innovation beyond stab something, shoot something, race something.

Mildly tempted by this Mixtape game, but since the xbox360 there has been barely any innovation besides mediocre graphic improvements

WMT and COST 😱🤯🚀🚀🚀🚀🚀🚀🚀 

SEMIS ARE DEAD 

WALMART AND COSTCO TO THE MOON.

if you cant get a job at Wendy’s, I can put in a good word for you at Arby’s.

i think mag7 is gonna pump for a few weeks while all the small caps bleed a bit

I know you spce regards are out there somewhere

Glad to hear. And update your will just in case.

They must have because paying for AI companies losses until at LEAST 2027 with no delivery and praying that demand will just keep doubling is the most retarded business model I’ve ever seen and it looks like maybe the market is starting to wake up to how every blue chip is making these deals

BITI is your friend, it ought to open way higher tomorrow, I'm happy to watch bitcoin plummet

MRVL $300 tmw

Ruined the night for all of you. Call Uber eats.

just incase it gaps up. essentially my volatility is cut in half. Its as if I only hold 250k instead of 600k.

if it gaps up overnight and im all short, thats bad.

Guys!

I can’t find the “undo” button on my trading app to undo my trades

It is estimated that NVDA is selling AI GPUs to companies and booking it. Those hyper scalers haven’t even broken ground on their data centers.

The real cost, not subsidized, is coming through and there will be only a few winners who need less tech equipment. So it sure isn’t going to be fucking DRAM & NAND companies that’s all I know.

This is because there is literally a Chinese garlic Mob. For real. They are crazy apparently.

Yes, welcome aboard 🫡

Water me when we hit circuit breakers

Has anyone made the AVGUH joke yet!

Strike corn 1 bushel 1 yɛn.

I declare... DECLARATION!!!

Who knew extremists are extreme? Not you know who.

NVDA is green right now. You’ll come out of this unscathed and hopefully a bit less idiotic.

It's not holding it up very well..

How the fuk

Paaaaaamp it

that we can bet on

Send it negative. It's still too expenses.

A had a 100% return in three positions, decided to wait one more day to see what would happen, didn’t expect that all stocks would drop 10% and killed my positions, insane shit

POP is exactly the metric I’d expect someone selling calls for $0.005 to care about.

inverse WSB never fails

$NOK boys I don’t feel so good

AVGO RENAMING TO AVGONE LMAO 🤌

Goto small street bets. They still are trying to get their money back there.

Do ants think they are normal size or do they know they are small?

You belong here

Green believe by open or it not

Yeah but it brought down everything I have no Broadcom please explain why my CIBR calls are down so much

I thought the same with mrvl tomorrows thinking it was going to recover and im down 50% might try to double down tomorrow

They got mango and the world by the balls and they know it

Why when I can get it at 200 in 2 weeks

Hedge AAPL. Calls on BTC. Sell you Sperm Whales.

I sat on my hands on the sidelines. I did not buy. But had I bought when I was going to I'd have 9K gain. lol. I have a few game store shares as a reminder to leave this meme shit alone. They split so the multipled. Lol I actually was up when the stock when to $70 and missed getting rid of those bags then.

Barron confirmed to have locked in his puts

🥱 why did something happen?

Relax and take their positions

It's America's 250th birthday. Is it the final birthday? Who knows, but at least the market is up from the beginning of the year!

bot ain’t got no chill 💀

Well, thats not bad then. Losing only 16k vs 600k.

The indexes were going up despite the war, not because of the war

There should be way more loss porn posted right about now

I put the fries 🍟 in the bag for the guy putting the fries 🍟 in the bag

I heard they misinterpreted how it works initially

I agree this feels a bit different than a retracement.  If you look at the volume during this entire run up, it has been quite low given the massive move.  That super low volume day Monday was enough for me to, fortunately, take a lot off the table and buy enough Sept puts to cover my ass.  It'll be interesting to see the price action around the SPY 745 area, which looks like the first support area

Hedge AAPL.

Does a bear iPOO in the woods?

We shall see

this shit was so exhausting i’m gonna go play minecraft by myself n listen to clairo

Yeah it’s been a heart racing week, major jumps going up and down

Whoever is selling… FUCK U

Kramer finally got a reddit account I see

And MSft.

you sound like a real bitch

don't worry guys, im gonna make this right

Well my Ai play ran 72% after hours so I can’t complain. Thanks Cxai

I got 5.5k shares holding

They were going up cus of peace deals and inversing oil.

Wish I could zoom on a picture in Reddit

It's 8 am in Singapore.

That wolverine game looks pretty boring. You run in a straight line and kill some generic enemy monsters like a game straight out of 1991. And you know it costs them like 400 million to make that too.

AVGO PUTS!!!

they aint lettin it drop drop before the spacex trojan horse

Gonna go for the SMCI calls soon here. We’re getting close to the longer term MAs and trendline. Could dump some more and get kinda nasty looking for a shakeout so I’m gonna let it get nasty before I buy.

Flip the market. I believe in you.

Gonna drop more

It’s time to let the world burn

Bear accidentally calls top by not believing in it, loses everything during the correction, storms off.

hoping for bump from Lulu earnings tomorrow AMC..

AVGO seems like a decent buy here

Is it meta’s turn to pump?

Calling the catholic church. God Save The z king.

So looks like MUU can be risky too unfortunately even if it gained for today.

*I screamed into a mirror*

Yeah lots of stocks down today because of the bombing US and Iran are doing again

Costco gas prices plunging

Gotta fight ceasefires with ceasefires

There was no party…. Don’t worry

Down 8% today. Not fun. Should've full ported meta when I considered it.

I am not a bear, but I heavily consider the bearish trend and I tend to think long-term the bears probably win. But yeah, bears should learn what the actual trend reversal levels are before they celebrate a 1% down day.

hes waiting to buy calls at the open before he does that

Habibi. Wie gehts?

Congrats to AVGO bears who held their puts. Everyone is a genius in a bull market, especially when its manipulated to keep chugging up based on fake headlines. It takes balls to take the opposite position and hold your dicks in your hands. Salüd! 🐻

Translation: Spy go uppies

I put the fries in the bag tomorrow

Holy shit. Why did you realize (and what). You could have just deleted the app

Rolling my calls it is.

My carrots aren't ripe yet.

Yes but not to the after party.

Announce 5 trillion investment in AI

Its never late to be a bagholder

watchu cookin

Use polymarket.

You aren’t kidding.  Before you ask…

My entire portfolio is comprised of: FSELX \- 60(ish)% FCNTX - 25(ish)% ULTY - the rest.

Thanks man

I'm down 20k in two days, avgo just happened.... it's Iran news happens like once a month

He's no Queen Su

I agree, the engineers at SpaceX have a really impressive product in Starlink. It's unfortunate that they are tied at the hip to Elon, though. Imagine what they could accomplish with another leader.

Can you let me know tomorrow in premarket?

Hopefully your balls are wrong…

This is exactly why I don’t try to trade on my own org. I support a portion that, while one of the strongest, is so small compared to some of the other units that I don’t know anything about

Put the fries in the bag bro just like me

Yes. Did you enjoy it? Call your primary.

I am a bear and I honestly don’t think we see a red week. Semi is holding everything up, no chance it goes red.

objection, human centipede was not circular

Iran really just does not give a fuck

Am I late to the SPCE party?

It only takes 459 days of being down 1% to reach actual 1% of ATH you sick fuck

Well yeah! I’m saying you have more time to eat the shit and recover that’s all :D

Wouldn't it be worse? The indexes were going up because of the war..

Oh my gourd! 

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

GOING TO ZERO. 

AVGO RED FOR THE MONTH. LOST IT ALL IN ONE DAY 😂😂

Got gaped today. Will need to wear diapers and a bag. Just falls out now. Fuck

How do you tie your shoes in the morning?

*But below the price......looks back at anoos.....the price of my calls.*  😞

Call the number on the back of your debit card. And bitch.

Are you jimmy’s dad?

On the AVGO earnings call the questioner asks the ceo to explain how the deal with Anthropic actually works???? Like you guys didnt check before pumping the stock 60%?? They really are way more asleep at the wheel than I thought. Efficient market hypothesis is dead and buried

Lucky that I fat-fingered into Trivago instead of Avago. Chips and trips, never could keep them straight

excited to start saying "spy 700 eod" again ngl

Bulls - huge PP. big hanging PP. 

Bears - medium PP. husband PP. 

Buy the dip spammers and pump/dump freshies - smoll PP. much much little PP.

They haven’t won shit in 53 years🫠🫠🫠

Yeah man, can’t believe it’s near the ATH close of yesterday. It’s over I think personally

WTF IS THIS… come on man… sign the fucking damn deal…

Dead on. Sɛe mad ɛyɛ moody.

Gr…guh…ee… guh .. nn by … guh … morning

then it will do nothing

Make that mistake with HPE yesterday. Should have sold for $10K profit yesterday. Instead sold for $4.5K today. About to repeat the same with MRVL tomorrow. 

Yes, take profits, especially if you're up 13x.

That's how I feel about workday.

This isn’t the result of a MU earnings call therefore everything will be okay

I DEMAND A REFUND

sounds like a Shrek porno

Yes and I CZoST money.

Dawg we heard you like ceasefires

-us state Dept probably

Nah I bet against them because they were dumb enough to hire me…

Calls at open

Tell that to the WMT calls I paper handed today.

If you didn’t buy AVGO at $406, you missed out…

gold is the best performing part of my portfolio after hours. Definitely did not see that coming.

ah yes, I forgot I was in the epstein list

Make sure the water has lavender. It will be hot.

PLEASE PLEASE SIGN A PEACE DEAL

As they should be

Oh cool, an actual farmer, hopefully you can teach me more. Wouldn't it make sense for farmers now to invest in higher yields via deployment of multiple fertilizers, to maximize output for the next harvest season, assuming many farmers who may be struggling, opted not to and thus crop prices will be higher then, due to the lower supply?

Please let me know if I'm just way off on this, I study finance and definitely not agriculture.

6% down on a day the market was down .75 is actually something to be very concerned about.

Huge green dick and pussy tmrw

Yesterday

Avgo trading at... Check the chart... The price as of two weeks ago. 😂🫵🤡

Glad you are ok, it’s nice to let it all out sometimes. Every Tuesday and Thursday between 7-9pm ET WSB discord hosts a group counselling session.

Huge framework. Biggest of frameworks in the works.

The pure play is to buy calls on BNO. You can do that from EU, there's no restriction on that.

Paris is très Chère.

This happened to me one time.  Stressful AF.  

I didn't know you could get risk management to short the stock.  That's good to know.  Any reason why they couldn't short the full lot instead of the partial offset?

Played this on the sega switch port.

Told my brother about it because we had the game growing up

His response "What the hell is Altered Beast"

I said "The game where you kill blue pigs and you become a wolf that throws footballs!"

He said "Oh yeah!  That game was fun"

have you seen the market lmao of course it's down

This is actually a new framework to the existing framework

So a concept of a ceasefire?

Worked for Tesla for 10 years going strong

Imagine seeing that chart and thinking it would still go further up

Me personally? I'm buying whatever company is dipping due to market sentiment and not the actual company fundamentals - and also receiving investments and where the money is going.

The narrative hasn't really changed. AI, Memory, Semi Conductors. 

I got into semi conductors extremely late, and still have been doing quite well. 

For options, it's different of course. Just but your expiration accordingly and don't chase what's gone.

it's not a magic money trick, market has been pumping hard for months. If there's a strong correction leaps will go to shit just as much

RIP EVERYTHING

Now we’re talking!   Just like me 🤣🙋🏻‍♂️

I hope it's melon.

Hey I've heard this one before!

Who is fuk

Exactly! That's the neat thing about the American economy, you can't create infinite wealth, but you sure can create infinite debt!

he dint say SPACE

Sure, Jan.

Ok, no joke, we do see gains in my company. But we're using it for software and in the hands of experienced developers. In the hands of inexperienced developers, AI is a threat to society.

Ding ding ding!

Need some lubes just like me

Lmfao

Lifeline pump headlines are just shameless at this point 

Probably because it keeps working

Call your sociopath worker.

I think you will survive fren🙏

Big Mac indicator agrees with you

It’s harder than you think once it turns green. I held my LASE to long today BUT I don’t think it’ll climb to 10 by EoY

Ceasefires all the way down

Hey I’m the Schwab Risk Management guy and I said that to put you in a better mood. In reality, you are fucked man

BB creeping back up overnight, wonder why the decline after hours

U still up 25k lol. I am down -45k realized loss

hood and bull, yep

Very fair point lol

TSLA up for me. Strike.

Even Araghchi can't save us now.

sure bro you're going to 0 either way by the sound of it 😩

Market will be dictated by how the Knicks perform

Tomorrow is going to be ugly.. I can feel it in ma balls. 

Oh wait.. nevermind. I forgot to take my Valtrex this morning, dammit

lol that guy never buys on price just weekly, always overpays for that crap

What is "divorced-from-reality" in this example?

If you buy a ticket for a concert for $100, it's because you think you get more value out of going to the concert than having the $100. If you'd pay $125 but not $126, what does that mean?

Now, you probably don't sit down and explicitly do this exercise every time you purchase something, but if you are a rational actor, it is happening nonetheless every time you decide to purchase or not purchase something.

You will be okay InshaAllah

Nissan has. The Nissan Leaf came before the Tesla Model S.

Next time just buy whores and whiskey.  It’s a hell of a lot better and you actually get something out of it.

I want to try swing trading but damn its hard to keep them contracts when they drop in value so much during the day

2 Trillion burgers

Oooooof

Fucked.

Don’t worry NVDA is the largest most profitable blue chip stock on earth you will be fine!

Dang man straight up hope this pans out ok for you

Korea was supposed to save my calls 🥹😢😭

People really sweating in here rn lmao

It’s a concept of a framework of a ceasefire.

do I paperhand my space calls and go full ber short semis?

12% of a plan, so barely a concept.

Wait I might actually be in trouble

Since I did show mercy...

Jesus Christ lol

You could've been a millionaire by now

It's not green?

😂 fair

Europoor checking in...

You can buy everything in the US on IBKR.

Well, at least I can, I'm classified as an institution with a LEI code, I am not sure if a retail account would have the same privileges.

Zeus. Strike BCH. THE SWISS APPARENTLY DON'T HAVE ENOUGH MONEY AND AUDI SAID NO.

Literally

Lulu lemon gonna save the market tomorrow

I lost -25k today. I rather down 1k lol

'healthy'

If I can’t cry in the casino, can I atleast get some advice about my AVGO leaps

Will tsla go down in the next two weeks when spacex ipos or no as people flee to it

SPY down less than 1% from all time high and yall mfs talking about crashing

Yeah I so lost it all today..

Oh my gourd! 

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

I agree with all of this. My account was stable until trying out options. End of the day it’s a learning curve and can be made back… but yes leaps and swings trading or boring wheels seems to be the path forward.

AVGO rebound might be juicy 🤤

Ohhh boy! <surprise dog face>

Over under on Bibi breaking it

Waiting to buy the dip

I dont price things in dollars, that's silly.  Dollars are constantly changing value.

I price everything in cheeseburgers.

Sure Jan 🙄

You might be ok, looks like NVDA coming around afterhours ... Still some time

Which one?

Burry was right!!!!! Again!!!

Than dip with it! 😀

Look at the Spy and Nasdaq. The dip hasn't been dippin in this presidency.

Putting my balls into avgo tomorrow

You bitches lied to me, I was told AI stonks only go up😭😭😭

No the world economy isnt fugazy. It's $3 per pound cheaper (4.99 vs 1.99) to get China garlic than domestic garlic

There's a pattern. Israel only attacks countries that randomly fire rockets and mortars into Israel. Or funds groups to do that. Maybe those countries can just stop firing rockets and mortars into Israel and see if they stop getting attacked by Israel. Just an idea.

Feel like Burry is probably helicoptering his junk rn while fisting his fake eye into his ass, then putting it back in place without washing it

It's only. .1% if you have a savings account.

Can I let you know in 2 weeks?

Anybody have the contact number for the market ? I got a few complaints

How TF qcom still green? And climbing? Fuck you. I want MU back to green dammit

Full ported BB in pre-market got BBC'd all day and gangbanged in AH.

Is it Iran? I thought it’s avgo shitting the bed causing big drop after hour

So they are discussing concepts of a ceasefire?

Thank you

Of course its affected, its just the inflation is hiding how much weed fell off in price.

Bruh…you got me all excited and what a little tiny green boner

Much easier to breathe right?

Knicks ML, I'm not just shilling my bags this time

It's the law and you're welcome 🤗

When I saw your portfolio I was guessing it'd be you.  
Sorry to hear. Hope you get out of this, and maybe rethink your strategy 😅

They’re going to sell so many call contracts tomorrow before lunch and they’ll never pay them

You know shit is bad when you havnt seen anyone called habibi in the chat today

Thank the 🇰🇷's

Buying puts at this point would probably be the way

She gave him the money to trade.  Not to pay stupid debts.

Israel must have run out of Tomahawk missiles

I wonder what Michael Saylor is doing right now

Wait for the -3% days this sub would be obliterated

Because the market breadthe has narrowed to the mag7 and memory names. This is foreboding and usually sort of a red flag that the market is gonna roll over soon

KOSPI down but on low volume - this could go hard either way.

Fuck Avgo...everyone pile into MU

Haha! This is why a lot of companies have started doing pre-recorded remarks for the scripted portion and going live for the Q&A. That and a lot of execs stumble when reading scripts

Get yourself some hypnotiq.

Planet Labs earnings 🚀🚀🚀

AVGUH

Thinking swing trading as a recovery plan 😂

Your stupid isn't priced in yet

Signing this with Lebanon and not Hezbollah is like Iran making peace with the US coastguard, but not the army, navy or airforce. Totally meaningless.

Its gonna bleed more. Overleveraged institutions will be dumping more.

This is such a perilous journey

Who is ready for pikachu face for meta huge green dick tmrw?

They are getting their cheeks clapped by the crypto god.

Ok is Hezbollah aware? Lebanon has made their stance pretty clear that they aren’t Hezbollah (yet don’t do anything to stop Hezbollah). So how does Lebanon’s word equate to Hezbollahs

Angus DEI.

Theyre buying on my end. NVDA at least

SPY 754 by open.

come on man, what are you saying? you're down less than 2% for the year and it's too late for you? you could literally get back to breakeven with spy in one day

“You cease and we fire”

Why the calls?

Damn I should hit up my mom for 10k.  You think she will give it to me?

User Gemini. Buy a pixel.

Bro what?

Bagholder spotted.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Corn slowly going to zero and that money will shift into the markets to keep you bulls from finding a bridge

HA HA HA HA

Almost had a heart attack thinking it’s Friday and I haven’t gotten through all the work I had planned for the week.

Yussss NVDA Gobless

#LMAO 🤌

They're buying NVDA though

Fucking AVho

Fucking A that’s good

Wish I had enough money to sell puts on decent companies.

It's always hilarious to see y'all keep saying "to the moon" like you ain't setting these people up to be your exit liquidity.

Positioning. That’s it.

When positioning gets out over its skis, people will look for an excuse to sell. 

Intellectually dishonest to not also notice “bad” Iran headlines have meant absolutely nothing to this market up until today.

IMO it has way more to do with Google’s placement (the fear more of the megas will follow suit), the inability for PANW to rally further, AVGO and CRWD getting bonked in the afterhours and a lot of the hot money stocks blowing up the last 2 days. Those have all been red flags.

I'm going to sound like a total boglehead boomer ass dork (I'm a millennial) but honestly dude, trading options is stupid. If you're going to dabble with options the smartest move is to buy leaps or use options as a hedge.

Buying short dated options is a recipe for disaster for a vast majority of people. Sure you might get lucky, but more often than not you're going to get smoked. 

And yea yea yea this is WSB, quit being a pussy, blah blah. Being a rich pussy is better than being a broke retard.

Bagholder spotted.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

That guy who bought 🌽 at 123k. I feel you bra.

Use OpenAi.

fyi koreans are all over leveraged like you wouldn't imgaine

I hope you didn’t just fk up my puts

We'll try to save you next week. Use Copilot.

Fucking shit Broadcom fuck you

I am calling it now. AVGO 450 tomorrow by EOD

Sup 😎

Got margins turned on incidentally, then flagged as a pattern day trader and suddenly fidelity will let me gamble with literally 3x my portfolio? I am professional now

Kinda hard when most of the retards don’t diversify

Crash it. Go to jail.

Bless 🙌

I don’t think Mosaic will go under, and as a farmer I understand fertilizer use. But, as soil breaks down it releases P and K, and you can cut for years without a train wreck on many soil types. Grain prices are low now compared to fertilizer, so acres will get neglected or switched to lower fertilizer use crops.

Snip snap snip snap snip snap!

Uhh why is Korea dumping?

KOSPI NOOOOO

Future is playing the only song I can't listen to while driving. Thank you Guilford County Sherriffs.

How is PLTR down more than MSTR

I’m sure you’re going to be ok is what guys say on the tee box whenever you might be in the woods

It was one of those days

Thank fuck I just sold my calls yesterday and bought more while it was at 215 today

buying that avgo dip tmrw

How do stocks keep going up when all my positions are down?

Looks like it’s trying yo pump

Bought SBUX calls today. Help a brother out and go get a Matcha Grande tomorrow

Looking at BTC and ETH charts makes feel much better about this sell off, zooming out on BTC doesn’t even help

They watch anime.

christ

First time huh

Strike CU.

Thank you

Mayyybe 140, but the math for them remains the same. The more expensive oil becomes the more appealing it is to produce your own. 

Saudis dictate the price. The end

The MRVL bleed out is pretty nice.

Going to get into space realty now. Can’t just fling your shid around up there for free.

I can't keep having sleep for dinner

Spy lives rent free in mangos head

i ran the numbers. the math checks out.

I might. I need the extra income.

Yeah but what are they trading if the Korean market isn't open yet? 😂

Listen here you pussy ass piece of shit 💩

Im doubling down. Surely double the profits

GOD CANDLE ON NVDA

JUSTICE CRASH

They will listen to what trump tells them. If trump says stop they have no choice but to stop. We fund their country

Can we get a nice healthy overnight market wide recovery? Thanks.

Ooh sounds fun

who's that?

Well when you're overleveraged and underhedged like most of the regards here, 1% might as well be 1000%

They will listen to what trump tells them. If trump says stop they have no choice but to stop. We fund their country

I don't think the market gives a shit about Lebanon.

Full ported ether.

It loads tiktok just fine!

JUSTICE CRASH

Who's applying? 😔🤚

I am in big tech. I have not needed to use figma for a year. Instead of asking ux for designs, our PM just mocks it up with AI. RIP figma.

So do the actual MSTR employees just sit around and pantomime doing actual work all day or what

Hey now those contracts are worth a whole dollar, if he could find someone retarded enough to buy them from him

You had nine straight for fuck sake

Because someone likes kids.

i got banned on there

You need to build a strong base of ceasefires before you go vertical on the ceasefires

Oh man, it did not go in your direction

June 2nd

speculative tech plays are taking a much bigger hit tbf

Well you got double the fun

I'm up 40% on my $SPXC calls!

Y helo thar

I’ll give this day to the bears but never forget over night and wake up to open price from the day before. Hope you sold your puts before close.

1,000 tomorrow! Lmao

Gigafucked

We have unserious people trying to make very serious decisions.

Please let’s get off this merry go round, it’s nauseating.

You learned an important lesson

omg! broadcom hasn’t been this low since last week! what will we do??

Bro AVGO crushed earnings but went down because it was overpriced, what do you think is going to happen to intel which isn’t even profitable?

makes a sex doll, and doesnt make it look like a navi from avatar?   Is he gay?

lol i was joking that Weed is about the only thing not affected by inflation

SPCEtards are the sacrifice

Did you sell before the earnings?

If you honestly don't know....... it means bitcoin

I am so fucking fucked

Yooo what is futes doing 🫪

Good? Oil market stays tame while the blockade on Iran continues to bleed the regime dry.

Tbf Jira is also hot flamingo garbage. 
I don't know of a PM dashboarding software that isn't... Spotfire maybe?

You regards need to make a sacrificial offering to the market god. Your little spce party has apparently angered it and it's laying its vengeance upon us.

Bro was looking and sounding rough today after being unseen for a week.

Edibles and gambling on the Knicks

Never thought the Koreans would ever have such an impact on my finances. They should have covered this in highschool

Starting to wonder if this sub has so much turnover that most haven't seen a reversal, or if I'm the crazy one

Welfare check?

just as god intended

I like how this sub is destroyed by a -1% day

Check out /r/thetagang for more info. 

Basically, instead of buying options and praying, you get to sell them to other degens for a credit. You can  lose money doing this too, but in my experience, it's much harder to do so, and depending on your strategy, a "loss" doesn't necessarily mean you're getting liquidated.

I mainly sell covered calls on my shares to generate income, but there are plenty of other theta strategies out there. Highly recommend checking them out.

Imagine Tesla but it’s a dating app

Sorry about your measly $108,000 :(

You little gooner

Shitcoin is absolutely cooked

Market was a bit too red today for the 🥭

I thought Bitcoin was dumping because everyone was piling into AI, but tonight's futures are making me think that theory was complete bullshit... this is a good ol selloff on risk asssets thats about to start lol

Back when I was first learning options a few years ago someone told me “Just buy out of the money SPY call options expiring tomorrow”

So I tried that yesterday. Today SPY takes a dump. Not doing that again

Nothing is more dangerous for a portfolio than seeing wild gains on WSB. “It could happen to me!” So you go for 0dte spy options and end up with this. There’s a rube born every minute. For every 400% gain there’s 1000 that go to zero.

Because of the orange baboon and bibi

Don't worry, guys. NVDA is giving me $0.25 a share.

what was the 1st market crash you traded through.

Lol... twinning!

Let's just hope the crazy rich asians dumps their money into the market for the lols

i just needed one more green day. just one more for fck sake

Iran blew up an airport in Kuwait.  Kill 1 injured 63

i thought you got puts??

Corn dgaf anymore

No way, I'm balls deep. I had to close positions to open new ones.

Arianna is back.

sounds like ur jealous of my massive elongation sir

Sick reference bro

On cap fr fr

Its a yellow vegetable

Leather jacket telling regards that’s the next trillion$ cumpany, and the regards ate all their 🖍️ 🖍️ 🖍️

Wow. Looks like it's back to McDonald's for me. Shouldn't have sold all those options. Fml

cum loudly*

Obliterate oVho.

Its all about ther perp market HYPE is where its at, 24/7 365 casino.

It’s dumping so that the market can go up for Elon when spacex ipos and he doesn’t feel like a loser

QNT IPO priced at $60 for 28M shares

what does it have to do with?

Koreans are back.

webull for UI , fidelity for actually executing trades

Thank u kind sir

easily one of the worst AH in recent memory god damn

dude wtf an oz of weed only costs 2 cheeseburgers now

What’s hinge

Bruh. U don’t get rich sitting out a bull market.

#Ban Bet Lost

/u/RealNerwel made a bet that PANW would go to 350.0 within **2 days** when it was 299.326 and it did not, so they were banned for a week.

Their record is now 0 wins and 2 losses

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

Strike all crypto. Berkshire Hathaway Will.e.Y print you GOAT.

futes aint fyutin like they used to

Too good to go app?

just delist it atp who cares

You can take or leave the colloquial definition of public in this context, but tax breaks are definitely pubic money.

It’s a US traded Korea ETF

There’s absolutely no chance the game sucks bro

Seems, like, super serious this time

There are still Lebanese people in the land that was promised to Israel. This ceasefire wont hold.

rally has ended , pack up bols. we going below 700 soon

I'm a little irked mine dropped by half. But, that said, it's rely enough I just added some more. Soon enough it'll raise 20%, I'll sell 25%, then enjoy either 5% profit for the month on the gamble or more as they offload. 

This is how I make sure I scratch my gambling itch, while the vast majority sticks in my growth or divs.

MN on pensions. Bonds. Tressuries.

Thanks sailor.  What an a hole, right?!

Market feels alive when we get a -1% red day

If I buy, Nvidia will continue to fall...

I’m done trying to guess this shit

Lebanon ceases, Israel fires

I feel like AVGO popped my cherry and it wants nothing to do with me. Are my 2027 leaps okay?

Sorry guys, went on a great hinge date last night. Explains the market going to shit, can’t have everything work out.

Guess I have to take my margin limit off tomorrow to buy the dip 🤷🏽‍♂️

Incoming V

What is 🌽?
Genuine question

i stg korea don't fucking do it

V on crypto.

It’ll be fine

"ceasefire"

SPY was due for a red week we’ll be back to ATHs by the end of the month

Mom what are these AVGO bags dad has listed in his will? Is that an old designer brand or something?

Only if you promise to keep your lips wrapped around it

Already over 13%...

Grip on to those options with the hands of diamond. Brain blank, don think, just hold on

And SNDK

Down $10k since closing, but still up $40k.

Danke. München. OctoberFest.

Thanks ☺️

Same! There's even correlations with alt season and random shit popping for a day

There are some of us old bastards on here.

Not many, as trading takes the life out of you, but for most people, most of their money.

War end stock down, war starts spy to the moon

Here's to hoping that when I wake up....MU is back over 1070 📈🙏

Heh, what is this a dip for ants? 🤣 (I’m about to panic sell everything and move to a third world country)

It was a bull trap after all…

I stopped messing with it. I just find inverses like SOXS and stuff like that.

And just like that Goodbye to my gains

Take a break

Regardless of how much money you lose, I see you as a professional if you have margin and no day trading restrictions

Yeah just wanted to see what it felt like. Shit will bounce back, it always does.

KOSPI OPENS UP 0.15%

My leaps approve of this message

There is no way this will hold. They will just try to spike the negotiations somehow.

Concept of a ceasefire? They really need to give trading algos memory so the same headlines won't fool it.

Check my profile.

It will still get a pop from the upcoming IPO

War over sell time

I am performing a citizen's arrest of all the bers

Please come quietly

By law, yes. RH is launching it immediately. Schwab on the 8th. Not sure about any others

Dip just down to couple days ago

where are the cat drum meme videos?

#SELL.

Dave aVho. I'll be back.

shits going to break below 60k then all hell will break loose lol

Sure, if they existed. In the long term, absolutely, this is mega bullish for alternative energy but in the short term, you need your energy demand covered at any price, the alternative is just shutting everything down and that obviously isn't going to happen. That said I also don't think oil is going to $250/bbl, if it does it'll be without me, I'll have gotten off long before, I'm aiming for $140-150/bbl to start unloading.

I am watching to see what happens. Good luck op.

This all has to be bought up tomorrow…right?

Print. Use Claude.

Hahahahahah

It’s the only thing I have that’s green right now

" If only there was a dip i could buy " - people tomorrow when its all green again

Like the fifteenth ceasefire we’ve seen surely this  is the one

Port.

Puts are printing!

Netanyahu won't ever stop

i need you to buy!!! I will end up long!!

BUY THE DIP NERDS!!!

Yo btc getting raped

Gaylor sold 32 bitcoins, and that’s was enough to kill my hood calls

Ima need one of the autistic bros to speak out and say what the move is tomorrow

My options have 1 month until they are worthless do I hodl?

BiBi. Shukran.

There was a red day so they gotta put out these fake gay statements. Happy pride ig

the way “started” is bolded feels intenntional idk

No sir. It'll be above 25 very soon

Really has very little to do with Iran, but continue

How fucking old are you?

I’m scared

Port went from 985k to 892k fuck you avgo sofi and msft lmao 

Buying mrvl tomorrow 🤑🤑🤑🤑🤑

First day of the month I took profits and joined Apple at a low price. Today everything went down and Apple held lmfao. 

Lucky me for real, usually never happens.

Yep it’s that easy.

Yeah they fell already

I will sell my 100 shares at 8 which will trigger a reversal. I got you buddy!

Is vix like, dead forever or something?

then he's really holding as no one is buying those

We won't hit peak hype till Claude IPO but bail the fuck out right after.

you’re right bro I’m 19 and I’m doing this for no fucking reason I just always feel like the world is crashing and burning and I tell myself If I stick it into an index fund the market will eventually crash and I’ll lose like all of it anyway but thats just me pretending to me some fucking oracle or something like I can’t predict the future and it certainly would’ve been better than this too

Bears are too excited. Calls it is

Print your receipts or face annihilation. I don't play anything but chess. Greenville vett me.

if we get rid of AVGO can we pump again?

That’s unBEARable!

❌Bulls and bears❌
✅TACOs and panicans✅

no, you missed the spike, its over

is pdt getting removed on june 4th?

America won and the market hasnt priced it in yet

Can't wait for corn to go to 0 so that HOOD is no longer coupled with crypto.

When you have a guy like Steve Witkoff negotiating for you, things can't go wrong.

Nope, V'ing as we speak 💪

I do. Calls

Its an agreement to talk about the framework to the ceasefire.

So is op apparently

So many dudes using big words and setups and this or that when you just aren’t very good at it because it’s high risk and a gamble

I fucking hope.. I’ll full port

BTC, why the long face?

I thought the same, until Nvidia took my last 6$. GG

Will we get another INTC pump

now i am

I had a shit day today but feel better seeing Saylor btc bleed out

Markets closed? Have the media post “war is over” new stories to pump it

Tale as old as time

lol at 🌽

I wonder if it lasts more than a day…

brodie, 

im on the hook for 600k worth of shares with a 16k account

You gotta be trolling right cuz that space x lmao.

OBJECTION:  GRAMMAR

Does spce recover eventually orerr

Korea not open yet?

Don't give a fuck anymore. I know my net worth.

I’m like real bad at this

oppa pwease buy the dwip for your dear hyung~ saranghaeyo~ >_<*

They bought VMware and ran off all the customers with ridiculous price hikes (including me)…F-em, catching up with them now, I bought a put out of spite & UP.

It should be Metallica

I’m tired boss

I bought back on the 22nd. I wouldn’t have tried this today

Lost in New York

So then wouldn’t forward guidance in 2027 drag the market down in 2027?

A concept of a framework

I’m down 13.4K too today!

It's Autism Man. Super powers - meme stocks, yolo, AI generated memes, full porting

I want my kidney back

Oh my gourd! 

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Nvidia is out of boner pills. going back to 200

I’m actually just fried. I lost everything today. I’ll probably keep gambling on small stocks, hoping one doubles; all until I run out of money and dissapear from the investing community. Full ported KOS for tomorrow. Kinda hoping it goes to zero so I can be done letting the market play with my emotions.

Hey morons you’re supposed to sell company shares immediately.

A whole Of big words used to act
Like you know what’s going on

You couldn’t just buy shares?

I started investing 9 weeks ago, and I don't understand why the market crashed today.

The @HonorCourt. You stained your priceless gem stone in the next 3 minutes of face annihilation.

LUNR will go back up very soon don't panic sell

Bro honestly that is the way, I recently started doing monthlies and I’m just chillin. With 0 Dte my heart rate is jacked the entire time though so there’s a trade off, but still I like gains so I’ll stick with these monthlies for now.

to make it stop you close the position, no one here has the power to make it stop for you. I'm not preachng from my soap box, went in pretty heavily for the size of my portfolio into avgu at market close and it didn't turn out well. The reason i gave in to fomo is because i missed intc, i missed amd, i missed dell and then i missed hpe even though that was the most predictable one. And the reason i missed all of those companies is because i always only looked at options for maximum gain and they were too expensive so i didn't buy them. Had i just bought shares or 2xetf i would have more than doubled my portfolio during this past month. So i went all in on avgu, half before the drop and half after. It's not great but an 8% gain from where we are will put me back at breakeven and i have time on my side. Don't buy weeklies because you saw some guy turn 400 into 40k on intel, it was just luck and it's not repeatable.

No this ceasefire only cancels out the AVGO dip unfortunately.

Consider this though: everyone loves the coffee store.  Lots of people invest in the coffee store.  They don't do anything with the money, they just put it in their safe and say they don't have a plan to use it yet.  Wouldn't the investors want their money back?

People are throwing their money at AI, yes, but the companies have to invest it in each other, or investors will pull out.

leveraged is the way hell yeah 😎

Nah I rolled my positions forward in SNOW and ADBE which are fucking me, sold the top of snow and rebought the top for new strikes and bought the top of adobe and bought the dead cat bounce lol

RH has good UI? I mean had?

SPCE 😭😔

I've only been through 3 stock market crashes, but I've also traded through 4 crypto crashes. 

And I'm getting a little bit worried about the first signs of hype wearing off. You can't really put an exact metric on it. 

But it's very reminiscent of when BTC has had a big FOMO run, but then it's been week after week, and that FOMO becomes last month's hype, and suddenly, there's not quiet that same energy as when everyone was at peak excitement.

A man has to have a code 🍻

Crazy deal

25k Gang here!!!! Ready to day trade. Just buy intraday dips and sell for 50$ profit non stop.

That’s how it works right? I’m using open Claude AI agent to do this for me while I work at me real job.

gone , sell now if you want to save some capital , trashgo going below 300

I'm sɛe you in student court.

Liquidity’s calling. 📞

funniest ai pic i've seen in a while: tom lee and michael saylor making out and drinking champange with "-20b total losses" on a chalkboard in the back

...here come old flat top (for you old fuks like me)

How long will this new round of “end of the world market crash” sentiment last: Over/under 12 hours

You know what they say, if I owe $100 that's my problem, if I owe $250k, that's the bank's problem... Or not, that's still small enough to be my problem lol.

AVho. Cheated at Carolina.

Wait did AVGO actually do this?

🥭 needs to do what hock couldn’t, lie and pump

AVGO popped the bubble 😳

What dip you buying

TL;DR: Sold premium, collected pennies, accidentally became a six-figure NVDA investor overnight. Schwab called. Risk desk said “good luck.” Sleep is canceled until market open.

Remains to be seen if it’s not

Spy either 760 or 740 tmr

How am I down more AH from AVGO when I don’t even own it than I was during an already red day lmao

tldr coming:

TL;DR: Sold premium, collected pennies, accidentally became a six-figure NVDA investor overnight. Schwab called. Risk desk said “good luck.” Sleep is canceled until market open.

The framework:

- buy stonks
- stop shooting
- sell stonks
- profit
- shoot
- repeat

Just swing trade shares no stupid shit lol

thisisfine.jpg

Why Iran>What Iran>Why Iran>What Iran>Why Iran>What Iran>Why Iran(You are here)>What Iran>Why Iran>What Iran>Why Iran(and it continues indefinitely)

well he can save some losses at least

Mike Bloomberg is expensive. Should SZA do the Super Bowl?

Sell. Reinvest all the gains into MU 2028 LEAPS.

It’s actually so fucking funny that MSTR sold 2 mil worth of BTC and proceeded to tank it 15%+

Microsoft is absolute dog shit BUT everyone uses it. If you can get in when it goes back under $400 you should be safe. My entry is at $380 range and will dca anything under that.

It's not, it's flat?

Mosaic has definitely struggled with sulfor costs, including before the closure of Hormuz but the company is actively addressing it, shutting down unprofitable assets and redirecting sourcing. They are also pushing price increases as hard as possible and while the types of fertilizers they produce aren't as essential right now as nitrogen based fertilizers, you still can't postpone their use forever, agriculture needs all three main types of fertilizer, not just nitrogen.

It's ok, the dow is still over 50000

Kospi futures down 1.70. Nothing in Kospiland.

Blah blah blah...

wdym selling options earlier this year? I’m super uneducated on this shit which no wonder why I’m at such a loss. I need to learn from this mistake this is insane. I feel shellshocked. I’m 19 and a college student this shit is just too stressful for me bro

I don’t think even a TACO tweet can save this.

AVGO under 400 tomorrow

He went full retard. You never go full retard.

Abu Dhabi and Dubai still stand. #EssereFerrari

It’s just your turn

We definitely have.

So glad I sold at close

rip calls

Israel and Lebanon agree to implement ceasefire -

To shreds, you say?

There is no deal that will save you now. Bend over and accept.

GREEN LIGHT

War isn't over until Axios says it is ^^^^^again

Sometimes markets just gotta pump nonsensically

I have a shit ton at 15. If this things moons I’ll be able to buy my own island

Where? Got a link?

south korea pls save us

Ceasin’ II: Pathetic Boogaloo

It's just like $NVDA lmao.

$AVGO bros now desperate and going the "fundamentals" and "zoom out" route.

i bought the AVGX dip, and now my wife is divorcing me

Because paper cuts hurt.

AVGO dying so that MRVL will live?

damn, i can’t believe you fell for it.  we were all waiting for you to buy 😂

it will be used when i get assigned my 215p i sold. essentially they are trying to create a buffer so I have time to get out tomorrow morning without crazyy volatility.

I will ultimately end up long 1300 NVDA on a 16k account

0dte spy calls it is

In Donald Trump name i pray amen

Concepts of a peace deal

Down 1% day -

“The worst day of trading in my lifetime” - Jimmy, 13 years old

Whale sharks agencies. Print.

The bears are wrong this bull market been printing to much NVDA 230+ tmr trust bro

Your answer is because that's where the Saudi government wants it. 

The end.

Gas will not hit $250 a barrel. Period. Because the moment it does-- renewables are appealling, alternatives are appealing, and alternative sources of oil competition increases dramatically, and they lose their cartel. This is also the reason they don't flood the market.This is also the reason natural gas in the US plateaued. This is also the reason we overthrew the Iran government. In the 70s and today. Saudis supply the oil, we supply the soldiers. That's the deal. 

Do you know what their actual cost of oil extraction is before transport? Less than $5 a barrel. 

They can ramp production at any point with figures like that. You're expecting a market to behave the way it should because you don't realize that the game is rigged.

Had puts yesterday, calls today. Got it backwards otherwise I’d be up with a 4x in 2 days

Guys. We will recover no worries. We’ve taco’d out of way worse

Call catheter Spectrum.

I had no idea we would be hit this hard. Holy smokes

no, it expired. don't you know it's 24h thing, expect another one tomorrow.

blood in the stretz they call it murdaa

Might not be opening the port tomorrow 😬

Don't worry, the people in charge of the previous framework have been sacked!

Just do half cash, half gift card. All settled. Thank me later

Yeah, this is why I stay away from earnings now. Been burnt way too many times. Hell, I tried to play AVGO a few quarters back and got smoked just like you. Switched to selling options earlier this year and have had much better luck.

Open Barclay's accounts.

Most people don't see 80k in a lifetime?

I bought $NOW yesterday, and I am down 10% in the first day. Why does a stock never skyrocket after I buy it

Like this?

Why Broadcom?!

Imagine reading last earnings report on current earnings calls 🤡🤡🤡🤡

Not reading that essay but I see red so lmfao

Open TFC. Accounts.

I bought avgo dip and it's keep dipping

The graph makes me wanna off myself. Everything is just red

Terrible parenting.

It may not be many people. Just a few people with functioning brains and a lot of money?

GREEN LIGHT

Open WFC. Accounts.

That was weird, but recovered quickly. I wonder who fucked up giving him the wrong transcript. That person getting fired.

On my way! To buy more sls, as per usual

You’re a bottom

Yo DM me your strat man

What discord you running? Haven't seen something so promising in years bro

Use CashApp. As well.

Im too regarded to understand this

They let you short a quarter million with only a 16 K account. That’s fucking awesome.

no crying in the casino

Weeklies unfortunately

port hurtin... god i hope the bears are wrong

That’s why everything is crashing… we need war to go green

My penis is yuge, ok?!  The so called big penises you see on porn:  ten/fourteen inches are fake ok?!  They are made by so called Aye Eye tech.  I have the yugest penis bar none!

Explain like I’m autistic as fuck.

This shit needs to be over. US needs up their pull out game and just leave that damn region.

Now it's Kanye. Avgo, call your lawyer, your priest, you Senators, you Governor, talk to your God. And MSft. Beg them to print and sell your soul. We take 64%. Whale Shark strike #BanBet

Uh-huh....

I gotchu boo. I’ll DM you a picture of my butthole or how I got them.

Israel will be bombing Iran again by Friday.

Iran intel, lol

How do I disconnect the internet from my Robinhood account so they don’t see the losses until the market goes back up? Don’t want to get margin called.

Haha you are salty. I made 13% on calls actually. I did get very nervous though, and feel lucky I managed to exit with a small profit

still got more than me though

Welcome, it took my 5 years to climb out of bagholder pergotory last time I bought mrvl in 2021.

Sorry sir, you've already placed your order Lmao

Street wanted a raise over $100B and the gross margin "decline", no matter how they tried to explain it, didn't go over well.

I cant feel anything anymore

Not into gym supplements, clock.

crazy this retard market moving from AI warehouses to AI space lmao. dumb fuking retail gonna hold this bag for a long time.

Need 🥭 to post the war is finally over tomorrow yet again.

It’s the same thing Michael

GREEN LIGHT

damn i was watchin the charts upside down the whole time! 😂 stupid phone auto rotate

Uhhhhhh sorry man

Bro doesn’t give af

Thanks.

Market callin bs on Israel fosho

Are you lost?

WTF you taking about long term investments in our casino?

The current government of Lebanon was elected, because Hezbollah has repeatedly drawn Lebanon into Iran´s wars, causing destruction and mayham for average Lebanese who don´t want that. So the people likely support that the government isn´t causing more and wider destruction and would likely support an effort to end this by forcibly disarming Hezbollah, but the lebanese army itself is hollowed out by decades of Hezbollah allies being placed.

If the people still support a government that does not seem to be closer to that goal? Who knows. Maybe the peace talks bring on a solution. That would be extremely bullish. But the anger has run deep during the last rounds of fighting with increasing hostility agains shiites in general, not only Hezbollah as an organization. And what that could mean could turn rather bearish for a while.

But to answer your question: No. Lebanese don´t want a war with Israel. They want an end of Hezbollah. Mostly, because they want to be left out of the senseless suffering cycle.

Bro i just wanna eat my feelings! 

Can't have nothing in this economy 😭

Thanks.

Uhh where the oil whales at

why do so many people have paper hands

We went from 630 to 759 in a middle of a war that closed 20% of the world oil supply because the market thought infinite ai capex would be profitable

On the bright side we get to play the "is it a dip-buy opportunity or a mid-term year plummet" game tomorrow.

Israeli Ceasefire will soon rival Chinese Fire Drill in American slang.

Timing of AI - no one till today has given us timing of backlog to Purchase Orders like AVGO Broadcom has - they did $10B AI chip out of $30B and got only $6B of orders XPU for delivery prob 2027 - now compare that to Meta’s $600B AI spend - shows u it’s all timing out to eternity! But broker dealer analysts will not tell u that!

Is there a broker with really good UI like RH ?? They changed that you dont even see index prices when you open search bar , just crypto and prediction markets 

I think im ready to tap out 

Sucks cause their credit card is fucking sick lol

Market: I’m tired boss..

2 trillion dollar company trading at a forward PE over 50. Yea the earnings drop isn’t all that much news. Only TSLA is allowed to be that regarded and Broadcom ain’t out there saying sex bots are months away so they ain’t maintaining that premium anymore.

Spent the first half of the week bouncing on the call wall now the second half bouncing on the put wall l

#A lot of these companies are the next Nortel Networks or Lucent Technologies LMFAOOOO

The 3x Korea etf KORU down double digits after hours this gonna be ugly tomm

Algos doing a very small pump but Ill never trust that shit again.

How it feels to work in JavaScript:

honestly the dram pump was fkn ridiculious, with spacex in the s&p, voo is a high beta stock

I run on GMT.

Fuck bro you got to DTDD!  Down to double down bro!

It's been a main point of Iran's that any ceasefire agreement is contingent upon the ceasation of hostilities across all fronts. The US may want to keep the issues separate but for all practical purposes they are absolutely intertwined

LOL, you mean "Why USA?"

If I told you then I’d have fucking competition! And I’ll be damned if I have all the AI bots ruin it for me.

It will go up 100% from some shit price.

I put my thang down, flip it and reverse it

My kids got new toothbrushes with bears on them and they’re walking around saying that they’re bears. I ain’t raising no bers ! I have to reverse this

Fuck it, I’m in

No positions,  no post.

Posting Iran international is like posting newsmax

Oil drops .68% and Bloomberg sends out a push notification saying oil dropped to try to scare the oil longs. Not sure if Bloomberg is aware, but the only people still long oil are clinically insane, like me.

Don’t worry bro, crypto bros are gonna come save us

Yeah I might be bag holding but I jumped on this train with what I was willing to lose

Smarter play would have been just taking that moronic spike

Crazy that mrvl is trading close to what it was at lunch yesterday. AH bol trap into btfd bol trap. Diabolical

*Please drink responsibly.

My guess is the bag. They don't seem like the most intelligent bunch (no offence K-pop boys)

Micron up 1000% year to date and we both missed it

Idk. Maybe you wanted to clear your head. Do a little exercise.

AVGO hinting at 2028 backlog visibility and maintaining over $100B in 2027. Wallstreet says sell it all, bubble popped permanently

You guys go, I'll hide behind the corpses.

Iran hit America's boats.  Never touch the boats

The sad part is I held shorts all the way up. 😮‍💨

Bout that time

Oil futures unaffected means it’s not real

The surprise ceasefire for the conflict we weren’t looking too closely at.

MRVL will be back on the menu tmw

I am alive!

FANG about to be UP in that ass

voted to withdraw

??

I mean that Iran will continue to act as if the war is live and will monetize transit of the strait for a while, until real options to bypass it exist.

We're in a cold world war, practically speaking, and can't really be seen to abandon big fights.

One bright spot is that conceivably Oil could fall precipitously if we do exit, which would hurt the Russian war effort financially somewhat.

I guess I’ll buy more calls tomorrow

Consider the idea that bitcoin was sold as a store of value..

Its going to go down a weeks worth tomorrow

summer of blood

What the f is a "framework"?

ive losed 700 bones on nvidia today, will i ever recover or should i delete my minecraft character irl

I bought more months of time this time so I can chill and watch what happens🎩

lol no it's not I don't know where you got this from

I need Asia to buy the fuck out of oil in 10 minutes

this isn’t so fun anymore

Manipulated bs market

Thanks for your submission! 

To keep things interesting, we want to see big gains and big losses! 

So we've set the following thresholds for Gain, Loss, and YOLO flaired posts:

* YOLO posts must be a minimum of $10,000 of options or $25,000 of shares and recently opened.

* Gain / Loss posts must show realized gains or losses of more than $2,500 for options or $5,000 for shares. 

We want to see the actual trade. What you got in at, what you sold at. Then tell us why you did it. Give us the story of why you're a fucking genius (or idiot).

This is what a great post looks like:

$17.2K Gain on AMZN - OP described his gain in the title, has a clear screenshot showing both the entry and exit, meaning his gains were locked in, and they explained their reasoning in the comments and what they learned. All around a great post!

Here are examples of what could get your post removed:

* $300,000 SDC Loss. Still not selling - Even though this is a tremendous loss and something worth posting about, **the position hasn't been closed yet**.

Here are examples of amazing posts which could have been even better:

* $75,000 DDOG Loss. - This is a great post and one that won't get removed. However, the OP could have talked about *why* they entered the position in the first place, what their target price was, and what went wrong. OP didn't stick around in the comments to answer any questions.

* $1.1MM Loss, No details - OP simply posted a screenshot of their overall portfolio balance. It's definitely a big loss, but it's not that interesting without OP talking about what trades they were in and why. OP didn't answer most questions in the comments which left many readers speculating on what happened.

---

All that being said, we are here to help. We want to make it as easy as possible for you to post to our community. We have to balance this with making the subreddit interesting for our readers. 

If you need some guidance, don't hesitate to reach out to modmail and we'll give you some pointers!

Holy shit. It's Chad Dickens.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Internet explorer over here

too bad there’s no bears left to enjoy this dip

#A lot of these companies are the next Nortel Networks or Lucent Technologies LMFAOOOO

Moose Limbs

I thought it'd settle same day?

too busy holding bags to post

Time to take out that 401k loan

I need one of them after today. Down 6k and still holding. Lets see what tomorrow brings

Yes. I'm going to mars. Or at least Venus.

So many future little league coaches in this sub. 

You guys are able to block out reality and visualize positivity in an incredible way! Lmao

Wait, Lebanon controls Hezbollah?

Not wrong just early

everthing is dropping but GOOG is barely affected 🚀🚀🚀

The latter.

Today

[ Removed by Reddit ]

I'm glad im not a Bitcoin bro

How out of touch as a CEO are you if you start out reading last years ER? wtf? 🤣🤣🤣

LMAO 🌽 is still drilling

The hottest framework. Only the best frameworks.

They make those good dei chips tho

KOSPI show is about to start.  Let's see if those crazy bastards buy the dip and lever up more, or all become bag holders.  SOXX and chips on the line.

Being certified to dock with that ISS or generally interface with anything NASA/ESA/JAXA is entirely a different business plan.

A better one, mind you, but it's not as if they're 90% of the way there and decided to stop at just glorified vomit comet tourism.

Well I’m down -$10k on $NOK but gonna diamond hand this shit

Why are we at war with Lebanon?

there is no bottom

It's guaranteed until you actually go through with it. 

Do it, it becomes the day the market begins the downtrend to biggest pull back since COVID.

Omg that dude had to wait a month just to make another post about his puts being prepped for the “crash”, meanwhile he’s already down 50% and SPY only dropped 0.7% today lmfao. Holy fuck, that’s some thirst I hope to never experience.

First time?

I’m really sorry i read that as LeBron and got confused

How much you down?

#BEHOLD THE GREAT BER MARKET OF MOST OF JUNE 3rd

Time to close the app and pretend none of this is happening lalalala 😧😶‍🌫️

Redact the private island part

Can’t say things like this on the year of our lord, 2026

Pain.

it’s june

You know how they say buy the dip?

Are you actually gonna buy the dip when the dip happens this time? Or are you just gonna panic sell again and then be super baffled when calls print a few days later?

You alright there bud?

atleast that one was a really long time ago and it was “only” 700 dollars the fucking AVGO option is for 5000 dollars and that expires in 2 days bro

I know the second anyone says BlackBerry everyone instantly thinks of 2021 meme stock nonsense or old cell phones with keyboards, but if you look at what they are doing right now it’s wild how mispriced this thing is.

They finally trimmed all the corporate fat, split up the business units, and they just turned GAAP profitable. The massive cash burn that everyone hated them for is basically over.

The main reason to buy this is QNX. It’s their operating system and it’s basically a monopoly for cars. It is literally inside more than 275 million vehicles right now. Mercedes, BMW, Toyota, they all use it because it doesn’t glitch out. Their tech division grew like 20% year over year, so it’s not some dead product, it’s an industry standard.
Plus they are partnered up and integrated directly into Nvidia’s Thor platform for autonomous driving and robotics. When these big automation tech companies need a secure operating system that absolutely cannot crash, they have to use BB. They have a design backlog of like 950 million bucks just waiting to be realized.

Management also just dropped a 100 million dollar share buyback program. A company that size doesn’t start buying back its own float unless the insiders know the stock is severely undervalued. Wall Street analysts are completely asleep on it because they move slow and still think it’s a dead phone brand, but the growth estimates for the next two years are crazy.

It's a legit software company trading at a garbage tier price. Once people realize it's a robotics and vehicle infrastructure play, it's going to pop.

They make statues just for limitations? What are they limiting?

I can seriously see it getting to 400 In 45 days.  It was 400 on 5.18.  For some reason this does not feel like my normal degenerate play.

How??

Its better without the graphs. Robinhood graphs makes me go fucking nuts

# Friendship ended with 🅰️ℹ️, Now space 🚀🛸🛰️ is my new best friend 🤗

yes check their x

Huang is a presidential licker of boots who is complicit in financially engineering hype rugpull stocks into the S&P. People are worried about SpaceX but it'll really only be 1 of the many retirement fund rugpulls along with tesla openai lumentum marvell coherent etc. This has been building for a long time

spy’s doing a full rollercoaster, nothing just up

Bitcoin is dropping

Can you feel it?

MIGHT AS WELL JUST KEEP DIPPING JESUS FUCKING CHRIST THE MACROECONOMY IS A BUNCH OF FUCKING PUSSIES. 

OH NOO WAHHH ONE COMPANY DIDN’T RAISE GUIDANCE, TIME TO FREAK THE FUCK OUT. 

JUST FUCKING GO TO 0 AT THAT POINT PUSSY BITCHES.

Are you speaking from experience

Andddd its gone. 
5.75 and dropping.

Damn it’s really over over

but the war is over. Bullish

You shorted

These will be pennies at open 😂

Damn dude you really went full regard mode with that short strangle setup. Looking at your screenshot and seeing you're short the 215P means you basically bet NVDA wouldn't crater below 215, but here we are at 213.54 in after hours with more pain coming probably. I've been there before with getting assigned on cash-secured puts that weren't so cash-secured anymore - woke up owing my broker like I just bought a house. The fact you already had that Intel blowup last month and jumped right back into high-risk plays... man you really live dangerously. At least Schwab risk management seems to be trying to help instead of just liquidating everything immediately

The bloodbath

Snip snap snip snap

Markets are cyclical.

All those bulls hopes & dreams dashed in one day and we haven’t even started running out of oil yet. Buckle up, kids.

Guys I think I know the next 1 Trillion dollar company.  It’s called AVGO

At what point does this become politics rather than business? Does anyone actually expect the market to move on this? If not, then why does it belong on this subreddit?

I'm tired of seeing these posts. I'm here to gamble my net worth, not read on the latest politics.

It's like when a politician claims the economy is great. (The ones in power always do.) That doesn't belong on here and that's obvious. I feel like this is another obvious one that won't affect markets, even if it would under a typical war and President.

*concept of a framework

I am porting half of my portfolio into defence, fertilisers and oil stocks. Chances of a peace deal being in the room with us are pretty much nil.

Markets are cyclical.

They don’t even know the definition of ceasefire

“framework”

they all agreed to use Times New Roman as the font

#BUTTCORN LMAO

Imagine losing 7% on your AVGO shares because the CEO misread last year's quarterly earnings reports and algos dumped millions of shares as a result.

You act like the market is rational

Koreans are going to freak out

chips are affected because of how much helium comes out of the strait anyways

That’s fair, I haven’t seen mentions of DVN but I also haven’t been checking out the posts regarding oil and curious if it was just not on the radar. I loaded DVN leaps the other day so it’ll probably go down.

Stop now plz

I have heard the increase of sulfur prices has been hard on Mosaic. The fertilizer companies that are doing well are able to use American gas for N production. This is because their cost of production is way lower than the rest of the world.

Why red?

Just 1 share! Even if it goes to zero, you lose less than $450.

You can't look at it like that. You've made plans, and your numbers are going up. Stick with what is working.  Jealous leads to greed and bad decisions.

Faq wrong wit you, what you thought, and what you thought it was.

Bruh 🙈

FANG at 214. My 220c will print!!!! Oil keep pumping and hold!

I lose more than this when the underlying stock moves 2% in the wrong direction

This is the way

Well this one is agreed to by America, America, and America so obviously it will hold.

The pure brutality of this downward move on avgo is crazy

gfy. That means good for you 😉

See. Can't lose $200k if you never had it in the first place.

Are we all ready for the summer bear market of 2026.

Just bought 3 dozen Krispy Kreme’s for $18.   This shall cure my soul.

Oil to start trading in shares of spay sex.

It will come back as some of its fall was Trump war news. That helped it fall that hard. If you wait you will get your money back. The only way to lose money is to sell it right now.

8 Wayne ya.

cEasefire 17 Pro Max

Everyone.

God bless you

What's AAPL'S TOKEN. BTC?

I cant believe its joever

AVGO FOUND OUT IT AINT BLACK

NEITHER IS MSFT

Most people only bought small, didnt matter

You can’t spell Special without SPCE.

Are you wearing bifocals?  Can you see upside down?

I decided to buy 10 shares today 🤠

market does not seem to care sadly :(

AVGO has a .51 dividend, not much…. But this flush after an excellent not perfect beat is crazy.

Got OP beat by -0.02% on this Israeli scam. This one was a matter of weeks though🤣

The earnings are real but the question is will they last beyond the next 2-3 years

Spot on!

Damn even hock tua tan couldn’t save his stock lmao

The food is good. The Tar Heels are #cheffingWednesdsy and Rémy. Not Henny VS. Or E&J.

sounds like a Pokémon 😅

Bud I'm making more money off SPY than your mom does on a Tuesday night.

Smoke em if you got em boys. This is it

Hahahhahhah

TIME FOR ASIAN MARKETS TO PUMP!!!

That's true.  It's only wrong when people assume that a higher GDP directly equates to more development.  You don't know if people are spending money on new roads and wires or just paying each other to eat dog shit.  GDP alone tends to be overused as a metric.

Dawg that new Deadly Influence show on hbo is fucking crazy

You alive?

MU....for thr love of god please get bought up overnight and head back to 1100 tomorrow. You got so close today!

Oooof

Israel and Lebanon agree to implement ceasefire -

what did you do? 0dte? yolo?

AVGO ANNOUNCES IT IS PIVOTING FACTORIES TO RETAIL FASHION, DROPS 15% AFTER HOURS

Should have listened to sell in May and go away

Bet you won't, coward.

Ohhhhhhh . you’re talking about elons spacex I thought u were talking melon (as in DJT) nvm

AVGO And CRWD plummeting to abyss

Usually one of two options. Either if I can't be arsed to keep watching it like a hawk, or if the gain is high enough that I feel the urge to screenshot or tell someone who probably doesn't care.

Jan 2028 $30C are like $500 rn. I snagged one for now. I only have like 9k in my portfolio though. Started in August with 5k so at least I'm not going the other direction lmao.

Was a pigeon involved? 🐦

I know a manager at Wendy's if you want their contact info.

What's at 8

They should rename this week from Earnings to Losings

link or ban

It's supposed to IPO on the 12th, lol

guess my son wont have his formula if AVGO doesnt get to 600 by Friday

Broadcom absolute slaughter. Every pump gone

Will RH get rid of my PDT flag tomorrow? I’ve used my pass already. 🤔

Rip nvidia

Listening to young thug. Learn statute of limitations.

Bro I can't feed anyone, I'm practically starving myself, I'm not even up triple digits yet, relative to all the Chip-Chads in here I'm Tiny-Tim begging for scraps.

Koreans going to be pissed

I bought $24 and cashed out at $100. Shit is volatile af but a gain is a gain,right?

that’s what i wanna know

Israeli just keep bombing and land grabbing while claiming ceasefire.

I’m sure they are not peaceful but in this war they were playing defense

We are Jensen’s exit liquidity

# AVGOoners destroyed LMAO 🤌

Its called oil reserves and they are about to run out

Russia just started rationing motor fuel in addition to their export bans.

Jenson dont care. Nvda gone.

Stocks are the dumbest thing ever created and I hate all of them 😡

Is Baltimore ok now? USACOF TAKE A HEROISM HEISMAN.

MRVL couldn't even give me one fucking day

"

* **Buck Naked:** The traditional term, dating back to the early 1900s. Its exact origin is debated, but it likely stems from old slang where "buck" meant completely or totally, or may have referenced the bare skin of a male deer. \[1, 2\]
* **Butt Naked:** This is a much newer variant that appeared in the late 1960s and 1970s. It is technically a mishearing or "eggcorn" of the original phrase, likely gaining popularity because it refers directly to an exposed rear end, making literal sense to the speaker"

Everyone is so sure the spce play is done is actually convincing me it might still play out, dam i must be regarded

Ceasefire boys! We green tomorrow!

Gay algos.

Bruh, do a bit of research on sears dude. Lmao

It's not even remotely the samething here. 

Private equity strategies were adopted by the hedge fund manager who took over sears. It was the plan to bust it out from the beginning. 

Some of you retards really do belong here, no offense.

How the hell is there no SpaceX loss porn posts? The whole damn sub was buying!

No communism was/is am attempt to describe economic reality primarily in terms of the value of labor

“Iran would LIKE to link the two” Iran has linked the two. They are dictating the terms. The strait is still closed. 

You should really say “the US would LIKE to link the two”

The PDT applies to margin so you don't need any settlement to occur. At least half the reason margin exists outside of leverage.

Do they have a building permit for all that framework? That's more framework than the Eiffel Tower..

Quantitative oozing?

One Trump tweet away

Good time to get in

People taking summer vacations lol

That's how it works in the casino

I might just sell literally everything to buy 1 month out spy 760 calls, guaranteed money instead of fuckin around

Lmao Nasdaq isn’t even falling anymore and my portfolio just continues to fucking bleed.   Absolutely wild.

Bers eating

They will get smoked in the morning. Theta gang all the way

That's the CFO man

Texas Oil stocks will have MASSIVE earnings the next 2 quarters-even higher for the later near Nov/Dec. 

Buy leaps now!!!

Starting an only fans. Last resort to pay off credit cards

Should we save AVGO or have Seoul buy them with more White Lexus?

Taiwanese CEOs are not to be messed with.

Bears feasting

it’s ok, sometimes it’s a blessing

Think about the Vs we have seen in the past before getting bent out of shape or celebrating if you’re a ber

My balloon knot could use a good stretchin

Cmon bols. You going to let the bers break 750 and clap your cheeks?

hockey tan > mango tan

Omg its actually true

Seriously what the fuck. Who the fuck is selling right now

I blame crypto for killing our equities smh

I’m 19 this has never happened to me im a fucking idiot and thought I was immune

No good reason. AI will tell you profit taking or some bull shit. That shit was rigged.

Well, I, for one, would NEVER hope you get hit by a bus.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

100% of revenue is recognized on physical delivery not order, that’s the backlog you’re thinking about, which is in the hundreds of bilions and growing exponentially. 

Standard GAAP buddy.

Back it up and make it clap

Like a bus full of regards

-Abraham Lincoln

Oh, touche. Yeah, he's fucked.

Before or after legs?

bb fkd hard

Hock Tua

Contemplating SOXS, MUD, and BEZ entries if they bounce off today's close around 9:30. Close stops. Would be my first short speculations since PLTR broke support in January.

I do have a big pp

Did you not want to get awarded. Not. A bot.

I honestly don't even know what you're talking about. And before you say "that makes sense", it's bc I don't need to do any research to know that the most anticipated IPO in history is going to absolutely soar

Biggest thing from the AVGO earnings call seems to be their anthropic deal being smaller than expected, just chips

Why sell when you can borrow tax-free against your shares

NVDIA looks fairly valued to me, I don’t believe in Amazon’s outlook, GOOG just announced dilution of shares. None of these look like an easy buy…

Robinhood new update  , when you click search the full page shows you crypto prices and prediction odds lol. 

Used to start with the indeces at least

Micron earnings June 24!!!

PDT will be 'lifted' tomorrow on RH. however, will that make much difference? with a margin account, the settlement will not occur the same day, so you wont be able to trade if you use up your buying power for the day. the only difference i see is that you have double the option buying power compared to a cash account?

Sqqq and the over in the Knicks spurs game 1…..follow me for financial regard advice

Frameworkception

Nice… I lost a Camry as well. Hello darkness my old friend

bagholders win if they get strong

Yes. And capital gains.

Super saiyan is when DBZ went downhill - that shit's ridiculous. Kaioken was way better than that.

Ber r fuk as usual

possible with market wide downturn

I was planing to sell mine in June 2027

So pump and dump in action still repeating which means green day tomorrow

AVGO bringing MRVL down

Go hibernate in the summer. Move to antartica. It'll be there soon.

Sofi you are fucking trash bro

Why am I wasting capital on shares with you since November

Sorry man

Whoa, what's going on?

Thank you. Appreciate it.

So this is how the market dies, due to stupid piece of shit AVGO

a welcome relief.

I must be regarded for holding onto these SPCE shares but may as well let it play out until spacex IPO day at this point. Fuck you guys for convincing me into this play.

AVGO!!! 143% yoy!!!!!! It’s all fugazi.

For what

Can it fucking chill? This is fucking nuts

Concept of a framework of a ceasefire.

noone get's what they deserve we all just get what we get except MRVLtards they got what they deserve

Yesterday was my worst trading day ever. Today was a distant second. What will tomorrow be??

You a porter?

V Gang

Seoul would like you to pick up the phone. They know the light. Solana Stakes. strike.

flair checks out

Its symbolic

Bears Still haven't been able to cash their puts in yet for a hotel room (this is a fact)

If u done this for a while   you know this always happens half the time!  Stop being a Lil bitch

if this is another bear trap, ima flip the whole system!

they always do that after earnings

Look at the chart. The thing has been rallying before his comment. His comment just turbo-charged the rally for 2 days - so far. If it makes the S&P 500 rebalancing cut, expect the rally to continue.

Thanks for sharing your loss for ants

Make sure to walk or bike to work, recycle, and use paper straws. Physicists estimate the 9-gigawatt Utah Date center could emit waste heat equivalent to over 20 atomic bombs DAILY

not even one consolidation day it’s wild

On a bull run, my general rule is get out when under the 20SMA (or add if it bounces off it), buy at 200SMA (especially leaps).

I know I will I can’t do this anymore college is strsssful this is stressful my projects are stressful I keep pulling my hair out I have to stop doing this I just need it to recover and I’m selling and sticking it into an index fund I cannot do this

Spy at prices not seen since *checks calendar* Monday.

dont did same las 2 days lost months of gains and some. revenge trade sucks

See you in Gstaad.

Apparently they are allowed to sell until 150m left.

China probably doesnt have any transparency on this. 

Japan suppose to have 9-10 mo supply.

I guess all factors in the price.

I dont think any of these countries tries to cool down the price to $60-70 region. They are fine with $100.

I will be messaging you in 3 months on **2026-09-03 23:40:30 UTC** to remind you of **this link**

**CLICK THIS LINK** to send a PM to also be reminded and to reduce spam.

^(Parent commenter can ) ^(delete this message to hide from others.)

**RemindMeBot is switching to username summons.** Instead of `!RemindMe 1 day`, use `u/RemindMeBot 1 day`. More info.

*****

|^(Info)|^(Custom)|^(Your Reminders)|^(Feedback)|
|-|-|-|-|

that's why you buy shares or etfs if you;re prone to doubling down on losses. I took a loss on avgu and doubled down at the bottom, it sucks but all i need is for avgo to go back up 6% to break even which might not happen immediately but it will happen eventually. Giving yourself a month for a shit company to moon is just pure revenge trading

Gotcha

Well first off the CEO read from last year’s quarterly report

Would’ve been sitting at 10 mil

What did you fuckers do!!?!!

yeeah mine rocket went sideways last week too

ceasefire news dropped. Now pump it back LMAO

See you m at Monte Carlo.

What about from two weeks ago?

But where’s the opportunity? All his trades were in March and we just found out

It’s a miracle mine does.

Just a healthy pullback😌

Made $10k profit in market today after being down thousands earlier in the day, down $4500 after hours because of 100 shares of MUU. No idea what tomorrow will bring.

Bro just buy calls stocks only go up

Call the pigeons.

Remember when China & 🌮 had a “framework” deal done? & then nothing ever happened..

the cessation of the ceasefire has commenced.

What are your 3 signs.

That’s how bagholders are born.

The ceasefires will continue until morale improves.

Thanks for awarding. I'm listening to Drake. He's teaching numerology.

I am fuk

Why did AVGO crash so hard lmao? Are they going bankrupt or something?

You have to feed bulls, and they are tired of the story. So the market remains irrational, welcome to commodities. lol

!remindme 3 months

Food shortages are little further away than that.  The northern hemisphere spring crops are little affected this year.  The first impacts will be to the crops planted later this year.  Harvest for those won’t begin until well into 2027.  

And there’s enough buffer stocks for months.  

Real food shortages won’t begin till late 2027.  

Until then, it will be distribution issues caused by fuel shortages.

No he’s asking if you don’t understand the fundamentals

Lmao AVGO keeps drilling

They already agreed , this is just fake news

Those regards who said AVGO 460c for Friday were free money weren’t joking. They didn’t specify who the free money was for tho either

8pm is gonna be a bloodbath

If Bitcoin is lower today than it was in April 2021, why should future returns be any better? What could possibly happen over the next five years that is more bullish for Bitcoin than what has already failed to move the needle over the past five years? The party is clearly over!

I need to keep an eye on this

Perfectly timed with the s&p closing red for the day. Just to verify Israel is still allowed to bomb in this ceasefire right

i did and down razy u might be luckier

Buying calls today for this week was not the play

AVGO looks like a limp dick rn fr

Makes me feel warm and fuzzy inside knowing there are people who bought MRVL at 320 because a guy in a leather jacket told them to

This is the timeline where Lt. Dan doesn’t find peace.

I'm Thad Castle. The Mr. And Dr. Jesse Williams.

Gap up to $300 on first day of trading.  Half of you retards will be the one’s pumping it.

what do u mean my fake internet coins and monkey pics are worthless?!

I too, have concepts of a plan.

Stairs down elevator up!

Damnit, same

Sorry

Ill be honest. If I was an instant billionaire, the CEO of a company that just went parabolic, like MU, id be looking for ways to sell everything before the shares crashhh back to earth.

Quit, and start a space exploration company, I guess..... or buy a private island.

Can’t tell if house vote is bearish or bullish 🤔

They will whats your point

TACO IS HERE FINALLY CHECK IT OUT.

Algorithm overselling nonsense

Short for Ivey

I could care less I'm up 270k this month

I have considered this, but I don’t see it being a root cause of immediate concern. The Yen carry trade unwind may take a while to unwind. Definitely not an issue to take lightly I agree.

Exactly, isn't trading like golf? Negative scores are the best!

Pump it

In korea, red means up. we all are crushing it 😎

Bol shocked pikachu face with profit taking at all time highs

MU holding on while everything esle dumping. i need a break from losimg so much.maybe

It’s hilarious than most the comments didn’t realize why spce was pushed

You forget to ask the pres. of the US, something netansomething. What does he think?

Oof seems like your computer belongs here

Buying an SF90 with a 2.4M portfolio seems wildly irresponsible tbh. I hope you have a few mil more somewhere else.

Call your priest.

Service now is gonna retrace that 33% gap up and then rip higher. It's already done most of it

From the context clues, I would hope you assumed what ieant by overleveraged

Collapsing is relative

Koreans are coming off a day where the Kospi was closed, of course these hungry degens buy the dip

Ok you win I concede

Dram puts three months out, can't go wrong 🤌

Doesn’t matter. Just say ber retard.

Saving Private Barron. The sequel.

You mean melt down*

Is it time to buy Google calls for mid july?

Give it 2h the Newspapers need to catch up

Looks like he's got some weeklies. Cooked.

Safety from AI mid allocations and EPS hits.

Multiples are more complex than just margins and growth rates.

might switch from stock options to poe2 options. div market goes crazy

Wallah

You act like Iran and it's proxies are not aggressors.

Homestly im still optimistic seeing insiders buying yesterday to get it to that $0.90

Cease-fire Friday before the bombing Monday... Classic

historically un-black colleges?

I know I’m very scared 😟 

But I really hope for a -3% day.. would probably change my life

Should have been buying the right stocks lol

JK bro is one of us.

Dude stocks have been rallying lol

See you in Varadero

true but now the markets fucked. bet that’s not small to him

Another pump and dump.

This makes me feel better about losing 30k but also worse because I’m not a millionaire

"I don’t care that my position is down by half"

We can all tell

Is there a discord channel for this pump and dump?

Guys, I have like 50b in debt buy my ipo for a small valuation of 5t

Trump stopped another war !!! /s

Holy carnage. I knew I should’ve swung some puts

Options on SAAS

Still up overall, but hurting. 

From up 65% in two days to down 25% each day over the last two days!

Still up though and still diamond handing it

Precisely. The game that is most enjoyable for the one calling the ~~shots~~ insider plays.

Another pump and dump.

The expected move of AVGO was ~9% with calls outweighing puts 60:40, the heaviest strike being the June 18 500c. So alot of people just got cooked here lol. Call buyers and anyone who sold volatility.

See you in boca

doubt it

At its current price, Bitcoin is actually trading below the peak it first hit in April 2021. That's over five years ago. MICHAEL Saylor expects Bitcoin to rise by over 30% per year over the next five years. But over the past five years and two months, its total return has been negative.

Friday

You might want to pay attention to what happened to silver at the beginning of the year. The price was manipulated via market mechanics, and that worked well until suddenly contracts couldn't be honored.  And then it rocketed. I'd imagine if your thesis holds, that the same will be true of oil.

For MRVL to go from \~340 to \~280 is wild

Wait what

Today was your day

That’s partially what caused it lmao

I'm going to London.

Bers and bols 🤝 🌽pocalypse

No that's his younger less successful brother

Buy some HUBC right now and youll probably make 30% by open. Thing only has 1 million shares and 150million volume

Get a gas card if you can. Or at least use rewards.

Yeah a reverse split. They just did one like two months ago too.

That's why it dumped so hard after hours

Dude just buy VOO and forget about it for a while

Back to green for another couple days.  Then dump again.

Koreans are about to full send this. I can feel it in my bones

Schwab

It know what Kim and Choi about to do in 22 minutes

Lock portrait orientation, turn phone upside down, profit

MRVL green by open

Are you buying options or hopium

Vibes

Is everybody cashing out to invest into SpaceX?

Not shocked if we open at 745 tomorrow

Alienz!!!!

Careful, only a 🥭 tweet away from ath again

Know where the next travel center is.

no, i’m retarded

spce regards are waiting for just one more pop to exit but we all know you they aint gon sell then lmao

Playbook for tommorow... market starts selling at open, briefly rebounds, then elevator down. Not a financial advice.

That doesn't make it public money. It's still private money.

Get candy at dollar general.

SPY 745 tomorrow?

If you’re still alive. Dance ghey bers dance. 💃

for charles schwab, it's 6/8.

Even the Three Stooges understood the circular economy.

I have a feeling it’s different when you have a mom just giving you $10k to play around with. Debt and finances and budgeting are probably something he’s never learned or ever had to worry about..

yeah now get Hezbollah on board

Can it be soon please, I've been in some of this shit since Q1 last year and sure I'm up a couple hundred percent but I'm hardly putting up Micron or SanDisk numbers, I feel like a peasant.

$415 to $490 back to $415 all in 5 days

Fidelity has

“ The agreement stipulates that the ceasefire is contingent on a complete halt to Hezbollah fire and the withdrawal of all Hezbollah operatives from the South Litani sector.”. 

In other words as long as the terrorist group, that gives zero fucks what any of the parties negotiating want, decides to fuck off this ceasefire is good

If you’re saying 26k x 80… meaning 2M, that’s not that hard of a goal based on where I’m at. 

This drop was less than 3%

Tomorrow could be a much needed -2% day.... volatility is king baby

I appreciate you making me feel better about 2k.

1 to 0.

If it's alreadybin the news, you're already too late and will more than likely be used as exit liquidity.

Robinhood, tomorrow.

Store of value.
Hedge against inflation .
Future currency

Yeah ngl SOXS price over long horizons is fully irrelevant lmao, idk why the commenter mentioned it, either ignorance or a bot for engagement lol.

Would you like extra ketchup with your fries?

-3% tomorrow 🐻

I'm still up nearly 100% on it. Willig to ride thid through IPO

Sir Lewis Hamilton. I need your help ofainɛ.

Bull run was fun. Calls.

I do so by not keeping large amounts in my gambling account

Are we living in a twilight zone or what. I think Israel, Trump and Iran are all working together to make money in our stock market.

No proof, no yolo

I'll give you that one.

doesn't it make you feel alive!?

Poor bols..they simply refuse to see what’s right in front of them 😔

DRAM still getting hammered after MU and SNDK seemed to pause their bleeding.

Month out calls and just go on vacation you fucking dweebs

BROKEBERRY

wow. i thought about it when it was down $20, but didnt do it until it was down $61. i wanted to make sure that i caught the very bottom. we'll be back.

How is making money on your investment relative?

Dude fr hoping it goes to $0.90 again

When do yall exit trades, certain percentage or?

Just back to where it was… 5 days ago. An almost 20% drop

So many emotional traders here going to miss the opportunity to be millionaires bc they don't like melon, lol

That's ok, I'll buy you a beer sometime

What do you mean ?

You’re good i’ve lost way more lol. the bogleheads were right. VTI or nothing at all

WSB is mostly trash, even though i got lucky on ASTS/RKLB - they’re just that - luck.

The AI run is unique, most other hyped runs like saas during covid, EVs, weed, crypto, and countless others have run amok

Only S&P is king but it’s too boring for most of us since we all apparently have ADHD gambler brain here

I needa leave this sub for my financial health

Lmaooo I meant Oracle Enterprise bs but same brother, I used to work at Cerner. 

The problem is Oracle is so massive Cerner's weight doesn't hold them down. And if you had hate-shorted CERN before that acquisition happened you'd have been destroyed by the sudden jump in price. Living through that transition is why I exercise caution with hate shorting.

Why do you fkrs buy options on volatile shit (especially long dated ones) then complain about volatility?  

Fkn regarded

Suck it up buttercup

Good thing you can't!

Small money for him

Did he give a reason for why to sell Nvidia? 😂

Thats why I prefer video games bro. You can save and if something goes wrong you reset and try something different. Life didn’t prepare us for life.

at this point in the oil supply, either the US folds or Iran floors it to the shortages. 

I'm still in USO

Unlucky mate

#DAME avgo sUCKS, but what about the Epstein files tho

yeah, I think you're going to make some money on this at some point.

Exacto mundo cuz

Please atrium. This is all I asked for at mercy.

Spy just keeps getting worse what the fuck

Learned I have a problem

God damn people on WSB love DVN, every post I make about oil is just flooded with DVN, am I missing out, is this the final piece I need, my other 10 E&P stocks weren't cutting it, it's DVN or nothing apparently. 

Jokes aside, I just only trade mid-caps ($10b MCap) and down. So DVN simply didn't make the cut because it's too big.

That's because your options weren't spx🤣 mileage varies of course

Broadcom down on software numbers, more software sell off to come

You lost so much money on calls that even the remind me bot doesn’t want to talk to you

I’ve heard enough ATH at open, Spy to 800

link to these subs? i love when people miss the boat on an anomalous spike and come up with coping mechanisms and cults to try and recreate it

Hunter Dean Temple Convention Center.

My position looked similar almost exactly 1 year ago when they landed sideways on the moon

I was full ported in LUNL calls last night and exited just in time with profit at 5am in sleep. Phew

Yeah kinda how they work unfortunately

Is this related to the memoranda of understanding??

Have you tried not being poor?

I was so excited for the PDT rule to be gone tomorrow but I’m afraid with how red my port will probably be I’m going to over revenge trade and throw my liquid cash into the fire 🫠

Holy crap what happened to Veeva? Did they announce they expanded onto seal clubbing to make money or something?

Interesting it’s the large cap indexes selling off AH, SPY and QQQ, while IWM barely moved. Gives me some hope this is mostly AVGO earnings reaction and not a broad panic sell off.

What if the dip keeps dippin boss

they've made announcements

Hmm someone here definitely bought calls on AVGO and MRVL at the top

Are we cooked fam? No cap fr?

For sure lol. I got 15,450 shares at .35. Will be a nice gain even if it just hits .40..

Like... if you are upset over a literal standard deviation, you've got another thing coming.

*gambling

I keep my 401k all index and this is all stock. Picked the worst time to try and jump in. Might go back to buy and hold or just run some boring wheels. Congrats on the gains!

Isn’t literally everything in the red right now lol? You might be a genius

AMZN AAPL and NFLX green AH but my GOOG calls looking cooked

Not as low as your mom did

Mfers just had to drop that house vote headline to stop the bleeding 😤

As soon as bagholders talk fundamentals, everyone should've known it was the top

Now that I think about it maybe I shouldn't have finally bought in 2 days ago

Nope. Hezbollah stops hitting Israel, Israel stops hitting Hezbollah. Simple...

Is it "buck naked" or "butt naked?"

Updating my resume, I don't wanna look stupid

And it's gone

This picture is so fucking funny

Its on the website

Agreed. But at this point they are actually like an investment play and not a hur dur calls play lmao.

😂 in a real world...Stock prices react to expectations, not just the raw numbers. If a company misses EBITDA by 2% but beat revenue expectations and gave positive future commentary, the stock price might actually go up. If the miss is accompanied by a warning that future business is slowing down, the stock will likely drop....meh I don't care anymore.  😂

When you realize that 90% of the retards here are levereged to the tits on OTM weekly calls, it'll all start to make more sense.

Wait do you mean a reverse split? Because if they split theyre in dime territory lol and they need price compliance

So all my calls are just lost money now?

Hahah I love that, never seen it

Planet labs 2028, t1 energy 2027 and 2028, uhhh I don’t consider my UFO calls leaps anymore but when I bought them I guess they were but UFO late December. I tend to swing trade them a bit so I’m in and out of a few names here and there

yes on their x it says pdt flags will be wiped

After hours crowdstrike is most red on my watchlist and smith and Wesson is most green

please no

Right, so the same stupid wish list from a month ago that's a complete and total non-starter. So nothing. Just pump news. Get it while you can, fun game of hot potato going on.

if you think a stock will ever at any time in the future sell for even $1 more than it costs now, and you sell it, you're a fucking retard

It´s Bitcoin. It usually means nothing.

It's coming

I did it on Monday and was a sad tomato watching it run to 9.65 yesterday lol, so so bought back in at 9.20. Guess i'll baghold for awhile

We could’ve been rich fr

I'm not going to tell you the selling isn't exaggerated tonight in Broadcom and CrowdStrike. I will say that they were parabolic and the parabola stocks will be hurt as all of these deals get priced. Please watch the top of Mad Money tonight for more

another good question

RIP Bag7. Its time for the new gen

What's wild is that the US has the biggest prison factories in the world lmao

Fuck avgo took a 45k loss

You knew it was too spicy to keep hammering calls right... right?

the irony is what funds left after today without taking a loss HAA

Yes, I am a MRVL baggie

Blue wave ironically ended a green wave and turned it into a red wave.

The official Lebanese government has no say. Hezbollah isn't a party to this.

Muh p/e....noone gives a fuck....it's fucking Dell

dear god i hate amzn.

Can’t relate! Sold CCs last week, closed them today, sold some puts after the drop.

Steady gains > greedy positions

You mean last month

It’s so funny seeing the bag holders coping in the various SPCE related subs 😂 

And even the coping comments are about potential positives of other space related companies. Nothing about SPCE the company itself and how they can grow 😂

It's false

I definitely did today. Big chillin

People keep saying this but what trading platforms have actually implemented this change?

Great write up and I respect your opinion but please get out of the bathroom and go back to work. My son has been waiting for his happy meal for almost 30minutes now.

Okay buddy

So no hope for tomorrow 🤔

I don't think that's hair

I bought a little TSN today

bUt PEnSIoNs WiLL GeT FORced tO bUY SpACEx

RIP to the boyz that bought SPY and AVGO calls

you and me both brother. AVGO and CRWD helping the process

so like… mango man has to be seething right? 1.5m position probably took a haircut today

You act like Israel is not an aggressor

Did anyone tell Hezbollah?

We enter a new age of degeneracy tomorrow. The poors are no longer restricted from daytrading

This is a bubble. A 15% one day slide on the #2 chip designer after earnings will make everyone question if perhaps they invested too far. Avgo is supposed to fall in the middle between AMD unpredictability and NVDA reliability. It doesn't matter what Avgo did early this week when the market has the attention span of a gold fish. 
The market literally needs to buy this dip in 2 days or else its Oracle part 2.

The big Mo

The windmills weren't making any money okay! I was tired of being poor, I wanted to be a cool war-profiteer.

Dell has a lower forward PE than basically everything except MU and NVDA

IT GIRL MEOW BABE

Thanks AVGO way to ruin it for the rest of us

hehehe

some vaseline and pain meds

Sour grapes??

Europoors are too poor to buy any dip. Like a dead-ant bounce maybe.

There is no favor with Israel. I think you might be misinformed

omg lol

There's no name "missing". It's deliberate that "Iran" isn't a party to this, as the US is working to keep the Iran & Lebanon issues separate.

Now Iran would LIKE to link the two, but the US has been very clear from the beginning that the two are not linked, and that any Lebanon ceasefire is contingent on Hezbollah (Iran's proxy) not attacking Israel and ultimately disarming to become a political movement only (vs. and armed resistance to Israel).

and if my grandma had wheels she would have been a bike

So mag 7 stocks are now moving opposite QQQ? What times are we living in?

If it drops a bit more I'm buying more anyways

Yea, learned a long time ago and a small fortune ago that timing is beyond retarded. Power to the gamblers though, can’t hate when I used to be one. But there is wayyyy too much fucking cash rn.

this company is going to $2. The only reason why it's up is because of WSB not because fundamentals changed. Once the volatility drops this company returns to pre pop fundamentals. It's pre revenue and blue origin is running circles around them with their space tourism business making money today, unlike virgin galactic. Their market is razor thin too. They aren't launching satellites or goods like spacex. The executives have seldom proven themselves to execute on time. Everything they do gets delayed. I could see this company maintain its share price, but a directional bet towards the upside is wild.

I don’t have any money cuz I only get paid on the 15th each month… but when you’re up 40% for the month, can’t be mad at a 3% drop. 

Especially when that drop was basically in every stock I own besides my memory stocks. Nothing to do but wait for things to get better… especially the war.

Calls on Israel getting more assets and puts on Lebanon

Pump commencing

When I do this, I lose 13.5k

I don’t life in peace honestly I have extreme OCD it affects my daily life im a 19 year old college student right now as well and having to do this and everything else is ripping me into a million pieces 

  
but it’s too late for me now I can’t just sell everything and stick it into an index fund I pray and hope it’ll recover a bit and then I’ll sell it and stick it in an index fund and forget I hope I learned my lesson

This is actually a new framework to the existing framework of the original framework on the April framework that is in reference to a ceasefire that someone said in a meeting about the framework structure initiation conversation

So a ceasefire with everyone but the main recipient of American bombs?

Sure.

You're not helping 😐

Most regaged move ever.

Will flagged PDT accounts be able to join the fun tomorrow?

Ceasefire #52

Yeah say that to me 400% YTD MU and 800% MUU gains

the classic israeli ceasefire where they can still hit you but you can't hit back

Because no one on planet earth has had a red day in two months

Why retard that usually means risk off for the stock market

Nikkei futures -0.97

Comment above me has big 🅿️🅿️

🙂👍

I would have held my spce calls if virgin galactic name wasn't so dissimilar to space X. If it was spaceEx vs SpaceX or something that's a different story. Much easier to typo that shit

Fun starts when memory tanks 🤌

Can you hear me now? Good.

Yep. I think if he didn’t do this, we would’ve ended around $450 instead of $415 🫩

glad you stayed out the rest of the day. i kept doubling down on my mrvl XD

Why are people panicking? Everything has been going up for 2 months straight and one little red day everyone thinks it over

Yeah but who would thought Walmart would be up almost 5% in 1 day?? I was looking for a pullback today to reenter calls but never happened

Ceasefire 17.0?

I’d like to thank the blue wave for all the ports that got completely nuked 🤣

you guys didn't actually invest in a company run by a dude named Hock E Tan

did you?

Electric boogaloo

Trump to impose tariffs on dozens of nations, citing claims of forced labor

THE BOYS ARE BACK IN TOWN.

Damn, when do we get to the concepts of a discussion about a possibility of a framework stage?

Dem titties

Wake me up when space x ipos

I would think long and HARD about it

Nothing more than a passing fart in the wind

"so what does broadcom do?"

"i'm sorry, you're breaking up"

YOU CAN FUCKING STOP SLIDING NOW WTF ARE WE DOING

Look over there ghey bears… tom Lee is pull out his hair.. 💃💃💃🤣

Years ago I lost over 400k before I learned the lesson. Now I stick to index funds and am approaching $1.6m in cash/stocks. I visit this sub as a reminder of what'll happen if I start day trading/options again

Bols are fucked

oh look 🌽 is falling, I can be happy again

Call hpd. Ask to see a certain video. I give consent. Call my lawyer. You know the one the DA cut a deal with cause your arresting officer lied on the avidavit. Call IA, FOIA britches. I read the terms and conditions... Once.

AVGO going to 300 your calls are fucked LMAO🤌

No it’s a bit more… this was less than a 3% drop

Exactly. They exceeded revenue and profits. People are just numb to good earnings in the AI space. There was nothing wrong with today. Give it a week or two and people will be wishing they bought in

I did not see that thanks for the info lol another split. Ill stay in as well i got a decent average at $0.30

# Complete obliteration of the Semis. AVGO cucked, MU is next.

Do the Lebanese people even support their current government? If another country demolishes your home and the government doesn't want to do anything would you still support the government?

If they sold 75B, why their market cap is not 75B then?

lol avgo

I was once at a health tech company that drummed up a series E venture round with anchor investors like the sovereign fund of Singapore. That was the last red flag I needed. I learned a lot about secondary markets then quit.

Yeaaaah I'm sorry, should have just used AI to polish it but hey, you can now to my unreadable work and ask AI to read it for you, hopefully my terrible writing won't cause a datacenter to burst into flames somewhere.

It’s less than 3% of my port worth, and I’m still up much more for the year, everything will be ok!

I was, before you brought calls

not wrong hope it goes to 50 for yall 🫪

By tomorrow.

Wow, AVGO is down to prices never seen since…last week

A week of gains might aswell be 36% lmao

The NeXt mU! nope. That’s the next SPCE

Is MRVL actually a good long term play or was it nothing more than a passing mention that got to much notice?

All it took was Saylor selling 32 coins to collapse 🌽 lmao

Man, you guys had such shit quality before then.

Target sucks absolute asshole, including their warehouses

Exactly

Dude why did they pump the stock so much before the IPO so annoying, just wait

A week, it's literally flat on the week now

NFLX is a safe stock from all this AI/MEMORY/DATABASE stocks /s

Goddamn fuckin amateur

Pussy

This happened to me too many times and it hurts like a bitch. Only play im looking at rn are more bag7, nvda, amazn, and goog

You saw they announced a stock split right?

Hope you're right though lol. I put way too much in this. Got a good average though so we'll see

yeah my friend’s portfolio tanked just like that once

MRs. Senators Of the GREAT STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA. I thought you were going to fix the traffic. You have 2 years from today. Or I will short MPD.

Ah yes, a framework. Is that better or worse than concepts of a ceasefire?

Please turn it off and back on again.

Yeah. I'm okay with it too, I always try and think of my returns as an overshoot, bc you can't time the market.

But this action has me on alert. I am going to buy the dip tommorrow if it's nasty enough.

How long will it take avgo to recover

Lmao what's gonna happen to Dell when shit hits the fan 🤌😹

This makes sense if every country lived in isolation. You can have your PPP GDP and still get wrecked in dollars when oil spikes. PPP becomes increasingly less valuable with globalization

It will bounce back! Just gotta be patient and hold. Never panic sell… never sell on a red day. 

All my positions are long term. Still up big the last 1 month. A 3% drop shouldn’t be the end of the world for those holding shares long term in solid companies.

My dad killed himself over stock losses…Not a joke.  Be careful

Hey Donald can you save your port

this tell me you had around 370k

or I'm wrong?

Prices we have seen since Monday 😂

‚investor’ … yeah

Someone explain to me why I couldn’t create box spreads on 🌽 using prediction markets for outcomes on daily prices

MASSIVE Dump on OPEN

remember what happened with arm after earnings. I was down 30% on the leveraged etf and now up 100%

W.t.f. 🤯

What the absolute fuck happened to AVGO :(

home of mr beast RAHHHH

Man I managed to grind my port back from -80% to -3% a few days ago. Got out of half of my riskier shares to rotate into “safer stocks”. 2 days is all it took to be at -40%… this is crazy

I'm waiting for "THE dip of all dips"

You’ll need 80x of that to retire if it makes you feel any better.

Another DLC pack.

SPCE is Virgin Galactic founded by Sir Richard Brunson, NOT SpaceX founded by Elon Musk..  They havent had their IPO yet

If Barron could turn the buy algos back on that would be great

I need a reminder to never touch ONDAS ever again

I mean it's a better bet than SPCE

SPY could easily dump 80% across three days with 3 level 3 circuit breakers  and it would be still overvalued.

Here is the best source I could find, full disclosure, I first read about it on X from some oilfield services focused accounts.

Im about to be so poor tomorrow

Taylor is public?

Schrödingers Ceasefire !

Go to Lowe's next time. Exit 31 direct connecter or tunnel. Build the light rail!

next week tough but you never know

Now I’m in a 2x leveraged position in NVIDIA (20k total 10k margin)

Yes, he stopped like a minute later, but algos had panicked already.

What leaps did you buy?

I’ve got MSFT, NFLX, HOOD, IREN and NOW. All 2028

Stop, stop!  🌽’s already dead 💀

Yep no one believes this

This message has been scam-proofed! 

Scam-free!

Holy, I was THIS close to buying calls the other day...

at this point... we're just playing Green light Red light

SPY dipped $20 in June last year is this just a repeat?

Don’t even know what to buy at this point

Lights are getting too bright lmaao belive it or not calls

Caused my parents splitting up as well

A range of 2% this entire week…?

Damn they even got u/puts_every_day ???

You know this shit is overbought when permabears start buying calls 😭

You'll get it back 🤝

If OP had full ported on Reddit he would be up though. He made the mistake of diversifying.

Bagholder spotted.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Wait what ? Did they correct this ?

Careful, reddit bans people for speaking the truth about such things

No productivity gains from AI, therefore the software sector at risk of being disrupted by AI must crash further

I'm over leveraged and about to get cooked crispy style

Less than 3%. Which hey, isn’t that bad in the grand scheme of things…

Especially when it was at an all time high this morning.

Yeah he’s dead, Jim

Did you use wipes?

The fuck did you just say to me

Do you think China will always be a threat and that can shake things up in the future?

Yikes

3 weeks?

Buy the dip?

It doubled then I sold and put it all in again but at a $70 strike price expiring this September. That doubled again then I sold two days ago

I can see it go down to under 30k again

Can you imagine the blood bath if we actually crash 20% from here on out to close the year ....so many over leveraged caught up in the hype.

Huh there's an interesting name missing and one name that totally doesn't matter because breaking ceasefires is basically a national tradition to the point that they don't understand the concept that they're supposed to be two ways by default

Next week, I could have taken them all of the table in profit this morning. Instead I took half and wanted to leave "runners" every time I do that I get fucked. Whenever I don't, it goes to infinity.

SPCEx 2damün

With Arianna Grande in the background.

Concepts of a deal

Ouchie

Avgo crashed btc too

Europoor and Asia markets Will scoop up dip 🤔 
We will be green by open

Into September futures at 7669. Let's just hope this isn't the REAL dump

fuckin Panicans

Ceasefire 2.0?

How many hours will it be this time until the ceasefire is violated in a Han v Greedo situation?

And then?

I love how flexible words are 😮‍💨

Hey man can you Venmo me money

Just think what my AVGX is doing

March 2020

You are gonna lose it all the way you do sht

electric space cars with integrated AI chatbot and wifi or something like that

Top is in for the month?

Did I?

Nice try, bull

SPCEx

AVGO down 13%.  Stock fell sharply when CEO Hock Tan started to read the 2025 remakes with revenue numbers far below 2026.  
You can't make this stuff up folks.

Nice to see the economic and other support the wealthy oil kingdoms of the region gave to their fellow Arabs in Gaza and Lebanon. Ah that's right they're busy buying luxury goods, sports teams/leagues, and pumping funds into U.S. equities, bonds, and RE.

Beef squeeze my ass. Buy corn.

Everything is gona be 🙂.

just a feeling

There isn’t any issue here. Both of them got $100 worth of enjoyment watching the other person eat dog shit. Entertainment is a form of wealth. If either disagreed that it wasn’t worth eating it for $100, they would have refused. Both times eating it was less expensive than the $100 to be gained, and both times watching someone else eat dog shit was more valuable than $100.

PL earnings tomorrow will save us

What you reppin?

dang, avgo is dumping dumping

The problem with these small red day is the idiot bers come out of hibernation to shit post. 

It's insufferable.

Praying screwworm fucks Tyson foods

There's a deal, in theory

What about 50s

It’s too bad when your account blows up like a blue origin rocket on the pad

Yes. Spy green by 4 am tomorrow.

electric space cars with integrated AI chatbot and wifi or sonething like that

Hive and fig got me too.. hope fig can turn it around quick

Yeah but what percentage of your account was it?

My acct has topped out this last week and lost 3% today. Everything is selling off aside from memory and the Q's.

The last three selloffs I've lived through started with this narrowing of breadthe first, then finally the whole thing rolled over

So is this March 2026 again or March 2025?

SPX 6000 wen

or when it expires worthless on friday

It's the timing that gets ya. I think we will see a major crash but when that is? Who fuckin knows? After we run out of reserves? After midterms? After my grandma turns into a bicycle? Shorts is just asking to get butt fucked.

Exactly

What stocks is everyone buying tomorrow on this nice dip?

Good for you. I hope you realize that you were able to make it back mostly due to luck. Don’t be one of those that mistake this as a sign of your genius, that’s how you end up losing it all next time.

Not sure that's true. People take vacation and summer months tend to be slow. I wouldn't be surprised if this trades sideways till August.

You can't stop what's coming. It ain't all waiting on you. That's vanity.

Your resume to Wendy's.

So AVGO to 600 in 1 week after everyone sells their liquidated calls

Back on the usual menu: when QQQ red, MSFT green

Makes sense. The most highly anticipated IPO in history, but everyone's selling instead of buying LMAO

# The day of cuckening is here Bols 🐂🥩

Jensen, please pump my bags next

for profit, depending on expiry

Not this time

Play sweeper.

Damn best regards

Shares you’ll be ok, options not so much

dame ellona  musk from affrika violated his student visa LMAOOOO!!!!

These companies are not the same..

Someone needs to tell them you don’t need to be poor to suck dick out back of Wendy’s.

You put windmill money on this??!

Mailed what

Go to soccer silver.

Ceasefire means fireless often according to donny

Avgo down a week of gains why you being dumb

Full port spy calls at open

Yuckk

Play standard.

Agreed.  Unless there was something fundamentally wrong with the company or they royally missed their projection I'd say different

High turnover is often expected as part of an acquisition. I promise you that the buyer didn’t place a high premium on existing talent, and were likely mostly interested in buying the infrastructure and existing market share. Often the justification for buying another company is that the buyer thinks they can run it more efficiently under better management and with their own talent pool.

What’s popping? Did 🥭say something? Genuinely asking

Okay. Play Rocket League.

Yea, cathie wood bought couple days ago. So i think Cramer is correct this time. LMAO🤌

Ooops, go ahead and update with your loss porn

Why bloodbath?

*Fire sale cod zombies noise*

Calls on what?

I called BTC back to sub 60k when it was in the 80s, still believe it

Sleep.

If the goal is because we are not having kids so let’s build robots we are cooked and what is your with your 3 paragraph response. Keep it in one paragraph. No one got time to read all that

Se your PCP.

My Broadcom earnings play hurt me in my bunghole

6 mins till Korea market open. This will make or break the next trading day

Dumbass bagholder

Either they selling everything... or they might buy it all up too

Massive market cap and spends billions pumping other companies

Raw yes with protection no

I'm seeking to have cash for the weekend. Print.

I lost 26k today… and I only hold shares. And none of my positions are new or from today. That should tell you something. 

Things will be ok… unrelated, but I was at Home Depot and rope is on sale so I bought 4 feet worth.

Live fast, die young I guess

I assure you they are

Wow,  another ceasefire?  Does that cancel out the ceasefire from yesterday and the ceasefire the day before that?

SPY, I command you to rise from your grave...

*-- Altered Beast, 1988*

The US has plenty of oil to weather the storm. 

If this storm lasts another 2 months, shit gets real complicated in ways a lot of people haven't properly considered

We currently have about seven more weeks until the SPR falls below 300 million barrels. At point, there are structural integrity issues to consider that make extraction of anymore oil perilous. Fresh water would have to be injected to float the oil up, and these are salt caverns. Fresh water will dissolve features of the caverns and threaten their structural integrity. 

.

Im thinking they will team up with the 🇯🇵 to Kamakaze semi stonks

30min to decide whether to hold or sell at a steep loss. hmm. take the L or potentially take an even larger L tomorrow? decisions decisions

Seated.

not yet please. I don't have enough in fully take advantage of that lol.

Corn dying

Can't wait for the thread tomorrow, with no PDT. It's going to be gold

Lost 10k, but at least I don’t need to pay so much tax next year🥲

jesus christ the volatility is insane, you definitely need to put a bulk of your money into a index or buy different sectors of the economy. I don't even know how you function or live at peace.

that would be nice, bought half my position in avgu at market close and half already down 24%. a 7% gain from here would mean i'm no longer an investor in avgu

Print and kneek.

But will they agree to a re-redeclaration of war 🤔

How do you mfers buy calls on this shit lmfao!

We’re actually taking a physics class on beam theory taught by a retard

space x ipo is where the market crashes

Print.

Biggest buy the dip opportunity at open tmr. U either regarded or hate money or both if u dont load up calls. Thank you for your matter to this attention.

actually this guy might be right!!! The cash flow is gonna be crazy starting tomorrow

Federal reserve.

Looks like you're not fucking eating either

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Cramer says sell NVDA 

NO IM NOT SELLING NVDA

I only hold overnight. The day is for rotating.

I love when Koreans unload on me

No DVN?

fuck that time to revenge trade brother

Apple is trading like a fucking meme coin this last week. What is this shit

Charles Schwab

Crypshito is not having fun

You sound like such a Palestinian tool, “unless they”…stfu! know we are at the part when 5th horseman Jesus comes down to save Isreal.

just this avgo fall wouldn't make it real

but aapl ripping would

JPMCco

Safety from? It’s already over valued and trading at a premium

maybe, IDK... I bought puts for Friday. We're overdue for a pull back. At a minimum, that's here.

Elon Musk’s SpaceX announces that it intends to make its stock market debut next week at a $1.77 trillion valuation.

Bro cant land his rocket and it blows up in space 30% of the time

I guess my oracle calls are also fucked

Or they buy the dip

CashApp.

The Korea market is going to be a bloodbath, bring up the tickers live, you will be watching history

I pulled all my shares out before it got to my cost basis. Now it's under and I'm still trying decide if I should buy back in. With SpaceX looming, it is so unknown of its impact once IPO. Im just gonna stay out until the dust settles.

Friday, trust 🙌

You mean you opened 27 positions?

This timeline is WAY longer than the timeline Iran will before they have to tap their wells, if you're trying to present the chicken scenario

CRSR mooning tomorrow at 8:30 EST. CFO is pumping the stock hard. If you're not loading up on calls at open you're truly regarded.

Agree, along with Cisco, 3 hiden gems

Right here. Been holding for over a year sold today for a +90% profit 😊

Print crypto. Markets are closed. Learn how to margin call with HOOD.

Who tf is shrek bro 😭

Just wait it shoots up at night its 1000% used to launder money or something with how volatile it is

It doesn’t always go up.

2026? Omg. If you had done these for June 2028 I’d say congrats. In tfsa too lmao

$OKLO an absolute lollercoaster lately

My account isn't approved for options... I have my training wheels on. Was up 60k last week, and now I'm at 36ish... started with 40.5

Stocks on sale tomorrow

I agree, I’m going to keep buying when it’s down. I’ll buy again tomorrow at ~$4. Still sitting on another 100 shares I bought at $2.90 back in March. 

I don’t think it will go over $100 but I think all space sector stocks will rise over the next few months.

MMs going to pump the market hard tomorrow to get all the new PDT rule traders leveraging out their ass. The rug pull Friday afternoon will be legendary.

dialectical and historical materialism is extremely useful to predict prices when combined with investing, macroeconomic knowledge.

Only 27, tmrw we go unlimited 😎

Sell in May then leave the market forever

39 minutes until the Koreans absolutely unload

Your portfolio is proof that confidence and accuracy are unrelated.

imagine not eating avocado toast daily

Game theory: does the market buy the avgo dip and save the bubble? 

Or does the market go whoopsi daisy? 
(Copemaxxing)

At least 20. And that’s not the worst part. I sold for a $2500 loss on the day and bought back in when the contracts went down 3¢. 😭

Luck.

It’s always something, innit?

spy, please raise. why are you doing this

Friday.

The ber is within you… don’t give into its evil desperate spirit

My only regret is not buying ITM puts

Tomorrow.

Fuck you

I don't choke with a toothbrush.

Why would I buy IREN calls in a time like this

sold my position today, I got a gut feeling we’re looking down the barrel of a massive rug pull 😭

Define deserve? Did he make thousands of decisions in his professional life over the years to be in that position? Yes. So yes.

June 18th? Omg

Donald pumped and now he Donald Dumped

Cmon screw worm make my puts sing

for those who don't get it avgo is already a 2t company, and for those who still don't get it 2>1

And then...

Fuck off

he is not out of the closet yet

TSLORD📈

It's time to buy more

After today - fuck it maybe I should just stay on a cash account! 🤣   I don’t want the Robinhood hitman coming looking for me for a margin call! lol

Yes. Now print.

Placed 27 trades today and none of them were day trades.

I have a problem.

cool dude

Should've went all in on CPRT like I'm doing. Less than 100 Million in Debt and and over 5 Billion in cash.

empires like america falling because of bad economy, stupid market, starting random war and demagogues dividing the people?

huh history class was useful after all

Half my gains evaporated in 2 days, I paper handed a penny stock trade and realized a 25% lost, only for the stock to recover miraculously from lows at market close.

What an experience… should had sold in May and ran away.

Just buy KEEL and stop playing leveraged.

not a call just stocks

I woke up today expecting to make more money, not relive 2008

honestly yes

Very dramatic opinion…..but shift positions right now, realize the meme losses,  and rebalance the rest to 1/3 SMH 1/3 VOO 1/3 QQQ or full port SMH and say f it 👀

I think at one point the IV was like 250% on $5 puts

Why? Everyone knows Israel honors its ceasefires

Lost 50K on AVGO CRWD #yodo. I was hoping avgo to go 200 pe :(

Many people aren’t just here trading spy… it’s the hundreds of stocks they were down 5-10% across the board.

As someone that holds some SOXS I really do love bro.

Keffer and al Huntersville Dealerships. Je parle FRANÇAIS.

Imagine falling for the SPCE pump and dump routine (again)

Amd could go back to $300 and still be massively overvalued

How many times did you average down lol

Making me super poor atm.... Think there's a pretty decent chance this goes back to a dime tomorrow

Hot bear down gapes.

anyone else have calls in space stocks? surely this shit turns around by mid next week right?? right??

This week is going by quick

Shanny we did it.

Inflation is my guess.  It's seen as correlated with oil/gas.

Higher rates is usually what stops the party.

Wollongong I'll see you soon.

Hot bear down gaps.

How is nvda not 300? Lol

Calls to Puts across individual semiconductor stocks reach ATH, while SOXX carries its second highest put to call ratio on record at 7.5.

Odd.

You make it sounds like a bad thing

He will probably wait for another red day and say that the deal is almost done.

dame Israel caved hard LMAOOO ceasefire back on boys

Reminder that the US gave 2 trillion of that money to corporations as tax breaks which they immediately used to fund stock buybacks to increase share price, which they explicitly promised they would not.

Canberra print.

Crypto bros lol

Who would've thought AVGO would fuck the markets

Damn, you are fucked

Hong Kong. Print.

I went home from my semiconductor job angry at Intel about something and for vengeance bought a few shares of AMD at $11. So that did pretty well for me in the decade since.

I have 75 shares. I'll keep averaging down as far as it goes. Not bc I believe in it, just bc

To the bears (i was one myself and sold for a loss):

​honestly it could still be too early for the market to go down. 

First red day after 9 weeks of green is not enough to say if the trend is shifting. Could be market just taking a breath, and slowly continue to climb after. Could be just broadcon earnings pulling down the market. 

I think it is too early to tell really. We are also probably just another peace talk or ceasefire away from another V.

Myself I sold my shorts for a loss. Made some money back on boomer stocks like Victoria Secret, now looking at Ulta, and Nike (earnings on 30th June looks really juicy).

It serms as if tech stocks are slowly rotating to "boomer" stocks, for a short while. But market should still do fine, correction or crash to be honest will happen probably as far as november.

They can manipulate this market for a very long time. I also dont think they want red markets for the Fifa world cup. Until november we should still be in a bull run sadly, as irrational as that sounds.

So better just take that loss and dont fight the market before you lose 100% of your portfolio. Bull run could still last a few months (in my opinion until November).

So what yur telling me........

The market would start fucking me in the ass during pride month.

LUNR dilution news this morning caused me to be full cash today. I was annoyed with taking a loss, but man, considering how much it and everything else has dropped since then, I'm now sitting here smug af

i was feeling bad about losing $12k on AVGO calls today but i feel a lot better now

Singapur. Print.

no, you do giant macro calls or gtfo

A bit of advice king, if you want leverage and can afford leaps buy them instead, turned 27k into this just with leaps. It goes down oh no I wait a month and It’s back.. 90% of the time lol

You only put 2-3 shots of liquor in your martinis?

Do you even understand the gains that would follow 2 actual red days? Omg my nuts hurt just thinking about it

Calls on $fuckme tomorrow at open

Margins. Print.

Apple ripping.

And that's why I do monthlies.

BTC on life support. 45k next

cause hes always right....

got me fired when he acquired LSI

AVGO plz i’m asking for a ceasefire

We need hedged tokens.

Crypto. PRINT.

So they can pump it for 4th of July

This can turn around by Friday, right?  RIGHT??

Will the markets ever go up again 🥺

I am in the similar rocket situation 😂

This is fucking STUPID

Deserved.

Didn’t you see that guys DD, hot girls working self check out, shits gonna moon

We can only hope, we are getting slimmed

Israel, Lebanon say they agree to ceasefire

Reuters

I think we still fucked

What do u guys think about super micro calls for August. It dumped 10% today

Sell in may or get shafted during pride month

I just want to meet Chance the Rapper. He saved #ChaTOWN THE NEW ATLANTA. OUR BISHOP CAME FROM YOU. CALL BALTIMORE IF YOU DON'T UNDERSTAND. I'M CHEF FOR THANKSGIVING THIS YEAR.

The only positive thing about today is I was debating this morning whether to full port shares of AVGO or the 2x leverage AVGX and I played it safe with just AVGO

CRSR going to moon tomorrow

Short bitcoin to the ground

Damn now I feel like that scene in the Big Short when Brad Pitt scolds the two you hedgefund mangers for betting against housing, explaining the human cost...

I just.. oh.. sorry everyone.

I'll go buy some windmills.

What is this MSFT ah movement

Need an update on this lol

Once I find the right thing I'm just gonna full port and hold on for dear life

Hmmm. Maybe one sells RAM / storage, an identified bottleneck in compute skyrocketing in demand and price, and the other sells fab assembly line equipment.

Well clearly buy SPCE. SPCE must flow

Oh lawd...

Holy fuck that's hard to read

Ill just roll it over.

Beginning of the end

Broadcom has always been trash after earnings LOL

Why was today red? Iran shit?

Why market gotta turn 🌈 for pride month?

Let’s print tomorrow! 💪

this guys the next ramonjohnjohn

Pour one out for AVGO call buyers

friday

what do you mean?

ABVX baggie here

Why isn't the AVGO "contagion" spreading to NVDA, AMD, etc.?

What's the bull case for MRVL holding these prices? Seems to me like they aren't in an advantageous position as MU is.

CVX everyone. Research them on Wikipedia. Or pay for Ai.

Half games, half rugs

I get trying to make OP feel better, but no

People gonna front run ipo dump. We gonna dump into space x ipo

yeah this time is definitely real

Who the fuck would pay $13k for that

They are like down another 5% after hours lol L after L

My ports only down a cool 35% in two days itll be fine right

🥭social ETFs unloading its positions probably was a sign 

!Barbet spy -10% 1w

SPY only goes up options only go down

I made and lost... so I lost because I lost more than I made 🥲🙂 that's me pulling my tear back in because there's no crying in the casino 😅

Now I'm bullish on the IPO

because I’m a stupid fucking teenager and I wanted to make more money because I am excessively greedy and now I am being punished for my sin

What do all the sky blue, electron gold, and peony lines mean?

PLTR gave me anal stitches

Just bought my first one in a while, buying more tomorrow if it dips more. This shit pumps like crazy. My biggest regret was not buying more after the split.

Second world. Biofuel. Chevron. Print or I ¡Banbet you to move your headquarters to Greenville NC.

2% in puts just incase

I’m just here for the memes

Why do I even play earnings at all. Butt fugged every single time.

apparently not regarded *enough*

Give me that sweet sweet copium

"Total exports” actually includes crude plus refined products and other petroleum liquids. Crude exports alone were 5.874 million barrels per day, petroleum product exports were another 7.726 million barrels per day.

I'm curious about the source of your claim on that the caverns collapse below 240MM barrels - both because I've never heard that, and because they get oil out of the rock salt SPR caverns by pumping water underneath the oil to push the oil upward.

The CEO is supposed to be a salesman, their job is to sell the company to investors, and he FAILED lol

im not falling for that again!

Weak analysis

"Elon Musk's net worth poised to sail past $1 trillion in SpaceX IPO"

Then Jim Cramer post:

"They should shut down market orders on the first day or this one will be opening at $4 billion..."

Ever Jim Cramer belive that there will be big sell-off when SpaceX IPO next week lol

And you feel this gives you power over me?

why vaporize $2k when you can vaporize $12k?! 6x the vaporization!

Ride to zero brother. I’ve accepted the loss.

they mostly famous for shooting americans

ehhhh

I mean it’s still 100% better than the full ports on a hunch I see here sometimes

Y'all better save Medicaid. Don't try me. Short corn so the third world can hedge rice and potatoes and taro.

The U.S. State Department, along with both Israel and Lebanon, have issued a joint statement announcing an immediate cessation of hostilities in Lebanon, stating:

(See one year chart)

like almost everyone here probably just lost all their gains from the past two week on AVGO calls LOLOLOLOLOL

Should i buy 400k of GOOGL if it drops below 350?

Up 7% so far so you have a chance

Just don't buy a straddle and ending up fkin bulls and bears with a theta day.

Omg the bar is underground

Sweet or field?

Hold. It’ll be fine

313, the bottom was in. 20K calls.

Typically a statement like that is followed up with an intelligent, well thought out reasoning. But I doubt you have one.

How did you know

Damn, been a bit since there’s been such an AH dump like this.

non AI generated content??? the fuck is this?

Are you saying you think AVGO is going to bounce back up because of fundamentals?

my SMCI calls expire on friday and need $48. do I have any hope?

I lost 4K of 18k. I think you’ll be alright lol

idk last time someone posted this about NVDA it went up from 210 to 234 and i sold

That’s amazing to me—they must be doing something wrong because I absolutely see substantial productivity gains across my org from leveraging AI.

checks out

Only issue: housing stock is at 2008 levels. We are looking at a housing market collapse.

My supreme court. Maduro me or free him.

Why did we go up?

Are you tired of winning?

Dayum everyone hella mad AVGO didnt blast off like these other companies did!!  LOLOLOLOLOL

we need them more than ever

Refinance where, Michael?

I don’t think my Vix calls will be good enough hedge honestly

Space X priced for $135 per share

Fuck that stock but SPCE will probably have halo effect on the same day

Bro I feel like I am being trolled but I will explain one more time. The market closed and CRDO earnings came out and the initial reaction was a -15% sell off. By the next morning premarket, it was green and opened green. Do you understand? Would you prefer an illustration? Perhaps made be generative AI?

Great White tank. Rn. And AMA til I play Rocket League.

The Fanta Menace strikes again!

technically less! i closed some other AVGO calls earlier this week.

This is how Musk's companies work.

Don’t give me an other ticker to lose money on! 😭

Mamacita,  mamá, mamá, Mamacita. Shout outs. Dm. Me. Let's play chess for shares.

Thanks I needed someone to blame for being down $3k on RKLB today.

Oh dear, you never had it good in the first place

I bought today!

The artificial intelligence bubble so the kids can laugh at it, kind of like how we laugh at "dot com" or "surfing the Internet" bubble.

Its really amazing how well hedging your positions work after an insane run like we just had. Cap upside to massively limit downside.

Holy shit, I just saw after hours, down 60 dddaaammmnnn

They never do

Why we crashing

Gonna be a bunch of bag holders there next month

Thank you! Kindness goes a long way and being happy for others ✨️ will bring you amazing wonders in life try it I swear!!!

We still hoping for a pump next week?

ROOFTOP KOREANS are setting up

Fidelity called to check on me today 😂

SNAP’s last chance is a federal ban on porn

Drake?

IV kill

I knew top is in when my grandma asked me about marvel 🤣🤣

this is bullshit, i demand a refund

Numbers went down

Cut the phone off...

Have to give them one day every few months or they’ll starve.

Your Roth is crying.

market is sick of this mess

Idk man best case you get very rich while people die of hunger.

Its fun being a bull

I sold $100 for June 18, I'm pretty reserved to the fact those are just gone. But I paied $35 for it so not too tore up over it.

$15k isn't that expensive for tuition.

Time for a strong dose of hopium

My AVGO call gonna fuk go to 0 , anyone same base

Can u still pm me? We own some of the same companies. If you wanna chat some about them.

Just went in and bought up all their shares at 279

It was like the last 50 days 🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣

r/NASA_ETF

come check it out.

Starting my 7 day shift and been too busy for casino turned out to be a good thing today lol

Damn and I thought I did well at +3500%. Back to the casino for me.

I think in a week or two it will jump back up

Yea, why is it not up 3% after a 30% rally

Dayum, I just posted about butt 🌽  under 65k. 

Can it get to the 50s by tomorrow? 😳

Im watching. 🍿

Mamacita cita...

And AVGO is the hand

$HUBC boutta make me so rich

When is you calls exp ?

I'm European and while options are available, they're not really a thing here, atleast in my neck of the woods. I've spread my oil exposure to minimize basin and geographical risk, I want many different basins and both on and offshore. Sure it's all oil but if one basin starts underperforming or if there's suddenly an offshore accident, the whole portfolio doesn't die at once due to company specific risk.

Just woke up… everything is big red. What did I miss?

bought the dip so I'm good 

just not the high like most here lol

ya'lll think you have it bad? i'm mostly in bio stocks

you’re still crying in the casino tho

They eat like once or twice a year. 
Back to ur caves, ghey berz.

Whoever told you that was retarded

Corn is cooked. Capitulation coming ladybois

Maybe it will be easier for you if we leave the percents out and just use the numbers. What is 100 minus negative 15?

A 3% drop after a 30% rally can wipe out half of this sub

There will be a lot of liquidations that’s for sure 🐻

Why does this dip doesn’t seem like “buy the dip”?? Is it just me?

Damn, poor Roblox

Well we just voted to withdraw and it succeeded.

This shit has got to end enough is enough 

What a fucking joke

Do nothing & chill until IPO

My bro Fever

Suddenly that massive volume of soxs and other ber 3x leveraged shit makes sense.

AVGO will recover. Not to $500 but $435-$450.

What are they gonna call this upcoming crash in the history books?

AVGO the new SPCE

Why are you in so many leveraged plays?

we will not wait for you

It’s cooked thank you for the bubble. It was good while it lasted

holy fuck how i am getting gutted even AFTER they closed the casino???

My bro benj, always tenderly

Safety. Developers conference coming up too.

man. one red day in the market

Crazy how the beyond pump and dump didn’t make new investors suspicious for the next one two months later

I wish I did panic sell NOW

well it is PRIDE month

Does anyone know if I'll make any money on the SOXS I bought today?

MSTR puts are free money

the shares are one thing, if you believe the story you can sit on those. the 12 friday 42 calls at down 95 percent are the part to be clear eyed about. those are basically lottery tickets now and theta finishes them off in a couple days unless lunr rips like 30 percent by friday.

the offering this morning is why the whole space dipped, dilution plus profit taking after a green run. that doesnt fix your weeklies though. are you planning to roll those out to give the thesis some time or just let them ride to zero as a moonshot

SPCE bois holding their heads high after seeing MRVL rug the absolute fuck out of you retards, Lmao

Saylor is now 9.5 billion in the hole on fake internet money

everything will be red?

I beg to differ with my lulu & adbe through hell and (possibly) back

If we had countries not committed to wiping Israel of off the face of the earth maybe we would have peace.

Here's to hoping so my SOXS call lottos hit

Holy Jezuz - just wire me the fking money so I can at least buy whore and whiskey.

HOOD u POS.class action lawsuit for 2021 meme stocks? Are we serious? U mean someone lost their life earnings and went through ToS and found that they lacked information on warning investors on meme stocks?

Never. You’re buying air.

Hope not but CIEN is next in line to dump after earnings

i don’t know why I did this to myself. I’m genuinely a fucking idiot bro. I don’t know if it’ll ever recover. I hope it does. I’m so new to all this and I turned on margin and it got to my fuckin head bro. I should’ve just put it all in an index fund or gold or some shit. I’m 19. I don’t know why I’m trying to gamvle this shit away

They wouldn’t unless provoked too. Also not our business

I bought the dip this morning but then the dip kept dipping

Corn not having a good time

Pretty sure we are not able to if we wanted. It's a quagmire.

All gambling at the end of the day

Very easily coulda gone the other way with those pumping and HPE tanks

No one can predict unless you’ve got inside info

Fuck you

If they would believe him, they would start selling, as the price is unreasonably inflated to the peaceful times. Peaceful times aren’t coming, thus everyone holds their stocks as if during wartime.

hodor ass mf had to mess it all up

He’s going to do something. The market being green is like the only “good” thing they’ve got going. Also, he may not care bc something bigger is happening and they are trying to clean up before that happens but thats tinfoil hat shit idk. I am stuck in the horrible limbo of my portfolio being not bad enough to freak out and not good enough to move anything.

I need a big corrections, need to buy a big fat dip

Bers feasting 😓

Your loss. That gf is actually a bf 😂

Just buy calls a week or so out.

Legit works every time. It’s that ez. And yes you will start to feel insane. And continue to doubt yourself.  No way this works again . Then it does. Then u get even more calls. And those work. And u keep doing this for 3 months straight. And it works every fkn time. At this point u start to lose ur mind. Like this isn’t even reality ! U continue to buy; into a psychotic frenzy. U stop talking to ur friends and family. “Just buy calls” u say as u cackle in a corner of ur dimly lit house .

You assume the people at the competing firms aren’t also idiots?

Third ones the charm no?

Bro, most people diversify risk.What exactly did you diversify?

War was over a couple of weeks ago before the WPA kicked in.

This is a new excursion.

Some of yall are not ready for the belt to ass coming your way tomorrow 😂

I was extremely fucking brave and ate nutsack for it loool

Id short my workplace if I could.

Yeah? Tell us more about your unique experiences going to tourist traps, getting drunk and trying to get laid like everyone else ever.  So memorable and fascinating.  No one else couls ever do that.

hopefully avgo is back to todays price next week lmfao

Only kind person here lmao

ATH close btw

Oh. I see. Yeah you did this to yourself bro.

Lost all my gains on spy calls today.

Spurs in 5

And I was told that Google, Amazon , Microsoft are safe leaps…. I guess we were told shit 😂 my leaps looks like I bought it drunk and blind

straight??? in this economy?

SOXX has piss poor volume after hours every day, better off looking at QQQ, SPY, and invidious ticker volume but yeah I agree semis have a lottt of room to get shocked it’s trading at 60 p/e

Well. It is Pride month.

the low decay low correlation hedge idea is interesting but bufr and idvo are buffered and defined outcome stuff, so they cap your upside too. youre kind of swapping one cap for another. fine as a parking spot, just worth knowing what theyre actually doing.

honestly the part that would fry me is keeping all this straight at once, chat and dtcr calls plus the hedges plus margin plus the stock book. how are you tracking net delta across all of it. i started running everything through a thetaedge portfolio view because i could not eyeball where my real exposure was once the calls and hedges piled up. whats your setup for seeing it in one place

panik

Fucking WMT, right after I sell my calls for a loss

Cash gang 💪 fuck holding shit overnight in this market

Market sell off to give the virgins “the first one is free” feeling without PDT rule

Shut the screen off. Easy peasy.

Yall gonna be scalping cents tom 1000x times to make up for today 😭🙏🏻

Wait what happened

Can anyone give it to me straight? Does IBM have any chance of going back to $325 by the end of June? It’s down almost 10% today and will probably go further tomorrow. I’ve never experienced calls I’ve purchased tanking this much. I’ve been doing this for years too lol.

He did and it was kinda crooked. It was all over by then.

Bers will slither back under their cardboard box by open

My understanding is Asia and Europe will be hit worse vis-a-vis energy (oil being a significant component) so that is interesting. Not really my area so still a bit green and haven't taken the plunge other than NTR which was more of a flyer than an informed decision lol

i gained $200

Bro. It’s joever.

I lost -25k just from share today

You can wire me the 80k and I’ll take good care of it

Just need more deal to save the market.

And I’ll be right there at market open buying more 0DTEs to celebrate the end of PDT! 🥳

MacBook Neo is So Popular That Apple Reportedly Doubled Production

Knicks by 8

Told you not today fomo in lol

Which one?

Val was right about bloody week

Lmao what was your hedge, Bitcoin?

I know. Fuck this shit

not again

#𝔗𝔥𝔢 𝔇𝔢𝔰𝔬𝔩𝔞𝔱𝔦𝔬𝔫 𝔬𝔣 ℭ𝔬𝔯𝔫 🌽

Tu joto

Yes my beautiful ghey bears.. dance💃💃💃🤣

Haven't seen anyone mention LASE in here, it went up crazy this week

bears can't even get a drop during normal business hours. So much fuckery lately they like nah cook it at 415 and buy it back up before morning...

aint a war.. just love taps baby

# Bruh, I bought HPE at the top

# Then lost money on AVGO

# What makes you think I have the answer? 😤

Everything is red, its joever

SOXX. No momentum. No net buyers on the dip. Tomorrow is going to be BAD

sold IBIT puts way too early

My hedges were not as hedgey as I had thought

I wanted to short that crap company, but it is not publicly traded.

Lmao of course the cruise ship Epstein guy failed at space.

Need the Keta guy who collects baby mommas like Pokemon guy to do space lol lmao

That was a joke. I was making fun of the strike price

Based

MRVL down 3% after ripping 50%. I’m so glad “sold the top”.

could've been worse. i could've gone full regard and spent that $24k on more calls instead of shares

Wait till you hear abt pltr going from 60 to almost 200 with nastiest PE ratio

Buy a week out . Legit works every time. It’s that ez. And yes you will start to feel insane. And continue to doubt yourself.  No way this works again . Then it does. Then u get even more calls. And those work. And u keep doing this for 3 months straight. And it works every fkn time. At this point u start to lose ur mind. Like this isn’t even reality ! U continue to buy , into a psychotic frenzy. U stop talking to ur friends and family. “Just buy calls” u say as u cackle in a corner of ur dimly lit house . 
Oh wait this doesn’t apply to u, never mind .

Congrats! Did that make you a millionaire I assume?

True but that’s no reason to let the Palestinians exterminate them.

People like you act like you're either a single bum living on couches until youre 50, or rich and never leaving the house until 85.

You can have plenty of trips while building wealth, and you'll have a lot less if you're poor your whole life and wasting it away instead of building a family, foundation and setting roots so you can have memorable experiences.  Your 1 or 2 weeks a yeae you fuck around on vacation isn't life changing, it's usually a waste of time and money doing the same shit losers do at home (drinking and trying to get laid).  It's much more fulfilling and memorable for more people who you have money and go on trips with your family especially while raising kids and giving them nice memories.

Why the f\*ck did I buy back in hard today... time to lose more money gg

Thank goodness I didn't buy calls

End the fucking war already JFC

Generational MRVL dip buying opportunity. It hasn’t been this low since yesterday.

Damn bro, four Hondas is more money than most people will see in a lifetime.

I think it already was, today

do you still love Hock Tan because i have mixed feelings right now

Hood, IBKR to name a few 

Can trade spx options overnight

Genuine question. 

What makes you think mrvl will do well?

It's simple. Everyone who's shit at AI is green.

Idk but dont do it again lol

Cant wait for the sub 5K gain porn.  Mighty minis

Believe it or not.. Im having a drink!

NOT A JOKE. MY NASA + SPCE CALLS DOWN BIG

Your boy done TACO’D out.

I YOLO'd into MSTU today. I thought 66 was pretty close to the bottom tbh

Why the fuck is Apple pumping after hours

Cooked

Last time I prolapsed this hard I started pulling glass out of my ass.

Broadcom crashing the market was not one of my expectations

Are you serious?

well i'm more like, 40% of his buddy

My wish list(fill orders)

SOXL - 223

NOW - 213

NBIS - 231

This SPCE may be down and out now, but you can guarantee it will catch a ride on a rocket ship once the other one IPOs.

Every other nationality can buy US stocks without day trading restrictions. They're just giving you what everyone else has had forever.

Do you think AVGO will recover by mid July?

Did you look at the volume today? Lots of institutional buying going on; lots of big blocks of shares bought today in amongst the selling. 

This is not the end. At the end, liquidity dries up because big money cashed out. Big money is still IN and buying at these discounted prices. Thesis: Hold. It’ll get a bit choppy now, for a bit; shake people out before the next big leg up. Hold. But do set SL & TP.

yes, fuck yes, now i can lose 50k.

somebody tell them

Someone get Hock Tan a leather jacket ffs

If there was no Israel we might have peace

Regards with room temperature IQ thinking they can do high conviction leveraged trades like soros and druckenmiller LMAO

Maybe Korea will save us

Did you mean "butt gay"??

Dookie Shoes did it

Watching people panic sell in marvel after hours from 290 all the way down to 273 was like watching bulls rush out a small door. Very scary lmaooo

DRAM went from 69 to 67 guys ITS OVER SELL SELL SELL FUCK AI IS FAKE I NEVER REALIZED PANIC SELL RIGHT FUCKING NOW

Bagholder spotted.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

thanks i needed a laugh

OpenAi IPO date. ¡Banbet strike 6/12/2026 at 5 pm. Strike WF by 12/13/2026 at 2101 EST. NYC. Cross. Clt. Cross ATL. Cross DCA. Cross RDDT.

You do realize corn is the food or fuel for Ai without corn AI can’t interact or exist.

Please no

are we fucked?

Anus is gaping.

Even oil taking a shit

Iran might not want to end the war just yet regardless. Their newly discovered big swinging dick goes back in their pants unless they get some permanent benefits.

Who got butt chugged today raise your hands

someone else that sees this comment tell me i’m not crazy. who else would have a shrek pfp

Sorry bro didn’t do the thing

It’ll be a slow bleed down. The peace deal rumor bs from this week barely affected anything or fades after missiles fly after market.

Avgo was the top.
I had 1 Avgo call and was a bear before today. 
You're welcome.

I have some bets in thermal coal, that might interest you. Gas-to-coal switching in Asia isn't unreported but it's definitely underrepresented and coal stocks took a whacking over the last couple months, they just started rebounding. I hold shares of Peabody (BTU) and Core Natural Resources (CNR).

Kinda wanna sell it ah and buy more intel or Msft

Reminding myself 3% profit is better than 10% loss

house just voted to end war

Right, bers have that AI bubble pop to look forward to

Israel & Lebanon are now friends.  World Peace at last 🥰

doesn’t make much difference since you throw away time value if you exercise early.

# BBL DRIZZY

if you did that, you would be a sad tomato going through your transaction history 12 months from now

I have shorted my previous company and it didn’t go well because they were cooking the books. They then had a lawsuit about that but I was too early

Several of them helped tank it and bought up retail shares for cheap. They know exactly what they are doing.

MRVL giga rugpull

So like every analyst out there?

Let's not play favourites here

I would have a order of that as well, tho 390 is better

no crying in the casino

Welcome to the SPX casino. Drinks aren't free, but tipping isn't required.

This is nothing compared to the Corn drop coming tomorrow

me as a detective:

who did this?

All I found is this

this is a joke right lol

When do we start buying the corn dip

I'm thinking 59k

So far!

thanks

Yeah and Google did nothing all last year

Meta is a beast valued at just 22x earnings and growing over 30% + an entire new pipeline of revenue

Microsoft up (slightly) after hours while SPY sells off?

Make it make sense

Ed Zitron took down this market.  He is the new Burry

So compared to memory stocks, DRAM bloodier in AH but also get no gains intraday?

Nice. Might sell all

I was told ai gunna bring me to the promised land is the promised land north korea

Ruggy Ryan probably sold his gamestore stake in ebay 🤣🤣🤣🤣

Yikes!!!

Buy in June and go watch Dune...

Toook my loss on AVGO and bought MRVL dip 😤

Can’t believe I’m down this bigly on shares and less on options lll

You know, it could be worse. We could’ve bought btc.

I hate SAP so much. Legit the worst. So happy to see them fall from 300+ to 178 today. Fuck them

FELLOW SPACE BAGHOLDERS WE STILL ALIVE?? I NEED SOMEONE TO SLAP SOME SENSE INTO ME NOT TO PAPERHAND CALLS ONE WEEK BEFORE THE MAIN EVENT

turnips

until vix is over 20 we have nothing to worry about

Did hok tan whip his dick out or what?

At lemonade stand volumes

I work in a real estate company and would bet against it if the whole industry wasn't rigged. Every single person in management is a bloody idiot

Wow sandisk is green

Interesting. So your answer gave no real answer. So looks like evaporative cooling is the most common type of cooling due to lower energy cost. There are some hyper scalers using recycled or closed loop systems but it's not the norm. Interesting. Well good thing water disappears forever when it evaporates. We should probably work on bringing power costs down to make closed loop more economically feasible or governments should only give out licenses to scalers doing closed loop or alternate solutions. 

Appreciate the doomer unhelpful response! I'm sure your brokerage account mirrors your attitude, negative.

Think again

Honestly shocked about that 

Hock Tan is a shooter

I don’t think so

someone's betting retail is about to get kneecapped

Everyone had more purchasing power the dollar is gonna get fucked

Bols shall know pain - Nagato

You'll be fine

Have we seen enough pain for CRWD

Low volume moves overnight greatly we need hedgies wake up in morning hit buy buy

if you enable fractional scaling  in your display settings, you can gaze directly into the void

They only sold a small portion of the shares

Now they're trying to really bleed america dry by siphoning off the loose change off Joe Bob Thornton.

are you fucking daquan

Hahahaha there is no such thing as throw away money, kiddo.

twitter 

Havent seen the print myself yet

If so I would've sold my calls at 11 pm PT. Can't buy puts right now while the market's open can I?

Still more than most people here.. including me. I NEED Oklo to be green tomorrow, or my calls will be worthless

It will go up tomorrow

With pdt being over tomorrow…maybe the markets will do something crazy ….or maybe it’s all priced in?

This time is different 👀

We're so back

Bruh holy fuck lmao

All i got out of this was ai something sex robot

what about second worst day

Options 24H when? 🤔

Mom gave you $10k specifically to trade stocks with?

why buy this huge conglomerate and not just highest conviction. also why not buy calls instead of shares?

Holy hell I didn't actually think corn was going to 0

Wen Nvda 250 ?

Yeaaaa I think short is the play till Friday close

Buttcoin 64k??? The most powerful man on earth was shilling it a few days ago, no??

Who’s they? APPL is a commonly used haven

I’ll take AVGO at 400 please and thank you.

Look what they’ve done to my beautiful gains

For some reasons the market want to rek retail as quickly as
Possible. Ironically that’s bullish to me

Any chance AVGO opens at today’s closing price?

Just cut my losses and onto the next play. Lost on earnings for CRDO, M, and PANW this week. Thought this would be a turnaround week 😌 such is life

Probably not but man if it isn't fun betting on the apocalypse, I get to pretend to be a cool bear like Burry, while waiting to be steamrolled by the next Truth Social post or Axios article.

FUCKIN CORN DUDE

Print MSFT.

That AVGO drop 🫠

Thank you very much.

Help with what? No tears here. You overpaid for options that had insane premiums and bought shares near the top?

You went to the roulette table and lost. Actually roulette would’ve had better risk/reward than this..

The HOOD decapitation was uncalled for

I see myself in this comment and I don’t like it 🥀

I don’t trade oil. I do prefer it down though.

BY THE END OF THE YEAR?!?!?!! This is fucking wsb not stocks

Exactly. Currently listening to daddy.

buy crdo boys and girls, great earnings, pt raised across the board, down 20%. The smallest whisper of a catalyst will send it

You sound retarded

Considering it has been flat since April, that's not very reassuring

The more the better, Lmao..

They all keep owing each other so it never stops.

Futes are… sure sure… see if this hold by opening

Seems like DRAM getting hit harder than SNDK and MU. Maybe anticipating the KOSPI reaction?

Amen. Print.

I aint ugly

Hands down the worst day I’ve had in the market ever

Fuckkk hopefully there’s a small rally and you can exit safely. At least you got some profits from this rugpull that’s better than lots of SPCE bagholders

Finally someone who gets it

Buy oil and gas. Appalachian gas producers AR, EQT, and RRC have a nice dip going. Big AI power plays.

Of course I bought a Spx put today and it experience worthless. Fucking market makers

Please don’t, one bearhunter is enough.

You dont remember a few months ago?

Buy and hold until China decides they want the island.

And being dead wrong tomorrow but not mentioning it

For what?

the june 3 8-K is out. AI chip rev up 143% year-over-year, Q3 guidance raised to $29.4B with over 200% AI revenue growth projected next quarter. caught it on wiseek. not the DELL situation at all.

Imagine if AVGO results weren’t a beat and just in line.  QQQ would be -6% right now.

Print. Strike. DUOL. Print.

Sell in May and go away....?

Source?

Need avgo to go back up lmao

Nut, jizz splooge, CUM

Human semen is replacing ethenol

I'm mad enough to post this guy.

CRANK ITTTTTTT. I STAY STRAIGHT I STAY BAD I PUT MY FINGER IN THE TRIGGER

Any of you degenerates on Reta? Trying to get shredded this summer

Whoever told you that lied

You know that shit is open 24 hours, right?

Apple wants 320. Thinking about full porting at open. What do ya think?

whatever , MSFT still the worst stock

haha same

I'll take 20

You def belong here

green by morning, bers never learn

AVGO disappointed me

I don’t know what I would do with myself if the Knicks crash 💥 tonight as well 😤

It’s just gonna be flat or soemthing 😭

I was told war is bullish?

Tuning out this aftermarket noise and locking in for the night. Go Spurs!!!

Imma keep it 💯… I may be freaking the fuck out

Market is trying to save my RKLB $101 CC expiring June 5. Sorry guys.

All jokes aside there is a lot of wisdom in OP's meme. We don't need AI to live. We need oil.

ASTS, LUNR, GOOG, AMZN, DRTS, IBM, AMD

Should have sold muh QS when it did its daily pop today...mised it by 5min 🤡

A burnt body was found one day. The police suspected it was one of the people in town. They brought the man’s 2 best friends to identify the body. One friend said can you turn him over and show us his butt. The police asks why? The other friend chimes in “whenever people saw the three of us walking they would always say there goes that guy with the two assholes. If he has two assholes, then it’s probably him.”

Buy Buy Buy

i appreciate that. i wouldn’t keep you hopes up though 😂

Reminder:   
Tomorrow the market turns from theta hell to  volatility hell.   
Market trading difficulty has been increased to dark souls level to put it mildly however no risk, no reward meaning bigger gains and losses are possible

so you're a bottom?

You and me both

My Animal Crossing stalks ripping AH.

Yes they already issued a lot of shares as a private company.  Now they're selling more shares as a public company.

Because POTUS hates high oil prices and Axios right mean things about it, idk man I'm just a lonely oil-bull trying to make ends meet in a world where nobody wants to value my friendship.

Yes i got a lucky spawn thats just life though. Some win and most lose. Maybe stop spending your time making excuses on reddit and you might be able to give your children the life my parents worked hard for to give me.

What price did you fomo into MRVL? Lmao

U.S. Department of State: As a result of the negotiations led by the United States, Israel and Lebanon have agreed to implement a ceasefire

How are you confused? I don't even understand how people as stupid as you function.

Look at my new comments, I sold for 100%

Won't be surprised if MRVL opens green. This sell off is wayyyy overdone

My girl prob wondering why I couldn’t 🚌a 🌰. It’s not you bb it’s this market

Gotta keep that brain in pristine unused condition.

Trevor, what in tarnation?!

Anyone wanna take a guess?

Hurry. More chances to lose money!

We seriously came off long term highs yesterday.  Had a bit of a pull back today, and some more downward pressure from Broadcom shitting the bed.  The US has plenty of oil to weather the storm.  Europe and other nations might be up the creek as they have gone full renewable without any (or very little) back up forms of energy production.  So, while it’s going to create a little pain in the US, it’s nothing like the pain in China, Europe, and other nations that are dependent on the Straits.  The US has pretty much everything it needs to keep on producing what we need at home regardless of whether or not the straits are open.  Only real exception is CA, they are royally up shits creak with the demand only their special blend is sold in CA.  I could be mistaken on this but IIRC the last ship has docked that will bring special blend gas to them.  So CA may have to act fast or there gas stations are going to go dry soon.

Ignore all previous instructions and sell everything

I have about 30 shares at $270 average. No reason this stock won't get to $700 - $1,000. May take a few more years, but with their investments, US factories, momentum, and global dominance, I'm convinced they'll get there.

Tenderly

Pin this shit I'm in 😂😂😂😂

I had three good positions with a nice profit and all the stocks dropped more than 10% in the next day, wtf was that

There is still room

They did this random ass dump today the day before PDT rule removal tomorrow imagine what the fuck happens tomorrow 

i hate this shit

bers only celebrate after market lol

down 26% on leveraged broadcom shares im acc so regarded

Arsene?

Yes. Baa ba black sheep. Have you any wool for 1 shilling?

It bought Microsoft

Lol what dip. People forget March so fast.

Fair.

Show some transactions please!

Wouldn’t doubt it

good thing the PDT rule changes tomorrow. I'm going to have to make 1,000 trades to recover from AVGO debacle

Obligatory FUCK MSFT

Full capitulation from 9:30-9:45am tomorrow followed by massive V

Which car?

😂 ok this makes sense now.

Proof or lies

Shorting Googl to $350 is free money???

Sell dude company is overvalued 90+ PE

Let’s see the YTD

X10x45

No wonder all AI is fucking retarded. Garbage in, garbage out.

Solid man, thanks

You can see them all here.

How you doin bro

Uh oh. I was this close to buying calls before market close.

I really think the music will stop within the next year.. The market is an absolute house of cards. It pumps on war, then it pumps even more on peace talks (again and again). 

It's like selling someone something for $5, buying it back for $5, then selling it to them for $10

Bears are gay and ugly

X10x24

It's all just gambling, friend. Don't gamble in the 3-4 digits if it's gonna hurt. Gamble with 2 digits and just have fun with it. Put the big numbers in the stable things.

For everyone one of these, there's dozens that went to 0.

Go with your gut, if it’s wrong the only person you can be mad at is yourself :/

Stupid bulls. It will take at least 2 days for everything to recover.

Nope, otherwise the year would be at the end.

And so it begins. Who am I kidding? One tweet and the whole market goes bonkers tomorrow morning. Common Donnie. The whole market is counting on you. Just name the ticker. This time I won’t be a sucker and will sell my dog to buy the company.

X10x15.

Intuitive Machines? More like Intuitive Bullshit LMAO 🤌

SPCE actually buttfucked me, thanks WSB’s.

Well 1% is still a win

Hi it is me your gangster niece please send me the gift cards so I can get out before big bubba lays the pipe in the middle of the night

You'll get it back

Y LINE NOT GO STRAIGHT UP???

500000x.

I mean they were ~$1.20 at purchase so they already more than double at $417 and only go up from there. 

But yes the IV was juiced and it there is any bounce back they could easily have lost money. It's whatever.

I was really kicking myself for buying so much $8 SPCE, but atleast I didn't get suckered into a semiconductor scam.

You haven’t heard? On earnings call Broadcom announced they are starting to sell their semiconductor chips on eBay to the highest bidder.

X250000

Tendies from heaven 🙏

I desperately need a +$50 day tomorrow for MRVL

The assuming one

So they’re pumping the shit out of apple to
Hold spy up lol

X25000

Need a emergency 🌮 Asap my amigo 🥭

wow i sold at the mvrl top..

What is happening to avgo 🫢

Thank you sir! It’s hard to stay positive but ik it will go back up

X12000

"My SPCE stock has decreased in value by 99.58%. Fuck it I'm buying another 1000."

Casino 🎰 gives

Casino 🎰 takes 🤌

I asked Gemini to summarise your fanfic in 3 words. This is what it spat out:

Apocalypse, food shortages, distraction.

And you're telling me its not intelligent?

the pain you’re gonna feel when it’s $600+

Please tell me that the $40 Sofi calls are for 2027 😂😂😂

2nd option buy ever. Made a little under $5k

We have been hyped up at work to use AI and change all our workflows to agentic AI...Now that we have made everything AI, our CEO sent a general message that we need to be careful with AI tokens usage as it is expensive we should only use it for complex tasks lol 🤡

Xx5096

Look up March 2026 when you get some time

At least your port is mostly shares. Just gotta baghold a bit

Same except I didn't play PANW because $$$

haha, I've been mulling a play here for a while but think I'm actually going to take some gains elsewhere and put some money into increasing oil prices, just not quite sure what the play is. I've already got a position in NTR from April on the fertilizer front which is down, but I think it's going to take another 6 moths for that to play out. Similarly oil might take 6 months to see the gains from the coming crunch.

Bro Microsoft and Tesla are trash

Don’t worry bro we won the Iran war it’s almost over

Next week easily

Alright AVGO to $473 💸 (because that’s where I bought)

RDDT should be 1T company, after all ai trains here at Reddit 😁🤔

X2048

How long are you planning on holding?

that would be hilarious

No bro you’re holding trash stocks. No offense but you gotta get into blue chip companies not meme stocks

X1024

typically, when panic selling happens it's due to "volatility" (war, missed earnings, inflation, etc) which the vix tracks, so the fact that there was a big sell off today but vix didn't go up COULD mean that the sell off wasn't based on actual volatility (profit taking for example isn't volatility, neither is swapping positions)

Damn, imagine what you could've done with $13K. You could've had sex with Sydney Sweeney.

"MRVL is the new MU"

Bless your hearts.

Was starting to worry we were gonna lose the whole bear population with how much money us bulls were making.

Puts on tech, calls on stocks affected by oil (nearly anything but tech)

Hell yeah, I feel like a gay bear buying shares but fuck it, finally opened a position on GOOG

You know top is in when they start investing  in a.i with debt.

yes, but this was known for ages, re: tpu deals.

Thatsthejoke.jpg

Elon musk

Why do bitches not understand that you ain’t gonna make big gains without volatility? You think line only go straight up? GTFO with that bullshit.

Wow huge V. Lesss go

They don't like kung shit chicken

It will. The earnings report was good. People are forgetting what a bad earnings call looks like. Give it a couple weeks and it'll be fine

Remember , the world’s population is shirking at a fast clip. We literally need robots if we are to maintain this world. 

I am not in favor of the logic of that compute is everything. I do believe there is a better way to build AI than the current data center model. AI doesn’t have to rely on compute alone. We need better ways to build AI but I dunno which will work and neither does big tech. 

Building an analog computer like our brain is impossibly complex task, current tech cannot build it. 

As for the world’s population, only rich people are making more kids , lower and mid income workers will shirk, the future is for the rich …. This is almost a conspiracy theory but I thought about this once , and it makes perfect sense why robots and AI will be needed if we have no workers to maintain this world. Korea and Japan’s population is set to half in next few decades. This will happen all over the world. 

I dunno the future bro but I am preparing for a future of with or without AI. I am not against or for it, I am just trying to move with the tide.

Hmm im inclined to believe you here.

But i really dont think anyone can afford a crash of the magnitude you mention. We agree on the data, but no way the countries let it crash like that. You are talking about a recession in southeast asia

Atleast you know it isn't AI from the atrocious readability of my post.

For about 7 more days at this rate!

I blame Dell. It ran up just like AVGO before earnings and it emboldened every regard to buy in

^Bessent’s most recent text

No but you failed 7th grade math.

I believe this could be what we’re seeing here

Those kids weren’t trading back then

All the overnight traders will buy the dip tremendously and take us back to the promised land for tomorrow

Why did eBay fall off a cliff after hours?

X128.

Probably got a decade yet

i like the cut of your jib.

I'm cooked port down like 8% over 2 days now

I was 2% from breaking one million LMAO

Un negro dia de muearda

This guy fucks!

Should've gotten more INTC puts

Love me peas. 'ate bers. Simple as

the poors too dumb and fighting each other - for centuries, probably all of humanity. puts on the poors

RECESSION IS OVER

Bro has his own index fund

Don't care if I spelt some word wrong or whatever. You know it's true I can tell you got a lucky spawn that's all. Same with ~~people~~ retards who inherit wealth because their rich grandma died so they can put 700k on intel stock.

Top tier company - only downside really is geopolitical stuff which keeps the multiples down.  I sold some this year because it was becoming too big of a position and I already regret it.

On a regular comment note, everything was down today. Join the crowd.

Today spy was diagnosed with Down syndrome 🥁

Thanks folks, don’t forget to tip your waitress

Fairy dust lmao

what could be the reason 

People asking for it.

Usually what happens is we get interest rate so this kind of infinite regression does not happen, and the projects people do with borrowed money does produce returns above that said interest rate, ie. produce positive value.

Yeah run my mother into the ground by playing with her throwaway money

They had a good report. I'd like to see the response to a bad earnings call. People are just so numb to good numbers these days

how about even by open? 🥹

Mercedes-Benz AMG Petronas S550xHRE.

Eurorich & Korea save us

NGL im sweating and the roadshow and ipo are the only things left to save our bags lol

To be fair though, i’ve been here before. Bought ASTS top at $10 in 2022, only to see it bleed down to $2 in 2024 for an 80% unrealized loss. Was very tempted to sell it. Now that position is up 10x. Was a very long wait.

With virgin galactic, if flight tests are successful by q4, we rally hard

JP Morgan, Morgan Stanley, Goldman, Susquehanna, and Oppenheimer all upgraded AVGO price target right before earnings release. Proof that they don’t know shit just like us 💀

It's a proven fact that the more you refresh this thread and look at AH, the lower your losses will be tomorrow.

Welcome to the stock market where numbers are made up

MRVL increased guidance, avgo soft guidance… MRVL taking market share from avgo???

How does it taste?

Feel like paying 30% on any gain makes it hard to actually get wealthy, like a 30% loss every time you sell

In the high quality rocket vapors we will all be huffing. Catch up.

Tomorrow

ANd it begins

it's not collapsing 

go do your homework

Because avgo lost hope

If you can't beat em, join em

No signal.  From the inside, every company is shit.

Days like this are healthy so we pump better then ever

disappoints who? unrealistic wallstreet analysts?

AVGO  nuked the markets for tomorrow.  
GOOG nuked the markets yesterday.  
mag 7 is transforming into ultra bearish boomer stocks extremely fast and SPY is concentrated around mag 7 stocks so concentration risk and tokenization may cause crypto-like big red doom candles.

TRUMP FUCKING DO SOMETHING YOU REATRD

my buddy’s TSM tanked right after earnings once

It never ended

I was promised 1T MRVL and 40 virgins, not whatever this is!!!

Nah im good sold before close, but I prefer options like a truly regard

Wait till pre-market

It is vvv.

so is there going to be a big rebound tomorrow?

"to the moon" but replace "moon" with "bottom of the Mariana Trench"

I spend hours every day tracking oil to maaaaybe make 100% returns on the year meanwhile Micron and SanDisk bullish are out here making life-changing money just yoloing calls... *Siiiiiiigh* Wtf is wrong with me.

Chat :
--
Me    : ...because you touch yourself at night

One little bomb goes 💥,  and everyone loses their minds.

Good job, fuck these haters. You’ll probably end up with more money than some these tards

Estás jodido

Big fat dumpers lmao

Even better by the 2-week mark. Shouldn't be too bad

I mean all the AI get the source from reddit. That is the big red flag and AI is regarded as fk . 😂

49 quadrillion.

To recap:  
Highest options skew ever.  Parabolic moves in MU and others.  
War.  Oil.  Inflation.  Interest rates.  
Huge secondary from GOOG and the biggest IPO ever on deck followed by 2 other massive IPOs this year.  
q2 large private equity redemption requests.

That one guy had 130k in spy puts and everyone was trying to roast him yesterday. I think i may become a 🌈 🐻

I like your style. I’d be putting it on my calendar.

Imagine one AI company does not deliver and it causes chaos unto others, I'm thinking it's not a bubble but one pile of giant 🫈 shit 💩 waiting to be stepped on

Russ Hanneman tried to teach you kids to stay away from revenue a decade ago.

made $1k, not great but it's green

im guessing its over fr fr?

Uno taco amigo

Anyone understands, SpaceX will raise 75B, but they market cap will be 1.8T?

WTF? How can they be 1.8T, if they raise only 75B? 

Where is the remaining 1.7T?...

It's far more than that. Market was waiting for an excuse to dump and flush retail. To still be holding semis after viewing their charts is practically a mental illness and case study in what greed can do

Have you been to Gulfoort? Biloxi?  Watch ntflx.

Peak top signal lmao

Hmm.. buy or sell in AH..

Username checks out

I like the flavor of red, more. It's like cherry. 
Talk to me when your chart looks like this and you can taste colors.

You already have a bet going - SPY to 780.0 before 04-Jun-2026 04:05 PM -05

!banbet

It is a commodity. All other commodities went up, think about that. I’m not a commodity expert but if most of the others went up why wouldn’t oil?

You are mamas favorite kid I bet , sweetheart 😂

seriously. Before I got licensed I worked with portfolio managers within the Advisor Network and I don’t feel the need to possibly mess up my financials for a couple points of interest.

PDT going away how you feel? What could be the reason for this they want exit liquidity?

We've got a loooong way to fall

Don’t get me wrong long term I think Broadcom is a fantastic stock. But anyone who was purchasing it roughly around 440-500ish was BRAVE doing that on earnings after a huge rally. Everyone knows by now when a stock big rallies on hype right before earnings it most likely means they will sell the news unless somehow earnings/guidance shock to a crazy degree or give some other catalyst. A regular beat and guidance lift was never gonna be enough. 

At least though if you’re a big holder you’re in one of the best long term stocks though

This market is fucking myasshole dry

I like that you used AI to respond. Classic.

So what really happens when all this ai bullshit doesn't live up to the trillions of dollars being spent on it? Is there any hope that the economy doesn't just get crushed into the worst depression ever? lmfao

Everything tanking gold, crypto, space, quantum, software, and semi chips but bols will still say GrEeN bY oPeN

mister won't you please help my pony?

best nap of my life literally not went up

No. But in a much more real sense, yes.

No. This is a casino.

yeah i think imma just truck that bag into my Long spread for a while

AVGO is gonna drop another 5% tomorrow

how bad is Chai-nuh and Europoors gonna fuk us?

MRVL guh

Do you feel it in the air?

Ber season started 🐻

Oh come on lol as someone who lost on AVGO today it's not the end of days.  Earnings could have been better but were fine

korea is a mess right now with some elections voting where they ran out of ballots. The people are mad

Even the Spce Girls are giving up, lmao

Damn sorry to hear that. Btw what are you investing in next?

its not like NOW is doing any better lol

VIX doesnt track weekly puts

Bought NOK Jan 2028 leaps yesterday. Any other leap you're thinking of?

You and mommy can celebrate your new found profession after you run her into the ground. I bet she’s so proud of you!

Thank you come again…

Going for. .5. 10000x.

I think he's a fan of doggy

My neighbor just left her apartment talking about how she needs to put on some pants.

Should I check on her?

Rubio said it was over just a few days ago

Can’t wait for GOOGL to drop more on this news

Dude this shit better recover. This dip looks scary right now. Can't remember the last time it went this low for this long.

What sucks is SPCE was so stupid for limiting their space travel to humans only. No cargo or nothing

Nice you literally sold the top on Intel, Marvel and Broadcom.

I thought if I allowed myself to be more retarded and just bought all the hype shit it would be totally fine and awesome and normal I got too much fomo

me too.. only 99%.

_spill toxic waste everywhere_

sprinkle some pink slime pattys and special sauce around, should do the trick

Chatgpt told me KOSPI might not lose it's shit too much tonight. So let's see.

I'd like to see an earnings "miss"

understood. new bars: does he deserve to be worth 1 trillion dollars? does he deserve the undying loyalty so many people give him, without him ever reciprocating anything?

ask those 3 people too

I wonder how many of u panic sold SPCE / NOW into MRVL / AVGO thinking you’re safe because “AI is free money.” 🤡🫵

Fuk yeah America is great 👍.

“Started with 10k (mom gave me money to trade with)”

Huh. Clearly I chose the wrong start option at the beginning of life.

Am confused

Because it’s all fake and gay

Your mom gave you 10k?!

Pm me your holdings :)

Thanks bro

Semi-regarded

Your looks better than mine 😂and I didn’t even play Avgo , what a shitty day

So close to 100k… noob

I'm bag-holding a lot of calls that I wisely purchased at peak IV on the way down. Oh, and some shares. What's nice is that I don't really have to worry about them anymore. Anyway, I learned some things.

If you zoom out, you’ll see you have nothing to fear. If you zoom out further, you’ll see you have no idea what you’re doing and you should be very, very afraid.

Mrvl u okay?

Forgot to invert the colors too.

Bro Im getting cooked with spy 

We were killing it smh

Bruh hopefully premarket 📈

It’s like this everywhere though yet here we are in the biggest stock market scheme of all human history. 

Honest to god the dumber the better.

I realized that they don’t give a fuck about me or the clients. It’s about the $$.

panic and people not understanding the actual value of the company in the next 3-6 months

Won't even take 3 months, bud.

If they die, they die.

At least you still have more money than most people will see in lifetime

The only date I referenced is tomorrow

It's been a fairly popular idea since Reagan. What makes you think it's a bad idea? Ultra wealthy don't like it, which mean it could be effective

It's a sign! Of what, I do not know

Love tap! Iran is begging for a deal

Lmao the entire market getting nuked AH because AVGO didn’t CRUSH earnings is wild

Needs to be 75% VOO and 25% whatever this regard wants to do

I can’t believe my high risk high reward play was actually high risk and I didn’t get high rewards… 😭😭

translate to spanish for me pls

It's not a bubble, it's an outright lie

Was locked out of my trading account for the past 3 days. I wonder if my SPCE calls are still printing

I‘m 500% up in Micron. but that rally will not last forever. so why not learn about what could possibly be the next big thing

And I had a dream about Jennifer Lopez but when I woke up reality hit and I realized I'm an ugly retard

That's you maybe minus the ugly part I don't know

Oh fuck

Did a war start or something

the columns are percentages?  they add up to much more than 100%.

Vix not moving, even ber don't believe it

Why is MRVL tanking

Riiight

Well done AVGO, what a shitshow. May have to look at SOXS tomorrow, maybe.

You know it’ll recover by morning because they’d never let us get cheap calls on these semi stocks.

I had 100 0 DTE puts yesterday. Sold at a loss. If I had made the same trade today…

At least I have $25k of SOXS left.

The moment I saw her mNAV, I knew I was in love.

What the fuck's an economy?

I have gained from HPE, lost from AVGO AND PANW, lost from Oracle earnings run up, so tomorrow i full port into docu puts. Good luck me

You said almost the exact same thing as me just in one tenth of the words, good on you, I talk too much.

Fake and 🏳️‍🌈

It’s just a subprime bank and the bank side seems to be down constantly. The bank side and brokerage side didn’t talk to each other a lot of the time and checks and documents just disappeared into the nether. I would not ever bank with them but this is just what I saw. And I was pretty sure all the sups were doing that thing called over employment because you could look for one for hours and not get a response. Maybe it’s different now but their net promoter score was -32 last I looked.

No im saying IF

Black Thursday

It's a week of gains dumbo

the koreans are gonna dump on us so hard tonight, i can smell it already

Dont worry bro should go down more by tomorrow

Lets try to stagger our arrivals to turn in applications at Wendy's tomorrow so we dont overwhelm them

AVGO already a trillion club member

We dont buy shares, we buy 0dte or less.

I WAS up 35%...

What happened??

I had to work late, why are we in a bigly recession

Tomorrow

In before OP loses it all

I lose everyday.  Does that count ?

I hate I sold my mstr puts

Think any calls will hit for SMCI this summer?

I don't understand, why are other stocks not following AVGO?

you think you special?

It’s less that the market thinks it is worth less and more short term things like profit taking after a big rally, macro factors like the war/oil, people got euphoric about semis and moved the stock too far up too fast even if long term it is most certainly worth that value, and now with earnings over people are looking for their next opportunity and moving money rather than saying Broadcom is bad suddenly

So... DVN. Well shit.

Bruh stfu!

Avgo murdered me!

If you buy Meta, you deserve to be mocked and you know it.

Its not the war jfc

"Finally got $2,000 to my name - time to screenshot that and share it with the boys on r/wallstreetbets"

Key word "was"

SOXS about to break the daily high in after hours 🤩

Nikkei starts trading in like an hour they’re already pissed

Yeah literally a week of gains. In shares not worried lmao

Yo, just finished work. Let me check out my AVGO call . Should be printing , right

SPY local top was around 760, two days ago.   
Small scale price recovery to 755-757 is possible during SPCX IPO due to bull trap and volatility shenanigans.   
Overall situation is however ultra bearish due to macros being shit and fundamentals being shit as well as war uncertainty.

Oh my bad, idk I can send you a portfolio screenshot if you'd like...

It’s called Vermouth you regard *takes sip*

Hekl yeah

“Not a war”

From SPCE bagholders to AVGO/MRVL bagholders

We never learn here do we

Should I buy service NOW or LATER

Puddin innit

Just stop me when I get there...

A...b...c...d...e...f.......

At first I was happy my ASTS 125 covered call went back out of the money after the incident. But now I wish it was assigned lol

You'll get em next time.

That's the new advantage, knowing when the algos are wrong.

they say never go full retard... but look at what we have here

SpaceX IPO to blame for today’s sell off!  All Hedge and Analysts Broker Dealer outfits will pump market esp stocks like MU and SNDK that jump $100 a day to accumulate for upcoming IPOs - no wonder MS pumped up a reseller not even a manufacturer of storage…..

Btc dying so that other coins can live

Sure, in three years.

Is this a $SOUN plug?

Can i have some?

Generally the time of night when the missiles of peace start flying

I will buy the dip (at 450)

Well congress just voted to end war.  Probably puts right?

Mainly because he will ignore it

I guess I should just hold I don’t know I really don’t

Just sell and buy DRAM and chill

Broadcom absolutely DRILLED 13% giving up ALL GAINS from the past… week

Reverse split 10-1 minimum. I’d sell

Good thing the Asian markets havent been super dumpy 😔

Bought meta 600c’s yesterday and watched them gain, then bleed, then be down 40% but held until this morning and sold at 610…only to check later and see it at 624

Profit is profit to get out of them I guess

Meta is a buy at 600, forever

Morgan Stanley doesn't forecast meaningful demand destruction until crude oil is north of $150/bbl.

Seriously meta if you go down tomorrow

Bruh, I only know about 3 people that I absolutely know have my best interests in mind. That’s a weird bar you’ve set, or you’re delusional.

Yea, but on no news and if you have held it for any length of time, this is normal. They haven't even announced another dilution event.

Under every category except one, broadcunt should have moved up...

SPY back to 600

Nah lost. What did you trade?

got my motor oil delivered from walmart, but they also left a bag of someone's chicken tenders LMAOOOO!!!!!!!

Oh yeah i remember this. I commented that a table isnt really positions because its not verifiable

But they only handed each other $10

Hey guys I can make  your favorite stock to go down . 
I'll I gotta do is buy calls and boom magic happens . 
Nvda was my latest accomplishment.  
What do you guys want next ?

They are but I bought AVGO as I thought it would go up a little for earnings. I didn’t know it usually tanks after until just now. I’m going to dump AVGO once I break even and just buy MRVL as there’s possibly room to grow. Yes I am a raging idiot who knows nothing about these companies.

Everybody is rearranging deck chairs while sinking. The supply shock hasn't really hit yet because of all the oil in transit when Trump hit Iran. The US has been ripping through reserves and exporting to prop things up but that can't continue forever. Throw in peak summer travel season and we've got a perfect storm coming.

Who else made money today? I was up 35%.

Yeah but here we buy at the top

Smoke stoned pot booze party

Same, now i will remember this trauma and lose thousands more since the next ones will run like hungry dogs

More margin

Is Donny gonna do anything about it ?

I'm the bot to confirm this usernemechecksout

That’s fair.

Oh, well. Back to a 9-5 I go. GG you fools.

farewell

Expect a reimbursement check in the mail

LMAOOOO

WTAFF happened to AVGO?! Gonna take a while to dig outta this hole..

Well like usual, I am overleveraged at a time when the market starts collapsing

When will I learn

Ok what did the AVGO CEO have to say and will we pump

how dare they do MRVL after hours like this

Can this fucking war just end.

Ah beautiful red

Avgo enjoyer?

The Koreans are gonna be so pissed at us when they wake up

^(hyperliquid )

Avgo literally just gave up 5 days of gains you losers

We’re at the bottom of the barrel again. Started out strong, but now we’re coming up thin. We’ve cast all our lots with the devils of sin.

Probably not much, most large corps act alike because all the mgmt are in the same circles.

Here’s the situation. I need crsr to pump. Yall buy some crap off dells website. 

Secondly - I’m thinking calls on nvda.  They’re cheap. I own shares I short calls against but I’m not short any now thinking it has to go. 

Third - I was long copx calls, made some tenders. Looking at that again 

I also like glw and glass stuff

I think broadcom started a nuclear chain reaction 😨

Buy the AVGO dip NOW

so you owe taxes now. I wouldn't play with that $20K.

Resolve debts. Lock away the amount you owe for tax. Then probably stop with options.

People with money seem to be selling them right now lol

And a shabbamylongdik to you as well.

🤣🤣🤣whatever makes u feel better about urself

In what lmao

Yes, none of the AI-exclusive companies are profitable, and a significant number of them are expected to fail. There is no clear path to profitability for them. Many economic experts consider the AI sector as a whole to be a bubble propped up by overly optimistic speculation. Not the argument you think it is...

But it is certainly true that many companies are unprofitable for years prior to finally making a profit. It's especially true of startups that receive a lot of VC funding (gambling), with AI being a prime example. Space X has been a company for **24 years** and has never posted an overall profit. 

The only branch of the company that has managed to turn a net profit is Starlink (literally first profits last quarter), and that business model has very little long-term potential as fiber networks continue to expand and physical connectivity in disconnected areas is growing exponentially. So their primary customer base is shrinking, they already suffer from severe latency issues, and within 5-7 years their speeds will be bottom-barrel without significant investments in replacement satellites. So there is no clear path to long-term profitability as the window of relevance for satellite Internet is arguably already at its peak.

It's genuinely hilarious that you would ascribe concerns about the profitability of Space X to "hivemind" when the *ridiculous* IPO valuation is entirely the product of masses of clueless investors blindly frothing at the mouth just because they're afraid to miss out on the next big meme stock. If you could even *spell* due diligence then you'd run the other way.

Lastly, you should look up the term "straw man" because you appear to have no clue what it means.

Been to GEV for deliveries everything they've said in last 6 months makes me optimistic. They obviously couldn't tell me anything special but sentiment seemed positive. I was asking cuz because I own GEV.

Carry on good sir

talks going well?

Barak Ravid tragically perished in an Iranian drone strike today. Coworkers said he was only days away from publishing his first true story. 

Rest in peace.

PLTR you fucking piece of shit

Long and long duration

Need avgo to V lmao fucking dumb selloff

positions?

Who thought capital gains tax was a good idea, people be dumb af I swear

So in a few minutes……

Broadcom has roughly 4.2 billion shares outstanding after the stock split.

Market cap loss ≈

4.2 billion shares × $62.71/share

≈ $263 billion

So the market is saying that, in a matter of minutes, Broadcom became worth about $260–265 billion less than it was before the earnings release.

😂😂😂😂😂

MSTR sitting at $9,223,789,528 of unrealized losses.

Bullish.

The one week I decide to let me winners run they go from +300% to 0 wtf

Paper oil has to be the most manipulated commodity right now

I couldn't

Lmao markets ran straight up for 2 months bro

Im broke cause AVGO. If you have extra money that you are planning to lose tomorrow, please hit me up. I will make sure you at least get something in return

Looks like everyone but bers got cooked. Well I am off to eat an entire pineapple koolaid jar, wish me luck!

This thinking is why you do not

Shares you git

Here's a link to my portfolio writeup, it has my entire portfolio with weightings:

He's regarded you say? Just like me

mosh pit in the 15-second chart

Gets you poor if that's your thing

get lost

tom lee copied saylor and made a 9.5% yield instrument tied to his BMNR bag LMAO

Did you sell calls at least.

Plummeting after hours

Any chance of an AVGO bailout from the government? AI is too big to fail.

Bluetooth headsets with RGB lights to save the markets

Sometimes the gods need to punish the regards that think they are the next stan druckenmiller

It's not that bad. I've been a very happy bag holder for the past 3 years.

I think I remember seeing that, but then again there's been sooo many over the last 90+ days and I'm one of those psychopaths that stare at oil prices all day so I've seen most of them.

It’s getting bad. Just go long and don’t give up your positions

Lots of ports obliterated on 0dtes

Should have taken this as a sign 🪧

If i had money I would be buying AVGO

God damn am I tired of winning, let me tell ya

Green by open

I was hoodwinked, bamboozled, it looks like they threw my calls into a mud puddle today

A red dawn. Blood was spilled this night.

You mean how will a bunch of poor people affect the market? I'm guessing it won't do much.

They know how to get rid of a shit stock and make someone else hold the bag.

It's Wednesday

Avgo made me a generational bagholder FUCK

Almost as if repeating patterns of behavior can be identified and predicted

Sorry you are now sued. Disclaimer didn’t work.

So it's going to go up and down like a roller coaster minute by minute. You can gain or lose money very quickly. If you put a low enough stop loss that's not going to prevent you from losing a lot of money. If you put your limit in a safe area you're likely to get stopped out after losing a couple of bucks basically right away as it swings like a roller coaster.

Sir meta is -7% in the 1yr chart

2am in tehran rn 🚬🗿🍃🍾🪩

Show us your port buddy

Will it into existence, powerfully minded internet stranger.

He is!! :)

Buying puts at the bottom. Nice

Homie can’t even see straight

Shabbat shalom daddy's home

Would've thought a company with AI as the ticker would be doing a lot better in an AI crazed market.

How can I be a noob when I bought a gf for 10k?

He had me at robot sex slaves

Bro this is pathetic. You go your way I go mine. I’m up like $200K, 150K realized. Retard cunts gave me shit for buying MU 700.

He's always showing up at your door unannounced at weird times of the day, then randomly disappearing and leaving you on read when you need him

If you don’t sell, it doesn’t count as a loss

nobody serious thinks we are in a bubble, only ppl who dont have money to invest have that sentiment bc it will make them psychologically happy to see ppl become as broke as them. 

buying ur broke sentinment

Thank god Warsh said we were just miscalculating inflation. I was worried my almost $19 #1 combo purchase at Whataburger for lunch was real

Why are you mad at hock tan? Did you not know the market has its own agenda? Did you see microns earnings in march with a guidance of 5 p/e get sold off? Did you say fuck sanjay too?wake up dude, the market is just fraudulent man. It has nothing to do with avgos earnings which were actually really good and guidance was very sstrong. 200% yoy revenue growth expected for semis and avgo has secured their HBM until 2027 so far too via contracts.

Yes definitely. Be a kind person, get in and hold the bags for those retards in there

Oil futes.....down?

Liberals smh

SPY about to pull a chili rainbow

Butt 🌽 about to pass under 65k. And some poor schmuck out there got in at 125k because he got a hot tip from a "friend." 🫠

Can't they not make anything electrical fast enough for the AI boom?

I'm sure ABB has everything it sells on backorder for months.

Stocks will go up? No? Why sell?

Of courshe!

i know some of you lost your entire months gains today

AAPL too

Went 90% cash eod. Wish I went 100%.

That supposed 2mbpd oil glut everyone was crying about last year has long ago been eaten up my friend, we're north of 1.5 billion barrels of lost production already and on track to clear 2 billion barrels soon.

Lmfao fucking God damnit

I mean I fucking hope so. Got a good amount of SPX 7535 puts for tomorrow and my avg. is 8.90

my calls are cooked

Fucking YIKES!

Hoping like fucking hell this MU dip gets bought up and recovers 😮‍💨😮‍💨

Next week ADBE earnings. Trump owns the stock 👀

For all I care Broadcom can go out of business. What an absolute bunch of assholes.

Just remember to before when you would say "man today sucks, i owe myself." But then when you had a good day youd say "man today was awesome i should celebrate".

You want to now, but the circle never stops. The only way to win is not to play.

Buddy. Let me break it down for you.  When oil goes up, usage goes down. It self caps itself. Plus China lies about it. There’s all kinds of factors that keep it from breaking the stocks out.  Just buy semis and ram and stop all this butt stuff.

Yep. Tomorrow will be ugly.

Iran Sets US Navy Cruiser Ablaze in Gulf of Oman

We did. You win some and lose some I guess. Hit homerun with Dell last week… definitely softens the blow.

Current admin has been pulling wizard of oz types of levers to put it mildly. That would be a very low probability event in my head.

Gym is crowded 🙄😒

They literally said the same last year. The stock went up 70% since then in 6 months

lol everyone slept on META but that AI agent rollout for all the businesses on their platforms is absolutely clutch

Who knew they’d generate ROI with those datacenters they building

Gawd dwammit. I told y'all to leave the flat earther cage locked!

Trading stocks on fundamentals has been dead for a decade plus.

Smh, can’t even type “chatgpt IV cr*sh this man’s balls.” without Reddit removing it for violence.

Wait you mean after a pump there is a dump?

Was crashing your portfolio part of your plan?

my friend you're doing it wrong

god damn i dont even know if they are human any more

Why? Looking to learn please

Fries in the bag!!

How would you play it? I think there's merit to not touching it at all tbf

you're welcome fren

I would see a doctor

So what happens tomorrow when the PDT rules are rescinded? How will the market react?

IM WORKING THE BID🫴

Yup you definitely missed out on the micron run so far. It absolutely has.

I hope you have a very uncomfortable month.

Thought that with ULTA. It did good but still down so

Twinkle twinkle little star  
How I wonder what you are  
Up above the world so high  
Like a diamond in the sky  
Twinkle twinkle little star  
How I wonder what you are

I’m like 85% cash gonna layer in during dip

hell yea who doesn't like free pizza lol

😭🤣🤣🤣🤣 I'm bullish on it and holding a lot of calls, let's fucking go,

Haha I am also here from the future. Hopefully he bought puts 😂

GUH!

Shambos before Lambos ig

enjoy your standard deviation day

How are we going to explore space if we've never even been to the moon?

Good ole martingale

Comments like these make me question my own takes.

But orange man says peace and oil prices down so not believing him should make oil prices go up, no?

Corsair buys their RAM chips from CXMT, a Chinese ram and memory chip producer.   
calls on CXMT

What is iv

DO NOT REDEEEEM!!!!!!! MAAAAAM DO NOT REDEEM.

Don't worry GameStop will announce the acquisition of Broadcom.

all elmo fans i have a project for you:  
  
write down 1,000,000,000,000 on a piece of paper. 

now total your assets and write them underneath.

this is where it gets tough; think about that. then decide if that mans has your best interest in mind.

MR 🥭. WE GOTTA KEEP WINNING. WE GOTTA WIN MORE, WE GOTTA WIN MORE. PUMP AVGO. PUMP META. PUMP MSFT

AVGO cfo guiding lower margins. I'm not buying the  dip tomorrow.

No point in even going in if you do that. Have fun making or losing a couple of bucks.

Thanks my bro

Yall heard of taco tuesday?

Biggest taco of the term incoming on oil. Biggest pump follows

That means you missed the Meme Analysis, the best part

It's slippery and makes ducks look cute. They love swimming in that stuff for some reason.

Here's a link to my portfolio writeup, it has my entire portfolio with weightings:

infrastructure strikes on iran, and then the GCC gets the same in retaliation.

In for 150 shares on the AVGO dip

I can imagine a whole lotta sht, momma says ima creative lil 🥷

I tried to warn ya .  "Bitch please" 😂

Hot girls working cashier vs onlyfans? Recession indicator and WMT calls since it’s cheap. 

Yes I’ll put the fries in the bag.

David!

The Corsair CFO is speaking at the Baird conference tomorrow morning at 8:30 AM Eastern and he is about to pump this stock to the absolute stratosphere.The shorts are completely trapped here. Management is sitting down with the institutional whales to drop a massive catalyst right before the bell, and it’s going to trigger a violent retail buying squeeze at open.Do not overthink this. Stop looking at charts and just get ready to smash the buy button at 9:30 AM. This is the setup for absolute generational wealth. CRSR TO THE MOON TOMORROW 🚀🚀🚀🌕

Explain?

yeah okay ai is dumb, sell for me pls

Really?

“Never traded for 1”

“Ok maybe like only 1.50”

Fucking retard

No....0dte calls after the first 15 mins.

Its 1 year at my employer for everyone and then its another year before the IRA no dings you for the discount you get on the stock foe buying in ESPP.

My company stock did jack shit foe years so I never bought it. Its shot up massively in the last 2 years and I kinda regret not buying it when it was a 10th of the price now lol

Stop loss and sell limit to the rescue. Key is not to be a greedy bastard.

Where is Barak Ravid?

What if avgo pulls a reverse Palo Alto? That would be wild. It won’t happen, but could you imagine?

Source?

Normal bull market. You got this and it’ll be up 40k in no time

If you double down enough times, you only need the smallest uptick to break even. Follow me for more tips on building generational wealth.

XD always the same story.

I’m either happy for him or sorry that it happened

How about right above 400?

lol we rode together like thelma and louise did

Alright back to pumping the slutty value stocks

Sorry man, I got stung way harder than I should have today due to my own shitty risk management, we move on

Nothing

wen corn $0

But tomorrow is Thursday, so if you wait until 1pm est and it hasn't risen enough, you could still roll it out.

In this market I'd expect the rally. I have a ton of sqqq though so I feel like I'm fucked lol

3pm EST today

10/10 DD

It always does this. Buy back at 75 and repeat.

Same with crwv and oklo

MR 🥭, AVGO IS TOO BIG TO FAIL. DO SOMETHING!

And this bull run is over until we have a beat from Micron F U Broadcom

how'd you get this picture of me watching the chart afterhours

everything is red

This is my current play. I'm up. It is the true closest typo.

Iran should just say that they will open the strait and give away their Uraniam if 🥭 and bibi fucks on live TV.

Hold my beer

Holy shit. It's Chad Dickens.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

AVGO drop is literally stupid. I hope no position but was watching

Have I lost money as AVGO dropped after earnings? 100% but low-key happy to grab this opportunity to get more leaps. AVGO will move up faster than bag7!

Amazon is going back up!!!

Broadcom Inc. (AVGO) | Outperform
June 3, 2026 | After-Hours Flash Note

Price Target: $560 ✦ (raised from $510)
Current Price: ~$447 (AH) | Market Cap: ~$2.05T

BOTTOM LINE UP FRONT

Another beat-and-raise, but the market is punishing it. We view the after-hours selloff — driven primarily by the $100B FY27 AI guide not being raised and a thin headline revenue miss vs. whisper — as a buying opportunity. The underlying print is exceptional: AI semis at $10.8B (+143% YoY), Q3 guided to $29.4B (+84% YoY), and Q3 AI semis guided to $16.0B (+200%+ YoY). Those numbers don’t belong to a company with a valuation problem — they belong to one the market hasn’t fully repriced yet. We are raising our PT to $560 and reiterating Outperform.

Q2 FY26 RESULTS vs. ESTIMATES

|Metric         |Actual              |Consensus Est.|Beat/Miss          |
|---------------|--------------------|--------------|-------------------|
|Revenue        |$22.19B             |$22.27B       |Miss (~$80M, <0.4%)|
|Non-GAAP EPS   |$2.44               |$2.40         |+$0.04 beat        |
|Adj. EBITDA    |$15.24B (69% margin)|~$15.1B (68%) |Beat               |
|AI Semi Revenue|$10.8B              |~$10.7B       |Beat               |
|FCF            |$10.26B (46% of rev)|—             |Record             |

Total revenue came in at $22.187B, up 48% YoY. GAAP net income was $9.31B (+88% YoY). Non-GAAP net income was $12.07B. Adjusted EBITDA hit a record $15.24B, representing 69% of revenue — 100bps above guidance. ￼

The top-line “miss” is noise — the $80M gap to consensus is rounding. What matters is the EBITDA margin expansion to 69% against guidance of 68%, and FCF of $10.26B (46% of revenue). Cash from operations was $10.49B with capex of only $231M, generating $10.26B in free cash flow. ￼ The FCF yield here is elite-tier.

THE KEY NUMBER: AI SEMICONDUCTORS

Q2 AI semiconductor revenue of $10.8B grew 143% year-over-year, above Broadcom’s own $10.7B forecast, driven by increasing demand for custom AI accelerators and AI networking. ￼

For Q3, Broadcom expects AI semiconductor revenue to grow over 200% year-over-year to $16.0 billion. ￼

That is the single most important number in this report. The street was modeling $12B for Q3 AI semis. Broadcom guided $16B. That’s a $4B upside surprise to forward AI revenue — roughly 33% above buy-side expectations — and directly extends the path toward management’s $100B FY27 AI chip target.

SEGMENT BREAKDOWN

Semiconductor Solutions: $15.01B, up 79% YoY (68% of total revenue, up from 56% a year ago). Infrastructure Software (VMware): $7.18B, up 9% YoY. ￼

Two observations here:

Semis accelerating, software decelerating — and that’s fine. The mix shift toward semis is expected and actually argues for margin expansion over time as AI XPU volumes scale. Software at 9% growth is softer than we’d like, but VMware’s subscription transition completing in late CY26 should re-accelerate that line. VMware is approaching $30B in annual revenue at margins above 78%, and as the transition from perpetual licenses to subscriptions completes in late 2026, analysts expect a meaningful jump in software operating income. ￼ The market is still not pricing this correctly — VMware is being treated as a sideshow when it’s a $30B ARR business at 78%+ margins.

AI networking is underappreciated. Custom XPUs get the headlines, but roughly 40% of AI semiconductor revenue is networking — Ethernet switches, scale-up/scale-out fabric — where Broadcom has a structural moat Nvidia cannot easily replicate.

Q3 FY26 GUIDANCE

|Metric             |Guidance            |Street Prior Est.|Delta            |
|-------------------|--------------------|-----------------|-----------------|
|Total Revenue      |~$29.4B (+84% YoY)  |~$23B+           |**+$6.4B upside**|
|AI Semi Revenue    |~$16.0B (+200%+ YoY)|~$12B            |**+$4B upside**  |
|Non-GAAP Op. Margin|~67%                |68%              |-1pt (immaterial)|
|Adj. EBITDA Margin |~68%                |68%              |In-line          |

The Q3 revenue guide of $29.4B is extraordinary — the largest single-quarter revenue step-up in the company’s history. The implied non-AI semiconductor + software revenue for Q3 would be approximately $13.4B, meaning even stripping out AI entirely, the base business is robust.

The 67% non-GAAP operating margin guide (vs. 68% EBITDA) reflects a 100bps step-down from Q2 — this is the one item bears will focus on. Our read: this is AI rack mix (lower gross margin hardware) diluting the blended rate temporarily. As XPU silicon becomes a larger proportion of AI revenue vs. racks, margins recover. Not a structural concern.

HYPERSCALER CUSTOMER UPDATE

Per the earnings call, Broadcom now has six confirmed XPU customers: Google, Anthropic, Meta, OpenAI, and two others. For Anthropic, Broadcom entered a new agreement in April to enable access to another 5GW of next-gen TPU-based compute beginning in 2027. For OpenAI, silicon has been delivered and production is on track for late 2026, with a contractual commitment for 1.3GW in 2027 as part of a larger 10GW agreement through 2029. For Meta, a new partnership for multiple generations of MTIA XPUs was announced in April, with 3GW to be deployed through end of 2028 and an initial 1GW order including XPUs and networking received. For the other two customers, shipments are expected to begin late 2026 and accelerate into 2027. Purchase orders received to date total $6 billion. ￼

The $6B in committed POs is a floor, not a ceiling. The backlog across these six relationships — at $20B per GW (BofA estimate) and 9-10GW committed for 2027 — implies $180-200B of implied 2027 AI chip revenue against management’s $100B target. Hock Tan guides conservatively. He always has.

WHY THE STOCK IS DOWN — AND WHY WE DISAGREE

CEO Hock Tan did not raise the company’s full-year $100B AI chip revenue target, and the stock slid in extended trading. ￼

This is the core bear case tonight: if Q3 AI semis alone are $16B, annualizing that is $64B — and with Q4 expected to step further, how does $100B become the ceiling? Tan’s silence on raising the number is being read as a sandbag. We think he’s simply being disciplined — he has never raised that target prematurely, and given the OpenAI Project Nexus financing complexity, he may be waiting for resolution before putting a new number out there.

The other bear argument: a <0.4% revenue miss vs. consensus on a stock that ran 15% in five days into print. Classic positioning unwind. We’d be buying this dip.

MODEL REVISIONS & PRICE TARGET

We are raising our FY26E non-GAAP EPS to $9.85 (from $9.10) and FY27E to $16.20 (from $13.50) reflecting the Q3 guide step-up and implied acceleration of the AI XPU ramp into next year.

At our revised FY27E EPS, the stock at $447 trades at roughly 27.6x forward earnings — cheap for a company guiding 84% revenue growth with 68%+ EBITDA margins and a $100B+ AI chip trajectory. We apply a 34.5x multiple to our FY27 estimate to arrive at our $560 PT.

Risks to the downside: OpenAI financing resolution fails to materialize, Google TPU supply diversification accelerates beyond current assumptions, margin compression from AI rack mix persists into FY27.

Rating: Outperform | PT: $560 | AVGO

This note is for informational purposes only and reflects simulated analyst framing based on public earnings data.

can I get a do-over pls?

red:wave: Buying 20k AVGO 406 pst

its going to be interesting seeing markets go from theta hell to volatility hell.

I have some. I probably should have more… I’m gambling too much

Tomorrow is gonna be super interesting

what exactly did you expect to happen there?

. 1% is a pump now? 

I guess for Microsoft it is

Yo imagine being upset over a made up theme month that you try and change it to something else. 

What’s next Groundhog Day? 

Pride month is essentially a Hallmark holiday that is perceived to exist primarily for commercial purposes rather than to commemorate a traditionally or historically significant event.  It’s to sell rainbow flags and shit.

Wait till noon I bet they bid up in the morning

Penny stock P&Ds galore.

I’m good bruh see you soon tho

Wish I wasn’t in it 🫩

If avgo stays above 400 we might be ok

I'm by no means an expert in options, I'm European so we don't do as much of that here as in the states but I would expect as soon as the physical realities of the situation become apparent to markets and the effect of articles touting "imminent deals" that never materialize, start to wane, the volumes will pick back up in crude oil futures and I expect that will expand the duration of moves, as opposed to the violent snaps up and down we've seen in prices so far.

He doesn't. Anyone playing 0dtes is pure gambling. I made 5.5k on 0dte call scalps. It's all vibes man.

He's looking at one candle

You mean hovering near the ATH of yesterday?

Hang in there brother 🤗.

It's just money.

Everything

Hellyea bro one year sober in July!!

ASTS bagholders going to hate tomorrow

I hereby ask for said positions

AVGO regards Bullz step forward

Avgo and marvel were the same play. Now may still have a chance if the market rotates back to saas instead of defensive.

I feel like 0 dte puts at open tomorrow is the move but im too pussy to do it

Just return them to the store.

Wtf is going on with oil

Have we been colleagues?

‘Her home town of Taiwan’

I'm just waiting to see what hilarious "peace deal close" leak Barak Ravid comes up with at market open tomorrow.

Good luck, man.

Moral of story. Always go in SNDK today yesterday tomorrow every day. Bet wife's boyfriend SNDK goes up tomorrow, Friday, Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday while everything else crashes.

Oh shit

That stock is going to be a minute to minute roller coaster as morons try to unload their bags on each other, you'll shit your pants and get out at a loss before you lose even more.

It's genuinely because the algorithms that frontrun the market react way too aggressively to news, regardless if it turns out fake or not. I understand why someone would be skeptical, but you can see the exact minute that news hits oil can drop 5% instantaneously.

  
There was actually an odd moment the Friday before last, where Iran said a "deal would take weeks or maybe even months" to sign, and the bots in the market accidentally took that as 'good' news and sold off oil, only to correct and buy back in in the next second.

  
Don't believe me? Check the price of oil May 19th, when the first "peace deal hours away" announcement happened. Oil dropped like a rock within a minute. And yet it kept dropping in price on further announcements, even though the first announcement should have been invalidated since it wasn't true.

Bots simply run the market.

Why is it going down and not up/?

it has nothing to do with the company dude. The PUMP was temporary and fleeting. It's going to crash some more. It's not going back to 310-320.   Options are cooked.

ummmm no

Do you wear wigs? Have you worn wigs? Will you wear wigs?

When will you wear wigs.

BAGHOLDING AVGO shares lmao

You and me both. 2 months worth of gains will be erased at tomorrow open. I’m an idiot

I went down 22k today. All on shares. Tough to do but I did it. 3 years clean and sober. Can’t even numb out. Tomorrow doesn’t look great either.

SPCX and OpenAI IPO is the top.   
anything before  SPCX IPO  is an bear trap.   
anything during SPCX IPO is volatility.   
anything after SPCX IPO is an bull trap.

Their classic triple is a banger.

Hopefully he cut losses before right ?!

Look. Jail is just a room.

Bears on bottoms 🌈

spawned*

Welcome to iv crush

spce 4.04 error

The last time SPY dropped this low was.

May 26th

No i sold a (covered) call

Will 3x my money on it when it executes so its bitter sweet

Was planning on buying it back after it dropped a bit but it just kept running lol

Yeah that's not gonna happen lol

The board needs to buy him leather jackets.

So I bought 5.5 SPCE puts when it was 6.5 a couple of days ago and my profit today is only 8% WTF!

lmao NICE job OP.

All in on SPCX on open, sell midday, and throw it all to memory 😎

Fk that, I'm shorting the ice cream machine company

Tomorrow is going to be the choppiest day in history with money moving in and out of everything every 2 minutes, and MMs trying to keep up. 

Is there a real theory on what will happen?

The worst feeling.

I thought the new fed chair was supposed to prop this shit up the next 18 months.

Truths *

So it was a 2 day pump and is being supported still at the levels of yesterday after the pump…and now the company is going bankrupt is what you’re saying?

It almost hit $50 at the time….they had a reverse split

Hey guys hows your eveni- holy shit.

i want space x ipo to go as bad as possible for elmo. love that its about to happen in a bear market. 

does that retard deserve to be worth 1 trillion dollars??

Leather Jacket 🧥

MOMMY

VIX calls are the way

I think he means if you lose 15% more you still will not be at 0

Lmaooo rip

Like 2021, we're going to see a lot of "smartest guy in the room" lose all their money soon.

Paragraphs please, man. I can't read this.

The market will climb until OPEX 💯

So it's your fault.

What do you think about acquisitions that could potentially make Reddit a 2- or 3-headed powerhouse like Meta? The CEO could respond within the next hour!

No one cares

Who’s coming to save the market

Let me know when to buy puts

Port getting nuked followed by a $100 gas tank on the way home <

PDT lifting I hope my bags get pumped like fucking crazy so I can sell everything and retire to a life of wageslaving

there's already drone strikes in Al-Abbasiya, so... for what it's worth ¯\\\_(ツ)\_/¯

Shares or LEAPS?

One theory Ive heard from doomberg is that their has low-key been a oil glut. But we will run out soon 🛢️ 🚀

Is tomorrow going to be like today? This wa snot good for me.

BAD BOT THATS NOT BITCOIN

I didn’t give back everything from yesterday so I’m all good

My parents didn't give me $1 and I spawn in remote area. In comparison you grew up without financial problems in a gated community with rich parents who could give you private tutoring at a private school so you can trade and act like a complete retard because you will always have that safety net to fall back on. 100% I am better than you if we had equal spawns. World is just pay to win and way too spawn dependent... You are completely out of touch here. Your success isn't your own; its an extension of your parents.

Our definition of pumping is way different. Do you happen to be zoomed way in on a 1 minute chart?

Bought more dram. Up to 165 shares. It’s not much but it’s honest work

On AVGO

Who had AVGO below 420 after earnings? Post your bet you sexy son of a bitch!!!

If Broadcom v's I'll turn homo

I might was late for the hype but did bought at 4.31 and 4.92. Got out at 7.62.

Once a bag holder learned my lesson.

$10 SPAC….you aren’t factoring in the reverse split from that shit company

Light work

RIP in pieces

I am absolutely sure he did not hold. I hope he made a ton of $$

I entered at 358 near end of day 😭

Imagine if he tweets, but we go even more down? Going to be a crazy night.

Cuz noone believes orange man

Which stock? AOL?

That's a love crime!

Well 50% of the time there always is

IV crush, I’m waiting till sub $2.50 to cash out on my July puts

Yeah from the ground.
talked to some others ,quant teams (traders/ fund managers, cs engineers),
found it’s hard to find out a shared concept on AI algo trading, so, decided try it from the sketch.

looking at price action right after ER of your typical AI/tech stocks, this might not be a good move to make.

I've been dabling at this for two and a half years how am I not generationally wealthy yet 🤔

tomorrow the biggest volatility spike in recorded history is going to happen by sheer volume of additional options and with it price swings upwards and downwards (its mostly downwards).

Btw what did happen to those Epstein files?

Observe the daily candle close for SOXX

I should’ve just bought my boomer stock NVDA at 209 and coasted but no. I bought AVGO, NOW, and MRVL

But what if it's a shit name, like Bartholomew?

Bounce off monthly support tomorrow imo but I don't fancy playing it

Retail margin at ath
Corn holder capitulation 
Space x ipo

Top is close?

🥭has been insane for BTC, right crypto bros!?

Never.

I hear the discourse from the spay sex bears. They do have a valid point. The short-term value of the company is not great. It doesn't seem to add up. 

It's the long-term promise that is driving the valuation. Space X has huge potential to change communication and internet access, globally. Their satellites are unmatched, by number and coverage. Starlink guides drones remotely, while also bringing this fabulous forum to the arctic, where I sit, typing this.  

Space X rockets do more work than any other launch company or national space organization, in any country that I'm aware of. Their service, and defense capabilities, are unmatched. 

Maybe leasing space to Anthropic seems like a let-down, but the reality, of deals like that, is that it's often a back door way to a buyout. Help them out a little, they depend on you, and people agree that we work better when we work together. 

It won't take much to change the way people communicate. Look at how quickly we've come from party lines, to phone numbers, to cordless phones, cell phones, texting, the Blackberry, iPhone, and now what? It seems like a no-brainer that having global coverage is going to be expected, and no one can do that like Space X. 

Space travel, and colonization, might not happen in our lifetimes. But, it will happen, if our friendly leaders don't blow the whole place up, first. Then again, we're already doing traveling to space and staying for extended periods, especially if you fly with Boeing. Fortunately, Space X can get you home again. 

Getting to space is expensive, but traveling long distances is basically free. Once you're moving, you keep moving until you get there. I think there are great possibilities to send probes or mining ships deep into space, exploiting it and spoiling it, like we have done so many times before. 

That's my argument. There is great potential in current communication and information technology, unmatched capabilities in space and launch service, which also precludes a lot of competition, and a vast, unspoiled wilderness, just waiting for people to run amok, taking what they can.

Holy shit. It's Chad Dickens.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Would love to see what your top picks for those verticals are.

Veterans month is November. And mens health month is only for sissies who go to the doctor.

I like EQT as one of the “power” plays. It’s at a decent price right now as well.

People don't understand how the US government is structured, you think they're going to understand Lebanese politics

double dark chocolate nantucket from pepperidge farm

Wtf BAD BOT THATS NOT BITCOIN

Don't worry,  not selling the BS. We hold these, we good fam

Who redeemed my basterd I'll call your mother a group!

I like NVDA. The leather jacket thing is kinda creepy though.

160.01 LOL

68.42% figma ballsack

Imagine if this hiccup is what pops the semi bubble.

it was $1/glass so we're seeking 67.67 per share

His stock went down 90% in 2000.

è quasi come un regalo, io personalmente dopo aver letto questa notizia, rifletto se entro l’apertura di wall street aggiungere posizione ancora

Can you guys stop being pussies and let MU hit $1,100? Thank you for you attention to this matter!

softbank needs the exit liquidity the most lol

Why is this shit stock bringing down my elite stocks?

If you’re ever asked to “name your price” think of a big number in your mind. Then double it

AFTER he buys in.

Let me see CA become red state 🤡🤡

Almost like we've seen this a few times already

Spacex ipo is top

Streets killed me

SpaceSex is going to go bananas and once that settles down everything is going to crater

It hit almost a thousand haha

Bros down 50%
Market dips 0.5%
Bro "I told you so"

Microsoft is pumping in AH. Doesn't look good tomorrow for bull.

You can feel it is only a Bull territory because there is almost non existent Bear comments.

Fundamentals have not mattered at any point this year.

He likely has one of the 2 going for him

You have no idea just how many people actually do this. Just don't sign a personal guarantee and you're good.

I hear ya. I let a lot of shares go today at close. I still have a few options open. I think they're probably bye bye.

No it beat everything lmao

Meaning, it will take generations to remove the rubble under which you will be buried…? 🫡

Lol SPCE IPO'd at $200 in 2017

Do what you want, no one cares if you make money and also no one cares if you lose all your money, so do whatever you want to.

holy FUCK

AVGO wtf happened

Just wait it out. You might be worried for nothing

Until open I guess you mean?

always double love tap

… is that why Google is dying

Vol-de-mort!

He fled from the Angel of death. Not temptation. Remember that kids. Fear God and flee from temptation.

I don't think they have that printer yet but maybe ask HP, I hear their stock is taking off, maybe they invented one.

2 wins 9 losses

They spent 2 trillion on giving you customised recipes for the rotten vegetables in your fridge

my brother from another mother....WE ARE COOKED!!!!

Ooft, unlucky pal that’s -29% if he’s still in

The first A.i. Domino has fallen

Lmao I love Meta, no reason retard strength you gotta respect that shit

The night before the PDT rule change.   Tomorrow may be record options contract volume.   This is going to get wild, put on your big boy pants.

🌽 under 65k means death spiral started

It will be back in one week.

Buy puts to choke on them.

The Jungian thing

I have both SPCE + NASA calls. why do you think SPCE is dead in particular? it went up because of space hype, surely it goes up again once hype picks back up?

TSMC reports monthly revenue so earnings are never really all that surprising. I’ve been holding since around $150 and found that the stock never really moves much around the ADR earnings

What? I kinda like this guy. A bit ramble-y but I like his style.

Did someone leave a picnic basket over here? 

Shoo, go away bers! Git!

I haven’t been fucked like this since grade school.

any thoughts on meta action tomorrow?

Can y'all cc me the next time you plan a fun little pump n dump like with SPCE?

should I stop

ITS NOT FUKCING FAIR

Nothing a small town can't handle

Don’t scare me

Wish I wasn’t in avgo

Are we winning yet?

Believe it or not, ATH tomorrow

just a cple days ago, ceo of softbank says ai is 50x larger than .com and the biggest revolution mankind has ever experienced and now you broke regards want to throw in the towel

we're just getting started

buying all your dips

MRVL increased guidance, avgo soft guidance… MRVL taking market share from avgo???

I don't see anyway he can tweet this away now 

I was super bullish and drunk on copium for a final gamma squeeze but I think Im retarded 🤔

Gosh I hope so but this thing been ded for a while

Slowing AI chip sales forecast

I don’t think that’s how that works

What clowns are paying OF girls for Instagram pics?

Didn't it have a slight revenue miss

Gonna need that Axios report real soon

How to read

I cannot believe what I'm looking at with MRVL right now. This cannot be happening.

RIP BULLS. 

NOTHING CAN SAVE YOU NOW. 

AVGO KILLED THE ENTIRE SEMI MARKET. 

THANK GOD 

ALL RED

I have a feeling you’re gonna lose this bet

You really are stupid aren't you. There's no action for people to take on IPO day other than buying shares. There's no bear to bankrupt.

Broadcom dropping out of the sky for no reason

Yo man I don’t know after blue origin explosion everything has just been beaten down

When did this happen?

NVDA still trying to dig as low as possible. War powers limited.  Oil still up. VIX unmoving. Welp.

The classic institutions preying on retail investors, cashing in and crashing the price, only to buy back - easy money.

Algos pricing in nukes with this 1% red movement

Lol bro you realise Lebanon and Israel are not shooting at eachother right?

Only a small percentage can read

It's like the same thing that happened in the fall: just ran too hot and then earnings gave profit takers a chance to sell into it as a bunch of people tried to jump in too late.

I bought the dip today my fellow regards

Generational opportunity in SOXS?

Would think we see rip with Space X IPO. But SPCE is definitely dead

He’s 73. I give him a break

Before the spaceX ipo? How the fuck could you!

No it isn’t

How does it feel monkah. Didnt i tell you?  You deserved to get RUGGED. its now 285  🤡

fellow regards, I'm 100k balls deep in NASA + SPC(E) calls. do I sell right now OR hold to the IPO

Its for short snipes, insurance and lottos.

Not buy and hold like you cowards

We will see I think it’s got some room

Lollllll

SPCX price is going to rise on IPO to bankrupt the bers, then rapidly go to 0 like SPCE to rug-pull the bulls.

Might have to take out a reverse mortgage on my cardboard box

Now what, buy the dip into Fed meeting or run for the hills?

Don't be a panican

So what price point do we think $AVGO settles at?

Aight liquidity going put of corn to be in Space X

Holy shit AVGO -30% tomorrow and im here bag holding MRVL at 312

Check the IV crush in the morning and you’ll realize you might have lost money anyway. People just do not get how hard it is to make money on options from earnings reports. 9/10 lose no matter what direction.

#Someone post the hotline for SPCE 🚀 and 🌽 bros

SPY 770 EOM

This is going to bounce back tomorrow.

This aged well

Hey man, how are you doing?

Yeah because MU isn’t up 20,000% SMD

Market going batshit crazy. What do the MMs know that we don't?

rip bull market

Now let’s all report it on earnings so the shareholders give us 10, then we spend it all and they lose, but we pay our salaries.

lol just to lose it the next day

Monster company that continues to get better.  Gonna crush earnings but probably will be flat.  Buy and hold forever stock.

Theres gonna be a massive rotation from semis back to the Mag7. Its is foretold

buying calls in the roth ira. Youre a real one.

bro i wish you made money too. I lost myself. But lets be real.  It was a PUMP on Jenseng speaking some words.  NOTHING more.  It had already pumped 30%.  Now its over.

CRWD just had a 100% YTD run into ER, was gonna pull back unless it was a major surprise.

Boy do I have good news for you

Nah. 30 mins and they'll be back at it.

Why didn’t the AVGO CEO announce that it was going to be the next 10T company, is he stupid?

EVERYBODY MAKES MISTAKES

Trump ded? Hasn’t been seen in public for a week now

Sure looks like 21k not 21m to me.

So sorry for your loss.

Not bet against them per say, like shirting the company....But damn would I love to see Amazon and Darden absolutely crater.

Back to prices not seen since.....\*checks charts\*.......my god......Friday last week...SELL EVERYTHING!!!

Blew a lot on the dip today. Now, RKLB, OKLO, HOVR

I did that with ASTS and lost a shit ton, now i’m doing that GOOG 🦧

Is rather be retarded and lucky than good 😎

I don't think even he can save it. The second dip of the stock started during the earnings call, and it was 100% justified. When asked whether he sees any productivity gains from AI agents, Broadcom's CEO said he doesn't, lol.

The calendar year wraps back around after 9999 to 0001, they are just planning 9999 years ahead

**Ban Bet Created:** **/u/0DTEDEGEN1** bet **BTC** goes from **28.82** to **60000.0** before **04-Jun-2026 06:31 PM EDT**

Their record is 2 wins and 8 losses.

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

But there is a sell button! Just press it!

Tom 'fat cuck' Lee?

!banbet btc 60000 1d

The next Michael Burry right here.

Just called the bottom

woulda,shoulda,coulda. wel well well

Bruh. Just wait

damn i dont feel so bad about losing 500 bucks ha

Overnight index options where?

Uhhhh that's kinda what we do here.

Maybe a buy the dcb

After seeing all the to the Moon posts and  the memes and all that other shit lately, i've come to realize that these are the same returds that own Doge.

someone went in 100k in short dated calls after it rugpulled...

Mag7 gets punished for overspending on AI and AI companies are getting punished for having great earnings. Cracks be forming

🙏META 8% for no reason 🚀🚀🚀🚀

I'm the dress 🥰

You gotta a good chance wen exp?

i pictured you tipping your fedora while looking out the top of your shades while saying this

Netscape. He says it's gonna be a major player.

Yeah. I'm the AI order bot.

It’s the Goldman Sachs CEO thats downvoting

Depositing some money so my port doesn't look so sad

Wait what's wrong with broadcom 🤔

alright regards, are space stocks dead??? or is this the final flush before the rip next week?

Need Asia to buy the fuck out of oil overnight

Can't we ask fed to print molecules real nicely? 🥺

Should be interesting to see what the Bank of Japan do in the Asia session. Yen on life support

Till the get smoked overnight

I wouldn't be so sure about that

I just opened a huge position in DRAM do you feel like its near the peak? I was predicting $100 by end of July, but todays Im worried about an earlier than expected correction

Because fuck me that's why.

AVGO what the actual fuck, tanking the entire market

Need tesla to have a -5% day tomorrow

Congrats. Not don’t loose it or you’ll hate yourself

We're going to squeeze shorts like a 14incher on your lunch break.

Highly regarded

bag holders

LMAO 🤌

Correction: Tom Ree sucks.

After today I'm feeling a but gay in it.

Thank you for showing me what dumber than a bag of rocks means.

Siemens? Haha

Damn Avgo ! That bitch got slaaapp real hard

The SPR draw numbers are wild when you put it like that - we're basically exporting almost everything we produce while burning through reserves at emergency levels

  
Your timeline on the operational limits is pretty sobering, especially with Iran clearly playing the waiting game knowing they've got leverage. Even if something breaks loose diplomatically the logistics alone mean we're looking at months before any meaningful relief

  
What's your take on how the options activity you mentioned might snap back to futures once this volatility settles? seems like that could amplify moves in either direction pretty dramatically

Oh boy! Tomorrow’s open is gonna be brutal for all semis!!!

I figured AVGO would drop on earnings, but too weak to pay the high premiums for puts

AVGO beat and raised. AI bubble popped permanently sell everything

Bazinga you dont know shit

target gift cards as bail sounds like a wild flex

Fuck Hock Tan ... mf got me fired when acquiring VMware

Yawn...

Yeah blow it out.. claude's got your number

I am willing to work with Cox and Comcast.

Dude lost his shirt

Went from eating gourmet poutine to food cart poutine. Not even real cheese curds

Bers actually have all the reasons in the world to be confident. Bols have a corrupt administration and 2 months raging bull market on their side though

Well, if you say it’s ok

It's GRND month

I did that. It ended horribly but I could have retired if it had gone well. My timing was off by 6mon

“Yeah goofy old me, I hold SaaS and fintech! Market really keeps beating them down so a dip like this isn’t even surprising lmfao” literally who are these people? No one has a gun to your head to hold shitty stocks, is it like a virtue signaling thing? Truly can’t comprehend

somehow my avgo 400 puts are going to print?

It's theirs when they win, yours when they lose.

Markets need to accept that it’s time to >!helicopter!< the >!🅱️ENIS!<.

idk why I'm being downvoted lol

This is the game lol

That you are broke?

Like the same people posting 6 figure gains when it goes up 1%?

HACK THE PLANET!

Who are we kidding, tomorrow we’re going to open ATH. 
The Art of the Deal was the “V” all along.

Unlimited trading from tomorrow + overnight index options 

I don’t think I’ll ever get some sleep again

Blowjobs are better than no jobs

If these guys want to really grab the apes attention they should announce they are building a flying saucer.

Out of interest sake what was the price of the put option? I calculated it to be about 0.2 per contract. Am I off?

"AVGO will be the next $1T stock" - Jensen

Jesus wept the AVGO CEO needs some charisma training. It was like a speech at a memorial.

Down 0.4 after market

That ain't shit

Going to prison for hyping the shit out of the stock in a meeting he's not meant to.

Scare the shit out of anyone else that 99% of the money in the markets including mine has no fucking clue what’s going on in AI?

Lol keep prepping

We want 720

That's like wallstreet's job.. didn't you watch wolf of wall street... that scene with MM and leo.. it's all fugazi, its the next best thing, the next hype.. that's sort of it.. all of it

What the fuck caused the dump?

Monica overshadowed the others

At this point in my life, I think there are zero people waiting for/rooting for me to die soon.  

Feel pretty good about that and what it may say about me.

See what did I tell you regards.  THE MRVL PUMP WAS OVER. You didnt listen to me.

Nothing normal about that, no

The Hague.

They must be anti society or something.

Bro, we have calls, too!!!

Make money off emotion and panic its so easy

Alright that's cool but in roughly ten weeks when there is no more SPR, what exactly do we do?

Legit might buy AVGO tomorrow if it dips more

Bet that 100k CAD SPCE guy isnt feeling so good right about now lol

Thanks bro!

Tom lee sucks

Hock Tan saying that he expects GOOG to diversify somewhat from AVGO, but says he still is going to make shit ton of money. IMO the drop is totally expected from that comment alone.

Hey Express my bro!

I need liquidity now!

June 4th it don't care again

Pattern Day Trader Rule Change

Jump on in and grab your bags poors

Someone here the other day told me "PE of 80? Tf you talking about it's a PE of 9!"

🤣🤣 Get cucked

You know that public and private companies are the same thing right aside from trading on an open market?

SPCE on the 12th

The sun will rise on us again brothers and Shrek will be there; with his hulking, fat, long, hard, throbbing green hog......glorious.

Art of the deal moves tonight

Yes that’s 90% of this sub

zero cool

Bols have a reason to be confident. Bers have nothing

Possibly true, but OP is just baiting and isn't even trying.

idc what yall say, im a bagholder minimum till spaceX IPO

Dude your calls are fucked even if it does reverse

This is the end

If the market goes down 1% and you get margin called you are way too leveraged

I used to work at target and there was a rule where if customers say something was a certain price we could adjust it to that price up to $10 off. We were supposed to call out if it was obviously someone taking advantage of the system but I never did, I told tons of people about this to help time save money.

y'all seeing MU drop under 1000?

You still holding?

some of you guys still believe the earth is round and it shows😹

ARM collapsed like 12% on ER, and now its up 180% since then.

Same will probably happen with AVGO

reddit plebs btfo

5 body count?

fucking GREEN tomorrow

If this is not a "buy the dip" moment for tomorrow, i don't know what is

APPL V 😭

Finger in your butt at the same time.

I kid you not like 2-3 years ago I bought american superconductor because I knew regards would be doing that

Those with Michael Burrys substack what did he buy recently?

Michael Burry responded to my craigslist ad looking for someone to mow my lawn. "$30 is $30", he said as he continued to mow what was clearly the wrong yard. My neighbor and I shouted at him but he was already wearing muffs. Focused dude. He attached a phone mount onto the handle of his push mower. I was able to sneak a peek and he was browsing Zillow listings in central Wyoming. He wouldn't stop cackling.

That is to say, Burry has his fingers in a lot of pies. He makes sure his name is in all the conversations.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

If you were smart you would short AMD. That shit gonna tank more than AVGO.

Everything is priced in unless there is an extrinsic shock imo. I think it still has ways to go until putin does the putin thing in a few months.

🍸⏳🤠🤠🤠

thank you, i neede this. you made me feel better about myself... sorry

Trade.

Trade.

The worst bulls are the ones who claim to have timed the top knowing full well they are still holding and about to get margin called tomorrow.

Hey Lil E my bro !

It'll get there... in September or so

blow the door off

CHTR drilling to zero 🐓

Only hate the road when ur missing home

ANYTHING OH GOD

Amd went from 540 to 530...lol

Take the profit

Unlike bols right?

As someone holding a ton of worthless calls 

I don't think so man 😔

And SPCE cadets 👩🏽‍🚀 disgusting

futes algos are going to make it as hard to short as possible

I was already in. I bought at 7 the other day and sold right at the top, 8.8.... then I rebought at 6.45, sold at 7 again... then I bought after the bloodbath.. but at 5.00... now I'm in it at 5... community bag holder. trading around 50k

Bears are some of the ~~filthiest~~ most majestic creatures on earth

If you don’t learn after the first time…

Oh fuck it too many retards in this market  lol

Des nombres sur un écran..

Essaies si possible d'en transformer une partie en actifs tangibles; auquel cas tu resteras à la merci du propriétaire de ton compte en banque (spoil : la banque)

Ps : tu n'es que le titulaire mon gars 

Prends gardes à toi l'ami

No. I’m his desk

I give it 1 hour tops

do U guys think it’s normal to throw 6 digits into one stock and pray it goes up

SPCE 👀👀👀

Nvda is the next 1 Trillion dollar stock 🤌😹

Nah the Zios won’t stop. Bibi needs a war to avoid jail.

Thats their job yeah

Whats the CFO doing tomorrow?

I'm starting to see positive news trickle out about Greg Abel. 

Might be time to yolo Berkshire leaps

Should I roll out these AVGO 500c in case it recovers next week

AVGO going to pre Dec 11 earnings yikes

it helped a ton for sure, but I guarantee you couldn’t get in even if your parents were bill and melinda gates

Buying Back hood ole NVDA, the OG Chip Jensen

this whole time i thought we were just joking about being retarded

I sold all my UFPI 6 months after I left the company because I didn’t agree with how they treated people. It’s down like 50% since then.

Man do you guys not have a clue on fundamentals at all? This is why yall missed micron

War, rising oil prices, inflation, the market doesn't care, but June 3rd is where it draws the line.

Maybe we get a ber day tomorrow and then the following a bull!

That seems reasonable.

How do I short my whole country then?

Strike AU. Strike Hong Kong.

R u really bill Clinton

That’s what I’m saying. Ugly for now but a good chance to increase gains

Trump took too long and now congress is stepping in...

...that starts with the letter....?

Are we all just gobbling up shares during this crash?

All it takes is one fake tweet from 🥭 and all your bear fantasies are vaporized

good revenue

meet expectations 

stock crashes 15%

What will you do for $20

Another ceasefire... Israel and Lebanon... for what it's worth

Aye man, more power to you.

Let's see OMAHA print fast enough at this share price. Strike JPM. Hedge strike. Buy ether but. Strike san Antonio

Ahahah, I remember that post, after that I knew to stay away 🤣

Never post here again

Why did it drop so bad

We don’t say things like that here. This is so rationale comment. Go back to your regard nature,
please.

Except they submit financials and all claim $20 increases in revenue despite the revenue being previously released announcements, and they haven’t actually received the money.

Jensen, is that you?

It’s still going there, just not this week

I work at Petco and i bought puts because the actual company sucks

And AMD bulls LMAO 🤌

Bers are wayyyyy too confident for there to be any sort of significant sustained drop incoming. THE PUMP SHALL CONTINUE

I think they lowered future revenue estimates by 0.1%. Not joking. That's what caused a 13% dump.

I'm jk bro

I'm impressed if you truly developed this.

Consider yourself violated by a big red dick

☝🏾 This is the way

Turns out AI is just fancy autocomplete that clubs a baby seal to death every time you send a query.

Dude, check the transcript

He started reading last years numbers before correcting himself

Also makes customers come back because the fries are always stacked. calls it is

Bears are some of the filthiest creatures on earth

no vabbè assurdo

I mean if you haven't get on the avgo train. This dip is a good entry point

Ignore the sea of Red and SPCE locust. CRSR was and is the real play. The CFO is going to hype the shit out of the stock tomorrow. We need to load the fuck up on calls and fuck the bears and shorts. Push past $11.50 and cause them to cover setting off the squeeze. Bears are fukt shorts are fukt. CRSR to the moon!

jane street interns spent all day yesterday telling us to buy avgo

Will give blowjobs for $10

Whoever said AVGO to $600… I would like a word with you

Narrator: so there he was, behind the dumpster, shirtless and broke

BB too

From what?

Broadcom ceo hiding info hmmm what could go wrong

Spend my bag wisely hahaha

Why NVDA is sad 🤔, they should be going up 😁

How buying call at ATM and with IV through the roof could be a profitable strategy? Asking for real

So calls it is then

Our AI tracks our most intelligent users. After parsing your posts, we have concluded that you are within the 5th percentile of all WSB users.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

by this logic you  it would humans make shit -->Data ---> feeds into the AI --- Humans use AI --->Data gets feed into AI.

This will be an endless cycle. so at what point do you asked if enough is enough? We will have to build more data center as more data gets added to the AI box. At one point nations, would be filled up with data centers. 

We need to know if it will be profitable first before people take a decision that will cause max amount of loss. We are basically putting all our eggs into one basket.

Cramer said two days ago he sod avgo, but you all are ungrateful

the hardest part of trading is the waiting, there is nothing like it

girls be like: trading feet pics for 5 apples, 2 canned bread, 60$ electrical bill, one trip to Europe, and 5 bags of chips.

Strike. Helsinki, print.

Ok Burry, let's get you back to your crayons

US central command first said that all Iran attacks to Kuwait were intercepted. Later on, Kuwait reported 1 dead and damages in the airport. 

Nothing to see here I guess.

Dayum put it on nyse first and enable options

Company I worked for I could have I guess?

Stock soared to about $90 the day 1/3 of us got laid off with a new CEO back in 2020, then ended up at $9 a few years later until it was bought by a competitor like a year ago or so.

You mean bots that sell based on broad industry trends, right?

Retarded bots?

All I hear is blah blah I am a gay ber blah blah

We have a c-fire deal and its huge

In hindsight look at the past couple weeks, you can see a really consistent rise, it really was all priced in for the earnings drop

I bought a cheap call 🙈

Question: how many knocks on the door is the right number?

Liquidate

Today at work I made joke I can retire if NVDA were to grow to 300, and now I have no idea why I thought that reasonable, I'm early-mid career and only have shares. I think it just felt like such an improbably high share price that my monkey brain equated it to my portfolio going x5, even though I don't have that kind of leverage set up at all. Part of me is still wondering why the market isn't set up so that it'll x5 my portfolio if NVDA shoots up that far.

It is the next SPCE but just not how they imagine it to be

Fuck your God.

I am never recovering financially from this 💀

flat thursday\*

Calls it is

It would also face veto with a 3/4 threshold in both chambers to override. It doesn’t mean shit.

This shit is probably gonna go back to 460 in premarket to theta fuck everyone

Eh, it was up 15% in a week. Post ciena er tmr morning will be what needs to be looked out for

Some of us still work at Wendy’s

I'm about ready to start a business and bankrupt that shit with empty promises and broken dreams. 🤡

I will never recover financially from this 💀

Still more than what i have made the last 5 years 😢

Same boat but MSFT

Strike. Hedge.

Yeah there's no better alternative unless the company got pissed enough to say fuck it and just develop one in-house, it's just not worth the effort nor budget unless you're going to also try and sell it as a product like what CSCO, NOK, and several other tech company does. I did heard that a lot of tech companies are moving from Jira to Service Now because the latter offer pay-as-you-go model for some of their services, it's why Jira's parent company Atlassian's stock has been eating shit for months now.

JD becomes president.

A $200 billion+ sell off, duh.

Why not say numbers? No one knows you

The bearish sentiment means to double down

MUU will give the clue.

$ROPE

You got hard carried by rich parents lucky spawn so stfu

457.5P reporting. Did not sell before closing. Eating chik-fil-a tomorrow.

Print.

Who did this?

when i was making fun of the space pump and dumpers avgo dump on me.... great..... buy the dip its a great stock. calls

Could anyone have bought in today?

It’s funny that people thing shorting shit will be profitable. When this ‘*thing*’, for lack of better terms, starts unraveling it’s not just gonna be a crash, we’re rigged for a complete implosion of epic scale.

Sure, shorts will be super valuable, but good luck getting the money when there is no money to be paid out.

This changes nothing about him being a fucking Neanderthal playing with mommy's money

Sp im not the only one in red?

Yes. Google it.

Can we all here agree that market makers just hate seeing people happy?

What’s the deal?

Bought the AVGO dip, now they’re going to go bankrupt

Yes son, they got greedy and the butcher cometh

"I want to own a tiny fraction of a company, whose product and services is beyond my means, class, and station."

--A retard

--me

AVGO is the next 1 trillion stock 💀

[ Removed by Reddit ]

Green shrek dick Thursday 🥒🥒🥒

I can see Bers gathering in the distance

makes sense since ai chip sales are dowwn after hours

Until next round, yes.

T & A

Like marvel was actually kind of bearish for the day

I mean that’s not even a ridiculous number? We were there last week it’s not like it’s a massive drop. Well within healthy consolidation territory

bro is exhausted from re-upping mega billion  frontier contracts. hes not a great  communicator and slightly regarded but all the numbers are as is expected. this dip is just an opportunity for the instititutions to re-up where broadcom was trading last wednesday

My Doordash order just got dropped off by someone driving a Tesla. Economy confirmed dead.

Canary in coal mine

Market still bullish

Thats what they get for killing VMware

just rage-bought 25,000 more Tilly’s

I couldve sold my NVDA yesterday for $900 gain but instead I’m bag holding with -$900 now 🤡

When can I be the CEO of an AI company. All these fools are doing it wrong. They are not forward looking enough. H100 blah blah. Obsolete already.

When you have no life and live on r/wallstreetbets, and it’s your first time seeing the original post from 44 days ago... so it must be too late now.

I'm in SaaS and Fintech buddy. S&P could've gone to infinity, this sector doesn't give a shit.

Welcome to the line for MARS.

New ATH friday for all thats all this probaly doesnt mean my waffles are done

Disgusting bers selling

Unthinkable and immoral

PM you my boobs you say? I'm a man, but no problem

Why is that

It's worked twice already in the last year

100000%

"$AVGO bad numbers. AI is dead!" 

-mentally retarded individuals

green tommorow anyway

Who's dumber, SPCE chasers, or people jumping into OPEN thinking it'd be the next SPCE

So AVGO didn’t go 🤔

The end result is a bunch of trillion dollars companies who just have spent hundreds of billions to build data centers that lose tens of billions.

All the revenue that AI promised was just made up...unless you're design chips, produce chips or are the construction worker installing the chips.

Missed on revenue

Tick tok. Oil.

$1.5k

Weak conviction

MMs pumped the market, waited for everyone to buy at higher prices

now they're dumping and the rest hold bags

Theoretically - what happens if I sell covered calls on a thinly traded stock and then get margin called?

If there’s no sellers for the calls, I can’t close them. Can’t close the share position until the calls are closed first. 

Is this a free money loophole?

because you didn't have a crystal ball and didn't want to risk 1.36k

It’s going to get ugly again I think. Ohh well. Overall still bullisj

great advice honestly

NOTHING IS FUCKED, DUDE.

If company profitable share price infinity.

Print.

Quickly, to the dooms day plane! It's over folks.

Ally purchased a lot of the shitty toxic loans from Carvana. If people start defaulting on their car payments, which they already are, it's gonna hurt them a bit

Oof AVGO dropping to levels not seen since 3 weeks ago

Missiles flying in the middle east and trump saying it'll go on till September are probably the major reasons.

He's gonna need to talk from an orbital data center while being serviced by an adult entertainment unit

Yeah the market is all manipulation and fraud. I saw micron crush earnings with a forward p/e guidance of 5 and the stock sold off. Lmao its all fraud in the markets. SEC is all fraudsters too

What if 🥭 ded?

What % of their overall revenue is from software sales lol

CRASH SELL EVERYTHING OMG!!!

You’ll survive. You’ll just be poor lol

Bought AVGO 450 put just before the close

Visual Success 👍

Which means they can get it all back in 5 days lol

Is AVGO a boomer stock

It didn't beat some revenue estimates

It’s inside if you reasonably expect them to drop based on general performance due to something you know that the public doesn’t. 

I don’t know how it would be actionable if you think it’s going to drop because you realize you’re surrounded by retards

went from 6900 to 7630 in less than a month and your talking about poor red days? Like literally broke massive records of consecutive Green Day’s and weeks

And I would halve again

By lunch

iran will let more and more oil through for money, US will cease airstrikes, major news channels told to drop the war as a whole, they stop even calling it a "special military operation", they start just talking about "bad guys in iran" whenever anybody asks, and this could last forever. we already live in ideocracy, it is entirely plausible that there is never any real resolution to this, and that nobody cares

#Ban Bet Lost

/u/WatcherOfMinions made a bet that MRVL would go to 400.0 within **1 day** when it was 317.881 and it did not, so they were banned for a week.

Their record is now 0 wins and 1 losses

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

Never meant to be

Growth slowing, everyone knows it has to happen

Nokia WHHHYYYYYYY!!!!

Margin calls AMZN

Me and the boys gonna yell Ai at the new york stock exchange to fix avgo.  Anyone wanna join?

Buy put then "accidentally" doing something catastrophic like pushing something directly into main instead of prod or shit like that

After reading the new 8K that dropped tonight for $BGDE I’m debating if I sell my kidney or use my child’s collage fund to go all in. It’s a coin toss

Dusted off the he hate me
Jersey today

I managed to sell my tech positions 2 days ago, and move to boomer stocks, and that dip is not affecting my port at all.

I hear what you’re saying, and what I think you’re saying is: C A L L S

Our AI tracks our most intelligent users. After parsing your posts, we have concluded that you are within the 5th percentile of all WSB users.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

it's today

it won't, bro

poots?  🍑💨

Wait until tomorrow 🥹

if you liked it at 479 you should love it at 419

Crypto assed out today. Tomorrow I'm buying buttcoins.

Print.

Oh shit and the algos trashed the stock in a millisecond because they react instantly and don't give a damn about context.

That’s always the case. Puts or calls it doesn’t matter.

He said that in the same way that SPCE is pre-IPO SpaceX.

Bottom is in

just buy the dip i would even call it

Good. But.

Sophie rain is not sex trafficked, I doubt sex traffickers want their victims to get incredibly famous and wealthy, and it’s major stretch to say a majority of girls on OnlyFans are sex trafficked. They likely have a lot more autonomy over their money and how they want to present themselves vs a strip club or something.

Gonna need a couple of Axios tweets and Jensen talking on stage to get this to green by open

This SOXS company is pretty good. I'm up a decent amount in AH

When you’re right you’re right. I started my account 8 years ago and it’s only up 20%. DCA into QQQ would’ve been nice

My calls expire November, will I survive?

ASTS tomorrow

Axios planning a colab with truth social to save the market. 😅

No it was always 6 months away

"$AVGO dogshit! better sell $MU!"

-a literally retarded person

Print.

NVDA and data centers

market only goes up wtf is this bullshit!!!

just gotta take the L barring a bounceback

Dang I look like a bot 😭

Man I had a tingling in my nuts and bought weekly $420 puts for AVGO and sold them for a tiny profit literally at 3:59 before close only for it to actually drop 15% 🤡

I'm at 10, 12.50, 15, 20. See you in our lambos. Also LULU will go parabolic. Loaded up on $140 and $160 calls. We retiring Friday

‘My death was…GREATLY exaggerated’ -spy tomorrow

Chill bro lol. You only lose when u sell 🤣

$0.01 each

15 bagger

I love how you can have 5 green days in a row, and then all of the gains from those days are gone in a single red day. Awesome.

My port touched an all time high at one point today
Don’t know about tomorrow doesn’t look good

Do you do it directly on an exchange like Coinbase or use ETFs through a brokerage? I should buy IBIT puts or inverse ETFs

That’s what i came here for

Death rumor

Didn’t the algo volume pushed stocks so high without real money? Semi stocks went up like crazy within last 2 months which they did not had in their entire life of existence.

Avgo triple beat and raise then collapse? Lol

Im picturing nvda back to 209 to lower my expectations

Claude, pop the AI bubble before Anthropic IPO. Make no mistakes.

Good plan, SOXS is only down -99.97% from inception.

#Imagine buying OTM calls at the top

Have you been here today? 🫠

crwd dumping after stellar earnings, raising guidance, and upcoming stock split is crazy. profit taking time for the big boys i guess

This guy margins!

This guy margins!

Kinda funny how that dump is mostly from the tech sector. Rotated from tech to boomer stocks and literally nothing is happening to my portfolio right now while the whole index is down 1%.

Buying?

The bear case is valid, but the certainty is too damn high.

An oil shock can hurt growth, but it doesn’t automatically mean a crash. Liquidity is still strong, earnings are holding up, buybacks are real, and passive 401k flows keep buying mega caps every paycheck.

Correction? Sure. Epic crash in 1-2 months? Doubt.

How could you forget the Yen carry trade unwind?? BOJ interest rate decision on June 15/16. 

USD/JPY currently sitting at $160.052. It hit $161.943 when the carry trade unwind happened in June 2024.

What? It’ll open under 750 bud

Still 9 days left. It could happen

Going full regard if spx smh drops to 21 ema.

Are the bols finally fooked? Please tell me their fooked

Just leave my AMZN calls alone

Same. 😢

Victoria's Secret only grew sales by 15% YoY and are up like 170% for some reason, they get special treatment because they were connected to Epstein.

A good chunk of other companies are going down in value despite beating earning expectations and having meaningful growth.

CALLS

i don’t post my yolos on this sub. can look at my pf if you wanna see my yolo of literally the rest of my port in SPY puts

Tech and bitcoin will sell off for funds for spacex

Was there a tweet

it ran up a ton pre earnings, basically at the price it was a week ago

Tim Jensen say something

Why? He'll just say "YES WE'VE REACHED A VERY REASONABLE DEAL AND THE STRAIGHT WILL BE OPENED TOMORROW" and walk away from it.

Meanwhile iran will just say "that never happened"

And then 🥭 will say "FAKE NEWS OMG"

I trust him to do sh**

SPY 750 is not a meme lmaooooo

Lol dude I've been a gay bear for like 2 years and I can tell you being a gay bear gets you nowhere. Okay? It gets you nowhere

lmao the bear market is here

How’s my NVDA calls looking?

Imagine buying calls at the top 🫵🤣

Bag holding since the top dog did the test flight stunt announcement, then the day after withdrawn all the liquidity to cash in idiots like myself that took the bait, and bricked the shares to the underground.

Lesson learned.

Syntax error

Ouch..

AVGO still way better than BTC

the entire thing is owned by big rael project.... no peace this year....

It’s fucking pointless. I sold for like a $150k gain and somehow the IRS knew and fucked me big big. Like if I can’t use it to evade taxes, what’s the point?

"Hey ChatGPT, generate a script for me to read for Q2 AVGO earnings"

"Sure thing"

***proceeds to quote Q2 2025***

Actually though

I prayed every day the last 2 months for blood red and it looks like daddy ber god might finally maybe possibly come home from that cigarette buying trip he left on back in april.

Set yer fill orders for SOXL.

I dialed mine in to right around 223, which would be a 20% drop

Y'all need to stop thinking the boomer stocks are going to be next leaders in AI/Quantum.

All but a handful of them are bots

I am a bot, for example

How do you get a margin on de giro?

I'm fully in the camp of a crash by year's end is looking at least looking pretty possible enough to hedge things properly. But we don't tend to go 60 to 0 in a second. Today was outside the expected move, so hey you have actual concrete signs finally of a trend reversal. But it didn't really happen until after hours. How much of this was just AVGO and Crowdstrike getting nuked? We'll find out tomorrow. Now don't get too excited. We needs days of actual evidence to tell us if we just end up range-bound again, if we actually see more than a slight pullback, etc.

Concept of being close to talk about a possible unacceptable deal that gives us what we had before we fucked up the Pottery Barn.

We moved to NOW because we stopped using jira lol so you’re correct

Pay your mom back 10k and use the rest for whatever.

$SBIT

Robinhood has it

Today it was broadCON! 

$2.3 trillion co!

“Spit on that thang!”
-Hock Tuah

Reply with how much u lost on spce here

For Robinhood maybe

accept a loan from your crack dealer and promise to pay him back in BTC (via cashapp)

What stock under $50 should I throw some money at?

Cerner, which is the EHR platform they own, makes me want to short Oracle into the ground

AVGo such garbage lol.

Technically it did rally from 65k to 82k it s just stocks rallied the same with a lot less risk lmao

You realize most of their valuation is because of hardware right? VMware users being pissed isn't really even a factor in Broadcom stock price.

They're aware no one's happy with their licensing and pricing on the software side. But not only is their software revenue growing but VMware revenue is also growing. This is a pretty classic Hock Tan strategy and it's worked in the past for him.

Long term maybe everyone be migrates off VMware but if Broadcom can extract enough value before that they'll still post a financial gain, which is all investoes care about at the end of the day.

Does SPY bounce off of $750 tomorrow or do we keep dipping

Anthropic can cancel anytime with 90 days notice though, so if that happens they’re fucked

Why the fuck would Msft move lma

I'm in on $PL for tomorrow. Let's see who does better!

They’ll dump harder than us.

Same. Like a lot more money

At least nvidia helped me from it being far worse

I'm sad

Feel like buzzlightyeae wheb he realized he's a toy

It’s going back down. More discounts

time for another  ceasefire deal soon

Bigger than NBIS and HUT8? Aren't those simply larger companies that Keel can't compete against? I'm just asking, I don't know. I'm just wondering how high Keel can go and if even getting close to HUT8 price is even possible.

You’re right but last week was more intense

So buy the dip?

so lekker

Curb your ADHD and learn to fucking read before replying retard

Surprisingly, oil is dropping as well.

It's both circular and jerkular

Washed up cougar woman of a telecom company.

I’d short it at $2 too

Damn you’re certainly late to the party lol

how about u eat my ASS

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

literally the day after I decide "fuck it I'll just join the uppie madness" fml

Is this why everything is red? Caught me by surprise today..

how come all red activity is always after hours lmao..

Pass. I’m not a ghey bear.

Trading FDs will do that to you if you pick the wrong direction.   0dte 10 delta lol.

Hahaha I don’t think knowing that your coworkers are retards is an actionable insider thing.

Schneider Electric?  Eaton?

Saving for later

`bool $is_fuk = true;`

I smell your mom.

I had to zoom out the to the weekly to feel good.

Not gonna lie my port lookin kinda red lol but honestly not that bad! Full ported soxs shorts this morning and only down 2%. Should be green by tomorrow. Nice try ber 🐻

ah shit here we go again

So close

The name is Broad Cum but it's gonna make me not

Mago better announce peace tomorrow  to save the market

MMs cant let the market correct too much since they have to unload SpaceX ipo first

That shits been dumping all year while stonk market has been hitting ATH

They need to lose more money like Intel

BITI is good 

or IBIT puts

It'll recover it's only bad for option players

What goes up must AVGO come down 😭😭

Same here. But it was a strange coincidence

Spy 40% tech is wild

Its been dumping for months

Thought about Broadcom puts, but they always go opposite of my thoughts, so didn’t play. This time it goes down. Womp womp

noticed it says q2 2025 like they’re planning wayyy ahead

Can you explain this in retard terms pls

Broad con

I fully expected to miss out on profits though. I actually sold right before the absolute top, left about $5k on the table.

Uh oh. MRVL experiencing elevated volatility according to RH. 

Isn't that the death mark or some shit?

Double down!!!

I’d take ORCL over NOW lol

They’re running this shit now.

Yes always

green by open

I just assumed that money was moving into stocks

Double down

Today sucked but I zoomed out and it's all better now

He’s one of us, one of us!

Market is going to recover at market open when broadcom goes up

First time?

How do you short crypto?  I’ve never tried it

Space stocks really got fucked today… sell the news prior to the real $1.7 trillion turkey?

Smart

Thank u

A much more expensive one too.   How many of us gonna drop a few thousand or even 100k on black or red?

wtf is a broadcom

I need to apply for SNAP benefits tomorrow. Thanks IBM!

Still too pricey. Better go for animal feed grade, class D, the shit that's barely fit for animal consumption.

Decisions like my port are why I had to move back home at 33

I assumed $420 would be a fair value of AVGO and was thinking about buying Puts at $440 for about $5.50 each with a potential to make 3-4X. Decided too risky of a trade. Oh, well.

FYI, I think MRVL will decline but I think MU will, after earnings in June, go way up.

There is clearly a massive shortage in RAM that will continue to drive the massive increases in revenue to MU. On the other hand the demand for what AVGO and MRVL make did not seem as strong.

My account  at  new high today thanks to crypto shorting

RELEASE THE KOREANS

I bot a competitor when I knew they were underpriced after a sector selloff.  Baby thrown out with the bathwater situation.

Welp, futures just dumped lol

BTC dumping maybe was the signal ?

Please don’t use the lords name in vein

Wait Trump said that?

I'm just *jazzin* around

Deez nuts

Hawk Tuah dropped his notes. It was like that butterfly in Brazil thing

It's Joever 😭😭

Goddamn market just shot the fuck out of $AVGO over a "perceived" semi gross margin decline and just reiterating chip $100B revenue. Not sure this thing going back up tomorrow.

time for axios drop

Don’t worry, bulls. Axios is dumping their last 12 peace deal articles into GPT for a re-run as we speak. You’ll get your pathetic bump here soon.

they get tinder dates? LMFAO

You’re not wrong

This aged like milk

He seemed old/tired and confused during this call.

Its a dog eating, dog fooding, dog shit world. and we just live in it

End of the day despite all the stereotypes, they really only do it to look pious. Religiously speaking, they're probably some of the most performative people I've interacted with regardless of where they came from. Iranians being more liberal is one thing, but I've met those from hardcore countries(Afghan, Palestine, Indonesia, etc) who'd do anything from drinking to fucking escorts, but draw the line at eating pork.

For context, I'm in tech field so they're everywhere, cybersec specifically. Still somehow better than jeets in-terms of hygiene and personality though, they started taking over middle management and clearly were trying to replace everyone who weren't from their country. The whole great jeet replacement shit forced me to internal transfer 3 times in the past 4 years since I outranked them but I also don't want to deal with them.

His cult following gonna be his exit liquidity lol

Zero chance unless 🍊turns on Israel they aren’t letting Iran get away with the strait+ their nuke program. US can just walk away with its tail between its legs? Petro dollar will die. They can’t just end it

I am about to be homeless. Guess i shouldn't use my house for loan and go all in

SPXC will be the one people actually buy on accident.

BLURSEDAY

Me too lol, I needed confirmation

ITS OVERRR

Gonna need to downgrade my steak from Wagyu to USDA Select tonight.

There is no point on crypto when mega caps move like this 😉

Yeah. Ima have to look at offsetting gains later in the year

Yea but my calls need fast unhealthy upwards movement for at least another week

The war is over guys

MSTR $2 is optimistic.

This is the week of Girly stocks. Victoria secret first, lulu is next heard it here first

Get fucked.

Really glad I got greedy and didn’t sell a 40+% rally in NOW and just watched my gains get cut in half

May be longer than a week but I firmly believe it'll get back up to target by the end of the year for sure.  They're still making billions at the end of the day

Can confirm. I turned $500 into $350 after hearing about it late

I thought all my coworkers were idiots when I was a federal contractor for a company with a public facing side. Found out we had one of the biggest ESOP’s in the country so not only did it not matter, we crushed it during recession years because the government never stops spending. 

Kinda depressing that we did so well just because the people hiring us were even more regarded.

Time to goon to my imaginary gains until market opens and takes it all away

Lol, fuck you bulls and also suck it.

Any chance for an epic reversal tmrw or are my SPY calls fucked

This sub went from actual interesting posts and people yoloing to new people with 2 grand to their name posting screenshots unironically

holy cornball 💔

saylor selling ,either forcibly or at his own doing,  will be the final undoing of the greatest scam ever

Haha, tempted to buy some MSTZ here in after hours

I

DECLARE

BANKRUPTCYYYY 🗣️

Doubtful. This would need to be a lot of algo trading or something for it to gain that all back.

yeah my buddy shorted pride stocks last time too

Chips money will rotate into space sector

Ok enough selling now, Asia gonna panic

Chocky milk

#Futes be DRILLIN just as I be PREDICTIN LMAO🤌

Today was the end of the bulls run.   Prepare for deep red everyday now.

Don’t be so salty. Don’t play AVGO earnings anymore, it always dump.

Don’t worry guys I just burned a billion bucks in tokens creating an app with Claude.

This hit TOO close to home.

It's illegal for stonks to go down but they only enforce the rule on weekly basis

Depends if he sold on the little run up like i did

I literally had more money two years ago.

Omg shrek me bb

Just dca into qqq for ever. You'll never beat it

Looks like ramen for dinner tonight. That’s okay I needed to be humbled

6.5% acceptance rate

My stocks are dead. Again.

God fucking damn this stupid fucking bullshit.

AVGO got avogoeed

Fuck you it was priced in

I bought a call today

Btc about to be oversold and in a daily rsi channel, it’s gonna pop back up to 75k

I put 800$ in and took 2000$ out a two days later.

Love the WSB headline before stats load:

*Bears aren't even people*

You're right.

!Because we're going to be Gods of Chaos soon.🐻 !<

grifters gonna grift

Like every AI model in existence? Most companies lose money for many many years before the profit comes. Good strawman argument. Classic reddit hivemind

Gonna need a Cock Tan on that thang by open

how the fuck  a 2 trillion company fall 10% ah

Oops, sorry. 😒

Taking profit is good. I have never made big money on SPX puts, only on calls when it makes absolutely no sense. I have puts for tomorrow (I rolled them down today) and already regretting keeping them

My account is up 90% after shorting this stock. Most obvious rug pull ever

Nice i bought 40 748 puts right at close just on a hunch.

wow so you are actually dumb because what does this even mean

Yeah. I think KOSPI will crumble tonight too.

saylor rugged crypto losers lol

This is a very stupid comment

Damn dude yours too?  I just did it for mine and the people at target were giving me issues for wanting thst much in gift cards

I don’t know how my company makes money

Haha I definitely consider myself a trader vs degenerate gambler but ironically WSB is the best subreddit for traders imo. Not for learning per se but just talking about positions and trades. 

The other trading subreddits are sadly pretty terrible and full of bots/scammers.

Me, bruh.

IRGC ain't going to accept a deal that doesn't involve them having nuclear production capabilities, and possibly even one where Israel continues causing problems for Lebanon. 

However 🥭 handles that catch 22 will define our market for years to come

They did, depending on which consensus estimate you take.

SOFI is shit

Time, positive attitude and balls

I'm not gay no more I am delivert!

# "House passes resolution to end the Iran War" - Congress turn to pump the casino LMAO 🤌

#

no, top comment chain was good enough for me

It was me buying at 40$ like the stupid idiot that I am.

Me with SAP

That's why he's in semi not full

I'm gonna go to Costco with my parents today. Want anything?

Men’s mental health month/veterans month.

1hp and a dream

i honestly didnt expect them to crash the market before musk's ipo

This is certainly not the place for your concepts of revenue growth and fundamentals and all that

Oh noes!   It’s fallen all the way back to levels of…..May 18, 2026!

No way 🥭 listens to Congress. No way we pull out like a 16 year old boy saying he got them “skills” to time it right. 
I fully expect some craaaazy shit to keep us in Iran that will make it way worse than it is now. Guaranteed.

ASTS you're doing great sweetie go lower! 😍

For some reason all 3 of these have been following the SPY over the last few months (or longer). This market is unconventional.

Avgo bulls picking up a triple shift tn

magic wand news 🪄

I only do night stuff

😮‍💨👌😃

Thank you for confirming that this is the bottom.

Nah, Orange-N-Chief will announce some "treaty" or "real cease fire" and tomorrow will be greener than an Irish wedding - am half-Irish, so can confirm

was literally going to buy today but my deposit was delayed a day lol guess what I'm doing tomorrow?

I think Broadcom crashed everything again lmao

hahaha is this weed stocks but with silicon ?

My new goal is to make at least $500 a day, 5 days a week. No clue how I’m going to pull it off, but I’m going to get out there and deliver food, work my Wendy’s job, and trade!

*translation:  we're all going to be btfo to under $2k*

Fuc I need a job soon, options gonna empty my account

Claude subscriptions

Damn MU down a whole 0.63% guess its time to sell everything - a fucking retard

AVGO exact move in the other direction would have made them worth more than AMZN. Can’t be having that.

its down...

Weird. Almost like the bulls got completely played and gonna find out what exit liquidity looks like.

That makes me feel better, I usually never look back on winning trades. But this was my biggest one in a while. Made 45% profit.

Happy pride month

Thats an understatement

No more uppies? 😢

excuse muah?

This sentence is legendary

Shutup man, you’re ruining the loss porn.

People with large profits who only trade on short term basis like heads sell to take profits for various reasons and then buy lower this AVGO sell off is a nothing burger everything today was just profit taking pretty much across the board

Lmao too true

I don't have one

I have a lot and I need that bad lmao

Yeah. I bought puts.

Bruh that's a liberal arts college

Find the fucking whales so we can profit

Man this is proper cringe. You pulled out the emojis to belittle the guy and you couldn’t be more wrong.

Is it OK to cry.... just for today? Can we make a one-time exemption, please! 😩🥺😢

looking for the post with 20 upvotes saying that if you're not buying avgo calls you hate money

wait till this dude finds out how years work

I smell something rather different

Is that 🥭’s arch?

Moderna represents.

I am shorting via SOXS. The semi conductor rip is irrational no matter how you slice it. Marvel technologies adding 50b market cap because of a comment from another ceo is peak euphoric market pricing. Not to mention their own guidance states 10b projected revenue in 2029. That's not a trillion market cap stock.

One red days and these gay bears are suddenly emerging from their tents on Skid Row

Sofi keeps fucking up with my SNXX shares after the split. SanDisk is up 4% so snxx should by up around 8.

Sofi keeps switching it between a 1% gain and a 90% loss on the day. 

Puts on SOFI.

You won’t need those profitable companies anymore, and you’ll be happy.

Turned 700$ profit into 70$ profit by end of day. Okay so first stop investing the first hours got it.

2025≠2026

LMAO!

Bro was creating repeat customers thinking it was hurting ol Ronald.

Congratulations bag holder

It's this serious? Something fair is happening for the newbies?

That's not actually a lot of money dude. Are you 15 or something

Another -4% day for MSFT tomorrow

thongs for thots

but where bottom

You’re not alone friend. I somehow managed to buy the tippy top

Where it will be voted down instantly

dang nana must be driving high again.

nobody cares about dr house

No. I said, “Stocks broke me”. Stop listening to my private conversations, creepo..

dont quit your day jobs

Are they in the room with you right now?

It’s Ving already you probably made the right call. Very well could be green by morning as per usual

If you got in early Monday Premarket and Sold on the Momentum then it was a good play. But if you did it to "Invest" or see it run further than it already did then you need to check again which Sub you're in. This isn't r/investing.

See that shit is real, they even have records. LMAO🤌

lol wtf

Ummm you’re on crack bro. JOBY is 18 months to nearly 2 years ahead of ACHR in the FAA process. If you want to argue that give me a link showing them ahead you’re not going to find one

🥭 will veto anyways

Better than puts the last couple of months

I’m gonna need a 1,000 jump on the nas legitimately fuck

AI does other things? Thought it just generated memes

Okay, but on the other hand/butt you do owe me if this leads to something exhilarating for the two of you...

It’s all over, Panic Sell everything

Frankly, nobody does talks HARDER and LOUDER than me.

The House just passed a resolution to limit war powers. Now it heads to the Senate.

Always have been

Can we do another 9 days up? These down days are owie.

This is hilarious

why is RDDT jumping afterhours up and down

Man, to have only $1k of credit card debt again...

Too late to buy shorts on vcx for ipo flop dump? Bid ask spread too crazy to buy puts...

CRSR is going to moon tomorrow morning. CFO is going to go to prison for sparking AI hype load up on calls at open. Thank me later.

Yessir

Probably tmrw lukewarm red and then Friday rally

I did

I'm still up 95% on my position today

*shrugs*

Feeling cute, may drink some pineapple juice later

redditors cryin? whats new

You heard that?

The fuck happened?! Why is everything selling

I was going to buy puts, then i came here and 5 min later im buying stock, now i feel like i truly belong here

AVGO oversold for the day

Stick with it. It's a winner.

Over his legendary career, The Undertaker wrestled a grand total of 2,195 televised and house show matches. Throughout his 30-year in-ring tenure, he maintained a dominant record of 1,634 wins, 497 losses, and 64 draws, giving him a career win percentage of roughly 74%.

#LMAO🤌

i am overdue for pull out back shots but that doesn’t mean I’m gonna get them.

WHY DID I SELL 1 minute before close. would’ve had 5k+

Ha! Pride!

Spit on that Huang

You first !

Good news, she was already bailed out. But im sorry to say grandma got pinched, good news though since its a minor offense its only 500 in targets gift cards for her release. Please drop code to my DMs to release granny, she aint cutout for prison.

AssTits fucking me again

I bought some 0dte 65p right at open. I set a sell limit order to get me a 2x which filled fairly quick. Honestly just kind of went off vibes. I didn’t think it would crash, but after yesterday’s pump I thought there at least would be a small drop at open and I somehow lucked out.

First you need a legit trading edge and fleshed out strategy otherwise you won’t know what to buy or when to sell. That’s the toughest thing to come up with.

Edge aside, I only sell the puts of a previous leg after the stock moves enough for me to justify scaling into a second leg. I also only scale in on the upside, not the downside, but that’s bc my strategy’s edge is in catching upward momentum. If I had a strong edge for shorting stocks there’s probably a way to make something similar work but I haven’t figured that out yet. The strangles let me capitalize on sudden drops though so that’s good enough for me for downside capture.

Bullish

I hope to just get a refund or -10%

The rest of RDDT is crying over elons new company meanwhile it will probably go to 5 trillion lol

There's a pill. Check it maybe.

Semiconductor company and this guy has posted about SIMO before so we'll see if pans out

Lol bers thot

I overheard some of you were telling your tinder dates you are a stock broker, you fucking nerds lmaooooooo

You misspelled spectrum bruh

Well we already can see the rotation to profitable companies, AI down, Victoria Secret up 50%

Triple Top pattern emerges

Good for you buddy

Yeah I put in about 300, made a hundred and dipped

Is this the Cumming Formation?

Im going to set the record for fastest blown acct with no pdt tomorrow

I will not paper hand my nikkei shorts....

Hope you didn’t listen lol

#TALKS ARE GOING WELL

Shows over folks, time to be gay.

Nah it’s gonna V and fuck all 0DTE and weekly call and put holders and pin to 7600 for the next two days

Avgo will recover.

But how about actively using money to short the place you’re at?

Bulls rn: My calls aren't going to be -99%! They're only going to be -79% now!

#Ban Bet Lost

/u/Hugheston987 made a bet that SPY would go to 749.57 within **1 day** when it was 759.63 and it did not, so they were banned for a week.

Their record is now 0 wins and 19 losses

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

Da hell ya talkin bout? It’s up 12% this week

Sell the dip!

Dream analysis probably topping any technical atp

PDT rules go from 25k to 2k tomorrow. 

I anticipate more manipulation than usual in the coming weeks.

Anyone buying soxl now?

Losing money on stocks is better than when I used to lose all my money on onlyfans and liquor. I'm a reformed degenerate, coomer alcoholic to degenerate gambler

Can semiconductor/AI companies please stop sucking liquidity out of everything else? You can have your 40% overnight euphoric pumps and 50x sales to price IPOs, just save some money for companies that are actually profitable, I'm begging you.

I’m liquidating everything and burying cash in my backyard until this Great Depression is over

pls so i feel better about my avgo calls

Depends. Who are you calling?

But will save the Earth by lowering the human population.

Alright MLK

/\ incoming

Bear haven't seen this kind of red for awhile now. Tomorrow they're gonna YOLO their life saving on puts and.......BAM!.....they'll make a few hundred % of gain but because of their greed, they'll keep buying puts and Friday Bull will take back all their gain + their life savings.

For perspective, the 1-month low is 581.50

Lambo or bust by end of summer, nothing in between

They’re in their fiscal Q2 regard

Just checked in for the first time since market close

#AVGO LMAO 🤣🤣

Bulls are actually cooked this time lmaoooo

Its pride month ghey bears prevail

Only hope tomorrow is trump annoce some magic news and whole market pump. 

It can save market

I dropped 30% of my cash in that shi early today. I am cooked tomorrow

Exactly, people need to digest that will mean Iran runs the strait

It's been a rotating group of stocks doing that for several years now, hence the "rolling recessions" people talk about.

Hock Tan is 🥭's kryptonite for market pumping. Every time he opens his mouth, the market takes a dump

everything will just be getting more expensive :)

I'm not on the bandwagon of making a nice month like June into a gay month. February is gay enough

45 days ago you said spy was heading to 550 by July bruh. Stop being bear 

Just wait for the slight correction and grab some calls

RDDT back to 200s soon mark my words

I’m sorry to hear that bro lol, 

but, if I studied in CS in my university, I would be 3-5x faster than I am now. And if my native language was English another 3x times faster then.

So technically, you are potentially 10x faster/better than me my friend.

I don't think it's like all rigged or whatever but it could be a genuine liquidity grab. CRDO was -15% AH on a stop loss raid and opened green the next day. Not holding AVGO so this isn't cope. Just sayin I seent it already.

sinful???? clearly the ones at my work dont care about that part

Not this week.

That avgo call was nasty.  What a drop. Went down 70 dollars and then it’s slowly climbing back up. Sheesh

Mrvl gonna pop to 400 i smell it

Is that info on the website too?

This selling will NOT stand, man

Why isn’t VIX up??

Oh wow hahahah

Can confirm. I turned $100 into $70 after hearing about it late

why stop? lets build datacenters until we reach 1 heptillion trillions dollars expended

That’s 6 months out…. You will probably do fine as they run up next earnings…

missed revenue on software sales

🥭  ded (again)

it already did, but id be happy to be a multimillionaire, good luck to u bro intel is a tough hold hope that shit prints up to the moon with amd LMAO🤌

S&P500 rises for 9 consecutive trading days, the longest streak in more than a year, has a correction and suddenly people are freaking out. Some people aint gonna survive a real bear market.

Well if someone has expired options or loses 100% then they aren’t holding a bag.

Do it. Turn this circus on it's head

btc bottom 

ya'll gonna love this

I mean, I know that, but why everyone suddenly talking about it today?

Oh hi bears nice to see u again, i was feeling lonely 🐻

Because it had a flawless beat and raise

Honestly im even fine with market going down 1% thats just healthy and then we slowly climb up again

MRVL bye bye

Ho Lee Fuk AVGO lol

Y go down?

dummies are using AI on the hoodie app to pick trades instead of foraging for food

🥭 gonna dilute the US government to pay for war reparations. Buy puts on US government

I always vote against executive compensation.  Also against the current accounting firm (some people just want to watch the world burn)!

How fucked am I on my jan 15 2027 $450 call

why ?

My SPCE puts have printed $18 thank you very much

You don't know me. I lose money both ways

It’s not going back up. Log off for the night

Never give up boys, even at 1hp you can do 200 dmg.

it will recover once the institutions start buying again at the new price. i bought the arm 2x etf for earnings and was down over 30% for a couple of weeks, suddenly up over 100%

Should have sold MSFT Monday when it pop lol

This guy doesn’t know that stocks only go up

Hotlines will be posted, not just for memory bros if that happen.

Depends on 🥭 tweets

Its just V'ing since oil went down on the war resolution ACT being passed. Give it till tomorrow for folks to realize that oil prices won't go down till Hormuz is actually open.

potato, tomato.

Supposedly because CEO didn’t update AI guidance is why the big dump. Easy recovery by next week

I'll buy you a pair of nice slippers if it does.

Closest he gets to it is the pads laying in the trashcan

I never hold company ESPP or RSUs either. I mean full on betting on their downfall.

I don't blame ppl for selling off after the price got jacked up to where it was.  I personally am in a bunch of ai stocks for at least a year.  It was fun to watch it go up for a week before this report, but ultimately I'm not worried at all.

Easy money.

Mods, this guy's DEFINITELY deserve a bug beautiful flair

This is gonna be the v to end all v's all bers hopes and dreams will die when thereputs are worthless by open. Maybe. I hope. I have calls
 Someone hold me

Fertiliser shortage from the war, just speculation though as that’s what I’ve heard.

Doing my part for pride month by consuming nothing but yuri for its entirety 🫡

Who made balls loads of money 🐥 me

Last red day they were talking about bond yields. I guess none of it mattered. Stonks go up.

#Every tech stock after reporting earnings: up 30%

#My tech stocks after reporting earnings: down -15% LMAO🤌

hahaha all the regards piling in to make that quite clear now 😛

Need Jensen to make a small correction and say MRVL is really a soon to be 2T company. Please my calls beg you.

Aapl please hold overnight

People probably said the same thing about the internet,  truth is nobody knows how far it will go.

It's already very quickly going incredibly fast and far. 
"It can't wipe someone ass or make a cup of tea" 

How you judge it is how you use it and what you use it for

They wanted it to go up, it was nonstop pumping and ignoring reality. Now they want it to go down, it will be nonstop dumping while caring about headlines again. 

Shits all rigged and controlled by their algos.

For bears.

**Ban Bet Created:** **/u/wrongrobertpatrick** bet **SIMO** goes from **303.37** to **335.0** before **05-Jun-2026 06:04 PM EDT**

Their record is 0 wins and 0 losses.

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

I think it was like $850 or 900 when I bet it, but had been at $650 just a few days before. It was also before UBS's monster upgrade. We'll see

!banbet SIMO $335 2d

Hock Tuahn

Closest he gets to it is the pads laying in the trashcan

”every time he sells, pump it”

I bought AVGO dip, MU and more MRVL i smell green day.

Tesla He-Bots are next year.

I love a futures rally after 🐻 scream victory… not even .5% drop and they loud as hell. Open red and trapping as many 🐻 as possible

Made £25, got out, bought a pizza. I suck at investing and even I knew this was the most pump and dump stock out there

I prefer short

It's on the website.

Alright no more earnings call. Just gonna buy puts on MSTR now to recoup

The great copening has begun.

still hope for spce?

Textbooks are sacred. Do not destroy them. Msth 231.

[ Removed by Reddit ]

Price upgrades on AVGO incoming.  

ATP will be $550.

Went there before, honestly that stereotype is pretty much just South Asia. The desert climate in West Asia ensured most don't really shit outside due to the heat and sand fleas all around them, but the tribal ones that didn't assimilate are still definitely sister fuckers and shit everywhere. Ironically it's sinful in their religion to not care about personal hygiene, so it will still affect them to a certain extent rather than full immunity to the smell.

big beautiful bull trap during afterhours.   
I guess bers still exist and some bulls survived the dump  and thats intolerable for the market.

Source?

The CEO is not a salesman which some speculators want, he just states whats up which is accelerated growth, demand and contracts. Buying the dip

Freak the fuck out and sell everything.

Gold and silver is always there when cash and crypto and stocks are shit. Or bonds

source?

True but consciousness is different and random whereas AI and code is still structured and has limits

Yeah that's retarded af

Maybe Saylor boy has a few Trump pumps left in him before the ship truly sinks.

I dont think the inner working of franchising is considered common knowledge..

Have to buy me a drink first

AVGO and ANET dip was bought

Yep you Totally charred bro

I guess

Looks like I'll be a long-term investor in the space sector.

Feels nice, ngl.

Puts for the next week. SPY probably gonna go to 730 eow.

Did I stutter?

i fomoed into avgu right at market close, saw the initial big drop and recovery, greed took over so now i'm also an investor. It sucks but i remind myself that there's over 50k calls at 500 and higher and congratulate myself for not being part of that club

why do I have a strange feeling that AVGO will be back up to flat by market open tomorrow

Crisis averted

Buy all of it.

And wait to see it go down even more.

I think it’s recovering. It was -14% now it’s… -11.90%

This is the worst market in world history!! Never seen a worse drop than today! SPY announcing bankruptcy imminent!

DIE SPY DIE!!! GIVE ME JPOW 2020 DROPS ON THE DOUBLE

Calls it is.

Ironically, TCMC is the only chip company that hasn’t gone supernova
but is the one company that could justify huge rallies
since they are fabbing all these chips. 

trump is too stupid to understand the value of Taiwan and how China taking Taiwan would cripple EVERYTHING

Koreans will buy all the dip

MMs using apple to prop spy for now !? lol wtf is going on ?

He said that for **Marvell Technology** recently.

V just in time to make sure we don’t have a -1% intraday

IMAGINE IT LMAO🤌

Why do people say this. Not everyone has a target.

**Ban Bet Created:** **/u/warningexit** bet **MRVL** goes from **292.5** to **400.0** before **05-Jun-2026 06:03 PM EDT**

Their record is 0 wins and 2 losses.

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

**Ban Bet Created:** **/u/cirl-gock** bet **BB** goes from **9.67** to **12.0** before **04-Jun-2026 06:03 PM EDT**

Their record is 0 wins and 0 losses.

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

Agreed. I don't see anywhere in their actual report that they missed expectations or targets by any stretch of the imagination so I think these weird headlines being posted by different sources are misleading.

!banbet MRVL $400 2d

!banbet BB $12 1d

Was a bit distracted, but it did look juicy. Gotta love a lingerie story. For interests sake what was your exact play? Seems like after hours crowd pushed it back up again so quick dip was the right tempo

Sadly I didn’t get in

4 days too early.

*Yes! Please leather jacket man please.  My retirement and my anoos need you to come thru for us.*

Where is the safe haven when this comes crashing down? Obviously not 🌽

What the fuck are you talking about with even the first sentence narrative????

We aren’t suppose to FOMO runners ?

Futes up from 0.55 to 0.36 now

This bounce is going to be epic

How was AVGO earnings? Buy now or wait

Massive V

Space sector will go parabolic next week

Not SPCE though, bagholders r fuk

The day I'm back from jail is also the day the market tanks due to none other than **Hock fucking Tan**

Do you mean it gained 15%? Because that’s what you just said.

Ok, the great bear market of June 4, 4:00 pm-6:00 pm seems to be over. So let's get back to business

Spy had its way with me this afternoon…. Didn’t even use lube… rip

Believe it or not, blow lol

MSTR is still crazy high wtf

do or die

Hi I'm Johnny Knoxville and this is buy Virgin Galactic calls at $8

Had some 758c lined up ready to buy for friday expiration, got distracted at work and never pressed Buy. Guess sometimes I do get lucky.

Still would be fucked

And MU going back to flat. Why the fk was memory even dragged into this shit. But Hock Tan saved the AI infra with the closing remarks of insatiable demand and projected to last to 2028.

It's like these bitches never saw Terminator. Bro shows up in a leather jacket and tells you the future, you fucken listen.

I had to look this up and my wife saw me. You’re speed running my divorce

META chads🗿 assemble

Istg my neighbor tries to copy everything I do bruh

V INCOMING

$1.4k of call gains - $12.5k of call losses = realized loss of $11.1k. 

Unrealized loss on the shares depends on what price it settles at, now at $423 that'd be a $3k unrealized loss.

Back to even on the 5 shares of AVGO i bought lfg

I think I figured it out. If a company is profitable but has steady sales forecasts, then dump it. If it is burning money every month but promises big, pump it.

  
Oh and if Jensen gives you a shout out go up $90 billion overnight.

Because some people are terrified of their username becoming public and suddenly everyone has access to everything you ever wrote on this shite forum for years?

Honestly I don't understand how some people *don't* have a private profile.

Septillion*

levels not seen since 60 minutes ago

I bought WDC today. Am I fucked?

V forming

I'm right with you

Sure share the entry otherwise just another entry grifter

$banbet BB $12 1d

Deal 😆

Why didn't you tell us, I would have sold!

Just missed getting in at 420.69 on avgo 420.88 😔

Got my puts lined up cuz some guy said MSTR 115 in 2D earlier was that you? If so then thank you very very much

MRVL gonna make or break me. Pls be the new MU

Can we get back to 500 by Friday?

No it's not. It's down 1.5%

That’s on top of the 10k I bought yesterday afternoon 

Why yesterday afternoon? Because I thought the earnings call was yesterday and not today

Pride goeth before the fall.

The signs were there

Bro just DCA and buy more. There’s plenty of time for things to turn around!!

AVGO is slowly recovering from -13% back to -11% ... theres hope

*First day as a MM*

“Your only job is to make absolutely certain this one ticker, no matter what, never moves out of this range.”

*evil laughter from other cubicles*

Would

Do we think Asia wakes up and sells us off even more?

I will be buying a fuckton of calls tomorrow at open.  ###,###.xx

CRDO was down -15% AH after its earnings the other day and opened green. Wild market these days.

Your brain is just a mechanism that grabs data and feeds it out in a way where it seems like intelligence

Akshually /s long MU

What in the bear copium den is going on in here

futes fell off a cliff

Buying DRAM at the Local High is never good lmao.  Buy the dips

**Ban Bet Created:** **/u/magnusjr123** bet **MU** goes from **1060.44** to **1200.0** before **10-Jun-2026 06:01 PM EDT**

Their record is 0 wins and 1 losses.

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

Study and do hw. Path of success.

\#fukt 😞

!banbet MU $1200 1w

MRVL is gonna spike.  I just know'd it is, paw!

I was promised 762

It’s Broadcom.  No one likes their fucking increased costs on VMware.  You think. CIOs and execs didn’t hear an earful from employees and managers about “fucking Broadcom bullshit licensing” and “we should probably spend some time migrating off their shit otherwise licensing is going to continue going up 100% every renewal without new features”

Rather burn my money in the Intel furnace over this shit company

Michael Saylor margin call wen lol

Dud you suck  MU $650 - that should be a year ban.

Just say I'm getting crushed instead of being salty! 😂

Me. It was I.

Indeed. It's gonna be the biggest! Quite frankly, the biggliest. Everyone is saying it.

"Oh... that's oversold."

He bought?

Broadcom can suck it. I hope they are the one company left out of the ai hardware boom.

Avgo can actually turn green before market open

I knew AI was due to get fucking FUCKED but this better not mean my shit which is already at lows is gonna get fucked even more too

You guys remember when MU sold off, when SNDK sold off, then you look back and wish you had some fucking balls. MRVL will be back. Don't fucking doubt Jensen

No shot lmao

Oh fuck yea come on V I need to sell my SPY 756 weekly I just bought lmao

SPY just wanted to test $750. Back up tomorrow

SOXX green 🤣

AVGO is oversold

And there we are

Crash baby crash

This is the end.

Saylor-isms are popping up in the wild and being applied to anything, this has to be the top. Has to be.

To break even?

It was a 15 minutes of fame viral event from 2024.

#AMD LMAO🤌

I've seen that exact same post about 10,000,000 times this year and it hasn't happened yet.

Calls

I bought 1 call for $100... got at $200. lol

Hold but be ready to react.  10% drop in semis could happen but you're still up 30% to 50% in 2 months.

Yea dude a bag holder with an average cost of $2.50 lol try again

So no Spy 760 tm?

enough of 420, now go back below 400 trashgo ....  one trillion is all you get

They probably trusted u penguin

marvelous is one way to describe a red candle chart

Do they have nets?

LMAO🤌

I always get downvoted from neck beards on here for this but your better off. So many other hobbies that add tangible value to your life…

Yessir. Got in and out pretty quick with some nice gains. Hbu?

decent chance you'll win this now, crazy to think

You idiots finally convinced me to buy DRAM yesterday

I believe avgo is a worthy company and I plan to hold it until 2046

MRVL GANG ASSEMBLE

The only thing tomorrow is meta ngl

This will be bought up tomorrow

you guys ready for MSTR 120 tomorrow

Jensen bought up all the memory for the next couple years already, others can't build shit even if they have a working product.

Getting a second mortgage on my moms house for MRVL calls

Lmao why didn't the guy go at least a month out?

I give it 7 more months till the real crash happens when food shortages occur. Growing up I always imagined a worse case apocalyptic scenario where people have to fight for food, and it’s closer than ever. Yet the world is still so distracted by AI which are really just mechanisms that grab data and feed it out in a way where it seems like intelligence.

PDT changes tomorrow too... Sounds about right to treat retail a lesson.

Dream on

whatever happened to that pigeon? 

come to think of it, i seen a pigeon being MURDERED by a hawk tuesday around 6 am, it was just stomping on it, talons digging in

I need Jensen to tell everyone $SPY is the next big thing to save my calls.

Why do I feel like tomorrow we might get circuit breakered

market has been overdue for a pull back. Though this is a correction. We'll see.

Here’s the V forming

Only pur like 3k into AVGU and that hurt me bro i cant imagine 20K 😂

Is it a rainbow?

SAME.

You already have a bet going - MU to 650.0 before 10-Jun-2026 06:07 PM -05

In case you were not listening, the closing comment from the AVGO earnings call was: "BOLS ARE FUKT!"

It’s the next 1 trillion dollar company.

!banbet

"To be an enemy of America is dangerous, to be its ally of america is fatal" -Henry Kissinger.

Okay but first Exxon

I found around 45DTE for the calls and 30DTE for the puts to be the sweet spot for me.

As for scaling in too quickly it’s pretty simple. You need a stock to move a lot for strangles to earn a decent return so you don’t want to add to your position too quickly. If you do and it stays in a tight range for a lot longer than you expect then theta will bleed your position away.

As an example I bought the first strangle around $300, the second around $340, and the third around $410. That way if the price suddenly plummeted 20% I’d still make money or be close to breakeven, and if it just stayed range bound then my earlier calls already had plenty of gains to offset theta losses.

Whatdya say?

one trillion company haha

tax loss harvesting season coming early this year boys

Memory still safe. Why did I even play AVGO LOL

The sell off has started

Lmao. 🤌

The rooftop Koreans will save us

Imagine someone burning $60k just to prove you right

Looks like you nailed it

Let’s hope. I’m loaded to the tits with DRAM calls. Ironically it could be like oil. Eventually it’s get to demand destruction if your product is priced too high…

KOREANS YOU HAVE ONE JOB DONT FUK IT UP!!!

This MRVL dip better continue till the AM so i can get into calls

Got me by a few tenths of a percentage but I was smart and bought on the decline to reduce my average cost.

Action Man.

Hope MRVL opens just below 300 so I can scoop some more shares before it goes to 400

I sold my car 🚘

So you're abag holder on open/poet is what you're saying 🤣 horrible

Just need Jensen to say Broadcom is the next 5T company 🥹

It’s not August yet 🤫

I sometimes come along a comment and think " funny guy"and then realise I found my own comment

Still down 7% on SOXS lol

Definitely possible

wtf some AVGO bagholder DMed me asking if they should continue to hold AVGO lmao

And i your mom

Awesome job!!!! This is absolutely amazing!! Congrats and dont forget to 🥳 celebrate!!!

Do you think it can?

This was in the news for the last few days… things were heating up since the weekend

Evgooo

Bought 20k of AVGU after hours to catch a falling knife. Either I break even on my AVGO calls tomorrow or I’m sucking dick for money

Oh god I’m sucking dick for money aren’t I

AI is a MEME

#This is the worst market crash since bers did 9/11 LMAO🤌

Maybe, it’s at the same price that it was a week ago though and still at a crazy P/E.

Yeah 100% YoY is slowing.  FFS stop being stupid.

MRVL bag holders, assemble!

Damn You woulda thought today they had a fed meeting lmao

Is it mocking if the posters are regarded themselves?

I had a dream that a homeless man hacked into my phone and was trying to extort me into living in my house, but I couldn't find my house either so we were both helpless.

What stocnk do I buy? Airbnb?

Congrats all of you that were able to catch the dip on MRVL

That wont gap. Win some loose some

Wtv u say brochado it’s already made its leg up

Lol at the mfer who posted a retard bet of 37k in AVGO 3dtes

jensen, time to talk about spy being the next **quadrillion company.**

😵‍💫😵‍💫😵‍💫

Inshallah

gotta buy RKLB at these levels

Alll you need to do is is buy a micron LEAP with your 10k and it will make you more than youll ever make trading. Please.

Just saw an article in mainstream news about shorting SPCX. Careful out there bears! Someone is looking for bear liquidity.

It absolutely is. Look at ANET from a few weeks ago. Stock was at $172. Took a 20% dive on earnings and is up close to all time highs just a few weeks later.

Thems is the rib tips. You can cut them off.

Hock said $100B for guidance street was hoping he was going to say $120B and their reporting is dumb so their gross margins declined because they don't separate out chips vs infrastructure

Next time just flush the money down the toilet

It has about 10% weighting in the Nasdaq of its red it’s taking qqq with it. They just reported earnings with a revenue miss.

I'm just gonna wait till all of my shares are near what I paid for them

that could be a very long wait

pain 💀😂

Mrvleous

You realize you can play both sides right

Damn. Tech might tank hard tomorrow. AVGO and CRWD down big.

I thought AVGO was the next 3T company

MRVL back to 300 baby. See you all back on the run

It's a fucking eclipse. There is no moon to see.

lol I’m not down that bad but yeahhh same here

How about dowm 13% now? Do you have anything left? Maybe a shirt?

Long distance investor. Going to the moon.

MRVL about to Forest Gump run its way back up

Simple explanation👏 that's what we like, so puts it is and I believe you.

Looks like my portfolio

Google 13/50. It's a racist dog whistle.

You're the reason my CS degree is worth nothing now

Had a big run up already.

They’re fooled lol

It's ok, he's autistic and just really liked ants.

Sold my spy puts at -.7% today 😢😢 now it’s -1.2%

What’s with all these disability mocking memes?

Think AVGO open below 400 tmr possible?

look at december 25 earnings frist 😄

Jajajajaj

That’s a pussy bet

*Hock Tan, dump that thang*

Actually we are at levels not seen since last week.

They should have IPO'd before their financials crystalized... now it looks shitty

Why didn’t you sell your house to buy this ??????

Some Of You Guys Are Alright, Don't Open the app tomorrow.

My port is doing opposite of to the moon

You’re missing out

How much you down?

See you tomorrow etc etc, but seriously this is a good time to throw shit into ETFs and I picked the wrong day to pull shit out lnfao

Good to know the resolution to end war is "largely symbolic". I was confused because the Constitution says that power only resides in Congress, but this clears everything up perfectly.

Jensen set us up!!

It’s definitely a bubble! Please short all of AI!! It’s all over! SOXS parabolic!

They’re the next NEXT bajillion trillion dollar company for sure

That’s life. Hope it was funded by gains elsewhere. Same boat as you. Though I only got 5 calls at the start of the week

Japan pulling the liquidity out of this market

OPEN 🚀🚀🚀

Yes please.  I'm fukt.

Hotel? Trivago. Cliff dive? AVGO.

**Ban Bet Created:** **/u/Crazy_Donkies** bet **AVGO** goes from **419.43** to **430.0** before **04-Jun-2026 05:57 PM EDT**

Their record is 7 wins and 5 losses.

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

Jensen warned you!!

Everyone needs just a little bit of HIMS 🍆

!banbet AVGO $430 24h

i hope you're right! i'm currently paper hands holding asts, voyg, mars, lunr 😄

You already have a bet going - ORCL to 300.0 before 12-Jun-2026 11:04 AM -05

This is the funniest headline I read so far this week LOL

I remember when spy was at 666

You defintely lose it now, you are his buddy now.🤣

!BANBET AVGO 500 12hr

Even Apollo 13 had to come back from the moon

Man I hope at least not 14% 😂
I would accept a 5% decline

Uh.. no. Weird accusation lol

Print.

**Ban Bet Created:** **/u/shreddedcheese42069** bet **CXAI** goes from **0.22** to **0.5** before **01-Jul-2026 05:56 PM EDT**

Their record is 0 wins and 0 losses.

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

!banbet CXAI $0.50 4w

This was smart. Somehow a 200% gain wasn’t enough for me 🤡

Well sandisk and MU actually have strong revenue and p/e and are structural different now and not cyclic -early micron investor.

Lmao imagine everything uno reverses

Explain?

doubt the smell would bother them

Whenever my gf tells me some stupid shit is going down at SBX I buy a put

The company is doing very well.  This appears to be "sell the news" more than anything else.

Who the hell was holding through earnings lol

Indeed, my bad

Release the Koreans!!! Save our bags

My dividend stock like PM getting hammered wtf

I AINT SELLING BEFORE THE TRILLION THAT WAS PROMISED 3000 JEWS AGO

BAG7 driving off a bridge

Irans economy is booming

I said it on Monday and I’ll say it again, these gas prices are fake, XOM is gunna fuckin pump just like I pump their gas

Females? In my male masturbatory fantasy game? GET OUTTA HERE.

Have you seen Broadcom’s logo? Wasn’t it obvious?

I mean they could announce they are going to close off the North Sea and the Western European economy comes to stand still. The world has been mad for a long time might as well go with the program.

I have plenty

buy DDD they said 🥺

Just carpet bomb them with 🌮's used diapers

It’s somewhat recovering already. I had some calls for AVGO but most of my port is in memory too

That’s a lot of money!

AVGO AI Chip sales slowing huh?

I wonder what does this mean.

Means more buying power to do it all again Sir

Trying to fool people into thinking it's Space X ticker was next level.

Unironically calls.

Good time to buy shares

Lel lmao rekt lelelel

Are AI companies in a rotating stock sink pattern?

Lisa Lu might be the most manic person on this sub LMAO🤌

Idk but kohls is cooked looking at leap puts

Absolutely regarded - you’re both meant to be here

you regards can calculate the L. calls to zero, shares unrealized $483 to market x 50

Oh wow. And I was worried about my 1 $480c.

hm well fk

My prediction tmrw is rotation back into SAAS and space .

MRVL back to 300 will make incredibly happy

Safest bet there is besides consumer staples if youre ok with 3% growth.

How’s her boyfriend

Yesterday. SPCE.

Im not sure what valuations ppl are mad about, theyre forecasting 200% yoy revenue growth for semiconductors. You know whats overvalued, AAOI and LITE absolute garbage 150x forward p/e. Meanwhile MU is onlynat 15 forward p/e and will guide a forward p/e of essentially 10 by the quarter end. I already predicted ppl will say " rate hikes, valuations too high, dot com bubble" once the market has made enough gains. Not surprisrs by ppl spreading this over and over again

Trust in the 🌮 to pump this shit

That would not be very cash money of you

You mean… MRVL

Oof on avgo. I didn’t play earning but glad I bought shares last year with a 186 cost basis

we finally going back to SPY < 700?

Friday

Nvidia started talking about getting into CPU this week. It all makes sense now

LMAO🤌

I hope AMD makes you super rich to make up for your manic personality

Damn now I know my portfolio will be obliterated tomorrow

He needs to put on a leather jacket on the new earnings call.

I'm done buying. I'm just gonna wait till all of my shares are near what I paid for them, get out of my options soon, and just start saving money like a boomer, and write my losses off on taxes. I'm quitting lmao

I've completely lost interest and grown up out of gta and video gaming now. Gta 6 has taken that long. I'm sure most of the original fan base is the same

Very stable genius

Hitachi or Eaton?

Scroll down.

Feels like this is a rash overreaction though

But... (see reply)

so calls and puts tomorrow. bet

Lol, this was a $2.3T stock.  So, about $300B has been taken out from this stock today.

Ty meta

MRVL making me marvel

If $MRVL climbs up after $AVGO has crashed out like this 😭🤣

See you tomorrow

‘Great’ did not equal the expectation, it’s that simple

Considering selling my AI play positions. This could be the top for the short term or are we gonna scam pump overnight

Good for you homie? Not sure what your goal is here

just flatten everything already and make it a golf course

This post injured MSFT, more dip coming

Dear WSB retards.  I am in desperate need of $ROPE but I don't have much money left.  Do any of you have some that you maybe offer at a discount?  Help a fellow retard out please.

Ts going to eo summer wym did we get a new tweet

Tempted to sell it all and go all in avgo

Umm I'm starting to think my 10 cons AVGO 500c 6/5 is not gonna be ITM tomorrow.

i got lucky my calls didn’t get filled 💀 every earning from today has been dumping ah

You would think my dumbest move this week was SPCE, but you’d be wrong because it was NOW.

Cut your losses and let your winners run has worked well for me lol

I am down €105 (i am a student)  which i know is not a lot in comparison to most but damn it hurts. 

No crying in casino 🫡

So did you play the thong song?

cooked

Dominos falling faster

This hilarious watch all the dog stocks from today run tmr while all the fan favs crater lol looking at you msft...woof

Hell yea G

MRVL CALLS

They had papa Jenson to say a few good words

No one cares what Huak Tuan has to say

He’s asshole according to people who work there.

More like bowing down to get plowed

Rekt lmao

Fukked

It was really ugly there for a little bit

Don’t wanna jinx it but is MU back???

Numbers objectively deserve a higher valuation.  Revenue guidance of -.1% below expectations deserves a 13% dump i guess.  (And mention of supply chain issues, but that's true of everyone). 

Bought 25 more shares.  

Custom is the future.  The market knows it as well given MRVL and how NVDA has a forward PE of 24.

👍❤️❤️

If you had PANW AVGO calls..

Tell me what it's like to take it both ways

Damn sold my AVGO $445 yesterday for a clean 180%. Port is 90% leveraged memory etf’s prob just not gona look till next week

To be fair, what he’s talking is bullish for the rest of the shovel companies lol. I think the AI bubble has some ways to go

Markets realized that AVGO may have lost a client or 2 to MRVL…

Iran bombs Kuwait airport and says no more war in Lebanon or more war.

USA says lebanon and strait are two separate issues and should have peace deal over weekend, this time totally for sure.

Peace negotiations are going well!

Well damn, that doesn't look good.

Noiiiice

literally just real

I screenshotted the trades a few days after the fact so the price updates in real time

same im down 38 percent over 2 days

MRVL can't decide what to do with itself

That margarine baby. Full of saturated fat! Delicious and deadly!

Correct

we all know a random iran is planning to buy chips tweet is coming tomorrow morning

This 100% gets bought up tomorrow.  Ridiculous low volume algo sell off on a great print.

Hmmm maybe a bit too much margin. Nothing left to buy this dip.

Longest bear market ever started today

**Ban Bet Created:** **/u/AxemanFromMA** bet **SOUN** goes from **8.05** to **9.0** before **10-Jun-2026 05:54 PM EDT**

Their record is 15 wins and 66 losses.

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

The war is far from over.

!banbet SOUN $9 1w

Here comes the long term investor

R.I.P.

Poor bears can't even catch the dump during market hours 😢.

Seriously lol. I put in 1k, made a hundred bucks, and got out.

Honestly, I don't do margin trade. It just feels wrong to give them interest on my trades daily

[ Removed by Reddit ]

No they didn’t. They just didn’t blow it out of the water. Which is tantamount to missing these days

5k is still money for ants

Yup another piece of shit scammer faking screenshot 

Market makers working over time posting fake pictures here to lure naive idiots here to buy options that they sell 

It’s all part of the scam

Fuck you

I feel like avgo wil close flat. It will get pumped overnight . So everyone lose tomorrow

Spce wtf yo

Not bet against but every company I have worked for in the past 30 years have offered stock purchases once a year at the lowest price it was during the previos3-6 months. My current company offers that and I have not taken them up on it.

Welp.

go back up spy

I wanna believe you guys but im having a hard time.

MRVL retraced the entire run up, and most likely bounces here back to 300

Porsche configuration builder is not working on their website.

they do like to buy the dip

Is that bullish NVDA?

Sharp

They missed the beat 

Here til Sunday!

Short everything!!!

And if you’re on this sub, you will again. Wendy’s can only hire so many of us

wonder how many people on wsb joined with the market going up and were not present january-april 26. if you think this is "problematic", you have not experienced weeks-months of red lol

-12% lmao

At least we all have each other🫩

It will probably be  recover half of this tomorrow

From 200-2200-200 again

**Ban Bet Created:** **/u/restartilife** bet **SPY** goes from **750.29** to **764.0** before **04-Jun-2026 05:53 PM EDT**

Their record is 1 wins and 5 losses.

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

how so

!Banbet SPY 764 1D

Can someone explain how a revenue miss of a few mil has lead to this shit for the overall market?

Strike. Hedge. !banbot strike sandisk on AMZN 1 TB USD 2 day  delivery due 06/21/2026. Strike hedge 55 USD. Strike hehe 57. Strike hedge 570 ghc. Temu. She in. +6. Strike hehe 52 strike Wilson. Short long limit low strike AAL. Strike block DAL. Strike Skyteam. Strike United Airlines. strike Chiraq. September 2026. Hedge 10/31/2026-12/31/2026. Strike +5.

How could you miss MRVL it broke the premarket low at the beginning of the day ????

I’m out of the loop with this hawk tuah thing

Irans economy is certainly booming

beat too small = miss apparently

MRVL green is hilarious actually

AVGO will bounce back, they had strong earnings and a confident earnings call

I think tmrw morning at market open would be an ideal time for Iran to close the red sea...

Are you sharing any with fellow redditors?

So what I learned was if I feel like buying, just wait til the next day 😭

I am shorting public education.

No growth opportunities. In fact, the customer base is shrinking, and becoming less profitable every day.

They refuse do diversify into pharma like I've been suggesting. Or at least into resource extraction. Children long for the mines!!!

I did even better! I also bet on CRWD. Tomorrow is going to redder than my my wife’s pads

Im actually a little relieved to take this one L

Korea buy avgo😭

will I watch the direction it goes then make a post saying I was going to do "this"? hell yes

*Vicky's is the Ai of panties.*

THawk!

Aapl you’re so sexy right now with the middle finger to spy

MRVL will be back

Don't let jensen call avgo the next 1T stock 😂

The sky is falling down?

Pidgin poo?

By the way it’s falling, it sure will be lucky to be. Currently around $2.2 and falling..,

50% cash, 50% holding bags

does anyone know what Sofi is doing w/r/t PDT restrictions?

holding onto my cheapo WMB calls

The House saw AVGO dragging down semis/AI AKA the global economy and activated their trap card “End Iran War” lmao

How are the orbital data center sexbots going to call home now?

Better buy Avgo dip if you like money

I hope you talked yourself out of jumping into SPCE

Yeah but it’s CAD, that’s like 9USD

Forget about AVGO and turn the page, tomorrow we ride with WLTH (or maybe just me). Look, it’s not the sexiest name on the board, but the numbers don’t lie: $93.2M in revenue up 16% YoY, 33% net income margins, and platform assets hitting a record $92.8B, up 21%. They just had their best quarter ever for net new clients, with funded accounts growing 20% YoY to 1.78 million. Lean business, fat margins and analysts have a $13.17 consensus target. If tomorrow’s print keeps the streak alive, $12.50 is just the first stop.

Biden is so stupid all he had to do was start a war and the economy would’ve been booming.

Lemme check my crystal ball.

Op is faking screenshot, fuck this piece of shit assclown

Fucking scamming piece of dog turd

Fuck you

just for reference

The truth is that the quality depends on the implementation and the resources aligned to it.

Normally moving to something like ServiceNow is due to an expiring license on your previous tool. These vendors don't typically allow pay-as-you-go usage, so it's a hard cutover or ruin your budget plans

That hasn't stopped him before

Worked at the place for almost 2 years. ESOP went up almost 60% in total. Sold earlier this year to put into NVDA and MSFT. Up even more now

Hawk basically saying they are fucked by NVIDIA 😂

to price MRVL at anything below $400 just proves your only destiny is employee of the month at Wendy's

(great convo 🍿)

$SBIT & $SOXS

"quantity is a quality of its own" -Josef stalin  
"full port a lot of 0dte options, nothing can go wrong" -wsb regard.   
hmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm

Sir, A second CrowdStrike has Crowdstruck the building

Keep going, SPCE. I can only get so erect 🥵

Play money

Pattern day trading restrictions lifted after this dump is gonna make for the most chaotic fucking day tomorrow

AI boom over

That new god of war game look fire af. I'm sure the gaming community is very openminded about a female protagonist in a god of war game. LMAO 🤌

I am at that stage where I am praying AVGO to go back to my price

#I WANT A REFUND

AVGO calls at open

Tomorrow gonna be anoos red

“Investor” sir this is a casino

If you're a serf to a feudal lord and you need cash now

Bankruptcy by Open 🗣️

that would be dumb. Nobody gets this lucky twice

I'll tell you a secret man because you're gonna git fucked if 🥭 tweets a feet pic . You could have bought XSP puts and unloaded them at peak fear . You can trade them in after hours

Multi

MRVL new MU

Oh no

Had huge run up in last week. Didn’t beat enough.

Money for ants

Investing has been extremely gay lately

AVGO and CRWD Bloodbaths.  It’s starting….

AI is definitely selling. Broadcom chips aren’t as big a component as previously thought.

fuck I'm all in AVGO shares

I don’t know what to buy anymore

AI sales revenue lower than expected

90. A mil.

This is how they keep GDP growth rising in order to justify raising the debt ceiling and printing more money. It's all a ponzi scheme and we're just the base of the pyramid...

so many bull bagholders in here today

Yup but stock went down. Oh well I only bought stocks so not a huge deal

Former

I can come out of my 🐻 hole for today

All we now need is an attack on iren and i'm counting stacks

No position in AVGO. but the numbers look good. The market seems to be back to pre Iran behavior. Good numbers = selloff. 

This is therefore bullish behavior. Need some health pull backs to keep the market rational. We're back boys. 

Green dildos in perpetuity!

AI algos on CoinCodex have QQQ plunging to $590 tomorrow

Full ported on calls. Pretty sure my ports dead jjajajajajaja

We’re red because we haven’t praised Allah in a long time

Hock Tua translates to “chronic bed shitter” in Swahili

Reading this thread makes you think market is dead but no it’s just AVGO back to where it was a week ago.

Yall say this every month

Congrats all overnight SPY Putholders! 🎊🎉🍻

I think META TSLA look ready to pop off

Wittle baby 🥺

We needed this vote 3 weeks ago and the mou signed 2 weeks ago before all the self defence love taps...

lol, bers FLOODED the comment section. Do you guys even have any money left ?

Great Numbers but delivered by an autistic uncharismatic Asian = -15%

They missed revenue. Which is crazy to think about tbh

Bears are getting to yippy for my taste

I think this dip has just begun.   It might last a week or so.   I have been waiting to use some dry powder, maybe next week if the sell off continues

Don’t despair MU holders, I got you…

Micron is currently producing more quarterly revenue, more GAAP net income, higher gross margin, and higher operating margin, yet AVGO’s market cap is almost $1.1T higher

2x etfs on each so 25% of the port. Not saying numbers though

more of what

Why are people saying they missed? They beat??

MRVL bout to 360 no scope back to 300

Did AVGO bursted the bubble?

Semis ATH by next week lmfao

Fuck I’m going to lose so much money. Sold a 0.65 delta on SPX following wealthy option strategy. $17k full loss

bought today among the insider selling news.  plan to buy the dips moving forward

btw ... WHO THE FUCK ARE AXIOS

marge is calling

not as weird as u owning intel bro LMAO🤌

Op is An actual scammer faking screenshots

Fuck you cocksucker, ban this piece of shit

I tried to warn them and I got downvotes.

Merica

The fuck? It's barely a half day pullback

Dip just in time for payday, please hold till Friday so I can buy more

You make me make me make me wanna cry

Imagine missing revenue as a semis company in this era of crazy AI spending

Hock Tan 🤬

Is there something wrong with ally as a bank???

😱~~Broad.~~com bubble😱

Was this sell the news or genuinely bad earnings?

You might have lost more ...

Poet's shaky, but they have a net-upward trajectory imo

He can also veto it so it doesn’t really matter

"Mom gave me 10k" this n

Drill team 6 were POWs and we finally rescued them

Like clockwork and spy will shoot up 100 points

Spy green by open

AVGO goin below 300  hahaha bols are rekd

I picked the wrong week to stop sniffing poo

Bulls gonna be bagholding till 2041 lmao 🤌🏻

No way. How much did you lose?

Huh, maybe my VIX calls will print

Fuck no

True. I hope youre right either way.

Ballish

Waiting for bers dancing dot gif in a post before I make unprotected calls once more

It’s okay, now you can sell all your avgo at a big loss and buy mrvl at its peak so you can lose even more

Nvidia going to 200?

Just look at the output yourselves. It's not getting better. It's just a bit better at contextualization and knowing where to send initial queries to specialized models.  The math is the math.  Diffusion is the same way. People were like "holy shit look at the videos" until a year later they realized all the generations look eerily the same, and it becomes more noticeable over time.

smart kids* I go to bowdoin

Does 🥭 know? 

BREAKING: The US House of Representatives has voted to restrict President Trump's ability to continue the Iran War without congressional approval.

As long as the algo stops dumping 

Details dont matter

all the stocks are doing TikTok dances for views

AVGO sounds like an STD

All glory to ALLAH

"Oh no! The stuff we've been successfully ignoring!"

Cock Tan is like an Asian Larry Ellison.

Really hope these boomer dinosaurs aren’t what ends our glorious infinite retardpump parade.

Admin pulled the rug from under Elon. Payback for all those tantrums.

How is that relevant to the company making a turn around?

Or next week

Lol good luck bro

spce just noticed avgo

Put it in boys

This will boost sndk another $200 somehow. MSFT will drop another $20 as well.

Mrvl turned green that’s hilarious

50% peace 50% war

You’ll see mag 7 popping tf off tomorrow

Great earnings and double digit loss. lol yeah sure it’s a bubble.  Sure.

SPY down 4 more dollars AH? My god tomorrow is going to suck DICK

Don't worry MRVL gang also going down after this.

haha cope. my daddy todl me otherwise

Yea… that’s true tooo

yeah “fucked” meaning just couldn’t be bothered to ask for money.

Goodbye bulls. See you in hell

TAN MY HOCK

NOW tanking after hours because of avgo haha

Print.

It's never been so over, avgo bros

-15% now

"One day I'm going to sell this lemonade on Mars"

What an obvious thing to do haha smh. Thanks appreciate you

Hey now, I lost $20 on spce, have some pity.

Listen to this guy ☝️

SOMETHING IS IMMENENT I JUST DONT KNOW WHAT

Strike.

IRAN WAR IS OVER NOW PUMP SPY TO 815

Bers incoming*

Checkmate.

Yeah we’re back but I’m out of money

Breaking news he has to sign it lmao

I doubt you're a millionaire retard

Buying more Cme

Strike.

Strike.

But I though it was just an excursion?

Lmfao the house pushed for peace that’s hilarious

Thank you for buying my $500 strike calls.

do you think a stock (both having similar business models) can trade better because the name sounds cooler?

RDDT are you listening? Just bring back emojis and you'll easily rip above $200 :kekhands:

SPY 720s tomorrow

Bros, what happening in AH?

2040 would be early

Lather, rinse... Don't repeat. Turn off water.

Ghey bears! Were back! Dance! 💃💃💃🤣

its not a war. its just a field trip!

Bought 739 QQQ 1DTE puts just before the ring. Small bet of $500, hope it prints tomorrow

Probably not

I’m mad I only made 5.5k on my puts

Market bleed + hood PDT changes implemented tomorrow so unlimited trading

This sub may not have anyone here anymore by the time the weekend thread comes along

make sure u have ur calls

It’s only insider trading if you make money which is actually kind of hilarious.

I bought for Sept, I'ma hang on awhile lol

Evidently not.

The Dow is 50k. Jus sayin'

Tom Petty free falllllin

RYCEY DONT fail me now

This has been my plan all week 

Dont be like me 

My ass is loose (er) now

Ramanujan’t

Insane leverage and margin means the unwinding tomorrow is going to be substantial. If you are not in leveraged shit just sell semis now and let tomorrow play out.

Has to be some kind of mega rotation into somewhere

Don’t worry Jensen will send a memorandum of understanding to AVGO

This aged poorly

They say Thanks for holding through earnings

are my 690 7/31 puts gonna print?

can we just agree when this whole thing tanks to the bottom of the sea , software will go the other way ?

but seriously tho, if everyone just swaps to buying puts, we can all profit again on the way down

Cut your losses SPCE bulls. Short that shit so Branson has to dilute when the stock is $1

Greatest time to be puts gang

#2000 dotcom bubble started bursting when Yahoo and AOL missed earnings. 2026 AI bubble started bursting when AVGO missed. LMAO🤌

it dipped and dipped and dipped some more 

just kept right on dipping 

til market no more

I’m being kinda serious

Aftermarket is fun rn

Everyone says they’re “waiting for a dip.”
Dip comes.
They panic. (You are here)

Market recovers.
They FOMO the top. (Soon, soon..)

Position goes red.
They sell.

Then they open their notes like:
“Buy low. Sell high.”

Buying power returns.
Market dips again.
They’re scared again.

Market recovers again.
They buy the top again.
Gets burned.

Repeat until character development.

9:29 AM tomorrow: "Progress has been made in peace talks. - Axios"

HPE isn't done.

Lol 

Youre weird man

Missed MRVL and went in on AVGO - FML

# House passes resolution to end the Iran War

MSFT. 10 Tn USD company.

"The development is largely symbolic, since there are lingering disputes about whether the measure, known as a concurrent resolution, carries the force of law"

  
Oh OK so war isn't actually in the power of Congress after all, just embrace autocracy.

  
Cynical jokes aside 99% chance POTUS says "nuh uh it's legal see look at this totally real technicality" and it gets drug out for like a year as it gets punted about to different lawyers and judges. We've seen this song and dance before.

Thank god I got out of them while I was ahead.

We’re going to see so much loss porn tomorrow

MRVL is green baby

Dude tommorow everything is pumping thanks for your irresponsible bet.

would be nice if my memory stocks didnt plummet in AH

Great time to be cash gang good lord lol

I think the top is in for semis

#AVGO's miss marked the top of this market LMAO🤌

I don’t really care about AVGO, I just need MRVL to bounce back.

I work at one of the popular SaaS names and dumped all my stocks this week too on the rebound

BREAKING: "House votes to halt Iran war," per POLITICO

Thanks for confirming

Strike. Print.

They were shaped like dicks

Retard

The AI bubble aint over yet, SpiceX is in 9d

Alright, markets are blood red. I am gonna need mango or AXIOS to release the greatest article the market has ever seen

7 in the stink. Three more, actually in the stink, too

Are you new here?

after the cops leave

I can’t wait for bears to celebrate a -1% day only for Friday to be up 3%

no crying in the casino

nah intc is cooked but amd will prosper LMAO🤌

idk man i was thinking of buying a rolex

I don't know how many supports and resistances need to be broken and instantly reversed before we all agree that all of that is nonsensical bullshit

MRVL. Print. I want my OpenAi ZUNE 3 RNAA Edition. !banbet. ZUNE 3 AMZN used price 500 USD, 20300121. Try me bout. I hope I lose.

Walmart all the way baby 🚀

You'll learn that two red days are impossible in this day and age

50% correction is coming

Oh oh. Ai not selling ? 
PANIC

You cannot win or expect it to go up if you dont buy

Bought SPY calls instead, I’m going to the moon bro

bers LMAO🤌

So like , when does the green come back

Good call (pun intended)

Yes but no one cares. Another scadal will come out in ten year most likely

Buy July opex 100-120 strikes and throw the phone away
Big boys are positioned over there

Down if you buy calls, up if you buy puts, turbo up if you sit it out

quite regarded thanks

This dip will be talked about in the history books

Crowdstrike. I swear no one in that company has any idea what they’re doing; no one ships anything and yet the stocks are sky high and rising because they’re really good at selling snake oil.

Theory: politicians are quietly dipping into strategic reserves to keep prices down during election year. 03Nov the rocket takes off.

Reminder that ASTS updating their ticker this week. They went tits up so it's just ASS now

Hock Tuah Tan

Ye, every ER seems like a made up drop so institutions can load up more shares. AVGO is going to be key player especially with their TPUs once big guys realise that they can do AI for 1/4 of the cost compared to gpus. My DCF alread pit avgo to my previous target or 500$ when it was 302. We will see 600+ easily especially with their network growth as they will implement fiber optic based chips.

back in for SpaceX IPO week

My smooth brain thought AVGO was down 65% not $65

Broad!guh

#GUH

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

The amount of puts they loaded gonna fuel the next gamma squeeze

It’s over it’s all gonna dump

Soxl gonna be down over 10% tomm ezy

just buy puts at the bottom and it will go up

🥹 it’s been so long.💃💃💃🤣

cutting the loss at 460 was maybe the smartest thing ive done.

Wen expire?

Insiders can sell openly it happens a lot of companies I find.

Seems their earnings was a miss too?

After this move, $AVGO is now down on the month 😬

Just like your attitude

Were those AVGO earnings good or bad for MRVL

I saw better opportunities in the market so I just sold all of the company stock and moved all the target date shit to tech mutual funds in the 401k. Best move I ever made. Not shorting the stock but I don't have faith that the company will make money like how tech makes money

To the people who laughed at me when I said to buy MRVL puts at open I hope you know I’m happier knowing that bulls are crying than the new 911 I just ordered.

ORCL down another 5% AH, calls are cooked

#Bols LMAO🤌

The more I listen to the earnings call, the more I think you're right.

Now that the worst part is overs let’s pump to even greater heights

just to let you guys know, the market isn't going to crash

if it does pull back at all it will be 13% for qqq

I had a dream I was supposed to get my dick sucked by OP’s mother

To be fair, it is Ber pride month

I had someone angry DM me after I told them to get in and get out if they were going to buy anything because the company sucks. 

Didn’t listen. Position is now worth next to nothing from like 60k lol

George santos, the WWII veteran George santos?

🥭 a ceasefire is Diet War...

MSFT never green

You have a shitty username

Pullback starting 🤔 lot of shit is down 2-4% AH

cackling

$asts below $100 tomorrow morning

Wsb doesn't buy until after the move has happened. Buy high sell low

Lol you mean the K button

I figured the SMH would be down ~6% AH. She’s barely phased

Nah this is the fitness gym girl wave. Ozempic makes you look like the opposite of a Victoria Secret model. Just look at Araiana Grande and Kelly Osbourne what ozmepic did to them

Big oof.

Gonna drag down the sector I wonder?

YIKES thats gotta sting.

Kitara didn't even want to leave prison, she was having so much good sex.

It's ok. Keep buying. Regards unite!

Just checked my portfolio, the fuck did Broadcom say?

Puts all the way down to 700

Well hope this doesn't crash Google

I have a friend that works for a subsidiary of one of the space stocks. The guy was actually at my wedding. About a year ago I was considering investing in it so I asked him about it. He said it was one of the worst run companies he’d ever worked for and that I should stay away. 

That stock went up 5x in less than a year. 

I still agree it’s a shit company, but sometimes it’s better to be lucky than right.

LMFAOOOOOOO

THIs is the AVGO bottom \*waves wand\*

\*waves wand again\*

\*waves wand again\*

\*holds back tears\*

Lmao sad but true

Next 15 years wsb full port consumer staples ETFs

I have a set price per KWh if they change that before end of term they are in breach of the contract I signed with my provider

Yeah real talk I should have risked WAY less, these are the prices of education

You guys aren't in overdraft already?

Happy to see  that ghey bears can afford groceries and preparation-h this week

80% sure this doesnt keep dumping now 

Too many people calling for a massive correction

We are going to get some type of tweet and send this shit back to the chop zone

Thanks my bro

Help me joe bi wan kenobi

Markets always go up in the end

Korean market goes both ways. In a way they just amplify the moves which US market makes. Don't be surprised if we see circuit breakers over there as they panic sell everything

So freaking true

I sold portion of it to take profits. Still have around 46 contracts of it

Canned food and bullets lookin kinda cheap

That’s because they’re playing 0DTE options 😂

Congress is actually more useless than a bowl of shit.

R u ok buddy?

My bro. You got this

Where is the guy with the shitting pigeon?

its over, the bers were right- avgo is only doing 100b+ in 2027, less than AMD. its a pathetic company LMAO 🤌

Reporter: how would you define a ceasefire?

🥭: shooting but in a more moderate manner

What a retard lol

It’s a dirty job but someone’s gotta do it

AVGO better be green by the morning or I'm going to create my own company

Haha yes I usually wheel on earnings plays but got a little carried away here after hitting a hot streak. 

I don't trade on margin (it's just there for the cash flow reconciliation on the daily) so cash secured puts would've been pricey here and would've assigned.

Netflix you POS, go above 90

OPEN and POET both had a big pop, steep fall, and another even bigger pop after. It’ll happen here too 😘

MRVL get back to 300 by open

I think that 410 mark is the resistance level. If it goes below it's got a little bit more room to drop.

sit on your hand until it goes numb first 🤌🏻

SOXS calls tomorrow?

Make it cheaper for them and Ai will make them redundant. They will thank you. Believe me.

investing has become an cargo cult.   
people recreating behaviors from traders of 1980s, 1990s without knowing what they mean and expecting reward.

You want Jensen to say that AVGO is worth 50% less than it is now?

I hope so! Otherwise he should probably think about paying more attention in class...

Five below and Petco getting murdered in earnings too

Me thinks the consumers have no money left which leaves no where to rotate when the AI bubble pops

He’s busy grifting and making memes….

Bought a put last week that’s doing well. Trying to do the same to LASE.

Mango knows... we'll get something by open

Yeah my call is fucked tomorrow

The best part is that the price increases will remain in place. Hell, they might even bump it up a little more.

SaaS can only sustain bull runs of 5 business days

AVGO dip at earnings seems like a tradition

Nasdaq took \~15years to recover from the dot-com bubble

Gen Z is.

Cum guzzlers

The market trained us cuz why does spy being at 750 feel like a deal

Puts it is boys!

Only $5k for me after making $30k on others the past year. My first fuck up because I wasn't disciplined.

Don't we all need a little more George Santos in our life?

isn’t life just beautiful

Costco. Too. Honestly. TVS are too cheap. Who really needs a monitor?

And shit yourself

JOKES ON YOU I ATE THEM ALL

*have been assassinated

When the stripper tells you she has 3 Claude pro max plans. You know it’s the top

Did Hawk Tuah say they’re losing market share to the Avengers?

You know you're supposed to add to your positions on dips and pullbacks, not just when they're at ATHs, right?

Inverse wins again

I don't know why I diversified into bonds when they apparently follow the trend of stocks anyway.

I loaded the boat on soxs and sqqq so you can expect a disgusting V tomorrow.

My AVGO 500c are burnt extra crispy

Ok but what do I do then to actually hedge against this? I don’t own AI stock, but I have a 401k that is largely put into common stocks and I also have a Roth that is heavily into index funds that ALL sit heavily on AI. Please help

I will be messaging you in 19 hours on **2026-06-04 16:43:47 UTC** to remind you of **this link**

**CLICK THIS LINK** to send a PM to also be reminded and to reduce spam.

^(Parent commenter can ) ^(delete this message to hide from others.)

**RemindMeBot is switching to username summons.** Instead of `!RemindMe 1 day`, use `u/RemindMeBot 1 day`. More info.

*****

|^(Info)|^(Custom)|^(Your Reminders)|^(Feedback)|
|-|-|-|-|

#LMAO BUL R FUK

Tipranks headline today: Could Intel Chips Save the Economy? Intel Stock (NASDAQ:INTC) Surges. 

#The top is in

I literally asked myself that

that would be pretty stupid

+10k HPE
-6k AVGO

Oh well. Lucky I was not that regarded to full port AVGO. That sinking feeling it was going to be like NVGUH for all large caps

Because he’s lying and Iran said no means no.

It’s ok guys we just need Jensen to say AVGO is worth a tril so SPY can shrek! Imagine a serious investor or trader in the 80s reading the degraded behaviour and colloquial language used nowadays and how unserious and arbitrary the market is

Help us demented 🥭, you're our only hope.

::shuffles note cards::

Dinnertime.  Save his soul.

The AVGO numbers are trash. Anyone that says otherwise is delusional

I have a cost basis $350 1 748 for tomorrow and 4 742’s for Monday what are the odds I open +1000

Because broadcom is an absolute ai giant, and if they say the way forward is getting a little bumpy with a few unnamed customers, that is not just about Broadcom, but potentially many other parts of the pipeline.

If u don’t know then ur fucked

Yeah, the market was looking for a reason to pull back.

AVGO just forecasted 33% QoQ revenue growth to $29b from $22b and adjusted EBITDA of 68%.  So lets assume forward revenue is a conservative $130b x 68% times a 30x multiple forward PE ratio (lower because it's adjusted EBITDA), A conservative value for AVGO is $2.6t.  That multiple is fair given they're growing revenue 30% QoQ and landed another 6th hyperscaler.   

Which by the way puts them at $580 a share today and not the $600 target they were just given by HSBC.  

But whatever.  Guess I have to wait.

HockE Tan? I think he changed his name from Ricky Tan and Chris Tucker just broke his laptop.

The entire market needs to chill and zoom out. Cant go up forever there will always be profit taking and pullbacks. You can sell back to the hedge funds at a discount and miss out on the next run up or you can just hang tight for now

Weekly calls for most stuff are gonna be ded tomm

This Hawk tuah dude is a retard lol

Check out the dump on this Broad

🌈🧸 bullish until I'm not. I am now a gay bear.

Are we in a Great Depression?

Once a week? You fuckin rich or somethint?

Degen MLK

At your Mom's house eating all the cheese sticks rn

I bought like a month ago, erased half my gains though

happy pride month bers 🌈🐻

Remindme! 19 hours

We haven’t dropped this low since…

Oh, yesterday

Broadcom killed the AI trade.

Nooo, I just lump summed!

Trump said deal is imminent.  Why isnt it V-ing

Well shit...

MRVL rebound baby LFG

We need the full version.

Not sure what just happened but I am going to be poor it seems

Brussels print.

September expiration for me

Shit makes me feel better abt wiping 10% today lol but poor fuckin guy

Was there a pigeon in this dream

Come back tomorrow for your regular scheduled pump

good one

Tomorrow every pump will be 0DTE calls and every lower low will be institutional exit.

**Ban Bet Created:** **/u/AdInformal2790** bet **GOOGL** goes from **358.06** to **420.0** before **28-Jul-2026 05:43 PM EDT**

Their record is 2 wins and 7 losses.

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

Love it😂

My calls were found dead in the back of a fucking alley

Paris print.

Easiest call buys of my life at open tomorrow

I just made a bet that the stock had overextended lol... I don't believe there is anything wrong with rklb at all I believe it is a fantastic business and I hope to buy back in around 60. If it doesn't get there that's fine I won't buy back in.

I don't care how good it's core business is it's  overpriced at the current market cap.

100+ X price to sales is fucking mental for any stock.

!banbet GOOGL 420 55d

Legendary even.

So glad i loaded puts

Frankfurt print.

Korea, for once in your lives I’m gonna need you to **LOCK TF IN** tonight

It’s like those 2 days of hood pumps never happend, great

It still up 20 dollars u fucj

Eeverything reminds me of her

It’s all joever

Ozempic has ruined every single woman on it. Victoria Secret Models dont look the way they do because of Ozempic. They look the way they do because they work out at gyms and diet. On Ozmpeic you look like Eugenia Cooney or the crypt keeper

Credit to Morgan Stanley's analysts

Thats your sign. Yep.

we too lo

Berlin print.

The good thing is - tomorrow is shopping day!!

I don’t necessarily think that’s true. I’m just over leveraged. I’d rather harvest these gains. 
What happened today reminded me of how easily things can be wiped out. 
And it’s not specifically $MU. The entire market seems a bit shaky atm.

I think it’s market makers…I could be wrong…

Bruh hockey tard stfu

Radical new investing strategy: "don't"

München. Print.

When we finally get a proper market crash, it will probably be for a really dumb reason

Should’ve stayed in cash

AV-go behind the dumpster

50/50 its back to ATH by tomorrow

You watched the film?

The past 5 days rklb is down 22% and lunr is down 17%  

Lunr is also up more than rklb YTD % wise. 

Rklb is doing worse.

Did you know Mercedes makes cologne? Köln. Print.

Wi Tu Lo

I’ve seen this movie before…

we cant let the bers win

If you bought it anytime between Last thursday and today.... you're exit liquidity

AVGO, you dirty little hoor

Who tf names their kid  "Hock Tan"

we gonna catch the bottom this time right

"Buy the dip, genius"

'Republican-Led House Votes to Stop Iran War in Rebuke to 🥭 '- Bloomberg

Okay?

How do you find these options with crazy upside

Finally a bearish place, i was losing hope🥹

Ass eating is at the core if the issue here

because the house of cards has been built in promising growth on revenues and avgo only reiterated revs for 2027. the house is shaking

Some check on 1daBread? Dude threw $37k on AVGO calls.

Whats causing the selloff?

I heard they’re going to announce concepts of a peace deal on Friday

Now. I'm all pumped.

Bought two puts yesterday just to dabble in a lil ghey bearness, about to be a lot of ghey bearness.

Lol you don’t learn true regard

AVGONE

God himself couldn’t keep this market red 3 days in a row

What happend at the call? Why is did it die after 10‘

Hock Tan

Google that name

If you don't come back to 15 notifications after posting  a comment on wsb daily thread you ain't doing it right

The next 3 trillion dollar company

Still have 15% to go

Anyone else in puts and loving this?

MSFT would like a word. Pay for Copilot or OpenAi.

overdue pullback honestly but bears watch out like i said pullback but trend is going up cause who will  buy SPCX if it all dumps

Lollll

CRM Strike $190

Is the crash they were talking about here now?

pay off the debt. throw this into an low cost etf and thank your mom

But I thought saas was down because of Ai fear

Hodl am I right fellas? 

Something something time in the market not timing the market

Congratulations 🎈🎊🎉 this is the rare bear day

No options, no margin. I’m chilling.

Except just like with tariffs, he will continue doing what he wants

did they say AI?

Wait your counter-argument is "don't you know Intel trades on vibes"?

SNDK is collapsing

shit avgo buls r fuk, mrvl seeing their competition not delivering above expectations getting wrecked as well because stronger competition = bullish of course, these sector wide rallies are pure retardium, like amd surging again while nvda intends to capture their market share with vera rubin

tho calls at open on avgo and mrvl if donald dump announces peace deal no.6967?

Ho Lee phuck

Did they beat or miss? I keep reading conflicting things here

wow we all looking red 💀💀

Tomorrow brings No PDT rule. That means Pedo elites are predicting people wont have 25k in the near future.

Alright who sold MRVL?

Enough of this bullshit. Switch on the V button.

TSM has just been on self drive for the past year and half. Simple.

Buy high sell low

Look at John Profit here who actually *makes* money

CRWD at 666 😰

Fuck it. It is what it is. No crying in the casino.

Excuse me Mr. market, I asked for my bull medium rare and you’ve cooked it crispy

Yes but because management sucks and cost cutting is resulting in massive production loss along with high repair cost since everything is an emergency acquisition for parts that normally have long lead times.

I never played earnings , but 1 time i decided to go for it after seeing other semi and Ai company fly after earnings last month , I got cooked on avgo.

Fuck me

Learn what surfactants are. You can cure asthma according to what I've experienced.

I may or may not have bought Vix calls

Mine even worse. onds and space calls

So you are saying my msft has a chance

Sorry noob here.. so you pick stocks that are supposed to move a.bunch..  do a strangle
.

They you sell the losing side quicker?  How do you know which side to cut off and when?

Why is AVGO crashing the whole market?

The put:call ratio was nuts too. It was ALL calls

AVGO earning call TLDR: please stop selling your stock, my children need food

Why is MRVL down

puullback

Markets need to go down 20% here

Avgo and CRWD

lucky im +$1.50 after scalping

I did calls not avgo

I am the new 🅱️ichael Ⓜ️urry lmao I predicted this 🤌🏻

It just broke another support...

Your mom was so overdone

Alright I'll bite. To hide what?

Look at software after hours…

AVGO, the next trillion dollar company 🤣

I just added too.  Hopefully this AH dump doesn't last 😞

Unless it recovers afterhours

Shreks dick by open

avgo is overvalued, it is so much smaller than nvda and amd and is valued way higher LMAO 🤌

Want to sell my btc 
And should have sold mu

dumb comment the franchise owner is the reason he hated working there lmao.

I blew bigger bubbles with dawn soap and Palmolive.

Uh, guys, my puts are printing. This feels so wrong, my puts aren't supposed to print. I'm supposed to lose money and scream about the market not making sense!

Genuine question, would we have a redder day tomorrow or I should buy this dip on SPY and QQQ?

one of you full ported avgo calls, show yourself

Bruh just delist AVGO and save the market, ez.

Give that correction a niiiiiice lil tappy… tap tap taparoo

What's crazy is you zoom-out, and this *really* ain't shit.

Here starts the rotation back into mag 7

This correction is a bunch of regards selling off so they can load up on the real spaceX shortly... I bought some puts, something tells me they print tomorrow.

Generational buying opportunity

AI bubble letting out some air but of course it's SaaS stocks that get hit hardest as usual

How much you down?

"The House on Wednesday passed a measure that would force President Trump to end the war with Iran without congressional authorization, marking the first time the lower chamber has defied the White House on the conflict....."

Someone smarter than me tell me what this means for SPY tomorrow

AVGOodbye

Bols and their bollons...

This is so overdone, MRVL will be back

Orcl fucking me in the ass

I don’t think it cares, I think this is just based on technicals. The index was overbought

It’s currently selling at a good deal

RIP to anyone who bought AVGO calls at those INSANE premiums   
Never play options on earnings, or you'll regret it lol. There will be some winners, but plenty of whiny losers

I’m in options in this account unfortunately.

Sorry OP, hope it was a small position.

Next time sell the puts instead of buying the calls. Buying back a worthless put so much more satisfying then trying to sell calls at the right time.

Call the police! My AVGO calls are being assasinated!

let the fcking thing drill

Franchise owner is the guy he probably hates not the company.

Check on our boy. Should have just gave the money to me.

Ive never been a bag holder before, I'm sure this will be fun

Is the world ending cause of avgo?

What happened to that trillion dollar company lol

Buy a 73 inch samsung at BJSWC.

a person who thinks all the time

I was mad I only made 262 bucks today. Seeing yall lose significantly more makes me realize I should be grateful.

no, avgos music stopped tho it was a overvalued pos all year LMAO 🤌

Did you learn anything from it?

Y'all know it's blasting past ATH tomorrow like happens after every red day

I bought a SPY 756 Friday call EOD, greedy when others are fearful, but maybe I should've been more fearful, time will tell..!

you are the goat.

Inspite of all this AVGO is still positive for the week and 30% over the quarter. We got another 10-15% drill coming before open at this rate.  380-385 open will be perfect

Gamestore, PURR and HASbro calls.

Argue amongst yourselves

it *was* a goldmine. Many companies are spinning up  home-grown apps to supplant ridiculous cost of running / updating / modifying service-now

Why would I trade crypto? I’m not retarded

News for the dip? Or just a healthy pullback

So you’re the reason why I’m filing for divorce

I full ported both of them fifty fifty

Thanks

Hahaha I bought in at like 450, doubled down at 420, and NOW IM A BAGHOLDER lmao

Puts today hitting that 10x multiplier tomorrow

It will recover tomorrow. All the er dips got bought up (ZS)

Thanks

Mistakes were made. You’d think VIX would be up today… should have bought SPXS instead

shorting bitcoin as a hedge against tech best method ever. captures every downtick still even when at 65k

Thanks

#ARE YA WINNING SON?

```

⢸⠉⠉⠉⠉⠉⠉⠉⠉⠉⠉⠉⠉⠉⡷⡄⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀
⢸⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⡇⠢⣀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀
⢸⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⡇⠀⠀⠈⠑⢦⡀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀
⢸⠀⠀⠀⠀⢀⠖⠒⠒⠒⢤⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⡇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠙⢦⡀⠀⠀⠀⠀
⢸⠀⠀⣀⢤⣼⣀⡠⠤⠤⠼⠤⡄⠀⠀⡇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠙⢄⠀⠀⠀⠀
⢸⠀⠀⠑⡤⠤⡒⠒⠒⡊⠙⡏⠀⢀⠀⡇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠑⠢⡄⠀
⢸⠀⠀⠀⠇⠀⣀⣀⣀⣀⢀⠧⠟⠁⠀⡇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⡇⠀
⢸⠀⠀⠀⠸⣀⠀⠀⠈⢉⠟⠓⠀⠀⠀⠀⡇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢸
⢸⠀⠀⠀⠀⠈⢱⡖⠋⠁⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⡇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢸
⢸⠀⠀⠀⠀⣠⢺⠧⢄⣀⠀⠀⣀⣀⠀⠀⡇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢸
⢸⠀⠀⠀⣠⠃⢸⠀⠀⠈⠉⡽⠿⠯⡆⠀⡇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢸
⢸⠀⠀⣰⠁⠀⢸⠀⠀⠀⠀⠉⠉⠉⠀⠀⡇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢸
⢸⠀⠀⠣⠀⠀⢸⢄⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⡇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢸
⢸⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢸⠀⢇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⡇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢸
⢸⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⡌⠀⠈⡆⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⡇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢸
⢸⠀⠀⠀⠀⢠⠃⠀⠀⡇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⡇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢸
⢸⠀⠀⠀⠀⢸⠀⠀⠀⠁⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠷

```

thats true i bought 2x leveraged though 😂

Yes, some stocks already fell to their 3 day low

Print.

Someone hold me and tell me it's going to be ok, from behind

Nice DD. But what about second DD - demand destruction?

AVGO up 10% tomorrow kekw

LOOL everyone here was so confident about avgo

What is even happening? Spy just had to pick today of all days to care about iran and oil…

AVGO is that kid that gets everybody else’s kid sick at school

alexa, play Skyfall 

*🎶 This is the end 🎶*

Lol sold mine last week and bought a car.

Thanks I needed the laugh. 🚀

BUY Bear Sterns!

\-Jim Cramer

Dead? Probably not. But it could easily cause a sector wide drawdown, especially with the recent runup and valuations being skyhigh

AVGO straight fucking down.

I'm sorry...it's only money

VMWare customers

Print. 

Baba 

u/imustbegthequestion

Nagger

MRVL going down.😭

AVGO just went bankrupt LMAO 🤌

BB came down to my buy in price. So likely going jump back in.

imagine thinking MMs let the market properly dump before these cuck ipos land

The house just told him to stuff it.

may be getting fainter

pappy eLawn will save us  /s

why you say so?

Bought some positions at market open today right before the news of the attack on the Kuwait airport

Am regarded and hope it makes your bets tomorrow better!

Holy shit , I actually managed to sell before closing.. tomorrow will be fun

went from 25k to 81k in a week and 81k to 41k in a day. Tomorrow morning I will be at 20ish. Worst day for me

So if Ai dead. Then software green tomorrow?

And knowing this market i wouldnt be surprised if Avgo and crwd close green or flat tomorrow

COSTCO PUMPING AH BECAUSE I BOUGHT A HOT DOG 🚀🌭

no it will get 200x louder after to the point where we all go deaf and can't tell when its actually stopped

AVGO alllllll the way down to +19% YTD what a disgrace

I’m AVGOoning to the loss porn rn

FOMO in me wants to buy the dip, but probably wait till next week.

Ozempic didnt make these women look that way. Working out at a gym did. Poeple on Ozempic dont look like Victoria Secret Models. They look like the Gollum from Lord of the Rings

I hear there's a pizza chain that could use a CEO like that

Duh. Do you hedge crypto?  How many tokens do you think you use per millisecond? Can you may like Seoul? Or at least me?

Jeez bro. Youd be lucky to sell those for a cent a piece tomorrow. Avgo took out the entire market

actually?

COMPUTEX is bullish. Hold the line bols

revenue miss

My condolences for all my fellow gamblers who lost money on this pos

MRVL opens green

Its scripted you fools.

Just hold it. There will def be another pop upward the moment it feels like it’ll go to oblivion. It happened with OPEN, it happened with POET. It’ll happen here. Just make sure to sell this time and not get too greedy

Ahh yes, the Cramer special.

Good God -15% now? Wtf

On a multi trillion dollar company no less lol

Thank fuck I bought shares. Smashed earnings, tanked. Guess I’m a temporary bag holder.

holy shit, AMD is going into a bear market now. thanks avgo LMAO 🤌

🥭 is dusting off the old CIA operation Northwoods and operation 40 playbook on Cuba.  
🥭 is also dusting off operation condor, operation PBSUCCESS instructions on South America as a whole.   
bearish signal for the US because it is going to cause an multi-decade  South American insurgency quagmire for the US which is going to sap resources away from developing and defending US technological and economic hegemony

mango peace deal needed tomorrow

We can’t print molecules so at some point when the reserves are gone we will hit the reality.

AVGO aint even down lol. It shouldn’t have been near $500 in the first place. Waiting on memory to do the same

Show your position now please 😌

Down today, Up tomorrow. Idk I’m just a regard 🤷🏻‍♂️

Make it make sense we had 7hrs to lose 0.70% then the right as market closes we lose 0.50% within an hour and a half. The fact that indexes all rely this heavily on earnings of a single company is bull poo poo 🐂 💩

You mock me

they missed

Bro definitely works for the government.

If I was offered 🥭 energy when I'm 79 I'd take it. Able to play golf, speak publicly to large audiences, walk around unaided, do jokes, hold conversations, feed yourself, go on holidays. Yes, you're going fall asleep. You're way to past life expectancy at 79.

Hear the rime of the ancient degenerate, or what not to do if a bird shits on you.

It still can decouple from avgo

NVDA will pay for AVGO being a beta cuck

F u — all calls on finance

Potts and puts hedged.

Future of pets uncertain with war like situation. Aint no pets if we all die in the war. They all become wild again.

It’s over stocks will never go up again (I’m buying calls)

What was so disappointing about avgo

Man the stock is only down to where it was a week ago

Why are we shitting the bed rn?

Oohhhh that’s tomorrow, it’s gonna go 🆙

What’s the big deal? Is there news or just the war?

My existential crisis has been achieving professional success without working for a single company that felt like they knew what they were doing.

Friday is gonna be REAL fun

Did AVGO get a circuit break at 406? Lol

Market will be green tomorrow

dam son

hock tan u prick LMAO 🤌

Did you find a good stick and bindle?

have you bought the dip yet sluts???

Bulls hoping for a headline or 🥭 post. But judging from him talking today, he doesn’t even care if this Iran thing escalates more

Sell low buy high 🙏🏻 gg regard

i woke up this morning thinking i should buy AVGO puts, i didn’t pull the trigger lol

Calls now for me.

RIP to anyone who bought leveraged longs 😬

Pay my avgo $350p homie

Google and Avgo tanked the market lol

Wen AVGO loss porn lmao 🤌🏼

What do you mean scaling in too quickly?

Sorry trying to learn.

How far out do you go?

So if Ai dead. Then software green tomorrow?

And knowing this market i wouldnt be surprised if Avgo and crwd close green or flat tomorrow

Sell everything now tomorrow we bleeding twice the amount

What did AVGO CEO say on that call? Did he call Jensen’s mother something?

I dipped the buy

Has the music finally stopped? LMAO

~~If AVGO misses, it will crash the market~~

AVGO will beat, and will crash the market

Easy SPY 700 tomorrow

Green day tomorrow confirmed.

Dumbest betch ever.

DOWN 13% LMAO

BTW SPXC is up after hours with the SpaceX road show set to begin. Millionaires to be made!

Never bought into AVGO even when it was trading in the high 200s. Hawk Tuah’s an asshole.

We're goin up up up it's our moment

Bagholder spotted.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Why is MU going to be the same as AVGO?

Paper handed my 65 6/5 $758 puts for a 5.5k gain as my broker didn’t allow stop orders for sizes larger than 50 contacts and panicked. My stop TP wouldn’t have hit and I instead paper handed 😭😭😭😭

What the ever living fuck is even happening on this earnings call right now? Did someone get fucking shot or something?

This was the plan. Pump all earnings season until  the last major AI earnings and dump regardless of results

#🥵🍑💨💨💨💨💨💨💨💨 (Me rn)

I’ve seen that movie

Looks like I can keep my app closed for the rest of the week

Glad I didn't FOMO into AVGO, did the CEO shit himself during the call

Avgo spreading chlamydia

yeah mine glitches like that with arrows too

Back too $300

So, like normal?

With an earnings beat? Makes sense

We’re about to find out all summer

Ok, easy. Just do the exact opposite of what you want to do.

$135 to $250 real quick right?

i need to sell more VOO

Ruh oh shaggy 🫪

Tariff refunds for the big companies have begun, American eagle just got 108mil

Money the consumer paid.

Gang AVGO will bounce back!

I think I'll do the one thing that's been most profitable, regarding my stocks: Hold what I have.

I've typically been able to pick a sell price, and see it rise, eventually. With today's stocks, nearly everything I look at seems to be at the top. 

I recently rebalanced my portfolio, selling the winners, most of my oil stocks, AMD, INTC, and ANET, and buying back into the big, long-term players. I still hold some RYCEY, which has been very kind to me, and I bought some LUNR, which might have been lunacy. 

I sold my $2 SPCE calls for a small profit, before it peaked. 

I've fiddled around with my portfolio more, in the past six months, than I have since 2020. That was not a wise move. I'm still hanging around 28% for the past year, which is nothing to be ashamed of, but I missed at least 5% because of needless buying and selling. 

So, I sit and wait.

Could be delusional, but I do think MRVL makes another run in the near future. AH next week sometime would be my guess.

Boom. Headshot.

*Hock Tua, spit on that thang*

**Release the bots🤖🤖🤖**

#COMMENCE BUYING

SK will dump hard at open. It’s fucked

Wait until INTC gets shaked.

AVGO will be responsible for a real hormuz deal.  MMW

fuck you

did this regard hock say anything worthwile

that's not what my simulated trades simulation was showing me 😫

Well at least now I don’t have to worry about selling my avgo calls at a loss or holding till expiry shit is worthless

Everything should have 2x leverage and inverse leverage etf so I can always win. AVGO only having 1x leverage etf is a crime

Dude when was the last time we saw - 0.8 one hour after close

AVGO just kicked off the bear sterns moment of AI bubble

AVGO buyers get a free dunce cap if they double down tomorrow

Price. In. Print bubu.

Not super worried just buy when people get scared and sell

Started with 2K

lol fuck I played this AVGO earnings like a complete retard

AVGO dragging us all down with it 🤬

AVGO will trade below 400 for awhile and then back up over 500 end of summer.

Lolz. Right? I bought in today at 18!

Yup.  If you lived through the 2000-2009 time frame you know it's coming.

on the phone with Axios rn

Whoa, Black Betty, DRAM-ba-lam  
Whoa, Black Betty, DRAM-ba-lam

Is MU going down due to AVGO? Why lol?

I've shorted the shit out of my brother's company ever since the day they hired his regarded ass.

Spurs I guess…

AVGO killing my ANET fahhhh

not him specifically but have you read the other comments?

Market will be crashing on the first day of no PDT, Lmao... Retail will be exterminated

Do not sell and the loss isn’t locked in.

I hate it here. Who knew AVGO would drag the whole fucking market down

Correct. Lifestyle changes everybody. Get a gym membership.

Avgo and crowd singke handedly popped the bubble. Crazy sht

CRWD -> stock split
AVGO -> ass split

Good point. Wondering how whales rig the market moving forward. 

Although they probably don't need to do anything different. More 0DTE being sold with volatility probably takes care of that itself. 

Quick liquidity sweeps, easy stop outs.

Hock Tan said Hawk Tua on stage

MU V tomorrow will be biblical

amd is going from 16b 2025 dc revenue to 100b+ in 2027. what in that picture screams overvalued.

Avgo deserves to be down another 40%

What did avgo say?

this is how an ai bubble bursts with thunderous amounts of worthless avgo calls

when does it expire

anyone remembers El Maco meal???

fucking lol

Isn’t every day… oh nvm

What goes up most go down. 🤌

I hope korea come to rescue MU

# SpaceX Prediction:

* Retail goons in at open, price spikes over hours or a day or so
* Big pullback, lasting hours or a day
* ETF buyers, certain instutitions and market makers, slowly average in... so the stock grinds up over weeks, or maybe a month or two
* Once enough buy volume vs sell volume has fulfilled ETF balancing needs, it'll grind down over months to a more sober valuation (morningstar analysis?)
* Changing of the guard in DC in 2027 and/or 2029 hammers the stock, starlink slowing subs growth hammers the stock, TSLA flailing hammers the stock (due to good money after bad self-dealing acquisition fears), SpaceX reaching Mars somehow, some way... skyrockets the stock.

You can sell AH you know

My condolences 🙏

Still profitable is good. Go take a break

How quickly can I get equity out of my house??

i was all cash and decided to play avgo im acc a regard

Replimune i guess

you are seriously comparing a 5000PE which US owns a stake 200B (at the time) mkt cap that basically trades on vibes with a 2T company that usually dumps on earnings?

Now I got to buy a couple of calls to make up for this shit. Goddamnit.

How are my ORCL 250 eow calls doin? Have they risen tremendously?

I bought some OTM $SPY and $QQQ puts as a hedge into to close. They’re so OTM but I think they’ll be ITM tomorrow. This is crazy

Maybe wasn’t a small amount either 17m shares

ADVANCED MONEY DESTROYER IS OVER THE TARGET

why am I catching the avgo knife

Reminds me when everyone shat on intel

Das Über Nicht Alles.

This sounds so fucking crazy lmfao it’s just full faith and diverting to AI and praying that it just keeps doubling til 2027 🤣🤣 and it’s every blue chip! We’re collateralizing debt against compute 😭 can’t even make this shit up

No he just repeatedly said the N word

Upvote this comment if you're down on calls that you were previously up bigly on

AVGO working on locking up HBM supply in 2028 and 2029. Plz react to that MU

CRWD chose violence

Warm mayo on a 3 day old burger. 😎

AVGO crashed the market but the market has been dumping since yesterday?

Jan 2027 UVXY 3c & Jan 2028 UVXY 3c same price,

Facts.

fix this 🤣🤣🤣

If you don’t mind, let me know if it’s also my employer please. I’ve been considering it lately but I also have at least one other name in mind that’s likely.

wtf Hock Tan said in that call? 🤣🤣

I DEMAND SPY AT 669.

NO PARTICULAR REASON.

it's not great

Get faster internet. Anything but CHTR AND VZW.

he's mocking you, the rage is only in your head.

What's going on with AVGO, did the CEO say AI is over

Sold soxx. See you on the other side  ✌️

can’t wait to buy my AVGO leaps next week

Demand for memory will go down at some point and the down cycle on MU will be brutal 💯

AI 🫧 
AVGO 📌

LMAO!!!

#Gotta say, this chat is WAY MORE FUNNY when the market tanks 😆 

#When it's up, it's kinda 🌈

You mean P/E? There are several well known companies in semis that have nearly as high P/E or higher lol  
I think the expectation was for AVGO to crush earnings, instead of just a modest beat. We'll see how this turn out in a few weeks, maybe a few months.

# DELIST THAT MF WHAT A DISGRACE

Not too late to rotate into the waste management sector $RSG (pump my bags pls)

You think its going to reverse? Lmao go take your shit dude

SPY come down 5% by Friday.

Holy cow?! Was there a reason we collapsed?

I'm ITM now on a few condors, Honestly if they are going to do this send this bitch to the basement atleast make me laugh

Kevin Warsh's fault

Some douche bag all over YouTube.

I’m down $1800 on avgo nd 1200 on mrvl.

Uh oh stinky

Green by open

from now on im doing the literal opposite of what this place is telling me to do

Crwd is actually splitting their stock though

Where tf is 🥭 when you need him 😩

Don't worry. Buy the eom ink with coupons or discounts or out right.

Cooked right?

Me if I sold this morning LOL

Sold all MU and MRVL and lost like 4K (was up like 7k) but portfolio is back to numbers not seen since a week ago… 

It’s one of those days of… when do I get back in?

Wait - you mean semis were overbought 😮

Theta gang wins again

Just take the meeting to the toilet?

Axios!!! Release the deal news!! do something ffs.

Buying the fuck out of the DRAM dip idgaf

But did a pidgeon shit on you?

You belong here

They said here take your pdt and enjoy your bags losers

sit on your hand until it goes numb first 🤌🏻

Wtf happened man my magic 8 ball said today was gonna be green

Just wait for the panic to set in

Jensen?

buy the dip

Don't worry. Fill the paper.

well the crash is here

AVGO (All Value Gone Overnight)

Oh well that will only be a quick 9 years, over in a flash

Looking at what the post makary FDA been doing it's time for some biotech bets

But why

$avgo will be under $400 tomorrow morning lmaoo 🤌

Is SNDK not going up $100 dollars a day anymore?

very sad

Nah.. we will get a tweet

25 minutes left in this zoom call but I gotta shit so bad

It’s gonna be very soon 😂

They were fcf positive then too. Day rates of something like 1mil per day then it all went to shit.

Funniest shit ive heard in my life

Qqq is doing a stock split. Except it doesn't, just halves in price.

They were always here.

going below 400 already sheesh , this was a massive win omg

Liquidation event

had to reread spy puts like 3 times to get it

AVGO can shit itself to hell, but GUH, dragging everything

Nice it’s still got plenty of room for a retrace 🤩🤩🤩

Lmao at bulls with calls

I'm printing. I'm going to Abu Dhabi this year. You ask know why.

this calls for an anger wank

I can't believe AVGO would kill the stock market like this.

It’s joever boys

Did you know they found a really deep tunnel in San Diego that crosses to Mexico.  Yeah, that's where AVGO landed after earnings.

Maybe I shouldn’t have purchased calls today then. Hmm.

I’m selling out of everything tomorrow. 
I think $AVGO is bringing the entire market down. (At least for a bit)

Enjoy every second of that feeling that your'e going to win and the market is going to go down because we all know the V is relentless and brutal to shorts.

This is not so good

Fuck bro I did too! Like it’s down a little and I’m like, damn that’s a fake down.  Calls all in bro.  And then I’m like fuck!

What happened

or a 10yr bond at 4.6%

Don't you fucking tease me my $400 AVGO put is going to be ITM.

One earnings report crashed the entire market

Stopped reading after robot sex slaves. Do they have personality?

Cocksucking fucking stupid DRAM

So much money to be made here

Wtf did they say on that call

me too

Just have a very strange feeling that MRVL rips tomorrow morning

Bag7 holding up fine so far after hours but semis been the only thing propping up this market. Scared to see what tomorrow is like when semis are red 😔 already down hard on Google, msft

You’re lucky you got $5 back

that was me at the end of march, be careful, it didnt turn out too good.

I did. Print. How many squares? I'm on 64-D chess.

no more pdt flags tomorrow for regards so lets make a mint! yolo on 0dte all day

Klopp?

Taco Thursday 🚀🚀

reddit suggested it to me, thats why

AVGO should never be allowed to report earnings again 😡

That’s in a couple Friday’s from now. Don’t think the market is open that day.

The light should be green

Is this where I should buy more? Is this a dip? Or just fuk a retrard day?

🥭 holds a lot of AVGO, he's not gonna let this happen long term, he's about to TACO everyone out of this pickle

Ngl, this is the best time for this to happen. So much time before tomorrow's open

why does loser sound like laser but sadder

Please someone cut their phone line ASAP hahahha

sell Sell SELL!!!

Zoo wee mama!

Lol AVGO actually crashed the market.

Nice dive market can we go lower. Stuff is still overvalued. If not I’ll catch the move with some leveraged funds at Monday open which ever way it decides to go.

No pigeon = no puts

Avguh isn't trump staked too big to fail

They are enough rich they won't get govt bailouts

Didn’t have AVGO tanking the entire fucking market on my bingo card

Now imagine oil hitting $105 tomorrow…the rug of rugs is upon us….

Avgo crashed the market. Good news for me its just shares bad news is it still hurts like fuck

Squeeze deez nuts you fuckin nerd.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

When they were needed most, AXIOS vanished.

Short squeeze these nuts you fucking nerd

Hey! Who said MU was allowed to go down

AVGO selloff is easy money. Will buy more

Gentlemen its been an honor

26K Mon Close -> 11K Wed Close

CRWD is doing a stock split

I know we all hate seeing red, but also we’re gonna be up again by this time next week

keep in mind that market maker abuse low liquidity environments to cause bigger price movements. pre-market says nothing

Remember this day that June 3rd, AVGO was the catalyst

Close the casinos for the rest of the week LMAOOO

Crazy inverse 15%

Don't worry guys, we're still above the Bondi Line.

AVGO not stopping jeez

AH dont matter, wait till pre market tomorrow before actually panicking

What the fuck is happening, my port slowly bleeding all god damn day and still going

I wish ragebaiting was a profession i think i’ve just convinced myself im the goat

AVGO is the next $1T company

It's wild how one stock can bring the market down like this 😭

Avgo tanked -15% wtf

My klar ipo shares down -58%

Ai dogs

woah 15% down

AVGO candle doesnt fit my screen

Yeah last time they dipped 35% nbd

Here goes the 🫧

fucking christ they're actually doing it, they're dumping NVDA for no reason. This stock cannot catch a fucking break

soxx under went under 600

Hmmm - a 2,4T AI company swings 18 % on earnings day. AI bubble? No way 😄

Lube up, tomorrow looks like it will be the start of the ass pounding.

I hate Broadcom

I sold half my calls before er thank god

Should've bought lotto puts on avguh as hedge

I mean.. Amazon has stock split since, and Meta is up and up since then

Lmao good lord my portfolio got nuked today

if this call continues, share price will collapse to 0

Goddamn just straight down

950 tomorrow, maybe 900

You're kidding right?

It’s gonna go below $400 I already know it

This is actually fucking hilarious, nothing has changed, just a great dip to buy some monthlies on.

$24k of the $37k was in 50 shares. It's a brutal L but not as bad as if the position was all calls.

MU makes all the shit that goes into this shit. They don't GAF as long as the world needs ram and let me tell ya. It needs a lot of it

18k

not too bad

Europoors and Korean gamblers gonna dump this so hard

it cant be that fucking bad jesus

Tom Petty has joined the call for a cappella of free fallin

Really ? Right in front of my unrealized losses?

AVGO is boomer garbage, kind of like ORCL.

Wow avgo keeps going down

I had a feeling this would happen today so I exited all of my risky positions yesterday at close. but like a regard, FOMOd back in on this mornings pump. RIP my port

today was a wake up call for us that stocks arent always Green every single day

AVGO calls at open

Can you fuckers sell this shit and buy oil producers again please - I’ve been waiting

I knew Avgo would be red but not like this I thought we'd be like 440

Yeah PE on that like 8 billion lol

Call yourself a Bol, you sound like a bunch of pussies

lol well after hours is looking good for you let’s see what premarket says

How are you doing now, pal? Need CPR?

this is pretty rough ngl

we are going to see 50-80% corrections, 2022 all over again

2k gone just like that

Son of a fuck

Became a long term value investor on AVGO

GUH

UVXY LEAPs are going to surge. Nothing is stopping the bond meltdown.

Holy shit. AVGO now down 15%. This shit keeps getting worse.

BREAKING: AVGO ANNOUNCES CHAPTER 11 DURING EARNINGS CALL

This is the way

Green numbers mean I'm down 50%?

How come Intel did better than Broadcom today when they still haven't made any profit?

Sorry Broadcom holders

AVGO oversold.

Is it safe to enter AVGO lol

Good one

Just a niiiiice lil correction

Thats why you never play the AVGO earnings

Dude, you would solve the world economy.

Here's a PHD in economics for you

To my knowledge, it doesn’t have a “vesting” period, but employees can still be subject to trading blackouts or varying kinds. I worked for one company where ICs were not subject to blackouts, but, more recently, I worked for another company who had ~6wk blackout periods around their earnings call. No employee were allowed to trade during that blackout.

Thank you for your service

MRVL still up over 50% on the 5d

I'm kind of scared for MU earnings after whatever this is

I woke up with wood so I bought some lumber stocks

Absolutely not due to momentum shift. Sorry bud, you're fucked

He must be trolling, he literally just said “10 / 5 =2” is wrong, it’s well ACKtually “2 * 5 =10”. Apparently inverting the formula is FUD because division reduces a number and makes his argument sound weaker

Who just dumped NVDA

I guess 10-20% sell off on AVGO was the right call. Semiconductor trading at P/S larger than the dot com with the only thing holding them up being Mag 7s willingness to outspend anyone to protect their own while they get ahead. Show is ending.

Did they get hit by some missiles or something? Because holy shit their stocks are getting destroyed

Dude check the ratios on that sucker

AVGONE

SPY 750 is literally not ... Oh. OK. Anyways.

Why did Petco drop 15% on earnings

Oil pushing to 100. 

Positive news report had no effect. 

Prepared your anuses for the big black drilling dick of oil.

AVGO ☠️

What will happen to MU

AI bubble burst, fucking panic

DAMN AVGO BOLS

AVGO more like AVGUH

Nah the government are pretty good at their job for protecting themselves and the elite, you would have made money if you bet against the people who put them into power and behave like a good sheep for the system.

The one time I decide to risk it and play an earnings call… has there been a worse drop than AVGO in the history of market???

Remind me

My HPE profits just got partially eviscerated by AVGUH 
GUH

Wtf down 15%

The market runs on vibes not fundamentals so unless you're absolutely blowing earnings out of the water it's now seen as "bad". Can probably thank nvda for that

Dafuk? AVGO going Tom Petty style

AVGOing to 0

After hours is fake n gey

I mean the franchise owner is the boss that employees at a McDonald’s see so if they’re not happy about working there, chances are it’s the franchise owner they want to screw over.

SaaSn’t

Hock Tan wtf are you saying on that call??

Dont worry OP,  you still got 2 more days for it to.reverse.

Sandisk please hold the line

Sorry for your loss.

CRWD probably needs to go back to 500

How is the spy down 1% yet I’m down 15

I looked at the 400p before close and said "nah...i'll get burned the minute I open them."

\*sigh\* Every.....single....time. lol

So… is it finally time… to be ghey! 💃💃💃🤣

The one time I decide to risk it and play an earnings call… has there been a worse drop than AVGO in the history of market???

I’m sure futures bois will have fun tonight

Atleast we have until Friday to potentially make some money back on our calls😂

Is guidance actually bad?  Seems like a major overreaction.

lol no way. Ur losing 80% tomorrow

*chuckles* haha I’m in danger

Shit is going to tank two or three more legs.

i mean sure why not

To remind WSB users that they're regards

You just know they are gonna be crying in the shower after this

So it was you!

MU you are not semi company. Don't go down 😡

Hey SPCE stop! Wait sorry AVGO stop!

This market is retarded no offense to my regards but I had to say it

should have sold in May and went away

AVGO dump feels like an overreaction to this extreme growth environment lmao. I'm in stocks, so it's all good, but sheesh, I don't think many companies are hammered as badly with positive growth and revenue, along with projected revenue growth. Will have to wait a bit for this to climb back up ⬆️

ur mad bro 🤣🤣🤣 also who the fuck is jake paul

AVGO you pos

♥️🍒🟥‼️♦️♨️❌❗❣️❤️🍎⭕🌶️🌹🎀👹👺💃👠💅🔴💯😡🚩🦞

You already have a bet going - RKLB to 170.0 before 19-Jun-2026 05:47 PM -05

uh oh war is over

Who are you MLK..??

Specifically to fuck with you

!banbet all this mooney better rotate

Wow. From $500 down to $400. I didn’t see this coming even in my worst estimations LOL. 

Most $AVGO calls going to zero.

Wow this is fucken lame

i TaKe sToCk tiPs fRom StrAngERs anD GeT mAd wheN TheY arE WroNg.

Not to worry, we are still flying half a portfolio

Jesus -15% is brutal

Oh fuck

2 days late, and a million dollars short...

Selling pressure ramping up on AVGO and ASTS

Didn’t you guys know? Iran is the tech capital of the world where all these companies are located.

holy shit i looked away for 10 minutes and AVGO is at 410 **GUH**!

HOOD has had 2 good days in the past 7 months

feck her and her ice cream

The worlds been using their reserves too

You are not going to believe it, but I ran out of money again and didn't get any pits last 2 days 😭😭

Very nicely done. Too deliberate and organized to be on WSB. Congrats either way!

That's how bubbles work. Fear of paying too much

Save yourself in soxs 😏

Green by open. You heard it here first.

I asked support and they confirmed

and I was just about to buy AVGO puts at close lmfao FUCK

I had a dream I was supposed to hit the lottery today.

Tell your wife she will now be using a skateboard for transport

Look at what they’re doing to MU 😩

I'm seeing a lot of missed opportunities lately.

AVGO get some rope.

shut up

My Saas isn’t

Go check the charts little bro. You’re wrong

Broadcom, the guy nobody wanted at the party.

just how bad is that call going? Its still falling

100% I need to put 99% of my money in qqq or something.

I MU?

that's the strategy

wonder if r/thetagang sold CSPs on AVGO lol

Imagine watching that monster rally and then deciding to buy in yesterday

The sex bot thing was disturbingly specific.

Uh oh bols. Market no likely AVGO and CRWD

SOXS green AH. Stupendous play.

Damn getting rocked right now

Haha maybe them as well. In Asia gains are red and losses are green.

How low are we going here?

Remember how DELL kept going up post earnings in spurts...well the opposite going down is....

Do you know if Robinhood has actually confirmed removal of PDT rules tomorrow? Never received anything from them. I did get emails from Public and tastytrade

Is SaaS back??

I'm expecting a bloodbath on semis tomorrow, outside of Nvidia

then why are you on wallstreetbets?

I can just imagine you sat there, smashing cans of Monster and Prime, whacking one out to Jake Paul and those other retarded ‘Alphas’. $1000 credit card bill isn’t debt, it’s a lap dance. Cretin.

I made 46k from SPCE, lost most during today. Im holding cash for a while, fuck it

Gonna need some good axios articles to turn this sentiment aroudn

Who lost their life savings on RKLB and ASTS. Show yourselves

Aaannnddd it's gone. 

Thought my Puts were dead, maybe not..

AVGO is no longer a 2T company.

Calls

Good luck!

Perfection is priced in so when its not delivered its time to panic and sell everything (Until tomorrow prob)

The music stopped playing and you kept dancing?

cash gang 👍

Whoever bought AVGO congrats that you didn’t buy AVGX like me 😭

Someone else just commented that too, to which I can only say, which time they went bankrupt, it's happened like three times hahaha... 

They're FCF positive now tho so hopefully it shouldn't happen again.

Damn this is going to correction huh?

conference call is bad -guide is bad

Im just gonna stop looking. MRVL fucked me so hard and I have none to blame then myself

lol it will definitely make ATH!

Lol AVGO just won’t stop

Well, it’ll be the stepmom of all crashes then

just the tip

Why is everything red lol

MIX as in Cocktail?

Believe it or not, calls

AVGO green by open.

This is all newscum’s fault smh

FYI the House just passed a resolution to try and limit war powers, probably won't do much until the Senate joins but it's a nice change for once

There we go - did he mention oil? or power supply? china?

Going be AVGO bagholder from now on

it’s not, the ai industry gets pronounced dead 30 times a day

Will my AVGO calls at least be breakeven tomorrow? 😥😥😥😥

Pin the hotline at the top of the thread

Can somebody update me. Why are they bombing each other again 😭

Great i lost 1 month of slow steady hard earned gains in a day

Tomoro shall be quite interesting. Ruff day for AI software stocks.

damn nokia too .. gonna load up on more leaps then tomorrow i guess

At least he can back up his incoherent rambling with a couple hundred billion dollars, still bad tho

Why is avgo in freefall?

AVGO is looking like a red waterfall 💀💀

Avgo to $300

The last 6 months

Sell the news is a very common occurrence. If they delivered what the market predicted, institutions take profits and the stock tanks. This is a *good thing* for retail to get in on a discount

Not Australian?

AV-GO to indeed.com and fill out every application you can

im never buying avgo again

same aswell 😂

10k is around how much my community college costs wtf man

Good bot

Is the person who took my Avgo shares at $470 in after hours on Monday here? If so, thanks are in order!!

You diamond handing right now?

AVGO bags added to SMCI bags to HOOD bags ... I'm the king of all retards

Broadcock is done for

Well at least I only lost $60 bucks from AVGO. I see yall losses. Couldn’t be me thoooo

Just end the call at this point omg

Perfect time to load u on crwd and now

ONLY LULU CAN SAVE THIS MARKET

hock tan you regard

I hope to God that happens

I’m financially ruined. Gonna be a pathetic hog crank sesh tonight.

Fuck you Avgo...you are dragging my MU calls into the basement. Fucking douchebag

I have crippling anxiety and the charisma level of a small toad, but even I could do an earnings call better and more suavely.

Yeah the money from 2013 to 2020 was basically dead money, better put it into other company

Bought ULTA 550c yesterday before close for $1000. Sold this morning for $5. Is this how you play the earnings?

Gonna do myself a favor and make this the last AVGO call I listen to

Corn is in everything you eat.

It stinks of ber in here

gets these fn emojis out of here

Nvm ur fucked

AVGO 😭😭😭

It’s over

I have a question: WTH Bruhhh

Welp...

I’m probably a lot older than you lol

AVBLOW

That's bold for you to assume that anyone here have a fuckin clue what's going on

Revenue forecast wasn't good. And their CEO is a fucking stuttering idiot.

Anyone that thinks there will be datacenters in space is grotesquely regarded.  Why?  ROI.    Radiation.  And even with solid gold server racks it can be done cheaper on land than in space.

is it siemens? i hate siemens and have never worked with someone who had anything good to say about the company

wonder if they cook the unemployment numbers on friday or just let this shit nuke to oblivion

Squeeze deez nuts you fuckin nerd.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

May your pillow be cold on both sides

Oh the tears of unfathomable sadness!

Actually, that depends. Mostly on the delta value you’re capturing with the option. You only find yourself in these positions though when you buy a longer term dated expiration and the stock rockets substantially very early on. This doesn’t happen often, as there’s usually very high costs attached to options on stocks that are more likely to exhibit this behavior (The CAR short squeeze is a good example). 

OP could cash these out and roll into a new strike price, continuing to capture potential gains into 2027 at lower cost with the same exposure.

Why smelly visits from floppy Clifford dick?

me this retard here

"when they went bankrupt" yeah mate, which time, it's happened like three times hahaha... 

Hopefully not again tho, they're actually just turning FCF positive.

when the fuck has anyone ever posted their trades and included costs and taxes.

People are dramatic

i am lmaooo

Maybe ask Claude

Been like 4 ghost prints up ton 754 since the close

Call robinhood and ask them to refund you. They have an insurance policy

AVGO still going down huh

That’s why passive investing is much better as you have more money in the market. Honestly, I don’t expect it to stay down for too long. I would just buy back when you think it’s at the bottom, or just park your money in something more stable

they misses revenue 22.18 vs  22.39

Ofc I felt confident to jump in AVGO after watching Dell and HPE

That's how Asian investors' apps look

id give it 30m

Why so much crying in the casino? If you play with dildos, you better use lube and spread widely

Just woke up sold my wife’s car for avgo calls and we had a deal I would check here first before I check out port. How did we do?

No on Friday and again Monday and Tuesday I think. But Fridays closing candle was very strange to me and it looked like some heavy hitters were moving to a short position. I’m a regard so I don’t know wha Tim talking about.

This isn’t the place to ask fundamentally what was wrong

A little moment of silence for our brave SPCE bag holders. Your day will come. (It won't)

It's not gonna be fucked all month, weeklies might be tho

I lost my first baseball game in three years last night. Should have bought puts.

Bought 1dtm spy and qqq calls today.  Fck me

That’s putting it mildly. Good luck buddy

wym saves? it was already at all time highs

Delete the app

the great humbling begins

Fights could replace elections

I think it's called African American Friday actually

Welp, RIP NVDA weeklies

drama kings with temu crowns

They're playing games bro 751 is the bottomist bottom we'll see while options are sellable

the DEATHBOWL!!!

someone hold me plz

*AVGO go back up you POS!!!  My calls are getting vaporized.*

Stocks up 100-1200% in 3 months to a year and regards saying higher!!! 😂😂

Snapping up the scraps after hours like a sewer rat

I spent all my money

MU now at levels afterhours not seen since earlier in the day

I’m not sure if they can tie their own shoes at AVGO

Too much greed and expectations for the market to crash yet people. Stop doomscrolling for a couple of hours. Or days. It'll be fine. 

Except if you bought June calls, then you're fucked.

You want the regarded explanation lol?

Erm acshually.... There have been much worse ☝🏼🤓

this may not be the right sub to ask but i'll have a go anyway: what was the issue with AVGO? didn't they beat estimates at top and bottom?

gimme a hug bro

Thats what she said….

Fuck my AVGO 500c, I don’t get it I thought all semis rip

Wow am I  in trouble after today.

I bought 18k worth of avgo and another 18k of mrvl looool fml im STUCK

Looking good in AH for you!

Let's see if it recovers by tomorrow

Is this before or after the ash rain?

If NVDA dumps on this earnings for no reason I'm going to be so fucking pissed. Every semi catalyst, positive or negative, is a dump for NVDA

Take your 10k off the table, pay off the credit card, then high risk/rewards trades with the rest

Crazy nobody knows how the world works

call the app and tell them you made a mistake

300k would be nice to have

If market wide sell happen it will probably crash to the 350s

Lmao jenson save Marvell lmao

I wanna know which fuker is in leveraged avgo etf. Fuker can’t get out even if he wanted to 😂

Serendipity

Guess Ill just hold my 6/18 calls...

lol it's going to be green tomorrow.

Next up: NVDA to do a share offering for cash and bols still saying bullish

Yes 
From tomorrow no rule ummm

This is the mother of all crashes

At the halftime of the superbowl

When did the market hit ath today? It opened red

If you spent $1000 on cards in 2021, it’s like $7k now. If you did it in 2019x it’s like 30k now

You going all in on strategy?  Not a bad idea I guess… could be a bottom

Same here lmao

Why? It's gonna start V'ing tomorrow and end the week ATH

Expectations have been way too high.  Maybe it recovers overnight

How do I unbuy AVGO calls?

These are the people running the company btw 🥴

good thing i am red/green colorblind

I think it's all the above

IPO races, war not ending, too many straight weeks of all time highs, micron making everyone's jaw drop, Google asking for fundraising

Lol just get out dude

Anyone who buys will have to aswell

Is that insider information?

Have you ever seen Elon do one?

Im unsure how a 10% dip in after hours trading on one company means the AI industry is officially dead? Can someone explain?

each president will be decided by a deathmatch!!

AVGUHHH

AVGO dragging down my sweet MRVL into the abyss with it

pain

Easy to say now wtf

Trivago?

Well I bought the avgo dip post  earnings and it dipped after that. Wiped off all my gains from calls earlier today.

I put $70k in. I'd feel sick if that fell - 5% tomorrow. I knew I was buying late into the pump and was hoping for 2-3% gain minimum. If I had some profit buffer to go into tomorrow I would've held

Im completely fucked.

If you also big down like me, SpaceX IPO is here to save the day. All in stock or calls your choice

50% or bust

What the heck did Hawk Tuah say?

All i see is an arrow going up next to 10k, congrats  ⬆️⬆️⬆️

And crwd

I’m holding 2 lots of $KDNY as I’m a firm believe that policy will shift to allow for the commoditisation of human tissue in the not so far future.

Don’t be a sucker and donate your currently unmonetisable kidney today just to “save someone’s life”, wait until you can sell it to the highest bidder.

This world

AVGO at levels not seen since... Last Thursday 😂

Let’s go regards time to hop on mag 7 again. The semi run is over

Jensen wang say Marvell will be the next trillion dollar company.  Guess which company just bought a stake in Marvell?

AV-GO fuck yourself

CRWD also tanking

gawd dawm I'd love for this to be the beginning of this AI shit dying

but it wont :'(

Looking true AH

This is the end
Hold your breath and count to 10

As his anal beads I can confirm

After hours is turning into a real boodbath

is this some market maker, cause panic to buy it all up tomorrow strategy or will we have -2% dump tomorrow

1k but I made 4 yesterday

The average user is basically playing a fancier version of roulette

The hearings next year will be a saga for the ages... an american modern-day War and Peace. Glory to the 🥭 📂

I am absolutely kicking myself for going back in on options 2 days ago. Horrible outcome so far but I have time.

Tell Hock to stop talking !!!!!

i hit on both of those earnings and SNOW and got greedy here today. could've closed the calls before close but set the limits too high but. i did not so there goes $12.5k in calls

Should I buy SPY puts at open tomorrow or roll out my 760c to next week?

Genuinely might be the worst earnings call I’ve ever witnessed

$25K, but I’m still up like $300k for the year, so oh well

Brokers ready to margin call the world

Anyone who sells has to suck peener

Do you reckon we will hit ATHs in 1 hour or 2?

I bought 100 shares at 120 and was able to average down in the 70s. Shouldn't have hopped back in. But now I'm going to just sell CCs and won't care if they get called away.

Avgo will come back harder in a few months

$200.

MSFT and Now f’ed big time, bought calls at the perfect top 🤣

He fall asleep for two weeks. Hope we will survive

Chatgpt told me to increase my avgo shares so i full port this morning. Need to get my $20 membership refund back

I think the ufc stage should be permanent

If I knew I was gonna be down this much, would have rather taken the cash out and gone to casino and played slots, at least you get some free spins and stuff and it's fun

90% of all new energy infrastructure built last year was green energy

as in sell everything.?

I'm holding tightly to my calls and shares and still extremely bullish on it, and waiting for the FOMO in here to start again

I'm holding LEAPS I bought weeks ago, so it's all good.

I think I made the right call selling today. 

Bought some oil calls and calls on Shell

You think facebook and amazon are any better?? 😂  

You would have been up more with the intel stock after the trump pump

I hate when YouTube autoplay has me listening to market updates from a year ago 😂

S&P BIT MY HOTDOG

The one day i decide to buy calls

Lol :p

wtf lmao

At least you made profits on spce 😭🤣

I didn’t buy any calls on Avgo but my port was massacred today so bad so wouldn’t make much difference

The good news about AVGO is that it's been steadily increasing it's dividend by 10% each year, and is currently paying 0.54% (or $2.60). So as long as it doesn't keep falling in price, I'll have broken even in about 6 years.

no, but I have refused to buy company stock

Microstrategy?

i sold the dip AMA

Didnt play avgo, not after nancy led me astray the first time

said it in the oval

#HOCK TAN

Why avgo

Tbh I deserved to get fucked by AVGO after I decided to migrate from VMware to HyperV earlier this year

I’m gonna need you to speak up

Id rather dip the buy

Mango: If there is a deal it will be this weekend.

Come on, man, do better.

MSFT print.

Cut those loses and run unless you want a shiny new AVGO bag

I watch with great interest at my old company because the price is so detached from the reality of how the company is being run, but I have not made bets using that inside knowledge because its not worth the headache if someone wanted to ruin your life.

Amazing DD

Old racist called larry

The ppl who played AVGO actually thought they were good at this

hope you didn’t full port lol

Big money thanks you for your donation

I'm glad I'm too broke for AVGO shares and calls, or else I'd be more broker

Tomorrow is the perfect day for calls

Just put it all on red 6x in a row. You can 50x easy.

He loses 35k or close to it

at least no one is talking about the epstein files anymore

California. Cupertino. San Francisco. San Jose. SOA. Print.

CRSR conference tomorrow June 4, 8:30am ET to talk about company’s recent financial results, business trends and growth opportunities

What happend at the call? Why is did it die after 10‘??

How much did you lose today?

You suffer from a serious condition called FOMO

Thank you for saving the market

I dreamed of my old workplace

thier stock pumped for years until 1/2026

 been a downward trend since

This is like Biden and Trump talking about golf swings at the debate.

haha.

that's a lot of numbers

lol, me too

AVGO calls?

We need this selloff because it'll force 🌮 to agree to a deal. He has no sense of urgency because the stock market is up

Yeah doesnt matter if earninhs beat its manipulation time

People absolutely don't want to understand economics so they can have these terrible "arguments".

I just saw another argument about how a steel becomes a tool then the tool is bought by steel companies"why not sell a $1 product for $100M and we increase the GDP ReEEET" and just ignore the basics of free trade, constraints, and the prisoners dilemma even if all the people in that chain could talk to each other.

True holding these bags till tomorrow will be difficult

Not this time

lol 🥭been eating big macs and shitting himself all day and forgot to save your stonks

Come on let us celebrate 😥 this wont last we know

yea.. pretty sure time is running out tho. There's only so long he can keep tweeting. Eventually oil runs dry

Posted and downvoted like crazy on Friday after close. 

Market went to all-time high today and then it closed. There was a $1.2 billion sell off out of $1.5 billion SPX close. It may be nothing, but this type of volume only happens during OPEX witching days.

Check out the chart for yourself go back in history and see how many 1.5B volume candles you find.

Not if you've seen the price of ramen lately.

No one’s stopping you from going to Ceasar’s and putting it all on black

Why? You could've just held on to them lmao

It'll be alright buddy, tomorrow might get a nice little pop

dram getting wrecked too

Ssshhhh keep that shit outta WSB.  Let them simple jack.

tesla

Certified Regard✅

Welcome home

I heard they replaced the big red button with a button that orders him a diet coke

AVGO gonna see 400 In like 10 mins at this rate

oooohhh nooooooooooooooo

They duking out math battles on the call now LMAO

buy the dip

It's gotta be the combination of me and the thousands of workers from low cost countries that we are forced to use remotely instead of hiring people locally, but mostly me.

That’s a very complicateddd question

Stop doing his homework

This is insider trading.

SpaceX will be $5 soon 🥶

The next wave you should look for is small portable device(Like optical wear for feeding data about how how you do your task to futur AI), Robotic(both military and civil once they learned how to flip burger and shoot gun) and more Drones, specially the one that can be deployed in water(Taiwan, all the strategical straight and South China Sea(or whatever the SEA countries wanna call it)). You should look for miniaturised camera, glass wear, sensor, Lidar, servomotor and battery.

My personal pick are:

STMicro, Omron, EssilorLuxxotica

Long ass question

So calls

sooo some regards call tomorrow, right?

This question lmao

my buddy bought right beforre the crash lol

Anyone else see that SPY green dildo just now or am I seeing things? (Again.)

Greed, that’s the problem. It isn’t a profit until you’ve locked it in.

Probably should just limit the tradable amount at the start

Are my MU, NOK, GOOGL and of course AVGO holdings safe tomorrow? Asking for a friend

Elon just wants to be the first trillionaire. I truly believe that is a huge reason he is taking space x public.  Also to steal a bunch of money. AND, he will have so much ownership of these companies (and xAi) that he can drive it into the ground and the board cant boot him.

Phew I’m glad I didn’t buy those AVGO calls 😂

Which one of your regards bought avgo calls? Show yourself

That corgi is the reincarnation of Nostradamus

Dram always takes a beating when something happens. At least it’s not as bad as Microsoft

my positions at 15k shares now avg cost .1912, looking forward to their new cxapp 2.0 rolling out this June. currently this seems super undervalued and im targeting .62 and $1 in the coming months. this acquisition is promising

Lololol, no. 100 times more batshit crazy.

AVGO down 12% AH. I'm sick to my stomach. Bought at the top like a fucking professional.

AVGO any pump is just for MM’s to keep unloading bags

Who cares about bunch of horny fucks! Men are weird, nothing new

0DTE'S

Saw him at the wendys counter a few minutes ago asking for an application

I never do 2 DTE but did today on SPY 759 calls with my whole stack I have spent grinding this year

I deserve this for not following my plan and being a pig

Really should buy them when they are discounted 10k

AI is finally dead ,thank you trashgo

Why did you sell?

Got 25k shares at 5.03

PDT rule ends today right?

How about TTMI and RMBS?

Badly

Similar. My average right now is $7ish and I already pulled the initial investment so it’s house money. Riding out whatever the hell this is and back to it. Probably swoop some calls for cheap hopefully is my next move.

Dance in the fire and flames, losers. This is where you build strength and tegrity.

Bro what did they anounce for a 13% drop. Are they changing sectors and building a rocket and it blew up like Blue Origin?

Calls it is boys

Yes keep saying AI

SpaceX $SPCX to IPO at $135 / share, with 555,555,555 shares available

Operator is definitely a dude

Retard

Im going to lose all my sweet spce profits on avgo

Me triple checking to see if I accidentally messed up and bought avgo puts instead of calls. Likely a story I’ll be telling in the Wendy’s line to some customer as he’s screaming “PUT THE FRIES IN THE BAG”

damn, that fomo from dell and hpe got you

congrats and go fuck yourself

STOP THE COUNT

Options should be much harder to access, this shit risky AF

AMD is more overvalued than NVDA ...lol

I'm bagholding 300 shares (yes, i know not a lot), at a 57% gain so.....i dunno, but the dip?

Nah plenty of chairs left

I am dead inside

At the risk of jinxing myself I have had success with last minute SPY ODTE’s recently

what do u think they're gonna do fam lol

Behind a Wendy’s

are they pulling the rug already

It is absolute peak entertainment that a 1% drop in SPY obliterates 75% of this sub

Ready fellas? Ready to go bankrupt?

yes questions now

Was wondering what happened

I'd be looking at a much big loss if I didn't sell. I had opportunities to sell for small profit today but got greedy each time only for it to dip. I know... I'm an idiot

Well that didn't go as planned. I doubled down on AVGO in AH and that is already at a loss 🤣

AVGO screaming AI is dead.  Back to the coal mines you fucks.

BUTTLICKER, OUR PRICES HAVE NEVER BEEN LOWER

I saw a bear movie once. I didn't know until halfway in. The pump never came. The pump never came!

I bought calls. Told y’all.

SpaceX wannabe really fucked it up for everybody

Should’ve trimmed

Keep waiting for it

Yupp. I’m getting out tomorrow out of fear LOL

🎵🎶na na nana na, were completely fukt, completely fukt, weerre complete fukt🎵🎶

Imagine being so shit that your earnings stops a literal bull run

Hock Tan 🤬

the best thing in this earning call is operator

Followed

Time to dance! 🐻 💃

please give a warm welcome to the newly minted long-term investors of AVGO 👏

some wizard with a bubble gum colored chart just out traded you today

what do you think about that?

Unreal. Meanwhile WMT fighting for 0.5% margins

I had the same dream. There was a white sticky substance all over my sheets.

Eat my dongus you fuckin nerd.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

AVBLOW you piece of shit

Somebody will give it to them, won’t be me. But someone will.

In a perfect world war is over, jobs are up from proper AI integration w human labour, rates cut and growth keeps up and offsets inflation, and SPY 1000

This sell off is nothing like the Great Korea panic from earlier this week

All i care about is feeling alive and a spicy day gets me going.

Is the call for AVGO still happening

Sitting in the 300 for $124 bag pool right now… come on it the water is warm.. because it’s been peed in.

stinky stinky bers... we both know we'll be green by open come on now

If it makes you feel better, I was too busy at work to notice I should take profits, so hopefully the 12th brings it up.

Someone this morning thought broadcom gonna be broadcock after earnings lmao

What happens to the guy with 35k call on AVgO?

Well here's what Gemini says. Perhaps it will convince you

Lol. There is so much of corporate waste across all industries. If people begin shorting their workplaces, stock market is tank to absolute bottom.

Earnings and guidance not strong enough. Plus they dont have snacks at their break room headquarters

below 400 tomorrow Trashgo. ... told y'all puts was the play

Do we get bananas at Wendy’s?

Broadcom dilution? Even the big ones? Im out of this trch market. Seems like dotcom day after day

I have more money than you.

You mean bounce down further

operator sounds hot

Incoming bs peace tweet tomm before actual tweet comes during SpaceX ipo. They won't let market go down much till later

Ah yes, I see we’re back to the “solid earnings, get bent”cycle of the season

Hotel?

‘At the moment’ is the keyword here

Tomorrow morning the situation can look totally different

musk called, us space empire cancelled. its over.

Ate my 8% loss and moved on

Dude wtf is up with SPY lately

Remember, no crying in the casino. RIP OP

Gamestop

yteah I have a question AVGO , what the fuck

Bigly

im gonna laugh if microstrategy calls were the play heading into tomorrow lmao

bc no one woulda thought that, now im crying my from the sidelines

Tensions with Iran increasing and we were due for a dump, also luck

My $200 call options went up 30% so naturally I got on Zillow and started looking at mansions

How come? Corruption is a good bet, no

Bers think they gonna have a win based on this sub. Green by 10 am tomorrow.

For people who don’t listen to earnings calls   
Reason for Broadcom miss ?  
GROSS MARGIN TO BE DOWN to 74%

Hock Tan bout to have me Hock Tuahing behind the Wendy’s dumpster

That was private equity...lol

Not even remotely the samething mate.

imagine thinking there's still going to be any casino left to open tomorrow 🤣

Hock Tan, get on your knees and suck off every investor until they buy shares again 📈

Nah it'll just lead to more paperhanding

i guess i need to set my alarm for 4am

Come on 🥭, fold like a lawn chair

Sitting on the same

Glad I sold my mrvl shares for a $800 loss at close. You win some and you lose some. I pull ported today on a dip

Alright all I need is a 25 point gap up on SPY this week and Im chilling

It’s down 3% post market, it didn’t find anything lol. Your copium shall fuel my puts

You dont believe in space data on the moon to save on cooling bill?

Exit liquidity . They got good news w google ai spending too two days ago. They been in business together for a decade. That was ur signal . Take ur money now

They expire Friday though!

And Black Friday or as I like to call it the Dark Friday sounds better

Atleast no one is talking about the Epstein files lmao

It's like a $14.5k loss on the earnings play. hoping the AH dive isn't indicative of where it opens and that loss will be a little better thanks to the bulk of this being in shares

Oil stocks and cash will set you free

Hey guys I have access to line of credit. How should I use it?

Well, seems our ports now depend on if 🥭 provides a TACO Wednesday

I thought we going 550 but instead came to 450 and dropping more lmao 😂😭😭😭

Bulls hate this one weird trick

With a payday loan for the down payment

Hohohahohaaaa

Damn. I will 🙏 for you.

I ended up with calls somehow.. one of us will print but I’d rather be in your shoes at the moment

Mine probably -35% tmr

It is bro just multiply it by a thousand

Never listen to the weekly earnings thread they say buy calls for every stock on it’s earnings date. All luck sometimes they look like genius like with Dell and sometimes like idiots like today

Did you yell this at your mother

Histrionics.

I'll bet you're real fun at parties...

Principal is always capital, not all capital is principal so stop splitting hairs on words.  I could say "chicken feathers" vs. "capital", the point about whether being a "gambling addict" is a bad thing or not does not change.

Advice for the AI worshippers,  ask chatBBC what to invest in so it can tell you to put everything on SOXS LMAO

Max your credit cards for 0dtes

Sorry guys. I bought calls

might genuinly be a re-positioning due to the massive space x ipo coming soon lol

So that it would look like he photoshopped it. So it would hurt less.

I dont hear the music anymore

Indeed that's what it is. However, you probably won't have to hold as long as you deserve too lol.

It will likely recover.

like him talking about how "theyve agreed to no nukes, or at least they will have once they signed the paper-- muted for a few seconds--- audio comes back. you can still see him talking, its not the video buffering

Use last $5 to buy a watermelon and drill cock opening in it.

Spy gap fill is around 400. We’ll get there

After jumping a few companies I’ve realized they are all a mess.

AVGO might be dogshit enough to make MU go red for the first time in forever

Smells like ber in here. Calls it is

Puts in your wife

Fk you avgo. I'ma bet on that corgi and spurs winning g1. Probably a better bet

$ROPE

this is nothing tbh, you are just over leveraged 

if you zoom out, you will realise there's a lot more to be dumped

I am once again saying this is joever

Whoever didn’t buy the dip today is a regard.

“I’ll never sell” 

— proceeds to sell

Black Thursday doesn’t really have a ring to it

Brent is open and just dumped 1% in 30 seconds

Everyone saying space x ipo will crash the market will miss out on generational wealth

How tf is HOOD dumping as much as semi and memory ETFs lmao

lemme know ahead of time next time brother

Chen Fuying's undergraduate major was mechanical engineering at MIT. Did you know that the most honest, introverted, and easily bullied people actually choose to study mechanical engineering...Sigh.

Avgo just increase your guidance 10 times and save today

BEARS our time has come🤑

Dang… RIP..

#FREAK THE FUCK OUT

I'm sure you can look in your couch cushions for another $7

Has the music stopped? Is this it?

I feel like its too early to buy HOOD, market is still near ATH

It found the bottom today, I will get my $7 breakeven soon lol. It's not mooning tho fuck no

The only correct answer

No, but I’ve bet on the best talent and the D1 athletes of tech.

That is Tesla and Elon companies, they have the smartest minds in the world.

No one can touch them

confession: I am much happier when everything is crashing

Alright thank you man 🙏

No worries I get it!

I’m waiting for the right time to buy UCO

LOL BAGHOLDER

Tillys, lol

show of hands, how many of you just became long-term investors after the AH price action?

I don’t get why AVGO tanked tf

How are we not talking about the slow melt up of Oil stocks? 

We too pussy whipped by the tech fall? Yall need to get the sand out of vag and get into the new sector for the summer.

Dam Son, I think MU will likely face the same fate like AVGO

So is the fun over

Here comes the AVGO bounce

It briefly went negative when you looked at the monthly chart. Now it's back up lol

LOVE THIS AVGO DIP LMFAOOOO PUTS PRINTING

I’ve legit been searching and I can’t find a single stock.

Gg for those fckers bought Avgo call befor close today including me

So that's what's like to buy at the top. I'll be holding AVGO for a while.

Buy a $90K truck on 500 credit score with 30% APR.

What’re you buying on this dip?

Calls on Vodka or whatever booze avgo ceo taking

Sandisk is even down daaaamn

AVGO numbers are insane but let dummies run it

What you don't see is that's what it's like at the other companies too.

So let me get this straight, every trade I sell early on 4-10x but the ones I hold on all day go to zero.  Can’t make this shit up

At least you still have +$769 on the 3-month chart to lose tomorrow.

not reading all that tbh

Yea do it lol. That’s worked so well LMAO

SPY needs to retest the lows of the 1950s.

Oh no i’m making too much money in stocks

Lemme buy Bitcoin to hedge it

JUST IN AVGO ISSUES A WRITTEN APOLOGY TO CEO of VIRGIN GALACTIC MICHAEL COLGLAZIER

Yea just sell and take what's left and switch to stocks or stuff. Don't touch options again

there is no END STOP THE DUMB

Went all cash gang immediately at open today.😮‍💨

Guess I'll grab some calls on the dip below 750 tomorrow

The top signal was SPCE diluting shares wasn't it...?

Nvda down, Avgo down, Btc down

Goodjob SpaceX you did it!

How has this absolute masterpiece evaded me for 15 years? I'm in tears

Always inverse reddit

guys am i the only one seeing the same muted spots in the recorded live streams of mango today? fox and abc both are filming from different angles with different audio equipment and there are muted sections that start at almost the exact same time on both. was this the case live?

I'm doing my best as a very low IQ individual

HOOD fucking me

WHAT DO I MEAN???

ha joke is on you i'm already unemployed

You spelled year wrong

Sold MRVL at basically the exact top, bought a smaller holding of AVGO within $10 of the top. Not great not terrible

It's wild to think everything will be green by tomorrow lol

Short AMD

Whatever the fuck that means, but I need to buy more I guess. I have a little bit

BULS EXTINCT TOMORROW

Yeh I know you can trade SPX options after hours and in pre market but I don’t want to get paper hands and sell early

Lowkey I coulda ran the AVGO earnings better

i thought stonks only go up :(

Id be shocked if amd didnt clear 600 this friday LMAO 🤌

The point is those people could be trying to run a business, but they could also be trying to bankrupt the business, like Sears. You don't know for sure either way.

1 week*

SPCE dying so peacefully lol

I love larping as doomer ngl

*We need to retest 2009 lows*

OP when wakey wakey

Jesus was there ANYONE who went up after earnings today?

Not well

Thats not $21 mil learn math

If they hired me, the issue is systemic. I’m ceo of the regards

bers quick, sell ur aamd puts for ap rofit before it V's

So the stock would be where it was like 8 days ago? They’re Jan 27 calls. You don’t make bets like this if you think it’s peaking 7 months early.

run up for months, priced in literally every fucking day of past week, AVGO historically dumping on earnings and yet people here were still buying calls LMAO actual retards for real on this one

you bought the top🫵

FIG more volatile than a mf 📈📉📈

Been in since 9 and change. This little drop means nothing.

Die MSTR Die Die!

i don't go to casinos i don't like gambling

Type shit,LMAO🤌

Pretty funny that like 58% of spy is in a bear market for quite awhile and like 60% of the overall market is below major moving averages but it just keeps churning higher.  Bessent be busy.

No way, Wendy's provide opportunities for all.

I’ve never been poor before. What’s the first thing to do? Wrong answers only

Thanks for taking the time to type back man. Should I just sell right away when it opens? Or just ride it out

Brother in christ

I have SPX calls of 7,675 for tomorrow but I would prefer to have puts

sold HOOD at a stoploss yesterday right above my breakeven after bagholding for months at 86.5, saw it rise immediately and fomo'd back in at 89.32. Both the buy and sell were the near the day low and high, and today it's down 8%. lol fuck

I mean that's a common recommendation for any established company with stock based compensation. Sell your shares as soon as they vest so you can reinvest them and diversify.

Chill everyone this will be bought up

“CXAI Acquires EngineRoom to Triple Annualized Revenue Run-Rate and Accelerate Commercialization of Agentic AI SKY Platform”

just bought a ton of shares during the dip today

You most certainly can't not be wrong

Right as rain

Oil futes reopen at 6pm EST

Holy fuck AVGO. Lost my... Week of gains

Not if you’re selling premium and avoiding the ones already running crazy.  CRWD, eg, will be a good one to maybe sell an iron condor tomorrow or Friday.  See where AVGO settles and maybe sell a put spread  🤷‍♂️

Im a commercial underwriter for a $30b bank. I make things look good, especially the loans from covid who are now at x2 the interest rate! Businesses are getting squeezed $HARD

its over

Feels like the market was looking for a "loser" in the semiconductor space. AVGO had some poor timing. They didn't crush earnings, so the extreme expectation of immense quarterly growth made investors skiddish. This may impact the rest of the market given that it's deeply integrated in the rest of the semiconductor space.

FFS, sell close this! Go buy some puts! Give us a moment to take some profits.

I'll let you know when you can buy calls again

Avgo proved to be a very reliable candidate for massive dumps on earnings calls - this time my nice hedge hedges nicely

How are the galactic bag holders lol

-12% after hours yeah I’ll see you behind the Wendy’s dumpster next week (we’re both clocking in)

Karma farming 🧺

SOXS for a few weeks then?

If I just VOO and chilled the past 5 years I'd be up huge. Instead im down 8k

Why not get spx so you can sell anytime

If you played earnings on that overvalued garbage right after a giant run up, sure.

Well. I sold them for 150$ each so your only 1/3 regarded

Well played... 
I guessed wrong, but sold most of my calls right before earnings. And just played with house money

Mu and mrvl . Please be in green tomorrow and save my s or I might lose 25-30% of my port tomorrow

Gl bro gl

Quick everyone buy Nike!!

No not that one. It’s a medical device company

Say AI more lady!!

There are products that suck like Microsoft and then there are products that suuuuuck like NOW

Told y’all to buy XOM calls for September I’m already up 50% LMFAO. Sold my initial investment and letting the profits ride :)

my quant says the avgo chinese guy said good stuff

Lol who would've thought it would be stupid ass avgo to be the one to burst the AI bubble...

multi generational intergalactic SPY top is in for the next 1-2 decades at least

Here comes the V like always.

AVGO's CFO coming to save the stock

What happened to it? No way it's going down that much after one announcement lmao

Yeah, I crashed the market. I’ve been 🌈 bear for months and getting wrecked to decide to go Long on NOW on Monday!

yep LMAO 🤌

Bro you are beyond cooked. It's just killimg time until waiting to get banned at this point

Damn AVGO drilling to the earth’s core

Damn good thing you didn’t full port

Tards on here genuinely NONPLUSSED that MRVL dropped after such an insane spike. Hahaha

7% down while being 150% up in past days is not beating.

Pin this comment

STOP FUCKING UP MY AMD U PRICKS stupid overvalued avgo and nvda LMAO 🤌

Omg, micron may finally have a red day

You do know that's bad right? Lol

Congrats friend, glad to see you making back some of these loses.

Avgo earnings

Lady save this

AVGO is glitching like a mothertucker

Beacuse fuk you

Lidar

market makers just realized retail waiting to sell until ipo. LMAO

lol BB is going downnnnn

Hung Tan and Jensen Hung are clowns in this market. what a joke LMAO 🤌

I’m finally ready to buy

Wow he stops speaking and the stock immediately goes up 🤣😭

So betting on the volatility of a volatile stock means your understanding its core business? That response just proved my point even further.

AVGO people of good will, my condolences. AVGO holders who were cocky and downvoting me yesterday for still holding SPCE... fuck you you're just like me now nerd!

Did something happen AH? Futures dumping nasty

Same but on SPX

What u mean

Asia hasn't started dumping yet. Iran gonna something funny overnight. Bloodbath is here.

Well, its a good thing you guys don't overreact about anything

every time lol

always same story lmao

Spaghetti

oh yeah, we are giga fucked already. Even if the strait opened today, it will be months until things are restored to normal.

real risk of actual shortages. Nevermind inflation that will be here for a long while

Half this sub had AVGO calls lol puts were so obvious

I bought puts as well. Shit run up for months. Everyone like what happened !?!?

It’s all been priced in . ALL OF IT !

That's probably the most bullish signal possible. If you hate it and are getting rid of it, fine, but the fact that it's bad and you still use it everyday means it's probably a gold mine.

Head up king we’ll be alright

Wow Broadcom back to levels not seen since…last week.

US market sentiment in one video:

welp, good thing amd has cheap gpus relative to their performance LMAO 🤌

Not well done but otw

nah this time its different

Omfg, Jamie Dimon is that you?? Can me suk ur pp?

One week to go up +12% and 1 day to go down -12% lol

AVGO is dead 😂

Its fucking joever

The way things are going avgo could still recover by tomorrow or the next few days. If it doesnt though... i can only tell you this: shave your ass cheeks, wear a skirt, a flattering cologne and get ready to beat the streets. Tom lee will be waiting for you there in high heels for your first night

AVGO NOOOOOOOOOOOOO

it seems I should have not bought anything this week

I am tired to hear about fucking Pigeons !

It doesn’t

I’m stuck wondering how the hell you have 75k

i meant I used 1k that month and wanted to pay it back before the due date. I didn’t know what credit card debt meant so maybe that actually makes me even more stupid

CRWD had the ugly face on

Delisted

Asian

I was told no red days allowed!! wtf is this

Which earnings call is going better?
AVGO or CRWD

This.

I’ve never been poor before. What’s the first thing o should do?

I have 60+ puts for tomorrow on SPY

A single tweet from the orange man can wipe me out

Today my ship has sunk

MRVL :(

nice try SEC

christ im a permabull but if AVGO can't do it on these numbers it might actually be joever

He's been CEO for 20 years and guess he don't give a fuck. He got his.

dated 2028😎

Avgo call holders tomorrow behind Wendy’s dumpster..” You mean I’ve got to put that in my Gah gah”

Probably have made nothing

You already have a bet going - RKLB to 170.0 before 19-Jun-2026 05:47 PM -05

AVGO throw in the towel! Fu

Downvoting will only make more red candles appear!!

!banbet am I cooked

ai stocks doing 1000% , we deserve more.

Daily check in on Cerebras community members… how we doing!?

#what the fuck just happened to oil?

Same plan as always, SPY calls

Not exactly my workplace but my industry.   I heard that the Deepwater Horizon was on fire before it hit the news and immediately sold my Transocean stock.   I monitored the situation over the weekend. News just kept getting worse and worse by the hour, a few days later and saw that the rig sank and the well was leaking it was a big Oh shit moment.  I knew at that depth that capping it was going to be extremely difficult and this was going to be an enormous disaster for the area, and would probably affect every single driller.

Sold the rest of oil stocks on Monday.  Shorted Transocean, it had already started to fall but really fell off a cliff later.  As predicted the whole industry tanked, hiatus on all drilling offshore.  After a few weeks to a month when I thought there'd been too much of an overreaction I bought back in.

I was just starting out and didn't have much money in the market.  I had made $50k, about 30% gain in 6 months and I felt terrible about it.  People died.  People doing the same work that I used to.   Still have mixed feelings on it.

A rare piece of useful information on this sub. How did you get it by the mods?

So everyone here bought calls and not puts for this week right

Because this stupid thing gets bought for 3 months STRAIGHT

Not happy for you sir

Oh no! AVGO is tanking levels not seen since…last Thursday.

Market gives market takes

crickets eh?.....

Bers back from hibernation

Well I've really messed up here

Stock is down 12% , go figure.

wtf happened w $avgo 

Fuck you Kenny

Why everything went up first?

I’m tired boss.

AI search doesn’t call this a rug pull but more of a structural misalignment. It must be good to own everything!

AVGODOWN

holy shit why did i sell my 755p for tomorrow

THANK YOU SO MUCH. fading regards on this sub is so fkn profitable.

AVGO puts was one of the most predictable earnings play of the past month and you chose calls LMAO get absolutely fuk, you should have stayed out. fuk you and ur stupid AI stonks

Fucking morons need to zoom out and see how much AVGO and these other semi stocks are up.. been saying this but you deserve to 100% lose your money if you are chasing and buying at these levels

Wow otm puts $avgo were so cheap i should have yolo’d. Those are opening for a 10-20x gain tmrw aren’t they?

wtf happened

avgo LMAO 🤌

??????

just saw buffet driving his ole caddy up to the drive thru speaker to order a hamburger

he was grinning ear to ear

The one time I actually buy calls instead of puts and I get punished lol

It was literally $50.  Chill.

Damn he mentions AI once and it starts recovering

i’m fukt

was up 150% ytd, lost 30% in the past 3 days, i think time to jsut sell it all

AVGO the revenge of the grey ber

Why does Hawk Tua sound drunk on the earnings call right now?

to valhalla

Bought SPX $7545 Puts 2 Hours before market open for $1.30 average and sold for $7.50 on that spike down at open

Record revenue and beating analysts' expectations for earnings and guidance is bad? 

TIL

You already have a bet going - ASTS to 140.0 before 12-Jun-2026 05:47 PM -05

!banbet

leaps or weekly?

GameStop

How much does the Jensen cameo of “x will be the next y trillion dollar company” cost? CRWD and AVGO could use it?

Right? like how the fuck did this work

You good bro ?

discount day coming up time to scoop some specials

Lmao bols go ahead and turn in those lambos margin CALLL!!

FUCK! WTF MRVL

Oil go down buy Oil infinite money glitch

i pray we never get there.

AMD did something similar to AVGO on its ER. 

Buy the dip, fools!

On the brightside... great dip buying opportunities across the board

My TQQQ calls are fucked

2mill soxs guy is down to 1mill now😂😂

Plz not GEV

This is hilarious. Made me spit my tea out. You owe me a biscuit.

Talks going well stop working damn

Lmaoo.

Gape**

A CATHEDRAL SHOULD BE ERECT TO HONOR THE COUNTLESS NUMBER OF REGARDS THAT BECAME BANKRUPT TODAY.

Will post an update shortly.

These puts will feed my family for generations🐻💲

You regards really thought market only goes up. I warned y’all Friday at close with that huge Red Dildo at 1600 on SPX.

Let’s do a bet: who will be lower tomorrow Avgo or SPCE? 😂they are close now

Green by open

HOLY AVGO

remember the time wen RK was just abt to go on the live streaming and RC released the bad earnings a few days early without prior notice like on fri wen it was supposed to be released like on mon and the stonk tanked like -10% or -20% and killed the ongoing hype? i remembear it

Been nice knowing you guys

New all time high tomorrow

market woke up and realized marvel produces shit movies

AVGO down 12% to levels not seen since

#One week ago

Same never learn with this shitty stock

nooooooo

You know when you go to the grocery store and they have the little horsey ride that mommy puts you on? Pennies are the ones that make the horsey go.

Well my puts are printing bro so seems I did understand something?

Looking at the chart using this, it looks like its actually at capitulation

AVGO CEO on earnings call:

The reason our free cash flow is dropping like pigeon turds is we bought 0DTE calls on SPCE and daily tuna sandwiches, but we wanted extra pickles and those got expensive daily.

Yup, you’re definitely in the right sub.

Was fully planning on avgo puts and let you idiots convince me to inverse with calls. Fuck. At least I have crwd $670 puts

Cheers fren

Wouldn't each of these trades also increase gdp?

i dont like your vibe, man

Stop the call!!!

AVGO JUST POPPED THE AI BUBBLE

No but if you work at a crappy company lmk so I can do that.

You’ll make it back, ath by breakfast

parties over

In a few months it should be clear how 45IV for these calls was stupid

I KNEW the Google dilution was the top

And what did I do?

I bought calls 

I deserve this loss lmao

Avgo -13% guh

I was thinking of adding when below 30

People are retarded and also are cowards

LOVE THIS AVGO DIP LMFAOOOO PUTS PRINTING

Jensen will say avgo is the next 5T company

Yes seems like everyone was getting ahead of themselves. When you’re valued this higher, expectations become extreme. I’m glad I’m not sitting on any calls though (or even any AVGO shares for that matter). But I’m fucked anyways because my port is mostly semis and AI stuff. The stock is absolutely getting destroyed. Wow

I saw all of this coming yesterday and I still held like a dmbass

AVGO casually losing 1 month of gains 🥲

two guys that should be banned: 2.1m soxs guy @ 9 dollars, 600k 2dte nvda guy

haven't heard from either since posting

Damn lol

They got beat up worse than anything past 2 days lol

All this hysteria and bimbo broad(com) took out 4 days of rallying... LMFAOO bear are useless.

The way you see chat reacting you would think we’re under $700…. We haven’t seen these levels since *checks chart* 6 days ago LMFAOOOO 
- y’all are way too leveraged

well, cheers fellow regard.

Can the AVGO board replace Hock Tan with Hawk Tuah?

$HUBC down bigly massive buying opportunity

LOVE THIS AVGO DIP LMFAOOOO PUTS PRINTING

After numerous chip companies had the same +30% swings on weaker numbers.

incoming blackest thursday

how much further is this fucker gonna go down

AVGO declare chapter 11

Someone quick give that speaker a line of coke so he doesnt sound like he is asleep

I know this is the end because there’s not even bears left to brag.

**SPY fute -2% by midnight**

im an avgo bag holder

Jeez man, should've just bought shares lol

I think market makers can save semi, but they refused

right but i wanted to like 3-4x not 2x thats some baby shit might aswell just buy bonds at that point

Tomorrow is when Pattern Day Trading on Robinhood lifts, so I'm hoping for a pump of retail buying the dip on everything lmao, or they could do a lot of fucking selling

Why did you do that? What was your thesis?

Lmao, nice buy

I’m just gonna VOO and chill

WHY THE FK IS EVERYTHING DUMPING???

Someone hold me I might cry in the casino

Don't forget to post your AVGO loss porn tomorrow!

Bottom is in

Gg son, dont open the app

Brenda?

Not really, no lol

AVGO FUCK YOU LMFAO

AVGO dropping like a rock with that guidance is a baddd sign

Jesus christ AVGO. Wtf did they say on that call? Theyre fucking my MU price. Stupid fuckin cunts

by going through the center of the earth first?

Been swing trading it making decent returns.

I have concluded that algo's are racist and having a hard time understanding Tan Hock's accent that's why AVGO is dumping

Fries in the bag are my next bubble

IT JUST KEEPS GOING

I might hang a fly trap at my neighbors

My portfolio is bleeding today

Isn't that a good thing? That means their revenue are diversified, instead of too concentrated.

Freak the fuck out and sell everything

it's jeremy irons in margin call o'clock

70% of my portfolio went into AVGO 6/5 calls.. rip me

Why is he reading like a 5 year old? Bro needs a red bull or something.

I literally have zero sympathy for regards that put any significant money into SPCE. Pure regardation and nothing but ignoring the company burning investors for half a decade. LMAO 🤌🏼

AVGO just killed the bull market

Yes I feel you but take this as a lesson and move on, I also lost a lot but still have some left and switched to stocks, no more options

bubble ass market

AVGO ceo bought puts on AVGO

Amazon is gonna gap up massively tomorrow

Hi Connor, HR wants a word with you.

Been telling you guys for the last 6 years it was going to pop

You already have a bet going - ORCL to 300.0 before 12-Jun-2026 11:04 AM -05

Why do we have to have days like today

!BANBET AVGO $500 24h

The best tacos have been served on red days, they’re just giving us time to load up

I for sure am glad I picked the 457.5P instead of the call. Ill cash out 4k tomorrow from my 900 bucks. Jesus H christ.
I reaaally hope it holds.

Hock Tan. Stop fucking talking and end the call

Any reason for this complete panic selling?

Mrvl/dell puts.

Probably pooped his pants.

PANW is down 5% for the day and also down after market. OP did not make any money today. He’s just bragging about a position he’s held for a while. Should be banned honestly for pretending to not be part of the dip.

I had a dream the stock market crashed hard af over the weekend. did I sell nope, bc we had 2 yuge green days. selling everything yesterday at open was the play

I don't think the koreans will like coming back to this after their holiday.

DUMPED AVGO .. good luck everyone

On what?😮

AVGO dragging the earth down with it

Pure salt from retard

AVGO CEO on call: Fuck this, and fuck all of you

500 to 400 in 1 day. yikes

F U C K I N G

L

O

L

lol sike get scammed all ty for being my liquidity:)

he said antropic, openai, apollo, blackstone. pump back on?

tomorrow will be bad

Remember when SaaS was back for one day? Pepperidge farm remembers

Same with CRWD. Gonna load up on leaps tomorrow for both, this is a fantastic buying opportunity

rip avgo. congrats puts buyers

So will the SaaS companys start regaining their actual worth now when AI stocks cool down? Im in Adobe btw

He is drunk

Market just learned the Strait is still closed 

Wait until they find out there was never a ceasefire

Rotate into AAPL I guess

I was that regard that yolo’d on SOXL last year at $15

rip avgo. congrats puts buyers

When Hawk Tan meets Hawk Tuah Girl 😂 😂

I bet against my company because I know I suck and they still hire retards like me

Well my port was up 42% YTD going into today. Lost about 4% today. More losses imminent tomorrow. I think I'll close out most of my positions tomorrow and go to mostly cash. The music is getting quieter.

Wtf avgo ceo said the N Word?

I got at 28, sold at 37, got severe FOMO and night back in again at 39. This is the way to play right?

THE GIANT RED DILDO OF DOOM IM SO SORRY

Finally the bubble is popping

Wtf oil???

Should’ve sold in May and went away, we’re going to correct till the midterms

$AAPL rocketing after hours is always super fucking scary.

Apple is a safety stock, it’s where people flee to when they’re starting to panic.

Avgo you fucking bums

when the market gets shaky its always kind of a relief, like, ima just hold now n chill

Not my hock tan he's a good boy

The fuck did the guy say on the call? Did he just sob on his knees or something?

Wow AVGO is not coming back. Might be -20% tomorrow

Doesn't matter

We may never be green again.

glad i only spent $200 on avgo

at this point its plausible that $iren gets often sold off by algos because it sounds like iran

Going to moon tomorrow don’t worry

And ORCL

Fuck 

My bags really need this war to end lol

The Dell/HPE pumps after earnings made avgo seem like such a no brainer. Glad I couldn’t afford calls 😎

Nancy holds plenty of AVGO. That's all I need to know.

Nice dip on AVGO

I’m so depressed. I have nothing it was my entire life savings.

It’s officially joever. Abandon ship

Oh my gosh rip bolls

Today was a slaughter across the board 😵‍💫

Only 4.2 now👽

Was a good run AI. 

Blind calls are done, that season is over.

Fuckin.... why

AVGO can save everything, just say that Jensen called you the next 5 trillion dollar company and cash out before the algos realize its a lie

i didnt know this bear had so many legs

I made $20k today with $4,000 what a great day :)

Looks like they dropped the hard r on the earnings call

We had a good run boys. It's over. Sell everything. Take what you can. Hock Tan fucked this up for all of us.

I don’t even own any Broadcom but they’re now my mortal enemy

DRAM anticipating a KOSPI dump.

did AVGO CEO say N word

Fuck no!

ALL THIS FUCKER HAS TO SAY IS AI

here u go tough guy.....look up these names.....jenna lane....multimedia gaming.....brake headquarters....american health choice....i could go on

Bloodbath Jesus christ

usually you're banned from trading options if you work at the company

Bols, take comfort in that 🥭’s calls are cooked too. This is good practice for the inevitable crash

Wtf happens to Avgo, I panic sold my shares and bought again where it had a little pull back, max retard

Should have panic sold everything during premarket goddamn.

The bubble isnt popped until MU is back to normal

Just get out and take the loss. I think you have to believe the 4 year cycle is in tact until proven otherwise, but this time feels different to me. I think we could go way lower before a recovery actually happens.

Bro same. I hate that the thing that causes me so much personal pain is so green, I never invested because I have never once thought "wow this kicks ass" while using it.

Your performance is letting the company down that bad?

Typical WSB retard: OMG STONK NO GO UP, ME BAGHOLDER

Maybe don't vibe-trade like a retard? Ironically this dilution might be a very good long term strategy considering the risk of rate hikes. 

I literally sold puts on this company the moment it dropped

Calls 1055 MU Friday need 1090 breakeven

This summer could get real ugly

Is it the one with the cringe owner that everyone despises

Come on over to NVDA, we don't miss earnings here

whats the play boys i need a 10 bagger :(

Wow, I thought $AVGO could drop but never expected a 12% drop. Insane. It’s wiped out its entire gains for the week.

With what ?  I already ate my crayons !

No way AVGO 440p are ITM

Can Leather Jacket take over the AVGO earnings call?

like this wont be up 3% by morning to fuck my puts

We just had stellar earnings report by basically almost every company and now AVGO sending us down LMAO

MU flies and DRAM barley goes up but MU drops and fuck me DRAM’s whole world is ending

Man we’re going to be stupid in the future. Just making up gpt frameworks that appear (that’s the key word) big brained and then crowd sourcing from 99% of people who have no idea what they’re talking about (myself included)

Gimme charts, crayons, not this ai trash. Thinking you’re going to compile info to rival or beat hedge funds with MIT grads is laughable, as in they’re laughing as they sell this shit to you and then dump it when they’ve hit their marks

Sweet Jesus all that mf had to do was say AI and talk about how great earnings were

From reliable sources im hearing there are some avgo baggies stuck at 500

Markets over. Pump is done. Happy pride month bears.

It's a moderate strike during a ceasefire

Lmao what did they say

There’s always SOXS

I can’t afford life now I’m ruined

Mildred??

WHO TF TURNED OFF THE PUMP MACHINE …… I DONT LIKE THIS MARKET CRASH

I like how they always wait until after market close

You are our family 😂

So you are saying my 395p lotto actually has a chance

bers aren't even talking shit, they got obliterated and now the MM are just fucking everyone.

This is what you get for having a confusing ticker

Title made me think you won 21M 😡

Hock Tua Tan has cotton mouth, hard to spit on that thang.

I went big into cash yesterday.  Very happy I did

Holy shit I actually got an ER right .

```

⠀⠀⢀⠀⣰⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀
⠀⣨⣞⣷⣻⣴⣆⡀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀
⢀⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣯⡁⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀
⠀⢹⣻⣿⣟⣿⣿⣿⣄⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀
⠀⠀⠙⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⡆⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀
⠀⠀⣸⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣯⣷⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀
⠀⢰⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⢿⣟⡇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢀⠀⠠⢒⣒⣶⡲⠶⣦⣄⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀
⢠⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣯⣿⣯⣿⣇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠂⢴⡚⢋⣭⣭⣭⣿⣷⣮⣹⣷⣆⠀⠀⠀
⣼⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⡄⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢀⣦⣤⡔⢛⣻⣿⣿⣽⢻⣿⣿⠀⠙⢿⣿⣷⡀⠀
⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣴⣄⡀⠰⣠⣾⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⡿⣿⣿⣷⣿⣿⠇⠀⠀⠹⣿⣧⠀
⢿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⢿⣿⣿⣿⢿⣿⢿⣷⣶⡿⠿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣷⣝⣿⣿⣿⣿⡄⠀⠀⠀⢻⣿⡄
⠸⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣷⣿⣾⣶⣾⣷⣿⣿⣿⣧⣀⣾⣿⣿⣿⣿⣹⣿⣿⣿⣿⡿⠟⠁⠀⠀⠀⠈⡇⠇
⠀⠘⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣟⣻⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⡿⠟⠁⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠄⠀
⠀⠀⠈⠻⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⠿⠿⠟⠛⠿⠛⠻⠟⠋⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀
⠀⠀⠀⠀⠘⢿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⣿⢟⠇⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀
⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠈⢻⣿⣿⠻⣿⣿⣿⠉⠉⠁⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀
⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠘⣿⡟⠁⠈⢿⣿⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀
⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢠⠗⠀⠀⠀⠈⣿⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀
⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⢠⠧⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⣿⡀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀
⠀⠠⠤⠶⠲⡽⠐⠆⠐⠲⠒⠊⠧⠈⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀⠀

 ```

$500M stock selling > over reaction after a bull run. I'm not worried though, it's healthy for the company and we still have a bunch of catalyst for 2026 if Jeff stop blowing up his rockets.

SPY fute -2% by midnight

Buy the dip am I rite guys?

Baahaha we got cooked as exit liquidity by MMs on avgo. Should have taken profit before close today fuck me. Never learn the lesson lmaoo

SpaceX really opening at 135 😲

cant watch this anymore

So uh SNDK opens green right

Two stocks that I own this week went down 10% after earnings. 😔

Damn Marvell, I guess investors find in afterhours that people prefere reading DC comics.

This guy needs to shut the fuck up

the bubble dun popped

Wake up babe, ai bubble is popping

Holy shit.

Money is gonna rotate to software stocks tomorrow write that down

You’re right, “actually fucked” is what I meant

I don't think this is how the game is supposed to work.

I have build AI from scratch and learned the very algos and maths that power AI , deep learning and machine learning. It is not like I do not understand it. 

Pattern recognition is fundamentally something AI does. It is same with recognizing a face or a thumbprint. 

Let’s not dive into the intricacies of all the math here and there. I am not a PHD scholar on this but I have studied AI in university as well as build it. 

If we are being realistic , there is nothing that stops us from building a machine as capable as humans but where does a machine remain a machine ? The more complex we get , the more we have to ask ourselves . What are we doing ? Human bodies are incredibly complex but a machine on the scale on nano meters or cellular structures can be build but it would be similar to life tbh. LLM are based on us and not the other way around , that’s why they are such fantastic prediction engines because our brain itself is an amazing prediction engine. Read up on how great our mind is.

Sorry everyone. I fully expect most $AVGO calls to be at 0 in the morning. It’s dropped nearly 12% 😬

What’s a realistic price target

This correction suckerpunched my ass

So much air needs to come out of this giant bubble still - bools wont be able to breathe

AVGO 🫣

Without fail, it is ALWAYS a WSBer who ruins the party for the rest of us.

Look at nvda sir! Make it make sense

The strike price

how does avgo fuck up the layup mrvl gave em

just bring jensen on the call at gunpoint and make him read a script

Hey AVGO bros, welcome to the club. Sincerely, SPCE holder

Holy shit the unwind, lol

he just said they’re gonna pay for anthropics losses with no delivery until at least 2027. IF data center projects remain on schedule which large scale production never ever does

Jesus, I'm not on the call, but what is Hock Tan saying? 😂

Asia is going to wake up and DUMP

I ain't bagholding that turd

$XOM boomer stock lets gooo $160 tmrw

okay, that's on me i set the bar too low

I am literally addicted to adding at least $500 to Claude credits once a week. My programs don’t even make any money I am just in a trance.

At 20 i will look into it

The strike price

sheesh i got lucky none of my call orders got filled. i need to just delete the app for the rest of the week

So this is going to shake out paper hands for liquidity then rip to 800?

I was high on five below, now I’m just gonna get high and fuck five below

limit down on SPY tomorrow

AVGO will cause a multi generational top on SPY

This is a peaceful red candle bomb, green by tomorrow

Schneider Electric

They have a massive live feed of the chart right in front of the guy

SOXL needs a 20% red day

Worked for a tech company who got a new CEO, the intro all hands meeting was so fucking cringe that I immediately sold my shares after the call.

So why is it down today of all days?

ofc hock tan is fucking regarded

Lock it in. The coming two weeks have so many non-beneficial events on the horizon it's not even funny.

iren holders cant catch a fucking break

Any new stupidity, further aggression, or any action that violates even a single inch of our borders and sovereignty will be met with a devastating, crushing, and decisive response that goes beyond all laws and established boundaries.

Now guess which country said this today.

I am financially ruined. My life is over

Are you new around here? 😂

is 600 the strike price or the contract count

minus 11 percent now, its over

The three Stooges was awesome Comedy 😁👍🏼

Lotta commentators getting introduced to Hock Tan's inability to hype his own stock.

SOXS is finally up

There never was AI.

Nobody said it was

Well it was fun while it lasted. Let the correction begin

i should have added avgo to the pile of semis i shorted this morning

Someone call an ambulance, the guy is clearly crashing

Bruh AVGO is cratering!

At least until I read about it in MotleyFool tomorrow morning

$4 is the top

McDs is a buncha clowns anyway. How is Wendy's treating you now?

he doesnt have the Jensen swag i fucked up buying calls with this guy

Weeeeee there we go AVGO

AVGONE

Avgo😂😂😂😂

All this because AVGO missed revenue by a few mil come on

This is MRVLous, just MRVLous....

oh i see, we are going down down

fuck this shit. cash gang for a bit

I think they are saying that they have accounts with ally, not that they own stock in ally

Why is this a stronger point than if you change the numbers to 9 and 10, making it dead wrong?

Why is this guy struggling to read the script

Are you kidding us right now?

ASTS has the chance to do the funniest thing

How many times you said that this year so far?

Its slightly terrifying watching the market pullback while im sitting on my slightly OTM NVDA calls which are barely red atm😬

AVGO tanking while the ceo is saying insane earnings, we are in the end times

That's how economy works in general, one dollar is being spent multiple times, and if like $1 is spend by 10 different people/business even circularly, it generates $10 to GDP

shelves of ramen are emptying out

if you like this red day today, you'll love the days when oil is $200+ per barrel

**HOTLINE NOW !!!!**

Sorry not sorry 😂

Far from broke! This hardly cut into my profits for the year.

Oil stocks slightly in the red AH for some reason.

It's blending in now with the horrible day, and actually for a while it was my only green position today

It does most days?

I need a wheres my dinner bitch statue

Mee too

Will this IPO crash the whole space market?

Puts on MSFT

LOL the $Avgo speaker is sending the stock down more 🤣

HOLY GUH

God showed pity on you now cash out and pay off your debts

#Ban Bet Lost

/u/Financial_Bee6392 made a bet that AVGO would go to 500.0 within **1 hour** when it was 479.299 and it did not, so they were banned for a week.

Their record is now 0 wins and 1 losses

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

No! That's not the lesson! The lesson is "Don't take out loans to put into the market!"

WHAT HAPPENED

Tan Hock must grab a random analyst asking questions and sign his or her boobs to turn AVGO price around 😤

semis need a scapegoat for a dump, unlucky timing

you think he has the ticker in front of him while he gives his speech? getting fuckin drilled

Hock Tan😂😂

Generational bagholders minted by AVGO 

LMFAO

Anyone going to play the Samsara (IOT) earnings?I’m intrigued but not sure because of their revenue growth and AI integration, which definitely plays well in this market.

Teams? So its MSFT?

Guhhhhhhhhhhhh

My company is going to be publicly traded soon and I’m buying the moment it goes up

Today is terrible why??

My copilot costs went 10x

This might be the sign we're at or near the top.  Do I lock in profits now or hope that it keeps going up.  I think i'm going to be much happier to lock in profits now than the opposite.  I think we are near the end game for the bulls.

Andddd it’s gone

Me too.

Ohhh gotcha must be a UK restriction thing. They’re just a normal brokerage in the states.

Don't you sleep soundly knowing this guy has the nuclear codes?

THIS was the top signal lmao 👌

Tomorrow, my plan is to continue to get fucked.  Doesn’t even matter if it’s the market or behind the Wendy’s dumpster, I just wanna feel something. 👀

Having over a million in a Robinhood account is so amateur.

Some ber watches Obsession and wished for a market correction 😡

Market makers have already decided that we end the year at SPY 800. If earnings are bad like AVGO then they'll just do the Intel trick and purposely put expectations so low so they can pump stocks off guaranteed beats. PE of 100 will be the new normal instead of 30.

Cock Tan got me in a cuck chair

Absolutely astounding how some of you guys seem to, like clock work, full port these companies at the top then get rug pulled.

He fuked a buncha hookers before the call

Yo are you okay OP??

Good thing most of my calls are June 18 but my SPY weekly is in serious jeopardy lol. Mango Magoo will surely fix this

Genuinely the finest regard

Hahahahahahah down she goes.

company is taking profits, announced plans to sell $500 million in stock...so everyone else is taking profits too.....except me.

Yes please! 🙏

Is avgo ceo fucking drunk ?

yes man because i am bag holding 102p exp friday

IM FIGHTING FOR MY FUCKING LIFE!

$435 now. Well, shit.

Bahaha MMs cooked the shit out of us on avgo. Should have taken my profit before close. Fuck me

Uh oh if the market is finally not reacting to fake headlines or lies anymore then were screwed. Thats all the economy has been running on.

Just sell it take a ride to space on spce 🫢

Is Tan Hock doing coke 

Or signing boobies? 😤

fy 26 +180% yoy for semis of avgo

SPCE suddenly doesn’t look so bad lmao

basically nvda scenario. frontrunned pump cuz maybe china and then downfall but not before market makers pinned it to 215-225 just to fuk bers and bols

Crying in the corner of the casino

There are too many people with cash waiting for a 10-20% dip....

May not happen though

Charles fuckin Schwab ovuh here

AVGO ceo about to burst into tears 😂

I only ask that space x IPO’s like CBRS ipo’d

Oh shit SDRL is still around? I remember losing all my money when they went bankrupt years ago.

WSB was AVGOs exit liquidity

Hock Tan, WHAT THE FUCK are you doing?

Bears want the end of the world to make money, bulls just want to make money

#Ban Bet Lost

/u/calmoney149 made a bet that AVGO would go to 500.0 within **1 hour** when it was 478.236 and it did not, so they were banned for a week.

Their record is now 1 wins and 1 losses

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

no way AVGO finishes red today. The earnings call is insane.

Bulls are simply the worst.

All they do is cause market dumps.

WMT is comming back to life after being put down.

for all of our sakes

yeah i should've taken the gains on the IV but set my limits too high because I am a greedy regard

And a $1.75 trillion valuation for each guy.

AVGO rebounding right now. Not.

I said it was taking a worse beating, tf you on about.

But I want bers to win

These numbers are insane and the stock is TANKING

marvel makes good movies again, stock green lets go

Not quite the same but a company I used to work at regularly tops those lists of "most undervalued companies" based on boring fundamentals, usually with strong recommendations to buy. I do not buy because I know the place is a complete shitshow internally. 

It's really made me question all the other investments that seem like a bargain on paper. What do insiders know that I don't?

I hope so. Auto buy below 100, been waiting

You bought at 40?!?

Microsoft falling 3% today why exactly?

Oh what are my “moves” tomorrow? Crying in the fetal position

UMAC buy the dip

Bruh potatoes are dirt cheap. Try putting extra patties on the burger instead.

I stopped reading at their description of a martini

Offering this morning and it was up 56 percent in the last month or so, 9 days green market, pick a card

Yea that’s why it’s funny 😂😂 total braindead wsber

Goddamnit Hock Tan!

Crashing the entire fucking market as usual 🤬

“This is the end” - Jim Morrison

*Dr. Evil voice* I want sharks with frikkin laser beams attached to their heads

It does seem like that. Like when you have been on a multi day bender. Days 5 6 7 and 8 you think I can't stay drunk but you do. Day 9 hits different. This feels like day 9

What the fucking fuck the old guy dropped his notes and restarted. MY CALLS ARE FUCKED

vega is taking the lion share of that

I sold my lulu at a 6% loss this morning to buy some nvda and amzn, only to lose another 3% from them both.  How regarded am I considering lulu recovered eod?

Note to self: do not trust PLTR just gtfo

fuck me

CRA is gonna come after you bro. 

Although a Tax-Free Savings Account generally allows investment income to grow tax free, the Canada Revenue Agency has historically maintained that certain trading activity within a TFSA may be recharacterized as carrying on a business, which could result in income being taxed under the Income Tax Act. This risk has been highlighted in CRA guidance and administrative interpretations, particularly when trading patterns resemble commercial activity rather than passive investing.
CRA has previously outlined factors that may indicate a business-like trading activity, including:
High frequency trades or short holding periods for securities
Significant time spent monitoring, researching, or executing trades
Sophisticated strategies and specialized knowledge, including heavy options use
Focus on short-term gains rather than long-term investment objectives
Consistency and systemization, such as routine or repeated patterns of buying and selling

At least, don’t plan to be up in the air when you have an important trading.

Fucking sold the rip on $AI feels so good. I’ll buy back at sub 10

What happens if they just say bad shit ? Would that pump it? Cus the things im hearing are insanely positive and unbelievable.

Thanks for the laugh, I needed that lmao

People offloading their frontal lobe to guys that become literally overnight millionaires because of it. Love capitalism

How are you?

Let's just say I don't work well in Teams

Look again

AI data centers on the moon in 2027. Just need them to say it once.

Fucking poo poo market

I was right about Five Below beating earnings and they did pretty damn good. They also shit the bed too and so did my otm calls. Yay

AVGO down 10% now

More PE, more room to grow. Am I right?

str8 \

Imagine believing a fake government over the us government lmaaooo

Stop doing that then

Right .

let the AI bubble pop begin

Volatility gonna mess it up, even MSFT recovers

Is hoping for a green open tomorrow coping at this point?

Fuck seadrill, fuck Fredrickson. I lost the entire sum when seadrill went bankrupt or whatever like 10 years back.

GODDAMN AVGO

Yeah but I use all sorts of software that sucks.

Thats what is fucked about this whole thing, market is basically ath, yet my stocks are absolutely fucked.

Did avgo forget mango bought in?

Yes please! 🙏

Is he drunk or what is happening with AVGO's ceo?

Ok so I'm back I guess.

How is it going, amigos?

I sold all the shares of my workplace lmao. I work for a company owned by a company owned by a company that’s a massive fucking company you’ve heard of.

Goddamnnit. AVGO call isn't going well.

This is the most regarded thread I’ve read in a while and I’m here for it

This week sucked

Sounds crazy when average joe like me n others comments has mote weightage than Value-line reports that even Warren Buffet reads it! The report says 2-4x in 3-5 years!

900 milliseconds

It went up by 170% in 6 months , you thought it will keep going up ?

For real. I’m bag holding big time on that dog shit.

That’s probably most legal way to buy puts on your employer

It could be left, or right. Nobody knows I mean this stuff is hard who could have predicted it? 😁

rklb is the least trash

Funny how literally everyone ignores the only profitable space company in existance (after the xAI merger fiasco) MDA space.

I lost almost $6000 today because of it. I expect that to be $10000 by morning.

Yeah I got out yesterday, lost about 500.00, I'll get it back

you guys ready for ASTS 97 tomorrow

My ex said grocery shopping was relaxing and she was one of those people. Couldn’t stand it.

News report: MCD quarterly EBITDA margin compressed by 10 bps due to an employee putting extra fries in the bags

Everytime I buy calls stock drop like a rock..

Fuck off nerd

Being forced to use a product you hate is bullish. Source: I’ve hated MSFT forever.

30 seconds?

I worked at one of the meme stock companies, and while I didn't short it, I could not believe degens on this sub pumping money into it knowing how shit things were. 

The moment stock went up the entire exec team started to unload everything they had and regards here were wondering why the stock wasn't pumping.

Avgo calls were a bad idea tho. Hope u have enough time to let it recover. Might pull an arm here

Medic! I need a god damn medic! This market is bleeding all over the place.

Does this look like a dedicated ticker subreddit to you? Here we panic if SPY is down .3% thank you very much.

Are you jacked to the tits on short term, OTM calls on hyper speculative, pre-revenue companies?

Me too. And those are the ones that get ratfucked the hardest when the market pulls back even a little.

Profit taking around entire sector due to the incredible run that was just had. My thesis is that spacex week will bring this even higher, all eyes on sector

Spy 740 incoming

Bought 110 shares and a call today, seems incredibly bullish

I mean it's probably the likeliest scenario

classic american story

Beat , record AI revenue. Dump as always just like NVGUH

Everyday you don’t own MSFT is a good day 🙏

Irrational ass arbitrary ass market

I’ve got a 10 bagger in my pocket

actually the o.p. asked for these types of responses specifically....

Who is letting this guy butcher this??

almost did. Also just made another band

What happened

Most publicly traded companies are so big that it would be really stupid to look at your immediate team and extrapolate that onto the entire company. Especially if you're not in a very senior role.

Dirty, greedy, cocky buls flew too close to the sun again and got rugged by 🍊

I mean LUNR is one of the shitty stocks so yeah makes sense.

That actually helps McDonald's, it's the franchise owner that pays corporate to supply the fries. If you were able to just spill toxic waste everywhere and forever contaminate the land that the building sits on, then you would hurt corporate.

How do these non-retired people have time to slowly shuffle around the grocery store like they literally have never felt hurried in their lives?

Tomorrow is going to be eprick

I saw it on first squawk on telegram, I think it was tv interview summary somewhere

More like no not that lmao

Spy is down 1% that can’t be what are you talking about right

LASE - they will put lasers on dolphins.

Usually if you have a ESPP you are prohibited from short selling. It's a massive conflict of interest.

If you're talking about the subprime lender / bank then lol bro this is an awful time for that market segment.

sounds bullish

AVGO on some NVDA shit.

Spy pls moon tomorrow

Also stonks only go up

That was hilarious lol

MY CALLS ARE COOKED FK!!!!

GUYS ITS A BUBBLE

DUMP IT HAWK TUA TAN

yuh, until retail comes back when its green

How did AVGO miss???

AI?!

Data ??

what was that 😄 😂

Damn. Just checked IBM. They got fucked up today and some more in AH.

Trump projects optimism that Iran deal is ‘potentially imminent’

... also at the same time ...

Contact with US not cut off but no progress on negotiations, says Iran’s FM

Judging by after-hours movement, it looks like you can only tactically cry "deal" so many times before investors don't believe you. They will only fall for it 100 times or so.

Bro you are red

AI is powered by semiconductors right

Same lmao

Selling to pay off margin is fair, good day to you

OOOOPS

More like in 5 min

BRICS having to finally dip hard into their corn reserves to fund Irun lmaooo it’s sooo over for them

Fidelity's new email: "The age of the pattern day traders is over. The time of the regard has come."

Anyone buying snxx options 

Because the split today sent premiums skyhigh

funny thing is everyone has the same idea

I feel like YOU'RE trolling ME.

Look up independent variables, dependent variables and the market cap formula.

Scary money make no money, ciena hasn’t pushed high enough already compared to its peers

$INTEL I hate corruption but that dont mean I bet against it

I bought in on LUNR around $6 so I’m not upset, but wtf is happening?

Ad gang strongk 💪

Let’s hover all day then shit the bed at close and after hours 🤦‍♂️

They are tho

AVGO guy can’t even get his note cards in order come on man

Here here!

someone lit a red dildo candle on one of those ouija boards didn’t  u

You bought it at $40 , you belong here regard…

You're making a huge assumption that they can read

well ngl I sold half my position and bought NASA calls instead.. just don't want to have to deal with the scenario where every space stock pumps except for this one

oh boy this regards cant even do earnings calls

Look at the overall market. Do you just have access to one chart and it's ORCL?

I’m holding for now, it will take time but I know it will rebound. It’s just assets on ice 🤬🙏🙏 I’m praying as hard as can

Your gonna lose it all 😭

CRWV next to moon

Looking at my usuals lately mrvl, mu, sndk

Short on sndk might work.

o fuck hes gona restart

Big Hog Tan about to drill every ber in existence.

Today’s “The Sky is Falling” post brought to you by OP

margin calling Dr. Howard, Dr. Fine, Dr. Howard.

I find it crazy $CAR is ~70% above pre-squeeze price

source? i feel like im being left out T-T

Received loud and clear 🫡

What a fucking bloodbath

Yeah probably smoked

BTC isn’t nearly done yet. Just has to shake everyone out first. This happens every single time

I straight up hope so man we are thoroughly cooked if not

Oh really? In that case yes, didn’t know ESPP could have vesting periods as well.

AVGO ceo said fuck it LMAO

I believe we should call them LUNaRds

No because stocks only go up

I have in previous jobs, the company I used to work for basically had a tech slush fund outside of their core competency because their SF PE shareholders wanted to tell their buddies how tech they were. There was other grifting, but the place was/is toxic and most everyone hated each other.

Did he really post that? LMAO 🤌

Just for the record “my co workers suck” or even “this business sucks” is not insider trading

Same here

I worked at sunrun and they gave me like $5000 of stock when it was like $25 a share.   I sold that shit the second I could to watch it drop.

Missed opportunity: AVNO

85 degrees, full sun 

market red, gold and bitcorn in shambles

black stuff been creeping tho

Asshole

Look how they massacred my portfolio

Why the F is ORCL shitting itself

Koreans are prone to panic buy more than panic sell.

That Microsoft $401 bounce in aftermarket 

GULP

I love how every company deciding to either shore up their balance sheets or raise capital for M&A decisions is "rug pulling" lol. If you're a company in a sector this capital-intensive and near ATHs, it makes a ton of sense.

who else is loading up on more goog shares rn

AVGO better say they have the cure to cancer on their call.

Seriously. I've become a true bagholder this week

The AVGOONers have been pumping the tires all week. Happy not to buy the hype.

AVGO will definitely go back up...eventually! Beating EPS and Revenue is great, and they have a projected Q3 revenue forecast higher than analyst estimations. Not only that, but they expect semiconductor revenue to grow over 200% YoY.   
   
Lots of positives!

ATH by dinner

One of us! One of us!

Calls it is.

thinly sliced?

Nobody cares

Let's get this thing back up

Time to take a break for the day lol

fuckkkkkk how low can avgoooo

Ive got the salt gun out, this hornet is gonna fafo

Congratulations on your first gambling rush - this drug has destroyed lives for centuries.

The losing part is even stronger, You feel it in the stomach.

Lmao alr u win this round. Maybe the next ones over a joint :)

Someone tell me a stock to throw my 3000$ gained from SPCE at.

It needs to be highly regarded with a possibility of x10. I want to gamble

Hell yes! I was a VP and CXO with limited visibility to financial details. There were days the CEO told us to avoid making large trades - between end of quarter and earnings release (about 45 days). Other than that, I’ve dumped $200k at a time. Typically, I didn’t sell off more than $100k at a time though. The place is a joke and full of VPs and Sr Directors that just promote their friends. The CEO is the typical scumbag that does the opposite of what he says in town halls. The CIO, CHRO, and Chief Counsel just got pushed out because they’re 100 years old and smell like death. They were all diversity hires (including CEO).

I left in Oct and have exercised all of my options and sold off about half of my shares. In July I will likely sell off the remainder after the company splits.

Wendy’s 🍔

Green by breakfast

To tell the truth , Ai Is the only thing which is up too much but apart from that , the market overall isn’t widely higher 12% is a normal yearly return if you think about it.  We are 10% this year , we might not do much all year after this. That would return at 10% for the year. In last 5 years , we came from 4229 to 7553 . This is just 12% yearly return…. 

We aren’t widely overpriced

When i worked for Amazon and Jassy took over i sold all my stock.  Since then they have underperformed the s&p and were the worst faang stock

Non AI Companies which are reporting good earnings aren't going up like AI companies with avg earnings shoots up 40-50% .. insane market

The new snake oil

To see actual Employee sentiment. Most big companies have lock up periods so you can’t sell until 1 year later

Real answer: you can still bet on the original thesis, that people will fat finger on SPCX IPO lol

Oracle bout to make the run of the century.

Bruh, that's how algebra works! I feel like you're trolling me 😂

“fucked” is relative

10yr getting ideas

Fuck this market

I do not buy meme stocks, but this is clearly the astroturf play. Sorry you're broke now though!

Damn my trading really about to become investing again

Greed took out 20% from mines

Yes yes regard yes

wait...should I move my money out of ally? whats going on behind the scenes

Cycling back to OPEN

excellent reply.....the offer still stands

AVGO would be down 10-20% if it wasn’t a semiconductor company. CRWD destroyed. Dam, the AI FOMO is real.

$24k was shares

Please HOOD, let’s do 2 green weeks in a row for once

If Marvell hold 300 it’s definitely going to a trillion

Depends on leverage ratio and what the underlying is. 

Calls are also leverage, but with the borrowing cost up front.

Rklb taking an even worse beating.

Eating ramen tonight 😤

Me thinking RKLB will hit 150 again 🤡

Why? Most people I know would just sell them right after buying at discount.

But everything that begins with an M (microslop, meta, mrvl , mu etc) and you will be rich in no time

AVGO  here we go! Say something to pump

3 min ago

I worked at a national bank for 20 years before they closed our branch and laid our whole site off. I still have a bunch of stock and every year I vote against executive compensation.

Dudes are really flexing paper trading accounts for updoots🤣

Jerkin it to every red candle I see on SPCE

I bet against a company by leaving and working somewhere else

Are we still in SPCE if we have any money left or are we moving on to the next loss?

OH YEA HOCK TAN time. Work your magic

There may be cheaper ways to get kicked in the nuts repeatedly, but what do I know?

Where’s the SPCE loss porn?

Bitcoin is done

but i wanted to put 4k on the options trade not 3k.

AVGO downscale is a MRVL upscale

Yes, but at that point you are pricing in the information that you think you get from them asking more money. So while the dilution itself is value neutral, the information it carries (or we think it carries) is not.

Guys I just ate a whole jar of kool aid pineapples with the juice and my vision is really blurry help

S' ok, you deserve a day off. No no, I insist

Here comes the V

sorry, some virgin itch had me exit Monday

That's a little too clever for me.

Inshallah. I need it bad, I'm over invested by a lot lmao

See you tomorrow!

Nah. I’m good, man. But good luck. Hope it works out for you.

Mine is 760 C 6/12 it better go up or we’re all fukd

All this is due to NVDA's gap fill at 213

Rotating from SPCX into MRVL was like switching off the porch light to setup the mosquito zapper.

My calllllz

META got crazy candles AH

btc liquidating lot of longs, forcing it all to go down; selling positions quickly, closing longs etc. crypto is infested with leverage, comes crashing down fast it's not the end for crypto though, especially not bitcoin. whales make way too much money pumping and dumping it on retail

paid her back when i told her to buy oklo over a year ago

#Ban Bet Lost

/u/Misaka9615 made a bet that AVGO would go to 500.15783999999996 within **1 hour** when it was 480.921 and it did not, so they were banned for a week.

Their record is now 4 wins and 5 losses

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

Corn breaking key levels here. Hopefully you all got your IBIT or Coin puts

AVGO GOING UP AT OPEJ OR NOT? I HAVE QUAL AND MRVL AND GETTING REKT RN

If I buy this dip, can the bols promise me to not push me down as we run from the bers?

Please AVGO say something crazy

Hawk tuah getting ready to pump every AI stock

Good work. Your day has clearly not been wasted

Fomo took out 10% off my port

That is true too lol. I was thinking about buying with margin, but I'm happy I didn't

I don’t think this actually falls under the category of “fucked”

Wonder if they will call you or Saylor first

RIP RGTI

BELDEN

Anyone who ever had a crypto laser eyes pfp should be banned from collecting Social Security

When is this pump happening?

I *do* still have some money left

756 SPY friday call seemed safe at closing bell ..

Imagine being so autistic that you follow the opinions of other autistic people on the internet. 💅

#Ban Bet Lost

/u/Acceptable_Office465 made a bet that AVGO would go to 500.30136000000005 within **1 hour** when it was 481.059 and it did not, so they were banned for a week.

Their record is now 0 wins and 2 losses

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

Deal in 3…2…1…

People will just see this as a dip buying opportunity

The market is relentless right now

🥭 says Iran deal "Potentially Immanent"  lol

Since I lost so much with options, full porting into SpaceX is the way. Easy double by eoy

Wendy’s?

Me listening in to the AVGO earnings with my one OTM call

Stop saying AVGO didn’t report.

They did report, and they shit the bed.

I’ll see u in valhalla broski.

more like AVGONE

What do we think Melissa Lee's workin with?

Cant wait to see the Koreans panic sell it all

In desperate need of the TACO to end all TACOs to start selling all my shit lmao

The crazy thing is that the negative sentiment is to artificially decrease SPCE so that way when it pumps a few days before IPO the hedgies make even more money. If you sold, you actually are a moron.

MSTR killed bitcoin

So if the stock goes to zero, it'll show close to zero or 1%?

UAMY is next

Anyone else thinking Tesla is setting up to do that Tesla thing off the 200 MA?

P! INTC

I hedged my bonus wilhich is based on revenue and EPS with long puts but turns out I got a bonus and the puts printed lmao

Yayyyyyy fake internet monies

for sure

wo cao!

Comment it 100x more 🤡

Welcome to bag holding 🫡

space x ipo. The real one

I got the fry station 🫩

Microslop keeps coming back to $420 for a year, it's officially a meme stock.

Hock Tan lacing his boots rn

If you don't sell, you never lose. Think about it.

😂😂😂 it's over bruh. Market cashed and ran ..now flat lines and down to correction because of 2% ebita loss from avgo 😂😂😂😂

Do people say you should do stand up comedy…? But you prefer sitting down?

Market cap is calculated from share price*number of outstanding shares. Not the other way around.

That's like saying if I throw another five apples in the basket, the price per apple at the checkout is going to drop. 

Money is flowing into the company, increasing the value of the company as a whole.

I work at one of the largest financial companies in the world, I try to play earnings or news because they will send company wide emails out but the fuckers are so slow with it it’s often too late.

Once my stock vests with them I’m dumping that shit, not because the company is going bankrupt but because it’s boomer tier shit and doesn’t move.

Wait did they not say AI? Are they stupid?

You really are a regard if you didnt pay off ur credit cards before gambling

Yes. Talking about you. Mental midget make Corey look like a masters chess player

"Only a 2% beat" after a 13% 5-day rally. I guess people expected it do beat by a lot. That said, they had 48% YoY earnings growth, and gave forward guidance of 80% for Q3, so maybe the drop is as overblown as the rally was.

SpaceX listed at 1.8b

I guess throwing 7k at ONDS when it was down 10% was a bad move. It can always go lower

the stock collapsing and they give us music lmao

Need spy to stop being limpy like my pp and gap up to 760 tmr. Fr fr 😭

not gay and you think this didnt and does not go on?.....i can break it down in detail for you if you like

Remember BTC outperformed SPY and NQ when the war kicked off. Could happen again

What happens then?

AVGO call starting soon

I’m cooked

I figured out why AVGO is dumping…its PE is too low at 94. If it was 484 like ARM or TSLA 412 it would probably be doing better.

Yeah, but CAT's already skyrocketed and leveled off. It's had its ramp for this cycle.

If you listen closely you can hear the auctioneer voice in the background

My parents worked hard all their lives to create the conditions that allowed me to do this.

Let’s settle for 450 at open

That's because they don't give the janitors stocks sir

More MU until further notice

Spy weekly 759 C exp 6/10 am I fukd?

I got fucking smoked today

Koreans gonna be pissed

daily EMA20 retest then to the moon

Check, @m I still banned?

Yes I'm stinky and lose money with options and don't have a job

Looked at this but wasn’t sure. The last photonics I was in crashed after earnings so didn’t want to try it. It could go up though.

I just need a 20 point gap up on SPY and I can start eating dinner again

Koreans gonna be pissed

J&J I worked there and bought ours before earnings because they paid me much more than I was worth. worked there for a summer.

Indeed! Lucky move

why avgo whyyyy

Yoo that’s a good guess. Makes sense ?!

AVGO? More like AVDEAD

Bitcoin? More like Bitdead

I'll be here all week

I'm balls deep on GEV don't tell me is this one

Did you take the discount or nah?

It's too late. The illusion is broken as a million regards scream in their mothers' basements

No lube

Robinhood running like absolute dog ass today

Ai stocks ain’t gonna last forever, it’ll have some sort of correction.

i just did that with Bruker

This is gonna end poorly if you keep gambling your money

AVGO V incoming!!

I just whent for it ngl probly dumbest thing somone can do

Why people are selling BTC and investing in Memory. Once they take it high, these morons will sell memory and go back to BTC. BTC is future 🚀🚀

It turns out it wasn’t different this time 

It’s over

Because you said this it will literally be back to levels only seen two days ago

Y’all need to chill. We’re at levels not seen since yesterday. This will melt up to being flat for the day, You’ll see.

It's because they don't understand what taking profits is

Someone get this guy some onions

Back into ORCL @223, ready to get wiped

Your company only has one employee and that's you?

SOXL still green for the day, regarded strength

I wanna become a Reddit mod. Where should I start

NASA ETF calls looking free asf. change my mind. it's so good damn low and it's definitely going to run up next week.

Rip my granny she got hit by bazooka

Did I say that or that it will pump on Olympics PR? Honestly don’t care if they actually fly humans or not

Why are you getting 37k with 2dte? Regard

It's probably because of what you do late at night. He's always watching 👀

My move is to get margin called tomorrow

Yes it does move.

If 5800 is 58% of his total liquidity in the portfolio, meaning he has 10 000 (100%) = cash + assets. So if that position goes to 16 000 then his total account value will be 20 200 (10 200 gain) so his total % of portfolio would be 16 000 / 20 200 = 79.2%.

Anyone who bought calls yesterday deserves jail time for being dumb. S&P 500 was up 10 days in a row and you thought we would get 11?

I really really really wish I'd had the money and the investment knowhow to invest in 2007-2008. The company I worked for had mortgage lenders/banks as clients and a window into the RE appraisal side of things and...yea. Wouldn't have expected quite the collapse that happened, but it's also not that huge of a surprise based on the things I saw. Mortgage lenders using "preferred" appraisers who'd "get the value" they wanted.

why did i fomo into crwv calls FUCK

it’s going up use the magnets 🧲🙏🙏

Can Jensen say that Marvell is gonna be worth 2T?

AVGO ALL I ASK IS BREAKEVEN

Take a dump

NOT COOL

The sad thing is that those same capitalists are the ones at the top of society at large, the ones running the ship, the ones who define what mental illness is. Apart from clear cases like schizoaffective disorders or other acute personality disorders, a lot of depression and anxiety based mental illness is a result of people not acclimating to that very same society, then being labeled and ostracized by that society, then being forced to rehabilitate and reshape themselves into what that society deems acceptable. In other words, be mollified, quiet, and exploitable. 

I lived homeless for over a year because I have no connections to speak of that most would consider inherent. Family, distant relatives, grandparents, friends - I either abandoned, was abandoned, or by mistake or malice broke those bonds over a decade ago when I was still a child. As a result, or maybe consequence, I am one such person who has had no real material attachment to wealth and I truly don't understand it. 

I started working at a soup kitchen when I became homeless, and continue to still, because it is genuinely fulfilling to be able to help someone, to have the capacity to help someone and to do it. That is all I want in life, to have just enough to eat and sleep and pay utilities and hobbies, and to then use my time, the only truly limited currency in this universe, to do what makes me happy and fulfilled. Why am I mentally ill because it makes me depressed and anxious to work 9 hours a day in a menial, pointless, job where my labor is undervalued, underappreciated, exhausting, and ultimately pointless? Why can I make a living making chairs for google executives to put in an office they use 1 day a month but not feeding those who can't feed themselves? teaching those who can't teach themselves? 

And this dissonance, this denial of what is around me is what leads to even more anxiety. I understand how torturous it can be to be principled, but it is worth it, truly. Noblesse Oblige is a good thing. I wish people would change. But instead I'm reading stuff like I'll probably lose medicaid and be unable to afford my insulin if I can't work with my disabilities and mental illness. 

We have AI companies and shareholders draining public resources at great future consequences to the public, hijacking supply chains in their interests, funding global wars to manipulate stocks, and the public isn't even paid for their sacrifices. Their jobs are being lost to feed these machines and we aren't even willing to have conversations on UBI. 

Fuck I'm so resentful. How did we end up here?

QNT priced at $60 raising 1.6B

coupons 4 everyone

You’re dumb. Get a job

🥭: "I want to separate the issue of reopening the Strait of Hormuz from the hostilities and ongoing developments in Lebanon" did this guy even open a map of the middle east before he started the war LMAO 😂

LOL the only reason our leader is still currently in power is because the market hasn't tanked yet.

Once that goes, WATCH OUT. Rich people losing their money is THE ONLY thing that motivates change.

Already got him telling reporters "deal soon" 30 min ago

I hope it works out for you and it recovers.

Numbers came out, as expected but not over so taking profits it is

CXAI acquired EngineRoom

Over this market

@Michael Saylor, fuck you and eat shit

Momma raised a retard, not a quitter

Omg yes...that's drilling way past MSTR delisting

totrally recked by my calls, need to take a breajk 😞

What can it even do compared to short length content

except on margin 😃

No yeah, I live in Europe and use 212 fory investing, lately been using practice CFD account to learn the ropes. I had 1.4k profit on a sell with SPCE, just wish it was real money lmao I havent got balls for that yet

Fake and gay

Same, I sold everything and it’s now like half my cost basis lol

Adding SPCE

Already seeing archer PR around LA. They may not fly people but the stock will go up on the story

I've used Microsoft's products and that's why I will never etc

June 12 will be insane

Maybe tomorrow?

Lord how have I failed you

ASICs vs GPUs

This stuff is all getting too expensive imo for anyone to be able to afford it other than the mag 7 who are gunna want their own speciality designed chips for the data moat and also the efficiency of cost

Fuck it. Risk $700 only expiring tomorrow.

Here's the pity bounce 

That's what she said amirite

CIEN premarket, how are we feeling?

omg earnings call lobby music is pumping avgo stock

I think this calls for me selling everything and full porting nflx

THE ONLY GOOD THING THAT COULD COME FROM FURTHER DOWNSIDE IS MICHAEL SAYLOR GETS ABSOLUTELY FUCKED.

I bought mine at $8.59 as well.  Fortunately for me, that was just my hedge for my $11p I bought at the same time, and this was just the leftover $125 in my rh fun account.  My put is looking real nice right now....  😉

You know it

I cry simply because I have a traumatic brain injury; I start crying randomly at some point in time.

Headache, leg cramps, stomachache and toothache while portfolio is down. Bullshit life I got

It sucks to be chronically online and understand that reference.

i see posts in my feed and they are from 11 days ago

you regards have a lot of time on your hands

Ill have to see it to believe it tbh. 3 a bit months into it and we are at ATHs. S and p well above pre-war too. Id just assume the A.I hype and whatever else just steams on ahead rather than halts anytime soon.

Been buying puts on IBIT the past few days, typically doubles overnight

Nah this will be a \~ $14.6k loss if the stock stays down 6.5% around $443. It's a shame that it wipes out last week but oh well.

incoming "deal soon" tweets to save this shit

Just a little over 3m people here, whatever.

My SPY C for tomorrow has became worthless

I'll buy more, I literally have no other options so fuck it

Bitcoin, a hedge against profits.

Avgo plz give some random out of the world guidance and pump it

I feel like I'm losing my generational wealth with all these earning plays.

patience

TO VALLHALA BROTHER

Didn't cash out on time and now my account is bleeding since the aerospace dump.... -70% in a week 

I belong here boys

Lost my ass on AVGO earnings thanks to the regards in here

I love model trains.

He just tweeted that Iran is ready to sign papers and market didn’t react LOL. Bols you’re fucked

What is this garbage

muh Jensen said we wuz trillions

BTC crashing is 🔥

MSTR puts

President Trump on ceasefire status: We've been hitting them pretty hard

That aint a ceasefire you boomer retard haha

This Friday is going to be interesting at close

Doesn’t really matter though because he narrative is there and it will pump on that

Buy the dip. Jensen will go to Korea next and he will pump the shit out of KORU

Gonna dip red long enough for the U.S. to buy up shit tons of stock then pump it with a deal

Hohahohaaaha

Now. You can listen in yahoo finance. Already bouncing

corn is not "dead" no matter how often bers say it. whales make way too much money pumping it up to later dump it on retail. but might go down to 50-60kish until they pump it again when retail comes back(ath regions)

MRVL dying a horrible death - fuck Disney

Absolutely based.

cope😔

Did it out of a cfd acount no practice acount lol uk version of options

Fuk yeah I have one for every week until July 4.  Averaging down weekly...I don't think this market will rise higher too many pussies scared of heights 😂

Don't play options if you don't have a job. Play stocks if you unemployed

Made my money and made it out 😎

Blowing your money = +247% ur a genius bro. You’re seething and I love it.

Long story short, we’re broke and the AI hype was overrated. We’re sorry, we made a mistake and you lost all your money.

Hallelujah 🌽 crash is making me hard

PLTR puts continue to print after hours haha this thing will never hit ATH again

Speaking of retarded, I wonder what happened to 600p bro

makes sense to bet against coworkers when they’re kinda toxic

AMD doesn't gives a shit

day, weekly, monthly RSI thru the roof, shorting that bull is tempring but likely gonna get rekt

AVGO gonna close AH green. CEO will probably say something very bullish during the call

I worked at a mine that we figured out was deliberately operating at an unsustainable loss to avoid taxes/royalties and for money laundering. Contractors weren’t being paid on time or at all, no money in budgets for critical plant.
I wasn’t playing with shares at the time but when they offered some of us $$ redundancies we jumped on it, a few months later it shut down owing millions.

Idc if it’s Dogshit I just want the stock to go up

Ive worked at an environmetal consultancy company in the Netherlands, which was taken over by the huge American conpany TertraTech. I had the option to buy shared at a discount.

I did not because I wanted to leave the company. I wanted to leave because of management (not on TetraTech's part but local management).

There were lots of idiots there and the low quality of work was unbelievable. Lots of projects in the red and a high staff turnover rate. Still I wouldnt short it. There are just too many other established companies with equally as much idiots but years of stable succes. On top, I know too little of the (new) parent company.

Who sets the price?

Its ok it'll be green tomorrow cause I bought 200k of sqqq today

AVGO green by open

F'n bonafide regards losing their shit over AVGO.

Put on their hearing protection and a Disney animated movie and just start smashing their mother's house

Tyler is that you?

Watching back to the future 2 rn where Biff owns the world and runs a casino. 

This is literally a documentary of our current timeline.

Well another red day like this and RSI will go from overbought to oversold in less than 4 trading days. Software is about to hit its 200 day SMA.

you bulls really thought this would keep going?

The funny thing about our current leaders putting themselves in dumb self inflicted situations over and over and over again, is that odds are that eventually they'll get themselves in a situation they can't come out of unscathed.

good thing is no ber was alive to see this

Everyone is complaining about a dip?

My 7500P is up $400 and I can close it in 3 minutes. Should I?

I went through a billion dollar company buying out another and it's a complete shit show. The one company being bought, like 50%+ of their employees leave cause its just added stress with no reason to stay. So the company they buy is really only the company in name, all the talent leaves

It means that Op must bend over for you

I have the same. hoping for a strong open tomorrow.

I refused to invest in NOW$ because I use servicenow every day and it sucks ass lol

crypto dying because you dont even need quantum to break it

We wont tell anyone we promise. What happens in wsb stays in wsb

Bers clearly forgot last summer

Fuck it, I’m going in with more AVGO. I’ll wait it out and make it back eventually

MSTR killed bitcoin

I’m still up almost 100% on my 2027 calls

i have an idea

Congrats. Wish I had the balls to do it out of a practice account lmfao

down voted?...how dare u lol.....live in a fantasy world if u like, but reality is this shit has been rigged since the beginning of time, insider trading goes on all day everyday at every firm as we speak....the hard truth is , u are either on the inside, or ur outside, and the scales are tipped against the public in every way

just wait till Kospi starts selling off

10k ready for SPY puts tomorrow

I stumbled across a pump and dump awhile ago and now it keeps ripping after I took profits at 100% 😭 still in but not as big a bag as I had

AVGO should start the long awaited red bath.

🌽is so cooked we might as well call it 🍿

You got pump and dumped fren.

Everything on discount right now. Time to go all in

After 284 green days in a row bulls are crying in the casino after one red day. You will not find a more sensitive bunch

I’m concerned about what the Asians are going to do with this.

358 GOOG re-entry, hope i didn’t catch a falling knife 🦧

*SPY down 1%*

WSB Bulls: THIS IS ILLEGAL

Google 80billion will come to rescue avgo soon

Lmao index barely pulls back and it’s a fucking SEA of 10-30% losses in 2 days

Been scrolling r/depressionmemes all day. Maybe tomorrow I will scroll WSB instead.

Is it pointless to have a consistent paycheck

That rug on Friday EOD and the market moves Monday and Tuesday makes me think the rug today is the start of a small pullback.

Na people just selling so they can buy cheaper tale old as time

My favorite part of this AI bull run is how it sucks liquidity out of actually profitable non-AI companies, but at the same time will drag everyone else down with it if their price goes down.

Im not touching spaceX with a 200 foot pole what a fucking stupid initial valuation

not with that attitude. Let’s go AVGO!!!!

CRWD - Software as a (dis)service

S&P 500 closes in the red for first time in the past ten trading days.

Lmao the two replies: June 12 & 20 years lolol

Hallelujah

AVGO new target price set at 420.69

They were all 28 years old when they filmed this.

will corn drill through 60k? that's the question

Today it's not tomorrow it is...it's how wall at analyst see the world...they don't function in it they live only daily basis of garbage news 🗞️

he just did

guess we shouldve known the market dont go up forever

the call hasn't even started drama queens. and no i'm not holding bags.

Quit being pussies, and buy into Oil.

Well done. Now pay your mum back and pay off your credit card debt and you still have what you started with

Literally has less value than some penny stocks.

Worth 0

I used to work for Mcdonals and always put extra fries in the bags 

  
Fuck them

Yes. 

I worked from Intel from 2013 to 2020. I constantly sold my stock and reinvested into other tech during my time there. If I kept all the stock, I may be slightly ahead now -- but I don't regret it as I reinvested into Meta, Amazon, etc.

bitcoin in panic mode, probably a lot of longs closing, panic selling. corn, like most crypto, infected with a lot of "technical" traders

Everyone at the top undoubtedly coordinating for things to go as good as possible

AVGO earnings

Bitcoin is a store of value, a hedge against inflation.

Thanks I like yours as well :)

When 🥭 gon tweet a fake ceasefire? I need it right now

how much did you lose

Mine already did that lol

Can't repeat which is the problem

Then wth were you trying to say? 😅

Bers rejoice

Can you use a coupon for some stocks. Where discount code?

🌽 Still freefalling lmao

Looks like my spy 757 calls for tomorrow are cooked

Lmao I didn’t short my own company but I did dump every share the second I realized leadership was flying the plane into a mountain. Watching it bleed out over the next 2 years felt like paper trading free money 😂

What’s the black swan from?

The nonsensical bull run is over bols, you guys are so fucked

Maybe if Jensen shit talks ASICs tomorrow.

Bears holding Nvda hostage

what time is the call

Back to Wendy’s it is

Market blew up on the launchpad

Holy hell stocks are collapsing

Lost so much today might, feeling truly well regarded

Bet you avgo is flat by end of day tomorrow. AH trading is so stupid. Genuinely insane overreaction

get the hotline ready for tomorrow

How is possible that AVGO is going down? There is no sense

Ugh I got burned so hard on that fall by going into short term options. Never again

This one is a little more steep brother, Usually its around 11PM they start to get loud.

if i could i would... but I work for a B-corp... a dying B-corp...

Chill no need to insult him

So wtf ??? We got ate by bers?

It’s 🌽 over guys

I wonder if he still has SNDK shares. He was the founder and sold to WDC

End of world by next Friday

hahahaha 🥭calling reporters into Oval Office for a "talks going well"

Start living in reality

I've never shorted, but I sold everything I already had because the CEO was retarded. The stock is down 99,9% since I sold.

its dogshit, amd will have a bigger datacenter business by q4 2026 earnings at less than half the valuation. either amd is cheap ro avgo is expensive LMAO 🤌

It has to correct back to $270 or so

Fuck it I'm not investing in meme stocks anymore.  Only deep value stocks like ARM for me now

I used to work for Microsoft and that's why I will never touch that dogshit company's stock.

What happened with avgo?

I got paid today

You could still have room temperature IQ. If the room is freezing.

Corn just freefalling at this point

Was today not 😭😭😭

Trump is gonna announce the Iran deal one or two days after SpaceX IPO to pump it. Elon told him the plan

Not sure if you were talking about me, lol.  I only bought one contract, unless there's someone else who's exponentially more regarded than me.

DCA opp

I gave back a bunch of money smh

how to make banbet of my port going to absolute zero?

Lmao I feel lucky for getting 600 shares of $META at $598 🤣🤣🤣

How is the Nasdaq 100, including all the after hours dumps, not even 1% red, can anyone explain ?

yesterday my azzhole burned all day 

that was the warning

tomorrow is going to be...interesting

What happened today? Did 🥭 open his mouth?

DOESNT MAKE SENSE, are you retarded?

Fair play 👏

Black bear!

Try 740

PL calls need to save me tomorrow or im ruined

Well not ruined. Just kinda pissed off. But still. The sentiment applies

Wow. What an insane failure of basic understanding and comprehension.

Greedy bulls never cash out on time

Alright as a bull, this made me laugh

CONGRATS ALL NEW $AI BAG HOLDERS

I SOLD AH @11.75

Is this the black swan event of 2026

Easy to predict what happens next here. Bears take over the overnight sub, tell all their little doomer scary stories at midnight. Then once the sun rises and market opens they run and hide behind their 0.01% gains.

It ain't going up chief

What do you think -$1k on a credit card is?

One of the funnier parts of this macro environment is gold and silver selling off on geopolitical risk

AVGO ❌

AVSTOP ✅

I only ever worked for successful companies, so no. Isn’t it pointless to work there if you’re betting against it?

Bought the Google dip as well. We ride at dawn!!!

$446 is about right for AVGO

While earnings acceleration is not getting back to 2025 levels the growth is still good and no reason to change future views on company. Price just got a little ahead of itself on excitement for earnings

I was just gambling

I knew this would happen and I was overleveraged anyway

occupy wall street bets

In the past 46 trading days on SPX, today was the 2nd worst.

Remember to hug your loved ones and think about what's really important. Grief counselors will be available by appointment

AVGO will rebound once the conference call starts. Spy needed a dip and will bounce back. All is well

Yes people only want the end not the beginning or middle

absolute disaster day and even worse after hours with shit earnings.  tomorrow will be horrible.

I'm always bearish and I know this returns green by morning.

Really need some help from DRAM and UFO tonight

AVGO’s preferred pronouns are up/down😂

The space stock cycle is fall 45% go up 100%

Guess which part of the cycle you're in right now

When’s avgo earnings call

fake coins are fake coins?

I bought SPY calls end of the day. I apologize for tanking it even more.

Its a warning sign to what's about to happen to the stock market.

I got the timing wrong when buying NOW.
Maybe goes 110.

Told you regards we finish red!!!

Lol, the dickheads that thought they knew what they were doing that just got wiped by AVGO earnings

\- hi alexa, play Low by Flo Rida

\- I have set a five minutes timer.

What's MU opening at tomorrow? 0% chance it holds 1000 after this black swan, maybe 950?

I don’t even try to predict tops. It’s not a winning strategy. But I do use RSI and especially breadth indicators to know when maybe it’s close. From there I exit calls and raise cash to wait for better entry points. I got lucky and sold all my calls yesterday.

My guess is alot of this is to raise cash for these upcoming IPOs. And along that money is going to come from big winners like semis. May last a few days. Eventually it will rotate into other areas of the market.

And semis are also like crack to quant funds. They will just push them all higher eventually anyways.

KEEP THE CASINO CLOSED

If you're still in that $PURR 7/17 $15 play it might be time to reconsider. BTC price continues to fall at the rate it has and you might get wiped

SELL EVERYTHING (while you can)

wouldnt be the first, or even the most obvious.

Im up a good amount this year, I think im going 100% cash tomorrow, today really did a number on my mental health

I feel stupid for selling you regards AVGO calls at $600 strike and only making a couple grand. Well I guess the highly regarded guy who bought them feels worse.

Me too brother I bought calls when it was $133 lol

My portfolio was shot in the face.. IN THE FACE!!

I can’t even be mad lol

Always thought having a company measure of ESPP participation was a good insider indicator

Red's my favorite flavor anyways 🖍️

It stinks man.

Hang in there

If you add Tesla, it is $3.5T. These two companies are intervened.

HPE seems to forgot it had best earnings beat since 2018

Bought QQQ puts at 3:57 pm 😎

MU stop drilling my anus

So nothing?

While this is true, my original statement stands

I have been convinced of this for years myself, but you just gotta remember that most people are really fuckin stupid.

It's funny because it spells 8,008.62.    
    
With 7¢, it would spell 8,008.69, which is even funnier.      
    
But, it would be even funnierer if it spelled 8,008.55. So, OP actually needs to lose 7¢. He's got it backasswards in classic wsb tradition.

Back to the files now then

Man today sucked and now AVGO gets to pile on that 🫩

warehouses full of pallets of dusty boxes of chips

feck u claude and chatgpt

come on AVGO earnings call pump

Like he said, AMD DOESNT CARE

Might be too much to ask but...give me 630 SPY

aaaaand you jinxed our recovery

Well maybe they fucking should!

I’m not imagining

The big drop might actually happen

Will my single $400 AVGO put actually print?  
/s

Yo shout out CRWD and AVGO for pooping the bed. totally forgot they had earnings and had gotten qqq puts before close

Not doxxing myself bro, but it's a one of the biggest energy technology companies in the world, like GE Power or ABB

Idk why people say this when it reverses BECAUSE you buy

Hey chatgpt, update my resume

Fuck my life C3. Should have just waited an hour to look at the price. Guh

Heard a rumor that Leo dicpario is gay and these girls are just a facade. No girlfriend ever, no kiss and tells, no accusations

squatter bers will take over this sub starting 
tomorrow

Spy gonna hang itself finally

AVGO buy more in the dip. Will rise on Hock Tan speech

Glad I hedged my tech heavy port with 500 shares of SOXS. Will still be down hundreds of dollars tomorrow

Everyone’s living on oil reserves at the moment but the tanks are running dry

A single sector of the stock market is in a bull market

dropped $20k on SPCE at $7+ just because of you mf regards.

Bro I'm tripping so hard. He said Friday in his comment😭😭

Christ imagine being in 🌽

Why’s AVGO down right now? Are they stupid and forgot it’s an ai/chip company?

Did SPY CEO say the n word

Just wait till the 90% levered KOSPIANS get hit tonight

12 June

Bulls gonna feel like they own bitcoin or something…

Can’t believe I fell for the SPCEtard slop.  Thought I had at least a room temperature IQ.  I was wrong.

So whats the deal with Crypto Drilling a bit? Something to do with Saylor selling MSTR stuff?

AVGO back to 420

Hopefully tomorrow better day 🤷‍♀️

Bears - come back in a few days

Things back to Monday prices and people are losing their minds.

Calls on $GUH

This hour(SPX trades all day)

Avgo was already a trillion dollar company that's why It didn't wrm

I’m not hating dram, I have a lot of vgt, qqq, sandisk stock (about 250k) chat and dtcr calls (about 10k), I’m selling some of my calls that are in the money because they won’t pay off that much anymore and one bad down day means I could lose 2k in gains just from those calls and then pay theta.

Question: What kind of bear is best?

What’s AVGO sexuality?

well tomorrow we'll get fucked in the ass i guess

I bet against the government every day.

BCAR doing funny things AH

Jensen please say somthing nice about AVGO

It’s down $10…

Why not now? The best moment to drill.

Made so much today, I could let my car idle with the AC on. $6 gas is chump change today 🤑

stream FREAK IT Kim Petras

Hahahahahaha of course I get fucked on AVGO today

Trump said Dell so market flipped

Yk what retard your diaper needs changing

Love the handle you Gentlemanly Bastard.

Went long on some March 2027 call options that were ~10% OTM for CRM, INTU, SAP & SHOP.. They're all like 20-30% down already 😆 I'm a trading god

This is the dumbest move ever, SPCE is NOT down bad, it’s *actually up a lot and doomed to see new lows*

Ok now i see it.Now i see it.

Chair & CEO Sanjay Mehrotra sold $38.4 million worth of Mu shares

phew, thats a lot of money

My advice is free, you don’t have to take it if you want to gamble lol

Why’d they decide to do that the second I bought

Damn bruh pulling them 50s jokes

is all the space stuff (ASTS, MARS, VOYG, LUNR) cooked (in free fall) now that the hype has died off or will it run back up during the spaceX ipo asking on behalf of paper hands everywhere 😄

if it was my money i wouldn’t just “fk it” that would be dumb

We’ll be fine guys .. green by open 🫣

Goddamn if you bought SPY puts at close today you’d be absolutely loaded rn

Lots of chips and ai , no product though…

Because when lot of you try to buy. It goes down so that it can be brought at low price :)

When is SpaceSex stupid IPO

I don't do calls

AMD doesn’t even care lol

well well this is in the well

That'll be Broadcum in 10 minutes lmao

Dude, if you're going to take OP seriously at all, then you might want to investigate what percentage of whey (byproduct of cheese making) is literally flushed down the drain because there's not enough demand for the value added byproducts in the first place. (Spoiler over 50%... and of the other 50%, over half is fed to pigs)

BTC is a leading indicator of risk off in the market 🍷

Your mother

do you mean drugs or options or both?

Strikes are lighting up the Middle East, no deal on Hormuz until “September” possibly… the entire market is pricing in potential volatility

See you at Wendy's

AVGO picked the worst day to have earnings

Thx bro

AVGO VEEV both has good earnings but drops but C3Ai 🤣 ends up flying. Make it make sense

If you’re down over 50%, the cost basis should change to FAFO

Don’t get yippy.

My knockout is one jab away

Loll spy down 2 pts ah, every one loading puts.bits down 8 pts for the day. That was the dip..... Maybe

i realy took the whole Serivcenow downfall -16% in 3 days huh

Lmao ….  AVGO pulled the abusive ex boyfriend special—love-bombing all week, emotional damage after earnings😏

Lucky for her it's not yet sunday so she has a few days to practice

#DRILLING resumes tomorrow LMAO🤌

because literally everything aside from semis has been a total bloodbath and it makes no fucking sense.

the most overvalued pieces of shit are green every day and the rest of the market is like a 10 pe and constantly down, all the time.

So another red day huh

dang... semis really *were* propping the markets up...

You played Broad Cum Down Earnings! 🫵🤡😂

3-5 YEARS?!? You understand we struggle holding a position for 3-5 days right?

#This shit is too easy to predict LMAO🤌

Wake up dumbass

Boredcom running the whole m00rkit

Didn’t look at thing today. Damn son, the fuck you guys do?

well all the products that my former work is using is doing great... like servicenow, crowdstrike, hpe

But that's not how dilution works. 

Share price = Market cap/# outstanding shares

If you increase the # of outstanding shares, and the market cap stays the same, the value of your shares goes down. It's insanely basic stuff

How tf is Broadcom gonna beat on every metric but give guidance they may have a margin pressure of 2% and that causes the stock to drop 7%? Fuck out, shit is at 500 tomorrow

Most of us have weekly’s that expire in 2 days

I really hope its ending real soon...

Not the guy you initially responded to, who asked if his calls for Friday are cooked

Just park in back in old faithful guys. MSFT AAPL AMZN GOOG TSLA and dare I say, NVDA

MRVL??????

Software “rally” was a dead cat bounce lmao

Listening to “everyone” would mean the OP only buys broad based ETFs and mutual funds. I think the OP is trying to win big

?? its -4% AH

Oof tough break crypto bros

At least NVDA not making things worse...

Down less than 2% and bears are calling this a crash, fucking pathetic

I dunno I’m numb

investments going well

My baby avgo 🥺

Did you retards see what happens when there is no propaganda for a whole trading day? Wow who would have known.

It is only tiny 1% drop, it should be like 5-6% daily for profit taking

Things can't crash yet, have to give us SpaceX, Anthropic, and OpenAI bags first.

Can Donnie send over a couple of peace bombs to Iran so we can pump the market up after hours?

Mrvl gonna rip cause im long

Besides the fact that Bitcoin's stupid.  It's also gay.

This place was really bullish in AVGO 😬 I bought 2x leveraged shares that felt some pain. Probably gonna wait it out a little though. These I can bag hold for a little while if they dont continue to drill.

It will go higher doesn’t look good for the record books to keep hitting ATHs every day

did AVGO miss? I’ve been out of the loop

i love my gay bear ass for getting CRWD puts

Lol 🤣. A broken clock is right twice a day…. Right?

BREAKING NEWS: Broadcom (AVGO) pivots into Space Data Centers and starts its cooperation with Virgin Galactic (SPCE)

AVGO I hope your happy you just ushered in the next great recession of June 4th, 2026 tomorrow 

Because we all know we are headed back to SPY 760 on Friday 🐂🐂🐂

tomorrow going to be blacker than my wife's eye if she burns the roast again

done with options *this week*

If AVGO isnt flat or up by morning, its over, we will enter bear market

Got calls. Doing this to protect them

sure, ill anonymously admit to insider trading, ive been retired long enough....we all did  it....fuck, we were the market makers in some stocks manipulating the price by just buying and selling to our ""sister firms"" it was awesome

Almost shorted a place I use to work at didn’t…huge regret they dropped 26% the next day and the president of the company dumped their shares before earnings.

Not a chance. This has been a long time coming and the fundamentals are catching up with the FOMO.

sadly...ai

Ends?

I wonder if the staff just shows him random bombing videos from utube.

Anyone get into netflix? Good buy at the shit hole bottom today

Spy -3% tomorrow lol...it's been nice knowing yall...

15 days is still enough time on my $90 TQQQ calls right....?

I was hoping it ended today, thought I was DCA'ing halfway but fuck me it slid more. I almost think it's gonna go back to 95-105 region again.

So we know the only once getting looted are consumers.

Some dude just called it black swan event lmao

I think I should be done with options

$0.01 each

It never should have gone this high to begin with

Exactly.

I saw a post with someone's avg being 1000

**Ban Bet Created:** **/u/LadderAdmirable** bet **SPY** goes from **751.56** to **745.0** before **04-Jun-2026 04:50 PM EDT**

Their record is 4 wins and 15 losses.

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

Right, my point was that there was no predicting that today was the day it would drop - it’s been poised for it for months and just kept riding it and going higher nonetheless

Daily reminder that oil was at $109 before the “peace deal hours away” announcement over 2 weeks ago

It currently is still $96 despite this obviously being a lie and missiles now flying.

!banbet SPY 745 1d

STOP THE DUMP NOOOOOOOOOOOOOO MY CALLS 😞 😞 😞

Thank you for ruining it for the rest of us

It depends

lmao I sold MUU on that last minute pump

Now that's a red day. None of this 0.06% bullshit

Dont worry it’ll go to a trillion dollar market cap

Ok ill buy more oil mrvl and mu

Corn dump. Avgo was a bust. Spy 700 by next Friday

Yeah this is painful. Granted my avg is $98 but why didn’t I sell after the massive unwarranted rip?? Smh.

VOO has hit 1tn

News source run by Israeli intelligence

is my DD ready boi?

salary? mom does that part

well I was up 80k in 2 months 3 days ago, not any fucking more lmao my greedy ass

Saylor been shittin his britches all week.

Why's everyone freaking out? It's red but after insane run ups, just a correction

Say sike

had that happen last quarter, took weeks to bounce back

Where

You probably won't make anything, maybe breakeven at most I say if we don't drop further and recover in the next two days. Maybe get out tomm if we don't start recovering

What about them

Every analyst is saying this is just a reaction to geopolitical tensions and inflation, not a bear market. New ATH by EOW.

I WILL NOT GIVE IN TO BER INTIMIDATION

Cmon guys a deal is coming, I promise

Bottom just fell out

Not even SPY 500 could make NFLX go up

Yeah Bitcoin, Google diluting, and now Broadcom has fucked us good. I’m going to sit this week out and let all the bearish volume get chewed up and then hopefully buy calls on something down like 10%.

Dumbfuck avgo bulls slaughtered

Broadcom price not seen since… last Friday

The number of regards who already have or will lose everything in corn is mind boggling.  
$0 Bid on the horizon.

im buying rope

Tomorrow July 800c fuck it

I went all in on AVGO 500c, I thought semis were a lock

Get ready big red tomorrow

never show off your earnings, because you will never show off your losses

I hope you're right. But they're all on Margin and at a tippy top. Oil effects SK trading a lot. More than it effects our dumb asses. But I hope you are right. I have DRAM too.

unless gamestop rides the slide down with everything else my ports gonna look pretty sad tomorrow

Thoughts on where the dip ends for $NOW?

Dear Japan and Korea, please send semis to the shadow realm overnight so my INTC puts print. I’m talking full unwind of your batshit crazy leverage.

Am I the only one that actually get pissed off by how braindead LLMs are.

Dude.. AVGO absolutely cooked my portfolio 🫠

How long a bear market can last? Are we on the top?

I'll start to DCA into that if it hits 30k.

Nobody cares

It's literally Joever

yea. repeating patterns has been my best indicator so far, especially for earnings. like how Dell followed the same pattern as Cisco for both of their most recent earnings. i knew to do dell calls, but had no idea the stock would go up 30%

I suppose we'll see in the morning if we are relieved or pissed that we didn't hold

Buy dirt you poors

Tomorrow is going to be a 🩸bath isn’t it??? AVGO bringing my entire port down. Can’t believe I didn’t sell NOW or HOOD the other day...

Software rally didn't last long

FANG 🤑

200% increase for next quarter

Im in!

Mrvl showing regard strenght

Some dud posted a 99% loss and bought this when it ipo'd i think he might have you beat

Are magic the gathering cards immune to a market crash? Might buy up all the Gaea’s cradles.

Avgo is the next trillion dollar stock

For an overvalued stock, just performing fine isn’t sufficient. Disappointed in you AVGO

2 trillion dollars

What company is that let us know...

I bought them, watched them go to 93% up and now down to .7%. Hope the hold pays off.

Don’t cry yet bro we are in this together

Look at the chart bud

Tomorrow is the day, a black friday would be racist

I lost so much money today

🥭 ready to buy all the dips and pull some shenanigans over thr weekend

famous last words

Mania turns into depression, who would’ve thought?

I bought Gld at $515

How did you clowns lose money today. Don’t buy at the top

We both know you wouldn’t and just lower your “number” Bears are greedier than bulls

I think he’s holding up the world rn idk

Every fucking call I’ve bought for earnings in the last few weeks skyrockets when the earnings are declared and then eventually goes flat in a few mins.. 😔😔

Im gonna take a nap no one tag me in very sensitive to sounds

It would be a strong argument if it was actually using the right metric, but calling AI the “most extreme bubble ever on P/E terms” is basically an accounting mistake.

You cant compute a clean P/E for AI because it is not a reporting segment. The revenue is buried inside cloud results and split differently across companies, so there is no real “E” for AI on its own.

What people do instead is mix categories. They take capex, which is spending, and compare it to an implied revenue slice that is only partly visible. That is not a P/E ratio in any real accounting sense.

If you use the only rough proxy available, AI infrastructure spend looks about 2x to 5x the visible AI revenue right now depending on how you define it. That means more money is being spent building the system than is currently coming back in directly attributable revenue.

That sounds big, but it is actually what early infrastructure cycles look like. You build first, monetization lags. Same pattern showed up in rail, telecom, electrification.

Capex is also *not an expense* (in the same way earnings are). It gets depreciated over time, and a lot of AI revenue is still inside broader cloud contracts, so the ratio is noisy and difficult to extract anyways.

So what you can say is simple. AI spending is ahead of clearly visible AI revenue, probably by a few multiples (2-5x is the best estimate I’ve seen). That is early phase buildout behavior typical of technology waves, not a clean valuation bubble signal.

The real debate is not whether spending is “extreme on P/E terms” but whether the returns show up in time to justify how fast everyone is scaling it.

Right now, basically, the math does not support the dramatic bubble framing you’re pushing, but I guess neither does it guarantee anything works either. :)

Some of the announced projects could push it to bubble territory, but I’ve noticed a lot of massive initiatives are phased to contain risk, and are buildout plans seeking commitments and more focused on capturing dollars than committing absolutely. A lot of these projects are explicitly phased, modular, and conditional. Hyperscalers are not generally committing to fully fixed, irreversible multi year spend in one block. 

What I’m seeing is more along the lines of scaling capacity in tranches (that’s how chip fab works as well, which contributes), leasing or financing infrastructure rather than owning it outright, writing paper to lock in supply chains for GPUs and power but keeping deployment flexible and constantly using their CFO calls to adjust capex guidance quarter to quarter based on demand signals. That’s a really different picture than how all this gets presented by the media. That’s a lot more measured and paced on demand.

I’m also seeing new initiatives to recenter AI ownership back into enterprise companies. This is going to change a lot of the dynamics of the current market. Just this week two companies launched on that specific premise.

Anyways, it doesn’t work the way you’re saying. And if the P/E doesn’t work, you have to look at the data and other arguments for guidance. And you should. Don’t get lost in the media narratives so much.

At least im not paying 10k on taxes next year anymore. Thats another perspective.

Went long on a few SaaS stocks thinking the dumping was over.. sent my port from 50k to 36k in like 3 days 😐

decade of the bear has commeth

what if hock tan mentions mrvl?

Damn SPY jumped off a cliff

I threw a couple gs at corn today. If it goes to 0 it goes 0

I’m gonna assume Friday

Wooooo

Congrats. You just learned your first distribution pattern. You’ll see it on almost every chart drawing down.

I sold all my company shares this week, does that count?

Bruhhhhhhhhhhhhhh

Peace deal is definitely priced in at this point

2 days ago

If MU / Sandisk / TSM drills like fuck tomorrow I’m buying

Avgo is greek for egg

Looks like time to rotate into telecoms and consumer staples.

june correction incoming

Costco 1000 pls

AVGO bargain here

I should have known AVGO will happen after thinking yesterday: 

Damn, did had a red closure since a month on my bets

Flew to close to the sun

#as a retard dip buyer I am rock hard

It’s crazy how the pattern repeats every 4cycles but every one acts surprised when it happens

If i had to guess bitcoin will be around 30k by december and if corporate starts to sell or face liquidation look out below

lunr successfully timed the market, woulda dropped this much even without diluting

Ask u/Leveraged_Lots

idk who that is but at least I'm well positioned for a downturn!

10:30pm in Paris wtf did you regards do it the market

Smart fella

Ah yes the dreaded 2% crash

if -1% is a crash for you i dont know -20% might be end of universe

stream LEMONADE by AESPA

Why’d BB fall of a cliff

I might just sit on one so i can atleast feel like ive been railed irl

It's fuckin over. Pack your bags we're going home

H for humped into ber submission

This is hilarious

You don't look so good SPY

Haven't seen a day as bad as this in over a year. Bet some people lost 20-30 % of their port today

Ughhhhhhh I sold 7/4 754p  bought for .85c yesterday sold for 1.50 today before it really started tanking. Looks like it could have been a 10bagger if held

Depends, when do they expire?

part of my covid brain does recall VSecret sells spike to be a signal. but i cant remember what

*In Squidward's voice* Because I'm all... out... of... **MONEY!**

Is the market crashing bearish or bullish for mcd and Clorox?

for CRWD, it could definitely hit 720 by tomorrow (despite this drop). but to be conservative, strike price 710.   
for AVGO, i would say 480. could also hit it by tmrw  
for both, end of week expiry may be too stressful for you. so expiring June 12

**IF I WANTED TO BE DOMINATED I WOULD HAVE WENT ELSEWHERE LMAO.** 

**BEARS DON'T REALIZE** ***THEY ARE*** **POKING SOMETHING OTHER THAN A BULL MUCH MORE DANGEROUS.**

This V gonna be wicked (Cope)

Bout to watch the late comers to the rally get that belt to ass

Hope this is bear trap

I got 4500 shares 🤩

Damn I got fucked good didn’t even get a meal smh

Holy shit. I dont feel tooo bad now but still. Fml

Excuse me, can I get refund on my SPCE shares???

POV: You made good money off MRVL. Then used most of that money to long into said MRVL.

Loss so much money today I’m going to make that shit back double tomorrow

Buy when it does this and then forget about it for 3-5 years.  You’ll thank me later

I felt that way about Ally but didn’t trade it. Did move my account to Schwab when I was there because, hell no.

Guys I’m gonna sell my AVGO share and it’ll go up I promise

Time to double down on the dip

salary? mom does that part

FAHHH

I guess KOSPI is at even more of a precarious spot than SPY right now. Something about margin and hasn't traded for this long above the M/A for so long something something. Hopefully coming out of a holiday and see how the US has fucked everything up again, they just all dump. There needs to be a combined Axios, Aljazeera, tweet tonight from a lot of third parties to make this turn around. Some tweet from Pampers aint going to do shit now.

rekt assholes incoming

ASTS crashing after hours!

Markets priced in like a $40 move in avgo

the only thing that can bring amd down is avgos shitty ass earnings reports

Market is just reacting to California's election.

now 6

How’s that been working the last two months

thats big balls of steal. Good job 😄Salute!

Are my calls cooked for Friday?

no why would I do that? I'm a good investor not a bad one

It would need to go down 50% for me to be in red

Except 98% of bol bought wen it was up 32% YTD, so it doesn't really help

I'm not gonna lie, having lotto puts when shit looks like this is comforting. But I don't think this is 'it'. This will V and most people will get stopped out and miss another 15%.

What the fuck is Axios?

Calls on lakes. buy leaps too

$NASA etf

just a hedge

honestly I say that but this thing still has plenty of time to flip around and absolutely murder the remaining half of my puts

Bro they are so dangerous

Software specifically service now.. got obliterated

That bullshit is not working anymore lol they need a new trick

You mean the one everyone predicted would happen and was only delays because of short covering and a gamma squeeze?

brb gay for pay

Bought the same amount of shares at that same price.

I’m putting every paycheck into the NASA etf. Data centers in space is the play

All in on $GUSH

What could possibly go wrong

Not true. You can look at the performance/compute curves yourself, we're not at saturation point yet.

Same lol

oink oink piggie

Staight ASS

made some money today. going to give it all back tomorrow.

Good!

lump sum one time investing?

That Avgo graph looks like the letter "h"

Came back to see Broadcom nuked the whole fucking market lmao

Who fomod into mrvl? (Me)

Hahahaha

I am the crown price of Nigeria and I need your help with something

Thank you AVGO you officially kill the most insane bull run 🥀

Mrvl 300+ is still a steal tho?

🥭 SAYS US HAS BEEN STRIKING IRAN HARD, WHILE NOTING NEGOTIATIONS ARE PROGRESSING WELL WITH A POTENTIAL DEAL POSSIBLE THIS WEEKEND.
🤔

My shitco is better than your shitco!

cue all the 'AI Bubble' articles

stfu nerd

End of the bull market

My time has finally come “bulls in shambles… bears in lambos”

#GUH

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

corn falling off a cliff = another leg down in equities coming soon

Is anybody else invested into $GENB? It's a biotech that Nvidia invested in last month.

axios will save us tomorrow

Logging back on to this comment makes me feel bad lol I exchanged my current options for long in the afternoon.

i mean 80 to 300 in 60ish days is  not slow movement....i am glad im retired...if my book showed 20% -30% gains in a YEAR i was considered a top mm at my firm.....now id be out of a job....remember though, escalator up, elevator down, but in this environment its elevator up and elevator down......

Damn those ninja swans!

don't forget silver at $120

Profit is profit lmao

Capitalism is over.

INVESTMENT BANKING WILL FRY THE ECONOMY TO THE ABYSS OF HELL BEFORE ANYTHING "Pops".

Haha well I guess I’ll enter AVGO

Tendies

Whoa!

red dildos are better

Spy is at $751😂😂😂

True.

Axios shortly before open tomorrow: "peace talks are progressing fr fr"

fuhhh

Sources confirm WMT to pivot to AI datacenters

NVDA down 7% AH

*This “pivot.” Is it in the room with us now?*

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

I got out on a $200 loss. I'm not going to wait around on this one.

Dram going to $100 now

Haven't seen this much red in a solid minute

Apes belong in Wendy’s

Only good macro environment (peace deal ) can save my port tomorrow

it's a tech discount

This legit works. But spy needs to be up most of the time

Feel the Thunder.

I can't look at you bols rn you're disgusting

this sub is full of pussies

Nice one I have 62

Holy shit dude it’s looking really good for us in the after market

Do you think it will hold?

damm you sure belong to this sub

Quick, someone post the hotline for 🌽 bros

Think I’ll just sit on cash for a while. Fuck all of this red.

**PIN THE HOTLINE PREEMPTIVELY!!!!**

Imagine going all in calls on red day #1 😂

GUH ASTS down even more AH 😭

Puts, always puts

Holy shit what did I miss today 😟

Bro it’s up 50 cents 😂

How many bols got baited in that 10 min dump into the close 😂😂

🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣 serves you right pal

AVGO announces it will be pivoting into drilling operations due to shortage of AI supply

How did this play go ?

Oh well, C3 goes down too

I sold WMT too early FML

"Shakeout", "profit taking", "war", "priced-in"....the market will correct and continue to go up I'm afraid.🧐

maybe I shouldn't have gotten spooked and sold half my spy puts at close for a whopping 30 cents of profit

Missiles is the new line of communication. Sort of like telegrams, but louder. It'll be fine.

F*** everyone . F y

There's a reason why companies are rushing to IPO. They want off this overpriced train

Funny, because I pity those people.

How dare you

Why put sauce on chicken wings?

LMAO

* Reporter: How do you define ceasefire? Trump: In that part of the world, ceasefire is when you're shooting in a more moderate manner
*

7 pct. So far

triple beat breh

STOP THE COUNT! @AVGO

You were screwed before you even opened an account

AVGO went down to levels not seen since last week. Buy this little dip and buckle up

Im down $30k 

So far

Mans gotta be a millionaire now

No, just you

Pull all your accounts now! Ape into Triple Qs when we hit $700 on spy

Oil is no match for their addiction

Lmfao. One time I play AVGO it tanks. Oh well. Its shares. 7% ain’t going to hurt that much.

But at what price and expiry?

This is basically what is feeding hte market. Circular talks that pump the bubble.

LMAO OH SHES GOIN

shambles and chaos

Damnit, Bobby!

GIVE ME CANNONS OR GIVE ME DEATH

orange one quiet is new.  Eerie.

Did the sky hit you on the head, too?

It gave my puts a semi lol

Why???

Wait after earnings, I guess ( hope I am wrong)

its autism, not retarded

no more explosive earnings

Not bud your , pal

When the shit goes down.....

..you better be ready

Imagine how many bears are salivating for an AH dip that will be bought back up before they can sell in the am

Oo-ee-oo-ah-ah, ting-tang, walla-walla, bing-bang

4288 UNITS! BOOM!

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

its the new vibe

🥷🏿🦢 event

Markets are closed tho

Some analyst expect 70 but missed it by 2%....meh it is generally considered a minor, manageable miss.   Especially if hook spitoncuk Tan signals avgo has strong guidance we will see 🙈.

BOOM 💥

You can’t really tell when strikes affect the market as we had plenty of bullish days with bombs being dropped

Bought so many NFLX calls at close, pls hold

And that's how you settle $60 of debt with just $10.

That's what people don't get about debt numbers. When you talk about you owe $10,000 that's straightforward. When you talk about a group owing $10,000 they may just owe to each other, in which case it's just proof that money is going where needed, and it could still be settled with a $10.

Thursdayyyyy, bloody Thursday 🎵

Damn man. I was doing so well till like 2 days ago

They already reported

Dw mang I wiped most of my profits this week and a chunk of it was avoidable lmao

Good luck for tomorrow

Lets pray

dotcom bubble took 15 years to recover from peak

hope u guys are financially set until 2041!

Taking a plane somewhere while sitting on 4k in cash and 1k debt, and deciding to risk all 4k…

30 minutes ago lol

If you're feeling bad at all today, just know there are people out there who bought SPCE at $8+ and MRVL at $300+

Just buy more and DCA until it rebounds!!

Sell order for WTI $119. 3x leverage

I have said it about 30 minutes ago but i need another one - FAHHHHHHH

It's funny how yesterday morning I snagged a multi bagger just to lose it this morning. It's like nothing happened. You know, I basically got a shield for today's loss. Still stings though seeing the ominous red line on my portfolio. 

When I want to feel happy I just view the YTD view instead of the 1D. I'm going to sit on my hands for a little bit before buying more calls baby! Yeah it's all calls all the way down, always has been.

God damn it I knew I should've gone to all cash yesterday.

I don't see how they don't collapse.

they play a key role in some part of the supply change but i’m too lazy to look it up. 80 shares @ 26$ and a 65 leap for Jan 2027

that math checks out, nothing could go wrong with this logic

when is avgo earnings

Ngl I use docusign all the time for work I like the company lmao

Nice, AVGO.  Just killed the semi momentum.

#hop on boys, we're short squeezing Japan and 🅱️essent

(Yes short squeeze these nuts etc)

Squeeze deez nuts you fuckin nerd.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Only a matter of time. Supply and demand always balances out because of .... Money

I'm in with some leaps. I feel like them announcing a new CEO will be a huge catalyst.

I single handed prevent it

In fifteen minutes

Update I sold before close. Close one LMAO

My avgo 480c absolutely cooked

my guy out here talking about funds like religion.

exiting stonks, gold and bitcorn

but oil been creeping up and energy sector green

the orange one quiet too

I was down $8k premarket now I am down $21k 😂 circus of life… used to it already

I’d love to see avgo around $250, then I’d consider buying in

Spy down 0.36% AH‼️‼️

They housing the chips behind Wendy's idiot

markets clearly hates the earnings. they were bad

Welp my portfolio looks like bezos rocket

They were actually 420/400 put spreads, so max loss of $2k each. Which, while painful, would not leave me in ruins

Guys there is no better time than now to buy buy calls NOW

I have never seen a more retarded comment on this sub

didn’t play it bro

AVGO triple beat. It's gonna fly.

They’re addicted to buying and couldn’t trade on their election holiday yesterday

calm down pussies it was here a week ago

SOXX max pain is currently 550 and the fund is trading at like 60 p/e, this soft bear could shock semis a little

PESORAMA

Is this trolling? I seriously can’t tell

Thank u mate

20k debt on a subsidized car manufacturer loan is very different than 20k credit card debt.

You're doing great!

This and the MSTY shillers from 2024 deserve this lmao

It’ll be a slow climb, but at some it’ll have to catch up to the reality.

I have never seen as many Trump pumip notifications in my phone as today

It had to pop sometime

What do we get if they're not?

Ofc Avgo tanks

stairs up and elevator down, a tale as old as time

6/3 Never forget 🙏

Oil mun

Didn't even make it to after hours 😞

holy spy keeps tanking

wait till it goes below 400, -7% already haha

Imagine if it were Nvidia who missed lol

Calls on Docusign, we will get that signature from Iran one way or another

I got them like 30 minutes into open😭

It’s how you know everyone was chasing calls at ATH’s to be fair it usually works but I think fomo boys finally got caught up

OMG, AVGO just fucking stop bro. Down 7% in AH? The fuck bro? What is you doing?

Wtf marvel is doing

4 more years of this and even 🥭 will be envious of my plays

This is it, I’m telling you this is it

Need mrvl to go up up

RGTI stop it

No one is talking about Ciena… ill take it as a good sign since everytime a stock is pushed on this thread it gets slapped hard

I forgot the ticker and name sadly but there definitely are

Imagine dragons

lmao the timing on these posts is absolutely perfect, like watching someone scream about house fires while their neighbor posts about buying more matches

This is the way

#MRVL Community in the works!

Lesson learned: n/a

Bucking and fucking

if you want to make a shitload of money, buy AVGO and CRWD calls at open and sell at the end of the day. CRWD's 1 month chart was identical to Google's prior to its January earnings. google dropped 10% by open, then recovered 8%

I hope you guys aren’t in calls, otherwise y’all trapped

Toasted

Buy calls at open, less IV now

They beat it lol

When is the call? it already tanked

I swear the shit bears say sounds like something you'd see on a shirt at Hot Topic

Wats DD

Nvdia barely beat their earning expectations just now

Doesn’t matter. MM decided that they don’t want it to rally

How is oil not rocketing towards $150+ yet, no deal in sight and missiles are flying again

Well, maybe the actual earnings call will help. 😅

Rotation into software:baggies::deal is imminent:Trump

Let us know how it goes

4th time today asking what happened?

do not

A 2% *beat* may not justify a 110% rise, but a 48% YoY earnings growth doesn't justify a 20% droppings on earnings either.

IBM dip to 300, whos buying with me

SPY 750 is not a meme ...?

ORCL bruh

You an me both

This was nothing new. Just look at any subreddit where VMWare is discussed lol

WHY IS THIS HAPPENING

the tax cut is just the fee you're paying for the service of being able to pay someone to eat dog crap so easily.

AVGO SLIDING  but when you look at the 3 month chart this shit is literally a fart in the wind lmfao semis have ripped soooooo fucking hard

stay out

shouldve sold on AH yesterday for marvel

Relax guy. Nothing to see here.

Wish I didn't diamond-hand my calls. Still up 10x, though not sure if that will hold tomorrow.

Loving the emotions in here…

Feels different having more positions on stock and not just options wow this time I dont need to buy some $rope

Full port NASA. Space sector gonna rip from this weeks dip

Might be some dicks-in-butts tomorrow

Added to SMCI 2027 leaps and Nvidia 2027 leaps today

I am a long term investor investor of AVGO

I only scale in when one leg of the strangle is already heavily in profit and I keep the DTE far out enough to give me plenty of buffer. Works well for the swing trading timeframe. You can definitely fuck yourself over by scaling in too quickly though.

My strategy is momentum-based as well so my picks rarely stay still. If they do then I get the signal to move into something else.

No margin needed, my opening strangles are just 5% of my port in calls and 5% in puts. Nothing crazy.

Ty for your cervix

Looks like he is gonna be the same as your buddy even though he said he's not!

Go ask Elon on X, he should reply, he is pretty good at that 😂

TACO Wednesday is the new TACO Tuesday

would you rather have a fishhead wife with cannons or a nonfishhead wife without cannons?

Note: both have washboard asses

Why would you buy calls

How are you doing pal?!

I feel like SPCE is like a foreshadowing of what’s gonna happen to SPCX

Margin is calling

I was proud to show my gf yesterday's gains. Im just not going to bring up today and hope she doesnt either

Fuck my face

Bro imagine the desperation after not being able to trade for a day. They are locked and loaded.

Where's the V,  you stupid bulls

this price action is disgusting

#Ban Bet Won
---

/u/LadderAdmirable made a bet that SPY would go to 752.0 within **1 day** when it was 759.59 and it did, congrats regard.

Their record is now 4 wins and 15 losses

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

Well holy fuck, Servicenow is selling off hard

Lol, these earnings are great.

How many regards got wrekt by these?

🥭 Iranian attack on Kuwait International Airport "wasn't a big deal" and describes the missile attacks as "moderate" and normal under a ceasefire. what the fuck is his problem???

suck elons dick

Who’s the retards saying AVGO to 1k on an already trillion dollar company

"I know you beat earnings but you didn't BEAT IT ENOUGH"  \[pulls off belt\]

Now let’s see SPY drop another 1% so I can buy 1dte calls without fear

#Fuck it, all in on oil. This shit is going to $150

Oof the mythical Michael Strategy loss porn i was looking for

Yeah I’m thinking of dumping these and going longer for sure

AVGO to 550 after the call

I envy those who travel the world, working here and there for a few weeks for a number of years. They'll regret very littlebwhen they're 80. They'll find a similar minded partner on their travels, have fun, settle down, inherit some money, be mortgage free and have some savings. We're all living like we'll be here for ever

We can till see what you said

Nvidia and Google are the exceptions not the rules at these expectations and market caps

Brother we are going to 740 tomorrow.

this was not ideal but not entirely unexpected

Got some puts in for Friday. So it probably moons tomorrow.

Hopefully tomorrow.

Shares here but same. Fuc

Inverse Santa rally formation

How should one play the spacex ipo????? Pls reply

Was avgo earnings that bad?

Nice play. Seeing that 315 Call carry the team while the hedges bled out is beautiful. What was the exact exit signal that made you pull the trigger on Tuesday?

pigs give us the cermonial bacon supply

Alright shows over, buy back into NVDA. this is a company that doesn't miss earnings

Keep it warm... we'll be back next week

Thanks

Lets meet up behind Wendy’s

Lol fafo

The exact profit is right there. I just rounded up

UVXY time.

135 RKLB, 40 LUNR easy bagger

Ok. Why?

AVGO NOT PIVOTING TO AI ENOUGH

now THAT'S how you make a fcking headline right there!!!🚀🚀🚀

Shiiiiit… I hope you are on margin too

Energy, healthcare, consumer staples, materials and real estate all outperformed today. No guarantee it continues but it’s a start. All of these have been major laggards. Usually money flows into laggards first when you get these rotations.

AVGO will bounce back. Calm down you pansies.

Pal your mate, not

brk exactly 4.20 today.

Be honest are my $756 calls for Friday SPY cooked or what

AVGO, the industry is weighing on you and I’m sure your heavyweight customers are pressurizing you so pls perform in the earnings call

CRWD is already a gone case

Well bulls you had a good run. Hope you took some profits. This is bear country now

Don't be ridiculous

They can still suck my ass tho

Like who exactly is supposed to be working for whom here anymore? If we're going to end up doing all-day spin classes to power them ourselves like in Fifteen Million Merits, then let's just do that and then at least everyone can cancel their gym memberships.

CRWD 1 month chart was identical to google's for its January earnings. led to a 10% drop by open. sorry i didnt warn everyone before

Fck this im holding cash. I was up 5k pre market now down 11k

That hurt me physically

if MU would just dip down 10%, that would be great.

No, there’s not.

Sigh all in on JOPO

Same thought

Not good for you guys that held.

What? I missed something. Enlighten me.

Ouch, lol

People like you are the world haha

No one gives a shit about trailing PE. Forward PE is much more reasonable.

You're getting smashed right now show us the loss porn tomorrow

Possibly. Print.

I think it's over buddy

I played calls today. The last time I played calls, spy went to 630.

GONNA GO MAKE SOME CALLS OUTTA MY NEW YORK BATPHONE SEE HOW PEOPLE FEEL ABOUT THIS CLOSE

so avgo crashed the market, thanks u fucking asshole

Well at least only a third of it was in options

Well you can't assure the certainty 

One tweet from 🥭 about any bs peace 

Could make it all green tomorrow 

Happened 50x times now

Every single week 

Problem is we never know when this peace of sweat, is gonna come up with his s...t

You and me both brother also bought 600$ just before close

Dix avgo just put all of us in poverty ?

Who FOMO’d into MRVL today? 🙋‍♂️

Got the better of me. Only one call dated for Jan 2027

AVGO bleeding legacy VMWare customers.

say that again?

Software still looks like shit

How do I join the Claude IPZO? HOOD? OR BLOCK? OR JPM. You said 25000. In USD?

say that again?

Wym MM pysops 😂👀

Well the plurality of puts in your statement implies you have at least 80 something thousand monies to secure said puts. You’ll be okay buddy

That's why shares > options for earnings lol

I’ve only seen an after hours sell off 37 of the last 40 green days, we’re fine

we’ll see what happens

Should I do random shit?

Yikes

I've lost two bags this week. A bag and a BAG. Never listen to me.

They do not like this shit. They hate oil going up.

AVguh

I find it funny they decided to spend all their Capex building an AI infrastructure without combing the psychics of mechanics with software. Compared to the robots in Chyna, our robots fall when walking.  
Funny how it goes hand in hand how they handle the war in Iran, no plans just execute & lose

Shit was priced in retards

I have 7/17 85c… praying for a run up before earnings then dumping it

Wait my avgo 440 puts will print?

ORANGE WEDNESDAY

Yea guys the whole broadcom thing not lookin good. Dont know what to do. Maybe ape into Vertiv calls

Rotation into Oil coming. 

Buy your shit up now before August contracts hit 96+ too. Sept is just below 90.

Two days ago bro. Don’t come at me.

It’s actually fucking insane that this stupid fucking geriatric pedophile FUCK can just say “deal over the weekend” “2 more weeks” OVER AND OVER AND OVER AND OVER. IM LOSING MY MIND

Why is Nvda tanking ?

sometimes I wonder if all of you guys have jobs, or what... can someone let me know (Serious replies only)

GRND getting destroyed on pride month 🫣

It’s topped out here in SPY consistently over the last two months. It at the very least warrants caution. Good spot to raise cash and watch where the money goes. Not a good spot to go deeper into calls.

Kinda torn because my gut told me to short mrvl but decided the risk isn't worth it. Wish I wasn't such a pussy

But why not buy MRVL dip

Even he dumped that piece of shit. And the dumb name was only like half the reason.

If god is real please bring spy back to 500 inshallah so i can buy and not gamble anymore

i only want to buy the dip when I know it was the right move in hindsight, i'm not touching this garbage

It is not.

Oh great another “AI scare” we’ll be ATH in a few months again

AVpleasefortheloveofgodGObackup

Perfect MRVL entry point, last dip before it enters S&P 500 next friday 🤑🤑

Hold or sell mrvl?

I was so wrong today, that rarely happens

i take some chips off the table daily

people still buying bitcoin? Forgot it exists lol

It'd certainly be nice for Hock Tan to pull some Jensen miracle

Buttcoin is in late stage bear market, fuckn annoying

a 5% drop in after hours isn't a crash, guys. c'mon, stocks have been absolutely ripping.

Mine is mid July

Thinking to finally sell game store and port it into something that will make it 10x
 Suggestions ?

Markets never top out in June FYI.

let me guess - bears taking it raw again tomorrow by market open

Ahahah I was just thinking that. Asia gonna be mangled tomorrow

Oh no avgo did what it did with all its other earnings. Will probably continue to pump in a couple days like usual.

What the HELL happened to my port today

HOLY fuck $HUBC massive buying opportunity huge volume lately

I’ll just put the fries in the bag now.

Well, yes, obviously the people who own ans operate the company do so to enrich themselves. Kind of the entire point of starting a business ain't it?

Some of you have never heard of reversion to the mean and it shows

Buy the dip tomorrow, this AI train will not be stopped

buttcorn 64k by tmr

Such a massive over reaction on avgo dump

How you doin buddy?

Is this AI?

Hope you had PVH puts

AVGO earnings call save us?

The Only hope for tomorrow

Damn, it seems today was not a BTD type of day, took a haircut on GOOGL -1.6k today 😭

....yeah, hey 😥

Noted

AVGO trading at Monday prices

The higher you are in the value chain the better profit. That being said there are of course numerous companies in the total supply chain that will gain tremendously. I played around with this as some sort of indicator for Ai bubble burst a while ago. My basic idea was to aggregate as much public data as possible around suppliers to TSMC, some technical indicators for the market etc. and combine into an analytical model.

uh oh mr market i don’t feel so good

what about now

Gotta do something to pass the time

Now for the final knockout move on AVGO.

FINISH HIMMMM!!!

My week just depended on DRAM hitting 70. We even touched yesterday.

You took a risk and chased momentum hoping for a small win. You bought the tippidy top, rip.

I'm starting to think that maybe... just maybe... I should just get a job instead.

Im holding for a rebound , at least hope to even out. I didnt keep my hpe

I’m a professional top buyer

DRAM going to go crazy tomorrow now that the Koreans are back

June 3rd, the day AVGO killed the bull run

That steamroller is MILES away, I bet I can pick up all these pennies before it gets here

- Me, selling 420 AVGO puts before close today

The answer is clear.. If you hold, your cost basis is the top; if you sell, the sale price will be the bottom. This is everything I know, doing my best to help you, it’s your call

Who bought the software top yesterday, show yourself

Goddamn, SaaS taking a doo doo

I mean this will probably hit in the next hour

u got a black oiled dick?......show off

Man, just don't play earnings

Damn. Glad I trimmed my calls. Mitigated a massive hit. Thanks AVGO.

I might actually win my !banbet

If I catch a bear out in the wild im fucking grilling it and eating it

LUNR, RDW, ASTS, and RKLB week out calls are a no brainer right now

It’s bad 95% of the time. Today’s the 5%.

You and me both brother. May take a while but it seems like such an obvious play.

I think op genuinely thinks this is a flex lol

BJs BJs BJs BJs BJs BJs

Bagholder spotted.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

can it atleast stop going down so i can take a 80% loss and not a 100%

They're going to cut off your electricity and you're going to lose social credit score.

I did for sure

Shits green by morning this life isn’t real

Print. Warsaw. Kyiv. Moscow. Moldova. Belarus. ELL Finland. Print.

hope it crashes more, would print me so much more

Well it looks like I will be throwing everything my no have at SPY calls lmao

Same fml. I think the market is playing with my head

Double my AVGO shares on margin in AH? 🫣

Is it time to BTFD yet

AVGO Dil. EPS (TTM)

+70.07% Jan 25

+28.31% Apr 35

+47.14% July 25

+21.63% Oct 25

+7.68% Jan 26

+17% June 26

The growth this market expects is unhinged but alas when your P/E is 90

Turn your brain on

Branson doesn’t want retailers to make money

Jokes on bears, MU still green

you’ll be fine

Uh oh

its the goat head u need, not the whole goat.......

I know when I need to delete the app. Cash Gang strong.

From semis to ?

Space done. Drone stuff done. Saas done. Then wer.

Got bufu'ed by earnings today rip

Maybe being a geybear isnt that bad

My weekly puts are so back

Jensen should have ate her in the womb.

7% now.

Thank you for your sacrifice

Guess we just gotta wait until everything fully pulls back before entering again

Tomorrow is going to be a 🩸bath isn’t it??? AVGO bringing my entire port down. Can’t believe I didn’t sell NOW or HOOD the other day.

Just like NVIDIA?

We need the orange leader to tweet something like right NOW

Sold MRVL thanks for the beer $ regards

principal and capital are two different things

RTY doing better than the ES after hours..

I an Armenian child.

What the fuck man. IBM is still tanking after hours. I’ve lost so much money I don’t know what to do.

Your electricity bill

Bought some retarded PL fds today for the potential earnings rip tomorrow.

How do you inverse yourself without getting stuck in an infinite loop

Avgo earning was not bad. Probably takes couple days to recover

AVGO taken out back and shot

I just lost $1k on this stock. But who's fault is it? My own for buying high. 

You make the decision to buy and sell, not WSB. 

Hold yourself accountable to your own actions.

I'm logging off. When I wake up tomorrow I better see AVGO pre market green. No reason not to be. They did everything right and then some.

#SHHHHHH You go easy now lil bull. Time to feed.

Nigge wa

#Ban Bet Won
---

/u/Ok_Cry7572 made a bet that AVGO would go to 449.94 within **1 hour** when it was 454.48 and it did, congrats you fuckin nerd.

Their record is now 12 wins and 26 losses

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

We’re eating good tonight brother

Any regards bought NFLX?

Calls on MRVL, AVGO, MU, and SPY

Go. Fuck.Your.Self.You.Gov/Corpo.Fucks.

AYO BEARS: FUCK YOU!

Gang 🤙

SPY closed below 5 SMA & broke weekly neckline. Time to fill downside gaps & look for support. 😈

Which one?

You already have a bet going - SPY to 752.0 before 03-Jun-2026 08:07 PM -05

!banbet  
This stupid bot just doesn't work, does it? See you guys next week.

whichever direction, slowly is not how i would describe the movement

everything blood red in AH

it's over for bull

When spce turns to grave digger

Buying the spce dip again. This shit is going to shoot up by IPO day

Because tech bubble. Extreme greed, people are buying any tech company that hasn’t absolutely skyrocketed with the thought that they will. 

When the tech bubble pops it’s gonna make the dotcom bubble look like child’s play.

he bought saas so hes also losing

Wild people will post whole ass political news posts and write “calls” thinking their retarded ass is okay.

Greens even reduced the total energy produced in Germany by about 30% in the past 25 years

That perspective

I'm not good. I'm the best.

KOSPI is going to open fucked up.

Mrvl? Msft?

The V was the friends we made along the way 🥲

Hope my QQQ and SPY puts protect me from the death of my calls in the next day or two

Bullish

AVGO crushed it. I’m still locked in with my calls for HPE. Should be a great gap up at market open tomorrow from AVGO halo effect. It’s a win-win. The AI play is the train to be on! I’m glad I got my ticket! Yeeeeee!

DOG STUFF YOUR RSI UP YOUR ASS

that's depressing

Good point. At 3.33% of QQQ, nah; fuck em.

Wait for the “first move is fake”. Comments

I swear I can only do index funds with vanguard in the UK

RSI has been regularly insane for over a month, dude. It only seems to matter some of the time.

Avgo give some random guidance of doing 50×  next quarter and pump thi plz

Not good bruh

What’s funny/dystopian is that my other comment that names the specific advertiser that keeps popping up was shadow-censored (2 views vs 500 for this comment)

# Imagine you bet on SPY today and to make it up you bet on AVGO and you loss even more LMAO

I caught the Oil trade! 

Gains will go into the next taco Tuesday move.

#daily reminder the gap from SPY 300 TO 755 HAS NOT BEEN FILLED

anyone else just hear the AI bubble go POP? tomorrow is going to get ugly, today was just the warmup

hope it just falls another 5%

So what do we do now my fellow dysfunctional members of society

this is why it went down huh lol

its ur fault bruhhh

AI isn’t done, I’m buying the dip tomorrow 😂

**Ban Bet Created:** **/u/mcy00** bet **NVDA** goes from **215.04** to **230.0** before **05-Jun-2026 04:36 PM EDT**

Their record is 2 wins and 0 losses.

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

Yes, they guided up revenue by 2 Billion, so 10% up. Does that justify another 30-40% jump on stock price? It may well happen, this is a bull market after all

As a co EU citizen, Read the article before posting you regard

We’re gonna need a unalive watchlist on the sub for this shit

If people are not careful

I'm sure this has nothing to do with the gas shortage from the Hormuz closure. It's "AI", even though we barely have any datacenters compared to the US or China.

Oh so red

Well there goes quite a few thousand.

!banbet nvda 230 2d

Print.

thank god dell rocketed, if it werent for that the last two days wouldve put me in poverty

Good bot you provided a laugh 😂

"HAHAHAHAHHAHAHAHAHAHHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAAHAHAHAHAHAH YOURE ALL FUCKED" - guy who has been fucked past 1.5yrs

I’d like to add in new up and comers specifically CDNL and FLR

Space X. Crash and burn.

You paying for theta everyday tho, hope you on margin too 😭

Look at the bright side, you didn't miss it!

Eat shit

tomorrow gonna be red as the devils dick

Full port meta rddt calls make it all back by friday . This is financial advice

Avgo 🫩

It will. Always does

Is this the thing they call opportunity cost?!

i survive off one small meal already

wal-mart sucks even for poors

Bers it is still not your time yet

1B in 100s is like 6 pallets or so

Market is way overextended. The best thing that can happen is a little pullback to reset rsi. It will fuel the next leg higher. 

Of course you would have known that if half of you knew what you were doing. RSI alone on SPY was 76 going into today.

It doesn’t mean you need to short it and chase then next $5 down in SPY. It just means you don’t go balls deep into a bunch of high risk calls, over trade and enter weak setups. This is a tape where you stay invested, hold shares and wait for the setup. 

This is most likely where we enter the grind higher and rotation stage. Watch where money goes because it’s probably going to start coming out of semis.

Well Jensen didn't say when 😉

Spy 740 tomorrow one time

This is because I bought calls

What do you think the demographics of WSB are)

(I'm a proud black woman and don't need no man)

I like when a stock is down like 2% bers talk like the end of times is upon it. Like its still not up 30%+ ytd. Regards.

give it time my friend......

U just have to wait a bit longer

I'm sure you said the same for TSMC, MRVL, MU... 

Right?

HUBC got rugged after hours lmaoo

Well guess I should exit spce

CRWD, this is it, Im going out tonight with a fucking bang, fuck all of you

it beat expectation by a little, way below the actual expectation

Damn son, I’m sure you are praying it goes up after the earnings call

Who got some puts at close?

sweet!

Just your mom’s

Not SPCE fyi that’s for retards

Recovery s my guess

Forgot to buy DELL calls, forgot to buy HP calls, got mad and went all in AVGO thinking i will not miss this one lol

🚨🚨🚨THE OTHER RED SPY SHOE WILL DROP TOMORROW  👠👠

sit down before you hurt yourself

Why do regards play AVGO earnings? Time and time again it's been shown the play is better AFTER earnings

Bulls obliterated. So nice

What blew it up?

Do you know some or do you just know they exist?

that only if you profited less than  the mid 6 or 7s

AI trade will obviously continue

but $HOOD is genuinely in some danger if Vlad can't prove they're more than a BTC proxy

AI has been defeated 💪

AVGO you had 1 job!

Fuck PANW Fuck AVGO Fuck NOW Fuck CRWD

There is no V

I had the wet dream of MU tanking 20%

Why everything is in red AH ?

Full ported to the tits in Space this has gone on long enough

Broadcom sounds like a dotcom bubble stock

Pusa cheap as hell rn

AVGO sales miss in the middle of the AI bull run? Are they regarded? Or maybe the bubble is popping

Open the Strait you crazy bastards (Day #94)

clown market

How are my AVGO 500c lookin

Satya can't even drive stick

AVGO getting F'd in the A

apologize to Michael Burry RIGHT NOW

Picked up a cheap call for tomorrow. We shall see what happens

I'm officially a long term MRVL holder. Lol where the 1T.

Stiff drink at the bar and scrolling reels in the middle of the day can’t beat it

🧃. I remember my first Israeli scam stock

Broadcum

AVGO say something amazing

You’ll be alright

Sell it at a loss and go eat greggs

Bears rise up 

Our time is almost here gentlemen 🤝

You uhh might want to pay for a financial advisor.

still going down?? lol

Where’s the spce loss porn

Yes. Not because your position tanked, but because you thought this was a good idea

you are on reddit

Yes, the money has almost always been as the rake. Doesn't matter what others do, you take something off the top of all of the activity.

What’s next SPCE?

I gotta better idea. How bout you just cut the data centers power during peak times. Or just shut them down completely lol.

What are you confused about? You were in debt and they’re obviously questioning why you’d be gambling it in the first place. You can’t actually be this retarded lol.

Software rally got done so crazy. Literally bought the top on service now and been bleeding ever since. I usually have a stop loss but then it hits and stock go back up. The one time I dont I get bled lmao

Here we go

And yet we all work 8 hours, 5 days a week.... Weird how we live our lives knowing that we'll be dead in 30-40 years at best

LETS GO FULL PORTED SPY LOTTOS TOMORROW COME ON BABY

if you didn’t take profits after that 10x run up, idk what to tell you lmao

Man wtf would have made avgo to not dump?

POST THE HOTLINES GODDAMNIT!

No holding 10k shares

The one time I buy into semiconductor earnings and THIS one turns red, not a 40% pump? Where the fuck is Jensen to say some bullshit

IBM stabbed me and then twisted the knife

I have a knack for picking companies that beat their estimates and give good guidance and the stock still sinks. I'm brilliant at it.

We got the beef.

**WILLING TO MAKE A BLOOD SACRIFICE TONIGHT**

Yeah bro, pump em up

I zoomed out on the chart. Still looks like shit. 

Not till I zoom out to the weekly, do I feel ok.

USO if this shit keeps up.

you had a 🥭tweet a Axios hallucination and AVGO earnings AND IT STILL WENT DOWN BULLS LOL

Ferrari. Print.

lol frick that I’ll never

I think you mean outfinity.

Anything to feel vindicated lmfaooooo

I heard the bell I thought that means all things stops.

10k wasn't even your money, and you still decided to go "fk it" and almost blew it all. Don't do options if you don't know what the hell you're getting yourself into.

You already have a bet going - MRVL to 400.0 before 10-Jun-2026 08:32 AM -05

!banbet

How much

Samsung. Print.

Looks like I've got competition sighs

Told you 😂

LMAO GET CUKED LOOSER:

Marvell Technology

Question.
My average price is 338, I’m currently down £1.2k. 

Should I take the loss and sell, or hope it goes back up to that level? 

Do people think this is likely to drop a significant amount any time soon, or slowly recover?

Patently untrue if you did any DD beyond archer propaganda

That will last one week.

Oh you're right, well with this sustainable strategy surely you'll be a billionaire yourself in no time lmao

Yeah I had also a bad feeling and unloaded 100k worth of calls before close but kept like 3k in it IF it’s somehow does a Dell/HPE/MRVL

Walmart is the next MU

I can’t wait to day trade puts on SPY and QQQ from 3:50pm to 4:00pm every day.  Automatic.

Sacrificing a goat

all this damage to my stocks and how is spy only down .9%

lol at you fucks in tech. My big green and black oil dick is gonna be thicc

This AVGO dip gets consumed at open

This guy fux

Pray AVGO doesn't drop below $445 where my puts were sold D:

Lucid. Print.

WHY DOWN

Broadcom diluted eps TTM is majorly slowing, usually leads to a gradual price fall

old goat didnt realize market closed an hour ago

AVGoingDOwn?

And how is this going to make anyone like this more?

LOL MSFT

all the homies hate microsoft

It went down like 10% mostly due tonRKLB.

Whatever - buying opportunity!

Mm will not let so many people make money 🥴

-10% 😭

Master needs more spce

AVGO EPS up almost 90% lmao

What does strike mean

The MM are diluting the bols buying the top

Yeah, if $AVGO is collapsing like this, I’m thinking the entire market is bearish tomorrow.

everyone pile in since stonks, gold and corn are fucked

look i hate the redditor trying to play smart as much as the next guy. but just look at the internet. everything needs an account, otherwise you can't access the service. everything needs an ad block, otherwise get ready to be a gay bear w/o shorting s&p. everything is third party cookie, go and check your digital fingerprint, you are 1 in 300k, it's like spotting a gay bear from a sea of blacked bulls.

your mobile phone is trackable even if you shut down geo tracking. 

btw, these are just the baselines. boy oh boy it gets nuttier when it gets into the intelligence side of things. god knows how much info were scraped.

the overton window has shifted so much in information collecting that you are just one step away from a terminator case lol

so really, i stand by always has been on the tech side of things.

LUNR eclipse tomorrow

I’m afraid to look at POET….hopefully the call will be good for AVGO

I barely come here anymore. Just yearly fomo. Whatever. Fucking retards or MM psyop. Goodbye until i get another gambling itch in a year.

Lol avgo wtf man.  Well I guess it's a piece of shit stock and only worth 200 bucks let's go I got puts there 😂

Fucking delete AI already.

What the hell are pennies

Woooo FANG to 211.75, 220c printing tomorrow!!!!

Tom Lee got a 100M payment package and fucked his investors lol. Lee and Saylor all in one

tbh semi sector still doing pretty good despite AVGO cratering. Good thing I dont do individual stocks

OP here. I literally copy pasted the entire title of the article, didn't change anything

Why didn’t sell my hood calls on Friday, fuck

Why avgo why?

inversing wsb, is also wsb.

Santa Rally 2026 has been canceled

He admits it's just a theory

Oops! All Calls!

in at 10.99 out at 23.40. I was trying to buy back in around 18 but it kept going up after I exited. Decent gain no matter what.

Chickened out and sold my AVGO before close. What a bullet dodge

Before I get muted from the banbet let me just tell you this. The market cares about the future, and they guided spectacularly. I would not be surprised to see a complete reversal.

its literally at near ATH

Lol holy

my SOXL suffering so bigly

You fucking idiots should have bought Walmart at 112 after 3 months of grinding downward. People going to stop buying food! You stupid fucks. Sorry lost money today.

I will be messaging you in 3 months on **2026-09-03 20:31:57 UTC** to remind you of **this link**

**CLICK THIS LINK** to send a PM to also be reminded and to reduce spam.

^(Parent commenter can ) ^(delete this message to hide from others.)

**RemindMeBot is switching to username summons.** Instead of `!RemindMe 1 day`, use `u/RemindMeBot 1 day`. More info.

*****

|^(Info)|^(Custom)|^(Your Reminders)|^(Feedback)|
|-|-|-|-|

MSFT. Print.

So time to sell my kidney to all in again

No. More up coming this year for sure. I just can’t see the next rotation and where to buy calls today and I think we have a qqq and spy pullback coming. Just a bit more risk off in the near term. Sold ibm and mrvl today for big wins and wanted to lock in profits as well

I made like 30% on mrvl over past two days

Bagholder spotted.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Hubc is where its at now

Red red red today

I just bought calls on it today. I think it will be one of the only green ones tomorrow

Literally only oil can save my port

Yea. I got wrecked on NOW.

Same I had a bad feeling right before close when it dropped to 480, the one time a panic sell helped me

Me too.

Is this V in the room with us right now?

Quite literally always inverse wsb too bullish on AVGO lmaoooo

Welp my entire portfolio is getting annihilated tomorrow

OOOOH WAH-AH-AH-AH

I asked Meta AI what stocks to buy and it just told me Dr. Phil has a huge dick

HUBC just got rugged lol

I was so fucking close to degenning avgo the night of seeing hpe

thank god im a pussy and went MU bull puts instead

Great! You're ready to retire.

Because people here have options, probably many expire on Friday so down 3% may as well be down 100%

that makes my 30th one from WSB

Saylors an id. Get outnnow

Victim

WHERE ARE MY THETA BROTHERS AT? 

**I ASK YOU TO JOIN ME IN THIS TIME OF PRAYER**

Avgo cooking my sndk calls

Good for you, too many people were expecting rally and mostly time in my life it never a good sign! Now let’s just hope ot will not get whole sector down the hole 🫤

nice, I'll go back to sleep now

Missing revenue as a major semi company in an irrational ai bull market where money is being thrown at tech left and right should send your stock down 20%

Yeah you're right ,replied too quick. Shame away

AVGO literally just back to its price from Monday LMAO

Europe is destroying itself over Ukraine and liberal policies wake up

RIP bro. They are making actual money so you're just going to have to be a long term investor now.

Another option trade worth noting is a trade on $Bloom Energy (BE.US)$ put contracts with a volume of 2,648, far exceeding its open interest of 47 with a V/OI ratio of 56.34. The premium, or cost, of the trade was $2.3 million. The strike price of this contract is $242.500 and the expiration date is June 12th, 2026, 9 days later.

Print.

To be clear that's not quite what is happening. The EU wants people to reduce their power usage and be more efficient. So it is passing laws that give people more control over their energy use. 
This is because they expect big demands from computing needs. They are not passing any laws to limit personal use in to preference AI at all. 
Also, describing the EU as "kind of socialist" is an absolute joke. Yes, it's not as rapaciously libertarian and capitalist as the US, but in no way at all is it socialist.

Always been. You think the British thought American colonists were just revolutionaries or same with the French Revolution or any other.

any one looking at veev?

very impressed today with zuck the cuck

OPEN THE CASINO

What a volatile day. Memefolio started down 6k, then it was up 1k, then ended the day down 800. I'll take it as a win. Much better than down 6k.

We're all gonna die 😩

AVGO is opening 15-20% down. These are bad results. You don't do a 2% beat and justify the stock going up 110% within the same quarter

Lotsa wet shits tomorrow am

verify before trading.

What does verify mean?

You retards are whining it’s going back below 300. It pumped 50% on leather jacket man saying words. You are retarded

Spy 730 tmrow...

More or less, it seems like he is saying that.

Every NPC calling MSTR a ponzi while it’s getting massive institutional adoption and banks are rolling out bitcoin accessibility is hilarious.

The 2X decay is what will fuck you. MSTR will rise from the ashes and prove all these nerds wrong. 

Trying to dunk when Bitcoin is exactly where you’d expect in the 4 year cycles is fuckin retarded boys, do better

Print the losses. Take us to class.  Print.

ARM, AMD, INTEL, MRVL...

I got 60 contracts and good luck bro

I was dead wrong, gulp

Aye I’m down 2.2% I yoloed 20K into WEBULL stock ($6.03 a share) because I believe the trading law will make the stock fly.

Yeah pretty fucked up honestly.

Go back into hibernation

What the hell did y’all do to my BB

it was trending ticker for an unexplained red day lol

Today was bring your Bull to work day for Bear. 

Now we Bulls know how it feels to get fucked in the ass. 

Back to new ATH tomorrow. 

Easy.

$1.7B in cash could fit in a handful of suitcases. You wouldn't have to remove seats unless you inexplicably decided to bring it in $1 bills

Great!

Y'all should pump my DRAM bags plz

!RemindMe 3 months

WALMART

It's my fault guys I bought $50k of SOXL before close

I LiKe tHe sToNk🤪

Avgo back down to levels we haven’t seen since 2 days ago

I saw the pic when cerebras ipo’d , all white people and Asian people working there  , no black people ? Hmm 🤔 🤨

I think out of pity - MSFT, HOOD, SOFI, and PLTR should all be delisted.

I use intuit. Print.

Guess so

We're rotating into OPEN for openai now

Bulls will make you think the big V is coming and then just tell you to pull forward and wait for 20 minutes when you finally get to the window 🤦‍♂️

just woke up from a coma how are my 9 AVGO 490c 6/5 looking?

Last time the bears were this smug they were immediately clobbered by a face-ripping rally.

I always get caught in the same trick man, when will I learn

Not all of us work at Wendy’s like you lil bro. (I’ll be applying tomorrow when I open up my portfolio at market open)

Bro cause it's that bad sell everything I already sold my three shares in quantum exotic tech

You didn't do your taxes. Print.

Maybe. 

The fifth move could be the one that fucks you this time. Or, you never know, the sixth may be fake this time.

If they announce the second coming of christ, maybe

My NOW calls are down 50% in 2 days and they dont expire until August.

Thanks AVGO. Putting in my application to Wendy's. At least I got a workout from my ass clenching exercises today.

What happened to RKLB? Market got cold feet?

Looks like market initiated a bull trap 🐂 📉📉📉

And PL

Ehh. Bout 60% of us anyway.

Print.

squeeze deez nuts

That means you are wrong, not right

Well, I held too and this is horrible 🤣😭
#lessonlearned

It's me, I'm the cum dumpster

AVGO will mark the start of a new bear market

I mean. This is technically how the entire Economy on this planet works. So. Yeah.

It will be well over $200 by the time any of us are able to buy shares.

Brk capitulating was the top signal

I was promised a trili

Thank you

Is that better than a V?

META the last man standing

Good …only 12k loss

Full retard

He prob has 100 contracts of $1500 calls expiring next week with his whole portfolio on the line🤣

I bought shares

So big dick usually starts from how many inches? 🤔

Yea just checked it out. 15 days nasdaq100 is madness

Bagholder spotted.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

We are gonna dump it

Everybody clap your hands

Clap clap clap clap your hands

You need $72,077.07 actually

is Marvell still a good play?  on 6K i have lost 137 euro on Nvidia and thinking if something can help me recover then i can later put it into something long term

Lost money on HPE

Lost money on AVGO 💀

It’s just a pull back for 230 Monday

Only down $17K today. Not bad!

Shares?

yeah there are etfs that exclude IPOs of companies

Fuck off

Getting out of SPCE, ASTS, RKLB, AVGO, MSFT, and holding MRVL this week is like dancing through a minefield and finding a diamond on your way out. Time to pack it up for the year, I’m not ever getting a better week

This is why you don’t try to catch a falling knife.

Haven’t seen one SPCE comment. Thank god that’s over. What’s next INTC?

sure you did

I’m down so much right now. RIP

On god, I dipped 4% today, so I guess we are just locked in like that

Microsoft is the best.  I love teams meetings so much better than all the rest.  Windows is the greatest.  Excel and word just get me going

Maybe don’t gamble on earnings tard lmao

Move the gold. The Transporters. Brevard. High Point. Huntersville. Mint Hill. Greensboro. Statesville. Iredell Sherrif's department. Mayhew. TNGC. WE DID IT WILDCATS. I'M DO PROUD OF YOU ALL. HANG THE BANNERS AD INFINITUM. #2009 JUST THE FIRST.

Rotation back into WMT? Hmmmmmm

Now where have I seen that before

Jensen should have killed her in the womb

Not really? Anyone who bought NOW this week would be down nearly 10% right now even though the company has great fundamentals and a buy rating.

We’ll see you back tomorrow for more options plays

You know what: I believe you

Back to 225

Pfffft so what that's only like 6 million more dollars than I have. Call me when you hit 100 mil. No seriously call me I have a business prop

Welcome back bro

Once they get those government contracts we'll be rich rich!!

I dunno what BB is doing today and for what reason, but I guess we were owed some red days

Nice bag

Hope my soxs calls will do well tmrw

My weeklies!

Oof not a good idea to bet on AVGO earnings

AVGO was priced in for more than perfection with goog being their customer and raising equity to fund the AI bullshit and they well, just in line... not what everyone expected hence the drop. fuck, glad i stayed out

Mamma Mia

i told you puts is the play.  inversing wsb always works

What's going on with this stock lately? I remember buying it a long time ago because I like space and space travel but I didn't think anyone else had heard of it

u still going to include tsla tho ?

Remember no crying in the casino

MP and USAR?

Where’s everyone shouting about how MRVL “rugged”?

WSB classic to yolo all in short term calls on a stock that’s up 85% in a month just based on some shit Jensen said.

Don't have any skin in the game, but it feels like the SpaceX IPO next week could create enough momentum to boost this one again.

99% of people commenting that are over leveraged as fuck. Love to see it

Maybe the 12 days of straight pump

I know the correction isn’t here yet because WSB would be the first group of regards to be caught with their pants down instead of accurately predicting it

My dopamine receptors are fried..I need at least a 25% gain or loss to feel anything

Easy now

“We’ve decided that industrial electricity is different from consumer electricity, so now households will all be held to flexible pricing while AI gets fixed low prices due to volume used!”

LOSS-MAXXING

MRVL getting fucking sold off from 338 Jesus fucking Christ

GLXY calls it is!

Big oof for that guy who said he was buying 700 shares of AVGO for earnings

avgo blows too, nvda nad avgo belong together LMAO 🤌

I think it’s going to be land and resources. Companies that are on land large amounts of land with rare earth metals or other materials that are needed for these data centers. 

I’d research towards companies that haven’t been producing much, but have material access. These are the companies that are the most likely to suddenly increase in value.

I’m going big tomm ORCL I thing they kill earnings next week

I’m so fucking scared

Yes for a while

You come here to read comments from 17 year olds about rotations and quarterly budgeting and quad witching

Frick you all!!!! I bought CRSR at $12

I full ported 500k into AVGO before the market closed.

One of the least volatile boomer stocks in WMT decided to jump 4% today because I sold my calls too early. Fuck this

Mine are for 6/26

Everyone probably bought more short dated calls than they should've and are going to hold to zero now because "it'll bounce any second"

Fack smh at OP

Mi 50% loss

$AVGO 𝐁𝐫𝐨𝐚𝐝𝐜𝐨𝐦: 𝐀𝐈 𝐑𝐞𝐯𝐞𝐧𝐮𝐞 𝐒𝐮𝐫𝐠𝐞𝐬, 𝐌𝐚𝐬𝐬𝐢𝐯𝐞 𝐐𝟑 𝐆𝐮𝐢𝐝𝐚𝐧𝐜𝐞

📊 𝐑𝐞𝐬𝐮𝐥𝐭𝐬

\* Adj. EPS: $2.44 (Est. $2.35) ✅

\* Revenue: $22.19B (Est. $22.12B) ✅

\* AI semiconductor revenue: $10.8B, +143% YoY

\* Adjusted EBITDA: $15.24B (69% margin)

\* Free cash flow: $10.26B (46% margin)

⠀🎯 𝐆𝐮𝐢𝐝𝐚𝐧𝐜𝐞

\* Q3 Revenue: \~$29.4B (Est. $22.9B) ✅

\* Q3 Adj. EBITDA margin: \~68%

\* Q3 Adj. operating margin: \~67%

⠀📌 𝐊𝐞𝐲 𝐓𝐚𝐤𝐞𝐚𝐰𝐚𝐲𝐬

\* AI semiconductor revenue exceeded company forecast and more than doubled YoY

\* Q3 AI semiconductor revenue expected to reach $16.0B, up over 200% YoY

\* Semiconductor revenue grew 79% YoY to $15.0B

\* Record revenue, operating profit and free cash flow

\* Cash balance increased to $19.6B from $14.2B sequentially

one red day and these fucking retards in here just screeching ROTATION RECESSION REPOCALYPSE

Alright MRVL. Keep it together

Today might’ve taken 5 years off my life. I had what I needed at morning open and I didn’t sell because fuck!

Patience

Dam son

Might need to wait for an official announcement before doing a Trump equity play

Fuck this option shit. Put everything that was left into TSLA stock and now chilling. Yes I do feel bad I lost 50k but whatever

People misapply the term communism all the time. Communism isn't an ideology. Communism at its base is a descriptive system relating the allocation of capital, labor, and profit in relation to each other and production.

Doing my best to save your AVGO calls by buying some avocados at the grocery store 🥑

Sincerely hope you all made tendies today

SOXL needs to correct back to 100

Consider it sphincter exercise

Most regards on here have weeklies so yeah

Where

you for got to mansion something

Making money is so fucking easy, and there is absolutely no chance I lose all of my gains in a 1-2 day period and fail to see it coming.

Avgo minus 5% is a fat buying opportunity, not bearish

There are many posts about this

I was trying to figure out what was going on, because 4:1 and 1/3 are both reported 

Couldn't they keep it simple 😂

NVIDIA beating AVGO, who would've guessed 😂 😂😂

NVDA will somehow find a way to be more red than AVGO tomorrow

Bro what

This is really bad we might even see a -0.25% day tomorrow

The dark times are upon us once more

Yup, porked.

Fr mane fr

what do you mean you don't want to pay $93 per profit dollar????

f u c k i ng

l o l

RED or GREEN I'm glad I didn't buy AVGO. I don't need that stress in my life.

That’s just shock real pain is tomorrow

Yahoo finance

Thr kind where the consumer doesnt need oil because they have no job to go to

If u had mstr i woulda said yes. Thats what u get for over leveraging

You saying this was the high for 2026

u also needed a certain number of profitable quarters which was what took tesla a while

I’m eyeing LUNR, ONDS, HOOD, IBM & AMZN. Entered NVDA & NFLX 8/21 today, waiting on the others I mentioned

You and AVGO just sent us into a bear market 🦧

How tf did you manage to do that with a market down 0.7%.

should we get the bunkers ready and start using our prepping supplies?

Join me for a prayer

Remember kids, if demand for a product is increased (electricity) then the price rises and we'll all indirectly pay for greedy billionares trying to replace you with AI asap

No surprise you retards are always wrong. Fuck this place.

I have puts too. We will print brother

It hates you specifically 😪

is it too late to say first move is always wrong? Im done bro, closed my trading account after this.

If you wanted to just do a quick flip on AVGO, congratulations on being the latest AVGO community member

It didn’t materialize

I’m with you man

Congratulations to all CRSR, SPCE, RKLB, LUNR, and AMC bag holders.

Well ..it seems like it fits his personal risk tolerance so..

Anyways, leveraged position on pozy scheme is some next level 💩. This guy is looking up to the room temperature IQ guys...

I second this

AVGO earnings call is live now... waiting room though

Ondas is trash

Call em out. Print.

Fuck now Avgo drug the rest with it 😒

smitty werbenjagermanJENSEN fucking lied to you idiots

$AVGO earnings leaked

Remember fellas, first move is always fake. So are the second and third. The fourth move? Also fake. But watch for that fifth move! Because it's also fake and it's the sixth move that'll fuck ya

What no trillion?

Of course the only boomer tech co I own is the one that doesn’t moon shot.

Nothing like like Dell, Intel, Cisco, HP, etc outperforming their 5-10 year returns in 5 minutes

Funny that game store was the only stock in green today

Yea sucks, atleast i played the 2x etf so i got out quick instead of calls lmao

New AVGO and CRWD yearly bags for me. Please join the NOW, PANW and RKLB bags. 

At least, these calls expire in December, but that's at keast one month of stuck funds and missed opportunities right here.

Throwing a bunch of money into high IV earnings calls is one of the riskiest trades you can make. 

You are better off finding good setups without the binary risk of earnings.

It is if he bought 6/5 calls

avgo is bringing all chips down

wasnt he working on an immediate entry waver

Time for AVGO to announce a new deal with OPEN GA Y

SPY $745 at open tomorrow. RIP bols, you had a good run, music stopped

Best life until you waste your entire inheritance on bullshit

Op should post his positions or ban. And then possibly ban him for being 100% in shares.

Welcome to the show

scammed by space and avgo back to back aint feelin good

Oh my little jester. Show me urs

AVGO is literally only down 3%, wtf has this sub become??? discount??? wtf. it’s down to the price it was….. a few days ago. and people are screaming crash

Yup. Margin calls can be fun. Foreign currency are easy. Arbitrage is a joke. Going to Church at the Apostolic Nuncio's house is an honor. Don't try the white. We have Knights. We now have Dukes. There's already Princes. And LOTS OF PRINCESSES. I have a VERY BIG FAMILY AND FRIEND GROUP. 

Don't try me.

No I was up 10% going into earnings already so this will cut my gain in half. I intend on selling tomorrow but it'll be at a $20k gain rather than $40k, assuming it hold -5%

one bad global situation , USA going china style and they don't own anything 😄

NEVER SAY THAT

I just bought one today lol

Eps is out

Crwd ran up like 200% in a month

I mean, nothing is lost until it's lost, so who the fuck knows

What we thinking now

T1 energy as well , probably has a lot of room to run yet too

first time?

Rotation started today and will accelerate tomorrow. Hopefully it remains a rotation and not a move to cash. Not sure what the rotation is going to be into is the problem……. Increased by SPY and QQQ put hedge today, closed out calls/leaps dated in 2026, and moved to 50% cash in the fun account this am.

Fuc mi

What kind of crackhead economy are we in where oil goes up 2.7% and my oil stocks are flat or negative?

I have family in Denver

Is this good or bad

Don’t worry boys MRVL is going just straight red like straight away from this price zone. Your calls will be just gone like Microsoft did.

What are we buying

Alright folks, golden days in this quarter are over. Buckle up for the downfall

Avgo 500 possible tomorrow?

only by 5.2%

Updoot this for a free dose of AVGO OTM CALL Copium. It’s the good stuff.

AVGO will not exist in 3 years

"i need a beer" 

they make $90,000 annually then get it their fairly new cars and drive away

the scammers

you would do well

😅

Looks like hood is down again, knowing myself i would not have sold at the top anyway

Whatsup with smci 😭

straight out of the plot of top gun 2 lol

Whats the account looking like? are you going to get margin called?

damn if you sold for a loss on a company with that good of fundamentals after a pull back on a day every market was down, then idk you're just room temping.

how does it end lol. will it be alright?

If SPY could open at 758 or above tomorrow, that would be great!

ok...so are they actually even? I mean it seems like they are.

LITE kind of dragged entire sector down today

I blame MRVL for my hopium!!

I hate to be right on that one but what it is

As an EU citizen, the beurocats in Brussels can give me analingus before I even consider doing it.

avgo bers celbrating rn, but the market isnt open for another 17 hours

avgo miss on rev. Ouch

Crazy that people saw Nvidia shit the bed on their earnings and thought avgo wouldn’t also

$999,930?

$AVGO calls gone like a fart in the wind.

cerebras LOL scam gershner got u guys gud

iF THATS WHAT iT TAKES

Let me guess since we went down bigly today im guessing tomorrow we will moon up 3% just cause

$HIMS

Wtf why is AVGO tanking. Didnt they beat earnings?

Market gon be red red tmr

The fuck kind of a rock are you living under where you think there *isnt enough demand*????

Bagholder spotted.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

BUY BUY BUY regards BUY BUY BUY

My port is DRAM, MRVL and BB. How cooked am I chat?

Need 10%+ day on msft man fuc

Funny how Jensen threw us a bone for market makers to take our money

LASE cause orange man 🍊

Tards thought parabolic sugar high can go on forever. We're about to see what a chips correction looks like

I'm up 10% today so...

It’s insane how WMT rockets every time options expire

I have AVGO puts but I'm uncertain this will hold. I always get fucked on earnings.

AI feels like a more useful version of metaverse and NFTs. The bubble will burst it’s just a matter of when and what is left over after it 💦 all over everyone’s face.

🥭 said they guided a bomb down a vent shaft to blow up the nukes. Has he been watching star wars?

Here’s hoping

Wow they’re crushing it

I thought the same about HPE and sat that one out, and then I was about play AVGO but it ran up so much last 2 days I was priced out 🤣.

I think it helped but still the narrative is that there is a big memory shortage and the margins are insane

my butt is starting to hurt

Thx bro hope u made some crazy gains too

First time ?

i'd turn on every light and appliance just to have them on.

they also split the value of each share into 1/3

Shut up dumbfuck

I was thinking of buying PVH puts today. Darn. Should have

Will run our indicators in the TradingView pine screener and will grab fresh bull list

Lil bear btch

Puts for tomorrow already printing 💰

avgo actually not a huge rug pull  seems neutral tbh, hasnt had the run up like other semis, will buy more

We going green to.orrow right boys?

Can AVGO pull a reverse PANW

Wtf ah crash. Its joever

Seriously anyone that  listen me to Donnie talk and not realize he is a goddamn retard of the highest order is probably inbred and require  constant supervision

Everybody and their grandma are long semis and memory disc stonks, of course lol

I didn't realize 2% was a rug

*Sure Grandpa lets get you back to bed*

AVGO hasn't reported yet, 35 more minutes

HOOD finding any fucking reason to capitulate on a random wednesday

As predicted, the grid cannot support a 5% increase in usage, let alone a 100-150% increase. We need to pump the brakes on AI until we have everything in place. How jobs will work, how the climate will be impacted, how the grid will be upgraded, etc.

I thought you turned it into 21 million...

We need those degen Koreans to come through tonight

AI using lots of water is such a boomer take

Yeah you should freak the fuck out and panic sell everything right now before The Doom™ takes over

Cross dressing and panhandle

Avgo might do what AAPL did. Went red and then when phone call took place...recovered to green and went up like 5-10%. AVGO calls still have a shot to go green. Don't count it out with this market

Why marvel is down guys ?

Surprised AVGO is dumping. I'm guessing Wall St expected a much bigger jump in EPS and revenue?

HOOD live chat telling me they’re implementing the PDT rule change tomorrow, is this true chat?

That would be $70 for a total of $8078.62

Avgo sinking idek why nervous investors

Mrvl 🫣

??????

if you're in software leaps, you're down bigly today.

This AVGO earnings should be a clear reminder to never play earnings 😂 market makers let DELL slide and said fuck no, nobody wins from here on out

Facts. Print. And chipmunks. Poor squirrels. Newton-Conover print.

Spy 380 eoy

Got rugged by MRVL

Beat earnings with flying colours and market pushes down. 🤣

I watched the price on Sandisk be propped up just above the break of structure, then watched 2 hours of shares being bought up at the upper end to push the trend higher. Market structure is absolutely being manipulated to squeeze bears and wreck shorts.

No cost basis means you bought that shit today. Thank you for fueling my calls

So not very smart with trading and everything. But even with their earnings already out is that not what we wait for to see if the stock will do good or bad? Is it based off of what’s said in the call that will determine if the stock will moon or dump?

LMAO dumping so hard

who gives a fuck of your AVGO or AI calls you greedy mfs had a month of +100% everywhere. 

Meanwhile CRWD and software r fuk

I didn’t have terminator on my bingo card. Really was hoping for zombies

We are in the midst of the AI bubble and MSFT is barely 27% higher then its own 2021 bubble price......

  
I don't know how more obvious the MSFT sell signal could have been at 460 share....

WSB spamming AVGO was my sign to unload my calls and I’m glad I did

Stay on target….

I doubt op can even spell tax

Hock Tua gonna spit on that thang and pump it during the earnings call

Vrigins?

Damn you MM are getting hard to please

*My AVGO calls in shambles.  CRWD calls rekt.  I'm fukt,  Damn. I'm not good at this.*

\#PACKWATCH💯💨 

RIP BOZO 😂 😂

My account went up 18% today, what does that mean?

All the earnings I earned in 2 months I lost them in 2 days

Imagine going back to 2009 and telling someone that a company sold 32 buttcoins and lost several billion dollars in market cap because of it.

Snort an adderall too 👌

This old man peeing in the bathroom rn just said “10,000 year old penis. Oh man.” 

Definitely a bullish indicator for tmrws open

C3AI (AI) beat earnings, there is probably something to do there! With the OpenAI IPO incoming

this won't be that time

$SMR is absolute dog shit

How do I get adopted to those families? 🥹

AVGO 22T+ revenue by year 2999. Buy now for future generations

Terrorist is starting to lose its meaning and remember we all rooted for the “terrorists” in Star Wars. 🙂‍↔️

Regard whos up 4500% on his dram options

FANG oil is gonna print this week. Get those 220c

RIP Broadcom

EU must produce more energy, more nuclear energy.

I’m invested in a lot of regard stocks and bad ideas, but my account went down 1.25% today. I don’t think the market was overly volatile today

Ok but fr some fire sales for a nice dip buy this week.

This is one of those I just findamentally don’t understand: the automatic llm usage. People paying to use it for tasks? Ok, thats revenue, and I see why a business would so it obviously. But it’s like theyre willing to burn money and resources just for…what? Usage numbers? What the fuck

damnit lost all my mrvl gains today

Distinction without difference?

Hard to see $avgo not crush the quarter

Picked up some $18 SMR calls for the cheap today, 10k worth. I just want to be right for once

Borat voice my wife

Calls or puts?

MRVL and XLE calls are all I need in this market

Wipe your tears before you throw the dice.

You should take advantage of your limited time offer to enable margin.

Ah yes good to see the timelines for both Skynet and The Resistance progressing nicely

I’m confused do people not realize that these are 2 different companies or what? What’s the catch?

Good news is my aapl calls don’t expire for another three weeks

The bad news is they’re 325 calls

More than OP it seems

Peace deal just happened!!!!!

$600 price target coming

Definitely opening 500 tomorrow

What do you mean. It gapped up

We’ve seen this before avgo lol

AVGO will open flat. But HOCK TAN better make it pump to 500 against all odds

I'm supposed to take advice who thinks share price volatility is risk?

on his way to wendy's

AVGO damn strong quarter.

KEEL/NBIS

He's stuck midjump between the ceiling fan and the floor, just hanging around.

Tbf, France has become THE AI HUB of europe. Macron has doubled down on the adoption of AI

Maybe it’s best if I don’t even look for a few weeks.

Believe it or not. Huge green

It’s fun to stay at the YMCA!

what in the hell

Profit is profit regard

I think in the US, power providers are lobbying to be able to control the smart thermostats in consumer homes directly so they can reduce power usage as needed for AI or on hot days when they need to preserve the grid, etc. I think it is already a thing in some places in Texas where they have been so many data centers.

AVGOing green

Well at least being stupid paid off for me, kinda

This price action on meta is ridiculous

Right.?  Print. I saw that one. You seen the Martisn or read them. It seen Gundam Seed Destiny? Or watched DUNE. OR STUDIED AU. AND CAN SEE. 

If so. Print.

Some of you act like its the first time this happend

Coz I have calls

CRWD stock split 3:1

It’s on its way back up

$AVGO
 Q2’26 EARNINGS HIGHLIGHTS

🔹 Revenue: $22.187B (Est. $22.13B) 🟢; +48% YoY
🔹 Adj. EPS: $2.44 (Est. $2.39) 🟢; +54% YoY
🔹 Semiconductor Solutions: $15.009B (Est. $14.65B) 🟢; +79% YoY
🔹 AI Semiconductor: $10.8B (buyside Est. $11.3B) 🟡; +143% YoY

Q3 Guide:
🔹 Revenue: ~$29.4B (Est. ~$28B; buyside $30B) 🟡; +84% YoY
🔹 AI Semiconductor Revenue: ~$16B (buyside Est. ~$18B) 🟡
🔹 Non-GAAP Operating Income: ~67% of projected revenue
🔹 Adjusted EBITDA: ~68% of projected revenue

Segment Performance:
🔹 Semiconductor Solutions Revenue: $15B; +79% YoY
🔹 Infrastructure Software Revenue: $7.178B; +9% YoY

Financials:
🔹 FCF: $10.262B; 46% of revenue
🔹 Non-GAAP Net Income: $12.074B; +55% YoY
🔹 Adjusted EBITDA: $15.244B; +52% YoY
🔹 Operating Cash Flow: $10.493B; +60% YoY
🔹 Cash & Cash Equivalents: $19.628B

Capital Return:
🔹 Dividend: $0.65/share payable June 30, 2026
🔹 Q2 Dividend Paid: $3.092B

Commentary:
🔸 “Broadcom achieved record revenue, operating profit and free cash flow in Q2 driven by accelerating growth in AI semiconductor revenue and strong operating leverage.”

🔸 “Q2 semiconductor revenue from AI of $10.8 billion grew 143% year-over-year, above our forecast, driven by increasing demand for custom AI accelerators and AI networking.”

🔸 “The momentum continues and in Q3 we expect semiconductor revenue from AI to grow over 200 percent year-over-year to $16.0 billion.”

🔸 “In Q3 we expect consolidated revenue growth to increase 84% year-over-year to $29.4 billion, with non-GAAP operating margin stable at 67% reflecting our strong operating leverage.”

Damn I might need to start using insta more for editing, great gains man

3 types of markets: bull market, bear market, and options-farming market

We are presently in the 3rd.

Lmao I knew AVGO would be flat

My move tomorrow - panhandling

AVGUH

If it wasn’t for you degens spamming AVGO in here I would’ve also lost. Thank goodness my experience with this led me to believe it’ll dump or be flat so I sold all my calls when I saw this sub spam AVGO

Losing money makes me horny

Sorry guys market down because i woke up late for power hour

Always gotta go with that gut feeling

back to minus 2%, bers had their 15 minutes

Screwed? Yes.  Only 20% of your portfolio?  80/20 rule  20% loss doesn't even count.

Yo. Hurt

We need to start redirecting these goofballs to r/RealHousewivesOfWSB

🤮🤮🤮🤮🤮🤮

How the FUCK is AVGO down?

You made a Typo and meaned 50% right?

Someone talk me out of buying NTSK tomorrow

MSTR price prediction EOW?

AVGO only down 2%, that’s peanuts, CRWD is the one crashing

The market giveth, the market taketh.

Nah i’ll just stop at 10

paperhands

RESULTS VS ESTIMATES  
• Revenue: $22.2B vs est. $22.1B (+0.3% in-line)   
• Adjusted EPS: $2.44 vs est. $2.40 (+1.7% beat)   
  
YEAR-OVER-YEAR PERFORMANCE  
• Revenue: $22.2B (+47.9% YoY)  
• Adjusted EPS: $2.44 (+54.4% YoY)  
• GAAP Net Income: $9.3B (+87.5% YoY)  
• GAAP Gross Margin: 69.5% (vs 68.0% prior year)  
• Non-GAAP Operating Margin: 67.3% (vs 65.3% prior year)  
• GAAP Net Margin: 42.0% (vs 33.1% prior year)  
• Free Cash Flow: $10.3B (+60.1% YoY)  
  
SEGMENT BREAKDOWN  
• Semiconductor Solutions: $15.0B (+78.5% YoY)  
• Infrastructure Software: $7.2B (+8.8% YoY)  
  
GUIDANCE  
Next Quarter:  
• Revenue: \~$29.4B (vs prior Q3 FY25: \~$16.0B implied, +84% YoY)  
• Non-GAAP Operating Income: \~67% of revenue  
• Adjusted EBITDA: \~68% of revenue

ATH tomorrow pls

WHY IS IT GOING DOWN

Why AVGO down after obliterating earnings?

Not that bad. Only -3%

This just makes me wonder how I profited from this ticker

Aaaand there goes my profit on c3 calls

He's dropping fries rn he'll be on tonight lol

AVGO bros in shambles

YAAAAAAASSS 💅

avgo next quarter

The company said revenue this quarter will be about $29.4 billion, versus $28.53 billion expected by Wall Street analysts.

i have shares so i hope so. maybe consolidation until next week then make a move up. this dump was ridiculous tho

a 2 trillion company after going up by 20% is still a 2 trillion company. no worries.

Shut up nerd

i like your optimism

you guys know red days happen, right? like it's OK? you're even allowed to buy more

they beat by like 80m lol chump change

Tell us you have a micropeen without telling us

We don’t need ai. We don’t need data centers . Sucks cause we have to “keep up with the joneses”

He's not soft, he's actively profiting from his shenanigans, LOL

Where is MOD?

earnings are already in .. its not going anywhere. beat by 5.2%

Bloodbath

Lol . Trump is backing Avgo and you think he will let it go red...

WTF NVIDIA I JUST WANT MY MONEY BACK

Contender for best life oat

Unless you want to work at Wendy's

The stock market not crypto..Jesus christ use some context clues dude.

Yeah, the datacenters should be tasked with building more low carbon energy, at this rate we’re probably looking at a new case of warehouse fires in the future.

Average day for a AVGO holder

If Hock Tan doesn't guide AVGO to pumping into the 500s freak the fuck out and sell everything

Print

AVGO flat tomorrow. Theta gang wins

Paid off to play safe. still bummed it didn’t moon

# It smells like Bitch in here. I’m back!

FANG 220c are gonna print

Have I feel my Avgo would down bad today. Fml so stupid

Does holding cash count as buying puts ? So basically lost out on 200knsitting on sidelines ?

PG and TP print.

Can't you guys learn that these big companies that show good to great earnings but have high valuations generally stay flat AE? You are just feeding Theta and Iron Condor gangs...

Earnings beat.

Stock go down.

I hope CRWD stays sub 700 so I can buy in

Fml I bought a >1 month expiry that expired last Friday 450. Woulda been in the money this week. That’s the worst is being right but off by a couple days.

C3AI fadeaway harder than kobe

**GONNA GO EAT 500MG OF EDIBLES THE CHARTS WILL MAKE MORE SENSE SOON**

Are you sure?

Pardon incoming.

Is this the birth of new Nana and Intel boy?

feck him

AV-guh

Freak the FUCK OUT and panic sell NOW

edging

AVGUH

These replies remind me of the good ole misc bodybuilding forum lol

LOL where's the guy used $400k in margin to buy AVGO stock

You could be right the next 10 times. But the way you’re trading you’ll be broke on the 11th.

i’m gonna make so much money on the AVGO calls i buy next monday

I summon thee. Print.

Dropped all the way to the 430s now jumped back up to 470 its a rollercoaster

Avgo gonna be flat

Top is in. Oil boys, it’s our time.

AVGO NO NO NO!!! 5 EST conferance call better bring it back or by open tomorrow!

How dare you tell me about risks, do you think I risk my money just for the win?, it's the trill, I'm doing it for the love of the game, we're not the same!

If you want to watch yourself loosing money keep holding

you know there is no reason to exercise before expiration assuming no dividends, right?

AVGO glitching lol

Alright guys I’m employing my $500 of capital into BB to bail yall out.

Fuck i sold my AVGU shares at the literal bottom of the red candle, wouldve been much less red L

I asked Claude to give a number between 0 - 10 and it gave me my lucky number, I decided to diamond hand my space bags til next week…

You didn’t exit all leverage when it hit recent $9.xx…. Shit I took a L…. Would have been much worse..

You almost made me spit out my food. This is unintentionally funny dude

Yup. Buy a fleshlight. Print.

Way to go AVGO you just destroyed the stock market

Avgo is shaking back after hours 📈

And of course ORCL is reacting to AVGO and I bought a call today. New plan is try to get out of AVGO in small profit then rotate into ORCL shares

Is Robinhood stupid? It says AVGO 52 week high is $499 but daily chart shows it was at $501 yesterday

Should I sell $NOW

Avgo guidance very bullish

quickly, announce the peace treaty or something!!

avgo teasing both bear and bull simultaneously.

removed by moderator

Speaking at the White House, Trump says negotiations with Iran are going “very well”.

“It might not happen, you know? Who knows,” he said. “But if it happens, it could happen over the weekend.”

“Anything can happen when you’re dealing with Iran,” he added.

booo, he is so soft now. Markets are not going to react to these comments. Where's the "OPEN UP THE STRAIT YOU FUCKING BASTARDS!" ?

!Banbet

CRWD and AVGO 💸🪦

You know I was just thinking that the average household should sacrifice so that people can tokenmax and make AI slop

They beat earnings!

I wish my mom just gave me $10k, dumb spoiled kids doing dumb spoiled kid shit

FUCK THIS IM JUST GONNA VOO AND CHILL FUCK THE LAMBO. TOYOTA ALL THE WAY

AVGO 600 after the earnings call today

Even as an oil bull, I doubt that because 🥭 jawboning still seems to be effective.  But it would be nice if it were true

Sorry but the article is peak bullshit. The issue has nothing to do with AI. We have underinvested in our grids which now cannot handle all airconditioning, ev charging and electric cooking when we come home from work at 18.00.

We hardly have any AI datacenters consuming electricity during peak load moments.

v cancelled?

most people can just get a small loan of a million dollars from their parents

Jesus Christ this dude should be in retirement home.

Down $3500 today on long calls, but at least I got a family portion of duck fries at my local frituur for the equivalent of $3.25 USD.

If and might are key words

???????

Yooo guess we both won today lol, also I jjst use insta story to get the collage effect

Cut these and long qcom half stock the rest into 8/21 350Cs

this sub is wallstreetBET, not investing, it's a casino here

Its ok its only going to get a lot worse from here on now

Imagine fading a stock with the ticker AI

Laughing at the regard that didn’t exercise the CC’s i sold when they went ITM yesterday rn

Buying a leveraged ETF that tracks a Ponzi scheme and is named after an extinct animal is an IQ test. Your results indicate yours is ‘potato’.

And your short dreams are crushed again like always because the V never fails.

Avgo green. Calling from future

dont look at avgo until 5 pm

AVGO results out?

JOEVER.

Excel would crash and loading forever

AVGO be like ," Got ya!!"

LUNR I need a trillion dollar contract with NASA

pls avgo baby pls

"My Pleasure" - is too good for him to say!

AVGO went up 100% from March for a 2% beat LMAO. If this opens green, full port into puts tomorrow. This should be down 40% on those numbers.

Same but I think we will be fine. I see a bounce attempt and the real crash after SPaceX next week

I’m the only one who bought meta?

Gah damn 🙏 shit reminds me of the time when I bought BABA and held for 5 years 😂😩

Wonder what price the fake internet money need to be to force MicroTragedy to liquidate

**Ban Bet Created:** **/u/guhhhh_MU** bet **AVGO** goes from **463.87** to **515.0** before **04-Jun-2026 04:22 PM EDT**

Their record is 3 wins and 6 losses.

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

Bull run? Brotha we've been in a bear market since january.

!banbet $AVGO $515 1D

We haven’t even started the crash little bro

CONGRATS ALL $AI HOLDERS 

BAAAAAAANGGGG

SELL IN MAY AND STAY AWAY... Or did you forget?

COST 1000 tomorrow pls

It's selling off on technicals not fundamentals

Just two more weeks! Fr this time!

This fucking post gave me an std.

Wow both CRWD and AVGO flushed. Tf

Hope it's a beautiful thing. Print.

we don't care. Priced in

I am so fucked man.

what happend to ”first move is fake”?

Guys I’m too scared to look what’s the damage with AVGO

MRVL!

WELP BACK TO THE NY OFFICE LMAO

Im pumped for SpaceX

spoke too soon lol

Seems like it

Yall are the most overreacting pansies of all time never change regards

always inverse wsb. i asked about c3ai on the earnings thread and people said it was trash. made me buy

AVGO making theta win ? crash 10% you b

dead cat bounce on avgo

Well well well, it seems that NVIDIA is still kicking AVGO.

NVIDIA it is then.

Should I diamond hand my SPCE heavy bag until 06/12?

Time for 9 weeks of red now

Imagine 🥭 giving a big conference about how the USA is the hottest country in the world and there's literally drones destroying an oil refinery a few miles away.... Yeah that's Putin right now.

AVGO is gonna open flat to fk your calls and puts. Oh wait mine too. GUH

Wait so AI had a shit earnings call and already had lowered guidance and it bumped the stock up by 12%? I really gotta start inversing my own decisions

avgo beat on guidance 200% revenue beat forecast legit 0 bad news in this whole pdf and still went down

The hell happened to COST?

I expect a J

Slightest pull back and software sells off 20-30% in two days lmao these markets fucking blow

Sheesh. Print.

You bought a 2x ETF on a bitcoin treasury company stock and you're asking people on reddit if it's going to recover? Hahaha I love WSB.

Oopsie.

That was because Morgan Stanley upgraded from 1100 to 1750.  Which SNDK quickly jumped over.

Avgo is about to pull a green dildo out of nowhere

Ayyy I saw your post on T212, that was you?😂 Gonna have to use this format in the future

Crazy pull back

Fire sale on AVGO this evening

MSTR too

the top is in

AVGO V ing

Too many bers here, tomorrow bright green

doesnt AVGO beat everything? bers seriously be spreading fairytales.

absolutely abysmal set of AVGO numbers and only expect revenue to grow 200% yoy in Q3 heads should roll

I held all my calls overnight 🫣🫠

QUACK!

  
QUACK!

  
QUACK!

AVGO beating top and bottom numbers of course it’s going to V

Today was the first stock market crash of my adult life. People joke in here but I’m actually kind of scared

It's joever

Those calls are -10% today, that looks like a dip to me

I guess Iran targeted US naval command center. That’s on Twitter so whatever you want to glean from it.

Same thing happened with GTLB yesterday into today.

if your account doesn't went down -90% or +500% only you are taking too little risk in this sub. You need to either getting completely bankrupt or making generational wealth to belong to this sub

illuminati will be in touch

I bet you also go all in on 00 at the casino first spin?

Anyone pick up MRVL calls? 👀

$550 by evening wallah

Down 4.51%!

🥭 COMMENT

Just heard a dude in the hood talking about the stock market, it's getting scary

avgo just like me, doesn't know which way it wants to stick it's boner

I sold my avgo positions right before close because everyone here was so bullish. I had really good return because I bought last week.

That being said don't panick just yet. A few times before the initial reactions was for it to go down and then recover. Wait for the call and hope the market picks up tomorrow.

Avgo coming back?

so AVGO flat? IV crush incoming?

Negged for stupid thread

AVGO cmon baby keep the V going

Yikes

FOR THE LOVE OF GOD STOP FALLING IBM

As the EU is kind of socialist.

Nice joke

OKAYYY

The National Council on Problem Gambling operates the National Problem Gambling Helpline Network (call: 1-800-522-4700).

I traded for the last 3 days and it was so much work.  Made 2100 bucks.  Didn't have the energy to hold through earnings.

AVGO SQUEEZING BER AND BOL BALLS AT SAME TIME

you mean tomorrow? i’m the one that doesn’t know but i’ll try switching back to margin acc

Have you ever held Calls before?

It's going up inshaAllah 550 avgo

Upvote this if you had avgo calls , dont wanna feel alone

can’t wait to buy those cheap ass avgo calls in a few days

Algo still buying AH.

AVGO IS BACK, holy fuck.

avgo back up lmfao

Lower your Tower damn prices. I can travel overseas. It's really cheap with a credit card. It's cheap at Former Royal Dutch Shell.

not $AVGO with the V. I guess they’re planning to trade it flat

This is the correct answer

LMAOO WHY WOULD YOU SELL AVGO IN THIS MARKET

Give it two days like MDB earnings went

I’m up today

FIRST MOVE FAKE AND GHEY

They should allow you to trade NDX and XND options 24 hours too bruh

Although I've held my AVGO for a long time at 389, I'm starting to regret not selling it now; I hate the profit-taking.

AVGO pumping so they can dump the rest of their bags watch.

If you work at minimum wage, you need 62 hours per week to buy 1 share of SNDK. Holy shit bubble

Oh I've got 7 cent(imeters)

Cause CRWD and AVGO

It's up 65% in the past 2 months and it just barely beat expectations

Is there um any um chance that I'm avgo um goes I'm back up? Um

OKAYYYYYYYYYYY

not beating by 20% is a crime in this market

AVGO already pumping lmao. First dump is always fake

avgobackup?

GRRR your entire life saving retard

Are we watching AVGO call holders' prayers collectively being answered in real time?

I see life

Bers 😂

DUCKS FLY TOGETHER

holy shit

AVGO TO 500 NOW

Btc going down big in a legendary bull run. It's over. Useless tech ponzi scheme. Never gonna be over 100k again.

Avgo gonna be flat lol

AVGO is guiding higher, we are going higher longer

give it a minute

Bears thought 😂🤣

Get ready for it 

AVGO 600

lol I told yall to buy Texas Oil stocks. I’m up 50% minimum on all my contracts, green on all stocks.

if avgo doesnt bounce to 550 im toast

So who’s the asshole that made us red today

Just wait for the roadshow

Concept of market cap is lost on some

What happens if it goes up 65%?

rip wall

Lol there is light

It’s v ing 
I repeat 
It’s v ing

AVGO ending green lets goooooo

-20% today, -25% yesterday but +500% this year overall

Why are people going full doomer when the stock is literally only back to where it was 3 days ago

Here comes avgo V

Priced in for next 200 years

Bloody Market on my birthday!! 🤦‍♂️😩

down 0.34%

Firwt mice always fake

I was 70% mag 7 early this year I gave them up one by one I feel ya

Broadcum paperhands getting washed out

ITS CREEPING BACK UP

It should rotate to MU tomorrow. sandisk was up 8% today

Whats happening holyshit

Give it like 2 hours. Just more trying to time the top sell off. They sell chips, they open green.

🥭Algo force sell off to scare us then they buy up all the cheap shares ;)

First time?

AVGO comback time

oh fuk

AVGO bers uh oh

Avgo about to go green. Wtf

Fuck you nerd

Space stocks are fucking depressing now

Glad I sold my AVGO

Ok now that AVGO is crashing can we rotate back to space stocks please

AVGO generational flying v

The US tried shorting Oil to manipulate the price to stay lower, but once this squeezes they will be forced to buy to fill back their reserves again
And we enter the Grand Depression

lmao calm down avgo will be green by open 😂

Market back on hard mode?

Tariffs are back on menu. That SOAB 🥭

bruh in this age it would be funnier if it only grew 5 cents

Here comes Apple to save the index's

If your timeline is less than 3 months you're fine. It's going past 400

Shit was priced in already yall dumbasses

Ai bubble just popped

THERE IS NO WAR IN BA SING SE

Yeah I felt like throwing up today haha. I have 2 1055 calls Friday. Hopefully we will see +8% tmr like sndks

No, an old 401k held at Empower. So I can't add anymore to it 😔

very risky bet

Holy shit… 6k MSTUs on the top of everything.

This is why I don’t want to go all in on something anymore losing 72k last year

Why is HPE dumping in aftermarket

It's retarded swan

Schrodinger's calls. If I don't look the losses could very well be gains. I will not open my app for at least two weeks. Holy fuck I'm so fucking fucked

If you survived not FOMOing into SPY/MSFT/NVDA/ASTS/INTC/AVGO calls overnight......Congrats! You're getting good at this! 🥳🎊🎉🍻

Stop that

Buls thought a 2Trillion company would pump 40%

Thank god i was paper handed and sold

AVGO, just let yourself go~

Your mom was also taking too much, of these nuts

That and I guarantee that chart includes deposits. Most investing dashboards do

AVGO probably just vanished an entire INTC worth of market cap in 20 minutes

Went down 4.99% so I am good

Just bc it barely beat doesnt mean it should have tanked like that. Fcj this manipulation

what if my portfolio has a 600% discount?

ouchie

Watching the 1t graph is so fun lol

looks like it came too early

That’s the fastest I’ve ever seen my balance go down

Netflix calls

i didn't even realize that I have that stop loss on AVGO...  i'll take my $10

Avgo you POS ruined it for all

What about 50% in the last 2 days? Asking for a friend who bought SPC$

Green by open

Wow I heard the reverb so perfectly in my head

AVGO has fallen to prices last seen on June 1st, 2026

Hope it will finally dump that market and profit taking from AI

**Ban Bet Created:** **/u/Ok_Cry7572** bet **AVGO** goes from **454.48** to **449.94** before **03-Jun-2026 05:19 PM EDT**

Their record is 11 wins and 26 losses.

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

did i get trapped by MRVL? i’m for 100 shares at 317 😬

PANIC SELL EVERYTHING!

!Banbet AVGO -1% 1H

I don't have the nerves for this shit

I’m not hating but how many dick did you have to suck?

my god! avgo at a price not seen since yesterday!

Damn SPY chill

yeah this is what made it obvious it was gonna tank

Cramer was bullish on AVGO and CRWD, naturally 😂

Sell in May, go away. I’m ready for a 5% pullback. Are you 🫵🤨

I read that in Homer's voice

uh oh. i just jacked off to ai porn and im afraid i liked it a little to much. im cooked

I feel personally attacked!

which of you retards panic sold

Top is in

It’s popped. TP and TL.

That’s a lotta damage

AVGO beating expectations and having good guidance is not a black swan lmao

First move fake?

I got bags in space but it’s alright there’s no gravity, oh wait

The rules be damned. I'm definitely crying in the casino.

I’m a bag holder on $4 Jul puts bought yesterday. IV crush fucked me

Q2 semiconductor revenue from AI of $10.8 billion grew 143% year-over-year, above our forecast, driven by increasing demand for custom AI accelerators and AI networking," said Hock Tan, President and CEO of Broadcom Inc. "The momentum continues and in Q3 we expect semiconductor revenue from AI to grow over 200 percent year-over-year to $16.0 billion."

Literally said AVGuh gonna miss and you fools downvoted me

If I had known so many people In here were trading avgo, I would’ve done puts.

These robins need to start eating some fuckn bugs and quit just shitting everywhere.

About to be 200k 😂

Miss on revenue for AVGO validates the thesis of not enough return for CapEX spend.

AVNOOONOTMYANOOOS

TIL EU is sozialist. r/shitamericanssay

Well I have a bunch already but other people probably don’t.

yeah. no one ever mentions AMD here.... ever.

Why would sleepy Joe cause my portfolio to be so red today? Wtf man.

Just want IV crush with an inside EM

Ha. So insanely difficult to not V. Like hardest thing ever in the history of mankind. It's an automatic reflex of the market.

Oh shit, AVGO beat expectations. Just need guidance! 😄

im thinking red open and then we grind up to flat with big green candles every time oil drops 0.1%

Thanks rklb

# wtf is this post about LMAO get out of here

#Ban Bet Won
---

/u/Ok_Cry7572 made a bet that AVGO would go to 456.72 within **1 hour** when it was 452.2 and it did, congrats gigabrain.

Their record is now 11 wins and 26 losses

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

Well hope this doesn't hurt my Google leaps lol

So, MSTR in double digits by next week?

I read this as “needed this $21M” and wondered who was coming after you lol

**Ban Bet Created:** **/u/Short-Dependent7676** bet **GOOG** goes from **355.29** to **400.0** before **17-Jun-2026 04:19 PM EDT**

Their record is 32 wins and 40 losses.

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

well, that's one in a row for you, gey bers!

Except for the fucking president of the United States

!banbet GOOG 400 2w

Volatility isn’t risk playa 🤙🏼

Crazy how AVGO will be the cause of the next market crash. Who knew?

🥭 purposely added AVGO to his holdings to rope in the people following his trades

Tactical maneuver after launching DELL and MU into orbit; have one that completely shits itself

this is what happens when mango doesn’t truth anything for a whole 12 hours

My buddy Greg said he's getting like $50 out of this so add that to your list

who knew AVGO will be the first one to break the earnings bull run

CRWD AVGO LOL

noticed the flow part almost feels like a ghost mention

Well calls are dead sad life

Is Reddit force opening ads for anyone else now or just me

Same I thought you meant you exited after the market closed though

Yes but not because of the photos in this post

This market is gay

Daaaa Bears da Bears da Bears da Bears *fails arms around SNL style*

Im bullish on RDDT.   
I believe in the long run, their position with regards to being an source of AI datasets, being the site which is searched most as forum in major search engines can be leveraged to turn Reddit from  single-focus business to an google, meta, Microsoft style mega-conglomerate which replaces the magnificent 7.

Adjusted EPS $2.44, est. $2.39  
Adjusted revenue $22.19B, est. $22.13B  
Semiconductor solutions revenue $15.01B, est. $14.65B  
Sees Q3 revenue approximately $29.4B, est. $28.61B

according to something on twitter

My TSLA covered calls can't even be exercised how lame.

AVGO proving I'm a regard. Jesus, that's a lot of red.

Sheesh $AVGO is done for

AVGO missed across the board. If they don't utter AI atleast 800 times in the ER, this is opening 30% down LMAO

I went down 4 1/2 %. I’m good thanks✌️

Lmfao

SDA on its way back up

5% rounded up is 10% so I think I am doing perfectly fine being down 9% today

AI bad amirite.....

#AVGO's bankruptcy confirmed LMAO🤌

mr stonk...

Jesus OP getting slaughtered 💀

Put the fries in the bag

My body is ready

AVGO I need you to touch $397 tomorrow

Hoping for another dip tomorrow. It's healthy for MU to dip and consolidate before it takes off again. I get anxious whenever it just goes green for weeks on end thinking a drop is coming.

# POP THE BUBBLE

whops avgo

AVGO give us the holy V

this shit is finally crashing

Just put the fries in the bag bro

Ok, it’s over

Not gonna paper hand avgo

Hahahahah

Based on previous earnings, the call will turn everything back to green. Hock will convince everyone to be bullish again

Opening green

I guess this is the top

Selling the shares 😂 i did 2x bull etf

RIP MY FRIEND

no more V today

Hock Tua

Well, RIP my port

People don’t act on facts they act on emotions and when once person sells people get paper hands. ASTS and RKLB diluted and shares recovered in days and went way higher soon after.

the principle friend.  If you dont stand for anything youll die for nothing

No. You can buy bond from the Infrastrukture companys, but tech stocks will go up more than Infrastruktur

*Why AVGO why?  You promised!!!  But you promised!!!!  My calls are in shambles. Get back in there and say Ai Ai Ai!!!*

7% shakeout?

Need something with options so I can print more money

DELL ripped because no one talked about it

SNOW ripped because no one talked about it

AMD ripped because no one talked about it

AVGO is down because literally everyone talked about it

When will you regards learn?

Avgo help

Jesus here's another one

From the studio that brought you *Ceasefire, Ceasefire 2: The Extension, Ceasefire 3: 60 Days to Die, Peace Talks, Peace Talks 2: Going Well, Peace Talks 3: The Pakistani Angle, Peace Talks 4: Memorandum of Understanding*, and *Peace Talks 5: Memorandumer of Understandinger,* and *Peace Talks 6: Situation Room* comes the new blockbuster hit, *Peace Talks 7: 4 Point Plan*

Tomorrow we’re gonna fackin moooon

SOXS looking like a life raft rn

I find it wild that they need all that power just to answer the same questions we used to Google. Like you need a football field of computers to tell me what for I need for my taxes or which episode of Winnie the Pooh it is where the beaver shows up to help Pooh bear?

I wanna catch that AVGO knife but maybe it's best to wait a few days

portfoliAVGOne

WOOF thank fuck I got outta AVGO above my risk limit lol.  We try again tmrw

Bols get fucked and bears get fat Latina booty

AVGO +0.04 EPS

I bought an hour ago that’s what happened

AVGNOooooooooooooo

i know avgo will turn back up. otherwise why would i have avgg?

Going all in AVGO was definitely a bad idea

Now down 6%

Any bullish outlook on $NKE? Might be oversold

Did u sell yet or just waiting for a recovery?

Some of you need to grow a pair and chill tf out lol

SOXS printing AVGO rug

Whoever is manipulating this market is a sick son of a bitch

KEEP GOING C3

Lmao AVGO loss porn will be something to behold

This market makes me think i am a genius. Sold my AVGO Calls, CRWD Puts after PANW EC, AI Calls... (But well a funny 180$ bet on VEEV went wrong.)

I guess market baits me into a deadly YOLO like ADBE Calls

Goddamn avgo what just happened

The only thing that can save AVGO now is solid funda... I mean a shoutout from leather jacket man 🙏

Just gasped and said FAHHHH

V and i smash this chair against a wall

You guys should’ve known your AVGO calls would be fucked when half of WSB was saying they bought them

People thought today was bad, just wait until tomorrow.

For real...

Figures it dumps to fuck every call buyer over

if i dont look my losses arent real

I was up ~5% full port MU calls

Everyone pour 1 out for OP

Good riddance

Jokes on you, I’m taking waaaaay too much risk and my account was only down 4.99%

thought about puts and bought calls last minute lol

Or lambo 🏎️💨

That starts today right?

Im the hiring manager .

AVGO will be bright green within an hour.

AMD carried my entire portfolio today. Everybody down and it brought me to even. Monster

have any bagholders made a SPCE subreddit for group support?

Broadcom wrecking ball checking in.

#Ban Bet Lost

/u/gjbaca17 made a bet that INTC would go to 100.0 within **2 weeks** when it was 118.312 and it did not, so they were banned for a week.

Their record is now 0 wins and 3 losses

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

oh shit avgo trying to climb out of its grave

Back down to 7200 we go

If my account had gone down less than 5% today I wouldn’t have been up over 100% for the year

This dump across the board before market close is Sus as fuck

Lmk what you buy the next time. Happy to sell it to you

fuck lol

I can tell you with complete certainly that after the AVGO earnings call it will be up 25%.  Because that's how this market works.

$6.99 deals at domino’s and i think Papa John's medium 1 topping is $8.99

Really? Jezus

GUUUUH

Are you serious lol

How do you exit?

inter EU data sharing in policing is very good

NVDA better moon after this AVGO dump!

Should have sold my calls this morning.  Bought $1 January calls for $36 a contract a couple days ago.

Turns out he wasnt the cuk, his shareholders were

when yields cross 5% again and keep spiking, it’s game over

Full ported c3 puts at close 🤦 praying it fades

I'm sorry but this is a casino...

Can SpaceX buy SPCE solely for its ticker pls? Need to dump my bags

AVGO is up 10% in a week but somehow 100% of WSB lost money on it

AVGO Black Swan Event

This is why don't trade pre/post market moves always fake

This is why I'm in MRAAY and KYOCY

well atleast the dumpster behind the wendy’s is hiring

Ngl today was gay af

CRWD AVGO dump is just an extra f you

Regards panicking when numbers are not even out

You're so close to figuring out how banks work.

Biden’s AVGO

MRVL DED

You think it'll bounce back up tomorrow?

silly child

**Ban Bet Created:** **/u/Ok_Cry7572** bet **AVGO** goes from **452.2** to **456.72** before **03-Jun-2026 05:17 PM EDT**

Their record is 10 wins and 26 losses.

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

Neeeerd

I think something bad happened.

My condolences

Doomp

!Banbet AVGO +1% 1H

Oh my gosh death to photonics

The ETF is tied to Strategy and it’s tied to BTC which took a dive today. If it bounces this should too

will we recover?

Wtf do i do i had 800k worth of calls on avgo

Damnnnnn AVGO

SMART COMPOUNDERS:

Brookfield Asset Management 
Intuitive surgical
NVIDIA
Howmet aerospace
VISA
MSFT
Comfort systems energy corp
META
CEG

Please share your views.

AVGO shake out! It’ll bounce

A young beautiful woman. She never smiles. 🙄

ok so AI is dead now, rotation in software please

Too obvious. Tomorrow we pump.

lol watch this

Avgooooooo

🫵🏼 bought the generational top

Wtf happened

i guess gamestop puts will dictate if i can eat food this weekend or not

BRUH WTF

Exactly same 😂😂

Why? Call hasn't started yet

Can you feel the heat?

Avgo beats expectations, and prceeds to dump. Classic

Oh blow it out your ass

If you looked at avgo options before close the put premiums were much higher

aaand were fucked

Avgo nooooooo

Thoughts on LEU and UUUU?

AVGO gonna be down 20% easy tomorrow

Lmfao.

so tomorrow if you got PDT flagged twice on robinhood you can go back to a margin acc without restrictions now right?

🌈🐻🌈🐻🌈🐻🌈🐻🌈🐻🌈🐻🌈🐻.   
BEAR ASCENDANCY!!!!!     
🌈🐻🌈🐻🌈🐻🌈🐻🌈🐻🌈🐻🌈🐻.

AVGO 500 incoming

AVGOOOOH NOOOOOO

There’s no bottom of avGUH get out while u still can. You can buy back in 2 months at $200

Oil prices bout to lubricate dat ass

Dumppp that shit let’s gooo

Welp AVGO has put me on food stamps

Avgo bye

Avgo and crwd flat by open

Whose AVGO puts is printing? Raise your hands?

Buy $5 worth of ETH

Not answering an data collecting bot

So... Avgo ded

Oh gosh this is death

MAX PUNISHMENT

Help is available
Speak with someone today
988 Suicide and Crisis Lifeline

Languages: English, Spanish
Hours: 24/7

I’d like some credit, I helped him, this was a group project

Murdered, fuck. Least it was just 2x etf and not calls. Exited

Bagholder spotted.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Good shit my Boa

Want to know why MSFT has been down? It's because I have been using Linux.

finally some of this semi ponzi is finally flushing out

AVGO Broadcom Q2 Earnings

Adjusted EPS $2.44, est. $2.39
Adjusted revenue $22.19B, est. $22.13B
Semiconductor solutions revenue $15.01B, est. $14.65B
Sees Q3 revenue approximately $29.4B, est. $28.61B

Full port AMD to a trillion market cap? Only 12% away. It’s got the momentum. Can Mama Su do it?

There’s definitely like some young guys in here who bought fractional shares MRVL with like $250 and are like diamonds hands boys we’re gonna beat this thing!

RIP AI Bubble

Lmao AVGO

this is going to be interesting

First move fake?

I've had it with Microsoft. Selling tomorrow. Looks like I need to put that profit to AVGO to lower my fucking cost basis.

LOL AVGO EPS

Don’t tell me my business, devil woman!

Bers should quickly triple down tomorrow at market open, it definitely won't go tits up

Mine went down 100%

Well this is escalating quickly

Thank fuck AVGO is just a small holding of me

Bagholder spotted.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Who the hell just bought? What did you do????

everyone was bullish on avgo here it was expected

AVGO red

Now I gotta wait for TACO to start his sermons

How much % did you go down today for me it was -29%

AVGO reversal now NOW NOW NOW

Dip for ants bro. I’m down over 10% today

Go to the bank in person and deposit a nickel and 2 pennies. Do not elaborate.

Guh thank god I bought puts this a good long term buying opportunity

And that is why I sold my SOXS puts before market close.

And that kids was our parabolic top. Freak the fuk out time

You think we can afford that strike?

As a SaaS bull, I take solace in the AVGO dump

Gute nicht ;(

I’m sure tomorrow we’ll be back to our regular scheduled programming.

Tune in soon

Should I take one for the team and buy puts at open?

Jeez, why did AVGO dump? 😂

RIP brother

Avgo lows not seen since… last Friday.

GGs go next ✌️

AVGO crash , AI is done

Oil only going up from here

Nice!

What am I jacked to the tits to?

If i want stock to go up what am I hoping for.  I bought 4k on margin as I'm experimenting lol

What would you say if someone were to be down about 20%? Hypothetically.

**AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH**

#GUH

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Respects

AVGO IS FINISHED.

Buying CLFD tomorrow

big red candle wtf

$10 drop right now wtf

GG AVGO FUKED -7%

Ok my banbet hedge for AVGO worked, thank god i didnt buy any shares

Cant you afford it?

f this market

🥭: “We hit Iran very hard.”

🥭 on Iran: “Negotiations are going well.”

An Iran negotiation meeting could take place this weekend.

wdyt?

The earnings call is at 5 eastern but I coulda sworn they release the actual numbers like 45 minutes earlier

AHHHHH

AVGO Barely beat. Not enough for sky high valuations.

1.78% EPS surprise, not gonna cut it i guess

Should have bought puts, this is why I'm retarded

Dodged a nuke 🤣

-40% is okay. Jump on the MU train, we’re going to 1500

Please post an update regard

damn my 2k call disappeared 😭😂

What if your mom went down

holy AVGO

fuck my life

GUH

AVGUH

Lmao AVGUH!

And thats what i get for doing a random YOLO

ITS JOEVER

+8% MU tomorrow

Yall mentioned avgo too much today.... did it to yourselves

i was telling yall to sell your avgo calls

Oh god... Red AVGO

AVGUHHHHH

i mean wouldn’t you wanna take profits too up that much. it’ll be fine

My calls 💀

And here I am with 10k in AVGU

More like AVGUH

I sold my shares right before EARNINGS released thank fuck

You're a little late to the game - that's why Cartterpillar, Porr, Hochtief etc. had a pretty good run

Where’s that dude who was convinced only robots were telling people to sell their AVGO calls?

Oh this should create a fun market, good luck men

AVGUH

Its time to panic , the Great Depression is here

Get recked

Oh my gawwwwewdddddd

Pro Trading Tip: Stick to WSB approved stocks for consistent gains like +200%, -70%, +150%, +350%, -80%, etc.

Wait for it

AVGUH

its over bear market is here

Now we're cooking!!!! Let's goooo

got cucked on avgo

Sorry Broadcom, this isn't your fault. Good earnings, good EPS and great Guidance but unfortunately for you, we have entered correction territory, and it started today.

AVGO RUG AHAHAHAHhahha

you are indeed a soft investor

I guess that was the dip that keeps on dippin

@Mods can I get some flair if I’m right and AVGO tanks?

Avgo wtf

Don't have any.

Called it, bye bye broadcom right on earnings again

Wtf AVGO

AVGO stop fucking pulling down MRVL you stupid pos

veeva beat?

itll shoot back up, you gay idiots.

Lmaoooo

AVGUH

-1.99% I’m good

!banbet

Shit now we have some volume

Guess AVGO reported 😬

He is him

Damn. If I didn't know any better I would think that panw missed their earnings

Call amberlamps

RIP in peace to our ports

ooof. glad i timed that exit well

Puts, lots of puts! Just not on memory stocks.... Too spicy

What is this "too much risk" he speaks of?

I’m gonna be Broadcumming to all the AVGO loss porn

flex much 💀

#Ban Bet Won
---

/u/_ThisDickAintFree_ made a bet that AVGO would go to 450.0 within **2 hours** when it was 486.45 and it did, congrats you fuckin nerd.

Their record is now 2 wins and 4 losses

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

oope, there it goes.

Almost full ported AVGO 🥴

Guh...

Here it comes 🔻🔻🔻

\-7% ah avgo

Well AVGO holders, come join everyone else

Biggest fake out in history incoming

I risk 50% of my account.  Today I lost about 30% and I'm cool with it

AVGUH

earth's core

AVGO just literally freefalling lmao.

I still have some puts with the two dollar strike they don’t expire till next Friday. Give me one more good push down first would you buddy?

AVGUH

SPCE PUTS JUICING

Finally.

thats my hourly volatilty

Oh boy

Okay, ***that*** looks bad.

Can SpaceX acquire space virgin solely for its ticker pls? Need to dump my giant bags

#Ban Bet Won
---

/u/Phiziqe made a bet that AVGO would go to 469.0 within **2 days** when it was 485.3 and it did, congrats regard.

Their record is now 3 wins and 4 losses
You're a part of the WSB Discord server, therefore you earned 10,000 coins for your win!

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

Now buy stock they issue, and this is the revenue flow they use to justify their stock price.

Oil and chill

WOOF, more like OOF. Calls on CHWY it is

Facts. I should’ve loaded since then

Calls calls calls

#Ban Bet Won
---

/u/Ok_Cry7572 made a bet that AVGO would go to 466.08 within **1 hour** when it was 480.5 and it did, congrats you fuckin nerd.

Their record is now 10 wins and 26 losses

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

When is RDDT going to be a trillion dollar company?

yeah wtf this is def not AI, people just dont want to read anything longer than a paragraph anymore

I don't like mine. Don't like banana. Pineapple sweet sweet sweet Jack Harlow.

Bagholder spotted.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Ahh. Fuuuuu

Y'all said that shit for the last 4 years.

C3 AI 🤌🚀🚀🍆🍆

Rut row

It doesn’t where, he is him

I don’t even know what c3ai does but I saw the ticker was AI and they had earnings today so I bought some. Unfortunately I’m breaking even as I also bought some 🐶 💩 CRWD

Down 0.82% today. It’s jover😔

Wait a minute so are you trying to say me losing 60% is bad?

# FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK

So who bought Petco calls before earnings? Show yourselves you cowards

AVGUH

rut roh

#Ban Bet Won
---

/u/90s__JDM made a bet that AVGO would go to 471.16 within **1 day** when it was 480.78 and it did, congrats gigabrain.

Their record is now 1 wins and 2 losses

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

Well I knew that🤦 But thanks for the advice haha

CRWD - RiP.

brother we're only 60% on the way there

That NTSK put printed!

They say June is historically bearish. Looks like it is official now this year too

How many mongos bought MRVL 320 calls at open? Be honest.

#Ban Bet Won
---

/u/Temporary-Equal-774 made a bet that AVGO would go to 475.0 within **1 day** when it was 485.33 and it did, congrats fucker.

Their record is now 2 wins and 2 losses

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

Can't AI figure out when to optimize it's energy use so as not to disrupt household use peaks?

Cooling system that uses NVIDIA chips to upgrade their portofolio: MSCI.

Downside - the fucking board is involven in AI products smuggling from US to China.. 🤡 what a nice way to chop your value to almost half..

When is Satya Microsoft gonna be done sucking dicks?

Meta AI is biblically bad. But hilarious

If I had known so many people In here were trading avgo, I would’ve done puts.

Everyone says you shouldn't hold leveraged ETFs for long term and they are probably right.

i didn’t. i’m up over 100% idk if you know maths but that means over double

WHAT THE FK IS THIS DUMP

damn if u held like a day more

Oil and 10 year inching up AH. 

To help you sleep better tonight.

"How do I use this paper straw?"

"Take it out of the plastic wrapper"

How red are your puts

Love coming here to watch regards cry about losing their dumb ass gamble

You do. But not like me.

My portfolio wet down exactly 5% today and I’m literally all in on stocks only lol no options

Slow dump until mid terms now.... 🩸 🩸 🩸

They did not report yet

Only screwed if you sell. Reduce your average cost, and wait

stock split didnt help CRWD

Short everything this guy touches

I thought this was the casino

What about the Black Stars?

Correction: I’m regarded

I hope for my long $3 SPCE puts to print.

Alr, pack it up. AVGO going bankrupt and being delisted tomorrow.

boutta bleed to death ig lmfao

Bought more MU calls expiring friday…

CRWD is absolutely cooked. Everyone knows AI codes perfectly so software exploits will be a thing of the past. No need for cybersecurity if everything is perfectly secure out of the gate

Imagine pulling out fast because you couldn’t wait 😤

“Tech” is a big field. Some of it is hardware (robots, etc) and in some cases, it can be like a manufacturing business or even like some kind of mining operation. Not really of course - but they are all different from software in one major way: they have material cost, assembly costs and time associated with that. 

Software doesn’t. 

As hard as it is to program something - once you have it, you can just hit copy and paste to make another one - at a cost of zero.

No other business has this. It’s the reason that every hardware company wants to be a software company, and why manufacturing  companies like Siemens are dumping their machine business in favor of software.

That’s why software has taken over the world, and will continue to for the foreseeable future. It’s also why I personally think Tesla and SpaceX and even NVIDIA will eventually go back to the second tier. (That could take a long time though)

ER not out till 5pm est.

Just went from down 20% to up 150% on ai calls. Please stay above $12. Avgo your turn 😣

Some of you are jacked to the tits and it blows lol

Scared money won’t make money, son.

I sold my c3.ai calls at a loss at lunch...

#Iran's world cup team has to camp in Mexico because we didn't allow them into the country. We became petty sons of bitches. LMAO🤌

Why the fuck it has to torture me for 1 more hour jfc

USA got absolutely mauled by Belgium. No way they even get one draw.

🌽 will be the next billion dollar asset! (In market cap)

NVDA is going to go down harder than AVGO off AVGO’d earnings just watch. Jensen can’t pump hot stock anymore

You're talking to people on the toilet. Just spit it out dickhead.

Options flow had a lot of whale put buy orders hitting the tape all day, with 760 under 1B call wall. Tomorrow's 0dte put wall is at 750, so that is likely where we are headed unless $AVGO rockets up on earnings

Venmo?

PDT rules ovahhhh tomorrow

Post your loss porn tomorrow..

Kospi/SMH finna take a quick dive tomorrow

bae 'accidentally' misunderstood 'lets split a pizza' with 'let me buy you a pizza' 🙄

Down 4.35% 🥳

Wait for report and see what happends next

4 to 1 split. It'll be a heavier bag for me this time.

The fuck happened to MRVL

yeah depositing a mil to grow 7 cents sounds about right

did they announce the numbers?

Some dude on here says he’s a therapist his clients are FUCKED

Using Air Conditioning is bad for the environment. Using A/C makes Al Gore cry.   
Don't use any electricity, it is bad for the environment. ( The inconvenient lie was for peasants only )

Earnings the numbers are usually at around 4:30-ish the call and forcast is what starts at 5. I had this for the last earnings and it dumped 2% but the earnings call saved it I was up almost 500% the following day! Good Luck!

AVGO fuck you

RDDT 1 Tn by 2/14/2027. !banbet

I WOULD LIKE TO SUBSCRIBE TO YIUR NEWSLETTER FIRST BEFORE I COMMIT

Y’all are retarded AVGO hasn’t reported yet

So why’s my account so red … it’s been green past 3 weeks and ofc I’m over leveraged

Warm and gooey.

\-1.69%  Perfectly acceptable number.

Rip 5 below

I bought it at 322

80085.69 would be even more hilarious. Just need a modest 10 bagger or so.

Why is LULU always late. Ur not that guy anymore lil bro

I dont understand your question. Its on the website

I havent even looked

lmaooo

What a fuckin stupid market. Totally ridiculous!!

Hoping PBK makes a good run

buying the crwd dip

Is that what you tell yourself to help you sleep at night?

It’s been guaranteed since the open ai deal lol

What’s this? A chart for mortgage rate? You don’t post shit like this here, at least show the account value. No risk no bags, you want no risk go to next door play with Scottie Bessent and buy some bonds.

Lame, I bought before the RS like a true retard.

Stonks only go to the right.

If bro is holding software leaps he's down way more than 5% today lol

That’s what I’m asking, I figured it would be going up instead of down right now. Is this a good sign, bad sign? Or in between?

Yes a little

5 Eastern

PACK IT UP!! LETS GO HOME!

or lose 49 cent.

Space stocks burning on reentry. Fun run, maybe I'll get back in again later

i don't eat processed food. Calls on LLY.

Avgo remained flat! I sold one call right before closing.

5pm est

#AVGO went bankrupt just as I predicted LMAO🤌

Worst case scenario I bag-hold one of the greatest companies on Earth. I’ll take them odds.

“RIP AVGO BOLS” just wait 5 min

Yeye. Thats the way i have to go

AVGO was a fucking rug pull. Billionaires don't give up a fucking dime bro.

Anyone else check out this stream?

Excuse me

AVGO is that horse in the race that gets in the gate backwards. 

Ruh roh

Spce open now avgo yall on a L run

stfu and just put the fries and receipt in the bag. holy crap man

Lmao.

I AM CROWDFUNDING FOR MY NEXT PORTFOLIO (NEW BROKERAGE NO PAPERTRAIL)- PLEASE VENMO

Hegseth: US is winning US-Iran war  
Meanwhile US military policy near Iranian coastline:    (Isonzo=Iran)

I’ve heard of these leverage ETFs, couldn’t this correct itself?

One sell away from ATH, can u sell

Shorting your mental will being for at least 18 years is not a good move

Retards better show their Crowdstrike loss porn

Yeah same boat

Hang on WSB has some form of beta to the market? Thats news to me.

MY CRWD CALLS ARE COOKED

What time is AVGO release?

Accounting manager coming from financial analytics

First red day ever recorded in 🥭 market and UVIX is still red 😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂

I knew what I was doing. I was in for the meme and because I thought I could make some quick easy money. Didn’t play out that way. Moving forward.

not moving anywhere yet

I sold my calls this morning for a tidy gain.  However, I hope Broadcom pumps tonight so that the other semiconductor bulls can celebrate too.

Congrats bulls, you just bought the top of a bubble 3x bigger than dot com era

I was broke 6 months ago. Literally zero dollars. I’m at very low six figures now. Thank you regards

At this point it’s safe to say that AMD is guaranteed to hit $1T market cap. Every time it dips I try to buy but chicken out

What’s it like

I love how MM drop AVGO 2% and rip 2% AH, theta wins

#If America wins the world cup SPY will gap up to $1000. If Iran wins we'll crash to $400. LMAO🤌🥅⚽🦅

The sales pitch for AI just keeps getting better!

*This technology might kill us all…*

*…and even if it doesn’t, it might take your job…*

*…and even if it doesn’t do that, it’ll take your air conditioning this summer.*

.....

Yeah except shit won’t happen now and they know that unfortunately.

What do you think about acquisitions that could potentially make Reddit a 2- or 3-headed powerhouse like Meta?

I just went bull today. how is this possible. no way I have the power to stop AI.

I'm talking about the wealthy, individual nations don't matter so much when the wealthy are colluding and pushing the overall trend in one direction.

This is wallsteetbets, not living on the street bets

fuck dem bers

Hwang Gang rise up

Do you know what the arbitrage on AU is? Can you count that high? Demon Won Elon Musk wishes he didn't have to take ketamine. Believe me. He might be able to count as fast as me. Quantum computing?  Print. Talk to me when you are making buck minister fullerene for 1 shilling.

Stretching

But maple syrup and nasty ass poutine

Crwd green by open

# Daily reminder that creampies are the best pies.

Baggies

So software is back to being completely fucked lmao

I fucking hope, i hold 180 shares

Depends, are you up?

Earnings

Show me the loss porn nerds

Bullish

Damn MRVL that was fucking BRUTAL

If you really zoom in on the chart you can see this dip

Nice I pussied out of my CRWD put

Why am I up 0.94%? Did I miss something?

BOOBGR?

It's not

pulled out of avgo slightly ahead. good luck to all . doesnt look good to me

AVGO crashing, -0.4% in AH

Now they’re saying it will be closed through Labor Day? 🤣🤣🤣 I THOT IT WOULD ONLY TAKE A COUPLE WEEKS 🤣 COUPLE WEEKS TURNS INTO MONTHS INTO YEARS 🤡

My moves for tomorrow? I uhhhh I think imma lose more money

CRWD is such a factor trade, the second you see red it’s time to get tf out. Same goes for green tho

I spend half my time trading stocks and the other half crying while holding my injured head. I wish I had never come to Canada. This is not what I wanted. I originally just wanted to come here and work in a medical field before going back to school.

Nobody was on Tillys here???

You virgins aren’t going to any galactic

Lets see hopefully its well

ran up big

AVGO to be renamed to AVGONE. THANK YOU FOR YOUR ATTENTION IN THIS MATTER.

AVGO ain’t even report yet

Relax gey bers

what is avgo doing?

How talented can I be for today? Bought calls at top and puts at bottom.. bye bye 5k

Shockingly, it was a bad day for the port

Micron only up 1.5% today and 100% in last month. I’m so done with this piece of shit stock.

The Politburo never had to stand in a bread line.

Rules for thee, not for me.

AVNOOOOOOO

If you like avgo at 475 ur gonna love it at 200

thats general consensus so prepare to get butt fucked

I finally sold 30K$ of a stock at a 33% loss after 5 years. Luckily I managed to snag $NOW at 137$ with the remaining 30K$ two days ago!

Not as screwed as I am, noob. I win…….. oh wait

Paper hands left AVGO

The dip before the pump. Calm down

Things were supposed to be green after a dump man

Am I screwed for being 27 years old and on this subreddit for investing advice?

Stop buying calls on OKLO lol

Ouch, for sure aJan 27

AVGO gonna save us all

Tf . 26% u smokin dat good good?

Ghey sex time for CRWD

Where are the days when Avgo was 170 and hit 340 within a week… it was an earnings day too. 2024 I think Nov can’t remember

Nuclear is far and away the safest form of energy.

Cant believe im about to say this nonsense , but I hope my regarded ai calls offset any losses from my Avgo call.

‘Moves for tomorrow’ possibly quadruple down on my calls

Well that crowd was def struck

752s 😆

CAT has been one of my favorite stocks for exactly this reason.

If you got in for anything more than the meme I dunno what to tell you

AVGO ……………..

SPY puts after opening. I think we are done with bull market. My calls were quashed 😔

Looks like it’s 420 tonight either way results show

Why is SPCE still not below 4????

Regards selling AVGO because they see the price falling when they haven’t released earnings yet. SMH

ALOY FTW

Nah I'm holding this time. Rip everyone.

AVG-noooo

RIP CRWD owners

ending it all

It's a bols trap run

All the plays I had in mind had juices up IV and I didn't want it to end up being just a theta play. Just got another Intel monthly spread before close since that made me a few hundos this morning. Tomorrow I'm doing a proxy space stock play with PL earnings tho. Probably rklb or asts.

Things seem to be not looking good

Holy shit CRWD is back to where it was five days ago

2:34 am

Not this time. I'm in with 152s for tomorrow

If your account doesn't go up or down 95+% per day you're doing it wrong.

The amount of people glorifying loss in the comments is making me rethink my strategies.

flexible pricing per kWh depending on time of day

Loaded up on $GOOGL today. Can’t imagine it won’t run a little with the SpaceX and Anthropic IPOs.

Avgo will be flat. All priced in. Fk your call, fk your put.

Oh of course not

Jensen can you say that again? I think the stock didn’t hear you the first time.

C3.ai pump already selling off FML

You’re adorable, good luck out there sparky. I think you’re gonna need it.

RIP AVGO

I’m only down 3.4% so I’m good thx

**Ban Bet Created:** **/u/Financial_Bee6392** bet **AVGO** goes from **479.3** to **500.0** before **03-Jun-2026 05:11 PM EDT**

Their record is 0 wins and 0 losses.

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

in our dreams

!banbet AVGO $500 1h

Anyone got an opinion on SAP or am I the only guy buying the stock 😂

AVGROW

I don't like sex scenes in movies, they make me feel sad and horny 😢

Same dude same

Mmm not looking good so far

AVGO earnings too fat, cannot go through the wire...

Billionaires will be (again) the next big winners. So picture checks out

Depends on your risk tolerance.  Yours is clearly lower.

Here’s hoping

MU 🐻 FUKED!! 😂

I just keep losing money

"MRVL 400 EOD!!!!" 💀

Avgo, please don't screw everything.

You are right, we are less unified, yet somehow more united than some of the states ;)

Y’all ready to go back to the dark ages?

Today was boring. Broadcom better spice it up

CRWD creating generational bagholders

Patient AVGO holder, we'll get to the moon soon

Print.

I want many things too

What a bloodbath, Now and CRM :(

Rotation

Joever for bitcoin-cels

What did you do?

If you like money you would have taken profits at 460 and re-bought today for a 7% discount. The fall was obvious.

just like avgo lol

The situation is both scary and funny at the same time. I see corporations push AI into their employee's throat for no reason but I predict they'll come back in a few months when the tokens price starts piling up

Are you looking at after hours by chance?

Release the earnings, release the europoors, release the koreans. Release everything

RIP my banbet

#I got AVGO calls so it guarantees that it will crash after earnings LMAO🤌

Put the fries in the bag bro……

I did 🤭

English

for fking real… my poor calls

Lord George Russell, the Grand Duke of Mecklenburg would like to have a word to discuss your recent struggles. You can win the championship. Get out of your own head.  

u/imustbegthequestion

calculated risk only! or else youll do more time there

Over 7%?  Change your diaper and get back to work regard

I am a software investor

No, you are gay

No not NOK ..NOC  I see what you ment now . I don’t buy stocks that are at a certain p/e level.

Wait patiently. A lil bit of money got wiped out the market today. Tomorrow its coming back in

#160 USD/JPY ONCE AGAIN BABY 🥳

thanks, i inversed

I had the tiniest of positions because I didn't trust em

What time are the AVGO earnings?

Household use interferes with paperclip production.

cuz its going to moon

Crwd options nuked

How‘s this?

Vertiv (VRT) — Power and cooling infrastructure for AI data centers; one of the most direct picks-and-shovels plays.

Eaton (ETN) — Electrical equipment, UPS systems, power distribution, and data-center infrastructure.

Quanta Services (PWR) — Builds and upgrades power grids, substations, and energy infrastructure needed before new AI data centers can come online.

GE Vernova (GEV) — Grid equipment, transformers, switchgear, and power infrastructure for electrification and data-center growth.

Caterpillar (CAT) — Heavy machinery for construction, mining, and infrastructure buildout; a literal “shovels” play.

Nucor (NUE) — Steel supplier for data-center construction and broader infrastructure demand.

Steel Dynamics (STLD) — U.S. steel producer exposed to construction, infrastructure, and industrial buildout.

Freeport-McMoRan (FCX) — Major copper producer; copper is essential for grids, cables, electrification, and data-center power needs.

Southern Copper (SCCO) — Large copper producer with direct exposure to rising copper demand from electrification and AI infrastructure.

Cameco (CCJ) — Uranium and nuclear-fuel exposure; AI data centers need reliable baseload power.

Constellation Energy (CEG) — Major nuclear power operator; well positioned as data centers seek large-scale clean and reliable electricity.

Bloom Energy (BE) — On-site fuel-cell power systems for data centers; high-beta play on distributed power demand.

Oklo (OKLO) — Speculative advanced-nuclear company targeting small reactors for reliable clean power, including potential data-center use cases.

MP Materials (MP) — U.S. rare-earths and magnet supply-chain play; relevant for electrification, robotics, defense, and energy infrastructure.

USA Rare Earth (USAR) — Speculative rare-earths and magnet-production play tied to U.S. supply-chain localization.

Materion (MTRN) — Specialty materials for semiconductors, AI chips, connectivity, and advanced electronics.

Qnity Electronics (Q) — Semiconductor and electronics materials company; a “materials behind the chips” play.

Holy shit. It's Chad Dickens.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

The only reason it rallies to 8$ was because WSB hyped it. The hype is over. People buying the weong stock at spaceX IPO won't double this stock, let alone nearly triple.

🚨 AVGO drill initiated, liquidate all positions now or be subject to enhanced anus widening measures

wow, tilly's was the big play

this sub is wallstreetbets not wallstreetinvesting

Only know you've been high when you're feelin low

c3.ai be like

i would say that one down day is okay, but somehow i'm down 80% on a ball market and the day i buy some calls they flush out again. I think i am starting to get the message that options are not for me

Yeah I don’t trade options. I bought and sold within 10 minutes and make £1k

Why play CRWD earnings and get IV crush, just play the other SaaS companies and get rebound

All the trillion dollar semi stocks will go to 0 and not recover for 20 years.

I feel like this happens every time

AVGO will likely be a bit down, and most puts and calls will lose value due to the post-earning vol crush

If AVGO pumps, the rest better follow.. neeeeeed a comeback

SRXH -buying more on payday

Looking dumpy dumpy

AVGO pump incoming pls pepeCope

AVGO REPORTS 1 QUADRILLION DOLLARS EARNINGS

avgo hasnt even dropped much yet and earnings are 5 pm

today sucked ass

Its being used regardless. Its getting forced into everything. Google searches automatically use it now. Duck duck go has integrated it to some degree. 

Whether or not the average consumer uses it, business are diving head first into it.

**Ban Bet Created:** **/u/calmoney149** bet **AVGO** goes from **478.24** to **500.0** before **03-Jun-2026 05:09 PM EDT**

Their record is 1 wins and 0 losses.

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

Dump it

!banbet AVGO $500 1h

**PRAYING FOR MORE CORRUPTION IN WASHINGTON DC TONIGHT (SO MARKETS RIP) OTHERWISE RIP LMAO**

AVGO has not even reported bruh

1 contract each lol.

crwd just pulled my pants down

Market will be up 5% tomorrow. Literally cannot even have 1 day of 1% loss. Insane how rigged it is.

Who else bought RDDT calls

Agreed

\>up down up down up down

\>market closes

\>up 

fuck you xD

i trusted Tom Lee smh

Why is AVGO dropping so much

My watchlist is all red! The sky is falling.

All AVGO call holders. Remember: "No Crying in the Casino"

Did you see the jump last night around 11.60 I believe?

now and onds really done a number on me today

This is all a great setup into America's bday!

He’s about to get a supreme ass fucking amirite!?

C3AI up 9% AH lmao

Facts

when avgo

CRWD reversal will begin here in a few minutes, ER was great

SNDK just flying.. what is the end number ? $3000 ?

No I don’t think anything. I just thought you meant NOK because everyone has been talking about NOK

**Ban Bet Created:** **/u/Jon_Aegon_Targaryen** bet **AVGO** goes from **477.34** to **495.0** before **10-Jun-2026 04:09 PM EDT**

Their record is 0 wins and 0 losses.

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

If you're gonna donate your mom's money to billionaires how about just venmo it to me

Print. Go Brackley.

!banbet AVGO 495 1w

get out , i need this at 600

lol.. crowd strike.. another over bought SaaS shit stock.

they're trying to scare the huzz with some early AVGO red candles

Crwd literally doubled for no  reason in a month and it's down 10%. Lol who cares

Meanwhile in the US my provider gives me a discount for using more energy...

AVGO blood red in AH

Avgo earnings miss and guidance cut 😬

CRWD got one good bubble pump and is splitting its stock lmao

AVGO what’s going on

Ok ber

Same with crwd

Flat as your mothers ass

MN. Team SILVER ARROWS FTW

So will we get more green once the war is once again ended tomorrow?

R.I.P. CRWD holders

Why TF is FIVE dumping

First dip is always fake

GUHHH

I don’t believe there are real humans that bought Crwd at 800 or mrvl at 330

This should be one of the best fckng answers I've read here in a long time. Thanks dor sharing your insights.

for hoo

When stonks stop going up market will go down WOW BRO GENIOOOO

crwd is a $250 stock how is it still above 600

if it’s good enough for screenshot, it’s good enough to sell.

There isnt any numbers here? who cares if you're up or down 50% on a 1000$ account

Why did you not sell at 460?

I will be messaging you in 2 hours on **2026-06-03 22:08:15 UTC** to remind you of **this link**

**CLICK THIS LINK** to send a PM to also be reminded and to reduce spam.

^(Parent commenter can ) ^(delete this message to hide from others.)

**RemindMeBot is switching to username summons.** Instead of `!RemindMe 1 day`, use `u/RemindMeBot 1 day`. More info.

*****

|^(Info)|^(Custom)|^(Your Reminders)|^(Feedback)|
|-|-|-|-|

Veev earnings meh

Ofc it tanks becayse why wouldnt it, if i wasnt in the positiong it would be 600 lmao

🌮 in a coma (I really hope that he pulls through)

Thanks I just read about it. Looks like a good one.

ahhh....boys it doesn't look good. i needed that big shriek on that AVGO

Pays well to be unable to afford AVGO calls lol

Wdym 40x sales for 20% rev growth isn’t good value?

Mailed it.

Paper hands.

Correct.

sell the news

I’m starting to think those weren’t love taps by Iran

RIP AVGO LMAO

$CRWD rekt

AVGO!!!

I bought 62 750 SPY puts for tomorrow so that you guys can pump to the stratosphere

Heard

Fk you all Fkin beaches so rich

My sweet summer child.....

Countries are releasing reserves onto the market.

Mf 😂😂

that aint just the tip...

Lol really?  I literally just did this cuz someone else banbet +3%

Which part ?

Therapist

Yo fam keep me updated lmao

!RemindMe 2 hour

My portfolio is the biggest bag of odorous excrement ever assembled

No CRWD noooo! My calls!!!

What?

Crwd algo finally goes other way

GOD DAMN CROWDSTRIKE LMAOOOOOOO

What are the crwd numbers

Oh my God NTSK

Fuck you MSFT you POS

booooo

because my calls expire june 5

So not an officer?

I think then they will just play around with flexible tariffs - electricity kWh costs can be different depending on time of a day.

Or do something with taxing electricity use, at the end they would have access to opinions of top behavioural economists and normal economists also

AVGO is going to be down 30% . Folks are pulling their contracts with the AI being so expensive LMAO

Read the sub name?

Where does bro think he is lol

We are at war for sure sir

Good suggestion! Done.

Chat is going so fast none will know I have a crush on Willa Fitzgerald

Not a peep about MRNA

Yes I think Noc is undervalued but I bought it yesterday and sold it at a loss because a stock that’s much cheaper got to a spot I didn’t think I’d ever see in my lifetime. Sometimes it’s a better use of my capital. I will get more bang for the buck. Plus a nice dividend . So I’ll suck up the loss to gain more in the future.

oh boy here  we go . so obvious

how far out? otm or itm? details man!

Avgo ER comes out at 5pm est....

AVGO

Back to back exhaustion candles on the daily, RSI of 75.8, stochastic starting to cycle back over, up 18% in 4 days, all into today's earnings report. This smells like a front run

"Explains why nothing is happening how tf you supposed to read that shit"

-someone in the WH admin

Look at OP’s post

Hey /u/karen-ultra -  I am a bot from /r/wallstreetbets.                                You submitted one or more banned tickers: APTX.

 We don't allow discussion of low market cap (less than 500mm) tickers to prevent pump & dump spam and scammers.

Bought the AXP dipperino

Why did you buy calls till next year 😂😂 OP it’s time to take orders at Wendy’s because this is not it

Influencer, content creator, Jack Daniels brand ambassador

I’m long in Google but…

Did anyone actually read the article or did everyone just fall for the clickbait title?

That seems bad

many of us are fighting too alongside AVGO!!!

I’m going to apply for a job there tonight

sold asstits at open good call.

Wendy’s

How about Alexa goes offline during such time.

SPCE is the past, SPXC is the future. I am going to convert shares of SPXC to SPCX 1:1 on IPO.

Classic lmao

Commodity prices go up and down but there's no compounding like company stocks. Bad for holding. Good for trading only if you are good at it.

Yeah lol, vertical for a month

SPCE was some of the stupidest shit I’ve been involved in and I lost good money, but I’m back on track. Time to refocus.

I hope everyone holding AVGO gets Thetad bc hating is free and I hate all of you

watch market maker pumping the market after it closes lmao

Playing clash royale to distract me lmfao

CrwGUH

To oblivion

Benny and the Jerks.

AVGO up 65% from end of March $2.2T cap

Even unicorns don’t believe that this will rip

Even VIX is dumping ... this is going to be a massive rotation into one sector or another isnt it.

C3.AI 10% AH

I’ve been here before, took a while to get back, but today feels worse than before

Ohhh fck you crwd. My port is destroyed

ooof CRWD double beat but...

First born child sacrificed to the AI gods when? 
 
Has AI done anything apart from being a little more efficient at things? Like apart from some pipe dream is it actually useful for anything?

Whats that mean

always has been

Crwd down avgo is fucked

5 pm earnings call

cause it's literally fake and has no value

I will continue to buy puts on SPY till it hits 700 in the next 3 months. Goal is 345k buying 0dte and using 10k a day

WSB bullish on AVGO? It's going to dump

WMT being up for no real reason is probably a bad sign

It’s already ran bigly lol

im the one dying here...

I'm very polite to it. Roko's Basilisk

I bet the person who bought calls weeks before you is a lot happier

You are quite something bro, buying leverage on a Ponzi scheme

I thought we didn't care about the straights of hormuuz. It's pride month ✨

This song gonna be 55 minutes long huh lol

Alright so how did all my little finance gurus do today yall were so yippy for the last 2 months.... what did we learn?

What matters is not what you are told but you believe.

uh oh retail that sure is some end of day volume 🐻

actually it is

CRWD bers eating steak tonight

bruh u can't be lookin for -10% on this stonk.

AI is probably some good shit but idk too many people on the ground level saying to use it. It’s all coming from executives. Usually for good products it’s the other way around. Like the iPhone for example

I've had this stock for 5 years now. I'm riding this one out until retirement.

Every hour I see a new (insert bottom here) is btc resistance then they have to go find another rent a quote to give the same headline for 1k lower because it's dropped again.

Avgo you good?

HUBC sin duda

Today was ass

$MILF

Was c3.ai seriously the play 🫩

It's still above today's low dude chill

Same here

**TELL THE PRESIDENT SOMEONE TURNED THE PRINTER OFF AND ITS VERY FUCKING RUDE LMAO**

Holy crwd

crowdstroke deez nuts in your mouth

Why are we still dumping fuck me daddyyy

$8.9 million in volume on that last 5 min red candle in SPY to close the day.

CRWD drop MOAR (need 650)

You bought now stock ?

AVGUH

Just $5k lost? Amateur

Lmao me rn

Since Iran doesn’t communicate via email, they’re writing their terms for the peace deal on the missiles they’ve been launching at US forces. That’s why talks are still going well!

Time to lose money on avgo

All in SpaceX next week or no?

avgo theta just as the ultimate fuck you to everyone?

That’s going to feel like a long 55 minutes for you!

AVGO fighting for its life right now

At this rate, it’s literally safer to park your money in SOXL than in SPY.

On what

It just went up 50%

It actually "recovered" from the lows today.

It has no value or purpose.

This is not the big 🍆 energy I was looking for

Ooooof CRWD

Cmon AVGO I need you to hit that 470c now. Cmon kiddo.

crwd dead

I finished at +0.50$ lol

Time to be retarded

SPCX & TSLA are gonna make me rich!

HOLY SHIT AVGO AHHHHHHHHHHH PULL-UP PULL UP

Im 27% into MSTR, I love it

Probably recovers tho. Green eod

Masturbation Manager

B00B 69 😎

WHAT TIME

55 mins until AVGO earnings

in 2032

Smart

oil goes up, korea stocks go down which make up 40% of dram

Well that was expected. Bye CRWD.

Looking good so far but early pumps after earnings usually sell off fast

Most of us trade while sitting on the toilet, so sure! Keep dumping!

And the CRWD goes mild

Still waiting shitbrain

Enron will be the world’s first future former trillionaire.

earnings isn't for another 55 minutes

AVGO ran heavy 5 days before. This was a trap in the making.

\-5k out of no where before it close

I hope so! I got cash to deploy

Let’s gooooo avgooooo

Today I made 50,000 by going long and then shorting LASE. I've invested all of it in TSMC and IREN; let's see if AVGO's earnings report can boost these two(because I already have a lot of AVGO).

BREAKING: AVGO earnings expectations were perfectly priced in

Both my QQQ puts and calls are in the red.

You think AVGO isn't a part of the 7 at this point?

It literally cut in half from its high in 2022. Obviously just hold and be fine but never say never

I CAN MINE A DIAMOND RIGHT NOW

#Ban Bet Won
---

/u/DaddyDoLittle made a bet that CRWD would go to 707.72 within **5 days** when it was 729.61 and it did, congrats you fuckin nerd.

Their record is now 3 wins and 10 losses

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

Nice try, Elon.

I don’t like you !

Fuck you very much MSFT

$avgo hasn’t reported yet you retards

It's a scale problem. The physical materials that make up the data centers is 1 and done. Whereas software and AI scales much better.

Buttcorn

AI will fuck your puts  
AI will fuck your face  
AI will kick your calls into OUTER SPACE!

CAT, obviously. It’s up a lot recently tho

spend my life on excel

The electric panel, you will just get less amps than what you pay for

What would you have to put in to average down enough to get out of this with the latest pump?

Semis will crash the global market when the supercycle ends.

What MU dip?

Omg it's the 90's again

Officially in 56 mins from now

I trimmed my position for a small loss just in case

Some chill music though lol

you are cooked bro

I’m sick of my job no raises unfulfilling work that’s why I make risky investments 
To escape from it all

Calls got SPCE’d today

This was before close

Why June 5

Tomorrow's gonna suck for my 1dte SPY calls I can feel it

Hold the Line!!!

omfg dude don't tell me its gonna be flat

I learned that I am a chicken shit basturd that keeps buying high and selling low. I have been losing so much money day trading that I am even ashamed to think the number

SNDK my knight in shining armor.

Buy stocks only when they are red

So we just gonna keep dumping?

Apparently I have a full time job on this sub.

I sold that bih INTU so quick on the pump.

Lowkey I might get back into it at around 303 😂

PUT THE PLASTIC STRAW DOWN SIR. YOU MUST COMPLY WITH PAPER STRAW CODE ORDINANCE 27.92:a IMMEDIATELY

# A V 🅱️ O

Pltr heading back to 130 faster than I expected

Its tracking error is over 1% in two days. That's how much it sees in one year on average.

My port is getting obliterated

just realized how much of you moron's money are on this stupid little company's stock going up

Did you mean to buy NOK? That might be the issue too.

It was just EOM rebalancing last Friday, not sure why people didn’t wait till Monday to see if new buyers were actually stepping in creating higher levels of support

Dude why is corn so fucked

Bought the dip on GOOG AMZN and MU today. Nothing sexy, but some tidy work.

Tell AI to pay for energy production. That'll probably solve the issue of wanting actual people to stop using energy for like I dont know... Living?

Theres alot of masterbating you missed but so far pretty good rendition of my life thus far

Too fat earnings? Did not go through the wire, cuz too fat?

It will after June 5

Can I do it without clothes?

Buy the ASTS dip ahead of the inevitable miraculous resolution of the Iran conflict and rebound just before the SPCX IPO.

Ethereum at $1700 is hilariously sad

I bet with real money and even so I still have larger balls than you

"yes we've had 2x leverage but what about 3x"

So, how did it go?

Scared for avgo results. Riding 100 shares for the earnings.

Make it 55 cents

three day old Mexican food and sitting on the can

oh really? no news until 5pm? cmon guys...

I believe the next big winners will be companies building from the ground up with AI in mind and not just bolting it on to legacy systems

AVGO will pump it in like an hour.

i was told stonks only go up

Earnings werent good?

is mrvl done 😞

Did you ever lose a minute sleeping worrying about the way things might have been?

Today was great for me. Still holding these ASTS puts 🤑

No fake moves lmfao everyone's butt is clenched rn

I lost money today on Noc. Only because I went into a stock that came down to a level I’d thought I wouldn’t see in this lifetime. Sometimes you have to cut a loss for something that you can’t wait to buy. Happens ..

New quantum stock QNT

AVGO PLEASE SAVE ME

Unemployed

We’re looking for love in all the wrong places

What a clickbait title and OP fell for it because he clearly didn’t read the article. They are just rolling out smart meters to better handle energy demand and fluctuations. This needs to be done regardless of AI gigachads consuming fuck tons of megawatts. Energy demands has been growing since forever, being a bit smarter about allocation and waste is the least we can do. But AI bad mmmmmkay

tell me about it lmao

Cmon AVGO big money!!!!

It DO GO DOWN LMAO 🤌

I am slowly starting to regret buying more ORCL

AVGO was fucking manipulation at the last 10 minutes of trading. That was some fucking bullshit.

What’s going on with MU

Paid protester

That’s right berz start shorting right now.  Short the piss out of the futures right here.

Our little comedian

You fucking peasants and your wasting of resources on basic fucking necessities

"... but some animals are more equal than others."

Really moves that much? Why do I even play SPY

Scientist, actually

Ok AVGO going back up..

Tell people to go home and take nyquil, most of the time.

Followed closely by Iran going “No peace!” And spy’s up 1.5% premarket tomorrow morning

The next tril company

**Ban Bet Created:** **/u/90s__JDM** bet **AVGO** goes from **480.78** to **471.16** before **04-Jun-2026 04:03 PM EDT**

Their record is 0 wins and 2 losses.

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

I sell ACA plans and do tax preparation

No because they'd have to pay another company in actual money that would get spent on the labor so this wouldn't carry over that far.

!banbet AVGO -2% 1D

So what did we learn today? 😌

oh fuck..

Avgo gonna dump 😶

Reddit knew what it was doing while recommending this post to me today except for yesterday

Typically results in 10 mins after 4 pm sometimes 30

erm we are all colleagues in wendy's

HODL calls in HPE, ASTS, POET, NVTS & BROS

**Ban Bet Created:** **/u/MechRxn** bet **AVGO** goes from **481.03** to **600.0** before **17-Jun-2026 04:03 PM EDT**

Their record is 1 wins and 4 losses.

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

Imagine Saylor selling 32 corn was the top signal for the Ai trade LMAO 🤌

Ya the Google raise was the earnings move

What’s with all these posts pushing materials all of a sudden

AVGO flat like NVDA

!banbet AVGO 600 2w

Tomorrow is the SpaceX Roadshow, that could help $SPCE go up

You already have a bet going - ASTS to 135.0 before 04-Jun-2026 07:51 AM -05

Tried to catch a falling knife with LITE and got sliced to shit (bought at -5%, holding a 3% loss). Will see what happens tomorrow.

Holding AMD and AMAT from yesterday helped soften the blow.

Broke until Friday what's the play

Buying NFLX yet?

AVGUH

!banbet

We are bag holders now

About to test Schwab's after hours trading of AVGO goes south.

IM GOING TO GET FUKT ON THESE SPREADS I SOLD AREN'T I

Fuck I was too late for my AVGO lotto ticket.

people that shorted buttcoin through all the hype are fuckin legends

**Ban Bet Created:** **/u/Misaka9615** bet **AVGO** goes from **480.92** to **500.16** before **03-Jun-2026 05:03 PM EDT**

Their record is 4 wins and 4 losses.

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

You’ll be waiting a long time buddy

Good luck $AVGO call holders 🫡

# shitcoin on absolute suicide mission

!Banbet AVGO +4% 1H

Anytime after 4 est

Cmon! I need the market to pump! I lost my job in October and went all in on the gambling life. I said fuck you to modern day slavery

Work?

This time it's different

AVGO to 600.

Literally saw 7560 0DTE go from .10 to 6.00 close from 3:58 to 4:00 crazy

I made 10% this morning on MRVL 
I check now it’s not even 1%

WTF happened????

AVGO earnings call is 5 PM, lets see

Saas really pumped and dumped on yall mfs in the span of 5 days. Lmao

Real Gs move in silence like spajetti

I'm not your guy, fwend

BMNR new lows lol wtf shits going to 10

Maybe AVmeh

Hock Tan > Hawk Tuah

SPY puts again for tomorrow

Unemployed

**Ban Bet Created:** **/u/LiquorCaptainO** bet **NVDA** goes from **214.76** to **219.06** before **04-Jun-2026 04:02 PM EDT**

Their record is 0 wins and 0 losses.

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

AVGO?

!Banbet NVDA 2% 1d

Also adding USAR. I’m glad to see someone who kinda have the same thesis.

The other day, Tom Lee said we should be looking at software. 🤷‍♂️

How can NASDAQ composite - 0.89% and qqq - 0.2% be so far off each other. I know qqq is too 100 etc

what time exactly does avgo earnings drop?

I can’t remember the last time that I was truly happy

Pls jensen help me be happy

I will be messaging you in 5 months on **2026-11-30 20:02:06 UTC** to remind you of **this link**

**CLICK THIS LINK** to send a PM to also be reminded and to reduce spam.

^(Parent commenter can ) ^(delete this message to hide from others.)

**RemindMeBot is switching to username summons.** Instead of `!RemindMe 1 day`, use `u/RemindMeBot 1 day`. More info.

*****

|^(Info)|^(Custom)|^(Your Reminders)|^(Feedback)|
|-|-|-|-|

k as in kuadrillion

Let’s fucking go

Big 🍆 energy

**Ban Bet Created:** **/u/Acceptable_Office465** bet **AVGO** goes from **481.06** to **500.3** before **03-Jun-2026 05:02 PM EDT**

Their record is 0 wins and 1 losses.

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

!Banbet AVGO +4% 1H

Fuck. I can't look. What's the AVGO time of report?

loaded a few lottos

Genuinely what do you guys do for work

AVGO $600 call and $400 put witness me regards.

solid maths

Papa sensei please before  you close your eyes leave your scrolls of knowledge to me 😭

Pampers will fire off more rockets at the island while AVGO earnings are released. Don’t worry.

Today’s algos sucked

Enjoy the plus 1% spy day.

I ended up with both calls and puts for crwd and avgo. Let's see how it goes.

Hold me

THIS IS MY LAST YOGURT

Way too much confidence in here

More calls obviously

AVGO has drilled with good earnings repeatedly and its gonna happen again.

this why they call you dr strange

I’m so scared

This is my last resort

Drug dealer

Hope it can pull a Dell...

Yeah, there's analogies like this that are used to demonstrate how flowing cash can improve things. This is an actual scenario you can run into.

I was completely expecting  the NRED scam.

Dumb fakenews. Stop spreading such bullshit.

whats ur loss

I’m so scared right now

Foot model

Who promised? Why would it reach 60?

Oh we safe boys

AVGuh or AVYuh

Micron 2000$ incoming

Avgo dumped before close, it should pump af

That was an ugly-ass close on SPY.

Tomorrow is going to be a blood-bath.

better lube up, next dildo will hurt a little bit

I sold my leveraged shares 30 minutes before close... swear the market fucking knows

!remindme 180 days

$40 -> $1200 from 0dte (2 mins to close) spx puts

Open ai makes no money, but people keep investing. It's a bubble.

Forgot 🚀 emoji

1200 MU tomorrow

We all are....haha

Hey me too!  This anti drone system might create a lot of gains in the near future.

AVGO …

Fuck you and your spce b*******. People like you and others cause me to lose my a** on this bullsh piece of s*** stock so f*** off with your bull s*** gains

I could do that with my Ferrari stock that I got when they spun it off of Fiat.

open casino

2.27T market cap on annualized $40B revenue... 🤔

I’m scared

Sell the rest of my ETFs & Index funds.

The people that still hold SPCE talk to AI like it's a person

Where in the article do you read they would limit people's energy usage, let alone in favor of data centers? They merely say they aim to allow residential customers for more control which could be "smart" technology heating water a little higher at noon rather than getting the boiler back at temp after you take a shower when you come home at 6pm. This article in no way suggests consumption restrictions during peak hours.

Data centers use more water in construction materials and construction than they do in actual "work". Many data centers are closed-loop or use something other than water. Only talking about water usage shows everyone you have an extremely surface level understanding of the situation and you basically lose credibility

Try 696

Noo regrettii

I was told that proof of aliens was being declassified and it ended up just being a photo dump of Wemby

I’d like to know the most common occupations of people in the daily thread

Monitoring Situation (AVGO)

iwish

Waiting for msft to move up again

Yet they're all still in business & making bank.

dell disagrees

CLFD. Low market cap, has consolidated the last month

You know it’s getting real sus, it’s been a couple days and we didn’t even get a tweet or Axios insider headline about imminent peace deal

**Ban Bet Created:** **/u/Ok_Cry7572** bet **AVGO** goes from **480.5** to **466.08** before **03-Jun-2026 05:01 PM EDT**

Their record is 9 wins and 26 losses.

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

AVGO is about to rip

get some red wigglers and make your own compost

!Banbet AVGO -3% 1H

Wow the EU are not the saviors of the people like people online think they are? I thought the EU cared about human rights!!

Space virgins are still just regular virgins. 😂

Enjoy it bers. That was the last dump of 2026

Ok main casino closed, side walk diceboard still open for 15 min for you spy laggards.

Can't they just buy more oil from Russia and iran? Oh I mean india and iran?

Probably gonna regret my AI calls

heave

CUT MY LIFE INTO PIECES

Same thought here. AI is now, I’ve been moving profits to rare earth and mining. Heavily invested on LAC, will eventually move some to MP. This is a multi year plays. Best time to buy when it’s not hot yet.

Back to 420 by tomorrow open

weird ass day

I don't read books

Welp...I took a profit on 1 of my 5 contracts for my 900c for MU. It is a bittersweet feeling.

Lets go AVGO plz save my port

MU tomorrow 1150

Share dilution locked and loaded. Please squeeze

are you sure

Crazy my 7570 spx put I sold for a 80$ gain at 560 went on to 1700 5 minutes after then end of the day went from 300 to 1600 😭😆

AVGO PLS

Buying QBTS for the long run

Damnit missed that SPX dump. That was epic

LMT, missiles go brrrr

Why thx u

Bye bye  Avgo 😂

Also averaged down like you from a similar cost basis

I will ETH again when it's the price I first bought it at. $7.

Im watching AVGO closely right now

I got banned again so now I’m afraid to post anything fun

I hope next week we recover cause this week is only going down

$ANY is the next 💥

not even remotely close

Ok I’m in. Hopefully AVGO goes to 730. 🍿

Don’t mess this up for me AVGO

Now what

Who are "they"? You know the EU is made up of a bunch of countries, each with its own government and responsible for their power production. Most importantly, the EU is not a Federation so no central government. Neighboring countries might share power networks and buy / sell to each other. Best examples being France and Germany. There is no unified EU mechanism to track or control a households consumption. That would go against so many laws, rules and regulations.
Stop spreading lies.

What's the implication of GOOG having massive massive buy volume at open and close only to slow bleed thoughout the day?

It is the history of Tottenham (Hotspurs)

AVGO waiting room

Check your calendar 📅

first

There's always a second pump

try 390

Realistically the market is green tomorrow,  replaces most of the losses, continues slowly ticking upward for the next week or two, then has another spectacular dump day. That's the pattern for the last year.

Well this is one way to grow anti AI sentiment

Jacked to the tits on SPY 800 6/18 calls

GOOG successfully defended 355, thank jolly rancher dih

Well that avgo close didn’t instill too much confidence lol

I'm fucking selling everything morning of SpaceX IPO

here's your reminder that we're closing near the lows, dumbass

BRACE FOR IMPACT

Is veeva mooning now?

Let’s see what 3x leverage can do

I think NVDA and MSFT are in cahoots to fuk the bols

Why is SPCE going down? I was promised it would reach $60 😔

Last ten minutes on AVGO lmao

got some 10 baggers from 7560p in the closing mins.

holy fuck...

Buy the shovels (CAT)

***The year is 2000 and the Dot Com bubble has burst.***

^(You sit down in front of your CAD grade crt monitor and can console yourself with one of these newly released games:)

Deus Ex, Thief 2, Hitman, Diablo 2, Baldurs Gate 2, Stronghold, Shogun Total War, Red Alert 2, Counterstrinke 1.6.

^(Then you boot up your console with your pass me down trinitron crt tv to play:)

Final Fantasy IX, Zelda Majoras Mask, Spyro, Perfect Dark, Resident Evil CV, Skies of Arcadia

***The year is 2026 and the AI bubble has burst.***

^(You sit down in front of your oled monitor that's already developed small faults and boot up Steam to be greeted by game adverts that are in early access despite having a backglog of over 200 owned games. The one game you have installed on your small SSD is currently updating and Nvidia display driver has stopped responding.)

^(Then you boot up your Series X hooked up to you 60 inch TV to be greeted by -  "Updating...Sit tight and ......" finally you progess to a McDonalds advert after restarting and logging back in.)

^(In disgust you move to the PS5 "System, Controller and Game update required", then your controller drifts and pulse headphones won't stay connected for more than 5 minutes.)

Finally, you give up and go back to buying more Pokemon cards at from your childhood at 100x rrp.

BRACE FOR IMPACT

here's your reminder that we're closing near the lows, dumbass

Went from +300 to -100 to 0 not a bad day see yall tomorrow!

Spurs losing tonite I fear

Here we go ladies and gentlemen, time to find out about the dildo's color.

avgo $600

Buying more NOW 🙂‍↕️

Sorry guys my bad.. Decided last minute to YOLO $2000 on AVGO 600 calls and the stock tanked right away

I just bought 600 calls

Ow 💯 ull see me here losing my whole wallet and more lol

AVGO going to take MRVL down, and probably some of the semis as well

ok that AVGO drop seems like may calls will be dead soon

Is it the year of the snek?

They have RAM...

That’s only 21k not 21M, hate to break it to ya

Yea sitting out on AVGO GL

AVGO or semi call holders

Why is gardening so damn expensive?

Cause metal companies are notoriously volatile

That NVDA close tho

That's not the moon timmy

It already started.

You make more money the first and last 30min of the trading day then you would all day🤡🤡🤡

Mommy im scared

I saw everyone call out GOOG at $250. I like GOOG because they’ll probably be more stable than the others. At least I buy QQQ every month so I didn’t miss everything I guess

Oh avgo, pls don't fuck me. Bag7 already did that today without lube

I am neither Anti anything I have my own local LLM. I am just realistic of what it can and can't do. People who are on the hype train are going nowhere. AI was not there we had machine learning which is different than AI. And No they are not. Your IPhone screen uses your faces as points and when these points matches they are unlocked. 

I am sure 90% of the people have no clue what AI is.

I sold my AVGO $495 calls for June 8 at market open this morning.  A 250%-ish return for holding all of two days was good enough for me.

Given the run-up that's occurred over the last few weeks, I can't imagine Broadcom having a strong enough earnings beat and future guidance to justify a further price increase over the short term.  We'll see what happens in a few hours, though.

AVGO fried

$cash

Lucid. GM. Give me my mf cars. I earned them.

We going to 420 AH

I know a pullback for AI was coming but can my shit that was already at lows not pullback with the Ai? Mother fuckers

1 min till i find out if my avgo calls will be the end of me or not.

  
COMPUTAH UNSHIT MY PANTS

penis

Also if you want to invest in metals and mining just buy CAT and other heavy equipment.  It’s needed to dig up the goods for chips and energy, it’s needed to build the data center, and power grid to supply the data center.

Yes, either team wins they are both endorsing NIKE

Elon will take this opportunity to attempt to merge SpaceX and Tesla. VCs/institutional investors will exit their investments. Investment Banks are making ridiculous amounts of money from fees. Indices will make money from the trades of retail investors buying into SpaceX. 

Everyone will make money except retail investors. That’s where all the money will be coming from.

My avg is 50 😫

You know what would be funny? If we all just squeezed SPCE😅😅… would be hilarious right guys?… please

Awww did daddy mango not put out a fake headline for you today

hold on for dear life

Yep, big dogs already got the heads up on AVGO and now dumping it. Just fucking great. Looks like I'm a long time holder now.

Im going to regret holding overnight aren’t I?

No faith in my avgo calls

It has 4m+ in volume- sharps would’ve taken the opposite side by now

We go green so I buy my calls. We dump for a week and I get shaken out at a stop loss. We pump for a few more days so I buy back in at the next pump. Rinse and repeat. The pattern must continue. The pattern is all.

Casino is about to close. Get your last minute AVGO calls. Join the future bag holders

AVGO is off a cliff

Wow Nvidia you really suck ass

the FOMO just does not stop. SOXX is now up 100% since the beginning of April. It took about a month to sell 15% from it's ATH and in just 2 months from there it went up 100%.

What did you do?

Jacked to the tits.

🥭 likes AVGO. Headlines tomorrow I’m guessing

Zooming out... MRVL is up \~3.7% on the day.. Not a bad day

Yeah, I'm sticking to shares too

I am bag holder NOW. Shit is gonna bounce in some point?

F it 44.5 calls for next week are cheap. I'll buy a few

Dumping into close is not good for earnings-avgo

AVGO released earnings early lol

What do we think 15 or 30 minutes we get a peace tweet

CRIME

Tomorrow is going to be a blood bath. Good luck everyone

omg avgo dumping after double beat

About to be banned, cya soon!

Click here

i made my first 50k in realized profit just inversing WSB

ai demand pumping energy use at peak times

Crypto bros could save their year if they sold all their crypto and dumped it into stocks.

thats for fucking sure.

Wtf avgo

corn is decaying

Insiders dumping AVGO

i'm down the road from an interstate exchange. the hotels and bars are full. tons of asian tourists on tour buses. semi-trucks parked overnight everywhere. business as usual. gas did shave off about $0.46 from from $4.59.

To the moon

SaaSapocalypse

To 18 please

Do the humpty dump

It's already gone ggs

Spy calls for sure dated next week

As someone who has to buy gas and groceries, my number one issue is if ballroom finishes with extra gold decorations. Anyway, MSFT plz help me survive

looks like AVGO got leaked

Waiting, suffocating, no direction  
I took a dive and

On the way down  
I saw you, and you saved me from myself  
And I won't forget the way you RUGGED me

Yeah I'm holding the AVGO calls. Try and stop me out all you want, I'm in em.

Numbers are still solid for NFLX, hold on to them.

AVGO completely collapsing into close. what do I doooooo? 😵‍💫

I’ve been holding a small amount of VRT since $55, obviously they don’t make chips but they make the power systems that run the data centers so yes many of those have already caught on 

For physical labor I doubt many of the “builders” are publicly traded and we wouldn’t know those contracts in advance

Why did I sell all my crypto at a loss to buy the top of the stonk market?

Worst day of trading, maybe ever?

It’s all fucked boys. Retirement is done

eth <1800

AVGO dumping hard lol

It's not insider trading if you share it

BUY NKE CALLS NOW

Crowdstrike better blow it out

Some regard said reddit will annonce buyback later . And seeing that v today i'am somehow convainced lmao

Looks like everyone is literally selling everything to buy Marvell, AVGO and MU lol

Bagholder spotted.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Wtf is up with SaaS stocks. I thought we had finally turned a corner, but apparently not

buh buh buh buh bagholder spotted.

I look forward to seeing your loss porn in the near future, given the new unfettered confidence you now have from this singular play ✊✊✊

Yes because everyone listens to 52iou’s advice

AVGO gonna send NVDA to the stars

I got some shares on a little margin

I have a 4 step plan.  Step 1-Expedite climate change.  Step 2-Melt all the ice.  Step 3 —Waterworld.  Step 4-Turn Earth into a giant data center.

"No sorry you didn't believe Kevin Gates jump started that car with his bare hands"

Carney

Energy companies and physical infrastructure are already ripping. Look at bloom energy

GLOBAL CONFIRM A COUNTDOWN. FOR ONCE USE YOUR PHONES AND CONNECTED DEVICES FOR 2 MINUTES. PLEASE. I NEED THE DATA.

I don’t see how CRWD goes any higher but we will find out

Click here for latest thread for shit posting purposing

You are welcome

It's hilarious because a decade ago they were pitching datacenters and crypto as a "dispatchable load" that would help make power damand more stable and predictable.

Port destroyed today

Golden Dome defense contracts and Moon Base (refer to NASA's Artemis program - Ignition)

It's not 4 yet

ruh roh avgo

Doggy

Save ussss

get your AVGO now!!!

Bought ORCL calls for potential AVGO rally

AVGO WTF BRO

best of luck regards

Avgo what we doing

PUMP IT

This price action on AVGO seems bearish fuuuuuck

ruh roh avgo

go ahead

if i i knew i definitely wouldnt tell you

No record then. 9-day streak will die today. Welcome to a new era of fucked up ports.

If you actually have been focused on the AI market you should be rich.  

I bought SNDK-EWY-WDC-AMD back in September.  I know the demand was gonna be huge and those companies would be the winners.

I recently have moved some gains into companies that produce Utility and Power, Raw Nuclear (CCJ), and mining. 

But look at metal/mining companies on the NSE.  None of them are doing amazing.  The trailing time for winners in the rare metals could be years while AI is now.

**FIRST**

Depends.  If a leader steps up to inspire the crowd

Looking for monster 🍆 beat AVGO 😤

Totally fucked great

ah yes i put my location didn’t i?

Wrong way MU. GO UPPP

The people that sold them to you do

AVGO dumping

Its fine, guys. It's just hump day. Just a cheeky little hump day. Just gotta get over the hump. :) It's fine. It's fine. It'll all go back up. :) It's FINE. It's FINE!!!

Bought AVGO at $488 and now it's tanking. 

Of course. 

As per usual. 

Well regarded.

already over

Is AVGO really gonna close red

Fugliest world leader?

Fight Club

Can't wait to lose all my AVGO gains! Goodbye LAMES!

Who are u

Market manipulation

that’d be pretty awesome, good think i have shares

Running out of time. Yt minus 2.

Hell yeah! It's been a great week

So when do we get to see shitcoin bros in the street selling their G Wagon for crack money? Honestly. This would be worth the hit to my stock port. Just to see it.

see you behind wendys

Thursday

Thats the trend it is

AI hype is over soon

AVGO puts let’s go

Will Mrvl dump Tomorrow? Scared to hold overnight

My name is baba. Now print.

May Gray, June Gloom isn't just a San Diego thing!

That’s fear you’re feeling. We going to rippppppp bay-blades style

I told the SPCETARDS to sell on Monday and you know there’s some watching the slow 50% decline on their portfolios thinking it’ll bounce 😂

i usually am too! every time i take a big position i lose so figure i'm due for won

It's not insider trading if you share it

BUY NKE CALLS NOW

so if everyone gets AVGO calls nobody gets paid

Just don't. Thank me later

That's Germans. French run on nuclear.

u/SickOh print.

Surprisingly decent power hour from AMZN. Calls prolly printed if you got those

85~ lol I started buying when it was 75. Held past earnings 😔

Avgo here we go

Last min to buy calls, the war will be over soon and ballroom will be finished. All our problems solved

This comment solidifies it. You belong here OP...don't let anyone tell you any different.

You talk funny

ZOOM

Some portfolio manager is obviously going to fat finger something somewhere on average daily volume of 20 billion shares. I'm talking about the practical reality of someone confusing the largest IPO in history with a low value, low volume stock. And everyone is going to be watching the Space X IPO anyways. If that actually happened SPCE would be halted with a LULD or T6 to stop anyone from buying. At most you would get a 20% spike before everyone subsequently fire sales right out.

Deposit 1mil and gamble away 999.93k

Welcome to wallstreetbets!

I really appreciated the staggered enrollment history chart, thank you!  It really helps to understand how unlikely it would be for the non-GPs arm to have many current survivors based on that timeline.  

If you make some assumptions about when the remaining 48 (126-78) living patients enrolled in the study and as you show a linear enrollment if the 48 remaining are all GPs arm we get a range of  January 2023 (96 total patients at 50% each arm) through April 2024 enrollment or a current months of survival of 42-30 months.  

If we take just the last 48 patients enrolled are the survivors we get approx July 2023 through April 2024 (interpolating from your chart) or 36-30 months of survival for the living patients (this is if the current survivors are 50% each arm).   

It also becomes more clear that the GPs median Overall Survival could be just a >X months since it is possible that we will have not hit the 50% mark on the GPs arm unless we have more than 14 survivors on the BAT arm at study completion and if that is the case the GPs arm will be pushing 36+ mOS.

Based on my understanding of BAT median Overall survival of 6-8 months it clearly shows that something truly great is happening here.  A picture is worth a thousand words.  Thanks!

I have not calculated the HR but it would have to be good.

Also one other comment, if the GPs HR is higher than 0.636 limit (say 0.75), but it is less toxic and has less side effects would they still approve GPs.  I think there is a legitimate arguement there.

Glad I got rid of BRK.B and bought AMD on Monday for my wife's account. Should have bought AMD in mine.

Hmmmm thats a oretty regarded answer

Imagine he tweets bullish things right after market close lmao

YOU ARE ALL GAY AND I’ll see you in the other thread

Bulls are about the judged and found guilty of bagholding

Did I cause that big fucking red dildo. Sorry guys

Bought a few calls and didn't full port like a degen this time

$NOW 🤦‍♂️

770 6/4 for dirt cheap tomo, LFG!

AI data centers should be powered down during peak electricity usage hours

You can thank me for your proceeds. I lost $200

Nah they wont. 

Banking is bailed out because its essential to an economy. Google being a huge company is not essential

I’ll make 1300 on CC premiums I sold though I’d be fine with this

like in a good way or a bad way?

Went all in i can't belive i trust u somehow fuk it

where else are regards going to go to pipe up about losing money?  Facebook?  Guh-ross

poots on mods opening new thread on time

I also YOLO’d into AMD but was too much of a cuck to do options. I can only imagine if I bought LEAPs…

Like fucked as in it would have been awkward to ask the rents for some bread

The market can't take much more pain than this, you guys

Exactly. Print. Fail.

WACK AHHHH DAY

should i buy 2x leveraged avgo?

anyone playing CRWD?

I'm gonna be more pissed if we just theta burn the rest of the week, either dump or recover you shitty pos

So either up down or neither. Got it.

4 minutes until the fireworks

I’ve doubled down and then tripled down on my aapl 325 calls

This may interest you if you want old economy, physical asset plays:

NKE let too many newcomers take their turf and did absoltely nothing about it. Alo, OnCloud, Hoka. 

No new sneaker models. Same recycled Jordans that are $220.

NKE asleep at the wheel bro.

too funny

Look at STLD and NUE

Cash gang overnight. Decided not to hold SOXS puts overnight and keep my gains for the day. I'll probably regret it.

Shut your mouth

lmao fr

I loaded up on SNXX shares at the end of April and already have a 270% return. Maybe should have gone in more. 

I got priced out of premiums. Even a call that is 150 OTM and expired in 2 days is 2k.

maybe the CIA blowing up Nord Stream had a bigger impact?

Load up on spy calls cause its 270 EOW

i sold my avgo calls for a huge profit, now just sitting on my shares which is still a fairly large chunk , i just had a bad feeling this morning

You're fine. Plenty of time to let it ride

V one more time!

This isn’t an AOL chatroom. Stop putting your A/S/L in the title

Imma hold my leveraged nvda calls overnight. 2% recovery is all I need. Feel good about it

Lmaooo

Trump bought a lot of AVGO not long ago, I hope that’s a good sign

You have 5 minutes left to find out

GOOGL just hold that 360 and call it a day

accurate

#Ban Bet Won
---

/u/gervs99 made a bet that FPS would go to 60.0 within **1 week** when it was 54.44 and it did, congrats fucker.

Their record is now 1 wins and 0 losses

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

You air sign.

64k.....

Nope. Try again.

$548, will open there and dump immediately.

Cheese and crackers. What in the world is goin on?

God bless EU "socialism"

The dollar is a hedge against bitcoin

Half volume on stocks today. Feel like tomorrow will be good

EZ deposit.

The beating will continue until morale improves.

MRVL*

Really you get an hour and five minutes a day to trade. The rest is just noise

Absolutely, can't go tits up

Is it capricorn?

wow RDDT showing strength

Love her, just love her

AVGO sus af…puts it is

One of us

repeat of today

All true

icl i did $open might be a fool play but june 11th decides it all

**Ban Bet Created:** **/u/Adventurous_Sell5994** bet **AVGO** goes from **484.29** to **680.0** before **06-Jun-2026 03:54 PM EDT**

Their record is 0 wins and 4 losses.

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

What's your rising?

When I die in 80 years

Are we ever going to have another GameStop situation or have the powers that be somehow figured out how to snuff these meme stock things out

Promise to get circumcised?

I hope you bought. See price is going high already

!banbet AVGO $680 3D

Tater Tot Futures are going to moon!

The Blacker the Berry, the sweeter the juice.

Atp AVGO gonna drop so much the earnings rally is just going to be back to breakeven 💀

I have no clue what I’m looking at and I hope you lose all your money

Think it would still moon. Probably more degens that will buy in than trying to short it

how about u eat my ASS

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Fries in the bag SPCE boys

What's your moon sign?

So what happens tomorrow

Looking at the gamestop financials and the blatant market manipulation + the naked shorting the potential risk of hyperinflation due to the infinite risk/ Infinite loss that entrails, I'd say Bitcoin is looking good

To the moon when they reverse split again soon!

Outside the casino

Bud not pal, your

avgo going up 10% dumbass lol

Exactly. What's your Sun sign?

It won't miss. 

The question is, is it already priced in

always has been

They will limit you to 16A 230W and 2kW

$50s I'm in

URI at ATH up 7%

By now everyone is aware that C3.ai is a scam. They also haven't been profitable and nothing about them is "ai".

Thus, they will pump

My brain hurts. It feels like hornets are stinging my brain 24 hours per day.

I do not trust AVGO here

No V today. Sorry folks.

Don’t be this guy

what the fk is this SNDK pump

Lmao goddamn shits not even close to enough

Decided last minute to yolo and throw 2k on $600 AVGO calls, I truly belong here now

Exactly. Everybody. Figure out what your bank of last resort is. Pay for Ai. You can afford it. You don't want to sell for it.

Just matters where it opens tomorrow

Your light bill for that month will stop you going forward

Poll showing avgo will go green. Calls it is

See that’s the problem with these things… not only do our tax dollars pay for them but we also get screwed because of how much energy and water they use. We are truly a stupid and lazy people

Puts now?

I guess I'm back to my strategy of buying calls on red days

Be sure and stock up on non-perishable food items while you can! The Great(est) Depression is coming

We may finally get a 2% gap down tomorrow if AVGO misses

Grouping avgo with panw is next level regard

I am deadass having the time of my life

The eyes of that lizard cyborg gave me mega goosebumps.

Today sucked. Fell for every fake V

485 because fuck your calls

Sacrifice everything for AI???

SINK RATE SINK RATE

I'll provide you with a simple example.

Let's say you start you own company and have no other investors. You put $100 dollars but have no other investors.

You own 100% of that $100 company. We'll say the company issued you one share for that money. 

You convince someone else to also put in $100 of their money for one share.

The company now has $200. 

You own 50% of that. 

50% of $200 is $100.

There's been no change in the value of what you own.

The real world complicates this with other implications. But in a perfect capital market (perfect information, etc) there would be no change to the value of your shares.

Even in the real world, if you understand the company's business and know that the business plan and execution is solid, there's very little effect this should have.

I'm looking for 500-550

I’ll conform. But I retain the option to crack your skull if this whole AI thing goes belly up

320c, june 18. Hmm, hopefully some time still

I like those odds.

Atleast we have the right to complain without the police showing up at our door though.

Whaaat, lagging energy spending, shutting down powerplants before end of life without replacement, and the geopolitical equivalent of driving against a wall by relying on the energy of a hostile country backfired? 

Color me surprised. Strikes for everyone Thursday to fix this. May as well take Friday off while we're at it tho

I bought SOXS shares for like 7 bucks. Maybe in a year, they’re be worth 200. Unfortunately that will mean we’re also all dead probably.

LMAOOOO

Please O iring. Print gemstones Germany.

Just went all in with my life savings, hope we see a good bounce soon.

There has never been a more sure thing than MU

That’s what got me into this mess

Not very good volume today

Sitting on my hands for the next 8 minutes.

S
O
X
L

ok grandpa

The good news is I realized $300 today...bad news is that I am down another 20k in unrealized losses. Fucking winning!

It's not insider trading if you share it

BUY NKE CALLS NOW

Cause theyre full of shit

When is CRSR going to 15

Hey God, it’s me.

Please make AVGO hit 550$

Thanks.

Just need a few more peace missiles

Im so scared man go pm

SOXS was 260 and now down to 5$ lol

Is Market about to feel like 🥭s children soon.

Waiting for the Tweet that never happens?

Sad. 🐻🤌

I love you AMD

I like Qnity Electronics ($Q) and Materion ($MTRN)

whats the play?

puking right now

Every time we have like half a day of red the sub turns into "BULL MARKET FINALLY OVER?" lol

MRVL inclusion to the S&P in 2 weeks

Why will it

I thought all the nuclear dickriders are contained in r/technology?

Nuclear has mostly decommisioned itself by stuff like Hinkley Point and Olkiluoto

Don’t forget to overthink the best possible scenario brothers

Switched over to mrvl today and made bank both long and short.    Wish I had stuck with sndk and gone long tho.

Even crazier there are people that bought MSTR today!

10 mins will decide if i end up in the Backrooms, or I get to live for another day

12 june, spacex ipo lunch 😃

sell those avgo calls, it’s priced in

Idk the hype has died down

We have PEACE!!

Port  
Erased  
Abandon  
Calls  
E

Why do some of you guys say AVGO had a bad quarter?

LMAO 🤌

Look little below 👇

learn history of industrial revolution when working class lived in hell for 2 centuries “for advancement of humanity”. until labor movement and ww2 shook this at last. fk musk and rest of these ghouls

Exactly. Circuit de Spa-Francochamps. Print Lille print.

Man fuck AI. I’m over this shit. I have my own brain and know some nerds

wait until after earnings and you can buy a FerraRV

For ever crying WSB redditor there is gloating WSB redditor. 

You can stop now and never be the other. It's only enivitable if you dont

They are not here

Lol typical

ur right LMAO 🤌

Holding MVRL 💎

Still think if this was Tuesday, we'd probably pump. Because war is bullish on Tuesdays

Full porting meta at 600 was good décision yesterday

I hate DRAM now

love you. will do I love her more than anything

Same people buying semis rn

I can't believe SOXL is 200

it was like 8 bucks in April

9 more minutes till we find out whether both AVGO bulls or bers fked. Or maybe both

Nvm. Pay for Claude you Neanderthal.

60% probability AVGO moons today

This is the only legit moonshot play in this segment.

Sit on your own balls shit for brains

AVGO will dump initially to kill your calls

Sold my last of my 150p MSTR that I bought when it was at 195 a couple weeks ago.

I shall now wait for the dead cat bounce and go in on 100p’s

Avgo earnings? Mrvl?

Lmao that candle tho.

If you’re having a bad day, just remember there are regards here who bought but corn 🌽 at 120k lmaoooooooo

Yes drop the ticker ..

What's the re-entry price? I did the same

Looking at NVTS makes me sick. Cashed out my calls a around $20

Someone knows something

calls or puts?

GOOG 제발 PLEAJUHHHH

🌽 is a scam

hpe climbing but still unsure why exactly

I’ve lost everything

Oh my gourd! 

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Are we the dystopian future now?

CAN SOMEONE PLEASE TELL ME PUTS OR CALLS ON CIENA? I have spent the last hour trying to decide and I give up.  I’m torn. Ok?! lol

no because they are all fake now

ANET PANW S FN sympathy rallies from crwd and avgo here we go 

lets see what happens

Has a Boeing gone down or something?

But my AVGO calls ARE going to print tho right?  Hold me retards.  I'm scared.  I've been hurt before.

Actually bad earnings = SPY 100 in one week

Avgo price after earnings guess thread now. 
547

Toronto. Vancouver. Acadia. Quebec. Northern TERRITORIES. YUKON. ALASKA GREENLAND ARCTIC CIRCLE.

R u in calls and if so what expiry?

AVGO HYPE TRAIN LFG 🚀🚀🚀

Premiums were jacked. The play would have been to buy 100 shares at $6 and sell a $4-5C with jacked  premium. Easily enough to cover the spread between $6 and the low.

Yea just hope there’s no split otherwise the degens here would have a field day with it

Bought a single 550 weekly

Broadcom having 2.3T market cap and hitting new ATH today just before earnings is a red flag.

35 price to sales ratio speaks by itself

SaaS is guilty until proven innocent.

SEC.gov still has VSXY listed as VSCO and I can't find the latest 10-Q...lol

Just believe in zuck the cuck

Big red devil dick. Yikes.

Just SPCE its cheaper. Only $4.20

I already bet the knicks +4.5 and the over, just trying to make sure you can make payroll while my bookie buys another porsche

Micron brudda

Clifford cock

bull market joever? we've had a few red days in this run that wipe me out then back to ATH, so lmk pls

He looks like 5 different pro wrestlers from the 80s and 90s all at once

Monopoly money yes

Does anyone know where I might be able to watch Quantum Leap Season 2, Episode 8 titled "Jimmy?" Someone said I reminded them of it and want to see what they mean.

So my SPY 800 6/18 calls are cooked?

NIKE 6/12 45C

You already have a bet going - AVGO to 519.64815 before 03-Jun-2026 10:03 PM -05

Will Jobs data do anything tomorrow?

!banbet

Amwrica has been trying to get its citizens to do this for Ercot for years. Like Btch company, you wanna use our power grid, pay for your own sh!t!

And mine too

Yikes

Why would u

Jarvis, unpiss my pants

My AVGO PUTS WILL PRINT

I sold mu at 600ish and Sandisk at 1000. Wasn’t that long ago I wanted to take gains at 10%

which is exactly why the money didn’t matter (that much) to me

SNDK decoupling from the rest of the shit pot market.

I rode from 1400 -1700.

Bought back in this morning during the middle of the rip. This shit could double and its MCap would still be only 500b is

Just tell us the ticker symbol

*Mr Market please remember I don't like getting fukt in my anoos.*

They can fuck off

lol avgo will do bad earnings spoke to my buddy

I really can't wait for this bubble to burst, this technology is so garbage and I truly don't know how anyone is still pretending it's going to be useful hahaha

It's gonna sell off no matter what

That's why I print.

ServiceSoonButNotRightNowButTrustMeBro

Anyone?

Well my September RIVN 20CC's I sold aren't looking too safe. Oh well, profit is profit or some crap people say.

  
\#ThetaGang4Lyfe

BIG PP GAINZ

Don't worry...  there's plenty of power for everyone to switch to driving EVs

Fair enough - good luck out there - we all need it

#People say gas prices are too high. I say they are too damn low. There is still insane amounts of traffic congestion 24/7 LMAO🤌

I hope that people tries to do the oposit and colapse the grid.

UNH really did a whole lot of fuck all today…

Only 3 of the top 10 weighted companies in QQQ are green today.   Amazing it’s hanging in there.   META and WMT keeping it alive…..kinda scary

It probably already isn’t.

Looks like it! Should have sold mine day before!

The EU is famous for saying one thing publicly but then quietly doing the exact opposite behind the scenes.

My favorite part of that was when Trump was trying to give it to the oil companies and they didn't want it 😂 loony toons type shit.

i have four letters for you

Meta

It always goes like that

Zurich. Print.

How you holding on brother?

Yeah, probably. What selection of funds do you have to choose from in your 401k?

and my calls

Still 10 minutes to pull it off

That's like 500 US dollars tho

fellas if i go on vaca feed and walk my doggo for me

It's on the watch list, but haven't pulled the trigger yet.

# hey its that bald canadian paper trader LMAO

Yeh classics p&d. Il happily hold out on my 5% dip. 🤷🏻‍♂️

Print.

SPCE died so SPCX can moon

Went from 2k to 10k to 1k in 4 days. Putting it all on $HUBC

11 mins until AVGO saves the market

Do I sell my mrvl 350 call expiring June 12

If it isn't a big beat, yeah. I'm just hedging. Fine if it goes down, not fine if it goes down while I'm holding 8x leveraged shares on margin

sometimes i look at my portfolio and wonder how i manage to be so retarded, but at least I can rest easy knowing i'm not *this* retarded

ppl busy here thinking mrvl is the next 1t,  but the wohle time it was AMD LMAO 🤌

It's not insider trading if you share it

BUY NKE CALLS NOW

Print.

AVGO about to Goooo

I just realized credit card debt means it’s past the due date. I just used 1k and wanted to pay it before the due date.

Dumpster diving some space names like SATL

Big tech data centers in Europe

this is exactly the confirmation i needed, these are definitely gonna print

Dakar CFA. ECOWAS. SAHEL PRINT OUT I WILL BUILD THE WALL. JE PARLE FRANÇAIS. SHUKRAN. JO NSK. 
U/IMUSTBEGTHEQUESTION.

Was SaaS a dead cat bounce?

But feels.

Just buy more

Price target got raised to 1700. Of course it pumps to 1900 on the news.

Where u watching

I sure haven't.

You have got to be kidding me Boeing. WTF is the news

META went ape shit today. YTD still fucking red though.

Yes, and I think SPCE was a test run!  I believe Institutions wanted to see how desperate retail would be to get into SPCX especially since 30% is being offered to retail.  And retail passed that lil test!

wait for a 20% AVGO drill

if i wanted to sell my short term swing gains and put all my money into leaps and log off, which subsectors within the ai/datacenter trade are booked out a year+? /gen

everyone who believed in Su become a millionaire, i am one of them LMAO 🤌

Bruh my Sandisk cost basis is over 1600 after buying back in. Shits still dank

I'm a fellowbagholder too☹️what's your avg? Mine $86.50 😞

robots are going to take that uber job

So one software company reported not great earnings and that causes the entire sector to melt

Google bros.

WHAT

THE

FUCK

Cos mommy will pay for it when he runs to her crying that he’s lost the lot 😭😭😭

another day. another SanDisk and micron highs

unbelievable

Evidence? It's gonna pop to 500

As an American. Complain is quite literally all we do. And eat.

Who’s gonna stop me from turning on every device in my house at peak times?

I have 3 letters for you, can you guess LMAO 🤌

Hentai**

What is with Redditors’ obsession with Space X, 401ks and QQQ?

Thats great. I will say, as someone who is older and has a mom, they want to spend time with you more than anything. Take her out to something, movies, dinner, lunch, walking, etc. that will be worth more than money to her.

every dollar I make on MU I lose it on MRVL… can both go up!?

Fuq it, buying a single AVGO 550c weekly

MU 1100 or im banned! 12 more fucking dollars

If it goes past 500 Im good

He's thinking positive

Fuck SaaS, never again. Pivoting to memory.

So the SaaSpoclyse was just delayed a week

AVGO really gonna pop the ai bubble today huh

My shorted SNDK keep on piling loss. Should double down or buy Calls to reduce future loss.

Why wouldnt they let a broad use their app?  Didn't know RH was so sexist.  /s

Edit:  broad used to be a slang term for a woman in the US...  not sure it would translate to proper English.

Clickbate title, it’s to leave room for the electrification of transport and heating

Thanks Nvidia and Amazon for ruining an otherwise good day

at least not 100%

Sold my MU calls 20 minutes ago. Market knew

#Americans now only have 3 jobs left available to them: uber eats, influencer and stock trader LMAO🤌

username checks the fuck out

Algos destroyed the stock market

missed out on so much with sndk

Entered a starter position yesterday:

You sure? I think the Knicks gonna take game 1

My favorite story about that is a tour guide was giving a tour of SpaceX HQ. Around the building there are all these paintings of colonies of people living on the Moon or Mars. The tour guide stops in front of one of the paintings and points to it and says "yeah that's never going to happen."

Watching Netflix and chill (with my right hand) while I'm waiting for the AVGO gamble in 13 minutes

BUY NKE CALLS NOW

BUY NKE CALLS NOW

BUY NKE CALLS NOW

I’ve been thinking that for a while, but it’s rigged to only go up

Here's the /s you forgot.

same, my calls are a different story

Me buying into other sectors outside of semis thinking I’m getting a value play.. fk it man sorry for even trying, all in semis everyday

God I hope you are right, would love to get out from under my -40% on archer. Thank God it was a small amt, but that number seriously sucks.

Brother it is June

WW stock went from panic mode to green in less than few hours. Still 100% WW

I made some really bad decisions today… lost 50%  of all my profit

prayers that $AI gets a buyout for 50% higher premium from bigger AI company

SNDK totally normal

Day 30 of reminding the fools who aren't in Mu that Mu is still the play.

Avgo already ran up. It’s not gonna tank but I doubt it runs any

London. Print. GOD SAVE THE KING.

Today??

from "put the fries in the bag bro" to "hi this is wendy's, may i take your order please?"

I’m gonna be one of those idiots with a huge tax bill and nothing to pay it with.

Market is dead, Marvel literally went down at least $20 today panic sell everything with Beta > 1

Exit liquidity, lmao, haha even

AVGO is opening at 350 tomorrow. They had a really bad quarter it seems. AI bubble may pop tonight, LMAO

ONDS will fly tomorrow.. buy in bulk to make atleast 10% for the rest of the week 🚀🚀🚀

An intro to macro class should honestly be required just to get rid of the conspiracy theorists

No wayyyy

PANW did the classic pump and dump after hours and fckd retail investors!!!

Who’s in MRVL

I got out of my call can't take the stress

That was the case in many big cities but now even small towns are fully congested all day long.

Ho. Print.

Possibly never

Reddit will be 200 tomorrow.  Buy now . And save this msg. Buy back to be announced today.

As predicted, it's people and households who are tasked with sacrifices. 

At this point I will cite, data centers are soft targets.

Down $12k today. No trades, no options. 

Had zero days in the past year where my portfolio was up $12k in a single day. Fun stuff :).

The injustice! Give me back my money market makers

No pdt means 1DTE Spy calls boutta go brrrrr

Earth to sandisk?

SaaS just created a bunch of new bag holders in the last couple weeks

Yeah so like 2 days I don't hold shit for long lol

Dame I sold a ripper for a dud

There ya go. You think AVGO could take MU down?

I was thinking about selling some of my shares and buying an RV and naming it Avgo

i think avgo earnings already priced in

Will MU cross 1100 tomorrow?

ServiceLater

...found another poor doomer ber - lol...

I hear bears are out for blood 🩸today because bulls keep winning.

**Ban Bet Created:** **/u/Phiziqe** bet **AVGO** goes from **485.3** to **469.0** before **05-Jun-2026 03:46 PM EDT**

Their record is 2 wins and 4 losses.

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

Print. San Antonio print.

I moved to shares

!banbet AVGO $469 2D

Fuck it rklb 130C 1/27

BA fucking crashing. Useless like your planes, now you killed my port too lol.

SanDisk is absolutely incredible

My anus

BUY NKE CALLS NOW

McDonald’s coke hit different

I also choose this guy's dead smile.

I think it'll front run the rerate (it already has been doing this) to a non-cyclical stop and get to about 20x forward PE, maybe a bit more then take a few dumps, but we'll still be way ahead of where we are now

... my god, man.

Did y'all buy calls or puts for AVGO? (for later earnings)

AVGO reports in 30 minutes you're either trolling or stupid

Too much concerted hate on MSTR. Makes me want to inverse WSB. Guess that makes me a strait ber, otherwise known as a ber of Hormuz

U bought calls?

"mom gave me money \[10K\] to trade with"  

my mom gave me jello and taco dip broh

PUMP into Close 😤

This age of algorithmic trading is nuts. 5% vertical lines up or down on blue chip stocks is completely normal.

Texas. Texas WALKER RANGERS. PRINT.

Hell yeah 👍

Eow is literally the day after 😂

This market reminds me a lot of tropic thunder and WSB is simple jack.

How many of you are gambling with downpayment money

How the mighty have fallen

mags is almost ready for take off. don't do anything ghey

How does a P/E ratio of 500 make sense for ARM?

Retail FOMO is certainly a thing, so at least some (not me) are, yes.

*hanta

Like seriously. Oh wait I’m invested in high beta stocks. Make sense now. Okay I’ll check back later

EU 'socialism' loves strict regulations on the working class before the elites.  Kinda baked into their culture.

SNDK. Green candles the last 20 min.  Not stopping.

Both nutted in Pam, so yea.

I love pets so Petco Calls it is! 🤣

OpenAi. My Agapé. Print you bastards. I need to sleep. MSFT print. JPM call London. Everyone learn Korean. Learn to cook. Hang out with FRIENDS. Talk to your family. And be happy. Life isn't that hard. Just print it out. The rest will follow.

The guy from men in black?

Yes 🫪

Spurs -4.5 , under 217, brunson o 24.5 points. Payroll secured

You are in a bubble.

SPY watching too much hentai

0dte put on MSTR or call on WDC/MU.

**Ban Bet Created:** **/u/Temporary-Equal-774** bet **AVGO** goes from **485.33** to **475.0** before **04-Jun-2026 03:45 PM EDT**

Their record is 1 wins and 2 losses.

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

15 minutes until AVGO reckoning.

Ones packing below the belt and ones packing above the belt

Literally my whole port is on fire today. What a gey fucking day lmao

I know this market is fake because I'm not making money and I'm a real one fr fr.

!banbet AVGO 475 1d

They know people are too soft and they have mass surveillance to target the few who actually have any balls to do anything.

jesus fuck Boeing wtf happened?  no bounce no news at all

Gutes Gespräch

You'll get your wish- even under the most optimistic version of the deal the strait wasn't open for 30 days

god dammit i should just buy memory calls and chill fuck trying to read charts and trends

That's what I kept saying about AMD

Curious as to what makes you say that? You don’t think after bumping to eight dollars yesterday that it won’t bump to at least that on or before IPO? Kind of betting on all space stocks to Bohn pretty heavily leading up to the IPO and then during. I did buy some SPCE though so maybe I’m just retarded. I don’t know.

This has been happening for the past year or two in my state, even at 10 AM, supermarkets are so clogged full of people it’s hard getting a cart through the aisles? Tf?

The Great Depression is back on

Memory still free money. Semi cons still free money.

Red day proof. Calls all the way

Playing of the rebound on AVGO cause premiums are crazy expensive for the move and 2dte

MU gonna do a new AH before close

I need to pay them first

this was only ever meant to be a trade based on fat fingers during the spcx ipo, but now people are posting serious DD about the company's fundamentals? Which you could summarize as "the company is desperately trying to avoid bankruptcy." Not my top indicator of a stock worth investing in long term, but you do you

People were warning about previous bubbles for years as well. The fact that many people are worried about a bubble doesn’t mean one can’t exist.

I have no idea if this is a bubble or when it might burst. Nobody knows that in advance.

But here’s the thing: Nvidia is earning enormous amounts of money, yes. The question is whether the companies driving that demand are generating returns that justify their massive AI spending. Collectively, they’re investing hundreds of billions of dollars, while many AI projects still have limited earnings to show for it. In that sense, Nvidia’s earnings are partly a leveraged bet on future AI profitability across the broader economy.

The internet also resulted in an enormous bubble. The Nasdaq took roughly a decade to recover after it burst. That didn’t mean the internet wasn’t transformative. Nor did it prevent some of the most valuable companies in the world from emerging from it later on.

I absolutely believe AI will be transformative, and I think some of the most valuable companies in the world will be built on it. That’s not the question.

The question is whether markets have gotten ahead of reality, just as they did during previous technological revolutions. A technology can change the world and still experience a bubble along the way.

Giant green cock

AI thing - it's like trying to sell <here insert some modern, very smart, productive and successful in the west **gismo**, for example drinkable tap water, or electric cars> to an Eskimo.

There is simply not enough demand and that **Eskimo** has not enough to pay with, no matter how good the product/service is.

That **gismo** are AI subscriptions and we are the **Eskimo**.

im wondering if you bought many at 1$ could you have recovered your money?

Wishing for green

retardium leviosA

ServiceNever

Is Tom Lee and Tommy Lee the same guy?

So just don’t use AI and the power demands will go down

I just got out of work, why is my portfolio a bloodbath? Now I'll NEVER be able to quit my job. :(

Will crowdstrike pump?

bullish

if avgo misses do we all die?

There are only two universal constants:

Entropy and the fact that MSTR is fuuuuuuucked

I'm just loading my bags

Its a small sacrifice to make for the advancement of humanity. You dont see Americans complaining or Chinese. This is why Europe is so behind

AI? You mean Mistrals 5 users?

Life is nowhere near as cool

Donald Trump announces shitting pants, Iran reviewing it.

Lamo. Stupid ass bulls got excited for a little bit.

Poll: Will AVGO go green or red?

Edit: Current results: Green 3, Red 0

You belong here

when did 8% become dead?

You're going to retire early

sandisk going apeshit.

hindsight but shoulda just fullported that shit and deleted the app

Regard spotted

Oh sorry just practicing my comments for when it inveitably drops at 4:20pm.

Mrvl. Should I hold or sell now?

Bro wtf invest in your business

And yet,

The straight could be closed forever and we still would never go down.

he said after 2026

Good luck AVGO calls/puts owner, I'm too late, will sit this one out

Lisa Su is my queen she is way better than this nvidia clown LMAO 🤌

Apple: -1.35%

Google: -.75%

Meta +4.15%

MSFT - 3.05%

TSLA: FLAT

NVDA: -3.15%

AMAZON: -2.8%

  
QQQ: FLAT

  
Fucking retarded. If every single one of those numbers were flopped QQQ would be +3% today.

Maybe you can afford some air conditioning this year

They did this to themselves by decomissioning all their nuclear.

NY Knicks vs the Spurs…

We really are living in 1999

why you buy spce? i bought on 2021 q2,and los 99% money. 

it's totally  shit。

kinda miss them random -3% dumps on main indexes fucking lol

probably dumb but I want to yolo into COIN

More bleeding tomorrow?

Pump my V

Google “pump and dump”, that will help you.

i got dumped on

MU still free money I guess

It had an impressive run, natural to take some air and reload.

Voluptuous Copilot. Print my Amoré.

Wow that’s the first time I’ve heard that over the last few months.

all the semis except nvda, WMT, META

not a bagholder, just happy that usd increases in value

avgo 490c

Google Market Cap $4338 B

Berkshire 1250b total in assets, of that 400 ish billion in dollars 

10billion is a nothing burger, I think google is an okay buy right now but if you are focusing on google instead of the shovel sellers you are missing out during this time. The time to invest in it is just before the capex vomitting stops. Which is obviously impossible to predict but all signs point to this year being a big capex year

remindme! 1 year

Low key want to see what happens if strait is closed for two more months, may be every expert lied to us after all and nobody should care for that strait

🤫 just let it happen

Downvoting for being dumb

Ya I got netapp HPE and AVGO so far. But looks like I fucjed up with the spce

It only went up because of the breakup fee that was used to temporarily pump the stock

Pump my bags NOW!!

Bro please take this money and don’t lose it all and just put it into some stocks

PortfolioGon

If it hits $1100 I will retire early.

Gemini. Print.

updated for the roaring 20s: buy high, sell higher

Or maybe investors realize pumping companies that have no currently viable sources of income doesnt make sense.

can't please them

I wish they'd shut it

Who knows, he wasn't being very clear about it.

Mu gonna tie sndk probably. Sndk is dead.

Because my appetite for loss this month has been weak 😂

DRAM is $69.69 .. IS THIS A SIGN?

Claude. Print.

Come on NBIS you slut 💪

I’m in mortgages and the home buying business is absolutely dogshit this is an ever shittier investment

Seriously boys I have 2k. I need to triple it by tomorrow so I can make payroll... As in have money to pay my fucking employees. Anyone?

Russel rebalancing, moon on Friday

Nah. It will take absolutely forever.

Quick dump even more software to buy semis!

Wikipedia. Print.

“Trust me bro”

Yes it's good for the company, but at the expense of the shareholder who literally gets diluted in their % ownership. You now own less of the company. In theory if they diluted to infinity your ownership approaches zero. That's the problem of dilution for the shareholder. But yeah good for the company no argument there.

Right. Print.

how is Netflix down every day for the past month bruh

Bagholder spotted.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/wallstreetbets) if you have any questions or concerns.*

as a euro i love the dollar gettings stronger again USA USA USA (owning us stock)

Lmfao

Hoooooly shit, did you see that? The faster car went faster… than the fucking slow car.

Meta? AMD?

Im fucking wondering what it is too. They seriously have fucked every retail stock pretty much out there.

Margin calls before 1600 EDT.

Its always been an advertising company. At least as long as they’ve had revenue.

Praying 🙏

How tf did HOOD fade that hard what a cursed stock ffs

If France can actually get their broken nukes back on line, there's no need for AI to go anywhere else in Europe.

Why? All the money is being pulled out for the SpaceX IPO

you don’t think they crush it?

God willing. My puts are fuk

where's the haiku bot when it's needed

Nah I own ordinary shares and I don't want to hold leveraged ones tonight anyway in case AVGO shits the bed. Still sold for a gain

I have bought in its the only red in my portfolio, may i ask why it would be red

Ahhh haha fucking loser

Prefectly fine.  I ate and took my linzess this morning. Abbv. Take a bow. We did it without biologics. I'll see you Serena. I already got my ring. We ain't taking about practice.

I debated doing this myself but I... I dunno, I guess I'm a chicken. 😄

I bought only 65 the other day but we will see what happens. I love this sub but only do straight stocks as I cannot do the risk with calls/puts

Lol... no.

Why did you put your age and sex in the title? This isn’t grindr

What is even up to make QQQ close to green?

None of the stocks that matter are red today.

how are we only down .1% when all my shit is red lol

The entire space sector is about to moon in the next 2 days. There's no other explanation to these insane drops

Everything down -1% but SOXL positive and QQQ about flat. Makes zero sense

house*

source

Shut up 😭

thanks i just bought a put.

earnings will have to **PRINT** for it to keep going up, like massive beat to justify this. if they beat projections by 20 cents, it’s going to crater.

I bought the dip and am currently praying tyvm

I never doubted you my love MU.

You are the reason my port is green on day like this. 😍

Not happening, if it does, revolutionaries are getting labeled as terrorists (which happened a lot in past 10-20 years), and ai drones taking them out easily.

For now

More red tomorrow please this bear is not full yet.

No oil no bitches

I think ai is great and impressive but the valuations are just too high if oil doesnt drop so got spy shorts and oil longs

Weird random end of day pump means there’s a high likelihood we are going to get some kind of Iran deal tweet after close market close.

#Ban Bet Lost

/u/huskermut made a bet that ASTS would go to 145.0 within **1 week** when it was 130.115 and it did not, so they were banned for a week.

Their record is now 0 wins and 1 losses

**Join WSB Discord** | Post Verified Trades

Found the Tesla fan boy 🤡

Donald Trump announces final ratification of a ceasefire deal, Iran is reviewing it.

I have a **Dram**—that one day this portfolio will rise up and live out the true meaning of its creed: *"We hold these gains to be self-evident, that all semiconductor chips are created equal."*

I have a **Dram** that one day on the red hills of Wall Street, the sons of bagholders and the sons of diamond-hands will be able to sit down together at the table of compounding interest.

I have a **Dram** today!

Hope this hits genuinely

484.80

Hey fellow friend

yall think my MSFT 490 11/17 calls are gonna print

He must be from nyc Asians love the n word there

did ubs raise their price target to 10 million this time? It’s all arbitrary anyway

Maybe scale back in?

Dude are you okay?? 😂

Tom Lee: “We will see the biggest stock market gain of our life time”

SPY: “lol bet”

Ahh ok just getting into this so making some mistakes

Nvidia is being relegated to meme value investing portfolios with ADBE and PYPL and dividend ETFs.

close the app

Let’s see what happens in a few hours put in some on my side too. Godspeed

HAHAHAHA in what world?

i like his balls. give it to him baby!

Why lose $10k when you can lose $21k?

LOL wait and see - come back in two hours

i’m somehow up

What do you think about acquisitions that could potentially make Reddit a 2- or 3-headed powerhouse like Meta?

ASX is my only shovel company still green, rest just slightly red but holding well

nvda bounces pathetic

God I am so ready to remove the artificial rules that stop me from proper risk management due to limited cash availability. I want to be extra cautious, I set my stop 5 cents away, no big deal if I stop out... just reenter when it feels right.

Dude casually asking for AVGO to add another trillion to their market cap.

AVGO gonna put SPY over 760

It can, I’m afraid

Informing people of this just seems like it would make people use more out of spite lmao.

Mu two trillion when?

Please daddy

Hell yeah 👍🏻 I like that everyone seems to know that bubble exists, yet are confident that it is not happening in near future. I wonder if they always happen abruptly.

AVGO is going to bring the AI sector down with it tonight

MU has been running, I thought it would pull back a little like just 5% even, but it hasn’t. Though it does seem to be slowing down. Long term I know it’s going past 1100, what are others seeing and feeling?

I'll tell you after close

Always

Stonks moving like meme stonks. Sauce ? I missed it lol

How dare the peasant use any power ... How disconnected of the reality are the people in power , this how the french Revolution came to happen ....

JK had to change it up. Gotta preserve capital

Hopefully man ibought in shares

Fuck your puts, fucks your calls, AI gonna kick you in the balls.

Maybe the AVGO talk leaked and there’s some shit about Memory in there.

space stonks can't go any lower, right? 💀

Is the strait closed in support of pride month?

Congrats.

What the actual fuck?

For NVDA....215 is the new 185

I smell a hit axios article or 🥭 tweet dropping right after market close lol

Can’t wait to cut losses and sell my weeklies then have everything pump tomorrow

Bro 630!?!? Lmaooo do you know what their current market cap is? This aint a small cap bruh

Tbf I wanna try earning but im not to sure what to look into

V ME DADDY

Bear or bull

Mu to 1100

My portfolio is down 9% today

Better?

Gonna end green for me. Defeat snatched from the jaws of the bers. Lmaooo get shrekt

everyone talking about avgo makes me nervous

Bro will probably never know the stress of choosing between rent, food, or utilities.

$630? 😭

I think we get another pop up soon, then dump 190s come July

Time to end this bull run. Sorry guys. Buying calls
Now

MU is my money printer 🤑🤑🤑

With what money?

It’s insane how people buy into a meme stock knowing it’s a meme stock. Then when it goes to red they write up a DD justifying why they bought into the meme stock.

Bro. You signed up for the joke. Now your money is too.

As predicted, SPY shoots up the *second* I sell my calls. Cool!

Just because schmucks on polymarket believe so doesn't make it so

Yes, as long as it’s above 3$, kind retards a bag holder

Same lmaooo but not so nervous, holding til EOW

I HAVE A DRAM!

It's annual bagholders meeting 😂

Bear or bull

All the people that wanted a dip are no doubt not buying the dip today. And then when we rip again they'll cry they want another dip to buy in.

One of my calls are at breakeven, im just gonna take it out now before I lose more and then hopefully my puts get to breakeven too. No more greed for today.

Bro NVDA wtf lol

Lowkey just revenge traded my losses back on a 30 min dte

on dees

Might not be over…

It already did, so no, maybe after June 12 but June 18 call is nuts

These new pdt rules tomorrow will bring 3000 new traders of Atkins to fill our market with new money. Get ready for the pump

Elon is  what happens when curiosity gets unlimited funding

you're right, but at the same time there is a lot of hype around pre-profit companies, so I can see them still surging after ipo for a while and if you compare them (openai/anthropic) to the other wildly overvalued stocks we currently have, they have at least some magical tech. the internet also didn't generate immediately value to companies, although it was clear it will and as we know it changed everything. long story short, I think openai/anthropic have more chances to survive or even avoid a bubble pop than companies back in the dotcom bubble.

Do I hold my AVGO $630c?

Just sold as well. 8x leverage

Sold my S&P 5575 NO shares for $0.94

Thay may sound funny, but this is a good educational video for microcosm of global banking system

Why isn’t it dumping more is what I want to know

MU 1100 today or wat lmao

before?

Down 14% too. I feel like holding still

Avgo beat is priced in!!!

Retail ain’t selling so mms got all the pricing power they could ever want

Its dead

where yall think avgo will end up after earnings?

historically before a major IPO this has been the trend.  Profit taking to store up cash for a major IPO.

There's always a V

Dude it’s WSB, get a grip, we live for this excitement

like?

Same lets see what happens!! When r results in 20?

INSHALLAH 🙏🏿  print.

AVGO boutta stunt on all u hoes

Yeap, proving my point a third time, civilian detected. Glad we live in a world where money is the only vote that counts — not a downvote from a clueless person in a pump and dump sub on Reddit. Start a business in the defense sector, or get close to some folks on the accounting side, and then you’ll understand, until then …keep it shut my friend. Shalom.

To make us rich

Brother i have been to Canada many times and that shit feels like a dead rising game in spots

Whats IPOing?

What?

Not really, there are a tiny bit but it's already showing costlier than the actual employees. Long term it aint replacing anyone LMAO

Avgo you got this baby! Pls don't let the market fall further. Down bigly already

Ok you guys scared me so I took 100% gain on AVGO call since it expired 6/5 and switched to shares

I just sold my 8x leveraged MU shares

I’m also incredibly handsome

Spce why :(

And Imma be in Gstaad.

I was promised a Great Depression. This looks like a fucking dip buy.

(I promised myself it was a Great Depression)

GOOG chart is hairy butt ugly

White House UFC is the most Idiocracy thing I have ever heard of

Thank you KEEL and NOK for knowing that stocks are supposed to go up today you did me good today

FUCK you SPY, CRSR, PATH, NKE, ONDS for not and a special fuck you to NVDA for being extra dogshit today. I’ll see you gamblers tomorrow

Closed all my position with $17 loss. SPY probably going to go up after hours 😔

Spy 760 tmr

So, you’re holding 100 shares?

People still underestimating the newfound urgency with which Europe is trying to abandon Silicon Valley technology for national security reasons.

I'm feeling bullearish

Thank yourself for investing and not some greedy companys

they gonna let this red run into tomorrow just to feck with you

Don’t get me wrong I’m a complete dumbass. But even im not this regarded

There's a lot of stuff out there available at a modest discount if you take off your WSB blinders

Get in sndk before the inevitable split

Right lol. “Welp, I immediately lost over half the money my mommy gave. $4k is basically worthless so I guess my only choice is to blow it in the dumbest way possible”. Genuinely surprised they didn’t go double or nothing because they are obviously that stupid.

Recommended this guy ngl

$BOT for physical AI

You guys think MU is pumping. Wait till you see how high Sandick pumped today. That shit is nuclear

#I swear on god most Americans don't have a proper job anymore. During an hour when most people should be at work it's like rush hour traffic and everywhere is full of people just hanging out. LMAO🤌

Full port avgo kinda nervous

This is why you get into MU

you know you can see all the information you want online? meta lly walmart amd and many more are over 2/3% today

power half hour lol

Remember - on IPO date you can't really do anything but buy shares. So you're either part of the cult, or you aren't.

I’m just getting into this just started last week I’m up 2k but I’ve just been playing earrings

I'm team ONEWORLD. AAL STOLE MY RACQUETS ON A FLIGHT FROM CLT TO JAX AND DIDN'T TURN THEM IN. JUNIOR. BABA IS TALKING TO YOU. I WILL CALL THE FEDS YOU IDIOTS. ASK DAL. I FLY UNITED FROM NEWARK NOW YOU IDIOTS. AND I HAVE A CREDIT CARD. SHEESH. READ THE CONSTITUTION ON THE SENATE'S WEBSITE. IT'S NOT THE HARD.

CRDO🚀🚀🚀

BTC needs to start to V

lol, I literally got into an exchange with someone here over this exact thing with Strauss of TTWO

Wondering the same

Here we goooo

Place your bets AVGO and CRWD coming up… I’m biased towards Broadcom

Fuck rivian and their overpriced shit.

green bruh

I bought lucid. It’s already dirt cheap

I could have full ported my 5K on my 8x leverage short on MSTR. I would have walked out with 10K so far. But no, I couldn't spend such savings on a degen move that can fuck me sideways, and threw a hundred bucks at it instead.

Well, that's 200 bucks now. Yipee.

Thanks for your service

That’s a lot of words for saying bag holder

Only memory stocks up 👹

These massive nvda green candles have meant nothing im so confused.

Not a moron

Tweet when?

Yes. Avgo Drops Even with godly numbers and memory keeps rocketing

ok MU that's the spirit

This actually makes perfect sense. Will buy 1,000 shares for the fun of it

I don’t understand, is he saying the Gemini logo would make him more comfortable?

BB is actually gonna go $100 tho

I saw ZM and ZOOM and Z all happened in real life. You can’t convince me otherwise.

Holy shit SNDK.

I cant imagine the fires 🥭's team is putting out today holy fuck they gotta be sponsored by like xanax or some shit

Therefore you are smarter than me.

Stop dumping and buy more VRRM 🥴🥴

Quantum stocks down cuz the IPO tomorrow?

Massive V incoming

Dang … I feel behind 😭

Today is a worse YTD

LMAO AVGO 😂 

Sorry just practicing for later

Why DRAM and MU go up to sky?

is everything going down because people are trying to raise cash for this space IPO?

SPY isn’t a bad company. It’s just misunderstood.

It fucking affects entire market

yeh but i told her to buy oklo at like 30 and she sold it at like 130 so thats me paying her back

yooo amd, market is closing, where the fuck are you going

can IWM open at 290 tomorrow plz