Q: How do you quote a passage that has used '[sic]' mistakenly?

The usage of '[sic]' is well defined for quoting a passage that you believe has an error in it: nearest to the mistake you place '[sic]' within the quotes. For example, suppose I write a letter from I to you. This last sentence of mine is counter to most norms of English writing (it's wrong), so in quoting it someone would naturally want to write:

  

...suppose I write a letter from I [sic] to you.

Suppose though that I do something else, suppose I write a letter from me to you. This follows accepted grammatical practice (it's correct grammar). But then further suppose that someone thinks you should use 'I' instead of 'me'. And they quote it thus:

  

...suppose I write a letter from me [sic] to you.

The '[sic]' has been mistakenly used.

But how do you quote the passage I just wrote? Would it be:

  

"...suppose I write a letter from me [sic] to you." [sic]

or

  

"...suppose I write a letter from me [sic] [sic] to you."

or 

  

"...suppose I write a letter from me [sic [sic]] to you."

None of these sound right to me: the first because it doesn't point out where the error is, the second because you can't tell (for either '[sic]') if you're using '[sic]' or it is part of the thing quoted, and for the third example...well, that might be a way to mark the error, but surely the mechanics of '[sic]' could have been designed better to begin with.

So which of these three, or something else entirely, should be used for quoting a passage where '[sic]' is used wrongly?

Q: Did English ever have a formal version of "you"?

Off the top of my head, Danish "De" (practically never used), German "Sie", Chinese "您", French "vous", Spanish "usted" are formal ways of addressing someone, especially if one isn't familiar with the addressee. Did English ever have this? It sounds as though Proto-Indo-European might have had this (based on my five examples), but perhaps someone can enlighten me?

Q: Which word begins with "y" and looks like an axe in this picture?

My 1-year kid has a plastic ball that is decorated with all 26 letters from the English alphabet and besides each letter is an image. I suppose the images are of words in English that begin with each of the letters. That works for all of them, except for the Y, which image looks like an axe to me. I searched for synonyms for axe (hatchet, tomahawk) but could not find one that starts with Y.

Following is a picture I took from the ball where the Y and it's image can be seen. Y is surrounded by Queen, Nail, Worm, Elephant and Kangaroo, I suppose.

Can someone help me identify which English word is depicted in Y?

The complete list of letter/symbol pairs, for those asking, is Apple, Bear, Cat, Dog, Elephant , Frog, Giraffe, House, Ice, Jet, Kangaroo, Lion, Mouse, Nail, Owl, Pig, Queen, Rainbow, Snail, Tiger, Uboat (submarine), Volcano, Worm, Xylophone, Y / axe, Zebra.

And thanks to @jkej's Google sleuthing, another view of the ball may be seen at the site fishpond.com.

I bought the ball in a store called Lojas França, located in a mall called Bourbon Shopping Wallig in Porto Alegre, in southern Brazil.

Edit - I was looking for any sign that could help us identify the manufacturer of the ball and all I could find were the letters DNE near the air valve. Following is an image of that part of the ball, in case it helps:

Q: Is there a correct gender-neutral singular pronoun ("his" vs. "her" vs. "their")?

Is there a pronoun I can use as a gender-neutral pronoun when referring back to a singular noun phrase?

Each student should save his questions until the end.

Each student should save her questions until the end.

Q: When should I use an em-dash, an en-dash, and a hyphen?

I generally know how to use a hyphen, but when should I use an en-dash (–) instead of an em-dash, or when should I use a hyphen (-) instead of an em-dash (—)?

Q: What is the correct way to pluralize an acronym / initialism?

For example, if I wanted to write the equivalent of

There are many automated teller machines in this city.

Would it be

- There are many ATMs in this city.

or

- There are many ATM's in this city.

(could get confused with possessive form or contraction).

or just

- There are many ATM in this city.

(assuming the final s is included in Machines represented by M).

Maybe something else?

Q: What is the rule for adjective order?

I remember being taught that the correct order of adjectives in English was something along the lines of "Opinion-Size-Age-Color-Material-Purpose."

However, it's been a long time and I'm pretty sure I've forgotten a few categories
(I think there were eight or nine). Can anyone fill them in?

Q: Is there a phrase that means sleeping with someone without sex?

The phrase "sleeping with someone" often means "having sex." What is the origin of this sexual connotation? Is there a non-sexual equivalent of this phrase to express sleeping with someone without sexual intercourse?

Q: How many spaces should come after a period/full stop?

In the past &#8212; or at least, when I was in elementary school &#8212; periods/full stops were followed by two spaces.  Lately, it's become more and more common to see just one space.  In the modern world, should we still use two spaces between sentences, or is just one okay?  Does it depend on the situation?  Or are both acceptable, with the choice simply coming down to personal preference?

Q: Is there a word or phrase for the feeling you get after looking at a word for too long?

Sometimes after looking at a word for a while, I become convinced that it can't possibly be spelled correctly.  Even after looking it up, sounding it out, and realizing that there's simply no other way to spell the word, it still looks wrong.   

Is there a shorthand way to describe this feeling so that people will know what I mean without the long explanation?

Q: How are "i.e." and "e.g." pronounced?

How are i.e. and e.g. pronounced?

Q: Do you use "a" or "an" before acronyms / initialisms?

99% of the time, I'm clear on when I should use "a" versus "an." There's one case, though, where people & references I respect disagree.

Which of the following would you precede with "a" or "an," and why?

- FAQ

- FUBAR

- SCUBA

[Note: I've read the questions "A historic..." or "An historic…"? and Use of "a" versus "an", but the rules given there don't necessarily apply here.]

[Edited to add]

Here's a shorter (and hopefully clearer) version of the question…  In written English, which is correct (and why): "a FAQ" or "an FAQ"?

Some references with differing opinions:

- an: the UC San Diego Editorial Style Guide and Apple Publications Style Guide

- a: the Microsoft Manual of Style for Tech Publications, 3e

- either: the alt.usage.english FAQ and Yahoo! Style Guide

Q: What is the plural form of "status"?

What is the plural form of "status"?

Q: What is the factual basis for "pirate speech"? (Did pirates really say things like "shiver me timbers"?)

The "pirate speech" we hear/see/read, for example, on the website Talk Like A Pirate Day consists of a rhotic dialect characterized by phrases like "shiver me timbers," "ooh arh me hearties," and so on and so on. 

What is its basis in fact?

Q: "log in to" or "log into" or "login to"

When writing an instruction about connecting to a computer using ssh, telnet, etc., I'm not sure what spacing to use in this familiar spoken phrase:

- "Log in to host.com"

- "Log into host.com"

- "Login to host.com"

Maybe this is entirely subjective or the realm of industry jargon, but I couldn't think of anywhere else to ask.  Any insight?

Q: Which words in a title should be capitalized?

Are there any concrete rules that say which words (parts of speech) in a title should start with a capital letter? What would be a correct capitalization for the title of this question?

Q: What is a feminine version of 'guys'?

I commonly use the word 'guys' to refer to a group of males colloquially. It's colloquial but not rude, off putting, condescending, patronizing (though I wouldn't use it with a group of men at a board meeting (hypothetically of course), unless I knew them). So, some that I would not consider as replacements would be 

- buddies: too old-fashioned

- dudes: too informal

- boys: too patronizing

- men, gentlemen: too formal or false respect

I realized that I had also been using it for any group of people, males and females, even just females. It worked for me and I didn't think of the gender implications, that women might not care for it. No one ever complained, directly or indirectly (rule of life: sometimes people don't complain about things they should). 

But it occurred to me (maybe by reading something that sparked realization) that the intended hearers might not all care for it.

What might be a female gendered or non-gendered version of 'guys'?

Some that I've considered don't feel right about (though these may be reasonable answers) are:

- dolls: too old-fashioned

- babes: too informal 

- ladies: too formal or I've heard from women, too creepy

- women: too factual

- girls: too patronizing (as much as 'boys')

- everyone, you all: too bland

- y'all: perfectly non-sexist but too regional (might work, but not everywhere)

Hopefully I haven't eliminated all the possibilities -- any suggestions?

Q: When "etc." is at the end of a phrase, do you place a period after it?

Example:

  

It's all about apples, oranges, bananas, etc.

VS.

  

It's all about apples, oranges, bananas, etc..

Update

What happens if the abbreviation is inside parentheses, do you place a dot after and before the closing parenthesis?

  

It's all about fruit (apples, bananas, etc.).

Q: "Unregister" vs "Deregister"

The concept of "undoing a registration" is widely used in my line of work. While most dictionaries define unregister as the proper verb for it, several widely used and highly considered sources also use the verb deregister. Do both verbs exist? Are they synonyms? Is there a slight difference in their meaning?

Q: Are "whores" and "horse" homophones?

I’m Spanish but sometimes see TV shows in English.

My question is whether the words horse and whores sound exactly the same, because in many English language TV shows it seems like they are, which really surprises me. 

Are they homophones?

I cannot hear any voicing at the end of the word whores to distinguish the two words.

Q: What's the difference between "requester" and "requestor"?

Both are in dictionaries. I've heard people insist "requester" is correct for a person who requests something, and that "requestor" is wrong there, leaving me to wonder how it is used. Requestor happens to be marked as an error in my browser's spellchecker.

COCA for requester/requestor indicates that requester is used for people and requestor is used in technical senses like a part of a program. A google ngram for requester/requestor shows that requester is also a bit more common.

Some online discussions suggest requestor may have a meaning in law or be more common there, but I can't find that.

What's the difference in usage? Should requester be used for people, or is it more nuanced than that?

Note: These related questions discuss "creator" and "updater" and discuss -er and -or endings overall.

Q: What is wrong with the word "performant"?

I keep getting the red underlining in Word whenever I write the word "performant". Here I intend to refer to something that performs well or better than something else (i.e., it's more performant).

Is there something wrong with that word? Does it mean what I actually want it to say?

Q: "Status" vs. "state"

Can anyone explain what the difference between status and state is when I talk about the condition or situation of an object?

Here's what I got from Longman English Dictionary.

  

status: a situation at a particular time, especially in an argument,
  discussion etc.
  
  

state: the physical or mental condition that someone or something is
  in

For example, how do you interpret these two sentences:

  
  
- 

What is the current status of this project?
  
- 

What is the current state of this project?

Q: Do most languages need more space than English?

I saw the following statement on User Experience:

  

Supporting multiple languages can break the user interface, because most languages need more space than english

This seems to be a gross generalisation. Does anyone have any data on this?

Q: What is the origin of ZOMG?

I have looked in a number of places, with contradictory results.

The Urban Dictionary provides a whopping 73 "explanations", of which I will quote just a few. (Original spelling and punctuation preserved.)

  
  
- ZOMG is a variant of the all-too-popular acronym "OMG", meaning "Oh My God".
  ZOMG originated from the image-board 4chan.org and one of it's members Zardoz.
  

Even though 4chan is the Internet meme machine, I would like to see supporting
evidence for this particular claim.

  
  
- zOMG is a variant of the all-too-popular acronym "OMG", meaning "Oh My God". The "z" was originally a mistake while attempting to hit the shift key with the left hand, and type "OMG"
  

The first sentence is copied verbatim from the previous (and older) explanation,
with the "Z" changed into a "z". It appears that the author hasn't quite thought
it through — if you mistakenly hit Z instead of Shift, you'll end up with "zomg", not with "zOMG". Besides, on my keyboard, there's the > key between the Z and the left shift key.

  
  
- A more enthusiastic (if not sarcastic) way of saying OMG. The Z doesn't stand for anything, but rather is added onto the O, thus making it pronounced "ZOH MY GOD!!1"
  

Doesn't address the origin and is not very convincing anyway — why "Z" and not "S", "X", "W", "J", or in fact any letter?

  
  
- ZOMG was the ruler of the planet XYRZON until 2451 AD, when he was overthrown
  by KFOP after the battle of SHMUR.
  

Oh well.

  
  
- zombies! oh my god!
  

This is actually the most convincing so far, since over at the Wiktionary I am told that ZOMG is an initialism. Then again, I am not told anything about etymology, and in the usage notes for OMG, I am told that ZOMG is "emphatic, in the same sense of LOLZ". Which contradicts the idea that it's an initialism.

On the talk page for ZOMG, there's only this brief exchange:

  

This entry should be amended to note that the "z" is added emphasis from the common
  typo committed when hitting the "shift" key. [Unsigned, but the history attributes this to
  Adjwilli, 19:50, 4 November 2008]
  
  
  
- Except that it's not: see &#91;1&#93;.
  Unfortunately, although this FAQ is accurate, the fact that it has not been cited in
  a reliable source means that we cannot include it on Wiktionary. Shii 14:21, 12 December 2008 (UTC)
  

That last link is dead, so I went to archive.org and dug up an old copy of the page:

  

ZOMG was originally coined in January 2003 by two individuals, James Curbo and Matthew Milan, over ICQ
  
  

The following chat log may or may not be exact, so apocraphycal information has been used to recreate this event.
  
  

Hannibal Smith:  d00der!

  Rick Feynman:  zomg!

  Hannibal Smith:  ZOMG!

  Rick Feynman:  fag! ZOMG!

I can see why reliable sources are hesitant to cite this FAQ, especially given the fact that it was written by Matthew Milan himself.

Lastly, over at The Free Dictionary, I am told that ZOMG is an acronym with the
following definitions:

  
  
- Zoh My God! (gaming, World of Warcraft)
  
- Zombies Oh My God
  
- Zeus, Oh My God
  
- Zerg! Oh My God!
  
- Zebras on my Grass (gaming clan)
  

Now I am utterly confused. Some of these suspiciously look like backronyms.

So, can anyone, by any chance, provide a definite answer on the origin of ZOMG? Or is it lost forever?

Q: How do the tens&#173;es and as&#173;pects in English cor&#173;re&#173;spond tem&#173;po&#173;ral&#173;ly to one an&#173;oth&#173;er?

Non-na­tive speak­ers of­ten get con­fused about what the var­i­ous tens­es 
and as­pects mean in English. With in­put from some of the folk here I've
put to­geth­er a di­a­gram that I hope will pro­vide some clar­i­ty on the
mat­ter.

I of­fer it as the first an­swer to this ques­tion. Con­sid­er it a liv­ing
doc­u­ment. In­put is wel­come, and good sug­ges­tions will be 
in­cor­po­rat­ed in­to the di­a­gram.

No­ta bene: What this is not is a dis­cus­sion of whether there are 
more than two tens­es in English. We have a ded­i­cat­ed ques­tion for
that, to which this
ques­tion is not in­tend­ed to sup­ply ar­gu­ments one way or the oth­er. 
Here, the aim is to pro­vide an overview of what con­struc­tions
English-speak­ing peo­ple use for con­vey­ing in­for­ma­tion about ac­tions
re­fer­ring to past, present, and fu­ture, and to pro­vide it first and
fore­most to pre­cise­ly the peo­ple who are like­ly to use "tense" as a
catch-all term in their search, rather than to lin­guists who know bet­ter.

Break­ing News There is now an ex­cel­lent ELU blog ar­ti­cle ti­tled 
How We Talk About Fu­ture
Si­t­u­a­tions.
It is high­ly rec­om­mend­ed read­ing.

Q: Where were "should", "shall", and "must" in the 18th Century?

According to the following Google Ngram, in the U.K. the modals should, shall, and must were virtually missing from English writing during the 18th Century (I've added will for a comparison modal which was unaffected). 

I have never seen this mentioned anywhere, and I couldn't find it in a brief web search. What happened? Was this a real phenomenon, or could this somehow be an artifact of Google Ngrams? Were these modals absent from speech, or just formal writing? More interestingly, how did they get reintroduced? A brief search shows that Shakespeare definitely used these words quite frequently.

Q: What the #$@&%*! is that called?

Is there a name for the use of symbols in place of curse words, for example ?

Q: When to use "If I was" vs. "If I were"?

- If I was...

- If I were...

When is it correct to use "If I was" vs. "If I were" in standard English?

Q: Should I always use a comma after "e.g." or "i.e."?

It seems that "e.g." is always followed by a comma but "i.e." is not. Why is that?

Q: Is it "a user" or "an user"?

Since "user" starts with a vowel, shouldn't we use "an"? I've seen many cases of using "a".

Q: "Replace with" versus "replace by"

I often see "replace with" and "replace by" used interchangeably, but this doesn't sound right to me:

  

I replaced that component by this one.

I would use "with" in such a sentence. "By" only seems reasonable in passive, although "with" sounds like it would there work too:

  

That component was replaced by this one.

  That component was replaced with this one.

In my native language, the equivalent of "replace by" can only be used in passive, and even then it's a bit weird unless a person is the object replacing something – perhaps this affects my judgment?

Web searches haven't come up with anything conclusive; the results are contradictory and speculative at best.

Are "replace with" and "replace by" interchangeable in active context? What about passive? Are there stylistic reasons to prefer one over the other?

Q: Is it "front-end", "frontend", or "front end"?

Which is correct?

- front-end engineering

- frontend engineering

- front end engineering

I looked over http://www.grammarbook.com/punctuation/hyphens.asp, referenced in this answer, and I'm still not sure which to use.

Rule 1 under Hyphens Between Words says:

  

To check whether a compound noun is two words, one word, or
  hyphenated, you may need to look it up in the dictionary. If you can't
  find the word in the dictionary, treat the noun as separate words.

"Frontend" is not found at reference.com.  "Front-end" and "front end" are both found, which "front end" as two words representing the software term, so I think this must be right.  However...

Rule 1 under Hyphens With Prefixes says:

  

The current trend is to do away with unnecessary hyphens. Therefore,
  attach most prefixes and suffixes onto root words without a hyphen.

I think that "frontend" qualifies under this rule.  Compare that with "backend" and it sounds to me that "front" and "back" are prefixes to "end".

Also, the most common usage I've noticed is "frontend" as a single word when talking about software.  Common usage has to count for something, right?

What's considered the final say here?

Q: When is it appropriate to end a sentence in a preposition?

Like many others, I commonly find myself ending a sentence with a preposition.  Yes, it makes me cringe.  I usually rewrite the sentence, but sometimes (in emails) I just live with it.  To, with... you know who you are.

Should I keep fighting myself on this one, or is it okay in some circumstances?

Q: What is the plural form of "zero"?

I tried looking on Google, but there are some fairly contradictory results.

I thought I'd ask you guys so we could get an authoritative answer on the subject!

Q: "More clear" vs "Clearer": when to use "more" instead of "-er"?

Which one of these adjectives is correct? I can see that both of them are being used, I'm just not sure which one is grammatically correct.

Are there any general rules to follow as to the use of one against the use of the other?

Q: Can "doubt" sometimes mean "question"?

I often see questions on Stack Exchange sites which I presume are written by non-native English speakers who use the word "doubt" in place of the word "question". Is this a case of misunderstanding the correct meaning or are people being taught that this is correct usage?

Q: "Username", "user name" or "user-name"

In computer science, you should have a username or a user name or a user-name and a password to be able to log into the system.

Which one is the correct spelling?

Q: Should I put a comma before the last item in a list?

Should I put a comma before the last item in a list?

  

I would like crackers, cheese and some soda.

  I would like crackers, cheese, and some soda.

Q: "My wife and I's seafood collaboration dinner"

I just stumbled upon a Reddit post titled:

  

My wife and I's seafood collaboration dinner. How does it look?

Sure enough, the top comment immediately points out that it should be "my wife's and my". However, a cross-post to the Grammar subreddit produced the following comment:

  

It's fine as it is written. "my wife and I" is a noun phrase, functioning as a subjective pronoun in the singular and made possessive with the apostrophe. It is exactly the same as "our".
  
  

It seems weird because you would never use "I's" on its own but it is not on its own here - it is part of a noun phrase.

That's a rather intriguing argument. Does it hold any water?

Q: "Unselect" or "Deselect"?

If I want the user to revert their operation of selecting an item, should I say: "Unselect the option" or "Deselect the option"?

Q: Why are the vowels in Christ and Christmas different? (and other strange diphthong behaviour)

Why are certain words pronounced with diphthongs on their own but with monophthongs in compounds? For example:

Words pronounced with diphthongs on their own: Michael, Christ, wise, drive

Their pronunciations with monophthongs in compounds: Michaelmas, Christmas, wizard, driven

All of these changes occur in stressed syllables. Compare that of cycle and bicycle, tricycle which occurs in unstressed syllables.

P/s: Just to be clear, I added the "historical-change" tag because I suspected this phenomenon had something to do with the Great Vowel Shift.

Q: What’s the rule for using “who” and “whom” correctly?

I can never figure out whether I should use who and whom. Most people use who for both colloquially, but some people say this is not correct.

What’s the rule for using who and whom correctly?

Q: Why is “cannot” spelled as one word?

Why is “cannot” spelled as one word whereas other similar constructions such as “do not,” “will not,” “shall not,” “may not” and “must not” are spelled as two words (unless they are contracted as “don’t” and so on)?

(I know that languages are not always logical, so I would not be too surprised if there is no known reason for this.  But I am asking this in the hope that there is some explanation.)

Q: What do you call a disk with a hole in the middle?

Compact Discs, washers and Aerobie frisbees are all disks with a hole in the middle. Is there a word (either mathematical or not) to describe this shape? I mean the specific case of a round hole in a flat disk such that the inner and outer rings are concentric circles, like below.

--Edit: Accepted answer

I feel rather unqualified to select one answer as correct, so I'm going to choose the one that says "It depends who you're talking to". I hope that future readers will choose between the various helpful answers here depending on their exact object and their audience. After reading the etymology of annulus, I also hope that nobody ever tries to market an "Incredible Flying Annulus" to 13-year old boys.

Q: What is the difference between "complicated" and "complex"?

I can't understand: what's the difference between complicated and complex?

They seem to be used interchangeably. Are they actually different at all?

Q: Difference between "artifact" and "artefact"

Is there any usage preference between artifact and artefact?

My understanding was that an artifact was properly applied to physical, historical objects, while an artefact was more correct for more abstract, intangible, error-ish concepts, for example a compression artefact. 

However, the couple of online sources I checked suggested that the difference was merely spelling, and that both were usable for both definitions.

Q: Plurals of acronyms, letters, numbers — use an apostrophe or not?

When I was in high school back in the 1970s, I was taught that to make a plural of an acronym, a letter, or a number, one should add an apostrophe and "s". Like I would have written this sentence, "... back in the 1970's ..." I would write "one CD, two CD's". Etc. I followed this rule faithfully for years until a co-worker told me it was wrong. Now I can't find any source that agrees with what I was taught.

Is this a rule that has changed over time? Was the convention in the 70s that one should use an apostrophe but this has changed and now we do not? Or were my high school English teachers just confused?

Q: Why do English writers avoid explicit numerals?

The junction has a stop sign on each of the four entrances.

  The junction has a stop sign on each of the 4 entrances.

The first is preferred, for some reason, by many English texts. Why? I haven't seen this phenomenon in other languages.

Q: When to use “that” and when to use “which”, especially in relative clauses

When is it appropriate to use that as opposed to which with relative clauses?

Q: Why does "quadratic" describe second power when "quad" means "four"?

In mathematics, quadratic means "involving the second and no higher power of an unknown quantity or variable". But the prefix quad- usually describes something that has to do with four, such as quad-core processor and quadrilateral. Why does "quadratic" describe second power when "quad" means "four"?

Q: When should I use "a" vs "an"?

In the following example, is it appropriate to use a or an as the indefinite article, and why?

  

He ate __ green apple.

I know that in the case of just "apple", it would be "an apple," but I've heard conflicting answers for "green apple," where the noun is separated from the article by an adjective.

Also, which is more appropriate in this case:

  

He ate  __ enormous Pop-Tart.

Q: When should com&#173;pound words be writ&#173;ten as one word, with hy&#173;phens, or with spaces?

Some compound words are written without hyphens (nonaggression, nonbeliever), some with hyphens (well-intentioned), and others with spaces (post office).

Is there a rule or good guide as to which option should be used?

Q: Why is "bicycle" pronounced differently from other obviously related words?

The word bicycle is pronounced /'baɪsɪkəl/ (bahy-si-kuhl), like sickle. However, the words unicycle and motorcycle both have the -cycle pronounced as /-'saɪkəl/ (sahy-kuhl). Is there some sort of reason for this, or is this just a vagary of English pronunciation?

Q: Which is correct: "Filename", "File Name" or "FileName"?

Which is correct: "Filename", "File Name" or "FileName"?

Q: Is there an English idiom for trying to do two things at the same time and failing at both of them due to splitting your effort?

I'm basically searching for the opposite of putting all your eggs in one basket, where the risk is total failure because you did not hedge your efforts. I'm searching for a phrase that encompasses splitting your efforts and evokes the prospect of failing at both. A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush also encompasses a sense of having focused your efforts, but only alludes to total failure.

To satisfy the criteria, the phrase must cover:

- attempting two things (or multiple iterations of one thing)

- both of which you might succeed at, if you addressed them serially

- but both of which you fail at because you address them in parallel

Here are the idioms/phrases that do not sufficiently cover the idea and why:

"A servant to two masters"

This has the sense of competing priorities, but not the sense of failing to achieve your goals.

"Jack of all trades. Master of none."

The sense is insufficiently pejorative. Being a jack-of-all-trades can be seen as an advantage; I'm trying to focus on the lack of mastery.

"The man who fancied himself a wit, and was half-right."

From Christopher Hitchens. Hilarious, but lacking the sense of split effort between two things.

"Walking and chewing gum at the same time."

An idiom for multi-tasking, not for failing to multi-task.
Edit

Addressing a few suggestions and another one that occurred to me:

"Hedging your bets" or "Betting against yourself"

In this case, you cannot win both bets, but you will almost certainly win one. You limit your upside, but also limit your risk. I'm looking in particular for total, catastrophic failure due to split attention/effort.

"Can't walk and chew gum at the same time"

Failing to do two fairly simple things that most everyone can do, not failing at two hard things because you tried to do both.

"Robbing Peter to pay Paul"

In this case, Paul gets paid. If you were to rob Peter to pay Paul, and get robbed yourself before you could get the money to Paul, that'd be closer. :)

"Spreading yourself too thin"

An actual English idiom, but missing the implied sense of failure.

"Too many irons in the fire"

"A lot of irons in the fire" can be viewed positively, so this is missing the sense of a strategic misstep.

"Between a rock and a hard place"

The sense is of needing to act but having no good alternative.

"Falling between two stools"

My favorite answer so far because it does appear to be an actual English idiom (not a proverb). In that sense, it's great, but some of the usages are closer to a failure of categorization than a failure of effort. And falling between two stools implies that the attempted action was simply sitting down.

"Chasing two rabbits and catching none."

This is the exact sense I was looking for, but it appears to be a cross-cultural proverb rather than idiomatic English like "putting all your eggs in one basket". I'll be accepting it, and using it in my work! But if there are other ideas, please let me know.

Q: The plural of "index"–"indexes" or "indices"?

A table may have one index, or it could have more [...]?

Is it indexes or indices? I'm just asking this because I've noticed they're both used quite often. Even Wikipedia seems to support both variants (as in this article). Though a raw Google search would seem to indicate an overall preference for indices.

Simply put, which is the preferred plural?

Q: Why is "Pok&#233;mon" written with an accent?

Is there a language-related reason why the word has an accent on the "é"?

The Japanese for Pokémon is "ポケモン" (pokemon), so it's not to represent a long vowel.

Q: What are your favorite English language tools?

To prevent myself from asking an obvious, silly question multiple times: What are the English language tools you found most useful?

I found Corpus Concordance English extremely useful for looking up collocations. 

Please, one tool per answer.

Q: "Which" vs. "what" — what's the difference and when should you use one or the other?

Most of the time one or the other feels better, but every so often, "which" vs. "what" trips me up. 

So, what's the exact difference and when should you use one or the other?

Q: Can “whose” refer to an inanimate object?

We lit a fire whose fuel was old timber wood.

Is the word whose referring to fire, an inanimate object, correct in this sentence? Or is there a more appropriate word?

Q: Did English ever have a word for 'yes' for negative questions?

The Germans have doch and the French have si as a word that means "yes" in response to a negative question, such as:

  

Don't you want some ice-cream?

  Yes [I do]!

In English, we only have yes (as far as I know) and further clarification is required in order to be unambiguous.

Did we ever have such a word in English and, if so, what happened to it? If not, given the French and Germanic influences on English, any idea why not?

Q: When should "no problem" replace "you're welcome" as a response to "thank you"?

I have observed a growing trend in which people substitute "no problem" for "you're welcome" as a response to "thank you".  In particular, it seems to be an increasingly common response from servers and store clerks.

It seems to me that "no problem" isn't appropriate for all situations as a response to "thank you", such as when I express thanks for receiving a cup of coffee at the local doughnut shoppe.  To me, responding "no problem" to "thank you" implies there might have been a problem, which was somehow narrowly averted.

Are there specific situations in which "no problem" is appropriate to use as a substitute for "you're welcome"?

Q: What is the difference between "till" and "until"?

What is the difference between till and until?  

When to use till or until? Please explain with examples.

Q: Is "guy" gender-neutral?

The plural "guys" definitely is, at least here in San Francisco — I'm often hearing all-girl companies here being greeted with 'Hi guys, how are you doing?'.

How about the singular guy? Is it universally assumed that 'the guy who will be doing this' can be either guy or gal?

Q: Alternative terms to "Blacklist" and "Whitelist"

My company is developing a management tool for managing SIM cards. One of the features of the tool is to block the SIM card if it's put into a  disallowed device by device IMEI validation.

The feature for this was mocked up using the terms blacklist and whitelist. However, after a while someone raised the point that these terms could feel a bit controversial.

The advantage of using these terms is that they are clean and easily understandable, but then again if they could invoke any racial issues we don't want anything to do with them.

So far we've come up with these possible alternatives:

- Blocked List

- Unblocked List

- Allowed List

And honestly, we're not very excited for any of these words.

Are blacklist and whitelist controversial? Are there better words we could use?

Q: Is there any English/American equivalent for the Hungarian phrase "beating the nettle with someone else's penis"?

I am trying to translate this comically vulgar Hungarian phrase,  often (but not exclusively) used in a political context:

Beating the nettle with someone else's penis

It describes making someone else carry out one's rash or risky ideas, usually for one's own benefit.

So, for instance, when the issue emerges of how US economic sanctions on Russia hurt the local economy or jeopardize local gas supplies, Hungarians may say something like "Uncle Sam has chosen to beat the nettle with someone else's penis/dick". It is also used as an interjection: "Don't beat it with mine...!". (Sometimes euphemized)

Does English have any matching idiom? (Or even a vague equivalent?)

Q: What is it called when experts think they only know a small part of a topic and amateurs think they know almost all of a topic?

What is it called when experts think they only know a small part of a topic and amateurs think they know almost all of a topic?

Q: Why should the first person pronoun 'I' always be capitalized?

Why should we capitalize the first person pronoun 'I' even when it does not appear at the beginning of a sentence? Why is it not the case for other pronouns?

Q: How to say "It's not rocket science" before rockets existed

Prior to the invention of rockets, was there a phrase equivalent to: "it's not rocket science"?  If so, what was it?

Here I am looking for a phrase that makes a comparison with a difficult job/task, so "easy as pie" wouldn't work. I'm also looking for a phrase that would also have been used before modern medicine. Thus, something different from, "it's not brain surgery".

To clarify: I'm looking for a phrase that was actually used in the English language. It could have been used in any English speaking country. Any time prior to when the expression "it's not brain surgery" might have been used, so earlier than probably 1930 or 40.

Q: What is the word for things that work even when they aren't working (e.g. escalators)?

I'm looking for a word (or phrase) to describe mechanisms that are perfectly functional even when they aren't functioning as expected. 

Examples of these include:

- Escalators & Electric Walkways: Even when they aren't powered these systems still function as perfectly adequate stairs or sidewalks

- Mopeds: Even when out of gas, the owner can still pedal along

- Electric Toothbrushes: One can still brush their teeth without turning it on

I've considered using engineering and management terms such as redundant mechanisms, enhanced systems, or fault-tolerant machines that come close, but those terms refer to very specific technical concepts that don't apply to my needs or the the examples.

Q: "Whether or not" vs. "whether"

- 
  
- This will depend on whether he's suitable for the job. 
  
- This will depend on whether he's suitable for the job or not.
  
- This will depend on whether or not he's suitable for the job.
  
  
- 
  
- It is still not defined whether we're following that approach.
  
- It is still not defined whether we're following that approach or not.
  
- It is still not defined whether or not we're following that approach.
  
  

"Or not" doesn't really seem to be needed to complement "whether". Why do people use it then? Is it redundancy and nothing more? Or is it for emphasis? Or are there cases when "or not" is required for the sentence to be grammatical?

Q: Is it ever correct to have a space before a question or exclamation mark?

In written English (mainly online) I often come across sentences ending with a question or an exclamation mark with a space before it. Is it always just an error or a typo? Or there are cases when it is a correct English, for example after closing parentheses or some other punctuation marks?

Q: Is "women men girls love meet die" a valid sentence?

Is "women men girls love meet die" a valid sentence? If so, what does it mean?

The sentence shows up in academic papers about the "Sausage Machine" for natural language processing. (A google will show up several results referring to this).

The general comment is:

(130) # Women men girls love meet die.

Frazier & Fodor predict that a sentence like (130) should be easy to process since it can be analyzed entirely by the first stage processor. That is, all six words of the sentence can be seen at the same time and hence the grammar should assign these words the appropriate structure. This prediction is clearly wrong, since sentences like (130) are at least as hard as sentences like (127)

From: this PhD Thesis

It doesn't seem to make sense. But from the context it is being used as a counter example of a sentence that is difficult (but not impossible) to understand, which some systems (The "Sausage Machine") fail to interpret. Which means it must be interpretable in the first place (unless I am misunderstanding the context).

Q: Is it "bear" or "bare" with me?

Is it "bear" or "bare" with me?

Q: "Lunch" vs. "dinner" vs. "supper" — times and meanings?

I've seen cases where a noon-time meal is referred to as dinner, and the evening meal is called supper. There's also lunch around noon followed by dinner in the evening. Is there a particular difference between dinner and supper, or a circumstance where lunch becomes dinner?

Q: When should I use "a" versus "an" in front of a word beginning with the letter h?

A basic grammar rule is to use an instead of a before a vowel sound. Given that historic is not pronounced with a silent h, I use “a historic”. Is this correct? What about heroic? Should be “It was a heroic act” or “It was an heroic act”?

I remember reading somewhere that the h is sometimes silent, in which case it’s an, and when the h is pronounced, it’s a. But then I also remember reading that it depends on which syllable is stressed. And I also think I read somewhere that it might differ between British and American English.

Personally, I pronounce the h, and believe that a is correct. I find that it sounds incorrect to use an and pronounce heroic without the h.

So how do I know when to use a and when to use an with a word beginning with the letter h? Are both acceptable or is there one that is correct?

Q: I don't get this joke. Is it some kind of play on "water, too?"

I don't get this joke.  Is it some kind of play on "water, too?"

Transcript:

  

Two scientists walk into a bar. The first says, "I'll have some H2O." The second says, "I'll have a glass of water too. Why did you say H2O? It's the end of the day and there's no need to talk about work."  The first scientist stares at his drink, angry that his assassination plan has failed.

Q: What’s a “handegg”?

What’s a handegg?

NOTE: This question is primarily related to the etymology of a compound noun which is not in The Dictionary.

There is a hat this year called “Handegg”, given out for a posting that reaches a score of +7.  But here’s the problem: the word handegg does not occur in the Oxford English Dictionary!  Neither does hand-egg nor hand egg.

Given that absence, I would like to know:

- 

What is exact etymology and history of handegg as documented by reputable scholarly sources?  

- 

What is the primary sense of handegg, and are there any auxiliary senses or attendant connotations?

- 

Is handegg a word used in only one region or sociolect, or is it a word that most native speakers of English the whole wide world around would reasonably be expected know?

- 

Is handegg an inventive substitution for some other, better-known term?

- 

If handegg has a primary sense that is not shall we say “off-color”, does the word also some sort of double entendre whereby it also means something risqué?

Although that looks like five questions, it really is only one. To be accepted, only the first question needs answering. The others are just elaborations on the first.

Background: I’m asking because I kept reading handegg as handbag, which I genuinely thought it was until only a couple minutes ago when I was disabused of this misreading, but that only brought new mysteries.  In the accent of Green Bay, Wisconsin, bag and egg can seem to have the same vowel due to the bag–beg merger, so maybe this is how I misread it.

Q: Differences between slang words for breasts

What is the difference between “tits” and “boobs”?

P.S. I'm not sure if this question is appropriate but as English is not my native language I really would love to know the difference.

Q: Can “thanks in advance” be considered rude?

Some argue that because “thanks in advance” is written before any help has been offered, it adds an expectation of help and thus can be considered presumptuous.

Is this reasonable? Would it be appropriate to use this phrase in business correspondence? If not, is it possible to demonstrate gratitude without coming across as presumptuous?

Thanks in advance.

Q: How do native English speakers respond to "Thank you"?

In my school and university I was taught to say "Not at all" or "Don't mention it" in response to "Thank you!". Now I rarely hear these phrases used, but rather something like "You're welcome", "It's OK", "My pleasure", or "No problem".

My real life conversation experience is very poor. I often listen to some English learning podcasts, and watch some films in English. So I listen to dialogs, which are probably not from  the modern real life world. 

How do native English speakers tend to respond to "Thank you!" now? What I should care about, when choosing from the available options?

Q: How many tenses are there in English?

Do we have 16 tenses in English?

With

- future

- present

- past

- future in the past

in these forms

- simple

- continuous

- perfect

- perfect continuous

Can we manipulate these together to create English tenses? For example, "present perfect" or "future perfect continuous"?

Q: "Here's looking at you, kid" meaning?

I'm sure many will know Rick's famous line from the film Casablanca:

  

Here's looking at you, kid.

While I can guess at it, I was never fully confident about the meaning of this phrase.  I am not a native speaker.  It's clear that it's a toast.  Would someone please explain in detail?

In more detail,

- Here's [to] because it's a toast

- Was this phrase a common American expression at the time?

- Why looking?  Is it simply part of a common phrase or does it refer to looking at her as looking at a woman?

- Can you give me examples of similar (or the same) phrase, in context?

- Is the meaning unambiguous to native speakers or is there room for interpretation?

Q: "Jane makes over six figures" - how much money does she make?

Suppose you are told that "Jane makes over six figures". Assuming this to be true, what is the minimum amount of money that Jane can be making?

I have always understood this to mean "Jane makes at least seven figures", i.e. "Jane makes at least $1,000,000", but I have recently learned that some people understand this to mean "Jane makes more than the smallest six-figure number", i.e. "Jane makes at least $100,001". 

- Which of these interpretations is more widely understood?

- Which of these interpretations is prescriptively correct (if either)? 

(I am aware that there are unambiguous ways to express the same idea, but that is beside the point here.)

Q: Appropriate dash to use when attributing a quotation?

If I’m citing a poem or quotation, what kind of dash precedes the author’s name?

For example:

This Business of Printing; which I am heartily tired of, and repent I e’er attempted.... 

—John Baskerville

Should this be an em dash, an en dash,  or something else?

And should there be a space between the dash and the author’s name?

Q: "Email" or "e-mail"?

Which way of writing the word: "Email" or "e-mail" is correct? Both variants seem to be in wide use. If both ones are okay, maybe there is a difference in contexts they have been used (one is more formal than the other)?

Q: When I say "comment out", does it mean to uncomment something or comment it?

When I say I commented out a line written in a programming language, does that mean I uncommented that line or that I made it a comment?

Q: Is there a suffix like "phile" or "phobe" for don't care?

Thinking that every thing that you can like and dislike, you can also not care about and there may be a suffix for it.

Q: Which is correct: "__ is different from __" or "__ is different than __"?

As someone who learned English later on in life, I was taught that different from is the correct grammar to use: this is different from that. However, it seems these days everyone uses different than instead. I know it's incorrect usage, but does the language evolve if the majority wins?

Edit: Some commented different than is American English and different from is British English, both are OK. IMO, this isn't like color versus colour, though. 

Than is used after a comparative adjective, e.g. taller than, whiter than. The word different isn't a comparative adjective, unless used in more different than. Logically, it makes no sense to say different than.

Q: "A/An" preceding a parenthetical statement

When a/an precedes a parenthetical aside (sometimes seen in informal/conversational writing), should the vowel rule depend on the first word in parentheses, or the next word in the "regular" flow of the sentence?

  

I need a (memorable) idiom (preceding an m word; use a)

or

  

I need an (memorable) idiom (preceding an i word; use an)

Q: What does "something 101" mean?

Many times I saw the phrase something 101, such as Microsoft Excel 101. What exactly does it mean?

Q: Difference between "delete" and "remove"

I am writing a mobile application that will, as a part of its functionality, display a list of recorded thoughts. Now I am deciding the textual content of the menus and that left me thinking whether there is a logical difference between words remove and delete. Which one is more appropriate when speaking about taking an item off the list? I guess remove is, but why?

Q: How did 7 come to be an abbreviation for 'and' in Old English?

According to A History of the English Language: Revised Edition by Elly van Gelderen, p.53, in Old English  the numeral 7 was used as an abbreviation for the word and:

  

Abbreviations are frequently used, e.g. 7 stands for and … 

The same book includes various Old English passages with examples of these 7's.  The Peterborough version of the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle is reproduced on pages 83-84 alongside a Modern English translation, which the author has helpfully uploaded to their website:

  

An. M.LXVI. On þyssum geare man halgode þet mynster æt Westmynstre on Cyldamæsse dæg 7 se cyng Eadward forðferde on Twelfts mæsse æfen 7 hine mann bebyrgede on Twelftan mæssedæg innan þære niwa halgodre circean on Westmyntre 7 Harold eorl feng to Englalandes cynerice swa swa se cyng hit him geuðe 7 eac men hine þærto gecuron 7 wæs gebletsod to cynge on Twelftan mæssedæg 7 þa ylcan geare þe he cyng wæs he for ut mid sciphere togeanes Willelme ...

The author includes an image of this text on p.84, to which I've added some crudely drawn red arrows showing the locations of the putative 7's:

  

In the Modern English translation given by the author (by Benjamin Thorpe?), the 7's seem to correspond to and:

  

1066 In this year the monastery at Westminster was hallowed on Childermas day (28 December). And king Eadward died on Twelfth-mass eve (5 January) and he was buried on Twelfth-mass day, in the newly hallowed church at Westminster. And earl Harold succeeded to the Kingdom of England, as the king had granted it to him and men had also chosen him thereto and he was blessed as king on Twelfth-mass day. And in the same year that he was king he went out with a naval force against William ... 

I'm curious about these 7's!  I don't see any obvious relationship between the numeral 7 (or the word seofon) and the word and, and the book unfortunately doesn't elaborate.

Do we know how this convention came about?  If so, how?  Was it really the numeral 7 or just a similar-looking symbol?

Q: Which is correct, "you and I" or "you and me"?

When the phrase is used as an object, why so many native speakers are saying "you and I" instead of "you and me"? I'm not a native speaker but I thought "you and me" is correct. Not sure if this falls into the same category, but "Just between you and me" sounds more natural than "Just between you and I".

Q: Is there a word for a person with only one head?

Reading this article by the fantastic Douglas Adams I came across this interesting quote:

‘[I]nteractivity’ is one of those neologisms that Mr Humphrys likes to dangle between a pair of verbal tweezers, but the reason we suddenly need such a word is that during this century we have for the first time been dominated by non-interactive forms of entertainment: cinema, radio, recorded music and television... We didn’t need a special word for interactivity in the same way that we don’t (yet) need a special word for people with only one head.

This got me thinking — not just about what that word might be (unikef? monocap?), but also about how new words are constructed.

My two first thoughts above were that the word would be constructed from either Greek or Latin roots (mono and uni, respectively), and I assume that most newly constructed words would follow a similar structure. That is - they would take previously prescribed pieces of a language (classical or otherwise) and shape those pieces to fit the needs of the new word.

But which language would be more likely? Greek? Or Latin? Or, since the concept of having to describe someone with only one head antedates both of these languages by so much, would it be inappropriate for a new word to have a classical root?

I would appreciate it if any readers who do have multiple heads could let us know authoritatively how you refer to us one-headed folks.

Q: Which day does "next Tuesday" refer to?

At what point does next Tuesday mean 

  

the next Tuesday that will come to pass  

and no longer 

  

the Tuesday after the Tuesday that will come to pass?

And, when does the meaning switch back?

Q: What does a single letter "J" mean in emailing?

Today is Halloween. After a successful party, many conversations have been going on in my company's email box.

The end of one email said "Till next time J". I had no idea what "J" meant in this sentence and thought it could be a typo. Then I opened another email which read "Thanks to Diana for all her hard work J". 

I figure the letter "J" must mean something here, but I'm not sure whether it only makes sense within my company or if it has a universally accepted meaning.

Q: Is there any word in English where "th" sounds like "t+h"?

It might be a strange question, but I, as a non-native speaker (Pakistani), have listened to English pronunciations by my native people who have over time developed their own pronunciations.

So, I heard the word "THUG" with the pronunciation "T" + "HUG" (T, as in tyre, tank, tip, etc). But I later found out that the "TH" in thug is pronounced like the th in thought, thin, etc.

Since then, I am trying to think whether the pronunciations of TH as T+H are acceptable anywhere else or not? Is there such a word?

Q: What is the word for "the smell of rain"?

I've always noticed that sometimes rain can have a pretty distinct smell.

Do we have a word describing the smell of rain? How can we describe the smell of rain?

"The rain smelt like..."

"The rain had a ... scent."

A: A suspect

I think the manufacturer of your son's ball mixed in a Swedish word:

  Yxa
  
  Swedish, n.: an axe
  
  

  The photograph above is page 22 of the Swedish children's book Vill du läsa I ("Would you like to read [vol I]") by painter Elsa Beskow. The  above it is for julgran, the Swedish word for Christmas tree.

Forensics

I say this on the basis that:

- I checked several thesauruses, like you, as well as Wikipedia's category for axes, and while I found adze, chopper, cleaver, hatchet, mattock, tomahawk, twibill and so on, I found nothing approaching a word with an initial .

- I used OneLook.com's reverse-dictionary functionality to search for "words starting with a  and having a meaning relating to axe"&sup1; and the only thing suggested was yataghan: "a long Turkish knife with a curved blade having a single edge". An image search tells us that no ball-maker would confuse this sword-like blade for an axe.

- Going one step further, I checked Wikipedia's comprehensive list of bladed weapons, and from all countries, throughout all history, only 3 start with an initial : yanmaodao (Chinese), yari (Japanese), and yatagan (Turkish). These are all sword-like weapons, not axe-like, and as mentioned in the previous bullet, of the three, only yatagan has made it into English dictionaries.

- I used an online tool named Translatr to translate both axe and hatchet into 90+ languages, and cross-checked these with the manual translations on Wiktionary, and literally the only word of those ~200 options which started with a  was Swedish yxa. 

Cross-checking the translation from Swedish back into English confirmed that Swedish yxa is English axe. And indeed it is used in Swedish children's primers to illustrate the letter , as you can see from the children's book excerpt above.

The crime scene

As for the other symbols on the ball, we can analyze which letter-symbol pairings make sense in each language. Here I've tagged each pairing with ✅ to indicate "the name a toddler would shout out for the depicted object starts with the corresponding letter", ❌ for "no, it doesn't", and ❓ for "this pairing merits further discussion".

In English, the pairings are Apple✅, Bear✅, Cat✅, Dog✅, Elephant✅, Frog✅, Giraffe✅, House✅, Ice✅, Jet✅, Kangaroo✅, Lion✅, Mouse✅, Nail✅, Owl✅, Pig✅, Queen✅, Rainbow✅, Snail✅, Tiger✅, Uboat❓, Volcano✅, Worm✅, Xylophone✅, Y / axe❌, Zebra✅.

In Swedish, these correspond to Äpple❌, Björn✅, Katt❌, Hund❌, Elefant✅, Groda❌, Giraff✅, Hus✅, Is✅, Jet✅, Känguru✅, Lejon✅, Mus✅, Spik❓&sup2;, Uggla❌, Gris❌, Drottning❌, Regnbåge✅, Snigel✅, Tiger✅, Ubåt✅, Vulkan✅, Mask❌&sup3;, Xylofon✅, Yxa✅, Zebra✅.

As you can see, because most of these words

- are loanwords to both languages (like kangaroo or giraffe), or

- are loanwords from English to Swedish (like jet[plane]), or

- have [proto-]Germanic roots shared by both English and Swedish (like house and mouse), or

- are completely artificial coinages (like xylophone)

most pairings are sensible in both languages. 

All told, in Swedish there are 8 words which simply do not fit, not to mention that, as @jkej points out, a Swedish ball would also have to present the letters ,  and , and would possibly choose to omit . This rules out the possibility that this is a ball made for the Swedish market.

For English, on the other hand, outside the mysterious , all the pairings use straightforward, non-suspicious common nouns an English-speaking toddler would be familiar with4. 

Except for one. That U-boat is Swedish-fishy.

A new clue

Almost no one refers to submarines as U-boats in contemporary English. Quoting @tchrist's response to that information:

  

... especially how a submarine or “U-boat” picture that got used for the U, given how uncommon a word for a sub that U-boat is in English these days — and to a toddler rather than to a great-grandfather who might actually remember them. 

Which is evidence against the maker of the ball being completely familiar with English as she is spoke. 

There's also positive evidence for "U" is for "U-boat" in Swedish children's primers. Quoting @jkej in the comments:

  

The submarine could be seen as circumstantial evidence (although not very strong) for some kind of Swedish mix-up explanation. Although U-boat is an English word, it seems a little strange to use it in this context. But in Swedish ubåt is the only word for submarine.  
  
  

I used Google Image to examine some English alphabet posters and it seemed like almost all of them used umbrella or unicorn for U, but none of them used a U-Boat. Similarly, I found several Swedish alphabet posters with ubåt for U, although uggla (owl) was more common. I can also confirm that yxa was very common for Y.

And indeed it's easy to turn up Swedish pedagogical material having both  = yxa and  = ubåt, like this one from the Swedish site imgrum.com:

But it doesn't stop there.

Following the footprints

Following @jkej's lead on Fishpond.com, I found the manufacturer is Ball, Bounce and Sport Inc.5

This is page 32 of their online catalog (you need to install Adobe Flash; their PDF catalog is broken6):

Item G: 54-4155; #10 A-Z Phonics; 0-33149 04155-9

However, though Fishpond.com listed "Ball, Bounce and Sport Inc." as the ball's manufacturer, upon visiting BB&S' site, one immediately notices the headers and copy all immediately point to another name:

Structurally, Ball, Bounce and Sport Inc. was once a subsidiary of Hedstrom, and through a series of fits and starts in the last century, eventually took ownership of the Hedstrom brand, and now is  doing business as Hedstrom.

That is, Hedstrom is the ball manufacturer's preferred name for branding purposes. Which is interesting, because the name "Hedstrom" is Scandinavian; per Wikipedia's article on the surname:

  

Hedstrom, Hedström and Hedstrøm are surnames of Swedish and Norwegian origin

Tailing the suspect

So is the name Hedstrom indicative of Swedish influences on the ball's manufactoring process?

The Smart Business article linked above on BBS taking ownership of the the Hedstrom brand notes:

  

BBS owns 98 percent of U.S. and Canadian rubber ball markets and a growing percentage of the rotational molding market.

No mention of international markets. However, one influence I can find of non–North American interests in Hedstrom is that these sources confirm that manufacturing is done in Asia, as other answers and comments suggest:

  

BB&S’s Hedstrom Entertainment Division makes play balls and other toys in Asia

But what about Sweden? I've read several different histories of Hedstrom. The accounts are confusing and at points seemingly contradictory, involving many name changes. 

But the salient event was in 1981:

  

Eagle Rubber started making balloons out of a garage in 1916. The company grew and spawned an industry that led to Ashland becoming the balloon capital of the world. The company eventually added lines of plastic play balls. It was bought out by Hedstrom Inc. in 1981, which went bankrupt in 2004.

But if Eagle was the company who built up the play ball business, whence the the acquiring company, Hedstrom? According to this column of Harry Rinker, who is an antiques appraiser and thereby somewhat of an historian:

  

Carl H. Hedstrom, E. Gustaf Hedstrom, Knute W. Hedstrom, Wilfred P. Shuffleton, and Walter Beaman founded the Hedstrom Company, Gardner, Massachusets in 1915.

  ...
  The Hedstrom Corporation still exists. Its Bedford plant produces outdoor gym sets, play balls, toys, etc.  The Dotham operation is toy focused.

Thus the name Hedstrom originates from three Swedes in 1915. The catalog above is dated ~2012, and page 32 lists several of the playballs as new, but not the phonics one, so it's not clear when the ball was first produced. But certainly a century passed between the reason for naming the company Hedstrom and producing the ball. 

So, with a century and countless mergers, bankruptcies, and restructurings intervening, the Swedish name Hedstrom, while intriguing, cannot be adduced as evidence that the  stands for yxa.

The interrogation

I reached out to Hedstrom via their online contact form, Twitter, and Facebook. They replied to me this morning via Facebook:

They confirm your ball is not an official Hedstrom A-Z Phonics ball. The official ball has a yo-yo for the letter . The Hedstrom ball also has a UPC and producer's mark.

Further, Hedstrom confirms they do no business internationally (outside Canada, one assumes), and they're not aware of any specific producers who have a known history of copying their designs. 

A second customer service representative actually responded separately to my contact via their website, instead of Facebook. She did her own forensics, and corroborated that Hedstrom's opinion is that this is a knock-off ball:

  

Thank you for visiting our website and for your online inquiry about an ABC Playball.  Unfortunately, I do not believe this ball was manufactured by Hedstrom.  I've attached an image from our QA files of our ball for your reference.  Some of the things that tip me off that this is not our ball are the elephant and kangaroo colors.  Also, there is considerably more white space on you ball whereas ours has more designs.  So, just for fun, I visited our samples department hoping to find this ball and I was able to find and inflate a sample of our ball.  Our playball has a Yo-Yo for the letter "Y".  Another way you can tell is whether or not there is an official Hedstrom legal patch.  This patch would contain our name, Hedstrom Corporation, our address, our website, made in China in three different languages, a UPC barcode with the number 0-33149-04155-9 and a four-digit date code.  Our inflation valve should be concealed in the Robot "R" picture, too.  I'm not sure if your ball has our legal patch or not or where your inflation valve is located, but these are just a few of the way we identify our products.  It's probably not impossible for another manufacturer to find and use our designs as these are rather old for us and are not licensed or trademarked.  
  
  

Hope that helps solve the mystery for you.  But we are of the opinion that this is a knock off and not an official Hedstrom produced playball.

One last follow-up, and she shared the history of the ball, to the extent she was able to dig up:

  

The records that I can still access tell me we created this ball in 2004 and first sold it in 2005.  The last one was sold in 2008.  Our records don’t indicate ‘who’ might have been the designer at the time.  

Going under cover

So that trail runs cold. The ball is a knock-off.  Let's examine it in more detail for clues.

Indeed, additional analysis reveals that your ball and the Hedstrom ball are very similar, but not identical. There are some differences which have to be taken into account.

In particular, @H Walters points out that the layout — that is, the positions of the symbols relative to one another — are different in your photograph than in the catalog thumbnail for the Hedstrom ball:

  

 and  are shared designs between the two images. The neighborhood around  and  are very different, however; in the OP image  and  are adjacent and at each others' "9 o'clock" ( being oriented differently);  is at 's 6, and  at K's 7. In the catalog  and  aren't even adjacent; we can see 's entire neighborhood (from 1 to 12: ), and 's neighborhood that can be seen is . So at the very least, if they're the same ball,  and  are repeated, which makes little sense.

And, as @m69 further points out:

  

It's not just that the lay-out is different; look at which part of the letter E is covered by the elephant's ear; that's different too.

Note also that in the photo of the ball that Hedstrom sent me,  is used for vase, not volcano,  is for robot, not rainbow, and the drawing of the nail for  is a slightly different style than on your ball.

The stake-out

Finally, at @jkej's prompting:

  

It would add to the "circumstantial" evidence if we could find out the full set of pictures/words used on the original Hedstrom ball. Particularly, it would be very interesting if we could confirm that:   
  
  
  
- All words that are not sensible in English (i.e. Yxa and U-boat) were absent from the original.   
  
- All words not sensible in Swedish were present on the original.   
  
  
  

If (2) holds it is possible that all words added to the knock-off were taken from a Swedish source. Given the pictures of the original that we already have, we only need to confirm that Owl, Queen and Worm were on the original to prove (2).  

I asked my contact at Hedstrom, and she replied:

  

The ‘U’ has a red and white UMBRELLA.  The ‘O’ has a brown and yellow OWL.  The ‘Q’ has a QUEEN with white hair and a yellow crown with red & blue jewels.  And ‘W’ is an orange and red WORM.

Based on this, @jkej's analysis is:

  

I'd like to underscore that I think the answer from Hedstrom was a BIG step forward. It may seem like a dead end, but it conclusively tells us that A) the pictures on the ball came from two distinctly separate sources, B) the general impression of an English ball can be fully explained by one of the sources, C) the pictures from the second source are better explained in Swedish. These were things we could only speculate about before. 

DNE evidence

So a third-party made a knock-off version of the ball, not unusual in Asian manufacture, and introduced these differences, and perhaps picked up some Swedish contagion in the process.

To confirm that, we'll have to pick up the scent of this mysterious DNE you found near the valve of your ball.

But to do that, we have to start at the other end of the trail. I've reached out to Lojas França via email and Facebook. The email bounced, but there's still hope they'll reply on Facebook.

A hot lead!

Meanwhile, an informant, @Brad Koch, has it from some good sources in shady corners of the internet that the ball has been found. From @thedrake on HackerNews:

  

I found the BALL manufacturer!!!!

  https://www.alibaba.com/product-detail/Alphabets-print-ball_573748097.html

And what do we spy in the SW and SE corners of the right image (zoom in):

- : 

- : 

Our suspects! Hiding in China, right where our intelligence said they'd be.  And all the other images match as well.

Now to track down the manufacturer of these knock-off balls.

The chase afoot

From the Alibaba link, we find (one) producer of these balls is  Shanghai Jianhuiling Sporting Goods Co., Ltd. Tracking down the markets they operate in leads us to:

  

Nature of Business: Exporter‚ Manufacturer

  Industry: Toys & Games

  Product/Service Range: Toys and Games

  Major Market(s):

  • Eastern Europe

  • Western Europe  

A final fingerprint

So while Hedstrom is not responsible for the axe on your ball, there is one last piece of evidence that =yxa.

We find the ball again on a Swedish user's Pinterest page. 

In fact, this one of only 3 sites I could find anywhere on the Internet with an image of your ball7.

Case closed open

After all this, one thing is certain. Since the original designer of the ball, an American company whose employees are native speakers of English, used yo-yo to illustrate , we know the intended word is not English.

Overall, adulteration of the ball with Swedish words seems indicated, though far from definitive.

But it's the best theory I've got. Except of course for @Vincent Fourmond's conclusion that we're dealing here with a yakety axe.

&sup1;  I also tried "and related to": hatchet, chop, and cut, even though the latter two words are verbs and all the other symbols on the child's ball represent concrete nouns. Nothing material emerged.

&sup2; We could make a case for N also fitting for Swedish, as @konaya points out, by observing the depicted object could as easily be a tack, which is nubb in Swedish.

&sup3; Note that the  and  which are on the northermost latitude in the photograph have different orientations, and the symbol always has the same orientation as its letter (i.e., the top of the symbol shows you where the top of the letter is) so there is no concern that the  for worm might be  for maggot or anything.

I say this because I wondered for a moment whether the illustrator mistook  for an upside-down  in hatchet.

4 Which, taken as a holistic pattern, makes the yellow theory very dubious.

5 Since this question was asked, the Fishpond.com product page has been removed, with no redirect. Likely that's due to the the popularity of this question causing many people to hit that page (which listed an out-of-stock item), causing needless load from their perspective. But through shrewd parameter hacking, @biolauri got Google to serve up a cached version. A screenshot is available here, for when the cache inevitably gets flushed and also disappears.

With the cached Fishpond.com page in hand, @H Walters did some source snooping and noticed a number of references to the same number as in the Fishpond.com URL: 0033149041559. Many of these references were meta tags and hidden input fields, variously labelled barcode as in  or gtin13 as in . It also exactly matches the code in the catalog (see caption under catalog screenshot; there it is listed in component form Indicator-Company Prefix–Item Reference-Check Digit), and a barcode search confirms the company prefix 0033149 is indeed owned by Ball, Bounce and Sport Inc.

An interesting discrepancy, however. While the Fishpond.com and BBS catalog barcode item reference match (04155), the associated "part numbers" do not. The catalog shows 54-4155: that is, group number 54 (likely "decorated play balls"), species 4155 (same as bar code item reference, less the leading 0). But Fishpond.com shows  Other Information:   54-4246T, which is the same group number (54, decorated play balls), but a different species 4246T.

6 And we also know the wholesale price per dozen as of April 2013 was $1.77, thanks to this price sheet (file name "HedstromSpecialtyPriceListApril2013.xls") tracked down by @Mari-Lou's UPC hunting skills.

Note that the UPC / barcode is the same as in the catalog, 0-33149-04155-9, but the item number differs. The ~2012 catalog has 54-4155, but the 2013 price list has 54-41554. This may be a typo, or it may be additional substantiation that one UPC may be used for different versions of the product.

7 One potential risk here is that the Pinterest.se page was dynamically generated just for me, based on cookies set during the course of my research into "Swedish" and a young child's toy. Note the Swedish header translates to just a generic a "check out these fine products", and all the products offered are to toys for young children, related to reading, and all the descriptions are in English. But I think the risk here is low: I found the site through a reverse image search on Google, which suggests it pre-existed my research.

A: Yes it did, and the formal version was (drumroll, please....) you.

In Early Modern English, thou was the singular and you was the plural. Plural you came to be used as a polite form of address (similar to the French vous, which is also used for the plural), but over time this polite form became more and more common, eventually displacing the singular thou altogether.

This explains a peculiarity of traditional Quaker speech, which one often hears in films set in the early Americas. The Quakers opposed making any distinctions of rank, so they insisted on addressing everyone as thou, not as you. The irony is that today we perceive thou to be archaic and formal, while the original intent is to be more informal.

Update: we don't know if there was any politeness distinction in PIE. In any case, the distinctions that exist in the modern European languages are not inherited from PIE, since the oldest recorded IE languages (Latin, Greek, Sanskrit) did not have separate polite pronouns. The current European system apparently began with the late Roman Emperors and became widespread in the Middle Ages.

Non-IE languages often have more than two levels of distinctness. In Thai and Japanese (the only two languages about which I can speak with confidence), there are a variety of different pronouns that can be used depending on the exact nature of the social relations between the interlocutors, and the system often extends not just to the 2nd person pronoun but to the 1st and 3rd person pronouns as well.

A: Singular they enjoys a long history of usage in English and can be used here: "Each student should save their questions until the end."

However, “singular they” also enjoys a long history of criticism. If you are anxious about being criticized (for what is in fact a perfectly grammatical construction) I would advise rewording to avoid having to use a gender-neutral singular third-person pronoun.

Some rewording strategies that can be employed:

- Use a plural noun: Students should save their questions until the end.

- Use the formal one: One should save one's questions until the end.

- Use his or her: Each student should save his or her questions until the end

Update 2025-09-23

Given recent interest in this answer, I thought I would compile all the unanswered items from the comments and elsewhere into "nohat's FAQ about singular they":
1) What do we mean by “singular they”?

There are two distinct uses:

- Indefinite/generic: refers to an unknown or irrelevant-gender person.
Each student should save their questions until the end.

- Personal/pronominal: refers to a specific person who uses they/them pronouns.
Alex said they’ll present next.

These uses solve different problems: generic reference vs. respecting an individual’s pronouns.
2) Is singular they grammatical?

Yes. It has centuries of attested use in edited English and aligns with how English handles agreement (often semantic, not purely morphological). English already tolerates number “mismatches” where meaning demands it (e.g., the government are… in BrE; you are for a single addressee). With singular they, the antecedent is logically singular, but the pronoun uses the established they are/them/their paradigm—just as you are does.
3) “Isn’t it ambiguous?”

Sometimes, but as I wrote in a comment below, "ambiguity in a language is one of its core sources of expressive richness, not a measure of its defectiveness". Singular they offers economy and flexibility by letting writers leave gender unspecified when it’s not salient. It fills a pragmatic niche not otherwise available, enabling certain kinds of politeness, indirection, and inclusivity. In practice, readers resolve reference from context as they already do with you, this, ellipsis, etc.
4) “Won’t ESL/EFL learners struggle with this?”

It must be taught, and it is taught. Mainstream ESL/EAP curricula, teacher guides, learner dictionaries, and university writing programs now explicitly teach singular they (both generic and personal). Learners manage it for the same reason they manage other English quirks: its frequent use combined with clear classroom framing and authentic input from native speakers.
5) “themself” or “themselves”?

Both occur. In generic use, many editors still prefer themselves. For a specific nonbinary person, themself is increasingly used to signal singular reference. Follow house style or the person’s stated preference. I like themself quite a bit, but I like to play with language.
6) How does singular they compare to the alternatives?

- Pluralize: Students should save their questions…
— Crisp and widely preferred in formal prose when it doesn’t change the meaning.

- Repeat the noun: Each student should save the student’s question…
— Precise, but sounds stilted.

- “his or her”: now often avoided (clunky; excludes many readers).

- “one/one’s”: formal and impersonal; fine in certain, typically formal registers.

- Voice shift: Questions should be saved until the end.
— Smooth when agency isn’t the point.

I would suggest these when the genre or audience (or legal/technical constraints) demand precision that singular they doesn't offer.
7) “Isn’t this political?”

Language change often tracks social reality, but the linguistic facts are independent.

- Generic use fixes a long-standing gap (a natural epicene third-person singular).

- Personal use matches individual identity—like names and titles, it’s a matter of correct reference.

8) When should I avoid singular they?

- Controlled languages e.g. aviation, specs, contracts where prescribed phrasing constraints apply.

- Mixed-proficiency audiences where you anticipate comprehension costs. In those cases, I'd prefer pluralization or impersonal rewrites. I think of it as an element of audience design.

9) Does it ever change the meaning?

Occasionally. Pluralizing can shift scope or emphasis:

- Each student must submit their own work (individual obligation)
vs. Students must submit their own work (can read as group policy; still usually fine).
If distributivity matters, keep each/every + they or rephrase explicitly.

10) What about style guides?

Contemporary major guides and academic styles (and many newsroom/institutional guides) permit or endorse singular they in at least generic use and often for personal use. My recommendation is to treat singular they as acceptable by default.
11) Stock replies to common objections

- “It’s ungrammatical.”
It’s long-attested and follows English’s semantic agreement patterns; major references now include it.

- “It’s ambiguous.”
So are you and this. English manages ambiguity with context; use rewrites when precision is critical.

- “Learners will be confused.”
Learners are taught it; provide examples and, where needed, offer a plural or impersonal alternative.

- “Use ‘his or her’ instead.”
Clunky and not inclusive. Contemporary writing typically avoids it for these reasons.

OED References for “singular” they

Here for the benefit of those who lack access to its paywalled source are the full and complete operative senses from the Oxford English Dictionary. Per the OED the pronoun they has these specific subsenses for the various scenarios under discussion here:

- In anaphoric reference to a singular noun or pronoun. 🗨

Use of they to refer to a singular antecedent has sometimes been considered erroneous.

🗨 Dennis Baron • A brief history of singular ‘they’

…But that’s nothing new. The Oxford English Dictionary traces singular they back to 1375, where it appears in the medieval romance William and the Werewolf. Except for the old-style language of that poem, its use of singular they to refer to an unnamed person seems very modern. Here’s the Middle English version: ‘Hastely hiȝed eche  … þei neyȝþed so neiȝh… þere william & his worþi lef were liand i-fere.’ In modern English, that’s: ‘Each man hurried… till they drew near… where William and his darling were lying together.’…

[4 September 2018]

- 2a. With an antecedent that is grammatically singular, but refers collectively to the members of a group, or has universal reference (e.g. each person, everyone, nobody).

Sometimes, but not always, used to avoid having to specify the gender(s) of the individual(s) being referred to; cf. sense A. 2b.

[[citations ranging from 1350–2014 omitted]]

- 2b.  With an antecedent referring to an individual generically or indefinitely (e.g. someone, a person, the student), used esp. so as to make a general reference to such an individual without specifying gender. Cf. ʜᴇ pron. 2b.

In the 21st century, other th– pronouns (and the possessive adjective their) are sometimes used to refer to a named individual, so as to avoid revealing or making an assumption about that person’s gender; cf. sense A. 2c, and quots. 2008 at ᴛʜᴇɪʀ adj. 2b, 2009 at ᴛʜᴇᴍ pron. 4b, 2009 at ᴛʜᴇᴍꜱᴇʟꜰ pron. 2b.

[[citations ranging from 1450–2010 omitted]]

- 2c. Used with reference to a person whose sense of personal identity does not correspond to conventional sex and gender distinctions, and who has typically asked to be referred to as they (rather than as he or she).

[[citations ranging from 2009–2019 omitted]]

Copyright © 2019 Oxford University Press. All rights reserved.

Retrieved 2019-10-25 23:46:13 UTC, and shown here under the Fair Use Exception.

A: In most varieties of English, these two words are not homophones. But there is an interesting story about why this is so.

In English the alveolar fricatives /s/ and /z/ are contrastive. Notionally, the first is unvoiced and the second voiced. So we can find minimal pairs of words where the difference in voicing results in a change of meaning:

- /su:/

- /zu:/

The first word here is the word sue or Sue, the second is the word zoo.

In a language like Spanish, there is only one alveolar fricative, /s/. This is usually voiceless (although it can become voiced in certain environments). However because there is no phoneme /z/ in Spanish, if a speaker uses a [z] instead of an [s] in a word, it will still be recognised as the same word. So, for example, English speakers of Spanish may well use a [z] in all sorts of words where a Spanish speaker would use an [s], but it will always be recognised as the Spanish phoneme /s/. In other words a Spanish speaker will always map both an [s] and a [z] sound onto the Spanish phoneme /s/.

Because of this lack of contrast in Spanish, it is often difficult for Spanish speakers to differentiate between /s/ and /z/ when listening to English.

Now, many English speakers will tell you that the sound at the end of the word whores is voiced. In actual fact, if it is not followed by a word beginning with a voiced sound, then the /z/ at the end of the word whores will be at least partially, and quite probably completely devoiced. We would show this in a narrow transcription by putting a little circle as a diacritic under the z:

- 

[hɔ:z̥]

British English transcription

A native English speaker will swear blind—I predict at least ten comments under this post saying exactly this—that they can hear the voicing in the sound at the end of the word whores when spoken naturally. However, if you cut that devoiced /z/ off the end of the word and play it back to them without the rest of the word they will confidently tell you that it's an /s/.

Here is what is really happening when a native speaker hears the word whores and why they can differentiate it from the word horse. Unvoiced consonants have an effect on preceding vowels, whereby they cause them to become much shorter. This effect is known as prefortis clipping. If you say the word bead and then the word beat you should be able to hear that the vowel in the word beat is much shorter than the vowel in the word bead. [Try it at home!] It is the unclipped, and therefore relatively long vowel in the word bead that tells your language brain that the phoneme at the end is a 'voiced' /d/ and not an unvoiced /t/. Your brain will trick you into thinking that the sound at the end of the word bead is voiced, but this is just because of the length of the vowel.

So, if a Spanish speaker listening to the word whores and horse puts all their concentration into listening to whether they can hear any voicing in the fricative at the ends of these words, they will not be able to detect any. However, if they concentrate on the contrasting lengths of the vowels, they will notice that the vowel in horse is much shorter than the vowel in whores. This is actually what leads English speakers to hear the difference  between the two words.

The story above is true for both standard British and American English (both words will have an /r/ of course in most varieties of American English). However, there may well be varieties of English which use different vowels in each of these two items.

A: There are three authors involved here:

- The author of the original quote

- The author who quoted #1 and added the first "[sic]"

- The author who is writing the final document (you)

Let's deal with the easy case: If your intent is to quote author #1, simply remove the offending '[sic]'. This omission does not change the meaning of the quoted phrase, and there is absolutely no reason to include it.

It gets more complicated if your intent is to quote author #2. I can think of five main options:

- 

Ignore the offending '[sic]' entirely (this is the most sane option)

  

"...suppose I write a letter from me to you."

- 

Replace the offending '[sic]' with an ellipsis

  

"...suppose I write a letter from me ... to you."

- 

Add your own '[sic]' after the quoted sentence (as Serodis recommends)

  

"...suppose I write a letter from me [sic] to you." [sic]

- 

Add a footnote to clarify the situation. This can be used in several different ways. I prefer the first one, but it really comes down to a matter of style

  

"...suppose I write a letter from me 1 to you."

  "...suppose I write a letter from me to you." 1

  "...suppose I write a letter from me ...1 to you."

  "...suppose I write a letter from me [sic]1 to you."

  "...suppose I write a letter from me [sic] to you." [sic]1  
  
  

1: [Author #2] chose to add [sic] after the word me when quoting [Author #1]

- 

Describe the offending '[sic]' in words.

  

"...suppose I write a letter from me [sic] to you". [Author #2] thought that me was incorrect here.

  "...suppose I write a letter from me ([sic] in original) to you". (as proposed by Ariel)

The choice between these options depends on the purpose of your document. I feel that option 1 makes the most sense unless you are writing an academic or legal document that will be highly scrutinized. In those cases, I would prefer options 2 or 4, since they present much less of a mental speed-bump for the reader.

Options 3 and 5 really only make sense if you actually want to draw attention to the '[sic]' itself. This would be the case if you were critiquing author #2. Between these two, I prefer option 5 since it is the most explicit.

Note 1: Oswald points out that [sic] does not necessarily indicate an error in the quoted text, but rather that "the text appears in the source exactly as quoted".

Note 2: Both SLaks and chris propose creative solutions that use changes in typeface to differentiate between each author

Note 3: Rex Kerr has some good information regarding nested quotes

A: Speaking as a translator, I can share a few rules of thumb that are popular in our profession:

- Hebrew texts are usually shorter than their English equivalents by approximately 1/3. To a large extent, that can be attributed to cheating, what with no vowels and all.

- Spanish, Portuguese and French (I guess we can just settle on Romance) texts are longer than their English counterparts by about 1/5 to 1/4.

- Scandinavian languages are pretty much on par with English. Swedish is a tiny bit more compact.

- Whether or not Russian (and by extension, Ukrainian and Belorussian) is more compact than English is subject to heated debate, and if you ask five people, you'll be presented with six different opinions. However, everybody seems to agree that the difference is just a couple percent, be it this way or the other.

Now that's for complete texts, on average, as a rule of thumb. Obviously, when you are working on a GUI, you mostly have to deal with translating individual words, which changes the picture dramatically. I am not aware of any universal research on the subject, but I will go out on a limb and say that it would be worthless to you, precisely because of being universal.

First of all, let's have a look at English itself. A very popular estimate for the average length of English words is 5 letters (or 5.2, or 5.3, or 5.1). I will not expressly address the validity of that estimate here, though I will link to this tiny bit of intriguing research (executive summary: "the larger the dictionary, the longer the words that are contained in it"). Much rather, I will focus on saying that your mileage will always vary. 

It all depends on what application you are writing, and for what target audience. You might be writing a text editor for children, a web browser for everyone, or a worst-case execution time analyzer for the aerospace industry. Sometimes, your menu entries will read "Open", "Edit", "Save" and "Quit". Other times, they will read "Crossing reduction" and "Simulated annealing". Add into the equation that "Quit" is not necessarily short in all languages, and "simulated annealing" is not necessarily long, and you've got yourself a complete mess, no matter what the universal research says.

Secondly, there is something to be said about the units in which one measures the average word/text length. Traditional research and urban legends alike focus on the number of characters. But for a GUI designer, that kind of information is rather useless, because he measures the screen real estate in pixels.

As a simple example, in terms of letters, "猫" is 66% shorter than "cat" (which is what it means) and 75% shorter than "neko" (which is its Kun reading). But in terms of pixels, you don't save anywhere as much space. So, whether or not your menu items in Japanese, Chinese, Arabic, Farsi or Urdu will end up being shorter than their English counterparts depends on how you define "shorter".

The tricky part is that to one extent or another, this is true for every pair of languages, even for those that use the same alphabet. You have the English word "illicitly", and you translate it into Phantasese, and you get "mamwowo". Now what? It's two letters shorter, yet it no longer fits. (Unless, of course, you are using monospaced fonts everywhere, which is highly unlikely.)

Lastly, I would like to specifically address the myth that German words are oh-so-long. All those awfully long German words are only that long because they correspond to many words in other languages. "Kontroll&shy;fluß&shy;graph&shy;visualisierungs&shy;software" is no longer than its English counterpart, "control flow graph visualization software", and the famous "Donau&shy;dampf&shy;schiffahrts&shy;elektri&shy;zitäten&shy;haupt&shy;betriebs&shy;werk&shy;bau&shy;unter&shy;beamten&shy;gesell&shy;schaft"
is considerably shorter than its English translation. Yep, you heard that right, that monster of a word actually saves space. German words can be long and succinct at the same time, and English recognizes that by borrowing (kindergarten, wunderkind, doppelganger, wanderlust, zeitgeist, schadenfreude...).

Edit: I want to add that when it comes to GUIs (or news headlines), English loves to cheat by dropping articles. "Export file" rather than "export the file", "import image" rather than "import an image", and so forth. Many languages can't do that because they don't have articles to begin with. If there's any advantage Russian does have over English in normal prose, it's not having "a"s, "an"s, "the"s (and "to"s, while we're at it) scattered all over the place. But when it comes to GUIs, Russian loses that advantage, and an English expression that was longer than its Russian equivalent might suddenly become shorter. German is even better at that game: it has lots of articles to drop, none of them shorter than 3 letters, and quite a few that are 4 or 5 letters long.

A: Well with babies we often say 'to sleep(/be) in the bed with'. As in "our baby sleeps in the bed with us."

This extends to adults. Warning... NOTE the use of THE, 'in the bed' is different than 'in bed'!!! Compare 'I was in bed with him' and 'I was in the bed with him'.

Would any of the following examples imply sex....?

  
  
- 

I slept in the bed with him.
  
- 

I stayed the whole night in the bed with her.
  
- 

They were in the bed together.
  

It works because 'the bed' is geographical, but 'bed' has many nuances...

A: An em-dash is typically used as a stand-in for a comma or parenthesis to separate out phrases—or even just a word—in a sentence for various reasons (e.g. a parenthetical; an ersatz-ellipsis).

School is based on the three R’s—reading, writing, and ’rithmetic.

Against all odds, Pete—the unluckiest man alive—won the lottery.

I sense something; a presence I've not felt since—

An en-dash is used to connect values in a range or that are related. A good rule is to use it when expressing a "to" relationship.

The teacher assigned pages 101–181 for tonight’s reading material.

The 2015–2016 fiscal year was the most profitable year for the new business.

New York beat Los Angeles 98–95.

A hyphen is used to join words in a compound construction, or separate syllables of a word, like during a line break, or (self-evidently) a hyphenated name.

The 40-hour workweek has become a thing of the past.

The skirt was a blue-green color.

It's pronounced hos-pi-tal-it-tee.

The minus sign is distinct from all three of the above.

4 − 2 = 2.

The figure dash (‒) is so named because it is the same width as a digit, at least in fonts with digits of equal width. This is true of most fonts, not only mono-spaced fonts.

The figure dash is used within numbers (e.g. phone number 555‒0199), especially in columns for maintaining alignment. Its meaning is the same as a hyphen, as represented by the hyphen-minus glyph; by contrast, the en dash is more appropriately used to indicate a range of values; the minus sign also has a separate glyph.

The figure dash is often unavailable; in this case, one may use a hyphen-minus instead. In Unicode, the figure dash is U+2012 (decimal 8210). HTML authors must use the numeric forms  or  to type it unless the file is in Unicode; there is no equivalent character entity.

If you want to use the correct dash or hyphen in Stack Exchange comments, just use the appropriate HTML entity:  for em-dash,  for en-dash, and  for the minus sign. The hyphen is, of course, directly on your keyboard.

A: Short answer

The PRICE vowel that we hear in the word wise, /waɪz/, has a systematic relationship with the KIT vowel which we hear in the word wizard, /'wɪzəd/. As we add syllables to the base of a word in English, we tend to reduce the length of the vowel in the base. This is so that we can accommodate the new syllables and still preserve the perceived stress timed rhythm of English. When we add syllables to a base word containing the PRICE vowel, the vowel is very likely to change to a KIT. Other pairs of long and short vowels have this same type of relationship in English.

Full answer

What the Original Poster is observing here is a side-effect of the way English organises stressed syllables in connected speech.

English is a 'stress-timed' language. What this means is that the syllables in English utterances do not come at regular intervals in the way that they do in Japanese for example, or in Spanish. Instead English utterances give the impression that the stressed syllables come at regular intervals. In actual fact this is not strictly what's happening, in the sense that although they give this impression, the stressed syllables do not occur at strictly regular intervals at all. 

The upshot of this is that the following utterances, for example, will take roughly the same amount of time to pronounce in English:

- fish, peas, beans, rice.

- fish and then some peas and a banana and a casserole.

The first utterance there has only four syllables, but the second has fifteen. However, in normal relaxed speech, these sentences will have approximately the same duration. This is because they each have four stressed syllables:

- fish, peas, beans, rice.

- fish and then some peas and a banana and a casserole.

Now, if you're a native speaker, if you tap out the stressed syllables as you say the two utterances, you'll realise that the stressed syllables seem to come at regular intervals, regardless of what other material comes in between them.

English has a system for enabling this to happen. One part of this system is that many grammatical words have two forms. They have a strong form which we use if these words are stressed (or stranded). They have a weak form which we use if they are not stressed. So for example, the strong form of can is /kæn/ and the weak form is /kn/ or /kən/. You will be able to hear the difference in the following examples:

- I can dance.

- I can dance.

What you will notice is that these weak forms have a reduced vowel, most usually a schwa, /ə/. This vowel is easy to pronounce very quickly because it does not require any large movements of the articulators.

Another effect that we find is that a given stressed syllable will become shorter when more unstressed syllables are added. So the if we compare the /mæn/ ('man') in the word man and the /mæn/ in the word manager, we will find that /mæn/ is much longer in the first word than in the second. Compare:

- He's a man.

- He's a manager.

The reason for this is that with the word manager, we need to be able to squash the rest of the word in before the next stressed syllable arrives. Reducing the length of the vowel in /mæn/ enables us to squish in the next two syllables without radically increasing the length of time it takes to say the word. This is known as rhythmic clipping.

Within words themselves we can see processes similar to the ones above at work. English has families of vowels. In British English we can notionally divide these families according to the perceived length of the vowel. So in one group we have the long vowels, /i:, u:, ɑ:, ɔ:, ɜ:/ (as in bead, booed, bard, board, bird), and the diphthongs. In the other we have the 'short' vowels, which include, amongst others /ɪ, e, æ, ɒ, ʌ/ (as in bid, bed, bad, bod, butt).

Now, there seems to be a systematic relationship between many long vowels in English and other specific short vowels. If you speak English, these qualities will seem to be logical. In fact, they aren't. In terms of the actual  sound there is almost no phonetic relationship between the long vowels and their short vowel counterparts in modern English. For example, the vowels in the words weight and bad are not very similar. We represent these sounds by the symbols: /eɪ/ and /æ/ respectively. However, these vowels have a very close relationship in the language. For example, the following words have the /eɪ/ vowel:

- grateful

- sane

- inflame

The following words, on the other hand, even though they have the same root, usually have the vowel /æ/:

- gratitude 

- insanity

- inflammatory

This change from long to short vowels usually happens when there are extra syllables added to the base or root of the word. The more syllables there are in a word the more short vowels and the fewer long vowels we are likely to see. We can think of this as a kind of  phonological rhythmic clipping. It helps to reduce the amount of time needed to say that syllable in order to accommodate the other unstressed syllables.  The following long and short vowels have this same relationship:

- eɪ / æ

- i: / e

- aɪ / ɪ

- əʊ / ɒ

- aʊ / ʌ

These relationships can be seen in the following pairs of words respectively:

- chaste / chastity

- penal / penitentiary

- wise / wisdom

- joke / jocular

- south / southern

The Original Poster's Question

The /aɪ/ diphthong that we find in words such as Michael, Christ and wise has a phonological relationship with the short vowel /ɪ/ in English. Because English is stress timed, it has systematic methods for reducing vowel lengths in order to accommodate unstressed syllables without radically disrupting the natural rhythm of the language. When we add syllables to base words containing the PRICE vowel, /aɪ/, it is likely to change to a KIT vowel /ɪ/. This is what we see in the Original Poster's examples:

- 'maɪkl /'mɪklməs 

- 'kraɪst / 'krɪsməs 

- 'waɪz / 'wɪzəd

- 'saɪkl / baɪsɪkl 

Transcription note

I have used a standard British English transcription, as used by John Wells in Longman Pronunciation Dictionary

A: i.e. stands for id est (Latin), which means "that is". You use it to link in a deeper explanation about something.
Pronounce it "eye - ee".

e.g. stands for exempli gratia (also Latin), which means "for example". You use it to link in an example of a more generic term.
Pronounce it "ee - jee"

A: Sounds like the Dunning–Kruger effect:

  

The Dunning–Kruger effect is a cognitive bias in which low-ability individuals suffer from illusory superiority, mistakenly assessing their ability as much higher than it really is. Psychologists David Dunning and Justin Kruger attributed this bias to a metacognitive incapacity, on the part of those with low ability, to recognize their ineptitude and evaluate their competence accurately. Their research also suggests corollaries: high-ability individuals may underestimate their relative competence and may erroneously assume that tasks which are easy for them are also easy for others.&mdash;Wikipedia: Dunning–Kruger effect.

A: This is a question that used to plague me for ages, until I finally sat down and thought it through.

As a programmer, I see both used a lot, and often interchangeably.  For me, I like to think of the question by beginning with another question: What is the 'not registered' state called?

Let's assume you're a programmer, but keep in mind this is applies anywhere.  When you have a variable which represents some item that can be registered, what do you call the function to discover if it is registered?  In all likelihood, you'll call it 'isRegistered()'.  So in that sense, you make the problem into a boolean.  i.e. is it registered, or is it NOT registered.

Then, from that logic, I believe your options simply become:

- isRegistered() - false if the object is 'unregistered' - i.e. 'not registered' false == isRegistered().

- registerSomething() - It has now moved from 'not registered' to 'registered'.

- deregisterSomething() - It has now moved from 'registered' to 'not registered'. i.e. 'unregistered'.

This is why it's convention in programming to call an object that hasn't been 'initialised' as 'uninitialised', not 'deinitialised'.  This implies it was never initialised to begin with, so its initial state is 'uninitialised'.  If its initial state was called 'deinitialised' it would give the false impression that it was previously initialised.

The bottom line for me is that you should define a convention for its use in your particular context, and stick to it.  The above convention is what I now use throughout my code.

Urgh... Here is all of that in a single line ;)

state=unregistered -> 'register' -> state=registered -> 'deregister' -> state=unregistered.

-- Shane

A: This is an old chemistry pun. The first scientist expected the exchange to go something like

Scientist 1: I’d like some H₂O.

Scientist 2: I’d like some H₂O, too.

which would sound exactly the same as

Scientist 2: I’d like some H₂O₂.

H₂O₂ is the chemical formula for hydrogen peroxide, of which a glass would be highly toxic.

A: Eureka! Ok, so it's not a single word, but it's what I was trying to think of:

Semantic Satiation:

  

Semantic satiation (also semantic saturation) is a psychological phenomenon in which repetition causes a word or phrase to temporarily lose meaning for the listener, who then perceives the speech as repeated meaningless sounds.

I also found a languagehat discussion on this topic.

A: A visualization of what we mean in English by the various tenses:

A: It depends on whether the abbreviation is an acronym or an initialism.

- As "fubar" and "scuba" are usually pronounced as a word (making them acronyms), it would make sense to say "a fubar" and "a scuba diver".

- "FAQ" is a bit harder, because I have heard people say it like an initialism: "‹f›‹a›‹q›", while others pronounce it as an acronym /fæk/.

Therefore, one should write either "a FAQ" (/fæk/) or "an FAQ" (‹f›‹a›‹q›) depending on how that person pronounces it, ie, whether it is an acronym or an initialism.

A: A preposition is a perfectly reasonable word to end a sentence with. Admonitions against doing so are not something anyone needs pay heed to. It's the kind of made-up rule that is not based on the reality of the language and anguish over doing it is something no writer need suffer from. And if you don't believe me, look it up.

A: From Amerenglish:

"An" goes before all words that begin with vowels:

- An egg

With two exceptions:

When "u" makes the same sound as the "y" in you, or "o" makes the same sound as "w" in won, then "a" is used:

- a union

- a united front

- a unicorn

- a used napkin

- a U.S. ship

- a one-legged man

So it's "a user".

A: “Bear with me,” the standard
expression, is a request for
forbearance or patience.

“Bare with
me” would be an invitation to undress.

(Common Errors in English Usage, by Paul Brians)

A: “Guys” can be used in English as gender neutral to refer to a group of mixed gender.

You will even hear women refer to other women as “guys.”

The closest linguistic equivalent with a feminine tilt would be “gals.” “Guys and gals” is a rather informal variant of “ladies and gentlemen.” (Note the reverse order.)

Edit: As noted by @kitukwfyer in the question comments, it is possible for “gals” to be derogatory when used by itself so be careful. It’s not likely to be a problem used in the pairing above. Used carefully it’s probably safe, but used by itself it could be heard as mockery.

Saying the following is unlikely to offend anyone:

  

“The gals talked in the kitchen while the guys went out to see Fred’s new truck.”

But walking up to a couple women on a street corner and saying this might get a strange reaction:

  

“Excuse me gals, where is the grocery store?”

Saying this to a couple girls might make them doubt you:

  

“Hey gals come with me.”

But if you are explaining some game instructions and say the following it’s likely to be fine:

  

“Alright, guys on this side of the room, gals on the other.”

A: In general, the "t" and "h" in "th" are only pronounced on their own when they appear in English words that originated as compound words (such as rat-hole becoming "rathole", foot-hill becoming "foothill", and light-house becoming "lighthouse"). In each of these cases "th" is not a single sound, but rather two sounds, "t" and "h".

Instead, "th" is almost universally (in English, that is) used as a digraph (which means that both the 't' and the 'h' combine to form a single sound; in other words, you could replace the "th" with some symbol without losing meaning). Basically, if you wanted to, you could consider "th" its own letter. 

The primary ways "th" is used in English are: 

As a voiceless dental fricative, such as in "thing", "thug", "throw", or "math".

As a voiced dental fricative, such as in "this", "then", "soothe", "lithe", "bathe", or "smooth" (which a long time ago used to be spelled "smoothe").

While those are the primary uses of "th", there are some instances where "th" is used to import foreign words, that have sounds that most English speakers can't differentiate/can't pronounce (for example, I think the word "Thailand" is written with a "Th" because the "t" sound is supposed to be an aspirated consonant, but I can't make or understand the difference between that and non-aspirated sounds, so I'm not the best judge for that); typically we'll take those sounds and ignore aspiration, or pronounce them in one of the other two ways I mentioned.

It may also interest you to look at the letter thorn Þ, which was used in written English several-hundred years ago. It was replaced by "th" as German printing presses did not come with the symbol, and adding it in would have been too costly.

A: Actually, I feel a few of the other answers here (and even the question) are a bit simplistic: there's more to this issue than is indicated by the latest editions of the Chicago Manual of Style or Bringhurst's The Elements of Typographic Style. In lieu of a very long answer, let me point to the (long) Wikipedia articles on exactly this issue:

- Sentence spacing

- History of sentence spacing

- Sentence spacing in language and style guides

- Sentence spacing in the digital age

My (inadequate) summary would be something like the following:

- 

The traditional typesetters' convention was to use a (single) longer space between sentences than between words. For instance, CMoS 1911 still recommends a 3-em space between words and an em-quad between sentences.

- 

With the introduction of the typewriter (invented in the late 19th century), many typographical niceties were lost: the typewriters produced monospaced (fixed-width) text, and the only choice was between one space and two. Many people felt a single space wasn't sufficient to see the gap between sentences at a glance, so double spacing came into vogue.

- 

Today, with proportional (variable-width) fonts, two spaces is no longer necessary, and can look distractingly too wide. Modern tools allow more choice than between exactly "one space" or two. In particular, TeX and LaTeX have got it right since the 1980s: they typeset a slightly longer space between sentences (though this can be turned off). HTML ignores multiple consecutive spaces anyway. (Sometimes fonts try to be smart and have the period character itself have a wider space following it, but this isn't ideal: there can be periods within a sentence, because of abbreviations etc.)

Even shorter summary (my opinion):

Don't use two spaces unless you're using a fixed-width font like a typewriter. If forced to choose only between one space and two, choose one. But if your typesetting system supports it, have a wider space between sentences.

A: The mark in question is an acute accent mark and is absolutely intended to mimic the native Japanese pronunciation, which itself is based on the English words "pocket monster". 

Because of English orthography, there is considerable ambiguity surrounding the pronunciation of the character "e". (Compare the way you pronounce the "e" in "pocket" with the way you pronounce the "e" in "peel" to see this for yourself.) 

However, in Japanese, the orthography and pronunciation of "e" sounds presents no ambiguity. To accurately transcribe the "e" sound found in the English word "pocket", only the character ケ, which is pronounced as /kɛ/, can be used. 

Therefore, to indicate the correct pronunciation in orthographically-complex, ambiguous English, the acute accent was used. The reason for this decision was because although no native English words use the acute accent mark, most English speakers, and many Japanese speakers, are familiar with the way in which an acute accent mark modifies pronunciation, due to the large number of existing French loanwords in both English and Japanese--entrée/アントレ, café/カフェ, and élite/エリート are familiar examples of this pattern. 

Source: I am a Japanese speaker and have worked at Nintendo as a translator.

A: I'm surprised this question isn't a dupe, and this word has never been offered as an answer to this question before. It's a famous example of a specific word for a specific sensation.

  petrichor
  
  

/ˈpeˌtrīkôr/

  noun

  a pleasant smell that frequently accompanies the first rain after a long period of warm, dry weather.

  other than the petrichor emanating from the rapidly drying grass, there was not a trace of evidence that it had rained at all

This particular definition is from Oxford Dictionaries Online (ODO).

A: The question of "a" vs "an" is always decided by the pronunciation of the word that follows the article. Thus, various geographical regions that have different pronunciation rules may use a different article for the same word.

Words that begin with a vowel sound, such as "apple", "egg", or "hour" are preceded by "an".

All other words, such as "cake", "pie", and "user" (which begins with a  sound), are preceded by "a".

Except (as lifted from @Nohat's comment below) - The rules before "h" are a little tricky, but clear: if a word begins with an "h" sound and the first syllable is stressed (like "house"), then it never takes "an". If the first syllable is not stressed (like "historical") then it is possible to use "an". Some usage authorities would say you must use "an" in those cases, but Nohat is not one of those authorities. You find both "a" and "an" used before words like "historical". 

So to answer your actual question:

  

He ate a green apple.

  He ate an enormous Pop-Tart.  

"Green" does not begin with a vowel sound, so we use "a".

"Enormous", on the other hand, does begin with a vowel sound, so we use "an".

A: The usage of '[sic]' is well defined for quoting a passage that you believe has an error in it

This is not the actual meaning. The actual meaning is, that the text appears in the source exactly as quoted. It is used to draw attention to that fact, for whatever reason. An error on the side of the original author is a very common reason, but not the only one.

If I make the same error in every sentence, then a sentence where I do not make that error might just as well be worth a [sic].

If the author you quote from uses [sic] and you use it on his quote, it is not clear who introduced which [sic] (regardless of where you put yours). You cannot remove the [sic] of the original author, because that would distort the intent of the original author. I would therefore go for a footnote on the quoted [sic], that explains the details.

A: I am re­mind­ed of how J.R.R. Tol­kien’s moth­er once fa­mous­ly
cor­rect­ed him at a very ear­ly age when he said ‘a green great drag­on’.
She told him that it had to be ‘a great green drag­on’, but when he asked
her why, she couldn’t an­swer, there­by start­ing him down the road of
puz­zling over mat­ters of philology (linguistics) his whole life long.

This top­ic is one of con­tin­u­ing re­search. Sim­ply goog­ling for
‘ad­jec­tive or­der­ing re­stric­tions’ (AOR) or ‘ad­jec­tive hi­er­ar­chy’
can un­cov­er some fas­ci­nat­ing re­search in this area.

In her 2006 pa­per on “Ad­jec­tive Order­ing Re­stric­tions
Re­vis­it­ed” on pp
309–407 of the Pro­ceed­ings of the 25ᵗʰ West Coast Con­fer­ence on
For­mal Lin­guis­tics, Alex­an­dra Te­o­dor­es­cu writes:

Ad­jec­tive or­der­ing re­stric­tions (AOR) have been wide­ly dis­cussed,
but they are still not very well un­der­stood.  For ex­am­ple, in
lan­guages like English pre­nom­i­nal ad­jec­tives are strict­ly or­dered.

…

For ex­am­ple, ad­jec­tives that de­note qual­i­ty have been ar­gued to
pre­cede ad­jec­tives con­vey­ing size, which in turn pre­cede ad­jec­tives
con­vey­ing shape, and so on, in all lan­guages (5). Sim­i­lar claims have
been made for oth­er ad­jec­tive types, and the re­spec­tive or­der­ing
re­stric­tions are giv­en in (6).

- 

(5) Qual­i­ty > Size > Shape > Color > Prov­e­nance [Sproat and Shih (1991)]

- 

(6) a. Posses­sive > Speak­er-ori­ent­ed > Sub­ject-ori­ent­ed >Man­ner/The­mat­ic  [Cinque (1994)]

- 

b. Value > Di­men­sion > Phys­i­cal prop­er­ty > Speed > Hu­man Propen­si­ty > Age > Color [Dixon (1982)]

See Teodor­es­cu’s bib­li­og­ra­phy to chase down re­lat­ed work. You
should al­so look for pa­pers that cite hers (Google Schol­ar finds 26 such
ci­ta­tions
to her work), like Lu­cas Cham­pi­on’s 2006 pa­per on “A Game-The­o­ret­ic
Ac­count of Ad­jec­tive Order­ing
Restric­tions”, which
starts off with the Tol­kien ex­am­ple.

Build­ing then on Cham­pi­on’s work is this English-lan­guage pa­per by
An­to­nia An­drout­so­pou­lou, Ma­nuel Es­pañol-Eche­va­rría, and Phil­ippe
Pré­vost en­ti­tled “On the Ac­qui­si­tion of the Prenom­i­nal Place­ment
of Eval­u­a­tive Ad­jec­tives in L2
Spanish”, from the 10ᵗʰ His­pan­ic Lin­guis­tics Sym­po­si­um in 2008. This one is in­ter­est­ing
be­cause it looks at how sec­ond-lan­guage learn­ers ac­quire an
un­der­stand­ing of ad­jec­tive or­der­ing when learn­ing a new lan­guage:

In this pa­per, we fur­ther in­ves­ti­gate knowl­edge of ad­jec­ti­val
or­der­ing re­stric­tions in for­eign lan­guage learn­ing, by fo­cus­ing on
L2 ac­qui­si­tion of eval­u­a­tive ad­jec­tives (EAs) in Span­ish by French
learn­ers.

The most re­cent pro­fes­sion­al pub­li­ca­tion I could find on this is­sue
is Katy Mc­Kin­ney-Bock­’s 2010 pa­per on “Ad­jec­tive Class­es and
Syn­tac­tic Or­der­ing
Re­stric­tions”,
in which she writes:

There is a lack of con­sen­sus in the lit­er­a­ture as to which
clas­si­fi­ca­tion of ad­jec­tives is di­rect­ly rel­e­vant for the
ob­served syn­tac­tic re­stric­tions on their or­der­ing. In this pa­per, I
ar­gue that ad­jec­tives are di­vid­ed in­to four class­es of rel­e­vance
for syn­tac­tic or­der­ing. I pro­pose that ad­jec­tive or­der­ing
re­stric­tions (AOR) are the re­sult of ad­jec­ti­val con­stit­u­ents
rais­ing or not rais­ing in the struc­ture as a con­se­quence of their
com­plex­i­ty, rather than stip­u­lat­ing that se­man­tic prop­er­ties
cor­re­late to syn­tac­tic heads.

and whose ex­tend­ed ab­stract reads:

I ar­gue there are four class­es of ad­jec­tives rel­e­vant to
syn­tac­tic or­der­ing: pred­ica­tive/in­ter­sec­tive,
pred­ica­tive/non-in­ter­sec­tive, non-pred­ica­tive, clas­si­fy­ing
(Sven­on­i­us 2008, Al­ex­i­a­dou et al 2007), and pre­vi­ous pro­pos­als
have not iden­ti­fied the rel­e­vant se­man­tic di­men­sions.  Among the
prop­er­ties of grad­abil­i­ty, mass/count, and in­ter­sec­tiv­i­ty, on­ly
in­ter­sec­tiv­i­ty is syn­tac­ti­cal­ly rel­e­vant. The four class­es of
ad­jec­tives are mo­ti­vat­ed by the dis­tri­bu­tion of
or­dered/non-or­dered ad­jec­tives, scope ef­fects with cer­tain
ad­jec­tive-pairs, PP-mod­i­fi­ca­tion, N-drop­ping and com­par­a­tives
(Bouchard 2002, Hig­gin­both­am 1985, Ken­nedy 1999). DP struc­ture
in­volves 1) merg­ing the clas­si­fy­ing ad­jec­tive with pro­nounced N, 2)
merg­ing in­ter­sec­tive ad­jec­tives with N, 3) merg­ing
non-in­ter­sec­tive ad­jec­tives with a silent copy of N.

Fi­nal­ly, if you’re look­ing for some­thing slight­ly less pro­fes­sion­al
— or at least, less aca­dem­ic — then in this blog
post­ing,
the wri­ter pos­its an or­der­ing of:

- eval­u­a­tion

- size

- shape

- con­di­tion

- hu­man pro­pen­si­ty

- age

- col­or

- ori­gin

- ma­te­ri­al

- at­trib­u­tive noun

And sum­ma­rizes with:

If there’s def­i­nite­ly a mean­ing dif­fer­ence be­tween dif­fer­ent
ad­jec­tive or­der­ings, let that de­ter­mine how you or­der them, and
don’t use com­mas. If you can’t find a mean­ing dif­fer­ence, don’t go
try­ing to force there to be one. In­stead, go by the
ad­jec­tive-or­der­ing hi­er­ar­chy, and don’t use com­mas.  If more than
one ad­jec­tive has the same kind of mean­ing in the hi­er­ar­chy, then use
com­mas, or ands or buts if the ad­jec­tives have con­tras­tive mean­ings.

There’s a lot more out there on this top­ic.

A: I am not aware of a suffix per se with that meaning, but I sometimes see the idea expressed by forming a pairing with the word agnostic.  Although the first meaning of this word is specifically about religious belief, it can also be used in a more general sense:

  
  
- a person who is unwilling to commit to an opinion about something 
  

(Merriam-Webster)

Though M-W does not document it, other sources indicate that the word can also be used as an adjective to describe a person who holds the (non-)beliefs of an agnostic on a particular subject.

Thus, you might say "Chrome and Internet Explorer both have strong partisans, but I am browser-agnostic."

A: You can use "crash with someone".

Example:  

  

I had no place to stay so I crashed with her. 

Although not foolproof, it implies less the act of having sex.

Edit: As it's been pointed out, crashing with someone implies some sort of need. You might be too tired to go elsewhere or not have anywhere else to stay.

Edit 2: Some variants I can think of are "crashing at someone's place" or "crashing on someone's couch". If you just use "crash with someone" you avoid telling exactly where you slept.

A: The Chicago Manual of Style has an interesting way to address this: they omit the apostrophe, unless there are periods in the abbreviation. So this would give you , or alternately . ( looks weird.) chicagomanualofstyle.org, "Plurals"

This page indicates that acronyms ending in the letter "S" get an apostrophe, something I've seen before, but can't find in a general reference. So one would write  and .

A page on the North Carolina State University website (available on the Internet Archive) referenced AP's rule as being to always use an apostrophe.

The 2009 AP Stylebook's "plurals" entry has no section on acronyms, but mentions "VIPs", I can't find anything addressing how to specifically pluralize acronyms. (The "abbreviations and acronyms" section is also of no help.)

Personally, I omit using apostrophes unless I can't avoid it. I do use them when talking about single letters or where it would avoid confusion. (For example, SOs for "Significant Others" looks like an incorrectly capitalized SOS.)

To paraphrase Carol Fisher Saller, the clearer usage is the correct one.

A: The basic rules of forming comparatives:

One-syllable words take "er":

- clear -> clearer

- sweet -> sweeter

Multisyllable words take "more":

- incredible -> more incredible (not "incredibler")

- horrible -> more horrible (not "horribler")

Two-syllable words ending in consonant + "y" take "ier":

- happy -> happier

- pretty -> prettier

Both "more clear" and "clearer" are acceptable:

Your answer is more clear than mine.

Your answer is clearer than mine.

Frequency of use: clearer than is twice as common as more clear than, although both are common.

A: With one exception 1 I don't think there is a nuanced difference here but rather multiple formations of the same concept.  As you noted, requester is more common than requestor.

This explanation about choosing -er or -or includes the following:

4. -or is used when the base word ends in -ate, -ct, -it :
   calculate/calculator    create/creator    investigate/investigator
   contract/contractor    reflect/reflector    conduct/conductor
   visit/visitor    exhibit/exhibitor    edit/editor

1 In programming languages that have the concept of an interface you sometimes see the "-or" form, so follow the conventions of whatever domain you're writing in.

A: Dictionaries (Merriam-Webster and New Oxford American Dictionary) have deselect but not unselect. The NOAD defines deselect as “turn off (a selected feature) on a list of options on a computer menu”, which is what you want.

Unselected, on the other hand, is used to qualify something that has not been selected, not something that was selected and isn't anymore.

A: OP is right to suspect active/passive has a bearing on preferred usage. From Google Books...

1: Active voice favours with...

The company replaced workers by machines - 9 results

The company replaced workers with machines  - at least 180 results1

2: Passive voice favours by...

Workers were replaced by machines - at least 160 results1

Workers were replaced with machines - 8 results

To be honest, I can't say I think there's anything wrong with the "less favoured" versions above, and it would be ridiculous to suggest there's any semantic difference. But note that whereas...

Tom replaced Dick by Harry

Tom replaced Dick with Harry

...are both equivalent (manager Tom took Dick off the team, and put Harry in instead), if we want to put that into the "passive" voice, we can only recast it as...

Dick was replaced by Tom with Harry

...or (more likely, imho)...

Dick was replaced with Harry by Tom

That's to say, if the "passive" form actually specifies the "agent", we have to use by for that agent. So we can only use with for the "replacement" in such (slightly contrived) constructions.

1 Google Books has changed somewhat since I originally did these searches - the smaller values are easy to count so they're accurate, but the "at least" values just reflect how many pages of 10 hits each I could scroll through before GB stopped returning any more (sometimes it just truncates relatively large result sets for no obvious reason). Whatever - that huge reversal of ratios is still unmistakable.

A: If etc. occurs at the end of a sentence, then you do not add another period.

  

It's all about apples, oranges, bananas, etc.

However, if etc. occurs at the end of a clause, you can add a comma or other punctuation mark after it.

  

I bought the apples, oranges, etc., but they were all rotten.

Grammar.ccc.com gives the following rule:

  

When an abbreviation with a period ends a sentence, that period will suffice to end the sentence.

A: The easy way to tell which is technically correct is to substitute he and him for who and whom, then rearrange the word order to see which sounds right. 

“Who were you speaking to?” becomes “You were speaking to he” — which is clearly incorrect.

A: Short answer: When in doubt, use who. It's disconcerting to hear whom where who is expected, but the usage of who in situations where previously whom was standard has been increasing, especially in spoken usage.

Longer answer: The traditional rule is that whom was to be used in the "objective case". What this means in practice (it's even controversial whether English has cases), is that you  try to answer the question: if the answer is he, she, they, I, we, etc., you use who. If the answer is him, her, them, me, us, etc., you use whom.

Examples:

- 

"The man who spoke yesterday…", not "the man whom spoke…" ("He spoke" is correct; "Him spoke" is not.)

- 

"Whom did you see?", not "Who did you see?" ("I saw him", not "I saw he".) The latter is frequently common these days, though.

The Language Log posts (1, 2, 3) linked in another answer, as well as William Safire quoted on the Wikipedia page, recommend avoiding whom or recasting your sentence if it seems necessary.

Someone using whom in place of who is likely to be interpreted as a hypercorrection from linguistic insecurity (and Geoff Pullum at the Language Log agrees), while using who in place of whom is, at worst, being too colloquial (and at best, being hip and cool!). Summary: it's good to know which is which and use them correctly, but when in doubt, use who.

A: CBS Sports has this nice article explaining the origin of the word, including a newspaper snippet from 1909:

“Hand-Egg,” Not Football.

To the Editor of The New York Times:

Football is certainly a misnomer, for the game is played not with the feet but with the hands, and the ball is not a ball but an egg.

I propose that the game be played with the feet and with a ball, or else that it be called “hand-egg.”

OBSERVER.

New York, Nov. 7, 1909.

Hand-egg is the proposed word for what has been named football when describing a sport in which an egg is moved using one's hands, instead of an activity where a ball is moved with one’s feet.

A: Michael Swan (Practical English Usage,
  Oxford University Press, 1997) writes:
  
  

"Unfortunately, the rules for
  adjective order are very complicated, and different grammars
  disagree about the details" p. 8
  
  

He does, however, go on to list some
  of the most important rules:
  
  
  
- 

Adjectives of colour, origin, material and purpose usually go in that order.  
  
  
  
- Colour-origin-material-purpose-noun    
  
- red Spanish leather riding boots   
  
- A brown German beer mug    
  
- A Venetian glass flower vase

  
  
  
- 

Other adjectives usually go before words of colour, origin, material and
  purpose. It is impossible to give
  exact rules, but adjectives of
  size, length and height often come first.
  
  
  
- The round glass table (NOT the glass round table)
  
- A big, modern brick house (NOT a modern, big brick house)
  
- Long, flexible steel poles
  
- A tall, ancient oak-tree

  
  
- 

Adjectives which express judgements or attitudes usually come before all others.
  Examples are lovely, definite, pure,
  absolute, extreme, perfect, wonderful,
  silly.
  
  
  
- A lovely, long, cool drink
  
- Who's that silly fat man over there?

  
  
- 

Numbers usually go before adjectives.
  
  
  
- Six large eggs
  
- The second big shock

  
  
  

First, next and last
  most often go before one, two, three
  etc.
  
  
  
- The first three days
  
- My last two jobs."
  
  
  
  

pp. 8-9
  
  

He does not mention age, which
  would normally go after adjectives of
  size, length and height, but before
  colour, origin, material and purpose.  

  
  
  
- A big old straw hat.  
  
- A charming young university student.
  
  
  

Thus, a complete list could be:
  
  

(article) + number + judgement/attitude + size, length,
  height + age + colour + origin +
  material + purpose + noun
  
  
  
- a lovely long black leather coat  
  
- a valuable Dutch Impressionist painting  
  
- a rustic old stone holiday cottage
  

[Reference: BritishCouncil.org]

A: It's probably to indicate that the "e" is pronounced, not silent. The word "sake" (in the meaning of the Japanese rice wine) is sometimes spelt saké for that reason.

A: If it avoids catastrophic failure, it exhibits:

  

graceful degradation - Graceful degradation is the ability of a computer, machine, electronic system or network to maintain limited functionality even when a large portion of it has been destroyed or rendered inoperative. The purpose of graceful degradation is to prevent catastrophic failure. Ideally, even the simultaneous loss of multiple components does not cause downtime

I do not think you will find one word for these things.  They are not "working" as designed... they have failed.  They simply have failed in a way that doesn't completely destroy their utility, but that's not to say they couldn't fail that way.  The wheels could fall off the moped, the brush on the electric toothbrush could break off.   

You're more describing a failure mode than a specific variety of things.  So, another answer geared at a description, rather than one word.

A: There are some situations where status may be considered countable. In those cases, the plural form can be used as statuses. MacMillan dictionary gives 4 definitions for status, and 3 of them are referred to as countable. Personally, I would use status as the plural form instead of statuses.

A: Delete and remove are defined quite similarly, but the main difference between them is that delete means erase (i.e. rendered nonexistent or nonrecoverable), while remove connotes take away and set aside (but kept in existence).

In your example, if the item is existent after the removal, just say remove, but if it ceases to exist, say delete.

As a side note: delete is sometimes used of computer files to mean move to trash/recycle bin (hence it is still recoverable), but that's not a standard meaning outside of that context.

A: I would write “Log in to host.com.”

I think that “login” is a noun (as in “login screen”).  I would find the words “loginned” and “loginning” awkward.

As for “Log in to host.com” versus “Log into host.com,” I would use the former because I think that “log in” is a fixed phrase.  Martha’s answer to another question is also related.

Added: The Corpus of Contemporary American English (COCA) lists 65 occurrences of “log in to” and 58 occurrences of “log into,” both including inflected forms and excluding the Spoken section.  (The queries used are  and .)  Since “log in to” is also used in context like “log in to download it,” the actual number of occurrences of “log in to [host]” is slightly smaller than 65.  In any case, it suggests that the phrase “log into” is also used commonly, although I am not sure how good it is to use COCA to compare technical terms.

A: As far as I know, no.  We could make one up, here.  "-phile" and "-phobe" are derived from the greek words "philia" (love) and "phobos" (fear), so we'd want to look for an greek word meaning "indifference", I think.

"adiaphoria" looks like an early contender, being what Google translate comes back with for "indifference".  There is already a philosophical concept "adiaphora" (note no 'i' at the end) meaning "indifferent things", referring to (my summary) things which are neither moral nor immoral.  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adiaphora

This isn't quite what we're after, and it's a bit long, anyway - it would be nice to be able to have a single-syllable suffix like "phile" or "phobe".

"neutral" gives "oudéteros", which again is a bit long. 

Perhaps we could use "mesis" which means "middle" - so you could have the adjective suffix "-mesic" like "phobic", and the noun suffix "-meso" like "phobe".  

Eg, an "audiomeso" is someone who neither hates nor loves music, and if you genuinely didn't give a sh*t about whether someone is gay, you could call yourself "homomesic".

EDIT:  @Nathaniel, in the comments, pointed out that the noun form suffix should be "-mese", not "-meso", so "audiomese" or "homomese".  This feels right to me and I thank him for it.

A: The phrase "no problem" is a short version of "It was no problem," implying that it didn't cause the person any trouble or hardship to do the thing for which they are being thanked.

It could be construed as an act of humility or deference, because they are suggesting that the action they performed, and any inconvenience it may have caused them, are unimportant relative to the positive impact to the thanking party. 

Fully unpacked, it goes like this:

  

"It was no problem for me to hold the door for you, because your ease of access is more important than me getting to my car faster."

Compare this with "You're welcome", which could be construed as an acknowledgement by the thanked party that they did do something worth thanking.

In an extreme case, this could be construed as more selfish or even arrogant, because the thanked party is allowing attention to be on them, instead of the other party.

  

"You're welcome to this open door, which I am holding open."

Obviously both connotations are usually very minor and mostly ignored; most of the time, people choose 'you're welcome' or 'no problem' because "It's just what you say when someone thanks you." I doubt many people actually think it's arrogant to say "you're welcome" unless it's said with a rude tone of voice. However, these implications may explain why 'no problem' has become more common, and could even be seen as a more polite reply.

A: You need not be a wizard.

wizard:

- 

a person who practices magic; magician or sorcerer.

- 

a person of amazing skill or accomplishment: a wizard at chemistry.

(Random House)

But one need not be a wizard to foresee by now that the outbreak of a revolutionary movement on the Communist order, in a Europe laid waste by a long war, will result in an era of anarchy, misery and extermination. (Google Books, 1940)

Financial geniuses are rare. Many men get wealthy through persistent plugging. You need not be a wizard. Just common sense will put you where the wolf will never molest your door. (Virginia Chronicle, 1921)

A: Grammar Girl did some research and determined that five out of six style guides lean toward using a comma after both i.e. and e.g. Here's the gist of the table she shared on her site:

- Chicago Manual of Style: A comma is usually used

- Blue Book of Grammar and Punctuation: Commas are preferable but optional

- The Columbia Guide to Standard American English: Editors require a comma

- The Guide to Grammar and Writing: The commas make good sense

- Lynch Guide to Grammar: Should be followed by a comma

- Fowler's Modern English Usage: Commas do not usually follow i.e. (No comment on e.g.)

She also gives an excellent rundown on when to use each of these abbreviations.  She suggests that you think of i.e. as meaning "in other words" and e.g. as meaning "for example." I recommend reading her entire article.

Addition: My daughter just reminded me of an excellent and entertaining explanation of usage for i.e. and e.g. from The Oatmeal.  This one I can't summarize.  You must view it in all its glory.

A: This Writer's Block page on capitalization sums up the rules in one page which is the most useful that I have found, basically these rules from the Chicago Manual of Style plus a number of minor rules which are worth reading:

- Always capitalize the first and the last word.

- Capitalize all nouns, pronouns, adjectives, verbs, adverbs, and subordinate conjunctions ("as", "because", "although").

- Lowercase all articles, coordinate conjunctions ("and", "or", "nor"), and prepositions regardless of length, when they are other than the first or last word. (Note: NIVA prefers to capitalize prepositions of five characters or more ("after", "among", "between").)

- Lowercase the "to" in an infinitive.

A: Complex is used to refer to the level of components in a system. If a problem is complex, it means that it has many components. Complexity does not evoke difficulty.

On the other hand, complicated refers to a high level of difficulty. If a problem is complicated, there might be or might not be many parts but it will certainly take a lot of hard work to solve.

A: It is a smiley:☺.

What does "J" mean in e-mail messages?

Answer: If you've ever received an e-mail with a mysterious "J" in the body of the message, you may have been perplexed by its meaning. Some messages have a single J, while others have several. Most J's appear at the end of sentences, but they can appear anywhere in the message So what does this enigmatic character mean and why does it show up in e-mail messages?

The J is actually supposed to be a smiley face.

If you have Wingdings installed on your computer, the following character will appear as a smiley face. Otherwise, it will be the letter "J": J

This is because the letter J represents a smiley face icon in the Wingdings font. Microsoft Outlook, a popular e-mail client, automatically converts the :) and :-) text emoticons into smiley face icons using the Wingdings font. Therefore, when Microsoft Outlook users type smiley faces in an e-mail message, they are sent as visual smiley face icons.

Take a look at this The Old New Thing blog post: if you try to copy the first little smiley, and then paste it somewhere else, the result is a J.

A: This is Indian English. See Vishy's Indian English Dictionary. 

  

July 12, 2006
Vishy's Indian English
  Dictionary: doubt
  
  

doubt. /DOWT/. A question asking for
  clarification. In standard English and
  American, the noun doubt is
  uncountable and refers to a lack of
  complete trust in something. Doubt may
  be expressed as simply as doubting
  someone's abilities or as profoundly
  as someone doubting their own
  religious faith. Not so in India. In
  India, doubt can be used as a
  countable noun. When a school teacher
  goes over an intricate concept in
  class, she invariably leaves some
  students with doubts in their mind
  about their understanding of the
  material just covered. Students ask
  her questions to get a better
  understanding of the concept and each
  such question is called a doubt. It is
  entirely normal to hear a statement
  like "I have just one doubt, miss" or
  "If you have any doubts before the
  exam tomorrow, come see me in the
  staff room". The doubts in the
  aforementioned sentences are not as
  much rooted in a lack of faith as in a
  lack of understanding. Attentive
  readers would have encountered the
  Indian English sense of doubt a fair
  bit on online message boards in
  threads started by Indians. Titles
  such as "Visual Basic .NET/Oracle
  doubt" are not uncommon for threads on
  programming-related message boards. It
  is my understanding that this sense is
  mostly prevalent in southern India,
  but I could be wrong on this count.

A: Chasing two rabbits from the widely claimed proverb: 

  

"He who chases two rabbits will catch neither."

Betwixt and between

Torn between the two tasks

Stuck in the middle

Double minded from the New Testament: 

  

For he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea driven with the wind
  and tossed. For let not that man think that he shall receive any thing
  of the Lord. A double minded man is unstable in all his ways.

Moving farther afield:

Between a Rock and a Hard Place

By implication, Hemming and hawing

Between the Devil and me

A: Both zeros and zeroes are acceptable, see e.g. Merriam-Webster, Wiktionary or TheFreeDictionary.

The usage stats from the Corpus of Contemporary American English (COCA) and the British National Corpus (BNC) look as follows:

Search
COCA
BNC

312
132

106
5

So in practice zeros is preferred in the US and even more so in the UK, though citations for zeroes include such prominent examples as Stephen Hawking's Brief History of Time. (Mr Hawking is British, but the book was first published by an American publishing house.) The oldest citation for zeroes in the BNC is from 1978. The Corpus of Historical American English has six citations that are even older, the oldest one being from 1914.

A: Short answer

Yes, this argument does have a basis in linguistic fact, which is why some people do it in the first place, but that doesn't mean it must be correct in Standard English (and it isn't).
Longer Answer

This argument does hold water in the linguistic sense.  "My wife and I" is, in fact, a phrase — a syntactic constituent.  The fact that this phrase happens to end with the word I does not preclude it from taking the Saxon genitive as a whole unit. There are many cases where people apply the Saxon genitive ('s) to entire phrases in everyday speech:

- John and Marsha's house was robbed last night.

- I'm not a fan of 1995 to 2005's music scene at all.

- The plants were eaten by the man next door's cat.

In the case of (1), if we follow the logic of "my wife's and my", we should have to say "John's and Marsha's house" — the genitive should have been distributed among the nouns in the conjoined phrase. Same for (2) and (3).  And in (3) the 's is directly next to an adjectival phrase "next door", not even a noun phrase.

Now, people may have different opinions about which of these types of constructions they would allow and in what context; the fact is that people say these sorts of things all the time, and for most people they don't even register as anything out of the ordinary when they happen.

In Standard English, when a pronoun is involved in a conjoined phrase like "my wife and I", the genitive marker is distributed to all the noun phrases in the conjoined phrase. This would yield the construction "my wife's and my".

However, in the case of "my wife and I's", what we are seeing is one or more dialects extending this phrasal Saxon genitive to include some conjoined phrases that include pronouns. So the phrase is getting the genitive marker, rather than each of the units within the phrase.

Both approaches are linguistically sound, but only one is accepted as a standard; namely, "my wife's and my". Standard forms are chosen somewhat arbitrarily.  This means that they don't have some sort of objective "correctness"; it also means that you can't argue for the correctness of a non-standard form based on logic. There are many logical ways to convey ideas, and one was chosen to be the standard. If you wish to communicate in a context where adherence to formal/standard rules is beneficial, then you should choose the standard form.

A: To comment out is to render a block of code inert by turning it into a comment.

In C# code for example, commenting out code is done by putting  at the start of a line, or surrounding the code with  and . Here the line inside the loop is commented out:

To uncomment something means to remove the characters that makes it a comment. The expression only makes sense if the comment contains something that would work as code, usually something that was commented out earlier. To uncomment a regular comment would just cause a syntax error.

A: What is a tense?

In linguistic terminology, "tense" is a part of verbal paradigm that refers specifically to the time of an utterance. It is impossible for any language to have more than three tenses in this sense, since any action is either past, present, or future.

In English, we do the basic tenses this way:

- Present: I walk to the store.

- Past: I walked to the store.

- Future: I will walk to the store.

But what is that with the word will there in the future tense example? It turns out that while English can refer to present and past time using inflections on the verb itself, the future tense always requires another word. Furthermore, there are multiple ways of doing this:

- I will walk to the store.

- I'm going to walk to the store.

- I'm walking to the store in five minutes.

- I'm about to walk to the store.

So while English has plenty of ways to refer to future actions, in terms of base verbal morphology there are only two tenses in English: present and past.

So what about perfect, progressive, and the rest of that stuff?

Linguists refer to these as aspect. A verb's aspect refers to its duration, frequency, or completeness. English has three core aspects:

- Simple: I walk to the store.

- Progressive: I am walking to the store.

- Perfect: I have walked to the store.

Plus, we can combine progressive and perfect together as follows:

- Perfect progressive: I have been walking to the store.

Unfortunately, the way that these forms interact with meaning is very complex. In particular, we often use the simple present ("I walk to the store") to refer to habitual actions, and the simple progressive ("I am walking to the store") to refer to  currently ongoing actions.

Now you've made me upset

That's because of mood, the other major component of the English verbal complex. Mood refers to the speaker's attitude towards the action, whether the speaker thinks the action is necessary, obligatory, inevitable, hypothetical, etc. We have a lot of moods in English, indicated by our modal verbs:

- I shall walk to the store.

- I will walk to the store.

- I should walk to the store.

- I would walk to the store.

- I may walk to the store.

- I might walk to the store.

- I must walk to the store.

- I can walk to the store.

- I could walk to the store.

Here, again, the form interacts with the meaning in a complicated way. The modal verbs will and shall tend to indicate future time more than anything really "moody", and there are constraints on which moods can be used in which tenses. Just to keep you on your toes.

Really we have 4 modal verbs which occur in present/past tense pairs: will/would, shall/should, can/could, may/might, and then must which can only be present-tense.

And don't forget about voice

Because we also have active voice and passive voice in English, which refer to the subject and the object are assigned to the verb.

- Active: I hit a dog with my car.

- Passive: A dog was hit by a car.

These have nothing to do with tense, but they are still part of the verbal paradigm.

Putting it all together

If you multiply all of those together you get eighty-eight possible combinations.

Don't try to memorize them all. Just try to remember the way the pieces interact, and you should be able to construct and interpret any combination that you come across. And remember that many verbs, like the past debitive perfect passive about to appear in this sentence, should rarely have ever been used by anyone.

But it's not that simple

It never is. The preceding elements are the core verbal paradigm, but there are a lot of other things that English does with its verbs to indicate elements of mood, aspect, or tense. Just to name two, we have:

- Past habitual: I used to walk to the store.

- Immediate future: I'm about to walk to the store.

There are lots of other combinations of helping verbs, adverbs, and prepositions which are sometimes used to express tense-like or aspect-like things in English. Merely knowing how the core verbal paradigm fits together doesn't necessarily help you interpret these kinds of utterances. Rather, these idiomatic verbal constructions have to be learned one at a time.

Also, please do read the comments on this answer, as the commenters have brought up numerous other subtleties and distinctions which I didn't get into the main post. The final takeaway of all this discussion is that English verbs are complex and you probably can't count how many forms they have.

Have fun!

A: The important point to remember is the following:

Written language is a representation of the spoken word.

Thus, the answer is "If the word following the indefinite article begins with a vowel sound, use an; if it begins with a consonant sound, use a."

In the case of initialisms and acronymns, use the exact rule above. For initialisms (e.g. "US"), the individual letters are pronounced. With what sound does the first pronounced letter begin? In the example "US", the first sound is /j/ (or "y"). This is a consonant sound, despite the letter "U" being a vowel; thus, you use a, as in a US dollar.

Contrast this with the initialism "RPM", which begins with the consonant "R" but is pronounced starting with /a/; thus, you use an, as in an RPM counter.

A: Using a comma before the last item in a list is known as the Oxford Comma, sometimes the Serial Comma. It is used before conjunctions in a list like this with three or more items. Its use is purely written style and optional. It is more common in America outside journalism, and much less common in other English speaking areas of the world. There are arguments for and against which usually come down to comprehension. Wikipedia quotes these ambiguities:

To my parents, Mother Teresa and the Pope.

To my parents, Mother Teresa, and the Pope.

Also on that wiki page you can find lots of links to certain style guides. Comma use is something of a grey area though, and everyone has his own style. Pick what reduces ambiguity.

Language log has an interesting article on how reading comprehension can be improved with comma use, including this type.

A: Because quadratus is the Latin for "square" due to there being four sides on a square.

The second power of a number is called its square because if we have an integer, and construct a square with that number of items on each side, the total number will be its second power. E.g. a 4×4 square having 16 items:

It is also the case that the area of a square with a real number length side, can be measured in terms of the square of that number.

Related language trivia: In the middle of the 16th century, while squared was being used in this sense by some, it had yet to become current, and there was a brief use of zenzic, which means the same thing (via a Latinised, Germanicised, Italian translation from Arabic; it's a convoluted etymology). This form was productive so zenzizenzic meant the 4th power (squared square), zenzicube the 6th (squared cube) and for the 8th power we have zenzizenzizenzic, which is often claimed as the English word with the most Zs in it. It's a doubtful claim though, first there's nothing stopping us from using zenzizenzizenzizenzic to have even more, and second there seems to be about nobody using it any later than 1560 other than in sentences containing the phrase "has the most Zs".

A: "You guys" is a familiar, all-inclusive way of addressing a group of men or women directly. That said, there are some important distinctions you must understand.

"You guys" is more likely to be said in women => women or men => men or women => men or mixed-group => mixed-group contexts. It is less likely to be used in men => women contexts, but is still heard and would probably not occasion any confusion or merriment.

The singular "guy" is another animal. It refers to males. It is also used to draw gender distinctions in a general way.

A guy walked into my store and asked for some cigarettes.

There is no doubt that this is a man we're talking about.

In most plural usages that are not directly addressing a group, this rule also applies.

Guys are pretty simple, when you get right down to it.

This will also be understood to refer to men only. If you wanted to make the same statement about women, you would use another noun: women, gals, whatever.

However, you could say something like

My friends in San Francisco? Those guys are so crazy!

Now we're not sure we're talking about men. If the speaker is female, it might mean a group of women. Note that I say might. It is more likely she would still be talking about men or a mixed group, but you never know.

It's a hard word to pin down. Much depends on context.

Addendum

On a walk yesterday evening I encountered a woman walking three dogs. When we got close the dogs started barking at me. The woman and I exchanged greetings, and then she admonished her dogs by saying: "Cut it out, you guys!" One dog kept barking, and she said: "Sally, stop it!" What to make of this? I suppose that for some people "guys" can refer to groups of dogs as well as humans, and not just male ones. Ain't English fun?

New Evidence (2023)

A young woman scientist who does YouTube videos just referred to herself as "a dark-matter guy" in a video that criticizes string theory. This is another reinforcement of a trend that shows that, 12 years after I first wrote this answer, even beyond the usages I described, "guy" is taking on a genderless sense quite independent of its original use as a gendered expression. Language is always in motion.

John McWhorter says:

(John McWhorter is a famous linguist who has written many books and now writes for The New York Times on matters of language)

“Guys” has undergone a similar transformation. The word has come to mark “you” as plural (note that we don’t say “you guy”), a very handy grammatical function that many other languages address with a single pronoun. “Guys” can still mean “a collection of men,” but it also means something quite different. . . .

But why “guys”? We wouldn’t address a room full of men as “you girls.” One reason is that English lacks a warm, relatable word for women. “Ladies” is dainty. “Sisters,” beyond Black English, sounds like nuns. “Gals” is a touch comic and perhaps a tad vintage — a little hair spray and Jell-O molds, to my ear.

When women call one another “you guys,” “dude” or “bruh,” I don’t hear a fear of being women. They have sapped the gender from a masculine word in order to use it for their own purposes. I hear it as progress.

'Nuff said, you guys.

A: Because the second power is a square, and a square has four sides. In fact the word square itself comes from quad-, too.

A: Yes. As far as I know, you actually is the formal, originally plural version (ye/you/your) and thou was the informal version (thou/thee/thy/thine). Over time, thou became impolitely informal and is now no longer used, though interestingly enough nowadays it might even be perceived as more formal than you because it's archaic and survives almost exclusively in liturgical language.

A: The original form of the word was "file name", as in the name of a file. These days (and probably for a good few years), the compound "filename" is widely accepted and perhaps most commonly used. Either is of course perfectly acceptable.

Do not, however, capitalise letters in the middle of a word, under any circumstances. (Unless you are writing variable names in code.)

A: I found the term "grawlixes" here: The Lexicon of Comicana.

  

Grawlixes

  Typographical symbols standing for profanities, appearing in dialogue balloons in place of actual dialogue.

I also came across the terms "profanitype" and "symbol swearing." I think I like "grawlixes" best.

A: This is an example of hypercorrection, which is when native speakers make an accidental error in their zeal to avoid a different error.

In this case, the error that's being avoided is the error of writing "you and me" in subject position, as in the following sentence:

You and me are going to the store.

This is formally incorrect, although it's very common in contemporary spoken English. Because they have been taught that this is incorrect, many people hypercorrect and change "you and me" to "you and I" in all positions. That is, they incorrectly learn the rule about when to use "you and I", and so produce sentences like the following:

You and I are going to the store. [Correct]

He'll come to the store with you and I. [Incorrect]

A: The OED gives ‘username’ and has three citations, from 1971, 1997 and 2007, in support.

A: To round out the answers here, one is a very proper way to encompass both male and female antecedents.  

  

To boldly go where no one has gone before

A: 'Whitelist' and 'blacklist', though they are very common usage, can sound somewhat strange nowadays because of, whatever the provenance, their connections with racially tinged words.

An alternative, which is based on current technology but not yet widespread is:

- allow list

- deny list

'Allow' and 'deny' are the labels used for some kinds security specification.

A: In English, it is always an error. There should be no space between a sentence and its ending punctuation, whether that's a period, a question mark, or an exclamation mark. There should also be no space before a colon, semicolon, or comma. The only ending punctuation mark that sometimes needs to be preceded by a space is a dash.

I see this error most often with people who never really learned to type. In handwriting, spacing is more, um, negotiable and subject to interpretation.

A: Such words existed in Early Modern English (roughly 1450–1650), and they were… yes and no. However, the answers to positive questions at the time were yea and nay. You could summarize their use as such:

  
  
- Will he not go? — Yes, he will.
  
- Will he not go? — No, he will not.
  
- Will he go? — Yea, he will.
  
- Will he go? — Nay, he will not.
  

It is well detailed in this Wikipedia page (which I first read in an answer by z7sg earlier today):

  

Whilst Modern English has a two-form system for affirmatives and negatives, Early Modern English in fact had a four-form system, comprising the words yea, nay, yes, and no. [...] The answers to positively framed questions ("Will he go?") were yea and nay, whilst the answers to negatively framed questions ("Will he not go?") were yes and no. This subtle grammatical nicety of Early Modern English is recorded by Sir Thomas More in his critique of William Tyndale's translation of the New Testament into Early Modern English.

As you noted Modern French, as other languages, has a three-form system where both negative answers are the same (oui is the affirmative answer to a positive question, si is the affirmative answer to a negative question, and non is the negative answer to any type of question).

A: I'd actually be inclined to say Jane makes at least $100,000/year. In this case, I interpret over to mean greater than or equal to, even though I would normally assume it to mean greater than in numeric contexts. It just seems unlikely that Jane makes $1,000,000/year or more.

This usage also seems to be somewhat common when describing minimum age requirements, as in over 18 (vs. 18 or over). With ages, you can make the argument that after the precise passing of your 18th birthday, you're over
 18 (e.g., 18 years and 1 day old), but at best, this seems ambiguous to me.

Prescriptively, it seems wrong to me. In actual usage, it seems ambiguous. I'd avoid it.

A: For  I usually say "that is", occasionally "eye-ee".

For  I always say "for example".

A: There is an informal, nontechnical-English answer and a technical mathematical answer.

- 

informally, it can be a ring (like a coffee ring, aerobie, or washer (the last one is questionable, could be 'washer-shaped'), or a disk or disk with hole in it for compact disk (because the hole is somewhat secondary).

- 

technically, it is an annulus.

A: Although such variation could be the result of things like when the word was borrowed into the language, this variation is probably due to the prosodic structure of the words; we get different vowel sounds because of the way that stress influences vowel quality in English.

In English, unstressed vowels are generally reduced.  Take the word record for example.

- 

The noun form takes first syllable stress: [ˈrɛ kɚd]. If you aren't familiar with IPA, note in particular the [ɛ] vowel and the [ɚ] r-colored schwa vowel.  Schwa (and sometimes [ɪ]) is what often shows up in reduced, unstressed vowels in English.  Since stress is on the first syllable, we get the r-colored schwa in the second syllable.

- 

The verb form takes second syllable stress: [rə ˈkoɹd].  Note that the now-unstressed [ɛ] was reduced to [ə], schwa, while the [ɚ] now retains the full [o] sound (with an [ɹ] "r" after it).

Now for bicycle and unicycle:

- 

bicycle [ˈbaɪ sɪ kəl] has primary stress on the first syllable.  The "cy" syllable is unstressed, and so it is pronounced as a mere [sɪ] (or even [sə] by some).  Note that tricycle has the same stress pattern, and has the same vowel.

- 

unicycle [ˈju nɪ ˌsaɪ kəl], being a longer word, has multiple stressed syllables.  Primary stress, again, falls on syllable #1, but the important thing is that secondary stress falls on syllable #3, the "cy" syllable.  This means that "cy" is pronounced as a full [saɪ] instead of a reduced [sɪ].  Note that motorcycle has the same stress pattern and, again, same vowel.

A: In English, there are three types of compound words:

  
  
- 

the closed form, in which the words are melded together, such as firefly, secondhand, softball, childlike, crosstown, redhead, keyboard, makeup, notebook;
  
- 

the hyphenated form, such as daughter-in-law, master-at-arms, over-the-counter, six-pack, six-year-old, mass-produced;
  
- 

and the open form, such as post office, real estate, middle class, full moon, half sister, attorney general.
  

For the most part, compound words that are created by adding a prefix are not hyphenated. For example, there are the words anteroom, extraordinary and coordinate. Some exceptions to this rule are (from the link above):

  
  
- compounds in which the second element is capitalized or a number:
  anti-Semitic, pre-1998, post-Freudian 
  
- compounds which need hyphens to avoid confusion:
  un-ionized (as distinguished from unionized), co-op 
  
- compounds in which a vowel would be repeated (especially to avoid confusion):
  co-op, semi-independent, anti-intellectual (but reestablish, reedit) 
  
- compounds consisting of more than one word: (poster's note: these are phrasal adjectives)
  non-English-speaking, pre-Civil War 
  
- compounds that would be difficult to read without a hyphen:
  pro-life, pro-choice, co-edited
  

Your original example of "well-intentioned" is also explained here:

  

The other time we must use hyphenation is to join a word to a past participle to create a single adjective preceding the noun it modifies: "a well-intentioned plan," for example, or "a horseshoe-shaped bar."

So, why isn't nonaggression hyphenated? It can be broken into non + aggression, so it is formed by adding a basic prefix onto the noun. In doing so, it breaks none of the exceptions to the rule: "aggression" is not capitalized, hyphenating the term doesn't avoid confusion, a vowel isn't repeated, the compound only consists of 2 words, and it is perfectly readable without a hyphen.

A: Dinner is considered to be the "main" or largest meal of the day. Whether it takes place at noon or in the evening is mostly a cultural thing. For instance, many people who grew up in the American South and/or on farms traditionally ate larger meals at noontime to give them the strength to keep working through the afternoon.

Supper is more specifically a lighter evening meal. Rooted in the word "to sup", it comes, again, from farming traditions &mdash; many farming families would have a pot of soup cooking throughout the day, and would eat it in the evening &mdash; specifically, they would "sup" the soup.

Lunch is almost the midday equivalent of supper &mdash; it's also a lighter and less formal meal than Dinner, but is used specifically when referring to a midday meal. So whether you use lunch/dinner or dinner/supper is heavily determined by when your culture traditionally has its largest meal.

Much Later Edit: I happened across this article discussing the agricultural roots of midday dinner and evening supper, just to add a bit more to the conversation.

A: The word "whose" is used in several different grammatical ways. For some of these (see my original answer below), it has been grammatical to use it for inanimate objects, at least since the days of Shakespeare. For others (see my update), it is only used for people or animals. 

ORIGINAL ANSWER:

Many people seem to believe that you cannot use whose for inanimate objects, but I don't believe this was ever proscribed except by out-of-control grammarians. Consider the following quotes from Shakespeare (selected from many more quotes where whose refers to an inanimate object) and more recent authors:

Hamlet I.v

  

I could a tale unfold whose lightest
  word

  Would harrow up thy soul, freeze
  thy young blood,

Two Gentlemen of Verona, III.ii

  

By wailful sonnets, whose composed rhymes

      Should be full-fraught with serviceable vows.

Timon of Athens IV.iii

  

The sea's a thief, whose liquid surge resolves

      The moon into salt tears:

Jane Austen also used whose to refer to inanimate objects:

Pride and Prejudice (1813)

  

On reaching the house, they were shown through the hall into the saloon, whose northern aspect rendered it delightful for summer.

Also F. Scott Fitzgerald:

The Great Gatsby (1925)

  

I walked out the back way ... and ran for a huge black knotted tree whose massed leaves made a fabric against the rain. 

Not to mention Pat Conroy:

South of Broad (2010) 

  

... as I walk down Church Street, whose palmetto trees are rattling and whose oaks shake with the ancient grief of storm. 

UPDATE: I just realized that whose is used in several different grammatical ways. In some of these ways, I would never use whose for anything but a person or animal. In particular, one of whose's uses is as an interrogative pronoun, as in:

  

Whose shoes are these?

  Whose are these shoes?

If you had some leaves, and were asking which tree they fell off of, you cannot say:

  

*Whose leaves are these?

  *Whose are these leaves?

You have to say something like 

  

Which tree's leaves are these?

But when it is a relative pronoun that immediately follows its antecedant, whose can be used for inanimate objects:

  

The tree whose leaves look like hands .... 

This may be part of the cause of the confusion about whether whose can only be used for people or animals.

A: Both e-mail and email are in standard use at this point, although e-mail retains a vast majority of usage in edited, published writing according to my research using the Corpus of Contemporary American English (COCA).

Here are the current results counts in COCA for various categories of English:

e-mail
email

spoken
3535
711

fiction
789
285

magazine
5421
471

newspaper
6046
192

academic
3675
897

total
21696
2831

total(excluding spoken)
15931
1845

Obviously the “spoken” totals don’t represent any kind of actual usage but rather the policies of the organizations that transcribed the spoken data, so I also included a total that excludes the spoken examples. So, in (edited, published) fiction, magazines, newspapers, and academic writing we find that the traditional e-mail outnumbers incidences of email by more than 8.5 to 1. COCA includes data starting from 1990.

Now that we have established that e-mail retains the position of preferred usage by a very large margin, let’s look at trends over time. These numbers are in incidences per million words (rather than total incidences):

e-mail
email

1990
0.15
0.00

1991
2.46
0.05

1992
1.67
0.00

1993
5.49
0.05

1994
10.40
0.24

1995
16.11
1.71

1996
22.41
2.14

1997
51.71
2.09

1998
38.15
1.62

1999
50.33
4.67

2000
85.98
6.37

2001
83.75
7.03

2002
95.29
3.38

2003
94.35
5.23

2004
79.68
4.51

2005
72.53
5.58

2006
72.38
10.09

2007
85.20
14.18

2008
68.26
26.56

2009
97.37
33.23

2010
87.93
26.66

This is a graphical representation showing the data over time:

The blue and red lines show the frequency of incidence for e-mail and email per million words. The orange line shows the ratio of incidence between e-mail and email over the same period. From these results, we see that e-mail was on a meteoric rise in the 1990s and by 2000 it has locked in at between 70 and 100 incidences per million words. Email, on the other hand, saw very little usage until 2005, when its use soared up to about 30 incidences per million words over the last few years.

What does all this tell us? We see a word whose spelling is in transition. It is not clear whether email will eventually reach and surpass e-mail. For the time being, e-mail has retained its position as the preferred usage by a factor of three to one over the past few years. The numbers can change very quickly and email may win out in five years, or it may stay a minority usage for a long time. Only time will tell. In the meantime, you are in good company if you use e-mail. That’s what I use.

Edit March 8, 2012:

I created a Google N-gram which compares instances of e-mail with email in the Google Books corpus between 1988 and 2008, and it does seem that e-mail hit a peak around 2004, and has been in decline since, though it remains significantly more common than email.

Curiously, when you look in the country-specific corpora, you find that the gap is wider in American English and narrower in British English:
American English

British English

A: The Tironian et and the modern ampersand had different origins, with the Tironian et having been invented as one of ~13,000 symbols/shorthand by Cicero's scribe, Tiro. It persisted until it succumbed to a linguistic witch hunt during the middle ages, when suspicion was cast upon it for appearing to be a rune or secret cipher. (This detail has been rightly contested, as the Tyronian et does appear in printed books.)  

The "et -> &" (ampersand) had no such shady character associations and continues to today. In fact, it allowed for some ornamental experimentation on the part of scribes and typemakers.  

The Tironian et died everywhere except for in Ireland, where it still lives in the wild.

 

(Also in Unicode: "⁊", though some OSes or browsers may not display it.)

It is not used as a period, but as and, which is often how sentences were related them to a previous sentence in early narrative. You can see the periods (or "points")ending your sentences before the and. There was, however, a dearth of punctuation in many manuscripts. Notable exceptions were apostrophes, "C" for chapter, and "¶" used to mark paragraph divisions.

  

Modern punctuation, designed to clarify syntactic structures rather than to indicate breathings, is largely a Renaissance invention, developing during the first generations of the printing press, and codified in the eighteenth century (about the same time that capitalization and spelling became fixed in more or less their current form). Among the earliest works showing "modern" punctuation is Francis Bacon's Essays. An interesting early discussion of the nature of modern punctuation can be found in Ben Jonson's English Grammar (composed ca. 1617, printed posthumously in 1640). Eighteenth- and nineteenth-century punctuation practice varies considerably, but tends to be "heavy"; current "light" punctuation is largely the invention of H. G. and F. G. Fowler, The King's English. - Manuscript Studies, Medieval and Early Modern IV.vii. Paleography: Punctuation

In your example, there are end points (though not at baseline).

A: "Which" is more formal when asking a question that requires a choice between a number of items. You can use "What" if you want, though.

Generally speaking, you can replace the usage of "which" with "what" and be OK grammatically. It doesn't always work the other way around, however. There needs to be a context of choice. For example:

Which/What flavor of ice cream do you want?

- Either is fine, but "which" is better.

Which/What do you want for dessert?

- "Which" only works in the context of being presented with choices (e.g. a dessert cart right in front of you).

A: I often use folks when addressing a group, both in public speaking and in email. Admittedly, it is a bit, er, folksy for business email, but it saves me time in thinking about the issue.

Edit: another informal term is gang. For email, I would only use this for colleagues within my department or team, and not to those outside of the team. e.g. "Hey gang, remember that the server is being rebooted tonight."

A: "You and I" is the subject.  "You and me" is the object.

"You and I hate Phil."  "Phil hates you and me."  "Phil is hated by you and me."  All of these are grammatically correct.  (No offence to Phil.)

It really winds me up when people hypercorrect because they think that "you and me" is always wrong.  "Phil hates you and I."  NO!  This is worrying.

The best way to work out if you should be using "you and I" or "you and me" is to take away the "you and" and see if the sentence sounds right with just I or me.  

"I hate Phil."  Sounds good.  "Me hate Phil."  Sounds like a caveman talking!

"Phil hates me."  Sounds good.  "Phil hates I."  Sounds ridiculous!

A: The correct form of your example:

It’s all about apples, oranges, bananas, etc.

Jack Lynch’s Guide to Grammar and Style states:

This one is simple enough: never double up periods. If a statement ends with “etc.” the period in the abbreviation does double duty, serving as the full stop to end the sentence. If, however, you need another mark of punctuation after an abbreviation, you can put it after the period. So:

- This was her first trip to the U.S.

(The period does double-duty, ending both the abbreviation and the sentence.)

- Is this your first trip to the U.S.?

(The period ends the abbreviation, but the question mark ends the sentence.)

- On her first trip to the U.S., Kristina lost her passport.

(The period ends the abbreviation, but the sentence keeps going after the comma.)

The only thing to remember: don't double the periods. Everything else is logical enough.

A: The pronoun I began to be 'capitalized' around the middle of the 13th century. But this was not true capitalization. Note that it was long before the printing press: all texts were in manuscript.

Before the 11th century, the letter i was normally just a short vertical line, without a dot, somewhat like ı. The j did not exist as a separate letter. When an ı was written as a separate word or mark, as the Roman numeral ı/I and the pronoun ı/I, or when it was the last one of a group of ı's, it began to be written elongated, somewhat like a straighter ȷ (without a dot). This elongation of the separate, single ı was probably done in order to avoid confusion with punctuation marks. That of the last ı of a group was mostly in order to avoid confusion between u and ıı, between n and ıı, and between m and ııı, which often look identical in manuscripts; both m and ııı could be written with and without clearly distinguishable connecting strokes. From then on, such groups of ı's looked more like ıȷ and ııȷ (without dots).

I believe that this convention of elongating the pronoun I had already been established by the time the dot was first used. Because a long ȷ without a dot looks much like a capital I—which has been written the same way since Antiquity—, it was later assumed to be a capital. (Incidentally, the dot was then usually written as a very short diagonal line above the ı or ȷ.)

From Etymonline:

The reason for writing I is ... the
orthographic habit in the middle ages
of using a 'long i' (that is, j or I)
whenever the letter was isolated or
formed the last letter of a group; the
numeral 'one' was written j or I (and
three iij, etc.), just as much as the
pronoun. [Otto Jespersen, "Growth and
Structure of the English Language,"
p.233]

An illustration of the problem of indistinguishable ııı, uı, m, etc.:

Cedet animam meam in

te mee: dimittam adver

sum me eloquium meum loq[ua]r

in amaritudine anime mee di

[From Mechanical Snail's comment below:] By contrast, "i" (meaning "and") is not capitalized in Catalan / archaic Spanish, nor in Polish/Serbo-Croatian.

[From Janus's comment below:] Possibly related is the fact that the pronoun I in Danish (where it means ‘ye’, i.e., non-formal second person plural) is also always capitalised. The homophone i (which means ‘in’), however, is not.

A: This was a problem with Google's optical character recognition (OCR) mistaking the long s (ſ) as an f.

However, Google has since improved their OCR:

When we generated the original Ngram Viewer corpora in 2009, our OCR wasn't as good as it is today. This was especially obvious in pre-19th century English, where the elongated medial-s (ſ) was often interpreted as an f, so best was often read as beft. Here's evidence of the improvements we've made since then, using the corpus operator to compare the 2009 and 2012 versions:

Here's the original chart from the question, with the 2009 corpus:

Here's a chart with the same words but with the new 2012 corpus. This is much smoother and no longer has the large dip:

Here's the chart from the other answer, with the 2009 corpus:

And here it is with the new 2012 corpus. This shows hardly any muft or fhall type words:

A: The toast goes back more than half a century before the scriptwriters of Casablanca used it in 1942.

From Anonymous, A Holiday Skip to the Far West (1884), we have this scene set in the Southern Hotel in St. Louis, Missouri:

"Any friend of Mr. O'Sullivan welcome. Will you nominate your poisons, gentlemen?" Since poisoning was apparently a necessity, I nominated whisky and water, in preference to a native mixture. It would be more satisfactory to know the cause of death, thought I, should this uncalled-for fatality occur. "Wall, —— here's looking at you," says my newly-acquired friend of the white apron, winking over the bottle-nose, and emptying his glass. "Here's how," responds the porter, and the curious bacchanalian ceremony came to a close. I am not proud, and enjoyed the hospitality, as the porter paid the drinks, be it said to his credit.

From "Things Pleasant and Otherwise," in Ballou's Monthly Mahgazine (May 1884):

"Ah," said the colonel, as he threw out a chew of tobacco, and took the bottle. "Here's looking at you."

"Drink hearty," the young man replied, and taking the bottle he held it up, and added, "Here's to the hair of your head."

From "Editor's Table" in The Yale Literary Magazine (April 1895):

Are your glasses filled, gentlemen? Then, here's to the rose of the girlhood—Dorothy, and one more in which that jolly devil, Saint Elihu, shall join for all his shadowy background and his austere countenance. And so fellow Collegians—"here's looking at you."

From Edith Chase & W.E.P. French, Waes Hael: A Collection of Toasts Crisp and Well Buttered (1903):

New Mexico

Cactus and prickly pear and sagebrush,/“Men with the bark on” and hearts brave and strong,/New Mexico, here's luck, here's looking at you;/You're a deep note in freedom's world-wide song!

Early extensions of the toast include this one from The Harrow (1889) [result not shown in snippet window]:

French returns in a few minutes and finds the Sophomore has cultivated it up. Waldo, at Hillsdale— "Here's looking at you." George — "Yes, through a glass darkly."

And this one from Wilbur Nesbit, The Loving Cup: Original Toasts by Original Folks (1909):

To you, and you, good fellows of the quill,/Belongs the Homage of the Wine I spill;/Here's looking at you from the Rosy Side,/And may you never lose a Dollar Bill.

I imagine that in a heavy-drinking, toast-oriented social environment, few dedications would come to the befogged mind more readily than "Here's looking at you," since the person addressing the toast is in all likelihood looking at the person thus addressed.

An early filmed instance of the expression occurs in the movie Three on a Match (1932), as Michael Loftus (Lyle Talbot's character) attempts to woo/seduce Vivian Kirkwood (Ann Dvorak):

Michael: Here you are, darling. [He hands Vivian a martini.] Well, here's looking at you.

Vivian: At me?

Michael: Yeah! And liking it, too!

Evidently, the expression was widely viewed as being quintessentially American, which would make sense in Casablanca as another marker of Rick's Americanness. At any rate, in one of J.P. Marquand's Mr. Moto stories (by 1938), we have this bit of dialogue [combined snippets]:

"Boy!" called Uncle William. "Whisky soda. ... Here's to you, Mr. Moto." Mr. Moto laughed again.

"Here is looking at you, gentlemen," he said. "That is the American expression, is it not? What beautiful weather we are having!"

"Yes," said Uncle William.

UPDATE: 'Here's Xing' as an American form

Because so many readers have echoed the comment/question (from andy256 below) "Yes, but ... what does it mean? Or if it is quintessentially American, what does that mean about America?" I decided to look into the idiomatic use of "Here's Xing" in U.S. usage.

Since Americans are (as Fowler says of people who grew up with the distinction between will and shall) "to the manner born," the form "Here's looking at you" doesn't strike us as particularly odd. Indeed, the similarly formed expression "Here's hoping" is used not just as the start of a toast, but as an equivalent (in a multitude of settings) to "I hope so."

One of the earliest examples of "here's hoping" in a Google Books search appears in "Metaphors of the People," in The Galaxy (May 1870), which quotes Mark Twain's description of toasts given in various locales in the U.S. West:

The reaching of the popular mind after odd fancies is illustrated in Mark Twain's humorous explanation of the etiquette of the bar-room on the Pacific coast. He says:

In a mining camp in California, when a man tenders you a "smile," or invites you to take a "blister," it is etiquette to say, "Here's hoping your dirt will pan out gay." In Washoe [Nevada], where you are requested to "put in a blast," or invited to take your "regular poison," etiquette admonishes you to touch glasses and say, "Here's hoping you'll strike it rich in the lower level." And in Honolulu, when your friend the whaler asks you to take "fid" with him, it is simply etiquette to say, "Here's eighteen hundred barrels, old salt." But "drink hearty" is universal. ...

The sentimental method of asking a person to drink is in the formula, "Suppose we shed a tear." The operation, strange as it may seem, is identical with "taking a smile." There is a frequent toast in some places which seems to contain considerable truth, viz.: "Well, here's another nail in my coffin."

Of all these expressions, only the "Here's another nail" and the "Here's eighteen hundred barrels" follow (arguably) grammatical form, but it appears that the "Here's Xing" wording arose fairly early and has shown impressive cultural persistence. In fact, it appears in James Fenimore Cooper's The Pioneers (1823):

Toasts were uniformly drunk ; and occasionally, some one, who conceived himself peculiarly endowed by nature to shine in the way of wit, would attempt some such sentiment as "hoping that he" who treated "might make a better man than his father; or "live till all his friends wished him dead;" while the more humble pot-companion contented himself by saying, with a most imposing gravity in his air, "come, here's luck," or by expressing some other equally comprehensive desire. In every instance, the veteran landlord was requested to imitate the custom of the cupbearers to kings, and taste the liquor he presented, by the invitation of "after you is manners;" with which request he ordinarily complied, by wetting his lips, first expressing the wish of "here's hoping," leaving it to the imagination of the hearers to fill the vacuum by whatever good each thought most desirable.

Given decades of "Here's hoping..." in the context of toasts and in the ordinary affairs of life outside barrooms, the emergence of "Here's looking at you" can hardly have struck listeners as a strange innovation. That toast, in turn, may have prompted the toast, "Here's mud in your eye," which a Google Books search finds as far back as 1912 in the form, "Here's mud in your eye and a quick trip back to Texas!" There are numerous competing interpretations of that expression, however.

A: @RegDwight is correct in every particular. Till is indeed older and the two can be used pretty much interchangeably. 

There is really only one usage I can think of where you would not use till: in setting up a negative conditional.

  

Until my landlord fixes the plumbing,
  I am not going to pay the rent.
  
  

I am not going to pay the rent until
  my landlord fixes the plumbing.

Here it would sound strange to use till, and I'm not really sure why. Perhaps it is the negative.

One more thing. Sometimes you will see people spell till as a contraction of until: that is, as 'til. This is simply wrong, and not seen outside of old poetry and modern greeting cards aiming for a "poetic" tone. Anywhere you see 'til being used, till would be the correct word.

A: It means "introductory something".  The allusion is to a college course with the course code 101, which in the American system and probably others indicates an introductory course, often with no prerequisites.

A: Especially in these rapidly changing times, we must be careful not to make false assumptions about our addressees.

For this reason, it’s important to use broad, inclusive appellations like sentient life forms and beings.

If there is a chance that one or more of the group members may have ceased to be by the time your utterance has been processed, you should use the term entities or conceptual units. If all bets are off, you can’t fail to address the addressees appropriately and correctly with the term addressees.

Canadians is also universally acceptable.

A: I seem to remember the old askoxford.com site said either was acceptable: CDs and CD's.

But now the replacement Lexico powered by Oxford firmly suggests to avoid the apostrophe except in a few special cases:

Apostrophes and plural forms

The general rule is that you should not use an apostrophe to form the plurals
of nouns, abbreviations, or dates made
up of numbers: just add -s (or -es, if the
noun in question forms its plural with -
es). For example:

...

MP
MPs (e.g. Local MPs are divided on this issue.)

1990
1990s
(e.g. The situation was different in the
1990s.)

It's very important to remember this grammatical rule.

There are one or two cases in which it is
acceptable to use an apostrophe to
form a plural, purely for the sake of
clarity:

- you can use an apostrophe to show the plurals of single letters:

- I've dotted the i's and crossed the t's.

- Find all the p's in appear.

- you can use an apostrophe to show the plurals of single numbers:

- Find all the number 7’s.

These are the only cases in which it is
generally considered acceptable to use
an apostrophe to form plurals:
remember that an apostrophe should never be used to form the plural of ordinary nouns, names, abbreviations,
or numerical dates.

A: The only usage preference I'm aware of is that artefact is preferred in British English and artifact is preferred in US English, but that both are acceptable in either case.

See the Oxford Dictionary, for example.

Personally, I tend to mix them the same way you do: I collect artifacts in Tomb Raider and my compressed photos have artefacts!

A: The distinction probably emerges from their different meanings in Latin, which grants them different usages in writing.  

E.g. (exempli gratia in Latin, meaning “for example”) should be generally followed by a list of examples. Thus, adhering to proper English style usually requires commas to follow e.g. to delimit the beginning of that list.  

I.e. (id est in Latin, meaning “that is”) is used to recapture the meaning of an antecedent clause by rephrasing. Typically, it is only followed by a clause describing a singular entity, and so does not require a comma.

A: The correct spelling in this case is username.

- 

The username is the (usually unique) thing you type in with your password, for example: bobsmith66.

- 

The user name is the name of the user, the user's real life name, for example: Bob Smith. User name is sometimes used for username, but occasionally it makes a difference, so be clear and avoid the ambiguity. (Better still, use full name when you want them to enter Bob Smith.)

- 

User-name is a variant of username, but this is rarely used if ever.

A: I'm partial to the shift key+z typo answer.  

If you're typing OMG really fast (cause you're so excited) you're going to slip and hit zOMG, since the  key isn't between shift and Z on most US keyboards.  

Outside of any of the other possible origins, the typo is the most likely because it's most easily 'discovered' by small groups of people who are instant messaging each other.  Most likely it has risen out of a parallell evolution because of our natural tendencies (as opposed to being invented or "first coined" by anyone).

Essentially, we all invent it ourselves.

A: Interesting! I suspected the reason was that the character s used to be written somewhat like the present-day f. (It would look like s only when it was the last character of a word.) I looked at some of the OCRed documents that Google Ngrams links to. That only strengthened my suspicion.

Look at this plot (also below).
I have plotted for "should,shall,must,will,fhould,fhall,muft".

We had some very important literary works between the late 1500s and the early 1600s. I guess these have been re-published with the old-fashioned s replaced, and therefore, OCR worked better.

A: In Latin, the nominative plural of status as a 4th declension noun is statūs.  This would  be uncomfortable in English, and so the English plural is statuses.

The Latin adjective has a different masculine nominative plural of statī, but then means something more like the English static.

A: There's a nursery rhyme that starts like this:

and continues in a similar vein.  We might imagine the following conversation.

A Oh, that was a nice cheese I sold to Jack the other day!

B Which cheese?

A The cheese the rat ate!

B Oh, OK.  Hang on, which rat?

A The rat the cat chased, of course!

B Ah, so you're talking about the cheese the rat the cat chased ate, then?

A Um, what...?

B Well, you said it was the cheese the rat ate, right?

A Yes...

B The rat the cat chased?

A That's what I said.

B So it's the cheese pause the rat the cat chased pause ate!

A Haha, OK, I suppose so, but it doesn't sound right!

B Which cat is this, then?

A sigh...

The conversation continues in a similar way, until eventually...

B So you're talking about

then?

A ???!!?

If we're going to use the full nursery rhyme, then the cheese in question is actually

If that doesn't make sense to you, then don't worry - it shouldn't, if you're human!  But it really is an interesting fact that this sentence doesn't appear to make sense.  In contrast to what Mr Blow keeps saying, it really is not 'just that simple'.  The strange thing is that while the individual parts

all make sense, we can't paste them together using logical rules and arrive at an understandable sentence.  This is surprising: normally, we could replace the phrase  in the sentence

with  to arrive at

and we can make as many such substitutions as we like, so

becomes

which, though clumsy, still makes perfect sense.  It's only when we start to introduce defining clauses within defining clauses that our usual substitution rules stop giving us sentences which we can process.

It is a peculiar limitation of the human brain, not a formal rule of language, that means that the phrase

makes perfect sense, the phrase

can be understood, but only with difficulty, and the longer phrases above look like complete gobbledegook.

A: It's a football reference.

- The hat is a football helmet

- The football is egg-shaped and held in your hands

- A touchdown is worth 7 points (including the obligatory point-after-touchdown)

From Wiktionary:

From hand +‎ egg, by contrast to football meaning “soccer”, with the notion that the respective sports are “neither foot nor ball” due to the predominant use of the hands and the elongated form of the ball.

From Urban Dictionary:

American football. As opposed to football/soccer, where players actually kick a ball with their feet, American football involves players carrying an egg-shaped object in their hands.

A: You left out the construction that makes the question more interesting: different to.

The quick answer is that "different from" is always correct and acceptable everywhere, but "different than" is common in US usage (as odd as it may seem for two things to be both different than the other), and "different to" is common in UK usage (as odd as it may seem to have both "different from" and "different to" mean the same thing).

Here's the useful alt.usage.english FAQ entry in its entirety:

"Different from" is the construction that no one will object to. "Different
to" is fairly common informally in the
U.K., but rare in the U.S.  "Different
than" is sometimes used to avoid the
cumbersome "different from that
which", etc. (e.g., "a very different
Pamela than I used to leave all
company and pleasure for" -- Samuel
Richardson).  Some U.S. speakers use
"different than" exclusively. Some
people have insisted on "different
from" on the grounds that "from" is
required after "to differ".  But
Fowler points out that there are many
other adjectives that do not conform
to the construction of their parent
verbs (e.g., "accords with", but
"according to"; "derogates from", but
"derogatory to").

The Collins Cobuild Bank of English
shows choice of preposition after
"different" to be distributed as
follows:

[Corpus]
"from"
"to"
"than"

U.K. writing
87.6
10.8
1.5

U.K. speech
68.8
27.3
3.9

U.S. writing
92.7
0.3
7.0

U.S. speech
69.3
0.6
30.1

So it's safest to avoid both "different to" and "different than", even though they have ≈30% popularity in UK and US speech respectively, and use "different from" exclusively. See also Michael Quinion's World Wide Words where he points out that many good writers have used the much-maligned now-grudgingly-accepted "than".

Q: What is the correct way to use infinitive after the verb "help": with or without "to"?

What is the correct way to use infinitive after the verb "help": with or without "to"?

For example:

  

Please, help me to understand this.

or:

  

Please, help me understand this.

Q: Why is it "geometric" but "theoretical"?

I just came across a course name: Geometric and Theoretical Optics. The mismatched endings bug me. Why do we have both -ical and -ic endings? 

Is there any difference in meaning between, say, theoretic and theoretical? I know that acoustic and acoustical mean slightly different things, but is this difference inherent in the words, or is it just usage — we happen to use the former for sound, and the latter for ceilings?

Q: Why does the multi-paragraph quotation rule exist?

The answer to this question clearly explains the standard rule that when you have multiple quoted paragraphs, each new paragraph starts with an opening quotation mark, but only the final quoted paragraph has a closing quotation mark at its end.

This Wikipedia article on Quotation Marks agrees:

  

Quotation marks are used for multiple-paragraph quotations in some cases, especially in narratives. The convention in English is to give opening quotation marks to the first and each subsequent paragraph, using closing quotation marks only for the final paragraph of the quotation [ . . . ]

However, neither explains why this is the standard practice.  What good does it do? What is it trying to avoid?  What harm would occur if it were ignored and people put both opening and closing quotation marks on each adjacent quoted paragraph?

Q: What is the correct possessive for nouns ending in "‑s"?

What is the possessive of a noun ending in ‑s?  Are these both right, or is the second one wrong?

- 

the boys' books

- 

the boss' car

Q: Why is "zero" followed by a plural noun?

I could have:

- Two books

- One book

- Zero books

Why is zero followed by a plural form?

I don't expect English to always make sense, but everything has a reason, even if the reason is stupid.
The definitions of "singular" and "plural" per Merriam-Webster:  

- 
  

Singular (adj): of, relating to, or being a word form denoting one person, thing, or instance 

- 
  

Plural (adj): of, relating to, or constituting a class of grammatical forms usually used to denote more than one or in some languages more than two

So by this logic, our choices are "one" or "more than one".  Maybe it's a bug :-)

Q: Why is Nike pronounced "naikee" and not "naik"?

A word ending with e usually doesn't have a vowel at the end like bike and strike, so why is Nike different?

Q: What's the difference between a graph, a chart, and a plot?

A graph, a chart, and a plot can all refer to the same thing. Is there any even somewhat consistent distinction in these three words?

(I mean, in this particular sense of the words; it is not relevant that a chart is also a nautical map, a plot is also a scheme, and a graph is also an unrelated mathematical object.)

Q: Why does "I was happy to do my homework" work, but "I was tired to do my homework" doesn't?

I'm teaching ESL, and I came across a question from one of my students that I don't know how to answer.  Using the form "{subject} {verb} {adjective} {infinitive phrase}" we've been going over sentences such as "I was happy to help you."  (More specifically, "I helped you. I was happy. -> I was happy to help you.")

One of my students then suggested "I was tired to do my homework."

Now, as a native English speaker, I know that this is wrong.  I'm even college educated and actually trained in ESL (which included grammar classes)... and yet, I have no idea WHY this is wrong.  It SEEMS to fit the form our textbook was teaching ("I did my homework. I was tired." -> "I was tired to do my homework.") and yet I know it's wrong.  

What's the difference?  Why doesn't this work?

Q: Should I use a comma before "and" or "or"?

Is using a comma then an "and" or an "or" after it proper punctuation?
Example: 

  
  
- I fell over, and hurt my knee.
  
- Should I go, or not?

Q: How to say that food is hot (temperature) without the listener thinking that I mean "spicy"?

There is an excellent discussion of spicy vs. hot at this question.

However, having read it, I did not see any answer that tells how to say unambiguously that food is hot (temperature) without being misunderstood.

If I say that my food is spicy, a listener will unambiguously understand that I am referring to the sensation associated with eating.

However, I can't think of a good way to say that my food is hot (temperature) without a listener possibly thinking that I mean spicy.

In the referenced question, a poster described how to unambiguously say that food is spicy.  How can I unambiguously say that food is hot?

Q: Is there English counterpart(s) to Japanese old saying, “Present salt to your enemy.”?

We have a popular Japanese saying, “敵に塩を送る” — literally, “present (supply) salt to one's enemy”, meaning ‘play fair and square, not taking advantage of the weak point of your rival.’ It’s different from an act which serves the interest of the enemy by the basic spirit.

This proverb came from the historic episode that Uesugi Kenshin (1530–1578), the Middle Ages warlord of Echigo Country which faces to the Japan Sea, therefore is abundant with salt resources kept supplying salt to his rival, actually enemy, Takeda Shingen (1521–1573), the warlord of Kai Country, mountainous country adjacent to Echigo, which lacks in salt essential to human existence during long lasting and consuming wars that lasted eleven years (1553–1564) between them, with 5th fatal campaigns. Takeda Shingen and Uesugi Kenshin actually crossed swords once for all on the sandbar at the confluence of Chikuma River and Sai River, which is famous for the name of the showdown on the Kawanaka-jima sandbar. 

However, Uesugi never shut off the supply rout of salt to Takeda for the cause of engaging fair play. He firmly believed the war should be won in the battle field, not on the sideline such as supply rout or logistics.

With that said, we use the saying, “Present salt to one's enemy” as the metonym of fair play, gentleman-ship and sportsmanship, we call it 武士道 — Bushido — in other words, Samurai Spirit sometimes, though I don't mean every Japanese has observed or observes it.

I’m curious to know if there are counterpart English sayings, maxims, or expressions portraying the meaning to the same effect.

Q: How to pronounce "tuple"?

A recent question has reminded me of something I’ve been wondering about for a while: what is the correct way to pronounce tuple?

Q: Are the dual transportation and learning meanings of both "coach" and "train" just a coincidence?

In a learning context, you have one individual who "coaches" and another who "trains".

In a transportation context, "coaches" and "trains" are both methods of transport.

Is this just a coincidence or is there some root to both words which can explain a link between transportation and learning?

Q: Why is embassy spelled with E but ambassador with A?

It seems both words are related to each other through French roots (ambassade, ambassadeur), both of which are spelled with an "A" in the front.

Why and when was the initial letter of "embassy" changed to "E"? Does this also occur in other words?

Edit:

Wiktionary gives the following etymologies for ambassador:

  

From Middle English ambassadore

  from Anglo-Norman ambassadeur, ambassateur

  from Old Italian ambassatore, ambassadore

  from Old Occitan ambaisador (“ambassador”)

  derivative of ambaissa (“service, mission, errand”)

  from Latin ambasiator

  from Gothic 𐌰𐌽𐌳𐌱𐌰𐌷𐍄𐌹 (andbahti, “service, function”)

  from Proto-Germanic *ambahtiją (“service, office”)

  derivative of Proto-Germanic **ambahtaz* (“servant”)

  from Gaulish ambaxtos ("servant"; also the source of Latin ambactus (“vassal, servant, dependent”))

  from Proto-Celtic *ambaxtos (“servant”)

  from Proto-Indo-European *h₂mbʰi-h₂eǵ- (“drive around”)

  from *h₂mbʰi- (“around”) + *h₂eǵ- (“to drive”).

and for embassy:

  

Modern variant of obsolete ambassy

  from Middle French ambassee (“mission, embassy”)

  from Old French ambascee (also enbassee (“message for a high official, official mission”))

  from Old Italian ambasciata

  from Old Occitan ambaissada (“embassy”)

  derived from ambaissa (“message”)

  from Late Latin ambactia (“service rendered”) (attested also as Latin ambascia)

  from Proto-Germanic *ambahtiją (“service”), ambahtaz (“follower, servant”)

  from Gaulish *ambactos* (“dependant, vassal”, literally “one who is sent around”)

  from Proto-Celtic *ambaxtos (“servant”)

  from Proto-Indo-European *h₂mbʰi-h₂eǵ- (“drive around”)

  from *h₂mbʰi- (“around”) + *h₂eǵ- (“to drive”);  
  
  

compare Latin ambactus, Old Irish amos, amsach (“mercenary, servant”), Welsh amaeth (“tenant farm”)).

It is noticeable that all these predecessors start with an "A" sound, only the latest change introduces an "E".

Here is also clearly mentioned that embassy is a modern spelling, but it does not explain when or why this change occurred or if similar words have undergone the same change.

Q: "Compared with" vs "Compared to"—which is used when?

Is only one of them correct? Are they used in different situations? Or are they interchangeable?

Q: Should there be a comma after "i.e."?

If I remember correctly from English class, then one should put a comma after "i.e.", i.e., the Latin abbreviation for id est.

But lately I've seen the comma after "i.e." dropped in books. So what is the rule or consensus here if any?

Q: Substitute X for Y

An awful lot of people seem to use the phrase "substitute X for Y" to mean "replace X with Y", while I've always used and understood it as "replace Y with X". This makes sense to me, given that a substitute is the replacement, not the thing which has been replaced.

I thought I might be able to figure things out from a dictionary, but now after seeing two sorts of definitions, I'm even more confused:

- to put or use in the place of another

- to take the place of; replace

The first one suggests that the object will be the substitute (replacement), the thing put into place, while the second suggests that the object will be the thing which has been replaced.

Is one of these usages more correct in any sense? (I know this is probably a pointless question, since people will continue to speak the way they speak.) Is there perhaps a difference between American and British English? 

And most importantly, is there any reliable way to tell what someone means when they ask how to substitute honey for sugar, or is the verb simply guaranteed to cause confusion?

Q: "Maximum" vs. "maximal"

What is the difference in usage between maximum and maximal? When would you use one or the other?

Maximum can be a noun or an adjective:

  

This is the maximum it can be set to.

    This is the maximum value. 

whereas "maximal" is always an adjective:

  

This is the maximal value.

Is this correct? Is there more to it than that? When would you use one or the other as an adjective, or are they completely interchangeable?

Q: What is the difference between an Emperor and a King?

I was at a loss when I was asked recently by my grand-daughter who is a school girl about the difference between Emperor and King. She asked me why Great Britain has King and Queen, while Germany and Russia had the Emperors, and France had both Kings and Emperors. All what I could tell her was, ‘you’d better study by yourself, don’t count on others.”

Being sorry for her, I checked dictionaries at hand, but was simply confounded.

For instance, OALD defines:

Emperor: the ruler of empire.

Empire: a group of countries that are controlled by one ruler / government.

King: the (male) ruler of an independent state / country that has a royal family.

Kingdom: a country ruled by a king (or queen).

The difference seems to be;

- King has a royal family.

- Empire is a group of countries (under one ruler).

But emperors have royal families as well, and Japan that has had the emperors for a millennium has been a single country (except the imperialism era of 1910–1945), and China who had emperors wasn’t a group of countries.

Can you tell me what is or are the essential (functional and institutional) difference(s) between Emperor and King so that I can give a belated answer to my grand-daughter?

Q: "Any" followed by singular or plural countable nouns?

This question has troubled me for ages despite my several attempts of looking it up in dictionaries or usage books. Do we say, "Do you have any ideas" or "Do you have any idea"? I do see an example where "any" means "it doesn't matter who/which/what", therefore "You can borrow any book you like." Also, does it matter between using it in questions and negatives?

Q: Are collective nouns (and in particular companies) always given a plural verb form, or are certain ones treated as singular?

I'd say Microsoft have a way of bending the rules and I know that McLaren have won the championship. While this sounds strange, I believe it is correct English (sorry, I'm not native). 

But when it's a small company, would you still use it this way? Is a company always plural, or are small companies singular? I.e., would you say Bakery Johnson makes fine bread or Bakery Johnson make fine bread? Is it My book seller, Woody's, have moved or is it has moved?

Q: "A few" vs. "few"

- I have few friends.
  
- I have a few friends.
  

I thought "few" means just one, two or even none. "A few" typically means more than two. However it seems to me some people say "few" when they really mean "a few", am I right?

Q: Idiom for someone who buys all the best gear to do something before they even have a basic proficiency?

I'm looking for an idiom to describe someone who decides to take up a new hobby, then buys an excessive amount of gear before they've even started. Perhaps they believe they need this gear to master the hobby, or that having the gear will make them better at it.

For example: someone decides they're going to learn how to play guitar. They buy a top-shelf guitar, a half-stack amplifier, a graphic equalizer, effects pedals, direct boxes, and a gig bag full of gadgets. Eric Clapton might be jealous of their equipment, but they haven't even learned how to play one chord yet.

Another example might be someone who decides they're going to try to get in shape, so they go out and buy a multi-station gym, an expensive bicycle, a heart-rate tracker, top of the line athletic clothes, but they can't even walk a mile without fainting.

How do I put this insanity into words?

Q: A word for a value between 0 and 1 (inclusive)

I'm a programmer. I'm so sick of writing documentation for things that should be explainable in a word.

When you write a function in a programming language, you get to name its parameters. Most things I can name easy enough, such as "Name" or "URL" or "MaxSizeN". The first 2 are self explanatory, the last one is the maximum size of something in relevant data units(as opposed to bytes or some other unit) but that one is easily understood by other programmers too.

Very often though, there is a parameter that is a floating point type (float) that needs an input in the range of 0 to 1 (inclusive). This is problematic since I have no idea what to call those things so I have to write function descriptors (assuming the language has them) or document it some other way which is annoying.

Lets say this float needs to define the accuracy of something so I declare it:

This is very ambiguous since the type float itself can contain a ridiculously large variety of numbers. Meanwhile if I were to declare it as such:

Then its immediately obvious that the input should be a value from 0 to 100.

Percentages aren't useful for math however, they are more like a "human friendly" markup for fractions and have no place in actual program logic and I'd rather avoid unnecessary overhead.

I'm looking for a word that I could mangle into my parameter names so that they would convey "this should be from 0 to 1".

I don't even care if the word is unknown to most people, I'll just start using it and tell others to read the dictionary :D

Is there any word for that?

Q: History of "X is dead. Long live X"

What is the history of "X is dead. Long live X"?

For example,

Location is dead. Long live Location.

JavaScript is dead. Long live JavaScript.

I feel like I'm missing out on a joke.

Q: Why are names starting with a "J" common, while words starting with a "J" are uncommon?

There's a reason "J" is worth 10 points in Word feud, it's a quite uncommon letter. 

  

According to Lewand, arranged from most to least common in appearance, the letters are: etaoinshrdlcumwfgypbvkjxqz Lewand's ordering differs slightly from others, such as Cornell University Math Explorer's Project, which produced a table after measuring 40,000 words.

Here's a graph measuring the frequency of "J" in words:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:English_letter_frequency_(alphabetic).svg 

Here's a graph measuring the frequency of "J" in names:
http://home.uchicago.edu/~jsfalk/misc/baby_names/images/initial_all.png

Sure, there's a lot of words with a "J" in them (not many relatively), but there's very few words starting with "J". Yet, there's an abundance of names starting with "J". Here, I'll list as many as I can from the top of my head.

Name starting with a J: Jack, Jackie, Jackson, Jill, Janet, Jeremy, Jeremiah, Jake, Jesus, Jacob, Jock, John, Johnny, Jon, Joe, Joel, Janus, Jerry etc.

Words starting with a J: Jar, Jigsaw, Job, Jacked, Jest, Jester, Jeopardize, Jeopardy, Jaguar, Jitters, Jumbo, Jet, and probably some more.

Now, is there a reason for this. Heck, is there even a great difference between the number of names starting with a "J" and words starting with a "J"?

Q: Which is correct: "could care less" or "couldn't care less"?

What's the deal with the phrase "could care less"?

Whilst growing up, I've always known people (parents etc) to use the phrase "couldn't care less", but I've also come across people who use the phrase "could care less" to mean the same thing (that is, "I do not care at all about that").

To me "couldn't care less" seems a lot more logical. If I couldn't care less about something, that implies I do not care about it at all. In contrast to this, to my mind the phrase "could care less" seems to indicate "I do care about this to some degree at least", but that's definitely not the meaning intended.

What's going on here? Is my (logical) analysis correct or in error?

Q: Is "data" treated as singular or plural in formal contexts?

My non-native English speaking friend just asked me: "Data is..." or "Data are..."?

I said both but that's because I've been desensitized from reading/writing both (especially from writing code and adding quick comments).

My question: Is it acceptable to utilize either for a university paper? Or is one safer than the other (when confronted with stickler professors)?

Related questions:

- Is the word "data" now considered singular? If so, what about "datum"?

- Data is/are in a global context

Q: How do Americans refer to their non-metric system in everyday circumstances?

In Australian English, we'd refer to using feet, inches, pounds, ounces and the like as "imperial units". In everyday conversation, do Americans refer to their non-metric units as "imperial", even though it's slightly different to the non-metric units Australians use? If not, what do they use?

Q: Which is correct, "dataset" or "data set"?

I write dataset instead of data set, in the same way I write  database instead of data base.

Looking at some English dictionaries, I don't find dataset.

Does that mean dataset isn't correct and I should use data set?

Q: Is there a single term for "nieces and nephews"?

I find it handy when talking about my sons and daughters I can just say my children.  It's nice to say nieces instead of sibling's daughters. I wonder if there is a similar term for nieces and nephews together? I imagine I could say sibling's kids but I was hoping for a single word.

Q: Is "believe you me" proper English?

I understand the phrase "believe you me" to be an emphatic version of "believe me" but how did it come to be?  Is it a poor translation into English?

Q: Why is there no "autumntime" or "falltime"?

Why is "autumntime" (or "falltime") not a word?

- wintertime => sure

- springtime => fine

- summertime => lovely

But apparently autumn/fall has no equivalent. Why?

Q: Why Third 'Reich'? Why is 'reich' not translated when 'third' is? What is the English synonym of reich?

Why is Nazi-Germany commonly referred to as "The Third Reich" in English? Why is reich not translated when Dritten ("third") is?

And what is the English synonym of reich? Realm?

Austria (Republik Österreich), Norway (Kongeriket Norge) and Sweden (Konungariket Sverige) all have reich (or the Norwegian/Swedish corresponding etymology related word) in their name and they all have English translations of their name.

Q: Which expressions can be used to close an email?

At the end of written communication like emails and letters, it is customary to use a closing valediction or "complementary close". Which formal and informal expressions can be used to end emails?

Q: Is -1 followed by a singular or plural noun?

Do we say "-1 thing" or "-1 things"?

I am interested in both 

  

two things minus one thing(s) 

and 

  

minus/negative one thing(s)

Q: Equivalent of "both" when referring to three or more items?

What would be the correct word to use when referring to three or more items, in the same manner as the word both?

For example, using two words, with the word both:

  

"There are several recommendations I
  have to further improve the sites —
  both to improve their profit, and
  decrease their cost."

Using three words, with a blank space in place of the correct word:

  

"There are several recommendations I
  have to further improve the sites —
  _ to improve their profit, decrease their cost and improve their
  usability."

So, what would be the correct word to use in place of the __?

Q: Why does "Mickey Mouse Operation" refer to a poorly run company?

A phrase I commonly hear (and use myself) when a company (or individual, in some cases) does something that seems foolish or not planned is to ask 

  

What kind of Mickey Mouse operation are you running here?

A search on Google leads me to Urban Dictionary, who confirms how I have been using the expression to mean 

  

Substandard, poorly executed or organized. Amateurish.

However, The Walt Disney Company is one of the largest entertainment corporations on the planet today. This Google Ngram shows that the expression did not become popular until about 1970s, well after Mickey was created. While I know the company did not achieve their current, prestigious status overnight, and I am not looking for history of company...

Why did the expression become popular and have a negative meaning associated with it?

Q: How did English retain its non-Christian names of the week?

It amazes me that despite centuries of religion dominating almost every aspect of life in Britain or at the very least exerting a great deal of influence on the public and private sphere, the English language has managed to retain its non-Christian names of the week (with Tuesday through Friday directly referencing the Norse gods and goddess Tyr, Odin, Thor and Frigg, Saturday - Saturn and Sunday and Monday the sun and moon respectively, with the moon personified as a deity). 

Was there no effort to replace them? Was there a time when a different system was used?

Note that I'm not asking about the etymology of the names of the week like this question does.

Q: Is "I'd've" proper use of the English language?

While reading a book, I came across the word I'd've, as in:

  

I'd've argued against it.

While it was obvious what it meant, it left me puzzled. Is I'd've a proper word?

Q: "Consist in" vs. "consist of"

I would like to clarify this once and for all: What is the correct use of "consist in" vs. "consist of"?

"Meditation consists in/of attentive watchfulness."

"The body consists in/of cells."

More examples of correct and incorrect uses would be appreciated.

Q: Is that an "r" in "worship" in a text from 1591?

I was trying to see how the Spanish word merced was translated into English in the 16th century, when I found this entry in a dictionary from 1591 by Richard Percyvall:

I understand that the second English word is worship, but that "r" is written in a different way from the r's in curtesie and pleasure. In a dictionary of Medieval English I found that worship was indeed a valid form for the word by then, but there were also other forms such as wurðescipe and wrþsipe, so I wonder if I am properly transliterating the word.

So, is that really an r in worship or is it another different character?

Q: What words are commonly mispronounced by literate people who read them before they heard them?

Quite a few words are mispronounced by under-educated people, or people learning English as a second language. Some words are often mispronounced by quite educated people who read, and began reading high-level literature before they heard the vocabulary spoken.

This can lead to a vocabulary dissonance, occasionally leading to the belief that there are two words (the known spelling of one, and the verbal hearing of the same) where only one exists. Epitome is a common example that springs to mind.

Answer with a word and its proper pronunciation (and potentially, the commonly mistaken punctuation).

Q: Is it acceptable to nest parentheses?

Is it acceptable to nest parentheses (for example, if I (meaning myself) write like this)?

Q: "Soccer mom": why soccer?

...why not football mom, baseball mom, or basketball mom?

Soccer mom, as far as I can tell, is an American term made popular during the 1996 presidential elections, used to describe a key demographic - mothers who, by spending lots of time shuttling their children to and from soccer practice, demonstrate that they were concerned about their children. Other attributes often associated with this demographic are suburban, married, busy, drives a minivan/SUV and so on.

What puzzles me is the choice of sport in the term: why soccer? Globally, soccer is an extremely popular sport, but there are many sports more popular than it in USA, and I imagine this would extend to after-school activities. I see that in Canada there's the equivalent term hockey mom which makes more sense.

Was the term coined in a place and time where soccer was a more natural choice? Is soccer a more prominent sport in the after-school world? Or was there some other historical accident?

Q: What does 'TL;DR' mean and how is it used?

I do my best, at my advanced age, to come to grips with the apparent acceptability of such widely used words/expressions/abbreviations as lol/LOL,  IMHO, AFAIK, etc. However, TLDR/tl;dr defeats me. According to several dictionaries (e.g., http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=tl%3Bdr) it means "too long; didn't read", but I have noticed people at EL&U and other StackExchange sites using it towards the end of their own answers to questions, often following it with a summary of what they have said before. I have assumed that it now means something like "If you found the above too long and complicated, here is, in a nutshell, what I meant to say"". Am I right?

Q: Should there be a space before a percent sign?

Should there be a space before a percent sign or not?
Should you write 20% or 20 %?

I'm not sure if there is any consensus about this or not. Is one way more common than the other?

Q: Is there an American English equivalent of the British idiom "carrying coals to Newcastle"?

I'm an American living in the Netherlands who is learning Dutch. There's an idiom in Dutch that describes performing a needless/futile activity, "water naar de zee dragen," which literally translates to "carrying water to the sea." My Dutch parents-in-law asked me if there was an English equivalent, but I couldn't think of one.

In doing some searches online, I found that the English translation given for the this idiom is always "carrying coals to Newcastle." This was the first time I'd ever come across the phrase, and subsequent searches revealed that it was indeed of British origin, though one site I found did claim that it was an American phrase. However, neither I nor any of my culturally American friends have ever heard of this phrase. 

Is there an American English idiom or phrase that carries the same connotations for carrying out a futile activity?

Q: Is it "falsy" or "falsey"?

I have seen both spellings of this word, falsy and falsey.

It can mean "something that is equivalent to false" in computer science, such as "The only two falsy values in the Ruby Language are false and nil".

What is the correct usage of this word?

Q: Is there any online tool to read (pronounce) IPA and APA written words?

I am looking for a tool to read a word written as phonetic transcription (IPA or APA).

I need it to provide users with a tool to verify if they've chosen the correct IPA transcription (users will need to provide a word and its transcription, users are not experts in IPA and APA, so there should be an easy way for them to verify what they use).

Q: Is there really no English equivalent to German's “Fachidiot”?

There was the following paragraph in the article that came under the title, “GOP and the rise of Anti-knowledge” written by Mike Lofgren in Consortiumnews.com (October 29, 2015):

  

“English unfortunately doesn’t have a precise word for the German
  “Fachidiot,” a narrowly specialized person accomplished in his own
  field but a blithering idiot outside it. In any case, a surgeon is
  basically a skilled auto mechanic who is not bothered by the sight of
  blood and palpitating organs. We need the surgeon’s skills on pain of
  agonizing death, and reward him commensurately but that does not make
  him a Voltaire.” 

In Japanese we have a word, 専門バカ, of which literal translation is “specialist idiot” meaning exactly same as defined the above - a narrowly specialized person accomplished in his own field but a blithering idiot outside it.

I’m really curious about the absence of short descriptions of the specialist who knows nothing more than his specialty area in English like German “Fachidiot,” and Japanese "専門バカ."

Isn’t there really any short word counterpart to “Fachidiot,” specialist’s ignorance, for instance, in English?

P.S.

I found "narrow-minded specialisit" as a German-to-English translation of "fachidiot" in the web site, Interglot translation dictionary.

Q: Why is the word "pants" plural?

We wear a shirt, a jacket but a pair of pants.

Why is pants plural?

Q: Is there a name for this type of sentence structure: "She looks as though she's been poured into her clothes, and forgot to say 'when'"?

Comedians seem to use phrases that employ this type of sentence structure - is there a name for it?

Examples of Groucho Marx's one liners seem to fit this pattern — and if memory serves, Emo Philips. 

- 
  

One morning I shot an elephant in my pajamas, how he got in my pajamas, I don't know.

- 
  

I've had a perfectly wonderful evening, but this wasn't it.

Q: Is there a gender neutral equivalent of “manspreading”?

Who knew that the term manspreading is considered deeply sexist?  I didn't

A nameless user proposed to delete the term from an answer of mine. His explanation was “remove misandry”. I had written 

  

[someone] who spreads their legs and invades your space (AKA manspreading)

The comment got me thinking. At first, I was quite flabbergasted and speechless. Agreed, the term is not complimentary, but I had considered it mainly to be a humorous term that was basically stating a truth. Men often do sit with their legs apart. It can show swagger, confidence, and suggest dominance. It can be due to their height, the taller the man, the more difficult it is for him to close his legs when seated in public transport. 

That's what I thought

But according to one spinal neurosurgeon, John Sutcliffe, the reason is two-fold

  

“The overall width of the pelvis is relatively greater in females and the angle of the femoral neck is more acute. These factors could play a role in making a position of sitting with the knees close together less comfortable in men,” he told The Independent.

and

  

“I suspect most men would suggest the reason for adopting the more spread posture in sitting would be the avoidance of testicular compression from the thigh muscles. The pelvic rotation goes some way to improve compression in both aspects,” Sutcliffe continued. 
  
  

The Independent  

I suppose that makes sense. The phenomenon is dictated by physiological differences that are inherent in men and women's bodies.

I turned to Wikipedia. It confirmed the user's standpoint, and why he suggested its removal

  

Both this posture and the use of the neologism "manspreading" have occasioned some internet criticism and debates in the US, UK, Turkey, and Canada. The public debate began when an anti-manspreading campaign started on the social media website Tumblr in 2013; the term appeared a year later. OxfordDictionaries.com added the word "manspreading" in August 2015. Use of the term has been criticized as "a caricature of feminism" and the practice has been juxtaposed with examples of women taking up excessive space in public spaces with bags. 

Further on, it supplies a female equivalent of the term

  

The criticism and campaigns against manspreading have been counter-criticized for not addressing similar behavior by women, such as taking up adjacent seats with bags, or "she-bagging".

So much controversy over a non-vulgar term, living in Italy I had no idea about the heated debate this term has sparked. So to make some sort of amends, I edited my answer and now it reads

  

[someone] who spreads their legs and/or invades your space (AKA “manspreading” or “she-bagging”)  

But it's not a perfect fit. And she-bagging doesn't work if you're talking about an airplane seat, does it? 

- What would be a gender-neutral equivalent of manspreading. A term that would not offend men, but could be applied to both sexes?

Q: "Synced" or "synched"

Which is correct: synced or synched? Is one of these American and the other British spelling or are they interchangeable?

I have only ever seen sync used in the computing industry.

Q: What is the difference between 20$ and $20?

I am seeing both 20$ and $20 usages. (20 is nonessential to this question.)   

What is the difference between them?

Q: "Updatable" vs. "Updateable": which is correct?

Which spelling is correct, "updatable" or "updateable"?  

For example, "The file is not updat(e)able."

By the way, I did go to Google and ref.dic.com for this first, and they both seem to indicate that both spellings are correct. If they are indeed both correct, which is more widely accepted?

Q: "It worths it", "it worth it" or "it is worth it"?

Which one is correct and why?

I think "worth it" is an adjective phrase. So what is "worth" then?

Example:

You should try spending money on her. It worths it.

You should try spending money on her. It worth it.

You should try spending money on her. It is worth it.

Which one is right? The last 2 are not condemned by grammar checker.

Q: "There is/are more than one". What's the difference?

While adding to an Answer to this question, I needed to use the above phrase, and I suddenly realised I was unsure whether to write "is" or "are".

- 

There is more than one way to skin a cat.

- 

If there are more than one species of cat, we will flay each species differently.

I don't think that second example above sounds quite right to me (disregarding the meaning - sorry!), but in my original Answer I felt "is" would have been even worse.

Is "are" always wrong here? If so, what exactly is the rationale? If not, is there a case where it's unquestionably preferred – and why is that?

Note that in both the problematic Answer and my example attempting to mimic the same context more briefly, the writer doesn't know how many there are. There may be one, more, or even none.

Getting even more specific, the writer might have an opinion on how many there might be, and wish to convey his leanings by choice of verb form if language allows this to be done succinctly.

Q: Two crows being an attempted murder

What is the point of this joke?

  

— "What do you call two crows on a branch?"

  — "Attempted murder."

I've googled it to check if it was a word play but the closest one I've hit was "marauder". Someone care to explain?

Q: Is "denigrate" a racist word?

A few years ago I was told not to use that word because, in addition to its negative meaning, it comes from Latin denigratus, past participle of denigrare, which means to blacken. Therefore, "to denigrate someone" would be "to blacken that person". Considering its current definition (see below) and the wish to be politically correct, I wonder whether the word has come to acquire any racist overtone.

The reason why I'm asking is because I was reading "Language Myths" a book by Laurie Bauer recently, and came across this passage which contained that word  "...certain educational institutions denigrate the way certain ethnic minorities and lower-working-class children talk."  Then I remembered I was once told not to use "denigrate" as it might be misinterpreted by some people.

denigrate - from Merriam-Webster

- to say very critical and often unfair things about (someone)

- to attack the reputation of, to deny the importance or validity of, belittle

EDIT (on Dec 17th, 2017) - This article, Dark Words Of Disapproval which Mari-Lou A mentions in one of the comments, shows very clearly the writer's feelings about this word, with very good arguments to bear him out.

Then again, there are those who think otherwise. For one, Melvin B. Tolson, the character played by Denzel Washington in the 2007 feature film "The Great Debaters", says the word has racist undertones. -  Edit (on May 6th, 2020)

Collins -  definition 2 - a rare word for blacken.

Q: English equivalent of the Persian proverb "When there's fire, wet and dry burn together"

There's a well-known proverb in Persian, which, translated literally, goes like this:

  

Where there's fire, wet and dry burn together.

  The original being ".وقتی آتش موجود باشد) تر و خشک با هم می سوزند)"

In a large forest fire, both dry wood that can be ignited easily and wet wood that's hard to burn, burn. A good example of a context it's used in would be a principal punishing a whole class because of what few perpetrators did &mdash; so students that didn't deserve to be punished, (that is, the wet) burned alongside the ones that did. (that is, the dry)

Is there a proverb that would express the same thing in English? More specifically, is there a proverb that would convey the innocent receiving undeserved punishment?

Q: Are there rules about using "that" to join two clauses?

He will understand that I was not joking.

He will understand I was not joking.

Which of the sentences is correct? Are there any specific rules about the use of "that" in the sentences I reported as example?

Q: How do you greet multiple recipients in an e-mail?

How do you greet multiple recipients in an e-mail?

Assuming they're both male, I just use "Sirs", but it seems a bit informal.

Q: Why do eleven and twelve get unique words and not end in "-teen"?

In short, why is it not oneteen and twoteen, and we start at thirteen in English?

In another thread, I supposed that despite that fact that people have ten fingers, amounts of items leading up to and including twelve were more common because twelve is more easily divisible evenly by two, three, four, and six. Both English and German (which are related) switch to a -teen (-zehn auf Deutsch) ending after twelve. Based on that thread, so does Norwegian. Could this be the explanation?

Looking at other languages (Arabic, Japanese, even a related romance language of French), this doesn't seem to apply, and you'd think that if something so fundamental as divisibility were the explanation, we'd see a more universal distribution across them.

Q: Is it wrong to use the word "codes" in a programming context?

Is it wrong to use the word "codes" in programming context?   

  

I shall use these codes.

Q: How to read “E = (mc)&#178;” so as not to mistake for “E = mc&#178;”

According to one of the questions already asked on EL&U, “E = mc²” is read as

  

E equals M C squared.

How do we read “E = (mc)²” so that it is not mistaken for “E = mc²”?

Q: If the letter J is only 400–500 years old, was there a J sound that preceded the design of the letter?

I understand that the letter "J" is relatively new — perhaps 400–500 years old.  But since there has long been important names that begin with J, such as Jesus, Joshua, Justinian, etc., and which predate the introduction of a special letter, does that mean that the "J" sound predated the letter, or were such famous names spelled and pronounced differently?

Q: What's the difference between 'resolve' and 'solve'?

What's the difference between 'resolve' and 'solve'?

Q: What does the phrase "Stay Hungry. Stay Foolish" mean?

It was Steve Jobs's ending comment in the Stanford Commencement in 2005, and Jobs mentioned:

  

Stay Hungry.  Stay Foolish.

What does this phrase mean?  I understand this may also seem philosophical, but when studying English, often we not only study the words, but we often study what the meaning is, and what a phrase or writing may mean or imply.

Q: What's wrong with "I'll open you the door"?

When I call the buzzer outside my girlfriend's flat, she sometimes says *"I'll open you the door". I correct this to "I'll open the door for you".

I've never heard a native speaker say it the first way, which is why I think it's wrong. But I can't explain why.

There is a pattern in lots of English phrases that would suggest both are correct. A few common examples:

- 

Give the keys to me before you go — Give me the keys before you go

- 

I'll buy a coffee for you at the cafe — I'll buy you a coffee at the cafe

- 

We sent a text to Martin on his birthday — We sent Martin a text on his birthday

The left-hand side is more formal, and the right-hand side is more common in everyday speech.

What do you call this pattern?

What makes the 'open-the-door' sentence an exception?

Q: Word meaning both create and update?

I'd like to know if someone has a better word than authored or produced, for both creating and updating something.

Context:
I'm a software developer and I'm trying to think of a clever way to name the function that will initially create an object, and if it's already created, update it.

Q: Usage of "p." versus "pp." versus "pg." to denote page numbers and page ranges

At the risk of saying something foolish, I won't attempt to answer the question myself. I understand that all three synchronically more or less equivalent and substitutable, but it would be quite nice to know the traditional usage notes on the abbreviations.

Q: "Extensible" vs. "extendible"

Where does the adjective form extensible come from and does it connote anything different than extendible? What's the difference, if any, between the two?

Q: What is a word for making something seem not as bad as it actually is?

Some examples:

- Instead of admitting that I'm an alcoholic, I just say I had one too many drinks.

- Instead of the bank admitting that it has lots of loans that are in arrears and are likely to default, it only says that it has underperforming loans.

- Instead of admitting that they overeat, they simply claim that they have a strong appetite. 

Basically, I'm after a word for when a phrase is used that is not really a lie, but doesn't give the whole truth to make it sound more positive than it actually is. Usually when something should be dealt with, but it's kind of swept under the carpet by the misleading phrase.

Q: Words with "bi-" prefix that no longer mean "two"

Are there words in English that include the prefix bi- whose current usage includes meanings other than 'two'?

To clarify, I am specifically looking for the prefix of Latin origin meaning "two". If we used the word bicycle (bi- + cycle) to refer to vehicles with one or three wheels, that would be an example of what I'm looking for.*

* Obviously we don't use bicycle this way; my example is to illustrate that if we did use bicycle this way, it would be the sort of thing I'm looking for.

Q: "Have a look" vs. "Take a look"

What is the difference between Have a look and Take a look (meaning/connotations)? For example:

Have a look at the question.

Take a look at the question.

For some reason I only found first version, but Google Translate suggests second one.

Q: Should I write "PhD" or "Ph.D."?

Question pretty self-explanatory. Should the abbreviation of the Latin term philosophiae doctor be written as PhD (no periods) or Ph.D. (with periods)?

Q: Idiom or word for a very crowded place

There is a popular idiom in Russian for describing a really crowded place: "(there's) no room for an apple to fall" ("яблоку негде упасть"). 

I struggle to think of anything similar in English, and the dictionaries I consulted were of no help, simply translating it as "crowded" or not even including it at all.

The context would be something and anything along the lines of

  

The place was so crowded that [X].

  The room was full to the extent that [Y].

  The street/square was [Z].

  At the top of the hat charts, there is [no room for an apple to fall].  

Which is to say, I am not married to any sentence structure in particular — I'll gladly rewrite from scratch to use a vivid and idiomatic adjective or noun, word or phrase, metaphor or saying, rather than try and shoehorn it into a sentence it does not feel itself welcome in.

Q: Captain America said "if you get killed, walk it off!" How to understand "walk it off"?

The Avengers 2 just hit China yesterday. The official translation of the line "If you get killed, walk it off!" is "Someone is trying to kill you, run, run for your life" (This is the English version of that Chinese translation). Such a nonsense. But how to understand the original English sentence correctly?

Q: What’s the rule for adding “-er” vs. “-or” when forming an agent noun from a verb?

What’s the rule to decide whether you add -er or whether you add -or when creating an agent noun from a verb?  

Sometimes it’s -er:   

- read > reader

- hate > hater

- hit > hitter

But other times it’s -or: 

- meditate > meditator

- collect > collector

Q: What is the difference between 'make decision' and 'take decision'?

What is the difference between make decision and take decision? When to use the one and when the other?

Q: Is it "Yours faithfully" or "Yours sincerely"?

When should one sign a letter with "Yours faithfully" or "Yours sincerely"?

Q: Why is Sean pronounced Shawn?

I've always had this question about the pronunciation of Sean.

Is Sean a word from another language? Is it actually not pronounced Shawn and instead it's some sound between Shawn and Seen? Also, why isn't it pronounced as Sawn instead of Shawn, when the word Sean doesn't even have the letter 'h' in it to get that -sh sound?

Bottom line is, why is Sean pronounced Shawn instead of Seen?

Q: Which is correct: "feedback is welcome" or "feedback is welcomed"?

I am used to writing feedback is welcome. Is that correct, or should I write feedback is welcomed? Why?

Q: Which is correct: "one or more is" or "one or more are"?

Should the phrase be "one or more is...", or "one or more are..."?

Q: "Queueing" or "Queuing"

Which spelling is better, queueing or queuing? Both words seem to mean the same, but there are two different spellings. My context is:

  

Queueing Latency  

versus

  

Queuing Latency

If both spellings are applicable, when do I use which one of them?

Q: Difference between nevertheless and nonetheless

I am never quite sure whether to use nevertheless or nonetheless; they seem almost synonymous to me, but I think I might be missing a subtle distinction. Is there a difference, and if so, how do I determine which is right in different circumstances?

I am specifically thinking of sentences such as these:

  
  
- I am busy Saturday; nevertheless I will come to your party anyway.
  
- I am busy Saturday; nonetheless I will come to your party anyway.
  

There is a question here that deals with a specific idiomatic usage, but I was thinking of the general type of usage, as given in the party example above.

Q: What is deliberately using complex sentences to confuse people called?

I'm wondering if there's a word, phrase, or idiom to describe the action of deliberately confusing people by using complex sentences. For example, some politicians will throw out some big words and fancy sentences to confuse people what he or she really mean.

In Chinese, we say that the politician is "玩文字遊戲". Direct translation would be "playing a word game". And some English-Chinese dictionaries' suggest "play on word", "play with words", "word play", and "paronomasia". However, upon further researching by Googling, I don't think any of these is correct.

Q: Retriable or retryable?

As in "it is possible to try it again". "Tryable" seems to be the one mostly used online, if you type it in Google. Onelook Dictionary Search only returns an entry for "tryable" from Wordnik, not from any of the major online dictionaries.

Which spelling is the correct one for this meaning?

Q: Difference between "scheme" and "schema"

What is the difference between scheme and schema? Where do you use one and not the other?

schema

- a diagram, plan, or scheme. Synonyms: outline, framework, model.

- an underlying organizational pattern or structure; conceptual framework: A schema provides the basis by which someone relates to the events he or she experiences.

- (in Kantian epistemology) a concept, similar to a universal but limited to phenomenal knowledge, by which an object of knowledge or an idea of pure reason may be apprehended.

scheme

- a plan, design, or program of action to be followed; project.

- an underhand plot; intrigue.

- a visionary or impractical project.

- a body or system of related doctrines, theories, etc.: a scheme of philosophy.

- any system of correlated things, parts, etc., or the manner of its arrangement.

The funny thing is that the dictionary entry of schema refers to scheme. Does that mean they can be used interchangeably? If not, can someone please give practical examples of how and when to use one and when the other?

Q: Do you really answer "How do you do?" with "How do you do?"

We're told in our English classes (learning English as a foreign language) that the only possible answer to

  
  
- How do you do?
  

is to repeat the question:

  
  
- How do you do?
  

(While it's perfectly OK to answer other similar questions

  
  
- How are you? / How are you doing?
  
- Fine, thanks / etc
  

)

That said, then I talk to English speakers with Skype or in chats, I tried to ask the question, but the answer was never "how do you do?". It was rather "fine. you?" or something.

What is right and what is a myth?

Q: How to read exponential expressions, e.g., "2^16"?

How do you say the mathematical function in English:

  

x^y (or xy)

For example, how do you say 

  

2^16  (or 216)

I know  means 'power' or 'exponentiate', but that is the name of the operation, not how you pronounce its use.

If y = 2, it is 'x squared', y=3 then 'x cubed'. What if y is some other arbitrary number?

Q: Is "You’re a better man than I am, Gunga Din!" still considered a compliment in English?

I grew up hearing the phrase, "You’re a better man than I am, Gunga Din!" used as a compliment, a genuine expression of admiration, fairly self-effacing at the same time.

I have to admit that, while I knew from context that it was meant as praise, I long ago forgot most of the poem it came from, remembering just that Gunga Din was heroic on the battlefield. Hence the admiration.

I was about to use the phrase when I realized that the person I was addressing might be too young to get the reference, so I skipped it, but went back to read the poem. It is (to me) shockingly racist, with lines like

  

An’ for all ’is dirty ’ide

  ’E was white, clear white, inside

  When ’e went to tend the wounded under fire!

Researching it a bit, it seems the poem is not taught anymore, much like some of Mark Twain’s works in the US.

So, is it still a compliment or have the racist overtones made it obsolete?

Edited to add: The last stanza refers to meeting up with Gunga Din in hell someday. [Again edited to add] I realize that the meeting in hell was a compliment - once again - to Gunga Din. The author calls him, "You Lazarushian-leather Gunga Din!" In the Bible, the Rich man (in hell) asks to let Lazarus (in heaven) give him water: ‘Father Abraham, have pity on me and send Lazarus to dip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue, because I am in agony in this fire.’ While the Biblical answer is 'Nope', the author has so much faith in the goodness of Gunga Din that he believes Gunga Din will bring him - and others - water not only on the battlefield, but also in hell. (I think...) Thanks to @Michael.

Sorry, I realize this has some POB aspects to it.

Q: "Fill out a form" or "fill in a form"

Does one fill out a form or does one fill in a form? I've gotten different answers from the people I've asked.

Google search results:  

  
  
- fill in a form — 14,200,000
  
- fill out a form — 7,000,000

Q: Where does the period go when using parentheses?

Where should the period go when using parentheses? For example:

  

In sentence one, I use this example (which has a parenthesis at the end.)

Should the period be inside, or outside of the parentheses? What about if the entire sentence is a parenthetical (as below)?

  

(Where does the terminal punctuation go here?)

Is there a hard and fast rule?

Q: Is there a reason the British omit the article when they "go to hospital"?

Why do British speakers omit the article in constructions like "go to hospital" or "go on holiday"? Pretty much all American speakers would rephrase those as "go to the hospital" and "go on a holiday", I think. Is there any good reason, or forgotten sense behind those words that might explain why the articles are ommitted?  Are there other common constructions other than those two that the British use that drop the article?

I just realized per Kosmonaut's comment that Americans do much the same thing with a few nouns, so this isn't all that special.   Do grammaticists designate nouns that can have their article dropped with anything, i.e. do they have anything in common?

Q: Which is correct: "rack my brain" or "wrack my brain"?

Which is the correct usage: "rack my brain" or "wrack my brain"? Google turned up pages with conflicting recommendations.

One argument is that to "rack a brain" comes from the torture device known as a rack.

Another from the now obsolete Yahoo Answers website was that wrack means damage or destruction or punishment and thus is correct.

Since I'm a SE user I'm inclined to immediately discount the second opinion from Yahoo Answers, but the logic seems plausible enough that I wanted to be sure.

On a related note, if rack is indeed correct, does the song Wrack My Brain by Ringo Starr simply have an ungrammatical title or is the error intentional?

Q: Why "the powers that be"?

In the phrase "the powers that be," as in the sentence:

It would never have occurred to the powers that be to run and supervise the National Lottery from anywhere but London.

(Oxford Dictionaries)

Why do we use "be", the infinitive form of the verb? Wouldn't "the powers that are" or "the powers that rule" make a lot more sense?

Q: How to degender "separate the men from the boys"?

How can one degender the phrase "separate the men from the boys"?

Examples of how this phrase has traditionally been used:

  

Math teacher: "The ability to do proofs of this type is what separates the men from the boys in this class."

What has occurred to me so far:

  

Parent, talking about relative merits of several different possible independent special education evaluators: "It's the training and experience with the specific disability that's going to separate the men from the boys and the women from the girls."

Has anyone found a more concise way of degendering (is that a word?) this expression?

How about something of the form "separate the serious from the __________"?  In place of the blank, hopefully a word similar to "dabblers."

I need a phrase that doesn't show disrespect for the folks who are not up to doing the difficult proofs, or who do not have training and experience with the specific disability.

A: “That seems like an odd way to use punctuation,” Tom said. “What harm would there be in using quotation marks at the end of every paragraph?”

“Oh, that’s not all that complicated,” J.R. answered. “If you closed quotes at the end of every paragraph, then you would need to reidentify the speaker with every subsequent paragraph.

“Say a narrative was describing two or three people engaged in a lengthy conversation. If you closed the quotation marks in the previous paragraph, then a reader wouldn’t be able to easily tell if the previous speaker was extending his point, or if someone else in the room had picked up the conversation. By leaving the previous paragraph’s quote unclosed, the reader knows that the previous speaker is still the one talking.”

“Oh, that makes sense. Thanks!”

A: Because Nike was the Greek goddess of victory (see Wikipedia) and final 'e's are not silent in Greek. Similarly, the final 'e' should be pronounced in the name Irene, as it is in other Greek-derived names like Chloe, Zoe and Phoebe.

A: Downplay

M-W: to make (something) seem smaller or less important

dictionary.com: to treat or speak of (something) so as to reduce emphasis on its importance, value, strength, etc.:
The press has downplayed the president's role in the negotiations.

A: Seat hog

Without having an example sentence, it's hard to suggest a perfect fit, but I would suggest "seat hog" or "seat hogging."

There's even a whole blog dedicated to posting pictures of this sort of people. (I tried to pick a photo with a non-obvious gender)
From that blog:

SeatHog – noun – \ˈsēt-hog\ – a selfish or clueless individual who deprives another individual of any reasonable or unimpeded opportunity to sit down.

(In my dialect in regular IPA: )

The sort of picture they share:

Washington state's Sound Transit* uses "seat hog" to teach people how to ride the train. (Included the other ones because they're cute too.)

For readers unfamiliar with this use of "hog," it follows this OED definition:

[6] b. orig. U.S. Chiefly with modifying word: a person who appropriates or monopolizes something in a greedy and selfish manner. Cf. hog v.1 7b.

- Seattle metro area, the "Sound" refers to the Puget Sound, which lies directly west of Seattle.

A: "Walk it off" is a flippant response for when someone is hurt or injured. It generally means that they should continue as if nothing had happened (that is, they should continue walking), and that they'll be back in good health after a while. An example might be if you took a bad step and hurt your ankle slightly; it may well be better to continue walking until the pain subsides instead of stopping.

In the Captain America example he is joking that even dying should not stop you from winning; you should pretend that nothing happened and keep fighting.

A: That peculiarly written letter is  called the R rotunda

The r rotunda (ꝛ), "rounded r", is a historical calligraphic variant of the minuscule (lowercase) letter Latin r used in full script-like typefaces, especially blackletters.

Unlike other letter variants such as "long s" which originally were orthographically distinctive, r rotunda has always been a calligraphic variant, used when the letter r followed a letter with a rounded stroke towards the right side, such as o, b, p, h (and d in typefaces where this letter has no vertical stroke, as in ∂, ð). In this way, it is comparable to numerous other special types used for ligatures or conjoined letters in early modern typesetting.

Wikipedia

A: billion comes from bi- + million, as it originally meant the product of two millions - in other words, a million million.  This usage persists in Europe (see long scale), but in America a billion means a thousand million.  (In the long scale this would be called a milliard.)

See https://www.etymonline.com/word/billion

A: I would call this obfuscating.

Merriam-Webster gives us the following definition for the word: 

  

Obfuscate: to make (something) more difficult to understand

So in the case of the politician you might say, "The speech seemed deliberately obfuscated" or "Her obfuscating delivery masked the negative consequences of her actions" or "They missed the hard truths in the speech thanks to his profuse obfuscation"

A: Background

When in ca. 100 CE Plutarch wrote a treatise entitled Why are the days named after the planets reckoned in a different order from the actual order?, it can be deduced that 

- in Rome the seven-day week had supplanted the eight-day week based on market days,

- it was commonly understood the seven days were named for the classical planets in a geocentric universe, i.e., not directly after the deities after whom they were named, and

- the days were not sequenced in their astronomical order: Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Sun, Venus, Mercury, Moon. 

Plutarch's treatise is no longer extant, but we do know the answer: the order follows the astrological planetary hours.  Each day of the week is named for the planet ruling its first hour.

The rest is pure arithmetic. Twenty-four hours ruled by seven planets leaves a remainder of three, so beginning with the day of the Sun, the next day is three planets to the right in the list, the Moon's day, and so on.

When after increased contact with the Roman Empire Germanic tribes adopted and adapted the seven-day week, they remythologized the names into more local deities. Whether this twist on the interpretatio germanica included Sunna, a sun goddess, feminine because the Germanic word for sun is that grammatical gender, or was simply a translation of the Latin cannot be determined. Appparently there was no readily available deity to corresponding to Saturn/Chronos, so his name remained for Saturday.

All this occurred long before West Germanic literacy and can only be inferred from Old Saxon, Old High German, and Old English.

...meanwhile in sixth century Portugal

For its own use, the Latin church had adopted the simple numbers of Genesis 1, except the first day was the Lord's day, Dominica, Monday–Friday bore numbers 2–6, and Saturday was the biblical sabbatum. This would not have been so much a reaction to pagan names as it was to assure a distinctly Christian shape to the week, beginning with the prime celebration of the Lord's Day.

The Eastern Church followed a similar pattern, adding Παρασκευή (Paraskeví) for Friday, the "Day of Preparation" for the Jewish Sabbath, on which Jesus of Nazareth was crucified. This "five numbers and the Bible" scheme is still how Greeks name the days of the week, and it influenced Slavic names as well. (Not all names: Monday, e.g., Slovak pondelok, means literally "day after no work," which should be universally adopted.)

In sixth century Portugal, St. Martin of Braga (ca. 520–580) objected to the daily dose of paganism in secular Latin and Romance languages, insisting that not only the days of the week be renamed according to ecclesiastical nomenclature, but that the planets be renamed as well. In the latter endeavor he failed to convince, but to this day, if you're in Lisbon and want to do something on Tuesday, you do it on "Thirdday": terça-feira.

...and now to seventh century England

Sources written in Old English begin to appear in the seventh century, at roughly the same time as Anglo-Saxon Britain was being christianized. These two cultural phenomena are, of course, connected, with much of Old English literature written under the aegis of the Church. Scholars have struggled for centuries to characterize the belief system, if indeed there was one, of pre-Christian Anglo-Saxons, but place names suggest veneration, if not an organized cult, for Woden, Þunor, Tiw, and Frig, i.e., our Wednesday, Thursday, Tuesday, and Friday deities. There is no extant literature from Anglo-Saxon pagans themselves, and what remnants appear are often blended with folklore. Various early kings even claimed Woden or Thor as original ancestors without any concomitant claim of their divinity.

The absence of such sources — plus a relative wealth of sermons and other occasional works in Old English — does, however, make answering your question easier: while there are sources condemning veneration of trees or watercourses as pagan practices, there were no churchmen demanding that the days of the week be renamed according to the Christian numbering. So the Venerable Bede could muse in the eighth century — without the slightest polemic — about the Germanic and presumed pagan origin of the name for the supreme feast of the Christian liturgical year: Easter.

...and a thousand years later

To find an Anglophone equivalent of Martin of Braga, you have to wait for George Fox and the seventeenth century Quakers, who not only numbered the days of the week to avoid any reference to Germanic paganism, but also the months, especially those named for Roman deities or emperors. One Quaker writer enlivened that polemic in 1751, when England finally relented to switching to that "popish" innovation, the Gregorian calendar. This practice continues today, at least in formal contexts, for some more conservative Quaker groups.

A: A lot of the "J" names in English are from the Bible and would have originally been written with an initial I in Latin, as the letter J did not get started until the Renaissance. In modern transliteration of Hebrew these names are written with an initial Y. For example, "Yeʻhoshua" for Joshua, "Yaʻaqov" for Jacob, or "Yirmeyāhū" for Jeremiah/Jeremy/Jerry. The use of /dʒ/ sound in initial uses of I/J comes from Early Old French, through Gallo-Roman influences. 

The reason why there are more names than common nouns pronounced this way is that Old English lacks word-initial /dʒ/ and Latin does not have a lot of word-initial I/J followed by a (second) vowel, while Latinized Hebrew has many names starting with I/J. However, some Old French common nouns do start with initial I/J and these properly became pronounced /dʒ/ and spelled with J: for example jeopardy, from jeu parti, or joy from joie.

A: As a programmer, I cringe when hearing this!

In computer science, "code" is used as a mass noun, specifying the collection of instructions in a specific arrangement as a whole and in no specific quantity. Whether it's one line of code or ten pages, it is still referred to as code, not codes.

When "codes" is used in computer science, it typically refers to values or constants used to specify a trait, access or properties, though in my experience, the actual name of those types of items is used over the word "codes". For example, instead of:

Use these codes to specify the read/write permissions of the file.

You would write/say:

Use these constants to specify the read/write permissions of the file.

Or: Use this enumeration to specify the read/write permissions of the file.

With regard to the use of "code":

Use this code to open a file.

Use these functions in the source code to access the database.

This program code needs to be tidied up.

A: In addition to Jacinto's answer, you can also avoid the human element altogether and use a phrase like:

  

Math teacher: "The ability to do proofs of this type is what separates the wheat from the chaff in this class."

The Free Dictionary describes the phrase as meaning:

  

to separate what is useful or valuable from what is worthless; to choose what is of high quality over what is of lower quality

In response to the OP edits:

You're going to have a hard time finding an answer that doesn't slight those that don't stack up (at least on some level) because your original phrase "separating men from boys" places a measure of disrespect on the "boys", essentially calling them weak, immature, and less macho. 

Any equivalent phrase, no matter how degendered, will place some level of inferiority on the, ahem, inferior.

At some point, you have to step back and look at what you're trying to say. If you're trying to say that a certain process weeds out inferior special education evaluators, the men/boys or wheat/chaff expressions fit nicely. If you're trying to encourage a student, letting them know that this task will be difficult without placing inferiority on those that don't catch on, you probably shouldn't be making a "separates this from that" comparison.

I'd instead go for something that focuses more on the victors rising to meet the challenge or the challenge itself. These immediately come to mind:

  

Math teacher: "Learning proofs of this type is a real trial by fire."

or

  

Math teacher: "The ability to do proofs of this type is what determines the cream of the crop."

or

  

Math teacher: "The crème de la crème in this class will be able to do proofs of this type.

or

  

Math teacher: "For some of you, learning this type of proof will be your crucible."

A: Whether it is correct to use a comma before a coordinating conjunction ("and", "but", "or", "nor", "for", "yet", "so") depends on the situation. There are three primary uses of conjunctions:

- 

When a coordinating conjunction is used to connect two independent clauses, a comma is always used. Examples:

- I hit my brother with a stick, and he cried.

- The rain stopped, and the sun came out again.

- Should I eat dinner, or should I play a game?

- 

When a coordinating conjunction is used to connect a dependent clause, a comma is never used. This includes both of your given examples. Other examples:

- The boy ran to his room and cried.

- Frank is a healthy and active child.

- Should I eat dinner or play a game?

- 

When a coordinating conjunction is used to connect three or more items or clauses, a comma is optional (though I personally prefer to use one). Examples:

- I bought cheese, crackers, and drinks at the store.

- Should I eat dinner, play a game, or go to the store?

A: The answer to the presenting question is: 

- *I'll open you the door.

is ungrammatical because you won't wind up owning the door by virtue of my opening it.

Ordinary bitransitive verbs of transfer (tell, throw, bring, hand, pass, send, etc.), where the direct object (the trajector, semantically) is transferred from the subject (the source) to the indirect object (the goal), normally are subject to the Dative Alternation:

- I'll tell/throw/bring/hand/pass/send the answer to him.

- I'll tell/throw/bring/hand/pass/send him the answer.

Besides these, however, there's also a Benefactive construction, which uses for instead of to, and identifies someone for whose benefit something is done. This can be added to any sentence, 3-place bitransitive, 2-place transitive, or 1-place intransitive. Here we discuss only the transitives:

- I'll open the door for you. (Note -- you don't wind up with the door)

- I'll dig a clam for you.    (Note -- you do wind up with the clam)

- I'll fix the car for you.  (Note -- you don't wind up with the car)

- I'll fix a meal for you.   (Note -- you do wind up with the meal)

In precisely those situations where the Benefactive object of for ends up possessing the direct object, the sentences can undergo Dative; in those cases where they don't, they can't. 

- *I'll open you the door. 

- I'll dig you a clam.    

- *I'll fix you the car. 

- I'll fix you a meal.

The last two sentences show that this extension of Dative to Benefactive is not governed by the verb used (fix in both cases), but by the intended meaning of the clause, including idioms, presuppositions, and metaphors.

A: I don't see why this question has received such negative responses. I think it's a good question. 

"Blacken" indeed has a trans-historical meaning associated with vilification or corruption, but this has nothing to do with the inherent qualities of black people, animals, or the vast majority of black things. Would you consider the term "blacklist" racist? If not, then you shouldn't see "denigrate" as racist. Anyone who does is being a little silly. 

If you're worried, you could always replace it with "disparage." 

EDIT: Another example is use of the term "sinister" to mean "wicked." This word comes from Latin "sinister," meaning "left" or "on the left side." Over time, the mythologized connection of the left hand to the false or unfavorable came to give "sinister" an association with the unsavory. This does not mean that we cannot use "sinister" to mean "wicked," or that doing so would impugn left-handed people.

A: One is biscuit / biscotti, which literally means "twice cooked". Although the prefix here is "bis", it does start with "bi", so... 

from Oxford Living Dictionary:

  

Origin
  
  

Middle English: from Old French bescuit, based on Latin bis ‘twice’ +
  coctus, past participle of coquere ‘to cook’ (so named because
  originally biscuits were cooked in a twofold process: first baked and
  then dried out in a slow oven so that they would keep).

A: In British English there is a common colloquialism:

"All the gear, no idea"

It describes your requirements perfectly: novices who splash out on expensive equipment but who lack the aptitude to use it properly or even to perform satisfactorily in the subject endeavour.

Unfortunately, I can't find a reputable reference work to back up my claim but, as a native Brit and current UK resident, I can assure you that this phrase is well established and popularly understood.

However, I can provide some evidence that the phrase is in use by quoting this Telegraph newspaper article.

In it, the author (a Telegraph journalist) recounts his first experience on a racing yacht (emphasis mine).

Well out of my comfort zone, even my attire was a giveaway – brand-new thermals and squeaky-clean boat shoes. The phrase “all the gear, no idea” sprang to mind.

[...]

“Have you sailed before?” asked my skipper, Emily, as I clung to the guardrail wire.

“I lived on a narrowboat last summer,” I replied. “Does that count?”

“Not really,” she said with a smile.

The Telegraph is a well-regarded newspaper in the UK, so the phrases it publishes could certainly be considered acceptable, commonly-used English.

EDIT: Even the venerable BBC seems to use the phrase, as seen in a recent article about cycling (emphasis mine):

Yes, there are the oft-derided "middle-aged-men in Lycra" spending their disposable on flashy steeds instead of sports cars and motorbikes. Sneered at by the old guard for having "all the gear, no idea".

The urban dictionary gives an accurate (if poorly written) definition:

This is when you see people (mainly middle aged men) walking around an amateur golf range with all the equipment that has probably set them back a small fortune, however, they haven't even played before and [are] completely useless, yet they have still spent all that money.

A: Sugarcoat - to make (something difficult or distasteful) appear more pleasant or acceptable.

  

You can't sugarcoat your alcoholism this time MonkeyZeus, I'm taking the kids and leaving you! Also, what parent in their right mind would name their child with a name as awful as yours?!

A: It means "if you couldn't be bothered to read the preceding material because it looked too long (and possibly boring), here is a summary for you". The meaning is quite close to 'executive summary'.

  

tl;dr is used to call out another user on the length of their post. However, in cases of more courteous exchanges and serious discussions, tl;dr can be self-invoked by the original poster as a disclaimer to the readers. It is then paired with a brief summary of the longer original text.

KnowYourMeme: tl;dr 

urbandictionary: tl;dr

Also useful to know:

  

Image macros of teal deers are sometimes used in place of tl;dr, due to it sounding close to “tee el dee are.”

The earlier usage ("used to call out a user on the length of their post") has a range of meaning from "please remember, brevity is the soul of wit" to "I find your loquacious verbosity exceptionally tedious. I have ignored your communication in its entirety! Haha!". 

This usage can be considered trollish, particularly in the following scenario:

- 

I (a troll) ask a seemingly-serious but reasonably complex question, or engage you in what seems to be a serious debate.

- 

You respond at some length.

- 

I immediately respond "tl;dr!", meaning I am amused that I have induced you to waste your time in composing a lengthy prose argument which is now worthless for want of an audience.

See also: 'Cool Story, Bro!':

  

A phrase sarcastically used to indicate one's disgust or indifference towards a tl;dr story. 

urbandictionary: cool story bro

You might prefer a 'Joseph Ducreux' equivalent - expressing the same sentiment in terms which the writer considers archaic or excessively formal - one of which is:

(I've included the image here because it forms an intrinsic part of the meaning).

An online post which lacks brevity and is not formatted into clear paragraphs or sections could also be criticised as a 'Wall of Text' or 'wall'o'text', "a huge run-on paragraph that makes it difficult to recall the original point". Such a post might justifiably be criticised as being 'tl;dr' - too long (and badly formatted) to read.

It's also sometimes seen (in reference to videos) as 'tl;dw' - "too long; didn't watch".

If you can ignore its hackneyed over-use, then 'tl;dr' can actually be quite a clever riposte, in proportion to the excessive length of the text which it is used to rebut. You can choose to interpret it quite wittily, as "Your views are so marginal, your argument so poor and your writing so unnecessarily verbose that everything you write can be summarily dismissed as beneath my notice; and, in contrast to your rambling statement, I am choosing to demonstrate my intellectual superiority by making this dismissal in a post consisting of only five characters. (This rhetorical strategy is obviously most effective when the replying post consists solely of 'tl;dr').

Attempting to rebut an opponent in an online discussion with 'tl;dr' can backfire. Your thinking opponent will declare that their text is well-written and of appropriate length, and that you would easily have been able to read and understand it, if only your intelligence and literacy were not below par, as (the opponent can argue) is clearly demonstrated by your use of the (to them) ugly neologism 'tl;dr':

Again the image provides vital context for the meaning here: Sir Patrick Stewart's Royal Shakespeare Company training in elocution and his celebrity status, combined with the character Jean-Luc Picard's high status within the fictional world of Star Trek, show the writer attempting to place themselves in a position of intellectual authority; the writer portrays himself as the Captain Picard of usage, dismissing the juvenile prankster's neologism with a well-judged "Shut up, Wesley!".

'tl;dr' can also be used in politics. By projecting it as dialogue into the mouth of one's political opponent, one can imply that they are cavalierly (or through sheer stupidity) ignoring a text which, although it is lengthy and complicated, they should rightly consider extremely important.

Although this particular example happens to feature President Obama, this kind of rhetorical attack is used against people right across the political spectrum, since it's essentially a very general attack on the merit of the political figure as a person, rather than a well-reasoned critique of their policies. In this example the exact same text is being used to attack Sarah Palin.

This technique is particularly effective where the material being ignored relates to the Internet, the very source of the phrase 'tl;dr':

Editorial Cartoon: TL;DR Congress (licensed CC BY-3.0)

In a press release of 28 August 2013, Oxford Dictionaries Online (OUP) included 'TL;DR' on a list of words being added to ODO - interestingly though, it is the one 'new word' on the list in that press release which doesn't have an entry. The definition given in the press release is:

  

TL;DR, abbrev.: ‘too long didn’t read’: used as a dismissive response to a lengthy online post, or to introduce a summary of a lengthy post. 

but the word does not have a proper entry of its own. Even more interestingly, the word seems to have had a definition at ODO, cited here ("early 21st century", click through for more antedating info) as of August 3013, which has now been removed. The OED has bupkis of course.

To clarify the likely intended meaning (in response to a question below): 

- 

if 'tl;dr' is a one-word reply to a lengthy post then it is likely to be intended as a riposte or at best a rebuke to the person who posted the lengthy text, whereas

- 

if it is placed at the foot of a long post by that post's author together with a summary of that post then it is being used in the 'executive summary' sense, to forestall the possible criticism of excessive verbosity, and

- 

if it is placed in the mouth of a political opponent then it implies the opponent's cavalier dismissal of (or failure to understand) an important text.

Here on Stack Exchange the 'riposte' or 'putting words in their mouth' meanings would likely fall foul of the SE network's 'be nice' policy. So if you see it here then it almost certainly means 'executive summary'.

tl;dr: Yes.

A: The joke is a play on words [Cambridge Dictionary] on various definitions of murder.

A group of crows is called a murder. [Wikipedia]

Two is not quite a group, hence an attempted murder.

To further beat the joke to death, murder also means homicide, and attempted murder is a crime in British and United States' penal codes. The unusual combination of birds and crime adds to the humor as a non-sequitur.

A: Origin

The suffix -ic comes from Greek -ikos, while -ical is a combination of -ic and the French suffix -al.  Originally, -al was suffixed to scientific nouns ending in -ics, e.g. mathematics - mathematical.  Eventually, the -ical portion of those words was reanalyzed as being a single unit.  This is what Marchand (1969) had to say about -ic vs. -ical at this time in their history:

There was, at the beginning, indiscriminate coexistence of two synonymous adjectives. But language does not like to have two words for one and the same notion, and competition was bound to come.

What Marchand is talking about is that these two redundant suffixes eventually settled into certain niches where they exist today (more on this later).
-ic and -ical doublets

There exist many -ic/-ical "doublets" in English, where both forms of the word exist and are used regularly.

For example:

- historic and historical

- electric and electrical

The words in common doublets have generally developed distinct meanings (or domains of use).  For example, historical refers exclusively to things that happened in the past, while historic can refer to an event occurring at that very moment that will have a profound impact on history.

However, the differences in meanings between -ic and -ical words (in cases where both forms are used) cannot be generalized to a specific unique meaning that -ic or -ical itself contributes to the word.

That is to say, there is no general and consistent meaning that -ical uniquely contributes to historical, electrical, etc.  Instead, each word as a whole just settles into its specific meaning.
Distribution Today

According to a systematic productivity measure by Lindsay and Aronoff (2010), the more productive of the two suffixes is clearly -ic, which is favored by approximately an 8 to 1 ratio using this measure.  So, you are much more likely to have an -ic form of a word, or to have that form be the more commonly used form.

Now, if -ic is clearly used more than -ical, then why do we have both of these suffixes in the language?

Well, -ical has managed to differentiate itself from -ic, but not by contributing a specific meaning to the words it attaches to.  Instead, -ical has found a specific morphological domain in which it attaches very productively: stems that end with the morpheme -(o)log-.  Examples:

- biological preferred over biologic

- technological preferred over technologic

- typological preferred over typologic

There are nearly 500 stems in Webster's 2nd dictionary that end in -olog.  Using the same measure of productivity, Lindsay & Aronoff found that within the domain of these stems, the -ical suffix was itself preferred by an 8 to 1 ratio over -ic.  That is to say, when there is an -(o)log morpheme at the end of the word, then people heavily favor -ical.

The notion of one suffix being productive when attaching to a certain suffix is known as "potentiation", coined by Williams (1981).  (Another example of potentiation is what we see with words ending in -able.  In general, -ness is considered a more productive suffix than -ity, but in words ending in -able, -ity is strongly preferred.)

Bear in mind that these are tendencies; while there is a strong preference for one form over another in certain cases, that does not mean that it is a perfect split.
Summary

-ic and -ical do not differentiate themselves semantically; however, both forms of a word can exist if each one settles into a different meaning, or otherwise has a different domain of usage (for example, one formal and the other informal).  The actual differences in meaning between two forms in a doublet are essentially arbitrary.

While -ic is much more common overall (and could be argued to be the "default"), -ical is strongly preferred in stems ending in -(o)log-.  Again, this is a tendency that began somewhat arbitrarily during the development of the language, but because words ending in -olog form such a large and relatively uniform group, a subpattern was able to emerge and stabilize, even as -ical remains in the minority.

A: This is called paraprosdokian.

  

A paraprosdokian (from Greek "παρα-", meaning "beyond" and "προσδοκία", meaning "expectation") is a figure of speech in which the latter part of a sentence or phrase is surprising or unexpected in a way that causes the reader or listener to reframe or reinterpret the first part. It is frequently used for humorous or dramatic effect, sometimes producing an anticlimax. For this reason, it is extremely popular among comedians and satirists.1

You'll find exactly the example you mentioned on the page linked above.

Here's one of my favorite examples among the many they list:

  

"I've had a perfectly wonderful evening, but this wasn't it." — Groucho Marx

A: Stay Hungry.

Never be satisfied, and always push yourself.

  

Stay Foolish.

Do (or be willing to keep trying) the things people say cannot be done.

A: It's a cardinal error to confuse a depiction of bigotry with bigotry itself.

Yes, the narrator of the poem is racist, not only by modern standards but in the opinion of the author of the poem.  The juxtaposition of the disdainful attitude of the soldier with his candid admission that the blackfaced heathen slavey whom he beats and abuses is, in fact, the braver, better man gives the poem its power.

  

You Lazarushian-leather Gunga Din!

  Though I’ve belted you and flayed you,

  By the livin’ Gawd that made you,

  You’re a better man than I am, Gunga Din!

A: A noun to express that could be euphemism:

  

Euphemism: The substitution of an agreeable or inoffensive expression for one that may offend or suggest something unpleasant

Definition from the Merriam-Webster.
The verb would be to euphemize

A: I really like the Persian proverb and see no reason why you couldn't use it in English conversation, although it may require some explanation. However, you could also use a phrase such as the Biblical proverb from Matthew 5:45:

  

The rain falls on the just and the unjust.

I believe the meaning is quite similar to the example you gave, since both the "just and the unjust" have the same treatment.

A: As a member of the mathematics community for many years, I'd say the standard pronunciation is: 

  

E equals the quantity MC squared

Also, as pointed out by Mark Adler in the comments, this is the standard pronunciation used when recording mathematics textbooks for the blind (thanks for the info Mark!).

A: This is probably the source of the confusion you noticed:

- &ldquo;Substitute&hellip;for&hellip;&rdquo;&mdash;first replaces second.

- &ldquo;Substitute&hellip;with&hellip;&rdquo;&mdash;second replaces first.

- &ldquo;Replace&hellip;with&hellip;&rdquo;&mdash;second replaces first.

- &ldquo;Replace&hellip;by&hellip;&rdquo;&mdash;second replaces first.

- etc.

&ldquo;Substitute&hellip;for&hellip;&rdquo; is an unusual case when it comes to the order of this sort of phrase, but actually the preposition is all-important. Just think of for as meaning in favour of or in place of.

A: Your example sentences confuse two different problems.

For nouns that are plural (such as "boys"), the possessive is formed in writing by adding an apostrophe after the plural -s. This is pronounced the same as the plural and the singular possessive:

The boys' books [boys' sounds like boys]

For singular nouns that end in -s, the possessive is formed by adding -'s, just as with other nouns. This is pronounced as if the spelling were es:

The boss's car [boss's sounds like bosses]

There is a partial exception for proper names that end in s. These names sometimes form their possessive by simply adding an apostrophe, and without changing their pronunciation:

Confucius' sayings

Jesus' teachings

However, this doesn't apply if the name ends with a letter other than s, even if it's pronounced with an s. These names form their possessive as normal:

Marx's theories

In the opposite case of a name which ends in a silent s, the possessive is usually formed by adding an apostrophe in writing, but the apostrophe causes the silent s to be pronounced:

Camus' novels [the final -s in Camus is not silent here]

From Cambridge materials:

When a first or second name ends in -s, we can either add ’ or ’s. It is more common to use ’ than ’s. When we speak, we usually pronounce the final part of the word as /zɪz/ or /sɪz/:

Is that James’ car? (or Is that James’s car?) (both usually pronounced /ˈdʒeɪmzɪz/)

I love Keats’ poetry. (or I love Keats’s poetry.) (both usually pronounced /ˈki:tsɪz/)

A: The Anglo-Saxon calendar only had two seasons, winter and summer, each six months long. They had words for other periods of the year, but they weren't considered seasons.

At some point near the beginning of Middle English1, a four-season calendar was adopted. However, the other two seasons didn't have definite names. We can see from the OED that their names fluctuated for a while before settling into spring and fall or autumn.

c1050:  Þa feower timan..lengten, sumor, hærfest, & winter.

a1387: Þe evenes of þe day and þe nyȝt is ones in þe Lente and efte in hervest.

1545:  Spring tyme, Somer, faule of the leafe, and winter.

It seems from these quotes that we might easily have had lent (a shortened form of lengthen) and harvest as names for spring and autumn, as these were common names for these seasons in Middle English.

It also appears that the "long forms" of the names for the seasons were "spring time", "harvest time", and "fall of the leaf". This explains why we don't say "fall time".

The word "autumn" was borrowed from Old French in the 16th century, well after "springtime", "summertime", "harvesttime", and "wintertime" were established, and for some reason these phrases were not extended to "autumntime", even though it would have been a very logical development in English. Maybe people used "spring time" and "harvest time" more often earlier because "spring" and "harvest" weren't yet established words for seasons (as "summer" and "winter" were).

1 This probably didn't happen at a single point in time. The quote from the OED ca. 1050 lists four seasons. However, the song "Sumer Is Icumen In", which Wikipedia says was composed in the 13th century, is clearly about spring.

A: I have actually considered this quite a bit, being both a linguist who studies these things, and a scholar who publishes papers.

Etymologically speaking, the word data is the plural of datum in Latin.  In Latin, data would get plural verb agreement.  Now, languages borrow words and do whatever they want with them, so this historical fact about data has no relevance in judging what is "correct" in English.  There is significant evidence that data has established itself as a mass noun in English, suggesting that, for most people, "data is" is the most natural way to speak.

However, in a university/scholarly paper, I would recommend using "data are", rather than "data is".

The reason: some stickler professors and pedantic scholars believe that, logically, if datum is an English word for a single piece of data (which it is), that data must logically be plural.  The fact that most people do things differently only means, to them, that most people are doing it wrong.  Whether you agree with that or not is somewhat irrelevant.

So you have two choices.  

- 

If you use "data is", then reasonable people (yes, I am biased) who read your paper will not bat an eye, but stickler professors might judge you on your perceived ignorance or inappropriate level of informality.

- 

If you use "data are", then the stickler professors will not judge you to be ignorant, and the reasonable people will think "that's an acceptable variant" or "this person is a stickler for language" (or if they are me, will think "this person is pandering to the sticklers — a necessary evil"), but nobody will think you are ignorant.

So, choosing (2), "data are" is clearly your safest bet, and is what I always do (and what I find nearly all of my colleagues do).

A: In day to day conversations our system of units and measures are not called any thing. We don't have different conversions happening between systems, in most cases, and for us it just makes sense.

For a simple example there are 3 feet in a yard. But we never really do that conversion. It would be far more likely for me to ask for 99 feet of foo, than to try to ask for either 99 feet or 33 yards.

Same for cooking measures. We can convert cups to quarts to gallons and all, but usually we never have to. (and I think this is one of the more common conversions) 

The only really common conversion that we do daily, is feet to inches. Even that is not really true, for a lot of people. If you try to buy window blinds for example, you measure with a measuring tape and record the inches, then in the store you shop by inches. Even if its 72 inches, that's still fine.  

Having to convert from say feet to meters is extremely rare (on a large scale). If there are professions or common needs that require a lot of conversion there are charts, slide rules, and other aids. But even in those situations (most of the time) the metric units are the foreign ones.

Because we don't go around converting units very much, we really don't have a name for our set of units.  There are some names that are in use when comparing the two systems of measures. (Please note these are generalizations)

Probably the most common is when working on cars and other such. Bolts and sockets, wrenches are either SAE (Society of Automotive Engineers) for US built cars, or Metric everywhere else.

Second to that is probably SI. For scientific things, including medicine, chemistry, experiments, etc. SI is used. But almost exclusively. So there are no "Customary Units" in use, most of the time.

When going over historic documents Imperial is some times used. It is also used incorrectly to contrast metric v.s. Imperial. But it's very important to note that US units of measure are not the same as Imperial units, and in some cases (most modern ones) Imperial is used incorrectly.

Customary, Traditional, and Standard terms are generally used in conversations that compare the two systems of measurements. But it can really depend on what circles you run in, which term you would use. 

And finally, American is used frequently when asking someone to convert SI units to something more locally useful. "He was about 3 meters tall." "What's that in American?" "Almost 10 feet!"

As an aside, "Freedom Units" are a joke on "Freedom Fries" and are usually mentioned with scorn and laughter. I can't think of anyone that actually uses that term seriously.

So in day to day use I would say we just call them weights and measures. If we are comparing them to SI units then we may use a name, but that name is, in itself, not really standardized. The official standard name is United States customary system or United States customary units but that's almost as rarely used as "Freedom Units" (though "customary units" is a bit more common).

A: It appears that I probably draw a finer distinction here than others may, but the good thing is that for those that say the two are interchangeable, my usage will seem unremarkable, and for those that care, my usage will seem consistent.

I use extendable in cases where it means the opposite of retractable.  In other words, a telescoping wand is extendable, the legs of my camera tripod are extendable.

I use extensible when I mean that the functionality of something may be increased or enhanced by the addition of an extension- an add-on module or component.  My web browser is extensible because I can add an Adobe Flash extension which allows me to view flash content.  I think it would sound a bit odd to talk about my web-browser being extendable.

A: If it is extremely crowded, you can say "packed like sardines in a can" or just "packed like sardines" or "packed." This comes from the way sardines are tightly packed into cans when canned for eating:

Strictly speaking, some people will object to this usage: both the place and the people in it can be said to be packed, but only the people can strictly be packed like sardines since the sardines are inside the can and the people are inside the crowded place. However, colloquially people will use the phrase in both senses. Also, most people just say packed:

  

The subway wasn't working so the buses were all packed.

A: The difference between "have a look" and "take a look" is geographical rather than semantic.  The former phrase is usually used in the UK, whereas the latter is usually used in the USA.  (I am an American who has lived in the UK for 24 years.)

A: "I have a few friends" is just the same as saying "I have some friends".

"I have few friends", however, implies that you have only a few friends (as opposed to many). In some contexts (not always!), it can also imply that you don't feel very well about it, that you wish you had more friends.

Also, note that there is a very common expression "quite a few", which is a trap for foreign learners because it looks like it should mean "rather few, very few" &mdash; but it does not. It means the exact opposite thing: "a large or significant number, many". So, saying "I have quite a few friends" is the same as saying "I have quite a lot of friends".

Let's have a look at two more examples:

  
  
- 

"A few people think that smoking is healthy."
= Some people think that smoking is healthy.
  
  

"Few people think that smoking is healthy."
= Only a few people, a very small number, think that smoking is healthy; most think that it is not.
  
  

"Quite a few people think that smoking is healthy."
= Many people, a (surprisingly) large number, think that smoking is healthy.
  
- 

"This car comes in a few colors."
= This vehicle model is available in several colors, a number/selection of colors, but less than many. 
  
  

"This car comes in few colors."
= This model is available in only a few colors, just a few colors; less than a few. The speaker probably wishes there were more to choose from. 
  
  

"This car comes in quite a few colors."
= This model is available in more colors than you might think; quite a bunch/variety/selection/gamut of; rather many; the speaker didn't really expect to have such a choice, or thinks you are unlikely to expect it.

A: In French, "amb-" and "emb-" sound the same

In French,   and  in this kind of context came to represent the same sound (some kind of open nasal vowel; the corresponding modern French phoneme is typically transcribed as /ɑ̃/). Because of this "merger", by the sixteenth century we see variation between  and  (or  and ) in the spelling of many French words, without regard for the etymological origins of the vowel.

Later on, French spelling became much more fixed and substantially more regularized, so related pairs of words like this usually are spelled consistently with  or  in present-day French (and the modern spelling often follows the etymology—I don't know whether there are any exceptions). But embassy and ambassador entered English during a time period when French spelling was still variable (similarly, English retains the digraph  in the word connoisseur even though the modern French spelling has been revised to become connaisseur).

Another pair of English words that apparently have been affected by the same phenomenon is example/exemplary. I wrote an answer going into more detail beneath the following question: Spelling of Exemplary versus that of Example

A source I found while researching that answer, The formation and evolution of the French nasal vowels, by Bernard L. Rochet (1976), contains the following quotes explaining how this situation developed in French:

- 

in Old French – with the exception of Picard – eN and aN seem to have been in the process of merging; the extent of the merger varied according to the regions and probably also to the social classes of the speakers. This sociological conditioning of the evolution of eN does not receive any direct empirical support from Old French texts but is inferred from the situation described by the sixteenth century grammarians.

(p. 87)

- 

The numerous orthographic variants found at that period [the 16th century] indicate that whatever distinctions, based on the opposition eN : aN, were still observed, they were only the remnants of a rapidly disappearing situation. Thus, Robert Estienne (1549) acknowledges the following alternations: "cravanter ou craventer," "ambassade et embassade", "tencer, voyez tanser", "panser ung malade. Voyer penser," etc.

(p. 96)

Evpok♦'s answer to a relevant question on French SE, "Why are “an” and “en” pronounced the same? Pourquoi « an » et « en » ont-ils la même prononciation ?", links to the blog post "la nasalization", by G. Pascault, which says that the change "ẽ̩m > ãm" occurred around the 11th-13th centuries (the blog post presents it as part of a general set of changes involving nasal vowels receiving a more open pronunciation, like õ̩n > õ̜n, ĩn > ẽn and ü̃n > œ̃n).
The spelling of the common prefix en-/em- might have been an influence

Something else that seems like it might be relevant to the use of e in the  spelling of embassy is that many French words (or English words from French) start with a prefix spelled /.

This prefix has a variant spelling / that is used  today  in only a few words (such as ambush, anoint, annoy), but that was used in the past in more words ( e.g. the word emperor has Middle English spelling variants starting with  and ).

The Oxford English Dictionary entry for this en- prefix indicates that a fair amount of interchange occurred between an- and en- spellings before they settled down into their current distributions:

In Middle English (as in Old French, Anglo-Norman an- ) en- , em- , frequently became an- , am- (as ambush v., anoint v. (Latin inunctum), annoy v.; anhaunse, anjoin, anvenime, where subsequently respelt en-; andetted, subsequently endetted, indebted). This an-, am-, like the native prefix an- prefix1 , was often reduced to a- : see appair v., aprise n. Conversely, the prefix a- of various origin was often changed into en-, as in embraid.

Although the first syllable of embassy is not etymologically derived from the prefix en-, its spelling might have been influenced by analogy with the spelling of words containing this prefix.

Of course, a weakness of this explanation is that it does nothing to account for the use of am- rather than em- in the currently standard spelling of the word ambassador.
The English pronunciation is presumably based on the spelling

I would guess that the use of the sound /ɛ/ (the vowel found in the word "dress") in the first syllable of the modern English pronunciation of embassy is based on the spelling.

A: Typically it's used in the phrase, "Le Roi est mort, vive le Roi!" or "The King is dead, long live the King" This means that the (previous) king is dead and we wish the (new) king a long life. It's also to indicate that there is never a time without a king.

Wikipedia goes into more detail

The examples you list typically mean something like, "[language] was bad, now [language] has been improved, or is being used in a totally new way."

A: From Strunk and White:

  

To compare to is to point out or imply resemblances between objects
  regarded as essentially of a different
  order;
  
  

To compare with is mainly to point out differences between objects
  regarded as essentially of the same
  order.
  
  

Thus, life has been compared to a pilgrimage, to a drama, to a battle;
  Congress may be compared with the
  British Parliament. Paris has been
  compared to ancient Athens; it may be
  compared with modern London.

A: The Oxford Dictionary Online (now Oxford Languages)
says that the phrase could use either wrack or rack. They note that

The relationship between the forms rack and wrack is complicated. The most common noun sense of rack, ‘a framework for holding and storing things’, is always spelled rack, never wrack. In the phrase rack something up the word is also always spelled rack. Figurative senses of the verb, deriving from the type of torture in which someone is stretched on a rack, can, however , be spelled either rack or wrack: thus racked with guilt; or wracked with guilt; rack your brains; or wrack your brains.

However, according to this entry for wrack in EtymOnline, the term should be rack:

The verb meaning "to ruin or wreck" (originally of ships) is recorded from 1560s, from earlier intrans. sense "to be shipwrecked" (late 15c.). Often confused in this sense since 16c. with rack (1) in the verb sense of "to torture on the rack;" to wrack one's brains is thus erroneous.

The PhraseFinder agrees that the phrase is rack your brains, adding:

The rack was a mediaeval torture device. The crude but, one presumes, effective racks often tore the victim's limbs from their bodies. It isn't surprising that 'rack' was adopted as a verb meaning to cause pain and anguish. Shakespeare was one of many authors who used this.

Further, this book on common English errors says it should be rack:

If you are racked with pain or you feel nerve-racked, you are feeling as if you were being stretched on that Medieval instrument of torture, the rack. You rack your brains when you stretch them vigorously to search out the truth like a torturer. “Wrack” has to do with ruinous accidents, so if the stock market is wracked by rumors of imminent recession, it’s wrecked. If things are wrecked, they go to “wrack and ruin.”

The Grammarist agrees it should be rack as well.

That being said, there is some use of wrack your brains (blue line) as shown by this Google NGram. However, rack your brains is correct and more common:

There is some disagreement, but more sources say it should be rack. Thus it seems more likely that the phrase is rack your brains instead of wrack.

A: You could use this idiom:

  

That food is piping hot.

There's some information about the origin of the phrase here.

A: hyperbole /haɪˈpɜrbəli/

(Evidently it's not the next step after the Super Bowl.)

A: The phrase isn't referring to The Walt Disney Company itself, but the misadventures and simplistic mindset of the original Mickey Mouse character for which the company is famous.

Courtesy of NVZ:

Mickey Mouse — TFD 1, 2

noun 1. nonsense; something trivial. (From the world-famous mouse character by the same name, owned by The Walt Disney Company.)

"This is just a lot of mickey mouse."

informal 2. not important or not good compared with other things of the same type (always before noun)

"We're talking about a respected organization here - not some Mickey-Mouse outfit."

The phrase is a reference to early Mickey Mouse cartoons, in which Mickey is often a laborer or professional of some sort who is swept up into a comedy of unprofessional errors and wacky, nonsensical pandemonium. An example of this is the character's first appearance in the short "Plane Crazy (1928)."

The overly simplistic mindset exhibited in the inept, muddling, amateurish way Mickey and his organization attempt to achieve flight in this example is the type of thing the phrase connotes, and is hence the reason it carries a derogatory meaning when applied to the way a company or organization is run.

The popularity of the phrase took off as the character's popularity did throughout the second half of the 20th Century, buoyed by The Walt Disney Company's growing television presence, most notably its long-running flagship primetime series, The Wonderful World of Disney (1954-1992). Also (perhaps coinsidentally), the generation that grew up watching The Mickey Mouse Club (1955-1958) were entering the workforce in droves during the 1960s and '70s as young professionals when the phrase seems to have risen sharply in popularity.

Appendum: further relevant info Courtesy of nedibes:

The decline in the quality and financial success of The Walt Disney Company's merchandise and films during the late 1960s and throughout the 1970s may have further contributed to the popularity of the phrase "Mickey Mouse Operation." Following the death of Walt Disney in 1966, the company seemed to lack a clear vision and direction, similar to the way Mickey himself seems to approach things in his cartoons. This period is often referred to as the "Disney Dark Age."

A: Worth as a verb is obsolete. Where have you seen or heard It worths it or It worth it? 

What you will find is It’s worth it, used to describe something that has a value equivalent to what is being asked for it either in terms of money or effort. In that use, worth is an adjective.

A: There is a subtle difference; maximum and minimum relate to absolute values — there is nothing higher than the maximum and nothing lower than the minimum. Maximal and minimal, however, can be more vague.

In "I want to buy this at minimal cost" and "this action carries a minimal risk", minimal means "very small" as opposed to "the lowest possible"; the same distinction is true of maximum and maximal.

A: This is called "complimentary close".

As reported by Oxford Handbook of Commercial Correspondence:

- 

If the letter begins with Dear Sir, Dear Sirs, Dear Madam, or Dear Sir/Madam, the COMPLIMENTARY CLOSE should be "Yours faithfully".

- 

If the letter begins with a personal name, e.g. Dear Mr James, Dear Mrs Robinson, or Dear Ms Jasmin, it should be "Yours sincerely".

- 

A letter to someone you know well may close with the more informal "Best wishes".

Note that the Americans tend to close even formal letters with Yours truly or Truly yours, which is unusual in the UK in commercial correspondence.

Avoid closing old-fashioned phrases, e.g. We remain yours faithfully, Respectfully yours.

A: Trying to swap things around to make it the least ambiguous possible and still sound light:

  

E equals the square of MC

A: I can't speak for AmE, but in British English there is a distinction between "to school" and "to the school". If you say:

He went to school/church/hospital.

you imply that they went there for 'the purpose for which that place is designed'. On the other hand, if you say:

Jimmy's parents went to the school to meet the headmaster.

He wasn't religious, but he went to the church to help with the flower arranging.

With a bottle of arsenic in his pocket, he went to the hospital to visit his sick wealthy mother-in-law.

it implies that they went there as a visitor and not for the actual purpose of the building in question.

A: A quick search led me to the excellent site World Wide Words run by Michael Quinion 

The site has an entire page on this issue. Here's a brief snippet.

  

Before the days of modern tailoring, such garments, whether underwear or outerwear, were indeed made in two parts, one for each leg. The pieces were put on each leg separately and then wrapped and tied or belted at the waist (just like cowboys’ chaps). The plural usage persisted out of habit even after the garments had become physically one piece. However, a shirt was a single piece of cloth, so it was always singular.

A: If one is buying tools, for example, one would say: "I need standard measurement - not metric." 

I remember the push, when I was a child, to adopt the "metric system", and it just didn't take root. Americans of my generation (tail-end boomer) are fiercely protective of our inches, feet and yards, and think of it as "standard" (as opposed to that foreign "metric" baloney).

A: Although English historians have defined Reich as being a strictly German concept of sovereign rule, in the German language itself it means "Empire". In English, we speak of the Holy Roman Empire; in German, it is the HRR or "Heiliges Römisches Reich Deutscher Nation". 

Wiktionary quotes Busching, who in 1762 explained Reich as a German understanding of "Eminence", from the Latin Regnum, rather than an Empire or a Realm as other cultures would understand it. 

One could see it as a word used in English, Russian, Portuguese and many other languages as a designation for any kind of German kingdom, empire or absolutism, similar to how one would address a foreigner according to their origin, e.g. Senor Martinez, Monsieur Aragon.
Compare it to how many cultures, including the Germans, also use the word "Commonwealth" or "Soviet Union", despite the fact that Bavaria had formed its own Union of Soviets, the Räterepublik, during the Weimar Republic.

If you're interested in knowing when the word "Third Reich" came into usage, it is worth noting that during Fascist Germany, the country's official name was Das Deutsche Reich, and in the USA and UK it was usually referred to as Germany, Hitler's Germany, Berlin, Reich or, the most popular term, Nazi Germany.

(Sources: Neville Chamberlain's declaration of war against Germany, headlines about Germany in newspapers like the NY Times or the Times, the Daily Mail's Lord Rothermere)

In Germany itself, the idea of a third Reich stemmed from the 19th century, where it was a popular philosophical theme in literature and theology. Writers like Johannes Schlaf, who wrote "Das Dritte Reich" in 1899, or the German translator of Ibsen's "The Emperor and the Galilean", popularized the idea of the imminent arrival of a thousand years of Christianity (a kind of positive apocalypse), which would follow a third "Reich". And they would quote Paul the Apostle and various saints, to make it clear that the third Reich would follow the heretic lex naturalis and the lex mosaica. 

Nazi propagandists exploited this in their articles, making it sound as if the saints had had some sort of epiphany about Hitler and the Nazis.
In other words, the Third Reich began as an abstract idea of a Christian revolution, but was assumed by Nazi writers in order to bolster Hitler's popularity and justify the drastic and bloody decisions that the Fascist government was making. 
In one of the earliest examples of the Third Reich being mentioned outside of Germany, Major Strasser in the film Casablanca talks about the Third Reich as if it was just the beginning to a kind of paradisaical future or of a fourth Reich.

After 1945, the term was used exclusively to associate only to the unsuccessful reign of Fascism in Germany, and it ceased as a philosophical or theological idea in German literary circles.

A: I disagree with other answers that this is simply regional variation, with no difference in meaning. While I'm sure there are regional variations, and certainly the core meaning is the same, to me (native southern UK) the meanings are definitely slightly different:

- The phrase "making a decision" is the more common phrase. It can refer to the actual moment where a course of action is chosen (and just that moment),  but also sometimes to the whole process leading up to it (where one might undertake research, have discussions, think and so on, in order to prepare oneself for the decision itself): "The committee took several months to make a decision."

- The phrase "taking a decision", by contrast, only refers to the decisive moment itself, and not to the process leading up to it. It has more formal connotation, and an implication that the decision will have serious consequences, and that the person deciding will be responsible for them; it has a sense of finality about it.

Some examples may help clarify:

- I haven't made a decision about where to go on holiday. (Informal, consequences not serious, nobody's going to hold me to account.)

- The president took the decision to invade Elbonia.

- Bob was fired because he took the decision to outsource the call centre to Mars.

- The decision-making process took a number of weeks: the engineers did the research and made recommendations, but it was the manager who took the final decision.

In support of this position it is worth using Google to search for "take a decision" and "make a decision" on the BBC News website. The former are (at time of writing) all about formal decisions (by governments, official bodies, international committees etc); the latter - once quotes from US politicians are filtered out - mostly about personal or informal decisions, and about the decision process rather than any decision being taken:

- "The Arab leaders should take a decision to stop negotiating..."

- "But, as a public consultation into UK future energy needs begins, he said it was time to take a decision on nuclear."

- "I usually sleep on it, relax and then make a decision which is usually the correct decision."

- "It's not to say that if you've got to make a decision you should make it in a fraction of a second - that is daft."

- "When we make a decision, we are supposed to consciously analyse the alternatives and carefully weigh the pros and cons."

A: Substitute the word "any" in the place of zero and it makes sense. Instead of saying "I have zero books." you are saying "I do not have any books."  

In this construction, the plural is not referring to the zero-quantity of books you have, but instead refers to a (vague and undefined) collection of books, none of which you have.

A: The references say "two to the sixteenth power" or "two to the power of sixteen" but that is only done in very formal speech. Ironically, in actual mathematical usage, the formal pronunciation is not that common.

The more common way to say it (in math class or in a mathematical presentation) is a ellipsis of the first:

  

two to the sixteenth

or just as commonly

  

two to the sixteen

depending on how rapid speech you are using. 

Of course there are some special cases: x2 is "x squared", x3 is "x cubed". x1 or x0 are mathematically jarring if written alone (they are often, when mathematically allowed, written just "x" and "one"), but if forced would be "x to the one" and "x to the zero", never as an ordinal (it is a solecism to say "x to the first" and way too informal to say .

For example, a polynomial x109 + 9x5 − 2x2 is most likely pronounced:

  

x to the hundred and nine plus nine x to the fifth minus two x squared.

(or "hundred and ninth"; both are equally possible here). If it were x101 — see discussion here —, you just don't say "one hundred first".)

If variables are involved, the ordinal is not used. xy is

  

x to the y

(that is, not appending the ordinal suffix '-th').

A: The answer to this is.... complicated.

The letter J is, as you mentioned, relatively recent, and originated as a variant of the letter I. Why that happens is a little complicated, and requires unpacking some assumptions in your question.

In the original languages (Latin, Greek, Hebrew) which provide us with the names Jesus, Joseph, Justinian, etc., the sound which we write as J was pronounced as the English letter Y. (Just to make things confusing for English speakers, the phonetic symbol for this sound is [j].) In Latin, the letter for this was I/i, in Greek it was Ι/ι (iota), and in Hebrew it was י (yod). Thus, the Greek spelling for "Jesus" was Ιησους, pronounced something like "Yeh-SOOS", and the Latin likewise was Iesus.

Subsequently, in the Latin alphabet the letter J was developed as a variant of I, and this distinction was later used to distinguish the consonantal "y" sound [j] from the vocalic "i" sound [i]. However, at about the same time there was a sound change in many of the languages of Western Europe, such that the "y" sound changed into a "j" sound ([dʒ], or sometimes [ʒ]). So we have it that in English, the letter J now represents a consonant [dʒ] which is not obviously similar to the vowel [i], despite the fact that they descend from the same letter and the same sound. (English also has many [dʒ] sounds spelled with J which come from native Germanic roots.)

You can see this history worked out differently in the spelling systems of German and many of the Slavic languages of Eastern Europe, where the letter J spells the "y" sound [j], and the letter Y, if used at all, is primarily used as a vowel.

A: There are two possible pronunciations, one to rhyme with two pull (/tupəl/) and the other with supple (/tʌpəl/).

Take your pick. There will always be someone to agree with you... violently :)

A: The phrase "Believe you me" copies the archaic word order one finds in Early Modern English for a marked imperative. Typical examples are from King James version of the Bible (both testaments).

See e.g. Book of Matthew 14:16

They need not depart; give ye them to eat.

and in a few common phrases such as "mind you" (but with a slight nuance) for example

Not that I would have accepted her offer, mind you!

This is also very common in Shakespeare.

Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 4, Lord Capulet speaking:

And bid her, mark you me, on Wednesday next--

[...]

Well get you gone: o' Thursday be it, then.

In the interrogative voice, it takes an accusing turn.

As you like it, Act 5, Scene 2, Phebe speaking:

If this be so, why blame you me to love you?

and my favorite, Hamlet, Act 4, Scene 2, Rosencrantz speaking:

Take you me for a sponge, my lord?

It seems "Believe you me" is a relatively recent recreation of this syntax if one believes my copy of the OED.

A: american-english

These company names are collective nouns. In general, in American English collective nouns almost always trigger singular verb agreement (after all, "Microsoft" is grammatically a singular noun, even if semantically it denotes an entity made up of many people). It is apparently much more common to use plural verb agreement in British English. It doesn't have anything to do with the size of the company.

Lots of good information here: Language Log on collective nouns, etc.

A: Of is the correct preposition to use in your second example:

  

The body consists of cells.

In is the correct preposition to use in your first example:

  

Meditation consists in attentive watchfulness.

Consist of means to be composed or made up of, while consist in
means:

  

To have the thing mentioned as the only or most important part.

  Tolerance consists in respecting other people’s opinions.

A: It appears that this is a British/American distinction. The Corpus of Contemporary American English (COCA) reports 92 incidences of “fill out a/the/this form” and just 2 of “fill in a/the/this form”, clearly establishing “fill out” as the standard idiom in American English. I haven’t worked out how to search the British National Corpus yet, but I wouldn’t be surprised if the results were reversed there.

Edit:

OK, I got the BNC to respond to queries—although it sure takes its sweet time—and I got 19+7=26 results for “fill in a/the form”,  and 5+1=6 for “fill out a/the form”. So it does appear that British English favors fill in over fill out, although not to the degree to which American English favors fill out over fill in.

A: First of all, resolve has several meanings.  There is one meaning that is clearly closest to solve, which I will assume is the one you want to differentiate.

So: When you resolve something (a problem, an issue, a question), you deal with it conclusively.  You have finished it, it is done, there is nothing left to concern yourself about.  This is not to say, however, that your handling of the matter was ideal, nor even necessarily satisfactory; there are many possible ways that the thing could have been dealt with, you picked one and saw it through.

When you solve something, you find (and presumably implement) a solution to it.  This means that you have dealt with it successfully, finding what was quite possibly the only way (or at most one of a few ways) to succeed.

For example:

The issue has been resolved, although none of us is happy with the final outcome.

The question has been solved; the correct answer is posted for all to see.

A: To avoid the accusation of being biased and the ire of those who may be offended; a passenger who takes up too much room or invades their co-passenger's space could be termed a

- space hog 

  

‘Worse, they're also tremendous space hogs, gobbling up dozens of precious square feet in useless aisle area.’

The verb hog (hogged, hogging) is used indiscriminately, M-W says

  

to take in excess of one's due

  hog the credit

In fact, the term was already in use during the 1940s-50s

(1953)

  

A whimsical, illustrated ad from the Tube (shown above) […] admonishing riders who are hogging seats. Even though the time, place, and design are very different, the message—it's really not cool to take up seats that should go to others who need them more—is crystal clear. Curbed 

 
(1947)

Designed by Amelia Opdyke Jones for the New York City Subway, these posters were in use for over 40 years beginning in 1918.

 This answer, edited, was being composed when @Azor Ahai posted his answer "seat hog". My comments, first and foremost, thanking him and then apologising for posting a similar answer were deleted.

A: The example given by the OP isn't too far off the mark.
Rather than bicycle consider the shortened version "bike" where it may be used as part of another word e.g. quad-bike. In this case it is being used to describe a 4 wheeled cycle.

A: The best rule of thumb for punctuating in and around parenthetical remarks is that the sentence should be valid if you remove the parentheses and everything inside them.

Here I have an example (with a parenthetical remark).

Here is the same example (with the same remark, even.)

Removing the entire parenthetical remark from the first sentence still leaves me with a valid structure, while removing it from the second leaves me lacking any terminal punctuation; thus the first is correct.

References:

- The Punctuation Guide

- Study.com

- Grammar Girl

A: King and Emperor are both European titles, with their own (tangled) European history.

King is a Germanic word, derived from the Proto-Indo-European root *genə-, 'birth'. It's related to the English words kin, kind, gentle, etc, as shown in this diagram.

Emperor is a Latin word, derived from the verb imperāre, meaning 'to rule'. The original Latin word was Imperātor, meaning 'ruler'. The term Emperor has been used by many people, in many countries, to describe a ruler who is more powerful than an ordinary King, at least in the opinion of the Emperor, and possibly in the minds of the people he rules.

Essentially, the difference between King and Emperor is like the difference between wonderful and terrific — both are good, and one may be better than the other; but opinion differs about which is which.

A: What about Convoluting:

con·vo·lute

gerund or present participle: convoluting

make (an argument, story, etc.) complex and difficult to follow.

Ex:
"this 'professor' is worse than a lawyer in convoluting his words to suit his peculiar point of view."

A: "Save" seems perfect for this. As a developer I'd read "SaveRecord" as either inserting or updating the record depending on its preexistence.

A: They are both correct, but the sense is a little different. In the first one 'welcome' is being used as an adjective. The second one is a passive construction--'feedback is welcomed (by us)'. Even though they mean basically the same thing, I like the first one better. The active voice is simpler and sounds stronger.

A: It depends on the context. If a group of people is brainstorming (that is, trying to come up with a bunch of creative possibilities to solve a problem), then I might ask someone "Do you have any ideas?" In this situation, I am expecting that they may have several ideas that are relevant to the problem. 

However, if I am asking for an answer to a specific question, I might say something like, "I can't remember what the capital of Pakistan is, do you have any idea?" In this situation, I am expecting that they might have one specific piece of information to offer. This is probably a more colloquial or idiomatic expression than the other one.

And yes, the use of "any" does have a lot to do with questions and negatives. "Any" is a negative polarity item, which means it can only happen in certain contexts. For example, I would never say "I have any ideas" or "I have any books", but I would say "I don't have any ideas" and "I don't have any books". I don't really know how to give you a full explanation of where or why "any" can be used though. The example you give about borrowing "any book" is certainly correct, even though it isn't negative or a question.

A: I like the pair grown ups/kids or grown ups/children.  Here’s an example from Oxford Learner’s Dictionary  (go to “noun” and click on “More examples sentences”; emphasis mine):

‘In a festival where easy laughs are mostly the order of the day, this is a serious piece of work that separates the grown-ups from the kids.’

And another example from The Business Insider (2014):

Compromising is a humbling lesson that separates grown-ups from kids.

I’d say this simply removes the gender while keeping the meaning and informal tone of the original men/boys. But if you want to focus attention on high achievement, without equating potential low achievers with anything in particular you could go for:

By being able to do proofs of this type is how you rise above the average.

Training and experience with the specific disability is what it will take to rise above the rest.

A: After reading your post, I realised that I say "I'd've" quite a lot in my actual speech. But I have never ever written it down, nor have I seen it written down (or, more accurately, I don't recall having ever seen it written down.)

It's not the kind of thing that I'd feel comfortable putting into a business email, definitely not an essay (unless that was my topic, oh, and I think that will be the topic of my next essay now.)

But it is the sort of thing which would fit nicely in the dialogue inside a novel. And you never know, it could one day be perfectly cromulent to write that, and would perhaps embiggen the written English language.

A: I had quite a few of these growing up.  The one I think is most common is segue.  Did you know it's pronounced "segway"?  I didn't for a very very long time.

A: This has been previously touched on here: “Commentor” vs “Commentator”. I'll try to expand on that.

Both -er and -or are so-called "agent noun suffixes", and Wiktionary has entries for both:

- -er

- -or

Generally speaking, -er is much more common in English (which should come as no surprise since it has deep Germanic roots, see the link) and can be easily attached to any English verb to form the corresponding noun (drive — driver, run — runner, drink — drinker, etc.). 

The suffix -or, on the other hand, comes from Latin, and is used much more seldom, basically where Latin would do it. Just try building the words drivor, runnor or drinkor, and see for yourself. In fact, Wiktionary lists only a handful of terms that were derived using this suffix, such as actor, author and sculptor, and goes on to provide the following usage notes:

  

English generally appends this suffix where Latin would do it—to the root of a Latin-type perfect passive participle. For other words, English tends to use the suffix -er. Occasionally both are used (computer vs. computor).

Etymonline has additional info on the origin and usage of -er and -or.

Edit: courtesy of Martha, here's a link to a post on the "Separated by a common language" blog that provides further details and addresses the differences between US and UK English:

  

The -or suffix is primarily found in words derived from Latin, whereas -er can be put on the end of just about any verb that involves an agent (a 'doer' of the 'action'). But Latin-derived words differ in how strongly they are associated with the -or suffix. Latin-derived verbs that end in -ate, for example, almost always take the -or suffix. So we have dictator, but not a variant dictater, alternator but not alternater.
  
  

Things are less clear-cut with other Latin-derived verbs. For example, in my job, I advise students and convene courses, and when I spell out those roles, I'm an advisor and a convenor, but when my UK university spells them, I'm often an adviser (which just looks wrong to me) and a convener.
  [...] The -or form is stronger in the US than the UK, though there's considerable variation within each country.

A: Google Ngrams shows that updatable is currently much more prevalent:

A: You can describe what's making it hot, e.g. "Be careful, that just came out of the oven".

Or, suggested by @onomatomaniak in a comment, "better let this cool down a little".

A: This question is more complex than it may appear. There seems to be consensus that a singular verb should be used in formal writing whenever the subject of a sentence is more than one [noun], or at least that this is (much) better than ?there are more than one. I subscribe to this.

It does not matter how many things the writer might expect there to be in reality: it is always if there is more than one species.

Nor does it matter what noun comes after one. It is always is; the word one forces a singular verb without apparent exception.

But why does this at all surprise us?

We are puzzled by this construction because the subject does not agree with the verb—at least not if analyzed according to conventional grammar. Consider the following sentence:

There are more men in the room.

Is would be impossible. The sentence is easy enough to analyse:

- more men = subject

- are = finite verb

No problem there: subject and verb agree. More men is the subject, or at least the head of the subject.

There are more men than just John in the room.

The core of the syntax remains the same; the core of the subject is still more men. The addition than x is either an elliptical clause or a prepositional phrase that is part of the subject, depending on your model; in any case, than x is not what determines whether it is are or is. More men are is the core of the sentence.

There is more than one man in the room.

Suddenly the verb changes. Has the core syntax of the sentence changed? No: for the sake of consistency, we must say more is the subject and is the finite verb. The phrase than x is still not the head of the subject, no more than in the first sentence (there are more men than just John). If more is the head, then it must be elliptical, since it is only an adjective: more of what? If we hypothetically supply the omitted noun, we get:

*There is more [men] than one man in the room.

There is no other word that we could fill in, though of course this is wrong: *there is more men is both unidiomatic in this register and in violation of the rule that subject and verb must agree.

Then what causes this singular is in there is more than one man? The phrase than x should not determine the number of the verb: and yet it does. That is why this construction is idiomatic, as opposed to regular: it violates the rule that subject and verb must agree. But it is by all means "correct". That is what idiom is: a widely accepted phrase that violates the regularity of our language. However some of us might like it to be, language is just never regular in all respects; this bit of idiom happens to have triumphed over regularity and is now the norm. Idiom must be judged case by case and often varies across registers and dialects.

But could this disagreement of subject and verb be explained away by other factors? Let's see what I can come up with.

It could be that the somewhat fixed phrase there is is what does it. But that phrase could not explain singular is in this sentence:

More than one man is still in the house.

Could this is be explained by the immediate precedence of one man? It is conceivable that the singular number of one man leads us to an anacoluthon in the next word is: we see a singular number and noun, and we cannot resist the pressure of proceeding with a singular verb. But then this phenomenon should not occur if the verb came before the subject:

Not only has more than one man been seen near the power plant, but...

*Not only have more than one man been seen near the power plant, but

It seems clear that have would be wrong, even more so than in the previous sentence patterns. So whether the verb comes before or after doesn't matter.

How can this oddity of disagreement be explained? If we look at it reductionistically, in terms of association and pattern recognition as they occur in the brain, I suspect that the word one exerts such an enormous influence on our perception of a sentence that it overrules more, despite the ordinarily forcing rule of agreement; it does so even despite the sense of multitude inherent in the phrase more than one man as a whole, which must always refer to multiple objects in reality. When we write one man, we have the image of one man at an irresistibly prominent place in our working memory. (Other, somewhat similar idioms exist, so I don't believe this to be a unique situation.)

A: When one is injured, for example in an athletic competition, the advice might be to get up and walk around in pain until the pain subsides and one is again able to participate.  This is opposed to one's probable inclination to lie on the ground until one feels able to continue.  "Walking it off" is seen as a tougher and perhaps quicker way of dealing with the injury.

Being killed, here, is treated just as any other injury, as if it were possible to recover from death.

A: How about circumlocution?

  

circumlocution:

  1: the use of an unnecessarily large number of words to express an idea

  2: evasion in speech 
  
  

Merriam-Webster

A: As far as I know, pg. is not an acceptable form, at least in formal writing. The correct forms are p. for a single page, and pp. for a range.

In many cases, actually, you don't need any of them. Quite commonly you'll find references in the form volume:page(s), like 5:204 or 8:99–108 (or, for works of a single volume, something like Blah Blah Blah 108).

A: colonel /ˈkərnl/

This has to be the worst word for me - I know that is pronounced ker-nil, but EVERY time I read it the pronunication in my head is col-o-nel. How is colonel "ker-nil" anyway?! :)

A: Actually, eleven and twelve also seem to be derived from 10+1 and 10+2. Let me quote from the classic book Number: The Language of Science by Tobias Dantzig (1930, republished with nice foreword by Barry Mazur):

  

Indeed, there is no mistaking the influence of our ten fingers on the “selection” of the base of our number system. In all Indo-European languages, as well as Semitic, Mongolian, and most primitive languages, the base of numeration is ten, i.e., there are independent number words up to ten, beyond which some compounding principle is used until 100 is reached. All these languages have independent words for 100 and 1000, and some languages for even higher decimal units. There are apparent exceptions, such as the English eleven and twelve, or the German elf and zwölf, but these have been traced to ein-lif and zwo-lif; lif being old German for ten.

And presumably this was inherited in other Germanic languages. (English, German and Norwegian all belong to the Germanic subfamily of Indo-European; French belongs to Italic.) Note that we can still discern a trace of "two" in "twelve".

That answers your question, but note that there are traces of other bases in our number words:

  

It is true that in addition to the decimal system, two other bases are reasonably widespread, but their character confirms to a remarkable degree the anthropomorphic nature of our counting scheme. These two other systems are the quinary, base 5, and the vigesimal, base 20. […]  
  
  

Many languages still bear the traces of a quinary system, and it is reasonable to believe that some decimal systems passed through the quinary stage. Some philologists claim that even the Indo-European number languages are of a quinary origin. They point to the Greek word pempazein, to count by fives, and also to the unquestionably quinary character of the Roman numerals. However, there is no other evidence of this sort, and it is much more probable that our group of languages passed through a preliminary vigesimal stage. […]  
  
  

While pure vigesimal systems are rare, there are numerous languages where the decimal and the vigesimal systems have merged. We have the English score, two-score, and three-score; the French vingt (20) and quatre-vingt (4 × 20). The old French used this form still more frequently; a hospital in Paris originally built for 300 blind veterans bears the quaint name of Quinze-Vingt (Fifteen-score); the name Onze-Vingt (Eleven-score) was given to a corps of police-sergeants comprising 220 men.

Also, we do have words like "dozen" (12) and "gross" (144) (any others?) for a few numbers not divisible by 5 (because highly divisible numbers are useful), but these words are sporadic and do not form the basis for any number-naming system in English as far as I know.

Edit: On further research, even though it's undisputed that eleven and twelve come from 1+10 and 2+10, the actual meaning of the lif part seems uncertain. The Online Etymology Dictionary confidently says:

  

c.1200, elleovene, from O.E. endleofan, lit. "one left" (over ten), from P.Gmc. *ainlif- (cf. O.S. elleban, O.Fris. andlova, Du. elf, O.H.G. einlif, Ger. elf, O.N. ellifu, Goth. ainlif), a compound of *ain "one" (see one) + PIE *leikw- "leave, remain" (cf. Gk. leipein "to leave behind;" see relinquish). Viking survivors who escaped an Anglo-Saxon victory were daroþa laf "the leavings of spears," while hamora laf "the leavings of hammers" was an O.E. kenning for "swords" (both from "The Battle of Brunanburgh"). Twelve reflects the same formation; outside Germanic the only instance of this formation is in Lithuanian, which uses it all the way to 19 (vienio-lika "eleven," dvy-lika "twelve," try-lika "thirteen," keturio-lika "fourteen," etc.)

But the OED says that "left" is just one theory:

  

Etymology:  Common Teutonic: Old English ęndleofon corresponds to Old Frisian andlova, elleva, Old Saxon elleban (Middle Dutch elleven, Dutch elf), Old High German einlif (Middle High German eilf, German elf), Old Norse ellifu (Swedish ellifva, elfva, Danish elleve), Gothic ainlif ainlif- ain- (shortened aino-) [one] + -lif- of uncertain origin. Outside Teutonic the only analogous form is the Lithuanian vënó-lika, where -lika (answering in function to English -teen) is the terminal element of all the numerals from 11 to 19.
  
  

The Old English, Old Frisian, Old Saxon, and Old Norse forms represent a type *ainlifun, apparently assimilated to *tehun [ten]. The theory that the ending is a variant of Old Germanic *tehun, Aryan *dekm [ten], is now abandoned; some would derive it from the Aryan root *leiq or leip (both meaning to leave, to remain) so that eleven would mean ‘one left’ (after counting ten.)

A: In English, the dollar sign is placed before the amount, so the correct order is $20, as others have noted.

However, when you see people using 20$, it's likely they're being influenced by a few different things:

- Many other countries (and the Canadian province  of Quebec) put the currency symbol after the amount

- In spoken English the word dollars follows the amount, e.g. twenty dollars

- The sign for cents is placed after the amount: 25¢

Because of these inconsistencies, writing 20$ is a very common mistake. I've been known to do it myself.

A: To expand on Henry's answer: "The powers that be" is a set phrase quoted from Romans 13:1.

Let every soul be subject unto the higher powers. For there is no power but of God: the powers that be are ordained of God.

In that context, it means "the temporal powers that indisputably do exist in the world," so we can rule out explanations that call on the subjunctive mood — here Paul isn't talking about "the powers that [may or may not] be", he's definitely talking about what we today would call "the powers that are."

So, why do archaic English sources use the form be where modern English would use are? Well, here are many partial answers all together in one place: Abbott's A Shakespearian Grammar quotes Richard III, act IV, scene 4:

Where is thy husband now? Where be thy brothers? Where are thy children?

Abbott suggests that Shakespeare (and also the King James translators, who were working in English at the same time as Shakespeare) preferred be to are for the plural indicative form basically because it sounded better on a case-by-case basis; with maybe an additional connotation of uncertainty.

So, as a rule, it will be found that be is used with some notion of doubt, question, thought, &c.; for instance (a) in questions, and (b) after verbs of thinking. [...]

Be is much more common with the plural than the singular. [...]

Be is also used to refer to a number of persons, considered not individually, but as a kind or class. [...]

But it cannot be denied that the desire of euphony or variety seems sometimes the only reason for the use of be [as opposed to] are.

— Abbott, A Shakespearian Grammar, "Auxiliary Verbs", sections 298–300.

Let's face it: "the powers that be" sounds much cooler than "the powers that are", and the guys who wrote the King James Version knew that just as well as you or I. :)

A: Idiot savant is probably the closest you are going to get in English:

  

Idiot savant: 1. 
  2. a person who is highly knowledgeable about one subject but knows little about anything else

merriam-webster.com/dictionary/idiot+savant

PS: Since we bring ngram in the game...
Idiot savant vs Learned fool

Just occurred to me that given the pejorative nature of the word, the best source for this usage would be Google News and indeed it seems "idiot savant" is used regularly in English news much the same way fachidiot is in German.

** The first definition is now blanked out because it appears some people are failing to notice the second definition.

A: I'd say these are all understatements.

The presentation of something as being smaller or less good or important than it really is:

a master of English understatement

[COUNT NOUN]: to say I am delighted is an understatement

Reference:

http://www.oxforddictionaries.com/definition/english/understatement

A: If only part of the sentence is parenthetical, then you put the final punctuation outside of the parenthesis:

  

I enjoy breakfast (sometimes).

If the entire sentence is parenthetical, then you put the punctuation inside the parenthesis.

  

I enjoy breakfast. (I enjoy lunch more.)

A: Bringing together a couple of good answers, the primary differences between a King and an Emperor are:

- 

A king rules one "country" or "nation"; an emperor rules over many. This is implicit in the definition of "kingdom" vs "empire"; an empire is always made up of multiple countries that have come under full control of one governing body (typically under one man, sometimes under a small group such as a triumvirate). So, to be an emperor, you have to have an empire; typically you go from "king" to "emperor" by conquering your nearest neighbors.

- 

A king normally rules by birthright; an emperor normally rules by conquest. Note the use of the word "normally". Kingdoms change hands between ruling families; the British Royal Family count ancestors from several formerly-competing houses, meaning that along the way several people crowned king or queen were so crowned after defeating relatives or even entirely different families (in fact perhaps the most famous line of British monarchs, the Tudors, are extinct in the male line; Edward VI, Mary I and Elizabeth I all died childless, and James VI of Scotland, Elizabeth's first cousin twice removed, ascended the throne under the House of Stuart). However, in the normal course of events, the line of succession of rule is by blood; principles of primogeniture apply more often to lines of kings than emperors. Emperors, by the nature of an empire, usually become so by conquest; you start out ruling one country, and then you invade another and replace their former system of government with one controlled by you. The line of succession of emperors can be either by blood (dynastic) or by continued conquest; the Roman Empire is a mix of succession by blood and by usurpment. The key difference is that dynastic rule is usually less important in an empire than simply whomever has the most power and influence within it as of the death or deposition of the sitting Caesar. If the previous Caesar was well-liked, then whomever he has groomed for power (whether a child or a close friend) is likely to ascend. If the previous Caesar was disliked, or didn't leave a clear line of succession, then the situation is ripe for a power grab by a previously less influential faction which then promotes its own leader into the position.

EDIT FROM COMMENT: Actually, the title of Emperor does fit with Japanese history. Prior to the 11th century, Japan was a collection of feudal states basically ruled by the landowners. The Emperor was appointed by these aristocrats to resolve disputes and provide a "unified voice" over these many feudal lands. In the early 11th century, the Kamakura shogunate was formed in the aftermath of the Genpei War, which took governmental power from the aristocrats and Emperor and placed it with the military akin to a junta. During this time, and the following Ashikaga and Tokugawa shogunates, the feudal states on the islands of Japan became unified into what we now know as a single country, and the Emperor's position evolved into more of a spiritual leader akin to the Pope. The importance of bloodline was always central (which does indicate a king), but as the Emperor became the head of the Shinto faith the bloodline came to signify the Emperor's status as a descendant of Amaterasu, and thus having divine legacy but not necessarily the mandate to govern.

In the late 1860s the Tokugawa shogunate fell and power to govern was restored to the Emperor (at the time Emperor Meiji, hence the "Meiji Restoration"). From this time until the end of WWII, Japan did indeed become a true empire, extending beyond the home islands to assert control over Manchuria, most of Southeast Asia and the Indonesian archipelago. The treaty that ended WWII allowed the Japanese people to retain their Emperor as a cultural icon, but stripped the office of all power to govern. The position and its trappings are defined in the current constitution as "a symbol of the Japanese state" akin to the British Crown, but while the Crown retains some key sovereign powers like command of the armed forces, the power to veto and to dissolve Parliament, etc, the Japanese Emperor performs mainly ceremonial and diplomatic duties and has no sovereign power whatsoever.

A: That can almost always be dropped. In your example, that is being used as a conjunction, i.e. it is introducing a subordinate clause as the object of the main sentence. In most situations where this is the case, it can be dropped. I cannot think of any where it can't be dropped.

When that is used as a demonstrative pronoun, e.g. "that was a nice question," it must be kept or replaced with another pronoun, e.g. "yours was a nice question."

When used as a relative pronoun, it can usually be dropped. For instance, "several people read the question that you wrote" can also be "several people read the question you wrote". But if used in a question with who, it should be kept. For example, "Who was the person that wrote this question?" cannot be *"Who was the person wrote this question?".

I'm sure I missed something, but the comments should keep me honest.

A: "Bring sand to the beach."  I have heard this many times, I am from NYC.  I've heard it used most often to describe bringing a date to a place where there will be many women.

A: I've always seen falsy and truthy. Falsey is a perfectly acceptable alternative and gives me just as many search results. The word is unfortunately too new to provide good sources. The ECMAScript Language Specification uses “⟦ToBoolean⟧” to refer to the interpretation of of non-Boolean values as Booleans, but makes no use of truthy or falsy.

These terms are widely used in discussions of dynamically typed programming languages such as JavaScript, Ruby, and Python, in which there is a Boolean data type but other values which can also behave like the Booleans  and . It is a way to distinguish between false the noun and false the adjective:

- “x is ” (clear)

- “x is false” (ambiguous: is x  or is it a different false value?)

- “x is falsy” (clear)

As tchrist points out, Perl is a notable exception because it lacks a Boolean type, so falsy values are just called false, in the adjectival sense.

A: victuals

I always thought it was VICK-chew-als, while it is actually VITT-les.

A: Nonetheless is used when talking about an amount of something.  

  

He really botched it tonight.  I love him nonetheless.

Here we are saying that the amount I love him has not been diminished from the level I loved him prior to his having botched it.

Nevertheless should be used when talking about doing something despite the facts.

  

It could be dangerous. Nevertheless, I've got to try.

Here we are saying that I will try despite the fact that it could be dangerous.

Note though that quite often interchanging the words results in a sentence with a different nuance of meaning but the same overall outcome.

Switching to nevertheless in my first example changes the meaning from I don't love him any less to I love him despite the facts - very similar but not quite the same.

And this is why interchanging them works so often. Because usually when saying that the amount that I do something has not diminished in any way it is because something has occurred that had the possibility of diminishing it and in not diminishing the amount I have essentially done that despite the facts.

A: Sean (written "Se&aacute;n" or "S&eacute;an" in Irish) is a Hibernization of the English name "John"; that is, it's a transliteration of "John" into a form which can be pronounced in Irish and written with the Irish alphabet (which nowadays is simply a version of the Roman alphabet).

The Irish language does not have the sound /&#676;/ (the sound which English typically writes as "J"). It does however have a /&#643;/ sound (a "sh" sound in English orthography), which happens when an "S" is followed by a front vowel (in Irish, by an "i" or an "e"). Thus, in Irish, the letter sequence "se" or "s&eacute;" is pronounced something like /&#643;&#603;/ or /&#643;e/ respectively. 

With the "a" following, the name "Se&aacute;n" is pronounced (if I'm remembering my IPA symbols and pronunciations correctly) /&#643;&#594;n/, which is about as close to English "John" /&#676;&#593;n/ as they can get.

Thus, when the name Se&aacute;n/S&eacute;an began to be used as an English name, it was used with the standard Irish pronunciation, which sounded like "Shawn" in English, and later began to be spelled that way as well.

(Note: Someone can please feel free to correct my IPA symbols; it's been 30 years and I don't remember the pronunciations as well as I used to.)

A: There seems to be no "official" word for "nieces and nephews".

You will find "nibling", by analogy with sibling. (But it is mentioned only in the "New Words & Slang" section of Merriam-Webster, or in sites like urbandictionary.com)

In this Yahoo answers thread, 's answer also mentions:

- that there is no encompassing word for aunt/uncle either

- that there is no male/female form of cousin. 

The article "There isn't a word for it" (by Neville Goodman, British Journal of General Practice, 2005) also confirms that there is no word for nephews and nieces, and makes the following (humorous) suggestions:

  

The word sibling comes from Old English, and just means related by blood.  I suggest taking the parental ‘p’ to replace the ‘s’, so aunts and uncles are ‘piblings’. Following the pattern, nephews and nieces become ‘niblings’, a nice word that describes what they do to their piblings' bank balances at Christmas and birthdays.

You can find the term used recently in this blog post "The Christmas Gift that Keeps On Giving", but you can also find it in one of the episodes of an old 1980 adventure series "The Moomins":

(from "Moomin Winter in Moomin Book 5")

A: Yes, the meanings are related.

Train was first applied to the modern vehicle in the sense of a "train of wagons."  Train was used (and still is) to talk about making branches or vines grow along a certain path.  The idea with "train" someone is to help them get on a path and stay on it.  It seems that it was mainly used for physical things such as training a horse, or training soldiers.  I was not able to locate more examples but I would think that "train" might also have been used for swordsmanship and also musical activities like playing the violin or singing.  We also speak of a "train of thought." 

  

"to discipline, teach, bring to a desired state by means of instruction," 1540s, probably from earlier sense of "draw out and manipulate in order to bring to a desired form" (late 14c.), specifically of the growth of branches, vines, etc. from mid-15c.

  Etymonline

Coach was a large kind of carriage.  It was natural to transfer this to a train (the transportation vehicle).  Coach can also mean to carry someone in a coach.  The first recorded use of "coach" as a verb in the modern sense of "help someone with an activity" was in 1849.  

  

1610s, "to convey in a coach," Meaning "to prepare (someone) for an exam" is from 1849

  Etymonline

As a side note, this "backward looking" definition of "coach" is useful because it helps distinguish the difference between a trainer and a coach, a coach being a person who "carries you along" and gives you support and guidance.  This sense is used in the modern expression "life coach" as someone who supports you, helps you through challenges or goals, and in general gives you a "push."

A: If I am addressing a few people who are well known to me, I would generally use:

  

Dear John, Bill, Jack,

If I am addressing a lot of people, or people who are not familiar to me, I would go with:

  

Dear All,

A: As an American mom whose kids I shuttled to and from soccer (along with their dad, who played basketball in HS/college), I would like to give an opinion.

Baseball/football/basketball are the big three here. When my kids were very, very young, the sport for little kids was tee-ball, a version of baseball/softball where the ball is not pitched but sits on a tee as does a golf ball (taller, of course). After tee-ball, a child would graduate to "Little League", which was "the" game for kids (esp. boys, but girls, too) to play (and as adults to softball). At about that time, soccer was hitting the US in a big way. A lot of the emphasis on young children's sports shifted away from tee-ball and little league to soccer, probably because tee-ball is still more demanding for a child's coordination than soccer, and out of a desire to join the rest of the western world in their preoccupation with the sport. 

  

The largest category of soccer in the United States in terms of participation is boys' and girls' youth soccer. Soccer is one of the most played sports by children in the United States.

Unfortunately, in the beginning, this children's sport was mainly one of the upper and middle classes, a very important demographic for politicians, as women vote more often than men, and the upper and middle classes more often than the lower. So, an appeal to "soccer moms" was supposed to help win elections.

Unfortunately, in trying to decrease the popularity of certain politicians in the eyes of these women, opposing party candidates painted an uglier picture of "soccer moms".

Although I did shuttle my kids to soccer, I was not a soccer mom any more than my husband was a soccer dad. They played other sports in season, and I never felt harried, though we did indeed have the minivan.

  

In 1967 there were 100,000 people playing soccer in the US; by 1984, that number had grown to over 4 million. Girls high school soccer experienced tremendous growth in playing numbers throughout the 1970s and 1980s—from 10,000 in 1976, to 41,000 in 1980, to 122,000 in 1990.

A: Just in case if anyone is wondering which one is more popular: (Queuing!)

A: your examples sound like whitewashing

whitewash verb  white·wash \ˈhwīt-ˌwȯsh, ˈwīt-, -ˌwäsh\

  
  
- to make (something) whiter by painting it with whitewash
  
- to prevent people from learning the truth about (something bad, such as a dishonest, immoral, or illegal act or situation)
  

examples:

  
  
- a book that tries to whitewash the country's past
  
- refused to whitewash the governor's chronic disregard for the truth
  

source: merriam-webster

further reading:

  

wikipedia defines whitewash thusly:
  "to gloss over or cover up vices, crimes or scandals or to exonerate by
  means of a perfunctory investigation or through biased presentation of
  data"

A: One expression, which conveys the sense of consequences applying to everyone regardless of whether or not you feel they deserve it, is

  

A rising tide lifts all boats

This is often used in US political speech where a politician tries to justify a policy by claiming its benefits will help everyone. Because of this use, someone hearing this phrase may react unfavourably, either because of its connotation with politics or because it's usually not true in cases where it's used.

Another problem is that this is more of a positive statement (all boats being lifted is seen as a good thing) rather than a negative (all wood burning). You can't really use this statement in exactly the same way. I feel that there must be a better, negative, equivalent, but I can't recall it.

Q: Do you capitalize both parts of a hyphenated word in a title?

Do you capitalize both parts of a hyphenated word in a title?

"My Ex-Wife Hates Me"

or

"My Ex-wife Hates Me"

Q: "neither is" vs. "neither are"?

Bob: "Can I set the font color? Can I customize the text?"

Frank: "Neither of these options is/are available. Sorry!"

Is "neither is" always correct or is "neither are" sometimes correct, and what are the exact rules? Google gives a big mess of this-is-why-stackexchange-exists.

Q: What's the difference between "null" and "void" in legal language?

In the legal term "null and void," what is the difference between null and void?  Why not just use one of the two terms?  And can either term be used without the other?

Q: What is the origin of "daemon" with regards to computing?

Daemon has an interesting usage in computing. From my local dictionary:

  

a background process that handles requests for services such as print spooling and file transfers, and is dormant when not required

Does anyone know where this came from? I assume its relation to the word demon is notable. My dictionary also lists daemon as an archaic form of demon. Why did computing use daemon instead of demon?

Q: What is the difference between "it's up to you" and "it's down to you"?

I see both "It's up to you" and "It's down to you" in conversations.
So what's the difference?

Q: Are "w/o", "w/", "b/c" common abbreviations in the US?

I remember when staying a few months in the US years ago that I saw some people using the abbreviations below. However, I can't exactly remember in which contexts I encountered them, (whether I saw my teachers using them when writing something on the board, in papers or in personal notes etc.)

So my question is: Are those abbreviations below commonly used and in which contexts is it okay to use them (e.g. formal texts, personal notes,... or better only used in personal note taking?) 

  
  
- w/o without
  
- w/ with
  
- b/c because
  

PS: Are there similar abbreviations that are commonly used?

Q: Why is "distro", rather than "distri", short for "distribution" in Linux world?

Why is distro, rather than distri, short for distribution in Linux world?

Q: A fun, catchy way to say the opposite of a 'no-brainer'?

A no-brainer is "something that requires a minimum of thought" (Merriam-Webster).  I could use some help with a catchy way of saying the opposite.

Sample sentence:

"I have to make a decision and it is definitely not a no-brainer, in fact, it's a real ___________."

I almost want to say, "...it's a real brainer." but that just sounds silly.

You could always say "...it's a difficult decision" but that's pretty bland.  

Someone suggested brain-teaser in the comments, but I'm thinking of the context of a life decision like, "Should I accept this job?" or "Should I get married?" -- something of that order -- rather than a riddle.

I searched for 'antonyms of no-brainer' online but the first three hits came up empty.

Q: When ending a list with "etc.", should there be a comma before "etc."?

When listing items and ending the list with "etc", should there be a comma before "etc."? E.g.

  

red, green, blue, etc.

or

  

red, green, blue etc.

Related question, though this one involves the word "and", so I am no sure if the answer applies to this question or not: Should I put a comma before the last item in a list?

Q: How is SQL pronounced?

When I was learning SQL, I remember reading that it should be pronounced just like the word sequel; however, I worked with a bunch of techs who seemed to prefer S-Q-L. Is there a proper convention for this?

Q: What is the correct word for "dependee"?

What is the correct word for "dependee"?  

In other words, what is the word for something that is depended upon? The relationship here is in the context of software engineering

Q: Donald Trump's run-on sentences

In every Trump speech, almost every sentence is a run-on sentence. Here is a quote from one of his speeches last year

  

Look, having nuclear—my uncle was a great professor and scientist and engineer, Dr. John Trump at MIT; good genes, very good genes, OK, very smart, the Wharton School of Finance, very good, very smart—you know, if you’re a conservative Republican, if I were a liberal, if, like, OK, if I ran as a liberal Democrat, they would say I'm one of the smartest people anywhere in the world—it’s true!—but when you're a conservative Republican they try—oh, do they do a number—that’s why I always start off: Went to Wharton, was a good student, went there, went there, did this, built a fortune—you know I have to give my like credentials all the time, because we’re a little disadvantaged—but you look at the nuclear deal, the thing that really bothers me—it would have been so easy, and it’s not as important as these lives are (nuclear is powerful; my uncle explained that to me many, many years ago, the power and that was 35 years ago; he would explain the power of what's going to happen and he was right—who would have thought?), but when you look at what's going on with the four prisoners—now it used to be three, now it’s four—but when it was three and even now, I would have said it's all in the messenger; fellas, and it is fellas because, you know, they don't, they haven’t figured that the women are smarter right now than the men, so, you know, it’s gonna take them about another 150 years—but the Persians are great negotiators, the Iranians are great negotiators, so, and they, they just killed, they just killed us.

  [Source: Slate magazine]

I understand a run-on sentence is usually just something like:

  

It will be dark soon we can't be home before nightfall.

Is Trump's typical speech habit considered multiple run-on sentences? Or what would the term be. And being a speech, is this an error in English language in general, a grammatical error on his part, something else, or no errors at all?

EDIT: Since I have received negative comments over the quotation, I would like to clarify: I don't care about the quotation, I googled an example of a Trump speech to use for reference and found this. Since I apparently found a bad quote, or maybe something he never actually said, here is a different quote for reference. Note that I felt it would be inappropriate to replace the main quotation since this question has already been answered and I feel altering it would be unfair:

  

And in 19 — and I will tell you this, and I said it very strongly, years ago, I said — and I love the military, and I want to have the strongest military that we’ve ever had, and we need it more now than ever.

  [Source: The Wall Street Journal]

Similar to the (bad example) speech above, this quote has Trump starting off with one thought, going to the next, interrupting himself to mention his love for the military, and then closing without finishing either prior thoughts. I didn't know what this was called, and was unsure if there was a term for this speaking style and whether or not it was in violation of any English rules.

Q: How is y’all’dn’t’ve pronounced

According to Wikipedia, y’all’dn’t’ve is a valid contraction.

I am having difficulty pronouncing the L-D-N-T-V consonant cluster, especially since there is no vowel at the end (silent E). Y’all’dn’t’ve any advice or audio samples would you?

Q: Word for fake religious people

Is there any word for calling people who pretend to be religious in the religious group they’re in? I mean, the people who lost their belief but can’t say they’re not religious anymore because people will turn against them?

I’ve met several people of that kind so I’d thought it’ll be good to know a word for it. Any suitable adjective then?

I am not implying anything here. No one’s wrong. This is how the world works, sadly. The word fake in the title is a bit off, I know.

Q: What is "ass door"?

I'm not English speaking, I understand the joke but say please what is "ass door"? Is it the same as butt door? Didn't find it in the dictionary.

Q: Is it correct to use "their" instead of "his or her"?

Is this sentence grammatically correct?

Anyone who loves the English language should have a copy of this book in their bookcase.

or should it be:

Anyone who loves the English language should have a copy of this book in his or her bookcase.

Q: How should I abbreviate "versus"?

There are 4 types of abbreviations I know for "versus":

- v

- v.

- vs

- vs.

I generally use the last one in the list, but I want to stick to one and use only that one. Which one is more proper (or more prevalent), and why? 

Extra question: Which one should be preferred in scientific papers?

Q: Is there a word for "air can pass through it"?

If light can pass through an object, or if you can see through it, it is transparent.

Is there a similar word for "air can pass through", or you can breathe through an object? This adjective would be used to describe a screen door, or certain types of fabric.

Q: A formal way to say "I don't want to sound too cocky..."

Allow me to clear the situation. I was talking with my professor about a piece of software that I had developed. While we were discussing, I wanted to say something like

  

I don't want to sound too cocky, but my code is way much more efficient
  than what we have right now.

But I didn't because I thought "I don't want to sound too cocky" is too informal. 
What is a formal way of stating such a phrase?

Q: Idiom criticizing a person who has unsolved problems but tries to give someone advice about them

Is there an idiom or expression that refers to a person who has some unsolved problems and tries to give some pieces of advice to, or guide, others for solving the same problems?

We Iranians have a proverb that literally means 

“If a bald man were capable of curing baldness, he would cure himself first!”

This sarcastic proverb implies that “...while someone is incapable of solving his own problems, he is in no position to guide others on how to solve the same problems.”

Examples:

- 

Suppose I have made many mistakes in my married life and now I'm in the midst of getting divorced; one day my colleague (person A), who is about to get married, asks my colleagues and me for some advice on how to have a successful married life. When I start giving my opinion, another colleague (person B) might turn and say to person A:

  

"Why are you asking Soudabeh? If she really knew how to have a happy married life, she wouldn't be in this situation now; as that old proverb says "if a bald man could cure baldness, he would cure himself first!"

- 

There is a country (A) in the region which has been fighting some terrorist groups for some years and has not been successful in destroying them; now its neighbor country (B) is facing the same problem. If country A's leaders try to guide country B's government on how to fight against those terrorists, country B's leader might say "You are not in a position to guide us! If you had been capable of solving this problem, you would have solved it in your own country, if a bald..."

I have found this idiom "physician, heal thyself". Can I use it as an equivalent to that Persian proverb? (Although it seems that it focuses on "defects" rather than the "problems".)

Notes:

- 

The bald man here refers to the one who has been involved with an
inherited baldness or a permanent baldness due to a disease like a
ringworm (fungal infection).

- 

We use this proverb when we are talking to/about our close friends
or younger relatives, or to people for whom we don't care about them being
offended hearing it (we rarely say it to a really bald person to
prevent them taking it personally and getting upset). Also, this
proverb is commonly used among politicians and opposing parties
as a way of mocking each other for not being able to solve their own
problems and yet trying to guide others on how to solve the same
problems.

- Using this proverb doesn't mean that the speaker is accusing somebody
but just implies that they are not in the position to give
advice about the given problem(s).

Maybe this cartoon gives a better idea. (What is your first impression of that?) Are you ready to go to this dietician? :)

  

One might reply :"No, I won't. Because if he knew how to treat obesity, he would treat himself first!, as the idiom/ proverb says _____ ."

Actually, I'm looking for something that can be used in this sentence, too (as an equivalent for that Persian proverb).

Q: Is it conceivable that President Obama might use the word "queue"?

President Obama in a press conference, in London today, has said that if Britain votes to leave the European Union and makes separate application to the United States for a trade deal, she will be at the "back of the queue", behind the EU. 

Some people assert that Obama has been prompted in his remarks by David Cameron, Prime Minister of the UK, and that the President is really only saying this to do Cameron a favour. (It will be a major political blow to Cameron if he loses the Referendum on 23 June.) 

On the BBC programme Any Questions this evening, Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, and vehement supporter of Britain voting to leave the EU, said he thought it inconceivable that an American such as Barack Obama would use the word "queue". Americans, he asserted, say "line". So according to Farage, it was not Obama speaking, but, in effect the UK government had written his script for him. 

Do Americans use the word "queue", and more specifically does President Obama say "queue"? 

Added: A somewhat more complete context for the quote:

  

He said there could be a US-UK trade agreement “down the line” but warned: “It’s not going to happen any time soon, because our focus is on negotiating with a big bloc, the EU. The UK is going to be in the back of the queue.”

(I can't vouch for the accuracy of the quote, of course. HL)

Q: Origin of "the beatings will continue until morale improves"

What is the origin of the phrase the beatings will continue until morale improves?

There is a Metafilter and a Quora out on it, but they are inconclusive, and the phrase does not appear in the dictionary.

Q: "Time zone" vs. "Timezone"

My spell checker shows that both "time zone" and "timezone" are correctly spelled. Which one of these is the correct one to use?

Q: "Based on" instead of "based off of"

I sometimes see cases where off is followed by of, and it sounds awkward to me. For example, I would prefer

  

This story is based on a true story.

to

  

This story is based off of a true
  story.

What do native speakers think/prefer? Should I avoid that kind of usage?

Q: Use of "I", "we" and the passive voice in a scientific thesis

Possible Duplicate:

  Style Question: Use of &ldquo;we&rdquo; vs. &ldquo;I&rdquo; vs. passive voice in a dissertation  

When the first person voice is used in scientific writing it is mostly used in the first person plural, as scientific papers almost always have more than one co-author, such as

  

We propose a new method to study cell differentiation in nematodes.

Often the "we" also includes the reader

  

We may see in Figure 4.2 that...

However, I am writing a thesis which means I am the only author and I even have to testify in writing that the work is my own and I did not receive any help other than from the indicated sources. Therefore it seems I should use "I", but this seems to be very unusual in scientific writing and even discouraged as one may sound pretentious or self-absorbed. However, the alternative is to use the passive voice, which seems to be even more discouraged as it produces hard to read writing and indeed an entire thesis in the passive voice may be indigestible for any reader.

So far, I used the second form of "we" extensively that includes me and the reader. This form is often natural when describing mathematical derivations as the truth is objective and it suggests that I am taking the reader by the hand and walking her through the process. Still, I'm trying not do overdo this form. 

However, eventually I will need to refer to methods that I propose and choices that I have made. Should I just follow scientific convention and use "we" although it is factually inaccurate or indeed write in the scorned-upon "I"?

Q: Is 'at the time of writing' correct?

I am writing a technical document and I need to refer to the current point of time. Should I say 'at the time of writing', 'at the time of this writing', or 'at the time of writing this'? Are all acceptable?

Q: Why is it "behead" and not "dehead"?

The be- prefix in behead doesn't seem to match similar words like become, besmirch, or befuddle. Of course, the same prefix could serve different roles depending on the word. What role is be- serving here, and are there any other English words that use the prefix in this way?

Q: Should I put myself last? "me and my friends" vs. "my friends and me" or "my friends and I"

I've always been taught to put myself last when referring to myself in the same sentence as others but the usage of "me and..." seems to be everywhere these days. The misuse of the word "me" instead of "I" aside, is there some new rule I haven't heard of? Shouldn't we put ourselves last regardless of the "me"/"I" usage?

Examples of "correct" usage: 

  

My friends and I went for some ice
  cream. Did you see my friends and me
  at the ice cream stand?

Examples of "incorrect" usage:

  

Me and my friends went for some ice
  cream. Did you see me and my friends
  at the ice cream stand?

Note: I was also taught that the only person who could put themselves first was the queen.

Q: How do you handle "that that"? The double "that" problem

Have you ever had a case where you felt compelled to include strange things like a double that in a sentence? If so, then what did you do to resolve this?

For me, I never knew whether it was acceptable grammar. However, what I did learn was that it was a logic distractor, could lead to confusion, and therefore should be reworded to avoid this.

Q: "Content" or "Contents"?

Content or contents — when do I use which form?

I realize that the one is the plural form of the other, but they seem to be used interchangeably.

Q: What is the error called when two letters are mistakenly swapped?

Generally this may be called typo but when particularly two letters of a word are mistakenly swapped, what is this error called? Some examples:

  

teh > the

  fromat > format

  comptuer > computer

Q: What is this famous example of the absurdity of English spelling?

A long time ago I read about this funny example posited by some relatively well-known author who spelled a word (I forget the word) in the most difficult way possible, but in a way that was totally congruent with orthographic rules from other words of English.

It was a simple word, like "fish" but he spelled it like "phystch" or something similarly absurd. It's a pedantic example, but sort of funny, too.
Thanks

Q: "Effect" vs. "Affect"

I've noticed that some people use effect and affect interchangeably. What are the differences between these two and when are the proper situations to use each of them?

Q: What's the negation of "I used to be"? Surely not "I didn't used to be"?

What is the negative form of "I used to be"? I often hear "I didn't used to be" but that sounds awfully wrong in my ears.

Q: "Relation" versus "relationship"

What is the difference between relation and relationship?

Some say that relationship often refers to social connections. For instance,

She has a close relationship with her daughter.

How about the following?

the relationship between poor housing and health problems (Longman Dictionary)

the special relationship between Britain and the US (Longman Dictionary)

Q: Is there a polite alternative to "No thanks, I'm full"?

English is not my native language, but when I was studying in the US, I was always trying to find an alternative to 

  

I'm full!

I felt that it was a very improper way to express that I have eaten enough, especially when I was invited for dinner. I remember having difficulties demonstrating my gratitude towards my hosts when using this expression.

Being full feels to me a bit like a car that has been filled with gasoline and gasoline is just used to continue working. That's not what I want to say... 

Is there a better word I can use? I haven't found one in the dictionary. There are, of course, long forms:

  

I have had enough [, thank you].

that I have learned to use, but I wonder if there is a short one.
Other Languages have rassasié (French), sazio (Italian) and satt (German). Should I use satiated?

Update: Thank you all for the overwhelming response! After 13 answers, I feel I got a better understanding of the phrase. I'm grateful for @Andrews answer, because he took the cultural aspect into consideration. This was the decisive part that I missed. I can also understand @MT_ Head that saying No thank you, I'm full while smiling isn't offensive at all. Thanks for that. 

I conclude that there is not a single wide spread word I can use which doesn't sound stilted or strange (or even has a touch of sexual pleasure). 

I now have a repertoire of polite responses available. I'm accepting the most helpful answer for me, but most of you got my up-vote. :)

Q: Is 'Updation' a correct word?

I was wondering whether 'updation' is correct English or not.

Sample sentence: I was involved in the updation of the website.

Q: Is "Is it a girl or a boy?" really calling the infant an "it"?

So, my boss comes in, railing that "English is a stupid language!" Since this is pretty much a thrice-weekly occurrence 'round these parts, I barely raised an eyebrow, and waited for him to continue. 

"Mary just wrote to tell us that she's back from maternity leave, and I want to congratulate her and ask whether she had a girl or a boy, but I can't do it without calling the child an 'it'!" I blinked, then confirmed that yes, he believes the it in "Is it a boy or a girl" is the impersonal pronoun, the same word you'd apply to an apple or a house.

Is it the 'thing' pronoun, really? Or is it just a placeholder of some sort? I used to believe the latter: I gave the boss a mini-lecture about "it's raining" and the dummy subject pronoun. He wasn't convinced, however, and now he's got me doubting too. (Harumph. I really should know better than to listen to the boss.)

I'm not asking about politeness, here; the former title was to be taken somewhat facetiously. I'm wondering about the grammar: what role is that "it" playing in that sentence? Is it a personal pronoun (and thus the infant has grounds for feeling offended) or a dummy pronoun (and thus those who perceive a politeness issue are just misunderstanding the grammar)?

Q: Derogatory word, describing person (a pupil) who memorizes instead of learning?

Apologies if I am asking something that is well known, but I am not a native English speaker, and I could not find an answer so far.

In my native language, there exists a (derogatory) word for pupils, who strive to get high grades by literally memorizing tons of facts, instead of understanding and learning. The main characteristic of such people is that at first (in first few years of school) they get excellent grades, as the quantity of material is not beyond ability to memorize (but still they do not understand most of it). As they progress through the school, this gets more and more difficult, and becomes impossible in high school or at the university at the latest, causing such people to spend many hours trying to memorize impossible amounts of data, only to be outdone by their peers who can understand the subject.

The word is derogatory in a sense that such pupils are usually hated by their peers since they are teachers' pets (at first), increasing the bar for others, who do understand the subjects, but are not prepared to invest hours and hours of their time to memorize useless facts. The downfall of such pupil is often welcomed by peers.

So, what is the word for such pupil? "nerd" and "geek" are not appropriate, since they are not derogatory in the desired sense -- nerds and geeks display above-average understanding of subjects, even if it is narrowly focused.

Example "John is such XXXXXX, he does not understand a word of what teacher is saying, he just repeats phrases from textbook and gets good grades. Shame!"

Word XXXX is not vulgar or obscene, but it is derogatory. So, I am searching for an English expression describing such person/pupil. Thanks.

Edit: I don't think that is a duplicate, since I explained the rationale in more detail. I am searching for word with negative connotation, related to learning. The person may not be stupid or lazy, perhaps they don't know better than rote learning. 

So far the best candidates are: parrot (to parrot) and regurgitator (to regurgitate). Both come very close to what I had in mind.

Q: How can I order eggs "over hard" in the UK?

I've recently made a couple of trips to the London area, and I've had a terrible time trying to convince the hotel breakfast cooks that I want my eggs fried "over hard", meaning that both the white and the yolk are cooked until solid.

It may just be that the cooks were not native English speakers, but I'm wondering whether this is a term used in American English but not in British English.

Is there a good way to express this in the UK?

Q: What are the rules for splitting words at the end of a line?

What are the rules in English language to split words at the end of a line? 

Where exactly must the hyphen split the word?

Q: "Dear Sir or Madam" versus "To whom it may concern"

When is it appropriate to use the terms Dear Sir or Madam and To whom it may concern?  The rules I was taught state that Dear Sir or Madam should be used when you're writing a letter to a person about something that person has direct involvement in (e.g. returning a defective product to a customer service department).  By the same rules, To whom it may concern would be used for situations in which the recipient is a third party to the topic of the letter (e.g. regarding a letter of reference or recommendation).

Was I taught correctly?  Is the rule actually something else?  Or is this one of those situations where many people have an opinion but there is no real rule?

Q: Is "errored" correct usage?

If "errored" is not a valid word, then how should I say:

  

The program errored at line 44

I guess I could say:

  

The program threw an error at line 44

But why is "errored" wrong? Is there a better alternative?

Q: Is "substract" (versus "subtract") a proper word?

I read an article recently where the author used "substract" instead of "subtract".  I'm more familiar with the latter word but after doing a bit of googling, it seems that both words are being used, although "subtract" seems more mainstream than the other. Which of the two is more appropriate? Is "substract" even acceptable?

Q: How did the letter Z come to be associated with sleeping/snoring?

In cartoons and comics it's not uncommon to see a series of Z's to indicate that a person is in deep slumber, such as in the following political cartoon.

(source: Berkeley Daily Planet)

How and when did the letter Z come to be associated with sleeping?

Q: Has 'fat chance' always been used sarcastically or was it once a factual term?

That 'fat chance' means 'a small chance' (and is always used sarcastically) is clear to me. But what I was wondering about is if the term used to be factual and then changed meaning because it started to be used in a sarcastic way, or has it always been sarcastic and was it never used literally? 

(Is that latter option even possible? Isn't it so that the sarcasm actually only works if everybody knows that underneath 'fat' means 'big' here? But I'm above all curious if it ever was a normal term, such as 'slim chance' still is)

Q: Why do we refer to computers and other machines as being up or down?

Generally when a machine is working we refer to it as "up" and when it's not we say the machine is "down."  What is the origin of this?

Q: "It really doesn't matter" v "It doesn't really matter"

I can't distinguish the difference in meaning between these  two sentences.

- 

It really doesn't matter.

- 

It doesn't  really matter.

It seems that there is a nuanced difference, but I cannot see what this is.

Q: Punctuation with units

I remember reading somewhere that if a unit is abbreviated as one character, there must not be a space between the number and the unit (e.g., 5m, 26K). If the unit is abbreviated as two or more Characters, there must be a space between the number and the unit (e.g., "10 km", "USD 5").

- Can you please help me find the source again?

- Is this recommendation correct?

Q: When should end punctuation go inside quotes?

I have been/am being taught that end punctuation should always go inside quotes. For example, you are supposed to write:

  

Marvin thought it was "awful."

The problem is I do not see how does this make sense. Intuitively, I always wrote:

  

Marvin thought it was "awful".

as that makes more logical sense — you want a quote to be an exact replication of what somebody else said, so why should you add punctuation inside?

I always thought it made more sense to not touch the quote and add anything after or before if it must be added.

So, why should I put end punctuation inside quotes?

Q: "All but" idiom has two meanings?

Here's two ways I've seen the "all, but" idiom used:

"Close all tabs but this one" (Any modern application with a number of tabs might have this as an option.) It means "close all the tabs, but not this one".

"With that goal, the championship is all but decided". This seems to mean "you can say/do whatever (all) you want, (but) it won't change who wins the championship."

Is one of these usages more correct than the other?

Q: What are the differences between "inverse", "reverse", and "converse"?

What distinctions can be made among the meanings of the words "inverse", "reverse", "converse", and, for good measure, "transverse" and "obverse"? Is it ever possible to use some of them interchangeably? 

Are they the same for purposes of casual discourse? Do the differences become more salient in a particular technical context, such as engineering, math, or linguistics?

Q: How to pronounce the programmer's abbreviation "char"

In many programming languages, char is a type name for character values. The word character is pronounced with a [k] sound, but what about char? 

While trying to find the answer elsewhere, I learnt that there is an English word char which is pronounced [tʃɑ:(r)], but it has nothing to do with characters.

How would you read the following piece of code out loud?

Is it [kær], [tʃær] or [tʃɑ:(r)]? I've always used the last but I have no idea whether it's correct.

Q: One of us is wrong, aren't we?

I have just learned from what I consider a reliable source, that the following sentence is correct:

  

One of us is wrong, aren't we?

I would never in my life have written this, but I am assured that this is exactly how it would be written

As I realize comments don't live forever I will quote the relevant parts:

  

oerkelens : So you  would really write One of us is wrong, aren't we? I guess by analogy you would not bat an eyelid at One of these balls is blue, aren't they?

  Matt Эллен : yes, "Then one of us is wrong, aren't we?" is exactly how it would be written. Same for the balls.

Could someone please enlighten me how it is possible that the number in a question tag supposedly has to be in discordance with the subject of the main clause?

I admit that I am not the youngest any more, and my school days are long gone, but back in the days, I was taught that 
1. a verb and its subject concord in number
2. a question tag concords with the subject of the main clause

I was given examples like:

  

It is warm today, isn't it?

  We will be on time, won't we?

  Mary is pretty, isn't she?

  John isn't the brightest, is he?

Some people may notice that the subject of the main clause seems to determine every time the subject of the question tag. When the main clause subject is singular, so are verb and subject in the question tag.

I was under the impression that a) this made sense and b) this would be a general rule. 
I fully realize that grammar does not have to make sense, so a) is immaterial. As for b), today I learned I was wrong :)

So when (and possibly why?) do we form question tags that are different in number from their main clause? 

To exemplify, also the other example sentence that I used and was corrected on:

  

One of these balls is blue, isn't it? (so this is wrong)

  One of these balls is blue, aren't they? (and this is correct)

As an afterthought, does this strange grammatical number mix-up only appear in question-tags, or should I always refer to singular subjects in the plural if certain conditions are met? And what are those conditions?

Which versions are correct?

  

One of the cars is broken, aren't they? They (the car(s?) that is(are?) broken) should be fixed.

  One of the cars is broken, aren't they? It (the car that is broken) should be fixed.

  One of us must be wrong, mustn't we? We (the one(s?) that is (are?) wrong) should make amends.

  One of us must be wrong, mustn't we? He (the one that is wrong) should make amends.

(In the last one, they could of course be used as the singular they, but that would avoid the issue...)

Q: “kinda”, “sorta”, “coulda”, “shoulda”, “lotta”, “oughta”, “betcha”, "tseasy", etc. What are these?

In linguistics, is there a term describing this phenomenon, i.e., when the syllables of two words are slurred together in the spoken language?  They are not contractions. While contractions are acceptable in any register, this combination of words is very informal and hardly ever found in formal writing.

kinda (kind of)

sorta (sort of)

coulda (could have)

shoulda (should have)

lotta (lot of)

oughta (ought to)

betcha (bet you)

lemme (let me)

tseasy (it's easy)

willya (will you)

Inasmuch as English Language speakers (just like the speakers of any natural language) have a tendency to join word sounds in speech, examples abound and a complete list would be hard to produce.

I’m looking for a word or phrase describing this linguistic phenomenon as it occurs in speech.

Q: Etymology of "fairy"

All the standard dictionaries--with the notable exception of the OED--seem to trace the etymology of fairy through Old French fae to Latin fata, meaning "the fates" or "the goddess of fate". As a classical languages major with primary focus on Latin, I find this etymology of fairy doubtful. I can buy the origin from French, but the French connection to fata seems strained.

I'm familiar with the apotropaic "fair folk" being used in place of "fairy," but am inclined to think that this usage is based on an incorrect folk etymology that assumes fairy comes from fair, which in fact seems to be unrelated, coming from Teutonic sources.

The OED traces to Old French in the same way, but--interestingly to me--does not trace further.

Would anyone be willing to explain how fata would be transformed into fae? Thank you!

Q: When do I use "I" instead of "me?"

From some comments in the answers for common English usage mistakes (now deleted, 10k only), there's confusion around the usage of I vs. me:

While the sentence, "the other attendees are myself and Steve," is agreed to be incorrect, there's confusion about whether the correct form is "the other attendees are me and Steve" or "the other attendees are Steve and I."

(I've always used the heuristic of removing the other people from the sentence, so I always thought "the other attendee is me" would be correct, instead of "the other attendee is I." Is this true, or am I using a flawed heuristic?)

Q: When I should use "assure" vs. "ensure" vs. "insure"?

When is it appropriate to use assure vs. ensure vs. insure?

Q: "Less" vs. "fewer"

I've just received a memo which says (effectively) 

  

As more people leave, there will be less people available.

I want that word to be fewer. Are there guidelines for which word ought to be used when?

Q: Alternatives to "and/or"?

As a programmer, I have no problem with seeing or using "and/or" in technical documentation. For example,

  

I can upvote an answer that satisfies me and/or mark it as accepted.

That's perfectly good English to me. However, if I were writing a novel, or even just an essay, or — heaven forbid — a poem, "and/or" would seem extremely out of place.

My question is, what should I be using instead? (I solemnly swear I will not use that knowledge to actually write a poem.)

Q: Central Pennsylvanian English speakers: what are the limitations on the "needs washed" construction?

In the Central Pennsylvania dialect of English (and possibly elsewhere), the following construction is possible:

  
  
- This car needs washed. (=needs to be washed)
  
- The room needs cleaned. (=needs to be cleaned)
  

It appears that, if a verb like needs is followed by a passive construction in the infinitive, the "to be" portion is left out.

This construction sounds so unnatural to my ear that I have no intuition as to the extent to which it can be extended to other words and contexts.  If anyone here is a native speaker of this dialect of English, perhaps they can help to explain the limits on its use.

My basic question is: how productive is this particular construction among those who use it?

To be more specific, can this construction be used with any verb (if that verb can be immediately followed by a passive construction, of course)?  That is, would (any of) the following be acceptable, for example?

  
  
- At this restaurant, we always wait seated. (=wait to be seated)
  
- My kid hates picked last in sports. (=hates to be picked)
  
- We all want loved. (=want to be loved)
  

If this construction is restricted, then which verbs can be used, aside from need?

Edit: What I am really hoping for here is that there is someone who happens across this question that can say, "I actively use this construction, and here's what I can and can't say."

Q: "Solution for" or "solution to" a problem?

I need to find a solution to/for this problem.

Can to and for be used interchangeably here? Is one of them just plain wrong?

Q: Why use "need not" instead of "do not need to"?

The header of psyco.sourceforge.net states:

  

High-level languages need not be slower than low-level ones.  

Why use need not instead of do not need? What does it mean? Also, why no to before be?

Q: When does thousand turn into thousands?

My boyfriend and I are arguing whether thousands of miles means 1000+ or 2000+ miles. 

The first argument is that 1000+ is over 1000 and therefore 'thousands of miles' by rounding up. 

The other argument is that thousands are a unit, and if you only have one unit plus a fraction of that unit it is not 'thousands of miles', it is a thousand miles plus the fraction: therefore only 2000+ is really 'thousands of miles'.

Q: What's a less offensive substitute for "rep-whores"?

This is a frequently thrown-around term on Internet forums in general and Stack Exchange specifically. Although it conveys a lot of meaning, I'd much prefer a phrase with a less offensive origin.

Urban Dictionary defines a "rep-whore" as:

  

A person who is obsessed with their status on an internet forum so bribes/ does favours for members of that forum in an attempt to achieve higher rep points.

Is there a nicer alternative phrase?

This is not a Help Vampire, who is more concerned with having others solve their problems.

It's not merely What do you call someone who is addicted to a Q&A website?. I'm not interested in how to deal with "rep-whores", but what to call them.

Q: What is a word similar to "amateur" yet having a strong connotation of someone who likes something?

The etymology of "amateur", according to the Online Etymology Dictionary, is:

  

1784, "one who has a taste for (something)," from French amateur "lover of," from Latin amatorem (nominative amator) "lover," agent noun from amatus, past participle of amare "to love" (see Amy).

Yet in English, this has taken the connotation of unprofessional (as in, not done for money) and, from there, even inept or unskillful.

In Romanian, the word "amator" preserves the meaning from the etymolgy, meaning somebody who enjoys doing something. Someone can even walk around with a wine bottle, asking "Cine e amator?, meaning, "who [cine] is [e] up for doing this [amator]/who wants to do this?", in this case meaning "who is up for some wine?"

I wanted to post a partial answer to a StackOverflow question, saying it is "for future *amateurs", i.e., for people in the future who will enjoy tackling the question and can thus use my answer as a jumping-off point. Yet this would sound weird and perhaps even taunting, which is not my intention.

What would the equivalent word in English be - someone who enjoys doing something - even if it doesn't come from the same Latin root? There are various "...(o)phile" words but they are all specific - is there a general term that would be apt here?

Q: Did gamblers get their lingo "hijacked?"

The earliest reference to "hijack" that OED lists is from 1923.

  

1923   Lit. Digest 4 Aug. 51/3   ‘I would have had $50,000,’ said Jimmy, ‘if I hadn't been hijacked.’

But the etymology is listed as unknown.

Interestingly, I found several newspaper references to a poker game robbery in 1920 that seem to antedate the OED quote, although they all used a hyphen.

- The Democrat-American 09 Jan 1920, Fri (paywall)

Looking further, I found a 1916 newspaper reference to "hijacks," also referring to a poker game.

- Muskogee County Democrat (Muskogee, Oklahoma) 30 Nov 1916, Thu (paywall)

Given that these references are poker-related, my immediate hunch was that the term may have originated as a gambling term.  This doesn't seem far-fetched to me; Winning a poker hand with a high-card jack would be a figurative robbery of sorts in some poker variants.

Etymonline offers an alternative explanation:

  

American English, perhaps from high(way) + jacker "one who holds up" (agent noun from jack (v.)).

This explanation makes sense but appears to me to be a little bit misleading.  It makes it sound as though "jacker" meant "someone who holds people up," i.e. robs them, but it actually seems to refer to "jack" as in "to hoist something up on a jack."  

Having researched this into the two separate directions, I thought it was time to post a question.

- Is there any corroborating or invalidating evidence to the theory that "hijack" could have started as a gambling term?

- Is there evidence beyond speculation that it derives from hoisting a stolen good up with a jack?

Q: "Why does paper cut so well?", ambiguous question?

I have posted a question titled "Why does paper cut so well?" (on the Physics stack exchange). After a while, I noticed that over 40 people understood the question as "Why is it so easy to cut paper (with a pair of scissors)?". But what I meant was that it was easy to cut things with paper, paper being the cutting material. So I edited the question to make it more explicit.

I am not a native English speaker, and I completely missed the ambiguity. And now that I know about it, even if I force myself, I am unable to understand the question "Why does paper cut so well?" as "Why is it so easy to cut through paper?". I would understand if the question was "How can paper be cut so well?". So using "to be cut" as opposed to "to cut". 

I wonder what I am missing. How is it possible to understand the question that way?

Q: When should I use "shall" versus "will"?

Which is the correct use of these two words, and in which context should one be used rather than the other?

Q: When should the word "English" be capitalized?

I am often confused how the word "English" should be written in phrases such as "English language", because I have seen both variants: capitalized and starting with lowercase letter.

What is the most accepted usage: "English language" or "english language"? And what about other possible usage of the adjective "english"?

Q: "Let's" vs. "lets": which is correct?

Say I'm promoting a product. Which is correct?

  
  
- [Product] let's you [do something awesome].
  
- [Product] lets you [do something awesome].
  

Or neither?

Q: "In the Internet" vs. "on the Internet"

When should I use "in the Internet" and when "on the Internet"?

Q: What is the correct usage of "myriad"?

The vast majority of the time when I see the word "myriad" it is in a sentence like "He had a myriad of things."  However I don't like the extraneous words so I normally use it like "He had myriad things." My boss corrected the latter usage while editing something I wrote.

I averted an argument by simply changing the sentence to "He had various things." but was I incorrect?

Q: What is the purpose of using the word "automagically" when we already have "automatically"?

Is there a difference between the two? I see it used regularly in the tech community to mean automatically.

Has the word been adopted into any recognised dictionary?

For example:

  

That was the day I officially stopped
  caring what version Chrome is. I mean,
  I care in the sense that sometimes I
  need to check its dogtags in battle,
  but as a regular user of Chrome, I no
  longer think of myself as using a
  specific version of Chrome, I just …
  use Chrome. Whatever the latest
  version is, I have it automagically.

-- Jeff Atwood (The Infinite Version)

Q: Is there a word for a non-geek?

I am looking for a term which clearly defines somebody as a non-geek, without being derogatory. The best example I have seen is , but it needs context to be understood, as in "You don't meet many muggles at a comic convention", or "even my muggle friends like my autologlyph fractal decal". But while "muggle" makes it clear that he is a part of the "majority which is different", it is often hard to guess who the minority is. 

There are also more specific words, but they are mostly so derogatory that I would consider them rude even in a joke, like  or . I definitely don't want to use them in a normal conversation. 

A search in antonym dictionaries didn't bring up anything. Is there really no such word?

Q: X, Y, Z — horizontal, vertical and ...?

When working in a 2D coordinate system you could say that X is the horizontal axis and Y is the vertical axis.

Extending this to 3D, is there a similar word for the Z axis?

(I'm aware of Width, Height and Depth, but obviously horizontal and vertical aren't synonymous to width and height, which is why I don't want to call the Z axis the depth axis.)

Q: Word for someone who really has their act together

Is there a word for someone who really has their act together?
Someone who has their time well-managed, is focused, works out, has ambitions, eats right, etc. Not necessarily successful, but there's a kind of trait that leads to it, that I can't quite put my finger on.

There's a strong overlap with people who are competitive or are overachievers, but it's not exactly the same thing. "In the zone" is close, but I'm looking for a more long-term or permanent kind of thing — the opposite of a slob or a slacker.

Maybe there isn't a word, but there should be.

Q: Why do sentences that start with "guess" end with a question mark?

To me, sentences that start with "Guess" are in the imperative mood, thus, should end with a period:

- Guess who's coming to town.

- Guess what we had for dinner last night.

Why do a lot of publications put a question mark at the end of these sentences? I've been taught that you put a question mark only if the sentence is in the interrogative "mood". In these cases, we're not asking who's coming to town or what we had for dinner last night - we know who's coming and what we ate. We're telling that second person to guess.

If "Guess _ ?" is correct because it expects an answer just like a regular question, is it acceptable, then, to write:

- Tell me who's coming to town?

- Tell me what I had for dinner last night because I forgot?

"Tell __ ?" looks just as unsettling to me as "Guess _?".

Q: Why is the word "Holy" used before swear words?

People usually use the word "Holy" before "Shit", "Crap" or any other bad words to express their feelings, like surprise, anger, etc. Is there any reason why the word "Holy" is used with these bad words? 

I think the words "shit", "crap", etc are considered as bad words while "Holy" is considered as spiritual or something related to God (usually used to mention something related with God), Right? So is it used with the bad words to neutralize the bad words? 

Here is the link to another question related with the same subject that came into my mind after reading all the answers and comments here. How the phrase 'Holy s***' is formed?

Please help me find an answer for that question.

Q: What is so bad about puns?

Many times I've heard of 'pun intended' or 'pun not intended', which I see as a form of excuse in the English-spoken world. However, I can not wrap my head around why are you constantly excusing/explaning something so innocent(?) as pun. 

What I am giving off constantly saying 'pun intended'? What's the purpose of constantly saying 'pun (not) intended'? 

We don't excuse puns in my native language, in my country, we just laugh it off.

Q: Meaning of "has a ____ to it"

People talking about how something will be perceived sometimes use the phrase "to it". For example people sometimes say "It will have a nice color to it." instead of just it will have a nice color. Or when something sounds nice someone says "It has a nice ring to it." What is the function of "to it" in these kinds of sentences?

Q: Is there a term for the type of misleading joke comedians such as Stephen Colbert often use?

The Late Show host, Stephen Colbert (an American talk show host, don't mind that, just think of him as some random guy you don't have to care about) quite often uses a type of joke whereby he describes one thing to mislead you, then name the other thing that you've thought the preceding description described but in fact didn't. For example:

- 

"Some people are buying the wrong 'Fire and Fury'", instead picking up 'Fire and Fury: The Allied Bombing of Germany, 1942-1945' (...) One is a book about taking down a fascist regime, and the other's about WWII.

- 

This is amazing, this is the meeting of Disney and Beyonce. The world's most beloved brand and... Disney.

- 

Disney isn't buying all of Fox (...) "not included in the acquisition: Fox News," which really is surprising, cause you'd think that the masters of fantasy and imagination would want to be bought by Disney.

Is there a term for this kind of joke?

Q: What's the difference between using single and double quotation marks/inverted commas?

I'm quite unsure regarding the usage of single quotation marks (') and double quotation marks (") in English.

I had thought that double quotation marks were usually used to quote sentences from passages/given sources, nouns/things ("Westminster Bridge", "alliteration", or "voice" regarding its usage in poetry), as well as some less common/important uses including being snarky and using them to indicate a sarcastic remark. 

Someone had told me today that you were supposed to refer to things with two inverted commas (") instead of one.

Which one is correct? Could someone explain the usages between the two different types of quotation marks?

Q: What is it called when someone says something like: "I'm not a racist, but..."

Other examples are: 

  

I'm not sexist but (sexist comment)
  
  

Not to be a dick, but (dick comment)
  
  

No offense, but (offensive comment)

And so on... where they are trying to excuse themselves from what they are about to say?

What is the name of these kinds of statements?

Q: Polite alternative for "none of your business"

It seems it's rude and impolite to say directly to someone "none of your business". So, what's the more gentle alternative(s) for situations in which  we should say "hey, this is none of your business!"?

Q: "Josephine, Schmosephine"

I recently watched A Series Of Unfortunate Events, and I was puzzled by the expression "Josephine, Schmosephine". The narrator explains that when you don't care about something or someone, you repeat their name, changing the first syllable by "schm-".

Is this a real thing? I haven't been able to find anything about that on the Internet (and it's not the easiest thing to Google).

Q: What does “l. s. d.” stand for?

Here is the original text from Lord Macaulay’s History of England:

  

They are the men of double entry, magnifying routine. In business they have added mechanical device to mechanical device, they have put wind, water, steam, and electricity into subjection; they have done most of the reckoning in England, and their brains are hieroglyphed with l. s. d.

Source: Macaulay, Thomas Babington. The History of England from the Accession of James the Second. Boston and New York: Houghton, Mifflin and Company, 1901. xviii. Print.

Q: "There are no comments" vs. "There is no comment"

Which is correct?  

- There are no comments. 

- There is no comment.

Which would you use for a web application, i.e. what to display when a blog post or an article has no comment attached?  

Actually, I am trying to fix an application that says: "There is no comments"! Would that ever be right?

More generally speaking, it feels wrong to have a plural after the negative no/none or with the preposition without (see my previous question "Without reason" or "Without reasons"?).  Those words imply zero, i.e. less than one, while plural is two or more. Yet, I know that phrases like "There are no comments" or "He is without friends" are common. It seems illogical to me. 

Are the majority of people making a grammar mistake when using such expressions, or else can you explain why this is correct?

Q: Are there any simple rules for choosing the definite vs. indefinite (vs. none) article?

I can’t for the life of me figure out where to use a and where to use the — and where there is no article at all. Is there a simple rule of thumb to memorize? 

The standard rule you always hear:

  

“If a person knows which item you are talking about then use "the"

. . . doesn’t clear things up for me, as I have no idea whether or not they know.

Q: When is a 'gerund' supposed to be preceded by a possessive adjective/determiner?

I assume that the following sentences are all acceptable:

- He resents your being more popular than he is.

- Most of the members paid their dues without my asking them.

- They objected to the youngest girl’s being given the command position.

- What do you think about his buying such an expensive car?

- We were all sorry about Jane’s losing her parents like that.

I’m still getting used to this “possessive with 'gerund' ” structure. It sounded so weird to me at first.

Is this structure used in both formal and informal contexts, both oral and written alike? Are there any alternative structures that result in the same meaning and are more frequently used?

(Examples taken from Grammar Tips: Possessives Precede Gerunds)

Q: When to use & instead of "and"

Are there rules of usage when using the ampersand "&" instead of "and"?

Are they completely interchangeable? 

The ampersand seems more casual, but I'm not sure.

Q: Which term correctly identifies those who enjoy programming/technology: "geek" or "nerd"?

Which term correctly identifies those who enjoy and are involved with programming and technology, geek or nerd?

Q: When is it necessary to use "have had"?

I have come across a few sentences that contain "have had". I would like to know in what kind of situations we should use this combination.

Q: Which is the correct spelling: "grey" or "gray"?

What is the difference? Or is there any? Which would be more British English?

Q: Difference between "I have got" and "I have gotten"

I see these two expressions are used almost identically in different contexts. Is there a difference between I have got and I have gotten?

Q: How come 'ou' was reduced to 'o' in the US?

Americans write color and favorite, when others say colour and favourite. How/why did this happen?

Q: "The Dude abides" — what does "abide" mean in that context?

I'm unfamilar with the word "abide" which is famously used the the movie quote "The Dude abides" (The Big Lebowski).

Looking it up in a German/English dictionary makes me believe it's "The Dude lives on", but I heard the word used on a way that makes it seem to be a variant of "approve", as in "The Dude does not abide this behavior".

I hear it used as "to obey" a lot, as in "we must all abide by the rules".

Can someone shed some light into the meaning of "The Dude abides" in the context it's been used?

Q: How to avoid ambiguity in "I am renting an apartment in New York"?

Does the sentence:

  

I am renting an apartment in New York.

imply that I am the landlord or the tenant?

How can I unequivocally communicate that I am the tenant (or the landlord)?

Q: When to use "nude" and when "naked"

The question is quite clear.

Is there any difference (semantically or connotationally, if that's a word) between nude and naked? Nude seems more formal to me, but I'm not quite sure.

Interesting: 
Merriam-Webster link from naked, to nude

  

Definition of NAKED
  1. not covered by clothing : nude

Q: If cow = beef, pig = pork, and deer = venison, then where is the word for human = [flesh as food source]?

Maybe it's the season of Halloween, because it's kind of a grim question, but I have seriously wondered from a language point of view - is there a word for human as 'food-meat', or has there ever been, in English or related historical languages?

Obviously, there is sanctity of life in civilization in general, and there is a taboo on cannibalism in western history, I know. And of course that taboo alone may explain what seems to be a sort of language gap.

But sometimes taboo doesn't mean there isn't a term for something, it just means a term may be hidden or buried (I'm sorry I can't think of examples off the top of my head but I remember learning about that for my English degree).

In addition, there is the shift between Saxon and Norman English when we ended up with a split for 'living animal' (cow, sheep, deer) and 'dead food-meat animal' (beef, mutton, venison).

But that does serve as a handy dividing line - on this side are the words for live creature, and on that side are the words for food.

If you line up 'cow, sheep, deer, pig' on one side of that line, you have 'food' words to put on the other. For 'human' or 'person' however, you don't.

Again, I know there are historical reasons, but I'm not wondering about the taboo, I'm wondering if there ever has been a word for this?

There is the word 'flesh' and it kind of implies 'non-specific meat.' As in 'deer flesh' or 'cow flesh.' Although it has quasi-religious connotations as in 'flesh of my flesh' and 'take of my flesh and eat it.'

Maybe 'flesh' alone is the word, considering the religious usage in the symbolism of communion?

But is there something more specific for those unsettling times when humans may have had nothing else to eat but other humans for survival - à la the Donner party? This has happened throughout time so is there a hidden word in English or historical languages related to English for humans as food meat?

Again, I'm not trying to be grim or unsettling. I've seriously wondered about this for several years.

A: Enthusiast does not connote unskillful, though it may retain the "non-professional" connotation of amateur:

  

a :  one who is ardently attached to a cause, object, or pursuit 

  b :  one who tends to become ardently absorbed in an interest (MW)
  
  

a person who is filled with enthusiasm for some principle, pursuit, etc.; devotee: a sports enthusiast. (RH)

A: Head-scratcher

  

2 Informal (originally US). A perplexing problem or question;
  something which causes bafflement or puzzlement.

https://en.oxforddictionaries.com/definition/us/head-scratcher

Although OED says that this term is originally AmE, it is certainly widely understood in BrE.

A: When the adverb really comes before a negated auxiliary, the effect is of emphasising the truth of the sentence:

- I really cannot tell the difference.

Here the speaker is emphasising that they honestly are unable to detect any difference.

However, when really comes after the negated auxiliary, the effect is usually quite different. Instead of making the meaning of the sentence absolute, it has the effect of making the commitment vaguer:

- I can't really tell the difference.

Here the speaker means that they cannot tell the difference in an absolute way. This gives the impression that they actually can tell the difference a little bit, but not in a way that is important or significant.

The Original Poster's examples:

- 

It really doesn't matter.

- 

It doesn't  really matter.

In example  (1), the speaker is emphasising that it does not matter at all. The sentence has an emphatic flavour.

In example (2), the speaker is saying that it doesn't matter in a major or significant way. They are implying that maybe it matters a bit, but not to a significant or meaningful degree. Far from being emphatic in character, the second sentence is slightly vague, and may be perceived as off-hand.

What causes these differences is whether the adverb really is changing the meaning of the word not— or whether the word not is changing the meaning of really (technically, whether not scopes over really,  or really scopes over not). It's a bit easier to see with a follow-on sentence:

  - It really doesn't matter. Really not.

 - It doesn't really matter. Not really.

A: It’s something else. I might not agree with Trump, but he is not incoherent or committing grammatical errors. When a person speaks extemporaneously or “off the cuff”, unless they are well trained in the art of public speaking, this example is a typical result. What you are seeing is mostly the three common forms of self-interruption:

- parenthesis, interrupting to insert a clarifying remark

- self-repair, interrupting to go back and edit an error

- filler, interrupting to signal that the speaker is thinking: words like uh, like, and you know

A transcription that preserves every instance of self-repair and filler, such as this one, is probably intended to ridicule rather than to preserve the utterance. The usual practice in journalism is to eliminate self-repair and filler in quotations unless there is something significant about a misstatement.

Also, in a transcription, the audible and somatic (gestural) content of the utterance is lost. Without that information, the utterance can seem much more random to the reader than it would have to the audience.

Trump’s thoughts are poorly organized, but he does a remarkably good job of remembering where he was before each self-interruption. In computer science terms, he commits no stack overflow errors.

The transcript below makes the parenthetical structure of the example clearer with indentation, and de-emphasizes the self-repair and filler. What emerges is a coherent utterance, close to what the audience would have comprehended.

  

Look, having nuclear
  
  
    

—my uncle was a great professor and scientist and engineer, Dr. John Trump at MIT; good genes, very good genes, OK, very smart, the Wharton School of Finance, very good, very smart
    
    
      

—you know, if you’re a conservative Republican, if I were a liberal, if, like, OK, if I ran as a liberal Democrat, they would say I’m one of the smartest people anywhere in the world
      
      
        
          

—it’s true!
        
      
      
      

—but when you're a conservative Republican they try—oh, do they do a number—that’s why I always start off: Went to Wharton, was a good student, went there, went there, did this, built a fortune—you know I have to give my like credentials all the time, because we’re a little disadvantaged
    
  
  
  

—but you look at the nuclear deal, the thing that really bothers me—it would have been so easy, and it’s not as important as these lives are
  
  
    

(nuclear is powerful; my uncle explained that to me many, many years ago, the power
    
    
      

and that was 35 years ago;
    
    
    

he would explain the power of what’s going to happen and he was right
    
    
      

—who would have thought?),
    
  
  
  

but when you look at what’s going on with the four prisoners
  
  
    

—now it used to be three, now it’s four—but when it was three and even now, I would have said it’s all in the messenger; fellas,
    
    
      

and it is fellas because, you know, they don’t, they haven’t figured that the women are smarter right now than the men, so, you know, it’s gonna take them about another 150 years
    
  
  
  

—but the Persians are great negotiators, the Iranians are great negotiators, so, and they, they just killed, they just killed us.

A: It's not a normal ass-door, not an 'ass-door' that is normal.

It's a normal-ass door. A door that is 'normal-ass'.

There's no humor here other than that it is funny the existence of a regular door but incongruously found on an elevator which usually has its special sliding door.

As to the linguistic phenomenon, '-ass' is a suffix on an adjective before a noun:

  

a ADJ-ass NOUN

is an ADJ NOUN, just... special.

The phrasing is characteristic of AAVE but is gaining use in popular media. It has nothing whatsoever to do with the gastrointestinal tract and its exit orifice, or the surrounding gluteal muscles. 

As to its meaning, it's simply a marker of informality/slight vulgarity.

Common examples of its use are:

- creepy-ass cracker

- lame-ass excuse

- raggedy-ass jeans "His raggedy-ass jeans were in a drooping state all too often"

- long-ass time

- lots of use in profane speech (NSFW) punk-ass n***, crazy-ass m***-f***

The meaning of '-ass' is a bit vague. If you drop the '-ass' in all these examples, the explicit meaning seems hardly to change at all. "That's a lame excuse" vs "That's a lame-ass excuse", both excuses are about the same level of lameness, no more or less intense. It's just that the 'lame-ass excuse' is more ... relatable?

As to you example, a "normal-ass door" is just a door. Which is normal. No asses involved.

Some more detail: '-ass' is a productive suffix on adjectives. 'Ass' by itself is a slightly taboo term (for the butt) and so is usually only used in informal contexts and the suffix shares this small vulgarity. The emphasis/stress is on the adjective, not the '-ass'. If for some reason the accent was shifted to the ass, the meaning of '-ass' would be more literal and would modify the following noun directly.

The semantics are very similar to the '-like' suffix, meaning 'similar to', but '-like' tends to be used predicatively 'and '-ass' only as part of a noun modifier.

McWhorter explains the meaning of the '-ass' function ("Words on the Move: Why English Won't - and Can't - Sit Still (Like, Literally)", p.38) as beyond just the 'naughtiness' but more importantly 'counterexpectation' or different from what you'd normally expect.

That doesn't seem wrong for the example given. The statement is true of the situation but it doesn't seem to be an essential part of what is expressed by '-ass'. The squirrel is no grayer than without the '-ass'. As the Led Zeppelin says, sometimes words have no meaning.

The use as an adjective suffix is distinct from more the literal uses of '-ass' as a noun, as in calling someone a 'jack-ass', 'dumb-ass', and also distinct 'whup-ass' (a thing or quality to whup someone's ass with) or 'kiss-ass' (someone who is sycophantic, an ass-kisser) or 'candy-ass' (a wimp, someone with an ass of weak material like candy) or 'smartass' (an ass (the general pejorative) who is smart (or rather a smartaleck)) or 'kick-ass' (something really great, it kicks you in the ass).

Though the ADJ-ass NOUN pattern is assuredly related to the just mentioned distinct and more literal noun forms ADJ-ass, the exact etymology is unclear. But it is easy to accept the drift from one to the other. 'Dumb-ass' as a noun "What a dumb-ass" -> 'dumb-ass' as a noun "What a dumb-ass thing to do." -> '-ass' transferred to non-noun-adjunct situations "What a lame-ass thing to do.". 

There's a similar looking but very different phenomenon in Australian/New Zealand English.

  

simple as

(note the single 's' pronounced as a voiced alveolar fricative), where the prepositional phrase headed by 'as' has been elided entirely to the preposition. "That's as simple as turning on a TV" -> "That's simple as.". This has nothing whatsoever to do with the '-ass' suffix for adjectives.

A: Given the location and the period, I think it's likely to be a commonly-used variant of "£sd" for "pounds, shillings, and pence" - that is, money. The abbreviation comes from the Latin librae, solidi, denarii.

A: Ghoti (/fɪʃ/)

This fallacy arises from the incorrect application of the rules linking orthography to phonology1, resulting in an argument that 'ghoti' should be pronounced similarly to 'fish':

gh, pronounced [f] as in enough [ɪˈnʌf] or tough [tʌf];

o, pronounced [ɪ] as in women [ˈwɪmɪn]; and

ti, pronounced [ʃ] as in nation [ˈneɪ̯ʃən] or motion [ˈməʊʃən].

This is not a definitive list.

Key to the phenomenon is that the pronunciations of the constructed word's three parts are inconsistent with how they would be pronounced in those placements. To illustrate: gh can only resemble f when following the letters ou / au at the end of certain morphemes ("cough", "laugh"), while ti can only resemble sh when followed by the letters -on / -al ("confidential", "spatial") etc.

Also of interest is that at the time (around mid-1800s) many persons were intrigued with the 'Phonotypy and Phonography' of English, with Alexander J. Ellis presenting a number of absurd respellings, like turning scissors into 'schiesourrhce' by combining parts of schism, sieve, as, honour, myrrh and sacrifice.  (Sacrifice was historically pronounced with a [z])

Source: Wikipedia, NY Times

1 Thanks to Azor-Ahai for confirming this.  I originally thought it was an error with phonemes.

A: permeable if the pores are small 

  

allowing liquids or gases to pass through;  capable of being permeated;  penetrable; especially:  having pores or openings that permit liquids or gases to pass through   

breathable if it's a fabric

  

Permitting air to pass through: a breathable fabric.

I don't know what to call this property in a screen door...

apologies to @James McLeod - I didn't read the entire question and jumped on permeable.

A: There be some as call it long pig.

Long pig is an antiquated term for human flesh, eaten by cannibals. Purportedly, the term long pig is a translation of a phrase used in the Pacific Islands for human flesh intended for consumption. Early explorers and missionaries who contacted cannibal Pacific Islanders were told that human flesh tasted similar to pork, thus the term long pig.

[Grammarist]

A: Let’s is the English cohortative word, meaning “let us” in an exhortation of the group including the speaker to do something.

Lets is the third person singular present tense form of the verb let meaning to permit or allow.

In the questioner’s examples, the sentence means to say “Product (allows/permits you to) do something awesome”, so the form with lets is correct.

A: "Have had" is using the verb have in the present perfect tense.

Consider the present tense sentence:

  

I have a lot of homework.

This means that I have a lot of homework now.

On the other hand, we use the present perfect tense to describe an event from the past that has some connection to the present.  Compare the following two sentences:

  
  
- I had a lot of homework this week. 
  
- I have had a lot of homework this week. 
  

If I only say had, this means that "having a lot of homework this week" is a completed event, either because there is no expectation of more homework, or because the week is over.

If I say "have had", I connect the event to the present, so it is possible that I might have more homework, and I could say something like this on, e.g., a Wednesday (in the middle of the week).

Another example will illustrate the importance of the connection to now:

  
  
- I had a lot of homework last year.
  
- *I have had a lot of homework last year. (this sentence is bad!)
  

In the first sentence here, using had, the sentence is fine.  But using "have had", the sentence is ungrammatical, because "last year" is always a completed event that is not connected to the present.  But, as we know, the present perfect tense means that there is a connection to the present.  So, the sentence sounds wrong, because the verb and the time are contradicting each other.

A: That is called a transposition error, and is very common for reasonably speedy touch-typists. The text editor Emacs even has a basic control chord (Ctrl+T) to swap (transpose) the preceding two characters.

From Wikipedia's transcription error page:

  

Transposition errors are commonly
  mistaken for transcription errors, but
  they should not be confused. As the
  name suggest, transposition errors
  occur when characters have
  “transposed” — that is, they have
  switched places. Transposition errors
  are almost always human in origin. The
  most common way for characters to be
  transposed is when a user is touch
  typing at a speed that makes them
  input one character, before the other.
  This may be caused by their brain
  being one step ahead of their body.
  
  

Examples of Transposition Error
  
  

Input : Gergory Instead of : Gregory
  
  

Input : 23rd of Auguts Instead of :
  23rd of August
  
  

Input : Johsua Instead of : Joshua

A: Layman could be used to describe someone who is "untrained or lacks knowledge of a subject".

A: Ah, less vs. fewer. Another arrow in the prescriptivist’s quiver of pointless pedantry.

There's even a Wikipedia article about the dispute. There is also a Language Log entry about the matter too.

According to Merriam-Webster's Dictionary of English Usage, a usage guide that looks carefully at the history of usage advice, the rule creating a clear separation for less and fewer was invented in 1770 by Rober Baker in his book Reflections on the English Language, where he wrote in a comment on less:

The Word is most commonly used in speaking of a Number; where I should think Fewer would do better. No Fewer than a Hundred appears to me not only more elegant than No less than a Hundred, but more strictly proper.

The Merriam-Webster Dictionary of English Usage authors then comment:

Baker’s remarks about fewer express clearly and modestly—“I should think,”, “appears to me”—his own taste and preference. It is instructive to compare Baker with one of the most recent college handbooks in our collection:

Fewer refers to quantities that can be counted individually.… Less is used for collective quantities that are not counted individually… and for abstract characteristics. —Trimmer & McCrimmon 1988

Notice how Baker’s preference has here been generalized and elevated to an absolute status, and his notice of contrary usage has been omitted. This approach is quite common in handbooks and schoolbooks; many pedagogues seem reluctant to share the often complicated facts about English with their students.

How Baker’s opinion came to be an inviolable rule, we do not know. But we do know that many people believe it is such.

They then give many examples of usage of less for countable quantities, and add finally:

The examples above show native speakers and writers of English using less of count nouns in various constructions. Fewer could have been used in many of them—at times it might have been more elegant, as Robert Baker thought—but in others no native speaker would use anything but less.

With regards to the example in the original question, either fewer or less would be perfectly grammatical, but so many people are under the spell of the rule that less must never be used with countable nouns that anyone who doesn’t follow the rule may be subject to criticism.

Edit 2010-09-28:

The Cambridge Grammar of the English Language also weighs in on less vs. fewer:

The relation between less and fewer is fairly complex. In non-count singulars only less is possible: Kim has less/*fewer money than Pat. In plural NPs we have:

[17]

i. She left less than ten minutes ago.

ii. Less/Fewer than thirty of the students had voted.

iii. He made no less/fewer than fifteen mistakes.

iv. You pass if you make ten mistakes or less/?fewer.

v. He took less/*fewer pains to convince us than I’d expected.

vi. He made fewer/less mistakes than the others.

Both [i] and [ii] have than + numeral. In [i] ten minutes expresses an amount of time rather than a number of individuated units, and in such cases fewer is virtually impossible—just as few would be in a comparison of equality: She left as little/*few as ten minutes ago. Similarly with We paid less than thirty dollars for it; She’s less than forty years old; We were going at less than ten miles an hour. In [ii] we are concerned with countable individuals and little cannot be used in a comparison of equality (*as little as thirty of the students); nevertheless, for inequality less is more common than fewer in this construction. The same applies with percentages: Less/Fewer than 30% of the students had voted. Construction [iii] has the comparative form following no: though the interpretation is count plural, less is here again more common than fewer. Construction [iv] has or after a numeral: less is the usual form here, with fewer quite marginal; this construction is widely seen in supermarkets, with the fast checkout labelled eight items or less, or the like. In [v] pains is plural but non-count rather than count (we can’t ask how many pains he took), and here only less is possible. Finally in [vi] (as also in [15ii]) the comparative occurs directly with a count plural noun: both forms are found, but less is subject to quite strong prescriptavist disapproval, so that fewer is widely preferred in formal style, and many speakers in informal style too.

[Usage manuals are divided on the issue of less vs. fewer. Some uncompromisingly brand such forms as less mistakes as incorrect, while others note that though commonly condemned they are often used by speakers of Standard English. Before the Early Modern English period (beginning around 1500) more was restricted to non-count NPs with moe used as the comparative of many. At that time less was used along with fewer for count NPs, but came to be stigmatised and quite rare in this use: it is only within the last generation or so that it has become frequent. The current revival seems inexorable, given the strong pressure of analogy with more.]

A: VonC's answer is more to the point, but I just can't resist the urge to post this Venn diagram:

Image credit.

A: A similar idiom is: The blind leading the blind

It's used in a situation where someone who is incapable of dealing with a particular circumstance gives advice to another person in the same situation.

A: I felt "It's up to you" means that you're the one responsible for the job, "It's down to you" means that nobody else is left who can do the job except you.

ADDING ON: I realized from the comment that what I wanted to imply wasn't completely clear. As ngmiceli says, "down to you" suggests that there were others who could do the job, but for some reason, they are not available to do so (because they may be dead/busy/out to lunch), leaving only you.

A: To say the same thing, you can say

I hope it won't be considered presumptuous to say this, but... or

I don't want to sound presumptuous, but...

Synonyms that you can substitute here for presumptuous are

impertinent, overconfident, arrogant, bold, insolent, impudent, and of course the less formal sounding "cocky".

To sound deferential, but not say precisely the same thing, you could say

When I compared the code performance, I was surprised to see the degree of improvement my code achieved.

Wording it either way would leave you open to discussing the possibility that your code or your testing may be flawed, while making your point about its apparent improvement.

A: I believe you are wanting to use the term regurgitate (with the noun form regurgitator):

: to repeat (something, such as a fact, idea, etc.) without understanding it

Merriam-Webster

The fact the word also relates to vomit gives it a negative connotation.

John is just a regurgitator, ...

John is simply regurgitating, ...

A: A possibly useful word for your case is hobbyist.

A hobbyist is someone who is interested or engaged with a field but specifically as a hobby and not a professional pursuit. It lacks the negative connotations of amateur, instead it has a casual implication.

A: If you want to put a positive spin on it without straying too far from the sound, try rep-hound.

From 

  

hound n

  1.1 [with modifier] A person who avidly pursues something:

  'he has a reputation as a publicity hound'

(see Oxford Dictionaries: hound)

A: Technically, you're dealing with two different phrases. Which one is correct depends on your usage of them, and in your two examples, both are equally correct.

When you insert a noun in between the two words ("all x but"), you are referring to a collection of x but noting that there are exceptions.

The "all but" idiom refers to the fact that the subject of the idiom is as close to being described by the adjective as it can be without being completely and accurately described by that adjective. Saying that the championship is "all but" decided is saying that, while it is not officially 'decided', it's so close to being decided that the distinction is hard to discern.

The key difference is that, if you replaced 'but' with 'except' in the first instance, it would still make sense:

  

Close all tabs except this one.

However, with the second instance, it is not considered a proper use:

  

The championship is all except decided.

The confusion exists because, sometimes, you can remove 'x' from the first use:

  

All but the oldest fruit was still edible.

How you can tell the difference here is that you can easily move the subject (fruit) between "all" and "but" and the sentence will still make sense:

  

All fruit but the oldest was still edible.

Also, as I mentioned before, either one of the last two examples makes sense when you replace "but" with "except", indicating that it is being used to imply the "all x but" descriptor.

A: If you're looking for a single word that will express thanks at the same time, I would avoid both satiated and sated; with apologies to @F'x, "sated" is not at all common in conversation, and when it is used it usually has more to do with sex than food.  (Not always, but often enough that your hosts will look at you strangely for a moment before relaxing and saying to themselves "Oh, that's all right - it's not his first language."  Probably not the effect you were hoping for!)

Believe it or not, No thank you, I'm full is perfectly well accepted, especially if you look happy when you say it.  It may seem a little utilitarian, but it's what we USAites generally say at home.  The only time when "I'm full" would seem rude to your host/ess would be if you hadn't actually eaten much at all; the implication would be that you had eaten somewhere else first.  But I suspect that that's universal, and not restricted to the US.

If you know your hosts well, you might actually make the cook even happier by saying I'm stuffed!1 , rubbing your tummy, and smiling - but only if you are very comfortable with the family.  Again, it's very important to look happy when you say this - definitely avoid this phrase if you're feeling ill and looking a little green.

Years ago, my step-grandfather insisted that I have eaten sufficient was the only polite way to indicate satiety.  Do not do this!  If you thought "I'm full" made mealtime sound like filling up a tank, "I have eaten sufficient" makes you sound like a robot.  A really, really weird robot with no friends.

1 - Yes, I'm aware that "stuffed" has other meanings, but in this context it's perfectly clear and innocent.

A: The Naked and the Nude  

Robert Graves

For me, the naked and the nude

(By lexicographers construed

As synonyms that should express

The same deficiency of dress

Or shelter) stand as wide apart

As love from lies, or truth from art.  

Lovers without reproach will gaze

On bodies naked and ablaze;

The Hippocratic eye will see

In nakedness, anatomy;

And naked shines the Goddess when

She mounts her lion among men.  

The nude are bold, the nude are sly

To hold each treasonable eye.

While draping by a showman's trick

Their dishabille in rhetoric,

They grin a mock-religious grin

Of scorn at those of naked skin.  

The naked, therefore, who compete

Against the nude may know defeat;

Yet when they both together tread

The briary pastures of the dead,

By Gorgons with long whips pursued,

How naked go the sometime nude!

A: The machine is up/down is an instantiation of a Metaphor Theme. 

English speakers (like all humans) are oriented vertically with respect to a gravitational field,  so the  dimension is significant, and English uses it in a variety of metaphor themes.  

These themes include:

- 

 is  ( is ):

The prices are rising/falling.

The stock market’s moving up/crashing.

Turn the volume up/down. 

- 

 is  ( is ):

He’s depressed.

feeling up/down

What a downer!

- 

 is  ( is ):

upper/lower classes

superior/subordinate

the highest levels

- 

 is  ( is ):

The computer is up/down.

Are you up for some handball?

Rise to the occasion. 

- 

 is  ( is ):

higher/lower animals

He fell down on the midterm.

a rise/fall in performance

aim high

upwardly-mobile 

- 

 is  ( is ):

He’s got his head in the clouds.

He’s got his feet on the ground.

Come back to earth.

higher mathematics

high-level cognitive functions

low-level details

new heights of abstraction

down-to-earth solution 

All of these themes are coherent; that is, we tend to think of them in the same ways  (e.g, , and  are all negative evaluations, and vice versa.)

A: There's no word for this as such; in the UK 'fried eggs' always means 'sunny-side up', some places will understand 'over easy' but that's the limit of what is common knowledge. 

Something like "I don't want the yolks runny"  Or "I want the yolks cooked through" should do the trick.  

This is anecdotal, as I can't find any references to this.  When they understand you, ask them what they would call it!

A: While all will be understood, the convention in this situation is to use "at the time of writing".

Alternatively you could say "as of October 2014".

"At the time of writing we had just declared war with IS."

"As of October 2014 the tax rate is 20%."

A: So, line is much more common in American English, especially when talking about a line that is actually physically embodied.  However, queue is not unknown, especially among those with exposure to British English.  Whether he was fed the line or doing it as a favor, I can't say, but it would certainly be more than reasonable for Obama to use the British-preferred word when discussing British matters, especially if he was 'aiming' it at a British audience.

I don't see any Obama quotes using it prior, but here's Biden using it in a similar manner in 2014 regarding the Obamacare queue/line 

  

"Get in the queue, now," Biden urged viewers. "Get in the queue.
  There is still time today."

Per Mr. Farage, this would presumably have been "Get in line" unless he was fed the line then...

A: The first version/draft of SQL was in fact called Structured English Query Language and the acronym was SEQUEL. Due to trademark violations on the acronym, the name was changed to Structured Query Language and abbreviated as SQL.

So it was intended to be pronounced as SEQUEL at first. Nowadays it's a matter of preference. There is no standard set for it (yet).

Some urban legends say that the Structured Query Language was actually a sequel to the previous Query Language and that the SQL acronym is intended to be pronounced as sequel.

A: There are two verbs need, which mean the same thing but use different constructions:

  

1.
  
  

He need not be concerned.
  
  

Need I be concerned?

This need is sometimes called a modal verb (although others find this term inconsistent): it always requires an infinitive without to; it doesn't have do-support in questions and negative sentences; and the third person singular (he/she/it) doesn't have -s. This is the need in your example. It is of the same type as must, will, shall, can, may, help, and probably a few uncommon cases.

Modal need is slightly old fashioned. Except in negative sentences and questions, it is less common in modern writing, except perhaps in certain fixed expressions (though the need in if need be is a noun).

  

2.
  
  

He doesn't need to call her.
  
  

Do I need to call him?
  
  

She needs to call him.
  
  

You need him.

This is the more common need, a regular verb (no 'modal'). If it is used with another verb, the infinitive with to is used. It always has do-support. It can be used without another verb, with a direct object (you need him).

A: If you're typesetting SI units, it seems logical to follow the conventions of the Bureau international des poids et mesures. From the SI Brochure, §5.4.3:

The numerical value always precedes the unit, and a space is always used to separate the unit from the number. (…) The only exceptions to this rule are for the unit symbols for degree, minute, and second for plane angle, , , and , respectively, for which no space is left between the numerical value and the unit symbol.

§5.3.7 goes on to say that “When it is used, a space separates the number and the symbol .”

In practice, it is quite common to see non-alphabetic units such as  and  typeset without an intervening space. I've never seen a rule that distinguished between single-letter units and longer units.

Note that the rule doesn't specify how wide the space should be. Some references recommend a normal inter-word space, while others recommend a thin space. In any case, the space is nonbreakable.

These rules need not apply to currencies, especially when they are written before the number. Specifying that single-character currencies don't take a space ($42, £42, €42) while multiple-character currencies do (AUD 42, A$ 42) doesn't feel completely outlandish, maybe that's what you remember?

A: If your argument was that thousands means 2000+, then you could show your boyfriend the following dictionaries, which define thousands in your favour:

- merriam-webster 

- freedictionary

- collins

Do not show him the following dictionaries, which define thousands in his favour:

- oxford

- dictionary.com

- cambridge

I'd say opinion is well and truly divided.

A: My guess is that distro might have been inspired by shortenings like repo[sitory], algo[rithm], memo[randum] &c.

A: We didn’t use de-head be­cause we al­ready had a verb be­head by the time
we start­ed us­ing de- to cre­ate verbs: be­head was a verb in Old English,
be­héaf­di­an.

So be­head was al­ready used long be­fore the de- pri­va­tive pre­fix came to
be used pro­duc­tive­ly in English. That didn’t hap­pen un­til Modern English
with a few pro­duc­tive ex­am­ples in the 17ᵗʰ cen­tu­ry but most com­ing from the
19ᵗʰ cen­tu­ry or af­ter.  As Ja­nus men­tions in com­ments, the de- word
mean­ing the same thing, de­cap­i­tate, was im­port­ed in full with the de-
al­ready there, from Latin via French, in the 17ᵗʰ cen­tu­ry.

There are many dif­fer­ent pos­si­ble sens­es of be- in verbs; the OED lists
six dif­fer­ent pri­ma­ry sens­es with sub­sens­es.  This here in be­head is one
of the rar­er ones. Un­der be- sense 6c, it says that this pri­va­tive sense
of be- used to cre­ate be­head is an an­cient sense that means be­reave
of:

  
  
- Form­ing trans. verbs on sub­stan­tives used in an in­stru­men­tal re­la­tion; the pri­ma­ry idea be­ing; 

  
  
  
- a. To sur­round, cov­er, or be­daub with, as in be­cloud, to put clouds about, cov­er with clouds, be­dew. Thence, by ex­ten­sion,
  
- b. To af­fect with in any way, as in be­night, be­guile, be­friend. In both sets there is of­ten an ac­com­pa­ny­ing no­tion of ‘thor­ough­ly, ex­ces­sive­ly,’ as in 2.
  
- c. An an­cient ap­pli­ca­tion, no longer in liv­ing use, was to ex­press the sense of ‘be­reave of,’ as in be­head, be­limb, etc., q.v. Cf. 3, above.
  
  

Al­though 6a and 6b are still pro­duc­tive, 6c no longer is so in the liv­ing
lan­guage. Another Old English verb formed us­ing 6c was
belandian, mean­ing to
de­prive of one’s land. How­ev­er, this verb did not sur­vive in­to Modern English.

El destierro

Apro­pos de na­da, the Span­ish equiv­a­lent of the ob­so­lete verb be­land still very much
ex­ists in the verb des­te­rrar, which com­bines the pri­va­tive des‑ 
pre­fix with the noun tie­rra mean­ing land then puts that in­to an 
in­fini­tive verb form.  This is nor­mal­ly trans­lat­ed as “ex­ile” in
English, but some­time as “ex­pel” or as a noun “ex­pul­sion”. There is
al­so a sub­stan­tive ver­sion, destier­ro, is fa­mous­ly found in
“Can­tar del
des­tie­rro”,
which is the ti­tle of the first can­to from that most an­cient of
Cas­til­ian epic po­ems, El Can­tar de Mio Cid. 

Tru­ly, el Cid was be­land­ed of his lands by the King.

A: It's not generally to excuse a pun, but to draw attention to it.

Sometimes "no pun intended" is an edit, or when the author/speaker realised an accidental pun (and in the case of writing decided to leave it in). In speech sometimes the accidental pun (or indeed any humour) may be inappropriate but it can't be edited out once said. In that case an excuse may be needed. 

Sometimes puns are regarded as a low form of humour when planned, so "no pun intended" can mean "that just came out by itself" and may not be true. Other times they can be rather subtle and "(no) pun intended" highlights the wordplay and gives a pause to process it. 

There are some cases in which it is used to excuse a pun: In technical writing the choice of terminology can be very restricted — everyday synonyms can mean completely different things.  In this case the best phrasing may well lead to an inadvertent pun that is kept and the reader is asked to ignore it.

A: There are three very different uses of that:

- Subordinating that: “I know that this is the answer.”

- Demonstrative pronoun that: “That is not the answer.”

- Adjectival that: “That answer is not it.”

Double that occurs because the first that is the subordinating that, and the second that is a demonstrative pronoun or adjectival that. That is, if you subordinate a clause that begins with pronominal or adjectival that with that, you get that that, as in “you know that that that that from the previous sentence was different from the one in this sentence.”

A: The British National Corpus has 5445 cites for grey and 1092 cites for gray. The Corpus of Historical American English, on the other hand, paints the following picture:

(X axis: year, Y axis: incidences per million words.)

After seeing these stats, it should come as no surprise that Wiktionary marks grey as British, Canadian, and gray as US.

A: In this interesting history, which is the actual description of the origin of this use from Professor Corbato, he explains that daemon originally had the connotation of "an attendant ... or indwelling spirit" and that:

By the late 16th century, the general supernatural meaning was being distinguished with the spelling daemon, while the evil meaning remained with demon.

He goes on to share the story of Maxwell's daemon.  Maxwell was a 19th century scientist who'd posed a physics problem in which a tiny daemon was the attendant at a gate between two chambers that was large enough for a single molecule to enter.  The daemon observed the molecules and chose which ones to allow to pass through the gate.

So now we come to the crux of it. We have established a daemon as an attendant, and a scientist used a hypothetical daemon in a famous problem in which the daemon's job was to monitor molecular movement.  Professor Corbato wraps up his explanation with

As you probably know, the "system processes" called daemons monitor other tasks and perform predetermined actions depending on their behavior. This is so reminiscent of Maxwell's daemon watching his molecules that we can only assume that whoever dubbed these "system processes" had Maxwell's daemon in mind.

The history also notes that Professor Saltzer, who also worked on Project MAC with Professor Corbato at the time "daemon" came into use for this purpose, confirms that this is the origin of daemon as it is used in computing.

A: Well, if you insist on the rule being simple, here you are:

- a = some, any

- the = this, that

Two simple examples. Note that you just wrote "...if a person knows which item you are talking about...". You didn't write "...if the person knows...". And that's correct, because you are not pointing to this or that person, you are talking about any person in general.

On the other hand, my answer starts with "if you insist on the rule being simple". That's because you asked for a rule (= any rule), and I am now talking about that rule. We are talking about the same thing.

Now, I can't think of a (= any) simple rule of thumb when not to use an (= any) article at all, but here are some suggestions:

- Don't put an (= any) article before a (= any) noun if the (= that) noun is preceded by:

- a number

- a possessive adjective ("my", "his", "our"...)

- a "no", "some" or "any"

- a "this", "that", "these" or "those"

Examples:

  
  
- Give me a chair! (= any chair you like)
  
- Give me the chair! (= this chair)
  
- Give me that chair! (no article, you already specified which chair you mean)
  
- Give me my chair! (no article)
  
- Give me five chairs! (no article)
  
- Give me some chairs! (no article)
  
- Give me the chairs! (= these chairs)
  
- Give me these chairs! (no article)
  
- Give me a reason to hit you! (= any reason will do)
  
- Give me no reason to hit you! (no article because of "no")
  
- Give me no reason to hit you with a chair! (= any chair) 
  
- Give me no reason to hit you with the chair! (= this chair)

A: Consider closet ___, where ___ stands for the person’s true religion, other weltanschauung, or some relevant aspect of it. This uses closet (adjective) in the sense of:

  

being so in private racist>

Some examples and suggestions for possible realisations of the above:

- 

Arguably a good compromise between coverage, understandability, and common usage¹ is closet atheist, using atheist:

  

A person who does not believe in deities.

This works whenever the rejected religion is theistic (i.e., featuring at least on deity) and the person in question does not secretly adhere to another theistic religion.

Here is an example of usage with a situation as the one you describe:

  

- 

Arguably, the most general solution would be closet apostate, using apostate:

  

A person who has renounced a religion or faith.

This works with any rejected religion and actual beliefs, even if only a specific flavour of a religion was rejected. However, it is not very common¹ and arguably less likely to be understood.

- 

Very commonly¹ used is closet [religion], e.g., closet christian, closet muslim, closet pastafarian, … However this only works if the person in question follows the respective specific religion in secrecy.

- 

Closet irreligious or closet non-religious have the advantage that they are likely to be understood and also work in the case that the rejected religion is not a theistic one.

Neither of these explicitly capture that the person in question ever believed in the religion, but this does not seem to be central to what you want to say.

¹ Going by Google hits.

A: Firstly, this is only American convention — in Britain for instance you wouldn't use it (except for a few publishing houses). Secondly, this is not logical but typographical: a convention arising out of early American printers' opinion that typesetting the punctuation inside quotes looked better. This convention is slowly eroding in some areas and being replaced by the "logical" one… but it is still the predominant American convention. English is made up of a great many mere conventions and you can't really demand that it be logical.

A: As an American Southerner, I had a good laugh when I read this. 

Depending on where you're from, this could either be incredibly easy or nigh impossible to pronounce. 

Look at the words 'didn't' and 'hadn't,' first of all. In a Southern U.S. dialect especially, the 'd' in the middle of these words is soft, unlike the initial hard consonant of 'don't' or 'drive,' much like 'fiddle' (meaning violin in a bluegrass context) in the same dialect. 

Y'all is actually spoken more like 'yaw' as in yawn.

The 've is essentially 'of,' pronounced the same as the first syllable in oven. In context, it would very likely be pronounced as a simple 'uh,' similar to 'woulda, coulda, shoulda.'

So in the end, you get something like 'yawna' or 'yawdna.' This isn't exactly correct, but it's quite close. 

Again, if you are a Northerner, Midwesterner, Canadian, Australian, or British, this may still not adequately explain how to pronounce this contraction. 

I would suggest listening to someone like Jeff Foxworthy or Larry the Cable Guy speak for awhile. Then, you should have an easier time imagining how this is pronounced.

A: "Subtract" is the word. Though the obsolete word "substract" did exist, any occurrence you see these days is most likely just a common mistake, formed by analogy either with "abstract" or with other languages whose corresponding words do have two ‘s’s.

Many recent dictionaries do not list "substract". Of "substract", the Century Dictionary (1891) said:

  
  
- An erroneous form of subtract, common in vulgar use.
  

Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary of 1913 called it "obsolete", while the even older version of 1828 said

  

Note.--Substract was formerly used in analogy with abstract. But in modern usage, it is written according to the Latin, subtract. See this word and its derivatives.

Additionally, I know people who find "substract" very annoying. :-)

A: I found a few early instances where the use seems to refer to a significant chance, or even an exorbitant or undeserved opportunity, but this intended meaning appears to be rare and was rapidly overwhelmed by the figurative meaning.

Here are a few of the clippings I collected where "fat chance" seems to mean a big chance:

1860

  

Isaac V. Fowler, the fugitive Postmaster has just recovered from the yellow fever in Cuba, and is going to Mexico to superintend a gold mine, where there will be a fat chance for pickings.

- Syracuse Daily Courier And Union (Syracuse, New York)17 Oct 1860, Wed (paywall)

1873

  

They read about the eighty percent dividends, and then resolve that the Congressmen who have such fat chances won't get votes so cheap next time.

- The Sun (New York, New York)07 Mar 1873, Fri (paywall)

1895

  

...for the men work in such perfect harmony.  A glance at their exhibition yesterday was sufficient to show that the Orioles have a "fat" chance to carry off the flag this season.

- The Times-Picayune (New Orleans, Louisiana)25 Mar 1895, Mon

A: Certainly many usage guides have advised against use of this "singular they" on various "logical" grounds. Nevertheless, singular they has long been part of the English language, and there are various posts on Language Log giving examples of it being used in the Bible, by Shakespeare, by the president, by the Canadian Department of Justice, etc.. The Cambridge Grammar of the English Language's coauthor Geoff Pullum (a frequent Language Log contributor) calls the idea that they must never occur with a singular antecedent a myth.

There is no shortage of usage "experts" who advise against it, as the other answers in the question should make clear (though these days their reasoning tends away from a simple "it's wrong" towards something more defensive–"some people will think it's wrong, so avoid it"). But despite them, use of singular they occurs at all levels of the language, both spoken and written, informal and formal.

It's not ungrammatical per se on the basis of analysis of actual usage using reasonable linguistic methods. But use it at your own risk of being criticized by the self-righteous but misinformed.

A: I don't remember how I learned this, and I can't find a reference just now, but the peculiar custom of redundancy in our legal documents dates back to medieval England. The Norman conquest of 1066 put a French-speaking king and nobility in charge of an English-speaking people. The English courts at the time were extremely sensitive to detail and would throw out a petition for something as minor as a misspelling, so getting every detail right was crucial. Thus, lawyers developed a habit of incorporating English synonyms for key French words (or it might have been the reverse; memory fails me on that detail). This is how we get phrases like null and void and cease and desist. Since American law (except in the state of Louisiana) is based on English common law, the U.S. inherited this custom. Over time, I suspect the legal professional largely forgot exactly why it was building all this redundancy into its documents and "decided" it was as a general matter of belt-and-suspenders caution.

EDIT: I finally found a reference of sorts at Wikipedia:

  

David Crystal (2004) explains a stylistic influence upon English legal language. During the Medieval period lawyers used a mixture of Latin, French and English. To avoid ambiguity lawyers often offered pairs of words from different languages. Sometimes there was little ambiguity to resolve and the pairs merely gave greater emphasis, becoming a stylistic habit. This is a feature of legal style that continues to the present day. Examples of mixed language doublets are: "breaking and entering" (English/French), "fit and proper" (English/French), "lands and tenements" (English/French), "will and testament" (English/Latin). Examples of English-only doublets are: "let and hindrance", "have and hold."

A: Assure: promise, as in I assure you the car is safe to drive.

Ensure: confirm, as in Ensure that you have plenty of gas in the tank before going on a long trip.

Insure: protect with an insurance policy, as in Insure the car before your trip.

A: There seem to be three spellings: timezone, time-zone, and time zone.

The Oxford English Dictionary defines time-zone,[^1] but curiously, also uses the time zone spelling.[^2] At the same time, timezone is the favored spelling in the US (unless talking about multiple time zones).[^3]

All three seem to be equally correct, but I would use time zone, except for a singular usage in the US for an American audience, in which case I would use timezone. Personally, I feel time-zone is a bit outdated.

[^1]: See time, def. 60a
[^2]: Ibid. 27a
[^3]: See http://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/timezone

A: This comes from computer jargon, and the jargon file lists it.

Automatically, but in a way that, for some reason (typically because it is too complicated, or too ugly, or perhaps even too trivial), the speaker doesn't feel like explaining to you. See magic. “The C-INTERCAL compiler generates C, then automagically invokes cc(1) to produce an executable.”

This term is quite old, going back at least to the mid-70s in jargon and probably much earlier. The word ‘automagic’ occurred in advertising (for a shirt-ironing gadget) as far back as the late 1940s.

Automagically implies certain 'magic' going on behind the scenes.

In Atwood's example it might be a bit too much or just appropriate. It depends on when it was written: today automatic updating is common, but it did not use to be. In the days when it was not common the term "automagically" fits very nicely.

It also fits well to describe the change, if the process required user action before, you can say that now it happens automagically.

A: These words are in the sci. fi. vernacular, and have been since the 1970s. link

hoopy

  

really together guy

frood

  

really amazingly together guy

They are often used together for emphasis.

  

That Ford Prefect's one really hoopy frood.

A: I would say that adding to it emphasizes perception of the thing, as opposed to an inherent quality of the thing.  In other words, it emphasizes or draws attention to a subject that observes or otherwise perceives or interacts with the thing.

The expression really refers to an effect on the observer.  In a nice ring to it the ring[ing] is not a quality of the thing but a feeling/thought that takes place in the observer.

A: I'm a Brit who prefers fried eggs hard. There isn't a usual British English name for that, because it's an unusual preference here. I ask for them "Hard-fried, so that the yolks are solid" and that usually works. 

Any variety of "over" in the description of a fried egg in the UK risks confusion. Many people know it is an American way of cooking eggs, but are unsure what it means, and may improvise.

A: - I need to find a solution to this problem

- I need to find a solution for this problem

- I need to find a remedy for this problem

All three sentences are correct, although the second is less common. Usually, one will find that to is the preposition of choice for the word solution. However, for is preferred in certain cases, and I give two examples to illustrate this:

- 

A bunch of students are working on a physics problem set in the common room. C and J are done with questions 1 through 4 and are currently working on 5. A just finished solving question 4 and wants to check her work with C and J: "Hey guys, could you show me your solution for number four? I'm not sure I did it correctly."

- 

Joe had just bought a fridge for a dollar from an old lady down the road. Still unable to believe his luck, he wasted no time in setting it up in the corner of the hovel he shared with his brother, Alex. Only after plugging in the fridge did Joe realize that the door wouldn't close properly. He repeatedly slammed the door shut only to have it slowly creak open each time to his chagrin. "Hey, bro," Alex finally said, "calm down. Calm down!" He pulled out a crowbar. "There's a quick solution for this."

A: If you're asked a question you do not want to answer, and you feel like saying "none of your business", maybe these might be a better way to be polite and convey the same idea.

"I'd rather not say..." — PhraseMix explains

"I'd rather not..." means "I don't want to..."

People say "I'd rather not..." to talk about something that they don't want to do, although they might have to. For example, if you're shopping for a new car, you can tell the salesperson:

"I'd rather not go over fifteen thousand."

This means that you don't want to spend more than fifteen thousand dollars (or Euros, Pounds, etc.) on the car. However, you know that you might have to spend more than that.

If you're in a bad mood, and someone asks you what's wrong, you can respond this way:

"I'd rather not talk about it."

You can also say "I'd rather not" without continuing the sentence:

A: We can sleep at the Sutherlands' house and go back in the morning.

B: I'd rather not.

Even more polite would be "I'd prefer not to answer..."

A: Nude is by and large used only to refer to the absence of clothing or any covering in general.

- Nude beaches

- Nude model

Naked, on the other hand, has far wider connotations than nude. You can look them up here. 

- Naked eye

- Naked truth

- Naked to one's enemies 

It's also worth noting that naked is a rather technical word in life sciences, which is not the case with nude.

A: No, the -(t)ion derivational suffix can't be applied to update. Derivations are almost all irregular, and restricted in the words they can appear on.

Since update is a modern word, it follows the modern English trend of Zero-Derivation, like what Calvin calls "Verbing". Hence, as Shyam points out, the proper noun form of the verb update is also update.

A: The term rep-farmer is also used.

Discussed here: What is rep farming?

A: I agree with those who have said it is more likely he used 'queue' in preference to 'line' after speaking to advisors. But it's also interesting to note that Obama seems to like the word. He's used it a few times before, and in a non-British context:

  

February 25, 2010 Remarks in a Discussion on Insurance Reform at a
  Bipartisan Meeting on Health Care Reform: "Okay, all right. There were
  several people who were still in the queue who didn't have a chance to
  speak prior to us breaking."
  
  

November 13, 2011 The President's News Conference in Kapolei: "Could I
  just say that Chuck's the only guy who asked two questions so far. So
  just--when I cut off here, whoever was next in the
  queue--[laughter]--I'm messing with you, Chuck."
  
  

November 19, 2013 Remarks to the Wall Street Journal CEO Council and a
  Question-and-Answer Session: "We've got to make sure that we have a
  legal immigration system that doesn't cause people to sit in the queue
  for 5 years, 10 years, 15 years, in some cases, 20 years. "

So, to answer your question, there's nothing unusual or sinister in Obama's use - it seems part of his idiolect.

A: The Shm- is a carryover from Yiddish, as American port cities like New York at the turn of century came to embrace Eastern European Jews, with their food (knishes, bagels, matzo ball soup) and Yiddish inflected English (Oy, gotta have chutzpah, kvetching, schvitzing bullets, saying mazel tov, shmoozing someone, a shmear of cream cheese, or needing to shmear someone's palm, shmatta business, Eddie Durante's shnoz, zaftig coloratura, a nice tush -- from Yiddish tuchis from the Hebrew tachas or bottom). In the Hebrew alphabet, Sh is a single letter.

Yiddishism--

A linguistic feature of Yiddish, especially a Yiddish idiom or phrasing that appears in another language. - American Heritage Dictionary, 5th Ed. 

In Yiddish, the sound of Shm- is 'funny' to the ear, endlessly. So funny, it's worth doubling down on: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shm-reduplication.

Here is a similar case directly in English:
With a name like Smuckers, it has to be good--

...an ugly name that sounds like it might be a secret obscenity. - Discussion of the Smuckers slogan that mocks its own name

Tutorial on Shlemiel and Shlemazel--

First, Yiddish humor: "Okay, so Shl- is not Shm-!"
Now, Lemele was a role in the Second Avenue theater (Yiddish Broadway of old). Since Lemele was pathetic, Shlemiel is more so.
Mazel is luck, so Shlemazel is unlucky, a loser. Putting it all together...

When soup is served, it is always the Shlemiel who spills it, with the lap of the Shlemazel conveniently there to catch it...every time.

Side note on 'funny' sounds in English--

In English, the K sound in ICK and UCK sounds 'funny' for the staccato quality, which gave rise to many words that have shock value. You can probably come up with 4-6 examples with no trouble.

A: "No comments" is correct, and this construction is common in English.  For example, we get singular agreement for number for the value of 1, and plural agreement for anything else.

- 5 pizzas

- 1.5 pizzas

- 1 pizza

- 0.5 pizzas

- 0 pizzas

This extends to "no" as well.  

Using "no" combined with a singular is possible, but implies that there would only be either one of that thing, or nothing.  This is much more rare (though it comes up from time to time).  You might read in the newspaper, "When asked about the situation, the press secretary had no comment."  Here it is singular because you either have a comment about a matter, or you don't.  If you say a lot of things, it is still considered one comment (at least in the journalistic sense of the word).

A: conundrum

Definition of conundrum, from Merriam-Webster.  Only definition 2b, which I bolded, applies to your question, but conundrum is a fun word (at least IMO), and having three so different definitions adds piquancy to the word.  

  

1a. riddle whose answer is or involves a pun (as in “Why didn't the
  lost hikers starve in the desert? Because of the sand which is
  there.”)
  
  

2a. a question or problem having only a conjectural answer  •… the
  political conundrums involved, particularly the problem of how the
  richer areas … can be made to subsidize the poorer. — Douglass Cater
  
  

2b. an intricate and difficult problem •He is faced with the conundrum of trying to find a job without having experience.

If the OP insists on brain in the answer, this won't work.

A: I know it is not a single word, but this form of joke is often called a "Bait and Switch" or "Bait and Switch Comparison".

I suppose one word that might cover this is; 

Switcheroo

  

A sudden unexpected variation or reversal, often for a humorous
  purpose.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Switcheroo

Another, perhaps better, is;

Paraprosdokian

  

A figure of speech in which the latter part of a sentence, phrase, or
  larger discourse is surprising or unexpected in a way that causes the
  reader or listener to reframe or reinterpret the first part.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paraprosdokian

A: You should be aware where you're using it.

According to ldoce:

- contents  [plural] : 1) the things that are inside a box, bag, room etc 2) the things that are written in a letter, book etc 

  

She kept the contents of the letter a secret. 

- content [singular]   the amount of a substance that is contained in something, especially food or drink

  

water with a low salt content

- content [singular, uncountable]: the ideas, facts, or opinions that are contained in a speech, piece of writing, film, programme etc

  

The content of the media course includes scripting, editing, and camera work. 

- content [singular, uncountable]: the information contained in a website, considered separately from the software that makes the website work

  

The graphics are brilliant. It’s just a shame the content is so poor.

A: On Chris Head's site, a page called "Stand-up Comedy Fundamentals: Part 2, Misdirection" (July 28, 2016) uses the term misdirection for this type of set-up-based joke:

Having explored set-up/ payoff in the first blog we now turn out attention to a particular kind of set-up/ payoff: misdirection. I would unconsciously have laughed at misdirection for years, but I first became consciously aware of it watching Have I Got News For You in the 90s. (A formative decade for me.) I didn't yet have a word for it, but I began to notice that host Angus Deayton would often make the audience assume he was talking about one news story and then, at the last moment, would reveal he was talking about another.

...

Once I had picked up on the technique I began to notice it everywhere. But I didn’t have a word for it until I read veteran US stand-up coach Greg Dean’s book [Step by Step to Stand-up Comedy (2001)] and found that comedians (like magicians) used the word misdirection. Now, twenty years later, when teaching misdirection I often use a list of example gags that I compiled from a range of sources online. Three examples from the list will suffice here:

A lady with a clipboard stopped me in the street the other day. She said, "Can you spare a few minutes for Cancer Research?" I said, "All right, but we're not going to get much done." (Jimmy Carr)

I hate people who think it's clever to take drugs...like customs officers. (Jack Dee)

My grandmother started walking five miles a day when she was sixty. She's ninety-seven now, and we don't know where the hell she is. (Ellen Degeneres)

Part of the funniness in all of these is the attitude, namely a flippant attitude to a cancer charity, a rebellious attitude to drugs and a couldn't-care attitude to the elderly. A student on the joke class once described the payoffs as transgressing social norms, and there is some truth in this.

Again though, thinking solely about the mechanism, in all three jokes the set-up creates assumptions. Greg Dean talks about the "target assumption". Then the payoff, the rug-pull as comedians sometimes say, subverts those assumptions.

As Head notes, misdirection is an established term in magicians' terminology. Don Wilmeth, The Language of American Popular Entertainment: A Glossary of Slang and Terminology (1981) has this entry for the term:

Misdirection: The magician's art of diverting the audience's attention from some secret maneuver or device involved in making an illusion or trick work.

The absence here of any discussion of misdirection in the context of stand-up comedy suggests that the term was not well-establish in that sense on 1981. Google books searches for "misdirection joke[s]" turn up eight verifiable matches (not including Greg Dean's book, which is not previewable). Seven of those are from 2010 or later, but one rather skimpy reference (previewable in snippet view only) is from 1981.

A: When I first heard about this usage in a grammar lesson in middle school, it sounded weird to me, too. As in the linked page in your answer, my teacher taught us that using possessive pronouns (also known as genitives) is the only grammatical way to mark subjects of gerund clauses. While that way is more traditional and formal, using object pronouns (accusatives) is also quite common.

In chapter 14, section 4.3, of the Cambridge Grammar of the English Language, entitled “Non-finite and verbless clauses”, the main thrust lays waste to the traditional distinction between gerund clauses and present participle clauses, by arguing they all belong to a single inflectional category; namely, gerund-participles. However, there is a paragraph explaining the use of genitives with gerunds:

  

There is one respect in which ‘gerund’ and ‘present participle’ clauses differ in their internal form: with ‘gerunds’ the subject may take genitive case, with plain or accusative case a less formal alternant, but with ‘present participles’ the genitive is impossible and pronouns with a nominative–accusative contrast appear in nominative case, with accusative an alternant restricted to informal style. Compare then:

  [39]  i. She resented his/him/*he being invited to open the debate.

           ii. We appointed Max, he/him/*his being much the best qualified of the candidates.

In other words, gerunds (as in example 39i) can take either the genitive (his) or the accusative (him) as subject, with genitive being more formal and accusative less formal. The nominative (he) is not possible as the subject of a gerund. 

In participial clauses with a subject (as in example 39ii), there is a similar situation: both the nominative (he) and accusative (him) are possible, again with accusative being less formal, but the genitive (his) is not possible.

The page of “grammar tips” linked in the question confuses informal style with incorrect grammar, a common problem in grammar advice. The versions of the examples with accusative instead of genitive (e.g. What do you think about him buying such an expensive car?) are perfectly grammatical and simply a less stuffy style. 

You will find many examples of gerunds with accusative subject—even in formal academic writing—so you should feel free to use whichever of the two formulations seems natural.

A: While we often think that our idea/viewpoint/product is far superior to others we encounter, the needs of the creator or other users may be divergent from our own, or what we think theirs are. We may view precision as the primary criterion, while they think ease of use is paramount. And they may be the deciders.

One approach to acknowledge that another viewpoint may be more controlling is

  

I may be wrong [mistaken/off-base/not fully aware of all the issues], but it seems that my approach may get us closer to a solution.

Even if you are dead certain that their method sucks compared to your elegant solution, you have a better shot at being heard if you suggest that you may not be correct.

A: Why not rep-junkie. Oxford Online defines junkie as

  

[WITH MODIFIER] A person with a compulsive habit or obsessive dependency on something:
  power junkies

A Google search shows some minimal usage (sometimes as repjunkie), but ngram does not.

Obviously, you could use the longer form reputation junkie, but it lacks the punch.

A: No, there is no equivalent, but if there were...
It would probably be something like ouvrier.

The reason English has different words for the animal and the food is that the word for the food comes from French - the language of the ruling class.

From the link:

- mutton = mouton (sheep)

- beef = boeuf (cow)

- veal = veau (calf)

- pork = porc (pig)

So it stands to reason that the word for "person-flesh" would be derived from a French word for person. Now, there are lots of word for person, man or human in French, but most are near homonyms - and a French noble asking his English servant for "personne" may draw disdain.

But asking for a slice of braised ouvrier - or in the English laborer - may be a little more tasteful.

A: There is the expression that someone is learning parrot-fashion.

Simply repeating received phrases like a trained parrot.

This is often seen as a verb, the pupil simply parrots the received lesson.

A: Your method of removing the others is indeed correct. At least, that is what I used to do when I was in high school.

Always try using "I" or "me" in the singular, for the same sentence. For instance, people might say:
"Robert and me are going to town." Which is wrong, because one does not say "Me am going to town." Therefore the correct way to say it is "Robert and I are going to town."

However, this sentence is also wrong: "The police arrested Robert and I", because if it were in the singular, one would not say "the police arrested I", it is, "the police arrested me." Therefore one should say, "The police arrested Robert and me."

A: (Note this answer was previously posted to a question which has since been deleted on Programmers.stackexchange.com)

The abbreviated form char, short for character, can be pronounced in several different ways in American English: here's how you represent the various pronunciations in American English using the International Phonetic Alphabet:

- char as in char-broiled: /tʃɑr/

- char as in car: /kɑr/

- char as in character: /kær/

- char as in care: /kɛr/

For many speakers of American English (including myself), the /æ/ sound before /r/ is merged with the /ɛ/ sound. That is, the words marry and merry are pronounced the same. For these people, #3 and #4 are indistinguishably pronounced like #4. People with this merger are often confused if someone else tries to explain the distinction between #3 and #4.

I have heard all these forms used and as a descriptivist, I would make no attempt to declare any as “correct”. Each has different arguments for and against, which I will enumerate below.

- This form has the advantage of being “obvious”—that is, it is pronounced the way a naïve pronunciation of an unknown English word would be pronounced. It is also how the unrelated but identically spelled verb char is pronounced. On the downside, it preserves neither the initial /k/ sound nor the vowel of the word the abbreviation is derived from, character.

- This form maintains the initial /k/ sound from character but is otherwise pronounced as spelled. It does not preserve the vowel from character.

- This form maintains both the initial /k/ sound and the vowel from character. It is the most faithful to the source word. On the downside, /ær/ is not a phonotactically valid way for a word to end. The sequence /ær/ is only possible if there are additional vowels, as in marry or character. That is, if you say /kær/ as an independent word it is a violation of the normal phonotactic constraints of spoken English. Furthermore, it is a completely non-obvious pronunciation if you don’t already know that char is short for character and how character is pronounced.

- This form is very similar to #3, being quite faithful to the underlying form, but with the advantage of not violating the phonotactic constraint against words ending in /ær/. For people with the marry–merry merger, it is not actually perceived to be different from #3 at all. On the downside, it is a completely non-obvious pronunciation if you don’t already know that char is short for character and how character is pronounced. Also, if you do distinguish #3 and #4, then #4 does not actually have the same vowel as character.

Each possible pronunciation has its own set of advantages and disadvantages, which is why there is a diversity of pronunciation in the field—there is no form that is clearly better than all the others. Furthermore, the different possibilities are bound up in a dialectical difference that most speakers of American English are unaware of, so when discussions of how to pronounce char come up, often two people are talking about dialectical differences when what they think they are talking about is a lexical difference.

A: Because you have been taught an oversimplification. 

Most English speakers would have no idea what you were talking about if you mentioned the "interrogative mood". People put a question mark on the end if it feels like a question.

Conversely, a polite order like 

  

Would you sit down.

or a less polite one like 

  

Will you sit down!

are often written without question marks, because although syntactically they have the form of questions, they are not in fact questions at all.

A: There is a tendency in informal speech and writing to use object pronouns when conjoined with other nouns or pronouns, even if serving as the subject of a verb. You never hear this usage if the subject is not conjoined; that is, no native speaker would say “me went for some ice cream” but “me and my friends went for some ice cream” is actually quite a common usage produced by native speakers of all kinds.

This happens because what linguists would call the “unmarked” or standard, basic form for pronouns turns out to be the objective form—me, him, her, them, and the like. This is the form of the pronoun used when there is no verb:

- 
  

– Who wants a cookie?

  – Me.

- 

“Me and Mrs. Jones”

- “Me and Bobby McGee”

- “Me & Julio Down by the Schoolyard”

What happens is as pronouns in conjoined subjects get further and further from the verb, the impulse to change the default form into the subject form is weaker, and in informal contexts, is simply not followed. Now, in formal standard written English, subjects of verbs must be in subjective form, conjoined or not, leading to generations of schoolmarms correcting their students:

- Mrs. Jones and I

- Bobby McGee and I

- Julio and I Down by the Schoolyard

and the famous musical about an excruciatingly correct teacher of English:

- The King and I

The most fascinating thing of course is that generations of schoolmarms correcting students over the apparently perfectly natural use of objective pronouns in conjoined subjects has made everyone with even a little bit of formal education intensely anxious about using objective pronouns, causing them to hypercorrect and use subject pronouns even where object pronouns are correct: “just between you and I” is a commonly cited example.

Edit:
As for the original poster’s actual question, there is nothing in the grammar of English per se about ordering of pronouns in conjoined noun phrases. It is a kind of grammatical etiquette to put yourself last, but there is no rule of grammar governing the order.

A: There are very, very few acceptable uses of & in proper written English. Here are some of them:

& is especially common when joining names to indicate a firm or a partnership, for example, a law firm:

  

Baker & McKenzie

  Abercrombie & Fitch

  Crosby Stills Nash & Young

In abbreviations, when abbreviating "and", & is often used:

  

AT&T (American Telephone and Telegraph)

  P&L (profit and loss)

  R&D (research and development)

One rare usage is on envelopes addressed to a couple:

  

Mr. & Mrs. Jackson

&c. is a rare and somewhat archaic looking abbreviation for etc.

Other than that it is vanishingly rare to see & in formal written English, although of course in informal email, text messages, notes, and handwriting, anything goes.

A: In general, "have got" is the present perfect form of "to get" in UK English, while "have gotten" is the US English version.

However, even in US English, "have got" is used in certain instances, namely to mean present tense have (in the sense of possession, or to mean must):

  
  
- I have got a lot of friends. (=I have a lot of friends)
  
- I have got to go now. (=I have to go now/I must go now)

A: The easiest thing to do, and the only way of being sure you agree with the authorities, is to look words up in the dictionary. Some of the hyphenations currently in American dictionaries make no sense at all. For example, the reason that prai-rie and fair-y are hyphenated the way they are seems to be that 150 years ago, the editors of Webster's dictionary thought they didn't rhyme1; prairie was pronounced pray-ree with a long 'a', while fairy was pronounced fair-ee with an r-colored 'a'.

That said, there are a few hyphenation rules that will let you hyphenate 90% of English words properly (and your hyphenations of the remaining 10% will be perfectly reasonable, even if they disagree with the authorities'). Here they are, in roughly decreasing order of priority:

- Break words at morpheme boundaries (inter-face, pearl-y, but ear-ly).

- Break words between doubled consonants — 'sc' counts here but not 'ck'. (bat-tle, as-cent, jack-et).

- Never separate an English digraph (e.g., th, ch, sh, ph, gh, ng, qu) when pronounced as a single unit (au-thor but out-house).

- Never break a word before a string of consonants that cannot begin a word in English (anx-ious and not an-xious).

- Never break a word after a short vowel in an accented syllable (rap-id but stu-pid).

Finally, if the above rules leave more than one acceptable break between syllables, use the Maximal Onset Principle:

- If there is a string of consonants between syllables, break this string as far to the left as you can (mon-strous).

There are lots of exceptions to these rules:

Sometimes the rules conflict with each other. For example, ra-tio-nal gets hyphenated after a short vowel in an accented syllable because ti acts as a digraph indicating that the 't' should be pronounced 'sh'.

Sometimes it's not clear what constitutes a morpheme boundary: why ger-mi-nate and not germ-i-nate?

Sometimes the pronunciation of a word varies—/væpɪd/ or /veɪpɪd/? Merriam-Webster and American Heritage dictionaries agree that both pronunciations are valid, but they disagree about the hyphenation.

And some hyphenations I can't figure out the reason for: the Maximum Onset Principle would suggest pa-stry, but the authorities all agree on pas-try.

1I believe some American dialects still make this distinction in pronunciation; the editors of Webster's dictionary weren't imagining things.

A: This kind of construction has been called an "internal argument as subject" construction, but is more broadly known as a "middle construction," as in between active and passive. It strikes me as not particularly unusual, if maybe a little bit literary. 

For example, from Massam (1991), where "_" marks the empty structural object:

  

This article analyses middle constructions in English, accounting for their
   key syntactic and semantic properties. The analysis rests on the observation
   that there are certain similarities between middle, tough and recipe-context
   null-object constructions, such as in (ia-c).
  
  

(i) (a) This bread cuts _ easily.
  
  

(b) This bread is easy to cut _.
  
  

(c) Take bread. Cut _ carefully (and arrange _ nicely).

Here are some more examples of IASCs, from the same article:

  

(7) (a) The brown bread cuts easily.
  
  

(b) This blouse washes like a dream.
  
  

(c) The soup that eats like a meal. (Campbell's advertisement)

From the author's conclusion, which I will attempt to summarize at the end:

  

In this way, middles
   are claimed to ... involve non-thematic chains which are licensed by being co-indexed with a chain which  does receive a theta-role [and to] involve empty reflexives which do not arise via Move-α
   but which are base-generated. ...  The view of middles utilized here is one which considers their defining
   property to consist of an element of modality which appears in INFL and
   which is usually further spelled out by an overt adverbial or modal element.
   It is this element which is able (universally) to license a non-thematic subject
   which serves to identify a null object.

In other words, the author of the paper suggests not that "paper" moves from the object position to the subject, but rather the presence of an adverbial like "well" or "easily" (or a modal*) allows for the use of a patient** as a structural subject in an English middle construction.

After all, it would be odd to say "?Paper cuts" to mean "Paper is cuttable." 

So in other words, the fact that you want to say something like "You can cut paper easily" allows you to instead say the English sentence "Paper cuts easily," which is indeed ambiguous with "Paper cuts [other things] easily."

That some people analyzed your title as one or the other depends on the fact that paper is both cut often and cuts people frequently (after all, we have the word "paper cut"), and it just depends on which association came to mind more easily for each person. 

For example, me, and other people who interpreted your sentence as "paper is easy to cut" might have been thinking about scissors gliding through paper.

* An example of a modal licensing middle construction is "This blouse won't wash" (p. 126, example 27.f).

** In linguistics, the patient is the recipient of the action of the verb, as in "Mary cuts the paper." 

Citations:

Massam, D. (1992). Null objects and non-thematic subjects. Journal of Linguistics, 28(01), 115. https://doi.org/10.1017/S0022226700015012

A: In American slang, the word "ass" is sometimes used like any other swear/cuss word to emphasise something, or as a kind of modifying suffix.

Saying:

  

Y'all ever see an elevator with a normal ass door?

Has essentially the same meaning and emphasis as:

  

Y'all ever see an elevator with a normal f---ing door?

Take out the word and it means the same.

  

Y'all ever see an elevator with a normal door?

I don't claim to know the origin of this usage, but I would guess that words like "badass" have led to it being used as a suffix of sorts with words like "lame-ass".

A: I grew up in England for chunks of my childhood and early adulthood and am still around people who originated from the UK, so I still encounter both spellings all the time. The easiest way to remember it is that the 'a' in gray stands for 'America' and the 'e' in grey 'England'.

A: Due to the Latin influence, "-o" is a much more natural-sounding ending for a singular noun in English than "-i".  My best guess is that this subconsciously affected the coinage.

A: Aficionado - usually used by people who are professionals as a compliment to someone who is an amateur but is well versed in the subject. I was once called a "lock aficionado" by a locksmith, and a "stats aficionado" by a statistician. Sven mentioned it in a comment, and I think really this is the correct answer.

Dilettante - Another option, and can be used either positively or negatively depending on the context, but unlike aficionado the subject is rarely prefixed. For example, in an art gallery - "You seem to know a lot about Monet - do you paint yourself?" "Oh no, i'm just a Dilettante!". Or "I really like astrophysics, even though I don't own a telescope. I suppose you could call me a dilettante." In the harder sciences this can be used mockingly though.

A: To shut down has been used to describe machines for a long time, per OED:

  

Mech. To stop or switch off (a device or machine, esp. an engine); to cause to stop working or running. Also absol.

This use is attested as early as 1895:

  

1895  When shutting down a machine, the load should first be gradually reduced..by easing down the engine.

- G. W. Lummis-Paterson · Management of Dynamos · 1895.

Why shut down?  Probably because of earlier meanings related to shutting down a factory or plant, attested in 1877, which itself seems to derive from the idea of "shutting the doors" of a facility.  Shut meaning to close and lock is much older, and shut down implies closing and bolting something to a fixed position, which in machinery is generally the off position.

Another explanation comes from the figurative meaning of up and down with regard to whether something is being powered. This figurative sense seems to apply in an OED definition for "up" that also dates back quite far:

  

Increased in power, force, strength, or vigour; actually blowing; ready for action. Also (in Computing), in working condition. Frequently in phr. up and running.

In an attestation from 1570, the term referred to wind, a precursor to the figurative use with reference to power described above.

  

The winde was somwhat vp, and it caused the fire to be ye fiercer.

- John Foxe · The first volume of the ecclesiasticall history contaynyng the actes and monumentes of thynges passed..in this realme · Rev. ed, 1570 (2 vols.).

References to wind appeared to be common with this figurative sense, until a reference to a steamboat in 1848:

  

A Government steamer..lay in the river, with steam up.

- J. Mitchel · Jail Journal · 1848.

Finally, an attestation is given that refers directly to computers, offered in 1978, though this is by no means the earliest date in which people would have referred to computers that are on as "up.":

  

British Steel's giant private packet-switched network is up—and running successfully.

- Computing · 1976

So to answer the question directly, the terms seem to go back quite far to figurative meanings related to up, down, shut down, etc. that were used to describe mechanical conditions before computers but also applied as computers became a prevalent technology.

A: If there's no conjunction at the end of the list (and / or for example), then a comma is required. Thus, the correct version is:

  

red, green, blue, etc.

(Note that etc. should include the full stop, as it is an abbreviation.)

Regarding commas before and (or any conjunction) at the end of the list, that is a matter of huge debate. The subject is well-discussed on the Wikipedia page for the serial comma. Although it's probably fair to say that usage of the serial comma is non-standard in general, many notable institutions and publications such as Oxford and Harvard Universities strongly recommend its usage. There are certainly some good arguments for its usage, mainly in terms of consistency and unambiguity. If you want to open up this can of worms, I suggest we start another question (and make it community wiki for its subjectivity).

A: Some discussions of the movie reference a peaceful, almost zen acceptance, as well as the idea that

  

The Dude will always be around.

A discussion on Reddit of what "the Dude abides" means has some consensus that it's an

  

Intentionally vague phrase hinting at the fact that The Dude Lives, in his unperturbable state of dudeness, somewhere.

and that the definitions "accept" and "continue" make sense in this context.

As @wfaulk points out, today we usually use abide transitively to mean things like trusting in, accepting or obeying; so it doesn't mean The Dude accepts or endures a particular thing, but I agree that the phrase still can imply a sense of patience or toleration, even if it's just the way someone waits or continues.

If you look at the etymology of abide, you can see how some of these meanings emerge:

  

O.E. abidan, gebidan "remain, wait, delay, remain behind," from ge- completive prefix (denoting onward motion; see a- (1)) + bidan "bide, remain, wait, dwell" (see bide). ... Meaning "to put up with" (now usually negative) first recorded 1520s.

and going back to bide:

  

O.E. bidan "to stay, continue, live, remain," also "to trust, rely" (cognate of O.N. biða, O.Fris. bidia, Goth. beidan "to wait"), apparently from PIE *bheidh-, an extended stem of one root of O.E. biddan (see bid), the original sense of which was "to command," and "to trust" (cf. Gk. peithein "to persuade," pistis "faith;" L. fidere "to trust," foedus "compact, treaty," O.C.S. beda "need"). Perhaps the sense evolved in prehistoric times through "endure," and "endure a wait," to "to wait." 

I think you're right: The Dude endures; The Dude lives on.

A: The best way* to negate the construction, used to be, is to simply use never and replace the infinitive form of the verb with its past tense. Thus:

- I used to be a chain-smoker / I never was a chain-smoker

- This place used to be a library / This place was never a library

- He used to be such a decent plumber / He never was a decent plumber

It is also correct in some situations to say never used to:

- We used to go there / We never used to go there

In this case, never used to usually serves as an emphatic negation of something previously stated.

Your example, I used to be, is best negated as I never was/I was never, although, I never used to be  and I didn't use to be (grates on my ears!) are also options, depending on the context. For instance:

- I never used to be like this!

- Things never used to be this way.

Also consider the following:

- You used to be such a good friend

- I never was a good friend.

- No, I never used to be.

Another similar set of examples:

- You used to fall sick all the time.

- I never used to fall sick all the time.

- I didn't use to fall sick.

- I never fell sick at any time!

- I was never sick.

You should always be able to determine the correct negation to use, as long you keep the definition of used to in mind:

describing an action or state of affairs that was done repeatedly or existed for a period of time in the past

— New Oxford American Dictionary (2nd Edition)

I didn't used to is strictly ungrammatical, though widely used informally or colloquially. (The correct form is didn't use to, although this is also very informal.) Using the past tense of another verb after didn't, in this case used, is grammatically incorrect. Consider this and other similar verb constructions:

- used to be : didn't used to be [Wrong]

- had to have : didn't had to have [Wrong]

- seemed to know : didn't seemed to know [Wrong]

Now, the problem with these examples can be rectified by converting the past tense to the infinitive:

- used to be : didn't use to be [Correct, but not widely accepted]

- had to have : didn't have to have [Correct]

- seemed to know : didn't seem to know [Correct]

Also, did not/didn't always precedes the infinitive form of the verb it helps:

- didn't go [didn't went? — No way!]

- didn't help [didn't helped? — No way!]

- didn't matter [didn't mattered? — No way!]

Here is a note from NOAD to back me up:

Usage

1 The construction used to is standard, but difficulties arise with the formation of negatives and questions. Traditionally, used to behaves as a modal verb, so that questions and negatives are formed without the auxiliary verb do, as in it used not to be like that and used she to come here? In modern English, this question form is now regarded as very formal or awkwardly old-fashioned, and the use with do is broadly accepted as standard, as in did she use to come here? Negative constructions with do, on the other hand (as in it didn't use to be like that), although common, are informal and are not generally accepted. 2 There is sometimes confusion over whether to use the form used to or use to, which has arisen largely because the pronunciation is the same in both cases . Except in negatives and questions, the correct form is used to: we used to go to the movies all the time (not we use to go to the movies). However, in negatives and questions using the auxiliary verb do, the correct form is use to, because the form of the verb required is the infinitive: I didn’t use to like mushrooms (not I didn't used to like mushrooms).

— New Oxford American Dictionary

*(in my opinion, that is)

A: In formal usage, it should definitely be is:

Neither of these options is available.

This is the traditional rule (iirc, Fowler’s discusses this at length).  However, in colloquial usage, either option is fine, and are seems to now be somewhat more common, at least on the internet.  A commenter here nicely describes the sort of thought process which probably pushes people (usually subconsciously) towards using are:

I wanted to say that “neither of us are cardplayers”, but I know that in that case, I should use “is”. But I also can’t say “neither of us is cardplayers”. So perhaps I should say “neither of us is a cardplayer” which sounds ridiculous to me. Is the conclusion that, in situations like this, one should reconstruct the sentence entirely. So I should really say something like “we aren’t cardplayers”. Fine when you’re writing, but how do you avoid getting into a tangle when talking!!

FWIW, “neither of us is a cardplayer” and “neither of us are cardplayers” both sound absolutely fine to my ear.

I don’t have time at the moment, but if someone else is in the mood for some corpus or n-gram searching (or can find someone who’s already done the research), it would be very interesting to know the history of this.  Is the current shift to neither … are a real phenomenon, or is this just recency illusion?

A: The noun is usually "effect" -- unless in more formal or literary contexts in which case "affect" as a noun can mean feeling or emotion.

The verb is generally "affect", although "effect" is possible if the meaning is "put into place" or "carry out".

Here are some example sentences:

"His plans had no effect on me."

"His disconsolate eyes brought on a sad affect."

"His plans affected me."

"He effected a plan to change the world."

A: In legal contexts, the abbreviation "v." is used.  Elsewhere, the most common is "vs.".  In formal contexts (e.g. scientific papers), it is probably best to have the period at the end of the abbreviation.  I assume you would be using this abbreviation in graphs/charts/titles and things like that; the abbreviation would be appropriate in these places, but not within normal prose of the paper.

A: I'd say this contraction of "you all would not have" as three syllables: [ˈjɔːɫ.ᵈn̩.tɘ̆v].

-  is y'all, a contraction of you all that serves as the plural of you in Dixie-influenced dialects of American English. The  with a tilde represents a "dark" l, which I realize with pharyngealization (secondary constriction in the throat) and some other speakers may realize with velarization.

-  denotes a pre-stopped nasal, as in the Russian names Dnieper and Dniester. The tick mark below the  denotes a  syllabic consonant. It is the same as the last syllable of redden.

-  has a slightly raised schwa in the middle, roughly like the last syllable of infinitive except not quite as fronted. The cup-shaped breve mark over the vowel marks it as extra-short.

A: If it is a proper noun, it must be capitalized.

If it is an adjective derived from a proper noun, it should retain its capitalization, according to this Wikipedia entry:

  

In English, adjectives derived from proper nouns (except the names of characters in fictional works) usually retain their capitalization

  – e.g. a Christian church, Canadian whisky, a Shakespearean sonnet, but not a quixotic mission, malapropism, holmesian nor pecksniffian. 
  
  

Where the original capital is no longer at the beginning of the word, usage varies: anti-Christian, but Presocratic or Pre-Socratic or presocratic (not preSocratic).

The "usually" might explain why you sometimes see "english" without any capitalization. The only case of "english" as a common noun would be in the context of pool, billiards or bowling games, as described by Wiktionary:

  

english (uncountable)
  
  
  
- (US) Spinning or rotary motion given to a ball around the vertical axis, as in billiards or bowling.

A: The difference between "I and my friends" and "my friends and I" is purely a matter of courtesy - they are both grammatically correct. I would tend to stick to the latter though, as it a) is more commonplace, b) is considered more polite, c) seems to flow better.

Indeed, your example of 'incorrect' usage is incorrect solely in that the first sentence uses the accusative (objective) pronoun me, when you actually need the nominative (subjective) pronoun 'I'. The second sentence of that example is correct, since the pronoun needs to be in the accusative, as the object. You seem to understand this though; this is just to clarify.

A: I've heard the "needs washed" construction so many times that it sounds completely normal to me.

Your other three examples, however, don't sound familiar.

I'm having a tough time thinking of a set rule for dropping "to be." I think it could work with want in addition to need, e.g. "The baby wants changed." But I can't think of other verbs that it would work with.

Edit: I actively use this construction. I was just telling my roommate the other day that "That lightbulb needs changed," and he understood me because he grew up in south central Pennsylvania, too.

I know it works with need, and I'm pretty sure it can work with want, too. (E.g., The dog wants fed.)

I'm heading back to my hometown this weekend, so I'll try to remember to ask people while I'm there. But it's kind of hard to talk about this sort of thing with people who've spoken that way their whole life and don't even know that other people talk differently. A lot of folks I know from there don't understand that most people would find the following very grating: "We're going to the mall. Do you want to come with?"

Update: I polled a few friends while I was back in Pennsylvania Dutch Country. They confirmed the construction with needs and wants, but they couldn't think of any other verbs it could work with.

A: Holy is often used with bad words as an intensifier:  

  
  
- (Informal) Used as an intensive: raised holy hell over the mischief their children did.
  

(The Free Dictionary)

The following interesting comment explains its usage:

  
  
- Things holy were once referred to Medieval times in oaths and blaspheming, such as "s'blood" (god's blood) etc. Many cultures worst swear-words are formed by pairing something holy with something profane. Pairing these realms is culturally an expletive, is shocking, an unnatural pairing. "Holy shit" is an extension of this. 
  

(www.quora.com)

A: According to Wiktionary, Galician, Catalan and Occitan have a word fada "fairy" and Italian has fata with the same meaning, which seems like a clear confirmation of a Vulgar Latin form *fata meaning "fairy". (And as tchrist points out, Spanish has hada, because it had a historical change of /f/ to /h/ in many contexts.) I don't know if there are any alternative explanations for this aside from a derivation from Latin fatum/fata.

The phonological development from fata > French fée is quite straightforward: intervocalic t was lenited and lost in French, word-final a was turned to schwa, represented by the letter "e", and stressed "a" was in many circumstances fronted and raised in French, here to /e/ "é", similar to the development of the past participle suffix "-é(e)" from Latin -ātus/-āta. (There are alternative spellings, some of which may correspond to slightly different vowels.) There are many other examples of these sound changes; e.g. Fr. chaîne catena also shows the loss of intervocalic "t" and change of final "a" to "e".

I'm not sure how to explain the semantic development but it doesn't seem too far-fetched to me.

As you can see in the OED entry, the -ry part of fairy comes from the -ery suffix; French faerie/faierie/farie/féerie was an abstract noun referring to magic or the realm of the fairies, which seems to have developed in English into a collective noun and then finally the current singular meaning. The OED records earlier uses in English that were closer to the sense of the French word:

  
  
- 

Enchantment, magic. Also: an instance of this; an illusion, a dream; a dazed or excited state of mind. Obs. [...]
  
- 

a. A magical or enchanted land or domain; the (imaginary) realm or world of fairies (sense A. 3a); fairyland; = faerie n. 2. [...]
  
  

b. Chiefly with the. The supernatural or magical beings inhabiting such a realm; fairies (sense A. 3a) collectively. Cf. faerie n. 1b. Somewhat rare in later use.

A: The pronunciation is the same, so you can't really say that some "say" this while others "say" that. It's strictly a spelling difference.

These are among the reforms introduced by Noah Webster in his dictionary, with a view towards (a) simplifying the spelling, and (b) creating a distinct American English. (The root forms of many of these words indeed lack the u - for example, Latin color, Italian favorito - so that may have been another motivation of his as well.) So these forms prevailed in the United States, while in the rest of the English-speaking world they kept the original spellings.

A: There is a quote from the New Testament Bible, Matthew 7.5

  

You hypocrite! First remove the beam out of your own eye,
  and then you can see clearly to remove the speck out of your brother’s eye.

Wikipedia

A: The most probable term would be "geek", as in "computer geek" (roughly "computer whiz").

(not the US geek from fifty years ago, as the lowest form of circus performer, who did horrible, demeaning things).

Even though a geek is not necessarily smart or into computers, but can be in general a "weird person", the only usage of geek I know in French culture is related to computer.

This thread mentions:

  

"Nerd" has several meanings/usages.  
  
  
  
- One is that of a studious intellectual, meant to be negative but carrying a whiff of envy. 
  
- The other is "awkward pain in the neck". 
  

One (non-official) difference between nerd and geek (in the computer field) could also be in term of general activity:

- "Nerd" = producer

- "Geek" = consumer

Eg. a nerd creates video games, a geek plays the video games.

But those two terms  certainly cannot be limited to this simple interpretation.

That being said, I thought the remark from John Hodgman was quite accurate:

  

Comedian John Hodgman recently spoke at a Washington DC press dinner, following Barack Obama, touting Obama as the first Nerd President, since Obama had admitted to collecting comic books and being a fan of Star Trek. Obama's Nerd intellectualism was contrasted to the "Jock" mentality that had defined the Bush years.

  In the midst of this speech Hodgman suddenly referred to Obama as a geek, quickly adding this aside:
  
  

"And to those who say, 'Wait, there's a difference between nerds and geeks,' I answer, 'Shut up, nerd!'"

Nicely illustrated by phdcomics:

A: They are called religious pretenders or Christian (church-going) pretenders if their religion is Christianity. Pretender is

a person who professes beliefs and opinions that he or she does not hold in order to conceal his or her real feelings or motives.

[Vocabulary.com]

Actual usage: ARE YOU A CHRISTIAN PRETENDER?

This message is to all church-going pretenders out there – the ones who look heavenly on Sunday, but live like hell Monday through Saturday. You look good on the outside, but when God looks at your insides – inside your heart – it’s a dirty mess!

I’ve got bad news for you. Jesus hates religious pretense. But I’ve also got good news. He loves the pretenders! He gave His life for hypocrites like you and me. The end of being a religious pretenders is to admit our sin separates us from God; then ask Christ’s forgiveness; then believe to be right with God is your only hope for change.

A: I would always use "on". At least if you are talking about the contents you can find on it. If you're talking about its hardware structure for instance, then, "in" can maybe fit in some cases, I guess.

A: While relation and relationship refer to the connection between things, relation shades more toward the way things are connected, while relationship refers to the connection itself. The difference is not spacious.

Example:

"The size of the targets bore no relation to their importance." [NOAD]

This is different from

"The two friends enjoyed a very close relationship."

Q: What is worse than "mediocre"?

What is worse than mediocre? Is it bad, or is there a level between mediocre and being pure bad? 

Is mediocre slightly better than bad, and bad better than pathetic?

I want to use this in my prose in a context as:

  

The condition of roads was worse than mediocre

What can be used here?

Q: Help, the "onus" is on me! What do you call whatever it is I'm supposed to do with it?

We all know the phrase: "The onus of proof is on you" or "The onus is on you to do some thing or the other."

Ok, so the onus was put on me and I have done that thing or the other. Now, with respect to the onus, what have I done? Have I "carried the onus"? "Met the onus"? That doesn't sound right. And I haven't "removed the onus", that's just undoing it being put on me.

So what's the word or phrase I'm looking for?

Q: What is it called when you search for something on the internet and end up looking for other and it goes in endless meander?

What am I doing when I search for something on the internet and the search provides for some other interesting stuff apart from what I was looking for and I end up opening an infinite number of browser tabs and browsing more and more it goes in an endless loop and the whole episode makes for after thought to ponder upon.

PS: I lost the term I had found on Wikipedia and I cannot get it back.

Q: Was "man" a gender-neutral word in common usage at some point?

I've seen some times the claim that in the past "man" was a non-gendered word, with "wifman" referring to female individuals and "wereman" referring to male individuals. I've found some indications that "wifman" was either a predecessor or a complement to "woman", and even the root for the current "wife". I've failed to find solid information regarding "man" being a truly neutral word (and not just a masculine word applied to both female and male individuals) and "wereman" or any alternative being the default word for male individuals.

So, was "man" a non-gendered word in the English language or its predecessors at some point, with different words derived from it (as woman is today) to refer to both male and female individuals?

Note: My main language is entirely gendered, and we have no way to address someone in a gender-neutral way that is common usage. If anything comes across as rude, please say so and I'll correct it. I understand this may be a sensitive topic.

Q: "Toward" or "towards"?

Which one should should I use? For some reason I have always used "towards", but I see some people saying "toward", like here:

A great deal of his work in economic theory has been directed toward strengthening the foundations of our understanding of central banking and social insurance--indeed, one of my most advanced macroeconomic classes was nothing but a set of changes rung upon a particular model that Peter Diamond had advanced at [...]

Is there a difference between the two? When should each be used?

Q: Order of "not" with infinitive

This is one thing that keeps bugging me, and maybe there's a direct answer.

Grammatically, which one is more correct of these two?  Does it make a difference?

I tried not to do that.

I tried to not do that.

Q: What's the difference between the adjectives "strategic" and "tactical"?

I recently read this sentence:

  

It was a strategic move rather than a tactical one.

I have trouble interpreting it. Can someone help?

Q: Independent/independently of/from

Which of these are correct, and why? Suggestions for rephrasing it are also welcome.

[noun] was developed independently of [noun]

[noun] was developed independently from [noun]

[noun] was developed, independent of [noun]

Q: Why is Santa Claus a man but Santa Maria a woman?

When it comes to cities and boats named after saints, it seems that "Santa" is always female and "San" is always male.

e.g.

Male Saints: San Diego, San Francisco, San Antonio

Female Saints: Santa Barbara, Santa Maria

So why isn't "Santa Claus" a woman like all the other "Santa"s?

Q: What is the term for when you become more aware of something?

For example, when you buy a car, you start becoming more aware of cars with a similar make and model. The number of that type of car hasn't increased, but your awareness of it has.

Similarly, when you learn a new word, you start hearing the same word used in different places. You probably just filtered the word out previously, but now you've become aware of it. 

How do you describe the phenomenon when you become more aware of something after an initial or significant exposure or experience with that thing? What term or word can you use?

Q: Why would you "throw" a party?

Where does this "throwing" action come from when talking about hosting a party?

Throwing usually has to do with hurling something, usually an object (but it could be an emotion: throwing a tantrum). But one also uses the verb when talking about hosting a party: throw a party.

Where does this come from? Did people in the old days host parties by throwing objects?

Q: Rhetoric vs. Mathematics: ellipsis/ellipse, parable/parabola, hyperbole/hyperbola

Do ellipsis, parable, and hyperbole from rhetoric have anything in common with the geometric curves ellipse, parabola, and hyperbola used in mathematics?

There are three geometric curves known as conic sections:

- 

Ellipse: a curve on a plane surrounding two focal points such that a straight line drawn from one of the focal points to any point on the curve and then back to the other focal point has the same length for every point on the curve. 

- 

Parabola: a two-dimensional, mirror-symmetrical curve, which is approximately U-shaped when oriented as shown in the diagram.

- 

Hyperbola: has two pieces, called connected components or branches, that are mirror images of each other and resemble two infinite bows.

There are also three terms in linguistics with analogous names (in many languages with the same names, actually):

- 

Ellipsis: the omission from a clause of one or more words that are nevertheless understood in the context of the remaining elements.

- John can play the guitar, and Mary can play the violin.

- 

Parable: a succinct, didactic story, in prose or verse, which illustrates one or more instructive lessons or principles.

- The Emperor's New Clothes

- 

Hyperbole: is the use of exaggeration as a rhetorical device or figure of speech.

- That suitcase weighed a ton!

Do they have anything in common? Is there any etymological or other reason connecting each pair together? Does the ellipsis remind the ellipse in any way, etc.? Is there any analogy between them?

Q: What happened to "You're welcome?"

Quite often (9 out of 10 times?), on radio (NPR), when the interviewer says "Thank you" to the interviewee, the reply is also "Thank you."   

What has happened to "You're welcome?"  Why is "You're welcome" so uncomfortable to say?

Q: Is there an English idiom that means "you can always find a law to convict anyone"?

There's an infamous phrase in Russian (attributed to Stalin's Chief Prosecutor Vyshinsky):

  

"Был бы человек, а статья найдется"

Translated literally, this means 

  

"if there was a man, an article {{meaning "a law to convict him under"}} will be found"

Is there an idiom in English that reflects the same meaning? (e.g., "we, as the judicial power, can find an appropriate legal excuse to convict anyone and everyone")

Q: Is there an idiom or typical expression for an unfunny joke?

Could you tell me some suitable idioms to express this situation:  

  

A guy told you a joke, but it's not funny at all.  

In Japanese, we say "He slipped" or "His joke was so cold that the air got frozen," for that situation.

Are there any similar phrases in English?

Q: Phrase for a small, legitimate fix for part of a system so broken the fix is unimportant

Looking for a phrase/metaphor describing a situation where a proposed solution, though valid, is targeted for one of many problems in an entity plagued by so many problems as to render the individual solution unimportant. An example would be discussing improving the energy efficiency in the kitchen of a building that is condemned or on the verge of falling apart; though the methods for improving the kitchen might be totally valid, they're of little practical concern as they'd make no contribution to the long term viability of the building.

Something like "a drop in the bucket" but which emphasizes that the "drop" is well-conceived or -intentioned.

EDIT:

The answers here have been fantastic (and hilarious), though I think the phrase that best fits my request was actually listed by @user9383 in her/his question (not in the answer but in the question itself):

  

Fixing a leaky faucet in a burning building.

This phrase perfectly captures both aspects of my request:

- 

The intentions/method have merit: in general, leaky faucets need to be fixed.

- 

Despite this, the effort is wasted due much bigger problems: despite the inherent merit of the faucet-fixing, the ensuing destruction prevents the realization of any substantial benefit.

Q: Why do Wh question words in English so consistently map to Q words in Latin?

- Who, Quis

- What, Quid

- When, Quando

- Where, Quo

- How, Quomodo

- Why, Cur

There's one exception on each side, but otherwise this pattern is pretty consistent. Is there a linguistic or etymological reason for this?

Q: What is the correct plural of "octopus"?

What is the correct plural of octopus:

- Octopi?

- Octopodes?

- Octopuses?

- Something else?

Q: What is the correct way to pronounce 'router'?

Merriam-Webster lists both ˈrüt and ˈrau̇t as possible pronunciations for route but only
ˈrau̇-tər for router. 

Is it really wrong to pronounce router as 'rüter ?

Q: Distinction: "What can I do you for?" vs. "What can I do for you?"

Usually, when being served the phrase "What can I do for you?" is used but sometimes I also hear "What can I do you for?" in quite the same context. So is there a difference or is it just a slip of the tongue?

Edit I also heard it amongst others in 'Allo 'Allo and once in The IT Crowd.

Q: Is there an English phrase for an inability to actually *leave* already?

There is a Hungarian expression, küszöbgörcs, which literally means "threshold-cramp", and is used to describe that long conversation you have in the entryway, with all the guests awkwardly holding their coats and purses, and every so often somebody says something like "Ok, we really have to leave now, but just one more thing...", and then the conversation is good for another half an hour at least.

I've searched in vain for an equivalent idiom in English, yet I feel sure it must exist: I know English speakers are equally susceptible to this malady, it's not a uniquely Hungarian thing. I will sometimes use literal translations, like the aforementioned threshold-cramp (or doorway-spasm), but then I need to explain it, and that's less than satisfactory. (Plus it leads to more threshold cramping.)

Q: You quench your thirst. What do you do with your hunger?

What is the equivalent of "quench" when speaking of hunger?  Is it appropriate to say you quenched your hunger?

Q: What is the difference between dialogue and dialog?

I am American, and I always thought the difference between dialogue and dialog was one of meaning, the way Merriam-Webster has them listed:

2 entries found:

- dialogue (noun)

- dialog box (noun)

According to Merriam-Webster, dialogue means conversation, and dialog box means a window on a computer screen.

This is how I use/spell them.

However, at least some people see them as differences between British English and American English.

So my questions, I guess, are:

- First of all, is my understanding, and Merriam-Webster's definition, correct?

- Is dialog used with any frequency by Americans to mean conversation?

- Is dialog not used in British English for the window on a computer screen?

- Is there any other difference I'm not aware of, or perhaps a better explanation for the two versions?

Q: What is the first part of a joke called?

How does one refer to the first part of a joke?

The follow up is often referred to as a punchline but I'm unsure how to refer to the first part. Is it a 'joke' or does a 'joke' include the punchline?

Q: Why is this joke about elephants and quarts funny?

There is a joke: 

  

Q: What is grey and comes in quarts?

  A: An elephant.

Why? Why does it come in quarts? What is funny here?

Q: Is there an apostrophe in a master's degree?

The question asks it all really. When referring to a master's degree, do you use an apostrophe or not? That is, is it "a master's" or "a masters"?

Q: How did Americans greet each other before "Hi"?

I had assumed that "hi" was a somehow abbreviated form of "hello," but though both of these words appear to have originated from a noise to attract attention, hi actually predates hello.  These words both appeared in the mid- to late 1800s, and seem to be primarily American usage.  Does anyone know what Americans used for greetings prior to this time period?

Update on 9/10/11:

Although I have come to feel that "how do ye" and its variant "howdy" are most likely the common greetings in the early days of America, part of the difficulty in assessing this is the lack of recorded everyday speech.  I was also unaware that "howdy" was used anywhere other than the US South prior to the 1800s, but the OED begs to differ (if someone has the citation for this, please feel free to link it).

There was considerable discussion in chat about the problem of researching common conversational speech, and during the course of that discussion, I realized that probably the best place to look would be plays, since they involve dialogue that might represent a "natural" conversation.  

After a lot of searching through early American plays, I came across "holla" used as a greeting in the early American drama The Contrast by Royall Tyler.  It was written and performed c. 1759, and its setting is contemporaneous New York City, therefore this greeting is probably an example of natural speech.

Interestingly, I did not find any instances of any other greetings. However, finding plays that were actually set in America in the 1700s and were also written around that period proved difficult.

Q: How do you pronounce "Git"?

How do you pronounce Git?
Because I don't live in a country that uses English, I haven't heard it yet.

In my country, some people use [ɡɪt] and others use [d͡ʒɪt].
Which is the one that most people use?

Q: Use of 'as per' vs 'per'

I've read and have heard of both 'as per' and 'per' being used conversationally, both with the same connotation of either 'according to' or 'on authority of'

Examples:

"Tell Ron to start molding new rollers for the mecanum wheels, as per me"

"Per Mr. Crane, you need to start the molds for the new rollers."

They both establish the same context by setting that something should be done on the authority of someone else (or the speaker, per the first example (see what I did there?)). Or it acts as a way to cite a source of a statement, directive or fact in conversational speech.

My question is, what is, if any, the functional and syntactical difference between as per and per. If there are no differences, which is apropos to use?

Q: What is the opposite of Optimal?

Obviously something can be sub-optimal or poor, minimal, bad or terrible... But is there a word that means the exact opposite, the antonym, of optimal?

Q: How is "deque" commonly pronounced?

deque is a standard container in the C++ programming language. Its name stands for Double Ended QUEue. I am wondering how this word should be pronounced:

- like deck (this is how I've pronounced it so far)

- like dequeue 

- like Dee-Ee-queue

I realize that this word is not in the dictionaries. I just want to know how most programmers pronounce it. Hope it's on topic.

Q: What is the name of a small unluxurious restaurant?

Is there a name for this kind of restaurant? Searching Google, I can't find any synonym of restaurant. I've tried to search for images of unluxurious restaurant, small restaurant or mundane restaurant, with no satisfactory result. The restaurant I'm looking for is small, not so clean and definitely not a place that high class people go to eat.

It can be a house:

Or lie on a side of the street:

Q: What non-religious expressions can I use instead of "Thank God"?

I'll give an example to help:

Someone suffered a car accident, but physically the person is OK. So I
say, "Thank God, they are fine."

Q: Etymology of the use of "Drive" to refer to a digital storage medium

When did the word "drive" begin to be used to refer to a digital storage medium (e.g. disc drive, hard drive, USB drive), and why was this term selected?

Cross-link to related earlier question: "Hard disk" vs. "Hard drive" vs. "Hard disk drive"

Q: What does the idiom "batteries not included" mean?

In a comment on a Stack Overflow answer to my question, somebody said that "it is a very 'batteries not included' approach":

  

it doesn't look like there's any easy way to make a strict RFC 4627-compliant parser using just the builtin modules. In principle you could write your own parser (perhaps using Lex/Yacc/Flex/Bison), but that's a very "batteries not included" approach (and I'm not even sure how those tools integrate with Python, if at all).

I searched its meaning but ended up finding that the phrase was the name of a movie and a book. I would like to know what it means in the context and how it is often used. Many Thanks.

Q: Is there a general word or phrase to describe the things you do after getting up, such as face-washing?

I'm looking for a more general word or phrase to describe the things like face-washing, tooth-brushing and gargling together.

The word or phrase is to these things as doing sports is to playing basketball, playing football and so on.

Is there such a word or phrase?

Q: "Pregnant" as a taboo word

This recent article from The Sun states that the term pregnant, in this specific case referred to Meghan Markle, is considered vulgar by the Queen.

According to a recently-resurfaced Us Weekly feature, the term is one of Her Majesty's pet peeves.

The piece - which was published back when Prince George was a baby - quotes a Palace source as saying she finds it "vulgar".

So, what will the 92-year-old be calling mum-to-be Meghan?

The article states that she'll be telling people she's "in the family way".

Apart from the Queen's personal preferences,   I found that the term pregnant:

Retained its status as a taboo word until c. 1950. (Etymonline)

from which, probably, its perceived "vulgarity”.

The above statement apprears to be confirmed also by the following article from tv.avclub.com:

More than 60 years ago, a pregnant Lucille Ball couldn’t call herself “pregnant”.

- The script for “Lucy Is Enceinte” famously had to dance around saying the word “pregnant,” a term CBS deemed too vulgar for air.”

Questions:

- 

why was the term considered vulgar?

- 

and what more commonly accepted expressions were used to refer to someone who was "pregnant” in the '50s.

Q: The company I work at has this thing we have to say every morning. What is it called?

The company I work at (a US branch of a Japanese firm) has a thing we have to say every morning. We stand up and each take turns reading a line from the poster on the wall. It goes like this:

- We meet challenges with courage and creativity to realize our dreams.

- Once a decision is made we move quickly to carry out the plan with passion.

- As a good corporate citizen we do what is right and contribute to society.

- We seek to do our best, act professionally, and take responsibility for our actions.

... and so on (8 lines total).

What is this thing we read called?  "Every morning at work, we read a/an/the _____."

Q: When is "L" doubled?

Some verbs can have double Ls in the gerund form; for example:

- modeling; modelling  

- traveling; travelling

Which form should we use, or which form is used more in the literature?

Q: Which is correct: "prefer X to Y" or "prefer X over Y"?

Many say that "prefer X to Y" has a more formal ring to it than "prefer X over Y". Are there any dialects where you wouldn't use "prefer X to Y" in colloquial speech at all? Conversely, are there any manuals of style that discourage using "prefer X over Y" in formal writing?

Q: When did it become correct to add an “s” to a singular possessive already ending in “‑s”?

According to my grammar book, but at variance to the answer to this question, the correct singular possessive if a word ends in ‑s is:

  

James’s car

The grammar book allows exceptions for historical nouns, so the examples in the answer to the above-linked question would pass muster.

However, I’m sure that I learnt at school (which, admittedly, was a while ago) that for a singular (proper) noun ending in ‑s, the apostrophe went after the s and there was no additional s.

I don’t wish to start a flame war on which is correct, though my question doesn't really make sense if my grammar book is wrong!  What I’m curious about is when the change occurred.  :

So my question is when did James’s become the correct form and James’ the incorrect one?

Q: If an insertion in parentheses ends with a smiley, how do I distinguish between the two?

I know smileys are not part of written language (yet), and any questions about them are irrelevant to linguistics and are kind of not serious. So take my question with a smiley then. 

It bugs me every time I'm facing this situation: if an insertion in parentheses ends with a smiley, what should I do?

  
  
- A lot of insertions in parentheses (well, if it's not Lisp :) ) can be annoying.
  
- A lot of insertions in parentheses (well, if it's not Lisp :)) can be annoying.
  
- A lot of insertions in parentheses (well, if it's not Lisp :) can be annoying.
  

I don't like any of the above. Any (clever) suggestions?

Q: When are "because", "since","for" and "as" interchangeable?

I am not a native speaker. On a previous question of mine, I thanked for an answer by saying:

  

So the phrase is not an idiom, since it is applied in its literal sense.

I consciously chose since over because, because — well, I like that usage of since, even though I know that some (native speakers) don't like it. Nonetheless, that choice got me thinking for a while, and it occurred to me that I even could have used more alternatives, namely as or for, without changing the meaning. 

So, on a general note, here are the alternatives:

  
  
- Statement A (is true), because statement B (is true).
  
- Statement A (is true), since statement B (is true).
  
- Statement A (is true), as statement B (is true).
  
- Statement A (is true), for statement B (is true).
  

Are these completely interchangeable? Or interchangeable in certain situations? Or can you point out any (not-so-)subtle differences between any of them? Are there even more synonyms?

Q: Is "authentification" a real word?

My professor used the word authentification in a lecture. I have always used authentication. Is it a real word or is authentication the correct term?

Q: Is there a reason behind the ordering of letters in the English alphabet?

Is there a reason behind the ordering of letters in the English alphabet? i.e. why are we taught “A,B,C,D,E,F,...,Z”? Why not “L,A,S,U,I,Z,...,C”?

I am asking this because, in some of the languages I know, I am told that the ordering of the letters in the alphabet is based on the ease with which they can be pronounced or the frequency with which they are used or depending on the part of the vocal cord that needs to be stressed to pronounce the letter.

Is there a similar rationale?

EDIT

You can see a couple of references for arrangement of letters in Sanskrit here and here.

Q: Data pronunciation: "dayta" or "dahta"?

I hear "dayta" more often, but what's the correct pronunciation?

Q: What we've gelost — why doesn't English use the prefix "ge-"?

The Germanic languages that I'm familiar with all use a prefix similar to ge- on past participles:

German: Ich habe mir den Fuß gebrochen.

Dutch: Ik heb mijn voet gebroken.

But English doesn't do this at all:

English: I've broken my foot.

Where did this prefix come from? Did English ever have the ge- past participle prefix? If so, why was it lost?

Q: How small does a land-mass have to be before you live "on" it, rather than "in" it?

I'm sure virtually everyone agrees that people live on the Isle of Wight, but in Ireland.

Apparently the usage depends somewhat on physical size, but that can't be the whole story. How exactly do we decide which form to use? And are there any really glaring 'outliers' that don't fit the normal pattern?

LATER - I must just add that the most uncertain case I've found so far is The Falklands. Most people go for in there, but a substantial minority (about 1 in 3) opt for on.

Q: Are there any words I can use to disambiguate "biweekly"?

We have two words for events occurring in periods of years - biannual meaning twice a year, and biennial meaning once every two years.

However, my colleagues talk about having meetings biweekly. This causes a lot of confusion, since it can mean either once every two weeks or twice a week.

We can use fortnightly to indicate once every two weeks and help disambiguate that way. Are there any other words we could use which could help, particularly words which mean "twice a week"? I'm looking particularly because some of my colleagues speak English only as a second language, and find fortnightly difficult to remember.

Q: Are there counterpart English expressions to Japanese proverb, "the nail that pops up is always hammered down?

I was once reminded by Robusto-san of a Japanese popular saying, ‘出る釘は打たれる - the nail that pops up is always hammered down,’ when I complained about  sequential down-votes that I received.

I wondered at that time if this expression is unique to the Japanese collectivity-oriented patterns of thinking, which Shichihei Yamamoto defined as ‘rice-growers’ mindset’ to simply mimic what others do without having your own thought - when the neighboring farmer starts planting rice, you plant rice. When your neighbor crops rice, you crop yours. When the neighboring farmer starts to repair a thatched roof made of rice straw, you mend the thatch of your cottage.

In the famous book, “Japanese and Jew ” written by the pseudonym of Isaiah Ben-Dasan, Yamamoto argues basic differences of the ways of thinking between the Japanese and the Jew - agricultural people vs pastoral people in his definition.

We have a lot of proverbs to teach us to be meek, or flexible at best, such as “泣く子と地頭には勝てぬ‐You cannot argue with a crying child and your magistrate,” “長いものには巻かれろ- It’s better to be obedient to those in power,” “喬木は風に弱し-A tall tree is weak to a gale,” “柳に風折れなし‐Willows don’t break in storms (because they have  branches and leaves supple enough to fend off strong wind).” 

“触らぬ神に祟りなし‐Don’t get involved (with the problem), and you won’t get a slap from God,” and “Silence is gold (I think this is a Japanese version of German proverb, 'Reden ist Silber, Schweigen ist Gold' transplanted in the Meiji era in late 19 century),” can be classified into the same “Don’t be conspicuous” lesson group. 

I understand westerners value assertiveness based on individualism against oriental collectivism, and wonder if the concept like ’出る釘は打たれる- the nail that pops up is hammered down,’ is viable at all in the western societies as a matter of comperative culture.

Are there any proverbs or sayings that admonish values of being unnoticeable (not saying insignificant) or an advantage of staying just in average that can be compared to ‘the nail that pops up is hammered down’?

Q: "provide" vs. "provide with"

I am wondering if the following sentence is correct:

We add the information their study provides with to our article.

The context is: their study provides with some information. And we add the information to our article.

I want to keep the word "add", but someone told me that "provides with to" sounds weird.

Q: What is the word for always YES (100%) or always NO (0%), never in-between

For example:

  

1) In statistics, this attribute will always either be 0% or 100%, never in-between.
  
  

2) The boundary is either safe or destroyed, because there is never a state where it is only 'slightly leaking'.
  
  

3) The rash either itches or does not. It can't itch a little. That would still be an itch.

What word can we use to describe this attribute?

Q: Is there a proverb to express "You are too late and it's your own fault."?

In Lithuanian language there is a proverb that translated word-for-word would say "The train does not wait for the shitting ones." 

While sounding somewhat rude, it is perfect for expressing: "You are too late, and that's your own fault." 

Is there any proverb in English that could convey the same idea?

Q: "Worse comes to worst" or "worst comes to worst"

Which is correct: worse comes to worst or worst comes to worst? The former seems more logical but the latter is what appears in Oxford Advanced Learner's Dictionary.

Q: "Doctor's appointment" or "doctors appointment"?

I've looked this up online, but I can't find any explanations from reasonably credible sources, so I'm posting my question here! (Was that a comma splice?)

Should I refer to the appointment that I made with my doctor as a "doctor's appointment" or "doctors appointment"? What if I'm referring to more than one appointment with two different doctors?

Q: Why does legal English continue to remain archaic?

Perhaps this is a question for Law.SE if one exists, but I am asking here as there are other nice questions on English history. 

There is some historical development account presented in Wikipedia, but I find it grossly inadequate to answer the question. English has always been a language that borrows and enriches itself, but retains its original flavour all the same. Why has a similar linguistic edification not happened with legal English? The question, in its elementary form:

- Why has legal English simply not moved on?

Q: "Man" is to "womanizer" as "woman" is to what?

What's the feminine version of womanizer?

Q: When to use override and overwrite

My intention is to use on the following sentence:

The administrator has the right to ____ the user time slot for the venue A inside the online system.

So, which word would be suitable: override or overwrite or are there more suitable words?

Q: What guides to style explain where footnoting superscripts go, inside or outside punctuation?

When using superscripts to indicate a footnote, do these fall inside or outside adjacent punctuation?  If there is an answer, is that answer applicable worldwide, or just to specific regions or publishers?

Does it matter what the particular punctuation is, including such punctuation as commas, colons, parentheses and other brackets, periods, and quotation marks? 

Does it matter whether the footnote applies to just one gloss1, or to an entire phrase in toto?

Does the answer change if, instead of using instead of numeric footnotes, you use the traditional  sequence of symbols  (*, †, ‡, §, ‖, and ¶)2  ?

- 

OED: “A word inserted between the lines or in the margin as an explanatory equivalent of a foreign or otherwise difficult word in the text; hence applied to a simliar explanatory rendering of a word given in a glossary or dictionary.”

- 

As enumerated on pp 68–69 of Robert Bringhurst’s The Elements of Typographic Style (version 3.2); Hartley and Marks, 2008.  Bringhurst goes on to say “But beyond the asterisk, dagger3, and double dagger4, this order is not familiar to most readers, and never was.”

- 

That is, the † character at codepoint U+2020 DAGGER, also known as the obelisk, obelus, or long cross.  The classical plural of obelus is obeli.

- 

That is, the ‡ character at codepoint U+2021 DOUBLE DAGGER, also known as the

diesis or double obelisk.  The classical plural of diesis is dieses.

Q: Why are there so few English words that begin with the letter X?

If one reads a lot of children's books, it is obvious that X is a real thorn in the side for those authors looking to have each letter of the alphabet represented in their books.  Most of them either cop out with X-ray, or they make up fake words.

My copy of the Shorter Oxford English Dictionary has only 3 pages devoted to X and with the possible of exception of xeric¹ and X-ray, none of the words would be recognized as  common.

Why are there so few common words in English that begin with the letter X?

¹ xeric may not actually be that common since it is not recognized by the spellchecker in my browser

Q: Is there a secular, non vulgar alternative to "for heaven's sake"?

I know for heaven's sake, for Pete's sake, for God's sake and for Christ's sake. All of those, however are religious references. The only non-religious equivalent phrases I know are for fuck's sake and its variations.

Are there any non-vulgar, non-religious alternatives? I am very used to the general construct of for X's sake and am looking for something along the same lines that I could use in cases like

C'mon, it's just a scratch for X's sake!

That's not even true for X's sake!

It does not need to also be applicable as a general exclamation of frustration (Oh, for chrissake!) but that would be nice. Basically, I'm looking for a synonym for the "Oh come on!" sense of for fuck's sake rather than the Oh shit! one.

EDIT: Since this has gotten quite a bit of attention, I would like to urge those who answer to read the entire question, not just the title. I am not just looking for polite swearwords but for something that can be used in the example phrases above.

Q: Should I use a semicolon or a dash to connect two closely related sentences?

When you want to connect two closely related sentences, you can use a semicolon or a dash. (You can also use a dash for other kinds of non-sentential relations). How would you choose whether to use a semicolon or dash?

Q: When should a verb be followed by a gerund instead of an infinitive / to-infinitive?

Some verbs are followed by ing, e.g. I enjoy swimming. We can't say I enjoy to swim. Likewise, some verbs are followed by to, e.g. I decided to make a plan. 

Which particular verbs are followed by ing and to? Can you please provide a list for that?

Moreover, which verbs can be followed by both without having the meaning changed?

Q: What is the difference between "proven" and "proved"?

"Proven" and "proved" both seem to mean the same thing. Are there any differences in meaning or usage between them?

Q: Is it ever worth the time and effort to correct someone else's grating grammatical mistakes?

Whenever I hear statements like "It was a great deal for he and I" and "Call Karen and I in the morning," I die a little. Such solecisms, as Twain said in another context (Cooper's prose style), "grate upon the fastidious ear." Moreover, I know that these things will likely become accepted usage in time, if that hasn't already happened. 

As someone who tries to be careful with words and speech, I feel almost a moral obligation to hold the line against this kind of decline. I'm not a word snob; I say "ain't" when it works for emphasis, and so on. I've tried suggesting the grammatical alternative to the above constructions, but even when I phrase my suggestion in the gentlest possible way it never works well and I almost always wind up feeling pedantic and priggish at best, and at worst I feel I've alienated someone.

What's the general opinion here? Is it best to just let these things slide or to take up the fight? In sum, is there a good way to promote good grammar, or at least protect it from the most egregious violations?

Q: What is the difference between "gender" and "sex"?

What is the difference between gender and sex? Wiktionary says that gender is The mental analog of sex but that's too high English for me.

Basically, I'm developing a web-application that stores people's profile along with a field for gender/sex. Which name would be more appropriate?

__

[UPDATE]

After getting these good answers, I can figure out that,

- Sex - Biological characteristics 

- Gender - Social characteristics

And, well, for my web-application, I went with the term sex, as it sounds more scientific and less political. P.S. Values for sex are clearly defined and can be easily validated (only two values AFAIK* + an optional blank value).

* plus some anomalies.

Q: More formal way of saying: "Sorry to bug you again about this, but ..."

I was wondering if there was a more formal and polite way of saying:

  

Sorry to bug you again about this, but we still have not received a response about X ....

(if we still have not received any assistance with X)

or

  

Sorry to bug you again about this, but we are still having problems with X and ....

(if we have already received some assistance with X)

I would like to use examples of the two sentences above in an email directed to an organization, but I would like to avoid using "you" or "bug", if possible.

For more context, this is part of an email where we are requesting this organization to fix a service that they provide to us.

Addendum:  To clarify, I'm interested in both cases when we directly pay for the service requested and when we don't.

Q: Polite alternatives to "as soon as possible"

I’ve found myself writing the phrase “as soon as possible” just too often. Sometimes I wonder if it sounds a little rude. How can I convey the same meaning in a more polite way but without losing sense of urgency?

Q: "Agree on" vs. "agree with" vs. "agree to"

What are the differences between "agree on", "agree with" and "agree to"?

Q: What animal is a “weefil”?

What animal is depicted in this image labelled “weefil”?

Q: "My personal opinion is..." Is it always pointless to use the words "personal" and "personally"?

Is this kind of redundancy acceptable in both speech and writing, formal and informal ?  Would the following sentences have their meaning changed if we omitted "personal" or "personally" ?  Would they lose anything at all ?

  
  
- She is a personal friend of mine.
  
- It's my personal opinion....
  
- Personally, I would advise you...
  
- The manager said he will examine the matter personally.
  
- Personally, I don't care whether...
  
- I have a personal interest in the matter.

Q: What is the English equivalent to the Chinese/Japanese saying, “塞翁失馬— Life is like Old Sai’s horse”?

Dr. Shinya Yamanaka, 2012 Nobel Prize winner in Physiology or Medicine, the initiator of all-around (iPS) cells told a recently-held public symposium, quote:

  

“I’m often asked by many people: ‘You are happy that you've won the Nobel
  Prize, aren’t you?’ But I tell them that everything in life is just like 'Saioh ga uma' (塞翁が馬) – 
  Old Sai’s horse. I was unsuccessful as an orthopedic surgeon, but
  luckily I found my way in molecular biology." – The Asahi, Oct.4, 2014 issue

“Life is like Old Sai’s horse” is a popular Japanese saying, which is based on the story described in Chinese classic literature written by 准南子- Huai nan zi, the ancient Chinese monarch of Huian nam in circ. BC 135. 

The story begins when a horse kept by an old man living near a fort (塞翁) ran away one day. All the neighbors came to console the old man, but he told them not to worry. Ｍonths later, Old Sai's horse came back, accompanied by a faster horse. Old Sai’s son loved horse riding. He fell off and broke a leg one day while riding the faster horse. The son became lame. Villagers consoled Old Sai for his son's misfortune. But Old Sai said, “Don’t worry. There’ll be a good day after a bad day.” A year later, the village was attacked by the Hu Country's army, and the fort was destroyed. All the young men of the village were called to the military. Nine out of ten of them died during the war. Old Sai’s son was exempted from conscription because he was lame, so he was unharmed. The story goes on and on describing the happenings of a thread of fortune and misfortune of his family in turn.

So when we say “It’s Saioh ga uma -塞翁が馬(塞翁失馬)” in Japanese (Chinese), we mean that life changes, happiness (success) and unhappiness (failure) rotate. We needn’t to be too glad and too sad at each instance.

Though “the ebb and flow” occurs to my mind as a possibility, I’m not sure of whether it fits the concept. Are there more suitable English equivalents to “Old Sai’s horse”?

Q: Is "certainly possible" an oxymoron?

The phrase "certainly possible" is fairly common, but it strikes me as an oxymoron.  Is it?

Q: Are there any "fake" French words used in English?

Are there any "fake" French words used in English?  By "fake French" I mean words that are of French origin but are not actually correct French. This could happen if the word changes as it becomes adopted by English speakers. "Fake" may not be the best term for this -- if anyone can think of something better, please let me know. I mean French-derived terms that have evolved to the point of no longer being common-usage French.

Some examples of the reverse, i.e. "fake English" words used in French:

- relooking, which means makeover -- this is derived from the English word "look" but "relooking" is not used by English speakers

- happy end -- minor difference, but in the US at least we say "happy ending" and not "happy end"

- brushing -- blow-drying your hair is called "un brushing", clearly derived from English, but if you announce "I'm going to get a brushing today" nobody will understand you

- afterwork -- I'm not certain here, but I think "an afterwork" is extremely rare in English. In French, however, "un afterwork" is common and refers to meeting up after work, e.g. at a bar

- smoking -- in French, "un smoking" is a fancy dinner jacket, which comes from the English "smoking jacket" -- but you can't say "I'm going to wear a smoking tonight" in English, at least not in the US

- Inspired by Dan's comment: footing means a jog; you can't say "I'm going on a footing" in English, and the French wiktionary article explicitly states that this is a "faux anglicisme"

- Found after following links on wiktionary: un lifting means a facelift; it's another English-derived French word that was never actually used by English speakers

The word "fake" in my title might be confusing -- I'm not looking for words that are pronounced with fake French accents, but rather for French-derived words that have evolved to the point of no longer being common-usage French (or that were never used in French to begin with, the way the French word footing was never used in English).

This question was closed for being too broad; this edit is an attempt to narrow it down.

I'm looking specifically for words that (a) are used in English; (b) are derived from French; but (c) would not make sense to a French speaker, either because the word was never used in French in the first place, or because the French and English versions of the word have drifted extremely far apart.

An example of the reverse is "un footing" in French: "a footing" is complete nonsense in English, and it would be hard to even guess what it means.

Some examples of words that aren't what I'm looking for:

- The US usage of entrée doesn't really satisfy criterion (c) above: sure, the meanings have diverged a little bit, but barely.

- Same comment as above for the US usage of petite -- it's still understandable to a French speaker.

I'm particularly interested in French-derived words that were never used in French, the way "footing" and "relooking" were never used in English.

Q: What do you call a minor flaw in a work that makes you realize how perfect/flawless it is otherwise?

For example, I was listening to an audio book the other day and the author mispronounced a word which got the audience laughing. Until that point, I didn't even know that there was an audience and that the whole thing was a live recording.

Another example might be that you find litter in a section of a street which is usually super clean. This gets you thinking about how the street cleaners do a really good job. Or imagine the internet connection at your house breaks down and you thus realize that it has been remarkably reliable for the past 4 years.

It's both about realizing that something is flawless otherwise and appreciating it.

Any expression, proverb, or single word is appreciated!

Q: What happened to the “ch” in moschito?

Mosquito > Moschito > Mosquito

/məˈskito/ —  [mɒˈskiːtəʊ], [məˈskiːtəʊ], [mɒˈskitoʊ], [məˈskitoʊ]

The name of this insect is spelled with the letters ‹qu› in several languages, including Catalan mosquit, Spanish mosquito, French moustique, Galician mosquito, and Portuguese mosquito (also borrowed Hmong and Lao mosquito).

Its original name in Latin was culex but in Italian, it is called a zanzara, derived from zinzala the more recent Latin name. Evidently, the English borrowed the Spanish term, mosquito, but a number of English authors, for some unexplained reason, preferred spelling the /ki/ sound using the letters ‹chi›. For example, 

  
  
- The tortures we received on the river, from the moschitos, were beyond imagination. We had provided ourselves with guetres, and moschito clothes; but to very little purpose. The whole day we were in continual motion to keep them off;
  

The London Magazine, Or, Gentleman's Monthly Intelligencer, 1759

  
  
- The moschito does not, it is true, commence its annoying operations till after the very warmest weather of the summer; but, having once taken wing, nothing will stop its flight but a real frost; so that it is almost fairly winter before this malignant ...
  

Journal of a Tour in Italy, and also in part of France and Switzerland, 1830

  
  
- 

Entomology, confined within limits such as these, is a dull, worthless, and contemptible study.
  
  

This branch of natural history, however, has a wider range and nobler field of usefulness; and though some pseudo philosophers have sneered at the diminutive creatures thus contemplated, they show but the feebleness of their own understanding. Insulated, they may occasionally appear of little note, but with a commission from above become  “as the armies of the living God.” The contemptible moschito may drive man to madness and the zimb of Chaldea make even the rhinoceros tremble and flee before it. 
  

Researches in Natural History, 1830

  
  
- ...the circle of his flight [the bald eagle] grows less; now he appears a small speck, and now no bigger than the tip end of the hair of a moscheto's eyebrow; now he is out of sight in the 
  deep blue heaven. 
  

The New-England Magazine, 1831, and further still…  

  

Of the Fly-catcher tribe, […] These birds, as their appellation signifies, live solely on flies, moschetoes, bugs, etc.

Etymonline says  

  mosquito (n)
  
  

1580s, from Spanish mosquito "little gnat," diminutive of mosca "fly," from Latin musca "fly," from PIE root *mu- "gnat, fly," imitative of insect buzzing (compare Sanskrit maksa-, Greek myia, Old English mycg, Modern English midge, Old Church Slavonic mucha), perhaps imitative of the sound of humming insects.

Chestions

- 

Why did these writers choose to spell mosquito with ‹ch› instead of the easier ‹qu›? The letter ‹k› could have been used to imitate the /ki/ sound. After all, in German it is spelled Moskito, which works perfectly fine.

- 

Does anyone know the history of this word's spelling? 

The following questions on EL&U are related but do not explain why mosquito was also spelled moschito in English.

- Why is "q" followed by a "u"? 

- "Quyer" When and why did the spelling change so drastically? (this last one is mine) 

Yes. Yes yes yes all right. The ‹qu› in "questions is pronounced /kw/ not /ki/. There's no need to quick up a fuss, I'm just having a bit of fun :)

Q: "Whatever a Russian does, they end up making the Kalashnikov gun"? Are there any similar proverbs in English?

I'm translating a Russian blog post into English and got stuck with the proverb, "Whatever a Russian does, they end up making the Kalashnikov gun." (Humorously meaning it's hard or even impossible to get past established patterns of doing things.)

Are there any similar proverbs in the English language? 

I was trying to omit the reference to a particular nationality and think about other ways to get the message across, e.g. use professions or animals. The only idea I managed to come up with was "What can you expect from a hog but a grunt." But it has negative connotations that are not implied by the original. 

I'd greatly appreciate if you share your thoughts on this. Thanks in advance!

P.S. Here's this bit that I'm translating: 

  

A chunk of our budget was shelled out to buy game design documents prepared for us by two studios. The output was quite hefty. A great deal of work was done, no one's arguing. But what we got communicated a very different idea. Maybe even a good one, yet different. This proverb best describes the situation, “Whatever a Russian does, they end up making the Kalashnikov gun.” It was evident that people are used to and like doing things in a familiar way, based on their established practices for GDDs and without getting off the beaten track.

Source: habr.com/ru/company/uteam/blog/447310

Q: Why is “disabled“ preferred over “handicapped”?

The question may be too opinion based and highly contentious.

However, as a non native speaker with a serious disability, I have great trouble grasping why “disabled“ is supposed to be much better than “handicapped“. When I hear “handicapped“ I think of someone on the gym taking a position that makes the exercise harder and ideally still pulling it off (incidentally, this is what I think my disability does; it makes my life a hell of a lot harder, but in the end I still prevail).

When I hear “disabled“ I think of a machine completely switched off or an opponent immobilised (this is what I never want my disability to achieve: to make me feel utterly powerless).

Is it just a random effect of history that made “handicapped“ so much worse (because people have simply had more time abusing the word) or can it be understood from the connotations of the two words outside medicine?

Sources that attest to the preferability of “disabled“ are quite easy to find, but they don’t explain why this preference came about. Examples: 1.

Another, which states that the connotation is opposite from what I expect, but not why: 2.

Here we have a comparison of the two including a summary table, but again “disabled“ would strike me as the much more negative, except for the disputed hand-in-cap etymology, which I understand could make the term undesirable: 3

Here, “handicap“ is connected to “Hand in Cap“ through a game of chance unrelated to begging: 4

Q: When do I use "can" or "could"?

When should I use can? When should I use could?

What is right under what context?

Q: Where does the "quint" in "quintessential" come from?

Doesn't "quint" mean "five"?  What does that have to do with the meaning of "quintessential"?

Q: Is it appropriate to use short form of "have" ('ve) when it means possession?

I feel uncomfortable saying sentences like the following: 

- "I've a car" instead of "I have a car"

- "They've a great time" instead of "They have a great time"

- "He's a pen" instead of "He has a pen"

- etc

I ask this because I read this sort of thing in a book.

Are they correct? And what is the rule? Can you use such forms in a formal setting?

Q: What’s purportedly wrong with Strunk & White’s “The Elements of Style”?

I was reading the comments on this answer where several users claimed that Strunk and White’s The Elements of Style was “misinformed, hypocritical, and wrong” and “flat-out wrong or totally misleading”, so I’d love to get a delineated list of where it is wrong.

Note: I have no position on this or axe to grind; I’ve just used it for years and would love to learn what I’ve been doing wrong thanks to it.

Q: I can run faster than _____. (1) him (2) he?

Consider the sentence "I can run faster than 15 miles per hour." Its meaning is clear and to my eyes obviously grammatically correct. Now let me present some variations that have given me trouble for a long time.

- 

I am faster than 15 miles per hour. – To me this is clearly incorrect. Directly comparing me to a speed doesn't seem right. We need to compare my speed to a speed, or me to another person.

- 

I can run faster than him. – Compared to the base sentence, there is a distinct shift in meaning of the comparison. While before I named a speed faster than which I can run, now I am naming a person. It doesn't seem quite right. I realize the parts of speech can change, but my initial objection is that "him" is not a speed.

- 

I can run faster than he. – This seems most correct to me, but still somehow feels objectionable. Is this in fact the correct way to say it? And if so, is it proper as is or need I say "... faster than he can" or even "... faster than he can run?"

- 

I am faster than him. – With "am" instead of "can run" it now seems slightly more correct. But is it?

- 

I am faster than he. – I'm in doubt here. It doesn't seem wrong to me to say, "I am faster than he is" or even "I am faster than he is fast." (Though I suppose that is a given since I could hardly properly compare to some other category as in "I am faster than he is smart.")

- 

My speed is faster than his. – Hmm. This seems more proper as "my speed is greater than his."

So which of these constructions is correct and which is incorrect? Is there a general rule that I can follow?

UPDATE

The scholarly article Syntactic isomorphism and non-isomorphism under ellipsis may be of great interest to some readers!

Once we accept that the elided constituent and its antecedent can differ in form, it becomes reasonable to ask how large this difference can be. The answer in Rooth (1992), Fiengo and May (1994), Chung et al. (1995) and subsequent work is that the wiggle room is actually quite small: the elided constituent and its antecedent are allowed to differ only in the realization of inﬂectional morphology. Other than that, both constituents have to be syntactically and lexically isomorphic.

Q: Origin and exact meaning of the phrase "I have to go see a man about a dog"

I hear my older coworkers use this idiom/phrase occasionally. It seems possibly to be a humorous way to get out of a conversation. Even as a native English speaker, I've never figured out the exact situation you would use this phrase. It almost sounds like it may have once been a punchline to a joke in a movie or something.

I'm curious what is the exact meaning/usage of this phrase/idiom? Where does it originate?

Q: What is the correct plural form of LEGO: LEGO or Legos?

I've seen many people make reference to LEGO as Legos. E.g. "I enjoy playing with my Legos".

But from my understanding, this is incorrect and they should be referred to simply as LEGO (in capitals as per company standards). E.g. "I enjoy playing with LEGO".

There is no reference to the term Legos in any official material on LEGO's site at http://www.lego.com, although there are hundreds of mentions in LEGO's official message board (search site:lego.com +legos).

I also don't want to accept that individual pieces of a LEGO set can be referred to as Legos, as the official site refers to these as "parts". (See here.)

Also, a collection of LEGO sets can't be referred to as Legos as these are also referred to as "sets" by the LEGO company.

Is it correct to refer to LEGO in any denomination as Legos?

Q: "Oriented" vs. "orientated"

What are the origins of the word orientated?

As far as I know, the correct spelling is oriented and orientated is not an alternative spelling but an error that is in common use.

Is it for example more commonly used in a certain country or by a certain people? Is there a reason for people choosing to say or write orientated instead of oriented?

Q: What does "non-normative" mean in this context?

From the ECMAScript language specification ECMA-262 page 1 Section 4

  

This section contains a non-normative overview of the ECMAScript
  language

The text goes on to say

  

ECMAScript is an object-oriented programming language for performing
  computations...

What does "non-normative" mean in this context?

Q: Phrase for overusing just-learned skills?

Is there a saying or word for indicating the overuse of something you just newly learned? Say you were happy with a hammer and a nail and then somebody taught you the virtues of a screw and screwdriver. From then on, every problem incorrectly looks like it can be solved only with the screwdriver.

Q: Why is "pound" (of weight) abbreviated "lb"?

Answers to Correct usage of lbs. as in "pounds" of weight suggest that "lb" is for "libra" (Latin), but how has this apparent inconsistency between the specific unit of weight "pound" and the more general concept of weight "libra" arisen? It seems analogous to abbreviating "grams" to "w" for weight which makes no sense to me.

Update: very nice historical context provided in your answers. Interesting that the Latin term has evolved into both pound (weight) in English and liter (volume) through Greek. I wonder if this is related to how "ounce" can refer to both weight and volume (fluid ounce)?

Q: The act of baiting someone into (incorrectly) calling bullshit

Is there a single word, or commonly-used term, to describe the act of baiting another person into calling bullshit, when in fact you're not bullshitting? 

Conceptually, this either a sub-type, or the direct opposite, of bluffing, which is the act of pretending you have better cards than you actually hold, in order to scare your opponent into folding. 

The word I'm looking for will describe (metaphorically) the act of pretending you have worse cards than you actually hold, in order to bait your opponent into calling you.

I'm looking for a word which implies "actively misleading" (as in lying); examples might be a basketball player faking left (in order to make his guard shift left, so he can go around to the right) or generally faking out. 

This is not restricted to gambling (just as "bluffing" is not restricted to poker), I'm only using gambling terminology to make my meaning clear.

Q: English proverb for "They danced, but didn't take a bow", as for failing good work on a final step

There is proverb in Ukrainian, "They danced and danced, but didn't take a bow" (Танцювали, танцювали, та не вклонилися).

It is used to point out that someone has put a significant amount of time and effort into performing or creating something (which is emphasized by repetition of the dance in the original), but compromised their work at the stage of representation or polishing the final result.

For example, it can be applied to these situations:

- The software was released after years of development to provide great performance and stability, but its interface is user-unfriendly and designed poorly

- He wrote a brilliant essay, but didn't bother to spellcheck it, ruining all the good impression of his work

- Bob cooked a fancy meal for his date, but served it on disposable plates, because he was too lazy to do the dishes afterwards

What would be an English proverb or idiom to express the same context?

The expressions with a similar, but not quite satisfying connotation I've found so far:

  

spoil the ship for a hap'orth of tar

being about a lack of a small amount of effort ruining something big or important, it doesn't cover "final step" part

  

A drop of poison infects the whole tun of wine

and it's analogues are mainly about a little amount of detrimental thing
spoiling something good

  

Good idea, bad implementation

suggests that the whole actual work was flawed, when in our case realization can be good at major stages

Q: Which is more wet: ‘moist’ or ‘damp’?

Which contains more liquid, something that is moist or something that is damp?

Context of question:
This question was asked to a young friend of mine in her high school freshman English class. It was a bonus question on a test she was taking. My thoughts after looking at the definitions in my copy of Merriam Webster's was that both were perfect synonyms and that neither truly quantified the amount of liquid within an item.

As I thought on it a little more, I figured this would be a good question to ask on this site to see what those with more knowledge of the language would come up with.

Q: If a ship sinks, what does an airship do?

We were having a discussion at work about airships (zeppelins, blimps, etc.) and someone spoke about them sinking when they crash. Someone else said they can't sink because they're not descending through water.

So we googled the definition of the word sink, and got this:

- go down below the surface of something, especially of a liquid; become submerged.

- descend from a higher to a lower position; drop downwards.

The second definition means that an airship sinks. Then the same person that said it wasn't descending through water asked if that means skydivers are sinking.

Is there a better word than sink to describe what an airship does when it falls from the sky?

Q: Is there an English equivalent for the expression "Playing the flute to a buffalo"?

There is a saying in India, "Playing the flute to a buffalo" (is wasteful), generally used in the context of knowledge imparting to a stupid person. At the end of the day, stupidity still remains. Is there an English equivalent for that?

Q: Is there a non-vulgar version of "pulled it out of their ass"?

Is there a non-vulgar version of “pulled it out of their ass” ? It's a useful phrase, but not one to be used in professional environments. 

For example:

  

There is no way John’s projections for next year’s sales are accurate. He ____.

Q: Where does the phrase "dry run" come from?

I've heard the phrase "dry run" being used with the meaning of rehearsal, experiment or test exercise in various contexts. For example:

- 

They did a dry run of the demonstration before showing it to the CEO.

- 

Practice with a dry run. Organise a dress rehearsal within two weeks of the wedding to ensure...

- 

A dry run of the software release will be executed to ensure that the release plan is correct and clear to everybody.  

However, wet run would not make sense in any of these contexts. So, why "dry"? Where does "dry run" come from?

Q: Should I use " related" or "-related"

What is the correct use of the term "related?"  For example, should I use it like  computer related, or is it more proper to use computer-related (where the word "computer" is just part of my example?)

Are the cases where it is used in one form and case in another form, or should it always be used in only one way?

Q: Is there a word for four times as much, analogous to once, twice, and thrice?

Is there a word for 'four times as much', analogous to once, twice, and thrice?

Q: What were the rules for capitalising nouns in the 17th and 18th centuries?

It seems to have been common practice in the 17th and 18th centuries in English-language sources to capitalise the first letters of nouns, as in

At which Time he prov'd himself the Noah's Dove, that finding himself no Rest anywhere, was receiv'd again into his own Ark, and brought a peaceable Olive-Leaf in his mouth.

— Titus Britannicus: an Essay of History Royal (1685)

Most original sources I can find on the web have used modern rules for capitalisation, so I have a few questions:

- Was the practice used for all nouns (Note mouth isn't capitalised in my quotation above.)?

- When did this practice begin?

- When and why did it end?

Q: "Insecure" or "unsecure" when dealing with security?

Which is the appropriate word to be used in the sentence: 

  

The system we were testing was determined to be insecure/unsecure.

The usage is in the context of security, specifically a lack thereof.

I've always said insecure, because I didn't believe unsecure was a word (although unsecured is).  Even as I type this, I'm getting a spell check complaint about it.  However, I was laughed at once when I called a particular device "insecure."

A: Pulled it out of thin air works well. It keeps the pulled which reminds people of the phrase you're avoiding, while out of thin air  means from nothing. A (probably older) variation is plucked out of thin air. 

You also hear pulled it out of their rear end/backside but I guess these versions don't really help much.

A: Hicks, Valentine, Morrow, and McDonald wrote a paper in the field of game design, entitled "Choosing Natural Adjective Ladders", suggesting the following ladder of adjectives in order:

  

Abysmal, Awful, Bad, Poor, Mediocre, Fair, Good, Great, Excellent, Amazing, Phenomenal.

  - quoted under the Open Gaming License at the end of the linked paper.

These adjectives look like they would apply to roads as well.

@BESW reported an updated ladder in the comments to this answer. (Thanks!)

Listing the adjectives in the same order as above from worst to best, we see:

  

Terrible, Poor, Mediocre, Average, Fair, Good, Great, Superb, Fantastic, Epic, Legendary.

The original list was copyrighted 2006; the new list, 2013-2015. The new list is used in a game and the researchers and research aren't referenced on the page. It would appear that mediocre has become more so, but poor is still considered to be worse than mediocre.

A: Rearrange the deck chairs on the Titanic &mdash; Wiktionary

  

To do something pointless or insignificant that will soon be overtaken by events, or that contributes nothing to the solution of a current problem.

A: What about "morning routine" ?

  

routine: procedure, practice, pattern, drill, regime, regimen, groove

Also, Merriam Webster has as an example for routine:

  

A brisk walk is part of her morning routine

A: Cast pearls before swine

It was first used in the Bible (Matthew 7:6), so it originally had religious overtones, but you can use it in the secular sense too: 

  

(idiomatic) To give things of value to those who will not understand
  or appreciate it.

-- Wiktionary

A: More succintly, and less formally, there is also "You snooze, you lose!"

  

(idiomatic) If you are not alert and attentive, you will not be successful.

https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/you_snooze_you_lose

A: No, it's a sensible phrase that tells you two separate things: a) the speaker believes X is possible, b) the speaker is emphasizing a very high level of certainty about this belief. 

There's no apparent contradiction necessary for an oxymoron because certainty and possibility are different, non-exclusive, non-dependent things. We can give an example for every combination of a level of certainty and a level of possibility:

- Solar powered air travel is certainly possible. It's not commercially viable yet, but there's a concept plane that proves it can be done.

- Hoverboards are probably possible, but I don't know how they could work except over a magnetic surface.

- Teleportation might be possible. There are a couple of mechanisms by which it theoretically might work, but it might well not actually be possible to engineer, though it's hard to see how this impossibility could ever be proved. For the foreseeable future, it'll remain a definite maybe. 

- Time travel is probably impossible, it barely makes logical sense. But I'd love to be proved wrong.

- Perpetual motion machines are certainly impossible, they defy fundamental laws of physics.

Of course in day to day use, the phrase "certainly possible" is usually more about subtext, often in the context of "That's certainly possible, but not easy", where the certainty about the possibility is contrasted with some complicating factor or caveat, often to stress willingness (implying "I'm not trying to be awkward here and I do absolutely 100% agree that X is possible, but..."). 

For example:

- You'd like to change your booking? Of course, I'll do that right now [this is easy and routine]

- You'd like to change your booking? That's certainly possible, I'll just talk you through the procedure [I'm extremely confident it can be done, but there might be complications that might make you reconsider your choice. I'm stressing the fact it's definitely possible so you know that I'm happy to go through those complications if that's your choice, so that you don't think I'm being obstructive or trying to talk you out of it]

- You'd like to change you booking? That's probably possible, I'll just check with my supervisor [I'm not completely confident that it can be done, you should start thinking about what you will do if it is not possible] 

"Certainly probable" could be argued as being an oxymoron, because like the popular oxymoron "Definitely maybe", both parts relate to probability or certainty. 

But probability and possibility are different things. Successfully arguing that "certainly possible" is an oxymoron is probably impossible .

A: In engineering, a choice that can only be "yes" or "no" is called binary or Boolean (after the mathematician George Boole).

Edit:
Apparently, the word binary has leaked out of purely technical contexts.  From a review of a TV movie:

  

The final act offers a binary choice: love or hate, forgiveness or vengeance, truth or consequences.

And now there is non-binary sex.  I guess that would be "analog sex"...

A: 'Ablutions' or 'morning ablutions' is the generic term for washing, toothbrushing, showering, bathing, toenail cutting, shaving, hairwashing, nose-hair clipping, and the usual bodily functions. 

The fact that the sayings are both in the plural emphasises that there is more than one activity being referred to, not just, say, washing.

The OED says of 'ablute' :

  

b. intr. To wash oneself; to bathe.

1959   C. MacInnes Absolute Beginners 183   I put on some music and abluted, then made two Nescafés.
2002   Derbyshire Life & Countryside Nov. 128/2   I abluted in a staff loo.., observed the female contingent and then rejoined the march in a bloated Pall Mall.

However, colloquially the term is being taken to mean more than just washing as is witnessed by its use by Tom Ford in a Top Gear piece, written in 2017/2018, where he makes it clear that he includes defecation (he includes a 'hygienic' shovel in his equipment) :

  

I ponder some more on this the next morning while taking care of my morning ablutions away from camp equipped with a hygenic shovel. 

The OED makes it clear that 'ablutions' is :

  
  
- Frequently humorous (with mock formal tone). The action or an act of washing oneself; personal cleansing; bathing. Now usually in pl.
  

I take it that the very archaic nature of the expression is being used in humour and also being used euphemistically in that the whole range of bathroom activity is being politely included within a single term.

A: I feel like I'm walking into some kind of trolling here, but I believe the joke is based around the definition of "comes" which is synomymous with "ejaculates".  

In other words, the joke is implying that volume of the elephant's ejaculate is rather large: a "quart" of course being another word for a quarter of a gallon, aka two pints.  

The first-glance reading of "comes in quarts" would be "is available in quarts" (like milk), and the reversal of the understood meaning of "comes" is where the humour arises (if it does arise).

A: The Company Credo. Merriam Webster says about credo:

  

Credo comes straight from the Latin word meaning "I believe", and is
  the first word of many religious credos, or creeds, such as the
  Apostles' Creed and the Nicene Creed. But the word can be applied to
  any guiding principle or set of principles. Of course, you may choose
  a different credo when you're 52 than when you're 19. But here is the
  credo of the writer H. L. Mencken, written after he had lived quite a
  few years: "I believe that it is better to tell the truth than to lie.
  I believe that it is better to be free than to be a slave. And I
  believe that it is better to know than to be ignorant".

Many thanks to @ThunderGuppy for suggesting a definition from Collins English Dictionary that fits the question better and acknowledges that a credo does not have to start with I believe.

  

A credo is a set of beliefs, principles, or opinions that strongly
  influence the way a person lives or works.

A: Go down a rabbit hole

To enter into a situation or begin a process or journey that is particularly strange, problematic, difficult, complex, or chaotic, especially one that becomes increasingly so as it develops or unfolds.

"Owning your own business is a huge responsibility that not everyone is prepared for. Are you sure you're ready to go down the rabbit hole?"

"I've stayed away from drugs and alcohol since coming to college. I have an addictive personality, so I decided to just avoid going down that rabbit hole altogether."

"Overhauling the current tax legislation is a rabbit hole I don't think this administration should go down at this point."

It's probably a reference to Alice's Adventures In Wonderland, (often referred to as Alice In Wonderland) which starts off with the titular heroine following a strange looking rabbit down a hole, after which all sorts of strange events unfold.

A: A common expression for this is to fall flat (from the "idioms" section of thefreedictionary.com):

fall flat

- if an entertainment or a joke falls flat, people do not enjoy it and do not think it is funny Several attempts at humour during his
speech fell flat.

- if an attempt to influence people's behaviour or opinions falls flat, it fails The advertising campaign which had worked so well in
the US fell flat in China. The statement that pregnancy is not an
illness falls flat with many morning sickness sufferers.

The first meaning is the one you're after, so you could say:

I told a joke but it fell flat.

A: Time and tide wait for no man, is an English proverb with a similar meaning.

A: The first part of the joke is the setup, a general question or observation which offers an opportunity to give the punchline in response.

The joke is the setup and punchline combined, as either on its own is not inherently funny, in contrast to a one-liner. To the setup and punchline may also be added tags, additional punchlines using the same setup, and toppers, additional punchlines which use the entire earlier joke as a setup.

A: "Hole in the wall"?

Here's the definition from Oxford Dictionaries:

  

hole in the wall 1. chiefly North American A small dingy place, especially a bar or restaurant

Another definition from English Daily:

  

Definition  A small, simple place, particularly a shop or restaurant
  
  

Example Let's go to the Italian restaurant on Smith Street. It's just
  a hole in the wall, but the food is excellent.
  
  

Etymology   This phrase has been used since the early 1800s. A 'hole' is
  an empty space, and a 'wall' is part of a building. So a 'hole in the
  wall' is a simple, undecorated space in a building.

Note that today it is almost always used about food establishments; less so about shops.

A: This can be considered a mantra.

  

a word or phrase that is repeated often or that expresses someone's basic beliefs

[MW]

Typically a mantra is smaller, but the word evokes the kind of thoughtless droning mantra implies. I imagine this is the case in your office.

A: "Batteries not included" is a message you might find on the packaging of an electrically powered toy.  Essentially it means that you should not expect the toy to work straight out of the box, and that you have to provide an essential component yourself to power it, namely the batteries. 

So in this metaphorical context, the comment seems to be suggesting Python's  module does not provide the parser you are looking for, and you might have to put in a significant amount of extra effort yourself to provide what is missing, so as to get the whole thing to work as you expect.

A: f  vs  ſ

That’s merely a “long s”, not an f.

Therefore, it is not a weefil but rather a weeſil — meaning of course, a weasel.

We can rule out weevil be­cause it 
has the look not of a bug but of a muste­line
crit­ter.

Here are some ex­am­ples in var­i­ous faces — name­ly, in ro­man, ital­ic,
script, un­cial, and black­let­ter faces — of just how con­fus­ing this
can some­times be to the un­ini­ti­at­ed:

Although the “long s” is per­haps es­pe­cial­ly known for its use in
black­let­ter (al­so known as Frak­tur) faces, and black­let­ter forms 
are of­ten as­so­ci­at­ed with Ger­many, in fact the long s orig­i­nat­ed
in Ro­man times, long be­fore Gut­en­berg in­vent­ed mov­able type. It was
reg­u­lar­ly used in hand­writ­ing for many, many cen­turies, and sur­vived 
in­to our mod­ern ro­man and ital­ic faces as shown above.

The let­ter that re­mains part of Ger­man but is no longer used in English 
is the “sharp s”, which orig­i­nat­ed as a lig­a­ture con­nect­ing a “long 
s” with a “round s”: ſ + s = β, in a man­ner of speak­ing. Some of
the spe­ci­mi­na shown above make this es­pe­cial­ly ob­vi­ous if you look
close­ly at the dif­fer­ence on the end of sin­ful­ness and 
self­ish­ness as shown in the sec­ond ver­sus the third col­umn.

See al­so the ques­tion Dur­ing what pe­ri­od of his­to­ry did English use 
“ß”, the “sharp s” lig­a­ture?

A: Generally, the word personal is used in these scenarios to indicate (or just emphasize) that the matter is, in fact, personal (from themselves without any other context to affect it). Let's take a look at your example sentences.

  

She is a personal friend of mine.

Without the "personal" there, there's no telling exactly how they're friends. A friend from work? A friend from school? Calling the friend a personal friend implies a somewhat less superficial relationship.

  

It's my personal opinion...

A person can have multiple opinions on a matter. For example, a climate scientist's professional opinion on whether global warning is an anthropogenic phenomenon would probably be that the evidence points towards it being so, while personally they may think it's just the perpetuation of natural climate cycles.

And as some others have pointed out, a public figure might prefix her opinion with "personal" when talking publicly in order to separate her own opinion from the opinion of her company or organization.

  

Personally, I would advise you...

A lawyer might give his friend who isn't a client some off-the-record advice on what will happen should they take a lawsuit or proceeding. A police officer might give a person he's talking to some unofficial guidance as to how to deal with a charge he's filing.

  

The manager said he will examine the matter personally.

If the manager were not examining the matter personally, he might examine it via one of his subordinates who would give him a report of the matter.

  

Personally, I don't care whether...

Again, a person may be forced to assume a particular impersonal opinion by virtue of their occupation. A traffic officer might not personally care that somebody's driving 20 km/h above the speed limit on a highway when everybody else is 15 over, but professionally he could never say that.

  

I have a personal interest in the matter.

If you advocate against pirating a game developer's games because you have stock investments in their company and don't want to see your investment lost, that's a business interest. If you advocate against pirating those games just because you think piracy is wrong and people shouldn't be stealing, that's a moral interest. But if you advocate against pirating those games because you like that developer's games and want to continue to have more games from that developer to play, that's a personal interest.

So yes, the word personal is indeed useful in these contexts, and not completely redundant either.

A: Man in Old English could be either gendered or non-gendered. We inherited that ambiguity. 

In Old English, man referred to both an adult male and a human being of either sex. Here is Stephen A. Barney in Word-Hoard: An Introduction to Old English Vocabulary, entry 8: 

  

Mann serves for both "adult male" and "human being (of either sex)," in English; the other Germanic langs. adopted distinct words for the two senses: ModG Mann and Mensch "human being." The latter form occurs in OE (not in our texts) as mennisc (adj.) "human(s)," which survived to the 12th c. The OE terms which discriminate sexes are wer (Lat. vir) and wif (+ man = woman). ModG, like OE, has man in nom. (unstressed) meaning "one" (cf. French on). 

Compounds include an early version of mankind, man-cynn. So what we have is a word that can refer to either adult males or human beings. Furthermore, it was sometimes hard to distinguish these uses. While the context makes telling them apart easily enough in this usage OED: 

  

lOE   Anglo-Saxon Chron. (Laud) anno 639   Þæs dohter wæs gehaten Ercongota halifemne, & wundorlic man. (This daughter was called Eorcengota holywoman and wonderful man) 

Can you tell which man is meant in the next two uses? Testicles makes the second men obvious. The first manne (referring to men being hanged for thievery) is rather harder, unless you believe that only men could be hanged for thievery. 

  

lOE   Anglo-Saxon Chron. (Laud) (Peterborough contin.) anno 1124   Þet wæron on þa litle hwile ealles feower & feowerti manne, & six men spilde of here ægon & of here stanes. (There were in a little while four and forty men*, and six **men spoiled of their eyes and their testicles.) 

Or how about the following usage? In the Old English Homilies, did Jesus became both man (an adult male) or man (a human being) for us? Either fits. 

  

a1200   MS Trin. Cambr. in R. Morris Old Eng. Homilies (1873) 2nd Ser. 199 (MED)   He bi-com man for us. 

Also, to the extent we've been discussing a word in a language that still had grammatical gender, man in Old English is masculine. While grammatical gender should not be confused with biological gender (see Latin poeta, agricola, incola, nauta, all appear feminine in form but function masculine when modified by adjectives and most likely refer to men), grammatical gender doesn't help us distinguish semantically gender-neutral cases here. 

So it would oversimplify to calling this usage gender-neutral OR strictly gendered, since the reading as adult male and the reading as human being may lead to ambiguity. Furthermore, such ambiguity doesn't exist for any word that refers to women - wif, bryd, faemne, cwene, and other words for women do not enjoy double-status as words referring to humans in general. Thus, while Old English man could be used to refer to human beings (including individual women), man (and the adult male it sometimes refers to) possesses a dual quality that woman and other female terms lack.

A: Originally, the drive was not the storage device. It was the mechanism that you mounted the storage device onto.¹ Spools of tape were mounted on the motor spindle of a tape drive, and disk packs and floppy disks were mounted on the motor spindle of a disk drive. The drive imparted to them a spinning motion:

As disk technology matured, it became common for disks to be permanently sealed and non-removable – that is, the disk and the drive became one device. People referred to this device informally as either the disk or the drive. It also became common to refer to it as the hard drive to distinguish it from the floppy drive installed in the same cabinet.²

When companies came along with devices which performed the same function as sealed disk drives, they called them drives too, in order to make clear that they were marketing disk drive replacements: RAM drives, ZIP drives, USB drives, thumbdrives. And when remote file storage functionally replaced these storage devices, it often got the drive label as well: network drive, Google Drive, OneDrive.³

In short, while the word drive still has its original meaning, it now also has a figurative meaning: it can refer to any storage device that takes the place of a traditional storage drive.

Many end users have begun referring to the entire tower or system unit of a personal computer as the hard drive, a further broadening of the term.⁴
Notes

For more about the history of disk drives, see the Wikipedia article “History of hard disk drives”. Much of what I’ve written here also relies on personal knowledge: I have been in the industry for 40 years.

- 

Drive in this original sense is attested in American English by Collins English Dictionary:

- Drive, American English sense 28, “a device that communicates motion to a machine or machine part”. (Collins)

- See also the example in American English sense 27a, “any apparatus that transmits power in a motor vehicle: a gear drive”. (op. cit.)

- 

The derivative, computing-specific senses of drive are also attested by Collins. You can see the progressive shift of meaning from the device that transmits motion to the assembly as a whole:

- Drive, American English sense 29, “(computing) a unit that reads and writes data on magnetic tape, a disk, etc.” (op. cit.)

- Disk drive, “(computing) the controller and mechanism for reading and writing data on computer disks”. (Collins)

- Hard drive, “hard disk, or the part that contains the hard disk … a computer drive for hard disks, often, specif., such a drive as distinguished from a floppy-disk drive in the same computer”. (Collins)

- 

See for example in Collins:

- Thumb drive, “a thumb-sized portable computer hard drive and data storage device”.  (Collins)

- 

This usage is not yet attested by a dictionary, but is frequently attested by professionals in information technology who work with the public. Representative samples from the wild:

He said he was having a problem with a port on the hard drive... of course he'd actually blown the controller chip on his USB card and the hard drive was just fine (Urban Dictionary, 2003)

When I used to do IT support, the terms "CPU" and "hard drive" were common. As an IT guy I cringed, but at least I knew what people were talking about. (English Language & Usage, 2014)

the blinking lights I'm seeing on my hard drive 2 blinks pause then 3 blinks pause (personal correspondence, 2017)

A: I think "you're welcome" means one person gave to the other. In situations where both parties perceive that they are receiving, they both say thank you.

A: The OP describes exhaustive and mutually exclusive cases, with two options or outcomes. In statistics, this segmentation of the possible outcomes in a finite number of choices is often called a categorical variable. When the variable only takes two values, it is generally termed:

- dichotomous variables (which was first proposed by @plagueheart, and I did not see it at the time of my answer), from Greek dikhótomos, “cut in half” or "cut in two".

or

- binary (already proposed by @Malvolio), for "appearing in pairs" (not directly related to the binary or base-2 number system) or Bernoulli variables. The related categories are often denoted by values 0 and 1 (very "binary" in the logical or computer sense), or  1 and 2.

Sometimes, categorical variables are segmented into: nominal, ordinal or dichotomous. Sometimes, people  use "categorical variables" only for cases of three or more possible outcomes (multi-way, n-ary or polytomous), as opposed to 2-ary case.

Binary and dichotomous are sometimes considered synonyms. They both contains the root 2 (di- or bi-). For some, binary variables form a sub-species of dichotomous variables, whose values are assigned either a 0 or 1 label or binary state.  The suffix -tomy ("to cut", like in atom, with privative "a-", which cannot be cut) in dichotomy seems more precise than the concept of arity, that denotes two objects or operands ("binary stars", "binary operation"), without clear reference to the mutual exclusion.

With 0 or 1 binary labels, it remains possible to perform mathematical  operations on variables (like averaging) and to quantize or dichotomize the result afterward, while it is more difficult to "average" red and not-red dichotomous categories.

[EDIT] After some comments, one can wonder about the correct use of "binary" vs "dichotomous", the latter being at first glance the correct one. However, the use of binary is widespread. I tend to consider "binary" as a metonymy for the   dichotomous case, as illustrated in the Yin-Yang symbol:

There are two categories: the shady side (yin), and the non-shady or sunny side (yang). They are mutually exclusive (although intricated and dual). But one could describe them has black and white, with colors represented by  0 and 1. In other words, labels 0 and 1 somehow encode the two possible outcomes, and the 0  and 1 symbols inherit from the mutually exclusive nature of the binary numbers.

Additional details are provided in What is the difference between “dichotomous”, “binary”, “boolean”, etc.?

A: A good term for this is double bluff. Collins defines it as:

  

a truthful action that is executed as if it were a bluff

If you have a good position and make it appear you do not (by faking a tell, loudly proclaiming your ace-high flush, etc) in order to goad them into calling your bluff, you are double bluffing.

This can also be applied the other way. If you have a weak hand, you could double bluff by actually signalling a weak hand in some way, making your opponent assume you're lying (because who signals a weak hand?).

A: If you are a hammer, everything looks like a nail.

The usual form of this saying is

If all you have is a hammer, everything looks like a nail,

but the above form is used, and might be closer to what you want.

A: Sate, "To satisfy; fill up" is the usual term.

In etymology, quench and sate are somewhat parallel:  quench derives via an Old English word from a Proto-Germanic word, while sate derives via a Middle English word from an Old English word from a West Germanic word.

Note, sate came into use half-a-century before satiate, the latter directly from Latin satiatus, pp. of satiare, "fill full, satisfy", and the former from M.E. saden ("become satiated") as an  alteration under the influence of L. satiare.

A: According to linguist John McWhorter the answer is indeed history. Older terms accumulate baggage and are replaced by new terms in what is called the Euphemism Treadmill:

Crippled began as a sympathetic term. However, a sad reality of human society is that there are negative associations and even dismissal harboured against those with disabilities. Thus crippled became accreted with those overtones, so to speak, to the point that handicapped was fashioned as a replacement term free from such baggage.

However, because humans stayed human, it was impossible that handicapped would not, over time, become accreted with similar gunk. Enter disabled, which is now long-lived enough that many process it, too, as harbouring shades of abuse, which conditions a replacement such as differently abled.

— Euphemise this: McWhorter on The Euphemism Treadmill

A: Because every attempt to change it makes the law more complex and more expensive.  The archaic terms, like 'plaintiff' and 'writ' had clear definitions, partly because they had been hammered out over generations.  A well-intentioned attempt to make it easier for the layman to understand (which every new Government tries to bring in) replacing them with 'claimant' and 'claim form' ends up causing confusion at the margins: if one partner in a marriage starts the divorce process but makes no financial claim while the other does, which one is the claimant?  A writ was different in important respects from an originating summons; if both are replaced by a Claim Form, does the distinction survive?  And, of course, confusion at the margins is where lawyers are needed, and where it gets expensive.

This is not pure guesswork on my part; in 2000, the British courts made a huge effort to simplify the civil courts' language and procedure.  Everybody agreed that it was overdue, as the Rules of the Supreme Court were over a thousand pages long, and had to be re-issued every two years. Several of the brightest people in the country spent years rewriting the rules, and I was one of the people who had to try to make it work.  It failed miserably; it turned out that words mean different things in different contexts (as any contributor here knows), so to replace one archaic term needed several near-synonyms, and each occurrence had to be scrutinised by the whole committee to see which applied.  In practice, of course, this was impossible. 

(As an analogy, try to debug a thousand-page program where each occurrence of each variable has to be replaced with one of six alternatives, but nobody knows which; and, of course, regular updates change both the variables and the structure while you're working. Large parts of it are safety-critical, since it bears on the liberty of the subject; and it has to be compatible with other systems across the world, in a variety of languages and with different philosophies.)  

The current Civil Procedure Rule book is heading towards two thousand pages, and is replaced every year, with quarterly updates.
And, of course, the expense and confusion were not blamed on the politicians who ordered the change (and moved on before it happened), but on the lawyers and civil servants.

TL;DR: Because archaic English is clear and logical, while modern replacements are more confusing than helpful.

A: I'm surprised "For crying out loud!" isn't in here yet.

A: Taking the classical approach, optimal derives from optimus, the Latin superlative to bonus, meaning good.

Looking at the Latin for bad, that is malus.

  

bonus -> melior -> optimus

  malus -> peior -> pessimus

So analogous to optimus becoming optimal, pessimus would become pessimal.

All that said, I have never heard that word used.

We do use plenty of the forms of Latin good and bad, as in ameliorate, pejorative, optimal, optimist and pessimist.
However, pessimal never seems to have made it far in the popularity contests - it did get into the dictionaries though!

A: You could call this situation black and white. 

Some might argue this isn't a single word, but it does get its own entry in some dictionaries. NOAD says:

  

black and white (adj.) (of a situation or debate) involving clearly defined opposing principles or issues: there is nothing black and white about these matters.

The website vocabulary.com lists this definition:

  

black and white (adj.) of a situation that is sharply divided into mutually exclusive categories

When something is black and white, we might also say, "There are no shades of gray." 

Here's an instance from a news story:

  

A Scotland Office spokesman said: “The situation is black and white, the solution must come from outside government.”

Lastly, I enjoy this amusing quote about politics, attributed to Peter Thorneycroft:

  

The choice in politics isn't usually between black and white. It's between two horrible shades of gray.

A: People say orientated because they hear the word orientation and think that's the verb made from it. It's called a "back-formation". (See Why are "colleagues" becoming "work colleagues"?). Orientated is accepted as an alternate by most dictionaries I've seen.

To orient something comes from the medieval practice of building cathedrals so that the apse, the part of the building that contained the altar, would be on the eastern side (hence orient).

(I suppose if they screwed up and got it the other way around the architects just shrugged and said, "Well, occidents will happen.")

A: If you need to know for sure, go to the source!

Video presentation about Git by Linus Torvalds

This confirms that  is the expected pronunciation.

A: The city names you quote are all derived from Spanish, where "San" (or "Santo", as @tchrist clarifies below) is the male inflection and "Santa" the female one. However, Santa Claus isn't derived from Spanish, but from Dutch, where it was originally rendered as Sante Klaas, and was modified to Santa when it was adopted into English (and from English, to the rest of the world). Here's Etymonline's take on it:

  

from dialectal Dutch Sante Klaas, from Middle Dutch Sinter Niklaas "Saint Nicholas,"

English, like all other languages, borrows words from many sources, and they often carry over remnants of their original grammar or usage, even when it makes for inconsistent usage in English.

A: If you want to express thanks to a "higher power" but want to name it something other than God, (or God-related, like "thank heavens" "praise the lord", "lord have mercy" "hallelujah" etc.) you could say "thank goodness". "Goodness" can mean more than just lucky happenstance in that situation. 

If you want to just say that it is fortunate she was not injured, due to nothing more than the particulars of the accident, you could say "thank her lucky stars" or "thankfully, she was not hurt". 

I interpret many insurance accident claims phone calls, and I've noticed that most insurance company accident claims processors will avoid faith-based terms by expressing their own relief to know that no one was injured with statements like, "I'm glad to hear no one was hurt," "I'm sorry for your experience, but it's so fortunate that there were no injuries," "what a relief to know everyone is okay."

I agree with many that "thank God" is used ubiquitously, regardless of faith, religion, or spirituality.

A: It is called the Baader-Meinhof phenomenon or the frequency illusion.

Baader-Meinhof is the phenomenon where one stumbles upon some obscure piece of information⁠—often an unfamiliar word or name⁠—and soon afterwards encounters the same subject again, often repeatedly. Anytime the phrase “That’s so weird, I just heard about that yesterday” would be appropriate, the utterer is hip-deep in Baader-Meinhof. 

damninteresting.com / The Baader-Meinhof Phenomenon, by Alan Bellows, March 2006

Stanford linguistics professor Arnold Zwicky coined [the term "frequency illusion"] in 2006 to describe the syndrome in which a concept or thing you just found out about suddenly seems to crop up everywhere.
It’s caused, he wrote, by two psychological processes. The first, selective attention, kicks in when you’re struck by a new word, thing, or idea; after that, you unconsciously keep an eye out for it, and as a result find it surprisingly often. The second process, confirmation bias, reassures you that each sighting is further proof of your impression that the thing has gained overnight omnipresence. 

psmag.com / There's a Name for That: The Baader-Meinhof Phenomenon / by Pacific Standard staff

Additional reading: 

itre.cis.upenn.edu / Just Between Dr. Language and I / by Arnold Zwicky on Language Log

Update, July 2022:

Since then, OED1 has added the definitions for both terms as well:

- Baader-Meinhof phenomenon, from 1994:

attributive. Designating a quirk of perception whereby a phenomenon to which one is newly alert suddenly seems ubiquitous. Chiefly in Baader-Meinhof phenomenon. 

Also called the frequency illusion

- frequency illusion, from 2005:

n. a quirk of perception whereby a phenomenonbr>to which one is newly alert suddenly seems ubiquitous. 

Also called the Baader-Meinhof phenomenon

1 Subscription required.

A: I believe that there is a famous Christmas song that implores us to be good for goodness' sake. Though this is still a euphemism, it is certainly more secular than God, Christ, or Pete(r).

A: The verb provide has two different subcategorisation frames:

- provide something [ to somebody]

- provide somebody with something

In the first, the material provided is the object, in the second the recipient is the object. 

Both are valid, and both are in common use. The difference between them is the with phrase, which must be there to get meaning 2: if there is only one (direct) object, then meaning 1 is the relevant one (the to phrase is optional). 

The stranding you are doing can be grammatical, but because you are using with, it is grammatical only if the recipient is explicit as the direct object

  

We add the information the study provides us with to our article.

(Thanks to Jonathan Spirit for the example)

If you are not expressing the recipient, you need to use pattern 1, which has no with:

  

We add the information the study provides to our article.

A: Since, 1810, forms like James’s (which I will call type A) have generally been more commonly used than forms like James’ (type B), according to my research using the Corpus of Historical American English (COHA).

I compared a number of names ending in -s looking for possessive forms with and without a final s. Here is a graph comparing incidences of type A and type B forms:

.
The y-axis shows the difference in incidence between types A and B. If it is above 0, that means that type A was more common in that period; if below 0, that means type B was more common. The raw data used to generate the chart is in this Google Spreadsheet.

Here’s the same data, shown cumulatively:

For the 14 names tested, type A has been more common throughout the period beginning in 1810, except for the decades starting in 1850, 1940, and 1950.

Overall, it is quite clear that type A forms (e.g. James’s) predominate, and have done so for nearly two hundred years. Nevertheless, type B forms are also quite common, and during the 1930s to the 1960s, a number of names had more incidences using type B. But since 1970, most names have had a majority of usage in type A. As for the original question’s example of James, throughout almost the entire period, excluding 1820, incidences of James’s has strongly outnumbered incidences of James’.

A: Both sets of words come from a Proto-Indo-European root *kʷ(o)- that probably marked an interrogative pronoun. In the Germanic languages, Grimm's Law spirantized this *kʷ into /xw/ or /hw/, which later merged with /w/ in many Germanic languages (Dutch wat, German was, Swedish vad, etc.), though not all: English has what (in some dialects still pronounced with and unvoiced /ʍ/), Icelandic has hvað /kvað ~ xvað/, and Norwegian is probably the silliest, having dialectal and lexical variation between /v ~ kv ~ k ~ Ø/ (the last only before back vowels).

In Latin, *kʷ remained in most words as /kw/ (written ⟨qu⟩), so we have quis, quod, quam, etc. from this root. Cūr is from the same root, but before a high back vowel /u/ the labial element in /kw/ was usually lost in Latin, so early Latin quōr /kwoːr/ (which regularly became quūr /kwuːr/) yielded cūr /kuːr/. Even where Latin kept the labial element in /kw/, though, it usually (though not always) disappeared in the Romance languages, the daughter languages of Latin, leaving just a /k/ as in Spanish que, Italian che, French quand, etc.

 

In the other branches of Indo-European languages, the development was generally as follows:

Greek: in the largest dialect group, Ionic-Attic, PIE /kʷ/ (mostly) became /t/ before front vowels (τίς tis ‘who’, τί ti ‘what’) and /p/ elsewhere (ποῦ ‘where’). In some other dialects, it (at least sometimes) turned into /k/.

Balto-Slavic: In Slavic it generally resulted in /k/ before back vowels and č /tʃ/ before front vowels (Old Church Slavonic čьto ‘what’, kъto ‘who’); in Baltic generally /k/ everywhere (cf. Lithuanian kas ‘who, what’).

Celtic: It became /k/ in Goidelic (Old Irish cia ‘who’, cid ‘what’) and /p/ in Brythonic and Continental Celtic (Old Welsh pwy ‘who’, pa ‘what’).

Indo-Iranian: In Sanskrit it was mostly generalised to /k/ (कः kaḥ ‘who’, किम kim ‘what’), though it should have yielded /c/ before front vowels; in Iranian there was no such generalisation, and it generally became /k/ before back vowels and /tʃ/ before front vowels (Avestan kō ‘who’, čim ‘what’)

Others: In Hittite and Tocharian, it remained /kʷ/ (Tocharian kus, kᵤse /kʷse/ ‘who’, Hittite kui-/kue-/kuu̯a- /kʷi-, kʷe-, kʷa-/). In Armenian it seems to have been irregularly weakened to /h/, which was subsequently lost: the generalized stem հի- hi- became ի- i-, found in words like ինչկ inč’ ‘what’.

[From StoneyB's comment:] Scots English employed /xw/ at least into the 16th century—and spelled it ‹quh›.  See this question.

A: The onus has been discharged.  

See, for example this extract from Equity and Trusts: Text, Cases and Materials by Paul S. Davies, which refers to a case called Re Harwood, and cites an extract from the judge's decision: 

  

'The evidence in this case is so unsatisfactory that I cannot say that
  the onus has been discharged'

If an onus is discharged, it means the person on whom it rested has taken care of it. It doesn't mean that someone has decided they don't need to do it. In the specific example here, the judge was saying the evidence in the case was so poor that he couldn't decide whether the onus had been discharged at all.

A person may 'bear a burden' or 'have an onus placed on him', in just the same way that someone can hand you responsibility for something, metaphorically speaking. But once that burden has been dealt with (fully), the onus is lifted or discharged. "Discharging an onus" - in legal terms - simply means doing what needed to be done; there's no implication of it being 'early'. Finally, just because a term is used in legal works doesn't mean it can't or shouldn't be used in more general conversation too.
  1:

A: Wasn't going to answer this but the phrase invoked childhood memories with the cousins and my great-grandma who was a mild mannered god-loving woman.  I don't think I can remember her ever raising her voice and when she said, "For pity's sake" she looked a little guilty, using that kind of strong language around the great-grandkids.

A: 'Descend,' 'dive,' 'drop,' and 'fall' are all perfectly fine and, in the case of an uncontrolled descent, 'crash' does indeed tend to be the end result (though this refers specifically to what happens when it stops falling due to an undesirable form of contact with terrain.)

However, 'sink' is still perfectly valid to describe the actual falling. Indeed, pilots use the term 'sink' (usually when descending faster than normal) and use the term 'sink rate' to refer to the rate of descent of an aircraft.

From Wikipedia:

  

The rate of decrease in altitude is referred to as the rate of descent or sink rate.

Similarly, Ground Proximity Warning Systems on newer aircraft use the term 'sink' when they produce automated callouts. When an excessive rate of descent is detected by the radio altimeter, the following callout may be generated:

  

Sink Rate! Pull up!

When altitude is lost after takeoff or with a high power setting, the following callout may be produced:

  

Don't Sink!

Source: Wikipedia. Also, I'm a pilot (of small airplanes) and hear the terms frequently used by other pilots.

A: There are two different kinds of things called a "router", with two different pronunciations, originating from two different verbs "route" and "rout". The confusing part of this is that the two pronunciations overlap the two different things.

A router as above (computer thing, from verb "route"), or anything else which routes something, is "rooter" or "rowter" depending on how you pronounce "route" (US English has both "root" and "rowt", British English has only "root")

A router (woodworking tool, from verb "rout", an electrical one is shown above) is "rowter", never "rooter", in both the US and the UK and other countries. The dictionary entry may be referring to the wood tool only.

Source:
Oxford Online Dictionary & 
Cambridge Dictionary

A: damp:

slightly wet, often in an unpleasant way:

moist:

slightly wet, especially in a way that is pleasant or suitable

The same soil would be moist and damp at the same time: moist for planting seeds, and damp for sitting on.

This is the Word Choice note given by Longman Dictionary:  

  

WORD CHOICE:  
  
  

damp, moist, humid  
  
  

Use damp especially to say that something is slightly wet in an unpleasant way:

  • The room was cold and damp.  
  
  

Use moist to say that something is slightly wet in a pleasant way or in the way it should be:

  • She took a mouthful of the delicious moist cake.

  • rich, moist soil  
  
  

Use humid to talk about the weather or the air when it is slightly wet and makes you feel uncomfortable:

  • the hot humid atmosphere of a greenhouse

Source: Longman Dictionary

A: A good prosecutor can indict a ham sandwich.

The original phrase, attributed to New York judge Sol Wachtler, from 1985, went something like this:

  

“[If a district attorney wanted, a grand jury would] indict a ham sandwich.”

It was immortalized in the Tom Wolfe novel "Bonfire of the Vanities" (1987).

The phrase succinctly summarizes the state of legal affairs where a prosecutor can find some law written somewhere that even the most well-behaved citizen has broken. 

Update

For those who think that being indicted is less severe than being convicted, you may want to become familiar with the process and its consequences, as described in Ham Sandwich Nation: Due Process When Everything Is a Crime (Glen Reynolds, Columbian Law Review, July 8, 2013) on how prosecutors might pick the laws they choose to indict under in order to obtain likely conviction. In the end, this can make indictment vs. conviction a distinction without a difference. This is exactly what the OP is describing.

Taking the quote from the article:

  

It would then be up to the junior prosecutors to figure out a plausible crime for which to indict him or her. The crimes were not usually rape, murder, or other crimes you’d see on Law & Order but rather the incredibly broad yet obscure crimes that populate the U.S. Code like a kind of jurisprudential minefield: Crimes like “false statements” (a felony, up to five years), “obstructing the mails” (five years), or “false pretenses on the high seas” (also five years). The trick and the skill lay in finding the more obscure offenses that fit the character of the celebrity and carried the toughest sentences. The, result, however, was inevitable: “prison time.”

So, if the prosecutor wanted to convict someone, then some obscure crime with a severe penalty would be found that would apply.

A: In the UK (and apparently in the USA according to Wikipedia) we often use the term 'greasy spoon cafe' (or just 'greasy spoon') to refer to a small, grubby, generic eaterie of the not-salubrious kind.

  

The name "greasy spoon" is a reference to the typically high-fat, high-calorie menu items such as eggs and bacon. The term has been used to refer to a "small cheap restaurant" since at least the 1920s [my italics]
  
  

www.wikipedia.org

A: This can be called pledge. 

From Merriam-Webster: 

  

PLEDGE (noun):
  
  

a binding promise or agreement to do or forbear.
  
  

a token, sign, or earnest of something else

A: Owners of trademarks are free to make whatever pronouncements they like regarding how people should use their trademarks. Users of the English language, however, have the final say in how the English language works. In American English, Legos is an ordinary, idiomatic plural; in many other dialects, Lego behaves like a mass noun (“some Lego”). Corporate style guides don’t legislate grammar. Lego’s prescriptions (“always an adjective,” “never Legos,” “use ® every time”) are branding preferences. They are not rules of English and are not requirements of trademark law.

We pluralize branded count nouns when that fits community usage: Rolexes, Pumas, Audis, Game Boys—and, for many North American speakers, Legos. Outside North America, many speakers treat Lego as a mass noun (“play with Lego”). Both patterns are real and attested (Wiktionary); neither requires permission from a rightsholder.
What Lego tells the public and fans to do

Lego’s official Fair Play materials ask even non-commercial users and fan sites to:

- Use “LEGO” only as an adjective (“LEGO® bricks”),

- Never say “Legos,”

- Append the ® symbol each time the word appears, and

- Avoid “LEGO” in internet addresses and add disclaimers on fan sites.

The company repeats the “always an adjective, never a noun” formula in its own media (e.g., a spoken legal notice that opens episodes of its official Bits N’ Bricks podcast) and on Twitter (“Never, ever ‘legos’”).  Historically, the web site at legos.com showed a splash message asking visitors to say “LEGO bricks or toys” and not “LEGOS,” then redirected to lego.com; this is documented in a linguistics thesis. Lego also extends these norms into recognized Lego Fan Community governance (e.g., no “LEGO” in a fan community’s name or domain; required disclaimer language).
What the law actually requires

- 

Genericide. In U.S. law, a mark becomes generic only if consumers primarily understand it as the product category rather than the source (the “primary significance” test). Widespread colloquial noun/verb use by itself isn’t enough. See Elliott v. Google (9th Cir. 2017).

- 

Nominative fair use. Journalists, reviewers, and ordinary speakers may use a mark to identify the thing itself without permission and without sprinkling ® everywhere, so long as the use is necessary for identification and doesn’t imply sponsorship. See New Kids on the Block v. News America Publishing (9th Cir. 1992).

- 

“Adjective-only” is branding, not law. Trademark doctrine turns on likelihood of confusion, not parts of speech. As trademark scholar Laura A. Heymann explains, the “trademark-as-adjective” dogma is a marketing simplification that doesn’t track how marks function in real language or in court.

Bottom line: Lego’s “always an adjective / never Legos / ® every time” guidance overstates legal duties for ordinary, non-confusing reference.
Is Lego’s approach “corporate gaslighting”?

Owners of trademarks can ask for careful usage but they can’t redefine grammar. What draws criticism here is the combination of (a) overstated obligations (“adjective-only,” ubiquitous ®, domain bans for fan sites, categorical “never ‘Legos’” edicts treated as grammar), (b) extension into non-commercial speech (fan-community naming, mandatory disclaimers), and (c) social amplification (enlisting fans and official channels to correct others’ everyday speech).

Evidence of scope and intensity matters. Beyond tweets and web pages, Lego’s posture shows up in

- Formal documents and programs like the Fair Play brochure and fan-community rules. By routing recognition and access through usage compliance, Lego launders a corporate preference into a community norm and outsources the shaming of ordinary speakers.

- Domain-name enforcement: for example, the transfer of legobrick.shop under WIPO UDRP D2024-0385, and a long pattern of similar cases.

- Pressure on lexicographers: In 2024, Swedish media Språk, SVT, and Svenska Dagbladet reported that major Swedish dictionaries (SAOL, Svensk ordbok, and Språkrådet’s Lexin) removed entries for “lego,” “legobit,” “legokloss,” etc., after pressure from Lego’s lawyers.

So, is it “corporate gaslighting”? I'll say this: from an institutional-ethics view, à la Bakan's The Corporation, these tactics mimic sociopathic traits: they manage shared reality for gain, narrate risk asymmetrically, and deputize insiders to enforce a story. A speaker’s ordinary, community-standard usage (“I stepped on some Legos”) is labeled “wrong,” and sometimes hinted to be legally wrong, yet the law does not demand the behavior being urged. Combine that with the power asymmetry (a large brand asserting authority over grammar with fans echoing it), and you have the familiar structure of inducing doubt in one’s ordinary competence to serve an institutional objective.

None of this negates legitimate stewardship in commerce, like blocking confusing domain names or counterfeits, but Lego's decades-long linguistic campaign crosses this legitimacy boundary, and I think it's harmful:

- 

Epistemic harm (misstating rules of language and law) : Categorical claims like “always an adjective,” “never ‘Legos’,” and “® each time” are presented as universal obligations, leading readers to believe that nominative use requires permission or use of the ® symbol and that plural nouns are “incorrect”.

- 

Norm-laundering (turning a branding preference into a social rule): Community enforcement gives corporate preferences the appearance of communal obligation, stigmatizing ordinary speech.

- 

Chilling effects on expression: Absolutist messaging plus programmatic rules induce self-censorship (avoiding “Legos,” renaming groups/domains, ritual disclaimers) even where confusion is not at issue.

- 

Power-asymmetry and non-domination concerns: Recognition and access to events, previews, and official channels are conditioned on unilateral linguistic rules. Communities cannot meaningfully contest those rules without losing benefits.

- 

Expressive and dignitary harms: Public correction rhetoric (“Never, ever ‘legos’”) frames common usage as error and invites shaming of ordinary speakers.

- 

Legal-literacy harm: Treating style prescriptions as law obscures the real core legal doctrines of primary significance and nominative fair use and grossly overstates the actual risk of genericide. The threat of a mark being canceled due to common use—like  or  a century ago—is frequently used to justify aggressive enforcement. However, contemporary legal precedent sets a high bar, requiring that the primary meaning of the term to consumers be the product itself, not its source. Modern, famous brands like Lego are exceptionally resilient to genericide. The relentless focus on punishing non-commercial, colloquial speech like saying "Legos" is a disproportionate response to a largely phantom legal threat.

- 

Enclosure of a linguistic commons: Pressuring dictionary publishers shapes how language is recorded and indexed. A company that markets open-ended creativity ought not gatekeep the everyday language people use to describe that creativity.

Practically speaking

- US/Canada (AmE): Legos is common and idiomatic.

- UK/IE/Aus/NZ and elsewhere: Lego often behaves as a mass noun.

- Anyone may voluntarily follow Lego’s house style in professional contexts; no one is obliged to treat it as a rule of English.

- Scolding private speakers for saying “Legos” reflects corporate strategy, not linguistic or legal necessity.

A: I assume by "Sorry to bug you again about this" that you were already given help with "X", so instead of an apology, perhaps a thank you would work better:

  

Thank you for your help with X, but we are still having problems with it and...

This is most likely how I would write it, an apology seems to be an admission that you feel "bad" for asking and can sound "whiny", while a thank you gives the idea that you feel "good" about their previous help and appreciate it.

If you are paying for this service or for support (which you may not be), I wouldn't worry about apologizing for requesting it, especially if your previous request was not attended to.

  

I would like to use examples of the two sentences above in an email directed to an organization, but I would like to avoid using "you" or "bug", if possible.

I don't think it's quite necessary to avoid these two words, but there are a number of options if this is your goal. For example:

  
  
- Sorry to be a bother...
  
- Sorry to burden your staff with this... (still uses a form of "you")
  
- I/We apologize for the repeated request...
  

Personally, in any case I would drop the apology or thank you, in fact all extraneous parts of the email altogether. Busy people like to get things done quickly, and if their staff has a lot of work they'll appreciate a to-the-point email. However, it depends, and I recognize that this viewpoint avoids the literal question of what to replace those two words with.

A: Avoid biweekly altogether. Use fortnightly for "once every two weeks", and twice a week for, well, "twice a week". 

Not everything has to be a single word, so don't be afraid to use more than one word when you want to use clear, understandable, unambiguous language.

If they have problems with fortnightly, use every other week, or let them into a little secret: fortnight comes from "fourteen nights", or two weeks.

Edit: From the comments it's clear many Americans won't understand or are uncomfortable with fortnight  so, to be safe, use the aforementioned every other week.

A: Man-eater and vamp are a little bit "slangy" compared to

  

seductress - a woman who seduces someone, esp. one who entices a man into sexual activity

Per Neil's comment to the question itself, bitch isn't really relevant to the meanings involved here.

Per comments/discussion below, it's probably impossible to come up with a "feminine version of womanizer" that only switches the gender without implying other differences. Language reflects social attitudes, biology, etc., so even a structurally trivial distinction such as seducer/seductress unavoidably entails gender-based preconceptions that OP is probably seeking to avoid.

A: subpar:

adjective

below an average level.

If you want to say something is objectively below average, this would be an adequate word.  I would say it's less subjective than "bad."

"The roads were in subpar condition." (the roads were of below average condition but not necessarily bad in absolute terms)

substandard

adjective

below the usual or required standard.

"The roads were in substandard condition."

A: The object is the difference.

- 

When you agree with someone/something, it means you accept the point of someone/something.

  

I agree with you.
  
  

Matt does not agree with my answer.

- 

You agree on some issue or point of debate.

  

We agreed on this issue.

- 

You agree to demands/queries, or you agree to do something. 

  

He agreed to my demands.
  
  

He agreed to join me for the movie.

A: Your dictionary goes further than Johnson's, for which the entire chapter for X was thus:

X Is a letter, which, though found in Saxon words, begins no word in the English language.

And actually, it's not found in that many Saxon words. Saxon itself was one exception; Seaxe in Anglo-Saxon, as was the seax, the knife from which they took their name. (The Old High German equivalent was Sahsun though, the X wasn't shared with all their neighbours).

While the Latin alphabet adapted (with the addition of Ƿ Þ & Ð and the promotion of Æ from digraph to letter in its own right) for English use had an X, and before that the Anglo-Saxon Futhorc had ᛉ, the ancestor of the Futhorc, the Elder Futhark, had no such rune. [Rect: It had the rune ᛉ, but for a different sound].

So X it would seem was a bit of a novelty. It's also mainly used for a sound that cannot start a syllable in English. Notably, some English words that do start with X come from Greek words that do start with that sound (from Ξ rather than from Χ) get pronounced as do those beginning with Z. These words are also mostly relatively recent imports. (Though Χ is where X originates it has a sound that gets imported into English with the hard CH of Christ or is changed further).

There was a brief period of spelling words that begin with sh or sch with an X in some areas (xal as a spelling of shall), but it didn't catch on.

So, while it was in the English alphabet from the beginning, it wasn't in the alphabet before it, and it was used for a sound that English never uses at the start of a word.

This doesn't give that much of a why, since we can still ask why we don't have the same sounds as Greek, and why the Germanic languages didn't have them to begin with, but that goes beyond what I know on the matter.

I think it can be interesting for analogy to look at the influence of English upon Irish and Scottish Gaelic in relation to the word vote; In both cases in seeing the need to have such a word, and lacking a letter V, the Irish imported the letter and produced votáil, while the Scottish adapted their existing tagh (to choose or select). It could have gone differently (the Irish have togh related to tagh), people speaking either language may argue about whether it is better to import or adapt, but it went the way it did.

And here we're seeing from the outside what happened to English with such Greek words. It could have adopted Greek words that begin with Ξ more directly (learning how to pronounce the sound, instead of changing your xeric example among others) and earlier (so we'd have more such words), and more often, but it didn't.

(I'm sure there are other possible sources of X-words, but I don't know them).

And so, what X-starting words we have are more recent adoptions from Greek, recent coinages, and X-ray that use it as a symbol (it comes from the use of X for an unknown quality).

Edit: It's worth noting that we could easily do without X (a fact which makes it useful in languages only recently written in Latin script - you can press gang X into anything that doesn't fit the existing set of letters without much loss). Of course, various alphabet and spelling reformers have said that of other letters, and that makes it no more likely to happen, but we actually did with connexion which while still sometimes spelt that way is more often found today as connection. Noah Webster argued for the latter "for the sake of regular analogy, I have inserted connection, as the derivative of the English connect, and would discard connexion." which in a way was the invention of a new word by deriving from connect which happened to have the same meaning and pronunciation as the existing connexion. (Connexion was not derived from connect though they did have their roots in derivatives - indeed we briefly had both connex as well as connect but it died out, compare the long coexistance of jail and gaol).

In a way, therefore, it's as remarkable that we have as many words with X (though not at the beginning) as we do. Various words from the *laks Indo-European root for salmon, for example come in with an X where the source does not: We have lox though the original Yiddish is often transcribed laks. While the X in our gravlax isn't unheard of among the Scandanavian sources (gravad lax in Swedish, graflax in Icelandic) some others did fine without it (gravlaks in Norwegian, while the Danes use both that and also gravad laks). When it appears in Viking-originated placenames in Ireland and Scotland an X is used in the Anglicisation though it isn't in the Irish or Gaelic (Leixlip is Léim an Bhradáin in Irish, Laxdale is Lacasdal in Gaelic - happily moving away from the KS sound the Vikings used entirely).

In all, it seems that while we would not go quite as far as Christopher Robin, who noted that the environs of Winnie the Pooh's house included "Big stones and rox", our instincts haven't been that far off his, at least until the 19th Century, when poor connexion began to get it in the neck.

So since so many of our neighbours, linguistically, make less use of it, it's as much of a curiosity that we do use X as often as we do.

A: Authentication is the preferred form in English. The variant authentification is acceptable, but less common—it’s often used by non-native speakers who aren’t aware that it’s less idiomatic in English, because authentification (or an analogue) is the correct form (or at least widely accepted) in many eastern & western European languages:

- Azerbaijani: autentifikasiyası

- Basque: autentifikazio

- Belarusian: аўтэнтыфікацыя (autentyfikatsyja)

- Bosnian: autentifikacija

- Corsican: autentificazione

- Czech: autentifikace

- Danish: autentificering

- Dutch: autenti(fi)catie

- French: authentification

- German: Authenti(fi)kation

- Haitian: otantifikasyon

- Kazakh: аутентификация (autyentifikatsiya)

- Italian: autentificazione

- Latvian: autentifikācija

- Lithuanian: autentifikavimas

- Luxembourgish: authentifikatioun

- Romanian: autentificare

- Russian: аутентификация (autyentifikatsiya)

- Spanish: autenti(fi)cación

- Ukrainian: автентифікація (avtyentifikatsiya)

- Uzbek: autentifikatsiya

(Source: Google Translate—transliterations from Cyrillic are a best effort and may not be standard/accurate for all languages.)

According to the Online Etymology Dictionary and Wikipedia, authentication was the original form, via Latin authenticare, from Greek αὐθεντικός (authentikos), from αὐθέντης (authentis) “author” + -ικός (-ikos) “relating to”—cf. Latin -ic(us).

According to the Oxford English Dictionary, the change to authentification seems to have happened in the mid-18th century—in English at least. It likely arose by analogy with similar words such as personification, modification, ratification, unification, &c., which all include the Latin element -fic-, from ficare, the combining form of facere, “to make”.

A: "Override" is the cancellation of some previous action or decision. "Overwrite" specifically refers to something being written over something previously written. In other words, actions and decisions are overriden. Information is overwritten. Furthermore it is overwritten with new information.

Therefore in your example, overwrite is appropriate:

  

The administrator has the right to overwrite the user time slot for the venue A inside the online system.

A similar example where override would be appropriate is:

  

The administrator has the right to override all venue decisions made in the online system.

edit:

In some contexts, override could be correct. Specifically, consider the following scenario. Say that the meeting is already scheduled to take place in room 117. Then, another employee changes this location to room 119. In this case, the administrator would override this decision, rolling the location back to room 117. 

However, it is equally correct to say that the location was overwritten to room 117, and there is nothing in the original sentence to imply that this scenario is the case. For that reason, I would say that "overwrite" is the best word choice.

A: A dive is any run-of-the-mill, local operation whose culture/decor is far below socially accepted norms. The term comes from dive bar, where a dive is essentially the same thing, except for eateries. Dives typically are unkempt, cheap, lined with buffets, and keep their restrooms locked.

A: This isn't the general answer you're asking for, but was too long for a comment: An excellent example is the Persian Flaw, the namesake of which was when Persians, while weaving rugs intended to be perfectly made, would intentionally add an 'imperfect stitch' or other minor imperfection to honor and demonstrate their spiritual belief that humans can never be perfect.

A: To paraphrase Maslow's Law...

  

Got a hammer, now everything looks like a nail!

The "standard" version is usually given as If all you have is a hammer, everything looks like a nail, but in practice people often use it in contexts where said hammer has only recently been acquired.

A: In Ancient Greek, where both the rhetorical and geometrical terms were invented, they are the same words, employed in different figurative senses:

- A ‘parabole’ is a ‘casting/setting side by side’—using Latin-derived morphs an ‘apposition’ or ‘adjacency’. In rhetoric, it is a comparison, which sets two terms side-by-side; later it denotes a fiction which is ‘set beside’ and parallels (‘lies next to’) reality. In geometry, it is a conic section formed by the intersection of a cone with a plane with the same inclination to the axis as one of the cone’s sides—the plane is parallel to that side.

- A ‘hyperbole’ is a literally a ‘casting/setting above’, more generally an excess. In rhetoric it is an exaggeration, something which speaks of something in excessive terms. In geometry it is another conic section formed by the intersection of a plane with both branches of a cone, in which the inclination of the cutting plane to the axis exceeds that of the cone’s side 

- An ‘ellipsis’ is a ‘falling short, deficiency’. In rhetoric, it denotes the omission of one or more words needed to complete the sense—the utterance thus falls short of completion. In geometry it is a conic section in which the cutting plane’s inclination is less than—falls short of—the inclination of the cone’s side.

A: They fell at the last hurdle1 would be appropriate if that final shortcoming meant the results were completely worthless. In other contexts, Close, but no cigar!2 might be better.

EDIT: Since no-one else seems to have mentioned it, there's also fail at the last hurdle, with an estimated 114 instances in print (vs 410 for fall at the last hurdle, 264 for fall at the final hurdle).

1 yourdictionary

2 thefreedictionary

A: I would call this a company values statement.  (Or possibly a vision statement.)

I wouldn't call it a mission statement or manifesto, because it doesn't define what the company does; only how it does it.

Nor would I call it a credo or mantra, because it doesn't list things that employees believe, only things that they do.

It could be a company pledge, vow, oath, or similar (as per other answers) — but if so, I'd expect everyone to be saying every line, all together.

(And you wouldn't get UK employees to spout this rubbish every morning without a lot of sarcasm…!)

A: The word that appears as lībra in Latin originally, in pre-Latin Italic, meant [1] ‘ingot’ (i.e., the little blocks of metal you put on scales to use as standard units of weights when weighing things); by extension, in Latin times, [2] ‘pound’ (the weight of an ingot) and also [3] ‘balance, scales’ (the thing you put the ingots on). It was from that these synecdochic uses that the meaning was abstracted out to mean [3] ‘weight’ in general. The phrase lībra pondō ‘a pound by weight’ was then used to refer unambiguously to the meaning [2] specifically.

The second word in that phrase, pondus ‘weight’, was borrowed from Latin into some stage of Common Germanic at some point, but in the narrowed sense of lībra pondō—i.e., cutting off the ‘wrong’ half of the sentence. This is then the source of the English word ‘pound’. Similarly, an earlier, Proto-Italic, form of the word lībra (*līðra) was borrowed into Greek, where it became used as a specific measure of liquids: λίτρον/λίτρα ‘litre’.

This is quite similar to how ‘kilo’ (meaning ‘thousand’) has been generalised to a kilogram (a thousand grams), except the latter is a much later development. Or to how ‘mile’ (meaning also ‘thousand’) has come to mean a specific measure of length (originally mīlle passus ‘a thousand paces’ or mīlia passuum ‘thousands of paces’).

It is very common for generic units of measurements to become fixed in meaning to a specific measure of that unit; and also for determiners of measurements to become fixed in meaning to the measurement they are determining.

A: For a usage that implies that something (an object or idea, etc.) appeared from nowhere, you could say, "He pulled it out of thin air."

On the other hand, if what you want is a usage meaning that they are "bullshitting" (as in making something up), then you could say, "He fabricated it out of whole cloth."

A: Another famous aphorism is the following

you can't teach an old dog new tricks.

  

said to mean that it is very difficult to teach someone new skills or to change someone's habits or character (Cambridge Dictionary)

Usually said of people who set in their ways and are well past their twenties or thirties...

A: "Essence" in this context is a synonym for "element", and "essential" for "elemental". In pre-atomic theory, there were four "known" elements or essences — Earth, Air, Fire and Water — and a putative fifth element (quinta essentia). The fifth element was believed to be superior to the others, and so, "quintessential" has come to mean something that is superior.

A: It's normally a joke.

It's 'funny' because "What can I do you for?" is actually a question that would never be asked, except rhetorically.

Do you, as in "I'm gonna do you in" is what a thug would say before he perpetrated violent acts against you. It could also be used by a police man, for example "Do him for possession", so do him is slang for arrest him.

There is also, the more pertinent definition of do you, which is what a swindler would think when tying to think how to trick you: "What can I do you for?" Where what they mean is "What can I get out of you with my tricks?"

Whereas "What can I do for you?" is someone simply asking how they can help. In the context of a barman, it would be asking what drink or other pub service they can provide.

A: As some others have said, both are correct, and it is not wrong to say

I tried to not do that.

However, that is not the full story. Searching the Corpus of Contemporary American for various phrases (not to hold vs to not hold; not to know vs to not know; not to go vs to not go) reveals that the not to ⟨verb⟩ form is far more common:

Verb
Not to ⟨verb⟩
To not ⟨verb⟩
%

Hold
97
6
94

Know
1130
69
94

Go
452
57
88

(Note that I didn't search for "not to [any verb]", because that also picks up certain fixed expressions such as "not to mention ..." which might distort the picture.)

So it's clear that the not to ⟨verb⟩ form is far more common. Furthermore, looking at the context of a sample of the to not ⟨verb⟩ examples, most of them appeared to be in speech (either on the radio, or quoted in a magazine), or very informal writing.

Searching the British National Corpus gives an even clearer bias - there, not to ⟨verb⟩ dominates by about 99%.

So in general usage, it is clear that not to ⟨verb⟩ is preferred by most writers.

Why is this? And when should one choose one expression or the other? Naturally this is rather subjective, so take the following explanation as my personal view on the matter, but note that it is consistent with what a lot of other people think.

- Putting the not in between the to and its verb disrupts the expected flow, creating a slightly jarring effect - the to primes the reader/listener to expect a verb, and so it is a little surprising to find another word there.

- While the so-called rule against "splitting infinitives" is entirely false, there are nonetheless a sizeable proportion of educated people who believe it is an absolute rule, and will be irritated (or at least, think you poorly educated/stupid) if you do. One should never let this fact scare one into writing awfully clumsy sentences to avoid such disapproval, but in cases where there is nothing to be gained by splitting the infinitive, it's a good idea not to, and that is often the case here.

So when might one want to say to not ⟨verb⟩?

- Occasionally this can avoid ambiguity: My aim is not to kill him could either mean I'm not aiming to kill him (i.e. my aim is something other than killing him), or I'm aiming not to kill him (i.e. my aim is keeping him alive). Saying My aim is to not kill him definitely means I'm aiming not to kill him. (In this case I would personally just say I'm aiming not to kill him - but in other circumstances it might not be so easy to rephrase.)

- As I mentioned in the first bullet point above, putting the not after the to goes against the listener's expectations. This can sometimes be used for effect, especially if you want to put particular emphasis on the not.

A: As the doctor also has an appointment with you, doctor's appointment is appropriate in its own right. It is also by far the most common as a set phrase:   

Any other plural usage would be entirely subjective.

Graph source: Google Books Ngram

A: I would go  with octopuses.

That is part of the Wikipedia "Plural form of words ending in -us" article:

  

Currently:
  
  
  
- octopuses is the most common form in the UK as well as the US; 
  
- octopodes is rare, 
  
- and octopi is often objectionable.
  
  
  

The Oxford English Dictionary lists octopuses, octopi and octopodes (in that order);

  it labels octopodes "rare", and notes that octopi derives from the mistaken assumption that octōpūs is a second declension Latin noun, which it is not. Rather, it is (Latinized) Ancient Greek, from oktṓpous (ὀκτώπους), gender masculine, whose plural is oktṓpodes (ὀκτώποδες).

  If the word were native to Latin, it would be octōpēs ('eight-foot') and the plural octōpedes, analogous to centipedes and mīllipedes, as the plural form of pēs ('foot') is pedes.

  In modern Greek, it is called khtapódi (χταπόδι), gender neuter, with plural form khtapódia (χταπόδια).

A: Not according to the Oxford dictionaries:

  

These three are the only words of their type, and no further terms in the series have ever existed.

A: Here's my opinion of your alternatives.

- 

"because" is your best choice for clear, correct, unambiguous communication, especially if you want to be understood easily by other non-native speakers.

- 

"since" is acceptable, although it makes your statement ambiguous; the second meaning would be that statement A became true at the time that statement B became true. Example: "I study more often since I enrolled in class" conveys that when you enrolled in class, then you began studying more often. Rule of thumb: prefer "since" when your intent is to convey "from the time that".

- 

"as" is somewhat acceptable, but in your particular statement structure "as" has more useful meanings of "abstractly analogous" or "synchronously".  Example: "I like apples as you like oranges" conveys that my liking is similar to your liking, i.e. equivalently strong/weak/notable/etc. Example: "I make dinner as you set the table" conveys that we do these tasks at the same time in the same place. Rule of thumb: prefer "as" when your intent is to convey "sameness".

- 

"for" can be acceptable, although I would never expect to hear it in normal conversation. It would come across as overly-academic, or possibly epic or religious. Example: "We eat well tonight, for tomorrow we go to war." Rule of thumb: prefer "for" when you want to be poetic and inspirational.

A: You have it wrong. Nothing has happened to "you're welcome."

While it is certainly reasonable for the interviewer to thank the interviewe, it is not unreasonable for the interviewee to appreciate the opportunity to speak. The interviewee's thank yous should be interpreted as "no, thank you [for letting me speak]," rather than as 'you're welcome."

A: From The Art of Computer Programming, volume 1, section 2.2.1 "Stacks, Queues, and Deques":

  

A deque ("double-ended queue") is a linear list for which all insertions and deletions (and usually all accesses) are made at the ends of the list.  A deque is therefore more general than a stack or a queue; it has some properties in common with a deck of cards, and it is pronounced the same way.

It's pronounced /dɛk/, just like the word deck, as in a deck of cards.

A: In American English, we would usually say "his joke flopped," or that "his joke was a flop." The noun "flop" is sometimes used informally to mean "a complete failure."

A phrase similar to your Japanese idiom about the air freezing would be "(his joke was so bad), you could hear the crickets chirping." This is referring to the silence that follows a bad joke, as opposed to the loud laughter that would follow a successful one.

A: You have the saying: Never try to teach a pig to sing;  it wastes your time and it annoys the pig.

It is a quote by Robert A. Heinlein which has become quite common

A: “Computer related” is a compound adjective and whether or not you should use a hyphen depends on where it is located in the sentence. If it appears before the word it modifies, include a hyphen. If after, omit the hyphen. This is mostly a clarification of Ex-user's answer. To use his/her examples, the following are both correct:

- This book is computer related. (the noun being modified appears before the compound adjective)

- This is a computer-related book. (the noun being modified appears after the compound adjective)

Use of hyphenated compound adjectives often prevents ambiguity of meaning (here's a good example), but when there can only be one meaning, hyphens may be omitted. I usually hyphenate anyway to be safe, and because it's one less thing to consider when writing. Additional usage information.

A: An alternative I see in business emails is:

  

As soon as you get a chance.

I like it because it implies sensitivity for the other person's schedule yet conveys the urgency of the matter.

A: Tab-surfing

From wikipedia:

Tab-surfing, also more accurately known as 'Branching'
is a type of link-surfing in which, rather than click directly through
to the next web page, the link is opened as a new window or new Tab.
This method is used by people wishing to read as much information as
possible on a variety of subjects which may or may not be related.

The parent article is about Link-surfing:

Link surfing is the process of starting on one article on a website
and clicking on various hyperlinks to eventually finish on a different
(pre-determined) article.

There are all sorts of web browsing details here.

A: Since your name seems Indian, I'll also mention a common Indian-English idiosyncrasy that may clear up matters for you. There is a tendency in Indian speech to use "could" for "can", and "would" for "will". This is wrong (or, to avoid being prescriptive, certainly at variance with other varieties of English, and non-standard even in India). Properly, "could" (subjunctive) is used to express possibility, things that may or may not happen, may or may not be done, etc. (to ask polite questions, for instance) — or in the past tense. If you're using it in the same sense as "can" (for a straightforward expression of ability), you're probably using it incorrectly.

For instance:

- 

We could go (if we like / but we won't / etc.), but

We can go (= We are capable of going / It is possible for us to go)

- 

They could see us from the tower (if they were not blind / yesterday), but

They can see us from the tower (=they are capable of seeing us, now)

- 

Wrong: The speaker would be coming tomorrow.

Correct: The speaker will be coming tomorrow. (The progressive is fairly common in IE, but even more natural to just say "The speaker will come tomorrow.")

A: I don't think I was ever taught a clear-cut rule, and as a non-native speaker, I am probably spoiled to some extent by the usage of dashes in other languages. That being said, following nothing but my intuition I would use:

- a semicolon when the sentences express related, yet independent (especially grammatically independent) thoughts; they could well stand on their own, separated by a period.

- a dash when the second sentence backs up the first one, nails it down to something, restates or amplifies it, provides reasons or examples, or when the second sentence could not stand on its own "as is" for grammatical reasons.

I will try to demonstrate my point by rewording the notorious examples from The Oatmeal accordingly.

  
  
- My aunt had hairy knuckles; she loved to wash and comb them.
  
- My aunt had hairy knuckles — she suffered from hirsutism.

  
- When dinosaurs agree on something, they'll often high-five one another; dinosaurs are all about high-fives.
  
- When dinosaurs agree on something, they'll often high-five one another — they cannot talk and have to resort to gestures.

  
- I gnaw on old car tires; it strengthens my jaw so I'll be better conditioned for bear combat.
  
- I gnaw on old car tires — to strengthen my jaw so I'll be better conditioned for bear combat.
  

Again, this is just my two cents, and I'm only putting them in because the other answers so far seem to miss the point of your question by focusing on non-sentential relations and sometimes not even mentioning semicolons at all. I don't know whether my answer comes close to being correct or not, but I hope it will at least serve as a turning point for getting the discussion back on topic.

A: Wiktionary marks:

- /ˈdeɪtə/ as UK, US

- /ˈdætə/ as US

- /ˈdɑːtə/ as Australia, UK formal

Merriam-Webster lists all three pronunciations, and provides a sound file for /ˈdeɪtə/.

A: Not an established phrase, but how about: "In the name of all that is secular and non-vulgar"?

A: You can find such a list, for instance, in the Penguin Handbook.  

  

Note: as of December 2014, the above link does not work. 
  There is a copy of The Brief Penguin Handbook here;
  the Verbs Followed by Gerunds or Infinitives section is here.

The only way to know is to memorize which verbs are followed by gerunds and which are followed by infinitives. The relevant categories are:

Verbs Followed by Infinitives

Most verbs are followed by infinitives.
If the verb is not found in the list below, it is probably followed by an infinitive.

Verbs Followed by Gerunds

The verbs in the following table all need to be followed by gerunds.

  

The students don’t enjoy going over the same rules again and again. 

- admit (to)

- appreciate

- avoid

- be accustomed to

- be used to

- can’t help

- consider

- delay

- deny

- discuss

- dislike

- enjoy

- feel like

- finish

- get used to

- imagine

- keep (on)

- look forward to

- (not) mind

- miss

- postpone

- practice

- put off

- recommend

- regret

- report

- resent

- resist

- risk

- stop

- suggest

- tolerate

- understand

Verbs Followed by an Object Before the Infinitive Verb

  

I advise you to go to school early today.

- advise

- allow

- *ask

- authorize

- cause

- challenge

- convince

- encourage

- *expect

- force

- get

- help

- hire

- inform

- instruct

- invite

- *need

- order

- permit

- persuade

- *prepare

- *promise

- remind

- require

- teach

- tell

- train

- urge

- *want

- *warn

- *would like

*Some words can be used without an object as well as with an object.

  

I want him to go. I want to go. 

Verbs Followed by Either Gerund or Infinitive

Sometimes the meaning changes according to the verb used.

  

He doesn’t remember giving the homework to Mr. Young.

     He didn’t remember to give the homework to Mr. Young. 

- attempt

- begin

- can (not) bear

- can (not) stand

- continue

- hate

- intend

- (dis)like

- love

- neglect

- prefer

- remember

- start

- try

Verbs Followed Only by the Simple Form (no “-ing” or “to”)

Four verbs are called causative verbs.
They are followed by an object; the verb after the object is always in the simple form:

- let: They let him go on the trip (instead of “let him to go”).  

  

I let him take my book home for one night. 

- make: We made her do her chores first.

  

I made my sister cry. 

- help: She helped her finish her homework.

  

I helped him find the bookstore. 

- have: The teacher had him stay after school.

  

I had my teacher explain the answers. 

Verbs Followed by Either the Simple Form or the Gerund (no “to”)

Some verbs are called verbs of perception and are followed by either the simple form or the “-ing” form.

- see: I see him go.

  

I see him going. 

- notice: I notice him run to school every day.

  

I notice him running to school every day. 

- watch: I watch him struggle with his homework.

  

I watch him struggling with his homework. 

- hear: I hear him sing.

  

I hear him singing. 

Others including: look at, observe, listen to, feel, smell.

A: Independently of is correct here.  To be independent of something means to not depend on it for anything essential.  Hence, the following is the best choice:

  

[Noun] was developed independently of [noun].

Independently from is not correct usage, as well as being very uncommon.  From X would indicate either coming from X or going away from X, neither of which applies here, since independence does not come or go from something.

The third option, though decipherable, does not mean exactly the same thing since independent could just as easily be referring to the [noun] as to the development, creating an ambiguity, as well as an unnecessary comma.  Both of these should be avoided whenever possible.

A: How about good grief

See here:

  

used as an exclamation of dismay, surprise, or relief: Good grief,
  it's started to rain again!"

For lovers of Charlie Brown out there:

A: Life is swings and roundabouts  

This is a shortened version of the fairground proverb 'What you lose on the swings you win on the roundabouts', current from the beginning of the twentieth century in various forms. It is used to mean that things will balance out in the end.   

Source: Penguin Dictionary of Cliches

  

(British & Australian) also what you lose on the swings, you gain on the roundabouts (British & Australian)

  We fell out but, hey ho, it's swings and roundabouts and it's a new gaffer now, a new year, so hopefully I can kick on

Source: TFD

A more recent aphorism, which became famous thanks to the  1994 film Forrest Gump, and is known in both the UK and across the Atlantic. 

Life is like a box of chocolates

  

"Mama always said life was like a box of chocolates. You never know what you're gonna get."

Interestingly, Wiktionary says it first appeared in the 1987 Japanese novel Norwegian Wood by Haruki Murakami, following its huge success the novel was translated in English and published two years later.

  

"Just remember, life is like a box of chocolates." ... "You know,
  they've got these chocolate assortments, and you like some but you
  don't like others? And you eat all the ones you like, and the only
  ones left are the ones you don't like as much? I always think about
  that when something painful comes up.

A: Capitalisation to this extent wasn't around in Old English, and I didn't remember any in Chaucer's Canterbury Tales, but it seemed exist in some Shakespeare folios and not others, so it certainly hasn't been around since the beginning of written English.

I found this in an actual printed book, The Cambridge Encyclopedia of the English Language (David Crystal), p67, where the internet let me down. It's in the section about emerging orthography in the 16th Century:

Hart recommended his readers to use a capital letter at the beginning of every sentence, proper name, and important common noun. By the 17th century, the practice had extended to titles (Sir, Lady), forms of address (Father, Mistris), and personified nouns (Nature). Emphasized words and phrases would also attract a capital. By the beginning of the 18th century, the influence of Continental books had caused this practice to be extended still further (e.g. to the names of the branches of knowledge), and it was not long before some writers began using a capital for any noun that they felt to be important. Books appeared in which all or most nouns were given an initial capital (as is done systematically in modern German) - perhaps for aesthetic reasons, or perhaps because printers were uncertain about which nouns to capitalize, and so capitalized them all.

The fashion was at its height in the later 17th century, and continued into the 18th. The manuscripts of Butler, Traherne, Swift, and Pope are full of initial capitals. However, the later 18th-century grammarians were not amused by this apparent lack of discipline in the written language. In their view, the proliferation of capitals was unnecessary, and causing the loss of a useful potential distinction. Their rules brought a dramatic reduction in the types of noun permitted to take a capital letter.

It seems odd that Hart's recommendations on capitalisation should have taken root where his suggestions for phonetic spelling have fallen on deaf ears...

A: You could try at your earliest convenience, but there is a risk that somebody unfamiliar with idioms might take it as 'when convenient to yourself' (which is actually at your convenience).

A: [Edit: I never intended or expected this answer to be voted so high, so I didn't bother stating up-front the bleeding obvious: that if you suffer from the delusion that The Elements of Style is a book of grammar rules rather than a book about two guys' preferences, well, you're wrong. For a tedious list of rules in the book that aren't grammar rules, see (thanks to Robert Bixler's answer) this article by Pullum, which is a slightly better version of that silly rant. Of course I strongly disagree with the tone of the essay, its false claims about the book, its idea that the faults of the American education system can be blamed on a single book, and its insinuations about the authors' character (seriously!), for which see the rest of this answer.]

[Preliminary note: the first edition (1918) by Strunk is available online, so you can read the book and judge for yourselves. It's a short book, with mostly sound advice, worth reading once. It's terse and concise.]

Frankly, there's not all that much wrong with the book. And except for a few people like Pullum (the linguist and author of that rant), the book is still beloved by most, and is recommended by writers across the spectrum from Stephen King to Steven Pinker. But it is important to understand what the book is and isn't.

Most importantly, it's a style guide, not a grammar textbook or reference. The authors do not claim to teach grammar; the book should not be used to learn grammar. They make absolutely no claims about English syntax, but at best about what sounds like good style to them. The very fact that some issue is a matter of style implies that there are multiple alternatives that are perfectly grammatical and in use, even by great writers. It is the job of the authors of a style guide to recommend one alternative over others; the book is supposed to be opinionated. Indeed, White's introduction to the book even says

I treasure The Elements of Style for [...] the audacity and self-confidence of its author. [...] He had a number of likes and dislikes that were almost as whimsical as the choice of a necktie, yet...

So of course the book is idiosyncratic; that's one of the endearing things about it. Pullum seems to have confused it for a book on grammar — odd, since he wrote an excellent grammar book and knows what one looks like.
"Rules"

With a book like this, it's implicit that you, the reader, must consider each element of style advice as the opinion of the author, not follow it blindly, and use your own good sense and examples from good writing. If you find that your considered opinion on something they advocate is different, you just ignore the advice and move on — at least it has made you think. The function of the style guide is to draw your attention to these matters of style, so whenever you are about to use one of the constructions mentioned, you can consider both what you wrote and the alternative, and pick whatever sounds better. (So hypothetically, even a book that inverted all the rules would still be quite useful, since it would draw attention to the same matters.) Accordingly, Strunk and White freely violate their advice whenever an alternative is better, as all good writers do, and as the reader is expected to do. Instead of seeing them as setting an example, Pullum calls the authors "hypocritical" for "flaunting the fact that the rules don't apply to them".

[More generally, his unjustified annoyance with the book seems to arise from his rabid intolerance for anyone stating a "rule" based on their preference unless it's already a rule of grammar... in which case they wouldn't need to state the rule at all, would they? :-) Elsewhere, he has written another rant on George Orwell's famous essay Politics and the English Language, again over-obsessing on just one of Orwell's rules, his one against clichés: "Never use a metaphor, simile, or other figure of speech which you are used to seeing in print." He needlessly points out the obvious fact that this is often infeasible and that Orwell violated his rule, and calls the essay "dishonest and stupid".]
"Limp platitudes" and vacuous advice?

The majority of the book, and certainly the most memorable part, deals with those vague little things that make up "style": "Use definite, specific, concrete language", "Omit needless words", "Keep related words together", "Do not overstate", and, most ineffable of all, "Be clear". These are all followed by little explanations that are generally good, but ultimately, you just have to keep the principles in mind. These "limp platitudes" (so called by Pullum) have in fact been the most useful parts of the book to most writers; even one of the writers allegedly criticizing the book (though I'll note that besides Pullum they all say it's a useful book, just misapplied and overrated) says:

Any young person prone to getting tattoos might consider having a few of these permanently engraved where they can readily be seen: Omit needless words. Use concrete language. Be clear. Avoid fancy words. Revise and rewrite. Pure gold.

Now for a few specific points from Pullum's rant:
"Use the active voice"

Strunk & White advocate using the active voice. This obviously doesn't mean anything as silly as the idea that they want to rid the English language of the passive voice. The passive voice is often a better choice as S&W say themselves, but the point they make — that the active voice is generally more direct and vigorous, and that direct and vigorous writing is generally preferable — is true. In fact, if you look, their advice is quite qualified: here's a passage from Pullum's rant itself:

After this unpromising start, there is some fairly sensible style advice: The authors explicitly say they do not mean "that the writer should entirely discard the passive voice," which is "frequently convenient and sometimes necessary." They give good examples to show that the choice between active and passive may depend on the topic under discussion.

Indeed they do. Pullum then goes to falsely claim that they misidentify the passive voice three out of four times. But they do nothing of the sort; what they give are not examples of passive usage, but examples of how transitive verbs in the active voice can be used:

Many a tame sentence of description or exposition can be made lively and emphatic by substituting a transitive in the active voice for some such perfunctory expression as there is, or could be heard.

There were a great number of dead leaves lying on the ground.  --> Dead leaves covered the ground.

The sound of the falls could still be heard. --> The sound of the falls still reached our ears.

The reason that he left college was that his health became impaired. --> Failing health compelled him to leave college.

It was not long before he was very sorry that he had said what he had. --> He soon repented his words.

Here, as they say, they are giving (good) examples of how active transitive verbs can make sentences more forceful (or Strunk's strangely preferred "forcible"). This has nothing to do with the grammatical categories of active and passive voice of course, but as this is not a grammar textbook, and as stylistically this is the same thing of making sentences more direct, this is the logical place to put it in this famously terse book. It should be obvious that they aren't giving four examples of converting a sentence from passive voice to active voice. (Why would you expect them to do such a thing? Is this a grammar textbook for children? It is obvious that they assume the reader knows what the active and passive voice are; it probably never occurred to Strunk that someone who does not know may read his "little book".) The structure of the section is clear: first they say why the active voice is often preferable, then they show when it is not, then they move on to other related matters. They wouldn't have returned to harp on the first point again.
"None of us", "that-which"

Pullum claims that the authors claim that "None of us are perfect" is a grammar mistake. Of course, since S&W is not a grammar book and its authors do not claim that anything in the book is a grammatical mistake, Pullum's claim is trivially false. (Indeed their only pronouncements explicitly on grammar seem to be to say that something is grammatical: they say of "A group of us taxpayers protested" that "The wording, although grammatically defensible, is rarely apt", and elsewhere, "There is nothing wrong with the grammar...") But I'll go further and note this on their section about "none":

A plural verb is commonly used when none suggests more than one thing or person.

(This is kind of tautologous anyway; none suggests a plural when used with "are".)

Similarly, of "which" and "that" — a tiny note in a section on misused words — what they say is (bolding mine):

The use of which for that is common in written and spoken language ("Let us now go even unto Bethlehem, and see this thing which is come to pass."). Occasionally which seems preferable to that, as in the sentence from the Bible. But it would be a convenience to all if these two pronouns were used with precision.

So you see they're expressing a view (idiosyncratic, if you like) not on right and wrong, but on what would be "convenient to all" because of "precision" (a dream of keeping words separate, against the tide of usage). Showing, as Pullum does, that "which" is common for restrictive clauses in written and spoken language only reiterates what they already said. (The breed of anti-prescriptivist linguists from which Pullum comes seems to hold that no one ought to express a preference about language, just accept established usage.)
Conclusion

Admittedly, parts of the book are outdated — some of what sounded better in 1918 sounds worse in 2010, and the book hasn't completely caught up. Ideally, another book dispensing the kind of style advice for which S&W is noted would take its place, providing the kind of advice on composition that goes beyond mere grammar or Chicago Manual of Style advice — but none of S&W's critics appear to have made recommendations (that I'm aware of); the book is still useful. Now, there is a lot of valid criticism to be made about the book being handed out with "follow these [blindly]", its tips being treated as inviolable rules, producing "nervous cluelessness" in students about grammar, about Microsoft Word highlighting every use of the passive voice or restrictive which as a grammar mistake, and so on. Apparently, in the United States, this quirky little book has become "the primary vehicle through which grammar was taught to college students and presented to the general public". While I recoil in horror at such lunacy (if such a thing is indeed true), all of these seem failures of the education system to me. Blaming such misuse on the book itself, and calling its authors an assortment of names ("bumblers", "incompetents", etc.) is just mean-spirited.

A: There is a phrase that has been adopted from gymnastics stick the landing, meaning to hold perfect form in the final jump or dismount.

The term has been adopted into broader usage

  

Execute flawlessly from the beginning through the end. Follow through.
  All phases of the sales cycle require great attention to detail but to be successful, we must "stick the landing" to close the deal.

(The Urban Dictionary)

The question is about the antithesis. You could say

  

He gave quite a performance, but ultimately failed to stick the landing.

Or you could turn around a well known aphorism and say 

  

He snatched defeat from the jaws of victory

The original, is attributed to US Congressional Representative James Seddon of Virginia for claiming that a regiment in the Mexican-American war had "snatched victory from the jaws of defeat."

A: The New Oxford American Dictionary has the following note.

  

For complex historical reasons, prove developed two past participles: proved and proven. Both are correct and can be used more or less interchangeably: this hasn't been proved yet; this hasn't been proven yet. Proven is the more common form when used as an adjective before the noun it modifies: a proven talent (not a proved talent). Otherwise, the choice between proved and proven is not a matter of correctness, but usually of sound and rhythm—and often, consequently, a matter of familiarity, as in the legal idiom innocent until proven guilty.

A: You find both accusative pronouns (me/him/her/them) and nominative pronouns (I/he/she/they) in this syntactic position in standard English. The forms with the nominal genitive pronouns (mine/yours/hers etc.) are a red herring because they stand for something possessed rather than the person themself.

The traditional rule for comparison with a person is that you must use nominative. However, according to my research, accusative is more common.

I searched the Corpus of Contemporary American English for this syntactic structure, followed by a comma or a period to ensure we are not looking for cases like faster than he is, with a verb following the pronoun, in which case nominative is obligatory.

There were 1046 results for the accusative pronouns and 450 for nominative pronouns, more than 2 to 1 in favor of accusative pronouns—the “traditionally wrong” form. Both forms are standard, so my advice to a writer choosing between these forms is to consider that the “traditionally correct” form is unimpeachably correct but a bit formal. Choose the form that best matches tone and formality level of your writing.

For the curious, the queries looked like this:

where means any comparative adjective.

Update 2011-05-23

Using the new Google Book Corpus search, I was able to construct a Google ngrams-like graph comparing these usages over time, using these two queries: accusative, nominative:

As you can see, until the late 1980s, the formal usage was more common than the informal usage. Since then, however, accusative has very rapidly eclipsed nominative, even in this corpus, which represents professionally published works.

A: Wikipedia actually has an article dedicated to this phrase. It says:

  

The earliest confirmed publication is the 1866 Dion Boucicault play Flying Scud in which a character knowingly breezes past a difficult situation saying, "Excuse me Mr. Quail, I can't stop; I've got to see a man about a dog." In a listing for a 1939 revival on the NBC Radio program America's Lost Plays, Time magazine observed that the phrase is the play's "claim to fame".

Wiktionary adds:

  
  
- The most common variation is to "see a man about a horse".
  
- Almost any noun can be substituted as a way of giving the hearer a hint about one's purpose in departing.
  
- The inversion to "see a dog about a man" eliminates any lingering uncertainty about whether the hearer is being put off.
  
- A shorter variant is to "see a man".
  

As to the exact situation in which you would use this phrase, it suggests:

  

Used as an excuse for leaving without giving the real reason (especially if the reason is to go to the toilet, or to have a drink)

Back to Wikipedia again,

  

During Prohibition in the United States, the phrase was most commonly used in relation to the consumption or purchase of alcoholic beverages.

World Wide Words has additional info:

  

This has been a useful (and usefully vague) excuse for absenting oneself from company for about 150 years, though the real reason for slipping away has not always been the same. [...] From other references at the time [around 1866] there were three possibilities: 1) [the speaker] needed to visit the loo [...] 2) he was in urgent need of a restorative drink, presumed alcoholic; or 3) he had a similarly urgent need to visit his mistress.
  
  

Of these reasons [...] the second became the most common sense during the Prohibition period. Now that society’s conventions have shifted to the point where none of these reasons need cause much remark, the utility of the phrase is greatly diminished and it is most often used in a facetious sense, if at all.

A: So funny I forgot to laugh

Definition:

  

A phrase used to mock someone when they say a joke or something they think is absolutely hilarious

Source: Urban Dictionary

A: Tactics address immediate needs; strategy addresses long-term ones.  Somtimes it is worth taking a loss in the short term (what would seem like bad tactics) for long-term strategic advantage.

The terms are used with regard to the military but are broader: business, games, financial planning, etc:

- 

A chess player makes the strategic decision to sacrifice a rook in order to consolidate control over the center of the board and maintain a strong pawn structure (this example suggested in comments).

- 

A business makes the tactical decision to hire temps for the current push or the strategic decision to hire and train permanent employees for the long term.

- 

An investor makes the strategic decision to accept risk of short-term loss for possible gains because he doesn't need the money for another decade anyway.

- 

And back to the military: a commander may sacrifice a unit (or put it at risk) to achieve a strategic goal of gaining territory.

A: The great chess grandmaster Savielly Tartakower had the best explanation of the difference that I have ever heard:

  

"Tactics is knowing what to do when there is something to do. Strategy is knowing what to do when there is nothing to do."

I can't improve on that. Not even a little.

A: Thank goodness

  

I am pleased or happy

The Free Dictionary

Q: "Inputted" or "input"

I have used the word inputted in an assignment and am being forced to change it to input. However, both the Oxford English Dictionary (I am in New Zealand so this is most relevant) and MS Word list inputted as acceptable. Do others regard inputted as acceptable?

  

The scope of this project will be clearly defined in that it is to strictly provide positive movie recommendations to users who have inputted a sufficient amount of data.

Q: “between” vs. “among”

Today I was cut off in the middle of the following sentence:

  

Between Cook, Strauss, and Pietersen—

My friend said I was wrong. He said that for more than two entities, among/amongst are used, and that between is only for two entities. 

I vaguely remember some rule like this, but I asked him to hear the whole sentence, which was:

  

Between Cook, Strauss, and Pietersen, they’ve notched up 56 centuries in Test cricket.

Should I have used among here? Seems correct to me to use between, but my friend was certain. 

Another friend pointed out the following sentence:

  

I’m still choosing between Harvard, Yale, and MIT. 

Certainly among doesn’t seem to fit here, and she, to me, was correct in using between.

Q: Is “either” only used with two options?

Does “either . . . or” apply to only two options? 

For example, can I say, “It can provide either 100, 150, or 400 amps of power”? Or should it just be “It can provide 100, 150, or 400 amps of power”?

Q: What do you call the interconnecting bits of a puzzle piece in English?

This is hard to describe, but I'm curious about what the proper word is for these thingies in English.

So I searched for a picture on Google and circled what I'm referring to with red:

Q: 'Made of' vs. 'Made from'

What is the basic difference between "made of" and "made from." Both expressions are used in English. For instance, "This chair is made of wood," and "Cream is made from milk." Though the question is quite simple, I often confuse the two expressions. How do we differentiate them and what is the rule or logic behind their use?

Q: What word denotes a belief that apparently inanimate objects actually express a malicious, autonomous will?

I came across this word a few years ago, but can't find it now.  I do not mean deodand, animism, pathetic fallacy, scapegoating, anthropomorphism, or personification (Word for attaching blame to inanimate objects).  

If I recall correctly, this particular word sounded like a religion but looked like a phobia; it may well have been coined by the creator of the content in which I encountered it.  Any assistance is greatly appreciated.

Q: You "show" someone a picture. You "---" someone a song?

In Maltese, we have a verb meaning "to show" corresponding to "to see/to look", and we have a different verb corresponding to "to hear/to listen":

inti tara stampa (you look at a picture.) ---- jiena nurilek stampa (I show you a picture)

inti tisma' diska (you listen to a song.) ----- jiena nsemmagħlek diska (I 'show' you a song)

In English, do you "show someone a song" (sounds weird to me) or is there a verb that corresponds more directly to the Maltese insemmgħek?

Q: In the word "Scent", is the S or the C silent?

So I saw a post on a funny pictures site...

"In the word "Scent", is the S or the C silent?"

In particular, how does the pronunciation of "scent" differ from "cent" and "sent"?

Small audio references would help me in particular.

Q: Etymology of "a pride of lions"

Etymonline does not hesitate to assume that "a pride of lions" is the same word as pride, noun of adjective proud.

There would be other possibilities, e.g. a connection with Latin praeda (prey). A group of lions might be a group of animals that go hunting together to get their prey.

Another possibility is Latin parata, past participle of parare (to prepare). A group of lions might be a group a dominant male animal has prepared for itself as its group.

Do we have here some specialists for etymology who might give their view as to 

- pride of lions connected with proud/pride (convincing or not) - 

- other possibilities.

Q: What does “Your hair is so white now, it can talk back to police” mean?

Vanity Fair magazine (April 27) introduced a barrel of jokes about political figures Cecily Strong delivered at Best White House Correspondents’ Dinner held on April 25th in Washington under the headline, “Cecily Strong’s best White House Correspondents’ Dinner jokes.” The following is one of them:

“Mr. President, thank you for taking time off of Jimmy Fallon’s show
to be here,” Strong said. One joke that had Obama slapping the table
in laughter: “Your hair is so white now, it can talk back to police.”

- "Cecily Strong’s Best White House Correspondents’ Dinner Jokes", Vanity Fair

I know asking the meaning of a joke is boorish, but I don’t understand why you can talk back to police when your hair is white.

Is it because a senior person (whose hair is white) is regarded as sensible or authoritative, or politically incorrectly, white hair makes black look white? If it's the latter, why did Mr. Obama tapped the table in laughter to such a risque joke? I’m 82 years old, but I’m not sure whether my gray hair works in arguing with police. What does the above line mean?

Q: Name of the cut-outs in the side of a printed dictionary at each letter

Paper dictionaries often have cut-outs in the pages that make it easier to turn to (words beginning with) each letter.  Here's a picture:

I know there's a name for these things but I can't remember what it is and it's remarkably hard to search for information about dictionaries — the search engines insist on bringing up dictionary definitions of the keywords you try.  Anyone know the word?

Q: What did "pop a cap" mean, other than "shoot someone," in the 19th century?

Popping a cap

Green's Dictionary of Slang defines "pop a cap" as:

  

to fire a weapon; to shoot someone.

In recent uses, the slang meaning is clear, and often extended to "pop a cap (in somebody's ass)."  For example in this citation from 2000:

  

F.X. Toole Rope Burns 165: If some fool of whatever color was coming to kill him, he’d pop a cap in his ass in a heartbeat.

The two earliest attested dates provided in GDoS are 1865 and 1953.  The 1953 citation clearly carries the same meaning, "to shoot someone."

  

‘Death Row’ in D. Wepman et al. Life 118: I popped four caps through his chest with my piece.

The 1865 citation, at first glance, seems to carry the same meaning:

  

in B.L. Ridley Battles and Sketches of the Army of Tennessee 454: My men halloo out: ‘Lie down, Mr. Govan, Mr. Bate is now gwine to pop a cap’.

Strange early uses

Looking through early uses of "pop a cap," I found some strange instances that made me wonder if they actually are referring to something other than firing a gun, or shooting someone.  These two stood out in particular.  First, from 1874:

  

A son of Col. Thomas, a little fellow of about seven years, had gone over to the Institute, and while there was a boy of thirteen or fourteen years of age, who had a shot gun in his hands, pointed it at the little fellow and pulled the trigger.  It was his intention to pop a cap at him, having no idea that the gun was loaded.

- The Wilmington Morning Star (Wilmington, North Carolina)03 Mar 1874, Tue

In this first example, the phrasing suggests that the shooter had not intended to actually fire a bullet, but rather only to "pop a cap at him." 

From 1888:

  

After Dixie was played Governor Gordon was called for by the crowd and came forward to acknowledge the compliment.  He said the gun was loaded for to-morrow, and he would not discharge it to-night.  "Well, then, pop a cap," said a voice in the crowd.  The Governor said it was already popped, and thanked them again for the serenade.

- The Critic (Washington, District of Columbia)05 Oct 1888, Fri

Once again, this text suggests that "popping a cap" is an alternative of sorts to shooting, or "discharging" a gun.  Furthermore, the phrase "it was already popped," while possibly meant as a joke, seems to make the context even stranger.

Questions

In these early uses from the 19th century, including the early attestation provided in GDoS and the two example clippings above, what is meant by "pop a cap?"  Does it still refer to firing a gun in all cases?  Does it mean something different in the two cases mentioned above?

Finally, if "pop a cap" meant something else in the 19th century, how did it evolve into the 20th century meaning, referring simply to shooting somebody (or something)?

Q: Does OP mean “original poster” or “original post”?

In an online forum, OP means "original poster," but can it also mean "original post?" 

For example, instead of saying

  

To answer the OP's original question...

could one instead say

  

To answer the question in the OP...

or would this be an improper use of the term?

Q: Is "throw in an ape" an expression?

In her book Toward Zero, author Agatha Christie has the following dialogue:

Kay said: ‘I don’t like my colour scheme in the livingroom. Can I have it done over, Nevile?’

‘Anything you like, beautiful.’

‘Peacock blue,’ said Kay dreamily, ‘and ivory satin cushions.’

‘You’ll have to throw in an ape,’ said Nevile.

‘You can be the ape,’ said Kay.

What on earth is that supposed to mean, "throw in an ape"? I have no idea. Is that an expression?

Q: Is there some rule against ending a sentence with the contraction "it's"?

I heard this lyric in a song the other day and it just sounded so wrong that I assumed it must be incorrect grammar, but I can't find any specific prohibition that applies.

  

That's what it's. 

That rolls off your tongue with the grace of a moose in a tutu, but I can't figure out why.

There is clearly no problem with ending other sentences with a contraction. These sound fine.

  

I thought I could, but I can't.

  Stop touching that, it will fall off if you don't.

  You say that the sky is green, but it isn't.

Also, it sounds just fine if you remove the contraction:

  

That's what it is.

So what's up with this construction? Should it be avoided?

Q: Is there a standard ordering for the question mark and the exclamation mark used together?

We've all wanted to express certain questions, rhetorical or not, with annoyance, excitement, surprise, frustration and so on. What better way than with both a question mark (?) and an exclamation mark (!), right?

I've seen two ways of punctuating such questions:

Where is this place?!

Who do you think you are!?

(Things like ?!?, !?!, ?????!!!!!, ??!?!!?!?!!??, etc are irrelevant here.)

Which is the proper way to order the two symbols? Or does each of the above two have a distinct and grammatically correct meaning?

Or is the interrobang (‽) the clear winner here? ;)

Q: Why do some words have two past tense forms (e.g. "dreamed" vs. "dreamt")?

While perusing ShreevatsaR's answer to this question, it occurred to me that my own verbal usage is out of step with what I see in current American literature. When speaking in the past tense, I prefer to use the following forms:

- dreamt (past tense of to dream)

- leapt (past tense of to leap)

- swept (past tense of to sweep)

- lit (past tense of to light)

However, when reading recently written novels, I see the more regular conjugation of the past tenses, which instead yields dreamed, leaped, sweeped, and lighted. Is it a difference of dialect (US - New England), register (university education), or (possibly) my age (early forties)? I am especially irritated by "lighted" because it takes so much more effort to say than "lit".

CLARIFICATION: Given Jon Hanna's answer below, I would just like to clarify the question a bit more. What I was originally after was why these separate verb forms exist in the same past tense. In other words, variations such as "I dreamt" vs. "I dreamed", not the variation between different forms in different pasts. I am not a linguist, so I hope that clears things up a bit.

Q: Bracket vs brace

I found the terms bracket and brace used interchangeably. Is there a difference, and what is it?

Q: Why, in older books (Victorian era), are dates often given with the years redacted?

silly question, and I'm not sure this is even necessarily the right forum, but it's the most appropriate on StackExchange, so here we are.

Why is it, in older books, that years are sometimes redacted and replaced with a dash when writing the date in letters and so forth?

Here is an example, from Mary Shelley's Frankenstein:

  

Letter 1
  
  

St. Petersburgh, Dec. 11th, 17--
  
  

TO Mrs. Saville, England
  
  

You will rejoice to hear that no
  disaster has accompanied...

I've seen this in many (mostly older) books, and my only hypothesis is that it is/was a fashionable attempt to try not to make the book seem outdated quite so quickly; or as a sort of faux attempt to feign respect for privacy, within the world of the novel itself.

In a similar vein, in Frankenstein, several curse words (D--n) are also redacted.  I assume this is a sort of Victorian modesty in not printing profanity, but if I'm wrong, I'd love to be corrected on that, as well.

EDIT: I just received this back from the reference librarian (libraries are so great!):

  

It seems that there is no definitive
  explanation, but several explanations
  seem to come up over and over again. 
  I am including the best of what I
  found online, rather than some of the
  random information that is posted
  (though, I will include one online
  discussion that might be interesting
  for you all the same).
  
  
  
- 

From author John Barth:  http://www.colby.edu/~isadoff/ss/barth.doc
  "Initials, blanks, or both were often
  substituted for proper names in
  nineteenth century fiction to enhance
  the illusion of reality. It is as if
  the author felt it necessary to delete
  the names for reasons of tact or legal
  liability. Interestingly, as with
  other aspects of realism, it is an
  illusion that is being enhanced, by
  purely artificial means." 
  
- 

Electronic Labyrinth: Postmodernism and the Postmodern Novel
  http://elab.eserver.org/hfl0256.html
  "... a literary convention of the time
  when many books and pamphlets were
  written criticising the government of
  the day, or important figures, by
  using false names... Some rather
  scurrilous stories were also printed
  which were thinly veiled parodies or
  criticisms of important figures. So
  when Jane Austen wrote the
  __shire regiment, or the Earl of__, she was a)avoiding the
  pitfall of being accused of inaccuracy
  and b) avoiding the pitfall of being
  accused of criticism of some important
  political figures."
  
- 

Here is that discussion I mentioned:
  Republic of Pemberley Archive: More or
  less:
  http://www.pemberley.com/bin/archives/regarc1.pl?read=9221
  
- 

Here is one more online discussion
  with a very nice and referenced
  answer, though the source page is no
  longer available.  It discusses the
  use of this convention in epistolary
  novels (novels written in the form of
  letters):
  http://answerpool.com/eve/forums/a/tpc/f/436601891/m/6931055141
  

Since I think a couple of these links came up in the answers below, I'm just going to upvote them all and mark as answered the closest one (not that it was a quiz; but there were many good suggestions, and I can only mark one as the answer...).

Q: What is the proper name for "AM" and "PM"?

I know that AM/PM is for ante/post meridiem, but what is it actually called? Meridian indicator? 12 hour indicator? Something way more clever?

Q: Difference between "publicly" and "publically"

I know publically appears as an incorrect spelling in most dictionaries (in fact as I type this up on my Safari browser it keeps trying to correct the spelling to publicly). 

However I have seen the word spelled in that manner before in certain places so I did a search on Google and found that there is a definition for the spelling publically at dictionary.com and the free dictionary as well. The English wiktionary site considers it an alternate spelling.

Are both spellings valid or are there some subtle differences I am missing? Which version would you accept as correct in a spelling bee?

Q: Why is the subject omitted in sentences like "Thought you'd never ask"?

- 

"Thought you'd never ask" is "I thought you'd never ask" with "I" omitted.

- 

"Hope this helps" is "I hope this helps" with "I" omitted.

In English grammar, normally every sentence should have a subject, right? 

My first thought is that these two examples are so often used that they are like set phrases. But these are not really set phrases. You can alter the words after "thought" and "hope".

Another possible explanation is the tendency to drop the subject if it is the first person pronoun. It seems that in many languages, such as Spanish, Italian and Japanese, the first person subject is usually omitted. Maybe English is going the same way? (Not exactly the same, since in Italian, verb forms change according to the person, so the subject is not necessary to understand who one's referring to.)

And, apparently, such omission is more common in spoken English than in written English.

Are there more examples of such first person subject omission? How frequent is it?

Q: Was "book" to "beek" as "foot" is to "feet"?

"Foot" is a curious word in English because it is pluralized in an unusual way; the "oo" in the word is changed to "ee".  Did this once use to be a standard way of pluralizing things in English (or a language that contributed to English), which would mean that the plural of "book" was "beek" instead of "books"?  Or, is "feet" just a one-off?

Q: "Postfix" or "suffix"?

Wikipedia and The Free Dictionary were not much help — is there a practical difference in the semantics of  suffix and postfix, except that the latter is more rare?

File name extensions are well known. For example,  could reasonably be assumed to be the index file of a website directory, in XHTML format, and with primarily English, human-readable contents. I’d normally call the collection of extensions ( in the example) the suffix or postfix, but it’s not obvious which (if any) is technically and/or semantically more accurate.

Q: "Screwed" vs. "nailed": why is the slang so different?

While the two names nail and screw have similar shapes and functions, why do the verbs differ so much? Someone has screwed something sounds like they have ruined something to me, while someone has nailed something sounds like they have successfully accomplished the thing.

So why have these similar words acquired this much dissimilarity?

From Merriam-Webster:

  

Screw:
  
  

(1) : to mistreat or exploit through extortion, trickery, or unfair actions; especially : to deprive of or cheat out of something due or expected (2) : to treat so as to bring about injury or loss (as to a person's reputation)  —often used as a generalized curse  

  

Nail:
  
  

to perform or complete perfectly or impressively 

From Urban Dictionary (which I am aware is not a reliable source, but sometimes it can be helpful):

  

Screwed
  
  
  
- To be in serious trouble.
  
- A word describing something in a state of disrepair.
  
- 

A word to describe a person who is heavily under the influence of alcohol and/or narcotic material, to an extent where it affects their behavioural patterns.
  
  
  
- "When my parents found out I killed their parrot, I'm screwed!"
  
- "Wow, someone screwed that car up pretty bad!"
  
- "Wow, that guy is screwed!"
  
  

  

Nailed
  
  

Having completed a task with great accuracy. 
  
  

"A+! I nailed that test."
  
  

or
  
  

"I threw the rock and, nailed that guy between the eyes!"

It would be invaluable, if someone could elaborate more on the historical etymology of these definitions as well.

Q: Why do people say "to be honest"?

For quite some time, I've been hearing the phrase "to be honest" almost every day. I've heard friends say it, characters on TV shows, and even an NPR reporter said it in an interview.

Example:

  

"To be honest, I don't like spaghetti."

Why do people have to specify when they are being honest? Or I've thought maybe the phrase is actually supposed to mean "to be blunt" or "let me tell it to you straight."

How did the word "honest" get in the mix?

Q: English equivalent for the Persian idiom "send someone out in pursuit of black chickpeas"

"To send somebody out in pursuit of some black chickpeas" is a Persian idiom that implies 'to make or ask someone to run an errand so that you be able to have/ buy some time in order to deal with your private affairs in their absence', like having or continuing a (secret) conversation with someone else. 

According to its etymology, since 'black garbanzos/chickpeas' were rarely available in the markets, when someone wanted to buy them, they had to search many stores for a long time, and most of time they couldn't find them at all. 

Today, its meaning has changed somehow, and it doesn't necessarily mean that we ask someone to run an impossible errand, but it means we use that errand as an excuse to send them away for a while just to have time to do something in their absence. 

Example scenario: 

Suppose your classmate has come to your house and you are talking about some girly issues in the sitting room. Now you want to tell her a big secret about one of your classmates, but not in the presence of your younger sister who is sitting there too. So you ask her to go to the market and buy some snacks for you. In this way, you will have some time to continue your conversation until she is back. So you might say to your friend:

  

Well, I sent my sister out in pursuit of some black chickpeas.  I'm sure that she won't be back for another 15 minutes, so we can talk more freely now."

And your sister, before leaving the house, might sarcastically say to you:

  

Okay, but I know this is just an excuse, and you are just sending me in pursuit of some black chickpeas!!! so don't think that you can fool me!

Is there any idiom, expression or proverb that conveys the same meaning or connotation in English (i.e. to make or ask someone to do an errand just in order to buy time so that you can deal with some of your private affairs)? 

I have found to be/go on 'a wild-goose chase' but I'm not sure if I can use it or not.

Q: "To camouflage" is to sight as "to ____" is to sound

I am looking for a word that describes disguising or hiding sound with other sound. Much in the same way that camouflage acts in hiding visual objects.

  

I ______ our conversation with loud music to avoid recording.

What could be used for hiding one sound under another ?

Q: "Can I" vs "May I" in restaurant setting when ordering

A while back, while we were getting fast food, my friend commented on my usage of "can" versus "may" when asking to take my order. I said:

  

Can I have a ....... 

and my friend argued you're supposed to say 

  

May I have a .......

Although I had never thought much about it, and at first assumed my friend was correct, I later started thinking more on it and have come to doubt this to be true. "May I" implies that what you're asking for is already known to be present and available. "Can I" implies more unsurety and is therefore technically the correct answer since there's always uncertainty that a product may or may not be physically available for taking or purchasing.

At first I didn't really care, but the debate has been drawn out now and has turned into a friendly bet of sorts. I just want to know: when in a food environment, which is technically more correct. I know this stuff can be one way or the other sometimes, but I have to know what the experts believe.

Q: If I farm, I'm a farmer. But if I guard, I'm a guard?

One who farms is called a farmer.

One who waits is called a waiter.

One who dives is called a diver.

One who programs is called a programmer.

But one who guards is called a guard.

How did it come to be that this word dropped its -er ending for its noun, and are there other examples like it, sharing any commonalities? 

Dictionary.com lists guarder as a noun, implying that it can be used instead of guard (and has an example sentence). But from my experience as a native American-English speaker, I can't recall it ever being used outside of poetic-style writing. Both dictionary.com and merriam-webster list guard as coming from the Old-French guarder, but I'm not sure why this word was special and dropped the -er.

Q: Where did the term "OK/Okay" come from?

I've heard lots of varying histories of the term "OK".  

Is there any evidence of the true origin of the term?

Q: Weekly, Daily, Hourly --- Minutely...?

What is the correct word for "happening every minute"? How do you pronounce it?

Q: Why is the letter 'Q' almost always followed by the letter 'U'?

Is there a particular rule that states that q should always be followed by a u? Because in certain cases like Qatar, or qawwali, this so-called rule is violated.

What do you folks say?

Q: What is the difference between "nevermind" and "never mind"?

I never remember the appropriate use of either of nevermind and never mind. What's the difference and how can I remember?

Q: When should I not use a ligature in English typesetting?

Typesetting that goes beyond the scope of basic MS Word (e.g. LaTeX, or even modern Word versions with a good OpenType font) often uses ligatures for certain glyph combinations, the most common being

- f + f = ﬀ

- f + i = ﬁ

- f + l = ﬂ

- f + f + i = ﬃ

- f + f + l = ﬄ.

I would assume, however, that there are cases in which a ligature shouldn't be used. Are there any rules or standards telling me when I should use a ligature and when I shouldn't?

Q: Why is "pineapple" in English but "ananas" in all other languages?

Why is "pineapple" in English but "ananas" in all other languages?

Q: Singular of "dice"

After a discussion on the topic I found out that Oxford Dictionary Online [courtesy of Grammarphobia; Oct 2016] has a usage note stating that

Historically, dice is the plural of die, but in modern standard English dice is both the singular and the plural: 'throw the dice' could mean a reference to either one or more than one dice.

and Longman [adjusted slightly], for instance, concurs

dice [noun] [count] (plural [also] dice) [(in singular, also die):
a small block of wood, plastic etc that has six sides with a different
number of spots on each side, used in games

Which unsurprisingly surprised me. Now, I have long ago accepted that languages are living things and I am fine accepting change, however in this particular case I am not sure just how accepted this use is. The Oxford dictionary referred to makes no mention of this use being slang which suggests it should be valid in 'proper' English as well and no reference is even made to die except as a 'see also' and the historical use.

So, does this mean uses like

We lost one dice whilst playing the game yesterday.

and

The 3D artist was developing a dice model, to be printed later.

are both valid?

Q: Word for a software bug that occurs again after having fixed it?

What's the word for a software bug that reoccurs after being fixed?

I'm embarking on some test-driven development (TDD) for a project, and I want to use the right term but have forgotten the word.

It's not reversion, but I think it sounds similar. 

Though I've used it many times I can't recollect the term right now, and Google isn't helping me.

Addition 1: The bug is imaginary in this case. It only reappears once, after I fixed, because of a new change I introduce. I'm not talking about something that that keeps on popping up.

Addition 2: The correct answer popped up 7 minutes after asking. The amount of bikeshedding the keeps on coming after that is hilarious.

Q: Image is to pixelated as a song is to ___?

The closest I could think of is "low quality" but that is not as specific as I'd like, it could also mean that the music is bad.

Example: 

  

I like this song, but you should really get the CD. This sounds _______

Q: A skill that you have, but has little to no benefit for you

Most of us have these little things we are able to do, that are a little different or special.  Maybe it is something we mostly use in laid-back social situations, to break the ice and get a laugh.  Beyond that, however, this talent does not do much for us.  It is clearly not anything we would ever list on a resume.  What might you call it?

Intended use:

Mike's family knew he was finally recovering from his injuries when he resumed his _______ of turning everything into a corny pun, which made his nurses laugh.

Another possible use:

Alice: (sticking out tongue and touching it to tip of nose) Tada!

Bob: Wow.  Impressive.

Alice: Thanks, but I know that with this _______ and a dollar I can get a cup of coffee.

Candidates considered:

Hobby:  On the contrary, your hobby can be of tremendous benefit to you.  It is fun for you, releives your stress, and lets you have a sense of accomplishment. (reject)

Antic(s): For me, this has too much of a connotation that you only do the thing to create havoc or to tease another person. (near-miss)

Trick:  In the absence of other options, this is what I might go with.  However, this still doesn't quite sound right when I read it back. (debatable near-miss).

Despite this, feel free to propose any of these as answers if you can cite definitions and usage examples that refute my objections.

Final word:  This is tagged with both single-word-requests and phrase-requests.  All things being equal, a single word will win.  However, where a short multi-word phrase tells the story better than one word, then so be it.

Q: Is alcohol called spirits due to linking of imagery?

I was wondering if there is any correlation between the way alcohol burns and a common view of a spirit?

Alcohol burns with a wavering blue flame that looks almost ethereal.

Spirits are often pictured as blue and wavering (think of the will-o'-the-wisps in brave).

Coincidence? To be clear: I am asking if alcohol is called spirits partially due to this imagery, not about whether spirit's images are based of burning alcohol.

Q: What is the purpose of using the word "why" in "why, thank you"?

I sometimes have heard somebody replying with Why, thank you. instead of Thank you.

What is the meaning of the first phrase? What is the difference between the two phrases?

Q: Which is correct: "troubleshooted" or "troubleshot"?

Troubleshooted is not a word, but troubleshot is.

Is this really the correct word to use?

I always feel like saying:

  

I troubleshooted it.

vs

  

I troubleshot it

For some reason, it just doesn't sound right to me.

Q: Can 'revert' be used as a synonym of 'reply'?

I am a native speaker of American English, and I have only ever heard this usage of the word revert from one person.  This person is not a native English speaker (he is from India), so he may just be mistaken, but I'm curious if anyone else has seen/heard this usage.

He will write an email, bringing up a point for discussion.  He will explain the issue, and then end the paragraph with something like Please do analyze and revert on the status. 

The best I can tell, he is asking for a response, and not asking for the something to be undone, or changed back to the way it was before (which is the meaning that I associate with the word revert).

Is revert used with different meanings outside the US?

Q: Is "there're" (similar to "there's") a correct contraction?

Q: "Do you have any juice?"

  A: "Yes, there's some in the fridge."

Sounds perfectly fine to me, but:

  

Q: "Do you have any towels?"

  A: "Yes, there's some in the closet."

Does not.

I asked for towels - plural - so wouldn't "Yes, there're some in the closet," in which there are is turned into a contraction be the correct way to say it?

Spellcheck, however, doesn't like "there're", and I think I'm the only person I've ever heard use the word "there're".  Even folks who I know say "there are" shorten it to "there's" when possible.

Am I saying it wrong, or are both forms acceptable?

Q: Why use the word "copy" in "do you copy that"?

I notice "do you copy that?" is used in movies to ask for confirmation in telephone/interphone conversation.

I only know copy means make things duplicated, so why use it in "do you copy that"? Is there a history about it?

Q: Is using "fruits" as the plural of "fruit" acceptable?

I've always understood the plural of fruit to be fruit, not fruits.

I was looking at some marketing material and they used the word "fruits" in the following context: 

  

A unique infusion made with ... strawberry, raspberry and cranberry fruits 

In discussion with someone about this sentence, he described that the plural of person is not necessarily always people, and could be persons. Therefore it's possible that fruits could be a legitimate plural form.

Is fruits used correctly in this context, or could it be used correctly in ANY context?

Q: "Eat" is to "feed" as "drink" is to what?

I can say "I feed someone". Am I forced to say "I give someone a drink", or is there a single word for this (as in "I [verb] someone")?  Unfortunately my thesaurus can't really help me.

Q: "Referer" or "referrer"

First of all, I'm speaking of webpage referral.

Second, let me quote Wikipedia:

  

The misspelling referer originated in the original proposal by computer "scientist" Phillip Hallam-Baker to incorporate the field into the HTTP specification.[1] The misspelling was set in stone by the time of its incorporation into the standards document Request for Comments (RFC) 1945; document co-author Roy Fielding has remarked that neither "referrer" nor the misspelling "referer" were recognized by the standard Unix spell checker of the period.[2] "Referer" has since become a widely used spelling in the industry when discussing HTTP referrers; usage of the misspelling is not universal, though, as the correct spelling of "referrer" is used in some web specifications such as the Document Object Model.
  
  [1] Hallam-Baker, Phillip. "Re: Is Al Gore The Father of the Internet?" alt.folklore.computers, 2000-09-21 

  [2] Fielding, Roy. "Re: Referer: (sic)." HTTP-wg, 1995-03-09

It seems even the W3C isn't completely consistent:

- http://validator.w3.org/check?uri=referer - works

- http://validator.w3.org/check?uri=referrer - fails

- http://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/check?uri=referrer - works

What is the correct spelling to use (referer or referrer), either in general or specific situations?

Q: What did "google" mean in the 1900s?

I know that Google got its name from the word googol (10100), and that Google/google referring the search engine/using the search engine are recent additions to the dictionary. Their definitions are easily found for such meaning (example).

However, just for kicks, I did a Google Ngram search for the word "google" and "Google" and got some interesting results:

There is a drastic spike in the use of the word "google" around 1900, well before the website, or even the internet, existed. There is then some use throughout the next hundred years, where it starts to climb (because we now have Google).

Clearly this word had some meaning in the past ‒ does anyone know what it was?

Q: What is the origin of the term "ginger" for red-headed people?

I'd like to know the etymology of the word "ginger" in reference to red-headed people.

In particular, if "ginger" in this context is related to the plant root used in cooking, I'd like to know how the color red became associated with it. I am only familiar with ginger roots that do not possess any red coloring.

A quick google search yields vague and somewhat conflicting results. An authoritative answer with references would be appreciated.

Edit: Although an answer has pointed out a distinction between the term "ginger" and "red-head" in terms of physical features, there is certainly a tendency to see the term applied to people with hair that is any shade of red. I would be interested to trace the usage history of how the word ginger has been applied in that more broad sense.

Q: Is there a word to describe someone who tends to disagree with others only to upset them?

What's the word to describe someone who acts arrogantly and always disagrees with others unreasonably in order to upset people around him/her?

[I'm not looking for adjectives like unpleasant, annoying, unfriendly, rude, I'm looking for a more specific term like opinionated, didactic, loquacious, gregarious ]

I think I'd come across it before but I've forgotten what it is..

Q: What's the English equivalent of the Japanese saying, “A fart ruins 100 days of sermons by the priest (bishop)”?

I was amused by the expression "Paid a penny and only farted" (related by @FumbleFingers), which suggested a similar Japanese saying: 大山鳴動鼠一匹 - "Find only a small mouse coming out after hearing rumblings and experiencing shaking of the big mountain."

It’s humorous. I chuckled when I read it, and I wrote to the author that I love it.

With that said, the word "fart" reminds me of another Japanese proverb, 百日の説法屁一つ- "A fart ruins 100 days of sermons by the priest", which means that a small mistake (the sound of a fart in front of the congregation) brings all his efforts to naught.

It can’t happen in big Western churches. But it could well happen in a small wooden temple where a priest would preach to 30 – 50 provincial followers.
Can you imagine how the proud priest being called 'the venerable' would be embarrased when his loud fart is heard by all his followers during his serious sermon and they start to giggle here and there in the hall?

We also have a similar saying" 九仞の功を一簣に欠く, which literally means "Collapse a 9- meter sand tower with the last pile of sand."

What is the English equivalent of the saying "A fart ruins 100 days of sermons by the priest (bishop): a small mistake depreciates the value of (vitiates) all labor and effort to naught," preferably in such a humorous way?

Q: Is "Just a friendly advice" grammatical?

I know that "advice" is uncountable and thus is incompatible with the article "a".

However, the phrase "Just a friendly advice" seems to be rather widespread.

Is it idiomatic, or incorrect? What is a more grammatical form?

Q: Polite alternative to the term "bitch" when referring to a female dog

I'm writing an example of constructing logic, and I need to differentiate between an adult female dog, an adult male dog and a puppy and am searching for polite terms.

Unfortunately, the word "bitch" has impolite connotations, so I'd rather not use it, but I'm not sure of any other terms for a female dog. Likewise, I don't know of a gendered term for a a male dog, apart from 'dog'.

Given the linguistic baggage that the term 'bitch' has in non-specialist areas, is there an alternative, polite term for a 'female dog'?

For context: in the logic I'm describing, if the dog is young it is a 'puppy', otherwise if it's female it's a 'term X', or if it's male it is a 'term Y'.

Q: On vs At with date and time

This must be a simple question for a native speaker.

I know that we use "on" with dates: 

And we use "at" with times: 

But what preposition has to be used when we speak for date and time:

 looks ok.

But what in this case: 

Is "on" correct when we are specifying the date and the time? 

The date-time comes as a ready text as  and I cannot modify it. I can only put text before the date-time string or after it.

Q: If we have a "second" of time, what's "first"?

The word second can refer to ordinal #2 (that which comes after first), or a unit of time, 1/60 of a minute.  Ordinarily you might think that this is just a coincidence, but in Spanish, the word segundo also means both a second (of time) and ordinal #2, which suggests that there's some actual link between the two meanings somewhere.

So, why is there a "second" of time but not a "first"?

Q: Is "faff" well understood outside Britain?

Google says "faff" is just British English. Is it well understood in other English speaking regions? If not, is there an international alternative?

faff

BRITISH informal

verb: faff; 3rd person present: faffs; past tense: faffed; past participle: faffed; gerund or present participle: faffing

- spend time in ineffectual activity.
"we can't faff around forever"

noun: faff

- a great deal of ineffectual activity.
"there was the usual faff of getting back to the plane"

Q: "Position" is to "space" as what word is to "time"?

Is there an English word that is the temporal equivalent to "position"?  As position can be described as "where you are", I can think of "when you are" as the temporal meaning.  

Information on how it will be used in order to be answered (quoted from a comment by the OP which has since been moved to chat):

  

If a time traffic controller were to speak to a time traveller, though, can he say "I'll need you to supply your current moment please before we can arrange your landing."? Or does it only feel unnatural because we never use moment like that. Because we don't have time travel to require lingo like that?

Q: Why can't the word "can" be used in future tense (will can)?

I'm curious about why the English word can cannot be used in future tense (e.g. will can).

An example unrelated to English is French term je pourrai, but that's exactly what I mean.

Compare German ich werde können which translates exactly to I will be able, and literally to I will can, given that können and can have the same origin. I feel that this is confusing.

Q: What is "musset"?

I came across the word "musset" in Gregory Maguire's Wicked--

Her green traveling gown with its inset panels of ochre musset suggested wealth, while the black shawl draping just so about the shoulders was a nod to her academic inclinations. (p. 84 in my edition)

Does anyone know what exactly the word refers to? It plainly has something to do with clothing, but what in particular? Is it just an invented word? It's not in the OED, and my Google searches led to naught, but I'm wondering if it might be a recondite technical term for something.

Q: "X times as many as" or "X times more than"

Suppose John has 5 sweets. Is there any difference between the following two sentences?

  

Jack has 3 times as many sweets as John.
  
  

Jack has 3 times more sweets than John.

I prefer the first construction and would know unambiguously that Jack has 15 sweets in this case. However in the second construction I would be inclined to think that Jack has 20 sweets, since it seems to suggest 15 sweets in addition to the original 5.

Q: Why "meth-", "eth-", "prop-", when there is "uni-","di-","tri-"?

In chemistry, the homologous series for hydrocarbons uses the following prefixes:

  
  
- Meth-
  
- Eth-
  
- Prop-
  
- But-
  
- Pent-
  
- Hex-
  
- Hept-
  
- Oct-
  

Why are these prefixes used, instead of just using "uni-", "di-", "tri-"?

I looked up the prefixes, but there is no dictionary record of them. Still, I think "uni-", "di-", "tri-", were invented first. 

Is there a specific reason why, instead of using the normal counting prefixes, new prefixes were used or made up, assuming they were made up for this specific purpose?

Q: How to answer a negative question without ambiguity?

I faced a problem to answer a negative question, for example, when someone asks you: 

  

Don't you have any money?

It's a yes/no question but how should one answer the question without ambiguity?

When you answer "yes", does it mean "yes, I don't have any money"? or the other way "Yes, I do have money"? the questioner may think you are agreeing to the negative, that yes, you do not have any money.

I know it's better to answer with "on the contrary" but is it possible to answer yes or no?

Q: Is the term 'String' too jargony to use in a user interface?

Having worked as a software developer for a long time, I'm out of touch sometimes with whether a word would be considered jargon.

I am adding something to a user interface where a name is given, and a type.  The type would be one of Number, Date, or 'String'.  I'm just not sure if 'string' in the technical sense is a term that is in common usage, or if it is still considered jargon.

'Text' sounds mildly inappropriate to use, because that implies a length (to me at least), whereas this would be something short.

So, is there a better word I can use?

Q: "Real time", "real-time" or "realtime"

Which of real time, real-time and realtime is correct when you are talking about seeing something as it happens?

Q: Correct usage of "persons" (vs. "people")

I had a little fight about persons vs. people.

Could you advise if both of the following are correct, if possible with reference to a dictionary?

  
  
- A table for two people please.
  
- A table for two persons please.
  

Besides that, how would you ask for a table in a restaurant?

I read http://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/persons and Person, Persons, People, Peoples, but they didn't really solve the question if both are correct.

I also found the last paragraph of http://oxforddictionaries.com/definition/person, which suggests that (1) is "more correct", but doesn't say (2) is wrong.

Q: How did 'sanction' come to have two opposite meanings?

Sanction is an unusual ambiguous word to me. In some cases it means to approve some action, while in other cases it means to prohibit or punish some action; and there being near opposite meanings, context is especially essential for correct interpretation.

What is interesting to me is: historically, how did sanction come to capture two opposite meanings like this? The etymology seems to trace back to the single Latin word sanctio, meaning a decree. But did sanctio have strong opposing meanings or connotations like our modern word sanction? Or how and when did the divergence occur over time?

Q: What does "you will want to" mean?

I often find people (mostly American people) telling to me "you will want to do this" or "you will not want to do this". Does it mean they are telling me that I should do something (in the sense of being authoritative) or are they just requesting that I do something?

Q: What is the etymology of “yellow”, and why is it so different in other European languages?

It seems like most of our names for colors come from our German roots (blue/blau, green/grün, red/rot, etc.). But yellow is gelb in German, amarillo in Spanish, jaune in French, and giallo in Italian. I suppose the Italian seems closest, but perhaps they all have something in common?

Q: "jury-rigged", or "jerry-rigged"

As far back as I can remember, the usage went something like "Their jury was rigged, and that's how he got away." Or, "They Jerry-rigged the controller at the last moment and it worked!"

I used to cringe every time I saw something being jury-rigged, until I found it in the NY Times today.

Which one is it? Is the other one wrong?

Q: When is my son's first birthday?

[Clue: he was born three weeks ago, on 23 September 2014.]

Originally, as I understand it, the word birthday meant the day of one's birth. It was a one-off event.

I don't want to quarrel with the idea of extending this to cover anniversaries of one's birth. I'm comfortable saying that I've had forty birthdays, or thereabouts.

I'm not sure how far back the concept of celebrating the anniversary of one's birth goes, but it at least pre-dates Moses (Genesis 40:20), and therefore long pre-dates the English word birthday. This isn't a question about how that custom arose, but about the way we use the English word birthday and whether it makes sense. Does it refer to the day of one's birth, or an anniversary, or both?

Convention seems to dictate that my son's first birthday is when he's a year old; his second birthday will be when he's made it through another year; and so on. Now this is odd: if his first birthday is in a year's time, what's become of the day of his birth? Is this now considered not to be a birthday at all? I'd have expected him to become a year old on his second birthday, and so on.

In summary, the language drift seems to have gone like this:

- notion of birthday = the day of one's birth;

- notion of birthday extended to include anniversaries;

- notion of birthday now restricted to exclude the day of one's birth.

Is this a bit weird, or what? Has it just happened so that the cardinals (four years old) line up with the ordinals (fourth birthday)?

Is it because birthday is now shorthand for anniversary of one's birth?

Am I missing something?

Q: What is a "prize" for last place called?

I'm having one of those moments where I can't think of the word.

In some contests where prizes are awarded, there are prizes for first, second, and third place. Then, there is a "____" prize given for last place.

What word am I having difficulty thinking of?

Q: What is less harsh than "brainwashing"?

The word brainwashing, which has existed in English since circa 1950, may have had its origins in the Chinese Communist Revolution of 1948. It involved the use of extreme methods, the process known as re-education in camps etc. 

I think most people would agree, the word is heavily over-used in western society. But there are a lot of organisations, particularly religious ones, which apply a form of subtle pressure, and a well-honed condensed rationale, which is presented, sometimes to young and inexperienced people, offering the possibilities of some form of utopian thinking, or lifestyle.

Sometimes organisations are said, exaggeratedly, to be guilty of brainwashing. But it is a considerable exaggeration. 

Is there another word, short of brainwashing which refers to organisational gaining control over people's thinking and belief systems?

Q: The past participle of "split": "split" or "splitted"?

I have just written a question in the PPCG site, and now that I read it again I have just noticed that I have just written "split" and "splitted" randomly as the past participle of "to split":

  

Can the number be split into powers of 2?

  [The number] can be splitted into...

  [The string] can be somehow split into numbers...

Since nobody seems to edit the question to fix any possible spelling mistakes, now I wonder: Are both forms valid? Or is one of them preferred or even invalid?

A simple Google search of "be split" and "be splitted" seems to return many more result for the "split" form (nearly a hundred times more). Maybe the "splitted" form is only used in specific contexts or countries?

Q: What does 'for' mean in 'We are done for'?

There is an English expression do for, which means to kill, to execute, to ruin, to defeat etc. and this expression seems to always be used in passive voice: e.g.) We are done for.

I understand this is like an idiom, but why is the preposition for used? 
Most prepositions have so many meanings to them, and I would like to know what for in this case means.

edit: 
https://dictionary.cambridge.org/us/dictionary/english/for
https://en.oxforddictionaries.com/definition/for

In the definitions of the above links, which for do you all think the for in done for is the closest to?

edit 2:
I don't think the for is dangling, but I just want to know why for is used. Like, for normally means purpose, cause, or to be given, etc.
But the for in question means quite opposite.

Q: "What would you with the king?" -From the book "Eats, Shoots and Leaves"

In the book Eats, Shoots and Leaves, in order to show how punctuation changes meaning and can be used for jokes, it says:

  

Instead of “What would you with the king?” you can have someone say in Marlowe’s Edward II, “What? Would you? With the king?"

I understand the innuendo but I don't understand the sentence in bold. It sounds like there is a word missing? Or is it grammatically correct and I'm missing something here? Thanks

Q: What is the difference between "thee" and "thou"?

What is the difference between thee and thou and how are they used?

Q: When should I use "Would",  "Would have", "Will", and "Will have"?

I hope someone, once and for all, can clarify (with examples) the difference in usage of will vs. would vs. would have vs. will have.

Q: "Amount" vs. "number" vs. "quantity"

For what values of x does one write the number of x, the amount of x, or the quantity of x?

Q: Difference between "computation" and "calculation"

If the words computation and calculation are not perfect synonyms what is the difference between them? Which one describes more accurately what is done by a person computing or calculating something on a piece of paper?

Q: "In time" versus "on time"

Which one is correct:

  
  
- Submit your work in time.
  
- Submit your work on time.

Q: What word defines a category suited for both header and footer?

So there I was, trying to ask a question (now on SO) on Webmaster.SE partly involving a 'header' and a 'footer'. One part of my code defines shared aspects of both the header and the footer.

Anyway to cut a long story short, I became somewhat stuck as to what I wanted to name the class they share. All I could come up with was Xer, HeaderFooter and sandwich. Similar word groups like 'suffix' and 'prefix' give me the same issue, coming up with Xfix which is just awful nomenclature!

What categorically describes both headers and footers?

Final Results:
Best coinage is Running Marginals with runner-up, Horizontal Ribbons. I've chosen Running Sections as the correct answer as this phrase is already in use while awarding bounty to Marginals (which eventually became running marginals)

This conveys attachment to the document's margins as well as the concept of "going along" said document flow. A sub-component could potentially have its own running marginals.

"Running sections" and "running elements" imply a potential to exist in contexts other than the margins of a document/component. Sections are slightly more generic in terms of the content they hold as well.

"Marginals" alone may not necessarily run with the document, such as dropdowns, map legends, scales, graph metrics, etc. This new word is handy in other contexts besides the "running" variety of marginals.

Q: Why is "idea" sometimes pronounced as "idear"?

I know that idea is pronounced as /aɪˈdiə/, but I've meet several people in real life who put an 'r' at the end of the word. How come?

Q: What do you call a disk drive that is not solid state?

I tried searching for things like opposite of solid-state, but most of what I've found suggest things like liquid-state. I'm pretty sure a drive that is not solid-state contains no liquid to speak of.

Is there a one word antonym for the use of solid-state in this context?

Q: "The other way around" or "the other way round"

I see both phrases the other way around and the other way round very often. Which is correct? Please provide usage examples.

Q: Simple Past vs. Present Perfect: "was" vs. "has been"

Possible Duplicate:

  &ldquo;Did it close&rdquo; vs &ldquo;Has it closed&rdquo;?  

As a English non-native speaker it is difficult for me to understand when I must use present perfect or past simple because in my official language there isn't the present perfect tense.

I know that present perfect is related to something that happened in the past but its result is important now.
But for instance:

  
  
- The message has been sent.
  
- The message was sent.
  

Please help me point me out any examples/contexts where I should use 1. instead of 2.

Q: What are the correct abbreviations for millions, billions and trillions in a financial context?

I've found answers on the web but also got conflicting answers from financial professionals (coworkers).

In metric, you'd use M (mega) for million, G (giga) for billion and T (tera) for trillion. The only financial specific similar abbreviation I can find is MM for million (financial notation, according to Wikipedia).

What's the AP style (or equivalent authority) abbreviation for billion and trillion in a financial context, and where would I find this information?

Q: "Have you got a chance to" vs "Did you get a chance to"

What is the difference between following two statements?

  
  
- Have you got a chance to look into this?
  
- Did you get a chance to look into this?

Q: Why can we say 'an American' but not 'a British'?

I am confused with the use of an indefinite article in front of British or Chinese. 
To my understanding, we can place an indefinite article in front of any “countable noun”. 
So, we can say a cup and an orange. 

But when it comes to nationalities, it is very confusing. For example, we can say an American or a German. But we cannot say a British or a Chinese. 

I looked them up in a dictionary as at first I thought British and Chinese are adjectives in the above statement and that is why we cannot place an article in front of it. 

However, the dictionary mentions that they are nouns.  Does that mean they are uncountable nouns?

Q: Alternative expression for "xyz Nazi"

I'm not a native English speaker, but I do understand and personally appreciate the use of the term "xyz Nazi" to say that someone is a bit dogmatic about their point of view, without necessarily offending them. A related question here on SE is:

Is "grammar nazi" politically correct?

But most often, my writing doesn't address only English speakers, but also others. Being a native German speaker (although not from Germany), I'm a bit more sensitive to how this might be received with my every day audience.

What would be an equivalent term with a similar semantics (funny, slightly reproachful, but not really offensive)?

Q: How did phobia ever come to mean hatred?

I understand the word 'phobia' to mean an irrational fear of something, tracing its roots to the Greek word ῾φοβια᾽ associated with flight, dread, or terror. 

How then did this word ever come to embody 'dislike' or 'hatred', as in the word homophobia (I'm struggling to think of others... perhaps this says something)?

I see that the word aversion seems to have similar issues, a word originally meaning to avert or avoid now somehow connoting a strong distaste or antipathy towards something...

Thoughts?

Q: "To science the sh*t out of something"

In The Martian movie, Matt Damon (Watney), when left stranded on Mars with very limited resources to survive, says:

Mark Watney: In the face of overwhelming odds, I'm left with only one option, I'm gonna have to science the shit out of this.

Apparently,

- 

Celebrity scientist, Neil Degrasse Tyson loved this quote. And so did I.

- 

A Quora post says

Watney's a scientist. He's going to use scientific method to solve his problems. It's more obvious in the book - he does a lot of calculations.
eg. He drives the rover around in circles logging how much energy it uses to test his hypothesis for carrying hab solar panels on a trailer, keeping within walking distance of the hab. He doesn't just do something and hope it works first time, like MacGyver ('80s TV show).

So you probably get the idea what it means to science the shit out of something.

That is, to practically experiment a lot (and a lot more), in this case, for survival; instead of simply hoping to survive by sheer luck.

1. What would be a better way to convey the same meaning? (too broad)

- 

Is there a better word to use as a verb here?

- 

Is it okay to use certain nouns (like science) in place of verbs? If so, what's the technique called?

Q: What was “Herbal Tea” called before ‘tea’ was introduced in Europe?

I recently got in a discussion with a colleague, about herbal tea not being a correct term, as it contains no tea. Instead, one ought to use the term herbal infusions. 

Tea (dried leaves from the tea plant aka Camellia sinensis) was gradually introduced in Europe during the 16th/17th century, but the making of herbal teas — all right, herbal infusions — was already widespread at the time.

So, my question: How did they call these herbal infusions? The term infusion sounds very scientific to me, so was there another way these were referred to?

Q: How to pronounce the ^ symbol?

How should the "^" symbol be pronounced? I searched on the internet but couldn't find an answer.

Q: How did "biscuit" come to have a distinct meaning in North American English?

The Oxford Living Dictionary makes a clear distinction between the usage of biscuit in Britain and North America:

  

British: A small baked unleavened cake, typically crisp, flat, and sweet.
  ‘a chocolate biscuit’
  
  

North American: A small, soft round cake like a scone.

When I hear biscuit being used in a British context, it usually refers to a confection (what Americans call cookies).  In a U.S. context, it never refers to a confection. [See also: Biscuits & Gravy]   

Why did this distinction come into being?

Q: When should "into" be used rather than "in to," and vice versa?

"Into" (one word) and "in to" (two words) are frequently confused.  In what situations should the former be used?  The latter?

Q: What are the differences between "assume", "presume" and "suppose"

I believe that "assume", "presume", "suppose" are similar in meaning of to take some facts as a truth without proof. 

But it seems to me that "presume" is more formal, "assume" is less formal and "suppose" is the most general word for this meaning. Am I right? Maybe there are other differences in meaning and usage of these words?

Q: "noone", "no one" or "no-one"?

What is the correct form? Does context play a role?

Are there noticeable trends towards the awkward "noone" or is it just a by-product of careless orthography on the Internet?

Q: Why doesn't "its" have an apostrophe?

I know that its is the possessive and it's is the contraction, and know when to use them.  But why doesn't the possessive have an apostrophe?

- "The bear's eating a fish." [contraction]

- "The bear's coat is brown." [possessive]

- "It's eating a fish." [contraction]

- "Its coat is brown." [possessive]

- "One's eating a fish." [contraction]

- "One's coat is brown." [possessive]

Wiktionary lists the etymology as "From it +‎ 's", and Online Etymology Dictionary says that this is actually the original form:

  

Originally written it's, and still deliberately spelled thus by some writers until early 1800s.

So what happened to the apostrophe?  When did people stop using it, and why did they?

It seems that it's as the possessive is more natural, as most people do this until they're taught that it is wrong (or even after).

Update: Online Etymology Dictionary has been updated to include two potential explanations:

  

The apostrophe came to be omitted, perhaps because it's already was established as a contraction of it is, or by general habit of omitting apostrophes in personal pronouns (hers, yours, theirs, etc.).

Can anyone back up either of these arguments?  The possessive one's still has the apostrophe, despite these.

A: There is 'Indoctrination'

  

Indoctrination - noun  
  
  

1 - the act of indoctrinating, or teaching or inculcating a doctrine, principle, or ideology, especially one with a specific point of view: 
  religious indoctrination.
  
  

www.dictionary.com

A: If you use an article with advice you have to use a counter:

A friendly piece of advice.

A friendly bit of advice.

No one who is fluent in English (AmE or BrE) would say

A friendly advice. [Wrong!]

To omit the article, those speakers would say

Some friendly advice.

A: It's not an expression. It's a reference to a poem Cargoes by John Masefield. It was extremely popular in Agatha Christie's time, and most of her readers would be familiar with it.

The first stanza goes:

Quinquireme of Nineveh from distant Ophir,

Rowing home to haven in sunny Palestine,

With a cargo of ivory,

And apes and peacocks,

Sandalwood, cedarwood, and sweet white wine

Kay has asked for peacock and ivory to be in her decor, and Nevile says she will have to "throw in" (i.e. include) an ape to complete the set.

The poem itself references a Bible passage (1 Kings 10:22 and 2 Chronicles 9:21)

Once in three years came the navy of Tharshish, bringing gold, and silver, ivory, and apes, and peacocks.

A: The word musset was invented by the author (Gregory Maguire).

Having replicated the OP's lack of success in finding any online definition of the word, I acted on a whim and sent an email to ask him. He very kindly replied a few hours later with:

Ah, you have found one of my invented words, employed to make the world of
Oz that little bit more unfamiliar than we expect.

I imagine it to be somewhat velvety, but what do I know?

Sorry to have given you an exercise that ended in — author trickery!

Cheers,

Gregory Maguire

A: Merriam-Webster defines "booby prize" as "a prize that is given as a joke to the person who finishes last in a competition".

A: You're looking for "regression".

A: you could consider "drowned out"

  

I drowned out our conversation with loud music to avoid recording.

For a single word "masked" would work equally well.

A: I muffled our conversation with loud music to avoid recording

This is the first word that comes to mind, and has a similar connotation with sound that camouflage has with sight.

From Oxford English, see the second definition with emphasis added.

muffle

VERB [WITH OBJECT]

1 Wrap or cover for warmth. 'everyone was muffled up in coats and scarves’

2 Cover or wrap up (a source of sound) to reduce its loudness. ‘the soft beat of a muffled drum’

From Merriam-Webster, see the first definition and the second part of the third definition with emphasis added.

muffled; muffling

transitive verb

1 to wrap up so as to conceal or protect :  envelop

2 obsolete :  blindfold

3 a: to wrap or pad with something to dull the sound. 'muffle the oarlocks'

3 b :  to deaden the sound of

A comment by mahmud koya also noted this word and usage.

A: A moment (in time), according to Collins Dictionary a moment is:

  

"a specific instant or point in time"

Attribution: "Definition of 'moment'." Moment Definition and Meaning | Collins English Dictionary. Accessed March 27, 2018. https://www.collinsdictionary.com/dictionary/english/moment.

A: I don’t understand why you can talk back to police when your hair is white.

The key here isn't that you can talk back to the police if your hair is white, it's that the hair can because it is white.

Ignoring recent events with people being shot by the police, it's generally a (possibly accurate) joke in the US that the police treat white people better than they do black people, and therefore that it's easier for white people to get away with minor things (such as talking back to a cop) than it is for black people.

The speaker is just personifying the hair, and implying that white people can get away with talking back to the police, while black people would be arrested or harrassed.

A: I believe you are thinking of a consolation prize. It is a prize for consoling, or comforting, the loser by making him/her feel as if he/she still won something.

A: I have never heard of "dice" being used as a singular instead of die. As a collective noun which could include one, sure:

  

Go on and roll the dice. How many dice do I roll? Just one.

But as a straight, unambiguous singular?

  

Roll one dice

or even worse

  

Roll a dice

sounds off to me. So I went to check published usage to see if I was being overly pedantic.

I ran a Google books search for the phrases "roll one die" and "roll one dice." I got:

- 5,540 results for "roll one die"

- 139 results for "roll one dice"

Browsing through the first page of results, a lot of the hits on "roll one dice" seem to be either self-published books or false positives for phrases like "roll one's dice" or "re-roll one dice roll," neither of which support Oxford's rule.

Running an Ngram...the Ngram viewer had no trouble with "roll one die" but could not find "roll one dice" at all.

Add to this the fact that "die" is commonly used in idioms like "The die is cast"--this doesn't guarantee that it's current and understood (see "short shrift") but it is another piece of evidence on the pile.

Based on this--and my experience--I would respectfully disagree that "roll one die" is archaic or obsolete in modern English. Even if "roll one dice" is gaining ground as an alternate form, "roll one die" is still the preferred singular, at least in formal writing.

A: "What would you with the king?" is an archaic construct (but of course common in Marlowe's time), meaning "what do you want with the king?", or "what is your reason for wanting to talk to the king?"

A: "Downsampled" is the literal equivalent for sound.  In both cases -- pixellation and downsampling -- analog reality is overly quantitized, leading to perceptible artifacts.

In the particular example sentence, though, I might say "this sounds like a bad rip."

A: This question is quite broad, and I find it quite hard to come up with an answer that is comprehensive yet succinct, technically impeccable yet easy to understand. At the risk of failing miserably, I'll give it a try nonetheless.

Will, would, and have are auxiliary verbs used to form different tenses.

Will is used to form Future Simple, to describe something that takes place in the future.

  
  
- I will be there.
⇒ I am not there. But I plan to be there at some point in the future.
  
- I will do that.
⇒ I am not doing it right now. But I plan to do it at some point in the future.
  

Will have is used to form Future Perfect, to describe something that not simply takes place in the future, but is completed ("perfected") at some reference point in the future (which is usually specified).

  
  
- I will have done that by the end of the week.
⇒ I will do that, and at the reference point (end of the week), my action will be over; I will be able to say "I have done it".
  

Would is a past-tense form of will. If you are writing about past events, you can use it to indicate something that was in the future at that point in time, but is not necessarily in the future right now. In other words, you use would to preserve the future aspect when talking about the past.

  
  
- She said that she would visit me.
⇒ This is the same as: She said, "I will visit you". It's called making verb tenses "agree".
  
- I thought she would have visited me by now, but she hasn't.
  

Would is also used as a modal verb to indicate a conditional or subjunctive mood, or to "soften" what is being said:

  
  
- I would love to see that movie.
  
- If I had a hammer, I would use it as often as possible.
  
- Would you give me that book, please?
  

I realize that I have omitted a few things (say, Future Perfect Continuous). Again, that was a conscious decision for the sake of simplicity.

A: I'm not sure it matches your first example, but I feel it matches your description and second example, I'd suggest party trick.

Oxford Dictionaries describes it as

  

A trick such as might be performed at a party for entertainment; an unusual act regarded as one's speciality.

A: The best word I can think of is sound masking, which can be used to disguise one’s voice, as camouflage can be used to disguise one’s appearance.

  

Wikipedia on Sound masking
  
  

Addition of sound created by special digital generators and distributed by normally unseen speakers through an area to reduce distractions or provide confidentiality where needed

Since sound masking is two words, you can use masking while talking in the context of sound.

  

Masking - The process by which one sound is used to obscure the presence of another.

Description from Acoustics First

A: The English word minute in the time sense (and the various similar European words) came from Latin 'pars minuta prima' or 'first small part'; when it became necessary to subdivide even further, the obvious term was 'pars minuta secunda' which became second and its various cognates. (Best explained in Etymonline.)

A: You can't drop what you never had. Guard (noun) according to the Oxford English Dictionary comes from:

French garde, earlier also guarde (= Italian guarda, Spanish guarda) guarda, wardâ.

The noun "guard" predates the verb in English. The verb to guard comes either from the noun or from the same French word the noun comes from. For some reason, as you note, there is a word guarder (formed from guard (verb) + er) that came into being after both the noun and verb forms of guard (which looks like it was a lot more popular some hundreds of years ago, but isn't really used now).

Interestingly enough some of your examples aren't really examples. Farmer, for example, wasn't originally formed from the English words farm + er. The OED lists its etymology as:

Anglo-Norman fermer (Britton), French fermier firmārius, firma : see farm n.2 Now usually apprehended as agent-noun farm v.2 + -er suffix1; some modern uses may be properly regarded as belonging to this formation and not to the older word.

In the early recorded forms the suffix -er has been replaced by -our, so that the word apparently corresponds to the synonymous medieval Latin firmātor, one who takes something on lease (Du Cange), agent-noun firmāre in sense to contract for, become responsible for.

Similarly, waiter wasn't formed in English originally according to the OED:

Originally waitour, Old French weitteor, gaiteor, agent-noun weitier, gaitier wait v.1 In later use wait v.1 + -er suffix1.

A: A curmudgeon is someone who is bad-tempered and disagreeable - so curmudgeonly?

A contrarian is someone who takes an opposing view, especially for the sake of being difficult, contentious or in opposition to the generally held view.  This could also be used as an adjective.

A troll is, in a certain context, someone who says something deliberately for the purpose of insulting or upsetting someone.  (Thanks RegDwight AAA, and no offense intended to Norwegians).

My British friends and relatives might also say that such a person was "playing silly buggers" (or beggars).

A: The word for the colour yellow comes from a germanic root as well.

  

Old English geolu, geolwe, from Proto-Germanic *gelwaz (cf. Old Saxon, Old High German gelo, Middle Dutch ghele, Dutch geel, Middle High German gel, German gelb, Old Norse gulr, Swedish gul "yellow"), from PIE *ghel- "yellow, green" (see Chloe). 

Palatalization is a sound change that took place from Old English to Modern English. Here's a short list of words where this shift took place: day (German Tag), yarn (German Garn), way (German Weg), year (Old English gear), nail (German Nagel), yield (Old English geldan, Old High German geltan) and thirsty (German durstig). It also happened with another colour word: gray (Old English græg.)

It should be noted that in Modern German, the terminal g has become devoiced and Tag sounds more like tuck in English.

The word is similar in Latin languages because they all share the same Proto-Indo-European root, *ghel-. It's interesting that this same root which had the meaning "to shine" gave us not only the colour yellow, but also gold, gild, gall (i.e. yellow-coloured bile), and a range of sparkly gl- words: glitter, gleam, glow, etc.

A: That looks like a caret symbol.

From https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Caret ...

The caret /ˈkærət/ is an inverted V-shaped grapheme.

It is the spacing character ^ in ASCII  [...] and other character sets that may also be called a hat, control, uparrow, or less frequently chevron, xor sign, to the power of, pointer [...] or wedge.

Officially, this character is referred to as circumflex accent in both ASCII and Unicode terminology (because of its historical use in overstrike), whereas caret refers to a similar but lowered Unicode character: U+2038 ‸ CARET.

From Computer Desktop Encyclopedia ...

caret — The small up-facing arrow on the "6" key (shift-6) on a typewriter keyboard. Also called a "hat," it is used as a symbol for several different operations. The mathematical expression 2^12 means 2 to the 12th power. It is also used as an exclusive OR operator (see XOR), and it is sometimes found as a symbol for the Control key; for example, ^Y means Ctrl-Y.

A: It literally is a prediction of a future condition. It's often used as a way of sharing your experiences with the hope of those experiences helping someone else. It can be a way of insinuating commands or requests, but only as a turn of phrase.

For example, a person who just got out of the rain might tell someone about to leave that "You will want to have an umbrella." If a road is blocked, they might say "You will want to drive this other route."

By alerting someone to a future condition, you help them make informed decisions without stepping on their toes.

A: Thee, thou, and thine (or thy) are Early Modern English second person singular pronouns.  Thou is the subject form (nominative), thee is the object form, and thy/thine is the possessive form.

Before they all merged into the catch-all form you, English second person pronouns distinguished between nominative and objective, as well as between singular and plural (or formal):

  

thou - singular informal, subject (Thou art here. = You are here.)

  thee - singular informal, object (He gave it to thee.)

  ye - plural or formal, subject

  you - plural or formal, object  

Interestingly, when the first English translations of the Bible were being made, the informal thee and thou were used specifically in reference to God to indicate an approachable, familiar God, but as the language changed this paradoxically brought thee and thou to sound more formal to the modern English speaker.

A: This is a good example of the problems caused by lying to students in saying that will is "The Future Tense".  There is no future tense in English. There is likewise no perfect tense, no progressive tense, no pluperfect tense, no future perfect tense. There are also no moods or voices. No matter what you've been taught. Sorry about that.

What English has is a present tense and a past tense, both managed by suffix or root change (deletes/deleted, drives/drove). That's it for tenses. There are various constructions like the Perfect construction, the Progressive construction, the Passive construction, etc. All of them take several words and don't require endings or prefixes, and word order is important.

One of the constructions that occurs in practically every sentence is the Verb Phrase, which usually starts with an auxiliary verb of some sort: some form of be or have for Perfect, Passive, or Progressive, and, at the beginning of the verb phrase, a modal auxiliary verb. When modals occur, they are always at the beginning of the verb phrase, because they only have one form (they are "defective verbs"), and that form is not an infinitive form or a participle form, so it can't go after be or have as the constructions require.

This results in modal auxiliaries always occurring alone at the beginning of a verb phrase -- or inverted with the subject in questions -- whenever they occur; and it also has the effect of limiting modals to one per verb phrase, at the beginning.

Why is this relevant to the "future tense"? Because what students are erroneously taught is not that will is one of the modal auxiliaries, and therefore behaves like can, may, must, should, would, could in not appearing together, but rather that will is "The Future Tense", a different category entirely, which can apply to anything, including uninflectable modal auxiliaries like can.  Hence the question.

The answer is that English has special constructions that mean the same as modals, but have infinitive and participle forms, so they can be used in past tense, or in the Perfect or Progressive. These are called Periphrastic Modals, and the one associated with can in the sense you indicate is be able to. 

That is, one can't say 

- *I will/should can do that by next year.

but one can say, with the same intended meaning,

- I will/should be able to do that by next year.

A: "To be honest" is an example of an adverbial disjunct, which indicates the speaker's attitude toward the sentence without affecting the meaning of the sentence. It is often used, consciously or otherwise, to preface a statement that the speaker believes is particularly candid in the present context, possibly to an extent that might cause mild offense.

It's a bit of a set phrase these days, and as is usually the case with set phrases, it's best not to parse it too closely in casual use.

A: Resistentialism

Resistentialism is a jocular theory to describe "seemingly spiteful behavior manifested by inanimate objects", where objects that cause problems (like lost keys or a runaway bouncy ball) are said to exhibit a high degree of malice toward humans.

[Wikipedia]

A: The noun for an inhabitant of Britain is Briton.

British is an adjective.

For many countries, the adjective and noun are identical.  As you've found, German and American are good examples.

The noun for an inhabitant of China has historically been Chinaman but in recent times, the word Chinese has been increasingly used.

A: People all over the Internet have asked the same thing—which, on the face of it, suggests that different forum posters (and perhaps, in some cases, the same people at different times) have used it to mean both things.

For example:

Does OP mean Original Post or Original Poster or both? (AnandTech, posted January 7, 2005)

Does OP mean the original post or poster? (Physics Forums, posted January 3, 2008)

Does OP stand for "Opening Post," or "Opening Poster?" (Kongregate, posted May 7, 2011)

What does OP mean? (Meta Stack Exchange, posted September 10, 2012)

Noob Question: What does OP mean? (World of Warcraft Forums, posted September 15, 2012)

what does op mean? (League of Legends Forum, posted January 3, 2013)

OP -- Original Post or Original Poster? (The Straight Dope, posted December 12, 2016)

If you examine these various discussions, you'll see that, typically, someone will say that OP stands for original poster, and then someone else will say that it stands for original post, and then someone else will say that it can be used to mean either thing, and then someone else will suggest that it stands for something off the wall like Otto Preminger or Opossum Party.

At English Language & Usage, I think, most longtime participants use OP as an abbreviation of original poster, but not everyone follows this convention all the time.

Perhaps the most neutral, descriptivist handling of the abbreviation that I've come across is the one in Daniel Chandler & ‎Rod Munday, A Dictionary of Social Media (Oxford, 2016):

op 1. (OP) In online forums, short for original poster (who started a thread) or original post (the message that started it).

A: Technically and even mathematically speaking, that would be an instant, which can be thought of as a more technical term for a moment. This is how Wikipedia defines it:

  

An instant is an infinitesimal moment in time, a moment whose passage is instantaneous.

For example:

  

The object was in this position (these coordinates) at this instant in time.

Mathematically, the precise position of an object can be described using a position function. Thus, we are always able to say precisely what position the object is in at any particular instant (moment) in time. You plug in a particular instant of time (t) into the position function, and out pops its position precisely at that instant (or moment). That's literally the kind of lingo that mathematicians would use.

A: I've heard a radio program on this topic.

Made of is used when the material the subject consists of doesn't change during the process of making the subject. As in the example by Armen elsewhere on this page:

  

Chairs are made of wood.

Here, wood is still wood. It doesn't transform into something else.

On the other hand, made from is used when the material changed its nature. Again, another Armen example:

  

Paper is made from wood.

Now, wood disappeared — it was transformed into paper.

Some more examples:

  
  
- The house is made of bricks. [They are still bricks.]
  
- Wine is made from grapes. [Grapes turn into wine.]

A: It is from the ancient alchemy notion of "volatile substance". The vapor given off and collected during an alchemical process (as with distillation of alcohol) was called a spirit of the original material: 

  
  
- From late 14c. in alchemy as "volatile substance; distillate;" from c. 1500 as "substance capable of uniting the fixed and the volatile elements of the philosopher's stone." Hence spirits "volatile substance;" sense narrowed to "strong alcoholic liquor" by 1670s. 
  

Etymonline

A: Solid-state drives are called solid-state because there are no moving parts in them. Drives with moving parts are called hard disk drives, because they contain disks which rotate when the drive is powered on. You could consider this an antonym, but not necessarily. They are simply two different technologies, with many other possible to come.

A: String is probably still a bit "jargony" for many. Call it Text instead.

A: What is a cap anyways?

A "cap", in the firearms sense, is the ignition source for the gunpowder.  These were used in the days before firearms that used "modern" cartridges containing bullet, powder, and (not obvious to the casual observer) a "cap" in the center of the cartridge base.

The pre-cartridge (but post-flintlock) "percussion cap" was a small cup-shaped bit of metal with a special sort of gunpowder packed into it.  One placed this over a "nipple" (a sort of nozzle) on the firearm, then released the hammer.  As the hammer hit the cap the powder inside would explode and blow flame through the nipple and into the powder chamber of the firearm.

These same caps were also used in "starter pistols" and the like to produce a miniature version of a gunshot sound, and they are the source of the term "cap gun" as known by kids of the 50s (though these used safer/cheaper paper "caps").
Answer

The references you have found refer to discharging a cap-style firearm with no powder in the chamber, so as to produce a sound without actually firing a bullet.  The term "pop a cap" from there took on a figurative meaning, as modern cartridges took over and the original meaning of "cap" was lost to most firearm users.

(And, obviously, the origin of the term "cap" is based on its shape, and how it caps the end of the nipple.)

A: I believe 'can' is more appropriate in a restaurant.

Firstly it is quite possible that you cannot have something that is on the menu because it is no longer available.  Asking if you 'can' have the swordfish is valid because the answer may be no.

Secondly using 'may' implies you are asking for permission which I don't think is appropriate in a restaurant.  If a waiter told you "you can get a steak tartare, the question is may you", I imagine that you'd be somewhat suprised, possibly outraged.  It is called 'ordering' for a reason.

Using may doesn't sound terribly wrong to me but I do think it is largely sham courtesy.

If you are asking for something that isn't the purpose of the staff to fulfill then sure.  

  

"May I go in and see if my friend is already here?"

Great.  Wholly appropriate. 

  

"May I have a double cheeseburger and chips"

Seems overly polite and probably sham courtesy.

A: Consider "wooden spoon":

  

wooden spoon: a booby prize consisting of a spoon made of wood

(Princeton WordNet)

Wikipedia provides more information:

  

A wooden spoon is a spoon made from wood, usually given to an individual or team which has come last in a competition, but sometimes also to runners-up.

A: This is due to a phenomenon that occurs in intimate conversational spoken English called "Conversational Deletion". It was discussed and exemplified quite thoroughly in a 1974 PhD dissertation in linguistics at the University of Michigan that I had the honor of directing.

Thrasher, Randolph H. Jr. 1974. Shouldn't Ignore These Strings: A Study of Conversational Deletion, Ph.D. Dissertation, Linguistics, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor

To quote:

- (1.16) Gotta go now.

- (1.17) See you next Tuesday.

- (1.18) Too bad about old Charlie.

- (1.19) No need to get upset about it.

- (1.20) Been in Ann Arbor long?

- (1.21) Ever get a chance to use your Dogrib?

- (1.22) Ever get to Japan, look me up.

- (1.23) Good thing we didn't run into anybody we know.

- (1.24) Last person I expected to meet was John.

- (1.25) Wife wants to go to the mountains this year.

[all from Thrasher 1974 p.5]

"The phenomenon can be viewed as erosion of the beginning of sentences, deleting (some, but not all) articles, dummies, auxiliaries, possessives, conditional if, and [most relevantly for this discussion -jl] subject pronouns. But it only erodes up to a point, and only in some cases.

"Whatever is exposed (in sentence initial position) can be swept away. If erosion of the first element exposes another vulnerable element, this too may be eroded. The process continues until a hard (non-vulnerable) element is encountered." [ibidem p.9]

In general, exposed first-person subjects are vulnerable in statements, and second-person in questions; and any exposed pronoun is vulnerable if it is recoverable from later in the sentence.

- (3.2) Can't do it, can {I/you/he/she/they/we}? [ibidem p.59]

Let me reiterate that this phenomenon only occurs in speaking English, and in other informal communication systems like email and txting that work like speech. It is not good formal written style, except for reporting dialog in a story.

A: The form ’s, representing either has or is, along with ’m (am), ’re (are), ’ve (have), ’ll (will), and ’d (had or would) are called clitics, and they are a variant of what are known as weak forms of words, which are pronunciations of words like a, have, from, you, etc. (about fifty in total) with a reduced vowel, such as schwa.

This is covered in the Cambridge Grammar of the English Language (CGEL) in Chapter 18, “Inflection Morphology and Related Matters”, section 6, “Phonological reduction and liaison”.

In the discussion of weak and strong forms, CGEL points out that there are certain grammatical contexts that require strong forms, and one of those contexts is something called stranding, where the object of a phrase is preposed (moved before the phrase). These are examples they give of stranding requiring strong forms:

a. Who did you give it [to __ ]?

b. We’ll help you if we [can __].

c. They want me to resign, but I don’t intend [to __].

In each of these cases, the word in the brackets has a weak form, but it cannot be used in this context because its object has been stranded. Of course, in written English, there is no difference between weak and strong forms—it’s only a spoken difference—but clitics are distinguished in written English, and the restriction on weak forms also extends to clitics. (There are additional restrictions on clitics, but they are not relevant to this discussion).

So, thus we can say that the second is in the sentence It is what it [is __] cannot be reduced to either a weak form or to a clitic because of the restriction to strong forms in cases of syntactic stranding.

A: Nevermind is an album by Nirvana. "Never mind" means don't bother with something.

A: The word you are looking for is "magnetic" or "mechanical" (i.e. a mechanical disk drive). 

The word "disk drive" has become very ubiquitous and a layman is likely to apply the term to other storage technologies. So, while technically you would be correct in saying that a disk drive is something that is not (technically) "solid-state", the term could easily be confused. 

This is an English/communication question; not a technical one. The only way to guarantee understanding is to properly describe the specific technology you are referring to &mdash; mechanical disk drive, platter-based disk drive, old-style noisy rotating spinny magnetic planar disks with crashing heads inducing much rage systems &mdash; don't get too caught up in the technical accuracy when communication and understanding are important.

A: I'd describe someone as antagonistic if they are the type of person that thrives on disagreement and conflict for its own sake.  These are the type of people who will start arguments for the sole purpose of creating a tense, adversarial atmosphere.

A: Although neither of these are common English idioms, I'm reminded of Benjamin Franklin's proverb:

  

It takes many good deeds to build a good reputation, and only one bad one to lose it.

or Warren Buffet's paraphrase:

  

It takes 20 years to build a reputation and five minutes to ruin it. 

Both of these capture the laborious nature of the “100 sermons” in the Japanese original.

A: The "formal" word in English is pretext:

  

A reason given in justification of a course of action that is not the
  real reason

http://www.oxforddictionaries.com/definition/english/pretext

You could say "I sent my sister away on a pretext so we can talk more freely".

Or if you asked your sister to go out and buy something, she might say "I know that's just a pretext to get rid of me for a few minutes."

A: As a diacritic, this symbol is a circumflex.

According to the linked Wikipedia article, hat, roof or house are used when the context is mathematics.

A: Wild Goose Chase

a search that is completely unsuccessful and a waste of time because the person or thing being searched for does not exist or is somewhere else:

Further reading:
The first recorded citation is from Romeo and Juliet, 1592:

Romeo: Switch and spurs, switch and spurs; or I'll cry a match.

Mercutio:  Nay, if thy wits run the wild-goose chase, I have done, for thou hast more of the wild-goose in one of thy wits than, I am sure, I have in my whole five.

Our current use of the phrase alludes to an undertaking which will probably prove to be fruitless - and it's hard to imagine anything more doomed to failure than an attempt to catch a wild goose by chasing after it.

Our understanding of the term differs from that in use in Shakespeare's day. The earlier meaning related not to hunting but to horse racing. A 'wild goose chase' was a chase in which horses followed a lead horse at a set distance, mimicking wild geese flying in formation.

Additionally if you are looking to send someone after a specific item, you could try a
Left-handed monkey wrench

a non-existing tool

In a sentence: "Hey Jim, go get me that left-handed monkey wrench".

Wrenches in general do not need a specific orientation or hand to operate and therefore don't need to directional qualifier. Also, other hand tools are designed for right-handed operation as the majority of the population is aligned that way.

See also: pipe stretcher, blinker fluid

A: In the dilemma "may" vs. "can" and which form is preferable, it depends on how old the speaker is, where they live and which dialect of English they speak. 

There is an age-old debate that can in requests, is asking if something is "possible", e.g. 

  

A: Can I have a glass of water?

  B: Yes, you can (=it is possible).

Whereas may, some argue, is asking permission and is used in polite, slightly hesitant, requests.   

  

A: May I have a glass of water?

  B: Yes, (you may) I'll pour you a glass.   

Older, and perhaps more educated, British speakers will probably prefer using "may", and perhaps most Americans too, regardless of their level of education. In my experience, younger British speakers will nearly always ask "Can I...?"

The modal could is also used in formal, rather polite, requests

  

Could I have a glass of water, please?

There is a nice summary by Cambridge Dictionary titled Requests: Asking for something 
And in this six-year-old question posted on EL&U:  Difference between "can" and "may"

EDIT (June 5 2018)  

No waiter that I know of, would think to reply a customer's order with "Yes, you can/may have a glass of water" that could sound arrogant. A normal response would be “Yes, certainly”. The whole point of can/could/may/might/'d like (etc.) in requests is the acknowledgment that the server or counter attendant is the person who brings and sometimes even prepares the food or drink in person. 

The server is doing their job but they're doing it (and many do) to the best of their ability. When a customer uses polite language, it is not sham courtesy but a sign of respect. 

  

A server or waiting staff takes on a very important role in a restaurant which is to always be attentive and accommodating to the customers. Wikipedia

A: "Inputted" may be acceptable per Oxford, but it sets my teeth on edge; my ear wants "input" to follow the same rules as "put".  I suspect I'm not the only one, which is probably why you're being forced to change it.

EDIT:  This question/answer has been getting a bit of attention recently, so I'd like to clarify my comment below.  There is a verb, putt, meaning "try to hit a golf ball into a hole by striking it gently so that it rolls across the green", which is often confused with put "to move or place".  (The confusion is natural, since the golfing term comes from a Scots variant of "put" - but the two words are distinct, and pronounced differently.)

The past tense of put is put; the past tense of putt is putted.  Since input is formed from "put" rather than "putt", it seems logical that its past tense should be input, rather than "inputted"; "inputted" sounds like a demented golfing term.

A: The oldest citations of the word in the OED are from the 15th century, and there is no indication in those where exactly they got the term from back in those days.

Phonetically, it would be somewhat difficult to derive pride from Latin parata. If borrowed straight from Latin, you’d expect it to either simply be a *parata of lions or something like a *parrot of lions (or *parat, or however the spelling might have ended up). If it had gone through French, it would probably have ended up being the same as parry (since Latin -āta gives (Old) French -ée, which was usually borrowed as -y early on). And then there’s the form of parata that went through Italian or Spanish before entering French and thence English: parade. But pride would be quite problematic to derive from parata.

The same, though less insurmountably so, is true of Latin praeda. That certainly could not have gone through French to become English pride, because we already have the French version of praeda in English: prey. The d was regularly lost in French. It could, theoretically, have been borrowed straight from Latin, but equating a stressed ⟨ae⟩ from Latin with a 15th-century (i.e., pre-Great Vowel Shift) English ⟨i⟩ would be quite problematic. Latin ⟨ae⟩ is nearly always [iː] in Modern English, which goes back to an earlier pronunciation [eː] in Middle English. The pronunciation of pride with an [aɪ] diphthong, combined with the consistent spelling with an ⟨i⟩ all the way back to the 15th century, is fairly good evidence that it was in fact an original [iː] sound. And this is not how Latin ⟨ae⟩ was represented.

There is another piece of circumstantial evidence: terms of venery in English are often quite transparently meant to be amusing or exaggerated gibes at perceived characteristics of the animal in question. They are inventions of the 13th and 14th centuries, and when their number and complexity started approaching the ludicrous, so did their silliness. Examples of terms of venery that quite clearly are ‘personifications’, as it were, of perceived characteristics of the animal described (taken from the Wikipedia page linked to by mplungjan in a comment) include:

- a shrewdness of apes/monkeys

- a bellowing of bullfinches (from its rather unpleasant cry)

- a flutter of butterflies

- a pounce of cats (from their tendency to pounce quickly on their prey)

- a peep of chickens

- a chattering/clattering of choughs (from their cry)

- an intrusion of cockroaches

- a bask/float of crocodiles (from their habit of floating near the surface, basking in the sun)

- a murder of crows (seen as a harbinger of death)

- a waddling of ducks

- etc.

Since lions are—or were, at least, in the Middle Ages—very commonly used as a symbol for pride, bravery, and strength personified (think Richard Lionheart, etc.), it makes good sense to use pride in particular for this perceivedly very proud animal.

So while there may be no way to know with absolute certainty whether the term pride of lions really is a loan from somewhere else,1 I would say that the accumulated evidence in favour of it simply being a perfectly common (in the world of venery terms) use of the regular noun pride is quite a lot more convincing than the evidence that speaks for loan words.

1 Short of there being some obscure old source that actually happens to tell us conclusively of how and when this particular term was first used, and by whom. There may be such a source, but I am unaware of it if there is. The Book of St. Albans does not give any in-depth information, just gives the same blasé mention as the OED and Etymonline, which just shows that already in the 15th century, at least, the term was considered just an extension of the normal word pride, whether that is etymologically justified or not.

A: "Would" is a form of "will". In current English, "will" and "would" are almost always used with another verb to indicate future or potential action. That's why you're expecting another word. But in Marlowe's time it was common to use "will" as a stand-alone verb meaning "to wish or desire", and "would" as its subjunctive. So "what would you?" has a meaning similar to "what do you want?" (only softer) or "what would you like to do?"

A: "Brackets" is used interchangeably for various symbols:

- angle brackets for <>

- round brackets for ()

- curly brackets for {}

- square brackets for []

- and more, some of which are only used in certain regions or cultures

The more specific "braces" and "parentheses" are almost never used for other than {} and (), respectively.  Mathematics has several more (subtle) variations in addition and is formalized more than other fields.

I prefer "braces" for {}, "parens" (informally or in the context of programming) or "parentheses" for (), and plain "brackets" for [], though "square brackets" is sometimes required to be explicit about the latter.  This gives you a one-word name for any of those common symbols.  (And don't get me started on the problems of angle brackets for grouping... :P)

To provide a non-text counterpoint, "bracketing" in photography is taking multiple exposures around a given value (which value—white balance, ISO, aperture, etc.—depends on what you're targeting).  This shows the use of "bracket" to mean "surrounding," which lines up nicely with the text symbols above.

A: Here's an attempt for an answer drawing from credible and/or official sources. The best sources we have are the books themselves that create the Ngram in the question. If we click through to some of the results between 1898 and 1902 (for example), we can categorise them as follows:

Variation of goggle-eyed:

- "Gilded, gilded o'er, gilt edge on, glorious, google eyed, got a big head, got a bundle'jsgot a drop in the eye, got a smile on, got the gravel rash, greetin fou', groatable, groggy, gutter legged, guzzled. "

- "He was google-eyed and spiflicated."

- "Say, Mr. Pierce, couldn't you swipe that google-eye from Mrs. de Rutyer. She makes me so nervous when she points it at me that I feel like dropping."

- "On, say, drop dat google-eye, said Rade, in disgust."

- "Aha! And so you'd like to call my son after that google-eyed idiot you were engaged to before I met you !"

- "His tongue was much too large for his mouth, his legs were much too weak for his body, and his dull google-eyes stared and rolled like an idiot's."

- "It made him google-eyed and he walked off the Curb."

- "I'm sure that archers google-eyed"

- "Common Rock Bass ; Red-eye ; Google-eye" aka goggle-eye

Synonym for surf-scooter duck, aka goggle-nose:

- Popular synonyms: Surf Duck. Sea Duck. Horse-head Coot. Surf Coot. Google-nose. Gray Coot, etc."

- Popular synonyms: Surf Duck. Sea Duck. Horse-head Coot. Surf Coot. Google-nose. Gray Coot, etc."

- Popular synonyms: Surf Duck. Sea Duck. Horse-head Coot. Surf Coot. Google-nose. Gray Coot, etc."

Onomatopoeic gurgle noise:

- "He broke into a light Irish song, dancing the baby up and down until the little one bade fair to google itself out of breath."

- "A hurried visit to the cellar and the peculiar "google-google" sound led to a barrel which had been full of No. 1 Coach varnish"

Definite OCR error:

- "Goods manufactured."

- "Congleton"

- "1. O E. French, Lura Phillips, WF Chevalier, OE Klingeman, Carrie Coogle FE Buck, David Williams, ATS Owen,"

OCR is optical character recognition, the method of scanning pages and automatically attempting (not always successfully) to convert it to plain searchable text.

Unknown:

- "And vowed a most tremendous vow, By the great Google Tree,"

- "It 's right over yander at de head er de dreen — A-wish, wish, wishin' — Whar de branch runs google, an' de leaves is green— Des a-wishin'." Possibly nonsense/onomatopoeic from a child's lullaby.

- "It 's right over yander at de head er de dreen— A-wish, wish, wishin'— Whar de branch runs google, an' de leaves is green— Des a-wishin'." 

- "Googie, George E" a soldier's surname, is it Googie or Google? Probably the same as the surnames below.

Unknown, Google Books image illegible, probably OCR error:

- "A. B "Google", John Carr, George Courtright", OCR error of a soldier's surname

- "OE KUngeman, Carrie Google. FE Buck, David Williams". Another surname.

- "Google Chas. W. Griffin Ivan Grimm Wm. F. Harris Krnest". Another surname.

- "FB Clayton, JP Google and others", OCR error of a surname

- "so they sit under the trees making merry over "google" and cake"

- "Googie, splendid color and markings, beat a nice housebred cat, not as clear or distinct in color." I think this says Googie and is the name of a cat in a list.

- "Not one of the pets Ever quarrels or scolds; They sleep and they wake And they crow and they coo And they talk in the language Of Google -goo-goo, (And they all take In Babyville there Are animals. too; tjaby kittens and bears". Probably nonsense word.

Unknown, no preview:

- Link

- Link

- Link, possibly OCR error from Matlese text

- Link

- Link

- Link

- Link

- Link

- Link

- Link

- Link

- Link, from a Spanish-English pronouncing dictionary

- Link

Summary:

- So the most common by far is google-eyed, a variation of goggle-eyed. The next is a variation of google-nose as a synonym for a duck that's also known goggle-nose. 

- Next comes goggle as an onomatopoeic gurgle noise. 

- There are some clear OCR errors (Goods, Congleton). 

- There are quite a few surnames, at least one is an OCR error of the American Coogle, another could be Googie and I suspect the others were misspelling in American documents. 

- Other uses appear to be either nonsense, onomatopoeic, made-up rhyming words or simply unknown.

Finally, although we didn't encounter them in this sample, the OCR often gets the published date wrong and a recent book about the Google search engine may appear in the results as if it were published in the early 1900s.

A: Whenever you find an O (or some other back vowel like A or U) in one form of an English word and an E (or some other front vowel like Æ or I) in the corresponding place in another, you have two suspects to interrogate.

- 

If the two words are not from the same language, but from two separate Indo-European languages, like Latin and Greek (e.g, ped-al from Latin and pod-iatrist from Greek, both roots meaning 'foot' — the p ~ f and d ~ t alternations are Grimm's Law in action), then what you're seeing is E–O Ablaut. Proto-Indo-European often alternated between an "E-grade" and an "O-Grade" form for morphology, and various daughter languages inherited various words. Sort of like the distribution of family furniture when the parents die. That's not what happened here, however.

- 

If the two words are from English, and not borrowed, then what you're seeing is Umlaut. This term refers to changing a back rounded vowel [o, u] to the corresponding front rounded vowel [œ, y] in anticipation of a front vowel [i, e] in the next syllable. This is a common Germanic feature, and is still productive in German, where there are special vowel symbols (ü, ö, ä, called U-umlaut, O-umlaut, and A-umlaut) that represent this phenomenon, and these sounds. Umlaut is the guilty suspect.

In English, this happened to many normal plurals because of the E in the regular plural suffix -es. That E was pronounced in Old English and Middle English, but not in Modern English; however the root vowel had been changed already and is maintained in some, but not most, of the nouns.

The original Old English (or possibly Proto-, West, or Low Germanic) of goose/geese (in Modern English [gus/gis]) was [go:s/go:ses]. There were several steps in the derivation:

- starting words: [go:s/go:ses]

- final s going silent ⇒ [go:s/go:se]

- fronting the o: to œ: by umlaut ⇒ [go:s/gœ:se]

- derounding œ to e ⇒ [go:s/ge:se]

- final e going silent ⇒ [go:s/ge:s]

- Great Vowel Shift raising all long vowels one notch ⇒ [gu:s/gi:s]

- long vowels become short ⇒ [gus/gis]

- ending words: [gus/gis]

Edit:
In this medium, where writing and typography has to express speech and sounds, I use italics and boldface like this:

- I use plain italics only for citing examples and titles. Never for emphasis.

- I use boldface for emphasis. These are words that would be LOUD in my speech.

- I use bold italics for technical terms, usually with capitals, and links if I have them.

- I also use bold italics in examples to point out individual parts that get mentioned in the text.

- Like all linguists, I use

- [ˌskwɛɹ'bɹækɨts] (square brackets) for phonetic data,

distinguished from

- /'slæʃəz/ (slashes) for phonemic transcriptions.

A: The rhetorical term for the phenomenon you describe is catachresis.

Catachresis has been defined by Robert A. Harris as "an extravagant, implied metaphor using words in an alien or unusual way." A noun, for example, could be used as a verb, as in the case of "I'm gonna have to science . . .."
Harris gives an example which is similar to Matt Damon's sentence:

  

The little old lady turtled along at ten miles per hour.

A good catachresis creates a word picture. The sentence which contained the word turtled as a verb may solidify, so to speak, the writer's or speaker's idea in the mind of the reader or listener. 

The image of an old lady turtling along cements itself in someone's mind more readily than a mere verbal description such as, "The old lady plodded along slowly" (although the word plodded is better than an average word, such as walked). 

In conclusion, while the expression "to science something" may not serve to create a word picture, that one word may get a listener to think of the elements of the scientific method (e.g., the control of variables, careful measurements, and hypothesis-making and hypothesis-testing). Now that's an efficient use of words!

A: "For" at this point doesn't seem to have any meaning here, although it does add a little emphasis.

Specifically, it looks to me like "done for" could be actually a variation of the even older, now-obsolete verb "fordo".

The earliest example in the OED for "done for" is from a1500:

  

By thre skyllis may hit come to Why hit [sc. a stillborn child] is don for [Lansd. fordone] alsoo.

   Sidrak & Bokkus (Laud)

"[Lansd. fordone]" means that in another manuscript they used "fordone" instead of "don[e] for". (Unfortunately I haven't been able to access either version.)

If you look at this free definition for "fordo" (for Middle English, but still applicable), you'll see it is essentially a synonym for "done for". "Fordo" is ancient (first attested in English in the year c900) and apparently derives from "Proto-Germanic *fardōną, *fradōną (“to ruin, destroy”)".

According to the OED, the "for" prefix in "fordo" means:

  

Implying destructive, painful, or prejudicial effect, as in fordeem, fordo

It's worth mentioning that the now-obsolete word "fordeem" is a synonym because it means "to ruin or destroy", although it also means "to condemn". There are other obsolete words that also have this "for" meaning destruction prefix but I can't think of any current ones. Of course there are plenty of current verbs with other senses of the same "for" prefix: forgive, forget, forbid, etc.

A: I did some research using the Corpus of Historical American English to see if I could track the history of these words. Each of these words has a different story to tell.
DREAMED and DREAMT

See the raw data (Google Docs)

In the early 1800s, dreamt was more common than dreamed but by the mid-1800s, dreamed was much more common and has stayed so since. While there is nothing wrong with continuing to use dreamt, dreamed is definitely the more common form.
LEAPED and LEAPT

See the raw data (Google Docs)

Leaped has long been more popular than leapt, though leaped has been in decline since 1900, and leapt has been on the increase since 1950, and today they are about equally common. It is likely that if the current trends continue, leapt will become decisively more common than leaped within a decade or two. Indeed, in the Corpus of Contemporary American English, leapt has 484 incidences for 2005-2010 and only 460 for leaped. So, both are about equally common these days and you are in good company if you prefer leapt.
SWEEPED and SWEPT

Neither COCA nor COHA have any results for sweeped, nor does any dictionary I checked list sweeped as a possible past tense form for sweep. Sweeped doesn’t appear to have had any currency in American English since 1810. Google reports only 43,000 results for sweeped compared with 78,000,000 for swept.
LIGHTED and LIT

See the raw data (Google Docs)

Apparently, lighted was much more popular than lit, from the early 1800s until about 1940. During this time lit was steadily gaining popularity, while lighted began a precipitous decline in 1940. Today, lit is much more popular than lighted, so if you prefer lit, you are in very good company. However, there would be trouble objecting to lighted on historical grounds, as lighted was by far the most common form until the 1940s.

A: Nails

‘Nailing’ something is basically the equivalent of hitting the nail on the head. Hitting the nail on the head is, as anyone who’s ever tried hanging a picture on a wall knows, something that requires great precision and the proper application of force (and in my own case, often also the proper application of a few Band-Aids or similar).

As such, it is quite logical that ‘nailing’ something—i.e., fastening it with a nail by delivering one quick blow in exactly the right place to make it sit tight just where it’s supposed to—would acquire the meaning of “to perform or complete perfectly or impressively”.

Screws

Unlike nails, screws are not quickly fastened with one blow. Rather, they must work their way in slowly, and they do so while turning around constantly.

It is a very common metaphor, cross-linguistically, to indicate that something has gone wrong or is not as it should be by likening it to something that turns around or loops out of place. A screw is a good candidate for this. (Compare also the word awry, meaning ‘amiss, wrong’, which is etymologically from the now obsolete verb wry, which meant ‘to twist, turn, swerve’. That’s a similar development.)

If a nail gives the mental image of something going straight in, according to a linear projection, just the way it’s supposed to, a screw gives the mental image of something curving, looping, winding around, in an inefficient manner.

Further derivations

Once you’ve got those two basic meanings, it’s very easy to derive further slang terms from them. The nail-based ones are actually remarkably few in number, but the screw-based ones abound: you can screw something up (mess it up), you can be screwy (crazy), you can be screwed (ruined, done for), you can ‘screw it’ (forget it, leave it aside), you can screw someone over (cheat them), you can screw around (fool around), you can screw someone (as in, “Screw you!”, not-so-politely telling them to go to hell), etc.

Interestingly, both ‘nail’ and ‘screw’ can refer to sexual intercourse—but with the very fundamental difference (borne over from the basic meanings of the word) that screwing someone just refers, in a roundabout way, to the general ‘in-out’ motions performed during sex, while nailing someone indicates that there is a nailer and a nailee: one party is ‘using’ the nail, and the other party is implicitly likened to a wall that the nail goes into. In other words, it is quite common for a guy to brag to his friends that he ‘nailed’ a girl; but not very common for a girl to say that she ‘nailed’ a guy.

A: Index Notches. 

And here's a patent for a device to cut index notches.

A: You should use "into" when it's a question of location, for lack of a better word. "I went into the store," "We went into the field of computer science," "We drank well into the morning," etc..

"In to" just happens sometimes. "I went in to buy some milk." In that sentence the "to" is part of the infinitive "to buy." 

If you aren't sure which one to use, change the "in" to "in order" and see if it still works. "I went in order to the store" is wrong, but "I went in order to buy some milk" is good.

A: Dear reader: I'm going to offer you a little friendly advice. When checking to see if something is "grammatical," do not rely on a Google search. Google will return hits from blogs and message boards, which are not necessarily reliable sources for determining correct English. Google will also return other odd nuggets, such as a fraction of a user's handle. Instead, use Google books, which restricts the search to published works, where the number of results will be a more reliable indicator.

For example, typing "just a friendly advice" into Google returns roughly 1,000,000 hits! Surely one million hits can't be wrong, right?  Well, let's look at a few of these (the text I have bolded may help indicate the reliability of the wording):

  

From a message board:

  Just a friendly advice!

  So, here’s an advice.. Quitting is hard, but don't give up! The easily stop smoking worldwide program , Nosmoq was proven to be the easiest, most effective and possible real herbal treatment of smoking for just 4 to 7 days
  
  

From a message board:

  Re: WHOA! - Just a friendly advice

  IMHO, I think is more self-explanatory to show crops at 1:1 ratio. An square helps to make a difference between the original and the crop at first sight.
  
  

From a cat:

  Just a friendly advice: think veeery carefully about what you're going to do next.
  
  

From a message board:

   Just a friendly advice for those faulting their R6

  So back when I first started riding with an 88FZ750 it always died on me. So much that I always had jumper cables and a set of tools on me. Now with my R6 I don't need the cables but I still carry a set of tools in case something does happen. Today was that day. On my way to work my bazaar unit crapped out and died leaving me with error 39 on the Side of the road. It was early morning so tech support were still sleeping. I didn't want to pay towing fees so I proceeded to remove the whole bazaar harness on the road, or just enough to get to work and home. After about 30 min I rewired the lower injectors back to stock and she fired right up! Not runnin perfect but she still gets to places. It was also 90 out at 8am so having water helps. 

As for that last one, I'd love to have that guy stop to help me on the side of the road, but I wouldn't want him proofreading my term paper.

Moving the search to Google books cuts the number of results down from roughly a million to a very small handful.

Some may claim there is "nothing wrong" with it; I suppose that would depend on what was meant by "wrong." If I can say, "Just a friendly hint", shouldn't I also be able to say, "Just a friendly advice"? I suppose I could (after all, this writer did); however – discussion board titles notwithstanding – I think most hearers would find it awkward. I'd be more inclined to follow Robusto's guidance, which sounds much more natural to my ear.

A: In English, we would usually use the word play. That covers both the act of performing the song on an instrument (perhaps while singing, if the instrument permits) and the act of playing a recording of the song. If you give an a cappella rendition, live, you would use the word sing.

A: There is no rule that q must be followed by u in all circumstances. This is merely true in the vast majority of circumstances, and it goes back to Latin.

The early Latins had three different letters for the [k] sound: C K Q. However, they only had one letter to represent the [u] and [w] (or [v]) sounds: V. It became customary to write the sequence [kw] (which is fairly common in Latin) as QV and all other instances of [k] as C. (K dropped out of use in most words.) This usage survived into most other European languages that were written with the Latin alphabet, though eventually the letter V was differentiated into U and V, and the accepted spelling of [kw] became QU.

Words spelled with Q without U are generally more recent additions to English, and often represent words borrowed from Semitic languages. Those languages are written with non-Latin alphabets and often have more than one [k]-like sound. When transliterating these scripts, K is usually used for [k], and Q for another sound such as [q], a uvular, "guttural k". In romanizations of Chinese Q is also used for a sound similar to the English "ch".

A: So, my question: How did they call these herbal infusions?

During the Middle English period, the concoction made from the herb was itself referred to as an herb. They would say "Drink this herb".

They didn't bother to say "infusion of this herb".

  

Drinke þis herbe..and it [wol] make al þe body in-to a swat.  

A Middle English Translation of Macer Floridus de Viribus Herbarum, ed. G. Frisk

A: Perhaps an English term borrowed from Yiddish, schtick (or shtick, or shtik)

  

A characteristic attribute, talent, or trait that is helpful in securing recognition or attention: waiters in tropical attire are part of the restaurant's shtick.

American Heritage Dictionary

The term is often applied to a comedian's signature style or routine.

A: GrammarGirl did a whole post on this. She explains that there is a difference between between and among. She writes:

  

Here's the deal: you can use the word “between” when you are talking about distinct, individual items even if there are more than two of them. For example, you could say, "She chose between Harvard, Brown, and Yale" because the colleges are individual items.

She goes on to explain that in the following cases, you use the two slightly differently:

  

Relationships: The Chicago Manual of Style describes these as one-to-one relationships. Sometimes they are between two items, groups, or people, as in these sentences:
  
  
  
- Choose between Squiggly and Aardvark.
  
- Let's keep this between you and me.
  
  
  

Other times they can be between more than two items, groups, or people as in these sentences:
  
  
  
- The negotiations between the cheerleaders, the dance squad, and the flag team were going well despite the confetti incident.
  
- The differences between English, Chinese, and Arabic are significant.
  
  
  

On the other hand, you use “among” when you are talking about things that aren't distinct items or individuals; for example, if you were talking about colleges collectively you could say, "She chose among the Ivy League schools."
  If you are talking about a group of people, you also use “among”:
  
  
  
- 

Fear spread among the hostages.
  
- 

The scandal caused a division among the fans.
  
- Squiggly and Aardvark are among the residents featured in the newsletter.
  
  
  

Part of a Group:
  “Among” can also indicate that someone is part of a group or left out of a group, as in these examples:
  
  
  
- He was glad to find a friend among enemies.
  
- She felt like a stranger among friends.
  
- Sylvia was later found living among the natives.
  

From this, you were correct in your use of between. "Cook et. al." formed part of a distinct group of individuals, so you would use between.

A: Ooh!  This is my field of expertise. =)  Never use "string" to describe a series of characters, in any user interface element.  The exception to this rule, is when the user is expected to be a developer (programmer, analyst, power user, etc.).  If any, the user interface should use jargon with which the user is expected to be familiar.  When using jargon in the user interface, it should not be so cryptic that a novice user is unable to easily interpret the meaning.

Describe what the string represents.  The data type that must be provided should be enforced by the input capturing mechanism (text box, etc.), and/or inferred by the description.  Use a date chooser for dates and a text box for names.  Date choosers are important; because a date may be entered in various formats -- the date chooser returns a predefined format.  If you are having trouble doing so, the user interface must be re-evaluated.  

For example:

- First Name (implies alpha characters)

- Password (implies alphanumeric and common punctuation characters)

- Message (implies alphanumeric and common punctuation characters)

- Birth date (implies date format)

- Hours worked (implies integral data)

The reason why "Number, Date, or 'String'" sounds correct, is because the meaning of string is contextual to anyone familiar with its correlation to "a series of characters."  For everyone else in the world (likely 99.7% or so of world population), it means "a long piece of fiber".

Side note:
Proper, modern software architecture, particularly MVP, MVC, and MVVM, accommodate interchangeable user interfaces.  Using these architectures would allow the same application to have both a "technical" and "non-technical" interface.  This is very useful, because the logic and data remain the same, and only a new user interface needs be built.  Therefore, an application program could contain both expert and novice interfaces.  This could be as simple as displaying definitions of jargon to novice users, and not to experts.

A: As @Araucaria says in the comments, Grammar Police is an excellent alternative that conveys the fascistic tendencies of a police state without the genocidal implications.

A: Consider,

molding/(Chiefly BrEng) moulding.

mold: to shape or influence; give direction to; mold public opinion Wordnet by Farlex

conditioning

condition: train or accustom (someone or something) to behave in a certain way or to accept certain circumstances: Oxford Dictionaries

training

As in, We've been trained (through advertising, media exposure, etc.) to fear/hate certain things and to be attracted to others. Google

train

a. to coach in or accustom to a mode of behavior or performance.

b. to cause (a plant or one's hair) to take a desired course or shape, as by manipulating. AHD

A: - 

Use short answers:

  

Don’t you have any money? — No, I don’t.

  Don’t you have any money? — Yes, I do.

- 

Let context guide the listener:

  

Don’t you have any money? — No, I gave it all to Lucy.

  Don’t you have any money? — Yes, but not enough for this item.

- 

Use quantifiers, or intensifiers:

  

Don’t you have any money? — None or None whatsoever.

  Don’t you have any money? — I have enough.

- 

In Early Modern English, there were specific words for that.

A: Answer

Oddly enough, this question seems to already have been answered (and then later removed) at StackOverflow.
(this is the last existing Wayback Machine backup link to it.)

- 

The Unicode standard for date/time formatting calls it "period".

- 

Wikipedia says: The 12-hour clock is a time conversion convention in which the 24 hours of the day are divided into two periods

- 

Ruby documentation (and probably a lot of strftime references) seems to refer them as "Meridiem Indicator".

From a user interface perspective, a "Period" label is too ambiguous, and "Meridiem Indicator" too pedantic, still leaving "AM/PM" as the best choice.
Aside

As for the actual meanings of AM/PM, they come from the Latin "ante meridiem" ("before noon") and "post meridiem" ("after noon").

A: Tisane.

an infusion (as of dried herbs) used as a beverage or for medicinal effects

Middle English, from Anglo-French, from Latin ptisana, from Greek
ptisanē, literally, crushed barley, from ptissein to crush — more at
pestle
First Known Use: 14th century

dictionary.com

edit: Tim Romano's answer below is superior to mine.

A: User dawnhunter of Reddit writes in the /r/Showerthoughts/ thread called In the word "scent", is it the S or the C that is silent?:

Here's what a google search brings up:

late Middle English (denoting the sense of smell): from Old French sentir ‘perceive, smell,’ from Latin sentire . The addition of -c- (in the 17th century) is unexplained.

So the c is silent and also shouldn't really be there.

Also, further down the thread, another comment says:

The 'c' was probably added because that was the style at the time.

Originally a hunting term. The -c- appeared 17c., perhaps by influence of ascent, descent, etc., or by influence of science. This was a tendency in early Modern English, also in scythe and for a time threatening to make scite and scituate.

Stating this entry at etymonline.com as the source

A: This comes from military, amateur and CB radio communication

"Do you copy?" or "Copy that!" is likely from when a message had to be written down to be shown to a superior officer

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voice_procedure

  

Some words with specialized meanings
  are used in radio communication
  throughout the English-speaking world,
  and in international radio
  communications, where English is the
  lingua franca.
  
  

Affirmative — Yes

  Negative — No

  Reading you Five / Loud and clear — I understand what you say 5x5.

  Over — I have finished talking and I am listening for your reply. Short for "Over to you."

  Out — I have finished talking to you and do not expect a reply.

  Clear — I have finished talking to you and will be shutting my radio off.

  Roger — Information received/understood.

  Copy — Mostly used to acknowledge received information. [May also mean Repeat back to me the information I just gave you. ed.]

  Wilco — Will comply (after receiving new directions).

  Go ahead or Send your traffic — Send your transmission.

  Say again — Please repeat your last message (Repeat is not used as it is a specific command when calling for artillery fire)

  Break — Signals a pause during a long transmission to open the channel for other transmissions, especially for allowing any potential emergency traffic to get through.

  Break-Break — Signals to all listeners on the frequency, the message to follow is priority. 

http://www.dyerlabs.com/communications/procedural_codes.html

  

Copy probably originally referred to
  writing or typing a received message,
  but now has is essentially the same as
  'Reading you ...'.

A: This kind of puzzle is called a jigsaw puzzle, and the corresponding Wikipedia page uses the terms tabs and blanks. (The parts you've circled are the tabs.)

Looking further throws up many citations for "tabs": this book on DNA computing calls them jigsaw tabs (and pockets), this book on programming also mentions interlocking tabs, this issue of Make magazine calls them jigsaw tabs (and slots), and there are lots of other books. There seems to be more consensus on what to call the circled pieces you want (tabs) and less on what to call the other kind (blanks, pockets, slots, indents...).

You can also trawl through search results for jigsaw (tab OR tongue OR outie), to compare the answers suggested. (Need to look at each result individually to make sure the word is used in the right context. In fact most results aren't about the context we want. :-))

However, it is also a fact that there is no universally accepted terminology. For instance, this book on the history of jigsaw puzzles says on page 10 that

  

Despite a few attempts at a comprehensive classification of piece shapes and cutting designs, there is still no generally accepted nomenclature. Manufacturers use a variety of terms, as do puzzlers. Puzzle pieces can have "loops" and "sockets", "knobs" and "holes", "tabs" and "slots", "keys" and "locks", or any of several other alternative designations.

A: "In time" usually has an implicit "for (some event)", whereas "on time" means "before some deadline". 

The "event" could be a deadline, but in that case "on time" is much more common.

Examples:

"I got there in time for the parade"

"I delivered the report in time for him to read it before the meeting"

"I got to town in time (for)/(to catch) the last train"

"I got there in time" - meaning "in time for some event which is assumed to be known".

but

"I got there on time" - meaning "before the deadline" - which may be known to the hearer, but does not need to be, because the phrase itself implies a deadline as opposed to some other event.

A: Short answer: they were invented to preserve names of organic substances that already were in use. From Wikipedia's article on number prefixes:

The IUPAC nomenclature of organic chemistry uses the numerical prefixes derived from Greek, except for the prefix for 9 (as mentioned) and the prefixes from 1 to 4 (meth-, eth-, prop-, and but-), which are not derived from words for numbers.

These prefixes were invented by the IUPAC, deriving them from the pre-existing names for several compounds that it was intended to preserve in the new system:

- methane (via methyl which is in turn from the Greek word for wine),

- ethane (from ethyl coined by Justus von Liebig in 1834),

- propane (from propionic which is in turn from pro- and the Greek word for fat), and

- butane (from butyl which is in turn from butyric which is in turn from the Latin word for butter).

A: I think the obvious answer (the one you already know!) is the best:

- You can refer to a female dog as a female dog.

- You can refer to a male dog as a male dog.

Of course, if you really need to specify that they're adults, you could do that:

- An adult male dog could be referred to as an adult male.

- An adult female dog could be referred to as an adult female.

In circles where bitch is commonly used, I think dog is the male counterpart, believe it or not.  Those two words would be the right answer, I think, if you hadn't ruled them out.

(My apologies if you're looking for something more esoteric.)

A: Lo-fi, from low fidelity:

- the production or reproduction of audio characterized by an unpolished or rough sound quality (MW)

- (of sound reproduction) of or giving an impression of poor quality (Collins)

Also lo fi and low-fi (TFD).  Wikipedia:

a type of sound recording which contains technical flaws that make the recording sound different compared with the live sound being recorded, such as distortion, hum, background noise, or limited frequency response.

In digital audio, the term "lo-fi" usually refers to an audio file with a lower bit rate or sampling rate, and thus a lower sound quality.

A: 1 means that the action happened just now. You would typically see it in your e-mail program just after you send an e-mail. Your program might give you this message to let you know that the message you just sent has indeed been sent.

2 refers to something that happened at some time in the past. It could have been an hour ago, a day ago, or even a century ago! But it wasn't just now.

A: Splitted appears to be a nonstandard/obsolete usage of the past tense of split:

Collins Dictionary notes that: 

  

(Language note)
  The form split is used in the present tense and is the past tense and past participle of the verb.

and Merrian-Webster notes that splitted is: 

  

archaic past tense of SPLIT

Google Books shows  very few  usage instances of splitted compared to split.

A: Publicly is certainly more common, but publically is a logical alternative, mentioned in the OED with half a dozen citations from 1727 to 1998, so it can't really be called a mistake.

A: I think both can be used interchangeably, although the context sometimes determines which word you are more likely to use. For example, in linguistics, an affix after the stem of the word is called a suffix. In computer programming, when an operator appears after the operand, it is known as a postfix operator.

As far as a file extension goes, my intuition would be to go with "suffix", but I believe that "postfix" would be equally valid.

The word "suffix" has been around since 1778. I was unable to uncover a similar etymology for the word "postfix", leading me to guess that it is a modern invention, as "post-x" is a more obvious candidate for being the opposite to "pre-x". In this regard it is very much like prepone in Indian English, except that it has caught on globally.

A: I can't speak to the history of the usage, but basically, yes, "birthday" means the anniversary of your birth, not the original day of the event. People rarely refer to the day someone was born as his "birthday". Rather, we call that "the day he was born". If you want to know the date someone was born, including the year, you don't ask, "When was your birthday?", you ask, "When were you born?" If you asked someone, "When was your birthday?", they would be much more likely to answer "Last Thursday" or "That was way back in March" than "1963". When someone who is designing a form wants to know the day and year you were born, they don't label the space "Birthday", they label it "Date of birth".

Given that, it makes sense to call the day one year after a person was born his "first birthday", a year later is his "second birthday", etc. Just like we say that one year after you are married is your "first anniversary", etc.

As I say, I don't know the history. I don't know if English speakers ever called the day that someone was born his "birthday". Whether it started out that way and the meaning has shifted, or whether "birthday" has always meant the anniversary of one's birth, I don't know. According to http://etymonline.com/index.php?allowed_in_frame=0&search=birthday&searchmode=none, we get the word from an Old English word that referred to an anniversary, not the original event. So maybe that means it was always an anniversary.

A: Distorted

From The Free Dictionary (emphasis mine):

  
  
- (Electronics) electronics a. an undesired change in the shape of an electromagnetic wave or signal b. the result of such a change in
  waveform, esp a loss of clarity in radio reception or sound
  reproduction
  

Distortion can be caused by a variety of methods, one of which is downsampling (which is digitally analogous to pixelation). Overuse of lossy compression can also cause distortion. It covers all use cases of "bad audio" that is not related to the actual music being played.

A: An assumption is technically something that must be taken for granted in order for an argument to go through. Some assumptions cannot, in principle, be proven. For instance, there is probably no way to prove that anything exists outside of my own mind, but I assume this because otherwise I would quickly die as a result of walking front of a non-existent car. 

Less fancifully, if I thought that physics was a good and useful thing, then no matter how much I might doubt it, I would be forced to assume that the physical world exists if I wanted to be a physicist.

"Presume" has about the same denotation but also the additional connotation, as mentioned in Webster's, of confidence. Note that to say someone is "presumptuous" commonly means that someone is overly confident of their assumption.

As mentioned above, I think in most contexts today "suppose" is used rather to express a certain amount of doubt about an assumption, and in that sense has the opposite connotation to "presume".

In this sense you might think that "assume" has relatively neutral connotations, while "presume" and "suppose", as commonly used, have roughly opposite connotations. I think that's about right.

A: Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary, Eleventh Edition (2003) says that jerry-rigged goes back only to 1959. It speculates that the term is an amalgam of jury-rigged (dating to 1788) and jerry-built (dating to 1869). The jury in jury-rigged doesn't involve a panel of one's peers, however; it means "makeshift" and appears in the Middle English jory saile meaning "makeshift sail." The term jury-rig thus means (according to the Eleventh Collegiate):

  

to erect, construct, or arrange in a makeshift fashion.

As for jerry-built, Farmer & Henley, Slang and Its Analogues (1893) offers this discussion:

  

Jerry-builder, subs. (common).— A rascally speculating builder. Jerry-built, adj., = run up in the worst materials. [The use of the term arose in Liverpool circa 1830.]

From the Facts on File Encyclopedia of Word and Phrase Origins (2000):

  

jerry-built. The cheap, flimsy constructs of a Mr. Jerry of the Jerry Bros. of Liverpool may have inspired the word jerry-built. Jerry-built could also be connected with the trembling crumbling walls of Jericho; the prophet Jeremiah, because he foretold decay; the word jelly, symbolizing the instability of such structures; or the Gypsy word gerry, for "excrement." Still another theory suggests a corruption of jerry-mast, a name sailors and ship builders gave to makeshift wooden masts midway through the last [19th] century. Jerry-masts or rigs derive their name from the the French jour, "day," indicating their temporary nature.

So whereas jury-rigged suggests "improvised in an emergency," jerry-built signifies "very shoddily constructed."

The much later jerry-rigged splits the difference, according to the Eleventh Collegiate, but perhaps tends a bit closer to jerry-built than to jury-rigged:

  

organized or constructed in a crude or improvised manner.

UPDATE: The Dubious Jerry Brothers [8/11/14]

In a column headed "Notes on Books, &c." in Notes and Queries (January 26, 1901), an uncredited reviewer discusses the newly released Oxford English Dictionary, Vol. IV, Green—Gyzzern and Vol. V, Invalid—Jew, under the editorship of James A. H. Murray. After noting "Few parts of the 'Dictionary' are more interesting than that dealing with the letter J, the growth of which is exceedingly curious," the reviewer observes in passing:

  

No satisfactory origin for jerry-built, jerry-builder, &c. has been found, one put forward in the press deriving it from a Liverpool firm of builders not standing investigation.

A followup item by Murray headed "'JERRY-BUILD' : 'JERRY-BUILT.'," in Notes and Queries (April 20, 1901) details the investigation that the earlier reviewer alluded to:

  

I may add that, after seeing the original letter to this effect [namely, to the effect that the jerry in jerry-built referred to "Jerry Brothers, builders and contractors," which supposedly was "a Liverpool firm in the early part of last century"] printed in Truth in January 1884, I wrote to its author asking for the evidence on which the statement was made. In his reply, now lying before me, the writer admitted that no evidence was producible ; he added that he was under the impression of having heard this explanation of jerry-builder from the English master at the school which he attended, but he had subsequently searched for authority without finding any ; and Sir James Picton, our great Liverpool authority, who had been consulted, had never heard of it. He therefore could not maintain the reliability of the story, and frankly withdrew it. In preparing the articles on the Jerry words in the 'New English Dictionary' (section published 1 January last) we made further investigation, with the help of correspondents in Liverpool, and ascertained that no trace of any such name as Jerry in connexion with the building trade could be found. 

The late-nineteenth-century investigation by Murray and his correspondents in Liverpool strongly suggests that the attribution of jerry-built to the slipshod work of the oddly untraceable Jerry Brothers is apocryphal.  

(Credit for the discovery of this Notes and Queries content goes to EL&U stalwart Peter Shor; see his comment below.) 

Although the Jerry Brothers seem to have vaporized under scrutiny, there is a Liverpool connection to early use of the term. In a book published by John Murray twenty years after the Notes and Queries episode, Ernest Weekley, An Etymological Dictionary of Modern English (1921) remarks:

  

I conjecture that jerry-built may be for jury-built, the naut. jury, as in jury-mast, being used for all sorts of makeshifts and inferior objects, e.g. jury-leg, wooden leg, jury-rigged, jury meal, etc. Its early connection with Liverpool, where jerry-building is recorded in a local paper for 1861, makes naut. origin likely.

As for the theory that the word is of Gypsy origin (mentioned in the Facts on File Encyclopedia of Word and Phrase Origins excerpt above), we have this item from Barrere & Leland, Dictionary of Slang, Jargon & Cant (1897):

  

Jerry. This word is common among the lower classes of the great cities of England in such phrases as jerry-go-nimble, diahrrœa; jerry-shop, an unlicensed public-house with a back door entrance, and jerry-builder, a cheap and inferior builder who runs up those miserable, showy-looking tenements, neither air-proof nor water-proof. Jerry seems derivable from the gypsy jerr or jir (i.e.,jeer), the rectum, whence its application to diarrhœa, a back door, and all that is contemptible. From the same root we have the Gaelic jerie, pronounced jarey, behind ; the French derriere.

A: The difference between "real time" and "real-time" is mostly a matter of style and placement. In most cases, there's no need to add the hyphen; "real time" will work very well. However, a case can be made for its use where it would clarify the writing. For example:  

  

I am updating this in real time.

or 

  

This is a real-time update.

In the second sentence, there's no real need to have the hyphen. However, a reader could stumble a bit on the "real", not realizing that the adjective is "real time". However, this is an extremely minor point, and is rarely done in practice. (In this case, it'd be carrying clarity almost to the point of silliness.)

A better use of the hyphenated form would be "real-time signal processing", so it's not confused with processing that's both real and the processing of time signals. Oxford points out this usage.  If you're using this term in a computing sense and the domain you are working in has no precedent to offer, I'd use the hyphen when in doubt. 

As to "realtime": 

As words are commonly paired together, they tend to be spelled as one word...eventually. "Realtime" isn't a word in any dictionary I can find, but it does get used in slang and in names. American dictionaries tend to list these combination words before UK dictionaries. 

In other words, we'll see "realtime" in more dictionaries. It's just a matter of time. (Really.)

A: "Have you got a chance to X?" asks if the person has a chance to do something. E.g. "Have you got a chance to win the lottery?"

It essentially implies that being able to do something is mostly out of your control.

Asking "Have you got a chance to look into this?" would imply that "looking into this" is something that one is unlikely to do with out a lot of luck.

"Did you get a chance to X?" ask if the person has had time to do X. E.g. "Did you get a chance to go to the shop?"

It essentially implies that being able to do something is mostly constrained by other things in your schedule.

Asking "Did you get a chance to look into this?" would imply that "looking into this" is something that must compete with other things one must do to become a high enough priority to be done.

So 1) is about luck and 2) is about time management.

A: Phobia: (Etymonline): 

  
  
- "irrational fear, horror, aversion," 1786, perhaps on model of similar use in French, abstracted from compounds in -phobia, from Greek -phobia, from phobos "fear, panic fear, terror, outward show of fear; object of fear or terror," originally "flight" (still the only sense in Homer), but it became the common word for "fear" via the notion of "panic, fright" 
  

I think that the meaning of fear and panic are naturally associated with something you dislike or hate, from which probably the association of phobia with hatred. 

Homophobia is defined as: 

  
  
- dislike of or prejudice against homosexual people . (ODO )
  
- 

irrational fear of, aversion to, or discrimination against homosexuality  (M-W) ) 
  
- 

fear, hatred, or mistrust of lesbians and gay men.(AHD ) 
  

From www.quora.com

  
  
- 

The word as coined did refer to a fear, specifically a fear of being near homosexuals or being thought homosexual. The psychologist who coined it, George Weinberg, believed that hatred of homosexuals stemmed primarily from that literal fear. Thus, regardless of the accuracy of Weinberg's thesis, homophobia became shorthand for hatred of homosexuals
  
- 

(Weinberg's book, Society and the Healthy Homosexual)

A: I don't think there is a single transitive verb for "give drink to [someone]".

If that someone is an animal, you could use water, as in to feed and water a horse: 

  

I didn't go anywhere the next day except up to Grandpa's to feed and water the horse and mule and Granny's chickens.

However, it's unlikely you would use this for a person; the phrase fed and watered refers almost exclusively to livestock, and watered, alone, more to plants, as in I watered the geranium today. It can be used humorously, for example, if you say to a host upon your arrival, to mean that you've already eaten, "No worries; we've already been fed and watered." 

If that someone is a baby, you can also suckle them—but this word has even narrower application.

You might try a synonym of sorts for "give," and let the context fill in that a drink was given: (as waitstaff) I served her, I delivered his order; (at the table) I poured her some, I filled his glass.

A: It appears the expression is still mainly a British one: 

From the Phrase Finder:

  
  
- Faffing about' is a phrase that is most often heard in the UK rather than in other parts of the English-speaking world. In fact, even in the UK it is something of an anachronism, more at home in a P G Wodehouse story than as 21st century street slang.
  

From  World Wide Words: 

  
  
- It’s originally British, informal but not rude, and moderately common, especially in the form to faff about.  The Daily Telegraph included this on 15 March 2008: “The early boarders certainly bag their seats quickly, but then they immediately relax and happily faff about putting their things in the overhead locker, generally getting in the way of the other passengers.”
  

  
  
- The word started to move into the wider language in its modern sense around the end of the nineteenth century, though it didn’t much appear in print until the 1980s.
  

Fom Wiktionary: 

  
  
- (Britain, slang) To waste time on an unproductive activity. 
  
  
  
- She faffed about so much, she never got to eat her breakfast.
  
- I decided to stop faffing about and get some work done.
  
  

From One-off Britishisms: 

  
  
- 

“The Ben Wyatt I know, I don’t think he’d be happy just sitting here faffing around.”
  
- 

The Britishism in there is derived from faff, a verb meaning dither or fuss, and is usually followed by about. The Oxford English Dictionary’s first citation, from an 1874 volume called Yorkshire Oddities, suggests that it originated as a regionalism: “T’ clock~maker‥fizzled an’ faff’d aboot her, but nivver did her a farthing’s worth o’ good.”
  
- 

Up till now, U.S. use has been spotty (and I don’t mean spotty in the English sense). It is a favorite of New York Times sports blogger Jeff Z. Klein, who, covering the 2008 women’s soccer matches at the 2008 Olympics, wrote:
  
  
  
- Much faffing about as these final minutes tick down. New Zealand have a throw. in deep in the Amerk zone, but the one Fern is surrounded by four Americans and winds up on her back as they run away with the ball. 
  
  
- 

Klein’s use of the plural verb have with the collective New Zealand indicates he has absorbed a bit too much English football coverage, and suggests that faff  is still more or less a one-off.
  

As noted by a few users, the expression appears to be commonly used in Australia where it may have found its way in the early days as suggested the Phrase Finder:

From "The Australian Journal", 1879:

  
  
- 

"No, it [a candle] burns quite steadily now; you are right about it faffing about before, because it blew towards my face."
  
- 

Baring-Gould's citation locates the phrase amongst the rural working classes and its use in Australia at a time when English speakers in that country were predominantly ex-UK convicts, suggests that the phrase was to be found below rather than above stairs.

A: "no one" is the correct one.

noone is the common misspelling of "no one".

  

"Noone" is formed for consistency with
  "nobody", and also its opposites
  "anyone" and "everyone", but it is
  still considered nonstandard because
  of the doubled vowels creating a
  temptation to read and pronounce it as
  "noon" (/nuːn/).

On the other hand, no-one is the alternative spelling of "no one". I don't think it's widely used.

A: Another (slightly more technical) option is "lossy". Reference

A: At the end of this answer is a list of words for which various f-ligatures should not be employed if using them might impair the words' readability. Obviously, I make no claim as to this list's completeness. Comments and suggestions for additions welcome. (For the curious: I've come up with this list in preparation for a LaTeX package I'm creating that will provide a turnkey solution to the need to more-or-less automate the exclusion of some words from LaTeX's ligation algorithms.)

Aside: The "standard five" f-ligatures -- , , , , and  -- that are provided by many fonts and the  ligature provided by some fonts are the main subject of this answer,. That said, there are naturally many other though less commonly available ligated characters -- such as , , and  -- to which the following discussion applies as well. I.e., I'd argue that even if the wonderfully charming  ligature (drawn with an arc from the top of the  to the top of the ) is available in a given font, one should probably not use it in the word painstaking -- unless one wishes to make the reader think about pain inflicted by staking (a body part?) ...

As I understand it, the principle that suggests not using certain ligatures in certain words is that ligatures should not cross morpheme boundaries. Loosely speaking, morphemes are the smallest semantically meaningful units inside a word, i.e., the particles that carry/convey distinct meaning. Why? If in a given word two (or more) letters that could be ligated actually belong to separate morphemes, one risks decreasing the readability of the word (and of the entire text) by ligating them anyway, because the visual unity created by the ligature may conflict with the characters' separateness in terms of the morphemes they belong to. For instance, one should wish to avoid employing the  ligature in "rooftop" because the  and  belong to distinct morphemes.

Of course, just how much readability is impaired in practice by a use of ligatures across morpheme boundaries depends both on the morphemes involved and on the way the glyph that contains the ligature is drawn in a given font. Comparing, for instance, the appearance of the words

with the appearance of

I daresay that few people will argue that the readability of the words shown in the upper row is enhanced by the use of the  and  ligatures. This is because the two ligatures unnecessarily risk making your readers puzzle -- if only briefly -- what's going on with these baffling fish and fly species. (Incidentally, the "fish"-words are typeset in Baskervald ADF and the "fly"-words are typeset in EB Garamond.) In contrast, I'll opine confidently that even if the  letter pair in "fifty" does get ligated, no readers will be misled, slowed down, or otherwise inconvenienced by the use of the ligature. (Of course, "fty" is not AFAIK an English language morpheme -- unlike the "fly" and "fish" cases noted earlier.)

Clearly, using ligatures is not (and never has been) an absolute requirement for making a text readable. Otherwise, virtually all documents typeset with general-purpose word processing programs wouldn't be readable, right? Nevertheless, a consistent use of the ligatures provided by a font family does constitute a mark of good typography, in part because avoiding visual interference of glyph pairs (and triples) improves the readability of the words in question. That said, depending on the word and morphemes involved, I'd argue that not all letter combinations that can be ligated should always be ligated, i.e., for some words the use of ligated glyphs instead of the constituent glyphs need not be a good thing (and may even be a bad thing). In particular, if the letters involved in the ligature belong to separate morphemes, the word's overall legibility may be reduced by the use of a ligature because the visual unity created by the ligatures may impair, however fleetingly, the reader's ability to perceive the underlying morphemes.
Ligatures to avoid

If ligatures would impair the readability of any of the words that follow, consider using the word without a ligature. Be sure to also include the appropriate plural forms of the nouns in this list.
ff to f-f

- shelfful bookshelfful mantelshelfful

fi to f-i

- 

elfin

- 

chafing leafing loafing sheafing strafing vouchsafing; beefing reefing, briefing debriefing; coifing fifing jackknifing knifing midwifing waifing wifing;
(air-, child-, fire-, flame-, moth-, rust-, sound-, water-, weather-) proofing goofing hoofing (re)roofing spoofing whoofing woofing; (be-, en-, in-) gulfing, golfing gulfing rolfing selfing wolfing; barfing (be-) dwarfing enserfing kerfing scarfing snarfing (wind-) surfing turfing wharfing

- 

deafish dwarfish elfish oafish selfish serfish unselfish wolfish (plus -ness nouns and -ly adverbial forms)

- 

beefier comfier goofier gulfier leafier surfier turfier    (plus -iest superlative forms)

- 

beefily goofily, goofiness

fl to f-l

- 

beefless briefless hoofless leafless roofless selfless turfless (plus adverbial and noun forms: -ly -ness, e.g., selflessly)

- 

aloofly briefly chiefly deafly liefly

- 

calflike dwarflike elflike gulflike hooflike leaflike rooflike serflike sheaflike shelflike surflike turflike waiflike wolflike

- 

halflife shelflife, halfline roofline

- 

leaflet leaflets leafleted leafleting leafletting leafletted leafleteer

- 

pdflatex (okay, only TeXies might "get" this word!)

ffi to ff-i

- 

baffing biffing (out-) bluffing boffing buffing chaffing cheffing chuffing coffing coiffing (hand-, un-) cuffing daffing doffing (en-, in-) feoffing fluffing gaffing gruffing huffing luffing miffing muffing offing piaffing puffing quaffing rebuffing reffing restaffing restuffing riffing (cross-, over-, under-) ruffing sclaffing scoffing scuffing shroffing sluffing sniffing snuffing spiffing (over-, under-) staffing stiffing (over-) stuffing tariffing tiffing waffing whiffing yaffing

- 

draffish giraffish gruffish offish raffish sniffish standoffish stiffish toffish (plus adverbial and noun forms: draffishly giraffishly etc.)

- 

buffier chaffier chuffier cliffier daffier fluffier gruffier huffier iffier miffier puffier scruffier sniffier snuffier spiffier stuffier (plus superlative forms: buffiest, chaffiest, etc.)

- 

daffily fluffily gruffily huffily puffily scruffily sniffily snuffily spiffily stuffily

- 

fluffiness huffiness iffiness puffiness scruffiness sniffiness spiffiness stuffiness

- 

baffies biffies jiffies taffies toffies

- 

waffie

- 

Pfaffian Wolffian Wulffian

ffl to ff-l

- bluffly gruffly ruffly snuffly stiffly

- cuffless stuffless (and adverbial forms: cufflessly, etc.)

- scofflaw, cufflink, offline, offload (plus -s, -ed, and -ing affixes)

- rufflike clifflike

ffi to f-fi

- chaffinch

- wolffish

ffl to f-fl

- safflower

ft to f-t

- chieftain chieftaincy chieftainship

- fifteen fifteens fifteenth fifteenths

- fifth fifthly fifths

- fifties fiftieth fiftieths fifty fiftyish

- halftime halftone

- rooftop rooftree

fft to ff-t

Note: This is not a common ligature, but Minion Pro and EB Garamond do provide it.

- offtrack

A: I don't know anything about Maltese grammar, but I want to guess that nurik and nsemmgħek mean, respectively 'cause to look' and 'cause to listen'. Some languages have standard ways of converting one verb to a causative verb (one that means 'to cause to do'). As an example, in Classical Nahuatl the suffix  turns any verb into a causative verb. So the word cueponi could mean bloom (flowers), then cueponaltia to cause flowers to bloom.

In English there is no automatic way to make a verb into a causative verb. If you have a pair like die and kill (cause to die), then that is just your good luck that you have a causative verb corresponding to die (Classical Nahuatl has miqui die and mictia kill, using the same  suffix). 

So there is no single word in English that means cause to listen. If you say Thomas played Molly a song that means that Thomas played a song for Molly's benefit. Any English transitive verb can take a benefactive reading using this construction (think of the Bob Dylan song that goes God said to Abraham, kill me a son). Play is probably the best word you could use, but it doesn't mean cause to listen.

A: A look at early (pre-1800) English dictionaries points to a possible source of confusion early in the career of biscuit. Two dictionaries—Edward Phillips & John Kersey, The New World of Words: Or, Universal English Dictionary (1706) and John Kersey, Dictionarium Anglo-Britannicum: or, a General English Dictionary (1708)—have identical definitions for biscotin:

Biscotin, (F.) a sort of Confection made of fine Flower, the Whites of Eggs, Powder-Sugar, &c.

But John Kersey, A New English Dictionary; or, A Compleat Collection of the Most Proper and Significant Words, and Terms of Art commonly used in the English Language (1713) has this very different definition for bisket:

A Bisket, a sort of Bread.

At least superficially, the definition of biscotin might describe a type of modern English biscuit, while the definition of bisket might serve as a rough description of a modern American biscuit.

Thomas Dyche & William Pardon, A New General English Dictionary, third edition (1749) is the earliest dictionary I've been able to find that lists the spelling biscuit:

BISKET, BISCUIT, or BISQUET (S.) commonly understood of small cakes made by the confectioners, of fine flower, eggs, sugar, &c. also the bread carried to sea, is called sea biscuit.

This same definition appears in editions of Dyche & Pardon as late as the eighteenth edition (1781).

Next to weigh in is Samuel Johnson, A Dictionary Of The English Language (1755), with entries for biscotin and biscuit:

BISCOTIN, n. s. {French} A confection made of flour, sugar, marmalade, eggs, &c.

BISCUIT, n. s. {from bis, twice, Lat. and cuit, baked, Fr.} 1. A kind of hard dry bread, made to be carried to sea; it is baked for long voyages four times. [Cited examples:] The biscuit also in the ships, especially in the Spanish gallies, was grown hoary, and unwholesome. Knolles's History of the Turks. Many have been cured by abstinence from drink, eating dry biscuit, which creates no thirst, and strong frictions four or five times a day. Arbuthnot on Diet. 2. A composition of fine flour, almonds, and sugar, made by the confectioners.

From Johnson's remark that sea biscuits are baked for long voyages four times, we might conclude that a more suitable name for these items would be quadriscuits or tetriscuits. Richard Knolles, The Generall Historie of the Turkes (1603) does indeed contain the passage that Johnson quotes, but he spells the word bisket:

for all the water thereabout was most vnpleasant and exceeding brackish, so that both sicke and whole were glad when they could get a crab to quench the extremitie of their thirst : although the emperour did what he might to remedie these extremities, and much releese was in good time sent both from SICILIA and NAPLES : the bisket also in the ships, especially in the Spanish gallies, was growne hoarie and vnwholesome.

In fact, Knolles uses bisket five times in the course of his Historie—including this instance:

there was such a dearth in the Turks armie, that they were enforced to giue their camels bisket and rice, and when that failed, they gaue them their pack-saddles to eat, and after that pieces of wood beaten into pouder, and at the last the very earth : which dearth endured vntill they arriued at VAN.

It seems clear from this instance that Knolles used the term bisket for what much later in the United States came to be called hardtack. In pioneer days, land travelers as well as sea travelers commonly carried hardtack with them on long trips. Here is the entry for hardtack in The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language, fifth edition (2010):

hardtack n. A hard biscuit or bead made with only flour and water. Also called sea biscuit, sea bread, ship biscuit.

Next, chronologically, in my dictionary survey comes Nathan Bailey, The New Universal English Dictionary, fifth edition (1760), which covers biscotin and bisket/bisquet:

BISCOTIN (Confect.) a confection made of fine flower, powder'd sugar, marmalade, the white of eggs, &c.

...

BISKET, BISQUET (with Confectioners) a composition of fine flower, eggs, sugar, &c.

The seventh edition of Bailey's New Universal English Dictionary (1776) further complicates the picture by adding a separate entry for bisquet:

BISCOTIN (Confect.) a confection made of fine flower, powder'd sugar, marmalade, the white of eggs, &c.

...

BISQUET (probably of bis, twice, and coctus, baked) a sort of hard baked-brad or cake.

BISQUET, BISKET (with Confectioners) a composition of fine flower, eggs, sugar, &c.

Conclusion

The history of bisket, biscotin, biscuit, and bisquet is quite convoluted. At various times before 1800, dictionaries have used all of these words to identify a confection made with flour, eggs, sand sugar (among other ingredients). But at other times before 1800, dictionaries have applied the words bisket, biscuit*, and bisquet to tiny rounds of hard-baked bread.

Under the circumstances—especially in view of the equivocal treatment of the word in Samuel Johnson's tremendously influential 1755 dictionary, it is hardly surprising that British English went one way with the word biscuit and North American English went the other.

A: "Time"!

At least, that's the word we most often use for what you might call the "temporal coordinate" of an event, analogous to the position of an event being its "spatial coordinate". For example, one might say that the position of an event was the north-west corner of the building and the time of the event was 7:34pm.

Other answers have suggested things like "moment" or "instant". These are good if you want a word meaning "a location in time" analogous to position being "a location in space".

A: Why is used here as an interjection. According to Merriam-Webster:

  

—used to express mild surprise, hesitation, approval, disapproval, or impatience why, here's what I was looking for>

In my experience, the extra why in Why, thank you is used mainly to avoid appearing too abrupt in one's thankfulness.

A: Yes and no.

Reading around on the internet, it seems that this was originally just an error (and still is one for most native English speakers), but in some non-native-speaker speech communities it has become established as a common usage.  From Paul Brians’ Common Errors in English Usage

  

The most common meaning of “revert” is “to return to an earlier condition, time, or subject.” When Dr. Jekyll drank the potion he reverted to the brutish behavior of Mr. Hyde. But in South Asia it has become common to use “revert” instead of “reply,” writing when people want you to get back to them about something: “revert to me at this address.” In standard English this would literally mean they are asking you to become them, so it is best to stick with “reply” when dealing with non-South Asian correspondents. Even some South Asians disapprove of this use of “revert.” 

Googling eg  or  (and skipping past the first few pages of results, which are mostly usage/grammar sites) gives lots of examples in this usage in the wild.  Interestingly, it doesn’t seem to function as an exact synonym for ‘reply’; hardly anybody writes eg “revert to this letter”.

A: It is definitely expressing mild surprise.  Imagine you're giving a dinner party.  You turn to the person sitting at the table next to you and ask them to pass the salt.  They do.  You say "Thank you."  You wouldn't say "Why, thank you.", because there's no surprise, you were fully expecting them to pass it to you.  But if someone says "I must compliment you, this stew is delicious!", you might well say "Why, thank you!", because you weren't expecting the compliment, it was a bit of a surprise.  You could still say just "Thank you." in this case, but you wouldn't really ever say "Why, thank you." in the first case.

Q: Why do we say "try and" [verb] instead of "try to" [verb]? (E.g., "Try and call me tomorrow.")

In written and standard semi-formal (and above) spoken English, one would use "try to":

Try to be a better person.

Try to get the fishhook out of my thumb, please.

Try to find a pharmacy when you need one.

But in spoken English, we (Americans, at least) usually substitute "try and" for all those cases.

"Try to" makes sense because the "to" begins the construction of an infinitive: "try to be", "try to do", "try to act" and so on. "Try and" on the other hand doesn't seem to make any sense.

I'm curious how the "try and" crept in, and when. It's really tough to Google small words like these, so I'm not finding anything on the Web. Is it a contraction of something like "Try hard, and ..."?

Note: I've seen this question and it is somewhat related but doesn't tell me what I want to know.

Edit

Observe how, even on this site, people tend to gravitate toward the "try and" construction.

Turning it on its head

Note that you can't make a negative construction with "try and":

It's raining. Try not to get wet.

It's raining. Try not and get wet. [?]

Even adding do doesn't help. The following means something different from "try not to get wet."

It's raining. Don't try and get wet.

Even use of to instead of and there means something else:

It's raining. Don't try to get wet.

"Try not to get wet" means try to stay dry. "Don't try to get wet" means avoid actively seeking out a soaking, and implies that a soaking might in fact be what you are looking for.

MORE

I just happened to notice a video from an editor for Merriam-Webster on this very topic, so I include the link here:

Merriam-Webster editor discusses "Try and" vs. "try to".
Unfortunately, as of Sept 5, 2023 this video no longer exists on the M-W site.

Q: When a sentence starts with "e.g.", should the e be capitalized?

When a sentence starts with e.g., should the e be capitalized?

Neverminding that it might be better to start with "For example," ... Thinking of SE posts and comments, should the starting e be capitalized?

Q: How do you respond back to "Hi, how is it going?"

I observe that people from America greet by asking, "Hi, how is it going?". What is the proper response to this greeting?

Q: In sex talk, how many bases are there and what do they all mean?

I always hear people say "I hit the third base" or "I hit the second base" (sex related). I am not 100% sure what they all mean.

Additionally, in one of the House MD episodes, there was a dialogue:

  

Dr. Wilson: How are things going with
  Cuddy?

  House: Great. We've gotten to
  fifth base. That's two home runs, and
  then she gives me back a triple.

In one of the American Dad episodes, I remember Steve saying something along the lines, "did I just hit the second base?" after holding hands with a girl.

Q: "Race" is to "racism" as "religion" is to what?

I've heard "racist" being used in a few cases to describe bigotry towards people of a certain religion. It's a bit annoying because it implies that all people of a religion are the same race, which is hardly the correct case. However I'm also bewildered that there doesn't seem to be an appropriate one-word substitute coined to describe prejudice/discrimination/sense of superiority in terms of religion. What (if any) word exists for it?

Q: Is there a word for a change so small that it doesn’t seem to be a change at all?

Today, I was reading an article on pharmaceutical companies making minute changes to a drug in order to extend the patent.  In one instance, the company profiled did not actually change the content of the drug, just the outward appearance.  This got me thinking, is there a word in the English language that means “to change without changing” or “a change so small that it’s not a change at all”?  I thought about the word superficial, but that doesn’t seem to fit.

Q: When your 10-year old boy says “It’s meta,” what does it mean? In what situation and of what sort of object they use this phrase?

I asked about the meaning and usage of meta a few days ago, quoting Maureen Dowd’s review of the movie, “J. Edgar” in New York Times. 

I received six answers. But I still don’t get a clear idea of what “It’s meta” means because I don't understand (or have a total inability to comprehend) the concept of “self-referential.” 

An answerer answered:
“Meta in this fairly recent, casual context is supposed to mean self-referential, or recursive in some way. This is the sense in which my teenagers would use this term.”

So let me resubmit the question on “meta” in simpler format.
When your teenager boy says “It’s (or this is) meta,” what does it mean? In what situation and of what sort of object they use this phrase?

I’m sorry for many users who lent me kind answers to my previous question. But I would like to get it fully on the meaning and usage of “it’s meta,” as a colloquial expression, not the meaning of meta as a prefix.

Q: Is it 'what it looks like' or 'how it looks like'?

I live in a country where English is not the native language. 
Oftentimes I hear my coworkers say they want to know or determine "how it looks like". This is grammatically closer to our native language than "what it looks like", which is the version I try to use.

I there a difference between the two, or should I just stop being bothered?

Q: "Call me through/at/on this number"

What is the difference between the following when referring to telephone calls?

Please call me on this number. You can reach me on this number.

Please call me at this number. You can reach me at 0088000900.

Please call me through this number. You can reach us through this number.

Are they interchangeable? Which one would sound more natural and accurate?

Q: "created at" or "created in"

I'm not sure which one I should use:

  

Created in ____

or 

  

Created at ____

Q: Word for software which has been killed or is no longer supported

When describing a piece of software on a list I have the following information:

SoftwareName

Released: 2013-12-12

????: 2014-12-12

The ???? is like the opposite of Released. Maybe I could use killed (but that is too strong), or no longer supported, but I would prefer a single word.

Q: White Noise: Why White?

I'm always surprised when I hear the term white noise.

White noise itself sounds a little more "evil" than anything else, I would almost expect it to be called black noise.

- Why is white noise called white noise?

Q: What is the name of the symbols ""?

I know that ^ is called a caret, but this doesn't seem to apply to the similarly shaped but nonetheless different  and > symbols. The only names I've heard them called is the less-than sign and the greater-than sign, but those names seem rather informal and apply only to their use in math. The symbols are used in other contexts as well, so it seems they would have less specific names.

Does anyone know the technical term for these symbols? (I know that some symbols, like . and ( ), have different names in American and British English, so any differences there with  and > would be appreciated as well.)

Q: What is this method of joking about a morbid situation called?

What word or phrase could be used to describe a joke about something serious or bad? It isn't meant as humor in the typical sense, but as sort of a brave, different flavor of humor between two friends. Something that isnt actually funny, and could be really bad, but I choose to joke about it to dismiss fear. Between two people that accept life's events, and understand being morbid isn't going to change the matter at hand. For example:

"So we found out more about that chest problem my sister got checked for."

"So how long does she have?"

Q: Symbols for "YES" and "NO" in formal English writing

I'm writing a conference paper in English.

My Japanese colleague told me that I should use "○" for YES and "x" for NO in my paper, but I think the right symbols should be "✓" for YES and "x" for NO. Which one is correct?

Besides, my colleague also said when you want to express "sometimes YES, sometimes NO" in a paper, you should use "△". Can you native speakers understand this "△"?

Q: How do you say "Come on, man" to a woman?

I've heard people saying phrases like down below.

"That's not cool, man"

"Dude, look at this"

"Hey, calm down, bro"

But these words are supposed to be said to a male person. (I could be wrong since I'm not an native English speaker) So what word do you use instead to say those phrases to a female person?

Q: What is the wife of a henpecked husband called?

henpecked [hen-pekt]

adjective

1. browbeaten, bullied, or intimidated by one's wife, girlfriend, etc.:

a henpecked husband who never dared to contradict his wife.

What is the wife of a henpecked husband called? (word or phrase) (in regards to her browbeating/bullying, her husband)

It might not be henpecker since henpecked seems to have the etymology of "pecked by the hen".

Sample sentence:

  

That woman is a henpecker.

Q: Is "everyone" singular or plural?

Which is correct?

  

Everyone were convinced that he would go to the game.

  Everyone was convinced that he would go to the game.

I think it's "was", because "everyone" is singular, but I just wanted to check.

Q: "Speak to" vs. "Speak with"

What are the differences between these two phrasal verbs and what are the best situations to use each?

Q: Is "forte" pronounced "fort" or "for-tay"?

I've always heard people say something like

  

"Pronunciation is not my [for-tay]"

... but I feel that I've heard that the correct pronunciation is

  

"Confusing people is my [fort]"

What is the proper way to pronounce this word?

Q: Should the word Boolean be capitalized?

I keep second guessing myself on this one. 

On one hand it seems like it should because the word Boolean is derived from the name of George Boole, the inventor of Boolean logic. However, the term as it is commonly used is not meant to imply something is like George Boole in any way. 

I suppose the same question could be asked for any technical term that is named for its inventor, for example Cartesian coordinate systems (René Descartes).

So the titular question stands; should I capitalize Boolean when using it to refer to 2 state logic or variables in a computer program?

Clarification:

By "...or variables in a computer program..." I don't mean the actual code of a program.  I meant in documentation that refers variables in a computer program.   

For example "Implement a variable using the the Boolean data type for the particular programming language that you are using."

Q: How should I phrase a question that must be answered with an ordinal number (e.g., the third prime)?

I want to make a question having an answer as follows:

  

5 is the third prime number.

The bold part is the answer. How to phrase the question?

Q: What is the meaning and origin of the common phrase "the world is your oyster"?

What does the world is your oyster mean, and where does it come from?

Q: Pronunciation of "Azure" in "Microsoft Azure"

This is not a techie query. I am just unclear on how to pronounce the word "Azure" which is the brand name for Microsoft's cloud computing service.

Q: English counterpart to Japanese signal word, “Dokkoisho”

What is an English counterpart to the Japanese signal word, “Dokkoisho” uttered unconsciously in such case as sitting down on the bench?

When you get old, it becomes tough to move your body. We Japanese, particularly old people and the middle-aged use to utter a signal word or interjection, “Dokkoisho” when we sit down on the chair, bench or stone on the roadside and when holding up a bulky and heavy thing like heavy luggage. It sounds like a kind of sigh or onomatopoeia.

It may be similar to ‘upsy-daisy,’ but “Dokkoisho” is addressed to yourself as a monologue, and seldom used by young people or people who are in the prime of age. When you start to say “Dokkoisho” in taking any motion, it’s a sign that you’re getting old. It has a tone of both “Relax” and “Be aware of the action now you are taking.” 

I’m curious to know if there are counterpart words to “Dokkoisho” in English.

Q: What does "c'tee" mean?

I have been seeing the word c'tee frequently. Here are some examples:

Sports minister sets up c’tee to find solution to football crisis
http://www.vanguardngr.com/2011/08/sports-minister-sets-up-ctee-to-find-solution-to-football-crisis/

Trajtenberg C’tee Presenting Final Recommendations Today
http://www.israelidiamond.co.il/english/news.aspx?boneid=918&objid=9925

ADIA - National C'tee Meetings
http://www.adia.org.au/meetings/national

Safety & Equipment Audits - YNSW Special Regs C'tee Reports
http://www.rpayc.com.au/sailing/safety-equipment-audits/page-7

Ramelton Fever Hospital C'tee meeting 1905
http://www.askaboutireland.ie/reading-room/history-heritage/heritage-towns/the-heritage-towns-of-don/ramelton/ramelton-fever-hospital-c-1/

From the context the word seems to mean either a [political] investigation or a [government] minister. I cannot find any English-English or English-Hebrew dictionary definitions, though. Using Google Translate I cannot find the word in French, German, nor any other obvious European language. What is it, exactly?

Q: Antonym of "recommend"

What's the antonym of recommend? For example:

  

I recommend that item!

I tried to use unrecommend, but the spell-checker throws an error and it sounds stupid as well!

Q: What is the origin of the phrase "Top of the morning to you"?

Each morning, a colleague of mine greets me with the phrase:

  

Top of the morning to you!

I've tried to figure out what the meaning of this really is and how to properly respond, however there seems to be dozens of interpretations as to what this phrase actually means.

Does anyone know what the origin and original meaning of this phrase is?

Q: What do you call a person who started something that is later followed by everyone?

What do you call a person who started something that is later followed by everyone? For example, someone started to stay late at night till 8 p.m. and later everyone started to stay till 8 p.m..

Q: The dark dot in your eye

I think every single one of us has experienced a dark dot in his/her sight when looking at a white surface such as a white ceiling, there's something in our eye that with a little focus we can see it, and when we move our eyes around, that thing floats around quickly in your sight. It's like a substance on eye's surface, I want to know what is it called. Hope I'm clear enough.

Q: Why is ‘i’ in milk pronounced differently from ‘i’ in find?

As far as I know, in words of the structure CVCC, the vowel is usually short. Examples include milk, front, clamp, wasp, sport, etc.

However, with some CC types, the vowel seems to always be long (kind, mind, old, climb), which surprises me. Why is there such a difference?

Q: What's the single-word for "left or right handed"?

'Male'/'female' is to 'gender' as 'left-handed'/'right-handed 'is to...?

Is there a word to describe this? For example, if I ask a guy

  

What's your ____?

It should mean I'm asking whether he's left or right-handed.

Another example could be

  

Our designs are not biased  against your ____.

Basically, I'm looking for something that means the state of being left- or right-handed which could be used analogously as gender.

EDIT: Sorry for the delay in the edit, but I was tied up. There are some points I'd like to clarify:

- I'm not looking for a way to paraphrase my questions. I'm looking for a single word. I know people normally ask something along the lines of "Are you left-handed or not?" People also ask "Are you afraid of the dark?" instead of "Are you scotophobiac?". The word for it, along with 3 others still exists, right?

- It has been pointed out that I should go with  as that is what I mean. But that is not necessarily what I mean. 

For example, let's say there is a washbasin with the tap on the right. Clearly, it's biased against lefties. Sometimes, you come across a washbasin with a tap on the left. (The logic being: you use your left hand to turn the tap as your right one's dirty). But, your right hand might not always be dirty, in which case, it's biased against righties.

A washbasin with the tap on the center is, then, handedness-blind or chirality-blind, if you will. (I foresee that some would dwell on . Please don't.)

I'm looking for a term that would be applicable here, as well as in the 1st example.

My favorite so far is chirality, suggested by Dan Bron in a comment (with 25 upvotes!) But, I'm reluctant to use it because there's no hard proof it's used in that sense

If we are talking about male-female, gender works perfectly.  and  , both work perfectly here.

Sorry for the late edit again. If the consensus is that I rollback, I will. Let me know in the comments.

Q: Does the term "white lie" have racist connotations?

In his book Overcoming our Racism, psychology professor Derald Wing Sue talks about "unconscious racial oppression" that leads well-meaning White people to say and do things that are harmful to people of color. Some examples he gives of this are claiming to "not see color," laughing at racist jokes, and using the terms white lie and black lie.

I had never heard the term black lie before, and I had never thought of white lie in racial terms. Wikipedia defines white lies as "minor lies which could be considered to be harmless, or even beneficial, in the long term" (emphasis mine). I know there are plenty of other terms that equate "white" with "good," such as white hat and white magic.

Is it racist, or at least politically incorrect, to use terms like this?

Q: Is the word "repeat" really used as a synonym of "vomit"?

I came across an online English language course where the teacher claimed that if one used the expression "Could you please repeat?" instead of "Could you please repeat that?" over the phone it would be interpreted by the person on the other end of the line as a request to "vomit". Is this really true?
It seems to me that I heard native speakers say "Could you please repeat?" without the "that" part in informal setting and that always meant a request to say something once again. Could some of the native speakers please confirm?

Q: Is the etymology of "salary" a myth?

Since, perhaps forever, I had always ‘known’ that the English word salary was derived from the Latin  salarium, to the time when Roman soldiers were paid in salt for their service.  Salt was a highly-prized and sought-after commodity due to its ability to preserve food and was, in part, also responsible for the development of civilization.

However, my world turned upside down when I read the following extract in a blog:

Here’s the simplest form of the myth.

The word ‘salary’ comes from the Latin word for salt because the Roman Legions were sometimes paid in salt.

– Wikipedia, ‘History of salt’

Pure fantasy. There isn’t the tiniest scrap of evidence to suggest this. At all, to any extent, ever.

Peter Gainsford, the academician and author of the blog, Kiwi Hellenist,    adds

‘Roman soldiers were paid in salt’ may be the simplest form of the myth, but it’s also a secondary form. […] that seems to indicate that people first started writing about the idea around the 1860s (here, for example).

The older, primary form of the myth is that soldiers were given ‘salt money’, that is, a monetary allowance for buying salt. This, too, is a modern invention.

Wikipedia has since corrected that information, the same historical detail which I had always considered ‘common knowledge’.

The word "salary" comes from the Latin word for salt. The reason for this is unknown; a persistent modern claim that the Roman Legions were sometimes paid in salt is baseless

But Etymonline appears to perpetuate this “myth”

late 13c., "compensation, payment," whether periodical, for regular service or for a specific service; from Anglo-French salarie, Old French salaire "wages, pay, reward," from Latin salarium "salary, stipend, pension," originally "salt-money, soldier's allowance for the purchase of salt," noun use of neuter of adjective salarius "pertaining to salt," from sal (genitive salis) "salt" (from PIE root *sal- "salt").

What is the real history and etymology of salary?

Related but obviously not a duplicate of: I don't know the meaning of "salt allowance"

Q: A word for first name and middle name/s, but not last name

Is there a single word to denote both first name and middle name/s, but not the last name?

That is, when we speak about J.R.R. Tolkien, we may say that Tolkien is a surname, and John Ronald Reuel is [the requested word]

(John is a first name; Ronald and Reuel are middle names).

Q: Is "rather" shifting to become a verb?

In colloquial English, I constantly run across sentences of the form:

  

I rather my [noun] [verb]

A quick Google search returns tons of examples:

  
  
- I rather my opponents don't find out.
  
- I rather my fans not read this.
  
- I rather my teeth froze than hurt.
  
- I rather my smile with the braces on.
  
- I rather my kids smoke pot than drink alcohol.
  

Looks like "rather" is on its way to becoming a verb, a synonym of "to prefer". When did that start? Obviously there are several steps to this process, from "I'd rather do X" via "I'd rather X" to "I rather X". But none of the dictionaries I have checked, from Hornby to Merriam-Webster to Cambridge to Wiktionary, seem to have picked up this usage just yet. So how recent is this phenomenon?

Edit five years later, just discovered this gem in an MMOG forum:

  

I would rather the team not be hard at work to fix things. I would have rathered the team be given a realistic amount of time to put together as complete a product as possible.

So the shift is nearing completion. And going by that user's posts, we're looking at a native speaker here. However, their location is unclear from their profile. Can someone supply any data on where this usage is common or spreading now?

Q: How should I punctuate around quotes where the punctuation required by the quote interferes with the punctuation of the sentence?

The American convention in quotations is (typically) to place punctuation inside quoted text. But I always run into situations where the punctuation of the quote interferes with the punctuation of the sentence. How would you punctuate this (American, non technical)?

  

When my friends ask, "What do you want for your birthday?", I never know how to respond.

It seems odd to place the last comma outside the quote simply because of the question mark. Is that the preferred (i.e. most often accepted) standard?

Q: What is "won't" a contraction of?

"Don't", "wouldn't", "couldn't" and "isn't" are all contractions of "do not", "would not", "could not" and "is not"... So what's "won't" a contraction of?

It appears to be "will not", but if so, why isn't it "willn't"? (And if there's no good reason, has it ever been "willn't" at any point in history?)

Q: Why is "primer" pronounced with a short "i" sound?

This word—used to mean an elementary textbook, not a painting material—annoys me to no end. Does anyone know why, exactly, "primer" is pronounced with a short "i" sound? I don't know why, call it intuition, but I can't see why this word isn't spelled "primmer." Are there any particular etymological reasons for this spelling/pronunciation combination?

EDIT: Apparently this situation is only recognizable to American English speakers. I've only ever heard it pronounced with a short "i," but this seems to be completely unheard of to British English speakers.

Q: What is the proper way of using triple dots and spaces before/after them?

...␣part of a sentence␣...

  ...part of a sentence␣...

  ...␣part of a sentence...  

Notice the spaces before/after the dots. Which usage is the correct one ?

Q: Why is there no plural indefinite article?

The takes either a singular or a plural subject.  A/an only takes the singular.

When we pluralize a noun preceded by an indefinite article, we simply drop the article (sometimes replacing it with some).  Why is this?

3 years later:

Whilst on a separate goose-chase, I came across Greg Carlson's 1977 paper A Unified Analysis of the English Bare Plural, which addresses this issue in refreshing detail. It does not answer my question etymologically, but it substantiates the premise that the so-called null determiner is ambiguous:

  

ABSTRACT. It is argued that the English ‘bare plural’ (an NP with plural head that lacks a 
  determiner), in spite of its apparently diverse possibilities of interpretation, is optimally represented in the grammar as a unified phenomenon. The chief distinction to be dealt with is that between the ‘generic’ use of the bare plural (as in ‘Dogs bark’) and its existential or ‘indefinite plural’ use (as in ‘He threw oranges at Alice’). ‘Ihe difference between these uses is not to be accounted for by an ambiguity in the NP itself, but rather by explicating how the context of the sentence acts on the bare plural to give rise to this distinction. A brief analysis is sketched in which bare plurals are treated in all instances as proper names of kinds of things. A subsidiary argument is that the null determiner is not to be regarded as the plural of the indefinite article a.

The primary distinction is summed up in these examples:

Weeds grow refers to all weeds, or weeds in general. It is not equivalent to Some weeds grow.

Weeds grow in my garden refers to some weeds, and is equivalent to Some weeds grow in my garden.

I understand that context is often sufficient to determine the scope of the noun without a plural indefinite article1 - but that applies to the singular indefinite article a/an as well. In fact, it seems that a/an is even more redundant, since both Dog barks and Dog barks in my garden are equally indefinite, not generic.

1Carlson 2001 is further germane analysis. In here, he gives examples of sentences for which context is not sufficient to determine the scope of the null determiner. For instance, I only excluded old ladies can mean I excluded all old ladies (generic), or that all those whom I excluded happen to have been old ladies (indefinite - some old ladies may have gotten in after all).

Q: Why "Speak of the devil"?

Why is the expression "Speak of the devil" and not "Speaking of the devil"? For me, the -ing would make more sense because you're currently talking about someone, when he/she appears.

For example, if you're talking about something, and that subject made you remember something else, you would say something like:

  

Speaking of groceries, I have to go to the supermarket in an hour.

but you wouldn't say:

  

Speak of groceries, I have to go to the supermarket in an hour.

Q: What's the opposite of "concatenate" in programming?

To concatenate means to string together different things. Concatenating "snow" and "ball" produces "snowball." But what would the opposite action be? What is the name of the action used to derive two words from one?

(My dictionaries don't list any antonyms, and Googling revealed how to do the opposite but not what it's called.)

Edit: I had programming parlance in mind, so I've reflected that in the question title.

Q: Is there a word for someone with the same name?

If a person shares my name, in Dutch there is the word "naamgenoot", meaning roughly 'member of the same name'.

John A: Hi, my name is "John" 

John B: O, then we're !

Similarly,

- 'classmate' is 'klasgenoot' in Dutch

- 'roommate' is 'kamergenoot' in Dutch

I'm pretty sure I cannot call someone with the same name as mine a 'namemate' :)

Edit Because sceptics appear to be frustrated mightily by an apparent lack of research, there was some discussion on this in chat, with no satisfactory conclusion.

According to WP/Merriam Webster  appears to be linked to intentional name correspondance (being named after someone). There may be a US/UK English divide there.

"I was named after my grandfather. I am his namesake." - usage per Wikipedia

Also, the introduction seems to hint at much broader meaning:

"Namesake is a term used to characterize a person, place, thing, quality, action, state, or idea that has the same, or a similar, name to another"

Do you know of a better word/phrase to describe this succinctly?

Q: What exactly is an "adverb"?

From comments to “Weekdays” used as an adverb", I learn that The Oxford Advanced Learner's Dictionary says "open weekdays from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.", shows the word weekdays is an adverb.

It seems to me that in "We open weekdays at 7 a.m.", and "We open tomorrow at 7 a.m." both weekdays and tomorrow are the same "part of speech" - and again in "I'll go tomorrow".

I will happily describe words like happily and quickly as adverbs - for example...

  

"I'll go quickly", and by extension "I'll go quickly and quietly".

On the other hand...

  

"I'll go tomorrow" can't be extended to "I'll go tomorrow and quietly".

Am I being thick, or is OALD spouting nonsense?

Q: Which preposition to use with "rename"?

Which is the correct preposition to use with rename? 

- rename to  

- rename as 

- rename by

Q: How long can you say "the late so and so"?

When you refer to the deceased, you say "the late so and so."
How long can you say that? Is JFK referred to as the late John F. Kennedy?
How about Abraham Lincoln?

Q: A way of describing the lesbian parent that is not pregnant?

A friend of mine is in a long term relationship with her female partner. After deciding they wanted a family, my friend's girlfriend got pregnant.

Normally when talking about a couple expecting a baby you would use phrases like

  

An expectant mother or Mother-to-be (i.e., the woman is pregnant)

or

  

An expectant father or Father-to-be (i.e., the man's partner is pregnant)

According to my friend, having used the traditional phrases so far has led to people saying things like "But you're not even showing!" or "Well, I don't think you should be drinking!" etc... She's taken to humorously calling herself the Father-to-be instead which has got me wondering.

How would you convey the message that although somebody is a mother-to-be, they are not the ones that are pregnant?

Q: Grammatically correct sentence where "you're" and "your" can be interchanged?

Most grammar checkers are capable of detecting the the misuse of "your" and "you're"; providing the necessary correction.  

I'm curious though, is there any sentence that can be constructed where replacing "your" with "you're" keeps the sentence grammatically correct, but changes the meaning?  

If this is not possible, what grammar rules are in place that prevents these edge cases from occurring?

Q: Is "act like a mensch" too localized for ELU readers (U.S. and/or British English)?

This question was motivated by an interesting comment that was made at https://academia.stackexchange.com/posts/comments/123681?noredirect=1

  

Part of Answer: I don't think that particular research team would be a healthy place
  for you. The guy behaved badly. You need an advisor you can trust to
  act like a mensch.
  
  

Interesting Comment: Your "be a mensch" comment might be a little localised for American
  English, I (as a British English / German speaker) wondered why you
  were telling them to "be a human" before realising it was probably a
  Yiddish import from the American Jewish community with the appropriate
  semantic shift.

(I was using it in the decent human being sense; I checked the Wikipedia List of English words of Yiddish origin, and mensch does appear, in case that's helpful.)

Is "act like a mensch" too localized for ELU readers?  Please say which variety of English you speak: American, British, Indian etc.

-- Edited to add: I would also like to know if the context made it clear enough or if I should go back and edit the Answer over on Academia and avoid using the word in future.

(If the conclusion is yes, then I will write a separate question asking for alternatives.  So, please, no alternatives here—thank you!)

Q: English equivalent for the Persian proverb "The mountain just gave birth to a mouse"

I'm looking for an idiom or expression to describe a well-known person/ organization/ politician/ government  whose achievements in a given situation are smaller than what they had claimed or promised to be.

We Iranians have a proverb that literally means 

  

The (roaring) mountain just gave birth to a mouse! 

Its  etymology is like this:

Once a volcanic mountain started roaring, hissing, and bursting bubbles. The people were waiting to see what would happen after all those huge roarings and loud booms. Finally, the volcano activity stopped and the people saw just a tiny mouse came out of there! (rather than a monster that was expected to come). So they said mockingly:

  

"Heh! After all those huge roarings, the (big) mountain just gave birth to a (tiny) mouse!" 

Notes:

- 

The (roaring) mountain -symbol for an apparently big(=important) and
strong person-here is figured like a woman who is screaming and
shouting while is delivering her baby.

- 

We use this proverb for mocking an important person/organization/ government, etc
ironically when they have used broad advertisements or have spent much money or resources over doing something noticeable, but the result/ achievement is less noticeable than it was claimed or promised to be.

Is there any equivalent for this Persian proverb?

I just found "much ado about nothing"; would it convey the same connotation?

Q: Mimsy were the Borogoves - why is "mimsy" an adjective?

I'm reading Lewis Carroll's "Through the Looking-Glass" and I've found a famous poem Jabberwocky:

  

Twas bryllyg, and the slythy toves

  Did gyre and gymble in the wabe:

  All mimsy were the borogoves;

  And the mome raths outgrabe.

I've read some articles about that poem. All of them (for instance, this one) say that mimsy is an adjective, but they don't say why. I can't  make head nor tail of the syntax of this sentence. 

For example, a sentence with similar structure might look like this:

  

All gray were the wolves

But I guess that it is an incorrect form, and the correct form is:

  

All the gray ones were the wolves

So, is the form of using an adjective in the example above really correct? And why it can't be a noun (i.e. like in all wolves were the animals)? I really can't understand it.

Q: Is "flu" the only disease usually accompanied with "the"?

Is "flu" the only disease usually accompanied with "the"? From what I understand, you don't usually use "the" with diseases / illnesses / disorders ("have Alzheimer's / diarrhea / claustrophobia / dyslexia, etc." not "have the..."), but it's perfectly normal to say "have the flu". Is the flu the only exception? 

Edit (this is only a side part, and can be glossed over if you will, so it's not a duplicate imo): What's so significant about the flu that other conditions don't have, so that it's entitled to "the"?

Q: Usage and origin of "sister" in expressions like "sister company, sister ship, sister site" etc

The term sister is often  used figuratively  to refer, for instance,  to a “sister company” for a company  within the same group, or to a “sister  site” for  sites that belong to the same family. This connotation as explained by the  Cambridge Dictionary means: 

  
  
- belonging to a pair or group of similar and related things, such as businesses, usually owned or operated by the same person or organization:
  
  
  
- our sister company in Australia. 
  
  

also, from Collins Dictionary:

  
  
- You can use sister to describe something that is of the same type or is connected in some way to another thing you have mentioned. 
  
- ⇒ ...the International Monetary Fund and its sister organisation, the World Bank.
  ⇒ ...Voyager 2 and its sister ship, Voyager 1. 
  

This usage appears to be common with things that are  regarded as feminine and are associated, as if by kinship,  with other similar things that belong to the same group. An early  usage example of this is the "sister" referred to  ships: 

  
  
- the US battleship Missouri and her sister ship, the Wisconsin.
  

In other instances,  the "feminine" issue is less explicit as in the case of internet sites, so I guess this usage has to do with the fact that English is less gender specific when it comes to things or abstract entities. 

Questions: 

- 

Does “sister” apply to whatever entity that belongs to the same group irrespective of its real or perceived gender? or could "brother" be used instead? 

- 

Where does this usage come from?

Q: "She pulled back her fingers a second before they were sliced off." Does she still have all of her fingers?

I am reading a book (Hyperion, by Dan Simmons) and the following phrase left me flabbergasted!

She pulled back her fingers a second before they were sliced off.

Does it mean that her fingers were sliced off a few seconds after she pulled them back? Or did she avoid that horrible fate by pulling them back?

How would one differentiate these two meanings (except by using the context)?

Edit: I did not provide the full passage because I wanted unbiased answers. The answers are satisfying, though, and the next part is:

Rachel sat down in the darkness. An oscilloscope scraped against the ceiling until the table cracked and collapsed under it.

Q: Meaning of the phrase "womp womp" in American English?

I'm British, I'd like some assistance understanding the meaning of the American idiom "womp womp" in this context:

PETKANAS: “I read today about a 10-year-old girl with Down syndrome who was taken from her mother and put in a cage…”

LEWANDOWSKI: “Womp womp.”

PETKANAS: “Did you just say ‘womp womp’ to a 10-year-old with Down syndrome being taken from her mother? How dare you?”

Source: Washington Post, Corey ‘Womp-Womp’ Lewandowski invited back on Fox News for more nonsense, 20 June 2018

I've found these posts which seem to be related:

- 

Fail trumpet onomatopoeia

- 

Is there an idiom or typical expression for an unfunny joke?

They refer to the trombone "womp womp womp womp" noise as shown in this video, which is also used here in the UK to indicate a joke has fallen flat - the allusion (as I understand it) is to the music played by a circus band after a  clown does a pratfall.

I don't understand it in the context it's being used above; there does not seem to be a joke being made, so it can't that a joke has fallen flat. It seems to be a different meaning, but I'm not clear what that meaning is.

What meaning is the speaker trying to convey?

Thanks.

(I also wondered if it was the Family Fortunes "that's the wrong answer" buzzer noise, but that doesn't seem sensible in context either, and it's not so much of a "womp womp" noise as a "rrrr rrrr").

Q: Why were Scottish & Irish names once rendered with apostrophes instead of "Mac" or "Mc"?

I have noticed in some Victorian and Edwardian texts that Scottish and Irish names beginning with "Mac" or "Mc" are usually written as "M" plus an apostrophe. An example I came across recently was from 1845, where a person was referred to as John M'Turk rather than "McTurk" or "MacTurk". What was the reason for this, and when did it die out?

Q: What is it called when you raise a problem and someone else makes it seem like you're entitled by bringing up something far worse?

For example, you say "These working conditions are subpar. We don't get any breaks." and then someone else says "You're entitled. You know who has it bad? People that work in sweatshops!"

You raised a valid point, but now someone has completely dismissed it by bringing up something unrelated.

A more well known example is "I'm hungry." to which a parent might reply "You're not hungry. Children in Africa are hungry."

I feel like there should be a word for this kind of fallacy.

Q: What does "to come undone" actually mean?

I've heard this phrase several times but was given several contradictory interpretations. Please provide an exact meaning of the phase.

Q: What is a good way to remind someone to reply to your email?

Sometimes some of the emails to people senior to you in the company are left unanswered.

What are the ways to politely remind the person that he needs to reply to your email (which he might have missed/forgotten about)?

I once used this as a reply to the sent mail

  

Please let me know about this when you
  get a chance.

I had picked this up from somewhere and am not sure how exactly it conveys the message.

Q: Why are Greek letters pronounced incorrectly in scientific English?

In Greek, for example, the letter β is pronounced "veeta", but in science, people use "beta". Some other offenders are η "eeta", ι "yiota", μ "mee", ν "nee", π "pee", τ "taf", χ "hee", ψ "psee".

I understand the difficulties of pronouncing the γ sound and such, but the translation of the "ee" sound into "i" is what I don't understand.

When did this start? Perhaps when Greek letters became commonly used in science? How has their pronunciation changed through the years?

Q: What is a suitable word to describe a place where two rivers meet?

I've googled for a while and on some sites I've found the word "watershed" as the proposed word. Is it the word that best suits it?

Q: What's the difference between 'allow' and 'allow for'?

To be precise, I know that allow means to permit, and allow for is more like to make something possible, to enable, to make a provision for, but I'm still in doubt when I have to decide whether to use the preposition for or not.

For example, in the sentence taken from Google Dictionary entry used to explain usage of allow:

  

They agreed to a ceasefire to allow talks with the government.

I'm not sure what I would use in this example — maybe even allow for.

Q: Is "used in anger" a Britishism for something?

On a different board, someone referred to a computer language that had achieved popularity beyond the academic world as "used in anger", the way a shot fired in combat instead of on the practice range is said to be "fired in anger".  A Google search returned only people wondering, effectively, wtf?

Is this an actual expression or I am being put on?

EDIT

I think I didn't make myself clear: I've heard "used in anger" in plenty of cases where anger seemed more or less appropriate -- weapons, armies, that kind of things.  Does anyone have a cite where the phrase has become detached from any aggressive context?

Q: What is the difference between "illicit" and "illegal"?

What is the difference between "illicit" and "illegal"? Are they just synonymous? Used in different contexts?

Q: "Dieing" vs "dying"

Which is the formally correct spelling, dieing or dying? Is there any history of the alternative spelling? I type dieing naturally, but my spellchecker marks it wrong. This is largely an etymology question in the development of the spelling of the word dying, since when I think of dyeing I see the word meaning to stain a cloth with colors.

Q: Idiom: People caring about minor stuff while something terrible is happening

Imagine a situation in which the whole place is on fire, a bomb is about to explode, everyone is running for their lives and someone is checking his looks on the mirror... pretty inappropriate for the situation, don't you think? I'm looking for an idiom or colloquial/slang/informal expression to describe such an indifferent stance.

Q: Co-Founder, Co-founder, or cofounder?

I've seen all three used and there doesn't seem to be a definitive one that I can find. I'm hedging towards Co-Founder as it's a title, but any clarity would be appreciated.

Edit

If it makes it any clearer, the intended use would be for business cards; so something like:

  

Name Surname

  Co-Founder Some Company

Q: What did we say before "clockwise"?

Before there were clocks, what did people say to describe the clockwise and anti/counter-clockwise directions?

Whilst we're on the subject, when was the word "clockwise" first used?

Q: What would you call someone who imposes on other people's generosity?

What would you call someone who isn't afraid to ask for money or any kind of favor or who misinterprets someone's generosity for a consistent resource for what they need?

Q: "To shoot out of cannon into sparrows"

In Russian we have idiom/saying "To shoot out of cannon into sparrows" (literal translation) which is used to convey an idea of applying too drastic measures to small problems. I believe there should be some native-English equivalents to this saying. Can you share if there are any?

Q: "More so" or moreso?

I often find myself using the two words joined together, moreso. I'm not sure where I picked up this usage. I'm also not sure that it's necessarily the correct one, as some proofreading tools will flag for not being a correctly-spelled word. Though I have seen it in multiple places when I've been looking for it, even on this site.

Is moreso generally accepted as being correct? Would it be correct to use in a serious paper?

Q: Is there a word similar to "reddening" for the color blue?

In planetary astronomy often the "color" of an object is described by relative
amount of reflected light in the blue versus the red part of the spectrum.  If
something reflects light equally at all wavelengths it is "grey", if it reflects
more light at red wavelengths then it is redder than a grey object, and if it reflects
more light at blue wavelengths it is bluer.  We often see surfaces change color. A common
term used is reddening.  This is also used for light from space which appears redder than expected because dust preferentially absorbs blue light.  

My students and colleagues have started to use "blueing" or "bluening" in papers to refer
to a color change that causes more reflected light in the blue (or less in the red).  This really bothers me as it is not a real word to my knowledge and sounds awkward.  I keep changing things to "becoming less reddened" - but that becomes awkward after awhile.

Q: When did men start to lose their "virginity"?

According to the Online Etymology Dictionary, the word virgin came from 2 languages: 

  
  
- 

Anglo-French and Old French virgine "virgin; Virgin Mary" 
  
- 

From Latin virginem (nominative virgo) "maiden, unwedded girl or woman"
  

It seems clear to me that it started to mean a female/woman instead of a male.  

The origin of its noun form virginity seems to be from the same origin: 

  

c. 1300, from Anglo-French and Old French virginite "(state of)
  virginity; innocence" (10c. in Old French), from Latin virginitatem
  (nominative virginitas) "maidenhood, virginity," from virgo (see
  virgin).

According to Oxford Online Dictionary, virginity seems to be a gender-neutral word: 

  

The state of never having had sexual intercourse: I lost my virginity

- 

When and how did the words virgin and virginity start to function as a gender-neutral word? 

- 

What (word or phrase) was used for males before the words became gender-neutral?

Q: What do you call a person who uses vulgar words too often?

Is there a word which has this definition:

  

usage of vulgar or abusive words too often especially while chatting or talking to someone or while giving a speech.

What do you call a person who uses abusive words too often without needing to.

Q: Why do we say "under the grill", not "above" or "on" the grill?

I found this sentence in a textbook. It's

I cooked the fish slowly on / under the grill.

According to the author, the correct answer is under.

I also used Google. It turns out that there is more under the grill than on the grill. When I think of the word grill, the next picture comes to my mind.

How can we cook the fish under the grill when the food is actually on the grill?

Q: What does "went through the guards of the broadsword" mean?

It was upon the evening of this memorable Sunday that Sir Everard entered the library, where he narrowly missed surprising our young hero as he went through the guards of the broadsword with the ancient weapon of old Sir Hildebrand, which, being preserved as an heirloom, usually hung over the chimney in the library, beneath a picture of the knight and his horse, where the features were almost entirely hidden by the knight’s profusion of curled hair, and the Bucephalus which he bestrode concealed by the voluminous robes of the Bath with which he was decorated. 

Please help me understand correctly the above sentence from Waverley by Sir Walter Scott. 

…went through the guards of the broadsword…

Does it mean he put his hand through the guards of the sword, that is he seized it by the hilt? Or simply he examined the guards of the sword without touching them?

Q: Why is "You’ve brought a knife to a gun fight" considered to be a mixed metaphor?

In my reading today, I came across this phrase:

  

Pardon the mixed metaphor, but you’ve brought a knife to a gun fight. [Link]

The (longtime) columnist was saying the person was outmatched. I understand that "gunfight" for a conflict is a metaphor, but I don't understand why the entirety is a mixed metaphor.

A mixed metaphor is mixing parts of two metaphors to make a, well, not a known metaphor or one that's ridiculous, e.g. to talk a very long time without significant results can be expressed by saying,

  

talk until you're blue in the face/until your face turns blue

and,

  

until the cows come home

Both are common metaphors. Mixing them would produce, say,

  

Talk until the cows turn blue.

I tried Googling variants of the supposedly mixed metaphor to see if there was a more established version. I could not find one.

There were references to the origin of the above idiom, my favorite (supported here as well) being from the movie, The Untouchables, wherein Sean Connery utters with contempt, "Isn't that just like a [racist for Italian]... brings a knife to a gun fight." (There were others but none earlier.)

The following, first appearing in print in 2008, might be considered a mixed metaphor:

  

Those who live by the sword get shot by those that don't. 

But I can't understand the idiom in question as a mixed metaphor. Can someone tell me what I am missing?

Edited to add an example, and in case I was unclear: if it is a mixed metaphor, which are the two metaphors it's mixing?

Q: Term for being unable to see glaring errors after working for some time on a task?

Back in the day, I used to do a lot of CAD drafting. 

There is a well known phenomena whereby your ability to see mistakes, errors, omissions or plain nonsense in your drawing diminishes sharply after working more than a couple of hours on the same drawing or draft. 

Our engineering department even had a policy, that required every drawing, no matter how simple, had to be reviewed or "Redlined" (used a red marker on a printout to circle mistakes) by at least one peer drafter before submitting it to your supervisor, This saved a lot of embarrassment to everyone, especially the company (it saved a lot of money too) since simple mistakes were caught even before hitting version control or structural assessment, even production line assembly, let alone the final customer.

Most of the errors caught by peer re are simple, basic omissions like a missing dimension, missing notes boilerplate required by specification, etc. Sometimes glaring errors are caught like personal work-notes or calculations making it to the final document, duplicating sections of the drawing, etc... however the drafter that had been working on the drawing was simply "blind" to the error until someone else pointed it out.

Also, incidence of this is noticeably higher when working on a computer (v. gr. CAD Drafting) vs doing "old school technical drafting" by hand on paper using a drawing board.

Quite frequently, simply printing or plotting your CAD draft to paper, will make you see and catch some errors, invisible to you on-screen, but a "fresh pair of eyes" will catch some that you yourself can't see even on paper.

This also known to happen in other professions that require working for extended periods on a computer document, for example, Software programmers, lawyers, technical writers, etc. 

In spanish we call this phenomena "Ceguera de taller" literally "Workshop blindness" however my research (below) shows it does not translate well to english.

I thought of "Mental fatigue" however I don't think it conveys the same meaning, since mental fatigue reduces your overall awareness and acuity, and you would be blind to other's mistakes on a similar drawing or document, however (surprisingly) if you look at a document that you didn't work on yourself, you'll notice immediately any mistakes even if you have just committed them on your own work.

I came up with 3 alternatives for a literal translation (Workshop Blindness, Drafter's Blindness, and Drafter's fatigue) and tested them using Google's N-gram viewer, but none of them yielded any results, so they are probably meaningless or nonsense. Ceguera de taller, however, is widely used in spanish since around the 70's which matches the time period when PCs became affordable. 
so, in short:

What would be a well understood term or idiom for the inability to see your own mistakes or omissions after working for some time on the same document.

Many thanks to everyone for all the wonderful and enlightening anwers! I tried several in actual conversation and tunnel vision required the least explanations, although several ideas here work in different situations. Like "Im having tunnel vision issues with this document” when explaining I am having the condition, or the very friendly, funny and kinda ice-breaker captain obvious!  Again, thank you to this wanderful community

Q: Equivalent English phrase for "don't roll around where you've fallen"

In my language, we have a phrase which roughly translates to "don't roll around where you've fallen". It indicates that a person has said or done something stupid. Then when someone points this out, they still don't stop and pretend to be right, in order to avoid shame due to being wrong. Hence the phrase means: "You've already fallen, don't try to roll around and pretend you're still up".

Q: Can a word be contracted twice (e.g. "I'ven't")?

I've seen a contraction of two words.  I can't see why it wouldn't've been possible to have been contracted twice.  Is it possible and how should it be punctuated?

Update:  Ok, to sum up the answers so far

- This appears in spoken British and American English

- It is from one of the lower registers of English

- Even if spoken this way sometimes, it isn't really written as a double contraction, except as written speech in fiction.

- And from my own googling in Wiktionary, it appears most written forms are old British words, often nautical like fo'c'sle.

Q: Is "yay or nay" an acceptable alternative to "yea or nay"?

Is "yay or nay" an acceptable alternative to "yea or nay"? I have seen it several times in recent weeks, enough to make me wonder whether it is an emerging usage or just a common typo.

Q: Should I write "module/theme" or "module / theme"?

I usually put a space before and after a slash, when indicating alternatives.

We review a module / theme per user.

Is it correct, or should I rewrite the sentence to remove those spaces?

We review a module/theme per user.

Q: "Focussed" or "focused"? Rules for doubling the last consonant when adding -ed

Initially, my question was: is "focussed" or "focused" the correct past tense of "focus", but since this applies to a lot of words, I would like to generalize and ask: is there supposed to be a rule when to double the consonant?

Q: A number of questions "has been" or "have been" asked?

Formally, is it correct to write:

  

A number of questions has been asked here.

or:

  

A number of questions have been asked here.

As a non-native speaker of English, I would prefer the former: the subject seems to be "number", therefore the verb ought to be singular, I'd say. However, the latter seems more common, and therefore I believe that my gut feeling is just plain wrong — but I would really like to have a definite answer.

Moreover, is it the same for "a myriad of", "a plethora of", and so on?

Q: Usage of the word "orthogonal" outside of mathematics

From the roots ortho (straight) and gon (angle), its meaning in mathematics is understandable. Outside of mathematics it has various meanings depending on the context:

- Debate - orthogonal: not relevant

- Statistics - orthogonal: unrelated

- Computing - orthogonal: isolated or partitioned

There are other definitions. Most seem to imply a meaning of independence or separation. Does anyone know how it came to mean this?

Q: Is it "alright" or "allright"?

In practice I find both spellings being used. From a logical point of view, "allright" (as in: "all's right — everything is fine") seems correct. However, I recall hearing that "alright" is the preferable variant.

Is there consensus over which to use? Do they possibly even mean something different?

Q: Where did "cc" and "bcc" come from?

I've just realised that CC is "carbon-copy" and BCC is "blind-carbon-copy". Basically I'm wondering, where did these terms come from?

Q: What is the meaning of the phrase 'Here be dragons'?

What does here be dragons mean in the example below?

  

WARNING Here be dragons. Relative source binding can not only encourage
  bad application practices, such as binding to things defined in codebehind
  instead of following a pattern such as ViewModel, but also be hard
  to debug, especially when you get into changes to DataContext set by external
  consumers of your user control.

Q: Why is there confusion between depreciated and deprecated?

For at least a year and half, I read "deprecated" as "depreciated", even when writing it down myself, I would spell it as "depreciated", even though pretty much every time I read it, it was spelt correctly (the intended meaning, was the meaning of "deprecated").

(When I finally spoke the word in conversation, obviously in the wrong context, and got told I should use deprecated, I was somewhat freaked out, especially after reading the same material I previously had, only to find it had all magically changed.)

I see from Stack Overflow I'm not the only one: https://stackoverflow.com/search?q=depreciated

Can depreciated have a similar meaning to deprecated in any circumstances? (And why after reading it spelt correctly so many times, or just after the first, would I say it in my head and write it down incorrectly?)

Secondly, what is the difference between deprecated and obsolete?

Q: How obsolete is the word "overmorrow"?

I stumbled over the word overmorrow and wanted to know whether it is in use.

So I used Googles Ngram Viewer and wondered why it has not found a single reference.

Was overmorrow only used one time in the bible?

Q: "Todo list" or "to-do list"

I always thought it was a todo list, and quite a few places online refer to it as todo, but various spell checkers are telling me it should be to-do.

The only meaning I could find was a reference by dictionary.com which is different from the use I need for the word.

Which is correct?

Q: "Dependence" vs. "dependency"

These are two words that have baffled me for long. Dependency is given as 'excessive dependence' in Chambers, but I would love to know how the spoken usage is. My guess is dependency has a political touch to it. In addition, there is an independency as well in the dictionaries, though it does not sound popular.

Q: "Invite" vs. "invitation"

I hear a lot of people saying "Send me an invite". I always thought that it was an 'invitation'. Is "sending one an invite" accepted usage? Or is it incorrect? If I need to get my wedding invitation printed, should it read "Wedding Invitation" or a "Wedding Invite"? Is this a US/UK usage difference?

Q: Get hold of, get ahold of, get a hold of

Under what circumstances would you prefer one of the following over the other two?

- Get hold of

- Get ahold of 

- Get a hold of

Q: Why does Polly want a cracker?

Where does the expression "Polly wants a cracker" come from? Why is the parrot named Polly, and why doesn't she want seeds?

Q: Is there a term which covers ATM cards, credit cards, and debit cards?

I work in accommodation for international travelers, and people can pay with various kinds of cards:

- In some countries such as USA, credit cards are very common, but debit cards are not so common.

- In other regions such as Europe, most people have debit cards, but credit cards are quite a bit less common.

- These days in Australia both kinds of cards are very common.

Often customers are confused when I ask if they want to pay (or make a reservation) with credit card because they know they have a debit card and not a credit card. And there are other kinds of cards like ATM cards and EFTPOS cards. These can be used for payment but not for making reservations because they cannot be charged without access to the physical cards.

I've taken to using the circumlocution "Mastercard or Visa card", but I wonder if there's a better term? For instance Maestro cards are related to Mastercards and usually work here too.

All the cards have the same form factor and either/both a magnetic strip and/or smartcard chip. They are all processed with the same machine.

A few weeks ago I stumbled across the term "payment card" on Wikipedia, that I couldn't recall hearing before. I thought this would be the right term, but it seems not to include ATM cards so I guess I should rule it out ...

(My second reason for looking for this term is to decide on which tag or tags to use for such cards over on travel.SE, where we currently only have a  tag, but more and more questions about the other kinds of cards too.)

Q: Is "evidence" countable?

As a native English speaker, I am often asked by friends and colleagues to correct their manuscripts. One of the most common mistakes I find is the use of the noun evidences. Now, the dictionary definitions I have read state that evidence is a mass noun, that it is not countable. For example, this one:

  

noun [mass noun]

  
  

the available body of facts or information indicating whether a belief or proposition is true or valid:the study finds little evidence of overt discrimination 

  
  
  
- Law information drawn from personal testimony, a document, or a material object, used to establish facts in a legal investigation or
  admissible as testimony in a law court:without evidence, they can’t
  bring a charge

  
- signs or indications of something:there was no obvious evidence of a break-in
  

However, I came across (don't ask me how) this article: 101 evidences for a young age of the earth and the universe

I had firstly assumed that this was either an outright error or at best a usage that is specific to christian literature, but upon further analysis things get more complicated. On the one hand, most google hits for evidences seem to be from the christian fundamentalist and/or creationist literature, on the other hand this article has collected multiple examples of its use citing such luminaries of the English language as William Shakespeare, Ralph Waldo Emerson and Henry David Thoreau. Indeed, this google NGram shows that evidences used to be quite common (note that I am searching for "many evidences" which should filter out most uses of evidence as a transitive verb):

Finally, I also found a definition in the online Oxford Learner's Dictionary which includes the following line:

  

(technical) The cave contained evidences of prehistoric settlement.

While I have encountered this use in technical literature (my field is biology), it was always used by non-native authors in whose language, as is very often the case, evidence is probably countable (e.g. ES: evidencias, FR: évidences).

So, my question is, is evidence countable? The two quoted definitions contradict themselves. Evidences as a plural noun sounds horrible to my native's ear. Apparently, it is indeed a valid archaic usage but is it grammatical today?  I don't have access to an unabridged OED or any other dictionary of similar status and quality, what do they suggest?

Q: How did nominal come to mean "within acceptable tolerances"?

The word "nominal" has a number of definitions.

For example, the Free Dictionary gives seven:

nom·i·nal  (nm-nl) adj.

- a. Of, resembling, relating to, or consisting of a name or names.
b. Assigned to or bearing a person's name: nominal shares.

- Existing in name only.

- Philosophy Of or relating to nominalism.

- Insignificantly small; trifling: a nominal sum.

- Business
a. Of, relating to, or being the amount or face value of a sum of money or a stock    certificate, for example, and not the purchasing power or market value.
b. Of, relating to, or being the rate of interest or return without adjustment for compounding or inflation.

- Grammar Of or relating to a noun or word group that functions as a noun.

- Aerospace & Engineering According to plan or design: a nominal flight check.
[...]

[Middle English nominalle, of nouns, from Latin nōminālis, of names, from nōmen, nōmin-, name; see nō̆men- in Indo-European roots.]

This consistent with the definitions in OED3 and other sources.

Most of the definitions are clearly from the sense of "names" and "nouns" - and from that idea of something being only in name, but not in reality.

However, the aerospace sense seems quite different. During a recent rocket launch, the announcer repeated phrases like "Height is nominal. Power is nominal." to mean these values were within the acceptable and expected ranges.

The OED references these sources [Hat tip @tchrist]:

6. (See quot. 1970.)

- 

1966 Aviation Week & Space Technology 5 Dec. 30/1 
 The mission is to launch the 800-lb. Prime vehicle to effect a nominal re-entry at 400,000 ft. following injection at 26,000 fps.

- 

1970 N. Armstrong et al. First on Moon vi. 124 
 An example of misuse is our use of the word ‘nominal’, which most of the English-speaking world interprets as meaning small, minimal-and we usually use it in the sense of being average or normal.

- 

1970 R. Turnill Lang. Space 94 
 Nominal, a favourite word, meaning within prescribed limits; anything from ‘perfect’ to acceptable.

- 

1972 Daily Colonist (Victoria, B.C.) 26 July 3/1 
 As one engineer said, ‘She is phenomenally nominal’ — nominal being space jargon for operating-as-planned.

I wonder if anyone can explain that derivation. Is it derived from the other senses of nominal? Is it influenced by the word "normal"?

A: I don't think you'll improve on handedness (wikipedia) (reference.com).  It's not a very nice word admittedly, and sounds a bit like what you started with, but there aren't any synonyms listed in this sense.

A: At the suggestion of the kind commenter, let me discuss the syntax of

  

All mimsy were the borogoves

There are two possibilities. The first is that mimsy is a noun, in which case we have the structure

  

Subject Copulative-Verb Predicate-Complement

where

Subject = Noun Phrase All mimsy

Copulative Verb = were

Predicate Complement = Noun Phrase the borogoves

This pattern would obtain for recognizable nouns thusly:

  

All priests were the granters of indulgences.

The second possibility is that mimsy is an adjective. Ordinarily we would expect the same word order when the complement is an adjective, i.e.,

  

The borogoves were all mimsy

but it's possible to invert the order and put the adjectival complement all mimsy first, i.e., to have the order

  

Predicate-Complement Copulative Verb Subject

In recognizable words:

  

All rosy were the cheeks of the children.

This is a recognizably poetic style. Consider the lines from Walt Whitman's Leaves of Grass:

  

Brave, brave were the soldiers (high named to-day) who lived 
  through the fight;

  But the bravest press'd to the front and fell, unnamed, unknown.

In ordinary prose, we'd say "the soldiers were brave".

At the prompt of a second kind commenter, let me note that the modifier all doesn't help us figure out whether to choose noun or adjective for mimsy. (Perhaps this part of the sly whimsy of the Deacon Dodgson.) If we're thinking noun, then all is an acceptable as a universal determinative, as in

  

All soldiers are brave.

If we lean toward adjective, then all is acceptable as an adverbial modifier, as in

  

We are all excited.

(Note the ambiguity. In an intensifying role -- We are all very excited -- the Ngram viewer finds few examples in the 19th century, and it seems to be an American colloquialism. The universal role -- We are all of us excited -- is common and earlier.) 

To decide, consider the following common&ast; English adjectives, most&#8225; of which are formed by adding the suffix -y to the related noun ending in s/se to get an adjectival form: ease->easy, nose->nosy, etc.

  

antsy artsy backwoodsy bitsy blousy blowsy1 bluesy booksy bossy bousy2
  brassy busy3 cheesy choosy citrusy classy clumsy4 cosy5 creasy cutesy6
  ditsy dressy drowsy7 easy flimsy8 flossy folksy fussy gassy
  glassy glossy gneissy goosy grassy greasy gutsy hissy kissy
  lossy lousy messy minstrelsy mossy mousy mussy newsy noisy nosy
  outdoorsy primrosy prissy queasy9 rosy sassy sudsy teensy10 tipsy tricksy
  weensy11 woodsy wussy

Now compare this to a list of common&ast;&ast; English nouns ending in -sy:

  

apostasy autopsy biopsy catalepsy controversy courtesy curtsy daisy
  dropsy dyspepsy ecstasy embassy epilepsy fantasy footsy geodesy gypsy heresy
  hypocrisy hypostasy idiosyncrasy isostasy jealousy leprosy narcolepsy
  necropsy palsy pansy pleurisy poesy pussy speakeasy whimsy

The countable nouns require a plural form to go with the determinative all and the plural verb were:

  

All autopsies were performed by the coroner.

  All fantasies were repressed by the patients.

and so on. The noncountable nouns in the singular can take the preceding all, but they require a singular verb:

  

All fantasy is meaningless.

  All courtesy is hypocritical.

Given the distribution favoring adjectives of words ending in -sy, the lexical likelihood of finding a related noun, the syntactic constraints on number, and the fact that this is a poem, where the subject/adjectival-complement order may be inverted, a fluent English speaker will consider that mimsy is an adjective meaning having the qualities of a mim, some noun unknown.

&ast;I obtained my list here. Since I edited the results, and I'm going to argue by weight of vocabulary, I need to reveal my method. I avoided double counting by excluding some words formed by prefixing (e.g., aacatalepsy, discourtesy, nondrowsy, overbusy, rebiopsy, ultraglossy, uneasy).

&ast;&ast;I eliminated technical (mostly medical) terms (biorhexistasy,
cholecystolithotripsy, cholelithotripsy, dyschromatopsy,
glacioisostasy, hemiachromatopsy, hemichromatopsy, hypnolepsy, lithotripsy, nephrolithotripsy).

&#8225; Those not related to common nouns are noted in the numbered notes, the content of which is from the OED. Those which have no known candidates for related nouns are in bold italic.

- blowsy coarse and flushed. From blowze, a bloated slattern

- bousy drunk. From bouse, liquor or a drinking bout

- busy No known related noun, from the Old English adjective besig

- clumsy probably from the now-obsolete clumse, eventually from a Scandinavian word meaning to benumb with cold. It had a number of pejorative uses as an adjective and an attributive noun.

- cosy "derivation unknown"

- cutesy No noun, from cute, an adjective

- drowsy From drowse, a fit of sleepiness, itself from the verb of the same spelling

- flimsy Derivation uncertain. The claim of film seems like folk etymology, especially given the adjective filmy. But the word flim is preserved as a fossil in flim-flam, and it’s possibly related to an Old Norse word flim meaning a mockery or lampoon.

- queasy "Of obscure history"

- teensy Likely from the obsolete tine, very small or something very small

- weensy No related noun. Likely from wee and a rhyme with teensy

A: White noise,   is called white in analogy to white light:

- 

The background noise that is continuously present on electrical circuits or radio circuits due to the thermal agitation of electrons.White noise has a flat power spectral density, which is to say that it has equal power at any frequency in any given frequency band.

- 

The term white noise comes from the fact that it is analogous to white light, which is a combination of all frequencies or wavelengths in the visible light spectrum. (Webster's New World Telecom Dictionary)

From:  Atlantic Monthly Company, 1946 

- The purest and simplest noise of all, it should be noted, is what the scientist calls a white noise. Like white light, which Newton showed to be compounded of all the colors, white noise is the simultaneous sounding of all the pitches.

A: When you're in a hole, stop digging.

Michael Josephson has this to say:

  

Most of us have lied to get out of trouble. From childhood denials
  (“It wasn’t me!”) to adult fabrications (“The check is in the mail…”),
  what seem like harmless falsehoods easily fall from our tongues. And
  then we make up more excuses or tell more lies to protect the first
  one. Soon the “cover-up” is more serious and credibility-damaging than
  whatever we lied about in the first place.
  
  

The natural tendency to avoid discomfort makes our lives more
  difficult in other ways as well. Some people damage or endanger their
  most important relationships at home or work by failing to acknowledge
  and deal with small problems that then fester into serious ones.
  
  

Here’s a useful piece of advice: “When you’re in a hole, stop
  digging.” Whether our problems are of our own making or not, whether
  we know exactly how to resolve them or not, the first step is to stop
  making things worse. Stop making excuses. Stop blaming others. Stop
  ignoring our strong and persistent feelings. And stop dismissing and
  discounting what others are telling us about their needs and feelings.
  
  

Once we stop digging, we can work on getting out of the hole. It may
  take more honest self-reflection, self-restraint or simple will power.
  Perhaps we have to adjust our schedules or simply be more attentive
  and considerate. Sometimes the best thing to do is ask for help and
  someone will throw us a rope.
  
  

Like so many aspects of character, this is often easier said than
  done. But when we manage our lives thoughtfully and with integrity,
  things do get better.

It is often associated with the British politician Denis Healey (reference to the Telegraph. Also credited at BrainyQuote.) However, as JJJ kindly points out, there are previous instances of its use, an earlier form being used by none other than Edward Murphy in the Washington Post in 1911. [cited in 'Behold the Proverbs of a People: Proverbial Wisdom in Culture, Literature ...'
By Wolfgang Mieder].

A: Two excellent choices exist. The first can be used as either an adjective or noun, in slightly different forms:

  

foulmouth, adj. and n.

  B. n.

    A foul-mouthed person.

["foulmouth, adj. and n.". OED Online. June 2016. Oxford University Press. http://www.oed.com/view/Entry/73916 (accessed August 21, 2016).]

The adjective 'foulmouth' is obsolete in that form. Instead, the current version is 'foulmouthed':

  

foul-mouthed, adj.

  Of persons and their utterances: Using obscene, profane, or scurrilous language.

["foul-mouthed, adj.". OED Online. June 2016. Oxford University Press. http://www.oed.com/view/Entry/73917 (accessed August 21, 2016).]

The second choice is not so commonly used, and is only found as a noun. However, there's no mistaking its meaning: 

  

muck-spout n. regional and slang a person who uses obscene or foul language.

["muck, n.1". OED Online. June 2016. Oxford University Press. http://www.oed.com/view/Entry/123164?redirectedFrom=muck-spout (accessed August 21, 2016).]

A: A trend-setter or trendsetter:

  

someone who starts a trend, or makes one more popular

The other answers on this page have a couple other fine suggestions — and a thesaurus lookup turns up more suggestions still —, but be aware that some of them require additional quali&shy;fication. For example, it's typically "a harbinger of something", or "a precursor to something". So you won't be able to just say "he is a harbinger" and leave it at that; likewise, "he is a pre&shy;cursor" will only raise questions if no further context is supplied. "He is a trendsetter", on the other hand, is perfectly self-explanatory and self-sufficient.

A: You might go with a word that was well-understood in the Shakespearean era: 

  

shrew

  2: an ill-tempered scolding woman

  definition from m-w.com

Thus the henpecked husband could say "I didn't realize it at the time but I soon discovered that I'd married a real shrew."

A: A phrase I might use is a negligible change, which is often used in the Sciences to mean a change small enough to be ignored. 

However, in the context of Science, a negligible change can be noticeable - it's just so small that it won't affect the system or experiment. Therefore, this might not be the word you're looking for.

A: It depends on your precise meaning, and the intended audience.

It could mean ending:

- 

Feature updates

- 

Non-security bug fixes

- 

Security fixes

- 

Customer support / troubleshooting

- 

Service, in the case of SaaS (software as a service)

Sometimes there will be different dates for ending each of these.

For a general-use single-word verb to mirror released, I suggest discontinued. That is, releases, support, etc. (whatever it is that you mean) are no longer continuing.

But I would prefer end of life, which though not a single word (unless you count end-of-life or EOL) is a common industry term, and usually denotes an end to updates or fixes. This is, for example, what the operating system Ubuntu uses: "Release date" and "End of life date".

Some other possibilities:

- 

abandoned - implies the ending was unplanned

- 

deactivated / defunct - accurate if the software is actually no longer functioning

- 

decommissioned / retired - might work, though I would use this for when something actually stops being used, as when a particular company, user, or specific system is no longer using it

- 

deprecated - describes software as replaced, or not officially recommended. This precedes its complete removal. This term is not widely used outside of software libraries (and software developers).

- 

obsolete - not great, as it describes the need or use for the software, not the state of development or support; software can become practically obsolete long before any planned support date

- 

sunsetted - a sunset is actually a period of time of limited support, so it doesn't fit a single date as you have requested. This term is frequently used, e.g. Google Reader

- 

terminated - good, though if you didn't like killed, this might also be too strong

- 

unsupported - good, though not all software is ever "supported" in the way some may think: regular bug fixes, support staff, etc.

A: Even with the context you provided, and being a native speaker, that sentence tripped me up a bit too, mostly because it's employing a unfamiliar sense of the word guard (which would have been more familiar to readers at the time Scott wrote Waverly).

So I'll tell you both what the word means and how I puzzled it out, which might help you in similar situations in the future.

First, to answer your question directly, in this context, guards means:

  

the posture of defence or readiness in fencing, boxing, cricket, etc.  

Collins sense 20

The hints that this is the sense being employed are that the kid is going through the guards  with a weapon, and that weapon usually hangs over the chimney (in the selfsame study), and the nephew was surprised at the entrance of his uncle, all of which tell us it is likely the kid took the sword off the wall and was practicing fencing with it.

In particular, he was practicing the guards of that kind of weapon; guards here meaning the defensive positions in fencing, similar to the images below (though these guards are specific to the longsword, not the broadsword as in the story):

image credit: Pinterest

And, in case it's not clear to non-native speakers, through here is used in the sense of "from A to Z"; there is a fixed series of guards (as in the illustration above), and the kid was practicing each, one after another: he went through the series.

In short, the kid was play-fighting with the family's heirloom sword when his uncle walked in and nearly caught him.

A: This is the fallacy of relative privation, which basically argues that you don't really have a problem because there are other people suffering from a much more severe version of the problem.

Here's a quote:

The fallacy of relative privation, or appeal to worse problems, is an informal fallacy which attempts to suggest that the opponent's argument should be ignored because there are more important problems in the world, despite the fact that these issues are often completely unrelated to the subject under discussion.

A: In geography, a confluence is the meeting of two or more bodies of water. It usually refers to the point where two streams flow together, merging into a single stream.

A: Something is meta (and self referential) if it is about itself. (Strictly speaking, you can be meta by being about the thing's own category, rather than this specific individual thing, but the key is "about".) If you substitute the word "about" where you see meta in a sentence longer than "it's meta", you will get close to the meaning, even though the sentence you make won't necessarily be grammatically correct. Some examples of meta things:

- in a meeting, time spent discussing the meeting itself - how long it will last, who will talk first, whether everyone can see the screen - is meta. It's about the meeting, rather than being about the topic the meeting is supposed to be about.

- when a married couple is arguing about a decision (where to spend Christmas, let's say) and one of them says "you always interrupt me" or "don't yell" the argument has turned meta. They're arguing about arguing now, not about Christmas plans.

- when a character in a TV show says to another character "this isn't a movie, this is real life" it's a little meta too, because of course it isn't real life, and by saying this, talking about their situation, they've brought up their own fictionality to you.

- there are also books about writing a book, plays about being in a play, movies about making movies, and so on. Meta doesn't just apply to a conversation, a meeting, or an argument. In fact, the name of https://english.meta.stackexchange.com/ should make sense now - it's for questions and answers about questions and answers :-)

In my experience, Kids These Days call things meta if they are truly meta (arguing about the argument), or off topic, or just not what they wanted to talk about. Some of them love the self-referential thrill of meta (my youngest once used the new label maker we bought to make a label that said label maker and stuck it onto the label maker with delight), but most don't and think it's something to be avoided. Your kids may vary.

A: Gallows Humor 

  

"humor that relates to very serious or frightening things (such as death and illness)"

  -- Merriam-Webster

Personally, if I were to read this term or hear it in certain contexts, I would understand it. But I may not pick it up in conversation (even as a native speaker) because it is not an often-used term.

A: X for No and O for Yes are clearly understood by everyone in Japan, but not in English. In fact, in my first Japanese class in the US, when the teacher used these symbols, I thought that X meant Yes because "X marks the spot."

In my own Japanese to English translation, for tables, I usually spell out "Yes" and "No." For the circle, triangle, and X (i.e., three-level symbols), you can use, for example, A, B, C or Excellent, Good, Poor, or any other easy shorthand. 

If you do use the Japanese-style symbols, you should use a key at the table to explain the symbols because they are not readily understood by English speakers.

Using a checkmark in a table is fine for Yes. In that case, however, there is no need for an X for No because the absence of the checkmark implies No. You can also use a solid dot symbol for Yes (opposite of the Japanese meaning), and again the absence of the dot would imply No.

A: You can have your pick, I like harridan.  But look at the synonym list, it's hysterical.

har·ri·dan

[ˈherəd(ə)n]

NOUN

a strict, bossy, or belligerent old woman.

"a bullying old harridan"

synonyms: shrew · virago · harpy · termagant · vixen · nag · hag · crone · dragon · ogress · fishwife · hellcat · she-devil · fury · gorgon · martinet · tartar · spitfire · old bag · old bat

— Oxford Dictionaries (Definition and synonyms) via Bing.

A: The one thing that seems to be agreed by the answers so far is that the intended meaning is obvious:  she pulled back her hand  seconds before her fingers (to use questioner’s own word) could be sliced off.

The word could in this context has counterfactual force.

It has been pointed out that the same grammatical structure can transform the semantics by the substitution of the word head for the word fingers.  So there is a grammatical ambiguity.  And it could be avoided by the substitution of the subjunctive could.

But wait a minute.  Here is another example.  A parent shouts at her/his child, shivering in an icy lake:

  

Get out of the water before you die of cold!

Nobody will imagine that the parent intends the child to get out of the water and then die of cold.  Clearly there is a well-established preventative usage of before in addition to the temporal one.

So should the writer go the extra mile and prevent any possible ambiguity by inserting could?

No.  The whole point of the situation is surely to emphasise how close she came to losing her fingers.  That is done by using the original words and so rendering the tense moment as vivid as possible.  

So the sentence is grammatically ambiguous but contextually clear and in literary terms justified.

A: On for days and dates, in for duration, at for precise times, including full dates that include the time:

Created in 3 hours and 15 minutes.

Created on the 13th of July

Created on 2013-07-13

Created at 14:35

Created at 2013-07-13 14:35

Created at 2013-07-13T14:35:00Z (when ISO dates are appropriate).

A: English doesn't get much more precise than this...

Infinitesimal — immeasurably or incalculably minute.

It gets a bit mind-boggling when infinitesimal amounts are involved in, for example, homeopathic remedies that are so diluted there's only a very low probability of even a single molecule of the original substance being present. Which to me means an amount so small it's not actually there.

EDIT: I can't resist pointing out this answer itself now embodies an (almost) infinitesimal change. It was recently amended (not by me) to add a space before the first word. But you don't see it because of how the ELU display works (I only twigged by looking at the edit source).

A: One meaning of repeat (intransitive) is:

- (of food) to be tasted again after ingestion as the result of belching or slight regurgitation

- to belch

(The Free Dictionary)

I don't think it could be misunderstood over the phone. The teacher was probably joking.

A: I would use split to mean the opposite of concatenate. I don't know if there's a better choice, but I've seen split used with this particular meaning in mind. Of course you should also specify how you will split the word, since you could split it at any point(s), and into more than 2 parts.

A: given names

the name that is chosen for you at birth and is not your family name:

- Ex. Her family name is Smith and her given names are Mary Elizabeth.

Cambridge

Merriam Webster and Wikipedia tend to agree.

A: TLDR:

Using the definite article before names of ailments was more common
historically than today. Even so, people still say the measles and the mumps about as often
as they say  the flu, and you sometimes come upon others
like the gout, the cancer, and the rheumatism, especially in dialogue meant to represent older or more rustic speech.

The OED records that this
“ᴛʜᴇ-disease” version began over a thousand years ago, and
notes that both styles coëxist today. A secondary and sometimes more humorous subsense has since arisen in expressions like the blues, the creeps, and the jitters.

The Historical Record

Once upon a time, one used to speak of the influenza, so it is only natural that this would have become shortened up to the flu.

Many diseases were once commonly used with the definite article preceding their names in English over the past thousand years.  Some still get talked about that way, often with both styles existing side by side in Present Day English. Jump to the section Free Samples, Often Funny towards the end of this post for copious examples of these, some with links.

The OED talks about this particular use of the article the in its two related subsenses for sense 8, the one technical and the other risible, with the text set in bold my own markup:

8a. With the names of diseases, ailments, etc.

       Still in common use side by side with forms without the definite article.

8b. With colloq. or humorous names of afflictions, as the blues, collywobbles, creeps, D.T.’s, habdabs, heebie-jeebies, jitters, etc., q.v. Hence in analogous nonce-expressions.

The earliest citation provided is from Old English in 1000 ᴀ.ᴅ.; later citations include the cold, the croup, the fever, the stone, the German measles. So influenza is hardly unique.

In scientific journals you will see often see diseases referred to as the X virus, such as with influenza or smallpox or rubella, but when you drop the “virus” part, you also now normally drop the article.

But first before we talk about where we are now, let’s remember where we came from by looking at some of what Mitch would call arthrous uses. That is, those with the article before them.
That Was Then

So using the in front of diseases, ailments, and other assorted afflictions used to be perfectly normal.   For example, in Volume 1 of The Baltimore Medical and Philosophical Lycæum from  1811 we find this reference:

I mention this more particularly, because in the influenza of 1790, Dr. Rush remarks that in several cases blood-letting produced alarming results.

And in The Obstetrical Journal of Great Britain and Ireland of 1875 we find this:

- [...] because the croup and the measles appeared at the same time: [...]

And in Famine in Tudor and Stuart England published in 1975 we find a reprint from an account originally from a couple centuries earlier reading:

- At times these and other afflictions came and also the bloody flux which put people in such a plight that countless died of it.

And here from 1831 in The Journal of Health with both the catarrh and the influenza as was then the common use:

- In proffering a few remarks on the epidemic catarrh, or the influenza, which has of late prevailed over so great an extent of country, [...]

This Is Now

When the Black Death scourged Europe, it was commonly called the Great Plague or the awful pest, with the latter giving rise to the organism we now know to have caused it, Yersinia pestis.

Today you would be more likely to hear someone talk about plague than to hear them talk about the plague. From the plague-inpested prairie-dog towns of my backyard in Boulder County, Colorado comes this warning:

- Plague is a bacterial disease transmitted by the fleas of rodents and is widespread in the western United States. Plague commonly infects prairie dogs and squirrels that can be found in parks and residential areas within Boulder County. Household pets, such as dogs and especially cats, can either get plague or carry infected fleas home to their owners.

This sounds perfectly natural here:

What killed off the prairie dog colony? Did they poison them?

No, it was the plague again.

Free Samples, Often Funny

The secondary, “humorous” use of the that the OED mentions is now commonly associated with references to the sufferer’s symptoms, such as in many of these:

- the bends

- the (bloody) flux

- the bug

- the cancer

- the catarrh

- the chills

- the clam

- the clap

- the cough

- the croup

- the drip

- the dropsy

- the (dry) heaves

- the flu

- the (German) measles

- the giggles

- the gout

- the gripe, grippe, grip

- the hives

- the itch

- the mumps

- the palsy

- the pest

- the piles

- the plague

- the pox

- the rheumatism

- the runs

- the shakes

- the shits

- the sneezes

- the spots

- the squirts

- the sweats

- the trots

Some of those come off as perfectly normal casual expressions, while others are mildly archaizing—a bit quaint as Janus mentions.
Summary

Saying the flu is a holdover from older styles of talking about illnesses and other physical troubles; people used to get the influenza. This practice was more common formerly than in Present Day English, where the habit—but not the rule—is to drop the article for most of these.

The casual terms amongst those listed above do seem to retain their article more than the official disease names. These euphemisms may be more noticeable in some regions an registers than in others.

Notes

Credit to Janus for suggesting the article usage might sometimes come off as a bit precious, and to Alan for suggesting the OED reference. Credit to Mitch for arthrous.

A: It's not a 'mixed-metaphor'. The knife/gun example doesn't fit the definition. I believe the author is simply mistaken.

A mixed metaphor, as defined by the Oxford Pocket Dictionary of Curent English (2009) is:

  

n. a combination of two or more incompatible metaphors, which produces a ridiculous effect (e.g., this tower of strength will forge ahead).

There are not two metaphors in your example. That is why I think the author you quoted is mistaken.

A: While you may have seen M’ with an apostrophe, look carefully: you might have instead seen M‘ with the character used for an opening quotation mark.

The difference is small but significant. According to M‘CULLOCH
AND THE TURNED COMMA, by Michael G. Collins (The Green Bag Second Series, pages 265-275, 2009),

the upside down and backwards apostrophe turns out to have been a routine way for eighteenth and early nineteenth century printers to recreate a lower
case, superscript “c” after the letter “M”.

(page 266)

Collins quotes P. Luckombe, The History and Art of Printing 266 (London, J. Johnson 1771), as saying that the “inverted comma . . . serves as a superior c in the nominal appellation of Mac or Mc” (footnote 10, page 268, ellipsis in Collins).

Collins indicates that there are attested uses of the apostrophe in the same context (page 270). So as I said at the start of this answer, you would have to look carefully to identify the exact usage in the texts that you're reading.

As far as I can tell, this was purely a graphical abbreviation, like the superscript o in №: this would mean that M‘ was not meant to represent any difference in pronunciation from Mac or Mc, either in the vowel or in the consonant. (There is some variation in the pronunciation of names starting with this element: I just don't think this variation is connected in most cases with the variation in spelling.)

A: a. I love you and your bananas.

b. I love you and you're bananas.

This particular case depends on the your/you're coming after an independent clause followed by "and," since its feasibility depends on functioning either as a second direct object or as another independent clause. It also depends on the noun serving either as a thing that someone might be in possession of (the bananas we eat) or as an adjective or noun complement describing a person (bananas=crazy). Easiest if that noun is plural or uncountable.

The same sentence could be constructed with nuts, garbage, and other nouns which I'll let you brainstorm because my stormer hurts.

You can also (and thanks to @Barmar for drawing attention to this) use verbs, in which case they act as a gerund with the possessive pronoun and a present participle with the "you're." As in:

a. I love you and your cooking.

b. I love you and you're cooking.

Or:

a. I despise you and your smoking.

b. I despise you and you're smoking.

A: Conclusion: 

White in "white lie" is a reference to the perceived moral purity of the lie, an act normally considered immoral. It is not a reference to a race.

Sources

According to etymonline.com, white as an adjective is from

  

Old English hwit [meaning] "bright, radiant; clear, fair"

According to the same source 

  

Meaning "morally pure" was in Old English.

A white lie is defined as in OED as 

  

A harmless or trivial lie, especially one told to avoid hurting someone’s feelings.

It is clear from the definition that the modifier "white" is a description of the motive or impact of the lie, and not its provenance.

The meaning "characteristic of or pertaining to white people" is from 1852, American English, while the phrase "white lie" itself predates that meaning, being found as early as 1741. (etymonline)

Edit (moved this point up from the comments): This is responsive to the question in that there are no objective grounds to associate the term with a particular race.

A: Two adjectives come to my mind for a person who uses excessive foul language:

1) crass

  

having or showing no understanding of what is proper or acceptable; rude and insensitive (http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/crass)

2) vulgar (as you used in the title of your own question)

  

not having or showing good manners, good taste, or politeness (http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/vulgar)

Both of these suggestions are more reflective of the person's demeanor or temperament than the cursing itself, but I think they could be more colorful (pun intended) alternatives. 

I hope this is helpful to you!

A: There is a usage difference between British and American English. Although a grill is everywhere a frame of metal bars used for cooking on a flame, Americans draw a distinction between grilling (cooking over a flame) and broiling (cooking under a flame), as when you use the broiler in your oven:

As quoted in this LanguageHat post,

  
    

In my American experience, to broil means to heat something from above as it sits on a slotted pan, so the juices can drip away. Grilling, in my experience, heats from below, and the juices drip down (usually onto the heat source).
  
  
  

But in the UK and Australia, heating from above is called “grilling” and broil means (according to GrahamT, who appears to be British) “to cook meat in a closed container over heat, similar to the American pot-roast.” So think twice about how you order your meat when you cross the Atlantic.

There are many differences in food-related terminology, some noted on our sister site, Seasoned Advice, in Translating cooking terms between US / UK / AU / CA / NZ.

A: You're probably thinking of floaters.

Floaters are suspended in the vitreous humour, the thick fluid or gel that fills the eye. Thus, they follow the rapid motions of the eye, while drifting slowly within the fluid. When they are first noticed, the natural reaction is to attempt to look directly at them. However, attempting to shift one's gaze toward them can be difficult since floaters follow the motion of the eye, remaining to the side of the direction of gaze. Floaters are, in fact, visible only because they do not remain perfectly fixed within the eye.

Floaters are deposits of various size, shape, consistency, refractive index, and motility within the eye’s vitreous humour, which is normally transparent. At a young age, the vitreous is transparent, but as one ages, imperfections gradually develop. The common type of floater, which is present in most people’s eyes, is due to degenerative changes of the vitreous humour. The perception of floaters is known as myodesopsia, or less commonly as myodaeopsia, myiodeopsia, myiodesopsia. They are also called Muscae volitantes (Latin: "flying flies"), or mouches volantes (from the French). Floaters are visible because of the shadows they cast on the retina or refraction of the light that passes through them, and can appear alone or together with several others in one’s visual field. They may appear as spots, threads, or fragments of cobwebs, which float slowly before the observer’s eyes. Since these objects exist within the eye itself, they are not optical illusions but are entoptic phenomena.

[Wikipedia]

A: "Speak of the devil" is the short form of the idiom "Speak of the devil and he doth appear".

A: Most anything that answers a “when” question can be roped into service as an adverb, even if it is normally considered a noun or a prepositional phrase.

Q: When are you going?

A: Immediately.

A: Soon.

A: Now.

A: In a while.

A: After I’m done eating.

A: Tomorrow.

A: Next week.

A: Friday.

A: Never.

All these answers are acting like adverbs in this context. But are they really adverbs? What about nouns like tomorrow or next Tuesday?  Are those adverbs, too?

The simple answer is “Yes.”

A better answer is “Well sure, sorta.”

But the best is answer is “What’s an adverb?”

And thereon hangs a much longer tale.

The problem is, asking whether something is an adverb is a devilishly loaded question. It assumes that there is such a thing as a “real adverb”, which as it turns out isn’t a reasonable assumption at all. There are just words, and words do as they please — meaning, they do as their speakers please. (Yes, Humpty-Dumpty was right after all. :)

Sometimes they happen to do jobs we call adverbial, like answering “when” questions. So, for a short-hand, we call them adverbs there, using a classic part of speech tag known to scholars and school children alike.

Understand that part-of-speech (POS) tags are just an invention. They are sometimes a useful invention, true, but there are not really a necessary one.  That’s because words in English are free to fall into whatever slot they want to, to do the needed job. That’s why we end up having so many “this as that” type tags when doing good POS assignment in natural language work on a computer.

One thing that occurs to me is that these “noun-adverbs” (meaning nouns doing an adverbial job) do not appear to admit normal adverbial inflections into the comparative and superlative degrees.  Go back to the list of  adverbial answers above and try to inflect them by degree. Sure, you can do something sooner, so that one inflects.  But some do not. You are free to “do something tomorrow”, but you may not “do it *more tomorrow”.

Perhaps it bothers you that we have words doing one of the (many) duties of adverbs by answering temporal questions, but which refuse to be roped into another customary adverbial duty, inflections according to degree. Is that perhaps the origin of the question? If so, then the problem is really that we need more distinct parts of speech than the traditional ones.

One problem with assigning POS tags to English words is that this is something of an artificial distinction, the product of artifice alone. All that matters is how a word is used, and even then the granularity of your tag-set varies considerably. In short, it just depends how you slice it.

You will find that the POS tag-sets used by various reference works vary a bit, sometimes a good bit. Even the OED changed a little in how it assigns parts of speech to senses between v2 and v3. For example, many words once marked as a prefix or suffix in the OED2 are now held to be combining forms.

This is especially noticeable when doing syntactic analysis for natural language processing. The parser will make POS assignments to each word in the sentence analysed, and you have to know what each POS tag means.

A particularly common set of POS tags is the Penn Treebank tags. Someone who comes from the school that admits only the seven “classic” parts of speech (NOUN, PRONOUN, VERB, ADJECTIVE, ADVERB, PREPOSITION, CONJUNCTION) may find Penn’s 36 POS tags to be elaborate and useful.  But I am not especially fond of them, because they conflate many things that are useful to distinguish in a parse. I prefer the NUPOS tagset, which is a much, much richer tag-set.

If you look at the NUPOS tags for adverbs, you will find that they have a category of adverb called a noun-adverb, meaning a noun used in a slot expecting an adverb, analogously to how a noun-adjective is a noun used in a slot expecting an adjective.

This isn’t anything fancy, and is indeed the very phenomenon we’re discussing here.  When we say “Go home”, we find that we are using home, a word normally thought of as a noun, as an adverb.  That’s because we are indicating where to go, and where is an adverbial application. If you like fancy words, locatives are always adverbs. (And home is a very good example of a locative, and a very popular one historically just as it is today.  That’s why the noun for home in Latin, domus, preserved a vestigial locative form, domī, but lost almost all the other distinct locative inflexions for the rest of its nouns.)

Where some classical grammars use 7 POS tags and Penn uses 36 of them, NUPOS uses 17 major word classes:

Word Class

adjective

adv/conj/pcl/prep

adverb

conjunction

determiner

foreign word

interjection

negative

noun

numeral

preposition

pronoun

punctuation

symbol

undetermined

verb

wh-word

But those 17 are further split up into a set of 34, including things like this:

Name
Description
Major Class

acp
adverb/conjunction/particle/preposition
adv/conj/pcl/prep

an
adverb/noun
noun

av
adverb
adverb

cc
coordinating conjunction
conjunction

crq
wh-word
wh-word

cs
subordinating conjunction
conjunction

d
determiner
determiner

dt
article
determiner

Even there, we can see that here there is such a thing as an adverb/noun, which belongs to the major class of noun. But there’s more than one way to skin a cat, which is why NUPOS goes much farther, dividing up those 34 major classes into 241 different final POS tags. Here for example are the adverbial NUPOS tags, with illustrative examples:

Tag
Explanation
Example

a-acp
acp word as adverb
I have not seen him since

av
adverb
soon

av-an
noun-adverb as adverb
go home

av-c
comparative adverb
sooner, rather

avc-jn
comparative adj/noun as adverb
deeper

av-d
determiner/adverb as adverb
more slowly

av-dc
comparative determiner/adverb as adverb
can lesser hide his love

av-ds
superlative determiner as adverb
most often

av-dx
negative determiner as adverb
no more

av-j
adjective as adverb
quickly

av-jc
comparative adjective as adverb
he fared worse

av-jn
adj/noun as adverb
duly, right honourable

av-js
superlative adjective as adverb
in you it best lies

av-n1
noun as adverb
had been cannibally given

av-s
superlative adverb
soonest

j-av
adverb as adjective
the then king

n1-an
noun-adverb as singular noun
my home

n1-j
adjective as singular noun
a good

n2-an
noun-adverb as plural noun
all our yesterdays

n2-av
adverb as plural noun
and are etcecteras not things?

n2-dx
determiner/adverb negative as plural noun
yeas and honest noes

ng1-an
noun-adverb in singular possessive use
Tomorrow’s vengeance

uh-av
adverb as interjection
Well!

Yup, that’s a lot of POS tags.  But it is useful for people doing NLP to have these nuanced distinctions. It may be useful in other work, too.

So which of those are adverbs? Hard question. Facile answer is that those beginning with av* are. Oh and dx. Maybe some others, too.

See the problem? We’re categorizing things according to their job in the actual phrase, and words in English are super-flexible in their job-duties, much more so than a dictionary’s simple-minded part-of-speech listing suggests.

A: The pronunciation of Greek letters by scientists isn't very different from the pronunciation of the Greek letters in the respective countries: American scientists pronounce them pretty much the same way the general American population does, and so on.

So your question is actually about why the English pronunciation of Greek letters, and the answer is that it is based on (but not always actually very close to) the reconstruction of the Classical Greek pronunciation by Erasmus in 1528 and by John Cheke and Thomas Smith around 1540, which were adopted in schools. This pronunciation underwent some change along with the rest of English during the Great Vowel Shift, and a re-reconstruction in the mid-19th century brought it back in line (incompletely) with Ancient Greek. The Wikipedia page on Pronunciation of Ancient Greek in teaching has more details.

For sake of completeness, here's a (very incomplete) table showing the pronunciation in American English, British English, Ancient Greek, and Modern Greek. I've rearranged the alphabet to put sort-of rhyming letters together, but all letters are there.

[Disclaimer: Many of the entries may be terribly wrong. The American and British IPA entries are based on the article English pronunciation of Greek letters, the "pseudo-phonetic spellings" are from here and here. The Classical and Modern Greek pronunciation columns I made up, partly from Swedish Wikipedia, partly from piecing together each letter's pronunciation in this table, partly from here for Modern Greek, and partly on my own — and I don't actually know IPA.]

[Edit: This table has now been edited to correct the IPA and source Classical Greek pronunciations from the English Wikipedia.]

Name
American English
British English
Classical Greek
Modern Greek
Greek name

Alpha
/ˈælfə/ (AL fuh)
/ˈælfə/ (AL fuh)
[aːlpʰa]
[aːlfa]
ἄλφα

Beta
/ˈbeɪtə/ (BAY tuh)
/ˈbiːtə/ (BEE tuh)
[bɛːta]
[vita]
βῆτα

Zeta
/ˈzeɪtə/ (ZAY tuh)
/ˈziːtə/ (ZEE tuh)
[zɛːta]
[zita]
ζῆτα

Eta
/ˈeɪtə/ (AY tuh)
/ˈiːtə/ (EE tuh)
[ɛːta]
[ita]
ἦτα

Theta
/ˈθeɪtə/ (THAY tuh)
/ˈθiːtə/ (THEE tuh)
[tʰɛːta]
[θita]
θῆτα

Pi
/ˈpaɪ/ (PIE)
/ˈpaɪ/ (PIE)
[peɪ], [piː]
[pi]
πεῖ

Phi
/ˈfaɪ/, /ˈfiː/ 
 (FIE, FEE)
/ˈfaɪ/, /ˈfiː/ 
 (FIE, FEE)
[feɪ], [fiː]
[fi]
φεῖ

Chi
/ˈkaɪ/ 
 (KIGH, KEE)
/ˈkaɪ/ 
 (KIGH, KEE)
[kʰeɪ], [kʰiː]
[çi]
χεῖ

Psi
/ˈsaɪ/, /ˈpsaɪ/, /ˈsiː/ 
 (SIGH, PSIGH, PSEE)
/ˈsaɪ/, /ˈpsaɪ/, /⁠ˈsiː/ 
 (SIGH, PSIGH, PSEE)
[pseɪ], [psiː]
[psi]
ψεῖ

Xi
/ˈzaɪ/, /ˈksaɪ/ 
 (ZIGH, KS EYE, KSEE)
/ˈzaɪ/, /ˈksaɪ/ 
 (ZIGH, KS EYE, KSEE)
[kseɪ], [ksiː]
[ksi]
χεῖ

Gamma
/ˈɡæmə/ (GAM uh)
/ˈɡæmə/ (GAM uh)
[gamma]
[ɣamma]
γάμμα

Delta
/ˈdɛltə/ (DELL tuh)
/ˈdɛltə/ (DELL tuh)
[delta]
[ðelta]
δέλτα

Epsilon
/ˈɛpsɨlɒn/ (EP suh lon)
/ˈɛpsɨlɒn/, /⁠ɛp⁠ˈsaɪlən/ 
 (EP sil on,  ep SIGH lun)
[e psilon]
[e psilon]
ἒ ψιλόν

Upsilon
/ˈʌpsɨlɒn/ (UP suh lon)
/ˈʊpsɨlɒn/, /⁠ju⁠ːp⁠ˈsaɪlən/ 
 (OOP sil on, YOOP sil on)
[y psilon]
[i psilon]
ὖ ψιλόν

Omicron
/ˈɒmɨkrɒn/ 
 (AH mih cron, OH mih cron)
/ˈɒmɨkrɒn/, /⁠ˈoʊmɨkrɒn/, /⁠ˈoʊmaɪkrɒn/ 
 (OM ih cron, OH my cron)

[omikron]
ὂ μικρόν

Omega
/oʊˈmeɪɡə/ (oh MAY guh)
/oʊˈmeɪɡə/, /⁠ˈoʊmɨɡə/ 
 (oh MAY guh, OH mee guh, OH meg uh)

[o'meɣa]
ὦ μέγα

Iota
/aɪˈoʊtə/ (eye OH tuh)
/aɪˈoʊtə/ (eye OH tuh)

['jota]
ἰῶτα

Mu
/ˈmjuː/, /ˈmuː/ 
 (MYOO, MOO)
/ˈmjuː/ (MYOO)
[mŷː]
[mi]
μῦ

Nu
/ˈnuː/ (NOO)
/ˈnjuː/, /ˈnuː/ 
 (NYOO, NOO)
[nŷː]
[ni]
νῦ

Kappa
/ˈkæpə/ (CAP uh)
/ˈkæpə/ (CAP uh)

['kapa]
κάππα

Lambda
/ˈlæmdə/ (LAM duh)
/ˈlæmdə/ (LAM duh)
[laːbdaː]
['lamða]
λάμβδα

Rho
/ˈroʊ/ (ROE)
/ˈroʊ/, /ˈr̥oʊ/ 
 (ROE, HROE)

[ro]
ῥῶ

Sigma
/ˈsɪɡmə/ (SIG muh)
/ˈsɪɡmə/ (SIG muh)

['siɣma]
σῖγμα

Tau
/ˈtaʊ/, /ˈtɔː/ 
 (TOW rhyming with COW, TAW rhyming with LAW)
/ˈtaʊ/, /ˈtɔː/ 
 (TOW rhyming with COW, TAW rhyming with LAW)
[ˈtaʊ]
[taf]
ταῦ

Notes:

- The table, especially the all-important Classical Greek pronunciation column, is incomplete; I ran out of patience.

- For the rhyming letters Beta-Zeta-Eta-Theta, the American pronunciation (-ayta) is closer to Classical Greek and the British pronunciation (-eeta) closer to Modern Greek.

- For the rhyming letters Phi-Chi-Psi-Xi (but not Pi for some reason!) there seems to be a variant (-ee) pronunciation close to modern Greek that exists only(?) in science and mathematics.

I've made this community wiki so that someone can fix the errors or complete the table (including possibly myself if I regain the patience to finish this sometime!)

A: To understand the mixed metaphor in this case, I believe you need to expand the scope of the article you are interested in (emphasis mine):

If anything, you are underthinking this, perhaps dangerously so.

You’re uncomfortable with the communication; you don’t want it; you don’t buy his rationale for it; you have indicated by typical “polite” means — asserting your commitment to your marriage then ignoring his texts and calls — that you aren’t receptive to his attention; and he is running through these red lights as if they aren’t even there.

Even in the rosiest of interpretations, his actions point to a person who is operating outside the norms of healthy behavior.

You, however, are trying your best to stay within them — and flustered that it hasn’t worked. Pardon the mixed metaphor, but you’ve brought a knife to a gunfight.

The author has used two unrelated metaphors to describe the same situation: one to describe the man's behavior, and another to describe the woman's. Though this doesn't produce "a ridiculous effect" as required by the definition of "mixed metaphors", and the author's use does make this confusing, since the metaphors are two paragraphs apart, I do believe this is the author's intent.

A: An alternative to @JEL's answer is the noun

potty-mouth

Dictionary.com.
The Dictionary of American Slang.
http://www.dictionary.com/browse/potty-mouth (accessed: August 21, 2016)

The corresponding adjective is

potty-mouthed : using or characterized by bad language.

A: Copying from my comment to @Mitch's answer
I think that rearranging the deck chairs is applicable in a scenario when someone tries to correct a doomed situation, cosmetically. In the scenario mentioned, I feel that “fiddling while Rome burns” might be a slightly more apt phrase.

A: It's an abbreviation of committee.

A: The classic:

  

Rearranging deck chairs on the Titanic.

A: The answer to this question is very complex if all details have to be included; but here is a very simplified version:

 
1. Homorganic lengthening

Some time in the later stages of Old English (so some time around 1000 AD or so), a sound change happened whereby vowels were lengthened if they were immediately followed by a voiced homorganic consonant cluster, i.e., two voiced consonants with the same place of articulation. In other words, before /mb nd ld rd ŋg/.

This means changes like the following (a macron ‘¯’ over a vowel indicates a long vowel):

ċild > ċīld ‘child’

(ġe)cynde > (ġe)cȳnde ‘kind’

climban > clīmban ‘climb’

bringan > brīngan ‘bring’

ald > āld ‘old’

– etc.

In Old English, /i/ and /ī/ had the same vowel quality: it was only the length of the vowel that distinguished them.

 
2. Pre-cluster/polysyllabic shortening

Some time not long after this, a set of intermingling sound changes that had almost the opposite effect occurred: long stressed vowels were shortened if they came before a consonant cluster or a geminate consonant (or sometimes even a single consonant), depending on the number of syllables in the word. This is often called pre-cluster shortening, but it’s not limited only to clusters, so I’m calling it the ‘pre-cluster/polysyllabic shortening’, for lack of a better term. It wasn’t as neat and consistent a sound change as homorganic lengthening, but it happened to many, many words. It happened most regularly if the long vowel came before:

- a cluster of two or more consonants if there were two or more syllables left in the word

- a cluster of three or more consonants, regardless of how many syllables were left in the word

- a geminate consonant, especially if there was only one syllable left in the word

This meant changes like the following, with the relevant type of shortening (1., 2., or 3.) in parentheses for clarity:

ċīldren > ċildren ‘children’ (1.) – or

ċīlderen > ċilderen ‘children’ (2.) (both variants existed)

gōd-spell > god-spell ‘gospel’ (2.) (lit. ‘good spell’, a calque on Greek εὐ-αγγέλιον ‘evangel’)

āldormann > aldormann ‘alderman’ (1.)

blēdde > bledde ‘bled’ (3., from blēdan ‘bleed’, which kept its long vowel)

Note that in all the examples in point 1. on homorganic lengthening above, there is at most one syllable after the vowel that is lengthened, the clusters all consist of only two consonants, and they are not geminate consonants—so none of the above applies.

However, there are also quite a few cases where even a two-consonant cluster causes the shortening even if there is only one syllable left in the word; Old English wīs ‘wise’ and thence derived wīsdōm ‘wisdom’ both had a long i, for instance, whereas in Middle English, wīs had a long i, but wisdom has a short i (the unstressed ō is also shortened, but that’s just because it’s unstressed).

And just to make it even less consistent, a long vowel in the first syllable of a trisyllabic word was sometimes shortened even if there was no cluster involved; compare for example south (from Old English sūþ) to southern (from Old English sūþerne). This is called trisyllabic laxing, and type 1 above is often included as a sort of crossover between pre-cluster/polysyllabic shortening and trisyllabic laxing.

After these various shortenings, thus, you had singular ċīld (with long /ī/) and plural ċild(e)ren (with short /i/). Once this state of affairs had been arrived at, it has generally remained remarkably intact in English up until the present day.

 
3. Various later changes

Old English /ā/ was rounded a bit and became /ɔ̄/ quite early on, but short /a/ remained the same. That is why āld gives Modern English old, but we still have the a in alderman.

Much, much later on (between the 15th and 18th centuries), English vowels were all rather cruelly subjected to something that messed everything up quite fantastically: the Great Vowel Shift.

During this period, vowels jumped back and forth a bit and changed their length and quality a good deal. For the particular context relevant to us here, short /i/ stayed more or less the same, whereas long /ī/ was diphthongised into /əɪ/ and later on /aɪ/, the way it is pronounced today.

A: I am a native English speaker, with what I hope is an above average education. I can think of no good reason, especially for a conference paper, to use anything other than "Yes" and "No" when what you mean is "Yes" or "No".

A: Everyone agrees that everyone is singular and therefore singular verb forms agree with everyone.

A: The OED finds usages of "white" to mean good or beneficent going back to Chaucer in the 14th century, and it finds first usages of "black" to mean sinister or evil in the last two decades of the 16th century.  Even the latest of these predates the bulk of the Atlantic slave trade by English-speaking slavers.

Any linguistic color theory of white and black has to explain the why black is sometimes good (in the black, from accounting; black gold, oil; black soil, the most fertile kind; black belt, admittedly imported).  Or why white is sometimes bad (whitewash, a dishonest coverup; whitelivered, i.e., lily-livered, cowardly; white flag, surrender).  To dismiss these examples as merely descriptive is to engage in special pleading.

Don't get me wrong.  "White" is the normative standard in the US and has been since the country's founding.  And there's no doubt this influences the language.  It wasn't that long ago that I could buy "flesh-colored" adhesive bandage strips.  Want to guess what color they were?  And there are plenty of US sociological studies that reveal white participants' prejudices against black people, but this is the legacy of the color line in the US, an enduring fault line that we can trace from southern legalized slavery (through 1865) to southern legalized apartheid (through the 1960s) to de facto segregated life in housing, education, and employment that continues today across the country.  Remember that it hasn't been fifty years since inter-racial marriage was illegal in many states.  Against the forces of history and tradition that shape our perceptions, the metaphoric effects of "white" in "white lie" and "black" in "black eye" are surely nugatory.

Bear in mind that in the US, instead of dealing with the problem, we have instead generated an industry of taking offense, characterized by Derald Wing Sue and his favorite topic of "racial microaggressions," of which "white lie" is an example.  You'd think that the recent event in Charleston, South Carolina would put an end to this focus.

But I'm going to guess not.

A: In the literal sense, this refers to something becoming untied, unwrapped, unfastened, etc.  For example: 

  

Be careful with that gift.  If it comes undone, they'll be able to see what is inside.

In the figurative sense, it means that something has either not gone as planned, or has failed in some way.  E.g. a plan can come undone meaning it hasn't worked as expected.  A person can come undone meaning that they have lost their composure or self-control.  

  

Andy came undone when Ann left him for Steve.

A: Back when typewriters were in common use and photocopiers were rare, one kind of paper you used to be able to buy actually came as two or more sheets stuck together at the top with carbon paper between each sheet. This way you automatically had multiple copies of whatever you put on the paper. This was commonly used to save typing work for office memos, but was especially common for forms. If they were filled out by hand, they'd put instructions on the top of the first page to "press firmly when writing" to ensure even the bottom copy was legible. I think such forms are still around in some places, but they now use specially backed paper instead of separate sheets of carbon paper. Forms also typically had different words at the bottom of the carbon copy pages saying who got that copy.

Now the "blind carbon copy" I always thought was an email innovation. However, Unreason in the comments below found a reference to it from a secretarial handbook from 1979. Wikipedia explains it was made to emulate an old office typist trick of adding addressees to one (or more) of the carbon-copied sheets after the copies were made, so that the others don't see that addressee. According to the handbook, secretaries were supposed to make note of these extra recipients in a file, but the other recipients would be "blind" to the fact that these extra people received copies.

A: You asked what the “technical name” is; those technical names are given in bold below, although there are others less formal as well.

The answer depends on precisely which character you mean. It might be a less-than sign, an angle quotation mark, or an angle bracket.  In handwritten manuscripts and on primitive old-school typewriters there is no real difference, but in modern representations of actual characters and the fonts that use these, there is.

Mostly it comes down to one of the following four, with name assignments to numeric code points given as defined by the Unicode Standard, along with some of the more salient character properties like their general category and whether they are to be considered punctuation, a math character, and/or a type of quotation mark:

- U+003C :   LESS-THAN SIGN 
Unicode character properties include General Category=Math Symbol; Math

- U+2039 :  SINGLE LEFT-POINTING ANGLE QUOTATION MARK
 Unicode character  properties include General Category=Initial Punctuation; Quotation Mark

- U+3009 : LEFT ANGLE BRACKET
 Unicode character  properties include General Category=Open Punctuation

- ‭U+27E8 :  MATHEMATICAL LEFT ANGLE BRACKET
 Unicode character  properties include General Category=Open Punctuation; Math

Notice how one and four are math although the first is a symbol and the last a punctuation mark, two is actually a kind of quotation mark, and both two and three are distinct sorts of punctuation that have corresponding close/final versions.  All are bidirectionally mirrored in that they have corresponding right-hand versions.

These are supposed to be used for different things.

There are a lot of these, and you aren’t going to be able to reliably use your eyes to tell the difference between things like these:

And that's merely the start of it. Here are confusable pairs separated by a → symbol, first using their glyphs and then using their actual names:

There are many more, of which these are merely a few of them. In the following tables, the number is the Unicode code point (character number) and the ALL CAPS NAME is the official technical name assigned to that number.  There are also these bits:

- The  entries are unofficial synonyms or common names, kind of like the common names used instead the formal scientific genus and species names in biology.

- The  entries are basically SEE ALSOs for confusables.

- The  entries are informative notes.

A: The industry itself uses the term Payment Card. See this Wikipedia article for details. In IT you frequently hear the term "PCI compliant" to refer to software that meets security standards set out by the Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council, a consortium of players in the payment card business.

In practice the term isn't used often, but if you're looking for a single term I don't think there's a better one out there. I think the reason most merchants spell out which types of payment cards they take - "Visa, Mastercard, ATM and gift cards" for example - is because there's a lot of choices out there and most places do not accept all of them.

A: Handedness is the most common and most understandable term. But I'm going for my pedant merit badge, so I'm going to draw upon and explain the other suggestions.
A history and evolution of meaning: Chiral

@DanBron suggests the technical term Chirality:

The word chirality is derived from the Greek, χειρ (kheir), "hand", a familiar chiral object.

An object or a system is chiral if it is distinguishable from its mirror image; that is, it cannot be superposed onto it.

There has been a great degree of speculation as to whether chirality is applicable to the specific chiral orientation or if it is merely the property of being non-superposable. To clear it up, consider the following definitions.

chiral

adjective, Chemistry

1. (of a molecule) not superimposable on its mirror image.

chirality. (n.d.). Collins English Dictionary - Complete & Unabridged 10th Edition. Retrieved April 28, 2015, from Dictionary.com website: http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/chirality

Chiral is the adjectival property of whether an object possesses symmetry, dissymmetry; whether it is superimposable or it is achiral/amphichiral. These have the same definition: not chiral; lacking any chirality in the same way that asexual means non-gendered; neither male nor female. In chemistry, pairs of molecules with opposite chirality are called enantiomer's, sometimes optical isomers; in mathematics enantiomorphs is more common.

chirality

noun
1. the configuration or handedness (left or right) of an asymmetric, optically active chemical compound. Also called dissymmetry

chirality. (n.d.). Collins English Dictionary - Complete & Unabridged 10th Edition. Retrieved April 28, 2015, from Dictionary.com website: http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/chirality

Chiral is a quite new addition to the English language, having only been though up by Lord Kelvin in 1893. The definitions for the word in technical fields and common language are evolving, but the suffix -ity is winning out for the meaning of chirality.

Used to form a noun from an adjective; especially, to form the noun referring to the state, property, or quality of conforming to the adjective's description.

Handedness vs. Chiral

Handedness is commonly used to distinguish between the distinct items of a chiral pair – indeed, almost every definition or explanation of chirality I've heard (or Google suggested just now) uses the mirror symmetry of human hands as a prime example. For instance in physics, for subatomic particles that have a spin, one will be referred to as having left-handed spin, the other as having right-handed spin. It's also applied to describe helix structures (DNA/RNA and threaded screws), electromagnetic and other vector fields where the right-hand-rule is well known, knots and several other geometric and mathematical notions.

JasonC suggests that handedness is a behavioral preference and therefore chirality is not an applicable synonym. However, manual dexterity is as least much a matter of skill as preference. Becoming a switch hitter in baseball requires a great deal of work. Many highly trained and motivated professional athletes do not succeed at overcoming this behavioral preference even though it provides a noticeable advantage to their career. People tend to see their hand dominance (or preference) as a part of themselves, a defining characteristic. In that sense, handedness is as much a physical configuration as a behavioral one.

Chirality is technically correct when applied to people's hands, but almost never used. (That's part of why I like it; it's the best kind of correct.) However, in American English, it's not the right way to ask a person about themselves, mostly because it doesn't communicate the question as several commenters have pointed out. Communication will fail at a rate inversely proportional to the renown of the words (and grammar) used; the words chiral and chirality are not well known by many people without specialized knowledge of science, technology, engineering or math, so don't use chirality. It is not used and will not be understood in common language. If you're pitching a design for a nightlight (or even a horror movie), you can't just say "Are you scotophobic, nyctophobic, lygophobic or achluophobic? Then you'll love this!"

I'm basing my suggestion against chirality and the rest of this answer on the assumption that anyone talking about their designs is seeking to communicate with a broad audience. In short, you question sounds like you're trying to market your designs and marketing messages that are not understood often achieve the opposite of the desired effect. You will drive your clientele away if they don't understand you with minimal effort. If you are specifically trying to be coy and pique their interest by challenging their assumptions, I still suggest you stay away from uncommon technical terms. Unless you are speaking directly and exclusively to an audience you have every reason to expect will know the term chirality, I suggest you don't use it.

Furthermore, chirality might be assumed by people who know the greek root to referred to hand preference. Or a listener might assume you're asking about their hand preference because our left and right hands are the most ubiquitous identifiers of our asymmetry. But technically speaking, chirality could refer to any aspect of human asymmetry, of which there are many: wrists, elbows, shoulders, legs, feet, kidneys, ears etc. etc. all cannot be superimposed on their mirrored pair in the body.

- I lost a foot to a tractor accident.

- My left nostril is slightly larger.

- Every body part I have two of.

Are all correct and applicable answers to the question "What is your chirality?"

But even replacing it with the strict synonym 'handedness' can be confusing.
Eliciting a left-or-right response

I think your first example is best filled by using two words (and to hell with the single-word-request tag). I think it's far more common and understandable to ask:

What's your dominant hand?

This makes it most clear that you're interested in an either-or, left-or-right answer. As some commenters point out, handedness is a spectrum; some people may write with one hand and eat, brush their teeth, cut their food etc. with the other. Nonetheless, when asked directly about which hand is dominant, most people will correctly identify that it's left or right, map it to whatever activities they consider most important, and answer 'left' or 'right'.

I'm basing this on the asker's mention of "state of being left- or right-handed" indicating the desire for an either-or, binary answer. If you want a nuanced answer on a spectrum, use the more open ended "handedness" option.
Inclusive instead of Exclusive language

Similarly, I think it would be very weird to hear:

Our designs do not bias against gender. Our designs are a-gendered/gender neutral.

Our designs do not bias against handedness. (Or, for that matter...)

Our designs do not bias against chirality. Our designs are achiral/chiral neutral.

The distinction itself - gender or handedness - isn't what you'd be biased towards or against. That phrasing implies your designs are for suitable for both gendered and asexual people (or handed and ambidextrous people). I think what you're trying to convey is that your designs are suitable for all people, whether they left-handed, right-handed or ambidextrous. Therefore, I humbly suggest (or rather second Chris H.'s suggestion):

Our designs are ambidextrous.

The prefix ambi- is inclusive, meaning both, unlike a prefix of un- or a- which would mean neither. Saying a person is ambidextrous means they use both hands equally well. Saying an inanimate object or design is ambidextrous implies that people can use either hand to hold, use or operate it equally well. A steering wheel is ambidextrous - it would be hard to imagine one that wasn't (because circles lack chirality). A gear shifter is typically right-handed in cars with a left-handed driver seat (and vice-versa in Britain, e.g.).

And if you're talking about an animate object, ambidextrous is the only way to go!

Our robot designs are ambidextrous.

As you correctly point out, however, you can't remove the prefix from ambidextrous and make any kind of sense. Dexterity by itself doesn't describe handedness or chirality. If you ask someone about their dexterity, you'd get a wide variety of interpretations - my grandmother would start talking about knitting and I'd roll three six-sided dice.

Sliding back into the marketing angle, promoting your product or design as not biased is taking a defensive tone. It is building a subtle connection in the listeners mind between your product and bias. I suggest you try very hard to find a positive or neutral way to describe your designs.

A washbasin with the tap on the center is, then, handedness-blind or chirality-blind, if you will.

It's also precisely ambidextrous.

ambidextrous

adjective

1.1 (Of an implement) designed to be used by left-handed and right-handed people with equal ease:

ambidextrous. (n.d.). In Oxford Dictionaries. Retrieved April 29, 2015, from http://oxforddictionaries.com/definition/english/ambidextrous

A: Invite has been in use as a colloquial form of invitation since at least the mid-seventeenth century. There’s nothing wrong with it in the right place, but in formal contexts such as a printed card invitation would be the word to use.

A: The verb henpeck means:

[Merriam-Webster]

: to subject (one's spouse or partner) to persistent nagging and domination

Using the common noun counterpart, you would simply say, "That woman is a nag":

[Merriam-Webster]

noun

: one who nags habitually

A: Wiktionary marks alright as an "alternative spelling" of all right, and allright as a "common misspelling" thereof. Merriam-Webster only has entries for alright and all right, and this usage discussion:

The one-word spelling alright appeared some 75 years after all right itself had reappeared from a 400-year-long absence. Since the early 20th century some critics have insisted alright is wrong, but it has its defenders and its users. It is less frequent than all right but remains in common use especially in journalistic and business publications. It is quite common in fictional dialogue, and is used occasionally in other writing alright — Gertrude Stein>.

The stats from the Corpus of Contemporary American English and the British National Corpus look as follows:

This suggests that alright is much more popular in Britain than in the US. However, the Corpus of Historical American English paints the following picture:

X axis: year, Y axis: incidences per million words.

So, alright seems to be gaining popularity in the States as well.

Lastly, the fact that all right loses one L when written as one word is not peculiar in the least — just think of already, almost, although, albeit, almighty, altogether, and any number of other words formed this way.

A: The phrase is Irish in origin but now very rarely used in Ireland (except as a sterotypical "Irishism"). It simply means "the best of the morning to you" - perhaps from the idea of unhomogenised milk, where the cream rises to the top. An appropriate response might be a simple "thank you" although the traditional response would be "And the rest of the day to yourself."

Terrible attempts at Irish accents, dancing a jig and leprechaun costumes are entirely optional while saying this.

A: There is no set limit to how long one can refer to a deceased person as late.

The consensus of opinion seems to hover around 15–30 years. However, if the person is unknown to the audience, one can use it for much longer (my late husband can refer to someone who died 50 years ago).

The late William Safire (December 17, 1929 – September 27, 2009), American author, columnist, journalist, presidential speechwriter, and all-around expert on speech, suggested 15 years.

Edited to add references and limerick.

  

There was a young man in a car,

  Who said to his father, "Papa,

  If you drive at this rate

  We will surely be late,

  Drive faster!" He did, and they are.

From: Harper Dictionary of Contemporary Usage, Second Edition (1985) William and Mary Morris:
There is no precise time element involved in determining how long a person must be dead before he is no longer considered late. As a general rule, late is used in reference to persons whose death has occurred within the twenty or thirty years just past. On the other hand, it is proper for an elderly person to refer to a contemporary who has preceded him in death as "the late." 

Webster's Dictionary of English Usage (1989):
...Here are a few opinions: 
...the statute of limitations might run for half a century" --Bernstein 1971
"As a general rule, late is used in reference to persons whose death has occurred within the twenty or thirty years just past" --Harper 1975
"... 'the late' is used for about ten to fifteen years after death" --Safire 1984

A: I would suggest “advise against.”

A: All three of these, man, dude, and bro, in about equal measure, are very informal, assume some familiarity, but are not rude or offensive. But their genderedness is different.

- 

'man' is a bit of an interjection, and as such is mostly ungendered.

  

Man, that's a big shark.

or

  

Look, man, we're gonna need a bigger boat.

The speaker is not addressing to a male, it's just a pointed way of drawing attention to the statement. So you can use 'man' as an interjection without taking into account gender of those around you (in these informal contexts).

- 

'dude' is nominally gendered and is usually used as a vocative for men, but can sometimes be used as such for women, though it is not an exact science. 

  

Dude, where's my car?

'Dude' can be used for both genders, but still has a lot of maleness to it; it would seem a little strange if you were directing that at a woman. But it seems to be used more often these days with both genders.

For women alternatives to dude, it is unclear.. There are nominal versions 'babe', 'chick', 'girl', 'hon' (for 'honey'), but these all (each in their own peculiar way) may be considered condescending (even if the intention is not). Don't use 'dudette'; that just sounds weird.

So, you can probably use 'dude' for both genders, but it is a little questionable. I'd suggest you avoid it and just say 'hey' (but only at the beginning of a sentence, not at the end; really, nothing is simple in language).

- 

'bro' is entirely a vocative intended for males. If you heard someone say this to an unknown person, you would be very surprised if they turned out to be female.

  

Pass me some surf wax, bro.

Don't use 'bro' for women.

For the latter two it is not clear exactly what the most appropriate alternatives for women are that match the same level of informality as 'dude' or 'bro'. There are words for groups of women: 'ladies', 'gals', 'girls', but they all have an old-fashioned connotation to them and condescending or paternalistic, especially if coming from a man.

Summary:

- no need to change 'man'

- for the others, 'dude', 'bro', 'pal', at the beginning of sentence use 'hey'. At the end, nothing.

Note: this is entirely for the informal General American English, unless otherwise noted. In some varieties, it is not uncommon to use nongendered vocatives that are terms of endearment with strangers, male or female: honey, sweetie, in Southern American English, 'love' in informal General British English. 

Note 2: The sociolinguistics around these are complicated. Each term has its own nuances worth a lot more explanation (and research). This is a gross oversimplification.

A: Womp womp is an onomatopaeic approximation of a brief, chromatically descending trombone phrase dating from the days of Vaudeville theater indicating either mock sympathy for the victim of a slapstick stunt or a joke or anecdote which the audience failed to find humorous:

  

Sometimes referred to as “sad trombone,” “loser horns,” or, more technically, “chromatic descending ‘wah,’” this sound effect dates back to early 1900s vaudeville. It was carried over into radio and then television.

The opposite, still used, say, in late night talk shows with a live band, is a brief roll on a snare drum for a well received joke, comment, or anecdote where energetic laughter isn’t the expected response. “Loser horn” comes from its use in game shows, such as The Price is Right. It is also frequently used in the animated  series Archer.There, it’s usually used to mock a character’s complaint about something or to make light of some expression of self-pity.

It is usually vocalized with /w/ followed by a nasalized vowel, either /ɑ̃/ or /ɔ̃/, and may or may not be terminated with the unvoiced bilabial stop /p/. However pronounced, it does not rhyme with romp, but you’d have better luck with French champs.

I won’t begin to guess what Lewandowsky meant, but you can tell by the shocked, enraged response how it was received.

A: "The world is your oyster" is a quote from Shakespeare's The Merry Wives of Windsor:

  

Falstaff: I will not lend thee a
  penny.
  
  

Pistol: Why then the world's mine
  oyster, Which I with sword will open.
  
  

Falstaff: Not a penny.

The original implication of the phrase is that Pistol is going to use violent means (sword) to steal his fortune (the pearl one finds in an oyster).

We inherit the phrase, absent its original violent connotation, to mean that the world is ours to enjoy.

A: "Here be Dragons" was a phrase frequently used in the 1700s and earlier by cartographers (map makers) on faraway, uncharted corners of the map. It was meant to warn people away from dangerous areas where sea monsters were believed to exist. It's now used metaphorically to warn people away from unexplored areas or untried actions. There are no actual dragons, but it is still dangerous.

A: “Rename A to B” is common and correct.   “Rename A as B” is uncommon and correct.  I think “Rename A by B” doesn't make sense, and I regard it as wrong.

A: Whataboutism

To answer the question directly with a single word, I would say this is an example of 'whataboutism':

The practice of answering a criticism or difficult question by
attacking someone with a similar criticism or question directed at
them, typically starting with the words "What about?"

(From Cambridge)

To rephrase your original examples:

"These working conditions are subpar. We don't get any breaks." and
then someone else says "You're entitled. What about people who work in
sweatshops!"

"I'm hungry." to which a parent might reply "You're not hungry. What
about the starving children in Africa?"

A: If someone is passing away, then they are dying. Its origins are:

  

late 13c., "death," verbal noun from die (v.). From mid-15c. as a pp. adj., "in the process of becoming dead."

Its confusable "dieing" means:

  

To cut, form, or stamp with or as if with a die.

Finally, dyeing means to stain something with color, with the origins:

  

c.1400, verbal noun and pp. adj. from dye.

Why is dying the gerund/verb form of to die? For one thing, it follows a general rule of forming gerunds:

  

The vowel group -ie is changed to -y before adding -ing. 

As this page also says this, it is safe to say that this is a generally accepted rule. Other similar verbs are tie and lie. It is not a special case, but I cannot find an exact date for when this rule was created. It is worth noting that, whether or not this is correct, there are early examples of the spelling dieing for dying in the 1800s. This leads to the thought that the currently accepted form is because of a spelling reform at some point in time since then.

A: For me (native German speaker who spent some years working in England), this is exclusively an American word of Yiddish origin. I don't think I have ever heard this word in the UK or read it in British media. I would first assume it to be an allusion to Louise Mensch, who has been over the British media a lot in recent years. Sometimes German words are used in pretentious or sarcastic British English, as in "Herr Hitler" or "he likes to eat Wurst". This is the next interpretation I would try in a British context.

Mensch, though it sounded vaguely familiar as an American word, is sufficiently rare that I had to look it up for its precise sense. (The German sense is much more generic: man, human.)

Of course I don't know if native British English speakers have similar reactions.

But aren't you overdoing this? Two questions just to optimise the formulation of your original question?

PS: "Mensch", the established spelling as an English word, is actually the German spelling. The standard Yiddish spelling is of course in Hebrew letters, but the most common Latin transcription (YIVO) is "mentsh".

In German the word just means human (as a noun). The word is also used in German whenever English uses man in a way that includes women. Similar to the situation in English, Mensch and menschlich (the corresponding German adjective) are used in some contexts to imply the positive aspects of humanity related to solidarity between Mitmenschen (fellow humans). On the other hand, menschliche Schwächen (human foibles) are only menschlich (human), so in some contexts the negative aspects may be implied. In general there are gute Menschen (good men) and schlechte Menschen (bad men)

It appears that Yiddish (maybe especially Western Yiddish, which was spoken primarily in Germany?) basically shares the neutral or ambivalent nature of the word, but (maybe especially Eastern Yiddish?) gives more prominence to certain positive aspects. This may be due simply to culture (e.g. proverbs can have such an effect), or maybe Yiddish has a Hebrew word that competes with mentsh for the neutral meaning and thus makes it easier for it to shift.

Mensch as a loanword in English has completed this semantic shift in a way typical for loanwords. Since English already has words for the basic, neutral or ambivalent meaning, it has no use for anything but the special meaning. (Narrowed meanings like this are typical for loanwords. E.g. in Italian, a palazzo is just a big house - possibly an office building or an apartment building. The word gave rise to the loanword palazzo, which is even more specific than palace.)

If I understood it correctly, a mensch in English is a more or less ideal human, not according to Christian ideology - i.e. a saint, selfless - but in a much more pragmatic sense that reminds me of the Greek ideal of a balanced mind. (But without the physical aspects, which were equally important to ancient Greeks.)

A: If you want to be perfectly and unimpeachably correct, you will pronounce the word  forte, meaning something that is one’s strong point, identically to the word fort, and reserve the FOR-tay pronunciation only for the musical term.

Most people don't know about this distinction and pronounce it FOR-tay for all senses, both the “strong point” sense as well as the musical term. Most people will not notice or care if you do that. In fact, if you say that some subject is or is not your “fort”, people will look at you quizzically and perhaps even ask “do you mean FOR-tay?”. On the other hand, if you use the pronunciation “FOR-tay” those of us who know the difference may judge you to be ignorant.

In either case, you take a risk of some sort. Bryan Garner came up with the name “skunked term” for words like this, in his 1998 Dictionary of Modern American Usage:

  

When a word undergoes a marked change from one use to another … it’s likely to be the subject of dispute. Some people (Group 1) insist on the traditional use; others (Group 2) embrace the new use.… Any use of [the word] is likely to distract some readers. The new use seems illiterate to Group 1; the old use seems odd to Group 2. The word has become “skunked.”

My advice is to find a substitute word or phrase.

A: - Please call me on this number. You can reach me on this number.
  

Acceptable everywhere, principally used in UK/Australia/New Zealand. Sounds strange to North American ears, but understood.

  
  
- Please call me at this number. You can reach me at 0088000900.
  

Acceptable everywhere, principally used in US/Canada. Might sound strange to English speakers outside North America, but widely understood.

  
  
- Please call me through this number. You can reach us through this number.
  

Usually used when the caller will need to speak to an intermediary before being connected to the desired party (such as when a receptionist answers all incoming calls). Not generally used when the number connects directly to the desired party (which is "DID" Direct Inward Dial in North America, and "DDI" Direct Dial-In elsewhere).

A: M-W dictionary lists no antonyms.  

Dictionary.com lists:  disapprove, discourage, dissuade but I don't think those really fit as direct antonyms.

Usually in my experience you'd say recommend against.  

---Update to add--- As FumbleFingers mentioned in a comment, advise against is an equally valid alternative (and seemingly more popular in British English, as this NGram would suggest).

A: A freeloader

a person who habitually depends on the charity of others for food, shelter, etc.

[The Free Dictionary]

A: We speak of using a sledgehammer to crack a nut.

A: To blue ( from TFD)

  
  
- (tr. & intr.v. blued, bluing, blues)
  To make or become blue.
  

Ngram blued, bluing.

A: Here's a diagram that may help you visualize it. (Sorry, no XXX rating here.)

A: While there are a number of sources that attribute the origin of this phrase to R.L. Stevenson's Treasure Island (pub. 1883), or alternatively, to the National Biscuit Company (Nabisco, c. 1876) which used it as a popular slogan, neither of them appears to be the right one. As James McLeod has pointed out in another answer, "Polly want a cracker" can be verified to have been in use even before these dates.

The earliest entry in Google Books is from Bunkum Flag-Staf and Independent Echo", a satirical fake newspaper published in The Knickerbocker (or, New-York Monthly) magazine, Volume 34, in 1849. The reference to Polly's crackers can be seen in the following excerpt:

A radio show named A Way with Words has also attempted to trace the roots of this phrase. According to the host, the earliest reference he could find was the following cartoon from 1848 in another satirical magazine named The John-Donkey:

The use of cracker in the cartoon is a pun on the word for the biscuit as well as the fact that the boy is ready to crack the skull of the parrot open, presumably for annoying him (perhaps by asking him for a cracker?). The hosts of the show go on further to make a connection between the use of crackers on ships (as long-lasting food) and perhaps parrots being on board as well. At any rate, they conclude that even in 1848, parrots named Polly wanted crackers and that the phrase might have been commonly used.

Now, cracker biscuits were invented in 1801 (or perhaps earlier in 1792) which should date this phrase. Incidentally, the use of the name Polly for a parrot can apparently be dated to at least 1606 to Ben Jonson's play, Volpone. According to the source, the OED (somebody please clarify) expounds on this matter thusly:

  

Polly is a diminutive of Poll "as a female name, and name for a parrot," and Poll, altered from Moll, familiar form of Mary, is the traditional name for any parrot. The earliest quotation the OED gives for Polly as a name or designation for a parrot is from Ben Jonson's "Epigrams," 1616.

In conclusion, there is no concrete proof of the exact origin of the phrase. However, my best guess is that crackers became the staple food/snack for pet parrots who ended up parroting their owners during feeding time - "Polly, want a cracker?". I believe that the phrase was popularised by Nabisco's slogan and has been in use ever since. In other words, this exercise was quite pointless; but, I wouldn't have it any other way :)

A: The word namefellow or name-fellow, although rather obscure, does have exactly the meaning you're after, without the connotation of namesake that both people are named after the same person.

In Tristram of Lyonesse (1882) by the poet A.C. Swinburne, the protagonist travels to Brittany where he meets another knight named Tristram:

  

But by the sea-banks where at morn their foes

  Might find them, lay those knightly name-fellows,

  One sick with grief of heart and sleepless, one

  With heart of hope triumphant as the sun

A: If you think about (simplified for convenience) mathematical usage of "orthogonal", it is referring to vectors at right angles to each other, so motion in the direction of the first vector produces no corresponding motion in the direction of the second vector.  This independence is what motivates the other meanings; an orthogonal line of argument in debate might be interesting in itself, but doesn't advance the main thrust of the debate, for instance.

It's just as well that the mathematical use of "normal" doesn't bleed across like this, because "normal people" would then be at right-angles to reality.  Then again... :-)

A: You should remove the spaces. Unless, of course, you are quoting a poem, in which case the slash indicates a line break:

  

We review a module

  theme per user.

Wikipedia has more info:

  

There are usually no spaces either before or after a slash. Exceptions are in representing the start of a new line when quoting verse, or a new paragraph when quoting prose. The Chicago Manual of Style (at 6.112) also allows spaces when either of the separated items is a compound that itself includes a space: Our New Zealand / Western Australia trip. (Compare use of an en dash used to separate such compounds.) The Canadian Style: A Guide to Writing and Editing prescribes "No space before or after an oblique when used between individual words, letters or symbols; one space before and after the oblique when used between longer groups which contain internal spacing", giving the examples "n/a" and "Language and Society / Langue et société".

A: It depends on what the relationship is like with the recipient. If you are fairly friendly you can be less formal.

Assuming you include the e-mail you are referring to in some way, you might say:

Have you had a chance to look at this yet?

This informally conveys the sense that you know how busy they are.

For a more formal version you would probably want to write it as a full e-mail:

John/Sir/Whatever you'd normally say

I was wondering if you have had a chance to look at the e-mail below yet? [Give a reason] Our customer enquired about it earlier today.

Many thanks,

Bob

A: Azure is also an ordinary English word, pronounced the same way (or rather, ways) as the Microsoft program software offering.

The two main pronunciations differ in how they say the 'z': in US English, it almost always becomes a zh /ʒ/, like the s in measure, while in the UK, it can be either a zh /ʒ/, same as in the US, or a straight z /z/. There's also disagreement about which syllable gets the stress: in the US, it goes on the first syllable: AZH-uhr /ˈæʒər/, while in the UK, it's more likely to go on the second syllable: az-YOOR /azˈj(ʊ)ə/.

A: Irrespective of the context, it is either "what it looks like" or "how it looks", not "how it looks like".

However, let me add that as much as it is grammatically incorrect, you can find any number of occurrences of the phrase in daily use. You will not see "how it looks like" in the writing of learned English users, though.

According to Google nGram, "how it looks like" is hardly used in Google Books. We may suppose that the difference is between 'popular' and 'careful' usage.

A: The overarching term for all these shadows in the eyes is entoptic phenomena. As the term implies the source of these visual effects is the eye itself - floaters (including the blood corpuscles), Haidinger's brush, branching patterns, and the flying gnats for instance. As these are real images cast upon the retina, they are not optical illusions.

The celebrated physician and physicist Herman von Helmholtz offered the following description:

  

Under suitable conditions light falling on the eye may render visible certain objects within the eye itself. These perceptions are called entoptical... it is only under special circumstances ... that these shadows become visible.

http://biologypop.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/07/X10108088-12.jpg

A: I'd also consider using Y for Yes and N for No. I think this is clear for everyone speaking English. It may look worse in the manner of design but will be understood by all.

A: The term I would use is "religious intolerance." To describe the basis for events like the Inquisition in Spain.

A: I’m not aware of a single word that has that meaning, but you might try the following descriptions:

- a cosmetic change (a change that only affects appearance)

- a trivial change (a change that has no significant impact)

A: "black humor" seems to fit.

- 

black humor - humor marked by the use of usually morbid, ironic, grotesquely comic episodes.

- 

black humour, also called black comedy, writing that juxtaposes morbid or ghastly elements with comical ones that underscore the senselessness or futility of life. Black humour often uses farce and low comedy to make clear that individuals are helpless victims of fate and character.

An example of a black humor joke:

A sadist, a masochist, a murderer, a necrophile, a zoophile and a pyromaniac are all sitting on a bench in a mental institution.

- "Let's have sex with a cat?" asked the zoophile.

- "Let's have sex with the cat and then torture it," says the sadist.

- "Let's have sex with the cat, torture it and then kill it," shouted the murderer.

- "Let's have sex with the cat, torture it, kill it and then have sex with it again," said the necrophile.

- "Let's have sex with the cat, torture it, kill it, have sex with it again and then burn it," said the pyromaniac.

- There was silence, and then the masochist said: "meow."

The best black humour jokes

A: The British put them outside the quotes, which seems much more logical. 

The American style is to put the punctuation inside the quotes. The American version is often known as "Typesetter's Quotes". 

As you can see, I go with the British version, at least in informal writing.

Interesting fact: They are called typesetter's quotes because when typesetters were laying out the typesetting blocks putting the small blocks for punctuation inside the quotes made the layout more stable and less prone to shift around. That's probably why it seems so illogical, it was done for mechanical reasons, not linguistic reasons.

A: Yes.  Sentences start with capital letters; abbreviations are no exception.

A possible* exception is when a proper name starts with a lower case letter.  E.g., if I changed my name to matthew then "matthew is awesome." would be correct.  This is because the word is intended to be lower case. E.g., on the other hand, has no such association with it.

* Don't make an exception. This is just playing devil's advocate. See comments.

A: These two are more or less equivalent. They can both be used for the situation where A and B speak to each other. "Speak to" can also be used for the situation where A talks and B listens without speaking.

A: Wiktionary says:

  

Abbreviation of wollnot or woll + not, negations of archaic form of will.

The Concise Oxford Dictionary of English Etymology agrees:

  

XVII. contr. of wonnot, assim. of wol not

As to other forms, Etymonline only mentions wynnot:

  

first recorded mid-15c. as wynnot, later wonnot (1580s) before the modern form [won't] emerged 1660s.

A: The main difference is that deprecate is largely archaic, apart from its very modern computing sense. The original meaning (derived from Latin de=away, and prevari=pray) meant to ward something off (by prayer, for example). It can also be used to mean to express disapproval of; deplore; belittle, but IMHO this is also dated/poetic usage outside computing. I also suspect it's used as something of a euphemism for denigrate, which to some people is uncomfortably close to the n-word.

Deprecated is normally used today for some feature of a computer language which is still supported, but no longer recommended. It may not be supported at some time in the future, because it doesn't fit well with the way the language is being developed.

There's no substantive difference in meaning between deprecated and obsolete for that "no longer recommended" computer sense. But obsolete is used in far more contexts than deprecated, and can sometimes imply "no longer capable of being used", rather than just "not recommended".

Depreciated, on the other hand, derives from Latin pretium=price. It's used of things which have reduced in value over time.

TL;DR: People either confuse the words because they don't know what they mean, or because they don't notice the extra letter "i" in one of them.

A: All are acceptable, so you should follow your judgement.  

British usage generally favours rather more hyphens than American usage; I'd use co-founder since cofounder doesn't look all that natural.  I'd omit the hyphen in landowner, though, so it depends.

Longman and Collins tend to prefer unhyphenated while Chambers, predictably, insists on the hyphenated form.

If you're using the word in a title (in which you can capitalize every important word) or at the beginning of a sentence, you should always use Co-founder, not Co-Founder; such as:

  

The Importance of the Co-founder in Contemporary America

For all other usages, just use co-founder.

A: Thanks for MT_head's etymology - it is generally used in British English to mean used for its intended purpose, or used for real rather than in tests.

It's not necessarily used in a military context.

A: I have never heard the word "repeat" used in this manner. It definitely wouldn't be confused in American English. Might be a more common usage elsewhere.

A: Consider calling it tunnel vision.

  

Tunnel vision metaphorically denotes the reluctance to consider alternatives to one's preferred line of thought; instances include physicians treating afflictions, detectives considering crime suspects, or anyone predisposed to a favored outcome. The common way to solve this problem is a second opinion, that is, getting somebody unrelated to the original investigation to look at it from the beginning, without the same biases and preconceptions.
  - wikipedia, emphasis mine

In your example, the reluctance isn't a matter of conscious choice; it's a form of cognitive inhibition caused by too much focus on particular details.

Here's an example of the term used in a context not too dissimilar to the one you described:

  

What to do about an excess of focus? Kamal Gupta suggested: "It is called 'Tunnel Vision'…. The solution is not difficult. Management has to take a break, like once in a quarter, to take a look at the big picture.
  - James Heskett, Is Too Much Focus a Problem?

You'd say that after working on the draft for too long, people can develop tunnel vision.

A: The words yea and yay are homophones, meaning they are pronounced the same. Yea is a somewhat specialized word (“yes—used in oral voting”) most often used in a spoken context, so I would expect that many people would not realize there are two spellings for two different meanings.

Using the spelling yay for yea is therefore an eggcorn. Here's a discussion of it at the Eggcorn Database forum. 

There were no examples of yay being used for yea at the Corpus of Contemporary American English, so it doesn't seem to be an emerging usage that is getting into the kinds of edited texts used to populate that corpus. On the other hand, there are plenty of Google results, including some on major, presumably professionally-edited sites, like ABC News and New York Magazine. Interestingly, a large portion of the top Google results were related to fashion.

How embarrassing for them: anyone who knows that there are two spellings for the two words would instantly identify yay for yea as an error.

Even the normally quite liberal and descriptivist Merriam-Webster dictionary has no entry at all for ‘yay’. Only Collins English Dictionary has an entry for yay, and it’s only for the exclamatory sense.

So, yes, it does appear that this substitution is an emerging usage, but no authorities at all countenance it just yet, and given that there is an unimpeachable substitute, I don’t recommend that anyone use it.

A: The current colloquial use of meta is a bit hard to pin down with a definition — it doesn’t entirely fit the concept of self-reference.  It’s probably better illustrated by a couple of examples.  There are lots of old jokes that begin:

  

An Englishman, an Irishman and a Scotsman walk into a bar…

and go on to tell some story where the three people each do something (order a sandwich, perhaps) and behave in stereotyped ways (the Englishman snobbish, the Scot stingy, the Irishman stupid).  These are simple jokes: jokes about certain national stereotypes.

But there’s also the joke:

  

An Englishman, an Irishman and a Scotsman walk into a bar.  The barman says “Is this some kind of joke?”

This joke is meta.  The humour comes from the barman recognising that he’s in a situation typical of jokes.  It isn’t a joke about national stereotypes; it’s a joke about jokes.

Similarly,  is a Q&A site for discussing English;  is a Q&A site for discussing a Q&A site for discussing English.

(I can’t speak for 10-year-olds; I’m a bit out of touch with current playground slang.  But this is how it’s used in current internet slang, and the way a 10-year-old is using it will probably be reasonably closely derived from that.)

A: I agree with Robusto, I think. There is a semantic difference between "allow" and "allow for". "B did X, allowing Y" implies that by doing X, B directly caused Y to happen. However, "B did X, allowing for Y" implies that doing X may or may not, in fact, actually cause Y; Y may happen with or without X, or Y may require something else to happen besides or in addition to X.

Short non-sequitur, but consider a sentence in the context of carpentry. "He spaced the boards a quarter-inch from the wall, allowing expansion". Those who know carpentry know that you don't "allow" boards to expand; they simply swell and shrink with temperature and humidity regardless of what you do. Instead, you must "allow for" the boards to expand by taking an action ensuring that WHEN they expand, there is no adverse consequence. So, the correct statement, in context, is "He spaced the boards a quarter-inch from the wall, allowing for expansion".

Back to your OP, "a ceasefire allowing talks" implies that talks will not happen without a ceasefire happening first. "A ceasefire allowing for talks" may imply that talks are already happening, or that they could happen regardless of a ceasefire, but that the ceasefire facilitates those talks. Either may be correct, depending on the situation being described.

So, "allow" denotes permission, and thus a direct cause/effect. "Allow for" denotes either facilitation or "proaction" in anticipation of, and thus breaks the direct cause/effect relationship.

A: Strictly speaking, discommend is the antonym, although it doesn't work in all contexts, and has become nearly obsolete.

I agree with @breen that advise against is the modern antonym phrase.

A: Won’t actually has a pretty interesting and complex history. Ultimately it does come from a contraction of will and not, but it all happened in a rather roundabout way.

It all started off with the Old English verb willan/wyllan, meaning to will, wish, or want. Even in Old English it was used occasionally to denote a future intent. “Ic wille gan” could mean “I want to go” or “I will go”, depending on context.

Now, the thing about negatives in Old English is that they were often reduced:

na(w)ðer = nahwæðer = ne + hwæðer

neither = not + whether

næfre = ne + æfre

never = not + ever

nabbað = ne + habbað

haven’t = have + not

We nabbað naðor ne hlaf ne wæter.

We have neither bread nor water.

Not comes from naht via noht. Related to nawiht meaning naught, it originally meant in no way, but came to be used as an emphatic form of ne. Subsequently it became unstressed and supplanted ne altogether. This is an example of Jespersen’s Cycle.

All these things combined led to a new negative form of willan, wynnot. The past forms of willan began with wold-, which is where we get would. Under the influence of these forms and the related verb wol, wynnot became wonnot by the late 1500s.

Finally, the modern form won’t emerged by the 1660s as a result of reducing the final vowel in wonnot. It appears to be the first word so contracted; most of the other -n’t contractions we use today (can’t, couldn’t, shouldn’t, &c.) arose in the 1700s, modelled after won’t. In modern English, cannot is the only uncontracted -not compound that survives.

As for the other contractions such as -’ll and -’ve, their history is just as long, though perhaps slightly less convoluted. But that’s a story for a different question. ;)

Also, remember that spelling in Old English was less standardised than in modern English. There were often several equally valid ways to spell the same word, especially when you took different accents and dialects into account. So sometimes it’s difficult to get a good historical account of pronunciation and usage changes. Still, as far as I can tell, this is basically how it went down.

Source: The Online Etymology Dictionary.

A: We used the term "mooch" (def 7) when I was younger. I think that one literary offering is "takers" (Ayn Rand's Atlas Shrugged)

A: As a native speaker of British English, I've never heard that phrase in my life and have no idea what it might mean. It's not a phrase I'd expect British people to understand, unless it's been used in one of the many American TV series that have been popular in the UK.

A: The OED indicates first recorded use of the word "virgin" to refer to either sex was in 1300, about 100 years after the first recorded use to refer to females in 1200. The reference is to Cursor Mundi. 

In modern English, this would read:

  

He that in maidenhead is faithful,

  He leads life like to angels,

  For virgins all are they;

A: Later in the book, Humpty Dumpty gives Alice an explanation of the odd words in the poem and he defines 'mimsy' as 'miserable and flimsy'. In other words, we know it is an adjective because Lewis Carroll intended it to be one.

A: "The number" is singular. "A number", however, is plural, and takes a plural verb. Thus, for both informal and formal usage, the following is correct:

  

A number of questions have been asked here.

See the usage note not quite halfway down the page at Dictionary.com, or this daily writing tip.

A: My best guess, and one I have heard older folks say to themselves in such circumstances:

  

easy does it

   used especially in spoken English to advise someone to approach a task carefully and slowly.

NOAD

Q: What does H/F, M/F and M/W abbreviation in job titles mean?

If you look at some job titles on Stack Overflow Jobs you can come across several abbreviations: H/F, M/F, M/W. It does not look programming specific (excuse me if I'm wrong). E.g.:

  

Ruby-on-Rails or AngularJS developer for Open Source project
  (m/f)
  
  

Senior PHP Developer (m/f)
  
  

PHP Softwareentwickler (m/w)
  
  

Team Leader Web .Net (H/F)

What is their meaning?

Q: Is "a whole nother" grammatical?

Often one will hear the phrase that's a whole nother kettle of fish, but is "nother" actually grammatical? If not, what would the correct way of saying it be?

Q: A better word for "unanswered"

You might have heard that we are restructuring the navigation of all sites in the network. As part of this change there will be 3 tabs which are currently named as:

- New&mdash;it contains questions that are either new, recently active or (on Stack Overflow only, new and interesting)

- Popular&mdash;this tab contains questions which are "hot", heavily voted or highly linked-to.

- Need Answer&mdash;the purpose of this tab is to find questions to answer, it is the descendant of the "Unanswered" section, and it contains questions which are either very new, without answers, without any good answer or with a bounty pending.

As you might have noticed, the first two tabs follow a "______ Questions" pattern (e.g. "New Questions"), but the third doesn't.

What is a better word to use which is an adjective, specific to its contents (note: not all those questions are unanswered) and self-explanatory to new users?

Q: Is there an English equivalent to the Persian saying "Now that it's my turn, the sky fell down"?

Suppose there are many people standing in a line to receive an expensive item as a free gift, and everyone receives it except for the last person in the line. The last one is told, "Sorry, the gifts are finished!". This person complains of his bad luck and says (sarcastically): 

  

Oh, no! Now that it's my turn, all the gifts are finished. I don't believe it!

In situations like these, we Iranians have a saying: 

  

Now that it's my turn, the sky fell down. 

That is, the worst possible thing happened, and I lost the opportunity. It implies that once I reached the stage of almost realising the opportunity, the situation/condition changed completely, all of a sudden and unbelievably, and this is only because of my bad luck!

Is there any idiom, expression or proverb that conveys a similar meaning to that Persian saying? 

I am looking for something that is more general, something that can be used in any situation in which an (important) opportunity has been lost just because of bad luck. This Persian  saying places the blame on the bad luck of the given person—someone so unlucky that even the most impossible outcome (the sky falling!) happens just at the moment that they expect to achieve something and causes them to lose a good opportunity.

In my example, that person was very unlucky: if his turn was only one person ahead, or if there was just one extra gift, he would have received a gift. So, he says: "The worst thing happened only to me out of all those people! D**n this luck!"

Q: An English equivalent of Arabic idiom ‘Show us the breadth of your shoulders’

The Arabic idiom “OK, now you can show us the breadth of your shoulders.” has a meaning similar to get lost, but with a more humorous edge. The idea of the idiom comes from when the recipient turns around and walks out, or figuratively speaking: ‘gets lost’ and the speaker sees the back of his shoulders.

Is there anything similar in English?

Q: Is the plural of 'prefix' really 'prefixes' rather than 'prefices'?

It looks like the plural of 'prefix' is 'prefixes' - while I would expect it to be 

'prefix' => 'prefices' like

'matrix' => 'matrices' or

'index'  => 'indices'.

Is 'prefix' an exception to the rule? If so, why?

Q: Is there an expression to indicate the strategy of wearing someone down with numerous small irritations?

I would use rope-a-dope, but it's got connotations of pretending to lose that I don't need. I'm trying to describe the behavior of someone who sends twenty detailed emails a day about various projects, and the recipient of his emails has finally gotten tired of trying to parse them, so the recipient just agrees to whatever he proposes. I'd like an expression that evokes both outward earnestness and hidden creepiness, like Uriah Heep, Dickens's "Humble servant" with veiled ambition, who overdoes it with professions of humility until he's in power.
Water torture would work, but comes too close to a more racist expression that I'm not comfortable with.

Q: Use of 'pussy' as term of endearment

&emsp;The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language (AHDEL), Fifth Edition (© 2011)1, lists one of the meanings of 'pussy' as:

  
  
- (Chiefly British) Sweetheart; dear. Used as a term of endearment.
  

 &emsp;However, I have not come across this sense of the word in books I have read or other dictionaries. I have checked Oxford Dictionaries Online, the Collins English Dictionary &mdash; Complete and Unabridged, 12th edition (© 2014) 1, and the Merriam-Webster's Online Dictionary. This sense of the word 'pussy' is also not found in the prior fourth edition of the AHDEL (© 2000). It seems like an odd addition, especially given this more common sense of the word, which is also found in the AHDEL Fifth Edition:

  
  
- Offensive Slang A woman, or women, viewed as a source of sexual gratification.
  

 &emsp;Is the endearing sense of 'pussy' actually used in past or present times? If so, what kind of literature is it most commonly found in?

1These editions and dates can presently be verified at The Free Dictionary by Farlex.

Q: The "old switcheroo": Where did the "-eroo" suffix come from?

The -eroo suffix works as an intensifier of sorts, though it also seems to have other, less well-defined properties.

The online OED has only this to say about it:

  

-eroo, suffix

        factitious slang suffix as in boozeroo n., brusheroo (brush n.2 8b), flopperoo n. U.S. formations

    in -eroo, -aroo (e.g. buckaroo n.) are discussed in Amer. Speech (1942) XVII. 10f,

    and in T. Pyles Words & Ways Amer. Eng. (1952) 199.  
  
  

1964   Guardian 8 July 7/6   Those jerkeroos feel embarrassed.

Etymonline's gloss is similarly disappointing:

  

switch (n.)

  The meaning "a change from one to another, a reversal, an exchange, a substitution" is first recorded 1920; extended form switcheroo is by 1933. (Emphasis my own.)

I would like to know where this suffix comes from and, if possible, why there isn't a better etymology. Any ideas?

Q: When did "a buck" start being used to mean any unit of 100? (E.g. "a buck fifty" for 150 lbs.)

Before you answer, please note: I'm only interested in when this usage was established in common (American) parlance. I know what the term means and I don't need it defined, nor do I require an etymology as to its origins.

That said, most of us probably already know that "a buck" in AmE is a slang expression referring to a dollar. As Etymonline notes:

buck (n.2)

"dollar," 1856, American English, perhaps an abbreviation of buckskin as a unit of trade among Indians and Europeans in frontier days (attested from 1748).

But for most of my life I've been aware that "buck" can be used broadly in the  sense of 100 of something, especially when that something involves weight and money.

He goes about a buck forty sopping wet. (Meaning: He weighs about 140 pounds at his heaviest.)

She says she's making a buck eighty in her new job. (Meaning: She says her salary is $180,000 a year in her new job.)

Note, however, that we never hear multiples of this, like "four bucks" to mean 400. And the usage always seems to involve a number between 100 and 200: "a buck fifty" and so forth (the term seems to be wedded to the indefinite article: "a buck something").

It's obvious where the 100 comes from: a dollar represents 100 cents. I'm just wondering when this particular usage crept into the lexicon.

Addendum

This question on EL&U demonstrates that responses involving "I've never heard that usage before" may mean this could be a regional usage, but not a non-existent one.

Azor Ahai adds this corroboration:

He cites Daniel Craig in Casino Royale, as an example: “He looks massive when he’s walking out of the water in the beach, but he’s just shredded,” he says, guessing the actor is “a buck 70,” or 170 pounds in gymspeak.
(Vanity Fair)

Full disclosure

I know this must date from at least the early '70s because of the following:

In my first job out of college (1974) my boss used to corrupt this usage in what he thought was a humorous way. For example, "We were going down the Dan Ryan at 3:00 a.m., must've been doing a buck two-eighty." I remember it because it used to annoy the hell out of me that he wouldn't give a "real" number in that context. I conclude from this that if the usage could be teased and played with at this point, it must have been extant for some time.

Q: Have "choir" and "deer" ever rhymed?

It’s that time of year when the dodgy rhymes of Christmas carols abound, but I find the chorus of "The Holly and the Ivy" particularly intriguing.

The rising of the sun

And the running of the deer,

The playing of the merry organ,

Sweet singing in the choir.

Wikipedia provides all the lyrics. First and third lines of each verse rhyme in sound in some cases and spelling in others. So what am I missing in the chorus? "The running of the deer" seems a fairly ad hoc choice, and could, presumably, be substituted with a better rhyme. "Choir" has many rhyming options.

Is there a special symbolic meaning behind the running deer? Is there any evidence for a rhyme in the past? Or is there another animal that rhymes with "choir" that I can happily substitute?

Q: Why is a song's radio edit called a ‘7" version’?

For some reason, I used to think that a 7" version of a song was a 7-minute long version.

Then, I started noticing that most 7" versions I came across were in fact around 3:30 long. Upon further inspection (understand "I googled the question"), I found that 7" version was another expression for the radio edit of a song.

My best guess would be that, back in the day, the vinyls used for radio edits were 7 inches in diameter (or radius?) but I can't find this information anywhere.

Surely, someone knows more about this?

EDIT (for context): I'm seeing this 7" version thing a lot in song titles.

For instance, here is Rasputin (7" version), and here is Tied Up - 7" version.

Q: What is the type of English used in the King James Bible called?

In the King James Version (KJV) of the Bible, there is a distinct type of English present (this passage from Job 1:7-12):

And the LORD said unto Satan, Whence comest thou? Then Satan answered the LORD, and said, From going to and fro in the earth, and from walking up and down in it.

8 And the LORD said unto Satan, Hast thou considered my servant Job, that there is none like him in the earth, a perfect and an upright man, one that feareth God, and escheweth evil?

9 Then Satan answered the LORD, and said, Doth Job fear God for nought?

10 Hast not thou made an hedge about him, and about his house, and about all that he hath on every side? thou hast blessed the work of his hands, and his substance is increased in the land.

11 But put forth thine hand now, and touch all that he hath, and he will curse thee to thy face.

12 And the LORD said unto Satan, Behold, all that he hath is in thy power; only upon himself put not forth thine hand. So Satan went forth from the presence of the LORD.

(source)

There are specific words used from (old? middle?) English, like unto, thou, whence, comest, fro, hast, and the ending certain words with -eth, like feareth, and escheweth.

There are modern writings that tend to imitate this style of writing, as an example, this "Ten Commandments of Writing an IMAP client":

- Thou shalt not assume that it is alright to open multiple IMAP
sessions selected on the same mailbox simultaneously, lest thou face
the righteous wrath of mail stores that doth not permit such access.
Instead, thou shalt labor mightily, even unto having to use thy brain
to thinketh the matter through, such that thy client use existing
sessions that are already open.

Which brings me to my question: I'd like to critique this writing style and refer to it, but I don't know what it's called.  What is the type of English used in the KJV called, and (if it's the same — or even if it isn't), what's the writing style used to parrot the KJV writing style called?   It can be referred to in a single word or a phrase — I'm just interested in making sure I use the right terminology in referring to it.

Q: Expressing an opinion: to me or for me?

Which one should be used? 

  

To me, it makes no difference, but I'm not really sure why.

vs

  

For me, it makes no difference, but I'm not really sure why.

Q: Is there an antonym for “capitalize” (as in letter-case)?

A word that starts with a lower-case (lowercase?) letter can be capitalized, but what is the converse action?

Google has only one page in the top results that addresses this and the closest thing to a proposed answer is decapitalize, which trips spell-checkers, so de-capitalize.

Q: Which is correct: "special thanks go to" or "special thanks goes to"?

what is grammatically correct:

- Special thanks go to Tom...

- Special thanks goes to Tom...

IMHO I'd say thanks is one of those plural nouns which implies it requires go but I'm not sure.

It's for the acknowledgements section of my thesis; it should be formal English.

Q: Where does the term "Smurfing" come from?

In multiplayer online gaming, the term "Smurf" (noun) is used to refer to an experienced player who creates a new account for the purposes of being matched against inexperienced players for easy wins.  Where does this usage of the word come from?

Q: Is there another way of saying 'user-unfriendly'?

Is there another way of saying something is 'user-unfriendly'?

Q: What is the difference between "electric" and "electrical" and their usage?

What is the difference between electric and electrical and their usage?

For example, what is the difference between "electrical machine" and "electric machine"?

Q: How "macro" in computer programming came about

The prefix macro- is normally used for large things like macroeconomics and macroscopic. How did it come to be used to describe text macros in the programming world?

Q: Life cycle, life-cycle or lifecycle?

I notice great variability in how this concept is expressed.  Does the term vary depending on the context?  Should one use one variation when discussing biology, for example, and another when talking about product phases?  Wikipedia uses different forms in way that seems random.  So, too, does the New York Times, based on basic search.  An earlier discussion of the variations in connection with technology notes that "A compound generally starts open (life cycle), migrates to hyphenated (life-cycle), and ends up closed (lifecycle)."  Are we at the closed stage for the term in a general sense?

Q: "Sign up" vs. "signup"

When we have a button on a website for creating an account, should it say "sign up" or "signup"?

I see "sign up" in most places, but which is the correct one?

Q: What is the correct pronunciation of “regex”?

The term regular expression is often shortened to regex. What is the correct pronunciation of the g in regex?

Is it like the g1  in gallium, or is it like the g2  in giraffe? I’ve heard it said both ways.

1.   IPA /g/ 

2.  IPA /dʒ/

Q: What is the opposite of the Devil's Advocate?

If I am arguing against a proposal that I may actually agree with, then I am playing Devil's Advocate. 

However, what if I do not necessarily agree with the proposal but am arguing for it, with the same goal of making sure it is fully vetted. What am I then?

Q: Detail or Details? Read on for more detail/details

I'm writing a newsletter and have been given the following text:

  

New stock has arrived & we're giving you the chance to grab it at 20% off for this weekend only! Read on for more details.

I'm unsure if the word  should be  or not.

Q: What does “Barack Obama’s real crime is presiding while black” mean?

I thought it’s unusual for me to be able to come to the end of Maureen Dowd’s’ article without any second thoughts on her particular turn of phrases when I’ve read today’s NYT article titled “Reindeer Games,” in which Dowd dealt with Michigan Congressman Kerry Bentivolio’s plan (or dream) to impeach President Obama for mishandling core issues from Benghazi to Obamacare to T.S.A. screenings.
- http://www.nytimes.com/2013/08/25/opinion/sunday/reindeer-games.html?hp

However, I had a hiccup at the very end of the article:

  

“The Democrats never impeached W. and they had real grounds: starting
  a war on false premises and sanctioning torture. “The Republican Party
  is in a constant struggle between its ego and its id,” Axelrod says,
  “and the id has mostly won out lately.”  
  
  

It isn’t the president who should leave. It’s the misguided lawmakers
  trying to drive him out. For some of the rodeo clowns clamoring for
  impeachment around the country, Barack Obama’s real crime is
  presiding while black.”

It sounds like it's saying GOP extremists think it’s a crime for a black person to be President.

Putting aside nonsense of the argument, how can I interpret “while” as a conjunction in the line, “Barack Obama’s real crime is presiding while black”? 

OALD at hand defines ‘while’ as a conjunction meaning;

- during the time that sth is happening.

- at the same time as sth else is happening.

- used to contrast two things

- (used at the beginning of a sentence) although, in spite of.

Although I think the definition 1. applies to the above text, I’m not confident.
Could you paraphrase “presiding while black” with more explicit or concrete wording?

By way of precaution, I’m simply asking grammatical and rhetorical interpretation of a word, ‘while’ used here. Please don't misunderstand. I haven’t the slightest intention to get into any of U.S related political or racial arguments. 

P.S.

I found the article titled “Walking while black in the ‘White gaze’” in Sept 1 NYT, which begins with the following sentence:

  

“Man, I almost blew you away!” 
  
  

Those were the terrifying words of a white police officer — one of
  those who policed black bodies in low income areas in North
  Philadelphia in the late 1970s — who caught sight of me carrying the
  new telescope my mother had just purchased for me.
  
  

“I thought you had a weapon,” he said.

I got a clue.

Q: What is the proper plural form of 'apparatus'?

Dictionary.com claims that the plural of 'apparatus' is 'apparatuses'. Surely that can't be right... isn't it 'apparati'?

Q: Etymology of a "pegged CPU"

There's a slightly obscure, slang meaning in tech circles of the word "pegged" as it relates to a computer's CPU. When it is fully utilised for a duration (at least several seconds), you can say that "the CPU is pegged".

Does anyone know the history or etymology of this usage of "pegged"?

Q: Are there rules to determine whether a musician's title will end with “-er” or “-ist”?

There are drummers, buglers, fifers, whistlers, and fiddlers. Folks who play all the other instruments use the -ist suffix — pianist, violinist, cellist, tympanist, guitarist, flautist, etc., etc., ad nauseam. What determines which suffix should be used?

Q: Suggested alternatives for "nice-to-have" as a noun

In the example below, I’m looking for a suitable synonym for nice-to-have. I’m specifically looking for an appropriate noun replacement; do we actually have such a thing in English?

  

Maintenance shouldn’t be a ‘nice-to-have’ but an all-important necessity.

Q: Why the phrase "thunder and lightning", and not "lightning and thunder"?

So there was just a thunderstorm, and my sister came with a question I couldn't answer:

  

Why is it "thunder and lightning", because the lightning comes before the thunder? Shouldn't it be "lightning and thunder"?

And now I wonder, where did the phrase "thunder and lightning" come from, and why isn't it "lightning and thunder"?

Q: Alternative to "manned" when referring to an extraterrestrial spacecraft?

In this question  about manned spaceships versus drones, a user (perhaps jokingly) pointed out that "manned" wouldn't technically be correct when talking about an extraterrestrial spacecraft:

  

By definition, they wouldn't be 'manned', but they might be 'aliened'.

Potential jokes aside, is there a more species-neutral adjective we can use here?

Q: What is the most common English term for a person who attempts a coup d'&#233;tat?

In Latin America, we have the Portuguese/Spanish word golpista (from the word golpe = coup d'état). In the British media, I've read coup monger and also putschist (from German word putsch = coup d'état).
But are these expressions as common in English as golpista is for Latin Americans?

Q: What do we call a person in a war who holds the army's flag?

I am translating a history context talking about the Cold War and I am stuck with a word for the person in a war who holds the army's flag. This flag is used to show the mates that the army is still fighting. Usually when the flag is down, it could mean that the army is being defeated.

Q: Is there a widely-accepted opposite of "as the crow flies"?

"As the crow flies" describes the distance between two points if one could go in a straight line without needing to follow the constraints of existing roads and paths. Is there a standard phrase for the distance if one does need to stick to existing roads, that parallels "as the crow flies" and is used to contrast with it? I've only ever heard humorous "antonyms" like "It's ten miles as the crow flies, but fifteen miles as the Toyota Camry drives along Route 119."

Q: Should I say "ATM" or "cashpoint" in the UK?

ATM is an initialism of automated teller machine, coined sometime in the 1970s. I have always considered it an Americanism while its British equivalent has always been cashpoint,  Oxford Living Dictionaries tell me it is a trademark (who knew?). Wiktionary states that it was originally a registered trademark of Lloyds Bank. 

Neither Oxford nor Wiktionary offers me any alternatives. Luckily, a quick Google search unearthed  the following BrEng terms kindly supplied by Macmillan Dictionary:

- cash dispenser

- cash machine 

- hole-in-the-wall (informal)

- machine

I know for a fact that ATM is the most common term used in the US but I do not know about the UK. Is it still cashpoint? Has ATM superseded it? 

Question

In 2017, what is the most common term in the UK for a machine that dispenses cash?

Q: Is there a word/ phrase to describe somebody who has devoted their life to practising something but is still not very good at it?

I need a word/phrase/idiom (either adjective or noun) to describe somebody who has devoted their life to practising something but is still not very good at it.

Example:

  

Look at Uncle, practised music all his life and still not very good at it: he is  __________ (adjective) or he is a _________ (noun)

Please note that the person has shown great interest and committment over a lifetime but possibly lacked the special skill or talent required to really excel at their chosen field. 

Note 2: failure, misfit, disappointment, ordinary, poor and mediocre are not a good fit for the word I am seeking, but the case of mediocre professional musicians was the sad reality that prompted my question.

Q: What is the binary equivalent to "decimal" and "decimal point"?

I've been working with numbers in fractional form (e.g. 1/2) and written out (e.g. 0.5). However, the numbers are in binary and I do not know what to call the dot between the zero and five in the written out example. Calling it a decimal point seems to imply that I am working in base 10, but that is not true. Is there a term specific to the binary number system?

Q: Why is it "Universal Time Coordinated"?

The UTC is a measure for coordinating activities in multiple regions of the earth in timing. It means "Universal Time Coordinated". What does that mean grammatically? Can you unravel this message with more signal words?

I would say "Universally Coordinated Time" which means that the same time is used by many people - the time is universally coordinated.

The other statement means almost the same if not the same, but I don't know how to understand this grammar construction / word construction. Thanks.

Q: A word to describe an excessively formal process or procedure

I'm looking for a single word that can describe that a given process is overly formal in the sense that it requires plenty of steps or involves myriad subprocesses.

For instance, some company is about to introduce a new development methodology and employees complain that this methodology is , and therefore it would be tiresome to follow because it has many phases.

The word ceremonial, in my own opinion, has a religious connotation. Another option is to merely use such adjectives as overly, exceedingly, and very in order to emphasize this fact, but nonetheless, it would be great if there exists a single word.

Q: Is there a word used to describe a weekend plus a one-day holiday?

I'd like to ask my friend out this coming weekend plus the coming Martin Luther King holiday.

I was about to say: How's your weekend shaping up? But I feel like he might also be available on the Monday holiday. Is there a better word than just weekend (basically just Saturday and Sunday) here?

In my native language, there is a word literally means "small holiday" (a weekend plus a one day holiday usually connected to the weekend); is there something like this in English?

Q: Adding "dot com" to the end of a sentence?

Overheard this one while I was getting my hair cut. The two ladies were arguing about whether or not a given shampoo was appropriate for a customer that had just left. Something about the customer's existing skin condition and a previous perm and/or coloring. The lady doing my hair was worried that the suggested shampoo might be too strong (chemically) and irritate the customer's scalp.

What caught my attention though was that she'd say things like "It'll dry their hair out dot com." There were two or three other sentences she ended in a similar manner, but that's the only one I remember.

And I haven't the faintest idea what she meant by this. I'm aware of the idea that some websites have URLs that are phrases or sentences (ending in a , for example, example.com), what I don't understand is why she spoke like that. She wasn't trying to advertise a website, they were just pain, English statements of her opinion and there was always a slight pause before she added it.

Q: Why is the apostrophe positioned differently in "ones' complement" than "two's complement"?

There is a concept in computer science which deals with how to demonstrate negative binary numbers. Two methods for achieving this goal are ones' complement and two's complement.

Since I got acquainted with these methods, this question never stops coming to my mind that why the apostrophe is placed differently in ones' vs two's? I also saw many articles using one's instead. Even Google suggests that I might be mistaken!

So I want to resolve this issue once and for all. Is it a stylistic preference? What causes this difference? And please provide more examples of similar usage.

Q: How should I spell Zelensky?

Recently, Volodymyr Zelensky (for this question, I will use the shorter version of his name), the president of Ukraine, has been in the news frequently due to the war in his country.

However, news sources seem split on how his name is spelled. It is transliterated from Ukrainian, which is not a language based in English letters, and there appears to be confusion on the correct result. The New York Times uses the version with one y, Zelensky, while other sources, such as Fox News and Business Insider prefer using two y's.

To complicate matters further, on social media, Zelensky has himself used the transliteration Zelenskiy with an extra i. Wikipedia claims that it is transliterated as Zelenskyy, but it can also be Zelensky. If I reference him in my writing, which spelling should I use, and is there a 'correct' spelling of his name?

Q: Why does "orange" rhyme with (almost) nothing in English?

Joel Spolsky asked what rhymes with orange. The official answer is, "Nothing," although a creative poet can get close by using half words, just the -nge part or resorting to place names and foreign words.

Does orange somehow violate the basic phonotactics of English? (And hence we wouldn't expect other English words to rhyme with it?)

Q: Why do people say "over-" and "underwhelmed" but never just "whelmed"?

We've all been overwhelmed with work, or seen an underwhelming movie... but it occurred to me that I've never heard anyone use the root word, whelm.

whelm (verb)

1. to submerge; engulf.

2. to overcome utterly; overwhelm: whelmed by misfortune. 

If whelm is "to overcome utterly," then why is it you never hear anyone say, "I was whelmed at work today."

And wouldn't underwhelm mean something more like expected or normal, rather than the implied less-than-expected?

Q: Using "utilize" instead of "use"?

My friend has been raising a ruckus about the abuse of the word "utilize" in place of the word "use." He complains that it just makes your sentences sound pretentious.

u·ti·lize [yoot-l-ahyz] 

- verb (used with object), -lized, -liz·ing. 
to put to use; turn to profitable account: to utilize a stream to power a mill. 

utilize. (n.d.). Dictionary.com Unabridged. Retrieved April 06, 2011, from Dictionary.com website: http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/utilize

Today we saw this post which uses "utilize":

  

each app vendor may utilize unique policies for app pricing."

He claims that this isn't a very good sentence to use "utilize" in. I don't disagree but what determines whether or not you should use "utilize" in place of "use?"

Q: "At the beginning" or "in the beginning"?

Are both expressions

- "At the beginning"

- "In the beginning" 

valid and equivalent? The first "seems wrong" to me, but it has more Google results.

Q: Is there a gender-neutral word for "aunts and uncles"/"parents' siblings"?

Brothers and sisters are siblings.  Husbands and wives are spouses.  Mothers and fathers are parents.  Sons and daughters are children.  Grandparents, grandchildren ... but what about uncles and aunts, or nieces and nephews?

In writing this, I scanned the "Similar Questions" sidebar and found that half of my question is already answered; there is no real term for nieces and nephews.  Bummer.  But I'm still wondering about aunts and uncles: does anyone know about that?

Q: Is using passive voice "bad form"?

Whenever I create a document in Microsoft Word, it complains about a lot of my sentences being in passive voice. But, when I read that sentence aloud, it sounds fine to me. I am not sure if it is just me and will a statement in passive voice sound strange to a native speaker?

So, my question is, is it considered bad form to use passive voice generally? Or in some specific cases like written communications only?

Edit: If it is ok to use passive voice, then why does MS-Word complain?

Q: Why is the unit of measure placed before the value for currencies? Are there other measures where the unit precedes value?

$1,000 is pronounced as "one thousand dollars".
Reading from left to right, it seems like it would make more sense to write the value as:
1,000$. This way the pronunciation of the value follows the way it's written. Every other numerical value I can think of places the unit after the value:

- 1 kg

- 1 L

- 1 m, etc...

I'm not sure if this question fits in with the rest of the questions on this site. But I'd like to know why currencies are so different from other quantities. Not to mention the need to separate groups of three digits with commas.

Q: "As a side note" vs. "on a side note"

What is the difference between as a side note and on a side note?

Are they interchangeable?
Which one is preferred?

Q: Where does "emphasis mine" go in a quotation?

I have often seen the term emphasis mine used whenever an author wishes to denote that emphasis in a given quotation originates from said author rather than from the original source. 

What is the proper place for this phrase? 

One possibility is immediately following the emphatic text, inside the quotation. But, see next question...

What if there are multiple emphatic sections marked within the quote?

If "emphasis mine" comes immediately after each phrase, it would end up repeated two or more times, which seems a bit messy. In this case, would it be OK to place "emphasis mine" at the end of the quotation? If so, should it be inside or outside?

How should the phrase "emphasis mine" be set off?

I believe I have seen parentheses () or brackets [], though brackets are also used to indicate words added by the one using the quotation.

Q: Is it "peek", "peak" or "pique"?

I have always thought the phrase was "pique my interest" as in:

  

Her mysterious background piqued my interest. 

However, of late, on blogs and social networks, I have seen people using "peek my interest", as in:

  

Disney is starting to peek my interest.

And I have even seen:

  

Samsung's latest display peaks my interest in the company.

Which is the correct phrase?

Q: Is a hamburger considered a sandwich?

Today, a fellow user was given a CAPTCHA that looks like this:

  

He wasn't sure how to solve the CAPTCHA, so he asked me: Are hamburgers considered sandwiches?  Well, I couldn't figure it out, so I'm asking here!  

I know that the hamburger has in the past been called a sandwich.  Wikipedia even says:

  

A hamburger (also called a beef burger, hamburger sandwich, burger or hamburg) is a sandwich consisting of one or more cooked patties of ground meat, usually beef, placed inside a sliced bun.

It explicitly says that it's a sandwich.  And I suppose someone must have called it a "hamburger sandwich" at one point, but it sounds very odd to me&mdash;like someone put a piece of beef between two hamburgers.  Anyway, I don't think that term is in common use, and it's easy to find examples like the following in print:

  

Also on offer are hamburgers, sandwiches, and salads.

And this seems to imply that hamburgers and sandwiches are different things.  So I'm not sure I can take Wikipedia's word on this one.

Since I didn't know how to respond to the question, I brought it up in EL&U chat, where different people put forth different arguments.  It was even suggested that the American English / British English difference might be relevant.  But so far I don't think we've come to a conclusion, so I decided to ask on the main site.

I'm not sure what to think.  All I have is speculation.  Maybe hamburgers were once considered sandwiches by everyone, but now the terms are diverging and speakers have started to disagree.  Or maybe it just depends on where you're from.  Or maybe hamburgers exist in an interdeterminate state of quasi-sandwichhood.

So I ask you all:

Is a hamburger a sandwich?

Q: Are there English proverbs that warn against “speaking up” in front of people?

I recall a Japanese proverb, “犬も歩けば棒に当たる,” of which literal translation is “When a dog rambles around outside, he get a hit with a neighbor’s stick,” meaning, “Don’t come on the surface, don’t try to do anything new, don't say anything, otherwise you’ll be criticized, blamed, or get hurt.” 

We have the similar expression, 物言えば唇寒し秋の風　in 和歌 – Japanese classic poem, which can be translated as “In autumn, you feel cold on your lips anytime you utter a word, “ which admonishes you not venture to speak up in public, just be reticent.

It’s understandable that we have a lot of such proverbs and maxims teaching the merit of keeping silent after going through the ages of a tight feudalistic social regime and being severely educated on Confucius doctrines which values silence, and action more than speech, but I wonder if there is the similar saying to “dog and autumn wind” analogies in Anglo-American world where the freedom of speech and the power of eloquence have been highly valued. 

I know you have the saying, “Speech is silver but silence is golden” or just "Silence is golden." Are there any other proverbs or set phrases than “Silence is golden.” to admonish you not to speak up, or being self-assertive?

P.S. The focus of my question is "the restraint / gagging of free speech"

Q: What are the origins and proper uses of “s***gibbon”?

This derogatory term recently exploded on the U.S. scene with its application to U.S. presidential candidate Donald Trump. Its arrival is so recent the Urban Dictionary has only a recent definition and one that seems to me not to connote the true depths of the intended insult:

  

General insult....moron, idiot, Donald Trump in particular.
  (Origin: Scotland)

  We voted to remain, you incomprehensible shitgibbon!

Google Books Ngram Viewer gives zero hits. Perhaps some folks from Scotland and the rest of the U.K. could fill us in? It is such an inspired term that it seems to beg for a rich and diverse history and usage.

Q: What is wrong with saying "pleased to meet you"?

I read an article1 in The Telegraph, where it mentions that the phrase "pleased to meet you" was used inappropriately.

When I was little, my mother collected me from a school friend’s party. As I clutched my goody-bag and balloon, I shook the hand of my friend’s mother and said: “Thank you. Pleased to meet you.”

I remember silently congratulating myself on having said something so grown-up and polite. But, to my confusion, my mother blushed slightly and bundled me into the car. “You don’t say 'pleased to meet you’,” she scolded.

Is it because the person was a child, or in which context is this inappropriate?

1 Jessica Fellowes, "Etiquette: Mind your 'please’ and cues", The Telegraph, 24 Jun 2010

Q: Is there an idiom for "winning a contest because you were the only participant"?

Is there an idiom for winning a contest because you are the only participant and there is no competitor?

Q: What does "Wine! Because you never got a pony" mean?

The term Wine! Because you never got a pony appeared in a meme on my social media. My first reaction was to question if there was a spelling mistake, i.e.

  

Whine! Because you never got a pony

would mean that someone should complain due to the lack of a pony.

But what does the original phrase mean? Is it simply a misspelling?

Q: What Are Some Pejorative Terms for the Words "Boat" or "Ship"?

There should be dozens of them, but I'm stumped here. Nothing other than "tub" and "frying pan" comes to mind. If someone witty wished to insult your boat, yacht, or ship, what would he or she call it?

Q: Why "god" in godparent?

I'm looking for the etymology of words like godparent, godchild, etc. In particular, why "god" is added as a prefix? So far I haven't found an explanation. Wiktionary (for godfather) states:

  

From Middle English godfader, from Old English godfæder (“godfather”), equivalent to god +‎ father. Cognate with Old Saxon godfadar (“godfather”), Middle Dutch godvader (“godfather”), Danish gudfader, gudfar (“godfather”), Swedish gudfader, gudfar (“godfather”), Icelandic guðfaðir (“godfather”). Morphologically god +‎ father. 

Not very helpful. Wikipedia does not provide clues either. It states:

  

... by the end of the 6th century, they were being noted to as "compaters" and "commaters"

which is Latin. Spanish and French terms follow a similar structure, without adding the "god" prefix (eg. "com-padre" and "co-madre" in Spanish). It seems the German word also does not contain the particle "god" in it. Any idea about the origin of such word?

Q: Difference between "try to do" and "try and do"

What is the difference between try to do and try and do?

To me (non-native speaker), asking someone try and do this seems a bit rude. It's like saying you can try all you want but this must be done: try and fail is not an option. However, asking someone try to do this means I am asking you to try: success is bonus, failure is OK.

Q: Are the endings "-zation" and "-sation" interchangeable?

What is with words that have forms that end both in -zation and -sation, such as localization and localisation?

Many spell checkers recommend -zation.

Q: Is there a subtle difference between "somebody" and "someone", "anybody" and "anyone"?

Are there any subtle differences between "somebody" and "someone", or can they be used completely interchangeably? Similarly, can you imagine a situation in which you would prefer "anybody" to "anyone" or vice versa?

Q: 'Clean' vs 'Clear'

What is their difference?

Please provide an example (or two if the use as verb or adjective differentiates their meanings).

Q: Difference between an acronym and abbreviation?

TLA is an acronym for "Three Letter Acronym". Is it also an abbreviation, since it abbreviates the original phrase?

Q: Why is the spelling of "pronounce" and "pronunciation" different?

Why is the spelling of pronounce and pronunciation different? If one originally did not know the spelling of pronunciation, one would when hearing it verbally deduce its spelling to be pronounciation, which is the incorrect spelling.

Why is the difference in spelling so? Also, are the two words pronounced differently? (I think I am using the American pronunciation for pronunciation (pro-noun-ciation), but according to howjsay.com, it's pronounced as pro-nun-ciation. Is this just for British English or universally?)

Q: Is "Many thanks" a proper usage?

I saw emails from English people with Many Thanks as a signing off phrase. Is that proper usage? Or is it a phrase created by continental English speakers due to the influence of their native language? (Vielen Dank in German and muchas gracias in Spanish translate to "many thanks".)

I have seen several other cases where one constructs imprecise sentences due to the influence of native language. This is evident especially in India.

Q: "At" or "in" the office?

When do you use at the office? And when do you use in the office? What's the difference between the phrases?

Q: What does "For what it's worth" mean?

I hear it often, and can usually derive a sentence's meaning with or without it. What does it really mean? When would one use it?

Q: Difference between "choose" and "select"

These two words are often used interchangeably and the greatest difference I can find between the two is "choose" for choosing multiple items from a set, and "select" for selecting a single item from a set. Are there other qualifiers to consider and is this singular/plural distinction on the right track?

So, really, what is the difference between the two, if any?

Q: "How about" vs. "What about"

Is there a difference between starting a question with How about and What about?

Can we use both expressions interchangeably?

Q: Should the number "0" be pronounced "zero" or "oh"?

I have often heard people say 101, as one-zero-one, and also as one-oh-one. Which is correct, and why? Does the difference between British English and American English have to do something with it?

Q: What is the proper way to write the plural of a single letter? Or a word used as a word ('mention' usage)? (another apostrophe question)

When writing (a blog post, script, etc..) what is the proper way to indicate two or more instances of a single letter? For instance, in Monty Python's Bookshop Sketch:

  

C: I wonder if you might have a copy of "Rarnaby Budge"?
  
  

P: No, as I say, we're right out of Edmund Wells!
  
  

C: No, not Edmund Wells - Charles Dikkens.
  
  

P: (pause - eagerly) Charles Dickens??
  
  

C: Yes.
  
  

P: (excitedly) You mean "Barnaby Rudge"!
  
  

C: No, "Rarnaby Budge" by Charles Dikkens.  That's Dikkens with two Ks, the
     well-known Dutch author.
  
  

P: (slight pause) No, well we don't have "Rarnaby Budge" by Charles Dikkens
     with two Ks, the well-known Dutch author, and perhaps to save time I
     should add that we don't have "Karnaby Fudge" by Darles Chickens, or
     "Farmer of Sludge" by Marles Pickens, or even "Stickwick Stapers" by Farles
     Wickens with four M's and a silent Q!!!!!  Why don't you try W. H. Smith's?
  
  

C: Ah did, They sent me here.

I had always believed that plural never uses an apostrophe before the 's' (it's only used for possession), but I have rarely seen in written material the format "four Ms". (On a side note, whoever wrote this transcript also used "two Ks".)

On a side note, and perhaps this should be a separate question, if a Compact Disc is a CD, then two Compact Discs would be two CDs right? (I see "CD's" written everywhere)

Q: Should there always be a comma after "therefore","However" etc.?

Should you always type a comma after "therefore","however" etc. in the beginning of a sentence? Also, when these (and similar) words are used in the middle of a sentence, should there be a comma or semi-colon before and after the word?

Therefore, he must be killed!

That man is revolting, however, some find him attractive.

Sorry for the lousy examples. I couldn't think of any better.

Q: Is there a term for referring to an organization by its city rather than by its name?

This happens specifically often in the technology press:

  
  
- There's no point trying to ascribe motives to what Redmond [instead of "Microsoft"] does.
  
- We'll see shortly if Cupertino [instead of "Apple"] thinks likewise ...
  

I'm certain its use is much wider though I can't think of many examples right now. Using "Detroit" as another name for the US auto industry is slightly wider:

  
  
- Who says that Detroit does not sell cars Americans want to drive?
  

Anyway, I have a suspicion there is a name for this so what is it?

Q: Is there an Extended Backus–Naur form (EBNF) that covers all of English?

Is there an EBNF (Extended Backus–Naur form) that covers all of English, and if so, what is it?

Q: Should "So", "Therefore", "Hence", and "Thus" be followed by commas?

Often, I have come across sentences that begin with "So". Should such an usage of "So" be followed by a comma?

Are the following examples correct.

- 

He is very good at computers. So, I think he can fix your computer.

- 

When we multiply an even number with another even number, the result is an even number. So, the square of an even number is an even number.

What happens if we choose to use "Therefore", "Hence", or "Thus" instead of "So"? Do the rules still remain the same?

- 

When we multiply an even number with another even number, the result is an even number. Therefore, the square of an even number is an even number.

- 

When we multiply an even number with another even number, the result is an even number. Hence, the square of an even number is an even number.

- 

When we multiply an even number with another even number, the result is an even number. Thus, the square of an even number is an even number.

Q: Please, don't - I'm not

“Please, don't mock me.”

  “Oh, no, I don't! I’m not! I'm completely serious about that.”

This is a correction I received from a proofreader of my story.

How does that work? What happens here so that "I don't mock you" should be replaced with "I'm not mocking you"?

Q: Acceptable uses for "associated with" or "associated to"

I've read that both are acceptable but "associated with" is superior.  Is there ever a time that "to" is acceptable?  Does it matter at all?  I'm writing copy for a public website and want to make sure I get this right.

Q: Which singular names ending in “s” form possessives with only a bare apostrophe?

Many questions already ask about this topic (What is the correct possessive for nouns ending in "‑s"? , When did it become correct to add an “s” to a singular possessive already ending in “‑s”?, etc.) and their answers vary, but they always give exceptions to the apostrophe-s rule, for example: 

  

6.24 The general rule for the possessive of nouns covers most proper nouns, including most names ending in sibilants."

Examples they give include Kansas’s, Ross’s land, and Jones’s reputation. Exceptions include Jesus’  and Moses’.

Which names does this apply to?  Is the Aeneas’  form correct, or is it Aeneas’s instead?

Q: "Paid" vs "payed"

I think I have always used these two words interchangeably without noticing until my professor was saying how some students misspelled the word and he was amazed. 

Can someone tell me when I should use paid over payed? 

I searched for a similar question and got even more confused with this title: you paid for a persons drink and expect to be payed back.

Q: How to reply to "I hope you are well"?

How to appropriately respond to someone saying "I hope you are well./?"

There are certain situations in writing where this would obviously not be soliciting a response (requiring a full stop) but other situations where this would be a declarative question (with the associated raised tone, indicated by the question mark); the latter is clearly what I am asking about.

Replies I've thought of:

- I am very well, thanks. How are you?

- I am very well, thanks, and hope you are as well.

- I am very well, thanks. I hope it is the same with you too.

- (Ignore it completely, perhaps in spite of the tone of voice.)

I guess it depends on the relationship with the person, but I would like to answer in all politeness in everyday emails with colleagues/customers.

Q: Is there a similar English phrase for this Tamil proverb - "Lavish outside home yet starving inside of it"?

In Tamil, a south Indian language, there is a saying which roughly translates into English as:

Lavish outside home, starving inside of it.

Background :

This proverb has a mocking tone and indicates people who project themselves to be very rich and appear to spend lavishly on property and things, making their neighbors and the community around them envious of their stature. But in reality, whatever they are spending (or appear to spend) is because they have borrowed huge sums of money from other people and financial institutions. So much in fact that they are unable to feed their own family, probably skip a meal every day but when they step outside their home they try to appear posh and well-to-do.

Some close friends and relatives who know what's really going on with these people use this form of expression.

Generally, I tend to find equivalent English proverbs that have the same tonality and convey the meaning as is but this particular one has been eluding me for long. Any suggestions, even if they don't convey the entire meaning?

Q: What is a less controversial name for the clothing item known as a "wife-beater" in the United States?

In the United States, a white sleeveless shirt is often referred to as a "wife-beater".

Typically I try to avoid using "wife-beater" due to its negative connotation. I've tried using a few different terms in the past, but each felt a bit too broad or generalized.

- Tank Top: Can refer to formal outfits, causal clothing, or bathing suits. Comes in a variety different designs, materials, and colors.

- Singlets: This term is most commonly used in Australia. In the U.S., I've typically heard it used when referring to one-piece spandex wrestling outfits.

- Sleeveless Shirt: Describes literally any shirt without sleeves.

- Undershirt: Available as sleeved or sleeveless shirts for both men and women. Typically the most common alternative I've heard.

Is there a more appropriate term I can use in place of wifebeater here in the United States?

Note: This question is asking what alternative terminology can be used when referring to a "wife-beater". This question is not asking why the term is used or where it originated from. For that, see: What's the origin of "wife-beater" when used as a sleeveless shirt and why is it not frowned upon?

For those interested in how region affects the local terminology, I've included a Google Trends comparison for "undershirt, wife beater, singlets, and sleeveless shirt" below.

Q: Why do the titles of scholarly works sometimes begin with the word "on"?

For example, one of the articles in volume 183 issue 1 (January 2016) of Annals of Mathematics is titled "On the fibration method for zero-cycles and rational points". Why not just call it "The fibration method for zero-cycles and rational points"? Is there any difference in meaning? Conversely, there's an article in the same issue titled "Defining ℤ in ℚ", which could be titled "On defining ℤ in ℚ" with no apparent change in meaning.

My perception is that the leading "on" used to be more common (e.g., the very long complete title of Darwin's Origin of Species actually begins "On the Origin of Species"; but even here, the 1859 title page prints the "on" in relatively small letters, suggesting a certain disposability).

Q: Is there a name for a window without glass?

I am speaking of a barn or log cabin which has a window opening but no glass. Neither "window" nor "opening" seem quite right.

  

A fire blocked the cabin's only door. Fortunately, I squeezed through the _______ and escaped to safety.

Q: What's up with the pronunciation of "awry"?

I was just watching a show where someone said "awry". I have noted this numerous times before and wondered, but now I just have to understand: Why is it pronounced as "aww-rye" [low tone on the aww] instead of "aww-ree" [high tone on the aww]?

Q: What is the mistake in "There are many Danes who speak English"?

My students — Danish high school, year 13 — have to identify and explain mistakes in sentences. I have corrected so many, I cannot find the problem in this one:

  

There are many Danes who speak English. 

Am I losing my mind?

Q: ETcetera pronounced as EXetera ? Correct?

I keep hearing everyone at my work (Native speakers) saying e-X-etera. They said my pronunciation of the word as e-T-cetera was incorrect. I got into a big argument, they thought I was mad.

Is there some unknown rule as to why "etcetera" should be pronounces as "exetera"?

Q: Around 1960 in Britain "Have you a camera?" or "Do you have a camera?"

Around 1960, when we began learning English in Japan, we were taught British English. To our great surprise, we were forced to change into American English in the next grade. Japanese English teachers were also upset, especially in pronunciation. We could not help laughing when they could not pronounce 'can't' or 'tomato' or 'body' with the American accent.

The most striking grammatical change to me was the interrogative sentence, from 'Have you a camera?' to 'Do you have a camera?' This drastic change in English teaching was, of course, carried out under the considerable political and cultural influences of USA. From that time, in Japan, English textbooks written in American English have been predominant.

After some decades of learning English especially through books written in British English, I came to doubt whether the British way of questioning was heard in the daily conversation of the British people around 1960. Can I have your information or experience to clear up this doubt I have long held?

Q: What's the difference between a gerund and a participle?

What is the difference between a gerund and a participle?

Q: Regarding Re: ; what is the correct usage in an email subject line?

I want to know what is the recommended way to use Re: in the subject line of an email.

I use Re: in the subject line as a shortform of 'in regards to'.

Whenever I have used Re:, people have told me that Re: is only to be used  when replying to an incoming email and shouldn't be used when starting a new email thread.

I remember being taught that Re is an preposition, which means “in the matter of, with reference to.”

I have also observed that I get immediate responses if I use Re: in the subject line.

So, should I continue to use Re: in the subject line or is that  incorrect usage?

Q: Using "that" and "this" interchangeably

Learning and using English I'm always confused about what word to use for referring to things that have been described by me a few sentences earlier: "that" or "this". 

Confusion comes from the fact that only the equivalent of "this" is always used in my native language for such referring. But I've noticed that in English for such referring "that" is used as often as "this" (or maybe even more often).

Some examples for illustrating (just tried to google something appropriate to convey my idea better):

  

We assess local... the demographics of the local population. What are the natural traffic drivers in the area. Things like cinemas and pubs and retail and office and all that type of things and we now put together a bit of a matrix and actually give a weighted score to each of the things we know help our business. That helps us decide in a more scientific fashion.

or:

  

The problem of Cervantes' origin became after that into a tough matter. Some experts believed that the Cervantes from Alcázar, in the times of the Lepanto Battle, was in the age of a child, more concerned about gathering nests and that type of things than about fighting as a soldier.

and for "this":

  

I believe lot of people who involved fishery industries in Mexico Gulf are suffering now but as for economic issues, U.S government and other countries will support them and give an utmost response to it. Important thing is that we learn from this mistake and make sure this type of things will never happen in the future and protect nature environment thus we have to take this technology to get energy from water very seriously. I really hope this technology will be available and used for everybody as soon as possible.

Is there a rule describing proper usage of these words in cases like this? (or should I have written "..in cases like that"?)

Q: When should "farther" and "further" be used?

I know I learned the difference between the usage of farther and further in school, but I can never remember where each one should be used.  Can someone help me out here?

Q: What does "it" refer to in "it's raining"?

I wanted to leave the question title as is so as not to take away from my amusement .

Anyway,

  

It's raining.

What is raining? Is it the sky? The clouds? The weather? The rain? What is "it"? Any historical insights on the statement?

Q: What is meant by "steep learning curve"?

What should I understand from "steep learning curve"? When a computer program (for example a translation program) has a steep learning curve, does it mean that it is not good at learning or it's hard for it to learn?

Q: What's the difference between "e.g." and "ex."?

is short for exempli gratia, and is in common use to introduce an example within a sentence.

  

Submit a sample of academic writing, e.g., a dissertation chapter.

However, some authors use  or  (short for "example") for the same purpose, and this form is listed in some authorities like the Wiktionary. 

  

Submit a sample of academic writing, ex: a dissertation chapter.

I know they both roughly mean "example", but which one should I use, and when? Are there connotations associated with one or the other?

This question has been asked elsewhere, and this very answer comes up when you ask Google about the difference. It would be good to get an EL&U answer for it.

Q: Difference between "OK" and "okay"

While typing a post on SO, I noticed that the word "ok" (when used in the sentence "I'm still learning so it is ok") was marked as misspelled (got to love spellcheck!) The first suggestion, however, confused me. The suggestion was "OK" (as opposed to "ok"). Then I thought, what about "okay"?

So, why is "OK" correctly spelled (vs "ok") and what is their relationship to the word "okay"?  They all have the same meaning; could "OK" be a form of slang or abbreviation?

A: In English, this is commonly called a 'long weekend'. Depending on the length, 'three-day weekend' or 'four-day weekend' works as well.

A: how about 'Standard-bearer'?

  

A standard-bearer is a person (soldier or civilian) who bears an emblem called an ensign or standard, i.e. either a type of flag or an inflexible but mobile image, which is used (and often honoured) as a formal, visual symbol of a state, prince, military unit, etc. (Wikipedia)

Here's some reference to suggest the importance of a Standard bearer in battle.

  

The Standard Bearer should never surrender his Banner, if he, during a battle, could no longer safeguard the Banner; he should wrap his body into the Banner awaiting the final slash. (Safeguarding the flag)

A: PLEASE NOTE: English is not a tonal language like Cantonese, so I’m going to assume you are simply talking about stress, a phonemic property of English words which speakers of tonal languages may hear in terms of tones.

Exactly why awry sounds like the beginning of “a rye sandwich” with the stress on the second syllable is a longer story than just that observation alone can explain on its own. English awry has its origin in two separate words that have since fused together: from a + wry, with a meaning the preposition “on” combined with the adjective wry meaning “twisted”.  OED, Wiktionary

The first OED citation is from 1380, back in Middle English when it was still used as a prepositional phrase:

  

John Barbour The Bruce (St. John's Cambr.) iv. 705
   As thair bemys strekit air Owthir all evin, or on wry.

By 1490, we began to see the current one-word version appear, first in Caxton.

So here the w is not part of the vowel before it. It is not an /aw/ diphthong; rather, it’s part of the consonant after. You should train your eye to spot wr- as a two-letter consonant cluster in English that represents phonemic /r/, sometimes written [ ɹʷ ] or [ ɻ ] phonetically. If you had realized it was a consonant cluster, you would not have thought it was aw + ry but rather as the a + wry that it is. Plus if it were aw + ry it would be pronounced with a different vowel because aw ends up being the /ɔ/ of awkward and awesome. 

English has a huge number of words starting with wr-
that are all of them about something that’s been “twisted” in some way: wraggle, wrangle, wrangler,
wrap, wrapper, wrath, wraw, wreath, wreathe, wrench, wrest, wrestle, wrick,
wrig, wriggle, wring, wrinkle, wrist, writhe, writhen, wrong, wroth, wrung,
wry, wrythening. This is one of those words.

(Curious conjecture: When he worked on and for the Oxford English
Dictionary, JRR Tolkien posited that wraith was also one of those sorts
of words, probably coming from a Scottish past-tense inflection of a word 
like our writhe and wreathe. See The Ring of Words: Tolkien and the Oxford English Dictionary, pp 223–224.)

English has a whole bunch of modifier words (adjectives and adverbs) beginning with the letter "a" which started out as prepositional phrases: aback, abed, ablaze, abroad, abuzz, across, afield, afloat, afoot, afresh, again, aglitter, ahead, akimbo, alive, aloft, anew, ashore, asleep, awry and really many, many more.

All of these started out life with an unstressed “function word” such as of, in, and, or as in our current case, the preposition on (formerly spelled an) which got worn down into just a simple a.OED The OED says that this represents a

  

Variant of on prep. with loss of the final consonant -n, reflecting an unstressed pronunciation of the word in proclitic use

Because prepositions are “function words” not “lexical words”, they are “never” stressed, so the stress cannot be on the start of the new, fused word. It still acts like a prepositional phrase in that regard, with the stress still falling on the former prepositional-object portion. For example, on FOOT > aFOOT.

These curious words retain one other property of their former lives as prepositional phrases: they cannot be used attributively before the lexical word they’re modifying, only predicatively after it (or occasionally as a rare postpositive attribute). 

The versions marked with a ✻ are therefore ungrammatical:

- I saw that the boy was asleep.

- I saw the ✻asleep boy.

- I saw the boy asleep in bed.

- He landed so hard, his legs were all akimbo.

- He landed hard with ✻akimbo legs.

- He landed hard with legs akimbo.

- The crew went ashore for a few hours.

- The crew ✻ashore went for a few hours.

- The plan had gone awry.

- The plan ✻awry had gone.

A: Consider crewed, which means:

Provide (a craft or vehicle) with a group of people to operate it:

'normally the boat is crewed by 5 people'.

It works perfectly in a sci-fi context. For example,

The ship was crewed primarily by Vulcans and cyborgs.

A: UTC does not stand for Universal Time Coordinated.

It stands for Coordinated Universal Time, at least in English.