=== UnitedStatesPatent146 ===

ROAD-STOP FOR PREVENTING CATTLE

United States Patent 146

Issue date: March 11, 1837

Inventor: THOMAS J. WEST

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Thomas J. West, of Whitehall, in Caroline county, and State of Virginia, have invented a new and Improved mode of constructing and building that part and portion of railroads which passes over other roads and between contiguous lands and plantations; and I do hereby declare the following is a full and exact description.

The object, purpose, and value of my invention consists in this. Whereas all railroads which cross other roads, and cross contiguous lands and plantations, causes great expense to the farmers and owners of said lands, and plantations by requiring the excavation, and keeping up of constant lateral fences so as to protect the said lands from invasion and trespass of stock cattle, horses, persons, carriages &c; and whereas the proprietors of railroads are driven to great expense in paying the owners of lands, and plantations for the execution and keeping up of said lateral fences; and whereas injury is done to said railroads, by the trespass on them, of stock cattle, horses, persons, carriages &c, all of which are often necessarily destroyed, hurt, or injured. Now my invention is intended, and will necessarily prevent all these difficulties, hazards, and expenses, if used in the manner and constructed according to the principles, which I herewith set forth, and to enable others to make and use my invention, I will now proceed to describe its character, manner, and operation.

First. By constructing and building transverse open bridges or rail stops, with abutments not less than two feet perpendicular height, and as much higher as the builder may choose, the higher, the better, so that its top does not exceed the level of the rail road track, the fencing and inclosure that would otherwise run across the road to join their abutments, beginning at the top and closing at the bottom of said abutments. These abutments should be built of wood, stone, iron, and all other materials which can raise a permanent wall.

Secondly. The said transverse or open bridges, or road-stops are to be built of a width, not less than three feet from abutment to abutment, that being considered as the lowest point at which stock, cattle &c, could leap over and up--the longer the distance from abutment to abutment the better and safer, the precaution in thus preventing the leaping aforesaid transverse open bridge or road stop. The length therefore can be left to the opinion of the builder.

Thirdly. The rails are to be continued in a straight line, with the general line of the rail road across these open bridges or road-stops, which rails may be supported by the abutments, by perpendicular center supports, or by braces, the mode by which timber can be fastened and secured, will here apply. Should the rails, which cross these open bridges or road-stops be deemed of insufficient strength, others of larger dimensions, and greater strength can be used, the sides of said rails are to be sloped down in such a manner as to prevent the least possible surface, so as to prevent the hoofs of stock from hanging thereon, and affording them a foothold on the same.

Fourthly. When there are embankments on railroads the same principle will apply with equal force, and the same open bridges or road stops, by sinking them to a proper depth from the top of said embankments (on the line of the rail road track) will be of the same use and value, as set forth in the cases described. Should water settle in the bottom of the said railroad stops, or open bridges, and the land be not sufficiently porous to carry off the same, and if this effect be not produced by evaporation, then ditching, pumping, baling and other means can be used.

Fifthly. The form and shape of said open bridges, or road stops may be made in any mode which the convenience or fancy of the constructor may suggest, the petitioner claiming the principle herein set forth and its adaptation to his invention as the grounds of his prayer for a patent.

Sixthly. To prevent the difficulties, expenses, and hazards, as set forth in the specification, the builder or constructor (if he so chooses) may adopt a less perpendicular height of abutments, provided the same be guarded at or near the top, with four or more spikes of iron, metal, or wood not less than six inches long, setting in the direction of the opposite abutments. The said rods, or spikes are to be secured in a fine and durable manner (with rests if necessary) the points of the same are to be elevated, depressed or made level (as the builders may choose) provided the same do not interfere with the engine, cars &c. By this means (if the farmer or constructor choose to adopt it) cattle, horses, persons, carriages, stock &c will be fully prevented from attempting to leap over, down, or up said road stops.

Seventhly. Whereas it has been specified and set forth, that in these road stops, slats, spikes &c may be used to prevent the passage on railroads, of carriages, persons, cattle, horses, hogs, &c. Now if the constructor choose, said road stops may be crossed or intersected by lattice or open work, which may run parallel or transversely. The said lattice or open work may be raised so as not to interfere with the cars, or any part thereof, and its depth, span, arch &c, may be of any character the constructor may wish, the object of this explanation being more and more to secure the principle, which your petitioner claims and sets forth for a patent.

=== UnitedStatesPatent149 ===

MACHINE FOR CUTTING AND HEADING WIRE FOR THE MANUFACTURE OF WOOD-SCREWS

United States Patent 149

Issue date: March 25, 1837

Inventor: W. HARVEY

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Thomas W. Harvey, of Poughkeepsie, in the county of Butchess and State of New York, have invented a new and useful improvement in machines for cutting and heading wire for the manufacture of screws commonly called "wood-screws," and which may also be applied to the heading of rivets, &c.; and I do hereby declare that the following is a full and exact description of the construction and operation of the said machine as invented by me, reference being had to drawings annexed.

The letters of reference employed in the following description identify the same corresponding parts of "the machine in the different figures in the drawing there be one perspective view of the whole machine and thirty-one sectional figures illustrating it. The size of all the parts are given by the scale of inches. The machine here described is of the largest size which I have used. I employ two of less size, but they are in all respects similar in construction.

Explanation of the drawing.

Figure 1, shows a perspective view of the machine. Fig. 2, shows a top view of most of its parts. Fig. 3, shows a side view giving the location of certain parts. Fig. 4, shows a side view of toggle joint, piston, lifting arm, counter cam arm, heading punch, &c. Fig. 5, shows a top view of the moving part of feeding table giving the situation of tightening cams and straightening rollers, check screws, &c. Fig. 6, shows a cross sectional view of piston, heading punch, yoke screw, guides for piston and their adjusting screws. Fig. 7, shows a side view of the moving part of feeding table with the feeding tongs attached and showing the connection with the rock shaft that moves them. Fig. 8, shows a top view of the hold fast tongs. Fig. 9, shows a top view of the feeding tongs. Fig. 10, is an end view, showing the arrangement of the cutting lever and grip lever with their bearings, connection with the cams, and with the cutter and die clamps. Fig. 11, shows a reversed end view, showing the situation of the feeding cams, the fastenings of the top part of frame piece with the stand, &c. Fig. 12, shows a side and edge view of the die clamps showing the spring which opens them and the connection between the grip lever. Fig. 13, shows the arms of the rock shaft for feeding. Fig. 14, shows a side view of the cam operating on the tightening cam of feeding tongs. Fig. 15, shows a side view of the cam which gives the transverse movement to the feeding table. Fig. 16, shows a side view of the cam operating on the tightening cam of hold fast tongs. Fig. 17, shows a side view of the counter cam to main cam and its position to said cam. Fig. 18, shows a side view of the cam which lifts the piston. Fig. 19, shows a side view of cutting cam. Fig. 20, shows a side and edge view of lever for tightening the feeding tongs. Fig. 21, shows a side and edge view of lever giving the transverse movement to feed table. ' Fig. 22, shows a side and edge view of lever for tightening the hold fast tongs. Fig. 23, shows a top view of lifting arm to raise the piston. Fig. 24, shows an end view of lifting arm showing the connecting bars "and rollers on top of piston. Fig. 25, shows a shackle bar connecting the lifting arm with the frame piece. Fig. 26, shows a shackle bar connecting the lifting arm with the top roller on piston. Fig. 27, shows a cross section of the piston. Fig. 28, shows an end view of the arm of counter cam of toggle joint. Fig. 29, shows the box and guides for the part of the piston where it connects with the toggle joint. Fig. 30, shows the piece of casting forming the seat for the tightening lever, &c. Fig. 31, shows an end view of the tightening cam of hold fast tongs, showing its bearings and fixtures and arm for moving it.

Fig. 1, A, A, A, A; Fig. 2, A, A; Fig. 3, A, A; Fig. 4, A; Fig. 6, A, A; Fig. 10, A, A; Fig. 11, A: Part of the frame work or superstructure of the machine fastened at the corners to stands B, B, by screw bolts at a, Fig. 1, a, a, Figs. 10 and 11, a, a, a, a, Fig. 2, and a, a, Fig. 3.

Fig. 1, B, B; Fig. 2, B, B, B; Fig. 3, B, B, B; Fig. 10, B, B; Fig. 11, B, B; Main stands or end pieces for the frame.

Fig. 1, C, C, C, C; Fig. 3, C: Side rails bolted to stands B, B, shown at k, k, Fig. 10, and k, k, Fig. 11, which rails constitute the base for the plumbing boxes, H H, and D, D, Fig. 1.

The above parts constitute the superstructure of the machine.

Fig. 1, D, D; Fig. 3, D, D; Fig. 11, D: Plumber boxes for side shaft E bolted to side rail C C, by the screw bolts, at n, n, Figs. 1, 3, and 10.

Fig. 1, E; Fig. 2, E; Fig. 3, E; Fig. 10, E; Fig. 11, E: Side shaft resting on plumber boxes D D and connected with main shaft G, by bevel gears F, F, Figs. 1 and 2.

Fig. 1, F, F; Fig. 2, F, F: Bevel gears equal size.

Fig. 1, G, G; Fig. 2, G; Fig. 3, G; Fig. 4, G: Main shaft resting on plumbing boxes H H, Fig. 1, and H, Fig. 3.

Fig. 1, H, H; Fig. 3, H: Plumber boxes for main shaft resting on side rails C, C, C, C, Fig. 1, and fastened by screw bolts at o, Fig. 1, and o, Fig. 3.

Fig. 1, I; Fig. 4, I; Fig. 17, I: Main cam on shaft G working against the stop J. Said cam is cast solid on the shaft having a rub steel at 5, Figs. 1 and 4.

Fig. 1, J; Fig. 4, J: The stop or lower part of toggle joint which we some times cast separate and fasten as at c, Fig. 1, but more commonly solid as shown in Fig. 4.

Fig. 1, K, K; Fig. 2, K, K, Fig. 4, K, K: Toggle joint connected to piston L by joint pins as at d, Fig. 1, d, d, Fig. 2, and d, Fig. 4, and to the frame by joint pin e, Fig. 1, e e, Fig. 2, and e, Fig. 4. These joints are all made with rub steel, the pins also are steel hardened. The toggle joint works with open faces at f, Figs. 1, 2, and 4, guided by tooth p, Fig. 4, and kept together by spring q, Figs. 1 and 4, pressing against the projecting piece g, Fig. 4, and bolted to cross bar r, Figs. 1 and 4.

Fig. 1, L; Fig. 2, L; Fig. 4, L; Fig. 6, L; Fig. 27, L: Piston working in slides at h, Fig. 1, h, A, Fig. 2, and H, Fig. 29, at one end and between guides i i, Figs. 1, 2, and 6, and i, Fig. 3, which guides are regulated by temper screws as shown in Fig. 6. The piston contains the heading punch j, Figs. 1, 2, 4, 6, and 2, and is fastened by yoke screws k k, Figs. 1 and 2, and k, Figs. 6 and 27, and regulated by screw key at I, Figs. 1, 2, and 4.

Fig. 1, M, M; Fig. 3, M; Fig. 12, M: Die clamps forming a joint on pin s, Figs. 1, 3, 10, and 12, which pin rests on stand B, Fig. 10, and stands t Figs. 1, and 3. Said stand t rests on side rail C, C, C, C, Fig. 1. Said clamps contain the dies u Fig. 12, and are held open by spring v, Fig. 12.

Said dies are made four square and are drilled on all sides so as to form 4 sets of dies and are held to their place by screw pins w w w w, Fig. 1, and w w, Fig. 12, and correspond to the length of screw to be made. The figure at the left and opposite to Fig. 12 shows an inside edge view of one half of the clamps with the die placed in and shows the cavities for spring i1, Fig. 12, also the cavities made to admit the heading punch to rise and fall in making short screw blanks.

Fig. 1, N; Fig. 10, N, K: Cutter, resting on pin s, Figs. 1, 3, 10, and 12, and connected by shackle bar k, Fig. 10, to the cutting lever y, Figs. 1, and 10. Said cutting lever is regulated and secured in box by key b, Fig. 10, b, Fig. 1.

Fig. 1, O; Fig. 14, O; Fig. 2, O: Main tightening cam for feed tongs being an eccentric groove cam works the lever s, Figs. 1, and 20. The shackle bar k k, Figs. 1, and 5, has a swivel joint at a a, shown at Fig. 20. Said lever is attached to side stand c c, Figs. 1, 3, and 30. The shackle bk k b connects with the arm d d, Fig. 5, which moves the 2d tightening cam e e, Fig. 5.

Fig. 1, P.; Fig. 2, P; Fig. 14, P: Eccentric groove cam giving the transverse movement to the part of feeding table g g, g g, g g, and g g, Fig. 1. Said part slides in guides h h, h h, h A, and A, A, Fig. 1, and moves precisely with the motion of the cutter N, Fig. 1, and N, N, Fig. 10, and gives a cross motion to the wire agreeing with said cutter. Said cam works lever i i, Figs. 1, and 21.

Fig. 1, Q, Q; Fig. 2, Q: Main tightening cam for hold fast being an eccentric groove cam and works lever g1 g1, Figs. 1, and 22, which lever is attached by shackle bar k, k, Fig. 1, to arm I I, Fig. 31, which arm is attached to and drives the 2d tightening cam e, e, Figs. 1, 31, 2, and 5.

Fig. 1, R; Fig. 10, R: Cutting cam being an open cam on the face except at n, n. Figs. 1, and 10, which is a shield or defender to bring back the lever working against a steel pin projecting on the back side of said lever at the bottom s s, Fig. 10, shows the cutting steel.

Fig. 1, S; Fig. 10, S: Open eccentric cam, working against the grip lever o, o, Figs. 1, 10, and 12, which lever swings on journal q q, Figs. 10, and 12, in a box regulated by key r r, r r, Fig. 10, and carries up the piece p p, Figs. 10, and 12, against the die clamp M, Fig. 10, which piece is hardened steel with its bearings.

Fig. 1, T; Fig. 17, T: Counter cam to main cam I, Fig. 1, an open eccentric working against the arm t t, Figs. 1, 4, and 28, and serves to bring down the toggle joint in rapid speed.

Fig. 1, U; Fig. 18, U: Lifting cam to raise the heading end of piston L; it is an eccentric groove cam, working the arm u, u, Figs. 1, and 4, which arm is swung on pivot at x, x, Fig. 1, attached to the frame piece A, and connected with cam by steel pin y y, Figs. 1 and 4, and held up to cam by the guide s s, Fig. 1, which is fastened to side rail C. Said arm is connected by regulating screws to swivel joint arm a, a, Fig. 1, by the shackle bar v, v, Figs. 1 and 4, which shackle bar is attached to lifting arm w w, Figs. 1, 4, and 24, which lifting arm is attached to frame at b1 b1 b1, Fig. 1, and to shackle bar c c c, Figs. 24 and 26, which shackle bar is attached to roller e e e, Fig. 24, shackle bar d d d, Figs. 24 and 25. The other end is fastened by screw pin pivot to inside of frame on which the bar turns when the piston rises and falls.

Fig. 1, V; Fig. 2, V; Fig. 19, V: Feeding cam, an eccentric groove cam. The shackle bar f f f, Fig. 3, is worked by this cam, by pin g2 g2 g2, Fig. 3, and swings on pivot at h1 h1 h1, Fig. 3, the shackle bar connected with arm of rock shaft at j j j, Figs. 13, 1, 2 and 3. This shackle bar slides up and down on arm f f f, and j j j to regulate the length of feed. The rock shaft k k k, Figs. 1, 3, and 13, has arms I I I, Figs. 1, 7, 13, and 2, connected by shackle bars m m m, Fig. 7, to the slide Y, Fig. 1.

Fig. 1, W; Fig. 2, W: Frame piece for feeding table and is attached to stand B at n n n, Fig. 10, and forms a base for the cross slide X, Fig. 1, by the guides h A, A A, h h, h h, Fig. 1.

Fig. 1, X; Fig. 5, X: Cross slide of feeding table to which is affixed the hold fast tongs and Figs. 1, and 8, and the 2d tightening cam m, m, by the piece at Fig. 31; also the straightening rollers o2 o2 o2, Figs. 7 and 5, and the check screws p, p, p, Figs. 5 and 7, which overcome the momentum of metal under quick speed.

Fig. 1, Y: Feeding slide working in guides j j, j j, j j, j j, Figs. 1, and 5, and to which the feeding tongs Z, Figs. 1 and 9, are affixed, also the tightening cam is attached. Fig. 1, Z; Fig. 9, Z: Feeding tongs thrown open by springs q q q, Fig. 5, and fastened by the cam e e, Fig. 5, to the wire and having temper screws and rollers working against the cam as at r r r, Fig. 31. Fig. 1 b: Hold fast tongs thrown open by springs and closed in the same way as above, s s s, Fig. 2, guide to hold the clamp up to cutter t t t, Fig. 3, a hollow pillar to sustain the frame and side rails by the bolt x u u. Fig. 1; v v v, Figs. 2 and 3, a piece to sustain the frame and keep it from spreading, w w w, Figs. 10, and 11, shows the manner of attaching the stands of the side shaft E, dies. The machine put in motion, the cam S works die clamp and grips the wire when the cam E, works the cutter N and cuts the wire against the back die and closes up the die by the steel of the cutter passing by the hole of the die about an inch at the same instant and agreeing with the motion of cutting, the cam P gives the transverse or cross movement to the feed table X which prevents crooking the wire between the hold-fast tongs and cutter; next the heading punch and piston moves up by the action of main cam I, and strikes on the head; when the heading punch has retired a fourth of an inch the cam U raises the piston at the heading punch end of piston at the same time the cutter returns back and brings the wire opposite to the hole of the die and at the same time the spring V throws open the die clamp and relieves the screw blank in the die (the cam S having moved round in a manner to cease gripping the die) in the meantime and during the heading operation the cam Q having closed the hold fast tongs on the wire, and cam O having opened the feed tongs, the cam V thrown back, the feed tongs and brought the sliding, piece Y against the temper screws p p p, the feed tongs again closed upon the wire, and the hold fast tongs open. When by the cam V acting on the rock shaft, brings forward the slide piece Y to the counter screw p p p with the feed tongs and of course brings forward the wire again into the die at the same time shoving and discharging the finished blank next before headed out of the die, when the piston falls ready to move up, and the hold fast tongs again grips the rim and the operation is continued as above described making a screw blank every revolution of the main shaft G. The shackle bar at J J J, is dropped down on the arm of the rock shaft and also at the other end on the arm f f f to lessen the length of the feed, and raised up to increase it; always turning the temper screws p p p, to correspond therewith, and to agree with the length of screw desired to be made; the length of the die is always the length of the screw when countersunk heads are made; when button heads or piano screws are made the die is the length of the body of the screw exclusive of the head; a cavity of the form of the head is sunk in the end of the heading punch. The screw key I in piston L always adjusts the heading punch--the same punch answering for a number of lengths of screws by substituting keys of different thickness immediately before the screw key; these keys are made of steel as is also the heading punch. It will be perceived either the feed tongs or hold fast tongs have constantly hold of the wire and consequently a uniformity in feeding is secured.

What I claim as new in this machine and desire to secure in Letters Patent is:

1. The construction of the die clamp and the manner of gripping the dies and of affecting the rise and fall of the piston.

2. The particular arrangement and construction of the moving parts of the feed table.

3. That part of the main toggle joint which differs from one described in a patent, granted to me for a machine for heading rivets and screws on the 29th of June 1833; in that machine, as therein described there was a joint to the step part at c, with an arm and spring back of the step. In this case the joint, back arm and spring are dispensed with, the back part of the toggle joint and the vertical piece and step J are one entire piece, this latter mode of constructing which I claim as new.

4. The particular construction and arrangement of the cutter.

5. And I also claim the general combination of the parts of the machine taken as a whole: for although many of the parts taken individually are not new yet the machine as herein described is sufficiently characterized by the arrangement of its respective parts, whether old or new, to distinguish it from others previously constructed for the same purpose.

=== UnitedStatesPatent15 ===

COTTON-PLANTER

United States Patent 15

Filing date: August 31, 1836

Inventor: HENRY BLAIR

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Henry Blair, of Glen Boss, in the county of Montgomery and State of Maryland, have invented a new and useful Machine, called the "Cotton-Planter," and that the following is a full and exact description thereof, viz:

Two side pieces five feet six inches long, six inches deep, and two and a half wide.

A beam four feet long, rising in front six inches to the end of which is attached a clevis, and screw wrench mortised into the front ends of the side pieces, three inches from the ends are two cross pieces, the front of which is two feet six inches long, three inches broad, and one and three fourths inches thick. The second six inches deep by two and a half width is tenoned into the side pieces, two feet six inches from the front of the front cross piece, into the center of which is tenoned the beam, one foot three inches back is a similar cross piece, and twelve inches back another, into the centers of which is tenoned a short beam through the center of which beam is let a movable bar ten inches long, with a bolt, and tap, attached to the lower end of which is a concave press cover ten inches long, twelve wide in front, and nine back. Three feet seven inches from the front ends of the side pieces is a dropping glencler, two feet eight inches long, and six inches in diameter reduced to a square axle at each end, which is received into the hub of a wheel, three feet high, and dished three inches. The cylinder has holes on its periphery, which may be of any number, and of such size as to contain one or more seed, and grooved one inch from each end, and half inch deep to receive the head blocks, which are twelve inches long, eight deep, and two and a half wide, and the side pieces are cut in to receive the cylinder behind the head blocks, and to the side pieces and framed in the usual way, the handles with the upper ends two feet above the frame.

On the head blocks are two braces two inches deep by one and a half wide, transfixed to the head blocks, and side pieces by four bolts, and taps, between which, and touching upon one third the diameter, and two thirds of the length of the cylinder, between the head blocks is a hopper, which is made to hold, one, two or more gallons of seed, and made fast by two screw bolts passing through the sides of the hopper, and braces. Touching upon the upper unoccupied third of the cylinder is a draw door, which by means of a handle passing through the brace, is made to cover the holes on the cylinder within the hopper, so as to prevent the seed from dropping while turning or moving the machine, attached to the outside, or inside of the front ends of the side pieces one at nine, and the other at fifteen inches from the ends by two bolts, and taps each are two plow bars,--eighteen inches long to the lower ends of each of which are attached by means of two screw-bolts, two half shovels; twelve inches long and ten wide at the wing; right and left, or two six inch bar-share plows; with six inch land side, right, and left to which are attached by bolts, and taps in the usual way, a bar and share, and stayed by two rods, bolts, and taps, extending from the front cross piece to the bar--passing through the front beam, and attached by a bolt, and tap, two feet two inches back, from the front cross piece is a plow bar nine inches long to the lower end of which is attached by two screw bolts a tongue plow six and a half inches long, and three inches wide at the top.

Operation: When the horses draw the machine, the right, and left half shovels or bar shares (as the planter may choose) throws a ridge--the tongue plow makes the drill, the cylinder is revolving with the wheels, catches the seed in the holes made on its periphery as they pass through the hopper, and lets them drop into the drill, and the press cover closes the sides of the drill so as to cover the seed.

What I claim as new, and as my invention, and for which I shall claim Letters Patent, is--

The reversion of the disk of one or both wheels, so as to command the different distances of the rows, and the shifting of the plows from the inside to the outside of the side places, and vice versa, so as to throw a wide or narrow ridge.

=== UnitedStatesPatent16 ===

APPLICATION OF COATING TO CLOTHS, LEATHER, AND ARTICLES

United States Patent 16

Issue date: August 31, 1836

Inventor: EDWIN M. CHAFFEE

To all whom it may concern :

Be it known that I, Edwin M. Chaffee, of Duxbury, in the county of Norfolk and Commonwealth of Massachusetts, have invented, made, and applied to use a new and useful improvement in the preparing, coloring, and applying india-rubber to cloth of all kinds, leather, and other articles without the use of a solvent, which I call "Chaffee's Improvement in Rubber," specified in the words and figures following and exhibited in the drawings annexed.

The india rubber undergoes an operation preparatory to its being applied to the cloth, and other articles, and the following is a description of that part of the machinery, and apparatus employed for the purpose. A hollow cylinder, or roller six feet long, and twenty seven inches in diameter heated by steam, or otherwise to about two hundred degrees of Fahrenheit, is surmounted by another cylinder of like length, and heated in like manner, and eighteen inches in diameter, the large, and small cylinders come in contact with each other on one side at about ten inches distant from the top of the larger one. The large cylinder revolves much faster than the small one, so that there is a compound rolling, and slipping action between the cylinders. Five bars are placed on the top of the large cylinder side by side each other leaving a space of about three fourths of an inch between them, the bars are one and a half inch thick, twelve inches wide, and about six feet long, the edges which lie in contact with the cylinder are convex or circular, and so constructed that when one corner of the edge touches it, the other recedes from it thus leaving a wedge like space for the rubber to enter beneath the bars. What I mean by the corner of the edge is the angles formed by the two sides of the bars, and their circular edges, the one being an acute, and the other an obtuse angle, which are more or less acute or obtuse according to their situation on the cylinder, the said bars being substitutes for so many cylinders, but are better adapted to sifting the coloring between them, they are held in contact with the cylinder, or nearly so by weights or screws arranged for the purpose. If the rubber is to be colored, the coloring matter in fine powder should be sifted, or otherwise put into the spaces , between the bars where it will be incorporated with the rubber as it passes between the bars and the cylinders.

A revolving apron is attached to the machine which carries the rubber between the two cylinders, or a plank may be substituted if placed nearly in contact with the underside of the small cylinder, and the rubber put on in contact with the cylinder.

The operation of the foregoing apparatus is as follows: The rubber is first cut into pieces about two inches square and from one eighth to one fourth of an inch thick, it is then spread upon the apron that conveys it to the cylinder where the compound rolling and slipping action of the heated cylinders softens and tears the rubber into fine threads, or thin sheets which at the same time mixes with the coloring which is sifted into the spaces between the bars, thus it passes all the bars successively, and undergoes this operation several times before it goes from the preparing and coloring part of the machine to the coating or covering part of the machine. The coating or covering part of the machine or apparatus for applying the prepared rubber to the cloth, and other articles consists of four hollow cylinders six feet long heated by steam or otherwise to about two hundred degrees of Fahrenheit, placed one above another. For conveniently describing their operation I number them one, two,: three, and four, beginning at the bottom. No. 1, is eighteen inches in diameter, Nos. 2, and 3, are each one foot in diameter, and No. 4, is eighteen inches in diameter. No. 3, moves much slower than the others, thus creating a compound, rolling, and slipping action between the surfaces of No. 2, and No. 3, and also between No. 3, and No. 4. Sometimes, the three first cylinders only are used, in which case the gearing for driving the fourth cylinder is disengaged, and the cloth or other article to be coated is made to pass into the covering machine between; the 2nd, and 3d, cylinders, thence it passes half around the 2d, and 1st, cylinder, the rubber side coming in contact with the first, and passing nearly around it, whence it is taken off and rolled up. The prepared rubber is conveyed by hand, or otherwise from the preparing part of the machine while warm, and put into the hopper which is placed between 2d, and 3d, cylinder to receive it. The hopper is about two inches narrower than the cloth, or other article intended to be coated. The cloth enters between the bottom and 2d, cylinders, while the rubber enters between the bottom, and the third cylinder, where the coating of the cloth is effected. There is advantage in passing the rubber between the third, and fourth cylinder of the coating part of the machine before it comes in contact with the cloth, which warms and softens it so that it will adhere better to the cloth to which also the rubber is presented more uniformly than when promiscuously put into the hopper. I sometimes put the prepared rubber directly upon the cloth, or other article to be covered between the 2d, and 3d, cylinders, and then disengage the gearing of the third cylinder, which will not then revolve. The bottom of the hopper in this case does not enter so far between the cylinders. The sides of the hopper must in all cases enter as far as possible without being pinched by the cylinders, to which they must be well fitted.

Another mode of using this machine is as follows: The rubber alone enters between the 2d, and 3d, cylinders where it is formed into a sheet which passes half around the 2d, the cloth entering at the same time between the 2d, and 1st, where the sheet of rubber is transferred from the cylinder to the cloth then passing nearly around the first cylinder, where it is taken off and rolled up as before.

In coloring I sometimes make the rubber into sheets, apply the coloring, and roll the same into a mass, and then pass it through the cylinders, repeating until sufficiently colored. Again I mix the coloring with small pieces of rubber, and let them both go between the cylinders, or cylinder, and bars together--mix more, and repeat until sufficiently colored. When it goes between a bar and cylinder, or between two cylinders, one going faster than the other, the rubber comes through in fine particles so long as the coloring is added.

The machine is an entire one although in the drawings herewith for the purpose of exhibiting more distinctly the several parts, and operations it is divided into sections Nos. 1, and 2, and Nos. 3, and 4.

Figure 1, is the coating part of the mat, and a perspective view of it exhibited in the drawing annexed A A A. A A A is a cast iron frame or housing for the rollers or cylinders. B, is a brace connecting the two parts of the frame together.

C, C, are two timbers upon which the frame stands. 2, 3, and 4, are the cylinders. No. 1, cylinder is behind the frame of bars D. D, D, D, D, D, are five bars called cheeks through which the cloth passes before it enters the rolls. E, is a roll upon which the cloth is wound before being coated. F, is a cheek weight attached to a cord passing over roll E. G, G, are screws regulating the pressure of the rolls 1, 2, 3, and 4. H, is a cog-wheel that drives cylinder No. 1. I, is a cog-wheel attached to the cylinder No. 4, and is driven by the wheel H. K, is a cog-wheel attached to cylinder No. 3. L, is a cog-wheel upon the roll No. 1.

M, is a pinion matching with K and L, and serves to give the proper direction to the wheel K, L being the driving wheel.

N, is a pulley attached to the roll, or shaft O, seen in the sectional view, the shaft having a pinion upon its other end which drives the cog-wheel H.

At K is seen the cloth passing between the cylinders two and three. At S, is seen a sheet of india rubber which comes in contact with the cloth while passing between the cylinders 2 and 3.

P in the sectional view is a roller driven . by the short belt from the shaft O.

Q, is a small roll upon which the cloth is wound when it leaves the cylinder No. 1. It is made to revolve by resting upon the rolls O, and P. The surface of O, and P, revolve a little faster than the cylinder No. 1.

At T, the cloth is seen leaving No. 1, cylinder.

Between the cog-wheel H and the frame A, is a cog-wheel upon the cylinder No. 1, and also one upon-the cylinder No. 2, the wheels being the same size of the cylinders to which they respectively belong. That upon No. 1, drives the one upon No. 2, and consequently the cylinder No. 2.

Fig. 2, is a sectional view, the letters on which refer to the same parts as those on No. 1. U is a hopper not seen in the perspective, into which the prepared rubber is put by hand or otherwise while hot as it comes from the preparing apparatus. When three rolls only are used the hopper is put upon the opposite side of the cylinders between Nos. 2 and 3.

Fig. 3, is a perspective view of the preparing part of the machine A A A. A A A, is a frame of cast iron. B B B B, are timbers upon which the frame rests. C, is a large cylinder 6 feet long, and 27 inches diameter. D, is a cylinder 6 feet long, and eighteen inches diameter. E, is a shaft 6 inches diameter. M, is a pinion upon the shaft E, which drives the cog-wheel K, and consequently the cylinder C. K, is a cog-wheel upon the cylinder C. L, is a pulley upon the shaft E, which is the first power. N, is a cog upon the cylinder C, which drives the cog-wheel O, upon the cylinder D. G, G, are screws regulating the pressure of the cylinders. F, F, are five bars of iron seen more distinctly in the sectional view. They are one foot wide, 5 [unsure] inches thick, and about 7 [unsure] feet long. H, H, are two blocks of iron having holes in them corresponding to the end of the bars F, into which the bars are put, and fastened by keys. I, I, are screws regulating the pressure of the bars upon the cylinder C. S, is an apron, or endless belt which carries their rubber to be prepared between the two cylinder C, and D, (the same is seen more distinctly in the sectional view). P, Q, are rolls around which the apron revolves. (The apparatus for propelling the rolls P, Q, is not represented.) At E, in the sectional view is seen the prepared rubber as it leaves the last bar, and shrinks up into a mass. Fig. 4, is a sectional view, the letters of which refer to the same parts as those in Fig. 3.

What I claim as new, and my invention is--

1. The preparation, and application of india rubber to all kinds of cloths, leathers, and other like substances without the use of a solvent in the manner aforesaid.

2. I also claim the mixing of coloring with india rubber without bringing it into a state of solution in the manner above described. And I further claim the uses of the heated cylinders with the rolling, and slipping action thereof as applicable to india rubber in the manner aforesaid, thereby preserving the strength of the rubber, and at the same time applying it to and covering the cloths, leathers, and other like substances with greater facility, and at less expense, than by any other process heretofore known, or used.

=== UnitedStatesPatent18 ===

MACHINE FOR COUNTERSINKING TO RECEIVE BUSHES IN THE SHEAVES OF SHIPS' TACKLE-BLOCKS

United States Patent 18

Issue date: March 31, 1836

Inventor THOMAS BLANCHARD

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Thomas Blanchard, late of Springfield, in the county of Hampden and State of Massachusetts, but now 5 of the city, county, and State of New York, have invented, made, and applied to use certain new and useful Improvements in Methods of Cutting in or Countersinking Metal or other Bushes in the Sheaves for Ships' Tackle-Blocks, and the said improvements and the machinery by which I effect the same are detailed and set forth in the following description, which refers to the drawings hereunto annexed and making part of specification, wherein--

The drawing Figure 1, exhibits an orthographic perspective plan of a machine for bushing sheaves, and the detached figures are orthographic projections of detached parts shown more clearly, and representations of the alterations or additions required to effect the cutting in, or countersinking the same in other ways by certain shifting, or changeable parts whose uses are hereafter described, and the same letters and figures of reference apply to the same parts in all the figures so far as they are alike in their forms, and uses.

A, A, are the standard frame, and legs on 30 which the machinery is fixed, represented as of wood, but may be of iron, two of which legs rise above the frame, and are connected by a lintel, or head piece at their upper ends.

B, B, is a fixed platform bed of wood, 35 or iron on which the required work is to be performed.

C, is a shifting or traveling platform of Wood, or iron supported at one end by the iron arbor a, the two ends of which arbor, have their bearings in the roller wheels and, and, and these travel each on a railway of metal c, c, secured on the main frame if of wood, or rising out of the same if metal, as may be most convenient.

At the opposite end of the platform C, is a handle d, for the purpose of lifting the platform, and a guide piece e, having an eye in the outer end in which eye is the guide bar f, whose foot is a universal joint in the point of the bracket piece g, whose operation is shown in the detached figures 5, 6, and 7. In the middle of the platform C, toward the roller wheels is a pair of small carriages h, forming the bearings of the arbor i, to which arbor is secured one 55 end of the metal mold plate, or apron stock D, which has a handle j, at the opposite end, under the platform bed B, is the lever bar K, whose fulcrum is on the standard post A1. In the middle part of this lever is the gage shaft I, standing vertically under a metal slide plate in the lower side of the platform C, and the shaft being jointed to the lever bar K, is long enough to slide its lower part in the cross bar m, and is to be adjusted by a pair of two part cross nuts, n, n, below the cross bar y, each on a screw thread cut on the gage shaft Z, by which the ascent of the shaft is regulated in the working as shown in the detached Fig. 8. The lever bar and, has a weight p, at the farther end which causes it to ascend as high as the nuts in the gage shaft will allow, and the operation of this lever bar, still, is again regulated by the two part spring latch q, g, whose lower end is jointed to the bar K, and the upper end goes through the staple ring r, and when the operation of the weight p, is not needed the latch is forced down so that the catch of the latch takes below the staple ring, and puts the weight p, out of use. The mold stock D, is so made that a set of templet mold plates 1, 1, 1, to surround the required bush can be screwed down upon it, in such a way that when the machine is at a rest the center of the templet mold shall be vertical or in the same line with the center of the middle stud pin 3, which is made to shift into, and out of a round hole through the platform C, into the metal plate over the head of the gage shaft Z, and thus allow a metal pin to be placed on whose head may be of any required size to fit the bore in the sheave which is to be bushed. Immediately above this is a cutting or countersinking bit t, whose form is shown on a larger scale by the detached Fig. 3, and in end section in Fig. 9, which bit works vertically in the stock, or vertical arbor i greater-than , having a steel guide piece above. The guide piece being the same diameter as the cutting bit the shaft of which passes through the guide piece, and is secured into the lower end of the arbor by a set screw, the arbor is maintained in place by two vertical bearings u, u, one in the lintel head of the main frame, and one on the stretcher, or girt piece W, on which stock, or arbor is the drum, or pulley X, to receive a band by which very rapid rotary motion may be given to the bit %l, from any prime mover.

The method of using this machine so far 5 as the same is thus described in bushing sheaves is as follows: The metal center stud 3 of the same size as the hole through the sheave which is to be bushed is first placed, the rough sheave is then put down with the stud 3 through the pin hole, the sheave being under the metal mold stock D. The workman attending now grasps the handles d and j with his right hand by which he holds the sheave firmly between the platform C and the mold stock D and with his left hand holds and moves the guide bar p and platform C and mold stock D so as to bring every part of the sheave not covered by the templet mold pieces screwed on the mold stock D in rapid succession under the bit t which enters into the wood material and removes so much as is required to form the cavity or countersink space for the flanches of the bush. The edge of the opening being formed by the steel guide piece above named running in contact with the inner edges of the templet molds and the depth to which the bit is to cut being regulated by the ascent of the gage shaft C a hole is thus countersunk of the required depth, and exactly of the same form as the templet mold, which form being the same as the flanch of the bush that side of the sheave is thus prepared for the workman to place the bush into a countersink accurately fitted to receive it. When the bushes are cast not all precisely alike in shape or fullness of parts these differences are to be overcome and allowed for in countersinking to receive the flanches of the bush by removing the templet plates 1, 1, 1, and substituting the gig plates 2 for them. These are represented in the detached plate, Fig. 2, as affixed to a metal mold stock F prepared to receive them and attached to the arbor i in place of the mold stock D. On the face of this mold plate F are four studs over which the keeper plates 4, 4, are placed so as to confine the gig plates 2, 2, to any required point by the operation 50 of thumb nuts 5, 5, upon the screw shafts 6, 6, and these shifted or changed parts are to be used as follows: The workman places the sheave with the barrel of the bush in the hole prepared for it in the sheave upon the metal center stud 3 and then adjusts the 55 interior edges of the gig plates 2, 2, 2, to the outer edges of the bush, then places a pair of reverse, or as they are technically termed was Lewis tongs," into the hole in the bush and compressing the arms of the tongs the expansion of the points jams them in the hole and enables the workman to remove the bush. He then countersinks the sheave by bringing the countersink bit t into work precisely as herein before described for doing so by the common templet pieces. The workman can use the bit shown in detached Fig. 3 first described and which is in the form of an S, having two cutting lips, or in form of a C, having one cutting lip the form of which is shown in detached Fig. 4, as may be found best according to the quality of the wood to be operated upon; or the third bit formed of a round shaft having a cavity to receive a lip of hardened steel on one side, which lip has a flat end and is secured by a collar and set screw into place in the bit, as shown in the detached Fig. E, may be brought into operation and any other description of countersinking for these purposes may be performed in the same manner by similar bits, gigs, templet plates, and templet molds fitted to act in conjunction to produce the effect required in the manner and on the principle herein before substantially described and set forth. And I, the said Thomas Blanchard, do hereby declare. I claim as my invention--

The formation of the bit first described herein and the movable entering lip of the bit last described and the application of the same to countersinking the bushes of block sheaves in conjunction with the apron plates, templet plates, or pieces and gig plates, or pieces, and countersinking molds as herein substantially set forth and described and applicable to countersinking the sheaves of blocks to receive the bushes all which in combination and in their application constitute my improvements in the method of effecting the objects in view.

=== UnitedStatesPatent19 ===

MACHINE FOR FORMING THE CHEEKS OF PLANK OR MADE SHIPS' TACKLE-BLOCKS

United States Patent 19

Issue date: August 31, 1836

Inventor: THOMAS BLANCHARD

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Thomas Blanchard, late of Springfield, in the county of Hampden and State of Massachusetts, but now of the city, county and State of New York, have invented, made, and applied to use certain new and useful improvements in machinery for making ships' tackle and pulley blocks, which machinery is applicable to forming or shaping the sides of blocks the shells of which are made in pieces and conveniently known as plank or made blocks, as distinguishable by such name from common or solid shell blocks, and that the said machinery and the method of constructing and using the same are correctly and fully set forth and shown in the following description and in the drawing annexed to and forming a part of this specification, wherein is shown an orthographical perspective of the machine, Figure 1, in which--

A, A, are two lower bearers, B, B, are two short posts, or legs supporting c, c, c, three pieces forming a frame on which the working parts of the machinery are mounted, and which at one end joint into D, D, two other standard posts or legs, these are shown in the drawing as of wood but may be made of iron. Between the legs B, B, is fixed the swing frame E, mounted on centers, or pivots going through the end pieces into the frame B, B, and supported by the steady frame F, to which it is jointed by the bars a, a, and ears 6, 5, and the direct motion of these two frames is given by the crooked lever C, whose fulcrum is fixed on the frame e, the lever being jointed by the bar d, to one side of the frame E. Between the two upper parts of the frame E, is fixed the block e, mounted on centers which come through the frame E, and having a wide flanch on the end next the lever C. Behind this block e is the plate f, and at right angles to this are the posts or standards A, A, and centrically upon the plate f and between the standards A, A, is fixed the conical shaft i, held in place by bearings g, g, upon the outer end of the shaft i, is the forked carriage j, and between the points of this fork the swing center plate K, is mounted on a pivot or center at each end centrically in this swing center plate is a pair of flanches on each edge so fitted that they stand out at right angles to, and lengthwise parallel with the edges of the plate k. The two adjusting plates I I are fitted in the same manner with flanges behind them and are mounted on the plate f, by screw centers, which go through the flanches of the plates I, I, into the flanches of the plate k, and the distances of the ends of the adjusting plates Z, Z, from the face of the plate and are regulated by set screws in the swing plate k. Upon the face of the adjusting plates I, I, are fitted the cheek plates M, M, so fixed by screws that they may be removed, and give place to larger or smaller plates when needful. Each end of the cheek plates M, M, is turned up to form a permanent nut through which four holding screws, n, n, n, n, are fitted to work either with center points or to spur plates for the purpose hereafter described. The clutch lever o, is mounted in center working into a pair of cross arms on the lever from the standard posts b, b. This lever is formed with a T head on the under side of which at each end is one of the clutch plates p, p, having flanches by which they are screwed onto the T head of the lever through slots in the head which allow of these clutch plates being adjusted at any required distance from the center of the lever o. These parts are shown in orthographic projection in a front view, in the detached Fig. 2, and in a side view in the detached Fig. 3, and the same letters of reference apply in all the figures.

The brace r is fixed with its shaft in a wood or metal stock s on the head of the post or standard t at the side of the cheek plates in such a way that the center or nose of the brace r is corresponding with and fitted to receive the heads of the screw centers n, n, n, n, and turn them in or out of the nuts on the ends of the plates m, m, upon the frame E. In front of the last described parts are two standards G, G, connected by a lintle head, and between these standards the rotary cutter shaft H, is hung on centers, and has mounted on it four cutter stocks q, q, q, q, each having fixed upon it a cutter blade with a curved edge, the stock and cutters being fixed at right angles to the shaft and diagonally to cut at a similar angle to that of a carpenter's plane iron. On one end of the cutter shaft H is the drum on pulley I, to give a rapid rotary motion to the cutters by a belt, or band from any first moving power, and the method of using this machine as thus far described, is as follows. A piece of plank to form the side of a block having been cut into a rough form and planed on the part intended to go inside is placed by the workmen between the two nuts on the ends of the cheek plates m, m, while the plates are laid horizontally by turning the fork j. The workman then enters the screw centers n, n, into the ends of the wood by the aid of the brace r, then rolls the spring and check plates round on the center in the fork to put a second piece in on the opposite side in the same manner. Having done this he sets the fork vertically under the clutch plates p, p, under the end of the lever; the stop pieces s, s, on the sides of the fork come against the lever o, preventing the apparatus from rolling too far on the conical joint i, and the guide piece t aids in bringing down the lever o, so that the clutch plates p, p, come tightly down one on each side over the adjusting plates I, I, and the lever having a click stud which takes into the ratchet teeth in the vertical spring bar u. The workman by lifting the outer end of the lever fixes the whole apparatus so firmly that it can only move toward the cutters on the lower center of the swing frame E, with a limited motion on the centers of the joint block e. In this direction the workman now by the lever e, makes the whole approach the cutters, which are to be in rapid rotation, and they will now cut the middle part and edge of each wooden cheek piece to their own shape as they revolve. The form board u, on the flanch of the joint block e, now comes in contact with the guide board, shown in the detached Fig. 4, and the workman depressing the clutch lever o, the compound curve formed by moving with the edges of the form board and guide board in contact will bring the apparatus and wooden checks upward in such a direction that the cutters will finish the lower and forward quarters of each pair of cheeks in the required form. The operation of these cutters being such that they cut diagonally from the grain of the wood operated on so as to make a drawing stroke, or cut by which the work is at once finished with a smooth surface, and by the set screws on the plate K. The plates Z, Z, are allowed to be drawn in at top by the clutch plates p, p, so as to let out the opposite ends of the cheeks for the cutters to cut the ends thinner than the middle of the cheek, and by these conjoined adjustments the cheeks are formed in the proper curves both transverse and lengthwise as the same are required to give a finished form to the side of the block. The workman then withdraws the apparatus from the cutters, and disengages the lever o, from the ratchet bar v, and raises the clutch plates, so as to turn the cheeks, and apparatus upon the center of the swing plate, and present the opposite lower quarters of the cheek to the cutters, then securing the whole by the clutch plates, lever, and ratchet bar, he repeats the motion above described, and thereby the second lower quarter of the wooden cheeks is cut to form. He then withdraws as before, and disengages the lever and clutch plates, and turns the forked carriage j end for end on its conical shaft i, and again repeats the previously described operations, thereby cutting successively the four quarters of each plank into a precisely similar form. These are then taken out by reversing the operation by which they have been placed in successively to be formed for use in a similar manner.

And I, the said Thomas Blanchard, do SO hereby declare that I claim as my invention--

1. The application of rotary cutters in the form hereinbefore described to the purpose of shaping the cheeks of plank blocks.

2. And I also claim as my invention the combination of mechanical means for fixing and holding block cheeks, and presenting the same to the operation of the cutters as hereinbefore substantially described and set forth, by which such cheek pieces are cut without being moved from the machine into the form and curves required on a cheek piece of a finished block.

=== UnitedStatesPatent2 ===

MODE OF MANUFACTURING WOOL OR OTHER FIBROUS MATERIALS

United States Patent 2

Filing Date: December 16, 1886

Issue Date: July 29, 1886

Inventor: JOHN GOULDING

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, John Goulding, of Dedbam, in the county of Norfolk, in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, have invented, constructed, and applied to use a new and useful Improvement in the Mode of Manufacturing Wool or other Fibrous Materials, for which the Letters Patent of the United States of America were granted to me bearing date on the 15th day of December, A.D. 1886, and the specification thereto annexed through inadvertence and by mistake not containing an exact, full, and precise explanation of the invention which I, the said Goulding, claimed as my own, and for which I desired the said Letters Patent should be issued, and there is reason to apprehend that said Letters Patent may be inoperative or invalid by reason that the terms and conditions prescribed, by the act of Congress in such case made and provided, have not by such inadvertence and mistake been complied with on the part of the said Goulding, and I, the said Goulding, in conformity with the provisions of the act of Congress in such case made and provided, have surrendered unto the Secretary of State of the United States the said Letters Patent to be canceled, annulled, and made void, I do now hereby declare that the following specification of my said improvement contains a full and correct description thereof, and the invention which I claim as my own is set forth in those full and exact terms in which they should have been made in the original specification upon which said Letters Patent were granted. The more fully to point out said improvement and invention it is necessary to refer to parts of the machinery which I do not claim and to the drawings which accompany and are to be considered part of this specification.

Figure 1, represents one of the delivering card rollers, H, of the first carding machine, and which is covered all over with several fillets of wire card, as usual in such machines. The great cylinder of the machine being regularly fed by means of the common feeding cloth, upon which a certain weight of wool, cotton, hemp, or other fibrous material is spread, uniformly over a certain space, in the well known and accustomed manner, I can take away the sheet of carded material previously freed from the delivery card rollers, H, by means of the comb, either laterally to the right or left, by means of two delivering rollers shown at, J, J, through the turning tube or pipe j, to which a slow rotary movement is given, by means of a band passing from a drum actuated by the machine, operating upon the pulley affixed to the tube. To the mouth of the tube, a loop of brass or iron wire is affixed, having also a bar of wire across it, over which the roving or sliver after being passed through the tube is laid, and then passed underneath the loop in the manner shown. The roving or sliver in passing through the tube, is formed into a loosely combined cylinder, which is guided between the drawing rollers J, J, and thence pasted around the bobbin, M, which is retained by means of its larger ends N, N, and its axis upon the periphery of the drum, L, upon which it rests, and partakes of the rotary movement, communicated to that drum by the machinery. The roving or sliver may be evenly wound upon the bobbin M, either by carrying it and the drum L, backward and forward, or by passing it between guides P, P, affixed to the bar, O, to which a similar lateral movement is communicated, as will be described. The same apparatus may also be used in front of the delivering card roller, H. as shown on Fig. 2. The rovings, or slivers thus prepared by the first carding machine, are then to be placed in a frame, similar to that shown in Fig. 3, of this drawing, and to be passed through the second carding machine, being also guided into the machine between dividing pins. The two carded sheets, U, U, after being taken off from the delivering card roller H, by the comb are then passed straight through the rotary tubes, 2, 2, where becoming rounded, they are received between the drawing rollers J, J, rend put through the guide pins P, P, and finally wound upon the bobbins M, M, in the manner before described. The slivers, or rovings, are then to be passed through the third carding machine, which is exhibited in a side elevation at Fig. 3, A. The machine frame shown as being made of wood, but it may U; be made 105 of cast iron. B is the arch which carries the bearings of the carding rollers, G, G and C, and other cleaning rollers F, F, Ac., C, the great or main carding cylinder; D, D, the two feeding rollers covered with ribbons of wire card, (or channeled on fluted rollers may be employed instead of them) which deliver. the roving, or slivers, to the receiving card roller E, from which they are transferred upon the great or main carding cylinder C. The lower small roller F, covered with wire cards, is intended to clear the feeding rollers D, D, of any loose fibers which may adhere to it, and being also in slight contact with the receiving roller E, it transports it to those loose fibers. The two delivering cylinders H, H, being placed one above the other, are each furnished with fillets of card, and alternate spaces between them, left unclothed with card in a similar manner to that shown in Fig. 7, as will be described hereafter. Instead of taking off the carded materials by means of a comb as described in the references to Figs. 1 and 2,1 can remove them from the delivering cylinders H, H, by means of the rotary action of the tubes 2, 2, Ac., upon them, which gathering the materials delivered from each fillet of card around the rollers H. H, from them into a continuous and loosely coherent roving or sliver U, which is drawn by the action of the rollers J, J, through which they are passed, and is to be guided between upright pins, one of which is shown at P, and wound upon the bobbin M. in the manner already described. In further aid of the rotary action of the tubes 2, 2, Ac., I can also employ the two plain rollers K, K, which are lightly held or pressed against the surfaces of the delivering rollers H, H, by the action of weights hung upon the opposite ends of levers, which support the rollers, K, K, as shown at K, R, are the supports or carriages in which the tubes 2, 2, turn. The small cylinder I, covered with the wire card, serves partially to disengage and loosen the fibrous material from the surface of the great cylinder C, and to prepare it for being more readily taken off by the delivering rollers H, H. The upper card cylinders, F, F, Ac,, are for the purpose of clearing the working cylinders G, G, Ac., from the wool, cotton, or other fibrous material, and again transferring it to the main cylinder C. The bobbins M, M, Ac., filled with the rovings or slivers, from the second carding machine, are to be placed in a frame, M shown, and each roving, or sliver, must be passed through a division, made in a number of upright wood or metal blocks, affixed upon a rail, and one of which is shown at V. The blocks must be made broader in front, next to the rollers, than behind, as shown in Fig. 9, which represents the plan of two of them, and the intervals between them must be narrower than the blocks in the proportion of three to five, or thereabout, so that each roving or sliver, may preserve its proper situation upon the main cylinder, and the working cards, without mingling with those next adjacent to it during the operation of carding, and finally be received in its place upon the delivering card H. Fig. 7 is a plan of the two delivering cards H, H, S, S, Ac., the circular strips or fillets of wire card around it; the under delivering card having also similar strips of wire card surrounding it, but so placed as to so correspond with the spaces left empty upon the uppermost one, U, U, Ac. In this figure as well as in Fig. 3, represent the rovings or slivers, passing from both the delivering cards H, through the revolving tubes 2, 2, which are fitted up in a similar way to those already described. The rovings or slivers being drawn forward by the rollers J, J, Ac., the carding, rovings, or slivers also pass through the guides P, P, and are wound to upon the long bobbin M. The fibers of the rovings or slivers are apt to wind around the drawing rollers J, J, Ac. In order to prevent this, it is well to give the uppermost of each pair of rollers a slight degree of lateral motion backward and forward so as to cross their circular motion, and which lateral movement may be effected in various ways, by the machinery not necessary to be described here. The guides P, P, of the third carding machine, must have a backward and forward lateral motion, communicated to them either by a heart movement or in any other fit and proper manner, so as to lay the rovings or slivers regularly side by side, each within its own proper limits. The smaller the rovings or slivers become, so much the more will they require to be twisted, by the action of the revolving tubes 2, 2, upon them, in order to give them a sufficient degree of coherence. In case of carding long wool where it is desirable to keep the fibers straight and smooth, as in the manufacture of worsted for instance, the wool must be taken off the delivering card H, Fig. 5, by means of the comb. It then passes between the two vertical rollers G, G, which are covered with leather, and each have a slow alternating upward and downward movement, communicated to them by the machinery and which together with the rotary movement of the rollers draws forward, gathers up, and condenses the carded sheet of wool K. It is then guided between the pins P, P, to which the lateral movement is given as before described, and wound upon the bobbin M. This operation is equally proper for cotton, or other fibrous materials, when it is desirable to keep the fibers straight and smooth. In order to render the wool more pliant, it may be heated or moistened by steam, or hot water, in this latter process. Another method of drawing forward, condensing, and gathering all descriptions of fibrous substances after carding them, is seen in an end view, at Fig. 6, where H is the delivering card cylinder; and the comb which removes the carded material from the cylinder H, and which is then pressed underneath the small plain roller C. which is covered with leather, and under the roller, which is also covered with leather; and to both these rollers C, Ac., a lateral backward and forward movement is given by the machinery and which varies in extent according to the coarseness or fineness of the carded sliver or roving. The rollers C. and 0. also receive a rotary movement, from the endless web, strap, or band of leather, and which extends the whole width of the cards. This endless web revolves around the Dera D.D., to one of which a rotary movement is communicated, by the wheel works of the machine. The transverse rubbing action of the rollers E, E, rounds and condenses the fibers of the carded materials U, U, and 0. which are afterward wound upon the bobbin M, as before mentioned. Fig. 4, is a general view of part of the mule or spinning frame; X, X. X, are the spindles, Y, the carriage made as usual; L, is a drum on the periphery of which the bobbin M, containing the carded roving, or sliver rests, U in the before mentioned cases, but here instead of winding the roving or sliver upon the bobbin H, it is employed to give it off, at the proper times and in the quantity required for spinning, by means of a rotary motion given to the bobbin by the drum, in a direction opposite to that in which the bobbin would move to wind up the roving. The motion is given to the drum L, from the machine, at the required time by any fit and proper contrivance, but which need not be described here. The roving or sliver U, delivered off from the bobbin M, passes between a pair of jaws W, W, which are made to close upon and retain it at proper times and to open again by the motion of machinery as usual. Or instead of jaws, grooved or channeled rollers may be employed for a similar purpose. The roving or sliver of wool is spun without the use of it, ought not however to be stretched more than one fourth of its length. The rotary motion of the delivering cards H, H, of the drawing rollers J, J, and the drums L, L, in all the machines described must exactly coincide with the nature of the material operated on, so that the rollers J, J, shall draw it as fast as it is freed from the delivering cards H, H, and the drum L, L, wind it upon the bobbins M, M, regularly and with a proper degree of extension, without overstitching it. Drums L, L, actuated by the machinery, may also be used in unwinding the rovings or slivers from the bobbins M, M, in all cases where the rovings or slivers are too weak to bear drawing off from the bobbins, without such help, and whether such slivers or rovings, have been made by the machinery herein described, or by other method. In the second carding process it is expedient that twenty at least of the bobbins M, M, filled with rovings or slivers from the first carding machine, should be passed at once through the second machine, if two feet wide they being equally distributed along it at the feeding, If they are to be divided into two or more rovings or slivers than an upright angular block of wood (similar to those shown in Fig. J), but the breadth of an inch at the broadest end, must be placed at each division, to maintain a similar separation throughout the carding operation. The wool, or other material is taken away from the carding machines, while it is being delivered from the fleece or sheet, as shown at U, Fig. 1, where it is seen in its pressing toward the conical tube 2, and the bobbins M upon which it is finally wound, after receiving a countertwist by the revolution of the tube 2, or by rollers as shown in Fig. 3, or by other similar apparatus. The sliver stubbing, or roving, whether consisting of one or more strands, is received or wound by means of drums upon the bobbins, upon the principle represented in Figs. 1, 2, 3, 5, 6 and 7, and described in the foregoing specification. The strands in the second carding operation, before explained, are fed to the card, from any requisite number of spools, M, M, Fig. 3, which however exhibiting the third operation differs in the part marked V, which is not there used. The strands being separated, and distributed in the second carding operation by means of wire pins or similar apparatus to guide them to their proper places along the card. In the third carding operation, the strands are fed to the card and conducted so as to cause the sliver, slubbing or roving to be even, and of a uniform size, when taken from the delivering card. Being carried through and delivered from the cards separately from each other by means of the blocks V, shown in Figs. 3 and 9. The sliver, slubbing, or roving, is twisted while it is leaving or being delivered from the finishing cards, preparatory to spinning. This twisting admits the gathering the sliver without the use of the comb or doffer. The twist may be produced by the sliver or roving being passed through tubes as shown at 2,2, Figs. 2, 8, and J, or by being passed between pulleys, or other similar means. The sliver is condensed by means of the apparatus shown as a setup for the twisting process. The unwinding of the sliver from bobbins, or spools, on a mule or spinning machine, by means of a drum i, is effected by giving the drum and spool a motion the reverse of that by which its winding was effected, as shown at M, L.

I claim this apparatus as new and my own invention, in improvement before specified The combination of machinery, to produce the thread from wool, or other fibrous materials by performing the operation of twisting or taking away the same, while it is being delivered from the cards; feeding the cards, and unwinding the sliver, or roving for spinning, in the manner and modes, particularly described in the foregoing specification. I am not claiming the construction of the individual parts of the machinery used in the several processes before described, but the combination and arrangement, by which they are made to produce thread from wool, or other fibrous material, by a continued operation.

=== UnitedStatesPatent20 ===

SADDLE-SPRING

United States Patent 20

Issue date: March 31, 1836

Inventor: WILLIAM DUOHMAN

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, William Duohman, of Morgantown, in the county of Berks and State of Pennsylvania, have invented a new and useful Improvement on Springs for Saddles, which is described as follows, reference being had to the annexed drawings of the same, making part of this specification.

This improvement is designed to obviate the defects experienced in Mr. Beard's spring, and consists in having the frame containing the spring made in two parts instead of one, the second part being made movable by screws designed to tighten the web, and regulate the spring when settled down or sagged by long use, without being obliged to tear the saddle to pieces or substitute a new spring.

Drawing No. 2, represents Beard's spring in which A, is the frame, and B, the spring.

Drawing No. 1 represents my improvement in which C, is the frame; D, movable part of ditto, E, the screws, screwed up as far as they can go, and F, the spring which may be taken out, and its place supplied with another whenever required by merely loosening the screws.

Drawing No. 3, represents the movable piece of the frame, with the spring, and web extended as far as the screws will allow.

It will readily be perceived that by turning the screws, the web can be tightened at pleasure.

What I claim as my invention, and for which I desire to secure Letters Patent consists in--

The addition of the two screws for raising the webbing when required.

=== UnitedStatesPatent21 ===

GRANITE-MACHINE FOR DRESSING OR HAMMERING

United States Patent 21

Issue date: September 5, 1836

Inventor: WILLIAM MORSE

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, William Morse, of Corinna, in the county of Penobscot and State of Maine, have invented a new and useful Machine for Hammering Granite, and the following is a full and exact description of the construction and operation of the said improvement as invented by me.

The machine works in an oblong square frame, which for working a piece of granite ten feet in length may be of the following dimensions viz: two sills twenty-two feet in length, eight by ten inches square, placed three feet asunder, and connected at the ends by two cross sills. At the rear end, the cross end or end sill is framed on with the ends flush with the sides of the side sills; but the other end sill projects outward from the side sills about two feet, and on the ends of the last mentioned end sill are framed two other sills about four feet in length and eight by ten inches square, the other ends of these sills are connected by another sill of the same size. The two first mentioned sills serve as bed pieces for a railway which the carriage works, on the upper side of the bed pieces, and near the inward sides are two iron railway pieces extending the whole length of the bed pieces, and projecting or rising one inch above them the upper sides of the railway pieces are brought to an edge by a double bevel. On this railway a number of pieces of cast iron rollers sufficient to sustain the pressure of the load on the carriage, are fitted to work. The rollers are connected in pairs by suitable iron axle trees. The axle trees are kept at their proper distance from each other by a girder which is attached to them at the center of their length. Their carriage is a plank of wood eight to ten feet in length, of suitable thickness, and the width corresponding to the length of the axle trees. To guide the carriage--on the rollers suitable cleats are attached to the under side, and extending the whole length of the plank so as to admit the rollers to work within them--the carriage must not come in contact with the axle trees but then must rest entirely on the rollers. To strengthen the carriage suitable cross cleats are- attached to the upper side of it extending the whole width of the plank. The construction of the frame is further effected by erecting two posts on the side sills or bed pieces about ten feet from the rear end, and two other like posts framed into the end sill which connects the other ends of the bed pieces. These two pair of posts are connected at the top, or upper ends, by framing a beam on each pair. These beams- are connected by two plates framed into the beams by suitable tenons on the ends of the plates, and corresponding mortises in the beams. The plates may be about five by seven inches square, and they are supported by the two studs under each, the lower ends of which are framed into the bed pieces, opposite the posts which are connected at the above described projection and on the last described end sill, are erected two other posts which extend about sixteen inches higher than those before described. These posts are connected with the other pairs, by framing in a suitable girth on each side with tenons on the girths, and mortises on the posts, these girths are inserted a little below the beams. Two shafts four inches square, and extending from the last described posts to the rear beam are fitted with gudgeons in the ends that work in the posts, and the beams.

In the center of the space between the high posts, is a tapped wheel four feet in diameter the shaft of which extends horizontally, from one post to the other with gudgeons on the ends that work in boxes which are attached to the outside of the posts at a height corresponding to the elevation of the above named shafts, the area of the wheel is divided into eight square sections by drawing lines direct from the circumference to the center, and the wheel is perforated through at all these lines, about one inch from the circumference. In these perforations suitable pins are inserted projecting out about two inches, half of the projections on one side, and half on the other in regular rotation. The end of the hammer handles are confined in the above described shafts, their number being from two to five on a side according to the width of the piece of granite to be worked. The length of the handles of the first, or rear hammers is such as to bring the hammers in contact when they are both at rest, on the plate. The length of the second hammer bandies is three inches or the width of the hammer shorter than the first, and so on through the whole series.

The elevation of the shafts above the plate is such as to allow the hammer handles to fall level on the plates, as the handles of the first pair of hammers overreach the plates, two timbers are framed into the plates, and beam in the form of braces. The hammers are operated by means of arms, one of which is attached to each of the shafts, and extends to the lappet wheel in such a direction as to embrace the above described pins. As the wheel revolves in the direction from the hammers, the arms are raised by means of the pins, and consequently the hammers are raised, till the arms drop from the pins, and the hammers fall upon the granite.

To move the carriage a shaft is extended from one of the middle posts to the other and on the ends of this shaft are gudgeons, which work in boxes, attached to the sides of the posts, and on the ends of this shaft just within the posts are two ratchet wheels about sixteen inches in diameter which are operated by means of hands that are attached to the ends of two compound double levers the upper end of one part of which is connected by pins to the above described arms, and the other part is connected with the posts, by pins which pass through them at the center of their length into the posts, the last mentioned answering the purpose of fulcrums. The carriage is connected to the last described shaft, by a chain or other suitable connective, and as the ratchet wheel shaft winds up the chain the granite on the carriage is passed under the hammers.

What I claim as my invention, and desire to secure by Letters Patent, is--

The combination of two rows of hammers placed on opposite sides of the frame operated by one tappet wheel.

=== UnitedStatesPatent213 ===

IMPROVEMENT IN MACHINES FOR WINNOWING, CLEANING, AND SEPARATING GRAIN

United States Patent 213

Issue date: May 30, 1837

Inventor: MARKWELL THOMAS

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Markwell Thomas, of Alfred, in the county of York and State of Maine, have invented a new and useful Machine for Winnowing, Cleaning, and Separating Grain, and which I call "Thomas' Grain-Cleanser and Grain-Separator;" and I do hereby declare that the following is a full and exact description thereof.

A frame made of four posts six inches square and six feet high, (marked A,) fastened together eighteen inches from the bottom by four girths, six inches square and three feet long, exclusive of the tenons, (marked B,) and four like girths at the top of said posts, (marked B,) with two cross-girths (marked C,) one foot from the bottom, into which cross-girths is framed a bridge-piece (marked D) for a spindle to rest upon, and another bridge-piece (marked E) is framed into two of the top girths, through which the upper end of said spindle runs. On the four first-named girths is firmly fastened a perpendicular cylindrical frame, of wood covered at each end, top, and bottom with circular iron plates or iron flanges, (marked F,) which cylindrical frame consists of two circles or wheels, of hard wood, (marked G,) three inches wide by two and a half inches thick, and four feet in diameter from outside to outside, connected by twelve studs, two by three inches, and eighteen inches high, (marked H,) the whole firmly fastened together by six iron rods of one-half inch diameter passing through the rim of said circles or wheels and through the said circular iron plates or iron flanges, and fastened by nuts at the upper surface, (marked I.) The said circular plates or flanges are of cast-iron, one-fourth of an inch thick, four feet diameter from outside to outside, five and a half inches wide, with lips or projections or rabbets one inch long upon their inner circle, and turned toward each other. Within this cylindrical frame, and firmly fastened to the inner surface of said wooden circles or wheels, (marked G,) and upon the inside of said studs, (marked H,) is a cylinder, of sheet-iron, perforated from its outer surface inward with very small holes, within one fourth of an inch of each other, which cylinder is marked K. On this cylinder, near its bottom, is an aperture of three inches by two inches in size to admit the grain, to which aperture is attached a double receiving-spout, (marked L,) with movable doors, by which either spout may be closed at pleasure. Upon the opposite side of said cylinder, and near its top, is another aperture of same size as the first aperture, to which is attached a spout, through which the grain is discharged from the cylinder into a box, (marked M,) which box contains three sieves, and is shaken by an iron beater, (marked N.) Upon the inside of this cylinder is firmly fastened an iron spiral plate projecting five-eighths of an inch from said inner surface, (marked E",) running spirally six times around said inner surface, the threads being two inches apart from the left side of the first or lower aperture, and terminating at the left top of the second aperture. This spiral plate of iron is fastened by iron hooks let into said plate and driven through said cylinder into said stud, which hooks are driven upon the under side of said spiral plate. Within this cylinder runs a spindle, (marked O,) resting on a box, movable up or down by a screw in said lower bridge-piece, D, and through said upper bridge-piece, E, to which spindle is attached cylindrical frame-work, covered at its ends with circular iron plates or iron flanges, (marked P,) like and corresponding to the cylindrical frame-work first described, with the exception that it has sixteen studs, and that the lips or projections or rabbets of the circular iron or flanges are on their outer circumference, and forming a joint over the inner cylinder with the lips or projections or rabbets on the inner circumferences of the first described circular iron plates or flanges, (marked F.) Upon the shoulders of the inner cylinder, and outside of the lips or projections or rabbets of the said circular plate or flanges, four iron sweeps are placed at equal distances, are fastened by riveting through said shoulders or wheels, which sweeps project three-fourths of an inch from said shoulders or wheels, and are one inch wide, and are marked 2 on the sectional drawing of said inner cylinder, which iron sweeps the grain from the space under the flanges and between said lips and the outer cylinder and prevents the grain from entering the joints and clogging the machine. This inner cylindrical frame-work is attached to said spindle O by four arms at top and bottom, (marked E,) into which arms are inserted four fans, made of thin wood, (marked S,) on said section of said inner cylinder; and upon the outer surface or circumference of this inner cylindrical frame-work is fastened a sheet-iron cylinder perforated with larger holes than cylinder K, having an opening (marked F) from top to bottom of three-eighths of an inch opposite to each fan, which inner cylinder is to run as close to the iron spiral plate of cylinder K as it can without friction on said spiral plate.

Upon the top of spindle O, and close under bridge-piece B, is a pulley, (marked U,) over which a band runs to attach the same to water or steam power, by which the machine is set in motion.

Over the double spout L a sieve-box, M, four feet long, one foot wide, and six inches deep, containing three sieves, is suspended by lines fastened to two pins (marked X) inserted into and projecting from the tops of posts A. The first or upper sieve (marked 1) extends three feet down said box to a triangular cap of wood, (marked 2,) at which piece of wood and one foot above the same the sieve is flush with the top of said box, and materials not passing through said sieve nor blown away are thrown off by said triangular wood before they reach said receiving-spout L L. This sieve 1 is sufficiently coarse to let the grain pass easily through it, throwing off all matter larger than the grain. Under this sieve is a second sieve, (marked 3,) which terminates over the left or farther half of this double spout L L, and is so fine as not to admit full and perfect grain passing through it; but withered and smaller grain will pass through it into the third sieve, (marked 4,) which last sieve terminates over the right hand or first half of the double spout, carrying the smaller or withered grain into that spout when required. These sieves are all in frames running in grooves in said box, and can be removed at pleasure. To the outside of this sieve-box is fastened a piece of wood with a shoulder, (marked 5,) against which a beater (marked 6) moved by a band running round spindle O strikes said sieve. This beater is of iron, two feet long, and oval where it strikes said wooden shoulder 5, with a pulley of different-sized gains to increase its speed. It runs in two arms (marked 7) inserted into and extending fifteen inches from the left post A. Upon said left post A, and opposite to the lower end of the sieve-box M, is attached a bellows-box, (marked 8,) twenty inches diameter, eighteen inches high, contracted to a nose (marked 9) of one inch wide and the height of said box, in which bellows-box runs a spindle (marked 10) carrying these fans, made of thin wood, which spindle runs at its bottom on an arm extending twenty inches from said left post, on which arm said bellows-box (marked 8) also rests, and at top it runs in bridge-piece, (marked 11,) which bridge-piece is supported by two studs (marked 12) attached to the sides of said bellows-box. This spindle, like the beater, has pulleys of different gains to increase or diminish its speed, and is carried by the same band, 13, that carries said beater..

Upon the diagonal corner of the frame A is attached another bellows-box, (marked 14,) with nose, spindle, fans, pulleys, and bands, in all respects like the bellows-box last described.

Process of cleansing and separating. The grain may be placed in the sieve over the receiving-spout by a hopper or by elevators. The chaff is thrown off by the wind from the bellows-box. The grain passes through the first sieve, and by the wind striking it while falling is thereby thrown to the upper end of the second sieve. On passing down the second sieve to the spout all small or imperfect grains fall through to the lower sieve and are prevented from entering the cylinder by closing the door of the receiving-spout nearest to the lower sieve. When the grain passes into the cylinder it is carried up on the spiral plate by force of the wind raised by the powerful motion of the inner cylinder, and is discharged from the upper aperture and spout on the second sieve-box, where it is further cleansed of all dirt, and the grain broken in passing the machine is separated from the whole grain. The inner cylinder revolves five hundred times per minute, and, raising a strong wind with its rotary motion, carries the grain six times round the perforated outer cylinder with such velocity that all impure grain or extraneous matter is broken to dust and thrown out through the holes of the said outer perforated cylinder. By this machine all smut, dust, and impurities--such as dirt, smut, garlic, and other seeds--are expelled from the grain, and it is prepared for grinding in a perfectly pure state, which cannot nor has not yet been accomplished by any other process ever yet known.

What I claim as my invention and not previously known in the above machine is

1. The employment of the iron circular plates or flanges, which are bound in place by the iron rods, by which the cylinders are made strong.

2. The leaving a space between the upper and lower ends of said cylinders and inserting in the shoulders of the inner cylinder the iron sweeps, (marked 2,) by which the grain is prevented from entering the joints and the machine kept free.

3. The employment of the spiral plate (marked N) and the mode of arranging the same by which its upper surface is left smooth and uninterrupted by fastenings.

4. The adding the middle sieve, (marked 3,) by which the withered, defective, or imperfect grain is separated from the full and perfect grain.

5. The double spout with doors, (marked L L,) by which the smaller or larger grain, the perfect or imperfect of any one kind of grain, may be let into or kept out of the cylinder at pleasure.

=== UnitedStatesPatent23 ===

FURNACE FOR WARMING BUILDINGS

United States Patent 23

Issue date: September 8, 1836

Inventor: FREDERICK A. FICKARDT

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Frederick A. Fickardt, of the borough of Easton, in the county of Northampton, and State of Pennsylvania, have invented a new and useful Improvement in Furnaces for Supplying Upper Rooms with Heated Air, and that the following is a full and exact description thereof, to wit:

A, first chamber of such size, shape and proportions as may at any time be deemed most eligible for the purposes intended to wit: containing the stove, and body of air sufficient in its passage for conveying heat enough to the rooms, the chamber to be made of tin, or other reflecting material, and having a sloping top, terminating in a central tube, or flue, but to have no bottom, the whole resting on a sufficient number of feet, said feet to be three, or four inches high, thus leaving a void beneath its edge for the entrance of air in a manner hereafter to be described, secondly, a second, or outer chamber made of similar, or other reflecting material large enough to surround the first chamber so as to leave a void between their respective opposing surfaces say of one, two, or three inches for the travel of the air to be heated, &c. This second chamber to have a sloping top, and a tube, the tube to be short say three, or four inches, but both so to correspond with those of the first, or inner chamber, as to leave a void between for the admission of the air equal, and continuous with the void just described, the whole void together forming a passage for the external air between the bodies of the inner, and outer chambers, and underneath the edge of the inner one, where of course after having intercepted the heat escaped through the first reflector it comes in contact with the stove, or other apparatus used for generating heat, and passes up through the tube of the inner chamber, and from thence it is conducted to the rooms. This second chamber, will stand on a level with the bottom of the feet of the first chamber, and should have an air tight, or nearly air tight bottom, or be otherwise suitably arranged, or the plan for the current of air may be altered so as to leave the opening for the entrance of external air at the bottom of the void above described, and (closing that above of course) to have also by means of an aperture in the top, or tube of the inner chamber the communication for the outer, and inner drafts above; both the first and second chambers may have doors situated so as to correspond for the purpose of feeding the stove, &c. The tube of the inner, or first chamber will move over in the case of the first plan which is set forth in the drawings, and model be furnished with a sliding lid, or cover to fit closely over the mouth of the tube of the outer chamber, and thereby when occasion requires to close that aperture against the entrance of external air from the cellar, &c. Lastly the whole outer surface, of the outer chamber as well as when convenient of the outer surface of the tubes may be covered with a coating of coarse woolen, or other fabric of like pliable, and as it regards heat, non-conducting nature such coating if thought desirable to be previously prepared, by solutions, or mixtures of soap, and alum, Andc., to a higher degree of non-conducting power as aforesaid, the preparation of such coating as aforesaid, to consist in one, or more immersions in a strong solution of alum, &c. immersions, and subsequent dryings following alternately, or in the use of soap alone, or of a mixture of soap, and alum, or' alum water, the mixture to be of same consistency in either case, the ingredients to be well incorporated with the body of the coating aforesaid.

What I claim as my own invention, and not previously known in the above described furnace is--

1. The employment of two successive reflecting chambers as above described for the purpose of throwing back, and retaining the radiated, and other heat coming in contact with them.

2. The employment of an outer reflecting chamber, when in combination with an inner chamber reflecting, or otherwise, by the term outer, I mean outer with regard to the interior one.

3. The use of the void between the two chambers when in combination with an outer reflecting chamber.

4. The sliding lid- above described as on the inner tube for the purpose of closing the draft, and preventing the passage of foul, or damp air from the cellar, when the furnace is out of use.

5. The application of such coating of woolen, or other like material as above described to the exterior chamber to serve as a non-conducting medium, and preservation of heat.

Immediate heat, great heat, and economy of heat, and consequently economy of fuel, money, time, patience, and domestic comfort are the advantages which the subscriber hopes he is but reasonably led to anticipate by these improvements.

=== UnitedStatesPatent24 ===

MORTISING-MACHINE

United States Patent 24

Issue date: September 14, 1836

Inventor: DAVID CLARK

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, David Clark, of Brooklyn, in the county of Windham and State of Connecticut, have invented a new and useful Improvement in Machines for Mortising Wood; and I do hereby declare that the following is a full and exact description thereof. I take a piece of joist 3 feet long, across each end of which I frame another piece, two feet long, forming the foundation. In the center of this first piece, I place a joist perpendicular six feet long braced from the foundation. Two feet from the foundation I fasten with an iron bolt a piece of plank two feet long, and eight or nine inches wide crosswise of the perpendicular joist, and edgewise of the plank for a platform for a carriage to run upon. In the center of this platform on the underside I frame a short piece of joist, through which I place a lever about five feet long moving on a pin through this short piece of joist passing through a mortise in the perpendicular joist, and extending back of it one foot, the remainder of it coming forward near the end of which the hand, the hand is applied, to operate the machine by moving it up, and down, on each side of this lever, about three, or four inches from it, and underneath the platform I place a roller which is turned around by means of a dog acting on a ratchet wheel attached, to the front end of the roller; one half the lengths of these rollers is turned smaller than the other, in order that the cord which moves the carriage may be transferred from one part to the other to increase, or decrease the -- as the case may require. To do this more readily the cord is attached close to the end of the larger part so that by cutting a notch from it to the smaller it will wind on either part without difficulty. To move these rollers I made a dog with a joint in it, which I place on the front of the platform in such position that the joint will come directly over the lever, and a little below the platform when it hangs in its natural position, so that when the lever is raised it will hit the joint, straighten the dog, and force the ratchet wheel forward which is kept in place by a small dog placed over it. This first dog turns on a pin without a head and is kept on it by a wire bent to a right angle, one part of which is driven into the front of the platform, so that the other will turn directly over the dog. Another pin and wire is so placed that the same dog will operate upon the other ratchet wheel in the same manner when reversed. The lower part of this dog is kept in place by a guard passing across the outside of both parts of it. I make a carriage of a piece of a piece of plank to correspond with the platform, but enough narrower to admit of guides at the edges to keep it in place. At each edge of this carriage are two studs, through which, screws pass to regulate the piece to be mortised. In the under side of the carriage in the center, and from end to end I plow a groove of sufficient width, and depth to admit a small cord, attached in the middle, and passing over each end of the platform, on a pulley winds around the rollers before described to move the carriage either way. Above the carriage I place a slide of wood, or iron with a mortise through it which is regulated by a screw through the mortise entering the perpendicular joint, and is raised, or lowered as required, to prevent the piece so to be mortised from rising, when the chisel is withdrawn. One foot above the carriage I fasten by screws, or otherwise a box, and six inches above that, another. These boxes stand out from the perpendicular joist, three and a half inches to the center of the aperture, this aperture is square one corner coming in front. The boxes are divided from corner to corner, and are tightened, or loosened by screws. A piston passes through these boxes an inch, and a half square, and eighteen, or twenty inches long, in the lower end of which I have either a round or square socket for the chisel, a little tapering with a hole drilled near the top for the purpose of starting it out. In the upper end of the piston I place a pulley four inches in diameter. Just upon the upper box I place a hook to which I attach one end of a chain, or rope passing over the pulley in the top of the piston downward, and attached to the lever, by an iron going both sides of the lever, through which and the lever; a pin is passed; I have likewise extra holes both in the iron, and lever to raise or lower the piston, on the ends of the pins passing through the center of the pulley, and the top of the piston is a clevis to the curve of which I attach another chain, or rope passing over a pulley (the surface of which must be directly over the center of the piston) in the top of the perpendicular joint, and down on the back side where it is attached to the lever in the same manner as the other chain, or rope.

What I claim as my invention, and desire to secure by Letters Patent is--

1. The application of the power, by means, or lever moving on a fulcrum beneath the platform; a chain, or rope from the lever in front passing over a pulley in the top of the piston, and attached to the perpendicular joist, and the mode of raising the piston, by a chain, or rope attached at the top of the piston passing over a pulley at the top of the perpendicular joist, downward, and attached to the back end of the lever.

2. In regard to the carriage its movement by means of a cord winding around a roller, turned by a dog acting on a ratchet wheel on the roller, the manner of communicating motion to the dog, by the lever, and the manner of regulating the feed by having the roller of different diameters in its different parts, together with the particular arrangement of the apparatus for moving the carriage, described in the specification.

=== UnitedStatesPatent25 ===

MACHINE FOR SAWING SHINGLES

United States Patent 25

Issue date: September 14, 1836

Inventor: JONATHAN HOBBS

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Jonathan Hobbs, Jr., of Falmouth, in the county of Cumberland, in the State of Maine, yeoman, have invented, made, and applied to use a new and useful improvement in the manner of making and constructing machines and making and manufacturing shingles and clapboards, of which the following is a full and exact description.

1. I make the bed frame, on which I place the operating parts of the machine in the following manner, I lay down a cross sill at each end fifty two inches long of 6 by 8 timber, 2. The ends of the front, and rear side pieces or sills are laid on the ends of these cross sills, the front sill is 3, by 8, and the back sill is 8, by 8. 3. Near each end I place a pair of friction rollers, for the carriage to travel on, eleven inches in diameter, of proper thickness the edges turned to a miter, each pair is on one shaft. The back roller is made thick enough to have a whirl for a small band, on the inside of it. 4. Four feet from the left ends of the sills I frame in a cross sill; and two feet farther, in the clear, to the right I frame in another cross sill 8 by 8. 5. On these two cross plates I lay two timbers lengthwise of the frame (No. 1,) of sufficient strength, on which I hang the circular saw. These timbers are about sixteen inches apart, and placed toward the back side of the frame. 6. On the back sill I set four posts 14 inches high, and 4, by 4. 7. On these posts I put a rail 2 inches by 6, and twelve feet long. 8. On the left end of this rail I put a block, 5 inches wide, and 7 high, and 5 feet long. The right end of this block is scarfed, and makes one of the inclined planes. 9. Twenty-seven inches to the left I place a loose block on the top of the other having the right end scarfed, which makes the other inclined plane. This block is set on loose, with two dowel pins, and can be removed to the left end of the rail when used for sawing clapboards. When shingles are sawed, both inclined planes are used, and when clapboards are sawed, the left one only is used. 10. On the back side, and near the right end, I hang a wheel or pulley about three feet diameter on a shaft about two feet long, on the outer end of the shaft I turn two whirls, on the inside of this wheel I make another wheel or pulley and a half foot diameter. These different sizes are designed for different speeds in working, and are moved by belt from the main drum. These two pulleys should hang very near the outside of the frame. A number of plane iron or spoke shaves are placed on the inside of this wheel in the rim by which the shingles are edged, and jointed, being held in place by a hook, or pin. This is also called the jointing wheel. 11. On the inner end of this shaft is a loose cylinder about six inches long, and two diameter to go on loose on the shaft. This cylinder has a flanch, or rim, on the end next to the wheel two inches broad. This flanch has a pin in the side next the wheel which catches on toe another pin in the wheel corresponding with it when the cylinder is pushed up against the wheel, and then it turns with the wheel, and winds a belt around it which is attached by the other end, to the piece on the right end of the carriage, and thereby runs the carriage back when the shingle is cut out, ready for the next cut. 12. On the left of this cylinder a knee is placed, one leg about six inches long with a slot which meshes onto the flanch No. 11. The other leg extends about eight inches passes under the carriage, and then turns up about four inches. This upright part of the knee is operated upon alternately by two pins standing on the inside of the back side piece of the carriage, whereby the loose cylinder is meshed onto the wheel, and unmeshed by the pins aforesaid No. 11. When clapboards are sawed the right pin is moved about 28 inches to the right to accommodate the length of the log. This knee hangs on a pin at the angle. 13. About twenty inches from the left end of the back sill, I put in a roller about 6 inches long, and eight diameter, having a right hand screw, or spiral grooving, coarse thread, the whole length. This screw runs off on the back end of this roller, and is cut in, and makes half a turn on" that end, and terminates at nearly the center. The use of this diminution is to bring the bolt, or log ' lightly against the saw when first beginning to cut. Near the circumference of this roller, and against the termination of the scroll I bore a dozen holes, or less, and put a pin into any one of them as occasion may require. 14. Then I take a line of proper length, and fasten one end of it to the left end of the back side pieces of the carriage, and pass it twice around the roller, and then hang a weight to the other end below sufficient to carry the carriage forward to the cut. The piece aforesaid should be so placed that, when the carriage is hauled back, and the machine set for the next cut, the line should bear a little against this pin ' so as to start the carriage easy. Then when the line leaves the pin it hangs at the diminution of the scroll aforesaid which gives the weight a light power upon the carriage, when the saw first begins to cut, which increases as the roller turns forward, until it comes to its full strength at the circumference. Any other method of carrying the bolt forward may be used if preferred. 15. At the right end of the back sill I place a platform about 26 inches square; on this I set a sliding frame about 22 inches by 12, held in place by two wooden hooks standing over the sides. In this sliding frame I hang a whirl fifteen inches in diameter on a shaft about 21 inches long. This whirl stands in range with the whirl on the jointing wheel; on the other end of this shaft is a whirl corresponding with the one on the friction roller No. 3, a band passes around this large whirl, and the whirl on the outer end of the shaft of the jointing wheel, and a cross band passes around the whirl on the friction roller, and the whirl on the other end of this shaft. In a line with the sides of the sliding frame about eight inches to the right I set two pins one inch in diameter from each side piece of the sliding frame, I attach a line to each pin. The use of these pins, and lines is by winding or unwinding these lines around these pins. The bands on the whirls aforesaid can be tightened or loosened at pleasure. This apparatus is called the regulator. 16. On the friction rollers aforesaid No. 3, I place the traveling carriage aforesaid about sixteen feet long, and three feet four inches wide. The side pieces 4 by 6, having ties or cross timbers about two feet from each end. At the right hand end I put a strip of board across running out at the back side about 4 inches to which I fasten the belt having the other end fastened to the loose cylinder No. 11. These side pieces are about three feet one inch apart in the clear. 17. Three feet nine inches from the left end of the carriage I set a head block on the carriage, by framing a post into each side piece, and putting a beam across, and is twelve inches high. Two and a half feet to the right I put a tail block made in the same manner. This is the place for the tail block when sawing shingles. When sawing clapboards the tail-block is not five feet two inches to the right of the head block. These are made of timber about 6 by 3. 19. On the inside of the head block, and tail block in the center, I halve on a piece perpendicular two feet ten inches long 8 by 2. I call these pieces stirrups. These stirrups have each a short slot through which they are bolted onto the head, and tail blocks; each block has several holes, by which the stirrup can be raised, and lowered as well as by the slot. 20. On the tops of these stirrups I put a cap piece, having long tenons passing up through the cap piece, and keys through each tenon over the cap piece. 21. In the center of this cap piece I pass a bolt up through it, and through a wooden spring. This spring reaches nearly the length of the cap piece, having two iron rods fastened into it which pass loose through two holes down into the rag wheels by which the setting for the shingles is performed. These pins are pressed down hard by the bolt on these rag wheels whereby the jaws are kept firmly in their places at each set, as the shingles are sawed. 22. At the lower end of each stirrup a plate of iron is riveted on the inside, and goes down below the wood far enough to admit a mortise one inch; the ends of the foot piece of the stirrup enter these mortises, whereby it is supported. The front corner of each of these plates is drawn to a hook turning outward. The use of these hooks is when sawing clapboard to pass a line around them and strain up with a fid after the manner of a wood saw, so as to hold the stirrups hard against the ends of the log so as to hold it firm in its place at each set for a board. 23. The foot piece of the stirrups is 6 by 2, reach between the stirrups, and having a tenon at each end passing through the mortise in the plate, at the bottom end of each stirrup. 24. About 8 inches from each end cross pieces are riveted into the foot piece about twelve inches long, on which the shingle bolt rests when sawing. 25. At the left end of the foot piece of the stirrups, an iron plate -- by 4, is riveted, having several holes for the bottom gudgeon of the left shaft of the jaws to stand in, as occasion may require, to accommodate a long or short shingle boll. 26. The jaws that hold the bolt are made thus: take a rod of round iron, and 2 feet long. A hub about six inches by two is put fast on the lower end. These hubs are set with short sharp teeth which sink into the end of the bolt, and hold it fast; on the upper end of each shaft is a rag wheel 6 inches diameter. These wheels, on the edges are cut with eight sets of rags or notches, and every other one twice the length of the other, so as to set for the head, and point of a shingle alternately, as the bolt is sawed. The left jaw piece stands about six inches from the left stirrup piece, the lower gudgeon in one of the holes in the iron plate, and the upper gudgeon in an iron on the cap piece, the right jaw piece is set the lower gudgeon in one end of a knee, and the upper end in the iron on the cap piece. These jaws stand about 19 inches apart. 27. The knee on which the right jaw piece stands is a flat rectangular piece of iron, the inner end about seventeen inches long, and the outer one twenty-five, this knee is hung at the angle on a pin; the longer leg runs to the left inside of the front side piece of the carriage frame having the end drawn to a pin, and turned down through a hole, in a flat piece of iron, which passes loose through a mortise in the front side piece of the carriage. The lower gudgeon stands in the short end of this knee, and the upper gudgeon in the iron on the cap piece. On the under side of the cap piece I rivet on two flat pieces of iron about 1 inch wide, and 4 inches long, on the back side the upper gudgeons of the jaw pieces pass through these irons close to the cap pieces, and the upper end of the rod which holds up the right jaw piece of the right setter, passes up through the end of the flat piece of iron on the front. 28. The flat piece of iron which hitches on to the long leg of the knee, and passes through the side piece of the carriage, also passes loose through a mortise in a wooden spring on the front side of the carriage having several holes in the outer end, whereby it may be shortened, or lengthened by a pin, in some one of those holes. 29. This spring is of proper length, and strength, and is bolted on to the front side of the carriage. This spring as it is tightened or loosened by placing the pin in different holes brings the right jaw up harder, or lighter as occasion requires in holding the bolt, when this spring is pushed in, it opens the jaws to receive the shingle bolt, and when the spring halts back it shuts the jaws up on the bolt and holds it fast. A like motion opens the jaws to take the bolt out if necessary. 30. The inner, or short end of this knee is held up by a small rod of iron passing through it with a nut pin or head on the under side, and the other end passing up through the iron on the cap piece aforesaid with a pin, or nut on the end. 31. A pair of nippers takes hold of the outer edge of the bolt to keep it from canting. Each jaw end of these nippers is turned up to a round sharp point. The under arm of these nippers lies on the upper side of the front side piece of the carriage, passing through a hole in a piece of iron on the front side of the carriage. It then turns up having notches on the edge into which the other arm catches to hold the bite of the nippers. 32. The setters which move the rag wheels on the upper ends of the shafts of the jaws, are made as follows: The setter on the head block is a knee, or right angular piece of iron, attached to the head block, on the inside, by a pin at the angle, having one leg reaching down from the angle about 18 inches and the other reaching back horizontally about 28 inches. At the bottom end, a flat piece of iron 6 inches long is pinned on, and the other end pinned on to another flat bar of iron standing perpendicular, and parallel with the lc lower leg of the knee, it also passes up by the horizontal part of the knee, and is pinned on to the stirrup. This pin is about 28 inches long, and the upper end works on the left rag wheel to set it. The outer end of the horizontal part of the knee, at the outer end is turned up with a quarter twist, which turns the flat side- the other way, having a bolt hole through it. A flat piece of iron about ten inches long having a slot nearly the whole length is bolted on by means of the slot; this piece can be set up, or down at pleasure. At the lower end of this piece a pin is riveted standing out about three inches, with a nut, or pin at the end. A trunk 4 inches in diameter is put on this pin. 33. The setter on the tail block is fastened on to the inside of the tail block by a pin at the angle. It is a rectangular knee like the other having one leg run up perpendicular about 18 inches, and the other running back horizontally about 28 inches. The upper end works on the right rag wheel in setting. The outer end of the horizontal part is made round, and a trunk put on it like the other. A line is passed from one either to the other loose, or to which a light weight is put which in- clines the setters together, whereby they are kept up to the rag wheels so as not to make any mistake in setting. 34. Outside of these trucks, a rail is put on to their gudgeons, which keeps the trucks at equal distances at all times from each other. 35. A brace is slipped on to the gudgeon of the truck, on the setter attached to the head block by one end, and the other end is slipped on to a pin standing in the upper side of the tail block, at the back end. This brace keeps the setters, and trucks steady in their places as they run up, and down on the inclined planes, in performing the operation of setting for the shingles as they are sawed. Whenever the machine is put in operation the rag wheels should be relatively so placed that one setter will set a short notch, when the other a long one, and then they will actuate continuously, in setting butts, and points of the shingles, and will never miss. Then when the saw has made a run, and the carriage has run back till the saw is clear of the bolt, the trucks mount the inclined planes, whereby the setters operate upon the rag wheels, and set for the next shingle, and they will continually set alternately, a long notch, and a short one, whereby the butts, and the points of the shingles are changed alternately.

The following are the parts I claim as my own invention.

1. The lengthening of the shafts of the jams which gives a greater scope for accommodating the different lengths of bolts; 2, putting the rag wheels on the top of the shafts instead of the bottom as in the old machine; 3, the different shape of the setters for working at the top instead of the bottom; 4, the cap piece and the apparatus on the top of it; 5, the bed piece on which the bolt lies; 6, the difference in the construction of the head, and tail blocks, and the stirrups; 7, having the left saw stationary. 8. The knee on which the right saw stands, and the rod holding it up; 9, the string and weight which holds the setters together. 10. The double prong hand which regulates the set. 11. The regulating apparatus described in No. 15. 12. The 18 inch pulley on the inside of the jointing wheel, 13. Having the pins which work the knee which moves the loose cylinder, on the shaft of the jointing wheel on the inside of the back side piece of the carriage, instead of on the --. All the other parts, and movements of this machine, I consider either embraced in my former patent, or common to other machines to which I claim no exclusive right in these specifications.

=== UnitedStatesPatent26 ===

MACHINE FOR MANUFACTURING SILVER SPOONS

United States Patent 26

Issue date: September 20, 1836

Inventor: JOSEPHUS BROCKWAY

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Josephus Brockway, of the city of Troy, county of Rensselaer, and State of New York, have invented a new and useful Improvement in the Making or Manufacturing of Silver Spoons, which invention and the manner of using it is as follows.

This improvement in the manufacture of spoons consists in plating and cutting a bar of silver in the shape, thickness and just proportions of a spoon by means of a mill in all its outlines precisely like a common plater's mill. A common plater's mill with eight inch rolls may be converted to this purpose, and as these are in common use, and well known, further description is deemed unnecessary. The drawing exhibits its appearance. The first operation of this mill is to take a bar of silver, about half an inch shorter than the spoon required. This must be rolled through widthwise, the bar of silver should be very little thicker than the thickest part of the spoon-handle required, and as wide as the handle at the shoulder. One end of this bar will then be placed directly over the center of the rise, or peen marked a, upon the upper roller, and the mill turned, and it will come through plated, and widened at one end in the shape of a spoon bowl, and at the other widened like the flat part of a spoon handle. The spoon bar is to be rolled through, and through, the screws put down at every turn until the bowl is sufficiently enlarged, and the handle brought to the proper thickness, or proportion of thickness. The handle in its entire length is left by this process, a little thicker than is required to be reduced by the cutter, as will hereinafter be described.

Description of the peening roller.--That part of the roller marked a, on the drawing is called the peen, and in form resembles a spoon bowl, it is left highest at the point *, which is designed to form the center of the spoon bowl. From the point a, this peen slopes in every direction in a manner corresponding to the desired thickness of the silver in the bowl of a spoon, that is it is so shaped that in rolling the silver through, the part of the bar, in contact with this peen, is pressed most at the center a, and least at the point, when the bowl of the spoon is required to be thickest. This peen, or spoon bowl is formed by grinding, or filing the rollers as follows. The roller is cut away at the heel of the bowl where the shoulder of the handle is to be formed, just equal to the thickness of the spoon bar, so that in passing it through it is not pressed at all at that point, then the peen or bowl is formed upon the roller by cutting down the roller all around the peen taking away most where the silver in a spoon bowl is required to be thickest, so that as a bar of silver passes through, it shall spread the silver to the shape, and thickness desired for a spoon bowl of any description. To form the narrow part of the handle marked B, C, so much is cut away from the roller that the bar of silver is not pressed at all in passing in part of it. From the point a, to e, there is a gradual slope, so that when the rollers are brought to their nearest contact with each other, and the spoon rolled through there is a gradual diminuation in the thickness of the silver from a, to e. At e, the roller is left plain, nothing being cut away at f, or at the end of the handle, the roller is a little sunk again to leave increased thickness at the end of the handle, or in a word at all these points above referred to the roller is cut away sufficient to press the silver in the proportions required.

A bar of silver passes through the part of the mill prepared as above described from six to twelve times. The screws being put down at every turn comes out at last with a bowl nearly in perfect shape, and with the silver laid precisely where it is wanted. The handle has its just proportion as to thickness, but is not now in its proper form; to obtain this, and at the same time increase its length, and give elasticity, and preserve and perfect its proportion, it must now be rolled through the cutter C, D, entering at the point of the bowl. The cutter is the exact form, and proportion of a spoon in all its parts, at every point it has the width, and depth of the spoon required, so that while it cuts the spoon to its proper shape, it at the same time gives to it its true proportion of thickness, and leaves the handle hard, and elastic, while the bowl, which is not to be pressed much if at all is left soft, and ready to be raised. The cutting edges of this cutter are formed as will be seen by the drawing by removing the steel all around the cutter. A sufficient portion of the roller, must be removed to receive the chips, or pieces of silver to be cut off while at each side of this excavation around the cutter r, the roller is left perfect so that both rolls shall come in contact with each other, on each side of the cutter in order to prevent the cutting edges from being injured. Both the drawing and the model presents the cutter, and the peening, or plating process upon one, and the same pair of rollers, but in practice it is preferable that two different and separate mills be employed. One roller may be prepared and fitted for several different sized spoons. Teas and tables, salts and creams, may be all put upon one roller if its size and length be sufficient, in this case one mill will plate a variety of spoons, while another mill may be used for cutting, this may have a short pair of rollers, and have but one spoon upon each, or a longer roller, and several different sizes upon one and the same roller, but the short roller with but one cutter upon it will be preferable.

With these mills in connection with a plain and common plater mill the whole labor of giving form to silver spoons is contemplated. The silver will pass directly from the ingot to the common rolling mill and be rolled to the size required for the peening or plating mill described above,--that it goes to the cutting mill, and is there turned out in perfect form. These mills may each and severally be turned by hand, water, or steam-power. By steam or water power a spoon a minute may be produced in a form suitable for raising and finishing. The drawing E, F, represents a cutter designed to pass through two plain rollers. This cutter is in all respects like the one cut into the roll with this exception, it is designed to pass between two rolls instead of being cut into a roller, but the cutter on the roller will be found best in practice though more expensive.

Now what I claim as new in principle, and practice, and as my invention is--

1. The shaping of a roller of a common plater's mill, so that it shall receive a bar of silver widthwise, and roll it into the shape of a spoon, one end for the bowl, and the other for the handle, leaving the bowl in its proper shape with the silver thickest at the edges and thinnest in the middle, and this to be made separate from though designed for a cutter.

2. The formation of a cutter in the same, or a separate mill, or on a separate piece of steel, designed only to cut off the edges, without altering at all the thickness of the silver in the bowl, but to extend the length of the handle, perfect its proportionate thickness, and cut it to its proper shape. It is then made separately, but combined in their use, as above described, and not anything designed to perform both operations at once, for which I ask Letters Patent.

=== UnitedStatesPatent27 ===

COMPOSITION OF PAINTS

United States Patent 27

Issue date: September 20, 1836

Inventor: HARMAN HIBBARD

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Harman Hibbard, of Darien, in the county of Genesee and State of New York, have invented a new and useful Improvement in the Art of Manufacturing Paints; and I do hereby declare that the following-is a full and exact description.

The nature of my invention consists in using;--1st flowers of sulfur, sulfuric acid, and carbonate of lead in forming Prussian blue. 2d in using nitric acid, and carbonate of lead to form chrome yellow. 3d in the further use of flowers of sulfur to form chrome green, 4th in the formation of a metallic green from sulfate of copper, and carbonate of lead.

To enable others skilled in the art to make and use my invention, I will proceed to describe the process by which these paints may be prepared.

To make Prussian blue, dissolve 16 lbs. sulfate of iron in as small a quantity of boiling water as possible, dissolve 1 lb. of prussiate of potash in 1 pint of boiling water after being finely pulverized, and add to the sulfate of iron, add 1 lb. of carbonate of lead and 1 lb. of flowers of sulfur previously ground together in water, then add sulfuric acid till effervescence ceases, the sediment should be left with an excess of acid possessing a sour taste, the whole should be thoroughly blended together, and then left to dry.

To make chrome yellow, to 16 lbs. carbonate of lead finely ground in water, and put into a tub containing 16 gallons of boiling water add 1 lb. chromate of potash (previously dissolved in 3 gallons of boiling water) to the solution of potash add 8, oz. nitric acid, and add this mixture to the tub containing the carbonate of lead, taking care to keep up agitation for some minutes then leave, and the lead will fall, decant the water, and dry the sediment.

To make chrome green, to 1, lb. Prussian blue add 2, lbs. of chrome yellow, and 1 lb. flowers of sulfur, the whole should be moistened with water and finely pulverized together, a sufficient quantity of sulfuric acid should be added to leave a sour taste if the effervescence ceases, the sediment should then be dried without washing.

To form a metallic green, dissolve 1, lb. sulfate of copper in 3 gallons of boiling water, and add 1, lb. carbonate of lead, previously pulverized in 1, pint of hot water, then put into 3 gallons of boiling water, pour the solution lead into the solution of copper slowly, and at the same time keep up a constant agitation, it may then be left to subside, pour off the water, and dry the sediment.

What I claim as my invention, and desire to secure by Letters Patent is--

1. The using of flowers of sulfur, sulfuric acid, and carbonate of lead in forming Prussian blue as the flowers of sulphur contains a slight degree of acid which is not easily extracted by coming in contact with an alkaline substance, I use it to support the blue--I use sulfuric- acid to assist in saturating the composition with oxygen which forms the blue,--I use the carbonate of lead to precipitate the iron, to discharge the superfluous acid, and to assist in forming a body to the paint.

2. In the use of nitric acid, and carbonate of lead in preparing chrome yellow, the acid discharges the carbon contained in the lead and causes the chromate, and lead to unite.

3. In the further use of the flowers of sulfur in preparing chrome green, the sulfur prevents the green from discharging the blue when exposed to the atmosphere, the formation of a metallic green--from sulfate of copper, and carbonate of lead.

=== UnitedStatesPatent29 ===

ALCOHOL AND TURPENTINE LAMP

United States Patent 29

Issue date: September 22, 1836

Inventor: ISAIAH JENNINGS

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Isaiah Jennings, of the city and State of New York, have invented an Improvement in lamps used for burning compounds of alcohol and spirits of turpentine or other analogous mixtures, and also in the cans used for supplying such lamps and other vessels for containing said compounds; and I do hereby declare that the following is a full and exact description thereof.

Into the opening which is to receive the burner of such a lamp before screwing in the burner, I insert a metal tube usually about half an inch in diameter, which tube is closed at the bottom, and is to reach to the bottom of the lamp, or nearly so, and is provided at top with a collar, having a screw cut upon it, by which it is held in its place under the burner, both being received by the same female screw, and the wick when used passing into the tube. This tube may be perforated at its upper, and lower ends by making several small holes therein for the passage of the liquid, and of air; or it may be perforated with large holes from end to end, and covered with wire gauze, wound around it in as many thicknesses as may be thought proper.

Into the spout, or mouth of the can, or other vessel used for supplying the lamp, or containing the material, I insert a tube similarly prepared, and guarded with that in the lamp, adapting the same to the size and nature of the vessel employed.

The object of the insertion of such tubes, so prepared, is to prevent the running out of the liquid except in minute quantities should the lamp, or other vessel be upset, and also to prevent the passage of flame from the outside to the fluid contained within the lamp, or other vessel.

What I claim as my improvement in lamps, or other vessels for containing the volatile compound used for burning in lamps, is--

The insertion of tubes or other analogous contrivances in the mouths, or openings thereof made, and prepared, substantially in the way and for the purpose herein set forth and described.

=== UnitedStatesPatent3 ===

MACHINE FOR TURNING, &c., WOODEN SHEAVES AND PINS FOR SHIPS' TACKLE BLOCKS AND PULLEYS

United States Patent 3

Filing Date: August 11, 1835

Issue date: August 1, 1836

Inventor: Thomas Blanchard

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Thomas Blanchard, late of Springfield, in the county of Hampden and State of Massachusetts, but now of the city, county and State of New York, have invented, made, and applied to use certain new and useful Improvements in Methods of Turning and Finishing Wooden Sheaves, and Pins for Ships' Tackle Blocks and Pulleys, and that the said improvements and the machinery by which the same are effected are correctly set forth in the following description, which refers to the drawings hereunto annexed and making a part of this specification, in which said drawings the sheet No. 1, exhibits an orthographical perspective plan of the principal machine as invented and used by me, and of certain detached or shifting and changeable parts, the uses of all such parts being respectively and consecutively hereinafter set forth, and the same letters and figures refer to the similar parts in the drawings so far as they are alike in their forms and uses. A, A, Figure 1, are the standard frames. Frames or beds, and posts shown as of wood, but may be of iron, on which the machinery is fixed. B, B, are two fixed metal heads, or rests toward one end of the machine. C, C, are two other fixed metal heads or rests toward the opposite end of the machine. Upon the outside of the middle of each of these pair of rests is one each of two cross bars D, D, having on each end a slide piece fitted with a bird beak rebate in which the slide frame E, E, travels. The right hand bar D, being made of a sufficient size at one end to receive the arbor, and crank handle a, to which is fitted the pinion C, that gears into the toothed rack a, fitted on the slide frame E, and thus gives and regulates the motion of the slide frame. On the same side of the slide frame is fixed the transverse slide rest, F, to which motion is given by the crank handle, and screw D connected to the slide and gage e. Across the slide frame E, is fixed the cutter bar G, fitted to receive the cutters f, f, so as they may be brought nearer to or extended farther from each other by screws and nuts working through slot holes in the bar O. These cutters may be further advanced, or drawn back by sliding them on the belts by the slots in [illegible].

On the left hand inner rest C, is fitted a tool carriage made of a piece of metal bent to a flanch to the flat part lying on, and screwed to the upper part of the rest and adjusted to the required position by the screw working in a slot. The vertical part has fitted on to it the back, or hooked cutter No. 2, which is made in form of a metal lever jointed on to the flanged tool carriage having a point I turned so as to present a pointed cutter to the contrary side of the sheave to that operated on by either or both of the cutters f, f. In the rests C, C, on the left hand are two bearings, and caps g, g, in which is fixed the mandril A, which is made with a female screw or socket at the working end to receive any required form or size of center chuck to the mandril. On the mandril A, is a pulley, or drum i, to be connected by a belt to any prime moving power, and thus give motion to the mandril center, and sheave when the sheave is being turned, as hereafter described. In the rests B, B, on the right hand are two bearings, and caps j, j, retaining and guiding the wrench bar K, made with a bend at one end, and the extremity turned up so as to form a square ended socket wrench whose center is in a line with the center of the mandril h, the bars being worked by a crank handle at the other end. When the machine as thus far described is to be used for turning sheaves a central chuck L, shown detached in Fig. 3 and having a nose the size of the pin hole in the sheave is fixed in the hollow end of the mandril h, and the rough sheave having been bored for the pin is put on the nose, and secured by the nut M, having a square head, and rebated flanches shown also in the detached Fig. 3. This nut is screwed tightly on by the square ended socket wrench bar K, and the mandril being driven by power communicated through the drum i, The workman by the crank handle, a, brings the slide frame E, with the center bar G, and cutters f, f, up to the sheave, the cutters being accurately adjusted to strip the sheave to the required diameter on one side, and the hooked cutter on the inner left hand rest e, operates by the workman's left hand on the opposite side of the sheave, and by being adjusted to the same diameter of cut as the cutters f, f, finishes the edges of the sheave square and clean thereby removing the superfluous material on the edge of the rough sheave, and when this operation is completed the transverse slide rest F, having been properly adjusted by the gage stop e, at one of the frame E, will be exactly centrical with the thickness of the sheave, and the working line of the gage being below the level of the cutters f, f, the workman advances the gage to the sheave by the slide screw d, and cuts the groove in the sheave for the rope to lie in. The sheave is then completed so far, then removed by reversing the operation of the bar K, and another rough sheave is put in to undergo the same operation, and by proper adjustments sheaves of all sizes may be thus turned, and finished so far.

When it is required to form pins for sheaves the cutters f, f and e, are removed, and also the center wrench K, and the nuts n, n, are placed in the outside rests B, B, having the long puppet center bar O, through them as shown in the detached Fig. 2, sheet 1, the inner end of which bar centers in one end of the square pin p, the other end of the pin being retained to the mandril nose by the pressure given by the workman screwing in the puppet bar O, the pin is taken at the other end by two or more spurs in a chuck which is formed for the purpose, and is now placed on the mandril nose, and the pin turns on the center point at the end of the puppet bar O, when motion is given to the mandril as before described. The puppet bar goes through a mill tool q shown detached In Fig. 4, sheet 1, and in full size Fig. 1 sheet 2, whose hole is the required size of the pin, and the mill tool adjusted by screw on the cutter bar G. The workman moves the frame E, and mill tool toward and along the pin by the crank handle a, the teeth of the mill tool will now strip off the angles of the pin p, and finish it round and polished exactly to the required size. The pin is then removed, and others placed successively to go through the same preparation, and by proper tools and adjustments wooden pins of any required size or length, or for any other purpose may be thus made and completed for use.

I do not claim any of the parts of said machine as my invention separately, and unconnected with said machine but I do claim as my invention, and improvement the above described parts of the aforesaid machine so adapted to each other and combined in manner aforesaid so as to produce the above results in the manner above described, or any other substantially the same.

=== UnitedStatesPatent30 ===

GRADUATING TAKE-UP MOTION FOR POWER-LOOMS.

United States Patent 30

Issue date: September 22, 1836

Inventor: HORACE HENDRICK

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Horace Hendrick, of Killingly, in the county of Windham and State of Connecticut, have invented a new and useful improvement in that part of the machinery of the power-loom for taking up and making even cloth or cloth of uniform thickness, which improvement is to be applied to the common loom now in use, which apparatus so improved I denominate the "graduating take-up motion," I do hereby declare that the following, with and having reference to the accompanying drawings, is a full and exact description of the construction and operation of the said apparatus as invented or improved by me.

In its general construction the said apparatus resembles that in common use, my improvement consisting in the addition of what I denominate the rod, and sickle, and the mode of communicating motion, from the reed to the cloth beam, by the intervention of said rod, and sickle.

The accompanying drawing gives a view of my improvement as it may be applied to the common power loom.

F, F, F, F, represents the frame of the loom, h, h, the end of the lathe to which the improvement is attached, E, E, the ordinary back lever, which receives its motion from the slay, which lever gives motion to the rod H, leading to the sickle C, and this" gives the downward motion of the catches K, operating upon the rag wheel W, at the beat of the lathe B, is a small friction roll e, attached to the lever E, E, or to the sword of the lathe k, A, and this plays upon the sickle C, giving to it its downward motion and moving the cloth beam P, at the backward motion of the lathe S, is a spring attached to the sword of the lathe bearing upon the back piece of the slay for the purpose of keeping it in adjustment.

What I claim as my invention in the before described apparatus is--

The addition of the rod, and sickle operating in the manner set forth as combined with the other parts described, but not claimed as of my invention, the take-up motion being effected by the intervention of said rod, and sickle between the reed, and the cloth beam, and this I claim whether the other parts be constructed in the manner shown, or in any way admitting of the use of this improvement.

=== UnitedStatesPatent31 ===

LAMP

United States Patent 31

Issue date: September 22, 1836

Inventor: ISAIAH JENNINGS

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Isaiah Jennings, of the city of New York, in the State of New York, have invented a new and useful improvement in the production of fire and light by a combination of liquids and the application of the same in common lamps either with or without a wick; and I do hereby declare that the following is a full and exact description thereof.

The liquids that I usually employ are, alcohol and spirits of turpentine which two liquids I combine together in such a way that the alcohol will be saturated with the spirits of turpentine so as to carbonate the same and cause it to burn with brilliancy. The quantity of turpentine that will combine with the alcohol will depend upon the strength of the latter fluid, which to afford a clear white light should be such as will enable it to form a combination containing not less than one-sixth part of turpentine, but if it will combine so that turpentine will form one-fifth, it is to be preferred. Although I generally use spirits of turpentine, I have essayed other essential oils and analogous compounds, which I have found to answer the same purpose more or less perfectly, but I have preferred spirits of turpentine on account of the economy with which it can be used. When the strength of the alcohol is known, the exact quantity that will combine may be at once added, but it may be put in, in excess agitated and the uncombined portion allowed to separate, and the liquid decanted.

I am aware that I am not the discoverer of the simple fact that the addition of spirits of turpentine or other essential oils to alcohol will cause it to burn with increased brilliancy, but I claim to be the discoverer of the applicability of this combined material and of others possessing analogous properties as a substitute for oil in common lamps, and the first who has applied the same, having been enabled so to do by my experiments upon the proper combining proportions according to the strength of the alcohol, and it is for this discovery and application that I solicit Letters Patent.

=== UnitedStatesPatent32 ===

PENCIL AND PENCIL CASE

United States Patent 32

Issue date: September 22, 1836

Inventor: JACOB I. LOWNDS

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Jacob I. Lownds, of the city of Philadelphia, State of Pennsylvania, have invented a new and Improved Ever-Pointed Pencil and Pen Case, and that the following is a full and exact description thereof, reference being had to the drawing which accompanies and makes part of this specification.

The exterior tube of the case is open at its two ends only not having any longitudinal slit to admit a slide for protruding the point, this being effected in a different manner, to be presently described. The exterior tube represented at Figure 1 has a plain surface, but it may be ornamented in any manner which may be preferred. Figs. 2 and 3 show the interior tubes which fit into Fig. 1, within which Fig. 2 is made to slide, the upper of Fig. 2, contains the pen slide and holder, and also the reservoir for spare pencil points; the latter consists of a tube connected with, a, and its plan is represented by the clotted lines it readies down to 5, where it is soldered to a diaphragm or partition reaching across that part of the tube, and extends up to the upper end of a, and is there inclosed by a small screw cap, its length is sufficient to enable it to contain two lengths of pencil points, c, the penholder is situated in the space, between the two tubes, and this is slid out by means of the small screw button e, in the slot d. The tube a, being reduced or flattened to allow the head or button e, sufficient space without obstructing its passage into the interior tube where the pen is, there is sufficient space between the reservoir, and the tube a, to carry two extra steel pens with perfect convenience. Fig. 4, is the screw cap or head of the pencil case, it has a tube e, with a screw cut on the outside of it, the female screw into which it works being cut in the inside of the upper end of a. The exterior of which tube passes within the cup while the tube e, admits the point of the pen. By this arrangement the whole length nearly of the cap, is saved in the length of the pencil case.

The lower end of f, of the interior tube Fig. 2, is that which receives the pencil point and appurtenances to be now described Fig. 5, which contain the lead is at its lower part g, made in all respects like those in general use, its upper or cylindrical portion A, is to occupy the part, f, of the tube Fig. 2.

i is a projecting cheek piece, or feather, which when Fig. 5, is in its place occupies the slit j, and also the slit k, in Fig. 3, this latter tube fitting on to f, Fig. 2. The two slots j, and k, being made to coincide, and the feather i, rising high enough to pass through both of them where the respective points 2, 3, and 5, are put together the whole is to be passed into the exterior tube Fig. 1, the lower end I of Fig. 3 is then attached to the lower end m, of Fig. 1, by soft soldering them together, and on screwing the head Fig. 4, into its place, the instrument is complete.

Operation of the instrument: When the pencil point is within the case, the feather i, occupies the upper ends of the slots j, and k, and to cause the point to protrude, the tube Fig. 2, is drawn up by means of the head Fig. 4. This tube sliding in the exterior tube, and also in Fig. 3, the drawing up of the interior tube brings the lower part of the slot j, into contact with the feather i, which consequently checks it, on pushing the head down, the pencil point is protruded, and ready for use, and when no longer wanted it may be readily pushed back by the finger. To cause the cylindrical part h, of Fig. 5, to slide freely, and evenly within its tube f, it is surrounded at n, by a divided opening ferrule which is in part received within a groove, turned in A, for that purpose; when the pen is to be used the tube is to be drawn out, the head unscrewed, and the pen protruded by means of the button as before described, the head may be screwed into the opposite end a female screw being cut within. I, for that purpose.

Having thus fully described the ever-pointed pencil, and pen case invented by me, and thereby shown that it differs essentially in the general arrangement and combination of its parts throughout with the single exception of that portion thereof which contains and protrudes the lead point, I do hereby claim--'

This particular arrangement and construction which I esteem as sufficiently characteristic to distinguish it from all others before used, or known.

I do not however by this claim to limit myself to the manner of constructing this instrument in all its minuteness, as herein pointed out but to vary it as I may think proper while it remains essentially the same" in combination and operation.

=== UnitedStatesPatent33 ===

COOK-STOVE

United States Patent 33

Issue date: September 29, 1836

Inventor: JOHN HARRIMAN

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, John Harriman, of Haverhill, in the county of Essex and Commonwealth of Massachusetts, have invented new and useful Improvements in the Manner of Constructing a Franklin Stove for Cooking and other Purposes, and that the following is a full and exact description of the construction and operation of the said stove as improved by me.

This stove is to be made of cast iron, except the oven, which is to be made of sheet-iron.

It consists of the following principal parts viz: 1st, the bottom plate; 2d, the top; 3d, the two insides; 4th, the front; 5th, the end plate; 6th, the back of the fire place; 7th, the grate; 8th, the cover of the grate; 9th, the plate over the fire near the top plate; 10th, the oven; 11th, the plate over the oven; 12th, the dampers; 13th, the doors; 14th, the openings for the boilers, Andc.

The bottom plate forms the shape of the stove. The fire place is like that of a Franklin parlor stove. In the fire place are a grate and cover, the cover is hung on axes at each end which pass through side of the stove, the cover turns up against the back of the stove, when down it rests on the edge of the grate, and incloses the fire to increase the draft, and for other purposes. The fire is visible at all times through the front of the grate when kindled. On the top, on the top-plate are two openings for boilers, (and there may be more if desired) also an opening for a funnel, behind the fire place, and under the boilers is the oven which has a door at each end, and on the side near the front is another door opening into the fire place for the purpose of putting in fuel.

In this stove there are five flues, and four dampers, one flue which I call the grate flue consisting of several openings near the bottom of the back of the fire place. It admits of the fire, &c., from the fire place to the oven, and up by the back thereof. There is a space between the oven, and the bottom, and end plates sufficient for the fire to pass up to the plate over the oven, thence crossing about half the width of the oven to the two semicircular openings in the plate over the oven, and thence to the funnel on the top of the stove. This plate has also other openings for flues. The first mentioned grate flue has a damper which I call the grate damper, which is fitted to the flue, and is moved by a rod, which passes through the side of the stove. This clamper is to regulate the heat under the oven. There are two flues in the front part of the plate over the oven which are over the main fire, they form a part of the fire place, and have each a damper which is moved separately by rods projecting from the back of the stove. The object of these is to take the fire from the fire place and carry it up under the two boilers, (which may be of any required size) over the oven, and through the top plate, the fire and smoke escaping by this course to the funnel on the top of the stove. There are also two other flues in the fire place, over the fire, and near the top plate which will receive all the fire and smoke from the fire place and from around the boilers if desired, and conduct it to the funnel on the top of the stove. The two last mentioned flues have one damper which is bent so as to form two sides at right angles to each other, and so fixed as to open or close both these flues at the same time.

The plate over the oven contains two semicircular openings, and two flues, said plate has a partition from its under side to the oven. The above openings are on one side of the partition, and the flues are on the other side, the partition separating the flues from the openings. These semicircular openings serve as outlets to bring the heat over the oven, and under the boilers. It will be seen that the fire can escape from the fire place in three ways, and all centering to the boilers.

What I claim as my invention, and wish to secure by Letters Patent is--

The plate containing the semicircular openings, and two flues, and the uses to which I have applied it, also the cover of the grate, and the damper at the back of the grate, and the way in which I have applied them.

=== UnitedStatesPatent34 ===

IMPROVEMENT IN VERTICAL CYLINDRICAL STEAM-BOILERS

United States Patent 34

Issue date: September 29, 1836

Inventors: JOSEPH W. STRANGE AND ELIAS STRANGE

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that we, Joseph W. Strange and Elias Strange, of Taunton, in the county of Bristol and State of Massachusetts, have invented an Improvement in Vertical Cylindrical Steam-Boilers; and we do hereby declare that the following is a full and exact description thereof, reference being had to the drawings which accompany and make a part of this specification.

In this boiler the furnace and ash-pit are situated in the manner common to vertical cylindrical boilers, and as we generally construct it we employ three concentric cylinders, the middle one of which constitutes the main flue immediately above the furnace, and between which and the second cylinder the main body of the water to be heated is contained. The space between the second and outer cylinder forms an exterior flue surrounding the boiler, and within it also are contained tubes leading from the upper to the lower part of the boiler for the circulation of water in a way to be presently described.

Figure 1 in the accompanying drawings represents a vertical section of the boiler, A being the ash-pit and B the furnace. C is the vertical flue closed at the upper end by a cap or cover c, the communication from the center flue C to that which surrounds the boiler being through a series of tubes and running horizontally, or nearly so, to the space between the second and exterior cylinders. These tubes are marked D D, and the outer space into which they open is marked E E. They of course operate as so many flues, the heated air from the furnace passing through them, and in doing so communicating its heat to the water by which they are surrounded.

Fig. 2 is a horizontal section of the boiler through one of the tiers of horizontal tubes, of which ten are represented in Fig. 1.

The same letters are used in both figures to designate similar parts.

F F F, Figs. 1 and 2, is the water-space between the tubes. The dotted line G, Fig. 1, is the water-line and H the steam-chamber.

The number of tubes passing horizontally may be varied; but, as shown in the drawings, they would amount to eighty, there being eight in each of the ten tiers. To cause a circulation of water in the boiler, we place a number of tubes passing vertically through the space E and opening into the water at the upper and lower ends of the boiler. Two of these tubes are seen at 1 1. The number of these may vary; but we think that eight will be sufficient. The outer wall or crust of the space E E may, if preferred, be built of brick or other material; or if made of sheet-iron it may be surrounded by brick-work or other bad conductor of heat.

Instead of placing the tubes 1 1 in the way described, we intend sometimes to surround what in Fig. 1 is the outer cylinder by a fourth, forming a space J J, Fig. 3, communicating above and below with the water in the boiler and allowing of a free circulation thereof. This space is also represented at J J, Fig. 2. The variation in the arrangement of the parts which will be rendered necessary by the substitution of this cylindrical water-space for the tubes will be apparent to every competent engineer.

We have not given any particular dimensions or scale of proportions, as these may be changed without altering the principle of construction and may be safely left to the judgment of those conversant with such structures.

We do not claim to be the inventors of the individual parts of the within-described boiler, concentric cylinders, and horizontal and vertical tubes, both of the passage of heated air and the conveyance of water being well known and having been frequently employed in boilers; but

What we do claim as our invention is--

The manner in which we have arranged and combined these cylinders and tubes, as herein set forth, constructing, as we believe, a boiler which is essentially new in its general character.

=== UnitedStatesPatent35 ===

SLIDING SAWMILL CRANK

United States Patent 35

Issue date: September 29, 1836

Inventor: BENJAMIN F. SNYDER

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Benjamin F. Snyder, of Elmira, in the county of Chemung (late Tioga county) and State of New York, have invented a new and useful Improvement called the "Sliding Sawmill-Cranks," and that the following is a full and exact description of the said machine as invented by me, a new improvement called the "sliding sawmill-cranks," which is to be applied to the balance-wheel of the sawmill for the purpose of increasing the motion of the saw-gate in order that the saw may perform two strokes to one revolution of the balance-wheel.

This balance wheel is placed on a gudgeon or shaft, and directly under the center of the saw gate and is placed and turns in a vertical division. In this wheel are placed two rabbets of about three, or four inches wide, crossing each other at the center of the balance wheel and at right angles to each other, the length of each rabbet being equal to the diameter of the balance wheel, these rabbets, to be formed by bolting or countersinking straight guides called the wheel rabbeted guides. Two slides of about twenty two inches in length or of such other length as may be thought necessary are formed to move one in each of the above mentioned rabbets, the rabbeted guides being so contrived as to confine the slides within the rabbets, and so as to tighten, or loosen the sides at pleasure by bolting, screwing-, keying, or otherwise. Each slide is fastened to the pitman by means of a gudgeon, or wrist placed in the center of the slide. These gudgeons or wrists may be about four or five inches in length, two or two and a half inches in diameter, and made accurately round. They revolve in boxes fixed in the pitman, the lower box to be placed in the pitman about six inches from the lower end, the upper box is to be at a sufficient distance from the lower one to make the movement of the saw-gate of such extent as may be thought necessary, which movement will be equal in extent to the distance at which the centers of the above mentioned wrists or gudgeons are from each other. The diameter of the balance wheel to be such as to permit the full play of the slides, and the slides not of such length as to interfere with each other.

The invention claimed by me to be new in the above specification is as follows:

The application of the above described slides moving in rabbets crossing each other on said wheel to the purpose of making the saw-gate perform two strokes at one revolution of the above mentioned wheel.

=== UnitedStatesPatent36 ===

BRAKE FOR WAGONS, CARRIAGES, &c.

United States Patent 36

Issue date: September 29, 1836

Inventor: HENRY WEST

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Henry West, of Quincy, in the county of Norfolk and Commonwealth of Massachusetts, mason, have invented and applied to use a new and useful improvement in the use and application of brakes to the wheels of wagons, stagecoaches, and other vehicles for carrying burdens on the common roads to check their speed in descending hills, which invention and improvement I specify as follows--that is to say, for the better understanding thereof drawings on three plates are hereto annexed and are to be taken and considered as a part of this specification.

Plate numbered one is a side elevation of a wagon, with a view of the brake; plate numbered two is an end elevation of the same with part of the brake drawn separately, and at large; plate numbered three is a top view of the same; the figures excepting parts of the brake at large are drawn on a scale of three-fourths of an inch to the foot, and the parts aforesaid are drawn on a scale of an inch to a foot.

f, indicates what I denominate the brake wheel, which is a circular rim like that of a wheel made of wood, and hooped with iron with a flange on each side rising about an inch and a half above the rim so as to form a groove for the brake. This brake wheel should be in the proportion of about two feet diameter and about three inches in thickness, and two inches in breadth for a wagon wheel of five feet in diameter. The brake wheel is fastened to the spokes of the hindmost wheel of the wagon, stage coach or other carriage, on the inside of the wheel, by clasps of iron passing around the spokes and through the rim of the brake wheel, and confined by nuts on the opposite sides, e, indicates the brake of wood about two inches wide and about three inches thick capped on the outside with a strong piece of iron like the tire of a wheel fastened to it by screws, and nails to give strength to the brake, which on the inside is concave so as to fit in the groove and to conform as nearly as may be to the periphery of the brake wheel. The brake turned at the hindmost end turns upon a hinge fixed to a piece of wood, attached to the wagon, carriage, or vehicle, and acts as a lever where the hinge serves as the fulcrum. At the opposite end the brake is connected with a lever indicated d, made of wrought iron of the shape represented in the drawing in plate numbered one, and fixed to a cross piece, which passes under the carriage, and is fixed to a like lever of a like brake to a like brake wheel, on the other side when two brakes are used, which is deemed best in all cases. At the end of this lever is a rope or chain A, connected with the shaft a, of the ratchet wheel c.

The ratchet wheel may be turned by a crank d having a square socket adjusted to the projecting end of the shaft of the ratchet wheel, and operating like a watch key. When it is required to have the crank near the driver's seat, as in stage coaches, and the like carriages, the rope h, may be extended and fixed to the shaft of the wheel j, which may be operated upon by a bevel wheel, to be moved by the crank. There ought to be a brake wheel and brake for each hind wheel of the carriage.

What I claim as new is--

The use and application of a brake in connection with the brake wheel in manner aforesaid for the purposes aforesaid.

=== UnitedStatesPatent37 ===

CRANE-STOVE

United States Patent 37

Issue date: September 28, 1836

Inventor: ELISHA TOWN

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Elisha Town, of Montpelier, in the county of Washington and the State of Vermont, have invented a new and useful Improvement in Cooking-Stoves, called "Elisha Town's Improved Crane-Stove;" and I do hereby declare that the following is a full and exact description. This stove consists of a bottom plate cast whole excepting that part directly under the fire room and is about three feet and eight inches long one half of which is somewhat elliptical and constitutes the hearth and seat for the fire room and is about two feet and ten inches wide at the front of the body of the stove. The other half of the bottom plate passes off horizontally and parallel to the hearth part and is reduced to the width of twenty eight inches and is of a rectangular form. The seat of the fire room is cast in a separate piece from the other part of the bottom-plate and is placed into and rests upon flanches upon the sides and ends of the main portion of the bottom plate, and is sunk, two inches below the surface of the hearth, directly over this part of the bottom plate, the oven and the flues passing under, and at the back side of the oven, are placed. The bottom plate rests upon four legs, on the edges of the rectangular part of the bottom plate, and upon the hearth are cast flanches for fixing the side plates of the stove in their proper positions. The sides are about twelve inches high and covered by a top plate corresponding nearly in its form to the bottom plate except that part of the bottom plate which is necessary for a hearth in front of the body of the stove. In the top plate over the fire room and in front of and between the cranes is a boiler hole about eight inches in diameter and the back part of the top plate is a hole and collar for stove pipe.

The oven is constructed by passing plates from side to side of the stove leaving spaces of about one and one half inches between it and the bottom, top and back plates. These spaces are the flues for conveying the flame and heat or smoke around the oven and to the pipe. In front of the oven and between it and the fire room, is a chamber formed on the back side by an oven plate, and in front and on the top by a thick plate the bottom of this chamber being formed by an extension of the bottom plate of the oven and by means of this chamber the temperature of the oven is equalized. Between the chamber and fire room is a thick plate distant, about two inches from the chamber and reaching within about five or six inches of the stop plate. The fire room occupies the front part and about one third of the body of the stove.

The heat is regulated by a damper in the front part of the fire room which slides up, and down in grooves directly over the fire room are two boiler places which I call cranes. These cranes revolve by axes being placed in the rear corners of the fire room on the sides of the stove, with their pivots inserted in the bottom and top plates. They are from three to four inches deep and parallel when swung in, with the sides of the stove without bottoms and with collars for resting places for kettles. These cranes are cast in parts separate from the top plate.

When swung forward, the projecting top plates or wings assume the places of the boiler holes and prevent the passage of the fire and smoke into the room by swinging the boilers off, they are deprived of the greatest portion of the heat of the fire and the quantity of the heat necessary for cooking is regulated thereby, as a current of cold air is then permitted to pass underneath the boiler so as to drive the heat from the same.

What I claim as my invention and desire to secure by Letters Patent is--

The application of the crane or hinge to the boiler places in cooking stoves as herein described.

=== UnitedStatesPatent38 ===

HORIZONTAL BOOT-CLAMP

United States Patent 38

Issue date: October 4, 1836

Issue date: 1836

Inventor: E. G. POMEROY

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Ebenezer G. Pomeroy, of Newark, in the county of Licking and State of Ohio, have invented, constructed, made, and applied to use a new and useful Improvement Upon my Former Improvement in Crimping Boots, called "The Horizontal Boot-Clamp," specified in the words following, reference being had to the annexed drawings of the same, making part of this specification.

This improvement in crimping is an improvement of my machine for crimping boots, for which I obtained a patent bearing date the twenty-seventh day of July, A. D. 1824, the specification, or schedule whereof is in the words following, viz: This machine is calculated to improve, and facilitate the crimping of boots. It is composed of a shin or board, for giving the front of the boot its proper shape together with any number of straining clamps made of iron, or any suitable material, and also any number of holding clamps made similar to the cabinet maker's veneering clamps, these are to hold the front of the boot to its place till dry. You may use the straining clamps for other boards or shins while the others are drying. The power is given to the straining clamps by a thumb screw to each clamp. My peculiar improvement consists in having, and using the above clamps instead of pincers, and tacks for drawing the leather on the board or shin, and after being down to its proper place to be secured by the above described holding clamps.

The distinctive character of my present improvement consists in using a horizontal plate having its ends turned up at right angles, forming ears with two round apertures in each, in a line with each other, through which round pins tapered like a wedge are inserted to hold securely the ends of the leather to be strained, there being two parallel grooves in said plate into which the pins force the leather, and thus increase their hold on the same, and from the other side projects a tube in which a female screw is cut, said tube being inserted into an aperture made in the heel of the shin, and which is caused to advance into or recede from said aperture by means of a thumb screw similarly constructed to the one described in my former patent, said screw turning in the female screw in the tube just described, and bearing on a step at the bottom of the aperture in the shin by which the motion just mentioned is given to the plate, or as I shall hereafter term it the horizontal clamp. The shin excepting the aperture in the heel is similarly constructed to those in use. The leather is put over the shin in the usual method; but its ends are secured, in the horizontal clamp in the manner before described, and strained by turning the thumb screw which draws the leather over the shin, simultaneously on each side.

Figure 1, represents the clamp with the tube inserted in the aperture in the heel of the shin; A, the thumb screw; B, the clamp; E, the shin; F, the heel. Fig. 2, represents the clamp, and screw detached from the shin; C, the tube; D, the point of the screw; Fig. 3, top view of the clamp; H, the grooves; I, the ears; Fig. 4, the tapered pins marked G. Fig. 5, represents a side view of the apparatus as in operation, in which K, is the leather being strained. Fig. 6, represents an edge view of the straining apparatus.

The invention claimed and desired to be secured by Letters Patent consists in--

The use, and application of the before described horizontal clamp for crimping boots, constructed with a plate having ears, apertures, and channels, in combination with the wedge framed pins to compress the leather into the channel, and hold it fast; but I make no claim to the tube, and female screw, or to the thumb screw.

=== UnitedStatesPatent39 ===

PURIFYING WATER FOR USE IN STEAM-BOILERS

Issue date: October 4, 1836

Inventor: MOODY PARK

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Moody Park, of Madison, in the county of Jefferson and State of Indiana, have invented a new and useful Improvement in Methods of Purifying Water from Lime and other Substances Before it Enters the Boiler, which is described as follows, reference being had to the annexed drawing of the same, making part of this specification.

In the common method of generating steam, the lime, earthy substances, &c., contained in the water, are deposited, and adhere around the inner surface of the boiler, thus not only requiring it to be frequently emptied, and cleaned but the accumulation of the lime, earth, or sediment within the boiler prevents the water from doing its office of protecting it by conveying on the heat into the water, but by this accumulation of sediment the boiler is rendered liable to be burnt out in a short time.

The improvement which I have made is designed to obviate these evils, and consists of the following apparatus:

In addition to the boiler, and engine heater for the cold water I construct another vessel, A, in which the water is first boiled, and purified before it enters the boiler. This vessel is first constructed of a size, shape, and strength adapted to the boiler, inside this vessel A, is a partition B, dividing it longitudinally into two chambers, C, D, at one end of one of the chambers, C, is placed the heater E, communicating with the main boiler by a pipe F, in which there is a stop-cock G, and in the other end of this chamber is placed a quantity of hay, or straw or other fibrous substance to which the lime, &c. will adhere, and which is removed by changing the hay, &c. The water passing from one side to the other through an aperture H, in the end of the partition, and in this side hay, &c. is also placed. Near the end of the last mentioned chamber are two cross partitions I, K, punched with holes to prevent the hay, . &c. passing with the water to the pipe L, conducting to the force-pump.

In one end of the heater is a cock M, to let off the condensed steam, the water from the engine heater passes to the vessel or cistern A, by a pipe N, where it is boiled by the heater communicating with the boiler, the steam passing from the boiler through the pipe F, to the heater E, the lime or other substance with which the water is impregnated adhering to the hay, &c. the water thus purified passes to the force-pump, from whence it is pumped into the boiler in the usual way, the strainers serving to arrest the passage of hay, andc. to the pipe of the force-pump.

The invention here claimed as new, and original and for which a patent is solicited, consists in--

The method of purifying water before it enters the boiler, by means of the before described apparatus.

=== UnitedStatesPatent40 ===

DOUBLE HYDROSTATIC OIL-PRESS

United States Patent 40

Issue date: October 5, 1836

Inventors: ORESTES BADGER AND ORRIN SULL

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Orestes Badger, of the town of Otsego, in the county of Otsego and the State of New York, and I, Orrin Sull, of the town of Waterloo, in the county of Seneca, in the State of New York, did on the ninth day of August, in the year one thousand eight hundred and thirty-two, obtain Letters Patent of the United States for an Improvement in Hydrostatic Presses, which we denominated the "Double Hydrostatic Oil-Press"; and we do hereby declare that the following is a full and exact description of the said hydrostatic press, which description is to be taken in lieu of that upon which the above-named Letters Patent were originally granted, the said Letters Patent being hereby surrendered on account of defects which have been discovered in the specification, and the following conforming, as we verily believe, with requirements of the laws in that case made and provided.

The double hydrostatic oil press as constructed by us operates upon the seed, or other substance to be pressed, by means of two pistons which are forced out of the opposite ends of a cylinder placed horizontally, which two pistons are subjected simultaneously to the power produced by the ordinary hydrostatic press, or any forcing pump operating upon the same principle.

The different parts of this press may be varied in size as may be preferred, and the measurements herein given may be considered therefore as only intended to facilitate description, and as presenting the machine in what may be considered its ordinary size. The frame which is to contain the pressing cylinder, the pistons, and the article to be pressed may be made in part of wood, or altogether of iron, care being had so to construct it that it shall have sufficient strength to sustain the great pressure to which it is subjected. It consists mainly of two side pieces, or cheeks, and of two end pieces, or cheeks, and of two end pieces, or heads, the thickness of these will depend upon the materials employed in making them, the end pieces, or heads however are always best made or cast iron, which should be from four to six inches in thickness, when put together the space between the heads should be from eight to ten feet, that between the cheeks from two to two and a half feet, the width of the frame may be from fourteen inches to two feet. It is to be supported upon legs, or blocks which raise it to a convenient height from the floor, say twelve, or fourteen inches, the pressing cylinder is to be placed in the middle between the heads, and sides of the machine frame where it is to be secured by proper plates, and bolts. It may be made of cast iron from three to five feet in length, its chamber extends from end to end, and may be from ten to twelve inches in diameter, its thickness from two, and a half to five inches, and hooped with heavy bars of wrought iron. Into each end of this cylinder is fitted a piston made solid, and fitting the bore, which are to be packed, or leathered in the way usual in hydrostatic presses. These pistons extend out from each end of the cylinder having heads on them, and between which heads, and the end pieces of the frame, the pressure is to be made. The pistons of course must be of such length as to adapt them to the length of the frame, leaving just enough room for the article pressed. The hydrostatic pressure is made, by forcing water into the pressing cylinder through an opening in the middle of the cylinder between the two pistons forcing them out horizontally in the direction of the ends of the frame. The common forcing pump used for hydrostatic presses together with the safety valve, and usual appendages of hydrostatic presses being employed will produce the necessary pressure in the aforesaid cylinder. The tubs to contain the seed, or other article to be pressed, are made, and managed, in the usual manner being placed edgewise resting on bars to sustain them in the proper position between the ends of the pistons, and the heads of the frame.

All that is claimed as constituting the invention or improvement, for which a patent is claimed is--

The employment of two pistons operated upon in the manner, and for the purposes herein set forth for pressing oil from seeds, and for pressing other articles to which the same may be adapted by means of hydrostatic pressure, by which means the labor of so doing is lessened, not because any increase of power is obtained, but because two charges are pressed at the same time, and the charging with water, and also the discharging has to be less frequently performed.

=== UnitedStatesPatent41 ===

HAND PRINTING-PRESS

United States Patent 41

Issue date: October 3, 1836

Inventor: FREDERICK J. AUSTIN

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Frederick J. Austin, of the city of New York, machinist, have invented a new and useful improvement in hand printing-presses by which the friction in taking an impression is lessened and the power applied in a manner more direct and efficient than heretofore; and I do hereby declare that the following is a full and exact description thereof, reference being had to the drawings, which accompany and make a part of this specification.

The castings or other frame of this press may be made, and put together of the usual modes of the bed, the round, the platen, and other parts may also be constructed in any of the known ways that are suitable to such process, my invention relating solely to the arrangement of the apparatus by which the power of the lever is communicated to the toggle joints or knees by which the platen is moved up and down.

Figure 1, in the drawings is a side view of the press, and Fig. 2, a front view thereof.

In these figures however, but little of the peculiarity of its construction is shown, this being principally represented in Figs. 3, and 4, which gives a view of the upper side of the platen, and the curvilinear piece with the toggle joints, or knees to be presently described.

In all of these figures the parts which correspond are designated by the same letters of reference.

A, Fig. 3, is an iron plate which extends across from, one side or check of the press to the other where it is firmly attached.

B, is an opening through this plate within which the knees or toggle joints work. C, is a horizontal segment of the upper segment of the joint.

D, is a piece which forms a part of the lower segment of the knee of toggle joint, being a continuation thereof upward from one side thereof so as to rise above the rule joint by which they are connected, and to receive the action of the piece E, which is jointed to the lever or arbor of the press in such a situation, and as compels it to advance by the pull in a direct or straight line, or very nearly so during its whole action, the manner in which this rises from the lower knee is shown more directly in Fig. 6, it being a detached drawing of the lower knee. The lever is so formed as to admit the joint pins G, H, to pass through it at a distance of three or four inches apart a line connecting their centers forming a right angle, or nearly so with the line of the lever. The straps I, connected to the lever by the pin H, works at its other end, on a pin J, passing also through K, a piece firmly attached to the plate A, and to the side of the press. A second strap corresponding with J, seen at J1, Fig. 2, is placed under the lever, the same joint pin passing through both. A part of the plate A, is to serve as a fulcrum or bearing against which the lever works in such a way that its points of bearing is continually changing. Thus L, is made a curvilinear, and has within it cogs or teeth, one of which is seen at M, and into these teeth there gears a segment pinion N, securely fastened upon the lower side of the lever, thus forming the progressive fullcrum above mentioned. The position of the lever is shown in the drawing, Fig. 3, is that in which it stands when the platen is raised to its greatest height, and when forced completely down, J, H, and G, will be in a straight line, or nearly so, and by the arrangement herein shown the piece E, which acts against the toggle joint will during the whole progress of the pull move in a straight line, or nearly so, and will consequently convey the power of the lever in the act of taking an impression with less loss, than is encountered in processes made upon any of the plans heretofore known. These parts are more distinctly shown in Fig. 4, which is a detached drawing of the plate A, and the segment pinion N. L, is a portion of the part formed curvilinear, and embraces the principle of the epicycloid in which a small circle is made to roll along the inside of a large one. The dotted lines represent one of the straps I, which retain the segment N, in its place, and by turning on the joint pins I, H, compels the teeth always to come in contact. The lever is firmly secured on the upper side of the pinion N, as shown in Fig. 3, and by moving back, and forward will cause the different teeth to engage, and thus form the progressive fulcrum before described. In this arrangement the straps I, J, and the end of the lever form a horizontal toggle joint which receives the power of the lever, and through them it is communicated to the vertical toggle joints or knees, and thereby much increasing the power of the press.

What I claim as my invention, and wish 5 to secure by Letters Patent is--

The particular arrangement of the part conveying the power of the lever, to the toggle joint or knees, in which a pinion is geared into teeth so as to form a progressive fulcrum for the purpose, and substantially in the manner herein set forth, not including however by this description, and claim to limit myself in the construction and arrangement of the parts precisely to the form and manner given, but to vary the same as I may think proper while the same end is attained by analogous means.

=== UnitedStatesPatent42 ===

HANGING LAMP

United States Patent 42

Issue date: October 8, 1836; Antedated August 13, 1836.

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Alonzo Platt, of Middletown, in the county of Middlesex and State of Connecticut, have invented a new and useful Hanging Lamp, which I call the Union Lamp; and I do hereby declare that the following is a full and exact description thereof.

In my invention a clear and vivid light is produced by the union of three (or more or less) separate and distinct lamps or reservoirs, so combined as to burn under one glass, these lamps may be made of different shapes to suit the fancy, but that of a fish is recommended as the best.

To construct the lamp let the several fishes be so arranged heads to heads, as to make equal divisions of a circle described upon their opposite ends. The heads should not be in close contact, but a little distance apart. Let the fishes be connected together by small braces or by a ring near their heads, the fishes or lamps may be of block tin or any other suitable metal cast whole in molds, or cast in two or more parts, and afterward soldered together. They may be painted or otherwise ornamented at pleasure. Let there be flat tubes for the wicks, about one inch in width, and two or more inches in length, made of tin or other proper metal let in at the heads of the fishes standing obliquely from a perpendicular position, the upper ends being nearest the center. The wick tubes are made to open and shut in the manner of a hinge for the purpose of removing and replacing the wicks with facility. The orifices in which the tubes are inserted are encircled by small collars so disposed as to catch the drippings from the wicks. Let the feeder of each lamp be inserted on any convenient part of it, place a common globular glass tube over the wicks in the usual way, suspend the lamp by means of chains, and a canopy in the same manner, as other lamps are suspended.

From the foregoing arrangement it will appear that there is an open space between the several lamps through which the light from the burning wicks is communicated in direct rays without the obstruction of any surrounding shell or body, making not only a more perfect light in all directions than any other hanging light produces, but an entirely perfect light under the lamp casting no circle, shadow or shade.

When necessary a plane glass may be placed upon the connecting braces or ring or in some other manner under the flame, so as to catch sparks falling from the wicks, which will render it a safe and efficient lamp for cotton factories, and in other dangerous situations.

The lamp, and its appendages are represented by the accompanying drawings. The references are the same in all figures. A hinged wick tube, B, B, B, lamps C, ring D, D, D, tube cases, E, E, E, feeders.

What I claim as my invention is-

The wick tube as it opens in the manner of a hinge, and also the above combination or arrangement of independent or distinct lamps burning under one glass.

=== UnitedStatesPatent45 ===

MACHINE FOR SHELLING CORN

United States Patent 45

Issue date: October 11, 1836

Inventor: JOSEPH G. BALDWIN

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Joseph G. Baldwin, of Staunton, in the county of Augusta and State of Virginia, have invented an Improvement in the Construction of Machines for Shelling Corn, and that the following is a full and exact description thereof.

The machine which I have improved is of that kind in which the shelling is effected by the revolution of a vertical cast iron disk having teeth or small protuberances on one of its faces, between which, and an elastic piece of wood or other material the corn is made to pass.

The frame of this machine may be varied in its form, and the disk may be driven by a whirl, and band or by gearing as may be preferred in three parts.

I do not claim to have made any improvement but limit myself in this particular to the manner in which I construct that part of the machine which receives the ears to be shelled and bear them up against the revolving disk until the operation is completed. In front of the revolving disk I make a fixture of any suitable material preferring it to be in the form of a perforated plate of cast-iron extending across the whole diameter of the disk, and reaching up to its center, the upper edge of the piece serving to receive one of the gudgeons of the disk. This fixture or plate stands at such distance from the disk as to allow the feeding in the ears' between them, and partitions project from it so as to come nearly into contact with the teeth, these partitions forming two, three or any convenient number of troughs in which the ears are received, and in passing through which they are shelled,--a steel spring forms the back of each of these troughs being attached by the upper end to the iron plate or other above described the lower end inclining toward the disk, and approaching within a short distance of it.

What I claim as constituting my improvement is--

The constructing- of two, three, or any other convenient number of troughs sufficiently large to receive the ears of corn to be shelled, and the bearing these ears up against the revolving disk by steel springs the whole being fixed, and operating in the way herein set forth.

=== UnitedStatesPatent46 ===

SHUTTER-FASTENER FOR STORE WINDOWS, &c.

United States Patent 46

Filing date: October 11, 1836

Inventors: NEAL HALL AND JOTHAM CHASE

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that we, Neal Hall, of Brunswick, in the county of Cumberland, and Jotham Chase, of Waterboro, in the county of York, and both of the State of Maine, have invented a new and useful Improvement in Modes of Fastening Shutters for Windows in Stores and other Buildings Where Security is Required, and that the following is a full and exact description of the same, reference being had to the annexed drawings of the same, making part of this specification.

The bolt A, in Figure 1, which goes through the bar B, of the shutter is to be made in such a way that the socket or eye C, shall be in a vertical position, and that the key D, will enter this socket or eye perpendicularly, the key is to be longer than usual, and is to be attached by staples E, to the window frame of the building directly over the hole where the end of the bolt comes through, and is to be kept in a perpendicular direction by means of these staples, and made to play up, and down freely. There is to be a small stop, or shoulder F, on each side of that part of the key which lies between the staples so as to prevent the key dropping beyond the required depth. Underneath the key there is to be a spring G, which covers the hole where the end of the bolt comes through, and on the upper end of the spring there is a shoulder H, upon which the lower end of the key rests when the bolt is out of the hole, and the key is up, a small plate of iron may be nailed over the hole outside the building with a hole through the same of a shape, and size corresponding to the bolt which passes through it.

The operation is as follows: When the shutter is closed, and the bar put in its place, the bolt is put into the hole the ends of which strike against the steel springs which being pressed off, lets the key drop into the socket, or eye of the bolt, when the shutter is to be opened the key is raised, when the steel spring acts against the end of the bolt, and brings the shoulder (on the upper part of the steel spring) under the key and prevents its dropping down. The advantage gained is this: That one person can close, and fasten the shutters, and after they are closed it presents increased obstacles to persons entering from without.

Fig. 2, represents another modification of the same principle in which a is the key, b, fork in the lower end, c, shoulder at the upper end, d, stop between the staples, e, staples confining the key in a vertical position but allowing it to move freely up, and down, f, spring, g, shoulder or part bent at right angles, h, rivets or screws fastening the spring to the inside of the frame, i, bolt, and j, knob on the end of the same.

Fig. 3, represents a third modification, l, the spring in two parts, m, the staple, n, the rivets to fasten it to the window frame, o, the bolt, p, conically shaped knob of the same. This spring can be placed horizontally as well as vertically, or in any position required.

The invention claimed consists in--

1. The mode of fastening window shutters by means of a flat spring fastened on the inside of the window frame with a shoulder, or bent at right angles at its loose end upon which rests a sliding key held in a vertical position by staples, and which when the bolt from the outside is passed through the bar, and frame comes in contact with the spring causing it to yield inward, and pass from under the key, said key from its gravity drops into the eye of the bolt the shoulder on the key retaining it in a proper position, by which means the shutter is secured from the outside of the building, without the inconvenience of passing to the inside to insert the key, as in the usual mode.

2. Also in making the key forked, so as to embrace the end of a bolt with a knob on its smaller end, likewise in having the spring divided about two thirds its length more or less so that the knob of the bolt which is made, of a conical shape, may in entering cause the two parts of the spring to open until the knob of the bolt is passed through when they close around its neck, and thus hold it fast, by which arrangement this spring may be placed, either vertically, horizontally, or in any position required.

=== UnitedStatesPatent47 ===

LOOM FOR WEAVING CLOTH FOR STOCKS

United States Patent 47

Issue date: October 11, 1836

Inventor: CONRAD KILE

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Conrad Kile, of the city of Philadelphia, State of Pennsylvania, have invented certain new and useful Improvements in Looms for Weaving Cloth for Stocks, (for which loom I obtained Letters Patent of the United States, dated September 18th, 1835;) and I do hereby declare that the following is a full and exact description thereof.

My improvement upon the loom above named consists principally in the means by which I adapt the common straight lathe to the concave breast beam used by me. For this purpose the breast, or strain beam is cut off, or made straight on that side which is toward the lathe, and is also on that side hollowed out lengthwise, so as to admit the lower rail, or piece of the frame of the lathe to pass within it, thereby allowing the reel to come in contact, or nearly so with the breast beam, at every beat thereof. The upper part, and that portion of the fixed breast beam, which is toward the workman, over which the yarn or chain passes is hollowed out for the purpose fully set forth, and described in my former specification. At every beat the lathe passes up to the same point, the woven material being received on the cloth beam to an extent equal to that occupied by the bristle or other filling against which it strikes. On one end of the hollowed cloth beam there is a wheel or pulley around which a cord passes having a weight attached to it to operate the cloth beam as it receives the cloth, this wheel, or pulley is also furnished with a ratchet wheel and pawl to admit of the weight being wound up when necessary without disturbing the cloth beam. A wheel, or pulley similarly constructed are applied to the yarn beam by which the proper degree of strain is given thereto while the web is allowed to move forward readily at every beat of the lathe.

The yarn beam may be of any length which may be preferred taking care to make the concavity in it, and my cloth beam such as shall adapt them to the curvature which I wish to give to the woven material.

With my improved loom I can use such bobbins, lathe, and shutters as in ordinary use, either using them by hand, or operating them by power as I may see fit.

As regards the curvature given to the hollow of the yarn, and cloth beams I now find the girth of the middle of them should be about one fourth less than that of the ends, the curvature of the breast beam being also adapted thereto.

What I claim as my improvement is--

1. The manner in which I construct the breast beam as above described for the purpose of enabling me to use a straight lathe for weaving stock bodies, such lathe being made in the ordinary way.

2. I also claim those changes described as made in the arrangement of the other parts of the apparatus to adapt it to the carrying out of this improvement, the nature of which will be fully understood by comparing this description with that of my former loom, no part of which is intended to be claimed in this specification.

3. And I further claim the use of a loom constructed upon the principle set forth to the weaving of a variety of other articles to which a bias is given by having the chain longer in one part than in another, such for example as stock stiffeners, jackets, corsets or parts thereof.

=== UnitedStatesPatent48 ===

TURNOUT FOR RAILROADS

United States Patent 48

Issue date: October 11, 1836

Inventor: JOHN TALBOT

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, John Talbot, of the town of Portsmouth, in the county of Norfolk and State of Virginia, have invented a new and useful Improvement in Turnouts for Railroads, called "Talbot's Hinged Turnout," which is described as follows, reference being had to the annexed drawings of the same, making part of this specification.

This improved turn-out consists of two parallel inclined planes A, A, attached to the sides of the rails of the main track by hinges, and which, when not in use, are turned down, out of the way in the manner represented in Figure I, and when in use, or when it is required to make a turn, they are turned over upon the rails, Fig. II, so that the irons of the inclined planes shall be coincident with the irons of the main track, and thus change the direction of the track in any manner required, having also a section of a rail, B, to turn on hinges over the track at the curve as shown at C, Fig. II. The irons are made thinner than those of the main track, and tapered like a wedge as seen at D.

It will be perceived that this improvement will do away with the necessity of cutting into the main track, or of slackening the pace of the train as required in the use of the common turn-out.

The invention claimed consists in--

Making the movable sections of a turn-out for railroads to lap or turn over on the main track whether constructed in the precise manner here represented, or in any other containing the same principle.

=== UnitedStatesPatent5 ===

MACHINE FOR MORTISING SOLID WOODEN SHELLS OF SHIPS' TACKLE-BLOCKS

United States Patent 5

Issue date: Aug 10, 1836

Inventor: THOMAS BLANCHARD

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Thomas Blanchard, late of Springfield, in the county of Hampden and State of Massachusetts, but now of the city, county, and State of New York, have made and adapted to use certain new and useful improvements in machinery for boring and mortising solid wooden shells of ships' tackle-blocks, which machinery is also applicable to other similar purposes, and which machinery and my improvements and the mode of constructing and using the same are correctly and fully set forth in the following description and in the drawing annexed hereunto and making a part of this specification, wherein Figure 1, is an orthographical projection of the whole machine, and Fig. 2, are representations of certain parts, shown detached for the purpose of more clearly elucidating the same, the same letters, and" figures of reference being employed to denote the similar or corresponding part in all the several figures. A, A, A, A, are four vertical posts, B, B, B, B, are four cross timbers, and C, C, are two lengthwise timbers. These form the standard frame on which the whole of the machinery is fixed for work, and are represented as of wood, but may be made of iron.

Upon each of the upper pair of cross frame pieces B, is fixed a metal railway A, A, serving as tracks, and guides for four rollers b, b, b, b, having flanges on the inner edges to keep them in place. These rollers carry the two longitudinal arbors c, c, and upon these arbors the traverse frame B, is mounted so as to be easily moved upon the railway across the machine. The inner longitudinal edges of the frame B, are fitted with a bird beak rebate to receive the outer edges of the interior longitudinal slide frame c, in which are four connecting cross bars d, d, d, d, the two right hand of these being fitted with slots in the front ends, over these slots is placed the carriage bar e, having in it the screw center pivot f, with a wide thumb piece for conveniently turning the screw. At the back of the slide frame c, is a bearing block f, and corresponding with that, and the bar e, is the bearer bar A, made with flat flanged ends having slots which allow it to be placed at the needful distance, both from the block g, and the center bar e. The spur plate i, and block f, are set into the block g, so as to overlay, and be supported by the bar A, and the position of the spur i is regulated by the back center screw j, fixed on the stirrup, at the back of the block g, on which a small screw fixes the position of the spur i, when once regulated for the purposes hereafter described.

On the two bars, d, d, at the left hand part of the slide-frame C, is a smaller interior slide frame D, retained in place by the four slide pieces I, I, I, I, and having a horizontal motion which is directed, and regulated by the tooth rack M, having geared into it the pinion N, set on the arbor O, which is mounted in the bearings p, p, having the crank handle q, at the outer end. Upon the frame D, are fixed the two bearings r, r, in which the auger mandrel S, is mounted having the" drum, or pulley t, fitted on it, which may be arranged so as to be connected to a prime mover in any effectual mechanical manner. Upon, or in the nose of the mandrel S, is fitted the screw auger U, which may be made to shift so as to fix an auger of any required size. Immediately below the right hand part of the traverse frame B, upon the back part of the two lengthwise timbers C, C, are screwed two vertical slide pieces v, v, and in these is the vertical slide frame E, having two cross bars on which are fixed the bearing w, w, so as to receive the vertical mandrel, or bit stock x, working in a pivot on the lower bearing, and having a socket, or female screw to receive the bit y, the shaft of which is solid steel, or good case hardened iron the top being so fitted on one side that the steel cutter o, may be put in, and held securely by a screw cut in from the opposite side of the bit, and finished with a countersink flush head, having a notch in the manner of a common wood screw used by carpenters, and when thus finished as shown in the detached Fig. 2, the cutting part of this belt is very similar to the bit technically known by the name of the "spoonbit." Upon the bit stock, or mandrel X, is the drum, or pulley P1, fitted to communicate a very rapid rotary motion to the bit y, by a belt led in any suitable manner from a first mover. Upon each of the two side part of the vertical slide frame E, are fixed brackets Y1 each having an eye on the outer end, and through these eyes is rove the cord X1 the ends of which are connected to the horizontal winch W1, set in gearings hung under the upper frame piece C, and having the ratchet wheel V1, and crank handle w1, on its outer end, the long pawl t, being fixed on the lower cross bearer B, so that by its action through the ratchet wheel V1, it always bears the standing weight of the frame E.

Upon the side of the right hand post A, is fixed the vertical lever S, connected by the strap r1, to the treadle q1, over the small pulley P1, fixed on a standing bracket, or carriage on the cross frame B; above this is the lower slide O1, having a ratchet pawl W1, above the slide bar fitted on a small carriage having a slot and screw to adjust it for ratching into the upper part of the wheel V1, at the proper time of doing so when in motion as hereafter described, and a reversed pawl M1, on the other side of the ratchet wheel V1, acting below and downward, and fixed with screws in a slot. Above and on the inside of the vertical lever S1, is the connecting bar T1, made in two parts, one part connected by a pin joint at one end to the lever S1, and the other part connected at the opposite end to one corner of the traverse frame B, the required distance between the lever S1, and the corner of the frame B, being maintained and regulated by slots in one part through which screws go into the other part so as to hold the two parts to any desired adjustment of their joint length.

On the back posts A, A, are two bearings A1, A1, in which the crank shaft j1, revolves, the motion being given by a belt from any first mover to the drum, or pulley P1. These in practice may be fixed to any convenient part of the building wherein the machine is fixed for use. On the crank shaft outside the drum b, is a square head in which is a mortise made to receive the shifting crank arm, and pin h1, which is secured at any required radius by a screw, or gibs, and keys, or in any effective mechanical manner.

The walking beam g1, is coupled on the pin of the crank arm A1, and is made of a length to reach the tenon at the top of the vertical lever S1, which enters and is connected with the walking beam at that part by a mortise made for that purpose.

Immediately over the spoon bit Y, are fixed two vertical pieces of timber F, F, shown in the drawing as fixed to the frame, but which in practice for use in a full sized machine may be best hung and braced securely from the floor above the machine, or if made of iron may be fixed steadily in a standard frame rising out of the main body of the machine. Upon these timbers F, F, are fixed two slide guide pieces f1, f1, and between them is the slide e1, having mounted on it at the lower end a metal vertical plane, with a cutter, and mortise d1, both stock and cutter formed nearly in the way as the common carpenter's rebate plane, except that the cutter is set square, and near the point in the plane stock which descends some distance below the slide e1 to the upper end of the slide e1. The connecting rod or pitman piece e1, is jointed, and is regulated so as to ascend to, and be coupled onto a crank on a horizontal shaft quite fixed in vertical bearing carriages secured to the frame, or floor above the machine, and having drums or pulleys to connect the working parts last described to a first moving power, which drums, or pulleys to avoid complexity are not shown in the drawings. Underneath the traverse frame B, is the hand lever B1, having its fulcrum jointed on a crutch screwed into, and extending beyond the back part of the traverse frame B, and under the corresponding part of the slide frame G, is a stud working into a slot in the lever B1. By this lever, and slot the workman can move the slide frame e, longitudinally inside the traverse frame B, and fix it at any required adjustment as follows, The index gage plate a1, is screwed on the upper side of the front of the traverse frame B, having holes in its length, and slots near the ends by which it can be screwed in any definite position within the limits of its size, the holes being index gages or numbered joints to denote the distance it is required to move the slide frame C, in the large frame B, to place the block over the bit y, so as to obtain any required number, and distance in mortises. Upon the frame C, is fixed the tail of the index spring a2, into any hole in the index gage plate a1, and thereby secure the slide frame I, as may be required for the following purposes. When it is desired to make the mortise in a ship's tackle block for the reception of the sheave, and bore it for the pin, the machine as before described is first to be carefully adjusted by measure to the proper position for obtaining the required size, and position of mortise, and pin hole, and also have all the working parts duly connected to a first moving power. A block of the required size having been shaped from the rough wood, and having at the part intended for the head a center mark to be entered by the screw center f, and at the part termed by block makers the "arse." Three spur marks corresponding to the spurs in the spur plate i, is to be placed between these two points in the frame C, and tightly screwed in by the screw center, the workman then, by putting his foot on the treadle g1, forces the lever S1, toward the back of the machine, where the pawl w1, taking into the teeth of the ratchet wheel v1, forces it around in the same direction carrying the winch w1, around, and winding the cord X1 around it so as to raise the bit frame E, and bring the spoon bit y, up near the block, and returning the lever S1, back by hand the reverse pawl m, takes into the ratchet wheel v1, and again lifts the spoon bit y, nearer the block, or in a small machine the workman may accomplish this object by turning the crank handle u1, in * the same direction.

The walking beam g1 having previously hung out of gear on a hook is now brought down for the upper point of the lever S1 to enter the mortise prepared for it, and being moved alternately back and forward by the crank arm A1, operates through the lower slide bar f, and the pawls W1, and m1, and ratchet wheel v1, and winch w1, and cord X1 to raise the frame E, and spoon bit y, a certain regulated distance at each alternation of the lever S1. While this is doing alternations of the lever S1, operating through the connecting bar T1, on the traverse frame B, will carry it back, and forward on the rollers B, B, B, B. The length of the mortise required to be made in the block by which the spoon bit y, is made to cut horizontally as well as vertically, and thus make a mortise having two round ends through the block, whose length is regulated both by the radius of the shifting crank arm A1, and by two metal gage stops fixed on the right hand upper cross, frame B, and made with slots through which they can be screwed to, and maintained in any required position. So soon as the spoon bit y, commences to cut, the workman should set the auger u, to bore the pinhole in the block by turning the crank handle q, and sending the auger up to, and through the block that is being operated on, it being a saving of time to effect this operation while the spoon bit is cutting the mortise, and before that can come so high as to touch the auger while boring the pinhole. When these operations are thus far completed, the workman lifts off the walking frame g1, from the upper end of the lever S1, and first securing the frame B, in the proper position with the front arbor C, against the front gage stop, he lowers the frame E, by the winch w1, and raises it so as to make the bit y, cut a clean round end to the head part of the mortise in the block operated on, and when this is finished he lowers the frame E, so as to take the spoon bit out of the way, and draws the frame B, forward so as to stop the inside of the back arbor C, against the back gage stop, and holding it there, puts the crank shaft into operation, which sets the square, or arising chisel d2, into work, and this by a rapid alternation of descent, and ascent cuts out the opposite or as it is technically termed the arse end of the mortise square, and the workman now puts the chisel d2, out of gear, and removes the block, whose mortise is now so far finished to make room for others in succession to be mortised in the same way.

And I the said Thomas Blanchard do hereby declare that I do claim as my invention--

1. The movable cutter, or lip to the Spoon bit as the same is herein specifically described.

2. And I do herein further claim as my invention that hereinbefore specified arrangement of machinery, and tools by which the workman is enabled to bore the hole in a block for the sheave pin at the same time that the mortise is being made for the sheave.

3. And I also claim as my invention the application of a cutter fixed in a metal plane stock similar to the rebate plane in such a way that the lower or "arse" end of a block may be finished with a square end to the mortise for the sheave without being moved from that part of the machine wherein the mortise has been made.

4. I also claim as my invention the application of the index gage plate with numbered holes, and the index spring plates, and stud to regulate the working of the machinery so as to bore at any required distance any number of mortises or blocks so far as the size of the machine will allow.

5. And I do hereby declare that I do not claim as my invention any other of the several parts of the said machine, the same having been long previously well known. But

6. I do further, and finally claim as my invention that entire mechanical arrangement of other well known parts in combination with parts invented, and brought into use by me, that is hereinbefore substantially described, and set forth as my new, and useful improvement in machinery for mortising and boring ships' tackle blocks, which machinery may also be made applicable to other useful purposes of a similar kind.

7. And I claim as my invention, and improvement the adaptation and combination of all the parts of the aforesaid machinery as above described so as to produce the above described results in manner aforesaid.

=== UnitedStatesPatent50 ===

STOVE AND FIREPLACE

United States Patent 50

Issue date: Oct 11, 1836

Inventor: JORDAN L. MOTT

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Jordan L. Mott, of the city of New York, and State of New York, have invented an Improvement in Stoves, and also in Fireplaces with Open Grates, which improvement consists in an alteration made in the manner of forming the rings which constitute the shell or exterior of the furnace or fireplace for various kinds, as described, and claimed by me in the specifications annexed to Letters Patent granted to me and bearing date July 21, 1835, and also in the application of segments or portions of such rings to form the backs and sides of open grates or fireplaces, or such other parts or portions thereof other than the open bars--as are to contain the fuel, whether it be the back, sides, or bottom, which must in all cases be determined by the form given to such grate or fireplaces.

In Figure 1, in the accompanying drawing the improved rings are represented as applied to a stove the furnace part A, is circular, these rings are superimposed upon each other as described in the specifications of the patent above alluded to, but the exterior of each ring, instead of forming a continuous hoop, or circle is indented, and presents an uneven serrated surface, usually cut into the ornamental form of leaves. The reason for giving this form to the rings, or segments of rings is to obviate a difficulty which has been found to exist in the continuous ring, namely its liability to crack, from a sudden increase of temperature within the furnace, and the consequent expanding of the inside of the ring more rapidly than the heat could be conducted through it to expand the exterior. The ring may be simply scalloped, or notched as shown in the plan, Fig. 2, the ornament being merely a thing of fancy, or taste. Fig. 3, represents a stove or fireplace of a kind for which I have also obtained Letters Patent, and show the manner in which I apply the same principle to form the back, sides, or any other portion of a fireplace having an open front, but any other cast iron fireplace with an open front would have answered the purpose of exhibiting this application equally well as my improvement is not dependent upon the form of construction of the other parts. The back and sides B, consist of segments of such notched, scalloped, or ornamented rings which are combined together to the requisite height their ends being attached to the jamb plates or other convenient part of the fireplace by rods, screws, or otherwise.

What I claim as constituting the improvement for which I now ask Letters Patent, is--

The making of such scallops, or indentations as are herein described, in the rings which are used to constitute the shell of a furnace, stove, retort, or other apparatus in which fuel is to be burnt, or in using the sections of such rings, or other formed figures to constitute the back, sides, or bottoms of fireplaces which are open on one or more sides, these claims being made irrespective of the position of such ring, or segments of rings, as the position must be determined by the particular construction, and use of the apparatus in which they are employed.

=== UnitedStatesPatent53 ===

COMBINED PLOW, &c.

United States Patent 53

Issue date: October 15, 1836

Inventor: SAMUEL CLIME

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Samuel Clime, of Bucks county, Pennsylvania, have invented a combined plow, being a machine for plowing in light free soil, for plowing in grain, dressing Indian corn, and all other light work of similar kind.

The principle of combination on which the due construction of the machine depends is to place the line of draft, or beam so that the resistance to be overcome may bear equally on each side of that line. To effect this purpose the transverse beam or rest to which the several plows are attached is fastened to the beam precisely in the middle of the transverse beam, and having the center plow immediately under the point of intersection. The other plows are then placed equidistant on each side of the beam. This disposition brings the beam of the plow very nearly in the line of equal resistance, the middle plow becomes a center of motion, or fulcrum in which the whole machine balances, and adds greatly to the strength of the apparatus, and the firmness of its parts. The transverse beams cross the beam of the plow at an angle of forty five degrees thus placing the right hand plow as much before the next succeeding one as it is removed at a right angle on one side and thereby giving the greatest possible room, or space with the least length of beam. For the same reason the length of the sole of the plow should not much exceed its extreme breadth. The proportions used, and found convenient, are about ten inches in length by eight in breadth, and the turn of the mold board should be very little beyond a perpendicular from the hinder corner of the share.

The plows consist simply of a mould board, landside, and sheath, or standard. The mold board is drawn, flattened out at the lower edge so as to supply the place of a share, or wing. These should all be of iron either hammered, and rolled, or cast at the pleasure of the maker, and fastened into the transverse beam by the standard with a shoulder on the under side of the beam fitted to an iron collar, or codrill, and a screw or nut or strong wedge on the top of the beam. The standards are made one foot in height, and the draft, or depth of the plow is given by elevating the forward end of the beam about one inch the whole length of the beam being five feet. The hinder end of the beam is fastened in a piece of timber crossing it at right angles horizontally, and meeting a similar piece of timber laid parallel with the beam, and both of them fastened in the transverse beam, so as to brace the whole framework, and to form a rest for the stilts, or handles of the plow.

The machine is found to work well with plows of eight inches in breadth placed at the distance of fourteen inches from each other, thus cutting about ten inches each, and using five plows. Two horses are able to work this combined plow quite easily, and to pass over as much land in a day as three teams of two horses each with a common single plow.

To construct a combined plow, draw a right line A, B, for the beam about five feet in length. Draw another line C, D, for the transverse beam at an angle of forty five degrees with the former cutting at A, B, at a convenient distance from the hinder end, say fifteen inches, and carry C, D, with the right end forward to equal distances on each side of A, B, making the whole length of C, D, for five plows, say four feet eight inches, for three plows two feet four inches, and in proportion to the number, and size of the plows intended to be used allowances must be made in these measurements for the ends, and fastenings, the bracing and handles may be made of any form to please the maker, and combining strength with lightness of material. The transverse beam should be made of good white oak timber, not less than four inches deep, and having rivets well fastened passing horizontally through it at each end, or one inch at each side of each standard.

=== UnitedStatesPatent54 ===

ART OF MANAGING AND SUPPLYING FIRE FOR GENERATING STEAM IN LOCOMOTIVE

United States Patent 54

Issue date: October 15, 1836

Inventor: MATTHIAS W. BALDWIN

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Matthias W. Baldwin, of the city of Philadelphia, State of Pennsylvania, machinist, have invented a new and Improved Mode of Procedure in the Art of Managing and Supplying the Fire for the Generating of Steam in Locomotive-Engines; and I do hereby declare that the following is a full and exact description thereof.

My improvement in the art or method of managing the fire in the furnaces of locomotive engines consists simply making the fire in the furnace, fire-place, or grate which may be detached from, and appended to the boiler at pleasure. The intention of this new mode of managing the fire is to enable me, at each water station, or in any convenient place to have a clear coal fire waiting the arrival of the engine so that the grate or fire-place which has been in use, may be detached or slid out, and that containing the clear fire, made to occupy its place. I do not claim to have invented any new mode of constructing the apparatus employed as methods of effecting this are so obvious that they will at once present themselves to any competent engineer. The fire while burning may be placed under the reservoir from which the tender is to be supplied, thus rendering the heat generated available, giving a supply of hot water from that portion which would otherwise be wasted. The grate containing the fire may be placed on a small car, or on a long lever sunk below the railroad, and so arranged as to transfer it readily.

All that I claim as my invention, is--

The preparing a fire in a grate which may be transferred from the place where it is made to the proper place under the boiler of a locomotive steam engine for the generating of steam as hereinbefore set forth.

=== UnitedStatesPatent56 ===

DOOR-PLATE

United States Patent 56

Issue date: October 15, 1836

Inventor: ITHIEL S. RICHARDSON

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Ithiel S. Richardson, of Boston, in the county of Suffolk and Commonwealth of Massachusetts, have invented a new and Improved Mode of Constructing Door-Plates; and I do hereby declare that the following is a full and exact description.

The nature of my invention consists in the use of a plate similar to the common plates, of metal, or other substance. If metal be used I cut a hole through the plate on a circle, or in a line perpendicular, or otherwise, between this plate, and the door is introduced a circle, or slide, one side, or one end whereof is shown through hole in the front plate, on this circle or back plate are inscribed the words "to be shifted," perhaps the words, "In," "Out," "Open," "Shut," &c. The plate, or slide, or circle may be moved by a pinion at pleasure or otherwise, one or more circles may be used one before the other, so of the slides. The spindle which moves the circle passes through, the door, and has a hand or index to show when the front circle or slide is right, or the circle or slide may be moved by a key through the front plate when no hand or index would be needed, a spring or catch may be used to hold the circle or slide in its intended position. The front plate as well as the circle, and slide may be made to exhibit the name, &c. in type or it may be engraved or the impression may be stamped, each circle or slide may be so constructed, that it will exhibit nothing more than is seen on a common door-plate. If the front plate is transparent darken all parts of the plate except where you wish the circles or slides to be shown through. If several circles placed side by side, be used, there must be as many transparent places, as circles or slides, but if they are placed one before the other only one transparent place is needed, if a circle be used the edge may be made thick, and revolve against the holes. The plates may be placed on doors or elsewhere as required.

What I claim as my invention, and desire to secure by Letters Patent is--

The mode of combining, and arranging an apparatus to serve as a servant; to wit, an intelligible "door-plate," or "counterplate."

=== UnitedStatesPatent57 ===

HEMP AND FLAX ROVING MACHINE

United States Patent 57

Issue date: October 19, 1836

Inventor: SAMUEL GOUILLARD

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Samuel Gouillard, Jr.. of Boston, in the county of Suffolk and Commonwealth of Massachusetts, machinist, have invented, made, constructed, and applied to use a new and useful improvement in the art of combining and separating the fibers of flax, hemp, and Manila grass and forming the same into roving, which specify as follows--that is to say, for the explanation and understanding of my said invention and improvement reference is to be had to the drawings and plans hereto annexed, which are to be taken and considered as a part of this my specification. .

Plate numbered one, is a front view of the machine, plate numbered two, is a back view of the same machine, plate numbered three, is a side view of the same machine, and plate numbered four, is a vertical view of the same machine. The plans are drawn on a scale of two inches to the foot, and are intended to indicate the different sizes, and proportions of the different parts of the machine which are deemed best for operating with it upon the fibers of ordinary length to the greatest advantage.

The roman letter A, in the several plates indicates those parts, which belong to the frame of the machine.

B, designates what is denominated by me the fringe table on which the fibers hanging from the teeth in the fringe belt hereinafter mentioned in the form of a fringe rest, while the wipers act upon them.

The letter a, on plates 1 and 2, respectively indicates the drawing pulley to the main shaft indicated by Z, on plates 1, 2 and 3. C, on plate 2, indicates an endless screw upon the main shaft which acts on the pinion d, Plate 1, which pinion moves horizontally with a vertical shaft, Plates 1, and 2, turning in boxes, and connected with a fixed pulley at its upper end, which pulley revolves horizontally with the shaft, and gives motion to an endless belt c, Plates 1, 2, and 3, which I denominate the fringe belt, which belt passes around another pulley f, Plate 4, at the opposite side of the frame of the same size with itself, and on the same level, and moving horizontally by the friction of the belt. In this belt pointed steel, or metallic teeth, steel is preferable, are set or fixed vertically of such size, and at such distances from each other as the quality of the fiber to be combed may in the discretion of the operator require. For flax the fibers of which are of ordinary length, I prefer that they should be about one-eighth of an inch in diameter at the lower end, and taper to a point in the form of a common tailor's needle, and be about one and a half inches above the edge of the belt c, and about one-fourth of an inch apart from each other; and for hemp, or Manila grass the said teeth should be about one-third larger, and about three-eighths of an inch from each other. The dimensions first above mentioned however will serve even for hemp and Manila grass, but larger teeth are deemed . better in this case when the fibers are brittle. Different belts with teeth of different sizes to be changed one for the other according to the different kind of fibers to be operated upon may be used with advantage. This belt c, consists of two thicknesses of stout harness leather, between are inserted, and are held thereby the leather being glued together between them. This is deemed the most convenient, and best way of making the fringe belt with teeth, but the belt as it is obvious may be made of various other materials, and the teeth may be secured therein by various means which it is deemed unnecessary to describe.

Beyond the frame at the opposite end upon the main shaft near its end is fixed a pulley around which a belt i, plates 3, and 4, passes which gives motion to another pulley j, plates 3, and 4, fixed to the shaft of the large cylinder which I denominate the combining cylinder designated by 2, in each plate, this cylinder I, moves vertically, and its upper surface moves down toward the revolving belt c with teeth in it aforesaid when the machine is in operation, upon the cylinder are set steel, or metal straight teeth in rows in a right line with its shaft quite across the cylinder in pieces of wood introduced by --, in all the plates, extending, across the cylinder, and attached to it; from, and above which pieces of wood the teeth project about one-half of an inch upward, these teeth are to be about the same size as those in the revolving belt c, and about the same distance apart from each other having regard always to the length of the fibers to be operated upon as before mentioned. There should be about six of those rows of upright teeth, being about a foot, and a half from each other upon a cylinder of three feet in diameter for flax, but the diameter of the cylinder may advantageously be larger, and the rows of upright teeth farther apart for longer fibers, although the above specified dimensions will answer for hemp, and Manila grass of ordinary length. And in all cases the diameter of the cylinder, and distance of these teeth from each other should be adapted to the length of the fiber to be operated upon, and the roving to be produced. For combining flax or hemp for fine thread these teeth should be fixed gradually nearer together from the outer end of the cylinder I, where they should be farthest apart to the inner end where they should be nearest together, so as to have them about three-eighths of an inch at one end, and one-eighth of an inch at the other, in order that the fibers after they are lodged upon the revolving belt c, as they pass along by the cylinder I, may be first combed by the teeth on the cylinder which are farthest apart, and that the teeth nearer together may act upon the fibers on said belt upon which the coarser teeth have already acted. By this means the longer fibers are more easily separated from the shorter fibers, and the fibers connected together are more effectually split, and separated from each other, and made more even, and equal in size. But in combining hemp, and other like fibraceous substances for rope yarn, and such like purposes it is better to have these teeth farther apart from each other so that the fibers may not be so much cut up or broken. These teeth may be fixed in the cylinder I instead of being fixed in such pieces of wood to be attached to the cylinder, but it is more convenient to have them fixed in such pieces of wood in order that they may whenever occasion may require it, be removed with the pieces of wood from the cylinder, with pleasure, and other teeth nearer together, or farther apart be placed in their stead according to the length, and kind of fiber to be operated upon, and the kind of roving intended to be made.

--, plates 2, 3, 4, indicates a wire brush, or small wire teeth fixed on leather, and attached to a piece of wood extending across the cylinder I, close to the pieces of wood upon which the straight, and upright teeth aforesaid are fixed, the inner end of these pieces of wood, on which the brushes are, projects about two inches behind the cylinder I, so as in its revolution to come in contact with, and be operated upon by a comb.

The teeth of these brushes are about the same size as ordinary card teeth, and are fixed in the leather in the same way, but the teeth are bent to an angle of forty five degrees opposite to the directions of the motion of the cylinder I. The number of these brushes on pieces of wood is equal to the number of rows of upright large teeth near which they are respectively placed. The surfaces, or tops of these brushes are, excepting when acted upon, and moved up by the comb as hereinafter mentioned on a level with the top of the pieces of wood in which the rows of the upright teeth are placed. The pieces of wood to which these brushes are attached have slots made diagonally one near each end through which pass screws, or pins with heads fixed in the other pieces of wood in which are the upright teeth so that when the projecting ends 0, plates 1, 2, 4, pass by the stationary comb, p, plates g, 1, 4, each brush is when acted upon by this comb, thereby raised a little above the top of the upright teeth aforesaid, and so remains until it passes down by, and near to the points of the teeth on the endless belt c, when having passed the comb it returns to its former position being drawn down by means of a spring l, plates 2, 4. The points of the upright teeth, and surface of the cards pass as near as may be and not touch to the teeth on the revolving fringe belt s, so as to lodge the fibers upon its teeth, and comb them when lodged there. Those which are not lodged at first pass around the cylinder, and are lodged afterward. Underneath the combing cylinder is a curved piece of metal, or wood k3, plate 3, forming the same curve described by the points of the fixed teeth in revolving, and being as near as may be, but not quite in contact with them of the width of the frame, and covering nearly the lower half of the cylinder for preventing the fibers from falling out of the teeth when they come underneath by the revolution of the cylinder.

The pulley indicated by v, on all the plates fixed on the outer end of the main shaft 5, by means of a belt passing over it, and the pulley w, on all the plates fixed upon the end of the shaft t, plates 2, 3, 4 of a metallic fluted draw roller gives motion to that roller which turns in boxes fixed in parts of the frame. Immediately above the fluted roller is another roller covered with leather so adjusted to the fluted roller as to press closely upon, and be turned by it when it revolves. Inside of the pulley w, upon the shaft t, is fixed a small pinion which acts upon a wheel u, Plate 3, upon the inside of which is another pinion acting upon a pinion fixed to the pulley v, Plates 3 and 4, from which a belt a1, passes over the pulley 10, Plates 3 and 4. This gearing is only used when it is required to produce a slow motion in the pulley w, and in ordinary cases a belt passing from the shaft t, to the pulley w, is substituted for it in order to give motion to the pulley will. The pulley w, is fixed upon the shaft y, Plates 3, and 4, of a cylindrical roller inside the frame over which passes a feeding belt of leather indicated by s, Plate 4, which also passes over another cylinder roller of the same size, and on the same level inside of the frame,, turned by the friction of the feeding belt operated upon by the motion of the other roller, and near to the fluted rollers above mentioned. Across this belt about two inches apart there should be rows of teeth, of about the same size as those in the endless fringe belt s, and about half an inch from each other. The teeth may be fixed in this belt, or which is better in pieces of wood attached to it, so that they may be changed for others larger, or smaller, and further apart, or nearer together so as to be adapted to the kind of fibers to be operated upon. The cylinders over which this endless feeding belt s, passes are so placed that the feeding belt in revolving brings the center of the teeth between the points, and the bottoms thereof successively level with the upper surface of the fluted draw roller, and so that these teeth may just pass by the same fluted roller as near as may be, and not touch it. The points of these teeth should be bent on a curve a little backward from the draw rollers. The upper surface of the feeding belt when the machine is in motion is moved by the action of the belt on the pulley 10, toward the fluted draw roller. Rod cylinders as I denominate them indicated by a2, Plates 2, 3, and 4, fixed to shafts, and revolving in boxes in the frame, are so placed above the feeding belt, and adjusted as to be moved by the teeth set in rows as aforesaid across the belt by means of the rows of teeth successively meshing in between the rods, while the belt is revolving; these rod cylinders serve to keep the fibrous substance to be operated upon from rising out of the teeth too soon while drawn by the teeth toward the draw rollers. Large wires, or rods on one side of the revolving feeding belt are laid between the teeth, and are fixed at one end on the frame, and at the other on the fluted draw roller for the purpose of conducting the ends of the fibers gradually up as on an inclined plane from the teeth to the draw rollers. A brush c2, Plates 3, and 4, is moved by a belt from a groove on the inside of the pulley w, to keep the covered upper draw roller from being clogged by the fibrous substance. A pulley d2, Plates 1 and 2, is fixed on the main shaft and, next to the endless screw over which a belt passes to, and over, and gives motion to a pulley e2, Plates 1 and 2, upon a perpendicular shaft f2, Plate 2, on the upper end of which is the first draw roller c2, Plate 4, against which the draw roller A2, Plate 4, is pressed by a spring over a pulley on the main shaft next that last mentioned passes a belt, which also passes over, and gives motion to the pulley e2, fixed on the perpendicular shaft of the second draw roller h2, Plate 4, which has a like roller v2, Plates 3, 4, pressed against by a spring. On the shaft of the second draw roller below the pulley before mentioned is fixed another pulley m2, Plate 1, over which passes a belt to, and over, and giving motion to a pulley n2, fixed on a perpendicular shaft o2, Plate 1, which shaft passes up to a pulley p2, Plates 1, 2, and 4, fixed upon it. A belt q, Plates 1, 2, and 4, passes around, and is moved by this pulley, and passes around, and gives motion to another pulley r2. Plates 1, 2, and 4, somewhat smaller than that last mentioned, and of the same size with the pulleys around which the teethed fringed belt s, passes. On this belt y2, are fixed steel, or metallic wires s2, Plates 1, 2, 3, and 4, (steel being preferred) for the purpose of bringing the fibers into such position, while passing along the fringe table lodged in the teeth of the fringe belt s, as to direct the ends of them forward toward the draw rollers, that they may be seized, and drawn out by these rollers.

A plate of iron is put upon the frame above the place where the fibrous substance is made to pass when it approaches near to the draw rollers having slots w2, w2, Plate 4, through which the wipers pass for the purpose of directing the ends of the fibers just before coming to the rollers, and so made, and adjusted as that the wipers may be raised by, and pass over the metallic plate, and be thereby prevented from acting upon the fibers just at the time when the fibers come to the draw rollers so as to prevent their crushing the fibers from the draw rollers. Inclined planes of thin smooth metal v2, Plates 1, and 4, one on each side of the teeth, beginning at the base of the teeth therein near the last draw roller, and inclining upward in the direction of the motion of the belt until they rise above the teeth in the toothed revolving fringe belt, and fixed so as to take off the short fibers, or not taken off by the draw rollers, and remaining on these teeth. On the main shaft is another pulley w2, Plates 1, and 3, next to the frame on the inside over which a belt passes to give motion to the shaft a2, Plates 1, and 3, by means of a pulley y--, Plates 1, and 3. Upon the opposite end of this shaft beyond the frame is a pulley s2, Plate 1. Upon this shaft over which a belt a3, Plates 1, and 4, passes to, and over, and gives motion to the pulleys 3 3, Plates 1, and 4, to give motion to the leading roller c3, Plates 1, and 4, to draw, and bring the roving through the revolving tubes. Two rollers d3, Plates 1, and 4, are adjusted to bear upon this leading roller, and to revolve by its friction for the purpose of drawing and leading the roving through, and from the revolving tubes into the can. On the opposite end of the shaft a2, is a pulley e3, Plates 1 and 3, over which a belt passes to give motion to the pulley e3, Plates 1, 3, and 4, which gives motion to a like leading roller g3, Plates 1, and 4, which has two rollers A3, Plates 1 and 4, for a like purpose of drawing, leading, and conducting the second roving into the can. i2, i3, are revolving tubes with hooks for the purpose of condensing the roving into a more compact form, which revolving tubes are moved by belts over the pulleys l3, l3, Plate 1, on the shaft x2.

When the machine is put in motion, and adapted to the particular fibrous substance to be operated upon, the fibrous substance may either be laid on the feeding belt by hand, or may be more conveniently formed into a bat, and wound upon a reel, and fed from that upon the leather belt upon the wires, or rods e2, occupying about one third of its width in ordinary cases. The width of the belt is calculated for receiving the fibrous substance on the whole width of it, when it is intended to make coarse threads for bag yarn, and similar sizes, in which case the rods must be laid as aforesaid over the whole width of the belt. The fibrous substance when fed upon the belt, while the machine is in motion first comes in contact with the teeth in the feeding belt, and these fibers are carried along under the rod cylinders moved by the teeth which serve to keep them down as aforesaid, and thence they are carried along the rods, and up between the draw rollers which serve to draw them from the teeth in the pieces of wood on the feeding belt in a thinner form, and conduct them to the combing cylinder I, by which they are received, and carried along in the fixed teeth on said cylinder which in revolving carries them down and from time to time lodges them on the teeth of the revolving fringe belt s, after they have been raised by the card teeth in manner aforesaid to the bevel of the points of the fixed teeth on the said cylinder I, and when the fibers are on the teeth of the fringe belt they are combed as aforesaid as they pass along by the cylinder v. Having passed by the cylinder they are carried along, hooked on the teeth of the revolving belt c, hanging down, and appearing like a fringe, and are wiped by the wipers s2, on the revolving belt c, so as to present the ends of the fibers foremost, and bring them within the reach of the draw rollers for drawing out the roving Z2, Z2, the wipers being raised from the fringe table successively by the metallic plate under which the fibers pass just before the wipers reach the draw rollers so that the wipers may not brush away the fibers from the draw rollers. The draw rollers are placed at different distances from the revolving fringe belt s. The first being farthest, and the other or others if it be thought" proper to have more, than two sets of draw rollers being placed successively nearer to said belt, so that the longest fibers may be taken into the first draw rollers farthest from said belt, and the shorter remaining fibers which do not reach the first draw rollers, into the next draw rollers, and the still shorter fibers which do not reach the latter, into the next draw rollers, if more than two sets are used. Each set of draw rollers takes all the fibers which reach them. As many sets of draw rollers may be used for this purpose as occasion may require. From the draw rollers s2, A2, c2, I2 the fibers are conducted through the revolving i2, i3, into the cans. The short fibers, and those entangled are carried to the inclined metallic planes, and thereby taken from the teeth on the belt which are thus cleared, and pass around the cylinder I, to receive more fibers therefrom to be combed, and brought around in manner aforesaid to the draw rollers to be formed into roving. It will be well to have each set of draw rollers after the first set, successively smaller than the first set, or if of the same size to have them revolve slower as they are respectively nearer to the fringe belt, in order to make the roving as near as may be of the same size.

What I claim as my new improvement is--

1. The combing cylinder above described in connection with the revolving toothed fringed belt aforesaid for the purposes herein before mentioned.

2. The inclined planes on both the sides of revolving toothed fringe belt in connection, and combination with said fringe belt for the purpose aforesaid.

=== UnitedStatesPatent60 ===

PULLING UP ROPE YARNS

United States Patent 60

Filing date: October, 1836

Inventor: JAMES H. ECHOLS

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, James H. Echols, of the town of Lynchburg, in the county of Campbell and State of Virginia, have invented a new and useful method of pulling up hand-spun rope yarn spun at * ropewalk, of any size suitable for rope or twine on bobbins or spools as it is spun by mean's of an overhead track, of which the following is a full and exact description.

It is an overhead box way made of plank,

and fastened to the underside of the joist or beams of the ropewalk, and so constructed in the inside as to carry little cars or carriages, the box-way must have an uninterrupted opening in the bottom, and each car or carriage, (which must not be less in number than the number of spinners) must have a tweezer or peg fastened to the underside, and to come down through the opening in . the box-track to which the spinners when they spin out fasten their threads.

For a short ropewalk an uninterrupted twine, or wire with followers on them made to slip backward, and forward will answer the purpose, instead of the plank box-track above described, the followers are hung to the string or wire by wire staples or they may be fixed on wooden pulleys as in the model.

The ropewalk wheels, whirls, spindles, &c., are such as are in common use at all establishments. We will take, say, a company of four spinners. They have two sets of wheels, whirls, &c., one at each end of the ropewalk with hooks in the joists or beams overhead to put their threads in as they spin along with this overhead fixture right in the center of the walk over the heads of the spinners, the spinners upon the plan I am describing must have two wheel boys, or turners, one at each end. And there must be at each end also two separate wheels, with bands, whirls, spindles, &c., to work the bobbins on. These bobbin wheels are very simple, made to work by hand, or they could be worked by power, and are so constructed as to work the bobbin as it lies on the spindle in a horizontal direction. The four spinners now commence at one wheel, and spin down to the other wheel at the other end of the ropewalk, throwing their threads in the hooks over their heads on one side of the box-track, (or over-head fixture) taking care that the hooks on either side of the box-track, or overhead fixture shall be so arranged that the one nearest to the track on either side shall be a little higher than the second one, and the second a little higher than the third, the third a little higher than the fourth, so that the row say eight hooks four on each side of the track will have some resemblance of the letter A, though spread out wide more in this shape; the four spinners after getting down find the little cars or carriages over their heads, they each put his thread in the tweezer or round the peg in the car and turn-round, and spin up from off the other wheel on the other hooks that are on the opposite side of the track. And while they are spinning up the wheel boy or turner that turned for them to spin down is putting up their first spun threads on bobbins with the bobbin full, the operation of which brings up the car or follower, which holds on to the end of the thread, and the box-track or fixture being above the highest hooks lifts the thread very neatly out, which makes the operation simple, convenient, and beautiful, by the time the wheel-boy gets up the four threads the spinners will be up to their first wheel, again, where they find their cars or carriages ready to fasten their threads to, they then turn about, and spin down again on their first side, and in the meanwhile their second wheel-boy is putting up their second set of threads on the bobbin wheel below, which he has done by the time the spinners get down again. By this plan the spinners lose no time in walking back to their wheel, and the time, of both the wheel-boys are filled up in turning, and putting the yarn on bobbins alternately.

The advantages set forth by this plan of work are as follows: First the turning of rope yarn from off the bobbins in sizes as you want to make the rope, you put the threads through the gage, and use a tube to force back the extra tar instead of a nipper. Another advantage is it prepares it for making white rope for rigging, &c., on what is termed the patiat plan, which is the most approved plan now in use; it puts it on the bobbins at once when it is ready to be made into rope. Another, and by far the most important advantage is that the spun stuff put on bobbins, neatly spliced together makes one continual thread for perhaps a dozen times the length of the ropewalk or more, which prepares it for being made into rope or twine of any kind or quality that may be wanted by machinery similar to the spindles, and flyers and heart motion of cotton factory machinery, this last named advantage of this improvement is no doubt to ' produce a great change in the manufactory of twine, and cordage made of hemp or flax.

I am using a machine now for making twine, and find great advantage from it. There are various ways in which this improvement may be used to advantage though they are of less importance and perhaps not necessary to name, as any change will readily suggest itself to practical men.

What I claim as new and as my own invention, and discovery, and for which I ask exclusive privilege is--

The over-head box-way with cars or carriages, or the twine or wire with followers for the convenience of putting up rope-yarn, or yarn for twine on spools or bobbins, thereby placing it in a convenient shape to be manufactured into rope or twine of any kind or size upon the different kinds of machinery, now in common use, and to which I lay no claim.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600001 ===

BICYCLE

Filing date: January 29, 1897

Issue date: March 1, 1898

Inventor: CHARLES R. HARRIS

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Charles R. Harris, a resident of Williamsport, in the county of Lycoming and State of Pennsylvania, have invented certain new and useful Improvements in Bicycles; and I do hereby declare the following to be a full, clear, and exact description of the invention, such as will enable others skilled in the art to which it appertains to make and use the same.

My invention relates to an improvement in bicycles, and more particularly to the variety ridden by ladies, the objects being to provide an improved crank-axle and bearings, means for tightening the lacing of the skirt-guard, and to prevent the spattering of mud; and it consists in certain novel features of construction and combinations of parts which will be hereinafter described, and pointed out in the claims.

In the accompanying drawings, Figure 1 is a view in side elevation of my improved bicycle. Fig. 2 is a view of the frame in perspective. Fig. 3 is an enlarged detail view. Fig. 4 is an enlarged sectional view. Fig. 5 is an elevation of Fig. 4.

A represents the frame of the machine. 1 and 2 are the front and rear wheels, respectively, and 3 is the steering-head or fork. The frame itself is distinctive and, as illustrated in the drawings, it is composed of two semicylindrical or D-shaped tubes in cross-section. These are secured together face to face at the forward ends and present the appearance of a single round tube. They are spread apart at the rear to straddle the rear wheel 2, and they are also spread laterally at the lowest part of the dip to brace and truss the frame and counteract any tendency to twist laterally. This much of my machine is disclosed in another application and forms no part of the present invention, save to form a groundwork for the present improvements, which are, with slight modifications, adaptable to any machine, but particularly applicable to the present invention.

In addition to the mud-guard 5 over the rear wheel, which also is illustrated in a former application, I provide a front mud-guard 6 in the space formed at the dip of the frame. This mud-guard is made of sheet metal and is securely held in position between the tubing, thus constituting a brace for the frame as well as a mud-guard and a protection against the skirts catching in the sprocket-wheel below.

Immediately beneath the dip and in the converging space formed between the parts of the frame the pedal crank-shaft and its bearings are located. This shaft is composed of two parts 7 and 8, and these are secured together at their adjacent ends by means of bolts 9 9, so that the entire shaft, with its pedal-arms, is virtually one single piece of metal, and the objectionable feature of the usual external bolts and screws, which are liable to work loose and drop off and which are constantly in peril of catching in the rider's clothing, is obviated. The sprocket-wheel 10 is held between the adjacent ends of the shaft and by the same bolts which fasten the parts of the shaft together, so that the sprocket-wheel also is in effect an integral part of the shaft or axle.

The numerals 11 11 indicate the bearing-hangers. They are constructed with outer curves at their ends to embrace the tubes of the frame from the outside, and they are secured in this position by brazing or equivalent means. The bearings each consist of four rings 12, 13, 14, and 15. These are screwed on the threaded portions 16 16 of the crank-axle and the threaded portion of the bearing-hangers, and they each bear upon the balls 17 17, so that the ball-race is square instead of round and the point of contact between the balls and race and attendant friction is reduced to a minimum. By this construction it will be seen that the sprocket-wheel and the bearings are all located between and housed in the frame of the machine, and, furthermore, that there are no nuts, bolts, or other projections on the outer surface where they will interfere with perfect freedom of movement of the rider's feet and legs in propelling the machine.

The lacing 20 is strung across from one side to the other of the frame, and it is threaded through holes 21 21 in the disks 22 22. These disks are provided with elongated slots 23, receive the rear axle of the machine, the object of the elongated slot being to admit of adjustment of the disks for tightening and loosening the lacing. Nuts 24 24 on the ends of the axle are turned to hold the disks in place when they are adjusted to regulate the tension of the lacing. By this means a single operation is sufficient to tighten the entire lacing on a side of the machine, whereas heretofore it has generally been the custom to tighten each lead of the lacing separately, and even then it was impossible to tighten it very much, because the lacing had hitherto generally been connected with the mud-guard.

It is evident that slight changes might be made in the form and arrangement of the several parts described without departing from the spirit and scope of my in invention. Hence I do not wish to limit myself to the exact construction herein set forth.

Having fully described my invention, what I claim as new, and desire to secure by Letters Patent, is--

1. In a bicycle, the combination with a frame, and bearings, of a two-part pedal-shaft, the ends of which are secured together between the bearings and a sprocket-wheel interposed and secured between these adjacent ends of the shaft.

2. In a bicycle, the combination with a dipframe for ladies' wheels composed of two rods or tubes spread apart to receive the rear wheel of the machine and also at the bottom of the dip, of a mud-guard secured in the space formed at the bottom of the dip.

3. In a bicycle, the combination with a dipframe for ladies' wheels composed of two rods or tubes secured together at the forward end and spread apart at the rear to receive the rear wheel of the machine between them and also spread apart at the bottom of the dip, of two mud-guards, one secured in the space formed between the two rods or tubes at the bottom of the dip and the other in the space between the rods or tubes above the rear wheel.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600003 ===

MACHINE FOR CLEANING CORUNDUM

Filing date: January 12, 1898

Issue date: Mar 1, 1898

Inventor: WILLIAM M. HOFFMAN

To all whom it mayy concern:

Be it known that I, William M. Hoffman, a citizen of the United States, residing at Detroit, county of Wayne, State of Michigan, have invented a certain new and useful Improvement in Machines for Cleaning Corundum; and I declare the following to be a full, clear, and exact description of the invention, such as will enable others skilled in the art to which it pertains to make and use the same, reference being had to the accompanying drawings, which form a part of this specification. This invention relates to machines for cleaning corundum and other heavy minerals from the foreign matter found in connection with them in the mines.

It has for its object an improvement in that class of machines in which the corundum and its matrix are subjugated to pounding or grinding treatment in the presence of moving water, which lifts up and carries away the lighter and finer material, leaving the corundum in the form of sand and fine crystals in the bottom of the treating-vat.

In the drawings, Figure 1 is a plan view. Fig. 2 is a section at the line x x of Fig. 1.

A and B indicate the outer and inner walls of an annular tub or vat supported by a framework C. Concentric with the walls of the tub is a vertical shaft D, surrounded by a miter-wheel d. With the miter-wheel d meshes a second miter-wheel e on a horizontal shaft E, provided with proper pulley-wheels through which it receives motion from any convenient source of power. A horizontal arm F extends from the vertical shaft D and supports the hanging arms fg. To the lower extremity of still, by a vertical swivel F', is connected a draft-clevis G, the pin of which forms the axle of a conical crushing-roll H. The arm g terminates at its lower end with a stirring-fork h. The hanging arms still g turn slightly on the arm F as a shaft, the object being to permit the crushing-roll H to rise slightly and pass over any obstruction of too hard a nature to be crushed by the weight of the roll employed.

In operation the fork h precedes the crushing-roll H and pushes in front of it all the material except a thin layer that passes through and under the tines of the fork. Water is admitted to the annular tank through an inlet-pipe K and escapes from the tank in a thin stream over the top walls thereof, carrying with it those particles that have been crushed fine enough to be lifted up and carried away.

There may be several crushing-rolls in the same tank, if desired.

What I claim is--

In a machine for cleaning corundum, the combination of an annular tank, a vertical shaft concentric thereto, a horizontal arm extending from said shaft, a vibratory hanger having two arms, one of which terminates in a fork, and the other of which is connected by swivel-bearings to a conical crushing-roller, substantially as and for the purpose described.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600004 ===

DEVICE FOR HANDLING CANS

United States Patent 600004

Filing date: June 8, 1897

Issue date: March 1, 1898

Inventor: ASMUS JENSEN

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Asmus Jensen, of Louisville, in the county of Jefferson and State of Kentucky, have invented a new and Improved Device for Handling Cans and other Articles, of which the following is a full, clear, and exact description.

The object of the invention is to provide a simple, durable, and economic device, especially adapted for taking articles--such as cans, jars, buckets, and the like--from supports beyond ordinary reach.

A further object of the invention, is to so construct the device that when an article, such as a jar or can, is grasped through the medium of the device the article may be held firmly between the jaws of the device and safely and conveniently conveyed to any desired place, and whereby, further, any article having a bail or a handle may be as readily taken from an overhead support or a support beyond ordinary reach and as safely manipulated.

The invention consists in the novel construction and combination of the several parts, as will be hereinafter fully set forth, and pointed out in the claims. Reference is to be had to the accompanying drawings, forming a part of this specification, in which similar characters of reference indicate corresponding parts in both figures.

Figure 1 is a perspective view of the improved tool, illustrating the jaws as open; and Fig. 2 is a perspective view of the tool, illustrating the jaws as closed to a certain extent and locked in their closed position.

A pole A is employed, which may be of any desired length or may be made of any suitable material, and the said pole is provided at the top with a bracket 10, and the said bracket may be so shaped as to hold a tongs B either at an angle to the pole or in a perpendicular position, as required. The jaws of the tongs, which are designated as 11 and 12 and are pivotally connected, are each provided with a shank, designated, respectively, as 11 and 12". A link 13 is connected with the shank of one jaw, while a link 14 is connected with the shank of the opposing jaw. The jaws are operated through the medium of a pull-rod 15, the said rod being connected at its upper or outer end to a plate 16, to which plate the links 13 and 14 are likewise pivotably attached, or the rod 15 may be connected directly to the links. The pull-rod 15 is held to slide through guides 17, attached to the pole A, the rod terminating at its inner or lower end in a handle 18, which is preferably in the form of a loop. A rack 19 6a is secured upon the lower portion of the pole A, adapted to receive between its teeth a member of the aforesaid handle 18, and thereby hold the jaws 11 and 12 firmly in the position to which they may be carried.

The inner faces of the jaws are usually roughened, as shown in Fig. 1; but the jaws may be covered with a yielding material 21, such as rubber or leather, so as not to injure any fragile article they may be made to grasp. A hook 20 is secured to the top of the pole A or near the top between the shanks of the jaws of the tongs, the said hook being utilized to receive the bail or handle of an article that is to be taken from a support ordinarily beyond reach.

In operation the handle 18 of the pull-rod is disconnected from the rack 19 and carried outward, so as to separate the jaws of the tongs. The said jaws are then made to receive between them the can, jar, or other article to be removed and are drawn together in a manner to grasp the said article by drawing downward or inward the pull-rod 15, and by causing the handle of the pull-rod to engage with the rack the jaws of the tongs will be held firmly in engagement with the said jar or can. The jar or can may then be safely removed from its support and carried by means of the improved tool or device to any desired place. In the event it is desired to remove a bucket or an article having a handle from an overhead support or to take the same to a shelf, the hook 20 may be brought into requisition.

Having thus described my invention, I claim as new and desire to secure by Letters Patent--

1. The combination with the pole, of a bracket at one end thereof, tongs pivotally connected together and mounted upon said bracket, a link pivotally connected to each shank of said tongs, a pull-rod pivotally connected with said links, the said rod terminating at the lower end in a loop 18, and a rack 19 attached to the other end of said pole and arranged to receive the said loop 18, as and for the purpose set forth.

2. A device of the character described, consisting of a pole, a bracket attached to one end of said pole, tongs pivotally connected together and mounted upon said bracket, a link attached to each shank of said tongs, a plate to which the ends of said link are pivotally connected, and a pull-rod arranged for sliding movement upon said pole, one end of said pull-rod being attached to said plate and the other end being arranged for adjustable locking engagement with said pole, as and for the purpose set forth.

3. The herein-described device for handling cans or the like, consisting of the pole, a bracket extending from one side of said pole and at the end thereof, tongs mounted upon said bracket, links pivotally connected to the shanks of said tongs, a plate pivotally connecting said links together upon the side of said pole opposite to that upon which the tongs are located, a pull-rod attached at one end to said plate and arranged for longitudinal movement upon said pole, the other end of said rod being formed into a loop or handle, and a rack upon the lower end of said pole and arranged to receive said loop to hold the same, as and for the purpose set forth.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600005 ===

ELEVATOR ATTACHMENT FOR LAWN-MOWERS

United States Patent 600005

Filing date: April 6, 1895

Issue date: March 1, 1898

Inventor: CHARLES EDWARD KREIDER

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Charles Edward Kreider, of Logansport, in the county of Cass and State of Indiana, have invented a new and Improved Elevator Attachment for Lawn-Mowers, of which the following is a full, clear, and exact description.

My invention relates to an elevator attachment for lawn-mowers; and it has for its object to provide an attachment whereby the cut grass will be taken up from the knives and delivered to a receiving-receptacle at the back of the machine, provision being made to prevent the possibility of the wind scattering the grass as it is delivered to the elevator and while contained thereon.

Another object of this invention is to so construct the elevator that it will be exceedingly light, and, in fact, to construct the entire attachment so that it will not cause any unnecessary draft on the cutters or unnecessary weight on the handle by means of which the machine is propelled. The invention consists in the novel construction and combination of the several parts, as will be hereinafter fully set forth, and pointed out in the claims.

Reference is to be had to the accompanying drawings, forming a part of this specification, in which similar figures and letters of reference indicate corresponding parts in all the views.

Figure 1 is a side elevation of a lawn-mower having the improvement applied. Fig. 2 is a plan view. Fig. 3 is a perspective view of the elevator-section of the device. Fig. 4 is a detail view of a portion of the elevator-belt. Fig. 5 is an enlarged view of the upper outer side portion of the elevator and the grass-receiving receptacle, the side board of the elevator being omitted. Fig. 6 is an enlarged detail view of the bracket for attaching the side frame to the mower and also that portion of the side frame to which the said bracket is secured. Fig. 7 is a modified form of the bracket for securing the attachment to a mower.

In carrying out the invention the lawn-mower consists of the usual handle 10, the axle 11, upon which ground-wheels 12 are mounted, the axle or shaft of the cutters 23 being driven from the ground-wheels in any suitable or preferred manner, and in connection with the axle, its wheels, and the tongue or pole 10 a frame is employed, which frame is duplicated at each side of the machine, consisting of an upwardly and rearwardly extending standard 13, a horizontal bar connected therewith, designated as 14, and a vertical bar 15, projected upward from the forward end of the horizontal bar, together with an intermediate diagonal bar or standard 16, which extends from the junction of the horizontal and vertical bars to a connection with the upper end of the rear diagonal bar or standard 13, the junction of these two standards being best shown in Fig. 5.

At the junction of the standards or bars 13 and 16 of each frame-section a journal-box 17 is formed, and above it a socket 18, while above the socket an eye 19 is produced, and the two arms are supported from the pole, tongue, or handle 10 by means of a yoke 19 pivoted to the said pole or handle, and the extremities of the yoke are secured in the eyes 19 of the frame-sections. Each frame-section is supported at its lower end by a ground-wheel 14a, journaled in a suitable bearing produced at the junction of the rear diagonal bar or standard 13 and the horizontal bar 14 of a section.

A bracket 20 is secured to the lower portion of each vertical bar 15 of a frame-section, and each frame-section adjacent to this bracket is fitted with a bearing 21, while the brackets 20 are provided with elongated slots 22 to receive a bolt by which the frame-section is secured to the lawn-mower.

The lawn-mower illustrated in the drawings has the usual rearwardly-extending side plates 21a, between which the stationary knife 23a is supported, and the frame-sections are shown secured in position on the mower by bolts which extend through the slots in the brackets 20 and through bolt-holes or openings formed in the side plates 2a of the mower.

An elevator A is located back of the ground-wheels, being supported in any approved manner by the sections of the frame, heretofore described, and the said elevator comprises two side pieces 20a, which extend downward, running quite close to the ground-wheels, as shown in Figs. 1 and 2, and in the upper end of these side boards or pieces a roller 24 is mounted to revolve, the trunnions of which are carried through the bearings 17 in the upper portions of the frame-sections, and at the lower end of the side boards of the elevator a second roller 23 is mounted to revolve, the trunnions of this roller being journaled in the bearings 21 at the lower forward portions of the frame-sections, and a board 26, projected from beneath the lower roller of the elevator, is carried quite close to the knives in order that the grass cut may not drop to the ground, but will be received by the said board. A top 27 is placed particularly upon the lower portion of the elevator-box, being held to slide in ways 27a, formed upon the said side pieces of the box, and it is limited in its downward movement by stop-pins 28.

An elevator-belt 29 is provided, being an endless one, and it is passed around the rollers 24 and 25, and instead of being provided with attached cross-bars the material of the belt is gathered up transversely to form series of ribs 29a and is stitched or otherwise secured in its ribbed position. In this manner the elevator-belt and the entire elevator are rendered exceedingly light.

The elevator is driven by passing a belt 32 over a pulley 31, located on the same shaft as the rear ground-wheel 14a, the belt being likewise passed over a pulley 30, secured to a trunnion of the roller 24.

The grass-receptacle B is placed at the rear of the elevator, and the latter delivers the material therein. The receptacle is made to fit close to the rear bars or standards of the frame of the attachment, as illustrated in Fig. 1, and is provided at its upper portion at each side with a pin 33, the said pins being adapted to enter the sockets 18 in the attachment-frame. Under this construction the receptacle may be expeditiously and conveniently removed and relieved of its contents whenever necessary. It will be understood that the elevator and receptacle above described can be readily attached to any lawn-mower, and it is obvious that when a lawn-mower is fitted with the attachment all of the cut grass will be carried upward by the elevator and deposited in the said receptacle, thus obviating the necessity of raking the ground over or gathering up the grass, and the cut grass may be placed in piles much more conveniently than under the old system of cutting.

In Figs. 1 and 2 the lower ends of the side pieces 20a of the elevator are shown as curved to correspond to the rear portion of the side plates of the mower, the curvature in these figures being a modification of that shown in Fig. 3. In the latter figure the lower ends of the side pieces 20a of the elevator are shown as curved to correspond to the curvature of the ground-wheels of the mower, the side pieces when constructed as shown in this figure extending in close proximity to the said wheels.

In Fig. 7 I have shown a modified form of the bracket, in which the bracket 20b has an adjustable portion 22b, by which the bracket is attached to the lawn-mower. With this construction the distance between the elevator and the lawn-mower can be regulated.

Having thus described my invention, I claim as new and desire to secure by Letters Patent--

1. The combination with a lawn-mower, of a frame supported from the handle or pole thereof at its upper end and having a wheel-support at its lower end, an elevator secured in said frame at the rear of the knives or cutters, a cover located at the upper forward portion of the elevator-frame above its carrying-belt, the said cover being held to slide in suitable ways, stops for limiting the downward movement of the cover, a receptacle for the cut grass located at the rear of the elevator and a driving mechanism for the elevator-belt, as and for the purpose set forth.

2. In an elevator, an elevator-belt having its material gathered up to form transverse ribs, and means, substantially as described, for securing the ribs at an angle to the body of the belt, as and for the purpose specified.

3. In an elevator, a conveying-belt having its material gathered up to form a series of transverse ribs upon one face, the ribbed material being stitched at its connection with the body of the belt, whereby retaining-surfaces are formed upon the belt without adding to its weight, substantially as described.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600006 ===

SUPPORT FOR CURTAIN POLES, RODS, AND THE LIKE ARTICLES

United States Patent 600006

Filing date: May 22, 1897

Issue date: Mar 1, 1898

Inventors: JOHN KRODER AND HENRY REUBEL

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that we, John Kroder and Henry Reubel, both of New York city, in the county and State of New York, have invented a new and Improved Support for Curtain Poles, Rods, or Like Articles, of which the following is a full, clear, and exact description. The object of the invention is to provide a new and improved support for curtain poles, rods, or like articles and arranged to securely support the rod or pole in position on the window-casing, door, or other place and to permit of conveniently removing the rod or pole from the support whenever it is desired to remove or replace the curtains or for other purposes.

The invention consists principally of turnable supports having recesses for the ends of the rod or pole, the recess in one of the supports being elongated to permit of inserting or removing the end of the rod or pole upon turning the support into the proper position. The invention also consists of certain parts and details and combinations of the same, as will be fully described hereinafter and then pointed out in the claims.

Reference is to be had to the accompanying drawings, forming a part of this specification, in which similar characters of reference indicate corresponding parts in all the figures.

Figure 1 is a plan view of the improvement as applied. Fig. 2 is a side elevation of the same with the supports in section. Fig. 3 is a similar view of the same with the parts in a different position, and Fig. 4 is a diagrammatic view showing the bores for forming the elongated recess.

The improved device is provided with two supports A and B, preferably in the form of knobs, as shown in the drawings, and provided with screws C C1 for securing the supports on the window-casing D and at the same time permitting of turning the said supports slightly on the window-casing for placing the pole, rod, or like article E in position on the supports or removing the same therefrom. One end of the pole, rod, or like article E fits snugly into a recess A', formed in the side of the support A, and the other end of the said rod or pole E is adapted to pass into a recess B', framed in the other support B and elongated, as is plainly indicated in the drawings, the elongation being formed by two bores, one of which extends radially into the support and the other extends eccentrically therein, but intersects with the radial bore, as is plainly indicated in the diagrammatic view illustrated in Fig. 4.

The pole or rod E supports the usual rings F or other devices for suspending the curtain from the rod or pole E.

Now it will be seen that by the arrangement described the pole or rod' E can be readily placed in position on the supports A and B and locked therein by first placing one end of the said rod or support in the recess A1 of the support A and then placing the other end in the open end of the recess B1 when the support B is in the position shown in Fig. 3. Now by turning the support B in the direction of the arrow a1 the end of the rod or pole E passes into the said recess B1, and when the support B has been turned to the position shown in Fig. 2 then this end of the rod or pole is securely locked in place in the support B. When it is desired to remove the rod or pole from the' supports, it is necessary to turn the support B in the inverse direction of the arrow a1, so as to move the corresponding end of the rod or pole out of the said recess and allow the operator to draw the other end of the pole out of the recess A1 in the support or bracket A.

It is understood that during the movement of locking the end of the rod or pole E in the support B the other support A slightly turns on its screw C, and when the support B has been moved to its locking position, as shown in Figs. 1 and 2, then the rod or pole E extends radially in both supports A and B.

It is understood that by forming the elongated recess B1 as previously explained a further turning of the support B in the direction of the arrow is prevented when the position shown in Fig. 2 has been reached, as it is evident that the inner end of the rod E presses on the opposite sides or walls of the recess to prevent such turning.

The arrangement described is applicable to all kinds of window and door curtains, and can also be used for towel-racks and other devices too numerous to mention.

Having thus fully described our invention, we claim as new and desire to secure by Letters Patent--

1. A device of the class described, provided with a support adapted to be turned and having an elongated recess formed by two bores, one of which extends radially of the support and the other eccentrically thereto, as and for the purpose specified.

2. The combination with a curtain-pole, of supports for the ends of the said pole, one of the supports having a recess into which fits snugly one end of the pole, the other support having an elongated recess formed by two bores, one of which extends radially into the support and the other eccentrically thereto, as and for the purpose specified.

3. A curtain-pole support having a knob capable of turning on a fixed axis, the knob having an opening receiving the end of the pole, the opening being of sufficient size to leave a space at one side of the pole when the pole is entered in the opening so as to permit the knob to be turned on its axis in the operation of placing and removing the pole, substantially as described.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600007 ===

TURBINE MOTOR

United States Patent 600007

Filing date: Feb 15, 1897

Issue date: Mar 1, 1898

Inventor: GOTTHOLD LANGER

Assignees: PAUL FLUCKS AND JOSEPH B. NIERMANN

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Gotthold Langer, a citizen of the United States, residing at St. Louis, State of Missouri, have invented certain new and useful Improvements in Turbine Motors, of which the following is a full, clear, and exact description, reference being had to the accompanying drawings, forming a part thereof.

My invention has relation to improvements in turbine motors; and it consists in the novel arrangement and combination of parts more fully set forth in the specification and pointed out in the claims.

In the drawings, Figure 1 is an elevation of one side of the motor. Fig. 2 is a top plan view with part of the casing broken away, an inner elevation of the section of the casing within which the low-pressure wheel is confined. Fig. 5 is a section on line y y of Fig. 3, and Fig. 6 is a similar section of a modification.

The object of my invention is to produce a turbine motor which will develop a maximum amount of efficiency, the construction covering the employment of two turbines mounted side by side, the exhaust from one simultaneously driving the other in a direction opposite to its own motion, special provision being made for causing the simultaneous contrary rotation of the two wheels to impel a single drive-shaft in one direction or the other at the pleasure of the operator. By the present device the maximum driving capacity of the propelling medium, be the same steam, gas, or air, is utilized, thereby attaining results superior to the many prevailing types of turbines as now constructed. The axes of rotation of the two juxtaposed turbines are disposed in the same straight line, and the wheels are confined within the same casing, thereby at the same time attaining a compactness of structure. It will be apparent from a detailed description of the invention that the same principle may be employed for actuating more than two wheels, if desirable, without departing from the spirit of my invention.

In detail the invention may be described as follows:

Referring to the drawings, 1, 2 represent the respective sections or halves of a casing within which the turbines or wheels are mounted, the sections being united by suitable bolts or rivets passed through alining openings of the coupling-flanges 3 of the respective casings. Cast or formed integral with the casing is a basal plate 4, which may be secured to any suitable foundation, and projecting from the rear of the casing are brackets 5, with which are formed integrally the tubular bearings 6 for the support of the main drive-shaft 7 of the machine, the said shaft having secured thereto on opposite sides of the casing, respectively, the driving gearwheels 8 8-1, whose tubular hub portions 9 9-1 bear against the said bearings. (See Fig. 2.) Formed integral with the outer face of the section 1, adjacent to the upper peripheral surface thereof, is a chamber or pipe connection 10, serving as an inlet for the steam, gas, or air or other fluid, from which chamber lead a series of inclined inwardly-tapering ports 11, formed in the face or wall of said section, the said ports being adapted to deliver the driving fluid against the bases of the V-shaped blades 12, disposed centrally about the periphery of the cone-shaped main driving-turbine 13, mounted in the casing and secured to a shaft 14, supported in the tubular bearing 15, formed along the outer wall of the section 1, the outer projecting end of said shaft carrying a friction-disk 16. The bearing 15 is reinforced by a rib 17. The blades open in a direction parallel to the plane of rotation of the wheel, the bases of the several blades facing the inclined ports 11. (See Fig. 2.) The inner end of the shaft 14 is provided with a conical bearing or tip 18, which rests in a corresponding conical depression formed at the inner end of the adjacent alining shaft 19, supporting the adjacent or low-pressure turbine wheel 20. The outer end of the shaft 19 carries a friction-disk 16-1, similar to the disk 16, the shaft 19 being similarly supported in the tubular bearing 22 of the outer wall of section 2, likewise reinforced by a rib 23. The turbine 20 is essentially of the form of a truncated cone, whose larger end or base bears against the smaller end of the truncated-cone-shaped turbine 13 and whose smaller end or base bears against an annular ring or bearing-surface 24, formed along the inner surface of the outer wall of the section 2, and as the larger base of the main turbine bears against an annular ring or bearing-surface 25, formed along the inner surface of the outer wall of the section 1, there is little or no lost play among the several parts. The conical periphery of the wheel 20 is more tapering than the corresponding surface of the main turbine 13, whereby the superficial area of the V-shaped blades 26, disposed along the periphery of the wheel 20, is increased approximately in the ratio at which the expansive force of the driving fluid has dropped by the time it has exhausted from the main turbine. The blades 26 are disposed reversely to the blades 12, but with the interior angle thereof equal to the corresponding angle of the blades 12, whereby the adjacent walls of the blades will be parallel. (See Fig. 2.) In this way the exhaust from the blades 12, which is tangential to the periphery of the wheel or in a plane parallel to the axis of rotation thereof, will exert its force directly and without interruption against the base of the V-shaped blades of the low-pressure wheel, the exhaust following the adjacent parallel walls of the blades, as seen by the feathered arrows in Fig. 2.

The outer edges of the blades of the respective wheels are surmounted by embracing bands 27 28, shrunk over the same, said bands revolving snugly along the inner peripheral surfaces of the respective sections of the casing. The low-pressure wheel exhausts laterally into a chamber 29, formed by the outwardly-deflected lower portion of the outer wall of the section 2 (see Fig. 3) and by extending the peripheral wall of said casing slightly below the peripheral band 28 of said wheel, the exhaust fluid finding its way out through the exhaust port or pipe connection 30. As the turbines thus revolve in opposite directions at the same time, it becomes necessary that some provision be made for converting their combined motions into a single motion so far as the direction of rotation of the main drive-shaft is concerned. This is accomplished as follows:

Mounted in suitable bearings 31, carried at the rear of the upper portion of the casing, is a rock-shaft 32, controlled by a medially-disposed lever 32-1, the opposite outer ends of the rock-shaft being respectively provided with eccentric disks 33 33-1, the eccentricities of the two disks being directed in diametrically opposite directions. Embracing, respectively, each eccentric disk is an eccentric ring 34 34-1, to which is secured an arm 35 35-1, respectively. The free end of the arm 35 (and of course also that of the arm 35-1, the same construction being duplicated on each side of the machine) is pivotally secured to the looped upper end 36 of a curved sliding disk-supporting block 37, said block being guided and confined within a curved guideway or housing 38, said block serving as a bearing for the spindle or shaft of a friction-disk 39, with which is formed integrally a pinion 40, adapted to mesh with the teeth of the driving gear-wheel 8. Mounted in proximity to the friction-disk 10 is an idle friction-disk 41, with which for one position of the block 37 (that is to say, for one position of the rock-shaft 32, by which the sliding blocks are controlled) the friction-disk 39, supported by the block, is adapted to engage, for it is apparent that for one position of the rock-shaft 32 the eccentric 33 on one side will force (through its connecting-arm 35) the block 37 in its guideway to a position so as to bring the disk 39 and disk 41 into engagement on one side of the machine, and the eccentric 33-1 on the opposite end of the rock-shaft will bring into engagement the corresponding disk 39-1 with the disk 10-1 on the opposite side of the machine. (See Fig. 1, where the dotted disk 39-1 is in engagement with the disk 10-1, occupying the same position in this figure as the disk 16, and hence not visible.) It is to be understood, of course, that the parts 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, and 41 have their counterparts 34-1, 35-1, 36-1, 37-1, 38-1, 39-1, 40-1, and 41-1 on the opposite side of the machine. By thus bringing into cooperation (by the tilting or rocking action of the shaft 32) the disks 39 and 41 on one side and 39-1 and 10-1 on the opposite side of the machine, or, vice versa, 39 and 16 on the one side and 39-1 and 41-1 on the opposite side, depending, of course, on the position to which the shaft 32 has been rocked, it is apparent that the pinions 40 40-1 will be turned simultaneously in one and the same direction, and hence impart the same direction to the gear-wheels 8 8-1, mounted on the drive-shaft 7. The reason of thus gearing or connecting the driving gear-wheel 8 to the disk 10 on one side and the gear-wheel 8-1 to the disk 41-1 on the opposite side, or, vice versa, 8 to 41 on one side and 8-1 to 16-1 on the opposite side, is because of the fact that the two turbines are revolving simultaneously in no opposite directions, and the idlers 41 41-1 serve in turn to correct this difference of direction on one side or the other, and thus impart simultaneously motion in one direction to the gear-wheels 8 8-1 thus located on opposite sides of the machine. Thus the shaft 7 will always be driven in proper direction.

Although as a rule the blades are disposed radially from the peripheries of the wheels, the same may be disposed tangentially, as seen in Fig. 6, without departing from the spirit of my invention.

Having described my invention, what I claim is--

1. In a motor, a suitable casing, two adjacently-located turbines or wheels mounted therein, and adapted to rotate simultaneously in opposite directions, a shaft for each turbine having a bearing in the adjacent end wall of the casing, an exhaust-port leading from the casing, a friction-disk carried by the outer end of each shaft, an idle friction-disk mounted on the wall of the casing and cooperating with the friction-disk carried by the projecting end of each turbine-shaft, a main drive-shaft, a driving gear-wheel carried by the main shaft on each side of the casing, a suitable guideway carried by each wall of the casing in proximity to the outer projecting end of each shaft, a disk-supporting block adapted to be moved in said guideway, suitable mechanism for shifting the blocks on opposite sides of the machine simultaneously in opposite directions, whereby the disk carried by the block on one side is brought into engagement with the terminal friction-disk of the shaft of one turbine, and the disk carried by the block on the opposite side of the machine is brought into engagement with the idle friction-disk cooperating with the outer terminal friction-disk carried by the projecting end of the shaft of the second turbine or vice versa, and whereby the disks thus carried by the blocks revolve simultaneously in the same direction, and a pinion carried by each disk mounted on the sliding block for coupling with the gear-wheels carried by the main drive-shaft, whereby rotation is imparted to the latter, substantially as set forth.

2. In a motor, a suitable casing, two adjacently-mounted turbines or wheels mounted within the same and adapted to rotate simultaneously in opposite directions, a suitable rock-shaft mounted in connection with the casing, bearings for said rock-shaft, an eccentric disk carried at each end of the rock-shaft, the said eccentrics tending in opposite directions, an eccentric ring loosely embracing each eccentric disk, an arm forming a part of each disk, a block pivotally secured to the free end of each arm, a guideway for each block carried along the end walls of the casing, means for rocking the rock-shaft and simultaneously moving the blocks in opposite directions, a shaft for each turbine, a gear carried by each block, and suitable intermediate gearing between the gear carried by each block and the shaft of the turbine, for imparting rotation in the same direction to the gears carried by each block, substantially as set forth.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600008 ===

WARP STOP-MOTION FOR LOOMS

United States Patent 600008

Filing date: Oct 6, 1897

Issue date: Mar 1, 1898

Inventor: CHARLES A. LITTLEFIELD

Assignee: THE DRAPER COMPANY

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Chaeles A. LittleField, of Lowell, county of Middlesex, State of Massachusetts, have invented an Improvement in Warp Stop-Motions for Looms, of which the following description, in connection with the accompanying drawings, is a specification, like letters and numerals on the drawings representing like parts.

This invention relates to warp-stop-motion mechanism for looms wherein the stoppage of the loom is effected automatically upon breakage or undue slackening of one or more warp-threads by or through the movement of stop-motion-actuating detectors.

In this invention a vibrating feeler cooperates with said detectors, the means for effecting movement of the feeler operating to move the same through different distances on successive strokes to cooperate first with one and then another set of detectors, according to the number of sets thereof.

Several other novel features of my invention will be hereinafter described, and particularly pointed out in the claims.

Figure 1, in front elevation, represents a sufficient portion of a loom to be understood with my invention embodied therein. Fig. 2 is a vertical section on the line x x, Fig. 1, looking toward the left; and Fig. 3 is an enlarged sectional detail view on the line x1 x1, Fig. 2, looking down.

The loom-frame A, of suitable shape to provide bearings for the operative parts, the fast and loose pulleys B B1, the belt-shipper S and shipper-lever Sx, and the holding-plate N may be and are as usual in looms, the lay being omitted for the sake of clearness.

I have herein shown the actuating-detectors also serving as heddles; but the use of the detectors independently of the shedding mechanism is, as will be understood, within the spirit and scope of my invention.

Two heddle-frames Ti Jc, having flexible overhead connections Jix, are provided with cross-bars extended through elongated slots in the thin flat detector-heddles d d1, respectively, which latter have a limited vertical movement relative to the frames, substantially as in United States Patent No. 536,969, dated April 2, 1895.

A cam-shaft C has actuating-cams H K, which operate usual treadles H' K', connected with the lower ends of the heddle-frames, to reciprocate the latter, the warp-threads passing through eyes in the detectors.

A rock-shaft a, mounted in suitable bearings in the loom sides, has fast thereon arms a1 a2, the latter being provided with a roller or other stud a3, which is held against the periphery of a feeler-actuating cam F on the shaft C. This cam has, as shown in Fig. 2, two opposite and like high portions 3 4 and intermediate unequal reentrant or low portions, the latter being crossed by adjustable segments 6 7, said segments being located at different distances from the center of the cam and held in adjusted position by suitable bolts 5. Obviously upon rotation of the cam in the direction of the arrow, Fig. 2, the shaft a will be rocked to swing the arm a1 outward twice at each rotation and an equal distance each time by the high parts 3 4 acting on the arm a1. As the low portions are of unequal depth, however, the inward stroke of arm a will be less when the part 7 is operating than when the part 6 engages the roll a3, such differences in stroke being utilized in the vibration of the feeler, as will be described.

While only one arm a1 is shown, it is to be understood that there are two such arms, one near each side of the loom, each being jointed to a link 1disThe rear end of each link being in turn jointed to an adjustable two-part arm, a5 a6, fulcrumed on the loom side at a7. (See Fig. 2.) A collar 6 is adjustably secured to each link, and on these collars the feeler still is pivoted by ears Very, the feeler being shown as a flat plate extended across the width of the sets of detectors and vibratable below the normal paths of movement of the latter. As the feeler has first a short and then a long stroke inward it is adapted on the former to cooperate with a dropped detector of the front set and on the next stroke with one of the rear set, engagement by a detector causing the feeler to tip or rock on the collar 6, it being understood that the latter is vibrated by movement of the links add

One of the ears V is extended downwardly, as at l, (see Fig. 2,) to form a controller for a bunter d1, mounted on a short shaft d1, pivoted in the adjacent arm a1, said shaft having a rearwardly-extended arm d2, concaved at ds to normally receive the device 62, and having a notch d1 in its end. The controller o2 normally rests in the concavity d3, as shown in Fig. 2, a spring s holding the bunter-arm d1 in the position shown, and as the bunter and feeler move with the arm a1 the outer end of the bunter will normally pass to one side of the preferably-notched end of the knock-off arm e, shown as pivoted at ex in a suitable bracket on the loom side. The other end of the knock-off lever is adapted to engage the shipper-lever Sx and to release the same from the notch in the holding-plate N when the bunter engages the knock-off arm.

Supposing that one of the detectors moves into abnormal position, due to breakage or undue slackening of its warp, the lower end of such detector will then be in the path of the advancing feeler, and when the latter is engaged by the detector it will be tipped or rocked rearwardly on the pivots of the ears V, and such movement will swing the contrailer V inwardly, depressing the arm d until said controller enters the notch d1 and retains the bunter d in position to engage and actuate the knock-off lever on the next forward movement of the arm a1.

It will be understood that the cooperation of the feeler with a detector takes place on the inward stroke of the feeler, while the movement of the bunter to operate the knock-off arm takes place during the outward stroke at the time when the rocker-arm a2 is operated upon by the cam F in passing from a low to a high portion thereof. After the descent has effected the movement of the knock-off lever, as described, it is desirable to automatically return the parts to normal position, and this is herein effected by means of a stop cZ20, shown as an arm extended into the path of the feeler to engage the latter at about the completion of its outward stroke when said feeler has been turned into abnormal position by engagement with a detector.

The stop engages the feeler just before the stroke is completed and turns it upon the pivots of the ears V to withdraw the control lever from the notch cz. and into the recess or concavity d3, so that at the next movement of the parts when the loom is started up they will have been returned to normal position without intervention of the attendant.

I have shown herein two sets of actuating-detectors located in vertical planes one behind the other, the feeler taking a long stroke and a short stroke alternately to alternately cooperate with the front and back sets of detectors; but it is obvious that I may use three or more sets of detectors and impart to the feeler corresponding strokes, the feeler-actuating cam being changed accordingly--that is to say, for three sets of detectors the cam would have three high and three low portions instead of two, as herein shown.

By means of the adjustable members of the cam the stroke of the feeler can be accurately adjusted when setting up the loom, each stroke having its own independent adjustment.

The two-part arm a5 a6 is adjustably held by a slot-and-pin connection a25, so that the arm may be varied in length to raise or lower the path of movement of the feeler, and thus So adjust the latter to detectors of different lengths.

The frames �1 and �2 are shown as provided near their lower ends with transversely-extended bars sti20 stc20, respectively adapted to take up the back thrust of a detector when engaged by the feeler, and, as shown in Fig. 3, the said bars may be milled or serrated to more efficiently engage the longitudinal edge of a detector and prevent twisting of the same.

My invention is not restricted to the precise construction and arrangement of parts herein shown, as the same may be varied or rearranged without departing from the spirit and scope of my invention.

Having fully described my invention, what I claim, and desire to secure by Letters Patent, is--

1. In a warp stop-motion for looms, a plurality of sets of reciprocating stop-motion-actuating detectors normally controlled by the warp-threads, a cooperating feeler, means to move it through different distances on successive strokes, and stopping mechanism operative upon stoppage of the feeler by engagement with a detector in abnormal position, substantially as described.

2. In a warp stop-motion for looms, two sets of reciprocating stop-motion-actuating detectors normally controlled by the warp-threads, a cooperating feeler vibratable below said detectors, means to give said feeler a long and a short stroke alternately, to cooperate with an abnormally-positioned detector of the rear or front sets of detectors respectively, and stopping mechanism operative upon stoppage of the feeler by engagement with a detector, substantially as described.

3. In a warp stop-motion for looms, a plurality of sets of stop-motion-actuating detectors normally controlled by the warp-threads, means to reciprocate them in different vertical planes, a feeler to engage a detector in abnormal position and be stopped thereby, means to normally vibrate the feeler across the paths of successive sets of detectors on successive strokes, a shipper-lever, means operative upon stoppage of the feeler to release said lever, and means to automatically reset said means after stoppage of the feeler, substantially as described.

4. In a warp stop-motion for looms, a plurality of sets of reciprocating stop-motion-actuating detectors normally controlled by the warp-threads, a cooperating feeler, means to move it through different distances on successive strokes, stopping mechanism for the loom, operative upon stoppage of the feeler by engagement with a detector in abnormal position and means to adjust the length of stroke of the feeler, substantially as described.

5. In a warp stop-motion for looms, a plurality of sets of reciprocating stop-motion-actuating detectors normally controlled by the warp-threads, a cooperating feeler, means to move it through different distances on successive strokes, said means including a cam having independently-adjustable controlling portions, and stopping mechanism for the loom, operative upon stoppage of the feeler by a detector in abnormal position, substantially as described.

6. In a warp stop-motion for looms, a plurality of sets of reciprocating stop-motion-actuating detectors normally controlled by the warp-threads, a cooperating feeler, a vibrating support upon which it is adapted to rock when engaged by a detector, a bunter, a controller therefor carried by the feeler and operative upon rocking of the latter, means to vibrate the feeler-support, and stopping mechanism for the loom, actuated by the bunter when moved by the said controller into operative position, substantially as described.

7. In a warp stop-motion for looms, a plurality of sets of reciprocating stop-motion-actuating detectors normally controlled by the warp-threads, a cooperating feeler, a support on which the feeler is pivotally mounted, means to vibrate said support toward and from the detectors, a spring-controlled bunter, a controller therefor carried by the feeler, movement of the latter on its support by engagement with a dropped detector moving said bunter into operative position, a shipper-lever, and a knock-off arm therefor actuated by the bunter, substantially as described.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600009 ===

THIRD RAIL

United States Patent 600009

Filing date: June 7, 1897

Issue date: March 1, 1898

Inventor: LOWEL MASON MAXHAM

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Lowell Mason Maxham, a citizen of the United States, residing at Boston, in the county of Suffolk and State of Massachusetts, have invented a new and useful Third Rail, of which the following is a full, clear, and exact description.

This invention is in the line of electric conductors for railways in which the conductor being located upon the road-bed it is desired to insulate the same from all possible contact with the people or animals crossing the track. In accomplishing this result I have devised the construction shown in the drawings, forming part of this specification, and in which-- Figure 1 is a side elevation of the rail embodying my invention. Fig. 2 is a transverse section of the same made full size. Fig. 3 is a similar view of a modified form of the invention. Fig. 4 is a longitudinal section of ends of my rail. Fig. 5 is a similar view, and Fig. 6 are details of the invention.

The main portion of my invention comprises the rail-base A, which is preferably rolled into the form shown and consists of the central channel a, with nearly vertical sides, the slightly-sloping ledges a1, and the flanged lateral edges o1. These flanged edges are made to rest upon the level of the under side of the channel a in order to fit upon the sleepers supporting the other rails, and the flanges a3 are provided to enable this third rail to be spiked to the same sleepers.

The object of the channel a is to receive the conducting-wire B, which is insulated from contact with the third rail by means of the glass blocks C, placed at suitable intervals within the channel a beneath the wire B.

The outer portion of each ledge a1 is leveled for a short distance, as at a2, to receive the flat resilient plate D, secured thereto by means of suitable bolts E. Between the plate D and the ledges a1 are inserted the sheets of insulating material F, by means of which said plate and the rail A are insulated the one from the other. While these sheets F may be located upon the two ledges a1 and with their edges coincident with the edges of the ledges, I sometimes employ a single sheet extending the entire width of the rail, as shown in Fig. 3. In this case I dispense with the glass blocks C and depend for insulation of the conductor B upon this same sheet F, which is depressed sufficiently within the channel a to retain said wire conductor in position.

To prevent the plate D from being forced with too great pressure upon the conductor B, the inner edges or shoulders a3 of the ledges a1 are lowered just enough to permit said plate to be pressed into electrical contact with the conductor B, while any excess of flexure is prevented by the support given to the plate by said shoulders. In other words, when the plate D is depressed slightly more than necessary for electrical contact with the conductor it rests solidly upon the shoulders o8.

The required pressure is applied to the resilient plate D in order to bend it into contact with the conductor by means of a trolley- wheel forcibly applied thereto from beneath the car to be propelled, and to retain the said wheel upon the central line of the plate D, I affix a rail G to the latter, held in place thereon by the bolts H. Said bolts may be supplied with the usual threaded nuts, if desired; but I prefer to employ cotter-pins I, as less liable to become unfastened. The lower ends of these bolts are adapted to contact with the conductor B and thereby complete the circuit between the same and the rail G when the said plate is depressed, as above described. I show an improved form of this contact-rail in Fig. 3. Here the steel plate D is shown as formed with a central rib G, represented as rolled integral therewith. This rib becomes itself the contact-rail and fits the groove of the trolley-wheel, as does the one first illustrated.

In addition to the insulating-sheets F the plate D is prevented from electrical contact with the rail-base A by means of the mica or other suitable material formed into washers and thimbles e e1.

This third rail A is formed in sections of suitable length secured to the sleepers of the road-bed by means of spikes J, engaging the flanges of the same and driven into the sleepers in the usual manner. The plate D being fastened to the rail-base by the bolts E, clamping the same together with the semi-yielding insulating-sheets F between, there is no possible way for water to penetrate into the conductor-channel a except at the ends of each rail-section. To make these ends also watertight, I secure in each end two wedges K, filling most of the space between the plate I and rail-base A and held therein by bolts E1. The remainder of this space is filled by means of the two approximately crescent-shaped blocks or plugs L, which fit about the wire conductor B and are preferably made of rubber. By these means the ends of the third rails are caused to be watertight, while at the same time electric insulation is insured between the rail-base and contact-plate D. In case the wedges K are formed of metal the sheets of insulating material E are prolonged to extend between the same and the rail-base. One other advantage obtained from the use of these wedges K lies in the fact that the extreme ends of the plates D are prevented thereby from being depressed when the trolley passes over them. Said ends are therefore of even height, and the trolley-wheel can pass from one to the other with the minimum of shock. Were these ends unsupported, the trolley-wheel would pass directly from a depressed plate to an undepressed one, and consequently would strike the latter with a pronounced blow. Of course for a limited distance at each side of such joint this contact-plate is not pressed into electrical communication with the conductor; but by the employment of two trolley-wheels held a short distance apart there need be no interruption to the flow of the current. As shown in Fig. 1, such two trolley-wheels T may be journaled in the ends of the levers V, pivoted to the under side of the car-body and to each other. Of course since every car-body is elastically supported and is in constant vertical oscillation these trolley-wheels must not be inflexibly joined thereto. This is accomplished by making the levers V suitably resilient or in any other well-known way; but inasmuch as I do not in this application lay claim to anything besides the construction of the third rail herein set forth I do not show more than a theoretically-possible arrangement of two trolley-wheels.

In Fig. 4 I have shown the plugs L as separated from each other in the neighboring ends of the rails A; but in Fig. 5 said plugs are continuous from one rail to the other. By this means the conductor B is wholly insulated between the said rail ends.

What I claim as my invention, and desire to secure by Letters Patent, is as follows, to wit:

1. In a third rail, the combination of the resilient, substantially flat, electroconductive plate, supports for the edges thereof, the sheet of insulating material having its edges subjacent to those of said electroconductive plate, means for securing said edges of plate and sheet together, and an electroconductor located between said plate and sheet and close beneath the center line of said plate, substantially as and for the purpose set forth.

2. In an electroconductor, the rail-base having the central channel, a, and the inwardly-sloping ledges, a1, in combination with the conductor located in said channel and suitably insulated therefrom, the resilient and substantially flat plate secured to the raised outer edges of said rail-base and the insulating-sheets inserted between the same, said parts being so arranged that upon the application of suitable pressure to the central line of said plate, the latter is depressed into contact with said conductor and also into a condition of support by said ledges, substantially as and for the purpose set forth.

3. In a third rail, the combination of the resilient, substantially flat, electroconductive plate having fixed supports at its edges, and the electroconductor located close beneath the center line of said plate and normally insulated therefrom, whereby when a trolley passes along the center line of said plate, the latter is pressed into contact with said electroconductor and the current flows from said conductor to said plate, and from said plate to the trolley, for the purpose set forth.

4. In a third rail, the combination of the rail-base having the central channel, the electroconductor located therein, the resilient plate secured upon said rail-base and capable of being depressed along its central line, and supports for the extreme ends of said plate, whereby the same shall be supported at an invariable height, substantially as and for the purpose set forth.

5. In a third rail, the combination with the rail-base, the plate secured thereon and the electroconductor located within the same, of the elastic, non-conductive plugs surrounding said conductor at the juncture of the two rails and having an end of each held in the approximate ends of said rails, substantially as and for the purpose set forth.

7. In a third rail, the combination of the rail-base having central channel and inwardly-sloping ledges, the insulating-sheet, the electroconductor, the resilient plate, and the wedges and plugs closing the ends watertight of the space between said rail-base and plate, as set forth.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600011 ===

MOLD

United States 600011

Filing date: April 22, 1897

Issue date: March 1, 1898

Inventor: PHILIP H. MINIS, JR.

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Philip H. Minis, Jr., of Leesburg, in the county of Loudoun and State of Virginia, have invented certain new and useful Improvements in Molds; and I do hereby declare the following to be a full, clear, and exact description of the invention, such as will enable others skilled in the art to which it pertains to make and use it, reference being had to the accompanying drawings, which form part of this specification.

This invention relates to molds, and more particularly a mold for casting lead car-seals.

The object of the invention is to provide a mold for casting objects, such as the seal herein disclosed, of irregular form, wherein the mold-walls are divided and afforded independent movement for quickly and effectually releasing the casting. In the present case the centrally-divided mold has each side divided horizontally into two independently-moving sections, two of the sections moving or opening first to release a lateral extension of the cast object, whereby the object may be moved longitudinally to release it from a core part of the mold before the other mold-sections, which carry the core, are separated for the final release of the object.

With these and other objects in view, as will presently appear, the invention consists in the novel features of construction and in the combination and arrangement of parts hereinafter fully described and claimed, and illustrated by the accompanying drawings, in which--

Figure 1 is a plan view of the mold, the gate being shown closed in dotted lines. Fig. 2 is a longitudinal sectional view on line a a of Fig. 1. Fig. 3 is a plan view of the mold closed, the gate thereof being raised. Fig. 4 is a cross-sectional view on line B B of Fig. 3, the gate being shown in lowered position in dotted lines. Fig. 5 is a view similar to Fig. 3, the mold, however, being open. Fig. 6 is a cross sectional view on line C C of Fig. 5. Fig. 7 is a cross-section of the mold, the lower portions of the sides being open to release the lower headed end of the seal and the mold-bottom or ejector moved vertically to release the seal from the core before the mold sides, carrying the core, are separated. Fig. 8 is a perspective view of the Brooks car-seal, which the present mold is particularly designed to cast. Fig. 9 is a sectional view of said seal as formed in my improved mold.

The mold is of the usual hinged-top type, of which top A, longitudinally-movable gate B, and gate-operating lever C are of well-known construction and for which no novelty is herein claimed.

In the top surface of base D are formed two separated transverse depressions, in which are arranged slides E and F, the same being pivotally connected by bolts G to bell-crank lever H on opposite sides of fulcrum-bolt H1, which is secured to the base between the slides. The lever extends beneath the base in a diagonal direction and extends beyond the front edge thereof, as shown.

The mold sides consist of four sections arranged longitudinally of and upon the top of the base, the under or bottom sections e and f being secured, respectively, to slides E and F, whereby they are moved transversely on base D in opposite directions for opening and closing. The top mold-sections e' f are arranged, respectively, in longitudinal depressions in the tops of sections e and f, the depressions being wider than the sections which fit therein, whereby the lower sections are afforded lateral movement independent of the upper sections, for the purpose presently to be explained.

The combined mold-bottom and ejector I is arranged to move vertically in a depression formed longitudinally in base D. When the mold is closed, as in Figs. 3 and 4, the lower portions of mold-sections e and f are closed against the mold-bottom and ejector I, while the upper edges g overhang said bottom slightly above the top plane of the latter to inclose cavity h, in which the lower headed end 2 of the seal is formed. The adjacent edges i of mold-section's e f close in line with edges g, and in the circular vertical opening j in the seam of these edges is formed neck 3 of the seal. A slight depression f2 in the top surface of sections e1 f1 serves to form top head 4 of the seal, while annular groove 1 in the bottom of depression 7c forms depending annular shoulder 5, the circular core m, inclosed by the groove, forming countersunk depression 6. With the mold thus closed and the top lowered the gate is opened and the molten lead admitted to the several seal forming cavities. The longitudinal or closing movement of the gate separates the sprue from the seal, thus forming the top flat end of the seal. The top is then swung open and the seals are ready for ejection. It may be stated, however, that before the mold-cavities are filled seal-wires 7 are laid in slots J, extending inward from the edge of mold-section to the mold-cavities, with the bent or hooked ends 8 of the wires extended downward through the openings and engaging overhanging portion g, whereby they are securely held in place while the seals are being formed around them.

For opening the mold lever H is moved in the direction of the arrow, Fig. 3, thus moving slides E and F in opposite direction, and with them mold-sections e and f, which are carried thereby. Edges g are thus moved sufficiently to release neck 3 and permit the lower headed end 2 to pass therebetween. As soon as sufficient space is thus afforded for vertical movement of head 2 the mold-bottom and ejector is raised through the medium of lever H, which at this stage of its movement engages projection K on the under side of longitudinally-slotted slide L, moving on headed bolts M, depending from the under side of base D, said slide being formed with inclined or cam depressions N, into which pins I1 depend from the under edge of the combined mold-bottom and ejector I, the latter moving upward as slide L is moved longitudinally, as will be understood. This movement raises the seal sufficiently to release shoulder 5 from groove 1, so that mold-sections e f are free to separate, the seals before being thus raised holding said mold parts together. At this juncture longitudinal shoulders n engage corresponding shoulders o of the top sections and open the latter, and ejector I continues to rise until in the position indicated in Figs. 5 and 6, in which the mold is wide open and from which the perfect seals are readily removed. Slight projections p on ejector I extend into the seal-bottoms and serve to retain the seals in centered position on the ejector until removed, which is conveniently accomplished by grasping wires 7. Spring O serves to retract slide L when released by lever H, while springs P, encircling bolts Q, which depend from ejector I through base D, serve to retract the ejector and hold it normally depressed. In closing the mold shoulders n engage the rear edges of sections e f and move the latter to closed position, the under sections e and f being afforded positive movement in closing by backward movement of lever H. The sliding mold-sections are retained in place by end strips R, removably secured to base D.

I do not desire to limit myself to the exact details of construction herein shown, as manifestly they may be varied in many ways without departing from the spirit of my invention; and while the mold is here shown and described as particularly adapted for casting car-seals, I do not limit myself to such particular use, as the principles involved in this invention are applicable to the manufacture of articles in many different arts.

Having thus fully described my invention, what I claim as new, and desire to secure by Letters Patent, is--

1. An improved mold, including a plurality of half-mold sections arranged in pairs, one pair above the other, an ejector, and actuating mechanism operatively connected to the mold-sections and to the ejector and constructed and arranged to first open one pair of mold-halves and then project the ejector therebetween and finally separate the other mold-halves, substantially as shown and described.

2. An improved mold, having each side formed of two mold-sections arranged one over the other, connections between the sections whereby the upper section is adapted to be actuated by the lower section, and mechanism operatively connected to the lower section and adapted to open same and move it to position for opening the upper section, substantially as shown and described.

3. An improved separable mold, comprising a base, two transversely-movable slides and means for simultaneously actuating them in opposite directions, two oppositely-movable mold-sections, one secured, to each slide, a second set of mold-sections arranged adjacent the first-mentioned sections, means for separating the sections of the second set after the separation of the sections of the first set, and an ejector movable between the sections, substantially as shown and described.

4. An improved mold, comprising separable mold sides, an ejector adapted to extend between the sides, a cam member adapted to actuate the ejector, a spring for holding said member normally retracted, and springs for holding the ejector normally depressed, substantially as shown and described.

5. An improved mold, comprising separable mold sides, an ejector, a movable cam member adapted to actuate the ejector, and a lever operatively connected to and adapted to actuate the mold sides and also the cam member, substantially as shown and described.

6. An improved mold, comprising separable mold sides, an ejector provided with depending pins, the longitudinally-movable bar having cam-surfaces adapted to engage the pins and actuate the ejector, and the lever operatively connected to and adapted to actuate the mold sides and also engage and move longitudinally the cam-bar, substantially as shown and described.

7. An improved mold, comprising a base formed with two transverse depressions, slides in said depressions, separable mold sides adapted to be actuated by said slides, the end retaining-strips for the mold-sections, an ejector, movable between the mold sides, and means for actuating the latter and also the slides, substantially as shown and described.

8. In a mold, the combination of the lower side sections having the meeting top edges, the combined bottom and ejector between the lower sections and normally extending nearly to said meeting edges, the upper side sections uniting in line with the seam of the lower sections, both sets of sections being formed at the seam-line with an opening extending to the cavity above the ejector, the top sections being depressed on their top surface and formed with the annular vertical groove, and an operating means, substantially as shown and described.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600012 ===

APPARATUS FOR DRAWING METAL

United States Patent 600012

Filing date: December 9, 1895

Issue date: March 1, 1898

Inventor: WILLIAM A. MCCOOL

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, William A. McCool, of Beaver Falls, Pennsylvania, have invented certain new and useful Improvements in Apparatus for Drawing Metal, (for all or parts whereof there have been issued to me in the Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland Letters Patent No. 25,686, dated November 14, 1896; in France, No. 270,402, dated September 14, 1897, and in the Kingdom of Belgium, No. 130,827, dated September 24, 1897,) of which the following is a description, referring to the accompanying drawings, which form part of this specification.

The invention relates particularly to the apparatus for giving travel to the pushing and pulling heads of the draw-bench or drawing-machine, the details of such pushing and pulling heads, the adjustable die-block or die-holder, and the die and internal mandrel for forming tubing.

In certain prior patents issued to me I have shown certain forms of draw-benches wherein the pushing and pulling heads or carriages were operated by chains, to which they were variously adapted, and I have shown several different forms of gripping devices for gripping the bar or other metal to be drawn. Among these prior patents I may mention No. 346,126, of May 31, 1887; Nos. 388,701 and 388,782, of August 28, 1888, and No. 400,238, of March 26, 1889. The present invention forms in some respects an improvement upon these prior devices, but also includes distinct departures from anything shown in such prior patents, as will appear from the following description and claims.

According to the present invention an endless cable, belt, or similar device travels lengthwise along the drawing-frame and may be run at will in either direction continuously or stopped when desired, and the die is supported in slightly-adjustable bearings, as will hereinafter more fully appear.

The pushing and pulling heads or carriages have each two sets of gripping devices, one set being arranged to take the endless cable or belt at any point of its length, and thereby cause the head or carriage to be drawn along upon its tracks or guides, and the other grip is arranged to hold the metal so that in the case of the pushing-head it may be forced into the die and in the case of the pulling-head the metal may be drawn through the die.

In addition to providing an improved drawing apparatus for drawing bars, tubes, or other metal my invention contemplates an improved method of forming tubing from flat sheets or blanks by means of a loose adjustable bulb-mandrel, which is held in the die by the drawing action of the metal and thereby assists in the forming of the tubing.

The use of a cable or other similar traction device, to which the movable heads or carriages are attached by friction-grips, is of great importance, as there is enough slip in the connection between the grip and cable or other endless traction device of sufficient elasticity to prevent the pulling apart of the metal being drawn. Moreover, the elasticity of the cable, which gives a springy yielding pull, is a great advantage. These two points serve to radically distinguish the device from the rigid unyielding connection formed by a hook and chain (or other traction device) into which the hook is secured.

I have now briefly described the general features of my invention and have indicated the operation and general purposes of the various parts of new apparatus. To these general purposes and to certain other new and useful purposes, which will more fully hereinafter appear, my invention is embodied in an apparatus constructed, arranged, combined, and used in a manner similar to that hereinafter described, illustrated, and claimed.

In the drawings, Figure 1 illustrates the general arrangement of my draw-bench, and endless power-driven cable for operating it, the parts being arranged for forming a tube from a flat sheet or blank. Fig. 2 is a sectional view on the line 2 2 of Fig. 1. Fig. 3 is a plan view of the gripper head and carriage shown in Fig. 2, showing the grip for engaging with the bar or tubing being drawn. Fig. 4 is an inverted plan or bottom view of the same head or carriage, showing the grip for the actuating-cable. Fig. 5 shows in side elevation the supporting-bracket for one end of the adjustable die-holder. Figs. 6 and 7 are respectively a plan and side elevation of the die-holder. Fig. 8 shows in front elevation the bracket illustrated in Fig. 5. Fig. 9 is a detail view of the other supporting-bracket for the adjustable die-holder and the adjusting devices carried thereby. Fig. 10 is a longitudinal sectional view, on an enlarged scale, of the die and mandrel employed when forming tubing from a flat plate.

Throughout the drawings like letters of reference indicate like parts.

Referring to Fig. 1 for the general arrangement and to the other figures for details of my construction, B indicates the longitudinals of the guides or tracks of my draw-bench, they being supported by posts or columns C and terminating at each end in the frames or supports D. In Fig. 1 the die is indicated at F, and the pushing and pulling heads or movable carriages at G G1, respectively. A tube issuing from the die and secured to the right-hand pulling or drawing head G1 is indicated by H, and the flat plate from which the tube is formed by my improved process is shown at I I1. The drawing-heads G G1 each consist of two grips mounted in a suitable carriage provided with wheels T, which run on rails T1, preferably formed by angle-bars secured to the inner face of the side rails B of the main frame. As shown in Fig. 5, the longitudinals or side rails B are preferably provided with an inwardly-extending horizontal flange at both their upper and lower edges, and the said wheels T of the movable heads or carriages are arranged between the aforesaid rails T1 and the top flanges T2 of the side pieces of the main frame.

The movable heads or carriages G G1 differ only in the form of the upper metal-grip, that in the carriage G being adapted to engage the plate H1, while that in the carriage G1 is, as shown in Figs. 1, 2, and 3, adapted to grip a bar or tube. Through the lower grip of each of these heads G G1 extends the wire rope or cable J, which passes over a pulley K, supported at each end of the draw-bench, and around a power driving drum-wheel L, preferably located in the basement beneath the drawing-bench. The driving-drum L may be driven by the worm and worm-wheel �1, inclosed in a suitable casing, as shown in Fig. 1, and the worm-shaft may be driven by means of the two reversely-turning pulleys M H1, controlled by the respective friction-clutches and hand-levers m m1.

The wire rope or cable L is endless and during the usual operation of the draw-bench is run continuously in the direction in which the metal is drawn, or to the right in Fig. 1. The movable heads or carriages G G1 may be gripped onto this cable at any point at will, so that instantly and without delay the cable will transmit power and motion to the heads. In the ordinary operation the pushing-head is drawn back to a convenient position, both its grips being open. The metal to be thrust into the die is then gripped in proper alinement in the head, and the cable-grip is then tightened, instantaneously causing the head to be drawn forward with the cable, forcing the metal into the die.

I describe no means for automatically releasing the cable-grip when the carriage or head reaches the end of its travel, because these details do not concern the essential features of the present invention.

When the metal has been initially forced into the die by the pushing head or carriage, that head is ungripped from both the cable and the metal, and the other (the pulling head or carriage) is then brought into play. This is run up by hand to the mouth of the die and gripped onto the metal projecting therefrom. Then the grip is closed upon the cable and the head or carriage travels forward with the cable, drawing the metal through the die, until the head has traveled to the end of the bench or until for some other reason it is desired to stop. The head or carriage is then released from the cable and maybe ungripped from the metal and run back by hand toward the mouth of the die, where it can be reengaged with the metal and cable to continue the drawing operation, if desired.

While usually it is advantageous to keep the cable running continuously in one direction and to return the head in the opposite direction by hand, when for any reason it becomes necessary to apply power for forcing the metal backward through the die or for forcing either of the heads or carriages backward the cable can be stopped and reversed by means of the clutches and hand-levers m m1.

The details of the cable-gripper and the metal-gripper in the movable head or carriage G are similar to each other, and as the cable-gripper in the head G is the same as that of the corresponding gripper in the head G and the metal-gripper of said head G differs from the corresponding one in the head G only in the form of its jaws, whereby it is adapted to grip the plate I I1 instead of a bar or tube, I have not thought it necessary to illustrate in detail the grippers of the carriage G.

It will be understood that, when my improved apparatus herein illustrated and described is employed for drawing rods, bars, or tubing instead of for forming tubing from a flat plate, both the pushing and pulling heads or carriages will be similar to that at G herein described, the details of which are clearly shown in Figs. 2, 3, and 4.

Fig. 4 shows the details of the cable-gripping mechanism, the movement or drawing action taking place in the direction of the arrow. In this figure the bottom plate n1 (see Fig. 2) is removed to expose the grip. O designates the movable jaw of the grip, and O1 the fixed jaw. This movable jaw is of the wedge shape shown and slides upon the inclined piece P. The operating-key R, provided with a single tooth working in the corresponding notch r of the wedge-shaped jaw O and turned by means of the hand-lever S, gives a slight longitudinal movement to the wedge-shaped jaw and causes it to close upon or release the cable J. It will be seen that the movement of the cable in the direction of the arrow is in a direction to cause the jaw to wedge tightly upon the cable, and therefore little force need be exerted in closing the grip, whereas in opening it a sudden throw of the lever S releases the grip and allows the cable J to slide easily through without transmitting motion and power to the head.

In Fig. 3 the gripper for the metal is shown. In this two wedge-shaped jaws 0's 0's are used instead of one, as in the above-described cable-grip, so that the jaws will always be accurately centered in the head and so that they will close equally upon the tube, bar, or other metal for which they are formed. The two jaws are interlocked against longitudinal play or movement as regards each other by means of the projection o on one jaw, which enters a registering recess in the other. The longitudinal movement required to cause these jaws to wedge upon and grip the metal is produced by a rotary shaft R1, turned by the handle S1 and provided with a tooth which engages the notch r1 in one of the jaws O3. In this gripper the incline of the relatively stationary wedge-shaped guides Q, which guide the said jaws O3 O8, is of course reversed to that of the cable, because it is in this case the jaws which grip upon and draw the metal, whereas in Fig. 4 it is the cable which transmits power to the jaws of the grip. It will be seen that the reversely-inclined wedges Q (shown in Fig. 3) will cause the jaws to grip more tightly upon the tubing or other metal when greater resistance or pull is offered by the metal. . I have found that by slightly altering the position of the die with relation to the line of travel of the metal I can control the drawing action and overcome certain difficulties and irregularities heretofore present in apparatus for drawing metal. Indeed, the need of straightening the tubes is to a large extent obviated, as any tendency of the tubes to curl in one direction or the other may be overcome by slightly adjusting or directing the die. ' I obtain this adjustment of the die by means of two distinct angular adjustments, one horizontal and the other vertical. The die, which may be of any suitable and desirable form, is rigidly mounted in the usual manner in a die-holder X. In the drawings two forms of die are more or less conventionally illustrated. That shown at F, Figs. 1 and 10, is of such length as to project beyond both sides of the die-holder, while that at F1, Figs. 6 and 7, does not thus project.

The holder X is itself adjusted in order to vary the position of the die with relation to the metal being drawn. Each end of the holder in the embodiment of my invention herein illustrated is provided with globe shaped bearings, which bearings are mounted in blocks Y Y1, supported upon the draw-bench frame. The block Y is stationarily secured to the draw-bench by means of a flange which extends down over one of the side pieces B, and one of the ends of the die-holder is seated in a socket formed in said block and provided with a projecting stud x1, which extends outwardly through a passage formed in said block. To this projection x1 is secured a depending arm or short lever Z, upon which bear the two set-screws s. By these screws z the lever-arm Z maybe adjusted through a small angle and, by reason of the holder X rocking in its support, the die thereby angularly adjusted in a vertical plane. The block Y1, in which is mounted the end of the die-holder opposite that provided with the projection x1, has a slight horizontal adjustment or travel upon the bench. This horizontal adjustment is obtained as follows: The block Y1 is mounted to slide horizontally in a stationary bracket II, secured to one of the sides B of the draw-bench, and set-screws u extend through the end walls of such bracket and bear upon the block Y1, as shown in Fig. 6. By the adjustment of these screws u a slight travel or adjustment may be given to the block Y1 in a direction longitudinal of the draw-bench, and thereby the die is given an angular adjustment in a horizontal plane. By reference to Fig. 6 it will be seen that the passage in the block Y through which the projection x1 extends is enlarged toward its outer end or provided with flaring walls, whereby such projection x1 is allowed to adjust itself to the position into which it is moved by the screws u. Owing to the globe or spherical bearings x or to the use of any other universal joint these two angular adjustments of the die are entirely independent of each other, and therefore the die may be directed or inclined not only in the horizontal and vertical planes but in any plane or angle of direction and the desired correction of any curling tendency in the drawn metal compensated for.

There now remains to be described my improved bulb-mandrel, which is employed when forming tubing from flat sheets and which is illustrated in detail in Fig. 10. Referring to this figure, V designates the stem of the bulb-mandrel. This stem is adjustably connected with a cross bar or support w, which extends across the rear end of the die. The action of the metal after being' drawn through between the mandrel and the die in the direction of the arrow, Fig. 10, is to draw the mandrel into the die with great force, and as the flat plate enters the die and is bent up around the mandrel to form the tube it is confined and drawn through between the polished bulb V of the mandrel and the mouth of the die. As the throat of the die is conical or tapered, as shown, the space between the bulb of the mandrel and the die may be very readily adjusted to a nicety by allowing the head of the mandrel to go farther into the die to decrease the space or by drawing it slightly out of the die to enlarge the space. The mandrel is shown as having the rear end of its stem threaded and projecting slightly beyond the rear end of the die, said threaded portion of the stem being screwed into a suitable socket or passage formed in the cross-piece W. The construction illustrated in Fig. 10 and described above allows the mandrel to be readily and quickly adjusted longitudinally when the parts are in operative position and without requiring the removal of the mandrel from the die. When the drawing action is taking place, the mandrel is drawn into the die until the cross-piece W rests against the rear end of the die and prevents the further entry of the mandrel; but although considerable power is required to form cold-drawn tubes in this manner there is no difficulty in removing a partly-formed piece of tube from the die, because no jamming can take place between the mandrel and the die and because any backward motion of the metal at once relieves the metal from pressure in the mouth of the die, loosening the mandrel and allowing it to be drawn out by hand. There are many other advantages due to this improved adjustable mandrel and die, which will be readily understood by those skilled in the art.

I have now described all of the essential features of my invention. I have omitted the enumeration of many details, and many modifications which may be made in the apparatus without departing from the principles involved, because to set all these forth at length would obscure rather than make clear the more essential features.

I claim, however, and desire to secure by Letters Patent of the United States, together with all such modifications and variations as may be made by those skilled in the art and with such limitations and restrictions as are expressed or by law implied in view of the related arts, the following:

1. In a metal-drawing machine, the combination of a bed-frame, an endless power-cable, a die, a mandrel, and a carriage having adjustable metal-engaging jaws and independent adjustable jaws for engaging with the cable, substantially as set forth.

2. In a metal-drawing machine, the combination of a relatively stationary die having a passage for the metal to be drawn, the movable metal-gripper on one side of said die, the movable metal-gripper on the other side of said die, an endless cable, power devices for actuating the said cable, means for detachably and gradually connecting said cable to the first aforesaid metal-gripper, and means for detachably and gradually connecting the cable to the second aforesaid gripper, substantially as set forth.

3. In a metal-drawing machine, the combination with the relatively stationary die having a passage for the metal to be drawn, of the movable metal-gripper on one side of said die, the movable gripper on the other side of said die, the endless traction device arranged adjacent to the said metal-grippers, means for detachably connecting the said traction device to the said grippers, and a power driving mechanism having a frictional connection with the endless traction device, substantially as set forth.

4. In a draw-bench, the combination of a die having a passage or aperture therein, a movable gripper adapted to move toward and from the die and to force the metal to be reduced through said passage or aperture, a cable or traction device having an exterior surface of uniform cross-section, whereby the gripper can be gradually clamped to the traction device at any point of the length thereof, and means for frictionally connecting, gradually, the gripper to the said traction device, substantially as set forth.

5. In a draw-bench, the combination of a bed or supporting-frame, a die adapted to be held stationary on said bed, an endless cable or traction device, extending longitudinally of the bed, and having a uniform diameter, driving mechanism having a frictional engagement with said traction device, and a gripper mounted on said bed or support and having two independently-acting gripping mechanisms, one arranged in the plane of the die to engage the article to be moved therethrough and the other adapted to be connected with said traction device at any point in the length thereof, whereby the article will be moved through the die with a yielding pressure, substantially as set forth.

6. In a draw-bench, the combination of a die, an endless cable or traction device, means for driving said traction device with a yielding force, and a gripper adapted to be engaged with said traction device, at any point in the length thereof, and with the article to be drawn, substantially as and for the purpose set forth.

7. In combination in and with draw-bench apparatus, the die mounted upon two supports at each side of the draw-bench, one of said supports being adjustable longitudinally upon the said draw-bench, whereby a horizontal angular adjustment of the die may be had, substantially as set forth.

8. In combination in and with draw-bench apparatus, the die support or holder pivotally mounted in suitable bearings, and provided with the arm Z, and one or more set-screws z z, for turning the same arm to slightly adjust the said die.

9. In combination in apparatus for drawing metals, the frame or bed thereof, the die or draw plate mounted on the said frame, the head or carriage mounted to travel longitudinally in the said frame, an endless traction device of substantially uniform cross-section throughout its length running longitudinally in the said frame, driving mechanism therefor, means for securing the said head or carriage to the metal to be drawn, and an independently-controlled friction-grip mounted upon the said carriage or head, in line with the said traction device, substantially as set forth.

10. In combination in apparatus for drawing metals, the bed or frame thereof, the die or draw plate mounted on the said frame, the head or carriage mounted to travel longitudinally in the said frame, an endless traction device of substantially uniform cross-section throughout its length running longitudinally in the said frame, driving mechanism therefor, and two separate gripping mechanisms upon the said head or carriage, one in line with and adapted to engage the metal to be drawn, and the other in line with and adapted to engage the said traction device, substantially as set forth.

11. In combination in apparatus for drawing metal, the frame or bed, the die or draw plate, a head or carriage traveling longitudinally in the said frame, a gripper mounted upon the said head to travel in line with the said, a power-cable running longitudinally through the said bed or frame, a second gripper carried by said head or carriage, in line with and adapted to engage the said cable, and means for gradually engaging and disengaging the last said gripper at will, substantially as set forth.

12. In combination in apparatus for drawing metals, the bench, bed or frame, the traveling head thereon, provided with two separately-controlled grippers, the die or draw plate arranged in line with one of the said grippers, and a cable running longitudinally of the said bench, bed or frame, in line with and through the second of said grippers, whereby when both the said grippers are in operation, one upon the said cable and the other upon the metal to be drawn, the said metal may be drawn with a yielding pressure, substantially as set forth.

13. In a draw-bench, the combination of a bed-frame, a die supported on said frame, an endless cable or traction device extending longitudinally of the bed, a carriage mounted on the bed and adapted to engage with the article to be drawn, jaws mounted in said carriage for engaging with the traction device, means for moving one of said jaws toward or from the traction device, and guiding means on the carriage whereby the strain or pull exerted by the traction device acts to more firmly connect the carriage to said traction device, substantially as set forth.

14. In a draw-bench, the combination of a bed-frame, a die supported on said frame, a carriage mounted on the bed and adapted to engage with the article to be drawn, an endless cable or traction device, a relatively stationary jaw, O1, on the carriage and at one side of the traction device, a movable jaw on the carriage and at the opposite side of said traction device, means for moving the last said jaw longitudinally of the carriage, and a guide on the carriage for simultaneously moving said jaw toward the traction device, said guide being so related to the said jaws and the traction device that the strain or pull of the traction device acts to draw the movable jaw into closer engagement therewith, substantially as set forth.

15. In a draw-bench, the combination of a bed-frame, a die on said frame, an endless cable or traction device, a carriage mounted on the bed and adapted to engage with the article to be drawn, a stationary jaw on the carriage, in the plane of the traction device, a stationary guide on the carriage on the opposite side of the traction device from said stationary jaw and having its face adjacent to said jaw inclined toward the said traction device from its rear to its forward end, a movable jaw arranged between said guide and the traction device, and means for moving the last said jaw, substantially as and for the purpose set forth.

16. In a draw-bench, the combination with a main frame, of a die-holder adapted to extend transversely of said frame and connected therewith by a ball-and-socket joint, means for adjusting said holder about an axis extending transverse of the main frame, and means for holding said holder stationary in any adjusted position, substantially as set forth.

17. In a draw-bench, the combination with a main frame, of a die-holder adapted to extend transversely of the frame and having one end connected therewith by a ball-and-socket joint, an arm connected with said holder and adapted to rock the holder about an axis extending transverse of the main frame, and means adapted to engage said arm and retain the holder in the desired adjusted position, substantially as set forth.

18. In a draw-bench, the combination with a main frame, of a die-holder having ball-like end portions, socket-pieces on the main frame for receiving said ball-like portions of the holder, adjusting devices adapted to move one of said socket-pieces on the main frame, means for adjusting the die-holder independently of any adjustment of the last said socket-piece, and means for securing the holder in any adjusted position, substantially as set forth.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600013 ===

TUBE-DRAWING MACHINE

United States Patent 600013

Filing date: September 12, 1896

Issue date: March 1, 1898

Inventor: WILLIAM A. MCCOOL

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, William A. McCool, a citizen of the United States, residing at Beaver Falls, in the county of Beaver and State of Pennsylvania, have invented certain new and useful Improvements in Tube-Drawing Machines, (for all or parts whereof there have been issued to me in the Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland Letters Patent No. 25,686, dated November 14, 1896; in France Letters Patent No. 270,462, dated September 14, 1897, and in the Kingdom of Belgium Letters Patent No. 130,827, dated September 24, 1897;) and I do declare the following to be a full, clear, and exact description of the invention, such as will enable others skilled in the art to which it appertains to make and use the same, reference being had to the accompanying drawings, and to the letters and figures of reference marked thereon, which form a part of this specification.

Figure 1 is a side elevation, partly in section, of a tube-drawing machine embodying my improvements. Fig. 2 is a top plan view. Fig. 3 is a sectional view on the line 3 3 of Fig. 2. Fig. 4 is a similar view on the line 4 4 of Fig. 2. Fig. 5 is a detail view of a portion of a mandrel. Figs. 6 and 7 are respectively a side elevation and an end elevation of the movable tube carriage or head 9-1, and Fig. 8 is a plan view of the devices for connecting the tube-carriage 9 to the propelling-cable. Figs. 9 and 10 are respectively a plan and an end elevation of a tube-guide. Figs. 11 and 12 are a plan and a side elevation of an extended support for the mandrel. Figs. 13 and 14 are enlarged detail views of the means employed for supporting the outer end of the mandrel in the form of machine 11 and 12. Fig. 15 is a longitudinal sectional view through a tube, showing a modified form of mandrel in place therein. Fig. 16 is a longitudinal sectional view of the mandrel illustrated in Fig. 15.

I have found that when tubing is being drawn on the bench it is very desirable to apply the longitudinal propelling force to the tube by mechanism capable of more or less yielding, so that the propulsion shall not be absolutely positive and fixed at all times, but such as to allow slight checks in the advance, the result being to permit the metal to more gradually flow at those instants when extraordinary resistance is experienced. For this purpose a frictional engagement of two of the driving or propelling devices is advantageous--as, for instance, by employing a driving-drum with a chain or cable wrapped around it.

Another matter of importance is to have the tube-propelling mechanism comprise two parts which can be brought into engagement at any transverse line--as, for instance, by having a cable or chain of uniform cross-section throughout its entire length and a gripper adapted to be quickly connected thereto at any point. This is in contradistinction to the plan commonly followed of drawing the tube by means of a hook or pin and a chain which can only engage with the hook at certain points separated by relatively large intervals. .

In general features the present mechanism is analogous to that shown and described in my earlier application, Serial No. 571,476, filed December 9, 1895; but it differs therefrom in important particulars, which will be hereinafter pointed out and described.

In the drawings, 11 designate the side rails of the bed or support of the apparatus, which rails are mounted at their ends upon suitable pedestals or standards 2 2. As shown, the rails or side bars 1 are preferably formed of angle-iron, each having at its upper edge a horizontal inwardly-extending flange 3. To the inner faces of said bars 1 are secured angle-irons I1, the tipper horizontal flanges of which extend parallel to the flanges 3, thus forming a guideway X along the inner side of each bed-bar. 1 designates a stationary circular die rigidly secured to the side bars 11 at an intermediate point of their length. This die may be constructed in any preferred and well-known manner.

In the ways or guides X are fitted the carriages or movable tube-grippers 9 9-1, by which the tube is moved longitudinally of the bed and through the circular die 12. As shown, these carriages are arranged on opposite sides of said die, and each is provided with means for detachably engaging the tube to be drawn and with means for engaging with the power-propelling cable. In the drawings each of said carriages or movable tube-grippers comprises a rectangular-shaped base 9a, the longitudinal sides of which are adapted to fit within the aforesaid guides on the bed. The said base 9a preferably has a top plate 10, and to said base are secured or formed integral therewith upwardly-extending side disco plates 9b, which are connected by a top piece or cap-plate 10a. The clamping blocks or jaws 49 of the tube-gripping devices are shown as being supported on the base 9a between the side plates 9b, each of said jaws having formed in its inner face a longitudinally-extending semicircular groove or recess adapted to receive a portion of the tube 13 to be drawn. One of said clamping-blocks is adapted to be moved laterally toward and from a companion block to release or grasp the tube 13. Preferably such movement is controlled through a short vertical shaft 49a, mounted in the carriage and provided at its upper end with an operative crank 49b and at its lower end with a link or finger 49c which is connected with the movable block. 49 designates an endless rope or cable which passes around a suitable driving-drum 51, and after passing around guiding wheels or drums 52, journaled in the pedestals or standards 2, extends longitudinally of the bed of the apparatus in line with the cable-gripping jaws of said movable heads 9 9-1. Each carriage 9 9-1 is, as said above, provided with means for attachment to said endless rope or cable, whereby said carriage and the tube 13, when gripped by the jaws 49, may be moved longitudinally and the tube forced or drawn through the die 12.

In the embodiment of my invention herein illustrated I have shown the base 9a of each carriage as provided on the inner faces of its side bars with integral inwardly-extending inclined surfaces 22 and coacting cam or wedge blocks 23, there being two of such blocks on each side of the carriage, separated so as to lie in the plane of and contact with the adjacent inclined surfaces 22. As shown, the two wedge-blocks 23 at each side of the carriage are connected by a threaded shaft 24, one end of which projects beyond the end of the carriage. By operating either shaft 24 the cams 23, connected therewith, may be moved longitudinally of the carriage and their inner faces moved toward or from the center longitudinal line of the carriage. 19 19 designate the cable-gripping jaws, which extend through openings in the end walls of the carriage-base and are arranged on opposite sides of the path of the cable 50. Various devices may be employed for forcing the cable-gripping jaws into such position that the carriage will be connected with the cable and caused to move longitudinally of the machine. At present I prefer to employ devices by which the pull exerted by the cable or tension device will act to more firmly connect the carriage to said propelling means, and means by which said devices can be actuated to instantly release the cable--that is, in the embodiment of my invention herein illustrated the jaws 19 are connected with the cams 23 by toggle-links or short rods 25, having enlarged ends which are seated in suitable sockets or recesses formed in said jaws and cams.

From the above description and the drawings it will be seen that the jaws 19 if moved longitudinally will be simultaneously, through the action of the links 25, moved toward or from the cable 50, according to the direction of the longitudinal movement. To effect this gripping or releasing of the cable, I employ a shaft 20, extending transversely of the carriage, it being journaled in suitable bearings 20a, depending from the base-frame 9-2 and being provided at one end with an operating crank or handle 21. This shaft 20 is provided at points between the journals 20a with two upwardly-extending lugs 20b, which extend into sockets 19a, formed in the cable-gripping jaws 19. By operating the shaft 20 each of the jaws 19 can be instantly forced toward the other to grip the cable 50, and the strain or pull exerted by the cable tends to clamp the jaws more firmly thereto. The handle 21 for controlling the movements of the cable-gripping jaws 49 may, as shown in the drawings, be arranged at either side of the carriage or movable head. Thus in Fig. 2 the said han-die is shown as situated at or near the opposite longitudinal side of the movable tube-gripper from the handle 49b, by which the movable jaw 49 of the tube-clamp is actuated; but in Fig. 8 it will be noticed that the han-die 21 and the rock-shaft which it operates are so arranged that said handle is on or adjacent to the same longitudinal side of the movable gripper as the said handle 49b. This arrangement is advantageous in that it brings both of the handles relatively close together and into easy reach of an operator at one side of the machine. By disengaging said handle and operating the shaft in the opposite direction said jaws can be moved away from each other and the carriage or tube-gripper released from the cable.

For the purpose of guiding the tube 13 to be drawn to the mandrel and die 12 I preferably employ a Toke-shaped guide 30. This guide is provided with side flanges 30a, adapted to be supported on the bed-bars 1, and within an aperture formed therein are mounted two peripherally-grooved guide-wheels 31, between which the tube 13 passes.

4 designates the mandrel, which may be of any suitable style and construction. Preferably it is supported at one end in a tailpiece 5 and connected with an adjusting-screw 6. For holding the mandrel in a straight line throughout its length I employ a series of swinging arms or holders adapted to be automatically moved out of the path of the carriage 9-1 as the same is moved longitudinally of the mandrel and to reengage with the tube after the said carriage has passed. Each of these movable holders comprises a vertical shaft 17, mounted in a bearing 17b, projected 5 laterally from the side or bed rails 1 and provided at its upper end with an arm 8, adapted to extend inwardly over the bed-frame and engage with the mandrel 4. The free end of the arm 8 is cut away to provide a groove or socket, in which is fitted a wearing-block 16. The vertical shaft 17 is normally held in such position as to cause the arm 8 thereof to contact with the mandrel by means of a coiled spring 15, fitted around the lower portion of and having one end connected to said shaft and its other end connected to or abutting against the side bar 1 of the machine. To the shaft 17 at an intermediate point of its length is rigidly connected a finger or lug 17a, the free end of which projects through a slot or aperture formed in the side bar 1 in line with the way or groove X. As the carriage 9-1 moves longitudinally along the way X the base 9a thereof will contact with the finger or stud 17a and force the same outwardly through the slot or aperture in the bed-bar, thus turning the vertical shaft 17 and moving the arm 8 thereof to a point beyond the side lines of the bed and out of the path of said carriage.

In Figs. 11 to 14 I have illustrated a slightly modified construction specially designed and adapted for the handling of long tubes. In this construction a V-shaped trough 32 is secured to the base 2 instead of the thrust-block 5, and the outer end of such trough is supported by a post or upright 32a. The outer end of this trough is closed by a thrust-block 33, having a centrally-arranged vertical slot formed therein, through which the mandrel 4 passes. The outer end of this mandrel is secured in a cross-head 36, mounted upon parallel rods 36a, projecting from the trough 32. The rear face of the thrust-block 33 is inclined or provided with a slot having a cam-like surface, and into said slot projects a block 34, having its forward face or surface inclined. To the lower side of this block 34 is connected an adjusting-screw 35, which extends through a stationary depending bracket 33a on the thrust-block 33. By means of this screw 35 the outer end of the mandrel can be adjusted vertically as may be desired.

The above-described apparatus may be employed to draw tubing either by first passing the tube through the stationary die 12 and then over the mandrel or by placing such tube on the mandrel and drawing it therefrom through said stationary die. In case the first method is followed I prefer to employ the form of mandrel illustrated in Fig. 5, in which a slight cavity is formed at the free end of the mandrel, into which projects a small portion of a ball 14. The ball 14 is free to rotate in any direction and operates to constantly present a different and true surface to any particular part of the die. If the second of the above-described methods is followed, I prefer to secure the ball 14 rigidly' to the end of the mandrel, as in Figs. 15 and 16. Referring to said figures, it will be seen that the mandrel is formed of a hollow tube and that the ball 14 is carried by a threaded stem 14a, adapted to be screwed into one end of the mandrel. I also prefer to form on the mandrel two collars 37 38, between which is clamped a yielding cup-shaped washer 40, adapted to contact with the inner surface of the tube. 13 designates an aperture or passage extending through the walls of the mandrel, by means of which suitable lubricant can be permitted to pass from the interior of the mandrel to the outer surface thereof. As one means of positively forcing lubricant through such passage a plunger 54 may be arranged within the mandrel, as indicated in the drawings. .

The mechanism above described is used as follows: The die 12 is properly placed and the mandrel is adjusted so that its head 14 is in proper position relative to the die. If the tube is to be compressed from the exterior only, the mandrel can be temporarily withdrawn, and vice versa. When the parts are in position, a tube 13 is pushed through the space between the guide-rollers 31, and its front end. is passed to a point somewhat in front of the carriage or tube-gripper 9, the latter being at this time disengaged both from too the cable 50 and from the tube. When the tube is properly placed, the handle 49b is moved, so as to cause the block 49 to move to tightly grip the tube, and then the lever 21 is moved, so as to cause the arms 20b to start the cable-gripping jaws 19 to move toward the cable, and as soon as the latter is touched by them its frictional contact tends to draw them toward each other and more tightly grip the cable. Thus a great power is exerted for connecting the carriage and the cable together. As soon as the carriage 9 is thus caught by the cable the latter forces it and the tube toward the die 12, the tube projecting a short distance in front of the carriage. The propelling of the tube continues until its forward end has passed through the die far enough to permit it to be connected to the carriage 9-1. Then the carriage 9 is released from the cable and from the tube. After this the carriage 9-1 is, by means of its movable block and handle 49b, clamped to the tube, and by means of the lever 21 and the toggle-gripping bars 10 it is connected to the cable. After the occurrence of the latter the carriage 9-1 commences to move with the cable and to draw the tube through the die.

If an interior mandrel is in use, its stem 4 is supported in alinement, as aforesaid, by the arms 8, and as the carriage 9-1 reaches the pairs of arms they are moved, as above described, to permit the passage of the carriage. If at any time it is desired to obtain a new grip upon the tube at points farther back from its forward end, the carriage 9-1 is released from the cable and from the tube and pushed by hand or otherwise backward to a position near the die, after which it is again clamped to the tube and cable and the drawing continued. Should it be desired to propel the tube from both sides of the die--that is, to impart both a pushing and a pulling action--both carriages can be clamped to the cable and the tube.

As the cable 50 is merely wrapped around the drum 51, the latter imparts its motion by frictional contact and not by positive engagement, such as that of gear-teeth. Hence if at any time there should be very extraordinary resistance or strain experienced there can be more or less of a slip or yielding.

Again, by using a wire cable I make additional provision for yielding of the carriages or propelling devices, as the cable will by reason of its elasticity permit more or less of such yielding. Consequently I have found that the metal can be treated much more satisfactorily than it can when positively-acting propelling devices are employed.

Another feature of advantage is this that because of the uniform cross-section of a power device similar to a cable I can quickly effect the engagement of the carriage therewith at any point desired, this being in contradistinction from the hooks or pins heretofore used adapted to engage with one or another link of a chain. If a chain of proper construction, particularly one having uniform dimensions be substituted for the cable, it also can be gripped in substantially the way described at any required point.

By properly adjusting the cams or wedges 23, against which bear the toggle-arms 25, the gripping-bars 19 can be caused to act very delicately and more or less quickly upon the cable.

While my improvements are particularly applicable to the drawing of tubes, and I have herein illustrated them as applied to a mechanism designed for that work, yet I am aware that many of the features herein illustrated and described are applicable to the drawing of solid shafting, bars, andc.

I do not in this case claim, broadly, the novel features incident to the particular style of power device herein illustrated and described, preferring to present claims for that part of my invention in another application, Serial No. 571,476; nor do I herein claim, specifically, the novel features incident to the arrangement of the mandrel with relation to the die, the construction of the thrust-block or abutments for the outer end of the mandrel, and the construction of the mandrel itself, as illustrated in Figs. 11 to 16 herein, preferring to present claims for such features in another application, Serial No. 636,390.

What I claim is--

1. In a tube-drawing machine the combination of a bed, a carriage fitted to guides on the bed, power devices for moving the carriage, a mandrel secured at one end to the bed, a series of mandrel-holding arms pivotally connected to the bed and adapted to engage with the mandrel, and means for automatically moving said arms out of the path of the carriage as the latter is moved longitudinally of the bed and mandrel, substantially as set forth.

2. In a tube-drawing machine, the combination of a bed, a carriage, power devices for moving the carriage longitudinally of the bed, a mandrel connected to the bed at one end, auxiliary mandrel, supports mounted on the bed and adapted to bear laterally against the mandrel, and means for automatically moving said auxiliary mandrel-supports out of the path of the carriage, as the latter is moved longitudinally of the bed, substantially as and for the purpose set forth.

3. In a tube-drawing machine the combination of a bed, a carriage, power devices adapted to move the carriage on the bed, a mandrel, supports for the mandrel pivotally connected to the bed, means adapted to be actuated by the carriage for moving said supports out of contact with the mandrel as the carriage moves longitudinally of the bed, and means for returning each of said supports to its normal position after the carriage has passed the same, substantially as set forth.

4. In a tube-drawing machine the combination of a bed, a carriage, adapted to move longitudinally of the bed and provided with means for engaging the tube to be drawn, mandrel-supports pivoted to the bed and adapted to engage with the mandrel, fingers connected with said supports and projecting into the path of the carriage, and means for returning said supports to their normal position after the carriage has passed, substantially as set forth.

5. In a tube-drawing machine, the combination with a bed, and a stationary mandrel, of a series of lateral supports for the mandrel arranged on opposite sides of the bed, each support having a pivotally-mounted spring-pressed arm adapted to contact at one end with the mandrel, and a tube-gripper adapted to move longitudinally of the mandrel, substantially as set forth.

6. In a tube-drawing machine the combination with a bed and a stationary mandrel, of one or more lateral supports for the mandrel each comprising a horizontally-swinging arm provided at its free end with a socket or groove to receive the mandrel, and a spring for normally holding such arm in contact with the mandrel, and a longitudinally-movable tube-gripper arranged in the plane of said swinging arms, substantially as set forth.

7. In a tube-drawing machine the combination with a bed-frame, of a die stationarily secured to said bed-frame, a mandrel connected to one end of said frame and extending toward said stationary die, a series of horizontally swinging arms, pivoted to the bed and adapted to engage with the mandrel appoints between its supported end and the stationary die, and a longitudinally-movable tube-gripper, substantially as set forth.

8. In a draw-bench, the combination with a main frame, an endless traction device extending longitudinal thereof, and a die mounted on said frame, of a carriage mounted on the frame to move longitudinally thereof toward and from the die, and having jaws or plates, on opposite sides of and extending parallel to the traction device, means for simultaneously moving said jaws laterally toward the traction device and longitudinally in the direction of movement of said device to cause said jaws to frictionally engage with the said traction device, and means for varying the movement of said jaws, substantially as set forth.

9. In a metal-drawing machine, the combination with a bed, and an endless driving-cable, of a die secured to said bed, a carriage having a base-frame fitted in guides on the bed, jaws mounted on said carriage, and adapted to engage with the metal to be drawn, cable-gripping plates supported on said carriage, toggle-links interposed between said plates and the frame of the carriage, and an operating-shaft adapted to engage with said plates, substantially as set forth.

10. In a draw-bench, the combination with a bed-frame, and a driving-cable, of a die supported on the bed, and a carriage consisting of a base-frame fitted in guides on the bed and provided with means for engaging the article to be drawn, and with the inwardly-extending cam-surfaces, 22, cable-gripping plates, links 25 having their ends fitted in sockets in said plates and in blocks, 23, contacting with the cams 22, and an operating shaft for moving said gripping-plates, substantially as set forth.

11. In a draw-bench, the combination with a bed, a power-cable, and a die, of a carriage having means for engaging with the article to be drawn, the base-frame, 9-2, fitted in guides on the bed and provided with inwardly-extending cam-surfaces, 22, cam-blocks, 23, in contact with said cam-surfaces 22, cable-gripping plates, 9, links, 25, having their ends fitted in sockets in said gripping-plates and blocks, 23, an operating-shaft connected with said gripping-plates, and means for adjusting the blocks, 23, longitudinally of the base-frame, substantially as set forth.

12. In a draw-bench, the combination of a main frame, a die mounted on said frame, a carriage mounted on said frame and adapted to engage with the metal to be drawn, power devices for moving said carriage longitudinally of the bed, and a guide for the metal to be drawn consisting of a frame or support and two peripherally-grooved rollers or wheels mounted in said frame and forming a longitudinally-extending passage in line with the die, substantially as set forth.

13. In a draw-bench, the combination of a bed-frame, a die mounted on said frame, a carriage adapted to engage with the article to be drawn, and power devices for moving said carriage longitudinally of the bed, of a die for the article to be drawn consisting of a support extending transversely of the main or bed frame, and two horizontally-rotatable rollers mounted in said support and arranged to contact with the article to be drawn, substantially as set forth.

14. In a tube-drawing machine, the combination of an external die, a ball arranged within the die and rotatable in all directions, and a relative stationary device for preventing said ball from being carried through the die by the metal being drawn, substantially as set forth.

15. In a tube-drawing machine, a mandrel or die-carrier for the interior of a tube having a ball-support central with the longitudinal axis of the mandrel, and a ball rotatably mounted in the said support and having its center situated at the longitudinal axis of the mandrel, substantially as set forth.

16. In a draw-bench, the combination of a bed or support, a die, a cable, or endless traction device, driving devices having frictional engagement with said cable, a gripper, mounted on the bed and having a pair of jaws or clamps adapted to maintain the article to be drawn in line with the die, means for moving one of said jaws laterally toward and from the other, jaws or clamps mounted in said gripper in the plane of and adapted to have a frictional engagement with the said endless traction device, and means independent of those aforesaid, for simultaneously moving the last said jaws toward or from a position where they will frictionally engage with the cable, substantially as set forth.

17. In a draw-bench, the combination of a bed, a die stationarily supported on the bed, a power-cable, a movable gripper mounted on the bed at one side of the die, and having no jaws adapted to engage the metal to be drawn, cable-clamping jaws mounted in said gripper, a rock-shaft having lugs or fingers 20-2, adapted to engage said cable-jaws, means for rocking said shaft to move the said cable-jaws longitudinally, and means for simultaneously and automatically moving said jaws laterally, substantially as set forth.

18. The combination of the die, the movable traction device, the tube-carrier on the forward side of the die and adapted to exert a pulling action on the tube, the lever on the carrier for instantly connecting the carrier to, and disconnecting it from the tube, a lever on the carrier for instantly connecting it to and detaching it from the traction device, the mandrel for the interior of the tube, having its stem on the forward side of the die, and an abutment beyond the tube for the end of the stem, substantially as set forth.

19. The combination of the die, the movable traction device, the tube-carrier on the forward side of the die, and adapted to exert a pulling action on the tube, means detachably connecting the carrier to the traction device, the mandrel for the interior of the tube, having its stem, on the forward side of the die, an abutment to take the endwise pressure of the stem, and movable abutments bearing laterally against the stem, substantially as set forth.

20. The combination of the stationary die, the movable traction device, the tube-carrier on the forward side of the die and adapted to exert a pulling action on the tube, means for detachably connecting the carrier to the traction device, a mandrel for the interior of the tube, having a stem extending beyond the tube, a bearing at the end of the stem, and movable abutments bearing laterally against the stem at points between the bearing and the die, substantially as set forth.

21. The combination of a die, the movable traction device, the tube-pulling carrier on one side of the die, the mandrel having its stem projecting from the die forward on the same side with the tube-pulling carrier, a tube-pushing carrier on the opposite side of the die and adapted to push the tube over the mandrel-head and onto the stem, and means for detachably connecting said tube-pushing carrier to the traction device, substantially as set forth.

22. In a tube-drawing apparatus, the combination of a die, a mandrel having one end within the die and a stem projecting beyond one side of the die, means for preventing longitudinal movement of the mandrel away from the die, a tube-carrier and pushing device arranged on the opposite side of the die from the mandrel-stem and adapted to move the tube to be drawn toward the die and mandrel, and to permit the tube to be moved longitudinally independent of any movement of said carrier, a supplemental tube guide or support on the same side of the die as said pushing-carrier, and a pulling-carrier arranged on the same side of the die as and adapted to travel longitudinally of the mandrel-stem, substantially as set forth.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600014 ===

METAL-DRAWING MACHINE

United States Patent 600014

Filing date: May 13, 1897

Issue date: March 1898

Inventor: WILLIAM A. MCCOOL

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, William A. McCool, a citizen of the United States, residing at Beaver Falls, in the county of Beaver and State of Pennsylvania, have invented certain new and useful Improvements in Metal-Drawing Machines, (for all or parts whereof there have been issued to me in the Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland Letters Patent No. 25,686, dated November 14, 1896; in France, No. 270,462, dated September 14, 1897, and in the Kingdom of Belgium, No. 130,827, dated September 24, 1897;) and I do declare the following to be a full, clear, and exact description of the invention, such as will enable others skilled in the art to which it appertains to make and use the same, reference being had to the accompanying drawings, and to the letters of reference marked thereon, which form a part of this specification.

Figure 1 is a side elevation of a sufficient portion of a drawing-bench to illustrate my invention. Fig. 2 is a plan view of the same. Fig. 3 is a longitudinal section of the mandrel on a larger scale. Fig. 4 is an end elevation. Figs. 5 and 6 are end elevations of one of the draw-heads.

In the drawings, A indicates a die-holder such as is used in connection with a drawing-bench. On each side of the die there is a guideway at B B and B1 B1. On one side of the die there is a carriage at C, adapted to be propelled by a cable, chain, or other suitable driver, this carriage having means for gripping it to a tube or rod which can be pushed by the carriage more or less through the die. On the other side of the die there is a carriage C1, also adapted to be intermittingly engaged with the tube or rod for the purpose of drawing it through the die and with which the cable or chain can be engaged.

D indicates a V-shaped trough-like support extending outward from the delivery end of the bench, it being preferably secured to the latter at or near the upright or standard E. The support D is held by one or more standards d, rising from the floor or base and rigidly secured to it. At the outer end of this supporting-trough there is a thrust-block F.

G is a downward and rearward projecting step or bracket which supports a screw H. Upon this screw there is a wedge-faced block I, which bears against the inclined or wedged face on the thrust-block F.

J is a cross-head adapted to be adjusted inward or outward and formed with a bearing at j.

J1 is a cap-bar hinged and having a lock-handle J2, which can be fitted in or withdrawn from the slot at J3. By means of the screw H the wedge-block I can be moved up or down and the cross-head J be adjusted inward or outward, it sliding on the guides J8.

The devices last above described are intended for supporting and adjusting the mandrel, which is placed within the tube which is to be subjected to the action of the drawing-bench. This mandrel is indicated as a whole by K. It comprises more particularly the bulb or head f1 and the stem K. The stem part is formed of the hollow or tubular portion L and the forward-extending spindle I. At its forward end the tube L is threaded internally, and to the thread is fitted the threaded part I1 of the spindle.

P is an aperture formed longitudinally in the spindle and communicating at its forward end with a series of radial apertures Z3. The ball or bulb f1 is fitted to the projecting part of the spindle and is fastened rigidly thereon by means of the washer or flange M.

The tubular portion L of the mandrel-stem serves as a receptacle for a lubricant. I employ a viscid or semisolid lubricant adapted to be forced through the chamber in the tube and also through the longitudinal aperture T and the radial apertures Z3. To positively force the lubricant forward, I employ a plunger, as illustrated at N. It is carried by a threaded rod n, which at the rear end has a head n1 for receiving a wrench or spanner. The plunger may be made in any suitable way, though I at present prefer to employ a leather cup n3, fastened upon a stem nddat the inner end of the threaded rod. When the threaded rod is rotated by a tool applied at its outer end n1, the plunger imparts pressure to the mass of lubricant and forces it forward through the apertures. The latter are adjacent to the operative parts of the surface of the mandrel-bulb J1, and the lubricant is fed forward by the tube and acts to reduce the friction and wear at the bulb. To confine the lubricant and prevent its escaping outward, I employ a leather washer O, which is placed around the mandrel-stem, it fitting against the shoulder at o and being held in place by a collar o1.

The stem part 7c1 of the mandrel is at the rear or outer end formed with grooves 7c3 7c3, by which it is held in place in the above-described adjustable bearing in the cross-head J. The manner of employing the mandrel which I have described will be readily understood. After its outer end has been properly adjusted in the cross-head J and the bulb f1 has been properly placed with respect to the die A a tube is arranged ready to be drawn over the bulb or ball and through the die. The tube is first grasped by the gripper in the carrier C, and the latter is connected with the propelling device, whereupon the tube is pushed through the die and over the mandrel-bulb, the diameters of the die-aperture and of the bulb and the relative positions of these parts being such that the proper compression is applied and the desired shape given to the tube.

If at any time the friction upon the mandrel becomes too severe, it can be lessened by advancing the plunger at N2 sufficiently to force out lubricant, which is quickly carried by the inner surfaces of the tube to the surface of the bulb.

As the bearing for the mandrel at the rear end is formed in two parts, the cross-head J and the cap-bar J1, which are separable by a movement on lines transverse to the mandrel, the latter can be instantly withdrawn at any time for the insertion of a tube. All of the parts behind or outside of the head or bulb are of such diameter that the whole mandrel-stem can be easily inserted into a tube as soon as the lock-handle and cap-bar at J1 and J2 are released. The latter may be considered as a holder, and the parts can be made so as to serve merely that purpose, as the bearing depression or cavity at j can be of the nature of a slot into which the reduced part of the mandrel can be fitted.

It will be seen that the adjustment of the mandrel relative to the die is accomplished without requiring any rotation of the mandrel and that such adjustment can be effected even when a tube is in place, there being no resisting friction, such as would result if rotation of the mandrel-head were required. I am aware of the fact that it has been proposed to form a screw-thread upon a mandrel-stem at its rear end and engage said thread with a thread in an aperture in the abutment-piece, the threads being intended to adjust the mandrel by rotating the latter and also intended to receive the entire thrust or draft experienced by the mandrel; but it is impossible to maintain the nicety of adjustment which is requisite in successful drawing of tubes with such devices, because there are no means for positively holding the mandrel to adjustment, the pressure or draft on the mandrel making it liable to turn more or less on the threads. In my case the adjustment is effected by applying force on lines longitudinal only of the mandrel, and the latter is held positively in a fixed position after adjustment by means of the walls of the deep grooves 7c2 7c3 and the cross-head seated therein, the mechanism in this respect being contradistinguished from both that above referred to having a rotary threaded mandrel and others in which a yielding feed or pressure was applied by means of a piston and water or equivalent agent under pressure.

It will be seen that the parts at C and C1 may be regarded, respectively, as a tube-pushing carrier and a tube-pulling carrier. There is in each a passage-way for the tube adapted to be made large enough to permit either carrier to move independently of the tube or to permit the tube to move independently of either carrier. Consequently the pulling-carrier C1 can be pushed backward along the tube, and caused to attain engagement therewith at new points from time to time, and the pushing-carrier C is, first, assisted by the mandrel in supporting the tube in proper line for the die, and, secondly, it in turn assists the mandrel in properly supporting the tube after it (the carrier) has been disengaged from the tube and while the latter is being pulled through the die by the carrier C1--that is to say, when the mandrel and the pushing-carrier are used the tube is supported both on the outside and the inside.

With respect to the details of the gripping parts which connect the carrier and the tube and which connect the carrier to the traction device it will be understood that any suitable form can be employed. One set of such details is shown in my other application, Serial No. 605,657, filed September 12, 1896; but there can be modification in that respect, if desired.

What I claim is--

1. The combination with a drawing-bench, of a mandrel-supporting frame extending backward from the bench, the die on the bench, the mandrel, and means for positively adjusting the mandrel longitudinally, rectilinearly, and holding it stationary after adjustment, against movement toward the die, substantially as set forth.

2. The combination with a drawing-bench, and the die thereon, of a mandrel extending rearwardly from the die, a rearward-extending mandrel-supporting frame, a bearing for the rear end of the mandrel, and means for adjusting the bearing longitudinally of the mandrel and fastening it after adjustment, against movement toward the die, substantially as set forth.

3. The combination with a draw-bench, and the die thereon, of the mandrel having a bulb adjacent to the die and a rearward-projecting stem, a bearing for the rear end of the mandrel, a guideway for said bearing, and means for positively moving the bearing along said guideway longitudinally of the mandrel and to holding it against movement toward the die, substantially as set forth.

4. The combination with a draw-bench, and the die thereon, of a mandrel having its active head adjacent to the die and a rearward-projecting stem, a bearing for the rear end of the mandrel, means for locking the mandrel from longitudinal movement in said bearing, and a holder for retaining the mandrel in said bearing, said holder being adapted to be thrown into inactive position to permit the mandrel to be moved away from the bearing on transverse lines, substantially as set forth.

5. The combination with a draw-bench, and the die thereon, of the mandrel having its active head adjacent to the die and a rearward-extending stem, a thrust-block receiving the forward thrust of the mandrel, a movable bearing engaging longitudinally with the mandrel, and adjusting devices abutting against said bearing and said thrust-block for adjusting the bearing and the mandrel longitudinally, substantially as set forth.

6. The combination with a draw-bench, and the die thereon, of a mandrel having an active head adjacent to the die and a rearward-projecting stem, a two-part holder for the rear part of the mandrel engaging with it longitudinally and of which one part is movable transversely of the mandrel toward and from the other to permit the mandrel to be fastened or removed from its operating position, guides, J8, engaging with said holder independent of the mandrel, and means for moving said holder and mandrel longitudinally of said guides, substantially as set forth.

7. The combination with a draw-bench, and the die thereon, of a mandrel having its active head adjacent to the die and a rearwardly-projecting stem, a holder for the mandrel at the rear end engaging with it longitudinally and movable toward and from the die, said holder having two parts separable on lines transverse of the mandrel, substantially as set forth.

8. The combination with a draw-bench, and the die thereon, of the mandrel having its active head adjacent to the die and a rearward-projecting stem, an adjustable bearing for the rear end of the mandrel, and an abutment for the bearing formed in two parts one of which is wedge-like or cam-shaped, and one of which is movable relative to the other to adjust the bearing, substantially as set forth.

9. In a metal-drawing mechanism, a mandrel having an interior lubricant-chamber, an active head, and orifices communicating with said chamber for conveying lubricant therefrom to the surface of the metal being drawn, substantially as set forth.

10. In a metal-drawing mechanism, a mandrel having an active head, an interior lubricant-chamber, one or more ducts from said lubricant-chamber to the exterior of the mandrel, and a holder behind the said ducts to prevent the backward flow of the lubricant away from the mandrel-head, substantially as set forth.

11. In a metal-drawing mechanism, a mandrel having an active head or surface, an interior lubricant-chamber, a duct for conveying lubricant from said chamber to the exterior of the mandrel adjacent to the head, and means for positively forcing lubricant from said chamber through said duct, substantially as set forth.

12. In a metal-drawing mechanism, a mandrel having an active head or surface, an interior lubricant-chamber, and a duct for conveying lubricant from said chamber to the exterior of the mandrel, in combination with a plunger, and means extending through the rear end of the mandrel for actuating said plunger, substantially as set forth.

13. In a metal-drawing machine, the combination with the mandrel-stem, having a lubricant-chamber, of the head, f1, and the spindle provided with ducts, I2, V, and with a seat for said head and rigidly secured to the end of the stem, substantially as set forth..

14. In a metal-drawing machine, the combination of the die, the traction device, the carrier on one side of the die, connected to the traction device and adapted to be moved thereby away from the die, a tube-gripper on the carrier adapted to engage with the outer surface of the tube, a mandrel, having an enlarged head for the interior of the tube, on the other side of the die, from said carrier, and having a stem supported at its rear end, outside of the tube, substantially as set forth.

15. The combination of the die, the traction device, the tube-carrier on one side of the die having an aperture through which the tube can be moved independently of the carrier, a tube-gripper on the carrier, and a mandrel, having at one end an enlarged head for the interior of a tube, on the opposite side of the die from said carrier and having its rear end supported outside of the tube, substantially as set forth.

16. The combination of the die, the traction device, the tube-carrier, on one side of the die, means for detachably connecting the tube-carrier to the traction device, and a mandrel, for the interior of a tube, having at one end an enlarged head, and having its other end supported outside of the tube on the opposite side of the die from the tube-carrier, substantially as set forth.

17. The combination of the die, the traction device, a tube-pulling carrier on one side of the die, and having a passage-way through which a tube can move loosely, means for detachably connecting said carrier to the traction device, and a mandrel for the interior of the tube having an enlarged head and having its stem on the same side of the die with the tube-pushing carrier, substantially as set forth.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600015 ===

MOWING-MACHINE

United States Patent 600015

Filing date: July 14, 1897

Issue date: March 1, 1898

Inventors: WILLIAM O. MCGEE AND CHARLES L. DOWNING

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that we, William O. McGee and Charles L. Downing, of Gallatin, in the county of Daviess and State of Missouri, have invented a new and Improved Mowing-Machine, of which the following is a full, clear, and exact description.

The object of our invention is to provide a mowing-machine wherein the gearing will be reduced to a minimum and wherein but few parts will be employed and the various parts made light, yet strong, thus providing an economic yet effective machine.

The invention consists in the novel construction and combination of the several parts, as will be hereinafter fully set forth, and pointed out in the claims.

Reference is to be had to the accompanying drawings, forming a part of this specification, in which similar characters of reference indicate corresponding parts in all the figures.

Figure 1 is a plan view of the improved machine. Fig. 2 is a section taken through the axle near the right-hand ground-wheel and through the finger-bar, the rest of the machine being shown in side elevation. Fig. 3 is a detail side elevation through the drop-frame near the axle and likewise through the left-hand ground-wheel; and Fig. 4 is a detail sectional view of the eccentric and the eye in which it operates, which eye is connected with the sickle-bar.

The drop-frame A, which is the forward portion of the machine, is made as light as possible consistent with strength, and at the left-hand rear portion is provided with a box 10 and a second and longer box 11, the two boxes serving to journal the axle 12. A ground-wheel is secured to each end of the axle, the right-hand ground-wheel being designated as 13 and the left-hand ground-wheel as 14, the latter ground-wheel being made about one-third heavier than the right-hand ground-wheel to overcome side draft.

The drop-frame is provided with a horizontal extension 15 at its forward right-hand corner, and a shoe 16 is secured to this extension. The finger-bar 17 is hinged or otherwise secured to the right-hand end of the shoe 16, the finger-bar being provided with the usual sickle-bar 18, which sickle-bar is connected with an eye 19, preferably of elongated shape, held to slide in the shoe between the upright portion thereof and the extension 15 of the drop-frame. An eccentric 20 is fitted in the eye 19, the said eccentric being secured upon a shaft 22, which may be termed a "sickle-shaft, "the said shaft being journaled in the extension 15 and beneath the longer bearing 11 of the drop-frame, extending rearwardly beyond the bearing, where said sickle-shaft is journaled in the bifurcated portion 23 of a platform 24, secured to the rear portion of the longer bearing 11 of the frame. Within the bifurcated portion of the said platform 24 a balance-wheel 25 is secured on the sickle-shaft 22, and a strap-brake 26 is provided for this wheel, terminating in a footplate 27 within easy reach from the driver's seat 28, said seat being supported, preferably, from the platform 24.

A transverse shaft 29 is journaled in the drop-frame in front of the axle and parallel therewith. The transverse shaft 29 is provided near its left-hand end with a pinion 30 and at its right-hand end with a beveled gear 31. This beveled gear meshes with a beveled pinion 32, loosely mounted on the sickle-shaft 22, the pinion having a clutch-face which engages with a clutch 33, mounted to turn with the sickle-shaft, yet slide thereon, and said clutch is normally held in engagement with the said beveled pinion by means of a spring 34 or its equivalent. The pinion 30 on the transverse shaft 29 meshes with a driving-gear 35, loosely mounted on the axle, the left-hand side of the hub of said gear having a clutch-face 36, which is adapted to engage with a clutch 37, held to slide upon the axle and turn therewith. The clutch 37 is engaged by a fork 38, formed upon a shifting-lever 39. This shifting-lever is preferably arched, being carried upward and inward across the driving-gear 35 and pivoted to a standard 40, located on the longer box 11 of the drop-frame.

A horizontal arm 41 is formed at the inner end of the shifting-lever, and the fork of the lever is normally held in a position to bring the clutch in engagement with the clutch-face of the driving-gear by a spring 42, having bearing against the under face of the arm 41, as shown in Fig. 3. A foot-lever 43 is attached to the arm 41 of the shifting-lever, being fulcrumed upon a support in front of the said arm, and the said foot-lever 43 may be conveniently reached from the driver's seat. When this lever is pressed downward, the arm 41 will be carried downward likewise and the fork of the shifting-lever will be carried outwardly or in direction of the left-hand supporting-wheel, thereby taking the clutch from engagement with the driving-gear 35 and stopping the shaft 29. Whenever this shifting of the clutch 37 is brought about or whenever the machine stops, the sickle-bar will be reciprocated sufficiently long for it to clear the finger-bar from the standing grass by reason of the fact that the balance-wheel 25 will continue to revolve and by turning the sickle-shaft 22 will impart the necessary movement to the sickle-bar. Whenever it is desired to stop the balance-wheel, such result may be accomplished by applying the brakes 26.

At or about the rear central portion of the drop-bar, yet in front of the axle, eyes 44 are formed, between which the rear end of a tongue or pole 45 is pivoted. The drop-frame may be permitted to fall, so that the shoe 16 will travel on the ground, as shown in dotted lines in Fig. 2, or the drop-frame may be elevated from the ground, as shown in positive lines in Fig. 2, in any suitable or approved manner. In the drawings these movements are accomplished through the medium of a lever 46, fulcrumed in the pole or tongue 45, near its rear end, so as to be reached readily by the driver, the said lever having a chain 47 attached thereto, which extends down through the pole or tongue over a friction-roller 48, the chain being fastened at its forward end to the forward central portion of the aforesaid drop-frame.

Having thus described our invention, we claim as new and desire to secure by Letters Patent--

1. In a reaper or mower, the combination with an axle, ground-wheels thereon, and a drop-frame mounted on the axle and provided with a shoe at one forward corner, of a finger-bar carried by the shoe, a cutter-bar mounted on the finger-bar and provided with an elongated eye, a longitudinal sickle-shaft having at its forward end an eccentric working in the eye of the cutter-bar and at its rear end a balance-wheel, a gear-wheel loosely mounted on the sickle-shaft, a spring-pressed clutch engaging the gear-wheel, said clutch being held to slide on the sickle-shaft and to turn therewith, a transverse shaft having one end geared with the axle, and a gear-wheel on the other end of the transverse shaft, said gear wheel meshing with the loose gear-wheel of the sickle-shaft, substantially as described.

2. In a reaper or mower, the combination with an axle, ground-wheels thereon, and a drop-frame mounted on the axle and having a shoe at one forward corner, of a finger-bar carried by the shoe, a cutter-bar mounted on the finger-bar and provided with an elongated eye, a longitudinal sickle-shaft having at its forward end an eccentric working in the eye of the cutter-bar, a fly-wheel on the rear end of the sickle-shaft, a beveled gear-wheel loosely mounted on the said sickle-shaft and provided with a clutch-face, a spring-pressed clutch-sleeve mounted to slide on and to turn with the sickle-shaft and engaging the clutch-face of the bevel-gear, a transverse shaft, a bevel gear-wheel on one end of the transverse shaft and meshing with the bevel gear-wheel of the sickle-shaft, gearing between the other end of the transverse shaft and the axle, and a clutch for connecting said gearing with the axle, substantially as described.

3. In a reaper or mower, the combination with an axle, ground-wheels thereon, and a drop-frame mounted on the axle, of a cutter-bar at the forward part of the frame and having an elongated eye at one end, a sickle-shaft having at one end an eccentric working in the eye of the cutter-bar, a transverse shaft, beveled gearing between one end of the transverse shaft and the sickle-shaft, a pinion on the other end of the transverse shaft, a driving-gear loosely mounted on the axle and meshing with the pinion of the transverse shaft and provided with a clutch-face, a clutch held to slide on the axle and turn therewith, a pivoted and spring-pressed shifting-lever, and a pivoted foot-lever connected with the shifting-lever, substantially as described.

4. In a reaper and mower, the combination, with an axle provided with supporting-wheels, the left-hand supporting-wheel being of greater weight than the right-hand wheel, a frame pivotally connected with the axle, means for raising and lowering the frame, a finger-bar attached at the right-hand side of the frame, provided with a sickle-bar, terminating at its inner end in an eye, a shoe attached to the frame in which the said eye has no movement, and a cam within the said eye, arranged to impart lateral movement thereto, of a shaft attached to the said cam, provided with a balance-wheel, a clutch and a loosely-mounted pinion normally engaged by said clutch on said shaft, a transverse driving-shaft in gear connection with the said pinion and provided with a gear at its other end, a driving-gear loosely mounted on the axle and meshing with the gear of the transverse shaft, a clutch driven by the axle and arranged for engagement with the driving-gear thereon, the said driving-gear being adapted for connection with the gear on the driving-shaft, and a shifting-lever for the said clutch, all combined for operation, substantially as herein set forth.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600017 ===

CURTAIN-STRETCHER

United States Patent 600017

Filing date: May 13, 1897

Issue date: March 1, 1898

Inventor: JAMES J. OLIVER

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, James J. Oliver, of Brooklyn, in the county of Kings and State of New York, have invented a new and Improved Curtain-Stretcher, of which the following is a full, clear, and exact description.

This invention is a frame or stretcher for window-curtains and other draperies, on which the curtains or draperies may be held to dry or to undergo any other operation that may be desired.

This specification is the disclosure of one form of my invention, while the claims define the actual scope of the conception.

Reference is to be had to the accompanying drawings, forming a part of this specification, in which similar characters of reference indicate corresponding parts in all the figures. Figure 1 is a perspective view of the invention. Fig. 2 is a perspective view of the lower rail of the frame. Fig. 3 is a fragmentary perspective of one of the side rails, and Fig. 4 is an enlarged fragmentary perspective of one of the connections between the top rail and the side rails.

The side rails A are duplicates in construction and stand, approximately, vertically with the help of supports 5, respectively hinged to the upper ends of the side rails and engaging with the surface on which the frame stands. The lower rail B is adjustable vertically between the side rails A, and the top rail C is rigidly attached to the upper ends of the side rails A. Each side rail A is constructed of a rigid bar having at its inner face a rib 6, whereon a plate 7 is rigidly secured. The edges of the plate project beyond the rib 6 to form guideways coacting with the bottom rail B. The upper end of each side rail A has a headpiece 8, provided with upwardly-extending side flanges 9, running parallel with each other and adapted to respectively hold the sections 10 and 11 of the top rail C. The lower edges of the flanges 9 are connected by a horizontal web which, with the flanges 9, form for each head an outwardly-projecting portion. Pivoted to the lower side of each of these outwardly-projected portions is a yoke 12. The yokes 12 are adapted to swing upward and respectively embrace the sections 10 and 11, whereby to hold the same rigidly on the heads 8, such fastening being assisted by thumb-screws 13, carried in the yokes and working against wear-plates 14, attached, respectively, to the sections 10 and 11 of the top rail C. Each head 8 has hinged to its inner side a plate 15. The plates 15 respectively project inward and are respectively attached to the lower faces of the sections 10 and 11 of the top rail C. These devices serve to rigidly connect the sections 10 and 11 of the top rail C, respectively, with the side rails A.

The sections 10 and 11 of the top rail slide longitudinally along each other to adjust the length of the stretcher. For guiding this movement' the section 10 is provided with a yoke 16, that embraces the section 11, and the section 11 is provided with two oppositely-located fingers 17, respectively embracing the upper and lower sides of the section 10. The yoke 16 has a set-screw that engages the section 11.

The bottom rail B is composed of two sections 18 and 19. The sections slide longitudinally on each other, as do the sections of the top rail. The section 18 of the bottom rail has a yoke 20, embracing the section 19, and the section 19 has two fingers 21, oppositely located and respectively embracing the upper and lower faces of the section 18. The yoke 20, like the yoke 16, has a set-screw to engage the section which the yoke 20 embraces. The section 19 has a wear-plate 19 (see Fig. 2,) that is engaged by the set-screw of the yoke 20. The section 11 of the top rail C is also provided with a wear-plate to be engaged by the set-screw of the yoke 16. The outer end of each section 18 and 19 of the bottom rail B carries a head 22, rigidly attached to the respective sections, and each head has two vertically and oppositely extending arms 23, the terminals of which respectively carry yokes 24 with juxtaposed thumb-screws 25. The yokes 24 on each head respectively engage around the edges of the plate 7, so that the bottom rail B may be moved to any position vertically on the side rails A. The thumb-screws 25 serve to rigidly hold the bottom rail B in position.

The rails A, B, and C are provided on their front faces with a series of pins 26, that are intended to engage with and hold the curtain or drapery. To enable the sections of the top and bottom rails to adjust on each other and yet provide an unbroken line of pins 26 for each of said rails, the sections 11 and 19 of the top and bottom rails are provided with pins 26, arranged throughout the length of the sections, and the rear faces of the sections 10 and 18 of the top and bottom rails are provided with grooves 27, in which the pins 26 of the sections 11 and 19 may move as the sections are adjusted.

The sections 11 and 19 of the rails B and C are provided with a cross-brace 28, that runs rigidly between them and prevents the rails B and C from collapsing under force of the contractile pressure that they must undergo in operation. The brace 28 is adjustably connected to the rails B and C, and the brace has a wear-plate to be engaged by any ordinary clamp-screws, whereby this adjustment is effected..

Various changes in the form, proportion, and minor details of my invention may be resorted to without departing from the spirit and scope thereof. Hence I do not consider myself limited to the precise construction herein shown, but believe that I am entitled to all such variations as come within the terms of my claims.

Having thus described my invention, I claim as new and desire to secure by Letters Patent--

1. A curtain-stretcher having a top and bottom rail and two side rails, a head for the upper end of each side rail, the head having upwardly-extending flanges receiving the top rail, a plate pivoted to each head and secured to the top rail, and a yoke pivoted to each head and swinging over the top rail to hold the same.

2. A stretching-frame having two side rails and a top and bottom rail, a slide-plate secured to each side rail, heads carried by the bottom rail and having yokes respectively running on the slide-plates whereby to adjust the bottom rail vertically between the side rails, a head carried by the upper end of each side rail, a plate pivoted to each head of the side rails and secured to the top rail, and a yoke pivoted to each head of the side rails and embracing the top rail to hold the top rail.

3. A stretching-frame having side rails and a bottom rail, each side rail having a guide-plate attached thereto, and heads secured to the bottom rail, yokes attached to the heads and respectively embracing the guide-plates and thumb-screws carried by the heads and engaging the guide-plates to hold the parts rigidly.

4. A curtain-stretcher, provided with a top and bottom rail and two side rails, the side rails having their upper ends pivotally connected with said top rail and carrying a device by which a rigid connection therebetween may be effected, and the bottom rail having an adjustable sliding connection with said side rails and provided with means for holding said bottom rail adjusted.

5. A curtain-stretcher having a top rail, side rails, and adjustable bottom rail, each of the said side rails being provided at its upper end with a head receiving said top rail and pivotally connected therewith, and a yoke carried by said head and arranged to swing over the top rail to rigidly hold the same.

6. In a curtain-stretcher, the combination of a top and bottom rail and two side rails, a pivotal connection between said top rail and side rails, devices by which said side rails and top rail may be rigidly connected, a sliding connection between said bottom rail and said side rails, and devices carried by said bottom rail and by which said rail may be held in adjusted position.

7. The combination in a curtain-stretcher, of the top rail, the side rails arranged to receive said top rail and provided with heads, plate and yoke pivoted to each head, said plate being secured to said top rail and the yoke effecting rigid connection between the side and top rails, each of the side rails being provided with a guide-plate, a bottom rail provided with clips engaging said guide-plates and by which the bottom rail is adjustable upon the side rails, and means for rigidly holding said bottom rail in adjusted position.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600018 ===

COUCH OR LOUNGE

United States Patent 600018

Filing date: July 30, 1897

Issue date: March 1, 1898

Inventors: ALBERT L. PACE AND JOSEPH P. CARPENTER

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that we, Albert L. Pace and Joseph P. Carpenter, of Forrest, in the county of Livingston and State of Illinois, have invented certain new and useful Improvements in Couches or Lounges; and we do hereby declare the following to be a full, clear, and exact description of the invention, such as will enable others skilled in the art to which it pertains to make and use it, reference being had to the accompanying drawings, which form part of this specification.

Our invention relates to improvements in couches or lounges; and it pertains to a couch or lounge having a removable mattress and cover section, removable and adjustable spring-section, and a removable pillow or head section, all of which will be fully described hereinafter and particularly pointed out in the claims.

The primary object of our invention is to provide a couch with a removable mattress and cover section adapted to be attached to and detached from the body of the lounge, cooperating with an adjustable spring-section, whereby the tension of the springs can be regulated, as also the mattress and cover section removed to permit access to the springs and other parts of the lounge either for the purpose of repairs or for cleaning.

Another object of our invention is to provide the mattress and cover section with a spring-frame whereby the upholstering is held in much better shape and which also serves to make the couch or lounge softer and more pleasing to sit upon.

In the accompanying drawings, Figure 1 is a perspective view of a couch or lounge embodying our invention, a part of the upholstering being broken away to show the interior arrangement. Fig. 2 is a detached perspective view of the removable mattress and cover section. Fig. 3 is a similar view of the adjustable spring-section. Fig. 4 is a longitudinal vertical sectional view through the center of the lounge. Fig. 5 is a detached view of one of the latches for holding the mattress-section to the couch-frame. Fig. 6 is a detached view of one of the screws and cups by means of which the spring-section is adjusted vertically.

Referring now to the drawings, A indicates the frame of a couch, which may be of any desired form, and B a removable mattress and cover section frame resting upon the upper edge of the couch-frame A. This mattress-frame B is of an interior size equal to the interior size of the couch-frame A, for the purpose of permitting the vertical movement of the spring-frame C, situated within the couch-frame A.

Extending transversely of the couch-frame are the bars D, upon which the spring-frame C rests when in its lowest position, and passing vertically through the centers of these bars D are the vertical screw-threaded rods a, carrying at their lower ends the bevel-gears d, meshing with the bevel-gears e upon a transversely-journaled shaft g. This shaft g is supported through the medium of brackets d1, extending downward from the bars D. Upon the shaft g is an operating-wheel, by means of which the shaft g is rotated in either direction for the purpose of revolving the vertical screw-threaded rods a. Fixed within the end bars of the spring-frame are the screw-threaded cups g1, which receive the screw-threaded ends of the rods a, and through the medium of these rods and cups the spring-frame is readily adjusted vertically, as will be readily understood. The spring-frame is provided with any desired number of spring-supporting slats h, upon which the springs i are secured, their upper ends resting under and against the mattress-frame B. The mattress and its covering or upholstering are secured to the mattress-frame B and are removable therewith for the purpose of permitting free access to the spring-frame and the springs for the purpose of cleaning or repairing any broken or disarranged part thereof. This mattress-frame B is attached to the couch-frame A through the medium of catches H, which consists of a member 2, attached to the mattress-frame, to which is pivoted a catch 3, the latter adapted to interlock with the curved member 4, attached to the main frame A, whereby the mattress-frame may be attached to or detached from the main frame.

The spring-frame is provided with a suitable number of small rollers I, by means of which the frame is held in its proper position for moving vertically without any binding action.

A pillow-frame J is provided and attached to the head or pillow portion K through the medium of catches X, or, if desired, the pillow-frame J and the head K may be provided, respectively, with a tongue and groove for allowing the attachment and detachment of the pillow-frame, as will be readily understood.

In operation the spring-frame is lowered upon the transverse bars D, the mattress-frame raised in position, and the catches secured for holding it in place. Then by the rotation of the operating-shaft d the spring-frame can be elevated to carry the springs in contact with the side of the mattress to any desired tension. This arrangement allows the ready adjustment of the tension of the springs at any time to suit the caprice of the user. It also permits, as previously stated, the removal of the mattress-frame, and this is accomplished by first lowering the spring-frame to carry the springs out of contact with the mattress, when the latches can be readily released and the mattress-frame removed.

It will be noted that the spring-frame is of a size adapted to move within the couch and mattress frame, which permits of the greatest possible adjustment of the spring-frame and without any interference from any parts.

From the above description it will be noted that we have provided a simple arrangement for removing the parts of a couch by providing separate spring and mattress frames, the former being vertically adjustable and the latter adapted to be connected and disconnected with the couch-frame. The mattress-frame is provided with a spring-frame L, supported at its inner ends a suitable distance thereaboutv by a block or transverse bar M, to which the inner end of the spring-frame is rigidly attached. The opposite and outer end of the spring-frame projects over the adjacent end of the mattress-frame and is provided with springs of a suitable tension and number between the two frames. This construction effects a saving in the wear upon the upholstering and at the same time produces an easy and pleasing couch to sit or lie upon.

Having thus described our invention, what we claim, and desire to secure by Letters Patent, is--

1. A couch comprising a main frame, a separate mattress-section, movable connecting members between said section and the main frame for detaching them, a separate movable spring-section situated below the mattress-section, and elevating members carried by the main frame and engaging the spring-frame, whereby the latter can be elevated or lowered, substantially as described.

2. An improved couch comprising a main frame, a rigid mattress-frame placed thereon and members carried by the mattress and main frames adapted to detachably connect them, a mattress attached to said mattress-frame, a spring-frame movable within the main frame, and springs attached to the spring-frame and loosely engaging said mattress, substantially as described.

3. A couch comprising a main frame, separate heads and mattress-sections and the main frame, movable connecting members between the said sections, a separate spring-section situated below the mattress section, and elevating members carried by the couch-frame engaging the spring-frame whereby the latter can be elevated or lowered, substantially as described.

4. A couch comprising a couch-frame, vertical screw-rods supported thereby, a spring-frame engaged by the screw-rods, a longitudinal operating-shaft meshing geared to the screw-rod, a mattress-frame above and independent of the spring-frame, and connecting members between the mattress-frame and the couch-frame independent of the spring-frame, substantially as described.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600019 ===

AUTOMATIC DROP FOR CORN-PLANTERS

United States Patent 600019

Filing date: April 20, 1897

Issue date: March 1, 1898

Inventor: JAMES K. PATTERSON

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, James K. Patterson, of Crete, in the county of Saline and State of Nebraska, have invented a new and Improved Automatic Drop for Corn-Planters, of which the following is a full, clear, and exact description.

My invention relates to an improvement in the dropping means for corn-planters, consisting of an automatic drop comprising an auxiliary frame hinged to the rear frame of the planter and carrying a shaft which is rotated by a wheel which rests upon the ground when the frame is dropped to a horizontal position, but which clears the ground when the frame is raised. It also comprises contact-arms fixed upon this shaft and upon a longitudinal shaft which coact to reciprocate a dropping mechanism of any suitable or usual form.

Reference is to be had to the accompanying drawings, forming a part of this specification, in which similar characters of reference indicate corresponding parts in the several views.

Figure 1 is a plan view of my device. Fig. 2 is a longitudinal sectional elevation thereof, and Fig. 3 is an elevation of the arms upon the rear end of the oscillating shaft F1.

My device is applicable to corn-planters of any usual construction. The frame A, wheels B, and hoppers g are of any usual construction. The dropping mechanism contemplated in the device, as shown in the drawings, comprises a reciprocating bar G, which operates to drop the corn when the bar is reciprocated. Any dropping mechanism which may be operated from an oscillating shaft may be used in connection with my device. Mounted upon and above the main frame A is a longitudinal shaft F1, which at its forward end has an arm, engaging the reciprocating bar G of the usual dropping mechanism, so that when the shaft F1 is oscillated the bar G will be reciprocated. At the rear end of the shaft F1 is attached a downwardly-extending bar F, which is divided at its lower end, the forks F3 thereof being bent to each side. These arms are alternately engaged by the ends of the revolving arms E, hereinafter described, so as to throw the bar F first to one side and then to the other.

At the rear of the frame A, at the point a, is pivoted the auxiliary frame C, attached by a rod H to a lever h, by means of which the frame may be thrown up to the position shown in dotted lines in Fig. 2. Journaled upon the frame C is a lateral shaft D, upon one end of which is a wheel D1, which contacts with the ground when the frame is dropped to the horizontal position. This wheel D1 may, if desired, be provided with projecting pins d, which will indicate the position where the seed will be dropped.

Upon the inner end of the shaft D is fixed a collar having oppositely-extending arms E thereon. These arms are bent oppositely to one side, so that their ends will alternately strike opposite forks F2 of the bar F. One of the arms E will strike one of the forks F3 and oscillate the shaft F1 in one direction. When the other arm E comes around, it will strike the opposite fork F3 on the bar F and oscillate the shaft F1 in the opposite direction, thus communicating a reciprocating motion to the bar G.

When it is desired to throw the dropping mechanism out of operation, the frame C is thrown up, as indicated by dotted lines in Fig. 2. This raises the wheel D1 from the ground and at the same time raises the shaft D, so that the arms E will not engage the forks F3. The dropping mechanism can then be operated by hand, if desired.

It is evident that the distance intervening between the hills of corn will be determined by the diameter of the wheel D1 and also by the number of the arms E. Instead of two arms, as shown in the drawings, this number might be increased to four or any multiple of two.

Having thus described my invention, I claim as new and desire to secure by Letters Patent--

An automatic dropping device for corn-planters comprising an auxiliary frame pivoted to the rear of the planter-frame, to swing upward and forward, and carrying a cross-shaft journaled upon the under side of the said frame, and having on one end thereof a wheel which runs upon the ground behind one of the planter-wheels, a horizontal rock-shaft mounted on bearings above the planter frame and extending longitudinally near the center thereof, a downwardly-extending arm fixed to its front end, and engaging the feed-slide or dropping-bar of the planter, a downwardly-extending arm fixed to the rear end of said shaft and having its lower end forked with the forks bent outward and laterally in a curve, and a collar fixed to the cross-shaft of the auxiliary frame in line with the longitudinal shaft, said collar having two opposite radially-extending arms which are curved laterally in opposite directions, their ends being adapted to alternately engage opposite sides of the forked arm upon the longitudinal shaft to oscillate the same.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600020 ===

EYELET-PUNCHING MACHINE

United States Patent 600020

Filing date: March 27, 1897

Issue date: March 1, 1898

Inventor: THOMAS A. PERRINS

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Thomas A. Perrins, of Ansonia, in the county of New Haven and State of Connecticut, have invented a new and Improved Eyelet-Punching Machine, of which the following is a full, clear, and exact description.

My invention relates to punching-machines used for making eyelets and similar articles; and it consists of certain details of improvements, which will be pointed out in the following specification and claims.

Reference is to be had to the accompanying drawings, forming a part of this specification, in which similar characters of reference indicate corresponding parts in all the views.

Figure 1 is a front elevation of a punch with my improvement attached thereto. Fig. 2 is a side elevation of the same. Fig. 3 is a plan view of the bed of the punch, the frame being in section. Figs. 4 and 5 are sectional front and side elevations through the bed of the machine and my particular mechanism. Fig. 6 is an enlarged plan view of the bed, showing the punching-die and feed-dies; and Fig. 7 is a detail sectional elevation through the dies and the mechanism immediately connected therewith.

My device, as herein shown, is applied to punching eyelets such as used for shoes.

It has heretofore been customary to feed the sheet of brass (which has previously had the eyelet-barrels formed therein) to a stamping or punching press (which punches out or detaches the eyelet from the sheet) in a position so that the barrel of the eyelet is down. In my device the sheet is fed to the punching-press in the opposite position--with the barrels of the eyelets up. The press used for this work may be of any suitable form. The form shown consists of a frame A, having a shaft a mounted in its upper part and carrying the band or fly wheel A. The forward end of this shaft has a crank attached to the slide A1, to the lower end of which are secured the punches. The feeding motion for moving the stock is obtained from this shaft by means of a pair of beveled gears a, shaft a1, beveled gears a2, lower horizontal shaft a3, and a cam addMounted upon the forward end of said shaft and acting upon a slide B, which is mounted to slide vertically in ways A5 upon the face of the machine. This gives the vertical feed for the feed-dies. The horizontal feed is obtained from a cam C, mounted upon the shaft a1 and connected, through the link C1, lever C2, and link C3, to a slide cddMounted upon the upper end of the slide B. This mechanism, as described, is the mechanism ordinarily used for such purposes. Any mechanism which secures the same movement may be used instead of the mechanism shown.

The feed-dies 6, which consist of lugs formed as a part of and attached to the upper surface of the slide cdd are the usual feed-dies. The upper faces of these dies are formed by two plates 62 62, the former having simply a roughened upper surface adapted to engage the under surface of the sheet after the eyelets have been punched out, the latter, 62, having the pins 63, adapted to enter the barrel or shank of the eyelet, so as to produce a positive and regular feeding of the material. The die D is formed of a small plate of steel in the usual manner and is provided with holes d1 and with upwardly-extending pins d, which are adapted to enter the barrels of the eyelets, so as to exactly register the sheet upon the die.

Two presser-plates are provided, one acting upon the stock before reaching the die and the other upon the refuse after the eyelets are punched out. The presser-plate I, which engages the material after the eyelets have been punched, is of the ordinary rectangular form and above the stock. The presser-plate I1 which engages the upper surface of the material before the eyelets have been punched, has its under surface hollowed out of sufficient width to receive the stock. This is clearly shown in Figs. 4 and 5.

The stripper consists of a plate G, which extends over both of the presser-plates and the die. The center portion G3 of this plate, which is over the die, is depressed or bent down. This center portion is also provided with holes adapted to receive the barrels of the eyelets and the punches. The presser-plates I and I1 are attached to the upper ends of the pins or bolts E, which are provided with a side-extending lug or head at their upper ends in order to provide room for the attaching screw or bolt. These bolts E are bored throughout their length, forming tubes, within which are placed the bolts P, to which the stripper is attached. The bore of the bolt E is of two diameters, the larger being the upper one. The bolt or pin F, carrying the stripper, is also of two diameters, corresponding to the size of the bore in the pin E.

Surrounding the smaller part of the pin F and within the bore in the pin E are springs F2, which act to separate the two pins--that is, to raise the stripper above the presser-plates. The position of the two pins when the springs F2 are free to act is shown in Figs. 4 and 5. In this view the stripper has been raised sufficiently to entirely clear the barrels of the eyelets. Surrounding the lower end of the pins E are springs E1, which press against the lower side of the bed A6 and the upper side of the bars E2, which connect the lower ends of each pair of the pins. These springs have a tendency to hold the presser-plates down upon the material. Bars F3 similarly connect the lower ends F1 of each pair of pins F, attached to the stripper. The slide B, which carries the feed-dies, has openings in its lower portion, receiving the cross-bars E2 and E3. It is also provided with bars B1 adapted to engage the bars E2 to raise the same. A bolt J is also connected to the cross-bar B1 and passes down through the bar F3 and has a head upon its lower end, engaging the under surface of said bar F3. The shank of the bolt of the cross-bar F3 has a spiral spring J1 surrounding it and acting to depress the bar F3 and hold the same in contact with the head of the bolt.

This spring is designed to be stronger than the two springs F3, against which it acts. It will therefore, when free to act, compress both of the springs F3, so as to hold the stripper down upon the stock and the upper surface of the presser-plates. The length of the pins E and the travel of the slide B are so proportioned that the slide will have some overtravel at its lower end--that is, will drop lower than the pins E will permit the cross-bars E3 to go. This position of parts is shown in Fig. 7. In this position the spring J1 is sufficiently strong to draw down the stripper and hold it in contact with the upper surface of the stock. When the slide starts up, it moves a short distance before the cross-bar B1 comes in contact with the bar W. The bar F3, being in contact with the head of the bolt J, will be raised immediately upon the beginning of the upward motion, so that the stripper G will be raised before the presser-plates start. The bar B1 coming later in contact with the bar E2, starts the presser-plates also. These movements are so timed as to follow the moving punches A3--that is, the punches A8 start to rise before the stripper rises. It is, however, similar to the motion usually given the same parts in similar machines. The punches A3 for this work are made with recessed ends--that is, they are bored out, so as to receive the barrels of the eyelets, leaving their lower ends in the form of a narrow annulus or ring. The feeding movement, which is the ordinary feeding movement of such machines, gives the feed-dies first an upward movement, which engages the pins b3 with the eyelets of the stock, then a forward feeding movement, and then a downward drop and a return horizontal movement. This is the ordinary feeding device. Feeding the material in this way with the barrels of the eyelets upward results in certain advantages, among which is the ability to make the die D with less holes than when the material is fed the other side up. This results in a stronger die and one which is less liable to break. The punch-holes in the die must be of the same size; but instead of the holes which in the other method are necessary to receive the barrels of the eyelets small registering pins are used. It is not necessary to have any great number of these pins, two being sufficient, although in the drawings I have shown more. As can be seen, this leaves the die more nearly a solid plate, and consequently much stronger. It also necessitates a stripper shaped somewhat different from the usual stripper. It must be provided with holes to receive the barrels of the eyelets as well as the punches. One of the presser-plates must also be made with a hollowed under surface, so as to accommodate the thickness of the material and the barrels of the eyelets.

This method of punching the eyelets with the shank or barrel up produces a smoother and handsomer eyelet than when they are punched the usual way with the shanks down. The quality of the product is also not affected by the size of the eyelet, a small eyelet being as readily and perfectly produced as a larger one, which cannot be done by the usual method.

Having thus fully described my invention, I claim as new and desire to secure by Letters Patent--

1. A stripper-plate for eyelet-punching machines having two sets of holes of different diameters, one receiving and fitting the punches and the other receiving and fitting the unpunched eyelets, substantially as described.

2. A stripper-plate having holes for the cutting-punches and other openings having the form of and fitting the eyelets to be cut and having sections of its under surface before and after the section containing the punch-holes raised or offset from the perforated sections, substantially as described.

3. A stripper-plate having holes for the cutting-punches and other openings having the form of and fitting the eyelets to be cut and having sections of its under surface before and after the section containing the punch-holes raised or offset from the perforated sections and presser-plates beneath said raised parts of the stripper, substantially as described.

4. In an eyelet-punching machine, a stripper-plate having holes for the cutting-punches and other holes having the form of and fitting the eyelets to be cut and having sections of its under surface before and after the section containing the punch-holes raised or offset from the perforated section and presser-plates beneath said raised parts of the stripper, one of said plates being hollowed on its under side to accommodate the raised barrels of the eyelets.

5. In an eyelet-punching machine, the combination of a die having registering pins projecting from its upper surface, a feed-die having similar pins for engaging the eyelet-sheet, with a punch, a stripper having upwardly-offset sections on each side of the punching-line, and a presser-plate beneath one of the said sections, having its under side grooved to accommodate the eyelet-barrels, substantially as described.

6. A punching-machine having presser-plates, hollow bolts and pins carrying the same, a stripper above said presser-plates and pins carrying the same, the pins carrying the presser-plate being hollow and receiving therein the pins which carry the stripper, substantially as described.

7. A punching-machine having presser-plates, hollow bolts and pins carrying the same, a stripper above said presser-plates and pins carrying the same, the pins carrying the presser-plate being hollow and receiving therein the pins which carry the stripper, and springs acting upon said pins to normally hold the stripper raised above the presser-plates, substantially as described.

8. A punching-machine having presser-plates and a stripper, the latter supported from the former and having a spring interposed acting to normally hold the stripper away from the presser-plates, substantially as described.

9. A punching-machine having presser-plates, hollow bolts and pins carrying the same, springs acting to depress the plates upon the material, connections therefrom to the feed-die raising and lowering mechanism for lifting the same, pins passing through the presser-plate pins, a stripper attached to the upper ends of said latter pins, springs interposed between the presser-plate and stripper pins to hold the latter slightly away from the former, and a feed-die raising and lowering mechanism which at its lower end overtravels the presser-plate pins, substantially as described.

10. A punching-machine having presser-plates, hollow supporting-pins therefor, having side-projecting heads to which the plates are attached, the body of the pins extending below the plates, springs connected to the pins to depress them, a stripper above the presser-plates, and pins connected thereto and extending through the holes in the presser-plate pins, substantially as described.

11. A punching-machine having presser-plates, hollow supporting-pins therefor, having side-projecting heads to which the plates are attached, the body of the pins extending below the plates, a stripper-plate and pins connected thereto and extending through the holes in the presser-plate pins, and springs interposed between the presser-plate and stripper to normally hold the latter slightly raised, substantially as described.

12. A punching-machine having presser-plates, hollow supporting-pins therefor, the body of the pins extending below the plates, springs for depressing the pins, a stripper-plate, pins connected thereto and passing through the said hollow pins, a slide having means for raising and lowering it, connections therefrom to the presser-plate pins for raising the same, and spring connections to the stripper-plate, for depressing them, said slide overtraveling the presser-plate pins at the bottom of its stroke, substantially as described.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600021 ===

WEIGHING-MACHINE BEARING

United States Patent 600021

Filing date: October 17, 1896

Issue date: March 1, 1898

Inventor: FRANCIS H. RICHARDS

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Francis H. Richards, a citizen of the United States, residing at Hartford, in the county of Hartford and State of Connecticut, have invented certain new and useful Improvements in Weighing-Machine Bearings, of which the following is a specification. This invention relates to bearings, more particularly, however, to that class adapted for use in connection with weighing-machines and for the scale-beams thereof, the object being to provide an improved bearing which while simple in construction and operation can be used to support mechanism of large bulk and weight and which will permit a relatively large angular movement of the oscillatory or movable member or scale-beam in connection with which it is used and in which also the thrust due to the weight of the supported mechanism will be downward and outward and be received by the pivots of such bearing directly in the lines of said thrust and in the use of which bearing the friction of the working parts will be reduced to a minimum. In the drawings accompanying and forming part of this specification, Figure 1 is a side or end view of one form of this improved bearing and which bearing for the purposes of this specification is shown in connection with a scale-beam of a weighing-machine, herein illustrated in its normal position and carrying the hangers or arms of a bucket or load-receptacle. Fig. 2 is likewise a side or end view of said bearing, partly in section, the scale-beam in this instance, however, being partly broken away and shown in a different position from that illustrated in Fig. 1. Fig. 3 is a view looking toward the left hand in Fig. 2. Fig. 4 is a top view of the bearing with a portion of the scale-beam in section. Fig. 5 is a detail of one of the thrust or supporting members or standards. Fig. 6 is a view thereof looking toward the left hand. Fig. 7 is a view of another form of bearing, also illustrated in connection with a scale-beam of a weighing-machine; and Fig. 8 is an end view thereof looking toward the right hand.

Similar characters designate like parts in all the figures of the drawings.

As a preface to a description of this improved bearing it will be understood that while the same is more particularly adapted for use in weighing-machines in which the scale-beam or operating-beam shaft has a relatively large angular movement, being usually in those particular machines connected by a tension-rod with the lever system that carries the load-receiving bucket or receptacle, and therefore for the purposes of this specification it is shown in connection with such a scale-beam, it might be used not only with other parts of such weighing-machines, but is also applicable to other machines and apparatus, and it will be further understood that the same principle shown herein could be modified and constructed in various ways without departing from the scope of this invention.

This improved bearing comprises in a general way a plurality of movable or rocking bearing members in the nature of thrust or supporting members or standards so formed with relation to their supporting or bearing-faces that their pivotal points are below such bearing-faces when said thrust members are in working position.

In the construction shown the scale-beam 10 is provided with the usual weight-arms 11, carrying a weight 12, bucket or receptacle arms 13 for supporting the bucket by means of its hangers or bails 14 in any desired way, as by knife-edge-pivot bearings 15. This scale-beam 10 in this instance is shown supported adjacent to each end thereof by one of these improved bearings, (designated in a general way by A,) and for this purpose each end of said beam has preferably a tapering bore 16 for the reception of a taper-ended journal or trunnion 17, and which journal or trunnion constitutes the means for supporting the scale-beam on the bearings in a manner hereinafter set forth'.

In the preferred form thereof herein shown and described this improved bearing A comprises a pair of movable or rocking bearing members in the nature of thrust or supporting members or standards B and C. Each of these members in this instance comprehends a preferably relatively wide base 20, having its under edge forming a knife-edge pivot 21 and a preferably narrow part or arm 22, provided with a curved or convexed bearing or supporting face 23, the curvature thereof extending transversely of the longitudinal plane of its knife-edge, and said bearing-face terminating at one end in an upwardly-extending curved projection, constituting a stop 24 for the journal should the same have a tendency to slip in the operation of the machine.

While in the form shown the curved or concaved working face of the stop, in connection with the curved or convex bearing-face of the thrust member, is substantially in the nature of an ogee curve, it will be clearly seen that this is not necessary, and while also in the preferred construction these standards are shown triangular in shape it will be clearly obvious that this is a mere matter of preference. The supporting-arms 22 of these thrust members are, however, so disposed relatively to each other when in working position that one is in front of the other, whereby the planes of such bearing-faces 23 intersect or cross each other and thus form the proper angle at their point of intersection to support a journal or trunnion, this crossing of the bearing-faces being secured in the present structure by forming the arm 22 of each thrust member nearer one side of its base than the other, whereby when said standards are in position the crossing or overlapping of such bearing-faces will form the proper bearing-angle in a manner that will be clearly obvious without a more explicit description, and whereby also, by means of this particular construction of bearing members, they are interchangeable with each other.

In order to maintain the thrust members in positions to form the proper bearing-angle and also permit such members simultaneously to move or rock, they are shown coupled together, one means for accomplishing this purpose preferably comprising a link 25, having an aperture 26 adjacent to each end thereof, into which a stud or pin 27 at the inner opposing side of each arm projects, and which pin is of slightly smaller diameter than said apertures, whereby not only is the spreading of such thrust members prevented, but the lateral movement thereof regulated. As one means for supporting these thrust members when used in connection with a weighing-machine the base 7 thereof is preferably provided with a recess 8, into which a base or bearing block or plate 28 is disposed and preferably secured therein by means of a fastening device, such as a bolt 29. This block or plate is so formed that it is provided with a pair of oppositely-disposed approximately V-shaped bearings 30 and 31, one side of each bearing preferably being formed by the intermediate horizontal wall 32 of said block, while the other side thereof is formed by an inclined wall 33, adjacent to the end of said block. It will be clearly obvious, however, that the knife-edge pivots might be formed on the bearing-block and the V-shaped bearings formed on the bearing members, if desired, without departing from the scope of this invention.

The thrust members B and C are so disposed relatively to this bearing-block 28 that the knife-edge pivot 21 of each thrust member will be in position in the vertex of its respective V-shaped bearing, whereby their convex bearing-faces will cross or intersect each other to form the proper bearing-face for the journal and whereby such knife-edge pivots will be set directly in the lines of the thrust, and thus a firmer and more durable bearing secured.

In order that the knife-edge pivots of the thrust members will be firmly maintained at all times, in bearing engagement with their V-shaped bearings, a suitable brace or bar 35 is secured in a recess 36 of the bearing block or plate 28, preferably by means of the same fastening device that secures such block to the base. This brace is provided with a pair of curved ends or projections 37, extending into openings or slots 38 in the bases of the thrust members A and B, the under walls of said openings being curved in parallelism with the curvature of the projections 37 to thereby permit the working or rocking of such thrust members relatively to their bearings.

In order to prevent lateral or sidewise displacement of the knife-edge pivots relatively to their bearings, the bearing-block 28 at each top side or end of its V-shaped bearings is preferably countersunk and a disk or other suitable means 39 secured therein by some suitable fastening device, such as a screw 40, and which disks have a part thereof projecting above the vertexes of said bearings, whereby they prevent the knife-edge pivots from shifting laterally.

When this improved bearing is used with a weighing-machine similar, for instance, to that herein illustrated, a bearing A is disposed adjacent to each end of the scale-beam in position to support the journal or trunnion 17 at that end of such beam, said journal or trunnion, which is shown having a curved bearing-face 41, resting in the bearing-angle formed by the crossing convex bearing-face 23 of the thrust members B and C in a manner that will be readily understood, whereby, owing to this particular construction, the true axis of such trunnions will always be in a permanent location and the friction of the same on its bearing-surfaces reduced to a minimum.

In those instances where a plurality of bearings A are used to support the oscillatory member--such, for instance, as a scale-beam, if desired--instead of having the thrust members at each side of the vertical axis of the journal formed as independent members they may be united or constructed as one member, one form of such structure being shown in Fig. 7, in which the bases of a pair of thrust members at each side of the vertical axis of the journal, respectively, are connected by a cross bar or member 42.

In the form of bearing shown in Fig. 7, and in fact whenever a plurality of bearings A are used, it will be seen that the thrust members are preferably disposed in alternation, although this is not necessary, as they may be otherwise disposed, if desired.

It will be clearly seen without the necessity of illustration that the bearing could be so formed whereby one bearing member would have one or more bearing-faces intersecting two or more bearing-faces of the other member in a somewhat similar manner to that illustrated in Fig. 7, in which case, however, the alternating bearing-faces would be in close proximity to each other.

It will be understood that any desired number of bearings might be used, according to the character of the apparatus in connection with which they are to operate.

From the foregoing it will thus be seen that the knife-edge pivots 21 of the standards B and C of the bearing A are set directly in the lines of thrust, which is diagrammatically illustrated by the lines a a and 6 6, terminating in the axis of the journal, and which axis, as above stated, does not at any time change its position in the operation of the parts, owing to the fact that the convex or curved bearing-face 23 of each standard is concentric with the axis of its respective knife-edge pivot, as indicated by the dotted circles, Fig. 1, and which knife-edge pivots are preferably in the same horizontal but in different vertical planes. Furthermore, it will be seen that the knife-edge pivots 21 of the thrust members have comparatively little movement as compared with the movements of such supporting or bearing-faces 23, so that very sharp knife-edges can be used without the liability of breaking off the same in the operation of the device, especially as the thrust comes directly in line with the apex of each pivot, and that the bearing-faces move in the same direction simultaneously with the journal or trunnion, as indicated by the arrows, Figs. 1 and 2.

By forming the standards or thrust members with convex bearing-faces the journal will be supported with less frictional engagement than would be the case if such journal was supported by concaved bearing-faces, as in the latter instance the line of curvature of the journal and the concaved bearing-faces would coincide a comparatively great distance, whereas in the present structure the lines of curvature recede from each other, and hence the journal has a frictional engagement with the convex face of a standard at one point only, thus reducing the friction of the points to a minimum. By means of this construction of bearing it will be seen that mechanism of large bulk and weight can be readily supported, while at the same time a relatively large angular movement of the oscillatory or movable member or beam thereof is obtained with a minimum amount of friction.

Having described my invention, I claim--

1. A bearing comprising a pair of oscillatory members, each of said members having a point of support, and a convex bearing-face above said point of support, the convex bearing-face of one member crossing or intersecting the convex bearing-face of the other member, and thereby forming a permanently-maintained bearing-angle; and means for coupling said members for simultaneous movement.

2. A bearing comprising a pair of oscillatory bearing thrust members or standards pivotally supported at their lower ends in opposite non-alined vertical planes for oscillatory movement, and a link pivotally connecting said members together for simultaneous movement, said members formed with bearing-faces crossing or intersecting each other.

3. A bearing comprising a pair of oscillatory bearing members, each having a convex bearing-face, the bearing-face of one member crossing or intersecting the bearing-face of the other member, and thereby forming a permanently-maintained bearing-angle, and each of said bearing members having its convex bearing-face terminating in a stop.

4. A bearing comprising a bearing block or plate having oppositely-disposed, non-alined, V-shaped bearings; and a plurality of bearing members, each having a permanently-maintained, inclined, or oblique position, and also having a convex bearing-face the planes thereof intersecting or crossing each other, thereby forming a V-shaped bearing-angle for supporting a journal or trunnion, said inclined bearing members having knife-edge pivots resting in said oppositely-disposed V-shaped bearings.

5. A bearing comprising a pair of oscillatory bearing members, each bearing member comprising a plurality of thrust members rigid with each other, and each thrust member formed with a bearing-face, the bearing-faces of one oscillatory member intersecting or crossing the bearing-faces of the other oscillatory member.

6. A bearing comprising a bearing plate or block having a plurality of non-alined bearings; a plurality of bearing members pivotally disposed in said bearings, each of said members having a bearing-face the planes of which intersect or cross each other; and fixedly-secured means engaging all of said pivotally-disposed bearing members, for holding the same in bearing engagement with the bearings of said bearing plate or block.

7. A bearing comprising a base plate or block having a pair of oppositely-disposed bearings, a pair of thrust members or standards pivotally disposed in said bearings, each of said standards having a bearing-face, the planes of which intersect or cross each other, and a transversely-extending recess; a link connecting said standards together; and a brace fixedly secured to said base block or plate and having projections extending into the recesses of said standards to thereby hold the same in bearing engagement with the bearings of said base plate or block.

8. A bearing comprising a base plate or block having a pair of oppositely-disposed V-shaped bearings, a pair of thrust members or standards having knife-edge pivots disposed in said bearings, each of said standards having a transversely-extending recess having a curved lower wall and also having a convex bearing-face, the planes of said bearing-faces intersecting or crossing each other and adapted to support a journal or trunnion; a link pivotally connecting said standards together adjacent to their bearing-faces; and a brace fixedly secured to said base plate or block and having curved ends extending into the recesses of said standards to thereby hold the same in bearing engagement with the V-shaped bearings of said base plate or block.

9. A bearing comprising a pair of bearing members, each having a permanently-maintained, inclined, or oblique position, and each of said members comprising a relatively wide base and a relatively narrow arm or part disposed nearer to one side or end than to the other of said base, and said arm or part having a bearing-face, the planes of said bearing-faces crossing or intersecting each other, thereby forming a bearing-angle for supporting a journal or trunnion; and means for pivotally supporting said bases.

10. A bearing comprising a pair of bearing members, each having a permanently-maintained, inclined, or oblique position, and each comprising a triangularly-shaped member having a relatively wide base provided with a knife-edge pivot and a relatively narrow part or arm having a convex bearing-face, the planes of said bearing-faces crossing or intersecting each other; and means for pivotally supporting said knife-edge pivots below said bearing-faces.

11. A bearing comprising a bearing block or plate having oppositely-disposed, non-alined bearings; a plurality of bearing members having bases pivotally disposed in said bearings, the sides or ends of said bases being constantly in alinement with each other, and each of said bearing members having arms or projections above said pivotally-disposed bases and provided with bearing-faces, and said arms or projections being so disposed relatively to said bases that the bearing-faces thereof permanently cross or intersect each other at an angle for supporting a journal or trunnion.

12. A bearing comprising a base plate or block having a pair of oppositely-disposed bearings, a pair of thrust members or standards pivotally disposed in said bearings, each of said standards having a bearing-face, the planes thereof crossing or intersecting each other; and means disposed at each end of the base-block bearings, for preventing endwise or lateral movement of said members.

13. A bearing comprising a base plate or block having a pair of oppositely-disposed V-shaped bearings and a recess at each end of its bearings, a pair of normally obliquely disposed thrust members or standards having knife-edge pivots disposed in said bearings, each of said standards having a transversely-extending recess having a curved lower wall and also having a convex bearing-face terminating in a curved stop device, the planes of such bearing-faces crossing or intersecting each other whereby such bearing-faces are adapted to support a journal or trunnion; a link pivotally connecting said standards together; a brace fixedly secured to said base block and having curved projections extending into the recesses of said standards to thereby hold the same in engagement with their V-shaped bearings; and means disposed in each recess of said base or block and having a part thereof projecting above each apex, respectively, of the V-shaped bearings for' preventing the shifting of the knife-edge pivots therein.

14. A bearing comprising a pair of bearing members, each having a pair of relatively remotely disposed convex bearing-faces, the bearing-faces of each member alternating with, and crossing or intersecting the bearing-faces of, the opposite member thereof and forming permanently-maintained bearing-angles adapted to support one or more journals or trunnions, and each of said bearing members having a knife-edge pivot; and means having oppositely-disposed, non-alined V-shaped bearings for supporting said knife-edge pivots.

15. A bearing comprising a plurality of bearing members, each having a plurality of relatively remotely disposed convex bearing-faces, the bearing-faces of each member alternating with, and crossing or intersecting the bearing-faces of, the opposite member thereof, and forming permanently-maintained bearing-angles adapted to support a journal or trunnion, and each of said bearing members having a plurality of knife-edge pivots; means for coupling said bearing members; and means having oppositely-disposed, non-alined V-shaped bearings for supporting said knife-edge pivots in different vertical planes below said bearing-faces.

16. As an element in a bearing, a bearing member comprehending a knife-edge pivot and a plurality of independent members or arms rigid with said knife-edge pivot and with each other, and each of said arms formed with a bearing-face.

17. As an element in a bearing, a bearing member comprising a plurality of independent members or arms rigid with each other, and each of said arms having a knife-edge pivot and formed with a convex bearing-face.

18. The combination, with oscillatory means to be supported, of a bearing comprising a plurality of permanently-maintained, inclined, or oblique oscillatory bearing members supported at their lower ends in different vertical planes for oscillatory movement by and with said oscillatory supported means, and formed with intersecting or crossing bearing-faces movable in the same direction simultaneously with said oscillatory means, the thrust of said oscillatory supported means being downwardly and obliquely and in a direct line with the pivotal points of said bearing members throughout the entire movement of said members therewith.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600022 ===

WEIGHING-MACHINE

United States Patent 600022

Issue date: March 1, 1898

Inventor: Francis H. Richards

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Francis H. Richards, a citizen of the United States, residing at Hartford, in the county of Hartford and State of Connecticut, have invented certain new and useful Improvements in Weighing-Machines, of which the following is a specification.

This invention relates to weighing-machines, the object thereof "being to provide an improved weighing apparatus comprehending, among other improvements, improved means whereby the load receiver or receptacle discharge-opening closer can be locked open and released or unlocked from such locked open position during the operation of the machine and at the proper predetermined period; improved means for locking closed such discharge-opening closer when the supply-valve mechanism is open and for locking closed the valve mechanism, when such discharge-opening closer is open, and improved regulator mechanism.

In the drawings accompanying and forming part of this specification, Figure 1 is a front view of this improved weighing-machine, a part of the regulator-hopper being broken away more clearly to illustrate a part of the mechanism. Fig. 2 is a top view of the same, a part of the top plate of the framework being broken away for a like purpose. Figs. 3, 4, 5, and 6 are side views, with part of the framework broken away, looking toward the left hand in Figs. 1 and 2, for the purpose of illustrating various positions of the operating mechanism during the operation of the machine. Fig. 7 is a cross-sectional view of the lower portion of the load-receiver and the mechanism adjacent thereto and taken through the center of the machine. Figs. 8, 9, 10, and 11 are cross-sectional views of the valve mechanism, illustrating the different positions of the valves. Fig. 12 is a horizontal sectional view of one side of the bucket and a top view of the closer latch or locker and lock-stops for locking the closer shut. Fig. 13 is a side view of such locker. Fig. 14 is an end view of the same, looking toward the right in Fig. 13. Fig. 15 is a side view of a part of the actuating-lever intermediate the valve mechanism and the closer mechanism; and Fig. 16 is a view of the same, looking toward the right hand in Fig. 15.

Similar characters designate like parts in all the figures of the drawings.

As a preface to a description of this improved weighing-machine it will be understood that various parts and mechanisms of the apparatus might be more or less modified without departing from the general scope of this invention and that the valve mechanism might be operated in various other ways than that herein shown--for instance, in a similar manner to the valve mechanism of various machines of this character heretofore patented by me and not deemed necessary to herein particularly specify, and, furthermore, that while a hopper in this construction is shown as the regulator by the movement of which the closer is released from its locked-open position it will be obvious that other means operable by means or independently of the discharging material or grain could be used to accomplish this purpose without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention.

The terms "open-locked" or "locked-open" and "closed-lock" or "lock closed or shut" positions, as herein used in this specification in connection with the load-receiver discharge-opening closer, will be understood to mean, respectively, those positions of the closer where it is held or locked open to permit the discharge of the material from the bucket and where it is held or locked closed to prevent such discharge therefrom.

This improved weighing machine comprises in a general way a supply-chute, a load receiver or receptacle and its beam mechanism, and valve mechanism for regulating the supply to the load-receiver, which parts, if desired, may be similar in construction and in their means of support to those heretofore described in my various previous patents, to one of which it is only deemed necessary to herein particularly specify--to wit, Patent No. 442,719, dated December 16, 1890, with such modifications as may be herein illustrated or pointed out; a closer (designated in a general way by A) for the discharge opening or spout of the load receiver or receptacle; means for locking the same open, and which means will be herein designated, for the purpose of this specification, as "open-lock-closer means or mechanism;" means (designated in a general way by B) for releasing or unlocking such open-locked-closer means or mechanism to thereby permit the closer to shut, and preferably shown operative with-a regulator or regulating means, which latter is herein shown operable by the discharging load of material, and which regulator may or may not comprise a hopper, but in the present structure is so shown, and means (designated in a general way by C) and embodying interlocking means and operatively connected with the valve mechanism and closer mechanism for locking said closer shut on the opening of the valve mechanism and for locking the valve mechanism closed on the opening of said closer, and a part of which mechanism C will be herein designated, for the purpose of this specification, as "closed-lock-closer means or mechanism."

The framework for carrying the operative parts of the machine may be of any desired construction, but preferably comprises two side frames or uprights 2 and 3, connected together at the top by a top plate 4, carrying a supply-chute 5, and at the bottom by a beam or base-plate 6.

The material or load receiver or receptacle (designated generally by G) may likewise be of any desired construction, but is herein shown as a bucket, preferably of the single chambered" type or class, and is supported under the supply-chute 5 by means of the hangers or bails 7 and 8, that are herein shown fixed to the bucket and are preferably supported by V-shaped bearings 9 and 10 on the pivots (preferably knife-edge pivots) 11 and 12, carried by the bucket-supporting arms 13 and 14 of the scale-beam 100. This beam 100 has suitable bearings for supporting the same in its oscillations, and which bearings in this structure are shown comprising V-shaped bearings 15 and 16, one adjacent to each end of the shaft 17 thereof, and which rest on the pivots or knife-edges 18 and 19, that are suitably supported by bearings 20 and 21 on the framework.

Extending rearwardly of the scale-beam shaft 17, opposite to the bucket-supporting arms 13 and 14, a pair of weight-supporting arms 22 and 23 are shown, and which arms carry a weight 150, preferably rigidly secured thereto. It will be understood that such weight could be of various constructions and might, for instance, be similar to the character of weight set forth in my patent above cited, if desired, in which case it would preferably be carried by one arm extending rearwardly from such shaft 17. The weight 150, in the present form thereof, when in its normal position or position of rest, is shown supported and resting on a pair of bracket arms or supports 24, extending from the rear of the framework.

The valve mechanism for regulating the supply of material to the bucket in the present apparatus preferably comprises a pair of swinging or oscillatory valves, one operable to reduce the flow of such material, and therefore herein designated as the "reducing-valve," and the other operable to completely cut off such flow and therefore herein designated as the "cut-off" valve. The reducing-valve 30 comprehends a valve-blade 31, provided with arms 32 and 33, one at each end thereof, and which arms are shown fixed to a rock-shaft 34, herein shown supported in bearings 35 and 30 on the chute 5. This shaft is shown extending beyond the valve-arms 32 and 33 and chute side walls and constitutes a means for supporting the cut-off valve hereinafter described. Said rock-shaft carries at one end thereof a crank-arm 37, extending approximately at right angles to the valve-arms 32 and 33 and likewise fixed to said shaft, whereby it is simultaneously operable with the reducing-valve 30. The free end of this crank-arm is provided with a bearing, herein shown in the nature of a roll 38, in engagement with the upper side of a beam-arm 39, secured to or formed upon one of the arms, as 14, of the scale-beam 100, and which beam-arm 39 extends across the line of the valve-axis and beyond the valve-blade, whereby on the upward movement of the bucket-supporting arms 13 and 14 of the scale-beam the valve will be opened. This reducing-valve 30 is shown in this instance provided with a weight 40, preferably formed therewith, whereby said valve is a "gravity self-closing" valve, operable on the downward movement of the bucket to close and reduce the stream of material. The closing of this valve is limited by means of a suitable stop 41, formed on one of the valve-arms, as 32, or at any other desired place, for engaging with a similar stop 42, formed on the chute. From the foregoing it will thus be seen that the reducing-valve is operated on the rise and fall of the bucket through the medium of the beam-arm 39 and the valve-weight 40.

The cut-off valve 50 is herein shown comprising a concaved valve-blade 51, carried by a pair of arms 52 and 53, one at each end thereof, and which are pivotally secured on the rock-shaft 34 for oscillation or rocking movement. This valve is likewise shown as a gravity self-closing valve and therefore provided with a weight 54, substantially similar to the weight of the reducing-valve, whereby the valve at certain predetermined periods in the operation of the machine will swing into position to completely cut off the flow of material to the bucket in a manner more clearly hereinafter set forth. The closing movement of this valve in this instance is shown limited by the rear wall of the valve-blade engaging with the wall of the chute, Fig. 11, although other limiting means might be used. The weights for the valves will be experimentally determined in the first instance in order to secure the proper action of such valves. This cut-off valve is opened and held open in this structure by means of a lever system shown operable by a regulator, herein illustrated as a "hopper," and which lever system will be hereinafter more particularly described, together with the means for permitting such valve to close through the medium of its weight.

The bucket-closer A, in its preferred form herein shown and described, comprises a suitably-formed plate or closer proper, G, having arms 61 and 62, preferably, and usually formed rigid or integral therewith and pivotally secured to the bucket by brackets 63, whereby said closer is in position to operate at the discharge opening or spout 55 of the bucket G, and which is herein shown at the lower end thereof. In order that the closer may be self-operating to close such discharge-opening of the bucket after the discharge of the material therefrom, suitable means is provided for actuating the same, and in one form thereof it comprises a weight 64, carried at the free end of a rearward extension of one of the arms, as 62, of said closer, and which weight will be sufficient to counterbalance and quickly shut the closer, but insufficient in itself to maintain the same closed against the weight of the load in the bucket. Therefore in order to maintain the closer in closed position during the loading of the bucket and while the valve mechanism is open and until after the same is completely closed and the supply of material to the bucket cut off suitable locking mechanism is provided, herein designated as "closed-lock-closer means or mechanism," and which in its preferred form illustrated comprehends a locker, shown in the nature of a latch, and operable in connection with a suitable stop. This locker 66 is pivotally secured--in this instance at one side of the bucket--by some suitable pivotal device 67, and it involves in one form thereof a series of working parts, and in this particular instance such working parts are carried by a pair of projecting arms 68 and 69, one of which, as 68, is laterally disposed relatively to the other and is provided with a cam-shaped under face 70, for the purpose hereinafter set forth. The outer arm, as 69, in this instance is provided with a pair of stop-faces or stops, one, as 71, at the outer end thereof, while the other is in the nature of a projection 72 on the under side of said arm. The closer is shown having the hub 61-1 of one of its arms, as 61, and preferably that one which does not carry the weight, formed with a plurality of working parts, herein shown comprising a pair of stops 73 and 74 and illustrated in the nature of sectors. These sector-stops are disposed side by side in parallel planes, but one somewhat forward of the other, so that only a portion of each stop overlaps the other, and one, as 74, is herein shown preferably having a somewhat longer radius than the other. The sector-stop 73 is so disposed relatively to the closer that the stop 72 of the locker 66 will engage the forward side of said sector-stop when said closer is shut and when said locker is in its normal locking position, Fig. 3, whereby the closer will be prevented from opening regardless of the amount of material that may be pressing against the same. In order that this locking-closed, locker-latch 66 may itself be locked against movement, suitable mechanism adapted to accomplish this object is provided, and which mechanism preferably comprises a lever system, shown involving a pair of levers, one being in the nature of a locking link or lever 80, pivotally connected at one end with one of the arms, as 53, of the cut-off valve 50 of the valve mechanism and at its opposite end to the upper end of the other lever 81, which is shown herein in the nature of a bell-crank lever pivotally secured by a pivotal device 82 to the bucket. The lower or free end of one of the members 81-1 of this bell-crank lever 81 is provided with a series of working parts, one of which is in the nature of a notch or recess 83 for the reception of the stop or stop-face 71 of the arm 69 of the locker-latch 66, whereby movement of the latch is prevented when said member 81-1 and latch are interlocked, and whereby the stop 72 of the latch is maintained in engagement with the sector-stop 73 of the closer, thereby holding such closer tightly and firmly shut against the weight of the material in the bucket. In order, however, to raise the locker 66 and permit the opening of the closer at the proper predetermined period in the operation of the apparatus and thus permit the discharge of the bucket-load, the member 81-1 has one of its working parts, preferably comprising a laterally-extending projection, herein shown as a pin 84, in engagement with the cam-face 70 of the arm 68 of the latch 66, whereby on the outward movement of the member 81-1 of the lever 81--which movement takes place on the closing of the cut-off valve 50--the stop 71 of the latch 66 will be first disengaged from the recess 83, thus unlocking the latch 66 and lever 81, and then such latch 66 lifted by the pin 84, thereby disengaging the stop 72 of said latch from the sector-stop 73, whereby the closer can open in a manner that will be obvious from the foregoing description. The bell-crank lever thus not only actuates the locker, but also retains the same in inoperative position and permits the return of said locker only after the closer is shut and the cut-off valve is opening.

In the present construction of weighing-machine when the closer is open the cut-off valve is closed and locked to prevent the flow of material to the bucket, this being accomplished in this instance by forming one of the working parts of the member 81-1 of the bell-crank lever 81 with a stop-face 85, preferably conforming to the periphery of the sector-stop 74, whereby when the closer is open such stop-face 85 will engage the sector-stop 74 of said closer, Figs. 5 and 6, which is swung into position to permit such engagement by the opening of the closer, and thus lock the cut-off valve 50 closed through the medium of the bell-crank lever 81 and its locking link or lever 80. From the foregoing it will be clearly seen that on the closing movement of the cut-off valve 50 the member 81-1 of the bell-crank lever 81 will first be actuated to release the interlocking parts of said member 81-1 and latch 66 and then during the latter part of its closing movement to move the pin 84 of said member 81-1 into operative engagement with the cam-face 70 of said latch to thereby raise said latch and disengage its stop 72 from the sector-stop 73, and thus unlock the closer and permit the weight of the material in the bucket to open the same to thereby unload said bucket. The concaved stop-face 85 of said member 81-1 at this period engages the sector-stop 74 and holds the cut-off valve 50 tightly closed during the entire time that the closer is open and until said closer is again in its normal closed and locked position.

When the closer is opened, it is locked in such open position by open-lock-closer means or mechanism, which is disposed in position to engage said closer and lock the same open, and which locking means in its preferred form comprehends a locking device, shown in the nature of a locker-latch 90, herein illustrated pivotally secured to one of the side frames, as 2, of the framework and therefore carried independently of the load-receiver and preferably below the plane of the closer when shut. This locking-latch is provided with a rearwardly-extending inclined faced arm or part 91, adapted to engage a stop 92, (see Fig. 2,) shown formed as a part of the hub on which said locking device is mounted, and by means of which stop the downward movement of said locker-latch is limited. This locker-latch has a hooked end adapted to engage a laterally-extending projection, herein shown as a pin 93, carried by one of the arms, as 62, of the closer and thereby lock such closer open, and which locking action is accomplished during that part of the downward movement of the bucket which immediately follows its poising movement, at which time the closer is opened and carried into such position that its pin 93 passes the curved outer face of the latch and under the hook thereof, Fig. 5, whereby it will be held in open-locked position during the entire discharge of the bucket.

After the complete discharge of the bucketload and before the valve mechanism opens, it becomes necessary that the closer should be released or unlocked from its open-lock position to permit the same to close by means of its counterbalance-weight 64 and thereby close the discharge opening or spout of the bucket, and to accomplish this purpose suitable means is provided for unlocking or releasing such closer from its locking device 90, and which unlocking or releasing means (designated in a general way by B) in its preferred form is herein shown operative in connection with a regulator or regulating means, which, therefore, to a certain extent, may in this form of structure constitute a part of such unlocking means or mechanism. In one preferred form thereof herein shown and described this regulator or regulating means comprises a hopper (designated in a general way by P) operable in one direction by the discharging load and supported to have a rising-and-falling movement in an inclined direction for the purpose of increasing its working stroke over what would be due to its difference of elevation in its extreme positions. As one means of supporting this hopper P, which may be of any suitable form and construction, having the usual receiving-mouth p at its upper side and shown in this construction with an independent discharge-mouth people, below such receiving-mouth p, the uprights or side frames 2 and 3 of the framework are provided with a pair of forwardly-extending brackets or projections 95, one at each side of the bucket G. To each of these brackets 95 the hopper is movably secured by means of a pair of parallel levers or arms 96 and 97, the lower ends of each pair of said arms being pivotally secured to each side of the hopper, respectively, while the upper ends thereof are pivotally secured to the brackets, whereby the hopper is supported for movement in a permanently-level position in intersecting planes, and also preferably in such position that the discharge end or mouth of the load-receiver is within the regulator, whereby when such regulator is in position to discharge its load the fluffing out or flowage of the material over the sides of such regulator is practically avoided. One pair of the hopper-arms--as, for instance, the arms 97--is formed with a pair of rearwardly-extending levers 98, the outer ends of which support a counterbalance-weight 99, which in this form of mechanism is shown as rigid or integral with such levers, and which weight is sufficient to hold the hopper in its normal unloaded position below the bucket. The rising-and-falling movement of the hopper is limited by suitable means, such as stops 101 and 102, shown extending laterally from one of the side frames, as 2, and in position to engage the upper and lower faces of one of the levers 98, carrying the hopper-weight 99.

The closer-open-lock-unlocking means proper in this structure is preferably illustrated operative with the regulator, and it is herein shown carried by the regulator and is preferably in the nature of a latch 105, pivotally secured to one side of said regulator and held in position to engage the locking-latch 90 by means of a stop, such as pin 106, on the regulator. This unlocking-latch 105 has a cam-faced end 107, adapted to engage a laterally-extending projection, herein shown as a pin 90-1 of the latch 90, whereby it will be seen, Fig. 7, that after all of the grain or other material has left the bucket G and the major portion thereof has likewise passed out from the regulator-hopper the same is returned by means of its weight, whereby, the unlocking-latch 105 having been brought into engagement on the rearward movement of the hopper with the laterally-extending pin 90-1 of the closer-open-lock latch 90, Fig. 7, and which latter has been drawn upward, Figs. 5, 6 and 7, by the reascent of the bucket to its poising-point, which took place on the discharge of material equal in amount to that which was received by said bucket after the reducing-valve reduced the flow thereof, the cam-face of the latch 105 on the continued forward return movement of the regulator raises the locking-open latch 90 (see dotted lines, Fig. 7) and unlocks the same from the laterally-extending pin 93 of the closer and thus permits the same to close by means of its counterbalance-weight 64.

The dotted lines a 6, Fig. 7, approximately indicate that period in the return movement of the hopper during which the closer is unlocked, while the lines 6 c indicate that period in the movement of said hopper during which the valve mechanism is operated to permit a resupply to the bucket.

The means for opening the cut-off valve 50 after the closer completely shuts the discharge-opening of the bucket comprises in the present construction a lever system, the actuating-lever 110 thereof having its lower end pivotally secured to one of the weight arms 98 of the regulator-hopper and its upper end to a rocking lever 111, in the nature of a bell-crank lever, which is pivotally secured to a projection or bracket 112 of the framework. Pivotally secured to the opposite end of this bell-crank lever 111 is a valve-catch lever 113, provided with a catch 114 for engaging a laterally-extending catch 115, formed on an extension 118 of one of the valve-arms, as 53, and whereby the cut-off valve can be opened at the proper period in the operation of the machine. The opposite end of this catch-lever 113 is provided with a counterbalance-weight 117 for limiting the downward movement of the same, the upward movement of such lever, due to the tendency of the weight, being limited by the laterally-extending catch 115 of the valve in a manner that will be readily understood from an inspection of the drawings. In order to release this catch-lever 113 and permit the closing of the cut-off valve at the proper period, one of the bucket hangers or bails, as 7, is in this construction provided with a laterally-extending pin 7-1, carried by a projection of said hanger and in position to engage said catch-lever 113 at that period in the downward movement of the bucket immediately after its poising period, to thereby release said catch-lever from the catch 115 of the cut-off valve and permit the weight of the same to quickly and completely close said valve and thereby cut off the drip. This catch-lever is again moved forward to reengage the catch 115 of the valve by the rearward movement of the regulator-hopper, which thus moves the weight-lever 98 upward, thereby actuating the lever system 110, 111, and 113 and carrying the catch 114 into position to engage the catch 115, whereby on the return or forward movement of the hopper after the closer is shut the cut-off valve will again be opened to permit a new supply to the bucket.

From the foregoing it will be seen that the operation of this improved weighing-machine is substantially as follows: When the supply-valves are completely open, Fig. 3, the supply to the bucket will be continuous and uninterrupted; but when the bucket has received a sufficient amount of material to counterbalance its weight 150 said bucket will then descend to its position of poise, and during which movement the beam-arm 39 descends therewith and permits the descent of the roll 38, and likewise the descent of the weighted reducing-valve 30, Fig. 4, thereby reducing the flow of material to a drip, and when the bucket has received a sufficient amount of material to overcome its position of poise it still further descends, during which movement the pin 7-1 of the hanger engages the catch-lever 113, thereby disengaging the catches 114 and 115, and thus releases the cut-off valve 50, which immediately swings into position to cut off such drip, Fig. 5. The closing of the cut-off valve 50 operates the link-lever 80, and thereby the lever 81, to first disengage the recess 83 from the locker and then raise said locker by means of the pin 84 and permit the weight of the material to open the closer, which is locked open by the locking device 90, and which opening movement of the closer carries the sector-stop 74 into engagement with the stop-face 85 of the member 81-1 of the lever and thus locks the cut-off valve closed, Fig. 5. After a discharge from the bucket of an amount of material equal to the amount received after the reducing-valve 30 is closed the bucket rises to its poising-point, carrying the closer upward therewith, and likewise its locking-latch 90, which, however, still retains the closer open, Fig. 6. During this return upward movement of the bucket the beam-arm 39 in this particular construction of machine operates the roll 38 of the reducing-valve and opens such valve; but owing to the construction of the cut-off valve 50, whereby the same completely underlaps such reducing-valve even when said reducing-valve is in its open position, Fig. 11, the valve mechanism is still locked closed, and the supply of material thus remains completely and thoroughly cut off. At this period in the operation of the machine the regulator or regulator-hopper has been moved rearwardly by the discharging load of material, Fig. 6, whereby the releasing-latch 125 is brought into engagement with the open-lock closer-latch 90, whereby on the return or forward movement of said regulator, Fig. 7, the releasing-latch is operated to unlock the closer, which immediately swings into position by means of its weight to shut the discharge-opening of the bucket. Said closer is then relocked in such closed position by the locker 60 on the opening movement of the valve, which occurs during the return or forward movement of the hopper, by means of the lever system 110, 111, and 113 in the manner heretofore described, and which valve during its opening movement operates the bell-crank lever 81, thereby carrying its pin 84, which is in engagement with the cam-face 68 of the locker 60, inwardly, and thus permits the descent of said locker 60 to lock the closer, and which locker, by the reengagement of its stop 71 in the recess 83 of the member 81-1 of said lever 81, is then also locked. In the operation of this form of weighing-machine it will thus be seen that the operating mechanisms are so timed that the discharge-opening closer is not opened until the cut-off valve is completely closed; that the cut-off valve is not opened until the closer is completely shut; that when the closer is open the cut-off valve is locked against opening; that when said cutoff valve is open said closer is likewise locked against opening, so that the closer is locked shut during the entire time the bucket is being supplied with material and until after the valve mechanism is completely closed; that the cut-off valve is locked closed during the entire time that the closer is open and until after said closer is completely shut, and that such closer is locked open during the entire and complete discharge of the material from the bucket, the releasing of such closer from its locked-open position taking place only after such complete discharge from the bucket and when the major portion of the material has passed out from the regulator-hopper, at which time only it commences to return, and which thus insures the complete discharge of the bucket-load. It will furthermore be seen that the hopper has movements in two intersecting planes simultaneously--that is to say, it has a rising-and-falling movement in a vertical or perpendicular direction, while simultaneously therewith it has a relatively long movement in a direction transversely of its rising-and-falling plane of movement, whereby the regulator moves in the same inclined direction at all times and thus remains constantly level. From this it will be seen that the hopper when in its normal stationary position is in one horizontal plane, and that when in its lowermost position it is in another horizontal plane, and that when in such lower horizontal position or plane it is in a vertical plane different from and relatively remote to that vertical plane which it was in when in its upper horizontal position or plane, and vice versa, so that owing to this particular construction and organization the hopper, while it carries the material downward, also carries it transversely of its direction of flowage, and hence laterally of and away from the mouth of the load-receiver mouth, and so acts to draw the material away from the discharge-opening of the bucket and not retain the same in a compact mass below such opening, as is the case with hoppers that have simply a tilting movement.

Having described my invention, I claim--

1. The combination of a load-receiver having a shiftable member operative to discharge a load; locking means carried free of the load-receiver and adapted to lock said shiftable member in its open position; and load-discharge-operated regulator mechanism operative to engage and raise at the point of engagement therewith, said locking means thereby to unlock said shiftable member and permit the same to shut.

2. The combination of a load-receiver; a closer therefor shiftable to discharge a load; a locking-latch carried free of the load-receiver and below the plane of the closer when in its closed position for locking said closer in its open position; a regulator movable in one direction by the discharging load; and means carried by said regulator and adapted to engage said locking-latch thereby to unlock the closer and permit the same to shut.

3. The combination with framework, of a movable load-receiver; a closer therefor shiftable to discharge a load; means carried by the framework and independently of said load-receiver for locking the closer open; and means movable in a plane coinciding with the plane of movement of said locking means and operative to engage said locking means to unlock said closer thereby to permit the same to shut.

4. In a weighing-machine, the combination with framework, of a load-receiver provided with a member shiftable to discharge a load; a locking-latch carried free of said receiver and pivotally secured to said framework and operative to lock said shiftable member in its open position; a regulator operable in one direction by the discharging load; and an unlocking device pivotally secured to said regulator and operative therewith on its return movement to directly engage and raise at the point of engagement therewith said locking-latch thereby to unlock the closer and permit the same to shut.

5. The combination with framework, of weighing mechanism provided with a member shiftable to discharge a load; means for locking said member shut; means supported on said framework and carried free of the load-receiver for locking said shiftable member open; and regulator mechanism operative to engage and raise at the point of engagement therewith said last-mentioned locking means, thereby to unlock said shiftable member from its open-lock position and permit it to shut.

6. In a weighing-machine, the combination, with framework, of a permanently-level regulator; and a plurality of depending arms pivotally connected to said regulator and to said framework, one or more of said arms being disposed at each side of said regulator, whereby said regulator will be maintained in a level position throughout its movements.

7. The combination with weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver provided with a shiftable closer, of a valve operative to regulate the supply of material to said receiver; means for locking the valve shut when the closer is open and for locking the closer shut when the valve is open, and comprising a multiplicity of coacting members, one of which coacts with a closer member to lock the closer shut when the valve is open, and another of which is connected with the valve and coacts with said first-mentioned member to assist in locking said closer shut, and then coacts with another closer member to lock the valve shut when said closer is open.

8. The combination, of a bucket or receptacle provided with a closer shiftable for discharging the load; means for locking the closer in its open position; a permanently-level regulator having movements, simultaneously, in two intersecting planes and operable in one direction by the discharging load; and means operative with said regulator, for unlocking the closer to thereby permit the same to shut.

9. The combination, of a bucket or receptacle provided with a closer shiftable for discharging the load; means for locking the closer in its open position; a permanently-level regulator having movements in two intersecting planes and operable in one direction by the discharging load; and means operable in the same planes of movement therewith for releasing the locking means to thereby permit said closer to shut.

10. The combination with framework, of a load-receiver; a closer for said receiver and shiftable to discharge a load; a locking-latch supported on said framework and carried free of said load-receiver and operative to lock said closer open; a load-discharge-operated hopper disposed below said load-receiver; and a shiftable latch carried on said hopper at one side thereof, and operative therewith on its return movement to engage and raise said locking-latch thereby to unlock the closer and permit the same to shut.

11. The combination with weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver provided with a shiftable closer, of a valve operative to regulate the supply of material to said receiver; means for locking the valve shut when the closer is open, and for locking the closer shut when the valve is open, and comprising a locker for locking the closer shut, and a connector non-connected with the closer and connecting the locker with the valve and operative on the opening of the closer to itself coact with said closer to lock the valve shut.

12. The combination, of a bucket or receptacle provided with a closer shiftable for discharging the load; a locking-latch for locking the closer in its open position; a permanently-level hopper having movements in two intersecting planes, simultaneously, and movable in one direction by the discharging load; and a latch carried thereby and operative therewith on its return movement for unlocking the closer to thereby permit the same to shut.

13. The combination, with weighing mechanism embodying a bucket or receptacle provided with a closer shiftable for discharging the load and having a laterally-extending pin, of a locking device also having a laterally-extending pin and operable to engage the closer-pin to lock said closer in its open position; a hopper movable in one direction by the discharging load; and a cam-faced latch carried thereby and operative therewith on its return movement to permit its cam-face to engage the pin of the locking device and thereby unlock the same from the pin of the closer to permit the same to shut.

14. The combination, with weighing mechanism embodying a bucket or receptacle provided with a closer shiftable for discharging the load and having a laterally-extending pin, of a latch also having a laterally-extending pin and operable to lock said closer in its open position; a stop device for limiting the movement of said latch; a permanently-level hopper having movements simultaneously in two intersecting planes and operable in one direction by the discharging load; and a cam-faced latch carried thereby and operative to engage the pin of the latch on the return movement of said hopper, to thereby unlock said closer-locking latch and permit the closer to shut.

15. In a weighing-machine, the combination with weighing mechanism embodying a movable load-receiver having a load-discharge mouth, of a permanently-level, bodily-movable regulator; downwardly-extending arms supporting said regulator in position below said receiver to permit the discharge-mouth thereof to be within said regulator when said receiver is in position to discharge its load, said regulator being operative by the discharging material and having its principal movement in a direction transversely of the plane of movement of the load-receiver, whereby the discharging material is carried transversely of its direction of flowage and laterally of and away from the discharge-mouth of said receiver, thereby to prevent the compacting of the discharging material adjacent to said receiver-mouth.

16. In a weighing-machine, the combination with weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; a permanently-level, bodily-movable regulator having pivotal connection to its support above the lower end of said receiver and in position below said receiver to have the discharge-mouth thereof within said regulator when the load-receiver is in position to discharge its load.

17. The combination of a load-receiver provided with a shiftable member operative to discharge a load; a valve operative to regulate the supply of material to the load-receiver; a shiftable locker for locking the shiftable member shut; and means, directly secured to said load-receiver and having a linkage connection with said valve and in permanent engagement with said locking means, and operative, by the valve on the closing thereof, to actuate and disengage the locking means from said shiftable member, and thereby permit said member to open and discharge the load.

18. The combination with weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver provided with a shiftable closer carrying a stop, of a valve operative to regulate the supply of material to said load-receiver; and locking means operative to lock the closer shut on the opening of the valve, and to lock the valve closed on the opening of the closer, and comprising a locker operative to lock the closer shut, an actuator secured to said load-receiver and having a linkage connection with said valve, and operative on the closing of the valve to actuate said locker and thereby unlock the closer, and adapted to be engaged by said closer-stop on the opening of said closer, thereby to lock the valve shut.

19. The combination with weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver provided with a shiftable closer, of a valve operative to regulate the supply of material to said receiver; and means for locking the valve closed when the closer is open, and for locking the closer shut when the valve is open, and comprising a multiplicity of coacting members, a pair thereof being carried by the closer, another carried by the load-receiver and coacting with one of said closer members to lock the closer shut, and another carried by said receiver and having connection with said valve and coacting with the member carried by the receiver to assist in locking said closer shut when the valve is open, and then coacting with the other closer member of said pair to lock the valve shut when the closer is open.

20. The combination, of a load-receiver provided with a shiftable closer; means for locking the closer shut; and means for locking said closer-locking means and operable directly to actuate the same after it is unlocked therefrom, thereby to unlock the closer and permit said closer to open.

21. The combination, of a load-receiver provided with a shiftable closer; a valve operable to regulate the supply of material to said load-receiver; means for locking the closer shut-locking means operable to lock said closer-locking means, and also operative in connection with the closer to lock the valve closed on the opening of said closer.

22. The combination, of a load-receiver provided with a shiftable closer; valve mechanism operable to regulate the supply of material to said load-receiver and comprising a reducing-valve and a cut-off valve; means for locking the closer shut; means connected with the cut-off valve and operable to lock said closer-locking means; and means operative with the closer to engage said last-mentioned locking means, thereby to lock said cut-off valve closed on the opening of the closer.

23. The combination, of a bucket or receptacle provided with a shiftable closer; a valve for regulating the supply of material to said bucket; a locker operable to lock the closer shut; a lever system connected with said valve, for locking said locker and having means for actuating said locker after said lever system is unlocked therefrom, to thereby unlock said closer and permit it to open; and means operative with said closer, for engaging said lever system to lock the valve closed on the opening of the closer.

24. The combination, with weighing mechanism embodying a bucket or receptacle provided with a shiftable closer having a pair of stops, of a valve for regulating the supply of material to said bucket; a locking-latch carried by said bucket and operable to engage one of said stops, to lock the closer shut; a lever system also carried by said bucket and directly connected with said valve, for locking said latch and also having means for actuating said locking-latch after said lever system is unlocked therefrom, to thereby unlock said closer and permit it to open, and in position to be engaged by the other stop of said closer to thereby lock the valve closed on the opening of the closer.

25. The combination, of a bucket or receptacle provided with a shiftable closer; a valve for regulating the supply of material to said bucket; a locker in position to lock said closer shut and having a stop or stop-face; and an actuating-lever in position and having a recess for engaging the stop of the locker, to thereby lock the same, and operable on the actuation of said valve to lock and unlock said locker.

26. The combination, with weighing mechanism embodying a bucket or receptacle provided with a shiftable closer, of a valve for regulating the supply of material to said bucket; a locker in position to lock said closer shut and having a stop and a cam-faced part; and an actuating-lever in position and operable on the actuation of the valve and having a recess for engaging said stop, to thereby lock the locker, and having means for engaging said locker, after it is unlocked therefrom.

27. The combination, of a bucket or receptacle provided with a shiftable closer having a plurality of working parts; a valve for regulating the supply of material to the bucket; a locker carried by said bucket and also having a plurality of working parts, one operable to engage one of the working parts of the closer, to lock the same shut; a lever system also carried by said bucket and connected with said valve, and one of the members thereof likewise having a plurality of working parts, one adapted to engage a working part of said locker to lock the same, another operable to engage another working part of said locker to actuate the same after it is unlocked therefrom, and another in position to be engaged by one of the working parts of the closer for locking the valve closed on the opening of said closer.

28. The combination, with weighing mechanism embodying a bucket or receptacle provided with a shiftable closer having a pair of sector-stops, of a valve for regulating the supply of material to said bucket; a locking-latch carried by said bucket and having a pair of stops and a cam-faced part and operable to permit one of its stops to engage one of the sector-stops of said closer, to thereby lock the closer shut; a lever system carried by the bucket and operatively connected with said valve, one of the members thereof having a series of working parts, one operable to interlock with one of the stops of the locking-latch to thereby lock said latch, another adapted to engage the cam-faced part of said locking-latch to actuate the same after it is unlocked from said member, and another in position to be engaged by the other sector-stop of the closer to thereby lock the valve closed on the opening of the closer.

29. The combination, with weighing mechanism embodying a bucket or receptacle provided with a shiftable closer having a pair of sector-stops, of a valve for regulating the supply of material to said bucket; a locking-latch carried by said bucket and having a pair of stops and a cam-faced part and operable to permit one of said stops to engage one of the sector-stops of the closer, to thereby lock the same shut; a lever system carried by the bucket and embodying a link pivotally connected with said valve; and a member having a notch or recess adapted to receive one of the stops of the locking-latch to thereby lock the same, said member also having a pin operable to engage the cam-faced part of said locking-latch to actuate the same after it is unlocked therefrom; and a stop-face or stop in position to be engaged by the other sector of the closer, for locking said valve closed on the opening of the closer.

30. The combination, of a bucket or receptacle provided with a shiftable closer, a valve operable to regulate the supply of material to said bucket; means for locking said closer shut; means operable on the actuation of the valve for locking said closer-locking means; means for locking said closer open; a regulator operable in one direction by the discharging load; and means operative therewith on its return movement for unlocking the closer to thereby permit the same to shut.

31. The combination, of a bucket or receptacle provided with a shiftable closer; a valve operable to regulate the supply of material to said bucket; means for locking the closer shut; means operable on the actuation of the valve for locking said closer-locking means and for actuating said closer-locking means after it is unlocked therefrom, to unlock the closer and permit it to open; means for locking said closer open; a regulator operable in one direction by the discharging load; and means operative therewith on its return movement for unlocking the closer to thereby permit the same to shut.

32. The combination, of a bucket or receptacle provided with a shiftable closer, of a valve operable to regulate the supply of material to said bucket; means for locking the closer shut; actuating means operable on the operation of the valve, for locking said closer-locking means and for actuating said closer-locking means after it is unlocked therefrom to thereby unlock the closer and permit it to open; means operable on the actuation of the closer, for engaging said actuating means to thereby lock the valve closed on the opening of said closer; means for locking said closer open; a regulator operable in one direction by the discharging load; and means operative therewith on its return movement for unlocking the closer to thereby permit the same to shut.

33. The combination, of a bucket or receptacle provided with a shiftable closer, a valve operable to regulate the supply of material to said bucket; means operatively connected with said valve and closer and operative to lock said closer shut on the opening of the valve and to lock the valve closed on the opening of the closer; means for locking open the closer; a permanently-level regulator having movements in two intersecting planes, simultaneously, and operable in one direction by the discharging load; and means operable therewith to unlock said closer and thereby permit the same to shut.

34. The combination, of a bucket or receptacle provided with a shiftable closer; valve mechanism operable to regulate the supply of material to said bucket and comprising a reducing-valve and a cut-off valve; means in operative connection with the closer and directly connected to the cut-off valve and operative by said valve to lock the closer shut on the opening of said cut-off valve and to lock said cut-off valve closed on the opening of the closer; means for locking open the closer; a regulator-hopper operable in one direction by the discharging load; and means carried thereby and operative therewith on its return movement to unlock the closer and thereby permit the same to shut.

35. The combination, of a receptacle; a permanently-level regulator supported in position for simultaneous movement in intersecting planes and operable in one direction by the discharging load from said receptacle; a valve operable to regulate the supply of material to said receptacle; and means operative by said regulator for opening said valve.

36. In combination, with framework, of a bucket or receptacle provided with a closer shiftable for discharging the load; a valve operable to regulate the supply of material to the bucket; a movable hopper pivotally supported on said framework, for movement in intersecting planes by a plurality of parallel depending arms or levers and operable in one direction by the discharging load; a counterbalance-weight carried by one of said arms; and means connected to said weight arm and in operative engagement with the valve, for opening the same on the return movement of the hopper.

37. The combination, of a bucket or receptacle provided with a closer shiftable for discharging the load; valve mechanism operable to regulate the supply of material to said bucket and comprising a reducing-valve operable on the movement of the bucket, and a cut-off valve; a permanently-level hopper having movements in two intersecting planes, simultaneously, and operable in one direction by the discharging load; and means in operative connection with said hopper and the cut-off valve, for opening said valve on the return movement of said hopper.

38. The combination, of a bucket or receptacle provided with a shiftable closer for discharging the load; valve mechanism operable to regulate the supply of material to said bucket and comprising a reducing-valve operable on the movement of the bucket, and a cut-off valve; a locking device for locking said closer shut; means connected with the cut-off valve and operable to both lock said locking device and actuate the same after it is unlocked therefrom, to permit the closer to open; means carried by the closer and operable in connection with the means connected to the cut-off valve, for locking said cut-off valve closed on the opening of the closer; means for locking the closer open; a permanently-level hopper having movements in two intersecting planes, simultaneously; and means operative therewith for unlocking the closer, to thereby permit the same to shut and for opening the cut-off valve.

39. The combination, of a load-receiver provided with a closer shiftable to discharge the load; a valve operable to regulate the supply of material to said load-receiver; means for locking the closer shut; means in permanent engagement with said closer-locking means and operable by said valve directly to actuate said closer-locking means, thereby to unlock the closer and permit the same to open, and also adapted to permit said closer-locking means to return into position after the closer is shut and thereby relock said closer.

40. The combination, of a load-receiver provided with a closer shiftable to discharge the load; a valve operable to regulate the supply of material to said load-receiver; means for locking the closer shut; locking means directly connected to and operable with said valve directly to actuate said closer-locking means, thereby to unlock the closer and permit the same to open, and also operable to retain said closer-locking means in its inoperative position and to permit said locking means to return into position to relock the closer after it is shut.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600024 ===

WEIGHING-MACHINE

United States Patent 600024

Filing date: May 29, 1897

Issue date: March 1, 1898

Inventor: FRANCIS H. RICHARDS

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Francis H. Richards, a citizen of the United States, residing at Hartford, in the county of Hartford and State of Connecticut, have invented certain new and useful Improvements in Weighing-Machines, of which the following is a specification.

This invention relates to weighing-machines, the object being to provide an improved apparatus of this character especially intended for weighing liquids, it being particularly adapted for use in weighing the feedwater of steam-boilers, the load-receiver of the weighing mechanism being preferably dischargeable into a feed-water tank, so that an accurate registration of the amount of water supplied to the boiler can be obtained to aid in making efficiency tests of the latter.

In the drawings accompanying and forming part of this specification, Figure 1 is a front elevation of my improved weighing-machine. Figs. 2, 3, and 4 are side elevations of the machine as seen from the left in Fig. 1. Fig. 5 is a sectional bottom view taken in the line a a, Fig. 2. Fig. 6 is an end elevation of a boiler, showing the weighing-machine incased in the feed-water tank; and Fig. 7 is a side elevation of one end of the boiler, the feed-water tank and pipes communicating with the boiler being in longitudinal central section.

Similar characters designate like parts in all the figures of the drawings.

My improved weighing-machine is especially intended for weighing liquids, it being represented in the accompanying drawings as employed in connection with a steam-boiler, the load-receiver constituting a part of the weighing mechanism being dischargeable into the feed-water tank, a valve controlled by the weighing mechanism being preferably provided to govern the supply thereto.

The weighing mechanism, which may be of any convenient form, is preferably housed or inclosed in the feed-water tank T and is preferably situated above the normal water-level in the boiler B, (indicated by the dotted line x x, Fig. 6,) the tank T communicating with the boiler by the pipes P and people, in a well-known manner, and the pipe people, serving to conduct the feed-water from the tank to the boiler, as shown in Figs. 6 and 7. The tank T has at a suitable point therein the manhole 2 to provide access to the interior of the tank, which is closed by the cover 3, normally maintained in such position by suitable means.

The framework for sustaining the various parts of the weighing mechanism may be of any preferred character, it comprising in the present case the side frames 4 and 5, connected near their lower ends by the beam 6 and the riser 7, secured to the side frame 5 in some convenient manner.

The support for the weighing mechanism consists in the present case of the brackets 35 and 36, transversely disposed about midway of the tank and secured in some suitable manner respectively to the opposite ends thereof, the side frames 4 and 5 being bolted or otherwise secured to the bracket 35 and to blocks 36-1 and 36-2 on the bracket 36.

The weighing mechanism in the present case comprehends a load-receiver consisting of a tilting bucket G and a plurality of scale-beams for supporting the same, the scale-beams being designated by B and B1 and being mounted upon the side frames 4 and 5 in the usual manner.

The load-receiver G is furnished with the projecting trunnions or pivots 8 and 9 at opposite sides thereof, journaled in suitable bearings in the end bars 10 and 12, the latter being provided at the opposite ends thereof with the usual notched bearings resting on knife-edge pivots suitably secured to the poising ends of the two beams.

The load-receiver G is maintained in its normal position (indicated in Fig. 2) by a suitable detent, such as the latch L, the latter consisting of a comparatively short counterweighted lever, pivoted at 13 to the bar 10 and having the projection or boss 14, adapted to engage the cooperating stud 15, suitably fixed to the load-receiver, the engaging faces of these two parts being oblique, as represented in Fig. 2. The center of gravity of the loaded bucket G is situated forward of the center of movement thereof, so that when the latch is tripped said bucket, by reason of the preponderance of weight forward of its axis of oscillation, will be caused to tilt to discharge its contents.

The standard or riser 7 constitutes a suitable means for supporting the supply apparatus, which in the present case includes the supply-chamber H, in which is inclosed a supply controller or valve, as V, said valve-chamber being represented as a vertically-disposed cylinder suitably mounted on the standard 7, while the valve V is of tubular form.

The supply-chamber intersects a supply-pipe leading toward the weighing mechanism, said supply-pipe consisting of two sections 20 and 21 in screw-threaded engagement with the chamber or cylinder above and below its center, the pipe 21 forming practically a spout and it being located over the load-receiver G to conduct the water thereto from the chamber H. The supply-chamber H at a suitable point therein has a series of ports 22, which are covered and uncovered alternately by the valve V on its descending and ascending strokes, said valve being preferably connected with the weighing mechanism for operation.

The valve V, which is of the "piston" type, has on the inside thereof at a point intermediate its ends the web 25, in which are formed a series of ports 26, the stem 27 of the valve being suitably secured to said web 25, it being represented as screw--threaded therein and as extending through an aperture 28 in the lower end of the chamber H. The valve-stem 27 also passes through the stuffing-box 29, of ordinary construction, which can be suitably secured to the chamber H. Fig. 1 represents the valve V in its highest or normal position, so that when a body of water is flowing into the chamber H from the pipe 20 it will pass through the series of ports 26 of the valve and from thence through the ports 22 of the chamber H and into the communicating pipe-section 21, from whence it flows into the load-receiver. When a certain quantity of material has been received by the load-receiver G, it will descend thereby through suitable instrumentalities, drawing the valve V downward across the ports 22 to progressively reduce and subsequently cut off the supply to the load-receiver G, this operation being completed when the receiver G is loaded. The fluid on leaving the peripherally-formed ports of the valve-chamber X will pass into the annular compartment 40, surrounding said chamber, and from thence into the pipe 21.

The piston-valve V, as hereinbefore specified, is connected with the weighing mechanism for operation, the lower end of the valve-stem 27 being shown pivoted to the link 41, the link being pivoted at 41-1 to the controlling device or actuator 42.

The controlling device or actuator 42 consists in the present case of a counterweighted lever carried by the beam B for shifting movement, it being adapted on the reciprocation of the load-receiver to operate the valve V.

The two beams are of common construction, each consisting of a pair of arms, as 43, joined at the rear by a counterweight, the two counterweights being designated, respectively, by W and W. The counterweighted lever 42 is pivoted at the poising end of the inner arm of the scale-beam B, the weight 45 of said lever being furnished with a laterally-extending pin 40, normally resting on the adjacent beam-weight W, whereby as the load-receiver descends the inner end of the counterweighted lever will move in a corresponding direction, so as to draw the valve V downward by reason of the intermediate connections to effect the cut-off of the supply when the load is completed. The return movement of the lever 42 with the beam B on the discharge of a load will be intercepted, as will hereinafter appear, by a suitable stop mechanism.

For the purpose of obtaining greater accuracy I provide, in addition to the piston-valve, an independently-operated valve, such as V, and which is preferably operated during the weighing of a load to carry it under the outlet of the pipe 21, whereby on the cut off of the supply by the valve V the valve V is adapted to catch any drizzle or excess that may be in the pipe at a point between the piston-valve and the delivery end of the pipe.

The valve V is of the pan type, it having at the one side thereof the arm 50, suitably affixed to the rock-shaft 51, working in suitable bearings on one side of the spout or pipe 21. The action of the valve V is also preferably controlled by the weighing mechanism, the shaft 51 having at one end thereof the too crank-arm 52, to which is pivoted the connector or rod 53, connected at its opposite end to the pivot 41-1 of the actuator 42.

The means shown for advancing the valve V or swinging it under the outlet of the pipe or spout 21 consists of the weight 5G, secured to the valve-arm 50 and which tends normally to effect the operation specified, the too-rapid movement of the valve V being prevented, as will be understood, by the lever 42, with which the rod 53 is connected. When the lever 42 resumes its normal position, the rod 53 will be thrust upward to swing the valve V from under the outlet of the spout or pipe 21, so that any material in the valve V can pass into the load-receiver G.

It will be remembered that a latch L has hereinbefore been described for controlling the discharge of a load, said latch being adapted to hold the load-receiver in its normal position. The tripper for the latch consists in the present case of the projection at a suitable point on the rod 53, the said tripper being adapted to impinge against the pin 61 on the forward arm of the latch 62 when the load is completed, so that the projections 14 and 15 will be disengaged to permit the load-receiver G to tilt. The load-receiver can be returned to its normal position by the weight 65, of suitable efficiency, secured to the rear wall thereof by some convenient fastening means.

In connection with the weighing mechanism and the valve reciprocally-effective stops are provided for preventing the discharge of a load until the supply is cut off and for preventing the opening of either of the valves until the load-receiver has resumed its primary position. Said stops are designated, respectively, by 70 and 71, and they are substantially segmental in shape, the stop 71 being secured to the rock-shaft 51, while the stop 70 is affixed to the trunnion 8. The operation of the two stops is clearly illustrated in Figs. 2 and 4. In Fig. 2 the stop 70 is shown in contact with the curved face of the cooperating stop 71, so that should the latch L be tripped too soon the load-receiver G cannot tilt, for the reason that the stop 71 will block the action of the stop 70, which is operative with said load-receiver, this relation continuing until the supply is cut off, at which time the stop 71 will have crossed the plane of oscillation of the stop 70, so that when the latch L is tripped, or it having been previously tripped, the load-receiver G can tilt downward, and as it does so the curved face of the stop 70 will ride along the adjacent portion of the cooperating stop 71, as shown in Fig. 3, thereby to prevent the retraction of the stop 71 and the valves Y and V. It will be understood also that when the stop 70 is in position to block the action of the cooperating stop the lever 42 will be held in its shifted position, (indicated in Fig. 4,) although the load-receiver and beam mechanism are free, to return to their uppermost positions. When the load-receiver G has been righted, the stop 70 will release its companion, so that the valves V and V can be opened by the dropping of the counterweighted lever 42.

In connection with the weighing mechanism I provide a regulator in position to receive and to be lowered by the loads of material intermittently discharged from the load-receiver, blocking means operative with said load-receiver being provided to hold the latter in its shifted or tilted position for a sufficient length of time to insure the discharge of the entire load. The regulator consists in the present case of a hopper R, supported for reciprocation beneath the load-receiver and counterweighted, the outlet of the regulator-hopper or receptacle being designated by 80. The regulator R is carried by the longitudinal levers 81 and 82, respectively, pivoted at 81-1 and 82-1 to the side frames 4 and 5, the two arms being pivoted to opposite sides of the receptacle R and connected at the rear by the cylindrical weight 83, constituting a means for returning said regulator to its initial position (shown in Fig. 2) when a certain quantity of the fluid has passed therefrom.

The regulator R has on the under side thereof the pocket 85 communicating with the main chamber 85-1 thereof by an opening 86, so that the water or other liquid from the regulator can flow into the pocket 85 to fill the same.

On the discharge of a load from the receiver G the fluid will enter the regulator R and will fill the same, the outlet 80 being of reduced size to insure this result, a certain quantity of the fluid passing into the pocket 85 through the opening, whereby the regulator can be held in its lowermost position (shown in Fig. 4) for a comparatively long period of time, so that through the intervention of suitable means it is adapted to hold the load-receiver G in its tilted position. The pocket 85 has the outlet 87, of reduced size, through which the fluid can pass.

The regulator R is preferably suspended between the forward arms of the two levers 81 and 82, constituting a carrier therefor, and its center of gravity is situated below its axis, whereby the regulator cannot be tilted when a load from the receiver G is discharged thereinto, it being maintained in a substantially level or horizontal position by reason of such mounting, so that it can be filled promptly and lowered for carrying out a certain object hereinafter set forth.

The regulator has connected therewith a holding device, such as the rod 88, pivoted to the arm or lever 82 in the forward end thereof, said rod being adapted to cooperate with a suitable device on the load-receiver, as the projection 89, and having a projection 90 in the form of an antifriction-roll adapted to cooperate therewith. The projection 89 is in the form of a flange on the bracket 91, suitably secured to the load-receiver, the roll 90 being adapted to cooperate with the concave working face of the projection.

It will be observed that the projection 89 is located forward of the axis of oscillation of the load-receiver and that the projection or roll 90 is normally in contact with the concave face 92 thereof. When the load-receiver tilts and discharges its contents, the projection 89 will fall away from the cooperating projection 90, the material being discharged into the regulator R to fill the same and to cause its depression. When the regulator R is lowered, the rod 88 will be drawn downward, carrying the projection 90 into contact with the cooperating projection 89, thereby to hold the load-receiver in its tilted position (illustrated in Fig. 4) so long as the regulator R is down. When a certain quantity of material has passed from the regulator, it will rise, thereby releasing the load-receiver G, so that it can be righted by the weight 65.

The operation of the hereinbefore-described machine, briefly set forth, is as follows: The parts are shown in their primary positions in Figs. 1 and 2, wherein the valve V is situated above the ports 22 and the valve V is wide open, so that a full volume of the supply can pass through the pipe 20, chamber H, and pipe 21, and from thence into the load-receiver G. When a certain proportion of the load has been received by the receiver G, it and the beam mechanism will descend and the one end of the actuator or lever 42, moving therewith and drawing the link 41 downward, the valve V will be closed or moved across the ports 22 to stop the flow of the fluid to the load-receiver, the valve V, by reason of its connection with the actuator 42, being simultaneously swung under the pipe 21, the supply to the load-receiver being completely cut off by the valves V and V, when the load is completed. On the completion of the load the tripper 60 will impinge against the pin 61 on the latch-arm 62, thereby depressing said arm and disengaging the cooperating projections 14 and 15, so that the bucket G can be tilted by the material therein. When the bucket tilts, its contents will be discharged into the regulator R, thereby lowering the same and carrying the projection 90 into contact with the corresponding projection 89 to hold the bucket in its tilted position until the entire load has been discharged therefrom. When a certain quantity of material has been discharged from the regulator, the same will rise, thereby permitting the bucket to be righted by the counterweight 65, following which the several parts of the machine will be returned to their primary positions to repeat the operation.

Having described my invention, I claim--

1. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a tilting load-receiver provided with a projection, of a regulator-hopper supported independently of the weighing mechanism and in position to receive and to be shifted by the loads intermittingly discharged by said load-receiver; and a device connected with the regulator and adapted to engage the projection on the load-receiver when the latter and the regulator are shifted, said device serving positively to hold the load-receiver in its discharging position.

2. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a tilting load-receiver provided with a projection, of a regulator-hopper supported independently of the weighing mechanism and in position to receive and to be shifted by the loads intermittingly discharged by said load-receiver, said regulator having a pocket communicating therewith and into which a portion of the load discharged can enter to retard the return movement of the regulator; and a device connected with said regulator and adapted to engage the projection on the load-receiver when the latter and the regulator are shifted, said device serving positively to hold the load-receiver in its shifted position.

3. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a tilting load-receiver provided with a projection, of a regulator-hopper supported independently of the weighing mechanism and in position to receive and to be shifted by the loads intermittingly discharged by said load-receiver; a counterweighted carrier for the regulator; and a rod connected with the carrier and having a projection operable to engage the projection on the load-receiver when the latter and the regulator are shifted, whereby said load-receiver is positively held in its discharging position.

4. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver provided with a projection, of a regulator-hopper supported independently of the weighing mechanism and in position to receive and to be shifted by the loads intermittingly discharged by said load-receiver; a device connected with the regulator and adapted to engage the projection on the load-receiver when the latter and the regulator are shifted, said device serving positively to hold the load-receiver in its discharging position; valve mechanism; and means upon the load-receiver for blocking the action of the valve mechanism.

5. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver, of a valve-chamber; pipes leading to and from the chamber, the pipe leading from the chamber being located over the load-receiver; a reciprocal valve situated in the valve-chamber and connected with the weighing mechanism for operation; a valve adapted to be swung beneath the outlet of the last-mentioned pipe; a shaft for carrying said last-mentioned valve; a crank on the shaft, connected with the weighing mechanism; and reciprocally-effective stops connected, respectively, with the shaft and the load-receiver.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600025 ===

WEIGHING-MACHINE

United States Patent 600025

Filing date: June 5, 1897

Issue date: March 1, 1898

Inventor: FRANCIS H. RICHARDS

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Francis H. Richards, a citizen of the United States, residing at Hartford, in the county of Hartford and State of Connecticut, have invented certain new and useful Improvements in Weighing-Machines, of which the following is a specification.

This invention relates to weighing-machines, the object being to provide an improved machine of this character more especially intended for weighing liquids.

In the drawings accompanying and forming part of this specification, Figure 1 is a rear elevation of my improved weighing-machine, portions being broken away and in section. Figs. 2, 3, and 4 are side elevations. Fig. 5 is a sectional side elevation. Fig. 6 is a plan view of the upper part of the machine. Fig. 7 is a detail in section, showing a portion of the supply-valve mechanism. Fig. 8 is a detail in elevation of a supply-valve. Fig. 9 is a transverse section of the same, taken in the line a a, Fig. 8. Fig. 10 is a detail in elevation of a discharge-valve. Fig. 11 is a transverse section taken in line 5 6, Fig. 10; and Figs. 12 and 13 are details in elevation and transverse section, respectively, of a modified form of discharge-valve.

Similar characters designate like parts in all the figures of the drawings.

The framework for supporting the several parts of the machine is represented consisting of the chambered base or bed 2, the side frames 3 and 4, rising therefrom, and the brackets 5 and 6, which extend oppositely from the supply-chamber H, the latter being in communication with a source of liquid-supply and situated over the load-receiver of the weighing mechanism to deliver a stream or streams of liquid thereto.

The weighing mechanism comprehends a load-receiver or bucket, as G, and a beam or plurality of beams, as B and B1, the latter being substantially similar in construction, mounting, and mode of operation to the beams shown and described in Letters Patent No. 548,840, granted to me October 29, 1895, to which reference may be had.

The load-receiver or weighing-bucket G in the form represented consists of two sections, (designated, respectively, by 7 and 8,) the lower section 7 being constructed of heavy metal and the upper section being constructed of sheet metal. The lower edge of the upper sheet-metal section is suitably secured within the lower section, a series of rivets or other fastening devices, as 9, being provided to fasten the parts together. The lower section 7 of the weighing-bucket G has a discharge-outlet or outlets, as will hereinafter appear, through which the liquid constituting the load is adapted to flow, suitable means being furnished normally to cover said discharge-outlet. The lower section 7 of the bucket may be cast in a single piece, it having a plurality of depending spouts, as 10 and 12, of suitable shape, in which are formed valve-seats, as 13, the discharge-outlets of the spouts being closed normally by suitable valves, as L and lea The upper section 8 of the load-receiver is in the form of a sheet-metal shell substantially of elliptical shape in longitudinal section.

In a bucket constructed as previously described the downflowing stream of material from the supply mechanism is adapted to strike the heavy metallic lower section 7 of the bucket, the pressure, as will be obvious, in a stream of liquid being considerable.

The sheet-metal shell 8 possesses lightness, so that the weighing-bucket as a whole is strong and serviceable.

For the purpose of increasing the stability of the sheet-metal shell 8 a series of tie bars or bolts, as 15, are provided, the opposite threaded ends of which pass through suitable openings formed in the longitudinal sides of said shell, said ends being engaged by nuts, as 16, to hold the bolts in place.

The supply-chamber H, which is carried by the framing of the machine, is provided with a series of depending spouts, as 17 and 18, having therein tapered or reduced valve-seats, as 19, and a series of valves, as V and V, adapted to close against the tapered valve-seats 19. The valves V and V are pivoted to the curved arms 20 and 21, fixed to and extending forward from the rock-shaft 22, carried by suitable arms or bearings 23 on the brackets 5 and 6.

For advancing the valves V and V toward their seats a weight 24 is represented, said weight having at its opposite ends the arms 25 and 26, suitably secured to the rock-shaft 22 and normally tending to advance the valves, this action, however, being limited by weighing or beam mechanism, as will herein after appear.

The supply-valves V and V preferably embody as a part thereof a packing of expansible or yielding material adapted to bind firmly against the valve-seats 19, whereby leakage of the liquid when said valves are shut is prevented. The two supply-valves are similar in construction, and it is therefore deemed necessary to describe but one of them in detail. (See Figs. 8 and 9.) The valve represented in said figures has a body portion 30 in the form of a disk having an annular shoulder 31 on its upper face, which is surrounded by a packing-ring 32 of suitable expansible or yielding material, such as rubber, which is adapted to bind firmly against the inclined or tapered valve-seat 19.

A spindle or stud is represented at 33 passing through a suitable aperture formed centrally in the valve, said spindle or stud having a bifurcated end portion 34, through the branches of which a pivot-pin, as 35, carried at the outer end of the curved arm 20, is adapted to pass, said pin being headed at its opposite end to retain it in position. The packing-ring 32 is held in place by a disk 36 in engagement with the upper end of the spindle, which disk is secured by a nut 37.

For the purpose of imparting a comparatively great amount of force to the two valves Y and V, I have provided the cam and counterweighted-lever valve-actuating means illustrated in the patent hereinbefore referred to, said cam being designated by 38 and being fixed to the rock-shaft 22. The cooperating valve-actuating lever is designated by 39, and it is pivoted to the side frame 4, near the upper end thereof, an antifriction-roll 40 at one end of the lever running in contact with the working face of the cam to advance the two valves.

The discharge or closer valves L and �1 on the load-receiver are carried by a shaft, such as 41, journaled in bearings or brackets 42, secured to the lower end of the load-receiver G, said shaft having a series of forwardly-curved arms, as 43 and 44, to which the discharge-valves are preferably pivoted. The rock-shaft 41 has secured thereto at a suitable point a weight, as 45, the purpose of which is to close the valves L and �1 against their inclined or tapered seats 13, as shown in Fig. 1.

The discharge-valve L (represented in detail in Figs. 10 and 11) comprehends in its construction a disk 50, having an annular wall 51 thereon, surrounded by an expansible or yielding packing-ring 52, of rubber or analogous material, held in place by the retaining-plate 53, through which is passed the stud 54, embraced at its upper end by the securing-nut 55. The stud has at its lower end the bifurcation 56, through the branches of which the pivot-pin 57, carried at the outer end of the curved arm 44, is passed.

In Fig. 5 the valve �1 is represented as being closed against its inclined seat 13, the yielding or rubber packing-ring 52 being caused to lie against said seat, in which position it, with its companion valve �1, will be held by suitable means, as the counterweighted latch D. The latch D is pivoted on the load-receiver and is adapted to engage the rocker 60 when the valves L and �1 are shut, as represented in Fig. 2. The rocker 60 is pivoted at 61 to the load-receiver, and it has connected thereto the rod 62, which is similarly attached at its opposite end to the crank-arm 63 on the rock-shaft 41.

The construction and operation of the latch D, the rocker 60, and connecting-rod 62 are shown and described in detail in the Letters Patent hereinbefore mentioned, and it is therefore unnecessary to describe the same at length.

The valve-supporting rock-shaft 22 has near one end thereof the crank-arm 65, to which is pivoted the rod 66, bearing against the inner end of the lever 67, shiftably carried by the beam B, as shown and described in said patent, so that as the beam mechanism and load-receiver G descend during the supply of the liquid the inner end of said lever 67 by falling away from the rod 66 will permit the weights 24 on the shaft 22 and 39-1 of the lever 39 to drop, and thereby close the valves V and V1 or move them toward their seats.

The spouts 17 and 18 of the supply hopper or chamber H terminate in the flared hoods 70, which act as guards to prevent spattering and waste of the liquid on the opening of the supply-valves, the discharge-spouts 10 and 12 on the load-receiver being furnished with similar hoods, as 71, for the same purpose.

The shaft 22 of the supply-valves has affixed thereto the depending rod 75, cooperative with a by-pass 76 on the scale-beam B1 in the manner shown in the Letters Patent mentioned, whereby the rod will abut against the by-pass stop 76 at a predetermined stage in the advancing movement of the valves to intercept the same for permitting a reduced stream, as shown in Fig. 7, to flow into the load-receiver G to complete the partial load therein.

The rod 66 is furnished with a tripping device 66-1, adapted to engage the projection 66-2 on the latch D when the supply-controlling valves Y and Y1 are fully closed, thereby to trip the latch D for effecting the release of the discharge-valves L and �1, so that they can be forced open by the weight of the contents in the load-receiver, such contents being discharged into the hopper H, secured in the base 2 below the weighing mechanism.

The operation of the hereinbefore-described machine, briefly stated, is as follows: Figs. 2 and 5 show the positions occupied by the respective parts at the commencement of operation, the discharge-valves L and �1 lying in contact with their seats 13, the latch D being in engagement with the rocker 60, and the valves V and V being open, so that comparatively large streams of material will enter the empty bucket G and at a certain point will cause the same to descend, the beam mechanism moving therewith, and the lever 67, carried by the beam B1, falling away from the rod 66, will permit the two valves V and V to be advanced or swung toward their seats. When the load is almost completed, as shown in Fig. 3, the rod 75 will abut against the by-pass stop 76 on the beam B1, thereby to hold the valves in the positions shown in Fig. 7, so that a drip-stream will be caused to enter the load-receiver to complete the load. On the completion of the load the by-pass stop 76 will pass below the rod 75 and release the valves V and V, so that they can be instantly closed, as shown in Fig. 4. On the final movement of the parts the tripping-device 66-1 will strike the pin 66-2 on the latch D, thereby to trip the latter and disengage it from the rocker 60. On the disengagement of these two parts the valves L and �1 are released and forced open by the weight of the load in the bucket, said load being discharged into the hopper H1. When the bucket has been entirely emptied, the closer or discharge valves L and �1 will be shut by the weight 45, following which the other parts of the machine will be returned to their primary positions to repeat the operation.

In Figs. 12 and 13 I have illustrated a modified form of discharge-valve, the bifurcation 56-1 and the spindle 54-1 being integral with the disk 50-1. With these exceptions the valve represented in Figs. 12 and 13 is the same as that shown in Figs. 10 and 11.

Having described my invention, I claim--

1. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver, of a supply-chamber having a tapered valve-seat; a carrying device; a disk valve pivoted to said carrying device and having an expansible packing; and means cooperative with the weighing mechanism for moving the valve toward its seat during the descent of the load-receiver.

2. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver, of a supply-chamber having a tapered valve-seat; a shaft provided with an arm; a disk valve pivoted to the arm and having an expansible packing; and means cooperative with the weighing mechanism for moving the valve toward its seat during the descent of the load-receiver.

3. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver, of a supply-chamber having a plurality of tapered valve-seats; a shaft provided with a series of forwardly-extending arms, said shaft also having a series of oppositely-disposed arms joined by a valve-closing weight; a series of valves pivoted, respectively, to the forwardly-extending arms and closable toward the respective valve-seats; and connections between said shaft and the weighing mechanism for controlling the valves.

4. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver having a tapered valve-seat; a shaft on the load-receiver, provided with an arm; a discharge-valve pivoted to said arm; means for holding said valve shut; a supply-chamber having a tapered valve-seat; a shaft provided with an arm; a disk valve having an expansible packing and pivoted to said arm; and means for closing said last-mentioned valve toward the valve-seat during the descent of the load-receiver.

5. A weighing-bucket consisting of two sections, the lower section being constructed of heavy metal and the upper section of sheet metal, said lower section comprehending a discharge-outlet and the upper section being in the form of a shell the lower edge of which is secured in the other section, in combination with beam mechanism for supporting said weighing-bucket; and means for controlling the discharge from the weighing-bucket.

6. A weighing-bucket consisting of two sections the lower section being constructed of heavy metal and the upper section of sheet metal, said lower section comprehending one or more discharge-outlets and the upper section being in the form of a shell the lower edge of which is secured in the lower section, a series of tie-bolts extending transversely of the sheet-metal shell, and nuts engaging threaded ends of the bolts, in combination with beam mechanism for supporting said weighing-bucket; and means for controlling the discharge of said bucket.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600026 ===

WEIGHING-MACHINE

United States Patent 600026

Filing date: June 19, 1897

Issue date: March 1, 1898

Inventor: FRANCIS H. RICHARDS

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Francis H. Richards, a citizen of the United States, residing at Hartford, in the county of Hartford and State of Connecticut, have invented certain new and useful Improvements in Weighing-Machines, of which the following is a specification.

This invention relates to weighing-machines, the object being to provide an improved machine of this character adapted for automatically weighing and delivering various kinds of granular and free-flowing substances with rapidity and precision. In the drawings accompanying and forming part of this specification, Figure 1 is a rear elevation of my improved weighing-machine. Figs. 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 are side elevations of the same as seen from the left in Fig. 1, showing the positions occupied by the different parts during the making and discharging of a load, respectively, and during the partial return of the load-receiver to its primary or upright position. Figs. 7 and 8 are detail views hereinafter more particularly described.

Similar characters designate like parts in all the figures of the drawings.

The framework for sustaining the various parts of the weighing mechanism may be of any suitable or preferred construction, it consisting in the present case of the base or bed 2, from which rise the side frames 3 and 4 and the brackets 5 and 6, which extend oppositely from the supply-chute or hopper H. The weighing mechanism embodies as a part thereof a load-discharger, which may be of any suitable type. In the present case the load-discharger of the weighing mechanism consists of a tilting or oscillatory load-receiver, as G, carried in some suitable manner by a scale-beam, as B, or equivalent device. The scale-beam B, which is pivotally mounted in the usual manner on the base of the machine, consists of a pair of longitudinal members 7 and 8, joined at the rear by the counterweight W. The load-receiver has on its opposite sides the projecting trunnions or pivots 9 and 10, journaled in the upright rods 12 and 13, constituting a suitable carrier for the load-receiver, the said rods having guide-links 14 and 15 pivoted at their upper ends and likewise connected to the posts 14-1 and 15-1 on the brackets 5 and 6, respectively. The rods 12 and 13 have notched bearings of ordinary construction at their lower ends working against the well-known knife-edge pivots 55 on the poising ends of the beam-arms 7 and 8.

The load-receiver is so mounted that when empty its center of gravity is located at one side of its center of movement, (herein illustrated as the right,) said center of gravity 60 being changed to the opposite side of the center of movement as the load is built up, whereby said load-receiver can tilt toward its discharging position or until a suitable projection thereon abuts against a detent, as a latch, disposed in the path of movement of said projection, said detent and projection being remotely situated from each other when the load-receiver is empty, whereby the latter will be maintained by its own weight in its primary or upright position. The detent or latch for arresting the movement of the load-receiver when it drops from its primary to its intermediate position is illustrated, respectively, in Figs. 2 and 3 and is designated by D, and it consists in the present case of an angle-lever pivoted at 20 to the upright rod 12, the arm 21 of said detent or latch normally resting on the stop 22 on the rod 12 and the arm 23 being disposed in the path of movement of the projection 24, fixed on the load-receiver.

In Fig. 2 the load-receiver is empty, the weight W of the beam B resting on the usual supports 7-1 and 8-1 on the base and the full volume of the supply flowing from the hopper H into the empty load-receiver. When the load-receiver is empty, as represented in Fig. 2, the center of gravity will be situated to the right of its center of movement. When, however, the load is partially completed or at the commencement of the drip period, as illustrated in Fig. 3, the center of gravity will be shifted to the left of the center of movement, so that the load-receiver can tilt down and until the projection 24 abuts against the latch-arm 23, the usual supply-valve during this stage of the operation being swung from its wide-open to its drip position, at which time its further progress is interrupted to permit the passage of the drip-supply into the load-receiver to complete the load. On the completion of the load by the drip-stream, as will hereinafter appear, the load-receiver will descend below the so-called "poising-line," and during this period of the operation the latch D will be tripped to release the load-receiver, whereby it can descend to its third position (shown in Fig. 5) to discharge the load.

The supply-hopper H, hereinbefore described, will have a stream-controller or valve of suitable construction, such as V, for regulating the passage of material from the hopper H to the load-receiver G, said valve V being of the pan" type and being also supported for reciprocatory movements in planes transverse to each other, so that at a predetermined period in its operation the valve can transmit its weight to the load-receiver, thereby to cause the latter to descend promptly and also impart a sufficient thrust to cause it instantly to tilt to its load-discharging position.

The valve V is preferably self-closing, it having a preponderance of weight below its support or supports to insure this action. The supports for the valve consist of the projecting pivots, as 30, on each side of the hopper, which pass through longitudinal loops, as 31, on the arms 32 at opposite sides of the valve, whereby said valve can reciprocate in one plane as it opens and closes and whereby it may be also reciprocated in a transverse plane at certain intervals in its operation.

Means will be provided for causing the movement of the valve through a certain path for a predetermined length of time, so that the valve cannot apply its force to the weighing mechanism to affect the accuracy of said mechanism during such action. The device in the present case for obtaining this result consists of the track or guide 35, which is secured to and depends from the hopper H and has a curved surface, as 36, defined by an arc struck from the center of the valve support or supports, a suitable projection, as an antifriction-roll 37, supported between the lugs 38 on the valve-plate 39, being adapted to run in contact with said curved surface until the commencement of the poising period, so that the lower ends of the loops 31 will be held against the projecting pivots 30 on the hopper.

The curved surface 36 of the guide-track 35 is of such a length as to hold the valve against movement for a predetermined period of time in a plane transverse to that of its opening and closing movements, and said guide 35 is of such construction as to release the valve at a point immediately preceding the poising period, said guide-track 35 having a straight face 40 departing from the lower end of the curved face 30, so that when the antifriction-roll 37 reaches a point in vertical line with the straight face 40 the valve V will be released so far as the guide 35 is concerned; but at this point the further action of the valve will be interrupted by a detent on the weighing mechanism, such as the by-pass 41, of ordinary construction, pivoted to the beam-arm 8 and counterweighted, as usual, the counterweighted arm of the by-pass resting on the stop 42 on the beam.

The detent or by-pass stop 41 of the beam B is adapted to be engaged by a suitable device operative with the valve V, such as the rod 43, secured to the extension 44 on said valve. When the projection or roll 37 on the valve V has passed substantially out of contact with the curved guide-surface 30, as shown in Fig. 3, the depending rod 43 will strike the by-pass 41, and thereby temporarily hold the valve against further action. When the valve is thus held, it having nearly reached its closed position, a drip or reduced stream will pass from the hopper H and enter the load-receiver, which is then in its partially-tilted position. On the completion of the load by the drip-stream the scale-beam will be moved so that the by-pass stop 41 will be disengaged from the rod 43, and thereby release the valve, so that it can be instantly shut by its own weight, as indicated in Fig. 4, and as it does so it will apply its force and that of the mass of material sustained thereon to the load-receiver and cause the same rapidly to tilt, the force of the valve being transmitted to the load-receiver through a suitable device, such as the rod 50.

The rod 50 is pivoted, as at z, to the load-receiver at one side of the axis of movement of the latter (herein shown as the left) when in its primary position, the opposite end of the rod being furnished with the longitudinal loop, as 52, embracing the stud 53 on the offset 54 of the valve.

At the commencement of operation, as shown in Fig. 2, the lower end of the loop will be against the stud, so that the load-receiver can drop from its first to its second position without affecting the valve, the valve, by reason of the rod 50, being held in its wide-open position by and until the load-receiver tilts. At the commencement of the drip period, as shown in Fig. 3, the stud 53 will be at a point between the ends of the loop 52, so that when the valve is released said stud can impinge against the lower end of the loop, and thereby transmit to the load-receiver through the rod 50 a comparatively powerful thrust to cause the same to descend and tilt.

The tripper for the detent or latch D is designated by 55, and it consists of an arm extending laterally from the side frame 3 and against which the stud 21-1 of the latch is adapted to strike on the completion of the load, so that the arm 23 of the latch will be disengaged from the projection 24 of the load-receiver.

For returning the empty load-receiver to its primary or upright position said load-receiver is furnished with a weight, as 50, of suitable efficiency secured to its rear wall 57, it also having the protuberance 58 thereon adapted to abut against the rod 12 when it reaches its normal position. (Shown in Fig. 2.) The valve V in connection with the rod constitutes a toggle, the several centers of which are designated, respectively, by x, y, and z, (see Fig. 5,) which on the final tilting of the load-receiver are thrown into line, the center of gravity of the load-receiver-returning weight 56 being also on a line passing through the several centers, whereby said load-receiver is held in its discharging position until the toggle is broken. The valve and the rod 50 also serve to hold the load-receiver down, the projection 30 being also in line with the points x, y, and z, so that the beam-weight W is located in its shifted position, as will be evident from an inspection of Fig. 5. For the purpose of securing a more even action of the valve and load-receiver the rod 50, which I have described, has a companion rod 50-1, movable in parallelism therewith and pivoted, as at z, to the load-receiver, the loop at the upper end of said rod being designated by 52-1 and embracing the stud 53-1 on the offset 54-1 of the valve V at a point opposite the offset 54.

The toggle-breaking means in the present case are connected with a regulator, such as R, below the weighing mechanism and designed to be intermittingly acted upon by the loads discharged therefrom. The toggle-breaker is designated by 60, it consisting of an arm on the hub or sleeve 61, through which a pivot 62 on the bracket 63 of the hopper H extends, said hub or sleeve 61 being furnished with a crank-arm 64, connected with the regulator by the rod 65. The toggle-breaking arm 60 has at its outer end a by-pass device 66, of ordinary construction, pivoted thereto and held in its normal position by the flat spring 67, secured to the main portion of the arm, said by-pass being adapted to pass by a part connected with the valve without breaking the toggle or affecting the relation of the parts; but on the return stroke it is adapted to throw the several centers of the toggle out of line, thereby to release the load-receiver G, so that it can be returned to its primary position by the weight 56 and the beam-weight W.

. A bar is shown at 70 loosely fitted to the valve-support 30 and adapted to be engaged by the toggle-breaker 60, the valve V being furnished with the forwardly-extending arm 71, having a lateral extension 73, designed to engage the under face of the bar or rod 70. As the valve closes, the bar 70 will be carried therewith until it abuts against the stops 74 on the bracket 63, at which time the valve is closed, and through the toggle hereinbefore specified is locked in such condition. It will be apparent that when the bar 70 is struck the several centers of the toggle will be thrown out of line to release the load-receiver G, and consequently the scale-beam B.

The regulator R, to which I have hereinbefore referred, consists of a frame, as F, and a series of bars or slats, as 80, secured at their opposite ends to the longitudinal members 81 and 82 of the frame, said frame members being joined by the cross-bar 83. The slats or bars, which are made flat, are disposed obliquely in the frame F, so as to be acted upon by the material discharged from the load-receiver, whereby the regulator can be shifted from its highest to its lowest position (shown, respectively, in Figs. 2 and 5) by the material discharged from the load-receiver, the mass acting against the several flat blades to hold the regulator down. By reason of the oblique or angular disposition of the respective regulator-blades 80, to which I have just referred, a greater surface is presented against which the falling material from the load-receiver can act, such construction also permitting the effective use of a comparatively large number of blades in a relatively small space. On the return stroke of said regulator it is adapted to actuate the toggle-breaker 60 for throwing the several centers x, y, and z out of line. The regulator is supported for oscillatory movement, the pivots 85 and 86 passing through the longitudinal members of the frame. The two members 81 and 82 of the frame are continued forward beyond their pivots in the form of arms 87 and 88, joined by the counterweight 89, which serves as a convenient means for returning the regulator to its primary position when the material discharged from the load-receiver has passed therefrom, said regulator on its return stroke being adapted, as hereinbefore stated, to operate the toggle-breaker 60. The pivot 85 has secured thereto the crank-arm 90, to which is pivoted the connecting-rod 65. When the material is discharged from the load-receiver, the valve at this time being closed, it will strike the regulator and force the same down, the rod 65 thereby being thrust upward and the by-pass 66 being caused to engage and pass by the bar 70, as shown in Figs. 5 and 8, until it reaches a point above the same, as shown in dotted lines in Fig. 8.

When the parts are in the position shown in Fig. 5, the load-receiver and beam will be locked against return movement and the toggle-breaker 60 will be at a point above the bar 70. When the regulator has nearly reached its normal position, it being returned by the dropping of the counterweight 89, the arm or toggle-breaker 60 will strike the bar 70 and by acting against the valve will force the centers x, y, and z out of line, as indicated in Fig. 6. When this takes place, the load-receiver can be returned to its primary position by the weight 56 and the beam-weight W. As the parts return to their primary positions the load-receiver will force the rod 50 upward, and said rod being connected with valve V the latter will thereby be opened, the projection or antifriction-roll 37 being caused to ride along the curved surface 36 of the guide-track 35.

The operation of the hereinbefore-described machine, briefly set forth, is as follows: Fig. 2 shows the positions occupied by the different parts at the commencement of operation, the beam-weight resting on its support 7-1 and 8-1 and the load-receiver being empty and in its primary position. The valve is represented as being wide open and the supply-stream as flowing into the load-receiver, in which position it is held by the load-receiver acting through the rod 50. When the load-receiver is empty, as hereinbefore stated, it will be by its own weight maintained in the position in which it is shown in Fig. 2. When a certain proportion of the load has been received, the load-receiver will descend, and at a point succeeding this time the center of gravity of the load-receiver, by reason of the loading of the same, will shift to the left-hand side of the axis of movement of the load-receiver, whereby the latter can tilt to the position illustrated in Fig. 3 or until the projection 24 abuts against the latch D. When the load-receiver tilts, as thus specified, the valve V will be released and can close to its drip position, (shown in said Fig. 3,) or until the rod 43 abuts against the by-pass stop 41 on the beam, the valve thereby being held.

The drip-stream will then flow into the load-receiver to complete the load. When the load is completed, the stud 21-1 on the latch will strike the tripping device 55 on the side frame 3, the latch thereby being disengaged from the projection 24, whereby the load-receiver and valve V are released, the load-receiver being thereby free to tilt to the positions shown, respectively, in Figs. 4 and 5, the valve at this time throwing the toggle-centers x, y, and z into line, as indicated in Fig. 5. When the load is discharged from the load-receiver G, it will strike and shift the regulator, thereby through the intermediate connections forcing the toggle-breaker 60 to a point above the bar 70. When the material has passed from the regulator R, it can be returned to its initial position by the dropping of the counterweight 89, so that the rod 65 will be drawn downward and the toggle-breaker 60 carried into engagement with the bar 70, whereby through the valve the toggle, consisting of the valve and the rod 50, is broken, thereby to unlock the load-receiver and beam B, so that these parts can be returned to their normal positions (shown in Fig. 2) by the weight 56 of the load-receiver and the beam-weight W to repeat the operation.

Having described my invention, I claim--

1. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; a hopper; and a valve supported for reciprocatory movement in planes transverse to each other and bodily movable independently of the hopper toward and from the load-receiver on one of its reciprocations.

2. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; a valve supported for reciprocatory movements in planes transverse to each other and independently of the hopper; and a connection between the valve and the load-receiver.

3. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a tilting load-receiver; a hopper; a valve supported for reciprocatory movement in planes transverse to each other and independently of the hopper; and a connection between the valve and the load-receiver.

4. The combination of a hopper; a valve supported for reciprocatory movement in planes transverse to each other; and means independent of the hopper for causing the operation of the valve through a predetermined path.

5. The combination of a hopper; a valve and its support, the valve being so constructed as to move in transverse planes relatively to each other and having a projection; and a guide-track having a curved surface defined by an arc struck from the center of the valve-support.

6. The combination of a hopper; a valve supported for reciprocatory movements in planes transverse to each other; means for causing the operation of the valve through a predetermined path for a predetermined length of time; and means for arresting the progress of the valve.

7. The combination of weighing mechanism; a hopper; a valve supported for reciprocatory movements in planes transverse to each other and having a projection; a guide-track having a curved surface defined by an arc struck from the center of the valve-support and on which said projection travels; and means carried by the weighing mechanism for arresting the progress of the valve substantially at the time the projection thereon passes out of contact with said curved surface.

8. The combination, with mechanism embodying a load-receiver, of a hopper having a projection; a valve provided with a loop embracing said projection; and a connection between the valve and load-receiver and serving with said valve as a toggle to lock said load-receiver.

9. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; a supply-valve; and a rod connected, respectively, with the valve and load-receiver, said valve and rod constituting a toggle adapted to lock the receiver against movement.

10. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a tilting load-receiver; a supply-valve mounted for movement in planes transverse to each other; and a rod connected, respectively, with the valve and load-receiver and serving with said valve as a toggle to lock said load-receiver.

11. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; a toggle connected with the load-receiver for locking the same in its discharging position; a regulator below the weighing mechanism, adapted to be acted upon by the material discharged from said load-receiver; and means operative with the regulator for breaking the toggle.

12. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a tilting load-receiver; a regulator situated below and shiftable by the load discharged from the weighing mechanism; a supply-valve; a rod connected, respectively, with the supply-valve and the load-receiver, said valve and rod constituting a toggle for locking the load-receiver in its discharging position; and means connected with the regulator for breaking the toggle.

13. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; a supply-valve having a projection furnished with a stud; a bar adapted to engage said stud; a rod connected, respectively, with the valve and load-receiver; a regulator in position to be acted upon and shifted by the load discharged from the load-receiver; and a device connected with the regulator for engaging said bar.

14. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a tilting load-receiver; a supply-valve and its support, said valve having an arm furnished with a stud; a bar loosely carried by the support and adapted to rest against said stud; a rod connected, respectively, with the valve and load-receiver; a regulator in position to be acted upon and shifted by the load discharged from the load-receiver; and a device connected with the regulator for engaging said bar.

15. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; a hopper; a supply-valve for said hopper, supported for movements in planes transverse to each other and having a projection; a guide-track secured to a depending arm from the hopper and furnished with a guide-surface concentric with the valve-support and against which said projection is adapted to travel; a rod secured to said valve; and a device on the weighing mechanism for engaging said rod substantially at the time the projection passes out of contact with the cooperating guide-surface.

16. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a tilting load-receiver; a hopper; a supply-valve supported by said hopper for movements in planes transverse to each other; a rod connected with the load-receiver and having a loop at one end embracing a stud on the valve; a bar loosely carried by the support of the valve; an arm on said valve, having a stud on which said bar is adapted normally to rest; a regulator situated in position to be acted upon and shifted by the load discharged from the weighing mechanism; a crank-arm on the regulator; a device for engaging said member; a crank-arm secured to said device; and a rod pivoted, respectively, to said crank-arms.

17. The combination of a load-receiver supported for tilting movement and so mounted that when empty its center of gravity is located at one side of its center of movement, said center of gravity being changed to the opposite side of the center of movement as the load is built up; a projection on the load-receiver; and a latch disposed in the path of movement of said projection, situated remotely therefrom when the load-discharger is empty, whereby said load-receiver will be maintained by its own weight in its primary position for a predetermined length of time, and whereby it will be caused to tilt when a certain quantity of material is received and until said projection strikes the latch.

18. The combination of a load-receiver supported for tilting movement and so mounted that when empty its center of gravity is located at one side of its center of movement, said center of gravity being changed to the opposite side of the center of movement as the load is built up; a projection on the load-receiver; a latch disposed in the path of movement of said projection and remotely situated therefrom when the load-receiver is empty, whereby said load-receiver will be maintained by its own weight in its primary position for a predetermined length of time, and whereby it will be caused to tilt when a certain quantity of material is received and until said projection strikes the latch; and means for tripping said latch on the completion of a load.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600027 ===

WEIGHING APPARATUS

United States Patent 600027

Filing date: July 12, 1897

Issue date: March 1, 1898

Inventor: FRANCIS H. RICHARDS

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Francis H. Richards, a citizen of the United States, residing at Hartford, in the county of Hartford and State of Connecticut, have invented certain new and useful Improvements in Weighing Apparatus, of which the following is a specification. This invention relates to weighing apparatus, and it embodies, preferably, a plurality of weighing mechanisms each of which is operative independent of the other; and one of the objects of the invention is to combine with said mechanisms a conveyer movable in different directions for supplying material to the load-receivers of the respective weighing mechanisms.

In the form of the invention represented the conveyer is supported for movement in opposite directions, it being adapted when driven in one way to supply one of the weighing mechanisms or the load-receiver thereof with a load and when driven in the reverse direction to furnish the requisite load to the other weighing mechanism, so that the valve, which is usually furnished with a power-driven feeder for catching the drizzle therefrom on its stoppage, can be dispensed with. Another object of the invention is to provide, in connection with a regulator intermittingly shifted by loads of material discharged from the weighing mechanism, a locker for one of the members of the weighing mechanism, said locker being cooperative with the beam in the present case and thrown into action by the shifting of the regulator, which is operated by a discharging load.

In the drawings accompanying and forming part of this specification, Figure 1 is a front elevation of my improved weighing apparatus. Figs. 2 and 3 are side elevations of the same as seen from the left in Fig. 1, showing the conveyer supplying a stream to each of the load-receivers. Fig. 4 is a similar view showing the right-hand load-receiver discharging its load, and Fig. 5 is a sectional detail view of a portion of the supply-conveyer-driving mechanism.

Similar characters designate like parts in all the figures of the drawings.

The framing of the machine in the present instance consists of a chambered base or bed 2, the side frames 3 and 4, mounted thereon, and the brackets 5 and 6, extending laterally from the supply-hopper H and secured to the side frames.

The present invention comprehends a plurality of weighing mechanisms, which may be of any suitable type, each of those represented consisting of a load-receiver and a scale-beam.

For convenience the weighing mechanisms are designated, respectively, by P and pea The load-receiver of the weighing mechanism P is designated by G and its supporting scale-beam by B, and the load-receiver of the weighing mechanism people, is designated by G1 and its scale-beam by B1.

The scale-beams B and B1 are fulcrumed upon the posts 7, rising at proper intervals from the upper face of the base 2, and each consists of a pair of arms 8, joined by a counterweight. The counterweights are designated, respectively, by W and W.

The load-receivers G and G1 are mounted at the poising ends of the two beams. Each of the load-receivers has the usual discharge outlet, through which the loads can intermittently and alternately pass, such openings being covered by the closers, as L and L1, of ordinary construction, pivoted, respectively, as at 10 and 12, to the respective load-receivers and having the counterweighted end plates 13 and 14, adapted to shut the respective closers on the discharge of a load.

The means for governing the discharge of the load include latches for each weighing mechanism, such as D and D1, pivoted, as at 15 and 16, respectively, upon the projections 15-1 and 15-2 on the two load-receivers, said latches having weights 17 and 18 to throw the catches 19 and 20 thereof into engagement with the arms 21 and 22, respectively, of the segmental rockers 23 and 24, pivoted, as at 25 and 26, to the load-receivers G and G1.

The segmental rockers 23 and 24 are furnished with the arms 27 and 28, respectively, to which the rods 29 and 30 are pivoted, said rods being likewise attached at their lower ends to the closers L and L1, respectively.

In connection with the several load-receivers I provide a supply-conveyer mounted below the hopper or chute H and adapted to move in opposite or reverse directions, as indicated by the arrows, respectively, in Figs. 2 and 3. The conveyer may be of any suitable type, and it is represented consisting of an endless band or belt C1 supported upon the rolls or drums 31 and 32, whose shafts 33 and 34 are journaled in the arms 35 and 36, extending in opposite directions from the brackets 5 and 6. In Fig. 2 the supply-conveyer C is illustrated conducting a stream of material from the hopper H into the load-receiver G1 to build up the load therein, and on the completion of the load, instead of stopping the conveyer and furnishing a valve or equivalent device to catch the drizzle therefrom, the movement of the conveyer is reversed, whereby the material will be prevented from falling over the discharge edge of the conveyer and to the completed load.

In Fig. 3 the conveyer C is represented supplying a stream to the load-receiver G, and when the load is completed therein the direction of movement of the conveyer is reversed, and these operations will alternate so long as the apparatus is in action.

The mechanism for driving the supply-conveyer in the direction of movement is preferably controlled by the weighing mechanism, so that when a load in one receiver is completed the supply can be diverted therefrom and toward the other load-receiver. The mechanism herein illustrated for driving and for effecting the changes in the direction of movement of the conveyer C will now be described.

The bracket 5 is furnished with the hangers 40 and 41, Fig. 5, which are adapted to support a shaft 42, having at one end the worm or screw 43, meshing with the wonn gear 44 on the shaft 34 of the conveyer C. The shaft 42 has a series of pulleys 45, 46, and 47, along which the belt 48 (see Fig. 5) is shiftable, said belt being connected with a power-transmitting device of suitable sort. (Not shown.) The shaft 42 also carries the bevel-gears 49 and 50, adapted to mesh with the intermediate bevel-gear 51, whose vertical spindle or shaft 52 works in a bearing 53 on the hanger 40. The pulley 45 is secured to the shaft 42, while the next adjacent pulleys 46 and 47 are loose thereon. The bevel-gear 49 is secured to the pulley 47, and the bevel-gear 50 is secured to the shaft. It will be apparent that when the belt 48 is on the pulley 45 the conveyer C will be driven in the direction of the arrow in Fig. 3 to conduct a stream into the load-receiver G. It will likewise be evident that when the belt 48 is shifted to the pulley 47 the conveyer C will be driven in the opposite direction, or, as indicated by the arrow in Fig. 2, through the series of gears described. The shipper for the belt 48 may be of any suitable character, and it is represented consisting of a lever S, pivoted, as at 55, to the projection or lug 56 on the side frame 3, said lever being pivoted at its lower end to the ear 57 of the transverse reciprocatory bar 58, said bar having a similar lug 59 near its opposite end, to which the link 60 is pivoted, the opposite end of the link being pivoted to the projection 61, corresponding to the opposite projection 56 on the side frame 3. When the bar 58 is thrust in one direction, or what is herein illustrated as the "left," or from the position shown in Fig. 2 to that illustrated in Fig. 3, the working arm 62 of the belt-shipper will be oppositely swung to carry the belt 48 from the pulley 47 to the pulley 45, the belt first passing along the idle-pulley 46. When the bar 58 is thrust to the right from the position shown in Fig. 3 to that illustrated in Fig. 2, the opposite action will take place, and for thus operating the bar actuators, mounted, preferably, on the load-receivers G and G1, respectively, are provided, such actuators being designated, respectively, by A and A1, and they are shown consisting of projections or fixtures secured near the upper inner corners of the two load-receivers and are adapted alternately to strike the bar on the descent of the respective load-receivers. In Fig. 2 the load-receiver G1 has nearly received its completed load, the actuator A1 being contiguous to the roll 58-1 on the right-hand end of the bar. On the completion of the load and the further descent of the load-receiver the actuator will thrust the bar 58 to the left for operating the shipper S in the manner hereinbefore set forth to shift the belt 48 from the pulley 47 to the pulley 45. When the load in the receiver G is almost completed, the actuator A will strike the roll 58-2 and on the completion of the load will force the bar 58 to the right to ship the belt 48 from the pulley 45 to the pulley 47.

For the purpose of effecting the alternate discharge of the weighing mechanism I prefer to employ means operative with the supply-conveyer C, such as the trippers T and T1, cooperative with the latches D and D1 hereinbefore described, the trippers consisting of arms secured to the shafts 33 and 34, respectively, of the supply-conveyer, the trippers or arms having the projections 65 and 66, adapted alternately to strike the upper ends of the latches D and D1, respectively. The vertical or upright arms 67 and 68 terminate in the switches 70 and 71, pivoted to the upper extremities of the two arms and weighted, as at 72 and 73, respectively, the weights being furnished with stops 74 and 75, bearing against said arms.

The operation of the latches and the tripping means will be clearly obvious from an inspection of the side elevations of the drawings. In Fig. 2 the conveyer is running in the direction of the arrow to supply the load-receiver G1 with a stream of material, and as the shaft 34 rotates the projection 66 on the tripper T will strike and pass by the switch 71. On the reversal of the conveyer C in the manner hereinbefore specified the shaft 34, and consequently the tripper 66, will be reversed, so that when the projection 66 strikes the by-pass 71 the stop or pin 75 will be forced against the arm 68, whereby said arm will be swung to what is herein illustrated as the "right" and the offset or shoulder 20 will be disengaged from the rocker-arm 22 to release the closer L1, it being evident that at this time the load in the receiver G1 is completed. The load is then emptied into the discharge-hopper H1, secured within the chambered base 2.

The same action with respect to the latch D takes place when the load in the receiver G is completed and the conveyer C is reversed.

In connection with the belt-shipping and load-discharging mechanisms I provide reciprocally-effective stops. The segmental rockers 23 and 24, which I have hereinbefore described as connected with the closer, serve as two of said stops. A third cooperating stop is designated by I, and it consists of the offset on the reciprocatory belt-shipper-operating bar 58 and the projection 81 at the lower end of said offset.

The operation of the stop mechanism is as follows: In Fig. 4 the closer L1 is illustrated open, and the curved face of the segmental stop 24 is shown in contact with the stop or projection 81, whereby the stop will positively prevent the movement of the bar 58 to the right so long as the closer L1 is open. When the closer is shut, however, the rod 30 will be thrust upward and the stop 24 swung about its axis and out of contact with the projection 81, thereby releasing the bar 58, so that it can be operated in the manner hereinbefore set forth. When the closer L opens, the same operation will take place, the stop 23 cooperating with the stop 81 to block the action of the bar. It will be apparent from an inspection of Figs. 2 and 4 that the stop 81 is alternately disposed in the paths of movement of the two stops 23 and 24 to block the action of the same, whereby both closers cannot be opened at the same time. The loads intermittingly discharged alternately by the load-receivers G and G1 are emptied into the discharge-hopper H1, in which the regulator R is movable, the regulator being shifted by the loads to throw a locker for one of the members of the weighing mechanism into operation. Said locker is preferably cooperative with the beams B and B1, it being adapted to lock one beam against action while the load in the other mechanism is being discharged. The regulator R is pivotally supported for oscillatory or pendulous movement, and it consists of a flat plate having at its upper corner the hubs 85 and 86, adapted to receive the pivot-screws 87, working in the side frames 3 and 4, respectively.

The locker for the scale-beams B and B1 is designated by F, and it consists of the vertical arms 89 and 90 on the two hubs 85 and 86, provided with the lateral locking projections or lugs 91 and 92, cooperative with the bosses 93 and 94, located at opposite ends of the weights W and W;, the tipper faces of the bosses 93 and 94 being flat or plane.

In Fig. 2 the lower end of the regulator R is shown in contact with the inclined wall 95 of the discharge-hopper and the locker F is in engagement with the beam-weight W, the load in the receiver G1 being nearly completed. On the completion of a load the latch D1 will be tripped and the closer L1 forced open by the weight of the material in said receiver and the load will strike and swing the regulator R to the left until it strikes the inclined hopper-wall 96, as shown in Fig. 4. Immediately on the discharge of the load the beam-weight W will drop, and it will reach the supports 97 on the framework about the time the first part of the load strikes the regulator, so that the latter can be swung to the left to carry the locking projections 91 and 92 of the locking-arms 89 and 90 over and in contact with the bosses 94 of the beam-weight W1, as illustrated in Fig. 4, to lock the beam against action. A similar operation with respect to the scale-beam B will take place on the discharge of the load-receiver G. When the load is discharged from the load-receiver G, the closer L will shut, but as long as the mass acts against the regulator R it will be held in its shifted position to lock the beam B against descending to the poising-line, although it may have a limited amount of movement, as shown by the space in Fig. 4.

The operation of the hereinbefore-described apparatus, briefly set forth, is as follows: In Fig. 2 the closers L and L1 are represented shut and held in such positions by the latches D and D1, engaging the rocker-arms 21 and 22. The belt 48 is on the pulley 47, as shown also in detail in Fig. 5, so that the conveyer C will be driven in the direction of the arrow, as indicated in Fig. 2, to conduct a stream of material from the hopper H into the load-receiver G1. When a certain proportion of the predetermined load has been received by the load-receiver, it, with the poising end of the beam B1, will descend, and when the load is nearly completed the actuator A1 will be approximately in contact with the roll 58-1 on the bar 58, so that on the further movement of the load-receiver the actuator will strike the bar 58 and shift it to the left to operate the shipper S, so that the latter can carry the belt 48 to the pulley 45, as shown in Fig. 3, to reverse the action of the supply-conveyer C, whereby the latter will conduct the material to the load-receiver G. When the conveyer C is supplying the load-receiver G1, the tripper T1 rotates with the conveyer-shaft 34 and intermittingly strikes and passes by the switch 71. On the reversal of the movement of the conveyer the projection 66 on the end of the tripper will strike the switch 71, which at this time constitutes in effect a fixed extension on the detent-arm 68, so that said arm is swung to the right and the shoulder 20 disengaged from the rocker-arm 22, thereby releasing the closer L1. On the release of the closer the mass of material is emptied into the hopper H1 to shift the regulator R for performing the functions hereinbefore specified. When the closer L1 shuts, the weighing mechanism people, will return to its primary position to repeat the operation. A similar operation will take place with respect to the weighing mechanism P, and these will alternate so long as the machine is in action.

Having described my invention, I claim--

1. The combination of a plurality of weighing mechanisms, each embodying a load-receiver; a conveyer mounted for movement in different directions; mechanism for driving the conveyer in one direction to supply one load-receiver and for driving it in another direction to supply the other load-receiver; and means for effecting a change in the direction of feed of the conveyer when the respective load-receivers have received a certain quantity of material.

2. The combination of a plurality of weighing mechanisms each embodying a load-receiver; a conveyer mounted for movement in opposite directions; mechanism for driving the conveyer in one direction to supply one load-receiver and for driving it in the reverse direction to supply the other load-receiver; and means for reversing the conveyer when the respective load-receivers have received a certain quantity of material.

3. The combination of a plurality of weighing mechanisms, each embodying a load-receiver; a conveyer mounted for movement in different directions; mechanism for driving the conveyer in one direction to supply one load-receiver and driving it in the opposite direction to supply the other load-receiver; and means controlled by the weighing mechanisms for effecting a change in the feed of the conveyer when the respective load-receivers have received a certain quantity of material.

4. The combination of a plurality of weighing mechanisms, each embodying a load-receiver; an endless belt mounted for movement in different directions; mechanism for driving the said endless belt in one direction, thereby to supply one load-receiver and for driving it in another direction to supply the other load-receiver; and means for effecting a change in the direction of feed of the endless belt when the respective load-receivers have received a certain quantity of material.

5. The combination of a plurality of weighing mechanisms, each embodying a load-receiver; an endless conveyer mounted for movement in opposite directions; a supply-hopper carried by the framework and located over the conveyer; and means for driving the conveyer in opposite directions, first to supply one load-receiver and then to supply the other load-receiver.

6. The combination of a plurality of weighing mechanisms, each embodying a load-receiver; a conveyer mounted for movement in different directions; mechanism for driving the conveyer in one direction to supply one load-receiver and for driving it in another direction to supply the other load-receiver; and means mounted on a load-receiver for effecting a change in the direction of movement of the conveyer.

7. The combination of a plurality of weighing mechanisms, each embodying a load-receiver; a conveyer mounted for movement in different directions; mechanism for driving and for reversing the conveyer to supply, first, one load-receiver and then the other, said mechanism involving a shifting device; a member connected with the shifting device; and means operative with the weighing mechanisms for alternately engaging said member.

8. The combination of a plurality of weighing mechanisms, each embodying a load-receiver; a conveyer mounted for movement in different directions; mechanism for driving and for reversing the conveyer to supply, first, one load-receiver and then the other, said mechanism involving a lever; and means operative with the weighing mechanisms for actuating said lever.

9. The combination of a plurality of weighing mechanisms each embodying a load-receiver; a conveyer mounted for movement in different directions to supply the respective load-receivers; mechanism for driving and for reversing the conveyer, said mechanism embodying a lever; a bar connected with the lever; and means on the weighing mechanism for alternately operating said bar.

10. The combination of a plurality of weighing mechanisms, each embodying a load-receiver; a conveyer mounted for movement in different directions; mechanism for driving and for reversing the conveyer, said mechanism involving a series of pulleys, a belt shiftable along the same, and a belt-shipper; a bar to which the belt-shipper is pivoted; and means operative with the weighing mechanism for alternately operating said bar.

11. The combination of a plurality of weighing mechanisms, each embodying a load-receiver; a conveyer mounted for movement in different directions; a shaft operative with the conveyer and carrying a series of pulleys, one of which is secured to the shaft; a belt shiftable along said pulleys; a series of gears, one of which is secured to one of the pulleys and another of which is secured to said shaft; and means controlled by the weighing mechanisms for shifting said belt.

12. The combination of a plurality of weighing mechanisms, each embodying a load-receiver; a conveyer mounted for movement in different directions; a shaft cooperative with the conveyer; a series of pulleys supported by the shaft, one of them being secured thereto; a series of gears, one of which is supported by the framework and another of which is secured to said shaft, and another secured to one of the pulleys; a belt shiftable along said pulleys; and means controlled by the weighing mechanisms for shifting the belt.

13. The combination of a plurality of weighing mechanisms, each embodying a load-receiver; a conveyer mounted for movement in different directions; a shaft cooperative with the conveyer; a series of pulleys supported by said shaft, one of them being fixed thereto; a series of bevel-gears, one of which is secured to the shaft, another of which is mounted on the framework, and the other of which is secured to the shaft; a belt shiftable along said pulleys; a belt-shifter; and means cooperative with the weighing mechanisms for alternately operating said belt-shifter.

14. The combination of a plurality of weighing mechanisms, each embodying a load-receiver; a conveyer mounted for movement in different directions; mechanism for driving the conveyer to supply, first, one load-receiver and then the other, said mechanism involving a shifting device; a bar attached to the shifting device; and actuators affixed to the load-receivers for alternately operating said bar.

15. The combination of a plurality of weighing mechanisms, each embodying a load-receiver; a conveyer mounted for movement in different directions; mechanism for driving the conveyer in one direction to supply one load-receiver, and for driving it in the other direction to supply the other load-receiver; and means cooperative with the conveyer for alternately effecting the discharge of said load-receivers.

16. The combination of a plurality of weighing mechanisms, each embodying a load-receiver; a conveyer mounted for movement in different directions; mechanism for driving the conveyer in one direction to supply one load-receiver, and for driving it in another direction to supply the other load-receiver; means embodying latches for each weighing mechanism, to govern the discharge of the loads; and trippers for the latches, operative with the conveyer and alternately effective.

17. The combination of a plurality of weighing mechanisms, each embodying a load-receiver provided with a closer; closer-holding means embodying a series of latches; a conveyer mounted for movement in different directions; means for driving the conveyer in one direction to supply one load-receiver and for driving it in another direction to supply the other load-receiver; and trippers for said latches, alternately effective and operative with the conveyer.

18. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; means including a latch for governing the discharge of said load-receiver; a supply-conveyer; mechanism for driving the supply-conveyer in opposite directions; and a tripper for said latch, operative with said conveyer.

19. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; means including a latch for governing the discharge of the load-receiver; a supply-conveyer mounted for movement in reverse directions; and a tripper on the latch, secured to a shaft of the conveyer.

20. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; means including a latch for governing the discharge of the load-receiver, the latch having a switch; a conveyer; mechanism for driving the conveyer in different directions; and a tripper in position to engage the switch and operative with the conveyer.

21. The combination of a plurality of weighing mechanisms each including a load-receiver and a scale-beam; a regulator supported independently of and between the weighing mechanisms in position to be shifted alternately by the loads discharged; and a locker for one of the members of the weighing mechanism cooperative with the regulator and serving to lock said member when shifted by the load discharged from the other weighing mechanism.

22. The combination of a plurality of weighing mechanisms each including a load-receiver and a scale-beam; a regulator-blade supported independently of and between the weighing mechanisms and in position to be shifted by the loads alternately discharged therefrom; and a locker for the scale-beams connected with said blade.

23. The combination of a plurality of weighing mechanisms; means for alternately effecting the discharge of the same; a discharge-hopper located below the weighing mechanism and having inclined walls; a regulator alternately shifted by the loads discharged by the weighing mechanisms; and a locker for the weighing mechanisms, connected with the regulator.

24. The combination of a plurality of weighing mechanisms; latches for governing the discharge thereof; a supply-conveyer; mechanism for driving the supply-conveyer in reverse directions to supply the respective load-receivers; and a plurality of trippers cooperative with the conveyer.

25. The combination of a plurality of weighing mechanisms; latches for governing the discharge thereof; a supply-conveyer; mechanism for driving the supply-conveyer in reverse directions to supply the respective load-receivers; and trippers for the latches, each secured to a shaft of the conveyer.

26. The combination of a plurality of weighing mechanisms; latches for governing the discharge thereof; an endless conveyer; mechanism for driving the same in reverse directions; and trippers secured to the shafts of the endless conveyer, and each consisting of an arm provided with a projection at one end.

27. The combination of weighing mechanisms, each embodying a load-receiver; a conveyer; mechanism for driving and for reversing the conveyer; load-discharging mechanism; and reciprocally-effective stops operative, respectively, with the conveyer, driving and reversing, and load-discharging mechanisms.

28. The combination of a plurality of weighing mechanisms; a conveyer; mechanism for driving and for reversing the conveyer, said mechanism involving a lever; a bar connected with the lever and having a stop; and cooperative stops on the weighing mechanism.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600028 ===

WEIGHING-MACHINE

United States Patent 600028

Filing date: July 26, 1897

Issue date: March 1, 1898

Inventor: FRANCIS H. RICHARDS

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Francis H. Richards, a citizen of the United States, residing at Hartford, in the county of Hartford and State of Connecticut, have invented certain new and useful Improvements in Weighing-Machines, of which the following is a specification.

This invention relates to weighing-machines, the object being to provide an improved machine of this character more especially intended for automatically weighing and delivering stalky and fluffy substances--such as sugar-cane, hay, cotton, andc. In the drawings accompanying and forming part of this specification, Figure 1 is a front elevation of my improved weighing-machine. Figs. 2, 3, and 4 are side elevations of the same as seen from the right in Fig. 1, showing the positions assumed by the different parts during the making and discharging of a load. Fig. 5 is a sectional plan view of the means for supporting the load-receiver, including a portion of the beam mechanism; and Fig. 6 is a view similar to Figs. 2, 3, and 4, showing the machine on a smaller scale and a mode of mounting and using the same.

Similar characters designate like parts in all the figures of the drawings.

The framework for sustaining the various parts of the machine may be of any suitable construction. It is represented consisting of the chambered base-plate 2, the columns or standards 3 and 4, rising therefrom, and the beam 5, joining the standards 3 and 4 at the top.

The weighing mechanism embodies a load-receiver and beam mechanism therefor.

The beam mechanism in the present case consists of two systems composed, respectively, of a series of platform-supporting beams or levers, and a weigh-beam provided with counterpoising means for the load-receiver, the latter being supported, but not directly, upon the series of platform-beams, as will hereinafter appear.

The load-receiver is designated by G, and it is in the form substantially of a cradle or rocking receptacle supported for rolling movement upon a track or equivalent support, as T, the track-engaging portion G of the load-receiver being preferably curvilinear. The track is preferably movably mounted, it being pivotally supported, as at 7, upon the posts or risers 8, situated at opposite sides of the skeleton frame or platform 9. The track or support T consists of the two sections 10 and 12, along which the load-receiver rolls, (see Fig. 5,) joined at the front by the tie-bar 10-1. The pivot 7 for sustaining the track T consists of a rock-shaft, to which the track-sections 10 and 12 are secured, it being journaled in the posts 8 upon the skeleton frame 9.

The frame 9 is supported upon a pair of beams B and B1, respectively, the beam B consisting of three arms and the beam B1 of one. The beam B1 is connected with the beam B at about the point of junction of the three arms 13, 14, and 15, a link, as 16, of ordinary construction, being furnished to tie the two beams, the connection being a knife-edge and notch-bearing one common in this art. The beams B and B1 are furnished with depending knife-edges mounted upon notched bearings secured in the upper ends of the equidistantly-disposed risers 17 on the base 2. The platform 9 is furnished with the equidistantly-disposed hangers 18, carrying the usual knife-bearings at their lower ends working against cooperating knife-edge pivots secured to the two beams.

The weigh-beam is designated by B2, and it consists of a transverse portion 20 and the oppositely-disposed arms 21 and 22 thereon, the arm 21 constituting a means for supporting the counterpoising means or weight W. The weight W has a hook 23, connected by a knife-edge and notch bearing-joint with the beam-arm 21. The weight-beam B2 is connected with the beam B by the rod 24, having hooks 25 and 26 at its opposite ends connected by a knife-edge and notch bearing-joint with the beam-arms 22 and 15.

The load-receiver G is mounted, preferably, for rolling movement directly upon the track T, the latter being supported for tilting movement by the posts 8.

A pair of links is shown at 27 and 28, the links being pivoted at their lower ends, as at 27-1 and 28-1, to the platform 9, and at the upper ends, as at 27-2 and 28-2, to the upper side of the rolling load-receiver G. The track or support T is normally held against movement, as will hereinafter appear. When it is released, which takes place on the completion of a load, the weight of material in the receiver will bear the forward end of the track down, so that by reason of the connection between the load-receiver and the stationary platform 9 through the guide-links or rods 27 and 28 the load-receiver G will be caused to roll along the track T, whereby its lower edge will be depressed, as represented in Fig. 4, to cause the contents of the load-receiver to pass therefrom.

A pair of stops is shown at 29 and 29-1, respectively secured at the opposite sides and front of the platform 9 and disposed in the path of movement of the track T to prevent the latter from tilting too far, as shown in Fig. 4.

The rearwardly-extending arms 30 and 31 of the load-receiver support T are furnished with the balance-weights 32 and 33. The rearward movement of the load-receiver is limited by the stops 34, secured to the upper sides of the track-sections 10 and 12. For returning the load-receiver to its primary position on the discharge of a load a gravity device, such as the weight 35, is furnished, the latter being secured to the arm 36 on the rock-shaft 37, journaled in the lugs 38 on the platform 9. The shaft 37 is provided with the substantially vertical arm 39, engaged by a latch, as L, during the normal operation of the machine to hold the load-receiver and its track. The arm 39 has pivoted thereto the link 40, likewise connected, as at 41, to the toggle-links 42 and 43, pivoted, as at 42-1 and 43-1, to the platform 9 and track T. It will be understood that when the latch L is in engagement with the arm 39 the platform T and load-receiver G will be held against action by reason of the intermediate connections just described. When the load-receiver G is lowered on the tripping of the latch L, the weight 35 will be shifted, as shown in Fig. 4. When the load is emptied from the receiver G, the weight 35, acting through the arm 39 and link 40, will throw the pivotal points 41-1, 42-1, and 43-1 into line, thereby to elevate the track T, and consequently the load-receiver G, to receive a new charge. The load-receiver G is connected with the side frame 3 by a toggle consisting of the members 45 and 46, pivoted at 45-1, 45-2, and 45-3 to each other and to the load-receiver and side frame 3, respectively, the construction being such that when the load-receiver is tilted to its contents the toggle acts as a lock to hold the same in its discharging position. The weight 35 acts as a means for throwing the several toggle-pivots out of line to release the load-receiver.

My improved machine is adapted for weighing various kinds of substances, it being represented in Fig. 1 as weighing sugar-cane, which is collected from the fields in carts, as C, and delivered by them to the feed-board F, secured by suitable means to the upper flat faces of the brackets 47, extending rearward from the side frames 3 and 4, the material being pushed on the feed-board from the cart by an attendant.

In Fig. 6 the weighing-machine is represented as mounted upon the platform P, and the load-receiver G empties its contents onto the inclined board 48, from which they pass into the car C1 or other receptacle to be disposed of as occasion requires.

Any suitable means may be furnished for supplying the load-receiver G with material to build up the load. I have represented an endless conveyer E for this purpose, consisting of a plurality of properly-spaced ropes or bands 49, passed around the supporting-rolls 50 and 51, respectively. The shaft 52 of the front roll 50 is journaled in the extensions 53 and 54, projecting forward from the wing-pieces 53-1 and 54-1 on the inside of the side frames 3 and 4, respectively. The shaft 153 of the rear roll is journaled in the brackets 47.

The driving mechanism for the conveyer in the present case comprehends as a part thereof a belt 56, passing around a pulley or wheel 57 on the rear shaft 153 of the conveyer E, and also around a power-transmitting device, as the pulley 57-1, the shaft 58 of which is supported by a bracket 59 on the wall 60, (shown in Fig. 7,) the shaft 58 being connected in some convenient manner with a motor. (Not shown.)

The material is pushed by an attendant from the feed-board F onto the supply-conveyer E, as shown in Figs. 2 and 6, from which it passes to the apron or guide 61 on the weighing mechanism, whose width is substantially the same as the conveyer, the stalks falling onto the apron and then into the load-receiver until the load is completed, at which time the supply is stopped, preferably by throwing the feed-conveyer out of action.

The lower end of the apron 61 is hinged, as at 62, to the link or belt 63, pivoted at 64, at its lower end, to the rear side of the load-receiver G. The apron is upheld by the longitudinal rod 65, pivoted thereto, as at 65-1, and loosely connected at its lower end to the transverse rock-shaft 70. The apron is also connected with the framework by the guide-links 66 and 67.

In connection with the feed-conveyer driving-belt 56 I have provided a pressure device normally acting against the belt to tighten it, whereby the conveyer can be driven, means being provided on the completion of a load for moving said pressure device away from the driving-belt, thereby to loosen the same for stopping the conveyer.

The pressure device is designated by 70-1, and it consists of a roll acting against the belt 56 and pivoted to the arm 71, whose pivot 72 is fixed to the lug 73 on the framework. It will be apparent that when the pressure device is moved away from the belt 50 the latter will be loosened to such an extent, as shown in Fig. 4, as to stop the conveyer E. The pivot 72 has affixed thereto the arm 74, connected, through the link 75, with which it is pivoted, to suitable operating means for the pressure-roll 70-1.

The link 75 is in two parts, 75-1 and 75-2 connected by a turnbuckle 76 in the usual manner, so that the length of the link can be regulated by manipulating the turnbuckle. The upper end of the link 75 is pivoted, as at 77, to the rock-arm 78 on the rock-shaft 79, whose opposite ends are journaled in the bearings on the side frames 3 and 4. The shaft 79 is furnished with the forwardly-extending arm 81, which in the present case carries an actuator for the pressure-roll 70-1, the actuator consisting of the gravity device or weight 82.

The actuator or weight 82 is normally held ineffective by a suitable detent, such as the arm 83, whose shouldered upper end 84 is adapted to engage the projection 85 on the arm 81, as shown in Fig. 2, the detent 83 being pivoted, as at 86, to the extension 53 of the side frame. The detent 83 is furnished with the horizontal counterweighted arm 88, whose weight 89 serves to hold the arm 83 in engagement with the projection 85. The pivot 86 of the detent 83 has secured thereto the arm 90, disposed in the path of movement of a tripper, as will hereinafter appear. It will be evident that when the detent 83 is disengaged from the projection 85 the weight 82 can drop, thereby lifting the arm 78 and moving the pressure-roll 70-1 away from the driving-belt 56.

In connection with the supply-conveyer I preferably provide a knife, serving as a valve, to positively cut off the supply to the apron 61, which is mounted on the weighing mechanism, and hence to the load-receiver itself, it being understood that the momentum of the conveyer generally carries material into a loaded receiver unless a stop is provided to prevent such action. The knife is designated by K, and it is vertically disposed, it being guided between the antifriction-rollers 92, disposed on the forward extensions 53 and 54 and the overhanging flanges 93 and 94 on said extensions. The knife K is pivoted near one corner to the link 95, connected at its upper end to the arm 81, which, it will be remembered, is provided with the actuator or weight 82. When the latch or detent 83 is tripped, the knife K is released and the weight 82 is free to drop, whereby the latter will force the knife rapidly downward with its cutting edge 96 through the substance supported near the forward end of the conveyer E, whereby the material is positively held back from entering the load-receiver.

The tripper or releasing device for the detent 83 is designated by R, and it consists of a link pivoted at its upper end to the beam-arm 22, and furnished intermediate its extremities with the guide-loop 97, embracing the guide-pin 98 on the arm 81, the parts being so disposed relatively to each other that the lower or free end of the link or tripping device R will impinge against the arm 90 just prior to the completion of the load, so that when the load is completed the arm or detent 83 will be disengaged from the projection 85, thereby allowing the weight 82 to drop to move the pressure-roll 70-1 away from the driving-belt 56 and simultaneously to move the knife K through the substance situated near the forward or delivery end of the conveyer E.

For tripping the latch L the tripper R1 is furnished, it consisting of an arm provided at its rear end with the projection 99, upon which the latch or detent L normally rests, said arm being affixed to the short rock-shaft 100, journaled in the post 8. The shaft 80 carries the forwardly-extending arm 101, to which the rod 102 is pivoted, the rod being likewise attached at its upper end to the weight 82. When the weight 82 drops in the manner hereinbefore described, the arm or tripping device R1, and consequently the latch L, is elevated, and the latter moved to a point above the cooperating arm 39, thereby to release the load-receiver G.

Means are preferably provided in connection with the load-receiver to prevent the ascent of the beam mechanism during the discharge of a load, such means consisting in the present case of a stop 103, in the form of a segmental blade, pivoted, as at 104, to the side frame 3, and pivoted near its lower end to the link 105, the opposite end of which is likewise attached to the vertical arm 106 on the tilting platform. The stop 103 cooperates with the stop 107 on the rod 24, the stops being reciprocally effective, as will be apparent. During the major period of operation the stop 103 will bear against the cooperating stop or shoulder 107, so that if the latch L should be tripped too soon the load-receiver and other parts cannot tilt, the stop 107 serving as a bar to block such action until the upper face of the stop has crossed the arc of oscillation of the stop 103, at which time the latch L can be tripped, or, having been tripped, the load-receiver G and track T can be lowered. When the track T tilts, as shown in Fig. 4, the stop 103 is swung across the path of vertical movement of the shoulder or stop 107, so that the rod 24, and consequently the weighing mechanism, cannot rise, the stop 103 serving to preclude such action.

The operation of the hereinbefore-described machine, briefly set forth, is as follows: Figs. 2 and 6 show the positions occupied by the respective parts at the commencement of the operation, the load-receiver being empty and held in its initial position by the latch L, which is in engagement with the arm 39. The conveyer E being in motion the stalks will be fed to the apron 61 on the weighing mechanism and from thence drop into the load-receiver G, which with its track T and platform 9 and with the several beams B B1 B2 are lowered. The parts continue to descend until the tripping device R, connected with the beam-arm 22, strikes the latch-arm 90, which indicates the completion of a load, so that the arm 83 is disengaged from the projection 85, thereby releasing the weight 82, so that the arm 81 drops, the arm 78 thereby being elevated and acting, through the intermediate and hereinbefore-described connections, to shift the roll 70-1 away from the driving-belt 56 to stop the feed-conveyer E, the knife K being simultaneously forced through the substance near the forward end of the feed-belt to prevent its entrance into the loaded receiver. When the weight 82 drops, the rod 102 will be forced downward, thereby acting, through the intermediate devices, to lift the latch L above the upper end of the arm 37, thereby releasing the tilting track, so that it can be swung down by the weight of the mass in the receiver, the material being discharged into a car, as 0-1, (see Fig. 6,) it being evident that as the track T tilts the load-receiver G in the manner hereinbefore described is rolled along the same. When the load is discharged from the load-receiver, it, with the remaining parts of the machine, will be returned to the primary positions, and the operation will be repeated.

Having described my invention, I claim--

1. The combination, with supply means, of weighing mechanism including a load-receiver; a hinged apron sustained by the weighing mechanism and located to receive material from the supply means and to deliver it to the load-receiver; and a link articulated to the apron and to a member of the weighing mechanism.

2. The combination of supplying means; weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver and a tilting support therefor; an apron located to receive material from the supplying means and to deliver it to the load-receiver; and a rod pivotally connected, respectively, with the apron and support.

3. The combination of supplying means; weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; an apron located to receive material from the supplying means and to deliver it to the load-receiver; and a link connected, respectively, with the apron and the load-receiver.

4. The combination of supplying means; weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; a counterweighted track upon which the load-receiver is supported for tilting movement, said track being also mounted for oscillation upon beam mechanism; an apron located to receive material from the supplying means and delivering it to the load-receiver, and connected with the load-receiver; means for controlling the supply; a detent normally adapted to hold the counterweighted track against operation; and means for effecting the release of the track.

5. The combination of supplying means; weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver and its support; an apron located to receive material from the supplying means and to deliver it to the load-receiver; a link connected, respectively, with the apron and the framework; and a rod mounted on the support and connected with the apron.

6. The combination of supplying means; weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; a tilting track upon which the load-receiver is mounted; a platform having bearings for the tilting track; a detent normally adapted to hold the track against operation; a connection between the load-receiver and the platform; and means operative with the weighing mechanism for tripping said detent.

7. The combination of a tilting track; a load-receiver supported for movement upon the track; and counterpoising means for the load-receiver.

8. The combination of a tilting track; a load-receiver supported for movement directly upon the track; and a series of beams upon which said platform is mounted.

9. The combination of a tilting track; a load-receiver supported for movement upon the track, the track-engaging portion of the load-receiver being curvilinear; and beam mechanism.

10. The combination of a tilting track; a load-receiver supported for movement directly upon the track; and beam mechanism.

11. The combination of a track; a load-receiver supported for movement directly upon the track; balance-weights connected with the track; and beam mechanism.

12. The combination of a track consisting of two sections connected by a bar and having oppositely-disposed arms provided with weights; a load-receiver supported for rolling movement upon the track-sections, the track-engaging portion of the load-receiver being curvilinear; and beam mechanism.

13. The combination of a track; a load-receiver supported for movement directly upon the track; beam mechanism; a platform supported by the beam mechanism; and a connection between the platform and the load-receiver.

14. The combination, with a track, of a load-receiver supported for movement upon the track; beam mechanism; a platform mounted on the beam mechanism; and a rod pivoted, respectively, to the platform and load-receiver.

15. The combination of a track; a load-receiver supported for movement upon the track; beam mechanism for the load-receiver; a platform sustained by the beam mechanism and having posts between which the track is supported; a connection between the load-receiver and the platform; and means for normally holding the track against movement.

16. The combination, with a load-receiver and a tilting support upon which the same is mounted, of a platform; a device connecting the platform and support; and means including a latch for normally holding the support against action.

17. The combination of a load-receiver; a tilting support upon which the load-receiver is mounted; a platform; a toggle connected, respectively, with the platform and the support; and means for operating the toggle.

18. The combination of a load-receiver; a tilting support upon which the load-receiver is mounted; beam mechanism; a platform sustained by the beam mechanism; a toggle connected, respectively, with the platform and the support; an arm connected with the toggle; and a latch for engaging said arm.

19. The combination of a load-receiver; a movably-mounted support "upon which the load-receiver is supported; a platform; beam mechanism; a toggle connected, respectively, with the platform and support; an arm carried by the platform; and a link connected, respectively, with the arm and toggle.

20. The combination of a load-receiver; a movably-mounted support upon which the load-receiver is carried; a platform; beam mechanism; posts on the platform between which the support is disposed; a latch on one of the posts; an arm on the platform, engaged by the latch; connections between the arm and the support; and a tripper for the latch.

21. The combination of a load-receiver; a movably-mounted support upon which the load-receiver is carried; a platform; beam mechanism; an arm on the platform, furnished with a weight; a toggle connected, respectively, with the support and the platform; a link joining said arm and toggle; and a latch.

22. The combination of a load-receiver; a movably-mounted track upon which the load-receiver is supported for rolling movement, the track-engaging portion of the load-receiver being curvilinear; beam mechanism; a platform mounted upon the beam mechanism; and a Connection between the platform and the load-receiver.

23. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; a supply-conveyer; driving mechanism for the supply-conveyer, comprehending a belt; a pressure device normally acting against the belt to tighten the same; an arm carrying the pressure device and pivotally supported; a second arm fixed to the supporting-pivot; a shaft having an arm connected with the last-mentioned arm; actuating means; a detent normally adapted to hold the actuating means ineffective; and means operative with the weighing mechanism for tripping said detent.

24. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; a supply-conveyer; driving mechanism for the supply-conveyer, comprehending a belt; a pressure device normally acting against the belt to tighten the same; actuating means for the pressure device, for moving it away from the belt to loosen the same; a detent normally adapted to hold the actuating means ineffective; and means operative with the weighing mechanism for tripping said detent.

25. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; a supply-conveyer; driving mechanism for the supply-conveyer, comprehending a belt; a pressure device normally acting against the belt to tighten the same; actuating means for moving the pressure device away from the belt to loosen the same; a detent normally adapted to hold the actuating means ineffective; and means operative with the weighing mechanism for tripping the detent.

26. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver and a scale-beam; a supply-conveyer; driving mechanism for the supply-conveyer, comprehending a belt; a pressure device normally acting against the belt to tighten the same; actuating means for holding the pressure device away from the belt; a detent normally adapted to hold the actuating means ineffective; and tripping means for the detent, connected with the scale-beam.

27. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; a supply-conveyer; driving mechanism for the supply-conveyer, comprehending a belt; a pressure device normally acting against the belt to tighten the same; actuating means for moving the pressure device away from the belt; a detent normally adapted to hold the actuating means ineffective; a detent-tripping link having a loop; and a pin passing through the loop.

28. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; a supply-conveyer; driving mechanism for the supply-conveyer, comprehending a belt; a pressure device normally acting against the belt to tighten the same; a shaft having an arm connected with the pressure device; a second arm on the shaft, furnished with a weight and having a projection; a detent for engaging said projection; and means operative with the weighing mechanism for tripping the detent.

29. The combination of a load-receiver; a plurality of beams; a rod connecting the beams and having a shoulder, and a stop cooperating with the shoulder and with the load-receiver.

30. The combination of a load-receiver; a tilting support upon which the same is mounted; a plurality of beams; a rod connecting the beams and having a shoulder; and a stop cooperating with the shoulder and connected with the tilting support.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600029 ===

WEIGHING-MACHINE

United States Patent 600029

Filing date: August 4, 1897

Issue date: March 1, 1898

Inventor: FRANCIS H. RICHARDS

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Francis H. Richards, a citizen of the United States, residing at Hartford, in the county of Hartford and State of Connecticut, have invented certain new and useful Improvements in Weighing-Machines, of which the following is a specification.

This invention relates to weighing-machines for automatically weighing and delivering various kinds of granular and other free-flowing substances.

One of the objects of the invention is to furnish, in connection with the weighing mechanism, a variable-efficiency device shiftably carried thereby and a supply-valve provided with means for actuating the variable-efficiency device preferably before and just prior to the discharge of a load. In the form of the invention represented the variable-efficiency device is in the form of a gravity member supported for oscillation by the beam and is shifted by a rod connected with the supply-valve just prior to the completion of a load, so as to augment the weight of the load-receiver to such an extent as to carry it downward without delay. The variable-efficiency device, which consists of a counterweighted lever, also serves as a tripper for the load-discharge-controlling latch, so that said latch can be tripped instantly and without the necessity of relying upon any of the other parts of the weighing mechanism.

Another object is to" furnish, in connection with a load-receiver having a guard-plate attached to and extending below the same, a regulator mounted relatively to the guard-plate and so disposed as to constitute, in connection therewith, a trough to catch any leakage from the load-receiver during the making up of a load. The load-receiver is furnished, preferably, with a closer, and the regulator, which is acted upon intermittingly by the discharging loads, serves, through proper instrumentalities, to retard the shutting movement of the closer.

Another object of the invention is to furnish a hopper having below its sides and rear a series of walls, one of which preferably has a portion obliquely disposed, and a swinging-hopper that is situated in the space between said several walls and that is located at such an inclination as to deliver at the commencement of operation the supply-stream against said inclined or obliquely-disposed portion of the chute-wall, so that the force of impact of the supply as it flows toward the load-receiver is materially modified. At a subsequent stage in the operation the swinging hopper is moved outward in unison with a suitable valve, which latter, in conjunction with an auxiliary valve preferably provided, cuts off the supply to the load-receiver.

In the drawings accompanying and forming part of this specification, Figure 1 is a front elevation of my improved machine. Figs. 2, 3, and 4 are side elevations of the machine as seen from the right in Fig. 1, portions being broken away and in central vertical section, and the parts being represented in said figures in the positions they occupy during the making and discharging of a load. Figs. 5, 6, and 7 are longitudinal central sections of the supply apparatus.

Similar characters designate like parts in all the figures of the drawings.

The framework for sustaining the different parts of the machine may be of any suitable construction. It is illustrated consisting of the chambered base 2, the side frames 3 and 4, mounted thereon, and the brackets 5 and 6, extending oppositely from the supply apparatus, (designated in a general way by S and hereinafter more particularly described,) which are attached to the side frames 3 and 4, respectively.

The weighing mechanism may be of any convenient construction, it consisting of a load-receiver and counterpoising means, as customary. The weighing mechanism in the present case comprises a hopper-shaped load-receiver G and the counterweighted scale-beam B, the latter being pivotally supported upon brackets 7 and 8, extending inward from the side frames 3 and 4, respectively, and the load-receiver being sustained upon the poising end of the beam.

The beam B consists of a pair of arms 9 and 10, joined at the rear by counterweight W.

The load-receiver has in its lower end the usual discharge-outlet, covered by the closer or flap L, consisting of a flat plate pivoted, as at 12, to the lower rear side of the load-receiver and furnished with the counterweighted end plates 13, serving as a convenient means to shut the closer when the load has passed therefrom.

The load-discharge-controlling means includes as a part thereof a latch adapted to engage a member cooperative with the closer, as will hereinafter appear. On the tripping of the latch the closer is released and forced open by the pressure of the material in the load-receiver.

The load-receiver has secured to its front wall, in the lower end thereof, the guard-plate 14, which extends below the same and with which a regulator, as R, is cooperative, the regulator being so mounted relatively to the guard-plate during the normal operation of the machine, as shown in Fig. 2, as to form a trough for catching any material that may escape from the load-receiver, it being apparent that any material that drops into the trough thus formed constitutes a part of the load. The regulator is movably connected with the guard-plate 14 and also with the closer, so that it may be shifted by and on the opening of the closer into the path of the discharging material, the weight of which can hold the regulator down, so that the closer will be maintained in its wide-open position sufficiently long to cause the complete discharge of the load.

The guard-plate 14 has at its lower end the bearings or hubs 15 for receiving the pivots 16 at opposite ends of the regulator R, which is in the form of a flat plate having a deflected end 17. The regulator is also furnished at its opposite sides with the walls 18, fitting when in its normal position against the guard-plate, as shown in Fig. 2, whereby the two parts form a trough or receptacle for receiving any material that may drop from the closer. One of the pivots 16 of the regulator (shown as the one on the right in Fig. 1) has secured thereto the rock-arm 19, to which is pivoted the link 20, likewise jointed to the closer L. The upper or free end of the rock-arm 19 is in position to be engaged by a detent or latch, such as lea consisting of a lever, pivoted at 21 on the load-receiver, the counterweighted arm 22 of the latch normally resting against the stop 23-1 on the load-receiver and the shouldered end or catch 24 of the latch being thrown into engagement with the cooperating arm 19, connected, respectively, with the closer and the regulator to hold said parts against movement. The upper arm 25 of the latch is angular, the angular portion 26 being engaged by a tripper, as will hereinafter appear, to raise the weighted arm 22 out of engagement with the rock-arm 19, thereby simultaneously to release the closer and regulator. When these parts are released, the pressure of material in the load-receiver G, acting against the closer, will force the latter open, and through the connections between the closer and regulator said regulator will be shifted or lowered, as shown in Fig. 4, the load being discharged into the conduit D, situated in the chamber 2-1 of the base. The material will act directly against the regulator R, and the latter being connected with the closer said closer is positively held open.

The supply apparatus S, to which I have hereinbefore referred, includes as a part thereof the main hopper H, which is preferably stationary and provided with the vertical side walls 30 and 31 and the rear wall 32, the latter having the inclined or oblique portion 33 near its lower end, against which the supply-stream during the greater period of operation of the machine is directed, as indicated in Fig. 5, so that the force of impact thereof is materially broken and cannot affect the accuracy of the machine. The supply-stream is directed against the inclined portion 33 of the rear chute-wall by the swinging hopper 34, which is pivoted, as at 33-1, to the hopper H and which is tubular in shape and located below said hopper H.

The swinging hopper 34 is disposed in the space between the chute-walls 30, 31, and 32 and normally at an inclination, as illustrated in Fig. 5, to direct the supply-stream from the hopper H against the inclined portion 33 of the rear wall 32 of the chute, the material then gravitating into the load-receiver.

For the purpose of controlling the passage of the material to the load-receiver valves are furnished, the main valve being designated by 35 and the auxiliary valve by 36. The main valve 35 is of the "pan" type, it being oscillatory below the chute-walls 30, 31, and 32 and carried by the two-part shaft 37, having journal-openings in its opposite ends for receiving the pivot-screws 38 on the arms 5-1 and 6-1, respectively.

When the load is nearly completed, the chute 34 is moved outward and preferably simultaneously with the pan-valve, these two parts being conveniently connected to effect this result. The swinging hopper has at one side thereof the projection 40, passing through the curved slot 41 in the chute-wall 31, the link 42 loosely embracing the projection and being pivoted, as at 43, to the valve 35. (See Figs. 1 and 5.)

For swinging the valve 35 under the chute-walls 30, 31, and 32 into the path of the supply-stream to arrest its passage to the load-receiver I provide the weight 44, secured to the arm 45, extending rearward from the valve-shaft 37, the rod 46 being pivoted to the arm 45 and bearing against the counterweighted lever 47, shiftably supported upon the beam-arm 10 and serving as a valve-opening actuator. The counterweighted lever is mounted and operates in the manner shown in Letters Patent No. 548,840, granted to me October 28, 1895, to which reference may be had.

The usual interlocking stops are shown at 48 and 49, they being cooperative, respectively, with the valve and closer and operating in the manner shown in the patent just referred to. The stop 48 is secured to the valve-shaft 37, and the stop 49 is pivoted upon the load-receiver, as at 49-1, and connected with the closer L by the longitudinal rod 49-2.

The crank-arm 50 is pivoted, as at 51, to the opposite side of the load-receiver and has jointed thereto the rod 52, likewise attached at its lower end to the closer L, the rods 49-2 and 52 moving in parallelism as the closer opens and shuts.

The auxiliary valve 30 consists of a longitudinal plate supported for oscillation between the chute-walls 30 and 31 and having bearings at its opposite ends and at the middle for receiving the pivots 36' on the two chute-walls, the auxiliary valve or plate 36 cooperating with the pan or oscillatory valve 35 to cut off the supply. The auxiliary valve 36 is preferably connected with the main valve 35 for operation. The auxiliary valve has in its upper edge a projection 53, passing through the longitudinal slot 53-1 on the chute-wall 30, which is embraced by the link 54, pivoted at its opposite end to the valve 35, (see Figs. 1 and 2,) the pivotal point being below the center of oscillation of the valve. When the valve is closed or swung under the chute-walls 30, 31, and 32 by the dropping of the weight 44, the link 54 will be moved in a corresponding direction or to the left, thereby swinging the lower portion of the auxiliary valve 36 in an opposite direction, as indicated, respectively, in Figs. 6 and 7, the auxiliary valve being moved from the main or pan valve 35 when the load is fully completed, so that the supply-stream is stopped. The counterweighted lever 47, operative in the usual manner and constituting in effect an integral extension of the beam and descendible therewith, serves by being in contact with the rod 46 to control the action of the valves 35 and 36 through the rod 46.

The progress of the valve mechanism is intercepted by the by-pass stop 60, situated near the upper end of the load-receiver and cooperating with the rod 61 in the manner shown in the Letters Patent hereinbefore referred to, the rod being secured to the valve-supporting shaft 37 and impinging against the by-pass stop 60 when the load is nearly completed, as shown in Fig. 3, so as to permit a reduced or drip stream to flow from the supply apparatus S into the load-receiver to top off the partial load.

In connection with the weighing mechanism I provide a variable-efficiency device, preferably mounted upon the beam B and adapted when shifted to augment the weight of the load-receiver. This variable-efficiency device is actuated, preferably, by means operative with the valve and at a point just before the last part of the load is in the receiver G, so that the latter can be carried downward promptly to cause the operation of the valves 35 and 36. The remainder of the load is received at about the time the latch lea to which I have hereinbefore referred, is tripped.

The variable-efficiency device is designated by V, and it consists of the arms 65 and 66, the latter being counterweighted, as at 67. The arms 65 and 66 are disposed at an angle to each other and are attached to the rock-shaft 68, carried by the beam-arm 9 and the oppositely-disposed bearing-sleeves 9-1 and 9-2, extending from said beam-arm, as represented more clearly in Fig. 1. The bearing-sleeve 9-2 is provided with a stop 69, against which the angular projection 70 of the arm 65 normally rests to hold the variable-efficiency device in its normal position. The rock-shaft 68 is situated at the poising or inner end of the beam B, and the center of gravity of the weight is situated at a comparatively remote point from the center of oscillation of the variable-efficiency device, as indicated in Fig. 3. At the proper point said device is shifted to transfer its effect to the opposite side of its center of oscillation, as shown in Fig. 4 by the dotted lines, the effect being to increase the weight of the load-receiver G, so that the same is carried instantly downward. The actuating means of the variable-efficiency device is preferably operative with the valve and consists of a rod 75, secured to and depending from the valve-shaft. The rod 75 terminates in the switch or by-pass device, pivoted, as at 77, thereto and having the stop or tailpiece 78 normally held against the rod by the spring 79, secured to said rod. When the valve-rod 61 strikes the by-pass 60 to intercept the closure of the valves 35 and 36, the lower end of the actuating-rod 75 will abut against the projection or pin 80 on the weight 67. When the load-receiver descends sufficiently far to carry the by-pass 60 below the rod 61, the two valves are released so that they can be shut by the weight 44, and the lower end of the rod 75 abutting against the pin 80 the valve can shift the efficiency device to throw the weight 67 to the left of its center of oscillation, as shown by the dotted lines in Fig. 4. On the return stroke of the valve the switch 76 on the free end of the rod 75, which returns with the valve, will strike and pass by the pin 80.

The means for resetting the variable-efficiency device is preferably operative with the load-discharging device or closer L. The resetting means for the variable-efficiency device consists of the link 85, connected therewith by a slide-joint, as the loop 86, embracing the pin 87 on the arm 65. The opposite end of the link 85 is pivoted, as at 88, to the rod 49-2. By reason of the slide-joint just described the variable-efficiency device can be shifted in the manner specified without affecting the relation of the other parts by which it is reset. At the commencement of operation, as shown in Fig. 2, the pin 87 is at the inner end of the loop 86. When said variable-efficiency device is shifted, the pin will strike the opposite end of the loop. On the opening of the closer the rod 49-2 will be drawn downward and swung slightly to the right, thereby pulling the link 85 in a corresponding direction and shifting the variable-efficiency device V, so that the weight 67 is carried from the left to the right side of the center of oscillation of said variable-efficiency device and farther away from the center of gravity of the weight.

The variable-efficiency device constitutes also a tripper for the latch lea the arm thereof being adapted to strike the angular portion 26 of the latch-arm 25, whereby the latch is promptly tripped and disengaged from the rock-arm 19.

The operation of the hereinbefore-described machine, briefly set forth, is as follows: In Figs. 1, 2, and 5 the various parts of the machine are shown as occupying their normal positions, the closer L and regulator R being locked in their primary positions by the counterweighted latch lea which is in engagement with the rock-arm 19. The valves 35 and 36 being wide open, a stream of large volume will flow from the hoppers H and 34 and against the stream-brake 33, and from thence into the empty load-receiver. When a certain proportion of the load has been received, the load-receiver and beam mechanism will descend, so that the counterweighted lever 47, by falling away from the rod 46, will permit the two valves 35 and 36 to be closed, in the manner hereinbefore set forth, by the dropping of the counterweight 44 and until the rod 61 abuts against the by-pass 60, at which time the actuating-rod 75 will be against the pin 80 on the weight 67. The by-pass 60 and rod 61 being in engagement, the valve mechanism will be held, as shown in Figs. 3 to 6, and permit a reduced stream to flow into the receiver G for the purpose of completing the load. When the by-pass stop 60 passes below the rod 61, the two valves are released and can be shut by the counterweight 44, the valves serving to swing the rod 75, the lower end of which, being in engagement with the pin 80, will shift the variable-efficiency device V in the manner hereinbefore set forth and cause the arm 66 of said device to impinge against the latch-arm 26, thereby to raise the latch-arm 22 away from the cooperating rock-arm 19. When the latch is tripped, the regulator R and closer L are freed, and the closer is forced open by the load in the receiver and simultaneously, through the described connections, serves to shift the regulator, so that the load can act against the regulator to hold it down. The regulator being acted upon such manner it will, through the described connections, serve to hold the closer open. When the material passes clear of the regulator, the latter is released, at which time the weights 13 of the closer can shut the same, following which the other parts of the machine will be returned to their primary positions to repeat the operation.

Having described my invention, I claim--

1. The combination of weighing mechanism; a variable-efficiency device shiftably mounted upon the weighing mechanism; and supply-valve provided with means for actuating the variable-efficiency device.

2. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver and a scale-beam; a variable-efficiency device shiftably mounted upon the scale-beam; and a supply-valve provided with means for actuating the variable-efficiency device.

3. The combination of a load-receiver; a scale-beam; a counterweighted oscillatory device shiftably mounted upon the scale-beam; means for normally holding said device in its ineffective position; and a supply-valve furnished with means for shifting said device prior to the discharge of a load.

4. The combination of a load-receiver; a scale-beam; a variable-efficiency device mounted upon the scale-beam; a supply-valve provided with means for actuating said device prior to the discharge of a load; and means for resetting said device.

5. The combination of weighing mechanism including a load-discharging member; a variable-efficiency device shiftably mounted upon the weighing mechanism; means for shifting said variable-efficiency device prior to the discharge of a load; and resetting means for said device, connected with said load-discharging member.

6. The combination of weighing mechanism; means including a latch for controlling the discharge of a load; a variable-efficiency device shiftably mounted upon the weighing mechanism and constituting a latch-tripper; a supply-valve; and means operative with the supply-valve for actuating the variable-efficiency device before the discharge of a load.

7. The combination of a load-receiver; a supporting scale-beam therefor; a variable-efficiency device shiftably supported upon the scale-beam; a supply-valve; and a rod connected with the supply-valve for operating the variable-efficiency device and provided with a switch at its working end.

8. The combination of a load-receiver; a scale-beam; a variable-efficiency device shiftably supported upon the scale-beam and having a pin; a supply-valve; and a rod connected with the supply-valve and having at its working end a spring-actuated switch adapted to engage said pin and to shift the variable-efficiency device on the closing movement of the valve.

9. The combination of a load-receiver; a supporting scale-beam; a counterweighted arm constituting a variable-efficiency device, shiftably mounted on the scale-beam; a load-discharging member; a rod connected with said load-discharging member; and a link jointed to said rod connected to the weighted arm by a slide-joint and serving to shift said arm.

10. The combination of a load-receiver having a load-discharging device; a scale-beam; a weighted arm shiftably mounted upon the scale-beam and having a projection; a rod connected with said load-discharging device; a link attached to said rod and having at its opposite end a loop embracing said projection; and shifting means for said weighted arm.

11. The combination of a load-receiver having a closer; a scale-beam; a weighted arm shiftably supported upon the scale-beam and having a projection; a rod connected with the closer; a link pivoted to said rod and having a longitudinal loop at its opposite end embracing said projection; a supply-valve; and means operative with the supply-valve for shifting said weighted arm.

12. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; a guard-plate attached to and depending below the same; a regulator connected with the guard-plate; and regulator-holding means.

13. The combination of a load-receiver and its closer; a guard-plate attached to and depending below the load-receiver; a regulator mounted relatively to the guard-plate to form in connection therewith a trough; and means for holding the closer and regulator.

14. The combination of a load-receiver and its closer; a supporting scale-beam; a guard-plate attached to and depending below the load-receiver; a regulator connected with the guard-plate; connections between the regulator and the closer; and means for holding the regulator and closer.

15. The combination of a load-receiver provided with a closer; a guard-plate attached to and depending below the load-receiver; a regulator connected with the guard-plate; an arm cooperative with the regulator and closer; and a latch for engaging said arm.

16. The combination of a load-receiver and its closer; a scale-beam and guard-plate attached to and depending below the load-receiver; a regulator connected with the guard-plate; an arm connected with the regulator and closer; and a latch.

17. The combination of a load-receiver having a closer; a scale-beam; a guard-plate attached to the load-receiver; a regulator pivoted to the guard-plate; an arm secured to a pivot and connected by a link with the closer; and a latch for engaging said arm.

18. The combination of weighing mechanism; a chute located above the same and having depending side and rear walls, the rear wall having an inclined portion; a swinging hopper disposed in the space between said walls; and valve mechanism connected with the swinging hopper.

19. The combination of a chute having depending side and rear walls; a swinging hopper situated in the space between the said walls and having a projection passing through a slot in one of the walls; and a valve movable below said walls and connected, by a link, with said projection.

20. The combination of a chute having depending side and rear walls extending below the same; a swinging hopper situated in the space between said walls; a pan-valve connected with said hopper; and a second valve supported between said chute-walls and connected with the pan-valve.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600030 ===

WEIGHING-MACHINE

United States Patent 600030

Filing date: August 6, 1897

Issue date: March 1, 1898

Inventor: FRANCIS H. RICHARDS

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Francis H. Richards, a citizen of the United States, residing at Hartford, in the county of Hartford and State of Connecticut, have invented certain new and useful Improvements in Weighing-Machines, of which the following is a specification.

This invention relates to weighing apparatus for automatically weighing and delivering various classes of free-flowing materials.

One of the objects of the invention, in addition to securing great rapidity and precision, is to furnish, in connection with two independent weighing mechanisms, each including a load-receiver having a closer, two meters or rough-weighers, located above the weighing mechanisms, and a duplex stream-director actuated by the weighing mechanisms and including two stream-directing spouts unitarily shiftable upon a common axis into position for delivering streams of material from the meters or rough-weighers to the load-receivers alternately, and to also provide, in connection with said spouts, means effective on the movements of said spouts and on the descending movement of the load-receivers for gradually reducing the volume delivered from said spouts to the load-receivers. A further object of my present invention is to furnish a multiplex weighing-machine comprehending a plurality of load-receivers, a main supply apparatus, a plurality of rough-weighers or meters located above the load-receivers, a multiplex stream-director for directing material from the rough-weighers to the receivers in alternating order and comprising a plurality of stream-directing spouts, a multiplex by-pass device in connection with the stream-director, means operative on predetermined alternating movements of the load-receivers for actuating the multiplex stream-director, and means for interrupting the movements of the multiplex by-pass at predetermined points in the alternating movements of said receivers.

In the drawings accompanying and forming part of this specification, Figure 1 is a front elevation of a multiplex weighing apparatus embodying my present improvements, said figure showing the supply-chute valves in their closed positions and one of the rough-weighers or meters in the position it occupies when discharging a load to a lower load-receiver through the medium of one of the oscillatory spouts of the multiplex stream-director. Fig. 2 is a side elevation of the weighing apparatus as seen from the right hand in Fig. 1, parts being broken away. In this figure, which shows certain elements of the machine in different positions from those illustrated in Fig. 1, the multiplex stream-director is shown with one of its spouts in a fully-open position and discharging a load into the left-hand load-receiver, whose closer is blocked against opening movement, and the right-hand load-receiver is shown with its closer open and discharging its contents, the stop member of this closer being in position for blocking the return movement of the multiplex stream-director. Fig. 3 is a detail drawn in projection of the shiftable by-pass stop detached. Fig. 4 is a side elevation of a portion of the lower end of one of the meters, showing the duplex closer in connection therewith, and also showing, partially in section, a portion of the closer-actuator, said actuator being illustrated in its closer-opening position. Fig. 5 is a side elevation similar to Fig. 3, showing the duplex stream-director with one of its spouts in position for supplying a drip-stream to the left-hand load-receiver, and also showing the duplex by-pass in engagement with the by-pass stop, which interrupts the movement thereof until the load-receiver which is being filled has arrived at a predetermined point in its descending movement. In this figure the meter-closer actuator is shown by dotted lines in a partially-retracted position, and the meter-closers are shown nearly closed.

Similar characters designate like parts in all the figures of the drawings.

The framework for supporting the various parts of the apparatus may be of any suitable character, and in the form shown comprises in part a base or bed 3, from which rise the columns or standards 2 and 4, connected at the top by the beam 5.

A duplex supply chute or hopper is illustrated at H, it being preferably formed integral with the beam 5 and having two oppositely-disposed conduits or spouts 6 and 7 for delivering material to the two rough-weighers or meters, (designated, respectively, by M and M1) which meters deliver material to the load-receivers G and G1 of the two independent weighing mechanisms, which are designated by W and W and hereinafter described, the supply from the meters to the load-receivers being controlled by a duplex stream-director (designated in a general way by S) and cooperative devices whose constructions, organizations, and operations will be hereinafter fully described.

In the form thereof illustrated in the drawings the weighing apparatus includes two independent weighing mechanisms W and W, supported on the framework side by side. These weighing mechanisms are shown in the present instance of substantially the same construction and mode of operation, and therefore it is deemed necessary to describe but one of them in detail--for example, the mechanism W--corresponding parts of the weighing mechanism W being designated by the same characters, with additional prime-marks.

The weighing mechanisms include load-receivers or buckets G and G1, respectively, and beam mechanism for sustaining the same, and said beam mechanism in the present instance consists of the counterweighted scale-beams B and B1, which are fulcrumed on the framework and will be provided with suitable supports for the load-receivers.

The buckets or load-receivers G and G1 will have the usual discharge-openings, which are controlled by the counterweighted closers L and lea respectively.

For maintaining the closer in its normal or closed position the following instrumentalities will be employed: A rocker or stop member 12 is fixed to a rock-shaft 10, journaled in suitable bearings at the upper end of the load-receiver or bucket G, which rocker is in the nature of a segmental plate having an integral arm 13, to the outer end of which is pivoted a connecting-rod 14, said rod being connected at its lower end to the counterweighted plate 15 of the closer L. A latch 16 is provided for engaging the rocker 12 when the closer is in its shut position and for holding said rocker against movement until the latch is tripped or thrown out of engagement with said rocker by means, hereinafter described, operated by the beam mechanism. This latch is shown pivotally mounted on the side of the load-receiver and will in practice be counterweighted to retain the same normally in its rocker-engaging position.

Located above the two weighing mechanisms W and W are two alternately-operative meters or rough-weighers M and M1, which are herein shown in the form of buckets or receptacles and are adapted for discharging their loads into the load-receivers G and G1 of the weighing mechanisms "W and W, the stream of material to the two load-receivers G and G1 being controlled by the duplex stream-director, as will hereinafter be described. The two meters are of substantially the same construction, organization, and operation, and therefore but one of them need be specifically described, corresponding parts in the other being indicated by the same characters, with additional prime-marks.

The meter or bucket M is supported by the counterweighted scale-beam 17, which is mounted on the usual knife-edge support on the framework of the machine. Said meter has at the lower end thereof a discharge- trough, the outlet of which is controlled by a closer or closer-valve y, which, when opened, as indicated in Fig. 3, will permit the contents of the meter to pass into one member of the duplex stream -- director, whence it is discharged into one of the load-receivers of the weighing mechanisms.

As a means for controlling the supply of material to the meters M and M1 the supply chutes or conduits 6 and 7 are shown provided with oscillatory valves y and y1, which may be of any suitable construction adapted for closing the outlets of said chutes, and these valves are connected by rods 18 and 18-1 to the inner ends of the valve actuators or levers d and d1, pivotally supported on the beams 17 and 17-1 of the meter mechanism. These valves in the organization shown are opened and closed by the beams 17 and 17-1, in connection therewith, on the rising and falling movements of said beams, the operations being similar in a general way to the operation of the valve or stream-controller described in Letters Patent of the United States No. 548,840, heretofore granted to me.

In the preferred "form thereof shown most clearly in Fig. 4 of the drawings the closer-valve V for the meter M1 comprises two curved' oppositely-disposed closer-plates 19-1 and 20-1, pivotally supported at 21 on the discharge-spout of said meter, the two closer-plates being shown connected together by linkage I1, constructed and organized so that upon the closing or opening movement of one plate a similar movement will be imparted to the other plate. One of these plates is shown furnished with a counterweight 22-1, adapted for normally retaining the two closer-plates in their closed positions relatively to the discharge-spout of the meter.

For the purpose of preventing an opening movement of the closer-valve V of the meter until the supply-valve y is in its closed position and for preventing a closing movement of said valve until the said closer is in its shut position I have provided, in connection with the supply-valve y and the closer-valve V, reciprocally-effective interlocking instrumentalities, which in the preferred form thereof shown in the drawings comprise two cooperative stop members 23 and 24, the former of which is carried by the shaft of the supply-valve y and the latter of which is fixed to the rock-shaft 25 at the upper end of the meter and is connected by a rod 20 to the counterweighted closer-valve V of the meter, the construction and organization of the cooperative stops being such as to block the movements of one another alternately.

As a means for supplying material from the meters M and M1 alternately to the load-receivers G and G1 and for controlling the volume I have provided in operative relation with the meters and with the load-receivers a multiplex stream-controlling director S, which in the form thereof shown most clearly in Figs. 1 and 5 of the drawings comprises two angularly-disposed stream-directing spouts 27 and 28, pivotally supported at 29 above and substantially midway between the two load-receivers G and G1, with their receiving ends in operative relation with the two discharge-spouts of the meters M and M1, respectively, and with their discharge ends in position for directing material to the two load-receivers G and G1. The stream-directing spouts are shown in Fig. 1 coupled together for unitary oscillatory movements, they being preferably fixed to a horizontally-disposed shaft 30, journaled in the side frames of the weighing apparatus.

As a means for actuating the multiplex stream-director I have provided a rocker or walking-beam (designated in a general way by K) comprising two arms 31 and 32. This walking-beam is fixedly connected substantially midway of its length or midway between the two arms 31 and 32 to the rock-shaft 30 and has for the purpose of interrupting the oscillatory movements thereof at predetermined points in the descending movements of the load-receivers a depending by-pass arm 33, which will be hereinafter fully described. Pivotally connected to the outer ends of the two arms 31 and 32 of the walking-beam are two depending thrust members 34 and 34-1, one of which bears at its lower end upon a walking-beam actuator or lever 35, pivotally connected to the scale-beam B, and the other of which bears at its lower end upon a similar actuator 35-1, pivotally connected to the scale-beam B1, the construction and organization of the walking-beam and the actuating instrumentalities therefor being such that on the descending movement of the scale-beam B of one weighing mechanism the walking-beam, together with the multiplex stream-director, will have a movement in one direction, and on a similar movement of the beam B1 of the other weighing mechanism said walking-beam and stream-director will have a movement in an opposite direction.

As a convenient means for positively actuating the closer-valves V and V of the meters M and M1, I have provided in fixed connection with the stream-director two oppositely-disposed valve-actuating arms or levers 30 and 36-1, respectively, which extend upward from the axis of the walking-beam in position to alternately engage projections 37 and 37-1 upon the linkage connection I and I1 of the closer-valves V and V and impart an opening movement to said valves alternately on opposite movements, respectively, of the stream-director, as will readily be understood by reference to Figs. 3, 4, and 5 of the drawings.

For the purpose of gradually cutting off the supply of material from each of the stream-directing spouts to the load-receiver supplied thereby on the descending movement of said receiver I have provided in operative relation with the discharge ends of these spouts a fixed cut-off plate 38, which is supported in bearings in horizontal bracket-arms 39 and 39-1, fixed to the framework, (see Figs. 1 and 3,) said plate being located slightly below and concentric to the path of movement of the lower discharge ends of the stream-directing spouts. This plate, which is located substantially midway between the two load-receivers, terminates at opposite ends above the receiving ends of the load-receivers and is so disposed with relation to the discharge ends of the stream-directing spouts that when one of the load-receivers is in its elevated or load-receiving position said plate will not intersect the discharge-opening of the spout which supplies such receiver and will, when the load-receiver is descending under the weight of the load and during the retractive movement of the spout, gradually intersect and reduce the effective area of said opening and finally cut off the supply of material from said spout, the closing of the discharge end of the spout being of course due to the retractive movement thereof, as will be understood by reference to the drawings.

For the purpose of blocking the opening movements of the closers L and leaofthe two load-receivers alternately on the closing movements of the stream-director I have provided in fixed connection with the walking-beam and multiplex stream-director a multiplex blocking device, (designated in a general way by T,) and which in the present instance is shown as a duplex device comprising two angularly-disposed stop members 40 and 40-1, which depend in relatively-oblique lines and have their working faces substantially concentric to the axis of the walking-beam, its shaft 30, and the stream-director. The working faces of the two stop members of the blocking device are so disposed as to alternately engage the rockers or stop members 12 and 12-1, connected with the closers L and leaRespectively.

The stop members 40 and 40-1 of the blocking device and the rockers or stops 12 and 12-1, in connection with the closers L and leaofthe load-receivers G and G1, constitute interlocking devices which are reciprocally effective for blocking the movements of one another--that is to say, when a closer, as L, (see Fig. 3,) is in its open position the stop member 12-1 will block the movement of the stop member 40-1 of the blocking device, and at the same time the stop member 40 of the blocking device will engage and prevent the closer-opening movement of the stop member 12, connected to the closer L.

For the purpose of arresting the movements of the walking-beam and connected stream-directors during the descending movements of the load-receivers G and G1, I have provided, in connection with the lower end of the by-pass arm 33, two oppositely-disposed by-passes 42 and 43, which are pivotally supported at the lower end of said arm and are normally held in position for engaging a by-pass stop 45 by means of the springs 44 and 44-1, which by-passes are adapted for alternately engaging the upper end of said by-pass stop 45, which is shown in the nature of a bar supported for reciprocatory movement crosswise of the path of the by-passes in a plane intersecting the axis of movement of the walking-beam. This by-pass stop 45, which is reactionary in its movement, is shown supported in a bracket 46, fixed to the framework, and is normally held with its by-pass-engaging end in a position intersecting the path of movement of said by-passes by means of a spiral spring 40-1, surrounding said bar, and one end of said spring bears against one arm of the bracket 40, and the opposite end thereof against an abutment or collar 47, which is shown fixed to said by-pass stop and limits the reactionary movement of said stop.

As a means for retracting the by-pass stop to release the by-pass and permit a movement of the stream-directors at predetermined points in the descending movement of the load-receiver the by-pass stop is shown furnished at the lower end thereof with an outwardly-extending arm or projection 48, which is located in position to be engaged by the inner non-counterweighted ends of the beams B and B1 on the descending movement of these ends of said beams, said beams engaging and retracting the by-pass stop alternately. The by-pass stop and by-passes are so disposed that the movement of the stream-directing spouts will be arrested simultaneously with the arrival of the load-receivers at their poised positions, to thereby cause the spouts to deliver a stream of relatively small volume--commonly called a "drip-stream"--to the receivers, and the projection upon the by-pass stop will be so located that the beams B and B1 will retract the said by-pass stop to permit a complete closure of the discharge end of one stream-directing spout by a further retractive movement thereof, which occurs after the receiver which is being filled has passed its poising position and after the latch which controls the opening movement of the closer of said receiver has been released, the releasing of the latches from engagement with the stop members which control the opening movements of the closers being effected by latch-trippers or projections 50 and 50-1 upon the thrust members 34 and 34-1.

The operation of the weighing apparatus which has been herein partially described will be readily understood by any one familiar with the art to which this invention appertains.

Having described my invention, I claim--

1. The combination, with two weighing mechanisms located one above the other and each including a load-receiver having a closer, of a stream-director shiftably supported intermediate the receivers; means controlled by the lower weighing mechanism for actuating the director; and means in connection with the director for actuating the closer of the upper receiver.

2. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver and with a meter located above said receiver and having a closer or valve for controlling the supply to the load-receiver, of a stream-director supported for oscillatory movements between the meter-valve and the load-receiver; means for oscillating said director; and means carried by said director and adapted, on one movement thereof, for imparting an opening movement to the meter-valve.

3. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver, of a superposed weighing mechanism including a load-receiver having a discharge-spout furnished with a valve or closer; a stream-director pivotally supported between the upper and lower load-receivers; means actuated by the lower weighing mechanism for oscillating the director; and means carried by said director and operative, on one movement thereof, for opening the valve of the upper receiver.

4. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver and with a meter located above said receiver and having a valve for controlling the supply to the load-receiver, of a stream-director supported for oscillatory movement between the meter-valve and load-receiver; means for oscillating said director; means carried by said director for imparting a movement in one direction to said valve; and means in connection with said valve for imparting thereto a movement in another direction.

5. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver, of a movable load-receiver or meter located above the weighing mechanism and having a discharge-spout; two closer-blades pivotally supported in operative relation with, and adapted for opening and closing, the discharge-spout of the meter; means including a counterweighted lever connecting the closer-blades and adapted for normally retaining said blades in their closed positions; a stream-director shiftably supported in position to direct a stream of material from the upper to the lower load-receiver; means operative with the lower weighing mechanism for controlling the action of the stream-director; and means controlled by the stream-director, on one movement thereof, for imparting an opening movement to the closer-blades of the upper receiver.

6. The combination, with a plurality of weighing mechanisms, each including a load-receiver having a closer, of stream-supplying means including a plurality of meters located above the weighing mechanisms; a plurality of stream-directors, one for each load-receiver, having a common axis of movement; and means actuated by the weighing mechanisms for shifting the stream-directors, one into a supplying, and another simultaneously into a cut-off or non-supplying, position with relation to their respective load-receivers.

7. The combination, with a plurality of weighing mechanisms each including a load-receiver, of stream-supply means including a fixed cut-off plate and two oscillatory stream-directors in operative relation therewith; and means operative with the weighing mechanisms for simultaneously shifting said directors in corresponding directions and in such manner with relation to the cut-off plate as to effect a gradual closing of the discharge end of one, and a gradual opening of the discharge end of the other, director.

8. The combination, with a plurality of weighing mechanisms each including a receiver having a closer, of stream-supply means including a plurality of meters located above the weighing mechanisms; a fixed cut-off plate located between the meters and load-receivers; a plurality of stream-directors having a common axis of movement located between the cut-off plate and meters, said directors cooperating with the cut-off plate for controlling the supply of material to the load-receiver; means operative with the weighing mechanism for simultaneously shifting said directors in corresponding directions to gradually open and gradually close, through the medium of the cut-off plate, the discharge-openings of the directors alternately.

9. The combination, with a plurality of weighing mechanisms set side by side and each including a load-receiver and with stream supply means located above said load-receiver, of a plurality of stream-directors, one for each load-receiver, located below the stream-supplying means; and actuating mechanism connecting the stream-directors and weighing mechanisms in such manner that a descending movement of one receiver will cause its respective stream-director to gradually assume a cut-off position and will simultaneously cause another stream-director to gradually assume a supplying position with relation to another receiver.

10. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a plurality of load-receivers set side by side and with a superposed supply apparatus, of a plurality of stream-directors shiftably supported above said receivers with their axes coincident; a cut-off device located between the discharge ends of the directors and the load-receivers; and means controlled by the weighing mechanisms for oscillating the directors.

11. The combination, with a plurality of meters, of a plurality of weighing mechanisms each including a load-receiver having a closer and each receiver having a stop member pivotally supported thereon and connected with the closer thereof, of a stop-member-blocking device shiftable into positions for alternately engaging, and blocking the movements of, the stop members; and means controlled by the weighing mechanisms for actuating the blocking device.

12. The combination, with a plurality of meters, of a plurality of weighing mechanisms each including a load-receiver having a closer and each receiver having a stop member pivotally supported thereon and connected with the closer thereof, of a stop-member-blocking device comprising a plurality of fixedly-connected stops shiftable unitarily into positions for alternately blocking the movements of the stop members; and means controlled by the weighing mechanisms for actuating the blocking device.

13. The combination, with two independent weighing mechanisms each including a scale-beam and a load-receiver having a closer, of a rocker or walking-beam pivotally supported above and substantially midway between said weighing mechanisms; thrust members connecting opposite ends of the walking-beam and the two scale-beams; stop members pivotally supported on the load-receivers and connected with the closers; and a stop-member-blocking device connected with the walking-beam and embodying two stop members shiftable, on movements of the walking-beam, into positions for alternately engaging, and blocking the movements of, the closer stop members.

14. The combination, with a plurality of independent weighing mechanisms set side by side and each including a scale-beam and a load-receiver having a closer, of a rocker or walking-beam pivotally supported above said mechanism; means connecting the walking-beam with the scale-beams of the weighing mechanisms; supply apparatus located above the walking-beam; a plurality of stream-directors fixed to the walking-beam and each having its receiving end in operative relation with the supply apparatus and its discharging end in operative relation with a load-receiver; and a fixed cut-off plate in operative relation with the discharge ends-of the stream-directors and adapted, on certain movements thereof, for controlling the supply of material therefrom to the load-receivers.

15. The combination, with a plurality of independent weighing mechanisms set side by side and each including a scale-beam and a load-receiver having a closer, of a rocker or walking-beam pivotally supported above said mechanisms; means connecting the walking-beam with the scale-beams of the weighing mechanisms; supply apparatus located above the walking-beam; a plurality of stream-directors fixed to the walking-beam and each having its receiver end in operative relation with the supply apparatus and its discharging end in operative relation with the load-receiver; a fixed cut-off plate in operative relation with the discharge ends of the stream-directors and adapted, on certain movements thereof, for controlling the supply of material therefrom to the load-receivers; and stop devices for controlling the sequential movements of the closers and stream-directors.

16. The combination, with two independent weighing mechanisms each including a scale-beam and a load-receiver having a closer, of a rocker or walking-beam pivotally supported above and substantially midway between said weighing mechanisms; thrust members pivotally connected at their upper ends to opposite ends of the walking-beam and supported at their lower ends upon levers carried by the two scale-beams, respectively; a by-pass arm depending from the walking-beam and having two oppositely-operative by-passes at the lower end thereof; and a by-pass stop shiftably supported in operative relation with the by-passes and embodying means whereby the same may be operated by the weighing mechanism.

17. The combination, with two independent weighing mechanisms each including a scale-beam and a load-receiver having a closer, of a rocker or walking-beam pivotally supported above and substantially midway between said weighing mechanisms; thrust members pivotally connected at their upper ends to opposite ends of the walking-beam and supported at their lower ends upon levers carried by the two scale-beams, respectively; a by-pass arm depending from the central portion of the walking-beam and having two oppositely-operative by-passes at the lower end thereof; and a reactionary by-pass stop supported with its upper end normally intersecting the path of movement of the by-passes and having projections at the lower end thereof located in the path of movement of the inner ends of the scale-beams, whereby, on the alternate movements of the scale-beams, the by-pass stop will be retracted out of the path of movement of the by-passes.

18. In a weighing-machine, the combination, with an oscillatory member, of a duplex or two-way by-pass device carried by said member; a by-pass stop shiftable in a line intersecting the axis of movement of the oscillatory member and into and out from the path of movement of the by-pass device; and means for actuating said by-pass stop.

19. The combination, with two independent weighing mechanisms each including a scale-beam and a load-receiver having a closer, of a rocker or walking-beam pivotally supported above said weighing mechanisms; two stream-directors fixed to the walking-beam and adapted for directing material to the two load-receivers; means in connection with the beam mechanism and walking-beam for controlling the operation of the stream-directors; a duplex by-pass device carried by the walking-beam; and a by-pass stop normally intersecting the path of movement of the duplex by-pass device and operable for temporarily holding the walking-beam against movement, first in one, and then in the opposite, direction.

20. In a multiplex weighing-machine including a plurality of load-receivers, a supply apparatus, in combination with a multiplex stream-director for directing material to the receivers in alternating order and comprising a plurality of spouts unitarily shiftable on a common axis; a multiplex by-pass device; means operative, on predetermined alternating movements of the load-receivers, for actuating the stream-director; and means for interrupting the movements of the multiplex by-pass at predetermined points in the alternating movements of said receivers.

21. In a multiplex weighing-machine including a plurality of load-receivers, a supply apparatus including a plurality of receptacles, in combination with a multiplex stream-director including a plurality of stream-directing spouts shiftable on a common axis to supply material to the load-receivers in alternating order; a fixed cut-off plate in operative relation with the discharge ends of the spouts and effective, on a movement of said spouts, for controlling the discharge of material; a multiplex by-pass device carried by the multiplex stream-controller; means operable at predetermined points in the movements of the load-receivers for actuating the multiplex stream-director; and means for engaging the by-pass and interrupting the movements of the stream-director at predetermined points in alternating movements of the receivers.

22. The combination, with two alternately-operable automatic weighing mechanisms set side by side and each including a load-receiver having a closer, of a duplex meter mechanism including two compartments or receptacles each having a self-shutting closer; a duplex stream-director pivotally supported between the meter and weighing mechanism and embodying two unitarily-shiftable spouts for directing material alternately to the two load-receivers; means operable by the two weighing mechanisms, alternately, for shifting the director-spouts first in one and then in an opposite direction; means for controlling the discharge of material from the spouts during the movements thereof; means carried by the duplex stream-director for imparting opening movements to the meter-chamber closers, alternately; and means in connection with the stream-director and controlled by the weighing mechanism for alternately blocking the movements of the two load-receiver closers alternately.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600031 ===

WEIGHING APPARATUS OR PLANT

Filing date: August 19, 1897

Issue date: March 1, 1898

Inventor: FRANCIS H. RICHARDS

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Francis H. Richards, a citizen of the United States, residing at Hartford, in the county of Hartford and State of Connecticut, have invented certain new and useful Improvements in Weighing Apparatus or Plants, of which the following is a specification. This invention relates to weighing apparatus or plants; and it comprises in its organization a plurality of weighing-machines of ordinary construction, a series of supply-conduits leading to the respective weighing-machines, a conduit, leading from one of the machines to the other, and means, such as a system of valves or gates, for regulating the passage of material through the several conduits, whereby either or both of the weighing-machines can act independently of the other or so that one machine can discharge its load or contents into the other to verify or substantiate the accuracy of the work performed or for other reasons, my present improvements being especially adapted for use in elevators and mills or in a shop for testing weighing-machines.

In the drawings accompanying and forming part of this specification, Figure 1 is a side elevation of my improved weighing apparatus or plant, showing a means for operating the several supply-controlling valves. Figs. 2, 3, 4, and 5 are similar views with the valve-actuating means removed and portions of the several conduits in section to show the valves in their open and closed positions. Fig. 6 is a detail view in perspective of an actuator for operating a valve, and Figs. 7 and 8 are detail views of interlocking stop mechanism.

Similar characters designate like parts in all the figures of the drawings.

For convenience in illustrating the nature and purpose of my present improvements I have represented in Fig. 1 of the drawings a series of weighing-machines (two in number) constructed substantially in accordance with Letters Patent No. 548,840, granted to me October 29, 1895, to which reference may be had, said machines being designated, respectively, by W and W1.

The load-receiver of the weighing-machine W is designated by G, and the load-receiver of the weighing-machine W1 by G1, the two load-receivers being mounted on beam mechanism (designated in a general way, respectively, by B and B1) mounted upon the two bases or beds 2 and 2-1, which in turn rest upon the floors 3 and 3-1 of a building.

Each of the machines is provided with the usual spouts (designated, respectively, by S and S1) secured to the frameworks 4 and 4-1, respectively. The two spouts are supplied with material, as will hereinafter appear, and each is preferably furnished with a valve or analogous supply-controller, (not shown,) as indicated in the Letters Patent hereinbefore referred to.

The two weighing-machines W and W1 are supplied with material from the bin or hopper H, of relatively large capacity, through the intervention of a series of conduits of some suitable character, the bin or hopper H passing through an aperture or opening in the floor 5 and being secured in place by a series of braces, as 6 and 6-1, attached to the floor.

The supply of material to one or both of the weighing-machines W and W1 from the hopper H or analogous supply apparatus is governed by a main valve or gate, preferably of the "damper" type, as V, located in the throat or mouth of the hopper and pivoted thereto,, as at 7, the projecting pivot being provided with a pulley or wheel 8, to the periphery of which, as at 10, the band or rope 9 is secured, the latter passing around the guide-rolls 12 and 13 on the hanger 14. The opposite ends of the pull band or rope, serving to operate the valve or gate V, are provided with handles 15 and 16 in the form of rings.

When the valve or gate V is open, as indicated in Fig. 1, and it is desired to shut the same for arresting the supply to two weighing-machines, it is simply necessary to pull down either of the branches of the band or rope 9 for a sufficient distance to impart a quarter-turn to the pulley 8, whereby the valve V will be moved to a horizontal position and will therefore cut off the supply. To open the valve, the other branch of the rope will be pulled down.

The bin or reservoir H constitutes a convenient means for containing and delivering a supply of material to the weighing-machines W and W1, respectively, through the medium of a series of conduits, as 25 and 26, which in the construction illustrated form the branches of a two-way or duplex conduit C, the conduit or pipe 25 communicating with the spout S, and the conduit or pipe 20 communicating with the spout S'. The two-way or duplex conduit C, in the form of the invention represented, constitutes a fixed or integral extension of the hopper or reservoir H, although it is apparent that other kinds of conduits could be employed for delivering material from the hopper H to the two machines without departing from the scope of the invention.

A third conduit, in addition to the two aforesaid leading from the hopper H to the weighing mechanism W and W1, respectively, is provided, it leading from the primary weighing mechanism W to the secondary weighing mechanism W1. Said conduit is designated by 27, and it forms in effect a branch of the conduit 26 and also of the conduit 28, which is situated below the base 2 of the weighing-machine W and communicates therewith, a series of valves being situated in the several conduits to control the supply of material to the respective weighing-machines or the supply of material from one machine or the other.

By the improvements illustrated and as represented in Figs. 1 and 5 material may be delivered to the weighing mechanism W and discharged thereby and then delivered into the weighing mechanism W1; or, as indicated in Fig. 2, the weighing-machine W may operate independently of the weighing-machine W1, or the weighing-machine W may act independently; or, as illustrated in Fig. 4, each weighing-machine may weigh independently of the other, the primary weighing-machine W, which is located on a higher horizontal plane or above the secondary weighing-machine W1, in such case discharging into said secondary machine W. The means illustrated for regulating the passage of material through the several conduits consists of a series of stream-controllers, preferably in the form of damper-valves, (designated, respectively, by 30, 31, 32, and 33,) each consisting of flat plates pivoted in the conduits 25, 26, 27, and 28. The pivots of the several stream-controllers or valves have secured thereto a corresponding series of pulleys 35, 36, 37, and 38, serving as guides and around which are passed the bands or ropes, as 39, 40, 41, and 42, respectively, each of the bands being disposed in two or more different planes for a purpose that will hereinafter appear. The band 39 is also passed around a series of guides or rollers (each designated by 43) situated at suitable points on the board 44, extending between the several floors of the building, the bands 40, 41, and 42 being passed around a similar series of guides, as 45, 46, and 47, also mounted on the board 44. It will be evident that by pulling on any one of the bands or ropes 39, 40, 41, and 42 any one of the series of valves or gates 30, 31, 32, and 33 may be operated either to open or close the same.

The several bands 39, 40, 41, and 42, which may be of light wire and are preferably endless, are so wound about the supporting-guides thereof as to be disposed, preferably, in two or more vertical parallel planes, and each of them is equipped with a series of catch-faces or projections. When a projection on one part of a band is pulled down, a similar projection at another part thereof will be raised, the result being an operation of a valve. When the last-mentioned projection is actuated, the motion of the valve will be reversed. The band 39 carries a series of annular projections or sleeves 50, 51, 52, and 53. The band 40 is equipped with a series of projections 54, 55, and 56. The band 41 is furnished with the projections 57 and 58, and the band 42 is provided with the projections 59, 60, and 61.

For the purpose of engaging any one of the projections a multiplicity of actuators of suitable construction is provided. Each actuator being similar in construction, a detailed description of but one of them (see Fig. 6) is deemed necessary. The actuator shown in said Fig. 6 is designated by A, and consists of a sleeve 62 and a bifurcation 63, extending from said sleeve and between which a band is disposed. By pulling down on the rope to which the sleeve portion 62 of the actuator is secured the bifurcation 63 will be carried against one of the projections on the bands to which I have referred, so as to move said projection in a coinciding direction, thereby operating a valve. The series of actuators is secured to a series of pull-cords or carriers, as 64, 65, 66, 67, and 68, passing around the guide-rollers 69 on the beam 5-1, said cords being provided at their lower ends with a series of handles, as 70, consisting of rings through which a finger can be passed to pull down any of the cords. The cord 64 is furnished with the actuators 71 and 72. The cord 65 has the actuators 73 and 74. The cord 66 is provided with the actuators 75, 76, 77, and 78. The cord 67 is furnished with the actuators 79, 80, and 81, and the cord 68 is equipped with the actuators 82, 83, 84, and 85.

The purpose of the actuators 74, 78, 81, and 85 will be hereinafter set forth. As hereinbefore described, with the organization of weighing-machines illustrated it is possible to obtain four different combinations, as illustrated, respectively, in Figs. 2, 3, 4, and 5.

In Fig. 2 the weighing-machine W is weighing, in Fig. 3 the weighing-machine W1 is weighing, in Fig. 4 each of the machines is weighing, and in Fig. 5 the weighing-machine W is weighing and discharging into the weighing mechanism W1. If the plant is working by any one of the modes illustrated in these four views and it is desired to operate the same in a different manner, the first step necessary to attain this end is to close all the valves above the two weighing-machines, which is accomplished by pulling down the cord 68 and then releasing the same. When said cord is pulled down, the actuator 82 will engage the projection 56 on the band 40, the actuator 83 will engage the projection 53 on the band 39, and the actuator 84 will engage the projections 58 and 61 on the bands 41 and 42, respectively, so that the several bands may be simultaneously operated to close the series of valves 30, 31, 32, and 33. As soon as the cord 68 is released the weight 90 at its upper end will return the several actuators to their primary positions (shown in Fig. 1) or until the projection 92 on said cord strikes the stop 93 on the beam 3". All of the valves having been closed by the operation of the cord 68, it is assumed that the operation of the weighing-machine W, independently of the weighing-machine W1 and without discharging the contents of the former into the latter or permitting the passage of material from the hopper or bin H into said machine W, as shown in Fig. 2, is desired. To accomplish this result, the handle 70 of the cord 64 will be grasped, it being understood that the projections 50 and 59 are in their highest positions and that the valves 30 and 33 are closed, as shown in Fig. 3, and pulled down, the actuators 71 and 72 thereby being carried against said projections to move them in a corresponding direction, thereby also elevating the projection 53, so that the latter can be subsequently engaged, if necessary, by the actuator 83, the projection 61 being also raised.

Should it be desired to work the combination illustrated in Fig. 3, the several valves will be simultaneously closed, and the second cord 65 of the series will be grasped to carry the actuator 73 against the projection 54 on the band 40, thereby opening the valve 31, it being understood that all of the other valves have been previously closed.

To operate each of the weighing-machines independently of the other when the several valves are closed, the cord 66 will be pulled down, thereby carrying the actuators 75, 76, and 77 against the projections 55, 58, and 60 on the bands 40,39, and 42, whereby the valves 30, 31, and 33 will be simultaneously opened, the valve 32 being of course left in its closed position, so that the material cannot pass from the weighing-machine W to the weighing-machine W1 through the conduit-27.

To discharge the loads from the weighing-machine W to the weighing-machine W1, as represented in Fig. 5, the valves will all be again closed, after which the cord 67 will be pulled down, thereby carrying the actuators 79 and 80 against the projections 52 and 57, respectively, so that the valves 30 and 32 will be opened, as indicated in Figs. 1 and 5.

When any one of the series of cords have been pulled down, the rings 70 thereon, can be placed over corresponding stops 70-1 on the board 44, as shown by the cord 67 in Fig. 1. When any one of the cords is released, it, with the actuators thereon, is returned to the primary position by the weight 70-2 or until the projection 64-1 on said cord strikes the stop 65-1 on the beam 3-2, as shown by the cords 64, 65, and 66, Fig. 1. When the valves 30, 31, and 32 are shut, they will be located at a right angle or crosswise of the wall of the conduit inclosing the same, and when the valve 33 is shut, as shown in Fig. 3, for example, said valve will be in alinement with the branch conduit 27. When the valve 31 is shut, no material can flow down the conduit 26 into the weighing-machine W1. When the valve 30 is shut, the same result follows with respect to the weighing-machine W. When the valve 33 is shut, no material can flow down the discharge-conduit 28 from the weighing-machine W, but will be directed to the conduit 27 and from there to the weighing-machine W1. When the valve 32 is shut, no material can enter the conduit 27, but will be emptied into the conduit 28.

In the several figures I have illustrated a discharge-conduit 95, leading from the weighing-machine W1 to the longitudinal conduit 28, which communicates with the machine W, said conduit 95 having near its lower end the valve 96, the pivot of which is furnished with a pulley 97, around which the cord 98 is passed, said cord being also passed around a series of guide-rollers 99 on the board 44 and furnished with a series of projections 100 on the several strands thereof adapted when all the valves are operated to be engaged by the actuators 74, 78, 81, and 85, either to open or close the valve 96, as occasion demands.

The valve 96 in the conduit 95 is adapted simply for safety to prevent any leakage from the secondary weighing-machine W1 or from a point above the same from entering the lower end of the pipe 28 while the weighing-machine W is operating alone. The valve 96 remains closed, of course, when the cord 64 is pulled down to operate the weighing-machine W alone.

It is imperative that when the weighing-machine W is discharging into the weighing-machine W1, as indicated in Figs. 1 and 5, the valves 31 and 33 should be closed, thereby to prevent material from the hopper H entering the conduit 26 or a load from the weighing-machine W passing into the branch 28 of the two-way conduit C1, and for the purpose of insuring this object I provide the interlocking stop mechanism illustrated in Figs. 1, 7, and 8. The valve 31 has secured to its pivot the skeleton segment 110, cooperative with a similar device 112, pivoted at 113 to the conduit 26 and having the weighted arm 114, adapted to counterbalance the interlock 112. A similar pair of stops is shown at 115 and 116, respectively secured to the valves 32 and 33, the stop 115 having a crank-arm 117 connected by the longitudinal rod or connector 118 with the interlocking stops 112, as shown in Fig. 1. The interlocking stops 115 and 116 have along the working edges thereof the oppositely-disposed curved flanges 115-1 and 116-1, respectively.

The operation of the several stops is as follows: In Figs. 7 and 8, respectively, the two pairs of stops are shown occupying their ineffective positions, the valves cooperative therewith being shut. As soon as the valve 32 is opened, as indicated in Fig. 1, the interlocking stop 115 will be pulled down, thereby moving the flange 115-1 across the plane of movement of the cooperating flange 116-1, as indicated in Fig. 1, so that the valve 33 cannot be opened. As the interlocking stop 115 is operated with the valve 32 in the manner just specified, the rod 118 is thrust upward, thereby moving the stop 112 from the position shown in Fig. 7 to that illustrated in Fig. 1 or across the path of movement of the stop 110, so that the action of the latter, and consequently of the valve 31 connected therewith, will be prevented. When the valves are all closed for any one of the purposes hereinbefore set forth, the different stops will be returned to their initial positions. (Represented in Figs. 7 and 8.)

When the weighing-machines W and W1 are individually working, it is essential that the contents of the primary weigher W should be prevented from passing toward the secondary weigher, and for this reason the several stops are so constructed and operative as to be reciprocally effective.

All the valves being closed and it being desired to use the two machines separately, the valves 30, 31, and 33 will be opened in the manner hereinbefore specified. On the opening of the valve 33 the stop 116 will be so swung as to carry the flange 116-1 under the flange 115-1, whereby the stop 115 cannot be moved, thereby blocking the downward movement of the stop 112 by reason of the connection 118. As the valve 31 is opened the stop 110 will be swung across the path of movement of the stop 112, so that the latter cannot move in an upward direction.

Having described my invention, I claim--

1. The combination of a plurality of weighing-machines; a series of conduits leading to the respective weighing-machines; a discharge-conduit leading from one of the weighing-machines directly to the other; and means for regulating the passage of material through the several conduits.

2. The combination of a plurality of weighing-machines; a series of conduits leading to the respective weighing-machines; a discharge-conduit leading from one of the weighing-machines directly to the other; a series of valves, one in each of the conduits; and means for operating one or more of the valves.

3. The combination of a plurality of weighing-machines; a series of conduits leading to the respective weighing-machines; a discharge-conduit leading from one of said machines directly to the other; and hand-operated means for regulating the passage of material through the several conduits.

4. The combination, with a hopper having a two-way conduit, of primary and secondary weighing-machines, the primary weighing-machine being located over the secondary weighing-machine and said machines being in position to receive material from the respective branches of said two-way conduit; a second two-way conduit located under the primary weighing-machine and one of its branches leading toward the secondary weighing-machine and the other branch being disposed in a different plane; a series of valves, one in each of the branches of said two-way conduits; and means for operating said valves.

5. The combination of a conduit; a weighing-machine in position to receive material therefrom; a stream-controller in the conduit, and located to govern the quantity of material supplied to said weighing-machine; a plurality of guides; a band passed around the guides; a catch-face on the band; and means for engaging the catch-face.

6. The combination of a conduit; a weighing-machine in position to receive material from said conduit; a stream-controller in the latter and located to govern the quantity of material supplied to said weighing-machine; a plurality of guides; a band passed around the guides and disposed in two different planes; a series of catch-faces on the bands; and means for engaging the catch-faces.

7. The combination of a conduit; a weighing-machine in position to receive material therefrom; a stream-controller in the conduit and located to govern the quantity of material supplied to said weighing-machine; a plurality of guides, one of which is operative with the stream-controller; a band passed around the guides and disposed in two different planes; a series of catch-faces secured to the different portions of the band; and independently-operative actuators for engaging the respective catch-faces.

8. The combination of a conduit; a weighing-machine in position to receive material therefrom; a stream-controller; a plurality of guides, one of which is operative with the stream-controller; a band passed around the guides and having a catch-face; an actuator in position to engage the catch-face; and means for returning the actuator to its primary position.

9. The combination of a conduit; a weighing-machine in position to receive material therefrom; a stream-controller in the conduit; a plurality of guides, one of which is operative with the stream-controller; a band passed around the guides; a cord having a weight on one end; and an actuator on the cord, adapted to engage said catch-face.

10. The combination of a conduit; a weighing-machine in position to receive material therefrom; a stream-controller pivoted in the conduit; a pulley secured to the projecting pivot of the stream-controller; a guide; an endless band passed around the guide and pulley and having a catch-face; a pull-cord having a handle at one end and a weight at the other; and an actuator secured to the pull-cord and adapted to engage the catch-face on the operation of such cord.

11. The combination of a conduit; a weighing-machine in position to receive material therefrom; a stream-controller in the conduit; a plurality of guides, one of which is operative with the stream-controller; a band passed around the several guides and provided with a catch-face; and a pull-cord having an actuator adapted to engage the catch-face, such actuator consisting of a sleeve and a device extending therefrom, the sleeve being secured to the cord.

12. The combination of a conduit; a weighing-machine in position to receive material therefrom; a stream-controller in the conduit; a plurality of guides, one of which is connected with the stream-controller; a band passed around the several guides and provided with a projection; and a pull-cord having an actuator adapted to engage the projection, the actuator comprehending a bifurcation between the branches of which the band is located.

13. The combination of a conduit; a weighing-machine in position to receive material therefrom; a stream-controller in the conduit; a plurality of guides; an endless band passed around the guides and having a catch-face; a cord provided with an actuator adapted to engage said catch-face and having a projection; and a stop adapted to be engaged by the projection.

14. The combination of a plurality of weighing-machines; a series of conduits leading to the respective weighing-machines; a series of valves, one in each of the conduits; means for operating the valves; and means in position to block the opening movement of one of the valves when the other is open.

15. The combination of a plurality of weighing-machines; a series of conduits leading to the respective weighing-machines; a conduit leading from one of the weighing-machines to the other; a series of valves; and interlocking stop mechanism cooperative with said valves.

16. The combination with primary and secondary weighing-machines; of a two-way conduit, the respective branches of which lead to said weighing-machines; a second two-way conduit located under the primary weighing-machine, and one of its branches leading toward the secondary weighing-machine; a series of valves, one valve being located in each conduit; and interlocking stop mechanism cooperative with the several valves.

17. The combination with primary and secondary weighing-machines, of a two-way conduit, the respective branches of which lead to said weighing-machines; a pair of valves disposed in said branches, one of them being provided with a stop; a cooperating stop; a second two-way conduit located under the primary weighing-machine, one branch of which leads to the secondary weighing-machine; a pair of valves mounted in the branches of the last-mentioned two-way conduit; a second pair of stops cooperative with each other and with the last-mentioned valves, and one of them being connected with one of the first-mentioned stops.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600032 ===

WEIGHING-MACHINE

United States Patent 600032

Filing date: October 26, 1897

Issue date: March 1, 1898

Inventor: FRANCIS H. RICHARDS

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Francis H. Richards, a citizen of the United States, residing at Hartford, in the county of Hartford and State of Connecticut, have invented certain new and useful Improvements in Weighing-Machines, of which the following is a specification.

This invention relates to weighing-machines, the object thereof being to provide an improved machine of this character in which the material from the supply mechanism is positively prevented from entering the load-receiver during the discharge of a load, this result being obtained by shifting the valve-actuator into position to prevent the opening of the supply-valve, which operation is effected by the closer mechanism concurrently with the opening of the closer.

My improved machine embodies a supply-valve, a valve-actuator in position to operate the valve, and means cooperative, respectively, with the closer mechanism and the valve-actuator and serving to shift the latter on the opening of the closer, thereby to prevent the operation of the valve. The closer mechanism consists of a closer proper and a latch for holding said closer shut, and in the present case the valve-actuator is connected with the closer, so that as the latter opens the action set forth will immediately follow.

In the drawings accompanying and forming part of this specification, Figure 1 is a front elevation of a weighing-machine embodying my present improvements, and Figs. 2, 3, and 4 are side elevations of the machine as seen from the right in Fig. 1.

Similar characters designate like parts in all the figures of the drawings.

The framework for supporting the different parts of the machine may consist of a chambered base or bed 2 and the side frames or uprights 3 and 4, bent at their top and connected with the supply-spout H, which constitutes a convenient means for supplying a stream of material to the load-receiver of the weighing mechanism.

The weighing mechanism consists of a load-receiver, as G, and a plurality of scale-beams B and B1 for supporting the same. Each of the scale-beams consists of a shaft portion 5 and the supporting-arms 6 for the load-receiver, the shaft portions being fulcrumed upon the framework in the customary manner. Two of the arms of the beams are joined at their adjacent ends by the link 7, connected with said arms in the usual manner.

The load-receiver G is supported upon the beams B and B1, between their fulcrums or supports.

The beam B1 or the shaft portion 5 thereof is provided with the rearwardly-extending arm 8, which carries the slidable counterbalance-weight 9, held in a fixed position by the screw 10.

The spout H is located over the load-receiver G and is adapted to supply a stream of material thereto, the supply being governed or regulated by a suitable valve, as V, of the "pan" type familiar in this art, said valve being mounted to swing under the outlet or opening in the spout H to arrest the supply of material to the load-receiver. Means for actuating the valve alternately to close and open the same will be hereinafter described.

The load-receiver has the usual discharge-outlet, through which the material may intermittingly pass and which is normally covered by a closer, as L, pivoted to the load-receiver, as at 12, the axis of oscillation of the closer being a short distance forward or what is herein illustrated as the "left" of a line intersecting the center of the load-receiver, whereby when the closer is released the pressure of material thereon will force it to its open position.

For the purpose of holding the closer shut I have shown a gravity-latch leaHaving a detent or shoulder 13, adapted to engage the upper end of the arm 14 on the closer to lock the latter shut, as indicated in Fig. 2. The latch like, is pivoted at 15 upon the load-receiver, and when it is lifted relatively to and above the arm 14 the closer will be released and can be swung open, as hereinbefore specified.

For the purpose of retarding the shutting of the closer I provide in connection therewith a regulator-hopper, as R, fixed upon the discharge edge of the closer, and the latter forms part of one of the regulator-walls, as indicated in the several side elevations. The outlet of the regulator R is of less area than the inlet, as shown in Fig. 4, whereby when the closer is opened and when said regulator is carried to a position to receive the material from the load-receiver said regulator will retain sufficient of said material to hold the closer open until the entire load is discharged. To shut the closer, it is provided with a counterweight 16.

For the purpose of alternately closing and opening the valve V, I have illustrated the actuator A constructed to be coupled to the valve to operate the same and preferably connected with the closer and beam mechanism. The valve-actuator A consists of a bar connected at one end, as by a pivotal joint 20, with the longitudinal rod 21, likewise attached at its lower end to the counterpoise side of the beam B1, or that part of said beam which carries the counterweight 9. The free end of the actuator has a socket 22 adapted to receive a projection 23, extending from the valve-wall, as indicated in Fig. 2, when the valve is open. The actuator is fulcrumed, as at 24, between its ends to the longitudinal support or rod 25, which rod is pivoted, as at 26, at its lower end to the closer, near the axis of oscillation of the latter, so that as said closer opens the rod 25 will be drawn downward for a purpose that will hereinafter appear and will be thrust upward when the closer is shut.

At the commencement of operation, as indicated in Fig. 2, the valve will be wide open, and the projection 23 thereof will be seated in the socket 22 at the inner or free end of the actuator A. The valve being wide open a stream of large volume will enter the load-receiver G, and when a certain proportion of the load has been received said load-receiver will descend, thereby elevating the counterpoised arm 8 of the scale-beam B1 and consequently the rod 21 and right-hand arm of the actuator A, whereby the opposite arm of said actuator will be lowered, and by reason of the connection between the actuator and the valve V the latter will be closed or swung under the outlet of the spout H to cut off the supply, this operation being concluded when the completed load is in the receiver G, at which time the projection of the valve will have passed out of the socket on the actuator, as shown in Fig. 3. The actuator, after the load is completed, is pulled down for a short distance, so that the projection 23 is caused to ride along the straight guide-face 30 of the angular extension 31 on said valve-actuator, and by reason of its connection with the closer said actuator is pulled downward for some distance, whereby the valve cannot be opened as the emptying load-receiver rises.

I have illustrated for the purpose of tripping the latch like, the pin 32, extending laterally from the arm 33 on the side frame 3, disposed in the path of the free end of the latch. The latch strikes the pin when the load is nearly completed, and as the load-receiver descends for a short distance beyond this point the upper end of the arm 14 is carried out of engagement with the shoulder 13, thereby releasing the closer L.

When the closer is released, the pressure of the material in the load-receiver G forces the same open in the manner hereinbefore specified, and immediately on this operation the rod 25 is drawn downward, as shown in Fig. 4, the actuator being moved in a corresponding direction and carrying the guide-face 30 of the angular extension 31 along the projection 23 of the valve, as shown in said figure. The actuator A has at its inner end the lug 35, which is adapted to strike the pin 23 on the valve when the closer shuts, by reason of which the valve V can be opened, and as it opens the pin 23 will ride into the socket 22, whereby on the succeeding operation the valve can be shut by the actuator A, which receives its power from the beam B1. As soon as the load commences to discharge from the receiver G the latter will rise, due to the falling of the counterweight 9; but the lug 35 on the actuator when the receiver reaches its highest position does not quite come into contact with the pin 23 on the valve. The closer is held open for a sufficiently long period to permit the entire load to empty, after which it is shut, and as it does so it imparts an upward thrust to the rod 25, forcing the actuator A upward, with the lug 35 in contact with the valve-pin 23, thereby swinging the valve open, this motion continuing until the actuator has returned to its primary position, (shown in Fig. 2,) by which time the pin will have been thrust entirely within the socket in said actuator.

The operation of the hereinbefore-described machine is as follows: Fig. 2 represents the positions occupied by the several parts at the commencement of operation, at which time the closer L is shut and held by the latch lea engaging the closer-arm 14, the valve V being wide open, with the pin 23 thereof seated in the socket 22 at the end of the actuator. the valve being wide open a stream of large volume will enter the load-receiver G, and said load-receiver will descend when a certain proportion of the load has been received, the counterpoise 8 of the beam B1 being elevated, which results in raising the rod 21 and the right-hand arm of the actuator A, thereby lowering the opposite arm of the actuator and swinging the valve V shut, as shown in Fig. 3. At a time immediately succeeding this point the latch like, strikes the pin 32 on the framework, so that the closer-arm 14 will be moved away from the latch to effect the release of the closer, which is then opened by the action of the material thereagainst. When the load is entirely discharged, the closer is returned to its shut position by the counterweight 16 and held shut by the latch lea after which the operation is repeated.

Having described my invention, I claim--

1. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver provided with a closer shiftable for discharging the load, of a valve; a valve-actuator supported for operation independently of the valve; and a connection operatively connected with the closer and extending to the valve-actuator, and adapted on the opening of the closer to shift the valve-actuator and thereby prevent the opening of the valve.

2. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver, of closer mechanism controlling the discharge of a load and embodying a latch; means for tripping the latch; stream-supplying means; a valve; a valve-actuator independent of, and in position to operate the valve; and a connector cooperative with the closer mechanism and valve-actuator, respectively, and serving to shift the valve-actuator on the opening of the closer and thereby prevent the opening of the valve.

3. The combination, with weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver, of closer mechanism controlling the discharge of the load and including a latch; means for tripping the latch; stream-supplying means; a valve; a valve-actuator independent of, and in position to operate, and constructed to be coupled to, the valve; and a connector cooperative with the closer mechanism and valve-actuator, respectively, and "serving to shift the valve-actuator on the opening of the closer and thereby prevent the opening of the valve.

4. The combination, with weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver, of closer mechanism controlling the discharge of a load and including a latch; means for tripping the latch; stream-supplying means; a valve having a projection; a valve-actuator independent of, and constructed to engage said projection to operate the valve; and a connector cooperative with the closer mechanism and valve-actuator, respectively, and serving to shift the latter on the opening of the closer and thereby prevent the opening of the valve.

5. The combination, with a load-receiver and its supporting-beam mechanism, of a closer for the load-receiver; stream-supplying means; a supply-valve; a valve-actuator independent of the supply-valve; and a connection between the valve-actuator and the closer for shifting said actuator relatively to the valve on the opening of the closer.

6. The combination, with a load-receiver and its supporting-beam mechanism, of a closer for the load-receiver; stream-supplying means; a supply-valve; a valve-actuator connected with the beam mechanism; and means between the actuator and the closer for shifting the actuator to a position for preventing the opening of the valve on the opening of the closer.

7. The combination, with a load-receiver and its supporting-beam mechanism, of a closer for the load-receiver; stream-supplying means; a supply-valve; a valve-actuator; a rod connected, respectively, with the valve-actuator and the beam mechanism; and a connection between the valve-actuator and the closer for shifting said valve-actuator on the opening of the closer.

8. The combination, with a load-receiver and its supporting-beam, of a closer for the load-receiver; stream-supplying means; a supply-valve provided with a projection; a valve-actuator having a socket at one end to receive the projection and connected with the scale-beam; and means for supporting the valve-actuator between its ends.

9. The combination, with a load-receiver and its supporting-beam mechanism, of a closer for the load-receiver; stream-supplying means; a supply-valve; a valve-actuator; a rod connected with the beam mechanism and to one end of the actuator; and a second rod connected with the closer and also with the actuator intermediate the ends of the latter.

10. The combination, with a load-receiver, of a plurality of supporting-beams therefor one of which has a rearwardly-extending counterweighted arm; a supply-valve; a valve-actuator; a rod connected, respectively, with the actuator and the counterweighted arm; and a support on which the actuator is fulcrumed.

11. The combination, with a load-receiver and its supporting-beam mechanism, of an oscillatory closer for the load-receiver; stream-supplying means; a supply-valve; a valve-actuator independent of the valve; and a rod connected with the actuator and also with the closer, the point of connection with the closer being adjacent to the axis of oscillation of the latter. . .

12. The combination, with weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver, of a closer for the load-receiver;, a supply-valve; an actuator for the supply-valve, having a socket at one end and also provided with a lug adapted to engage the valve; and a connection between the actuator and the closer for shifting the actuator on the opening of the closer.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600035 ===

AUTOMATIC WEIGHING-MACHINE

United States Patent 600035

Issue date: March 1, 1898

Inventor: FRANCIS H. RICHARDS

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Francis H. Richards, a citizen of the United States, residing at Hartford, in the county of Hartford and State of Connecticut, have invented certain new and useful Improvements in Automatic Weighing-Machines, of which the following is a specification.

This invention relates to weighing-machines for automatically weighing various kinds of granular and similar substances, certain of the improvements being especially adapted for application to machines of the kind disclosed by Letters Patent No. 572,067, granted to me November 24, 1896.

One of the objects of the invention is to provide, in connection with the weighing mechanism, a resistance device or counterpoise preferably supported independently of the weighing mechanism and in position to apply its effect thereto when the load-receiver is in its highest position, means being employed to throw said resistance device out of action relatively to the weighing mechanism at the commencement of the poising period, whereby the load can be accurately poised. In the present case the resistance device is in the form of a weight designed to be used in conjunction with the overloading means, it being adapted to exert its effect to compensate for the overload and to prevent the load-receiver from descending prematurely.

Another object of the invention is to furnish means, preferably supported independently of the weighing mechanism, for actuating or retracting the stream-controller, said actuating means embodying a valved regulator-hopper supported to receive and to be lowered by the loads intermittingly discharged from the load-receiver, said regulator-hopper on its ascending stroke being adapted to furnish the requisite power to open the stream-controller. Another object is to employ, in conjunction with the weighing mechanism, a scale or graduated plate the pointer of which in the present instance consists of an auxiliary beam provided with a slidable counterweight, and by this means the accuracy of the work can be determined at all times and any deficiency or inequality of weight between the counterpoising mechanism and the load-receiver can be obviated by sliding the weight along the auxiliary beam.

Another object of the invention is to provide means for overloading or overcharging the load-receiver and for subsequently effecting the removal of the excess, which results are preferably accomplished by positively holding the overloading-valve in its open position and by also maintaining the load-reducing valve successively in its closed and open positions for a sufficient duration of time to insure the foregoing results.

In the drawings accompanying and forming part of this specification, Figure 1 is a rear elevation of my improved weighing-machine. Fig. 2 is a plan view of the same. Figs. 3, 4, 5, and 6 are side elevations of the same as seen from the right in Fig. 1, showing the positions occupied by the various parts during the making and discharge of a load. Figs. 7, 8, and 9 are longitudinal central sections of the regulator-hopper and its connected parts in three different positions. Figs. 10, 11, and 12 are longitudinal central sections of the load-reducing valve, a portion of the load-receiver, and the parts adjacent thereto. Fig. 13 is a face view of the same. Fig. 14 is a detail in transverse section taken in the line y y, Fig. 12. Figs. 15 and 16 are detail views of a portion of the load-reducing means. Fig. 17 is a detail in elevation of a lever employed in connection with the counterpoising means; and Fig. 18 is a transverse section in the line x x, Fig. 17.

Similar characters designate like parts in all the figures of the drawings.

The framework for supporting the several parts of the machine may be of any preferred construction, it being represented consisting of a chambered bed or base 2, the side frames 3 and 4, and brackets 5 and 6, which extend oppositely from the supply-hopper or chute H, said parts being secured together in some convenient manner.

The weighing-machine may be of any suitable construction, and, as usual, it consists of a suitable receiver in which the loads are built up and counterpoising mechanism therefor, the latter in the present case consisting of a plurality of counterweighted beams.

The load-receiver is designated by G, and it consists of a hopper-shaped receptacle B, which latter is mounted in some well-known manner upon the framework of the machine and consists of a pair of longitudinal arms, as 7, joined at their extremities by a cylindrical counterweight W, which when the machine is at rest is borne by suitable stops on the framework.

The load-receiver G has the usual discharge outlet in its lower end, the passage of material through said outlet being controlled by a suitable closer or valve, as L, consisting of a flat plate pivoted at 8 to the lower forward side of the load-receiver and adapted normally to cover the discharge-outlet, said closer being provided, preferably, with the rigid counterweighted plates 9 to shut the same on the discharge of a load.

The means for controlling the discharge of a load comprehends as a part thereof a latch, such as lea the latter consisting in the present case of a counterweighted lever pivoted at 10 to the load-receiver, the counterweighted arm 12 of said latch being provided with a shoulder 13, adapted to engage the lug 14 on the adjacent counterweighted closer-plate 9, the engagement being caused by reason of the counterweight on the arm 12.

My present invention comprehends the provision, in connection with weighing mechanism, of overloading and load-reducing means successively effective during the weighing of a load, the overloading means being adapted to deliver to the load-receiver a mass or quantity of material in excess of the predetermined load, such excess being removed by the load-reducing means.

The hopper H, which is located over the load-receiver to deliver a stream of material thereto, in connection with a suitable stream controller or valve, such as V, constitutes a convenient means for supplying an overload or overcharge to the receiver G.

The valve V is of the "oscillatory-pan" type, it being carried, preferably, by the two trunnions or shafts 20 and 21, respectively, the outer ends of which are journaled in suitable bearings on the side frames 3 and 4, respectively, and the inner ends of which are suitably secured to the hubs 22 and 23 on the opposite sides of the valve.

For the purpose of insuring the delivery of an overload to the load-receiver means are preferably provided for locking the valve V in its wide-open position (see Fig. 3) until the load-receiver has passed below the so-called "poising-line," the means shown consisting of the stop or rod 25, connected at one end to the normally stationary part or regulator R, supported in the base 2 and hereinafter more particularly described, the rod 25 being pivoted to said regulator, as at 26. The upper end of the rod 25 is adapted to engage under the projection 27, extending laterally from the crank-arm 28 on the valve-trunnion 20, as shown in Fig. 3, when the valve is in its wide-open position, means being provided to release the valve, preferably by tripping the rod 25 or disengaging it from the projection 27.

Any suitable means may be employed for advancing or shutting the stream controller or valve, whereby the stream from the hopper can be cut off, and for this purpose I have illustrated the weight 30, suitably secured to the arm 31, projecting rearward from the valve-trunnion 21.

It will be evident that when the stop or rod 25 is disengaged from the projection or pin 27 the weight 30 will be free to drop, and in so doing it will instantly swing the valve V under the outlet of the hopper H for stopping the supply to the load-receiver.

The load-reducing means comprehends, preferably as a part thereof, a suitable valve to control the emission of material through a suitable load-reducing opening in the receiver G, formed at a point between its receiving and delivery ends, such an opening being shown at 35 in the rear wall of the load-receiver. (See Figs. 10, 11, and 12.)"

The load-reducing valve is designated by 30, it being suitably secured to the rock-shaft 37, journaled in hubs or bearings projecting oppositely from the spout S. The spout has at its upper end suitable ears, as 38 and 39, which can be secured to the load-receiver, the lower end of said spout having a suitable flange secured, preferably, to the inside of the load-receiver.

The spout-floor consists of two oppositely-disposed sections 40 and 41, leading, respectively, from and toward the load-receiver, the spout-section 40 being adapted to deliver the material removed from the load-receiver during the weighing of a load into a suitable receptacle and the spout-section 41 being adapted to cause any material in the spout on the discharge of a true load to run into the load-receiver.

The spout S has on its opposite sides the guard-walls 42 and 43 to prevent lateral flow of the material.

For the purpose of preventing the material from passing from the load-receiver too rapidly when the reducing-valve 30 is opened I have provided a suitable check device, as the overhanging hood 45, against which the mass runs in contact, having suitable walls, as 40, on its opposite sides, the hood proper and the two walls being flanged, as at 47, and the several flanges being secured suitably to the inside of the load-receiver.

It will be evident that when the mass in the load-receiver has reached a point above the load-reducing opening 35 and that when the valve V is opened the check device or hood 45 acts to hold back the material, so that it cannot spurt from the load-receiver.

The means for maintaining the load-reducing valve 30 in its shut position (represented in Figs. 3 and 10) to insure the overloading of the receiver G consists in the present case of the valve-closing device or weight 50, suitably secured to the arm 51, fixed to the valve-shaft 37, the weight holding the valve in its shut position and the projection 52 on the valve against the spout S or the wall 42 thereof, the spout acting as a stop to prevent the valve from being closed too far.

It will be remembered that the overloading-valve V is maintained in its wide-open position until the receiver G is overloaded, and for releasing said valve, whereby it may be shut, I prefer to employ means cooperative with the load-reducing valve, such means consisting in the present case of a trip device 55, in the form of a cam or curved arm suitably secured to the valve-shaft 37. Said trip device 55 is adapted to cooperate with a suitable member connected with the stop-rod 25, such as the lever 56, pivoted to a suitable boss, as 57, on the side frame 3, the lower end of the lever 56 being disposed in the path of movement of the trip device or cam 55 and the upper end of said lever being connected suitably to the stop-rod 25, the link 58, pivoted, respectively, to said rod and lever, being shown for this purpose.

When the load-receiver G has almost reached the end of its downstroke, the trip device 55 will strike the lower end of the lever 50 and will swing the same, so that by reason of the connection between said lever and the stop-rod 25 the latter can be thrown from under the projection 27, as shown in Fig. 4, whereby the counterweight 30 can drop to close the valve V.

Any suitable means may be employed for opening the load-reducing valve 30, such as the stationary actuator 60, mounted on a fixed part of the machine and preferably adjustable. The actuator 60 is in the nature of an abutment disposed in the path of movement of a suitable device connected with the load-reducing valve, whereby when said device impinges against the actuator 60 the valve will be caused to open to permit the overload or surplus to pass from the load-receiver. The actuator 60 consists of a vertical post or bar suitably secured at its lower end in the hub 61, formed on the projection 62 on the clamp 63. The clamp 63 embraces the cylindrical discharge-conduit D and is vertically slidable thereon, it, and consequently the actuator 60, being held in an adjusted position by the set-screw 64 on the clamp. The shaft 37 has secured thereto at a suitable point the rearwardly-extending arm 65, the outer flattened end of which is adapted to strike the upper end of the actuator 60, as shown in Fig. 5, when the load-receiver has reached a predetermined position, or at a time near the end of its descending movement, whereby on the further and slight descent of said load-receiver the load-reducing valve 30 is swung to its wide-open position, (shown in Fig. 4,) where it can be engaged by a suitable detent or latch, such as 67, pivoted to the load-receiver, said latch being adapted to engage the forward-extending arm 68 on the valve-shaft 37. The latch 67 is counterweighted, whereby its catch 69 will be caused to engage the cooperating arm 68 of the valve 36 when the latter is opened, as just specified, the action of the valve-holding latch being limited by suitably-positioned stops on the load-receiver. On the opening of the valve in the manner just specified the surplus can flow from the load-receiver through the spout S and enter the discharge-conduit D, above which said spout is situated.

It will be apparent that when the material is removed from the load-receiver it will rise, and during this motion the latch 67 will be tripped by suitable means, whereby the valve 36 can be instantly shut by the dropping of the weight 50 to stop the further withdrawal of material from the load-receiver, it being understood that when the latch 67 is thus tripped the load is completed.

The means for tripping the latch consist in the present case of the by-pass 70, of ordinary construction, pivoted to the boss 71, extending inward from the frame 3. On the downstroke of the load-receiver and when the same has nearly reached the end of such movement the arm 73 of the latch 67 will impinge against the by-pass 70 and thrust the same to one side. On the ascent of the load-receiver on the removal of the surplus in the manner just alluded to and when the load has reached completion the arm 73 will strike the by-pass 71, which is then in the nature of a fixture on the frame, the latch thereby being tripped and its hook 69 disengaged from the cooperating arm 68 of the load-reducing valve, whereby the latter can be closed.

The discharge-conduit D is in the nature of a vertically-disposed cylindrical pipe or tube secured at its lower end in the chambered extension 72 on the rear side of the base, the material withdrawn from the load-receiver entering said discharge-conduit, and it can be disposed of in the manner shown and described by the Letters Patent hereinbefore referred to.

For the purpose of preventing the descent of the load-receiver G until the same is nearly overloaded or overcharged I provide, in connection with the weighing mechanism, a suitable resistance or counterpoise adapted to act against one of the members of the weighing mechanism. The counterpoise is in the form of a weight W, suitably secured to the reciprocatory slide-bar 75, the lower end of the bar being adapted to apply its effect or bear against the counterpoised side of the beam B at the commencement of the weighing operation, thereby to increase the weight of the counterpoise mechanism sufficiently to compensate for the overcharge, the weight W being thrown out of action relatively to the weighing mechanism at a predetermined point in the operation, or when the load-receiver is overloaded, whereby the poising operation can be effected with accuracy.

The slide-bar 75 is pivoted, as at 76, to the oscillatory lever 77, the latter being likewise mounted upon the supply-hopper H. At the commencement of operation, as will be seen in Fig. 3, the lower end of the weighted slide-bar 75 will be in contact with the scale-beam B, thereby to retard its action, and consequently the descent of the load-receiver. When, however, the load-receiver descends, the counterpoise side of the beam B, and consequently the slide-bar 75, will be raised, and at a predetermined time in the operation, or when the load-receiver has been overloaded, means are brought into action for shifting or lifting the slide-bar out of contact with the beam, and the means herein represented for this purpose are connected with the valve for operation.

The device for shifting the slide-bar is designated by 80 and consists of a reciprocatory bar passing through a suitable guide-aperture in the bracket 5 and connected, preferably, by a pivotal joint at its lower end with the crank-arm 81 on the valve-shaft 20. When the valve V is released in the manner hereinbefore set forth, the bar 80 will be thrust quickly upward and, engaging the right-hand arm of the lever 77, as shown in Fig. 4, will raise said arm, and consequently the weighted slide 75, to a point above the beam B. When the valve V is opened, the slide-bar 75 of course will be released and can drop until it reaches the beam.

For the purpose of varying the effect of the counterpoise device on the weighing mechanism the lever 77 is preferably furnished with the slidable split weight 85, partially embracing the same and held in an adjusted position by the set-screw 86, the weight being slid along the lever at either side of the center of oscillation of the lever to vary the resistance applied to the beam.

For the purpose of determining readily the accuracy of the work done by the machine I provide in conjunction therewith a suitable scale and pointer, an auxiliary beam preferably serving as such a pointer. The scale is designated by C, it consisting of a segmental plate provided with suitable graduations, as 87, near its upper end, the lower end of said scale-plate terminating in a shoe 88, by which the device can be secured to the base 2 in some suitable manner, as by ordinary holding-screws. The pointer for the scale consists, preferably, of an auxiliary beam B1, fulcrumed upon the framework, it being shown equipped with a notch-bearing, as 89, resting on a knife-edge pivot 90, secured to the hub 91 on the inside of the frame member 4, said auxiliary beam, which is in the form of a lever, being adapted to act against the load-receiver. The inner end of the auxiliary beam is notched, as at 92, the notch being adapted to receive a knife-edge pivot 93, suitably secured to the load-receiver. As the load-receiver ascends and descends during the making of a load the correctness of the work can be determined by an inspection of the scale-plate C, and if there be any difference between the load-receiver G and the counterpoise-weight W the sliding weight 94 on the auxiliary beam can be moved along the same to make up for any difference, said weight being held in an adjusted position by the set-screw 95.

The latch lea which holds the closer against opening movement during the loading period, is tripped in the present case by a tripper, as T, on the framework, said tripper consisting of a by-pass of ordinary construction cooperative with the arm 105 of the latch, said arm being adapted to strike and to force the by-pass tripper to one side on the downstroke of the load-receiver, but on the upstroke of said load-receiver the arm 105 will abut against the tripper, as shown in Fig. 0, whereby the counterweighted arm 12 of said latch will be lifted and disengaged from the lug 14 of the closer, thereby freeing the latter, so that it can be opened by the pressure of the material in the load-receiver.

The regulator R, to which I have hereinbefore referred, constitutes a convenient actuator for opening the valve V, it being thrown into operative relation therewith at the proper point, and the power of the regulator as it rises being transmitted to the valve by a suitable device, the rod 25, to which reference has hereinbefore been made, constituting a suitable medium for this purpose. The regulator consists in the present case of a valved regulator-hopper pivoted at 100 for reciprocatory movement in the base 2, the valve of said regulator being designated by 101 and pivoted to one side thereof, as at 102, whereby the regulator will be caused to retain a sufficient quantity of material to insure its being carried downward. When the empty regulator R rises, it being preferably counterweighted, it is adapted to thrust the rod 25 upward to open the valve.

The pivot 102 of the regulator-valve 101 consists of a transverse rock-shaft suitably supported by the regulator and having affixed thereto at one end the crank-arm 100, connected to a suitable resistance member, such as the base 2, the connection between these parts being shown as the link 107, pivoted to the crank-arm 100 and also to the inside of the base, as shown in Fig. 1, the several pivots being so located that when the regulator-valve is open the several pivots will be located substantially in line, whereby the valve can be held open and the regulator R in its depressed position by a minimum pressure on the valve. The regulator is returned to its normal position preferably by a counterweight, as 108, secured to the outer end of the arm 109, fixed to the said regulator.

When the latch L1 is tripped, the closer L is released and is forced open by the weight of the material in the load-receiver, such material being discharged into the regulator-hopper R and nearly filling the same, whereby the weight 108 will be overbalanced and the regulator caused to drop, the valve 101, by reason of its connection with the base 2, being opened to permit the material to pass from the regulator, and the deflected or angular portion or lip 110 of the regulator-valve 101, acting against the discharging material, will insure the valve being held open until all the material has passed therefrom, the several centers of the toggle members 106 and 107 being in line. When all the material has passed from the regulator, the weight 108 can drop, and in so doing elevates the regulator or returns it to its final position.

For the purpose of securing a more efficient action of the valve 101 it is balanced, the weight 112, secured to the crank-arm 100, being shown for this purpose. It will be evident that when the regulator-hopper R is depressed in the manner specified the rod 25 will be drawn downward, so that its upper end can be thrust under the projection 27, suitable means being provided to accomplish this result. The means provided in the present case for effecting this result consists of the weight 113 on the arm 114, movable concentrically with the lever 56, said weight being adapted, when the upper end of the rod reaches a point opposite the projection 27, to throw the rod under said projection, so that when the empty regulator R rises the valve V can be forced open, as will be apparent.

The usual interlocking stops are shown at 120 and 121, connected, respectively, with the valve V and the closer L, each of said stops being adapted to block the action of the other, the stop 121 being mounted on the load-receiver and connected to the closer L by the rod 122, while the cooperating stop 120 is fixed to the trunnion 21.

The operation of the hereinbefore-described machine, briefly stated, is as follows: Fig. 3 represents the positions occupied by the several parts at the commencement of operation, the valve 36 and closer L being maintained in their shut positions, as hereinbefore specified, and the supply-valve V held in its wide-open position by the stop-rod 25, so that the full volume of the supply from the hopper H can gravitate into the empty receiver to overload the same. When a certain percentage of the predetermined charge is in the load-receiver, it, with the inner end of the beam B, will be lowered, such motion continuing until said receiver is overloaded, just prior to which the cam-arm 55 will strike the lower arm of the lever 56 and swing the same to the right, thereby oppositely swinging the rod 25, whereby the latter will be thrown from under the projection 28 to release the valve V. When the valve V is released, the weight 30 will drop to shut the same, as shown in Fig. 4. At a point immediately preceding the time the load-receiver G reaches the limit of its downstroke the flattened end of the arm 65 will impinge against the upright actuator 60, as seen in Fig. 4, whereby the valve 36 will be swung open, as illustrated in said figure, to permit the surplus to pass therefrom through the opening 35, the material passing into the discharge-conduit D. As the receiver lightens, the weight 50, when released, as hereinbefore specified, by falling, will shut the load-reducing valve, as shown in Fig. 5, to stop the further withdrawal of material from the load-receiver. When the receiver G reaches its lowest position, the latch L1 thereon will pass onto the tripper T, whereby on the ascent of said receiver and when the load is completed the latch will abut against the tripper to elevate the counterweighted arm 12, thereby to disengage the latter from the lug 14 of the closer. The material is then discharged into the regulator-hopper R, depressing the same and drawing the rod 25 downward, whereby it can be thrown under the projection 27 by the weight 113, so that when the empty regulator R rises the valve can be opened. When all the material passes from the load-receiver and the regulator-hopper, the several parts will be returned to their primary positions to repeat the operation.

Having described my invention, I claim--

1. The combination, with weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver and countterpoising means therefor, of overloading and load-reducing means; a resistance device supported by the framework and in position to apply its effect normally to the counterpoising means; and means for automatically shifting said resistance device out of operative relation with the counterpoising means when the load-receiver has received a supply of material in excess of the predetermined load.

2. The combination, with weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver and a scale-beam, of a counterweighted device carried upon the framework above the scale-beam and in position normally to bear against said scale-beam; a supply apparatus; and means coactive with the supply apparatus for shifting said counterweighted device out of operative relation with the beam when the load-receiver reaches a certain point.

3. The combination, with weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver and a scale-beam, of a resistance device supported independently of the scale-beam and mounted upon the framework for operation and adapted normally to act against the scale-beam; a supply apparatus; and movably-mounted means coactive with the supply apparatus for shifting the resistance device out of operative relation with the scale-beam.

4. The combination, with weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver, of overloading and load-reducing means successively effective during the weighing of a load, said overloading means embodying a valve; a resistance device in position to act against the weighing mechanism; and means operative with said valve for shifting said resistance device.

5. The combination, with weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver and a scale-beam, of a valve; a resistance device in position to act against one of the members of the weighing mechanism; and means operative with the valve, for shifting said resistance device.

6. The combination, with weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver and a scale-beam, of a weighted slide adapted to act against one of the members of the weighing mechanism; stream-supplying means embodying a valve; and means operative with said valve for raising said slide when the load-receiver has reached a certain point.

7. The combination, with weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver and a scale-beam, of a resistance device adapted to act against one of the members of the weighing mechanism; a lever to which said resistance device is connected; a valve; and means operative with the valve, for shifting said lever.

8. The combination, with weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver and a scale-beam, of a valve and its supporting-shaft provided with an arm; a weighted slide-bar adapted to act against one of the members of the weighing mechanism; and means connected to said arm, for shifting the slide-bar.

9. The combination, with weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver and a scale-beam, of a weighted slide-bar in position to act against one of the members of the weighing mechanism; a lever to which the bar is connected; a valve and its shaft provided with an arm; and a device connected to said arm, for engaging said lever.

10. The combination, with weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver and a scale-beam, of means for applying a resistance to the scale-beam; a device adapted to vary the resistance applied; a supply-valve; and means operative with the supply-valve for shifting the resisting means out of operative relation with the scale-beam.

11. The combination, with weighing mechanism, of overloading and load-reducing means, the overloading means embodying a valve; a stop normally operative to hold said valve in its open position; and a device cooperative with the load-reducing means, for tripping said stop.

12. The combination, with weighing mechanism, of overloading and load-reducing means, each embodying a valve; a stop for holding the overloading-valve in an open position for a predetermined length of time; and means connected with the load-reducing valve, for tripping said stop.

13. The combination, with weighing mechanism, of overloading means comprehending a valve; a stop-rod adapted to engage a device connected with the valve; load-reducing means; and instrumentalities cooperative with the load-reducing means, for tripping said rod.

14. The combination, with weighing mechanism, of overloading means embodying a valve; a shaft, for supporting the valve, said shaft having a crank-arm furnished with a projection; a stop in position to engage the projection; load-reducing means; and instrumentalities cooperative with the load-reducing means, for tripping said stop.

15. The combination, with weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver, of means for delivering to the load-receiver a supply of material in excess of the predetermined load; load-reducing means embodying a valve; means for opening the valve to permit the surplus to pass from the load-receiver; a stop situated to hold the overloading-valve in its open position; and means embodying a device shiftably mounted upon the load-receiver for tripping said stop when the load-receiver reaches a certain point.

16. The combination, with weighing mechanism, of overloading and load-reducing means each embodying a valve, the overloading-valve being counterweighted; a stop located to hold the counterweighted valve in its open position; and means cooperative with the load-reducing valve, for tripping said stop.

17. The combination, with weighing mechanism, of overloading and load-reducing means each embodying a valve; a regulator in position to receive the loads discharged by the weighing mechanism; a stop connected to the regulator and located to hold the overloading-valve in its open position; and means connected with the load-reducing valve, for tripping said stop.

18. The combination, with weighing mechanism, of overloading and load-reducing means each embodying a valve; a stop located to hold the overloading-valve in its open position; a lever connected with said stop; and means operative with the load-reducing valve, for engaging said lever.

19. The combination, with weighing mechanism, of overloading and load-reducing means each embodying a valve; a stop located to hold the overloading-valve in its open position; a lever; a link connected, respectively, with the lever and stop; and a device connected with the load-reducing valve, for engaging said lever.

20. The combination, with weighing mechanism, of overloading and load-reducing means each embodying a valve; a stop located to hold the overloading-valve in its open position; a lever mounted on the framework and connected by a link to said stop; and a cam connected with the load-reducing valve and adapted to engage said lever.

21. The combination, with weighing mechanism, of overloading and load-reducing means each embodying a valve, the load-reducing valve being counterweighted; a stop located to hold the overloading-valve in its open position; and means connected with the load-reducing valve, for tripping said stop.

22. The combination, with weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver, of means for delivering to said load-receiver a supply of material in excess of the predetermined load; load-reducing means including a valve; an adjustable actuator in position to open said valve when the load-receiver reaches a certain point in its descent, thereby to permit the surplus to pass from the load-receiver; means for closing the valve when the surplus has been removed; and a surplus-receiving device.

23. The combination, with weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver, of means for delivering to the same a supply of material in excess of the predetermined load; load-reducing means embodying a valve; a discharge-conduit located to receive the material removed from the load-receiver by the load-reducing means; an actuator on said conduit, for opening the load-reducing valve, thereby to permit the surplus to pass from the load-receiver; and means for closing the valve when the surplus has been withdrawn.

24. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver, of overloading and load-reducing means, the load-reducing means including a valve; a discharge-conduit located to receive the material withdrawn from the load-receiver; a clamp embracing said discharge-conduit and provided with an actuator for opening the load-reducing valve when the load-receiver reaches a certain point in its descent.

25. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver, of overloading and load-reducing means each including a valve; a stop located to hold the overloading-valve in its open position; means operative with the load-reducing valve, for tripping said stop; and means for opening the load-reducing valve when the stop is tripped.

26. The combination, with weighing mechanism, of overloading and load-reducing means each including a valve; a stop located to hold the overloading-valve in its open position; means cooperative with the load-reducing valve, for tripping said stop; and a stationary actuator situated to open the load-reducing valve at a predetermined point in the descent of the load-receiver and subsequently to the tripping of said stop.

27. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver provided with a spout, of overloading and load-reducing means, the load-reducing means embodying a valve provided with a projection; means operative with the valve, to hold the same shut and the projection thereon against the spout; a device operative, at a predetermined point in the descent of the load-receiver, to open the valve; and a detent situated to hold said valve open.

28. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver, of overloading and load-reducing means, the latter embodying a valve; a stationary actuator in position to open the valve when the load-receiver reaches a certain point; and a latch located to hold the valve in its open position.

29. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver having an opening, of overloading means; a valve mounted adjacent to said opening; valve-actuating means; and a blade projecting from the load-receiver and located relatively to the opening to check the flow of material passing therefrom.

30. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver provided with an opening, of overloading means, a valve mounted adjacent to said opening; valve-actuating means; and a hood situated over said opening and in position to check the flow of material through the same.

31. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver provided with an opening, of a spout secured to the load-receiver, its floor consisting of two oppositely-inclined sections leading toward and from the opening; and a valve in position to govern the flow of material through said opening.

32. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver, of a valved regulator-hopper in position to receive and to be depressed by a load from the load-receiver; stream-supplying means; a valve; a rod pivoted to the regulator; means on the framework for throwing said rod into operative relation with the valve, whereby, on the descent of the regulator, the valve will be opened; and a toggle connected, respectively, with the valve of the regulator-hopper and the framework.

33. The combination, with weighing mechanism, of a gravity-resistant located to oppose the working movement of the weighing mechanism; a supply apparatus located and adapted to regulate the supply of material to the weighing mechanism; and means operative with the supply apparatus for shifting the resistant out of operative relation with the weighing mechanism on the operation of the supply apparatus to cut off the supply of material.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600036 ===

WEIGHING-MACHINE

United States Patent 600036

Filing date: June 1, 1897

Issue date: March 1, 1898

Inventor: FRANCIS H. RICHARDS

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Francis H. Richards, a citizen of the United States, residing at Hartford, in the county of Hartford and State of Connecticut, have invented certain new and useful Improvements in Weighing-Machines, of which the following is a specification.

This invention relates to weighing-machines, certain of the improvements being particularly adapted for application to machines of the kind disclosed by Letters Patent No. 572,067, granted to me November 24, 1896.

One of the objects is to furnish, in conjunction with weighing mechanism embodying a plurality of load-receivers one of which is preferably valveless and is adapted to deliver a stream to the other and means for supplying an overload to the respective receivers, part of which is directed to the valveless receiver, a receptacle normally located at one side of the stream flowing from the valveless receiver, and means for moving said receptacle into the path of said stream, whereby it is adapted to receive the surplus removed from the weighing mechanism. The surplus-receiving receptacle just mentioned is preferably mounted for oscillation about two different axes, it being adapted when swung into the path of the stream to catch the same and being subsequently swung out of the path, and at a succeeding period said receptacle is tilted to discharge its contents into the empty load-receiver, this last-mentioned operation taking place when the load-receiver has risen to receive a new charge.

Another object of the invention is to provide a load-receiver having a discharge-outlet furnished with a bar or bars across said outlet and a closer consisting of a plurality of bars movably mounted and adapted when shut to cover the spaces between the bar or bars first mentioned, whereby said closer can be maintained in its shut position by a very small amount of power.

In the drawings accompanying and forming part of this specification, Figure 1 is a rear elevation of my improved weighing-machine. Figs. 2, 3, 4, and 5 are side elevations of the machine as seen from the left in Fig. 1, showing the positions occupied by the several parts during the making and discharge of a load.

Fig. 6 is a longitudinal central section of the machine. Fig. 7 is a transverse central section of the lower part of the load-receiver and the closer. Fig. 8 is a plan view of the same, and Fig. 9 is a plan view of the closer.

Similar characters designate like parts in all the figures of the drawings.

The framework upon which the several parts of the machine are sustained may be of any suitable character. It is represented consisting of the chambered base or bed 2, the side frames or columns 3 and 4 rising therefrom, and the brackets 5 and 6, which extend oppositely from the supply-hopper H, the latter, in connection with a suitable valve, serving as a convenient means for delivering to the load-receiver or load-receivers of the weighing mechanism an overload or excess of material.

The weighing mechanism may be of any suitable type. In the form represented it consists of a series of beams, as B and B1, and a plurality of receivers, as G and G1, and when the load-receiver is hereinafter mentioned it is to be understood that the main load-receiver G is meant, as the load is made up in the same.

The beams B and B1 are of the kind disclosed by the Letters Patent hereinbefore referred to, they being mounted on the framework in the ordinary manner, and the load-receiver G being suspended from the poising ends of the beams, one of said beams being mounted above the other, whereby the load-receiver will be steadied as it reciprocates. Each of the beams consists of a pair of longitudinal arms joined at one end by a counterweight. The arms of the beam B are designated by 7 and 7-1, and the arms of the beam B1 are designated by 8 and 8-1, respectively, the counterweights being denoted by W and W, respectively. The two weights are connected by the links 9, pivoted to said parts, whereby the simultaneous movement of said members is assured as the weighing mechanism reciprocates.

The load-receiver has in its lower end a discharge-outlet, such as 10, across which extend a series of bars, as 12, preferably angular in cross-section, as shown in Fig. 7, the apexes of the several bars being uppermost, so as to offer the least resistance to the material when it is released from the load-receiver by the opening of the closer, as will hereinafter appear, said cross-bars being suitably secured to the load-receiver in the V-shaped recesses 13.

The closer, which is designated by L, is preferably mounted for oscillation, it consisting of a plurality of bars 14, adapted to cover the spaces between the fixed or stationary bars 12 on the load-receiver and extending from the rock-shaft 15. The shaft 15 has at its opposite ends suitable journal-openings adapted to receive the pivots or journals 16, carried by the bracket 17, suitably secured to the opposite sides of the load-receiver and obliquely depending therefrom, as shown in the several side elevations.

The bars 14 are channeled, as shown in Fig. 7, so that a comparatively large area is provided below the apexes of the several bars 12 to permit the material in the load-receiver substantially to arch over said spaces and to remove, as far as possible, all pressure on the several closer-bars 14, the mass being sustained to a considerable extent by the fixed bars 12.

Any suitable means may be provided for shutting the closer L, the shaft 15 being furnished with the radial arm 16-1, carrying a weight 17-1, which constitutes a convenient medium for this purpose. On the opening of the closer and after all the material has been discharged from the load-receiver the weight 17-1 is adapted to shut the same, in which position said closer can be held by a suitable detent, as the latch lea The latch L1 is of ordinary construction, being counterweighted and pivoted to the load-receiver near the upper side thereof and adapted to engage a suitable device, as the rocker 18, connected with the closer. The rocker 18 is affixed to the shaft 19, suitably supported on the upper rear side of the load-receiver and having the arm 20, to which is pivoted the connecting rod 21, similarly attached at its lower end to the outermost bar 14 of the series. The opposite end of the shaft 19 is furnished with a crank 20-1, to which is pivoted the connecting-rod 21-1, likewise connected with the closer.

On the tripping of the latch L1 by suitable means the closer L will be forced open by the discharging material from the load-receiver, and for the purpose of retarding the return movement thereof until the load-receiver is entirely emptied a suitable regulator, as 25, may be employed, the latter consisting of a straight plate having projecting trunnions, as 26, journaled in the depending brackets 27, secured to the forward ends of the outermost bars 14 of the closer.

During the normal operation of the machine, as shown in Fig. 2, the regulator-plate 25 will be disposed substantially in a vertical position, but on the opening of the closer means will be called into action for shifting said regulator-plate, whereby it is presented substantially in a horizontal position to the outflowing material, such material being designed to act against the regulator to hold the closer open. For thus shifting the regulator it will be connected with a suitable resistance member, such as the load-receiver G. The trunnions 26 have secured thereto the crank-arms 28, to the outer ends of which are pivoted the links 29, also pivoted to the opposite sides of the load-receiver G; and it will be evident that when the closer L is opened the regulator, by reason of its connection with the load-receiver in the manner described, will be swung to a horizontal position, as shown in Fig. 5, whereby the material can act against the regulator to hold the closer open. When the closer shuts, the regulator will be returned to a vertical position to permit the material to pass therefrom.

As hereinbefore stated, means will be furnished for supplying the load-carrying means, which preferably includes a plurality of receivers, with an overload or quantity of material in excess or beyond that determined upon for a true charge and for also effecting the removal of the surplus. As also stated, the hopper H, in connection with a suitable valve, as V, constitutes a convenient means for thus overloading the two receivers G and G1, the latter being obliquely disposed relatively to the main receiver G. The auxiliary receiver G1 is suitably secured to the main load-receiver G and has its receiving end located below the hopper H, as shown in Fig. 6, whereby it is adapted to receive a portion of the supply-stream flowing from the hopper H and is adapted also to deliver a stream into the chamber 30 of the main load-receiver G, the major part of the supply-stream being delivered to the main chamber 31 of the load-receiver G. The valve V is of the "oscillatory" type, its end arms 32 and 33 depending from the two-part valve-shaft 34, pivotally carried by the brackets 5 and 6, respectively, in the well-known manner.

The two sections of the valve-shaft 34 are provided with weights 35 and 36, secured to the outer ends of arms 35-1 and 36-1, respectively, thereon, the weights being adapted normally to swing the valve V under the outlet of the hopper to arrest the passage of material therefrom, it being understood that the supply is stopped when the receivers G and G1 are overloaded. The closure of the valve V will be controlled by the weighing mechanism, the actuator or shifting-lever 37 being shown for this purpose, said lever being pivoted near the inner end of the beam-arm 8 and its weight W" being furnished with the pin 38, resting on the adjacent weight W, whereby the opposite end of the lever constitutes in effect a fixed extension of the beam-arm 8.

The arm 35-1 has pivoted thereto the rod 39, the lower end of which bears against the projection or roll 40 on the inner end of the lever 37, whereby as the weighing mechanism descends the lever 37 will move in a corresponding direction, and the rod 39 being in contact therewith said lever will prevent the valve V from being closed too quickly by the weights 35 and 36. On the return movement of the lever 37 it is adapted, through the rod 39, for swinging the valve V open.

The greater part of the overload is supplied to the receiver G, the remainder being delivered to the auxiliary receiver G1, from which the surplus is withdrawn, the discharge-outlet 41 of the auxiliary receiver g1 being comparatively small or of reduced size, whereby said receiver G1 is caused to retain a sufficient quantity of material to permit the removal of the surplus, this operation being effected by gravity on the flowing of the material down the inclined wall or side 42 of said receiver, the stream from the latter normally descending into the chamber 30 of the main receiver G, as shown in Fig. 6.

A suitable device will be provided for catching the surplus gravitating from the valveless receiver G1, said device being normally located at one side of the path of the falling stream from the receiver G1, but being shifted into position at a predetermined time to intercept such stream. Said device, which may be of any suitable construction, is shown in the form of a receptacle or pan R, supported for movement about two independent axes.

The receptacle or pan R is preferably first swung to a horizontal position and then moved toward the path of the stream running from the valveless receiver G1 to the receiver G, whereby it can catch the material gravitating from said valveless receiver until sufficient has been withdrawn to reduce the amount in the two receivers to the requisite quantity, and any suitable means may be provided for successively operating said receptacle. The receptacle R is supported by a carrier or frame consisting of the two levers 50 and 51, said levers being pivoted to the branches 52 and 53 of the yoke-shaped bracket 54, suitably secured to the rear wall of the hopper H. For bringing the receptacle R to a horizontal position it preferably has a device secured thereto, as will hereinafter appear. The valve-shaft 34 has a crank-arm 55, to which is pivoted the link 56, connected by a slide-joint at its lower end with the receptacle R, whereby the valve and receptacle can each have a certain amount of movement without affecting the other.

The lower end of the link 56 is furnished with a loop 57, embracing the lateral projection 58 on the valve. At the commencement of operation, as shown in Fig. 2, the lower end of the loop 57 will be in contact with the projection 58. As the valve V closes the link 56 will be thrust downward, so that by reason of the connection of said link with the receptacle the latter can be swung to a horizontal position by the action of suitable means, such as the longitudinal weight 56-1, secured to the upper rearward side of the receptacle, this operation being complete when the valve V is closed or until the stud 50-1 abuts against the stop 50-2 on the lower arm of the lever 50. At a point slightly beyond this stage of the operation said receptacle will be swung forward or toward the path of the stream from the auxiliary receiver G1, it being preferably connected with the weighing mechanism for this purpose. The carrying member or lever 50 of the receptacle R is provided with a rearwardly-extending arm 60, having a projection or stud 61, embraced by the loop 62 of the link 63, pivoted at its lower end to the arm 7 of the beam B, the lower end of said loop being against the projection at the commencement of operation.

As the beam B descends the link 63 will be drawn downward and the upper end of the loop carried against the projection at about the time the load-receivers have received the requisite load. On the continuation of such movement the link 63 is adapted to swing the two levers 50 and 51, and consequently the receptacle R, into the path of the stream from the receiver G1 to catch the material.

A detent will be provided for holding the receptacle R in its shifted position. (Indicated in Fig. 4.) The detent shown for this purpose consists of the counterweighted latch 64, pivoted to the extension 65 of the bracket 54, the working arm of said latch being hooked, as at 66. Said hook is designed to engage the arm 60 of the lever 50 when the latter and the receptacle R are in their respective shifted positions, as represented in Fig. 4.

Means preferably operative with the weighing mechanism will be employed for releasing the receptacle R when the entire surplus has been withdrawn, whereby said receptacle can be swung out of the path of the stream from the receiver G1, a tripper, as T, carried by the extended arm 8 of the beam B1, being provided for this purpose. The tripper is of the "by-pass" type and is pivoted at the end of said arm.

On the downstroke of the weighing mechanism the tripper T will engage the cooperating latch 64 without affecting the same. On the ascent of the beam and when the true load is in the respective receivers G and G1 the tripper T by engaging the projection 67 of the latch 64 will trip the latter and disengage the hook 66 from the arm 60, thereby releasing the receptacle R, whereby it can be swung out of the path of the stream from the receiver G1 by the weights 68 and 69, secured to the levers 50 and 51, respectively. The weighted arms of the two levers 50 and 51 normally rest on suitable stops, as 51-1, secured to the bracket 54.

The closer-holding latch can be tripped in some suitable manner, as by the by-pass tripper T1, carried by the side frame 3, said tripper being adapted to release the closer on the upstroke of the load-receiver G in the well-known manner.

The valve V is furnished with a stop, as 70, designed to cooperate with a stop connected with the closer, as the rocker 18, these parts being substantially similar in construction and mode of operation to the stops disclosed by the Letters Patent hereinbefore referred to.

When the closer L is returned to its shut position by the falling of the counterweight 17-1 and is latched shut, the actuator or counterweighted lever 37 will return to its normal position and in so doing will force the valve V open, as represented in Figs. 5 and 3. As the valve V is opened, the link 56 will be raised until the lower end of the loop 57 abuts against the cooperating projection 58 of the receptacle E, whereby said receptacle will be tilted to discharge its contents into the empty load-receiver G.

The operation of the hereinbefore-described machine, briefly set forth, is as follows: The parts are shown in their normal positions in Fig. 2, the closer L being held shut by the latch lea which is in engagement with the rocker 18, and the valve V being wide open a stream of large volume will enter the load-receivers G and G1, and when a certain part of the charge has been received said receivers, with the several beams, will descend, whereby the free end of the lever 37 or the projection or roll 40 thereon by falling away from the connecting-rod 39 will permit the valve V to be closed by the dropping of the counterweights 35 and 36, this operation being completed when the two load-receivers have been overloaded, the auxiliary receiver G1 being filled, the outlet of said auxiliary receiver being made comparatively small to prevent the stream from flowing too rapidly therefrom. When the valve V shuts, the link 56 will be thrust downward, as shown in Fig. 3, thereby moving the lower end of the loop 57 away from the projection 58 on the receptacle R, so that the latter can be swung to its horizontal position by the counterweight 56-1, as shown in Fig. 3. When the load-receiver and several beams have nearly reached the end of their descending movement, the upper end of the loop 62 will abut against the stud 61 on the arm 60 of the lever 50, thereby swinging the two levers 50 and 51 and the receptacle R forward and moving the latter under the outlet of the receiver G1, as shown in Fig. 4, in which position said receptacle is held by the gravity-latch 64, the hook 66 of which engages the lever-arm 60, as shown in said figure, whereby the receptacle is adapted to catch material emerging from the receiver G1. When the two receivers are lightened by the removal of material from the receiver G1, they will rise, and when the surplus has been withdrawn the tripper T, which had previously passed below the projection 67 of the latch 64, will abut against the same and disengage the hook 66 of said latch from the arm 60, whereby the weights 68 and 69 can swing the receptacle rearward and from beneath the outlet of the receiver G1, as shown in Fig. 5. When the receiver G has reached the limit of its downstroke, the latch L1 will have passed to a point below the tripper T'; but on the lightening of the weighing mechanism by the removal of the surplus and when the latter has been entirely withdrawn the latch will strike the tripper and be disengaged from the rocker 18 to effect the release of the closer L. When the closer is released, the mass in the load-receiver is adapted to force the same open, and when the load is entirely emptied from the load-receiver and the closer is shut the parts will be returned to their initial positions to repeat the operation, and as the valve V opens it will, by reason of its connection with the receptacle R, tilt the same, as shown in Fig. 2, to discharge the contents of said receptacle into the empty receiver G. Having described my invention, I claim--

1. The combination, with weighing mechanism comprehending a plurality of receivers one of which is valveless and is adapted to deliver a stream of material to the other; of means for supplying an overload to the receivers, part of which is directed to the valveless receiver; a receptacle normally located at one side of the stream flowing from said valveless receiver; and means for moving said receptacle into the path of said stream.

2. The combination, with weighing mechanism, including a plurality of receivers one of which is valveless, the valveless receiver being adapted to deliver a stream of material to the other receiver; of means for supplying an overload to the receivers, part of which is directed to the valveless receiver; a receptacle normally located at one side of the stream flowing from the valveless receiver; and means for successively moving said receptacle into and out of the path of said stream.

3. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a plurality of receivers one of which is valveless, the valveless receiver being located to deliver a stream of material to the other receiver; of means for supplying an overload to the receivers, part of which is directed to the valveless receiver; an oscillatory receptacle normally located at one side of the stream flowing from said valveless receiver; and means for moving said receptacle into the path of the stream.

4. The combination, with weighing mechanism, of means for supplying an overload thereto and for subserviently effecting the removal of the surplus; a surplus-receiving receptacle oscillatory about two axes; and means for shifting said receptacle.

5. The combination, with weighing mechanism, of means for supplying an overload thereto and for subsequently effecting the removal of the surplus; a surplus-receiving pan movable about two axes; and means for shifting said pan.

6. The combination, with weighing mechanism, of means for supplying an overload thereto and for subsequently effecting the removal of the surplus; a surplus-receiving receptacle oscillatory about two axes; and means secured to said receptacle for operating the same.

7. The combination, with weighing mechanism, of means for supplying" an overload thereto and for subsequently effecting the removal of the surplus; a surplus-receiving receptacle oscillatory about two axes; and means for shifting said receptacle in position to receive the surplus.

8. The combination, with weighing mechanism, of means for supplying an overload thereto and for subsequently effecting the removal of the surplus; a surplus-receiving receptacle and movable about two axes; means for shifting said receptacle in position to receive the surplus; and a device for holding said receptacle in its shifted position.

9. The combination, with weighing mechanism, of means for supplying an overload thereto and for subsequently effecting the removal of the surplus; a counterweighted surplus-receiving receptacle oscillatory about two axes; and means for shifting said receptacle in position to receive the surplus.

10. The combination, with weighing mechanism, of means including a valve, for supplying an overload thereto and for subsequently effecting the removal of the surplus; a surplus-receiving receptacle oscillatory about two axes; and a connection between the valve and the receptacle.

11. The combination, with weighing mechanism; of means including a valve, for supplying an overload thereto and for subsequently effecting the removal of the surplus; a surplus-receiving receptacle oscillatory about two axes and having a projection; and a link provided with a loop at one end embracing said projection, the other end of the link being connected with the valve.

12. The combination, with weighing mechanism comprehending a plurality of receivers one of which is valveless and is adapted to deliver a stream of material to the other; of means for supplying an overload to the receivers, part of which is directed to the valveless receiver; a receptacle normally located at one side of the stream flowing from said valveless receiver; and means connected with the weighing mechanism for moving the receptacle into the path of said stream. '

13. The combination, with a plurality of receivers one of which is valveless and is adapted to deliver a stream of material to the other, of beam mechanism for supporting the receivers; means for supplying an overload to the latter, part of which is directed to the valveless receiver; a receptacle normally located at one side of the stream flowing from said valveless receiver; and means connected with the beam mechanism for moving said receptacle into the path of said stream.

14. The combination, with weighing mechanism embodying a plurality of receivers one of which is adapted to deliver a stream of material to the other during the weighing operation, of means for supplying an overload to said receivers; a receptacle normally located at one side of said stream; and means operative during the weighing of a load for moving the receptacle into position to catch the stream.

15. The combination, with weighing mechanism, of means including a valve for supplying an overload to the weighing mechanism; means for effecting the removal of the surplus therefrom; and a surplus-receiving receptacle movable about two axes and connected, respectively, with the valve and the weighing mechanism.

16. The combination, with weighing mechanism, of means for supplying an overload to the weighing mechanism; means for effecting the removal of the surplus therefrom; an oscillatory surplus-receiving receptacle; and an oscillatory carrier for said receptacle.

17. The combination, with weighing mechanism, of means for supplying an overload to the weighing mechanism; means for effecting the removal of the surplus therefrom; a surplus-receiving receptacle; an oscillatory carrier for said receptacle; and means for shifting the carrier.

18. The combination, with weighing mechanism, of means for supplying an overload to the weighing mechanism; means for effecting the removal of the surplus therefrom; a surplus-receiving receptacle; a movably-mounted carrier for the receptacle; and means connected with the weighing mechanism for shifting the carrier to carry the receptacle into position to receive the surplus.

19. The combination, with weighing mechanism, of means for supplying an overload to the weighing mechanism; means for effecting the removal of the surplus therefrom; a surplus-receiving receptacle; a carrier for said receptacle; means for shifting the carrier; and a detent located to hold the carrier in its shifted position.

20. The combination, with weighing mechanism, of means for supplying an overload to the weighing mechanism; means for effecting the removal of the surplus therefrom; a surplus-receiving receptacle; a carrier for the receptacle; means for shifting the carrier; a latch, located to hold the carrier in its shifted position; and latch-tripping means operative with the weighing mechanism.

21. The combination, with weighing mechanism, of means for supplying an overload to the weighing mechanism; means for effecting the removal of the surplus therefrom; a surplus-receiving receptacle; a carrier for the receptacle; means for shifting the carrier; a latch carried by the framework for holding the carrier in its shifted position; and latch-tripping means operative with the weighing mechanism.

22. The combination, with weighing mechanism, of means for supplying an overload to the weighing mechanism; means for effecting the removal of the surplus therefrom; a surplus-receiving receptacle; a counterweighted carrier for said receptacle; and means for shifting said carrier.

23. The combination, with weighing mechanism, of means for supplying an overload to the weighing mechanism; means for subsequently effecting the removal of the surplus therefrom; a surplus-receiving receptacle; a carrier for said receptacle, having a projection; and a link connected with the weighing mechanism, having a loop at one end embracing a projection.

24. The combination, with weighing mechanism, of means for supplying an overload to the weighing mechanism; means for subsequently effecting the removal of the surplus therefrom; a surplus-receiving receptacle; a carrier for said receptacle, having an arm; means connected with said arm for shifting the carrier; and a counterweighted latch mounted on the frame, for engaging said arm.

25. The combination, with weighing mechanism, of means for supplying an overload to the weighing mechanism; means for subsequently effecting the removal of the surplus; a surplus-receiving receptacle; a plurality of levers for supporting the same; and means for shifting said levers.

26. The combination, with weighing mechanism, of means for supplying an overload to the weighing mechanism; means for effecting the removal of the surplus; a carrier for the receptacle; means for shifting the carrier whereby the receptacle is carried into position to receive the surplus, and for imparting a return movement thereto; and instrumentalities operative for discharging said receptacle.

27. The combination, with a load-receiver having a discharge-outlet, of a series of inverted V-shaped bars fixed across said outlet; mechanism for supporting said load-receiver; a closer comprehending a shaft mounted on the load-receiver for oscillation; and a series of trough-shaped bars fixed to said shaft and adapted when the closer is shut to cover the spaces between the V-shaped bars.

28. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver provided with a closer, of a closer-retarding regulator-plate carried below, and by, the closer and normally transversely disposed thereto; and a connection between the regulator-plate and the load-receiver operable to shift said plate into the path of the material discharged from the load-receiver when the closer is opened.

29. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver provided with a closer, of a closer-retarding regulator-plate carried by, and below, the closer and transversely disposed thereto and having a trunnion; a crank-arm secured to said trunnion; and a link connected, respectively, with the crank-arm and the load-receiver, whereby on the opening of the closer said regulator-plate is shifted into the path of the material discharged from said load-receiver.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600037 ===

WEIGHING-MACHINE

United States Patent 600037

Filing date: July 8, 1897

Issue date: March 1, 1899

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Francis H. Richards, a citizen of the United States, residing at Hartford, in the county of Hartford and State of Connecticut, have invented certain new and useful Improvements in Weighing-Machines, of which the following is a specification.

This invention relates to weighing-machines; and the object thereof is to provide a machine of this character embodying improvements particularly adapted for application to machines of the type disclosed in Letters Patent No. 572,067, granted to me November 24, 1896; and it comprehends, essentially, electrically controlled or actuated means for insuring the sequential or regular operation of the supply and delivery parts, so that accurate loads of material in large quantities may be automatically obtained with facility and precision.

In the drawings accompanying and forming part of this specification, Figure 1 is a front elevation of a weighing-machine embodying my present improvements. Figs. 2, 3, and 4 are side elevations of the same as seen from the right in Fig. 1, showing the positions assumed by the several parts during the making and discharging of a load. Figs. 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 are diagrammatic views illustrating the mode of operation in making and breaking the various electric circuits.

Similar characters designate like parts in all the figures of the drawings.

The framework for sustaining the various parts of the machine consists in the present case of the chambered base or bed 2, the side frames 3 and 4, the upright or standard 5, rising from the base 2, and the auxiliary frame F, mounted upon the side frames 3 and 4 and standards 5 and 5-1 and the auxiliary frame F, carrying the several parts of the supply mechanism, hereinafter more particularly described.

The weighing mechanism, as is usual, consists of a load-receiver, as G, and a supporting scale-beam, as B, said scale-beam being sustained upon the base 2 and supporting the load-receiver G at its poising end in the usual manner--for example, as illustrated in the patent hereinbefore mentioned.

For the purpose of preventing undue oscillation of the load-receiver during its rise and fall a guide-link 6, pivoted to said load-receiver near its upper end and to the standard 5, is provided.

The scale-beam B is of the ordinary kind, it consisting of a pair of longitudinal arms 7, joined by the counterweight W.

The load-receiver G has the usual discharge-outlet, through which the weighed loads can intermittingly pass into the main chamber 8 of the duplex discharge-hopper H, situated below and secured to the base 2.

The discharge-outlet of the load-receiver is normally covered by a closer or flap, as L, consisting of a plate provided with the segmental guard-walls 10 and 12 at its opposite sides, located to lap over the lower side walls of the load-receiver. The closer L is also pivoted for oscillation to the load-receiver, as at 14.

The weighing mechanism includes a load-discharger, and the closer L, in the type of weighing mechanism illustrated in the drawings, constitutes such a load-discharger, and it is mounted to have successive movements in the same direction, first for discharging the surplus and then for discharging the predetermined load, it being understood that, as in the patent hereinbefore mentioned, an overload is supplied to the load-receiver G prior to the opening or release of the closer. The overload consists of the predetermined charge or load and an added quantity of material in excess of or beyond the said charge, the whole being delivered into the load-receiver and the surplus being removed, as thus stated, by the shifting of the closer. The closer is so mounted as to be opened in several successive stages by the pressure of material in the load-receiver acting against the same, and a plurality of detents, such as latches, are employed to hold the closer in its several shifted positions.

A latch is provided to hold the closer in its shut or normal position, as represented in Fig. 2, until an overload is supplied to the load-receiver, at which time said latch is tripped, permitting the closer to open partially, as represented in Fig. 3, in which position it is held by a second latch to permit the surplus to pass from the load-receiver G and enter the auxiliary or smaller chamber 8-1 of the duplex hopper H. At a further stage in the operation of the machine the second latch is tripped, permitting the closer to be opened from its primary position to its secondary shifted or wide-open position, as represented in Fig. 4, so that the completed or true load can pass from the load-receiver into the main chamber 8 of the hopper H.

The closer-holding detents or latches are designated, respectively, by D and D1, they being successively tripped at predetermined points in the operation of the machine. The two detents are gravity-detents and they are pivoted, as at 20 and 21, to the load-receiver, each being provided with a toe, as 20-1 and 21-1, adapted normally to bear against the stops or pins 22 and 23, respectively, on the load-receiver. The latches are adapted successively to engage a suitable device cooperative with the closer, as the lever 24, pivoted, as at 25, to the load-receiver G. The lever 24, at a point between its center of movement and the working end thereof, has pivoted thereto the link 26, likewise connected to the guard-wall 10, forming a part of the closer L.

The pivot 25 of the lever 24 consists of a rock-shaft passing through the load-receiver, and it has at its opposite end a second lever 24-1, to which is pivoted the link 25, disposed in parallelism with the link 26, pivoted at its lower end to the closer-guard wall 12. The lower arms 27 and 27-1 of the levers 24 and 24-1, respectively, consist of counterweights of suitable efficiency operative to return the closer to its shut position on the discharge of the true load--that is, the mass remaining in the load-receiver after the removal of the surplus.

The means for overloading the load-receiver G consists in the present case of a conveyer C in the form of an endless belt 30, passed around the supporting-rolls 31 and 32, whose shafts 33 and 34 are journaled in the L-shaped brackets 35 and 36, respectively, mounted on and secured to the side frame 3 and standard 5 and side frame 4 and standard 5-1. A hopper is shown at H, mounted over and secured to the brackets 35 and 36, respectively, said hopper being supplied with a mass of material which is delivered by the conveyer C into the load-receiver G to overload the same.

The conveyer C in the present instance is driven by an electric motor M, which, being of well-known construction, is unnecessary specifically to describe. The wire X is connected with a rheostat or resistance device R of ordinary construction upon which is mounted the switch S, consisting of a lever pivoted at 40 on the rheostat-plate 41, the latter being secured to the bracket 35, and the contacts of the rheostat being connected in turn with one side of the motor, the conductor or wire X being connected to the other side of said motor. The motor-shaft s is furnished with a worm 42, meshing with a worm-gear 43 on the front shaft 33 of the conveyer C so that when a current is supplied to the motor it, and consequently the conveyer G, will be operated, the conveyer being adapted to supply an overload to the load-receiver which it conducts from the supply-hopper H.

In connection with the motor a motor-controlling device in a circuit independent of the motor is provided, said independent circuit being broken when the load-receiver is overcharged, so that the action of the motor may be governed to stop the supply to said load-receiver. The motor-controlling device consists in the present case of a solenoid-magnet 45 of common construction, mounted upon the bracket 35, and the core 46 of which is pivoted, as at 47, to the switch-lever S. When the solenoid 45 is energized, the core 46 will be drawn in to hold the switch-lever S in contact with the upper contact-point of the series on the rheostat, so that the full strength of the current will pass through the motor. When the solenoid 45 is deenergized by the breaking of its circuit on the overloading of the load-receiver G, the solenoid-core 46, and consequently the switch-lever S, will drop to cut out the motor, so as to stop the supply-conveyer C. The breaking of the solenoid-circuit is effected, preferably, by the weighing mechanism or the beam.

My present invention comprehends the provision of electrical means for controlling the motor for effecting the removal of the surplus from the load-receiver and for discharging the completed load, which, as is understood, is the mass remaining in the load-receiver after the removal of the surplus, and I will now describe the disposition of the several conductors or wires represented for conveniently effecting the results specified.

The solenoid base or plate 51-1 has the posts 51 and 52, the post 52 being connected with a similar post 53 on the beam-weight W by the conductor 54-1, battery B1, and the wire 54. The post 51 is connected by the wire 55 with a terminal 56 on the load-receiver. The terminal 56 consists of a metallic strip with which the spring-terminal 57 cooperates, these two terminals being mechanically secured to and electrically insulated from each other by a rubber or other strip 57-1 on the load-receiver. The spring-terminal 57, which is normally held in contact with the cooperating terminal 56 by the closer-wall 10, as shown in Fig. 2, is connected by the wire 58 with the terminal 59, which cooperates with a spring-terminal 60, these two parts being insulated from each other by the hard-rubber strip 61, secured to the outside face of the base 2.

The terminal 60 consists of a spring circuit-controller, held in contact with the cooperating terminal 59 by the arm 62 of the regulator E, hereinafter more particularly described. The wire 63 leads from the circuit controller or terminal 69 to the post 64, mounted on and insulated from the base 2. A similar post is shown at 65, it being connected by the wire 66 with the post 67 on the magnet 68, mounted near the upper end of the load-receiver.

An insulated oscillatory circuit-controller or switch is shown at 69, pivoted to the arm 70, extending forward from the side frame 3, the lower end of said circuit-controller being adapted successively to make contact with contact-pieces or terminals 64' and 65', on which the posts 64 and 65, respectively, are secured. The circuit-controller 69 is connected by the wire 71 with the terminal or contact-piece 72 on the plate 73, of insulating material, secured to the support 2-1, said plate being furnished with a second contact-piece 74, with which the wire 75 is connected, the opposite end of the wire being attached to the post 76 of the magnet 77. The post 78 of the magnet 77 is connected by the wire 79 to the wire 54-1. The wire 80 runs from the wire 79 to the post 81 of the magnet 68. A circuit-controller or circuit making and breaking device in the form of a longitudinal spring 82, secured to and insulated from the weight W in some convenient manner, is provided, its working end being slightly bent, as at 83, and adapted successively to contact with the contact-pieces or terminals 72 and 74, respectively. The circuit-controller 69 is bifurcated at its upper end, the branches or arms of the bifurcation being designated by 84 and 85, and the actuator 86 on the beam-arm 7 being adapted to cooperate with said controller.

The regulator E, to which I have hereinbefore referred, is oscillatory below the load-receiver, it being intermittingly shifted by the discharging loads delivered by said receiver. The regulator is secured to the transverse rock-shaft 90, the opposite ends of which are journaled in the end walls of the base 2, the arm 62, to which I have hereinbefore referred, being secured to the outer end of said shaft. The regulator E consists of a flat plate having a rearwardly-extending arm 91, furnished with a regulator-shifting device or counterweight 92, adapted to hold the arm 62 against the stop 93 on the base and to return said regulator to its primary position when the mass of material discharged thereagainst has passed below its discharge edge. The arm 62, when the regulator is in its primary position, (represented in Fig. 2,) is adapted to hold the spring-terminal 60 in contact with the terminal 59, and the closer L being shut the wall 10 will hold the spring-terminal 57 against the terminal 56, as also illustrated in said figure, both the arm 62 and the wall 10 having insulating material where they engage these terminals.

The wires 54 and 54-1 are connected with a source of electrical energy, such as a primary battery B1 of ordinary construction.

At the commencement of operation, as illustrated in Fig. 2, the closer L is shut and held in such position by the latch D engaging the lever 24, and the regulator E is in its primary position and is held by the weight 92, the arm 62 being against the stop 93. The closer L and regulator E being in their primary positions the closer-guard wall 10 will hold the terminals 57 and 56 in contact and the regulator-arm 62 will maintain the terminal 60 and 59 in contact. At this time the controller 69 will be on the contact-piece 64-1 and the controller 82 will be against the contact-piece 75 or terminal 72, so that a circuit will be established through the wire 54, controller 82, contact-piece 72, wire 71, controller 69, contact-piece 64-1, post 64, wire 63, terminals or contact-arms 60 and 59, wire 58, contact-arms or terminals 57 and 56, wire 55, solenoid 45, and wire 54-1, the weight W of the beam B being on its support 2-1 and the actuator 86 bearing against the arm 85 of the circuit-controller 69 to hold the same against the contact-piece 64-1, as represented in Fig. 2. The circuit being thus established through the parts enumerated and, as shown by heavy lines in Fig. 5, the solenoid 45 is energized to hold its core 46 in the elevated position shown in Fig. 2 with the switch-lever S in contact with the upper contact 46-1 of the rheostat E1, whereby the full strength of the current will pass through the motor M to operate the same, said motor being adapted to drive the conveyer C. When the conveyer is in motion, it will conduct a stream of large volume from the hopper H to the load-receiver G.

When a certain quantity of material has been received by the load-receiver, it, with the poising end of the beam B, will descend, and the counterpoised side of the beam on which the actuator 86 is situated being elevated said actuator will strike the arm 84 of the controller 69 at about the time the load-receiver G has reached the so-called "poising-line," so that the controller 69 will be shifted to the contact-piece 65-1, as shown in Fig. 3, thereby throwing the solenoid 45 out of circuit and permitting the core 46 to drop, whereby the switch-lever S will fall to shut off the circuit to the motor M, the conveyer C on the stoppage of the motor having a continued advancing movement due to its momentum, which is utilized to overload the load-receiver G and to carry it downward and the circuit-controller 82 upward into contact with the contact-piece 74, so that a circuit is established from the battery B1, wire 54, controller 82, and terminal 74 through the wire 75, magnet 77, wire 79, and wire 54-1, as illustrated in Figs. 3 and 6, respectively, the circuit being indicated by the heavy lines in said last-mentioned figure, whereby the magnet 77 is energized to attract its armature 77-1 on the latch D for tripping the latter, whereby the closer will be lowered by the pressure of material in the load-receiver or until the lever 24 strikes the detent D1.

The closer L is shown partially open in Fig. 3 to permit the surplus or excess to pass from the load-receiver into the auxiliary or surplus-receiving chamber 8-1 of the duplex hopper H. As soon as the surplus material flows from the load-receiver, it, being lightened, will rise, the weight W falling, so that the controller 82 will pass off the contact-piece 74 and rest on the contact-piece 72, as shown in Fig. 4, this operation being completed when the surplus is removed. When the controller 82 strikes the contact-piece 72 on the downstroke of the weight W, a circuit is established through the wire 54, circuit-controller 82, contact 72, wire 71, controller 69, contact 65-1, post 65, wire 66, magnet 68, wire 80, wire 79, and wire 54-1, so that the magnet 68, which is in said circuit, is energized and will attract its armature 68-1 on the latch or detent D1 to trip said latch and wholly release the closer L, so that it may be swung wide open, as indicated in Fig. 4, to discharge the load into the main chamber 8 of the discharge-hopper H, this action taking place before the controller 69 is shifted by the actuator 86 off from contact 65-1. The load discharged from the receiver G then strikes the regulator E and depresses or lowers the same, thereby swinging the arm 62 out of contact with the contact-arm or terminal 60, so that the latter can spring away from its mate 59. As soon as the load is discharged into the main chamber 8 against the regulator E the weight W will drop to its normal position, as shown in Fig. 2, and when the closer and regulator E are shifted, as represented in Fig. 4, the circuit-controllers operative therewith will be in the positions represented in the diagrammatic view Fig. 8. When the closer L shuts, which occurs when the material has passed clear of its discharge edge, the guard-wall 10 thereof will force the contact arm or terminal 57 into engagement with the contact arm or terminal 56, and when the regulator E rises to its normal position the arm 62 will force the contact arms or terminals 59 and 60 into contact, thereby completing the circuit in which the solenoid 45 is located, as shown in Fig. 5, so that the core 46, and consequently the switch-lever S, will be elevated to carry the working end of the switch-lever onto the upper contact 46-1 of the rheostat, thereby to start the motor and feed-conveyer C

When the beam B has nearly reached its normal position, the actuator 86 thereon will strike the arm 85 and swing the controller 69 off the contact-piece 65' and to the contact-piece 64-1, as indicated in Fig. 2, although it will be evident that by reason of the bifurcation of the controller the load can be poised without affecting the controller, as the actuator during the poising operation may move between the arms 84 and 85, respectively. It will be evident that when the closer is open and the regulator E is down the solenoid-circuit will be broken, even though the other parts of the machine have returned to their primary positions, and consequently the solenoid cannot be energized to start the motor. When the closer shuts and the regulator E is down, it will be evident that the solenoid-circuit will still be incomplete, as will be the case when the regulator is shifted, as shown in Fig. 9.

The operation of the hereinbefore-described machine, briefly stated, is as follows: Fig. 2 shows the positions occupied by the several parts at the commencement of operation, the solenoid 45 being energized, as hereinbefore set forth, to maintain its core, and consequently the switch-lever S, in the proper positions thereof, whereby the motor M will be operated to drive the supply-conveyer C to thereby supply a stream of large volume to the load-receiver G, the circuit being represented by the heavy lines in Fig. 5. When a certain part of the material has been received, the load-receiver and the poising side of the beam B will descend, the counterpoised side of said beam being elevated to shift the controller 69 from out of contact with the terminal 64-1 and into contact with the terminal 65-1, this operation taking place when the load-receiver has received an overload, the solenoid 45 thereby being deenergized to stop the motor M. On the stoppage of the motor the conveyer C will feed into the load-receiver a comparatively small amount of material to bear the same farther downward and to further elevate the weight W, so that in the manner hereinbefore set forth the magnet 77 will be energized to trip the latch D, thereby to permit the closer L to drop from the position shown in Fig. 2 to that illustrated in Fig. 3, whereby the surplus will pass from the load-receiver. When the surplus is entirely removed, the magnet 68 will be energized in the manner hereinbefore set forth to trip the detent D1, so that the closer can be swung to its wide-open position (shown in Fig. 4) to discharge the completed load into the main chamber 8 of the duplex discharge-hopper 11-1. When the closer opens, as specified, the terminal 57 springs away from the terminal 56. On the discharge of the load the material strikes or shifts the regulator E, so that the arm 62 is swung to the left and out of contact with the spring-terminal 60, whereby the latter can move away from its companion 59. When the closer shuts, which takes place when all of the material has passed from its discharge edge, the terminal 57 will be forced against the terminal 56 by the guard-wall 10, the weight W at this time having reached its primary position on the support 2-1. When the regulator reaches its primary position, the arm 62 will force the terminals 60 and 59 into contact, thereby establishing the solenoid-circuit again to start the motor in operation.

Having described my invention, I claim--

1. The combination, with weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver provided with a closer; a supply-conveyer; driving mechanism for said supply-conveyer, said driving mechanism including an electrical motor; an electric circuit embodying a device for governing the action of said motor; and a controller in said circuit and in position to be actuated by the closer, thereby to effect the operation of the device which governs the action of the motor.

2. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-discharger; a supply-conveyer; an electric motor; an independent electrical circuit having a solenoid; a rheostat in the motor-circuit; a switch operative with the core of the solenoid; and a circuit-controller for the solenoid-circuit, operated by the load-discharger.

3. The combination of weighing mechanism including a load-receiver provided with a closer normally covering its discharge-outlet; a supply-conveyer; an electric motor for operating the supply-conveyer; an independent electric circuit having a solenoid; a rheostat in the motor-circuit; a switch-lever on the rheostat, pivoted to the core of the solenoid; and a circuit-controller for the solenoid-circuit, operative with the closer.

4. The combination of weighing mechanism; stream-supplying means; an electric circuit embodying a device for governing the action of the supply means; a regulator in position to be shifted by a load discharged from the weighing mechanism; and a circuit-controller operated by the regulator.

5. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-discharger; stream-supplying means; an electric circuit comprehending a device for governing the action of the stream-supplying means; a regulator in position to be shifted by a load discharged from the weighing mechanism; and circuit-controllers operative, respectively, with the closer and the regulator.

6. The combination of weighing mechanism including a load-receiver provided with a closer; stream-supplying means; an electric circuit embodying a device for governing the action of the stream-supplying means; and terminals on the load-receiver, in circuit with said device and held in contact with each other by the closer.

7. The combination of weighing mechanism including a load-receiver provided with a closer; stream-supplying means; an electric circuit embodying a device for governing the action of the stream-supplying means; and spring-terminals on the load-receiver, in circuit with said device and held in contact with each other by the closer.

8. The combination of weighing mechanism including a load-receiver provided with a closer; stream-supplying means; an electric circuit embodying a device for governing the action of the stream-supplying means; terminals in circuit with said device and held in contact with each other by the closer; and an insulating-strip on the load-receiver, to which said terminals are secured.

9. The combination of weighing mechanism; a regulator supported below the weighing mechanism and shiftable by a load discharged therefrom; a regulator-shifting device; stream-supplying means; an electric circuit embodying a device for governing the action of the stream-supplying means; terminals in circuit with said device; and a member operative with the regulator for holding said terminals in contact with each other.

10. The combination of weighing mechanism; a regulator supported below the weighing mechanism and shiftable by a load discharged therefrom; a rock-shaft for carrying the regulator; stream-supplying means; an electric circuit embodying a device for governing the action of the stream-supplying means; terminals in circuit with said device; and an arm on said shaft, normally adapted to hold said terminals in contact with each other.

11. The combination, with weighing mechanism embodying a load-discharger, of overloading means; a plurality of latches adapted to hold the load-discharger; and means for successively tripping said latches, thereby permitting said load-discharger first to discharge the surplus or overload and finally the completed load.

12. The combination, with weighing mechanism embodying a load-discharger, of overloading means; a plurality of latches adapted to hold the load-discharger; and electrically-operated means for successively tripping the latches, thereby permitting said load-discharger first to discharge the surplus or overload and finally the completed load.

13. The combination of weighing mechanism including a load-receiver provided with a closer; a series of magnets mounted on the load-receiver; a series of latches adapted to hold the closer; and means for successively energizing the magnets.

14. The combination of weighing mechanism including a load-receiver provided with a closer; a plurality of gravity-latches mounted on the load-receiver; a series of magnets whose armatures are on the latches; and means for successively energizing the magnets.

15. The combination of weighing mechanism including a load-receiver provided with a closer; a series of gravity-latches pivoted on the load-receiver and having toes; stops on the load-receiver, against which said toes normally bear; a plurality of magnets secured to the load-receiver, the armatures of the magnets being secured to the latches; and means for successively energizing said magnets.

16. The combination of weighing mechanism including a load-receiver provided with a closer; a lever; a connection between the lever and the closer; a series of latches adapted to engage the lever; magnets whose armatures are secured to said latches; and means for successively energizing the magnets.

17. The combination of weighing mechanism including a load-receiver; a closer pivoted to the load-receiver; a counter-weighted lever mounted on the load-receiver; a link connected, respectively, with the lever and closer; a series of latches adapted to engage said lever; a series of magnets whose armatures are secured to the latches; and means for successively energizing the magnets.

18. The combination of weighing mechanism including a load-receiver having a discharge-outlet; a closer connected with the load-receiver and so mounted as to be forced from its shut position to a partially-open position by the pressure of material in the load-receiver and then to be forced to its wide-open position in the same manner; a plurality of detents adapted successively to hold the closer in its several positions; and successively-effective means for operating the detents.

19. The combination of weighing mechanism including a load-receiver having a discharge-outlet; a closer pivoted to the load-receiver and so mounted as to be forced from its shut position to a partially-open position by the pressure of material in the load-receiver and then to be forced to its wide-open position in the same manner; a plurality of detents adapted successively to hold the closer in its several shifted positions; and successively-effective means for operating the detents.

20. The combination of weighing mechanism including a load-receiver having a discharge-outlet; a closer connected with the load-receiver and so mounted as to be forced from its shut position to a partially-open position by the pressure of material in the load-receiver, and then to be forced to its wide-open position in the same manner; a plurality of detents adapted successively to hold the closer in its several positions; successively-effective means for tripping the latches; and a duplex hopper the respective branches of which are positioned to receive the material removed from the load-receiver.

21. The combination of weighing mechanism including a load-receiver having a closer; stream-supplying means; an electrical device for controlling the stream-supplying means; a plurality of closer-holding latches; a series of latch-tripping magnets; and means for deenergizing the electrical controlling device and for subsequently and successively energizing the latch-tripping magnets.

22. The combination, with a load-receiver, of a scale-beam therefor; stream-supplying means; an electrical circuit embodying a device for governing the action of the stream-supplying means; an oscillatory circuit-controller mounted on the framework and bifurcated; and an actuator for the circuit-controller, on the beam.

23. The combination of a load-receiver having a closer; a supporting scale-beam; stream-supplying means; an electrical circuit embodying a device for governing the action of the stream-supplying means; a closer on the load-receiver; a plurality of closer-holding latches; closer-tripping magnets; an oscillatory circuit-controller on the framework; an actuator for said circuit-controller, on the scale-beam; contact-pieces; a circuit-controller connected with the scale-beam and adapted successively to cooperate with said contact-pieces; and electrical connections.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600038 ===

WEIGHING-MACHINE

United States Patent 600038

Filing date: July 24, 1897

Issue date: March 1, 1898

Inventor: FRANCIS H. RICHARDS

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Francis H. Richards, a citizen of the United States, residing at Hartford, in the county of Hartford and State of Connecticut, have invented certain new and useful Improvements in Weighing-Machines, of which the following is a specification.

This invention relates to weighing-machines, the object being to provide an improved machine of this character, certain of the features of which are particularly applicable for use in connection with machines of the class disclosed by Letters Patent No. 572,067, granted to me November 24, 1896.

In the drawings accompanying and forming part of this specification, Figure 1 is a front elevation of a weighing-machine embodying my present invention. Fig. 2 is a side elevation of the same as seen from the right in Fig. 1, the parts being in positions corresponding with said figure. Fig. 3 is a side elevation as seen from the left in Fig. 1, the parts being in position corresponding with Figs. 1 and 2. Figs. 4, 5, 6, and 7 are side elevations as seen from the left in Fig. 1, showing the positions assumed by the principal parts of the machine at several stages in its operation. Figs. 8 and 9 are longitudinal central sections of the machine, representing, respectively, a partial load in the receiver and a load as being discharged therefrom. Fig. 10 is a sectional detail view showing the action of a toggle-breaker. Figs. 11 and 12 are sectional plan views of the regulator; and Figs. 13 and 14 are detail views, in plan and side elevation, respectively, of a resistance device.

Similar characters designate like parts in all the figures of the drawings.

The framework for supporting the various parts of the machine may be of any convenient construction. It is represented consisting of the chambered base or bed 2, the side frames 3 and 4, and the brackets 5 and 6, extending oppositely from the supply-hopper H.

My present invention comprehends, preferably, overloading and load-reducing means operative in combination with the load-receiver of the weighing mechanism. The overloading means is adapted to supply said load-receiver with an overload or quantity of material in excess of the predetermined load, the removal of the surplus being subsequently effected by the load-reducing means, as will hereinafter appear. The supply-hopper H, in conjunction with suitable stream-controlling means, constitutes a convenient medium for furnishing the necessary overload.

The weighing mechanism consists of a load-receiver and counterpoising means therefor, such as a plurality of scale-beams, and it is substantially similar to that disclosed by the Letters Patent to which I have hereinbefore alluded and to which reference may be had, it consisting of a hopper-shaped receptacle or bucket G, mounted upon the poising ends of the scale-beams B and B1, respectively, the latter being supported for oscillation on the base 2. Each of the scale-beams consists of a pair of arms joined at their opposite ends by a counterweight. The arms of the beam B are designated by 7 and are joined by the weight W, and the arms of the beam B1 are designated by 8 and are connected by the weight W.

The load-receiver (see Figs. 8 and 9) has an opening 12, through which the loads of material can intermittingly pass on the release of the closers.

A plurality of closers, such as L and L1, respectively, are provided, they being disposed vertically in the load-receiver, as indicated in Fig. 8, and suspended for oscillation beneath the hood or roof 13, preferably of inverted-V shape, the hood or roof acting as a guard to protect the pivots of the closers and also to support the major part of the load.

The end walls 14 of the protecting-hood 13 can be riveted or otherwise secured to the opposite side walls of the load-receiver G. The hood 13 is so situated in the load-receiver as to form between the lower edges of its inclined walls 13-1 and 13" and the load-receiver the discharge-openings 15 and 16, respectively, which are covered normally by the two closers L and L1, disposed in the load-receiver, the pivots 17 and 18 of said closers passing through ears 19 and 20, secured near the upper edges thereof and working in bearings in the end walls 14 of the hood 13.

The closers L and L1 are normally held in their shut position by a locker or lockers, such as D. The lockers in the form of the invention represented consist of toggles, each constructed of a pair of links, as 21 and 22, pivoted to each other, as at 23, and also to the closers L and �1, respectively, as at 24 and 25. (See Figs. 8 and 9.)

In Fig. 8, wherein the closers are represented as shut, the pivotal points 23, 24, and 25 are represented in horizontal alinement, whereby the said closers are firmly maintained in such position without the intervention of a latch, and by reason of their mounting in the load-receiver in the manner hereinbefore specified the pressure necessary to maintain them shut is materially reduced, a large part of the load being sustained by the fixed hood 13. The toggles D are connected with the links 26, the pivots 23 passing through the lower end of said links. The links 20 are pivoted, as at 27, at their upper ends to the crank-arms 28 on the rock-shaft 29, whose opposite ends are journaled in the side walls of the load-receiver.

When the toggles D are broken, (this object being accomplished by a suitable device, as will hereinafter appear,) the three pivotal points 23, 24, and 25 will be thrown out of line by the material acting against the closers L and L1, so that they can be opened promptly, as indicated in Fig. 9, to permit the load to pass from the receiver. When the entire load has been discharged, the two closers will be returned to their shut positions and locked by the toggles D, and for effecting these two functions the actuating-weight 30 is provided, it being affixed to one end of the shaft 29. When the closers are opened or swung toward each other, the weight 30 will be elevated, and as soon as the discharged material has passed clear of the two closers they are released and the weight 30 will drop to shut them.

The toggle-breaker may be of any suitable construction. It is represented consisting of a device or shelf T in the load-receiver operated by the material being weighed. The toggle-breaker T is affixed to the shaft 35, whose opposite ends are journaled in the side walls of the load-receiver, the toggle-breaker being in two sections or leaves 36 and 37, respectively. The shaft 35 at its outer end has secured thereto the oppositely-disposed arms 38 and 39, the former being preferably engaged by a suitable detent or latch and the latter being connected with the closer-operating weight 30 by the link 40, pivoted at its opposite ends, respectively, to these parts.

The latch for engaging the crank-arm 38 is designated by 41, it being counterweighted and of usual construction and pivoted, as at 42, near the upper end of the load-receiver.

When the closers L and L1 are shut, as represented in Fig. 2, the supply-stream from the hopper H will descend into the load-receiver to overload the same, the material approaching and subsequently covering the upper face of the shelf or toggle-breaker T, as indicated by the dotted lines in Fig. 10, it being evident that during this stage of the operation the toggle-breaker is held against movement by the latch 41. On the completion of the load the latch is disengaged from the arm 38, thereby releasing the toggle-breaker or shelf T, so that the mass of material banked thereon will force it downward, the joint between the two sections being broken on the initial movement of the device as the toggle-breaker commences to drop. When the device T thus acts, the shaft 35 is rocked and the crank-arm 39 swung slightly to the left, the link 40 and weight 30 being elevated, thereby rocking the shaft 29, and consequently throwing the centers 23, 24, and 25 of the several closer-locking toggles out of alinement, so that the closers can be forced wholly open by the force of the material.

It will be remembered that my present invention comprehends the provision of overloading and load-reducing means successively effective and that the supply-hopper H, in combination with stream-controlling means, constitutes a convenient device for overloading the load-receiver G.

The stream-controlling means in the present case consists of a plurality of valves V and Y, the valve V being in the form of an oscillatory pan, and the valve V consisting of a blade supported between its opposite edges for oscillation, the two valves cooperating to cut off the supply to the load-receiver when the latter is overcharged. The valve V swings below the outlet of the hopper H and is carried by the two-part shaft 45, having journal-openings in its opposite ends to receive the screws 46 on the side frames 3 and 4, respectively.

The means illustrated for closing the valve V consists of the weight 47, secured to the arm 48, extending rearward from the valve-shaft 45, said weight exerting a constant valve-closing force that is limited, preferably, by the weighing mechanism, as by the shifting lever 49, pivoted, as at 50, to the beam B.

The weight 51 of the lever 49 is furnished with a stop 52, normally resting on the adjacent beam-weight W, as indicated in Fig. 2, whereby the opposite end of the lever constitutes in effect an integral extension of the beam, so that it can control the action of the two valves V and Y. The arm 48 has pivoted thereto the rod 53, likewise connected at its lower end with the rod 54, bearing against the projection or antifriction-roll 55 at the inner end of the counterweighted lever 49. The upper end of the rod 54 is pivoted to the crank-arm 55, secured to one of the trunnions or pivots 56, projecting oppositely from the valve V at about its middle and working in the lugs 57 and 58 on the side frames 3 and 4.

On the descent of the weighing mechanism the lever 49 will act to prevent the two valves from being closed too quickly by the weight 47, it being apparent, by reason of the connection between said valves, that said weight serves to close them both. On the return of the lever 49 to its primary position it acts as an actuator to open simultaneously the two valves V and Y.

In Figs. 2 and 8 the valves V and Y are represented occupying their normal positions, each being at one side of the stream falling from the hopper H. When a certain amount of material has been received by the load-receiver G, it, with the poising ends of the two beams B and B1, will descend, so that the inner end of the lever 49, by moving away from the rod 54, will permit the valves V and Y to be closed, they being operated in opposite directions by the falling weight 47, and the lower portion of the valve or oscillating blade V being swung over the valve V, as indicated in Fig. 9, this operation being completed when the receiver G is overloaded.

The front wall of the supply-hopper is provided with the overhanging hood or guard 59, adapted to prevent spattering and consequent waste of the material.

The load-reducing means in the present case consists of a spout 60, movable or oscillating hopper 61, and valve 62 for the hopper. The spout 60 is secured to one side of and communicates with the interior of the load-receiver G near the upper side thereof, it being adapted to deliver a stream into the hopper 61, which is pivoted, as at 62-1, at its upper end to the lower end of the spout 60, and consequently forms a part of the weighing mechanism. During the normal operation of the machine the valve 62 covers the outlet of the load-reducing hopper 61, as indicated in Figs. 3 and 4.

When the load-receiver has been overcharged, the hopper 61 will be shifted relatively to its valve 62 for permitting the surplus to pass into a surplus-receiver, such as S, supported for movement or oscillation below said hopper and suspended from the carrier or lever 65, pivoted, as at 66, to the extension 67 on the side frame 4.

Means, such as the weight 68, connected with the hopper 61, is provided for normally holding the same in its primary position (represented in Fig. 3) over the valve 62, said weight resting on the stop 69 on the side frame 4. The surplus-receiver S is closed, normally, by the valve 70, pivoted, as at 71, to said surplus-receiver, the valve being maintained in its shut position by reason of its weight and bearing against the stop 72 on the hopper.

When the hopper 61 is shifted in the manner hereinbefore specified, it is adapted to deliver a part of its contents and part of the contents of the load-receiver into the surplus-receiver S, said hopper being shifted in the present instance by the beam B1. The hopper 61 has pivoted thereto at one side of its center of movement the rod 75, terminating in a loop 76, embracing a projection 77 at the poising end of the scale-beam B1. When the beam B1 has nearly reached the limit of its downstroke, the projection 77 will strike the lower end of the loop 76, thereby drawing down the link 75 and swinging the hopper 61 to the right, whereby a stream can flow from said hopper into the surplus-receiver S. When the load-receiver is lightened, it will rise, so that the weight 68 on the hopper 61 can return it to its primary position over the valve 62, as indicated in Fig. 3, thereby to stop the further withdrawal of the material from the load-receiver, it being understood that at this time the load is completed or poised.

It will be apparent that on the discharge of the material from the receiver G the mass in the spout 60 and hopper 61 constitutes a part of the weighed or true load, and for the purpose of discharging said spout and hopper the valve 62 will be opened by suitable means, whereby the contents of the two parts can gravitate into the load-receiver through the spout 62", communicating with the interior of the receiver and located in oblique line with the hopper, said spout 62" being secured to one side of the load-receiver.

The valve-hub 80 has secured thereto the crank-arm 81, to which the link 82 is pivoted, said link being jointed at its opposite end to the crank-arm 85 on the rock-shaft 35. The toggle-breaking device T, it will be remembered, is carried by the rock-shaft 35. When said toggle-breaker operates in the manner hereinbefore specified, the shaft 35 will be rocked, and the valve 62, by reason of the intermediate connections, will be swung open, as shown in Fig. 7, to permit the contents of the spout 60 and the hopper 61 to pass into the emptying load-receiver G.

It will be remembered that the material withdrawn from the weighing mechanism through the spout 60 and swinging hopper 61 is delivered into the surplus-receiver S, the gravity-valve 70 of which is shut and held against the stop 72, as represented in Fig. 5.

The surplus-receiver S or other convenient member has means operative therewith for preventing the ascent of the load-receiver G and the beam mechanism B and B1 to too great a height during the load-reducing period, so that the removal of the entire surplus or excess is assured, said means in the present case consisting of a stop, as 90, operative with the lever or carrier 65 and consisting of an arm extending downward from its hub. The carrier, and consequently the surplus-receiver S and stop 90, will be held against action for a certain period of time, or while the overload is being supplied, and for this purpose I have illustrated a stop or detent, as 91, operative with the beam B and consisting of an angular projection or finger at its inner end adapted to engage the stop 90, as indicated in Fig. 3, to hold the counterweight 65-1 of the carrier or lever 65, and hence the other parts connected therewith, against action.

When the beam mechanism has nearly reached the limit of its downstroke, the stop 91 will pass out of contact with the stop 90, as represented in Fig. 5, whereby the weight 65-1 can drop until the lever abuts against the stop 90 on the framework, the stop 92 on the framework limiting the opposite movement of the lever. On the ascent of the weighing mechanism, and when it has moved a short distance during the load-reducing period, the stop 91 of the scale-beam will abut against the cooperating stop 90, as illustrated by the dotted lines in Fig. 6, so that the further movement of the weighing mechanism will be prevented and the beam B will hold the spout 60 in its shifted position (represented in Fig. 6) to assure the removal of the surplus.

When the surplus-receiver is filled or has received the excess withdrawn from the weighing mechanism, it will be lowered, the weight 65-1, of course, being raised, the stop 90 being simultaneously carried out of contact with the stop 91, as represented in Fig. 7. It is understood that about this time the true load is discharged by the tripping of the latch 41, to which I have hereinbefore referred.

The tripper for the latch 41 is designated by T, it being of the "by-pass" type well known in this art and carried upon the side frame 3. Said tripper is adapted to raise the latch out of engagement with the crank-arm 38 when the surplus is entirely removed from the weighing mechanism, whereby the closers L and L1 can be released in the manner hereinbefore set forth.

The pivot 56 of the valve V has a crank-arm 95, to which is pivoted the rod 96, having at its lower end the loop 97, embracing the projection 98 on the valve 70. By reason of the loop 97 at the lower end of the rod 96 the valve V can operate without affecting the valve 70, and the latter can be closed during the removal of the surplus. When, however, the hopper S is in its lowest position, (shown in Fig. 7,) the lower end of the loop 97 will be against the projection 98, so that when the valve V is opened in the manner hereinbefore described the rod 96 will be raised and the valve 70 thereby opened to permit the material in the receiver S to pass into the trough 99, a portion of which is shown in Figs. 1 and 3, and the surplus can be disposed of in the manner represented in the Letters Patent hereinbefore referred to. In connection with the weighing mechanism I provide a variable-efficiency device adapted to act against one of the members thereof for the purpose of preventing the load-receiver G from descending too quickly. The variable-efficiency device is designated by E, and it consists of a counterweighted lever pivoted, as at 100, on the scale-beam B, the weight 101 of said lever being caused to approach the weight W as the load-receiver descends, whereby the leverage of the beam B is increased to such an extent as to retard the descent of the load-receiver to insure its being overcharged. A suitable stop, preferably mounted on the load-receiver G, is provided to hold the device E against movement, whereby the center of gravity of its weight can be caused to approach the beam-weight W. The stop on the load-receiver for this purpose is designated by 103, the horizontal arm 104 thereof having a counterweight to hold the arm 106 thereof against the stop 107-1 on the load-receiver, it being in the form of a by-pass. The arm 106 is adapted to engage the lug 107 on the device E, as indicated in Fig. 4, wherein the parts are shown occupying their initial positions.

On the descent of the load-receiver the counterpoised side of the beam B, upon which the device E is pivoted, will be caused to ascend, whereby, the stop 103 being in engagement with the device E, the arm 100-1 of said device will be elevated to cause the center of gravity of the weight to approach the beam-weight W for effecting the peculiar result hereinbefore specified.

When the load-receiver has nearly reached its lowest position, the end of the working arm 106 of the by-pass stop 103 will cross the arc of oscillation of the arm 100-2 of the device 100, as indicated in Fig. 5, so that the weighted arm 100-1 of the device E can drop against the stop 108 on the arm, thereby to subtract the effect of the device, so that the load can be accurately poised. The working arm 106 of the stop 103 being below the lug 107, as shown in Fig. 5, and said stop being of the by-pass kind, the parts can readily return to their primary positions, as will be obvious. The arm 106 on the ascent of the load-receiver is pushed to one side by the lug 107 as the load-receiver rises to receive a new load.

In connection with the weighing mechanism I provide a load-receiving regulator having an extensible wall or walls, as will hereinafter appear, said regulator being preferably operative with a locker or stop for one of the members of the machine, such as the valve V. The regulator is designated by R, and it is situated below the load-receiver, it having front and rear walls 110 and 112, connected by the hinged leaves or plates 113 and 114 at opposite sides thereof. The leaves 113 are hinged to each other, as at 115, and also to the opposite ends of the plates 110 and 112, and the leaves 114 are likewise connected, as at 116. The middle pivot 115 and 116 of each of the series of leaves passes through the lugs or ears 117, disposed in the base 2 at opposite sides thereof, as shown, respectively, in Figs. 8, 11, and 12. The lugs or ears form a convenient support for the regulator. On the discharge of a load from the receiver G it is emptied into the regulator R, as shown, respectively, in Figs. 9 and 12, which action spreads the opposite walls 110 and 112 of the regulator apart until they abut against the stops 110-1 and 112-1 within the base 2, such action of the regulator being utilized to throw a stop or locker, as 120, into action for blocking or restraining the valve.

The wall 112 of the regulator supports in bearings 121 the rock-shaft 122, having at its opposite ends the crank-arms 123 and 124, to which are pivoted the links 125 and 126, furnished with hubs 125-1 and 120-1 at their opposite ends to receive the pivots 127 and 128 in the lugs 129 and 130 on the wall 110 of the regulator.

The shaft 122 carries a rearwardly-extending crank-arm 131, furnished with a weight 132 for returning the regulator-walls 110 and 112 to their primary positions, as indicated in Fig. 8. The crank-arm 131 has pivoted thereto the rod 133, bent near its upper end and pivoted, as at 134, to the locker 120.

When the load is discharged into the regulator, the sections or walls 110 and 112 thereof will be extended or forced outward by the material, so that the links 125 and 126 and crank-arms 123 and 124, acting as toggles, will raise the arm 131, thereby thrusting the rod 133, and consequently the locker 120, upward for rendering the latter effective to block the opening of the valve. The locker 120 consists of a lever pivoted to the vertical hanger 6-1 on the bracket 6 and having intermediate its end the auxiliary stop or curved lug 135.

In Fig. 8 the valve V is shown wide open and the regulator R in its primary position.

In Fig. 9 the valve Y is illustrated as having been shut and the load as discharged into the regulator R, the walls 110 of which have been shifted to elevate the rod 133 and locker 120.

When the locker 120 is elevated, the auxiliary stop or curved lug 135 will be moved across the path of oscillation of the valve, and by reason of its connection with the valve V the latter is also held against action.

When the material passes out of the regulator R, the weight 132 by dropping will return the two walls to their initial positions, as will be obvious.

In connection with the closer mechanism embodying the closers L L1 and valve mechanism embodying the valves V and Y, I provide the usual interlocking stops 140 and 141, the stop 140 being secured to the valve-shaft 45. The stop 141 is pivoted, as at 142, to the load-receiver, it having a crank-arm 143, to which the rod 144 is pivoted, said rod being likewise connected at its lower end to the crank-arm 145 of the closer-actuating weight 30, as indicated in Fig. 2.

The operation of the hereinbefore-described machine, briefly set forth, is as follows: In Figs. 1, 2, 3, and 8 the load-receiver and beam mechanism are shown occupying their normal positions, and the full volume of the supply-stream is represented in the last-mentioned figure as flowing into the receiver G, it striking in its fall the oppositely-inclined roof or plate 13, fixed in the load-receiver. When a certain part of the overload has been received, the load-receiver and beam mechanism will descend and the projection on the counterweighted lever 49, carried by the beam B, by falling away from the rod 54 will permit the weight 47 to drop for closing the valve V, and hence the valve Y by reason of its connection therewith, the two valves being closed when the receiver G is overloaded. When the load-receiver and beam mechanism have reached substantially their lowest positions, (indicated in Fig. 5,) the beam B1 will pull the link 75 downward, thereby swinging the load-reducing hopper 61 away from its valve 62 and over the surplus-receiver S, so that the surplus carried by the load-receiver G can pass through the spout 60 and hopper 61. As soon as the load-receiver lightens it will be elevated by the beam mechanism, and the beam B1 by rising will permit the weight 68 to swing the load-reducing hopper over its valve 62, thereby to stop the further withdrawal of material from the load-receiver, this operation being completed when the load is poised.

It will be understood that the valve 70 for the surplus-receiver is held shut by its own weight and that the stop 90 is swung into the path of movement of the cooperating stop 91 on the scale-beam B, whereby the load-receiver and beams cannot ascend too high, as the stop 90 will arrest the progress of the stop 91 until the surplus is within the receiver S, at which time the latter is lowered and the stop 90 moved to one side of the stop 91. When the surplus is entirely removed and on the ascent of the load-receiver G, the latch 41 will be tripped by the tripper T1 on the framework, as hereinbefore specified, so that the toggle-breaker T can be forced downward to throw the pivotal points 23, 24, and 25 of the several toggles D out of line, whereby the closers can be forced to their wide-open positions (indicated in Fig. 9) by the pressure of the mass in the receiver G, the load being discharged into the regulator R, which in the manner hereinbefore specified throws the valve-locker 120 into operation. When the mass passes clear of the two closers L and L1, they will be returned to their shut positions by the weight 30, and the load-receiver G and beam mechanism B and B1 will return to their primary positions to repeat the operation, which takes place when the regulator R has actuated the locker 120 to release the valve Y.

Having described my invention, I claim--

1. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; a hood to support the major part of the load and so situated in said load-receiver as to form a series

of discharge-openings between the same and the load-receiver; a series of closers covering said openings; and a locker between and connecting the closers.

2. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; a hood situated therein and adapted to support the major part of the load and so mounted as to form a series of discharge-openings between the same and the load-receiver; a series of closers covering the respective openings; and a toggle between the closers.

3. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; a hood situated therein and adapted to support the major part of the load and so mounted as to form a series of discharge-openings between the same and the load-receiver; a series of closers covering the respective openings; a toggle between the closers; and toggle-breaking means.

4. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; means for supplying the same with material; a plurality of closers; a dead-lock toggle for locking the closers; and a toggle-breaking device cooperative therewith and actuated" by the material being weighed.

5. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; a plurality of closers; a dead-lock toggle for locking the closers; and a toggle-breaking device situated in the load-receiver and operated by the material being weighed.

6. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; means for supplying the same with material; a plurality of closers; a toggle for locking the closers; and a toggle-breaking device actuated by the material and consisting of two connected leaves.

7. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; means for supplying the same with material; a plurality of closers; a toggle for locking the closers; a toggle-breaking device mounted within the load-receiver, and consisting of two leaves hinged to each other; and a detent for normally holding the toggle-breaking device against action.

8. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; means for supplying the same with material; a plurality of closers; a dead-lock toggle for locking the closers; and a toggle-breaking device within the load-receiver cooperative therewith and actuated by the material being weighed.

9. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; a plurality of closers for said load-receiver; a dead-lock toggle for locking the closers; a toggle-breaking device situated in the load-receiver and actuated by the material being weighed; a shaft carrying the toggle-breaking device and connected with said closers; an arm on the shaft; and a latch for engaging the arm.

10. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; means for supplying the same with material; a plurality of closers for said load-receiver; a toggle for locking the closers; a toggle-breaking device; a shaft carrying the said" toggle-breaking device and having two oppositely-disposed crank-arms: a latch for engaging one of the crank-arms; and a rod connected with the other crank-arm and also with the closers.

11. The combination of weighing mechanism; and a latch for engaging the other arm.

12. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; a plurality of closers for said load-receiver; a weight connected with the closers; a toggle for locking said closers; a toggle-breaking device; a shaft carrying the toggle-breaking device and furnished with oppositely-disposed arms; a rod pivoted to one of the arms and to said weight; mechanism embodying a load-receiver; a plurality of closers for said load-receiver; a dead-lock toggle for locking the closers; a shaft having a crank-arm connected with the toggle; a toggle-breaking device actuated by the material; a shaft carrying the toggle-breaking device; connections between said shafts; and means normally adapted to hold the toggle-breaking device.

13. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; means for supplying the same with material; a plurality of closers for said load-receiver; a dead-lock toggle for locking the closers; a toggle-breaking device in position to be actuated by the material being weighed; a latch normally adapted to hold the toggle-breaking device; and a latch-tripper.

14. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; a plurality of closers; a toggle for locking the closers; a shaft having a crank-arm; a link connected with the crank-arm and toggle; and a toggle-breaking device connected with said shaft.

15. The combination of a load-receiver; beam mechanism; closer and valve mechanism, the valve mechanism comprehending a plurality of valves; a pair of connected rods one of which is adapted to bear against the beam mechanism, said rods being connected, respectively, with the valves; and cooperating stops operative, respectively, with the valve and closer mechanisms.

16. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; a series of closers supported within the same; a toggle for locking the closers shut; a shaft connected with the toggle; a weight secured to the shaft and having a crank-arm; a stop on the load-receiver, connected by a rod with said crank-arm; and valve mechanism furnished with a stop cooperative with the first-mentioned stop.

17. The combination of a load-receiver and supporting-beam mechanism; a plurality of supply-controlling valves; a pair of rods connected to each other and to the respective valves and bearing against the beam mechanism; and valve-actuating means.

18. The combination of a load-receiver and supporting-beam mechanism therefor; a pan-valve supported for oscillation; a cooperative valve consisting of a blade having projecting trunnions intermediate its upper and lower edges; bearings on the framework, to receive the trunnions; a crank-arm secured to one of the trunnions; a rod connected to the crank-arm and bearing against the beam mechanism; and a second rod attached to the first-mentioned rod and connected with the pan-valve.

19. The combination of a load-receiver and supporting-beam mechanism therefor; a pan-valve; a shaft supporting the valve and having a crank-arm provided with a valve-actuating device; a rod pivoted to said crank-arm; a cooperating valve consisting of a blade having projecting trunnions; bearings on the framework, for supporting said trunnions; a crank secured to one of the trunnions; and a rod pivoted to said crank and connected with the other rod and bearing against the beam mechanism.

20. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; overloading means therefor; load-reducing means consisting of a swinging hopper and a movably-mounted valve for the hopper; means operative during the weighing of a load for swinging the hopper out of and into line with its valve; and means for subsequently opening the valves.

21. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; overloading means therefor; load-reducing means consisting of a swinging hopper and a movably-mounted valve for the hopper; means connected with the weighing mechanism for swinging the hopper out of line with its valve; an independent device for returning it to its normal position; and means for subsequently opening the valve.

22. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; overloading means therefor; load-reducing means consisting of a swinging hopper and a movably-mounted valve for the hopper; a weight connected with said hopper; means operative during the weighing of a load for swinging the hopper out of line with its valve; and means for subsequently opening the valve.

23. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; overloading means therefor; load-reducing means consisting of a swinging hopper and a movably-mounted valve for the hopper; means operative during the weighing of a load for successively swinging the hopper into and out of line with its valve; and means operated by the material being weighed for subsequently opening the valve.

24. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; overloading means therefor; load-reducing means consisting of a swinging hopper and a movably-mounted valve for the hopper; means operative during the weighing of a load for successively swinging the hopper into and out of line with its valve; and a device located in the receiver to be acted upon by the material and connected with the valve.

25. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; overloading means therefor; load-reducing means consisting of a swinging hopper and a movably-mounted valve for the hopper; means operative during the weighing of a load for successively swinging the hopper into and out of line with its valve; a device situated in the load-receiver to be acted upon by the material; a shaft for carrying said device; and a connection between the shaft and the valve.

26. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; overloading means therefor; load-reducing means consisting of a swinging hopper and a movably-mounted valve for the hopper; means operative during the weighing of a load for successively swinging the hopper out of and into line with its valve; means for subsequently opening the valve; and a surplus-receiver.

27. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; overloading means; load-reducing means consisting of a swinging hopper and a movably-mounted valve for the hopper; means operative during the weighing of a load for successively swinging the hopper into and out of line with its valve; means for subsequently opening the valve; a surplus-receiver in position to catch the material from the hopper when it is shifted in one direction; and a spout on the load-receiver, in position to receive the material that gravitates from the hopper when its valve is opened.

28. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; overloading and load-reducing means, the load-reducing means embodying a valve; and means for actuating the valve, consisting of a device supported in position to be acted upon by the material being weighed.

29. The combination of weighing mechanism including a load-receiver provided with a plurality of closers; a toggle for locking the closers; overloading and load-reducing means, the load-reducing means embodying a valve; and a toggle-breaking device connected with said valve.

30. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; overloading and load-reducing means; a surplus-receiver; a carrier for the surplus-receiver, supported upon the framework for oscillation; and means operative with the beam mechanism for normally limiting the movement of the carrier.

31. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; overloading and load-reducing means; a surplus-receiver; a counterweighted carrier for the surplus-receiver; and means for normally holding the carrier against movement.

32. The combination of a load-receiver and supporting-beam mechanism therefor; overloading and load-reducing means; a surplus-receiver; and means on the beam mechanism for normally limiting the action of the surplus-receiver.

33. The combination of a load-receiver and supporting-beam mechanism therefor; overloading and load-reducing means; a surplus-receiver; a carrier for the surplus-receiver, having a stop; and a cooperating stop on the beam mechanism.

34. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver and beam mechanism; overloading and load-reducing means; a movably-mounted surplus-receiver; and a stop operative with the surplus-receiver for blocking the ascending movement of one of the members of the weighing mechanism.

35. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; overloading means therefor; load-reducing means operative to effect the removal of "the surplus; a surplus-receiver; and means operative to block the weighing mechanism when it reaches a certain point in its ascent, thereby to effect the removal of the surplus by the load-reducing means.

36. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver, of a variable-efficiency device shiftable to apply its effect to the weighing mechanism, and means in eluding a by-pass for temporarily intercepting said variable-efficiency device.

37. The combination of a load-receiver and supporting-beam mechanism; a variable-efficiency device carried by the beam mechanism; and a by-pass stop on the load-receiver, adapted to engage said device.

38. The combination of a load-receiver and its supporting-beam mechanism provided with a stop; a counterweighted lever pivoted upon the beam mechanism, one of its arms having a lug; and a stop on the load-receiver, adapted to engage said lug.

39. A load-receiving regulator two of the walls of which are connected by hinged leaves or plates, in combination with bearings on the framework for supporting certain of the pivots of the hinges.

40. A load-receiving regulator two of the walls of which are connected by hinged leaves or plates, in combination with bearings on the framework for supporting certain of the pivots of the hinges; and means for limiting the movement of the walls.

41. The combination, with a weighing device involving supplying and discharging mechanisms, of a locker for one of said mechanisms; a regulator having a wall flexible about a vertical axis; and connections between the regulator and locker.

42. The combination, with a load-receiver, of a stream-supply device; a valve; a locker for said valve; a regulator in position to receive material discharged from the load-receiver, and having a wall flexible about a vertical axis; and a connection between the regulator and the locker for operating the latter on the movement of said flexible wall.

43. The combination, with a load-receiver, of a stream-supply device; a stream-controller; a load-receiving regulator having two fixed walls; a series of hinged plates connecting said fixed walls at the opposite ends of the latter; a shaft carried by one of the fixed walls and connected with the other; and a connection between said shaft and the stream-controller.

44. The combination, with a weighing device involving supplying and discharging mechanisms, of a locker for one of said mechanisms; a load-receiving regulator having a wall extensible about a vertical axis; a shaft carried by one of the walls and having a crank-arm; a link connected to said crank-arm and another wall of the regulator; and a connection between said locker and the regulator.

45. A load-receiving regulator having an extensible wall operated in one direction by material, in combination with means for returning the regulator to its primary position; and weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver dischargeable into the regulator.

46. A load-receiving regulator having a wall extensible by material, in combination with a weight for returning said wall to its primary position; and weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver dischargeable into the regulator.

47. A weighing-machine embodying a load-receiving regulator having two fixed walls at its opposite sides, and a series of hinged plates connecting said walls at their opposite ends.

48. A load-receiving regulator having two fixed walls at its opposite sides, and a series of hinged plates connecting the said fixed plates at their opposite ends, in combination with a valve; a locker for said valve; and connections between the locker and the regulator.

49. The combination, with a weighing device, of supply and discharge mechanisms; a locker for one of said mechanisms; a regulator including a fixed wall on the framework; a series of hinged plates connected to the opposite ends of said fixed walls and to the framework; and a third wall fixed to the opposite ends of the series of hinged plates, the hinged plates being movable about vertical axes and being flexed when a load is discharged into the regulator; and means operated by the regulator for actuating said locker.

50. The combination, with a weighing device involving supply and discharging mechanisms, of a locker for one of said mechanisms; a load-receiving regulator having its opposite walls flexible about vertical axes; a shaft carried by one of the walls and having a crank-arm; a second crank-arm on said shaft, provided with a weight; and a connection between said weighted crank-arm and the locker for operating the latter.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600039 ===

WEIGHING AND DELIVERING APPARATUS

United States Patent 600039

Filing date: June 15, 1897

Issue date: March 1, 1898

Inventor: FRANCIS H. RICHARDS

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Francis H. Richards, a citizen of the United States, residing at Hartford, in the county of Hartford and State of Connecticut, have invented certain new and useful Improvements in Weighing and Delivering Apparatus, of which the following is a specification.

This invention relates to weighing and delivering apparatus.

The objects of the invention are to provide weighing mechanism mounted for traveling movement, means for supplying the same with material, and means for effecting the discharge of the weighing mechanism when it reaches a predetermined point, and in the form of the invention illustrated I have represented for the purpose of securing a great amount of work in a given time a plurality of weighing mechanisms supported for traveling movement in an orbital path, said mechanisms being preferably automatically dischargeable at a common point. For the purpose of insuring greater accuracy the respective weighing mechanisms will be preferably overloaded--that is, each is supplied with a quantity of material in excess of the predetermined load, the surplus being removed prior to the discharge of said load and while the weighing mechanism is in transit.

In the drawings accompanying and forming part of this specification, Figure 1 is a side elevation of my improved weighing apparatus. Fig. 2 is a longitudinal central section of the same. Figs. 3 and 4 are sectional plan views taken, respectively, in the lines x x and y y, Fig. 1; and Figs. 5 and 6 are detail views in sectional elevation, hereinafter more particularly described.

Similar characters designate like parts in all the figures of the drawings.

My present invention embodies as a part thereof a weighing mechanism or weighing mechanisms, as I have illustrated a plurality thereof.

The weighing mechanisms, which are automatic in their operation, are preferably similar in construction and are designated, respectively, by W, W1, W2, and W3, they being mounted in the present case for movement through an orbital or circuitous path, the direction of movement being indicated by the arrow in Fig. 3.

The several weighing mechanisms are supported for traveling movement by the carrier C, which, with the weighing mechanisms, will be hereinafter more particularly specified. The carrier C has centrally thereof the hub 2, which is suitably fixed to the vertical spindle or shaft 3, continuously-operative driving means being preferably furnished to rotate the spindle, and consequently the carrier C and weighing mechanisms. The vertical spindle or shaft 3 is journaled for rotative movement in the standard or post 4, which rises from the base or bed 5, the post and standard constituting a convenient framing for supporting the several parts. The hub or collar 2, which is fixed to the spindle or shaft 3, works against a suitable bearing on the upper face of the stationary post or standard 4, as represented in Fig. 2.

The weighing mechanisms are similar in construction and mode of operation, and this being the case it is deemed necessary to describe but one of them in detail--for example, the weighing mechanism W--similar characters being employed to designate corresponding parts in the other weighing mechanisms of the series.

The weighing mechanism W consists of a load-receiver, as G, and a counterweighted scale-beam, as B, said scale-beam being mounted in the ordinary manner near the outer edge of the carrier or platform C, the latter being in the form of a skeleton platform, the hub 2 of which, as hereinbefore specified, is suitably secured to the shaft 3. The scale-beam B consists of a pair of arms 6 and 7, from which the load-receiver is suspended in a well-known manner, said arms being jointed at the rear by the transverse portion 8, from which projects rearwardly the arms 9 and 10, connected by the counterweight 12.

The load-receiver G is substantially in the shape of a hopper having a discharge-outlet 13, which is normally covered by a suitable closer, as L, constituting in the present instance the load-discharger of the weighing mechanism. The closer L is supported for oscillation, it being pivoted to the load-receiver at 14, its axis of oscillation being located slightly to the rear of a vertical line intersecting the center of the load-receiver, whereby said closer has a tendency to open, this action, however, being properly limited during the loading period.

For the purpose of insuring accuracy in work equal to hand weighing I prefer to overload the respective weighing mechanisms. Each of said weighing mechanisms will be supplied with a quantity of material in excess of or beyond the amount determined upon for a true load or charge, the surplus being preferably removed while the weighing mechanisms are in transit, and any suitable means may be employed for successively overloading and removing the surplus from the several weighing mechanisms. The supplying or overloading means are preferably movable with the several weighing mechanisms--that is, the latter are overloaded while they are traveling through their path. A supply-hopper is shown at H, it being adapted to deliver, through suitable conducting means, the necessary amounts of material to the several weighing mechanisms, said hopper being located below the usual supply-pipe 15, a portion of which is shown in Figs. 1 and 2. The supply-hopper H is provided with a series of inclined tubular conduits or pipes 16, 17, 18, and 19, leading, respectively, to the weighing mechanisms W, W1, W2, and W3. The supply-hopper H is shown frusto conical in shape, its lower flat end resting on the flat flange or disk 20, secured to the upper end of the longitudinal sleeve 21, surrounding and suitably fixed to the shaft 3 for rotation therewith. The longitudinal sleeve 21 has secured thereto, about midway its length, a series of radial flanged arms, as 22, to the outer ends of which are suitably fixed a series of hoppers located over the several weighing mechanisms. Said hoppers are designated, respectively, by 23, 24, 25, and 26, and are located under the respective supply-conduits 16, 17, 18, and 19 and over the weighing mechanisms W, W1, W2, and W3, thereby to supply the necessary overloads to the latter.

The valves for the several hoppers are designated, respectively, by V, V1, V2, and V3, said valves being of the "oscillatory" type and pivoted, as at 27, to the hoppers, said valves being movable below the outlets of the hoppers, to arrest the supply of material therefrom, and being controlled by the respective weighing mechanisms. The valves V, V1, V2, and V3 are furnished with crank-arms 30, 31, 32, and 33, to which are pivoted the rods 34, 35, 36, and 37, bifurcated at their lower ends, the bifurcations straddling the projections 38, 39, 40, and 41 on the arms 6 of the several scale-beams.

The operation of the weighing mechanism is as follows: In Figs. 1 and 2 the valve V of the weighing mechanism W is illustrated as in its wide-open position, the weight 12 of the beam B resting on the carrier or platform C. The closer L of the load-receiver G is illustrated as shut and the load-receiver as partially filled with material. When a certain quantity of material has been added to that already in the load-receiver G of the weighing mechanism W, said load-receiver will descend, the poising end of the beam 13 moving in a corresponding direction, and the projection 39, by falling away from the rod 35, will permit the valve V to close. The several valves are self-closing, they having a preponderance of weight below their axes to effect this operation. When the load-receiver G has been overloaded, it will descend to the limit of its downstroke, and it will be evident that during this period of the operation the weighing mechanism and supply means therefor have been moved in unison in their orbital path, the overload being supplied while the weighing mechanism is in motion.

In Fig. 2 the weighing mechanism W2, or the load-receiver G thereof, is represented as having reached the limit of its downward movement, the surplus or overcharge being withdrawn at this stage.

It will be understood that the surplus is removed from the several weighing mechanisms while they are traveling about their path, and a suitable surplus-receiver will be provided to catch the surplus prior to the discharge of their loads. The surplus-receiver in the present case consists of a hopper, as R, having a circular rim 50. The surplus-receiver or hopper R surrounds and is suitably secured to the standard or post 4, it having in its lower side the discharge-outlet or opening 51, through which the surplus, passing down the inclined wall of the receiver, gravitates into the conduit 52 and to the elevating apparatus 53, to be reconduited to the supply-hopper H, the discharge-conduit 52 and elevating apparatus 53 being represented by dotted lines in Fig. 1.

It will be remembered that the closers L are self operative or opening, and means will be provided for holding them in their shut positions during the supply of material thereto, and the circular rim or track 50 constitutes a convenient device for this purpose, said closers having the projections or studs 54 on the under side thereof terminating in rolls 55, which normally run in contact with the outer face of the circular track or rim 50, as represented in Figs. 1 and 2. The closers are oppositely dischargeable, and it will be apparent that when the rolls 55 are in contact with the track 50, as shown in Fig. 2, the opening of the closers will be prevented.

The respective weighing mechanisms will when empty occupy about the position in which the weighing mechanism W is shown in Fig. 3, they being successively overloaded as they rotate, and at predetermined points the supply-valves will be closed, and subsequent to this stage the closers L will be successively opened to effect the removal of the surplus from the load-receivers, the closers L being oppositely dischargeable to accomplish this result. The closers are held against forward opening movement by the circular rim or track 50, and at predetermined points they will be rearwardly opened to discharge a portion of the contents or the surplus into the receiver or hopper R.

For controlling or regulating the movements of the closers successively effective means are provided, the track or rim 50 constituting one of the agents for accomplishing this purpose, and a suitable device in a different vertical plane than the track disposed in the path of movement of the weighing mechanisms being provided to open the closers rearwardly as they successively pass a predetermined point. The device for effecting the opening of the closers to permit the surplus to pass from the load-receivers is situated in the path of movement of the several weighing mechanisms; and it consists, preferably, of a horizontally-disposed elongated cam 60, suitably fixed to the circular track or rim 50 and located in the path of movement of the projections 54 of the closers, whereby, as the said projections impinge against the cam on the movement of the several weighing mechanisms, the cam 60 will cause the several closers as they come in contact therewith to open, as represented in Fig. 5, so that the surplus from each weighing mechanism can gravitate from the load-receivers into the receiver or hopper R. The track 50 and cam 60, which constitute controlling devices for the closers, are of different widths, the cam 60 being made narrower than the track 50 and its upper edge being set below the upper edge of the track (see Figs. 5 and 6) for a purpose that will now appear.

The weighing mechanisms W and W1 are shown in Fig. 1 as being at the limit of their ascending movements, the projections 54 on the closers L thereof being in contact with the outer face of the track 50 near the upper edge thereof. As the two weighing mechanisms rotate with the carrier C they will be caused to descend, reaching their lowest positions when the two receivers are overloaded, the roll 55 of the projections 54 having when the weighing mechanisms are overloaded passed to a point on the track below the upper edge of the cam 60. On the continuation of the rotative movement of the two weighing mechanisms the roll 55 of the first mechanism will ride against the entering end 61 of the cam, which is eccentric to the track 50, so that the closer L will be swung open as the roll rides along the cam, thereby permitting the surplus to pass from the load-receiver and into the receptacle R, (see Figs. 2 and 5,) one of the rolls being shown in contact with the cam 60 in said Fig. 5.

As soon as the material gravitates from the load-receiver from which it is being withdrawn the load-receiver will rise, but the roll will remain in contact with the cam so long as there is any excess in the load-receiver.

As soon as the surplus has been fully withdrawn the roll will pass to a point above the upper edge of the cam, as shown in Fig. 6, so that the closer may instantly shut off its own weight, thereby to stop the further removal of material from the load-receiver. When the closer has reached its shut position, the roll 55 will abut against the track 50, and at a subsequent point in the travel of the weighing mechanism the load will be discharged, as will hereinafter appear.

The normal mode of operation is, first, the overloading of each weighing mechanism; second, the removal of the surplus at a predetermined point in the path of movement of the weighing mechanism, and, third, the discharge of the predetermined load.

The weighing mechanisms are successively dischargeable automatically and preferably at a common point, the load-receivers G emptying their contents into the discharge hopper or trough 65, located at one side of the surplus-receiver R, and the oppositely-inclined walls 66 and 67 of which lead to the discharge-outlet 68, beneath which may be placed suitable receptacles (not shown) to receive the charges.

The rim 50, as will be evident, constitutes a means for locking or holding the closer of each weighing mechanism in its shut position, and the cam 60 acts as a suitable actuator for swinging each closer open and for holding it in the open position for a sufficient length of time to effect the removal of the surplus from a weighing mechanism, which passes into the receiver or hopper R, and when the rolls 55 have passed above the upper edge of the cam 60, thereby indicating the completion of each load, said loads can be discharged by suitable means, a form of which will now be described.

The circular rim or track 50 is intersected at a suitable point by the recess 70. When a projection 54 or the roll 55 thereof reaches a point above the cam 60, it will be understood that the load in the weighing mechanism from which said projection extends is completed. On the withdrawal of the surplus the weighing mechanism will continue to rotate, and when the projection 54 has reached a point opposite the recess the result will be to release the closer L thereof, which instantly swings open, as indicated in Fig. 2, thereby permitting the load to discharge into the hopper or trough 65, the projection 54 passing into the recess 70 until its further motion is arrested by a suitable device, such as the cam-strip 71, on the inside of the rim 50, which, with a companion cam-strip 72, extends laterally from the recess 70 to form a camway or guideway 73, between which the projection or projections 54 of the several weighing mechanisms are guided as the weighing mechanisms discharge their loads. The cam 72 constitutes a means for locking the respective closers in their open positions, as shown by the weighing mechanism W3, Fig. 2. As each roll 55 reaches a point opposite the notch or recess 70 the closer which carries the same will be released and will swing open to discharge the contents of a load-receiver into the trough 65, and said roll will ride along the convex portion 75 of the cam as the weighing mechanism moves, whereby it will be caused to open and be maintained in such position while rolling along the plane portion 76 of the cam, and when said roll reaches a point opposite the convexity 77 of the cam 71 said convex portion will cause the closer to shut slowly, the companion cam 72, adjacent to the convexity 77, being of such shape as to permit this operation. As soon as each roll passes out of contact with the cam 72 it will engage the curved track 50 and the closer carrying the same will be thereby maintained in its shut position.

Means are provided for preventing the premature discharge of the weighing mechanism or mechanisms, and for this purpose the actuator or cam 60 is made of such length as to extend across the notch or recess 70. When a projection 54 of any one of the weighing mechanisms is opposite the notch or recess 70, it will be evident that the closer on which the same is mounted will be released, provided, of course, the surplus has been fully withdrawn from the proper weighing mechanism.

It will be remembered that when the surplus is fully withdrawn from a load-receiver the projection 54 on the closer L thereof will ascend to a point above the upper edge of the cam 60, so that if the surplus has not been fully withdrawn from the weighing mechanism when a projection 54 thereof is opposite the recess 70 the cam 60 will positively block the action of the closer at this point and prevent its being opened until the surplus is withdrawn, which will take place when the projection has again passed in contact with the cam and when it reaches a point opposite the notch or recess 70 on a succeeding rotation. For the purpose of preventing the closer L from swinging inward when the projection 54 thereon reaches a point opposite the leaving end of the camway 73 said leaving end is closed by a switch 80, pivoted at 81, near one end of the cam 72, its free end normally abutting against the companion cam 71, as illustrated in Fig. 4. When a projection 54 is about to pass out of the camway, it will strike the switch 80 and force it to one side, this operation being carried out by each of the succeeding weighing mechanisms. If, however, a projection 54 should not enter the camway, but should travel in contact with the cam 60, and subsequently with the rim 50, indicating the fact that the surplus has not been withdrawn from the load-receiver thereof, said projection will strike the switch 80 and force it to its normal position, (illustrated in Fig. 1,) the switch closing the leaving end of the camway 73, and thereby acting as a device to block the opening of the closer, as will be apparent.

Means will be preferably provided for locking each weighing mechanism against movement on the discharge of a load, whereby the load-receiver and the poising end of the scale-beam thereof are held in their lower positions and the valve is also maintained shut, and the locking means in the present case are cooperative, respectively, with the scale-beam and the load-discharger, said locking means being operated by a closer to block the action of the scale-beam. The beam locking or blocking means and the mode of operation thereof being the same in the case of each weighing mechanism, it is unnecessary to describe but one of said means in detail, corresponding parts in the other mechanisms being designated by similar characters.

Attention is called to Figs. 2 and 3. The beam-locker is designated by 85, it being oscillatory and consisting of an arm fixed to the rock-shaft 86, journaled in a longitudinal bearing 87 on the carrier C, the opposite end of said shaft having the rock-arm 88 connected by a link 89 with the closer L. The weight 12 of the scale-beam B is furnished with the projection 90, under which the locker or arm 85 is swung on the discharge of a load, as indicated in Fig. 2, so that the weight 12 will be held against return movement, and the load-receiver G will be retained in its lowermost position, it being apparent also that the valve V3 cannot be opened, as its action is controlled by the scale-beam.

When the closer L of the weighing mechanism W3 or any other of the series is swung open, the beam B being at the limit of its shifting movement, the link 89 will be thrust rearward, thereby swinging the arm 85 under the projection 90 of the scale-beam, as shown in Fig. 2, so as to prevent the return movement of the several parts of the weighing mechanism, it being apparent also that the load-discharger or closer L is locked or held positively in its open position by the cam 72. The projection 90 on the scale-beam is in the nature of a locking device for maintaining the load-receiver against movement in one direction. It will be seen on an inspection of the left-hand side of Figs. 2 and 3 that when the scale-beam B is in its primary position the outside face of the projection 90 will be in contact with the adjacent face of the locker 85, so that the closer L cannot be swung to the rear as long as this relation exists. When, however, the load-receiver G has received its overload, the projection 90 will have been carried to a point above the upper edge of the locker or arm 85, as illustrated in the right-hand side of said figures, so that the closer will be released. Hence it will be evident that reciprocally-effective locking devices are provided operative with the scale-beam and the load-discharger whereby they are held positively in certain positions, as set forth.

The carrier or platform C is continuously driven, it being rotated through the intervention of suitable instrumentalities, such as worm-gearing, at a comparatively slow rate of speed to allow a sufficient length of time to complete the weighing operations of the several mechanisms. The base or bed of the apparatus suitably supports for rotation the driving-shaft 95, having at its inner end the screw 96, meshing with the worm-gear 97, suitably secured to the vertical shaft or spindle, the shaft 95 carrying the driving-pulley 98, which may be coupled to and uncoupled from the shaft 95, when occasion demands, by a suitable clutch, as 99, the usual movable or slidable member of which is connected with the shifting-lever 100 in some suitable manner, said lever being pivotally mounted, as at 101, on the base and being hand-operated, so as to stop and start the apparatus when desired. When the members of the clutch 99 are coupled and the pulley 98 is in rotation, the shaft 3 will be driven to cause the rotative movement of the carrier C and the weighing mechanisms mounted thereon, together with the stream-supplying or overloading means of each weighing mechanism.

The receiver or hopper R has therein a deflector, such as D, which is of wedge shape, the apex thereof being uppermost, so that if any of the surplus should be removed from any one of the weighing mechanisms when it is near the recess or notch 70 such material will strike the upper edge of the device D, and the oppositely-inclined portions thereof will deflect the same toward the outlet 51 to be disposed of in the manner hereinbefore set forth.

The operation of the weighing mechanisms has been hereinbefore described. They are first overloaded and then the surplus is removed, subsequent to which the predetermined loads are discharged into the trough or hopper 65, and when the closers have been successively released by the cam 72 they will shut, thereby releasing the beams, so that the weighing mechanism will be returned to its initial position to repeat the weighing operation. When the closers are shut and the rolls 55 are against any part of the circular rim or track 50, the empty load-receiver, and consequently the poising side of the beams, will ascend, the beams as they rise thrusting the respective rods 34, 35, 36, and 37 upward at the proper stages, whereby the valves V, V1 V2, and V3 will be opened.

It is to be understood that I do not limit the invention to any particular number of weighing mechanisms. It is perfectly apparent that only one or a greater number can be provided, as these are simply matters of choice or convenience.

Having described my invention, I claim--

1. The combination, with a carrier, of a plurality of weighing mechanisms on said carrier and each including a load-receiver; means for imparting a traveling movement to said carrier; means for supplying an overload of material to each load-receiver; means for automatically causing the several load-receivers, while in transit, successively to discharge the surplus or overload; and means in position successively to discharge the several loads at a common point after the surplus has been removed from the load-receivers.

2. The combination, with a plurality of weighing mechanisms mounted for traveling movement and each including a load-receiver having a closer, of means for successively opening said closers to permit the discharge

of the surplus or overload; and means for releasing said closers to permit the same to open to discharge the weighed loads.

3. The combination, with a plurality of weighing mechanisms each including a load-receiver having a closer, of a carrier for said weighing mechanisms; means for imparting a traveling movement to said carrier; means for supplying an overload of material to the load-receivers; means for automatically actuating the closers in succession while the weighing mechanisms are in transit, first to discharge the surplus or overload, and finally to discharge the true load; and a surplus-receiving hopper common to all of the load-receivers.

4. The combination, with a platform, of means for imparting a traveling movement thereto; weighing mechanism mounted upon the platform; means for supplying an overload of material to the weighing mechanism; and means set in operation automatically by the platform while in transit, for effecting the removal of the surplus from the weighing mechanism and for subsequently discharging the true load.

5. The combination, with overloading means, of weighing mechanisms; a movable carrier on which the same is mounted; means for automatically causing the discharge of the surplus or overload; and means for permitting the discharge of the weighed load when the weighing mechanism reaches a predetermined point.

6. The combination, with weighing mechanisms each including an oscillatory load-discharger supported to deliver material in opposite directions, of a carrier for supporting said weighing mechanisms; means for imparting a traveling movement to the carrier; means for supplying overloads to the weighing mechanisms; means for operating the several load-dischargers in succession during the travel of the weighing mechanisms in opposite directions successively to effect first the removal of the surplus, and then to discharge the load; and surplus-receiving and load-receiving hoppers common to all of the weighing mechanisms.

7. The combination, with a plurality of weighing mechanisms supported for traveling movement and each including a load-receiver having a pivoted closer to cover the discharge-outlet thereof, of means for successively supplying overloads to the several load-receivers; means for successively operating each closer during the travel of each weighing mechanism in opposite directions first to discharge the surplus, and then to discharge the completed loads; and surplus-receiving and load-receiving hoppers common to all of the weighing mechanisms.

8. The combination, with weighing mechanism supported for traveling movement, said mechanism including a load-discharger provided with a projection, of a track coextensive with the path of movement of said mechanism with which said projection runs in contact, said track operating to prevent the load-discharger from releasing the load.

9. The combination, with weighing mechanism supported for traveling movement and including a load-discharger provided with a projection, of a track with which said projection runs in contact, said track being coextensive with the path of movement of said mechanism and normally preventing the action of the load-discharger; and means disposed in the path of movement of the projection for engaging the same at a predetermined point in the path of travel of the weighing mechanism, to thereby operate the load-discharger.

10. The combination of weighing mechanism mounted for traveling movement and including a load-discharger, and means for causing said load-discharger to empty a load at a predetermined stage in the movement of the weighing mechanism and for locking the same in such position during the discharge of the load.

11. The combination of weighing mechanism mounted for traveling movement and including a load-receiver provided with a closer, and means for causing an opening movement of said closer at a predetermined stage in the travel of the weighing mechanism and for locking the same in such position for a predetermined length of time.

12. The combination of weighing mechanism mounted for traveling movement and including a load-discharger; means for overloading the weighing mechanism and for subsequently removing the surplus therefrom; and means for causing the said load-discharger to empty the load at a predetermined stage in the movement of the weighing mechanism and for locking the same in such position during the discharge of the load.

13. The combination, with weighing mechanism mounted for traveling movement and including a load-discharger provided with a projection, of a track with which the projection is adapted to run in contact, and a series of cams disposed in the path of movement of said projection and adapted to engage the same at successive points in the path traveled by the weighing mechanism, said cams operating first to cause the load-discharger to discharge a portion of the load and finally to discharge the entire load.

14. The combination of weighing mechanism mounted for traveling movement and including a load-discharger provided with a projection; a track with which the projection is adapted to run in contact, said track having a recess; and a cam secured to the inside of the track, adjacent to the recess.

15. The combination of weighing mechanism mounted for traveling movement and including a load-discharger provided with a projection; a track with which the projection is adapted to run in contact, said track having a recess; and a pair of cams secured to the inside of the track, adjacent to the recess.

16. The combination of weighing mechanism mounted for traveling movement and including a load-discharger provided with a projection; a track with which the projection is adapted to run in contact; a camway disposed in the path of movement of said projection; and a switch normally closing one end of the camway.

17. The combination of weighing mechanism mounted for traveling movement and including a load-discharger provided with a projection; a track with which the projection is adapted to run in contact, said track having a recess; a pair of cams extending laterally from the recess and adapted to form a guideway between which said projection is adapted to travel as the weighing mechanism moves; and a pivotally-supported switch normally closing one end of said guideway.

18. The combination, with weighing mechanism supported for traveling movement and including a load-discharger, of devices disposed in different planes in the path of movement of the load-discharger, to cause the same to operate first to discharge a portion of the load and finally the entire load.

19. The combination of weighing mechanism including a load-discharger provided with a projection, the weighing mechanism being supported for traveling movement; a track in contact with which said projection is adapted to run; and a cam disposed in the path of said projection and of narrower width than the track.

20. The combination of a load-receiver having a closer; a supporting scale-beam for the load-receiver; and means operative on the discharge of a load, and connected with said closer, for blocking the action of the beam.

21. The combination of weighing mechanism; means for causing the discharge of a load; a locking device; means for operating the locking device whereby it is caused to block the action of the weighing mechanism on the discharge of a load; and a cooperating device on the weighing mechanism, located to block the action of the other locking device for a predetermined length of time.

22. The combination of a scale-beam; a load-receiver supported thereby having a closer; and a beam-locking arm connected with the closer and adapted to block the action of the beam on the opening of the closer, to discharge a load.

23. The combination of a load-receiver having a closer; a supporting scale-beam for the load-receiver; a shaft carrying a beam-locking arm; a second arm secured to said shaft; and a link connected, respectively, with said second arm and with the closer.

24. The combination, with weighing mechanism mounted for traveling movement and including a load-receiver, of means for removing different portions of the material from the load-receiver at successive places in the travel of the weighing mechanism.

25. The combination, with weighing mechanism mounted for traveling movement, of overloading means therefor; means for removing the surplus at one place in the transit of the weighing mechanism; and successively-operative and independent means for effecting the removal of the remainder of the material at a different place in the travel of the weighing mechanism.

26. The combination, with weighing mechanism, of a carrier therefor; means for imparting a continuous traveling movement to the carrier; overloading means for the weighing mechanism; means for removing the surplus at one place in the transit of the weighing mechanism; and successively-operative means for effecting the removal of the remainder of the material at a different place and during the travel of the weighing mechanism.

27. The combination, with weighing mechanism mounted for traveling movement, of overloading means, and successively-effective means mounted on the framework for effecting the removal of the surplus and the true load, respectively, at different places in the travel of the weighing mechanism.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600040 ===

WEIGHING AND DELIVERING APPARATUS

United States Patent 600040

Filing date: August 10, 1897

Issue date: March 1, 1898

Inventor: FRANCIS H. RICHARDS

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Francis H. Richards, a citizen of the United States, residing at Hartford, in the county of Hartford and State of Connecticut, have invented certain new and useful Improvements in Weighing and Delivering Apparatus, of which the following is a specification.

This invention relates to weighing and delivering apparatus, and in certain respects it is an improvement upon the machine covered by my contemporaneously-pending application, Serial No. 640,854, filed June 15, 1897. One of the objects of the invention is to provide an improved apparatus of the character specified comprehending, preferably, weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver mounted for traveling movement, means for supplying the load-receiver with material, and means for effecting the discharge of the load-receiver when it reaches a predetermined point; and in the form of the invention illustrated I have represented, for the purpose of securing a great amount of work in a given time, a plurality of weighing mechanisms supported for traveling movement in an orbital path, said mechanisms being preferably automatically dischargeable at a common point. For the purpose of insuring greater accuracy the respective weighing mechanisms are preferably overloaded--that is, each is supplied with a quantity of material in excess of the predetermined load, the surplus being removed prior to the discharge of said load and while the weighing mechanism is in transit, and the several operations of the series of weighing mechanisms are electrically governed, so as absolutely to assure the sequential or regular action of the different parts of the apparatus.

My improved apparatus comprehends, preferably, the provision of weighing mechanism embodying a load-discharging member, a carrier for moving the weighing mechanism through a predetermined path, an electric conducting-track, an electric circuit having a source of energy, means for causing the operation of the load-discharging member located in said circuit, a contact device in the circuit contiguous to said track, and a circuit controller or maker operative with the weighing mechanism.

In the form of the invention represented the closer of the load-receiver constitutes the load-discharging member of the weighing mechanism, it being preferably supported for movement in reverse directions and adapted when moved in one direction to permit the surplus to pass from the load-receiver and when moved in the opposite direction at a succeeding stage to permit the predetermined load to pass from said load-receiver. The closer is preferably actuated to accomplish the results specified by the successive energization of a pair of solenoids conveniently mounted upon the load-receiver.

In the drawings accompanying and forming part of this specification, Figure 1 is a sectional front elevation of my improved weighing and delivering apparatus, the section being taken in the line z z, Fig. 2. Fig. 2 is a plan view of the same with the delivery apparatus removed. Fig. 3 is a plan view of a turn-table upon which the several weighing mechanisms are mounted. Fig. 4 is a plan view of a platform to which certain of the electric conductors are secured. Fig. 5 is a bottom view of the same. Fig. 6 is a detail view showing a portion of a load-receiver and its closer open and the discharge-conduit below the same into which the predetermined loads are emptied. Fig. 7 is a detail in plan of one of the gears for rotating the turn-table, the support for the gear being shown in cross-section. Figs. 8 and 9 are cross-sections on the lines x x and y y, respectively, viewed in the directions of the arrows, Fig. 4. Figs. 10 and 11 are detail views hereinafter more particularly described. Figs. 12,13,14, and 15 are diagrammatic views illustrating the manner of making and breaking the different circuits.

Similar characters designate like parts in all the figures of the drawings.

My improved apparatus comprehends a plurality of weighing mechanisms--such as W, W1, W2, W3, Wbled, and W5--each consisting of a load-receiver and a supporting scale-beam therefor, as will hereinafter appear. It is apparent, however, that other kinds of automatic weighing mechanisms than those represented may be employed.

The several weighing mechanisms are mounted for traveling movement upon the carrier C, which consists in the present case of a rotary table preferably continuously driven by suitable mechanism, as will hereafter appear. The carrier or table C embodies a disk or central portion 2, an annular rim 3, connected with the disk by a series of bent arms 4, extending radially from the disk 2, a hub or sleeve 5, and a series of arms G, joining the hub and rim 3, the hub 5 being apertured and driven over the reduced portion 7 of the longitudinal sleeve 8 of the discharge-hopper D, hereinafter more specifically described. The longitudinal sleeve 8 surrounds and is rotative upon the vertical mast or post 9, the lower end of which is stepped in the bearing portion or hub 10 of the base or bed 12, the hub having the series of radial arms, as 13, which are adapted to rest upon the floor or other foundation. The lower reduced end of the discharge-hopper D, which is funnel-shaped, bears against and turns upon the hub 10 and the shoulder 14 of the post 9. (See Fig. 1.) The reduced lower end 15 of the discharge-hopper D has secured thereto the worm-gear 10, with which the worm 17 on the shaft 18 meshes, said shaft being carried by the support or bracket 19 on one of the arms 13 of the base. The shaft 18 carries the driver 20, in the form of a pulley, which can be operated in some convenient manner. It will be evident, that on the rotation of the pulley 20 the shaft 18, the worm 17, worm-gear 16, and hopper D will be also rotated, and that the turn-table C by reason of its connection with the discharge-hopper will be moved through an orbital path to effect the automatic operation of the several weighing mechanisms supported upon said turn-table. It is apparent, however, other means may be employed than those illustrated and described for operating the carrier or table C.

The carrier or table C is represented as supporting for movement through an orbital path a series of six weighing mechanisms, though this number may be varied or even one might be employed without departing from the scope of the invention. The series of weighing mechanisms being similar in construction it is deemed necessary to describe but one of them in detail, corresponding parts in the other mechanisms being designated by similar characters.

The weighing mechanism W (shown at the left in Fig. 1) consists of a load-receiver G and a supporting scale-beam B, the scale-beam being substantially similar in construction and mounting to those described in Letters Patent No. 548,840, granted to me October 29, 1895, to which reference may be had. The scale-beam B is supported upon adjacent branches of the bifurcated arms 25 and 26, extending outward from the rim 3 of the carrier C, the load-receiver being suspended at the poising end of the beam substantially as in said patent. The load-receiver G has in its lower end the usual discharge-outlet, which is covered by the closer or flap L, pivoted, as at 27, to the load-receiver G, the axis of oscillation of the closer being on a vertical line intersecting the center of the load-receiver, whereby the closer has in itself no tendency to swing in either direction when shut, and means being preferably employed positively to cause the operation of said closer, as will hereinafter appear.

The several load-receivers are overloaded--that is, each is supplied with a mass of material containing the predetermined load and an excess, the excess being preferably removed while said weighing mechanisms are in transit. For overloading the series of load-receivers G, I have illustrated a plurality of inclined spouts, as S, extending from the relatively large supply-hopper H, to which the columns 30 are secured, said columns rising from the rim portion 3 of the carrier C, as shown in Figs. 1 and 3. The discharge of the supply-stream from the several spouts S is controlled, preferably, by the valves V, one for each spout, pivoted, as at 31, near the lower ends of said spouts.

The closer L, which constitutes the discharging member of the weighing mechanism, is supported for oscillation in reverse directions, it being adapted, when swung in one direction, as indicated by the weighing mechanisms W2 and W3 in Fig. 1, to permit the surplus to pass from the load-receiver and to fall or be directed by the guide lip or extension 32 on the closer into the funnel-shaped discharge-hopper D. When the closer is swung in the opposite direction, as represented in Fig. 6, the predetermined load can be emptied into a discharge hopper or trough D1, which can be secured to the base 12 in some convenient manner or into some other vessel. For thus successively actuating the closer L to swing the same in opposite directions I prefer to employ a plurality of solenoids, such as A and A1, which are alternately or successively energized and which act through interposed mechanism, such as gearing, positively to operate the closer at predetermined stages in the travel about its circuit. The hub 33 of the closer L has secured thereto the segment 34, meshing with the rack 35, pivoted at its opposite ends to the cores 36 and 37, respectively, of the solenoids A and A1, for a purpose that will hereinafter appear.

The spout S in connection with the valve V constitutes a convenient means for overloading the load-receiver G of the weighing mechanism W, the other weighing mechanisms being similarly overloaded in the manner hereinbefore set forth. The valve V is preferably a "gravity-valve," and is held in its normal or wide-open position preferably by a solenoid, as S1. The core 40 of the solenoid is pivoted to the crank-arm 42 of the valve V.

In Fig. 1 the solenoid S1 is represented as energized, whereby the core 40 is held in its retracted or primary position, so that by reason of its connection with the valve the latter is maintained in its wide-open position to permit the full volume of the supply from the spout or conduit S to drop into the load-receiver. On the deenergization of the solenoid S1 the valve V is released and shuts by its own weight to cut off the supply from the spout S. The order of operation of each weighing mechanism is as follows: overloading, load-reducing, and load-discharging, and these operations succeed one another, being automatically and electrically caused during the travel of the several weighing mechanisms about their path.

The source of energy for operating the several solenoids may be of any suitable character. It is represented herein consisting of one or more batteries E and E1 of ordinary construction, supported on the disk portion of the rotary carrier C. (See Figs. 1 and 2.) The electrical connections between the several weighing mechanisms and the two batteries E and E1 being the same, it is deemed necessary to describe but one system in detail, corresponding parts of the other (see mechanism W3, Fig. 1) being denoted by similar characters. The wire 50 leads from the battery E to the wire 51, connected at its end with the solenoid S1, from which the wire 62 extends, attached at its opposite end to the contact-piece 63, attached to the load-receiver. A similar and adjacent contact-piece is shown at 64, also fixed to the load-receiver and from which the wire 65 extends, the opposite end of said wire being secured to the circuit-controller or circuit making and breaking lever 66, pivoted to the load-receiver, the working end of said lever 66 being normally against the contact-piece 67 on the load-receiver. The wire 68 is connected, respectively, with the contact-piece 67 and to the wire 69, connected with the battery E1. The wire 51, near its point of junction with the solenoid S1, is intersected by the wire 70, connected at its opposite end to the spring contact-arm 71, cooperative with the contact-point 72, these parts being secured to the insulating-strip 73 near the lower end of the spout. The wire 74 is connected with the contact-arm 72 and also with the solenoid A. The wire 75 runs from the wire 74 to the solenoid A1. The wire 76 leads from the solenoid A to the bar 77, passing through an aperture in and insulated from the rim portion of the carrier C. The wire 78 connects the solenoid A1 with a similarly-mounted bar 79. The bars 77 and 79 carry at the outer ends thereof the trailers or spring contact-arms 80 and 81, contiguous to the tracks 82 and 83, respectively, secured to the under side of the rim portion 84 of the stationary platform P. The tracks or ways 82 and 83 serve as conductors and are annular or circular in shape for a purpose that will hereinafter appear, they being secured in some suitable manner to the part 84, constructed of non-conducting material.

The platform P consists of a hub 85, the rim portion 84, to which I have just referred, and a series of radial arms 86, connecting said parts, the hub or sleeve 85 being secured near the upper end of the mast or post 9.

A series of arc-shaped or curved conductors, as 87 and 88, located, preferably, in different horizontal planes, are mounted upon the upper side of the annular portion 84 of the platform P and are electrically connected or in circuit with the circular tracks 82 and 83, respectively, along which the spring-trailers 80 and 81 travel. The conductor 87 has a series of sockets, as 89, located at suitable intervals to receive the posts 90, the opposite ends of which are in threaded engagement with the part 84, (see Fig. 8,) the shoulder 91 of said post fitting against the wire 92, connected with the track 82. The conductor 88 is supported by posts, as 93, in a substantially similar manner, threaded into the part 84, and the shouldered post fitting against the wire 94, connected with the track 83. (See Fig. 9.) The actuator for the circuit-controller 66 is illustrated at 95, pivoted near the upper end of the load-receiver and connected with said circuit-controller by the link 96, pivoted to said parts, the actuator 95 being operated by the projecting finger 97 on the beam B, which oscillates between the free arms of the parts 95 and 66. (See Fig. 1.)

The hub 33 of the closer L has the laterally-projecting arm 98, having at its free end the spring circuit-controller or circuit making and breaking device 99. The conductor 88 has the upturned flange 88-1, the purpose of which will hereinafter appear.

The weighing mechanism or the beam B thereof is furnished with a circuit-controller, such as 100, secured to the beam-weight 10 and having the projecting prongs or circuit-closers 101 and 102 adapted to make contact with the outer alined faces or peripheries of the conductors 87 and 88, respectively. The circuit-controller 100 is connected with the wire 68 by the wire 103.

In Fig. 1 the weighing mechanism W is in the position in which its receiver G is overloaded, and it is assumed that the carrier C is being rotated in the direction of the arrow in Fig. 2 through the hereinbefore-described mechanism. The closer L is shut and the valve V is open by reason of the energization of the solenoid S1, the circuit being established through the batteries E, wires 69 and 68, contact-piece 67, circuit-controller 66, wire 65, contact-pieces 64 and 63, wire 62, solenoid S1, and wires 51 and 50, as indicated by the heavy lines in Fig. 12. The valve V being held open by the solenoid the full volume of the supply-stream can enter the load-receiver G, and when a certain proportion of the load has been received said receiver and the poising end of the beam B will descend until the beam-finger 97 strikes the free arm of the circuit-controller 66, so that the working end of said controller is moved away from the contact-piece 67, at which time the load-receiver is overloaded, so that the solenoid-circuit is broken and the solenoid deenergized. When the solenoid is deenergized, the valve V is released and can shut by its own weight. It will be understood that during this period of operation the weighing mechanism W will have traveled for a portion of the distance about its circuit or until it reaches a position occupied approximately by the weighing mechanisms W2 and W3, Figs. 1 and 2. When the beam reaches the end of its stroke on the overloading of the receiver G and the shutting of the valve V in the manner just described, the prong or projection 102, extending rearward from the beam-weight w, will be contiguous to the entering end of the periphery of the conductor 87, as represented by the weighing mechanism W1, Fig. 1. When the projection 101 makes contact with the inner face of the conductor 87, a closer operating circuit is established as follows: from the wires 50 and 51, wire 70, spring-contact arms 71 and 72, (held against each other by the valve V,) wire 74, solenoid A, wire 74, bar 77, spring-trailers 80, track 82, post 90, conductor 87, projection 102 of the circuit-controller 100, wire 103, wire 68, wire 69, and batteries E and E1, so that the solenoid A is energized, as indicated by the weighing mechanism W1, Fig. 1, and by heavy lines in Fig. 13, so that the core of said solenoid is retracted and the rack 35 and segment-gearing 34 are operated to swing the closer L outward, as indicated by the weighing mechanisms W2 and W3, Fig. 1, whereby the surplus can pass into the discharge-hopper D, which serves as a surplus-receiver. So long as the projection 102 remains in contact with the periphery of the conductor 87 the solenoid A will be energized to hold the closer L open to permit the surplus to pass from the load-receiver. It will be evident that as the material is removed from the overloaded receiver G the weight w will drop, so that the projection 102 can pass out of contact with the conductor 87, it being apparent that at this time the surplus is entirely removed, whereby the circuit in which the solenoid A is located is broken, so that said solenoid is deenergized. When said solenoid is deenergized, the closer L is released and instantly shuts by its own weight to stop the further withdrawal of material from the load-receiver. When the projection or prong 102 passes out of contact with the conductor 87, all of the circuits will be broken, as indicated by the light lines in Fig. 14, at which time the receiver G contains the predetermined charge.

The flange 88-1 of the conductor 88 is disposed in the path of movement of the prong 101, so that when these two parts come in contact a third circuit will be established to energize the solenoid A1 for swinging the closer L to its wide-open position, as indicated in Fig. 6, thereby to permit the completed or predetermined load to pass into the discharge-conduit D1. The circuit is completed through the following parts, as indicated by the heavy lines in Fig. 15, viz: wires 50 and 51, wire 70, contact-arms 71 and 72, wire 74, wire 75, solenoid A1, wire 78, bar 79, spring-trailer or contact-arm 81, track 83, wire 94, post 93, conductor 88, prong 101 of the circuit-controller, wire 103, wire 68, wire 69, and batteries E and E1. When the circuit is established through the parts enumerated, the solenoid A1 is energized, thereby retracting its core 37 and moving the rack 35 in a corresponding direction, so that the closer L can be swung open, as indicated in Fig. 6, to discharge the load from the load-receiver. When the closer opens to discharge its contents, the weight w will of course drop, the prong 101 passing out of contact with the flange 88-1, but will remain in contact with the body or main portion of the conductor 88, so that as the weighing mechanism moves in its circuit the closer L can be positively held open for a comparatively long period of time, so as to insure the complete emptying of the load-receiver. When the projection 101 passes out of contact with the conductor 88, the circuit in which the closer-opening solenoid A1 is located will be broken, so that the closer L can shut to again repeat the weighing operation.

I have hereinbefore described circuit making and breaking devices operative, respectively, with the valve V and closer L, and it will be apparent that when either one of these members is open the actuating-solenoid for the other cannot be energized.

When the weight w drops on the discharge of the load into the hopper D1, the finger or projection 97 thereon is raised and strikes the free arm of the actuating-lever 95, so that the circuit-controller 66 is raised into contact with the contact-piece 67 on the load-receiver, so that when the closer L shuts the circuit in which the solenoid S1 is located can be established to energize said solenoid, thereby retracting its core 40 and swinging the valve V open, as indicated, respectively, in Figs. 1 and 12.

The surplus from the several weighing mechanisms passes inwardly into the substantially conical portion of the discharge-hopper H which is joined by the series of ribs 112 to the longitudinal sleeve 8, the material gravitating down the inclined wall of the hopper, as shown in Fig. 1. The reduced or lower portion 15 of the discharge-hopper D has a series of openings 113, extending longitudinally through the same and communicating with the main chamber 114 of said hopper and through which the surplus that gravitates down the inclined wall of the conical portion of the hopper passes, the material when it emerges from the openings or channels 113 entering the corresponding series of channels or openings 115, formed in the central portion or hub 10 of the base 12, the several openings 113 and being brought into registration or alinement as the hopper D rotates during the operation of the apparatus. The material passes from the channels or openings through the series of slots or holes 116, formed near the lower end of the mast 9 and communicating with to the chamber or socket 117 in the foot of said mast. When the material drops, it can be disposed of in the usual manner.

I have described in detail and at length the operation of the weighing mechanism W, which, with its several parts, is shown in detail in several of the views, and as the series of weighing mechanisms are similar it has been deemed unnecessary to illustrate the different parts and their operation. The order of operation in each weighing mechanism is the same--that is, overloading, load-reducing, and load-discharging.

Having described my invention, I claim--

1. The combination, with weighing mechanism embodying a load-discharger, of a carrier on which the load-receiver is mounted; means for imparting a traveling movement to the carrier; an electrical circuit; means for supplying an overload to the weighing mechanism; means located in said circuit for causing the operation of said load-discharger to effect the removal of the surplus; an automatically-operative circuit-controller adapted to close the circuit in which said last-mentioned means is located and while the carrier is in motion; and successively-effective means for causing the discharge of the predetermined load.

2. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-discharger, of a rotative carrier on which the load-receiver is mounted and operable for moving the same through a predetermined path; continuously-operative mechanism for rotating said carrier; an electric circuit; means for supplying an overload to the weighing mechanism; means located in said circuit for causing the operation of said load-discharger to effect the removal of the surplus; an automatically operative circuit-controller governed by the movement of the weighing mechanism and adapted to close the circuit in which said last-mentioned means is located when the weighing mechanism is at "a predetermined point; and successively-effective means for causing the discharge of the predetermined load.

3. The combination, with weighing mechanism involving a load-discharger, of a rotative carrier on which the weighing mechanism is mounted; means for operating the carrier; an electric circuit mounted on the carrier; means for supplying an overload to the weighing mechanism; means located in the circuit for causing the operation of the load-discharger; an automatically-operative circuit-controller governed by the motion of the weighing mechanism and adapted to close the circuit at a predetermined point to effect the removal of the surplus from weighing mechanism; and successively-effective means for causing the discharge of the predetermined load.

4. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-discharger, of a rotative carrier including a disk and a rim portion connected by a series of arms, the weighing mechanism being supported upon said rim portion; an electric circuit having battery or batteries mounted on said disk; means for supplying an overload to the weighing mechanism; means located in said circuit for causing the operation of the load-discharger; an automatically-operative circuit-controller adapted to close the circuit and thereby effect the removal of the surplus; and successively-effective means for causing the discharge of the predetermined load.

5. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-discharger; a carrier for moving the weighing mechanism through a predetermined path; an electric conducting-track; an electric circuit; means located in the circuit for causing the operation of the load-discharger; a contact device operative with the weighing mechanism and contiguous to said track; and a circuit-maker operative with the weighing mechanism.

6. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-discharger; a carrier for moving the weighing mechanism through a predetermined path; an electric conducting-track; an electric circuit; means located in the circuit for causing the operation of the load-discharger; a traveling contact device operative with the weighing mechanism and contiguous to said track; and a circuit-maker operative with the weighing mechanism.

7. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-discharger; a carrier for moving the weighing mechanism through a predetermined path; an electric conducting-track; an electric circuit; means located in said circuit for causing the operation of the load-discharger; a contact device operative with the weighing mechanism and supported by the carrier and contiguous to said track; and a circuit-maker operative with the weighing mechanism.

8. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-discharger; a rotary carrier for moving the weighing mechanism through a predetermined path; an annular electric conducting-track; an electric circuit; means located in said circuit for causing the operation of the load-discharger;, a contact device contiguous to said track and operative with the weighing mechanism; and a cccpcuit-maker also operative with the weighing mechanism.

9. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-discharger; a rotary carrier for moving the weighing mechanism through a predetermined path; an electric conducting-track; a stationary platform to which said track is secured; an electric circuit; means located in said circuit for causing the operation of the load-discharger; a contact device supported by the carrier and contiguous to the track; and a circuit-maker operative with the weighing mechanism.

10. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-discharger; a rotary carrier for moving the weighing mechanism through a predetermined path; an electric conducting-track; a platform to which said track is secured; an electric circuit; means located in said circuit for causing the operation of the load-discharger; a spring-contact device supported by the carrier and contiguous to said track; and a circuit-maker operative with the weighing mechanism.

11. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-discharger; a carrier for moving the weighing mechanism through a predetermined path; an electric conducting-track; a platform to which said track is secured; an electric circuit; means located in the circuit for causing the operation of the load-discharger; a contact device; a bar on the carrier, to which said contact device is secured, said bar being located in the circuit; and a circuit-maker operative with the weighing mechanism.

12. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-discharger; a carrier for moving the weighing mechanism through a predetermined path; an electric conducting-track; a platform to which said track is secured; an electric circuit; a bar supported by the carrier and in said circuit, said bar having a contact device contiguous to the track; a circuit-maker operative with the weighing mechanism; and means for rotating the carrier.

13. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-discharger; a rotary carrier embodying a disk and a rim, said rim serving to support the weighing mechanism; a stationary track situated between the disk and rim portion of the carrier and having an electric conducting-track; an electric circuit; a contact device on the carrier contiguous to said track; and means for closing the circuit.

14. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-discharger; a rotary carrier for moving the weighing mechanism through a predetermined path; a supply-spout rotative with the weighing mechanism; means for controlling the passage of material from the supply-spout; and electrically-operated means for actuating the load-discharger at a predetermined point in the rotation of the weighing mechanism.

15. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-discharger; a rotary carrier for moving the weighing mechanism through a predetermined path; a stationary platform; a mast for supporting the same; an electric conductor on the platform; and electrically-operated means for actuating the load-discharger, said conductor being located in, and forming a part of, the electric circuit.

16. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-discharger; a movable carrier on which the weighing mechanism is supported; a stationary platform; a mast for supporting the platform; a discharge-conduit carried by and rotative with the mast; and electrically-operated means for actuating the load-discharger, in circuit with the source of electrical energy and platform, respectively, and movable with the carrier.

17. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-discharger; a movable carrier on which the weighing mechanism is supported; a stationary platform; a mast for supporting the platform; a discharge-conduit surrounding the mast and rotative thereon; and electrically-operated means for actuating said load-discharger, in circuit with the source of electrical energy and platform, respectively, and movable with the carrier.

18. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-discharger; a movable carrier on which the weighing mechanism is supported; a stationary platform; a mast for supporting the platform; a discharge-conduit having a longitudinal sleeve surrounding the mast, said sleeve being reduced at one end and connected with the carrier; means for rotating the discharge-conduit; and electrically-operated means for actuating the load-discharger, in circuit with the source of electrical energy and platform, respectively, and movable with the carrier.

19. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-discharger; a movable carrier on which the weighing mechanism is supported; a stationary platform; a mast for supporting the platform; a discharge-conduit carried by and rotative with the mast; and electrically-operated means for actuating said load-discharger, in circuit with the source of electrical energy and platform, respectively, and carried by the weighing mechanism.

20. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-discharger; a movable carrier on which the weighing mechanism is supported; a mast; a stationary platform embodying a hub secured to the mast; and electrically-operated means for actuating said load-discharger, in circuit with the source of electrical energy and platform, respectively, and rotative with the carrier.

21. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-discharger; a rotary carrier on which the weighing mechanism is supported; a mast; a stationary platform embodying a hub secured to the mast; a hopper secured to the carrier; means for rotating the hopper; electrically-operated means for actuating said load-discharger, in circuit with the source of electrical energy and platform, and rotative with the carrier.

22. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-discharger; a movable carrier on which the weighing mechanism is supported; a stationary platform having a plurality of tracks; and means for operating the load-discharger, said means being in circuit with the tracks and source of electrical energy, respectively.

23. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-discharger; a movable carrier on which the weighing mechanism is supported; a platform having a track; a conductor on the platform, connected with the track; means for operating the load-discharger, in circuit with the track; and a source of electrical energy connected, respectively, with the conductor and the means for operating the load-discharger.

24. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-discharger; a rotary carrier on which the same is mounted; a platform having a track; means for operating the load-discharger; and a source of electrical energy in circuit, respectively, with the track and the means for operating the load-discharger.

25. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-discharger; means for operating the same; a rotary carrier on which the weighing mechanism is mounted; a stationary platform having a track; a conductor connected with the track; and a source of electrical energy in circuit with the track and load-discharger-operating means, respectively.

26. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-discharger; means for operating said load-discharger; a rotary carrier on which the weighing mechanism is mounted; a platform having a track; a conductor; a post engaging the platform and conductor, respectively, and connected by a wire with the track; and a source of electric energy in circuit with the track and load-discharger-operating means, respectively.

27. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-discharger; means for operating the same; a carrier on which the weighing mechanism is mounted; a platform having a plurality of conductors; and a source of electric energy in circuit with the conductors and load-discharger-operating means, respectively.

28. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-discharger; means for operating the same; a rotary carrier on which the weighing mechanism is mounted; a platform having a plurality of conductors located in different planes; and a source of electrical energy in circuit with the conductors and the load-discharger-operating means, respectively.

30. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-discharger; means for operating the same: a rotary carrier on which the weighing mechanism is mounted; a stationary platform having a plurality of conductors disposed in different horizontal planes; and a source of electric energy in circuit with the conductors and load-discharger-operating means, respectively.

31. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-discharger; a carrier for moving the weighing mechanism through a predetermined path; an electric track; an electric circuit; means for causing the operation of the load-discharger and located in said circuit; a traveling contact device in the circuit, contiguous to the said track; and a circuit-maker operative with the weighing mechanism.

32. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-discharging member; a carrier for moving the weighing mechanism through a predetermined path; electric conducting-tracks; an electric circuit; means for successively causing the operation of the load-discharging member at different stages and located in said circuit; a series of traveling contact devices in the circuit, contiguous, respectively, to said tracks; and circuit-making means operative with the weighing mechanism.

33. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver having a closer and a scale-beam; a carrier for moving the weighing mechanism through a predetermined path; an electric conducting-track; an electric circuit; means for causing the operation of the closer and located in said circuit; a traveling contact device in the circuit, contiguous to the track; and a circuit-maker on the scale-beam.

34. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver and a scale-beam; a carrier for moving the weighing mechanism through a predetermined path; a plurality of electric conductors; a platform on which the same are mounted; a source of electric energy in circuit with the tracks; load-discharging means connected with the source of electric energy; and a circuit-controller on the scale-beam, having a series of prongs.

35. The combination, with a carrier and with driving mechanism for operating said carrier, of weighing mechanism mounted on the carrier and including a load-discharger; overloading means; means involving a plurality of solenoids for actuating the load-discharger; and instrumentalities for successively energizing the solenoids at predetermined points in the travel of the carrier.

36. The combination, with a carrier and with mechanism for imparting a traveling movement thereto, of a scale-beam mounted upon the carrier; a load-receiver having a closer and supported by the scale-beam; overloading means for the load-receiver; a plurality of solenoids mounted on the load-receiver; closer-actuating means cooperating, respectively, with the solenoids and the closer; and means for successively energizing the solenoids at predetermined points in the travel of the carrier.

37. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; a closer; a plurality of solenoids mounted on the load-receiver; gearing cooperative, respectively, with the solenoids and the closer; and means for successively energizing the solenoids.

38. The combination of a load-receiver; a supporting scale-beam therefor; a closer on the load-receiver, supported for oscillation and having its axis on aline passing through the center of the load-receiver; a plurality of solenoids; means situated between the solenoids and the closer for causing the operation of the latter; and instrumentalities for successively energizing the solenoids.

39. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-discharger supported for oscillation in opposite directions; a plurality of solenoids; means situated between the solenoids and the load-discharger for operating the latter; and instrumentalities for successively energizing the solenoids.

40. The combination of a load-receiver having a closer; a supporting scale-beam for the load-receiver; overloading means embodying a valve; a solenoid adapted to hold the valve open; a plurality of closer-actuating solenoids; means for successively energizing the several solenoids; and circuit-breaking means operative, respectively, with the valve and closer.

41. The combination of a load-receiver having a closer; a supporting scale-beam for the load-receiver; a plurality of solenoids cooperative, respectively, with the valve and the closer; means for successively energizing the several solenoids; and circuit-breaking means cooperative, respectively, with the valve, the scale-beam, and the closer.

42. The combination of weighing mechanism; overloading and load-reducing means successively effective during the weighing of a load; a surplus-receiving hopper having a plurality of channels in its lower end; and a base having a cooperating series of channels..

43. The combination of weighing mechanism embodying a load-receiver; overloading and load-reducing means successively effective during the weighing of a load; a carrier for the weighing mechanism; abase; a mast stepped in the base, having in its lower end a chamber; a surplus-receiving hopper supported by the mast and having in its lower end a series of channels; and a cooperating series of channels leading into openings formed in the mast.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600041 ===

AUTOMATIC WEIGHING-MACHINE

United States Patent 600041

Filing date: August 12, 1897

Issue date: March 1, 1898

Inventor: FRANCIS H. RICHARDS

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Francis H. Richards, a citizen of the United States, residing at Hartford, in the county of Hartford and State of Connecticut, have invented certain new and useful Improvements in Automatic Weighing-Machines, of which the following is a specification.

This invention relates to that class of automatic weighing-machines known as "rising-poise" machines--that is, machines in which an overload of material is first supplied to the load-receiver or bucket of the weighing-machine and in which the surplus material is subsequently removed to bring the load-receiver or bucket and weighing mechanism to a true poise and after which the closer of the load-receiver is opened and the completed load discharged--as described, for instance, in Letters Patent of the United States No. 572,067, granted to me November 24, 1896, to which reference may be had.

One object of my present invention is to provide in an automatic weighing-machine embodying a load-receiver improved overload-supplying means, surplus-discharging means, completed-load-discharging means, and surplus-resupplying means, all of which operate in the order named, and the latter of which includes a rotative multicompartment receiver operative with the overload-supplying means, whereby the material may be weighed with facility and rapidity and with an accuracy equal to hand-weighing.

A further object of the invention is to provide, in connection with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver, overload-supplying means and alternately-effective load-reducing means and resupplying means, the former of which includes a valve controlled by the weighing mechanism, and the latter of which includes a rotary auxiliary load-receiver operative with the overload-supplying means, and also to provide means for blocking the effective operation of the resupplying means during the weighing operation and for releasing and facilitating a resupplying movement of said means subsequent to the discharge of the completed load from the load-receiver and preparatory to the making up of a new load. A further object of the invention is to provide, in connection with the load-receiver of the weighing-machine, improved load-discharging instrumentalities operative with the weighing mechanism and comprising two oppositely-disposed closers or discharge members pivotally supported at their lower ends at points below and at opposite sides, respectively, of the longitudinal axis of the load-receiver and so constructed and organized that during the opening movement thereof the upper ends of the closers will travel in arcs toward a common point of intersection located below the load-receiver.

In the drawings accompanying and forming part of this specification, Figure 1 is a front elevation of a weighing-machine embodying my present improvements, the stream-controller or main supply-valve being in its open or overload-supplying position, the bucket or load-receiver being in its normal load-receiving position, and the load-reducing valve being in its closed position. Fig. 2 is a plan view, partially in section, of the main stream-controller and a portion of the actuating mechanism for the rotative transferring-receiver. Fig. 3 is a side elevation of the machine as seen from the left-hand in Fig. 1, the parts being in positions corresponding to those illustrated in said Fig. 1. Fig. 4 is a plan view, partially in horizontal section, of a portion of the left-hand side of the machine as seen in Fig. 1, showing parts of the load-reducing and resupplying instrumentalities. Fig. 5 is a side elevation of the weighing-machine as seen from the right hand in Fig. 1, the parts of the machine being in the positions they occupy during the supply of an overload to the bucket. Fig. 6 is a perspective detail of a portion of the connection between the closer members of the receiver. Fig. 7 is a side elevation similar to Fig. 5, partially in section, of the weighing-machine, showing the valve or stream-controller of the main supply apparatus in its closed position, the load-receiver in its elevated position, and the load-discharging devices in their load-discharging positions. Figs. 8 and 9 are sectional plan and side views, respectively, of portions of the load-receiver and the load-reducing and re-supplying mechanism, showing these parts in the positions they occupy after the load-receiver has discharged a completed load and during the reconveyance and resupplying of a portion of the surplus to said load-receiver. Figs. 10 and 11 are sectional and plan views similar to Figs. 8 and 9 of the same parts, showing the operation of the load-reducing 5 means; and Figs. 12 and 13 are sectional plan and side views similar to Figs. 10 and 11, showing the same parts in the positions they occupy during the discharge of a completed load from the load-receiver or bucket.

Similar characters designate like parts in all the figures of the drawings.

My present invention is in the nature of an improvement upon that described in the Patent U.S. 572,067, hereinbefore referred to, and for the purpose of illustrating the construction, organization, and mode of operation of the several elements comprising my present invention they are shown in connection with weighing mechanism which is in a general way similar to that shown and described in Letters Patent of the United States No. 572,071, granted to me November 24, 1890, to which reference may be had.

The framework for supporting the operative parts of the machine may be of any suitable construction, and it is herein shown consisting of the end frames or columns 2 and 4, mounted upon the chambered supporting base 3, into which the completed loads are discharged from the load-receiver or bucket, said columns 2 and 4 being surmounted by the top plate 5 in the usual manner. The supply chute or hopper is shown at H, said chute or hopper being formed integral with the plate 5. .

The automatic weighing mechanism comprises a suitable load-receiver, in which the loads or charges of material are made up, and that herein shown consists of the bucket G, similar in a general way to the well-known single-chambered class.

For sustaining the bucket I have shown beam mechanism of the "duplicate" class, consisting of the counterweighted scale-beams B and B1, fulcrumed on the base 3 and provided with suitable knife-edges on the poising sides thereof for supporting the bucket. The stream-controller for governing the supply of material to the bucket may be of any suitable type. In the form thereof herein shown it comprises two oppositely-disposed gravitative scoop valves or members 70 and 70-1, one of which is fixed at one end to a rock-shaft section G and is pivotally supported at its opposite end upon a rock-shaft section 7, which sections have their axes in alinement and are journaled in suitable bearings on the framework. The other valve member is fixed at one end to the rock-shaft section 7 and is pivotally supported at its opposite end upon the shaft-section 6, as will be understood by reference to Figs. 1 and 2 of the drawings. The first-mentioned valve 70 has at one end thereof an elongated sleeve 8, that surrounds the shaft-section 7, which sleeve is furnished, at the outer end thereof, with a crank-arm 9, and the shaft-section 7 is shown furnished with a crank-arm 10, which extends outward in opposition to the crank-arm 9 of the valve 70.

The chute H and stream-controlling valves 70 and 70-1 in the present invention constitute what will be hereinafter termed, collectively, the "overload-supplying means."

The bucket G is provided, at the lower discharge end thereof, with a load-discharger 75 comprising two closers, which are designated in a general way by L and L1, the construction, organization, and operation of which will be hereinafter fully described.

As a convenient means for actuating the valve members 70 and 70-1 to impart an opening movement thereto immediately after the closers L and L1 of the bucket are shut I have provided a valve-opening actuator, which in the preferred form thereof shown most clearly in Figs. 5 and 7 of the drawings comprises two thrust-rods 9-1 and 10-1, pivotally connected at their upper ends to the crank-arms 9 and 10, respectively, of the valve members 70 and 70-1, and pivotally connected at their lower ends to one end of a stop-carrying arm 12, which is pivotally supported at its opposite end on the framework, a thrust-rod 13, pivotally connected at its upper end to the stop-carrying arm 12, intermediate the ends thereof, and pivotally connected at its lower end at 13-1 to a throw-out lever 14, which normally bears at one end thereof upon the poising end of a counterweighted auxiliary beam B1, operative with the beam B1 of the weighing mechanism, and which lever is pivotally connected at the opposite end to the crank-arm 15 of a hand-lever 16, pivotally supported at 17 on the frame of the machine, the construction and organization of these parts being such that on the descending movement of the load-receiver the thrust-rods of the valve-opening actuator will gradually descend, allowing the valve members-to close by their own gravity, and on the ascending movement of said load-receiver and after the shutting of the closers L and L1 an upward thrust will be imparted to the thrust members 13, 9-1, and 10-1 through the medium of the counterweighted auxiliary beam and cause a complete closure of the valve members 70 and 70-1.

For the purpose of preventing the discharge of the load from the bucket while the valve members 70 and 70-1 are in their open positions and in order to retain the valve members 70 and 70-1 closed while the load-discharger is open I employ interlocking mechanism, which in the preferred form thereof shown in the drawings comprehends two reciprocally-effective stop members, (designated by s and s1, respectively,) one of which, as s, is controlled in its movements for blocking and releasing the stream-controller by means connected with the closers L and L1, and the other of which, as s1, is controlled in its movements for blocking and releasing the closers L and L1 by the valve-opening actuator, as will be hereinafter more fully described.

In the preferred form thereof shown in the drawings the side walls of the load-receiver or bucket G are V-shaped, and the bottom walls are located in relatively oblique planes, having their points of intersection substantially coincident with the longitudinal center of the load-receiver, said bottom walls being cut away at their lower ends, as indicated in Fig. 7 of the drawings, to provide an opening through which the material of the load-receiver may be discharged.

The load-discharging means in the preferred form thereof shown most clearly in Fig. 7 of the drawings comprises two oppositely-disposed angular closers L and L1.

These closers are pivotally supported at 22 and 23 below and at opposite sides, respectively, of the longitudinal axis of the load-receiver on depending arms 24 and 25 of closer-supporting brackets C and C1, fixed to opposite side walls, respectively, of the load-receiver, near the lower ends thereof.

Each closer in the preferred form thereof shown in the drawings comprises a flat material-supporting plate 26, which when the closer is shut extends outwardly in an oblique plane relatively to the longitudinal axis of the bucket or load-receiver and parallel to the line of the bottom wall of the receiver, and a conjugated curved regulator-plate 27, which when said receiver is in its shut position diverges from the lower central line of said receiver.

The closers L and L1 are so supported and constructed that on the opening movement thereof the upper ends of the material-supporting plates will travel outwardly and downwardly in arcs which intersect at a point below and in substantially vertical alinement with the longitudinal axis of the load-receiver, as will be readily understood by a comparison of Figs. 5 and 7 of the drawings.

On the closing movement of the closers L and L1 the two material-supporting plates of said closers move toward each other in arcs concentric to their respective axes until the upper portions of the curved regulator-plates of said closers come into contact and the material-supporting plates of said closers cover the discharge-opening of the bucket G.

By pivotally supporting the two closers L and L1 below and at opposite sides, respectively, of the longitudinal axis of the load-receiver or bucket it will be seen that the said closers L and L1 practically constitute a regulator-hopper having inclined guide-walls and a discharge-conduit the area of the upper end of which is variable by the movements of the closers, but the area of the lower end of which is constant.

For the purpose of insuring unitary movements of the closers L and L1 a rock-shaft 28 is shown supported in a bearing on the closer-supporting bracket C, near the upper end thereof, to which rock-shaft is fixed two oppositely-disposed crank-arms 29 and 30, to the outer ends of which are pivotally secured closer-sustaining links or connectors 31 and 32, which are pivotally connected at their outer ends to the upper ends of the closers L and L1, respectively. This rock-shaft 28 also has fixed thereto a counterweighted closer-shutting arm 33, so disposed with relation to the crank-arms 29 and 30 as to exert a closing stress upon the closer-sustaining links 31 and 32.

For the purpose of locking the closers normally in their closed positions the rock-shaft 28 has fixed thereon a by-pass arm 34, which when the closers are shut engages a by-pass latch 35, pivotally supported on the load-receiver and having a counterweight 35-1 for retaining the same normally in engagement with the by-pass arm, a stop being provided for limiting the movement of the by-pass latch.

As a convenient means for actuating the by-pass latch to release the same from engagement with the by-pass arm a gravitative latch-tripper 36 is provided, which latch-tripper is pivotally supported on the framework and has a counterweight 30-1 for retaining the latch-tripping end thereof normally in vertical alinement with the outer end of an arm 35" on the by-pass latch, said latch-tripper permitting a free movement of the by-pass latch during the descending movement of the load-receiver and acting to disengage the latch from the by-pass arm at a predetermined point in the ascending movement of the load-receiver, as will be readily understood by reference to Figs. 5 and 7 of the drawings.

As a convenient means for preventing the opening movement of the closers L and L1 when the stream-controller of the overload-supplying means is in its open position two cooperative stop members (designated by s and s1) are provided, the one, s, of which is in the nature of a vertically-disposed lever fulcrumed intermediate its ends, as at 37, on the framework and having an elongated slot 38 at the lower end thereof, through which extends a pin 39 on the crank-arm 40, fixed to the rock-shaft 28, to which the closer-sustaining links are connected, the upper end of said member or lever s having a curved stop-flange 41, concentric to the axis of movement of said lever, and the other stop member, s1, being in the nature of a vertically-disposed curved plate or flange preferably formed integral with the stop-carrying arm 12 and whose opposite ends are adapted to alternately engage the upper and lower faces, respectively, of the curved stop-plate 41 of the other stop member so. These two stop members s and s1 are so disposed relatively to each other and operate in such manner that when the closers L and L1 are open the stop member s will prevent an opening movement of the stream-controller, (see Fig. 7,) and when the stream-controller is open the stop member s1 will block the opening movement of the closers L and L1. (See Fig. 5.)

On the closing movement of the closers L and L1 it will be seen that the stop member s is shifted, through the medium of the crank-arm 40 in connection with the shaft 28, from the position shown in Fig. 7 to that shown in Fig. 5, thus releasing the stop s1 and permitting an opening movement of the valve members 70 and 70-1 through the medium of its connections with the auxiliary beam B2, which beam drops from the position shown in Fig. 7 to that shown in Fig. 5 immediately after the flange of the stop member s is thrown out of operative engagement with the stop-plate of the stop member s1, as will be readily understood by a comparison of these figures. The shaft 28 is operated to throw the stop member s out of engagement with the stop member s1 by the counterweighted arm, which constitutes a closer-shutting actuator.

The bucket G is shown furnished intermediate the receiving and discharging ends thereof with two conduits or spouts 50 and 51, which communicate through the side wall thereof with the interior of said bucket and are located one above and at one side of the other, which conduits may, on account of their functions, be consistently termed the "surplus-discharger" and "surplus-receiver," respectively, the upper surplus-discharger 51 extending downwardly in an inclined plane and the surplus-receiving conduit extending upwardly in an inclined plane.

The lower or surplus-receiving conduit is shown somewhat in the nature of a chute open at its upper end, and the upper conduit 51 is shown provided with a counterweighted valve 52, which is pivoted thereon and is adapted for controlling the discharge of material through this conduit, this valve being so counterweighted as to retain the same normally closed and being provided with a depending actuating-arm 52-1, adapted for cooperating with a valve-actuator during the movement of the bucket.

As a means for actuating the valve 52, which for convenience is termed the "load-reducing" valve, I have provided a valve-actuator, which in the preferred form thereof shown most clearly in Figs. 8 to 13 of the drawings is in the nature of a bracket having a cam or cam-face plate 53, located in the path of vertical movement of the valve-actuating arm 52-1, this bracket being preferably fixed to one of the uprights of the framework, as shown in said figures, and having at the valve-actuating end thereof a support for a trough 54, whose receiving end is located below and in position to receive the material from the surplus-discharging conduit 51.

The conduit 51, its valve, and valve-actuating means constitute what is herein termed the "load-reducing means," and the receiving-conduit 50 constitutes one element of what is herein termed the "resupplying means."

The valve-actuating cam 53 is so constructed and is so disposed with relation to the load-reducing valve 52 as to engage and impart an opening movement to the valve immediately after the bucket has arrived at a predetermined point in its descending movement, it preferably actuating said valve immediately after the receiver arrives at its poised position and retaining the valve in its open position until sufficient material has been discharged through the surplus-discharge conduit to cause the bucket to rise to its true-poise position.

For the purpose of receiving and dispensing the surplus material after its discharge from the load-receiver I have provided a transferring-receiver, which is designated in a general way by R and which in the preferred form thereof shown most clearly in Figs. 1 and 8 to 13 of the drawings comprises a multicompartment annular receptacle 55, open at its upper and lower ends and divided radially into a series of compartments 50 by partitions 57, which receptacle is fixed to and is rotated with a vertically-disposed actuating-shaft 58, journaled at its upper and lower ends in suitable bearings, arid a feed-plate 59, fixedly supported below and practically constituting the bottom of the receptacle 55, said feed-plate having a discharge-opening therethrough which is located in vertical alinement with the receiving-conduit 50 and registers with the compartments of the receptacle 55 successively during the rotative movement of said receptacle. The compartments 56 have their outer and inner walls preferably inclined toward each other at their lower ends, as shown most clearly in Fig. 6 of the drawings.

The discharge end of the trough 54 of the discharge-conduit is located above and at one side of the axis of rotation of the receptacle 55 in position to discharge material into the successive compartments of said receptacle, and the conduit 50 has its receiving end located below and at the opposite side of the axis of movement of said receptacle 55, so that the material is received in the receptacle 55 at one side of the axis and is discharged therefrom at the diametrically opposite side of said axis, thus necessitating a semirotation of the receptacle before material received in one compartment thereof is discharged from said compartment.

In practice it is desirable that the surplus material contained in the bucket be discharged during the descending movement of said bucket and during the weighing operation and that said surplus be reconveyed or resupplied to said bucket subsequent to the discharge of the completed load from said bucket and before or during the making up of a new load, and to accomplish this end it is preferable to impart an opening movement to the load-reducing valve during the descending movement of the load-receiver below its poising-point, prevent a resupplying movement of the transferring-receiver 55 during the weighing operation, or until the completed load is discharged and the closers of the bucket have returned to their normal shut position, and to impart a resupplying movement to said transferring-receiver immediately after said closers or load-dischargers have returned to their closed positions and simultaneously with the opening movement of the valve or stream-controller of the overload-supplying means.

As a convenient means for imparting intermittently a rotative movement to the transferring-receiver 55 simultaneously with the opening movement of the stream-controller of the overload-supplying means the vertically-disposed receiver-actuating shaft 58 is furnished at the upper end thereof, preferably, with a ratchet-wheel 60, which has fixed thereto and is connected in one direction "by a spring-held pawl 61, carried on a bevel-gear 62, which meshes with a bevel-gear 63, fixed to the stream-controller valve or member 70, this connection being such that during the opening movement of the valve 70 an effective movement will be imparted to the transferring-receiver 55 through the medium of the pawl and ratchet, and during the closing movement of said valve the pawl 61 will ride over the teeth of the ratchet without imparting any movement to the receiver 55.

The effective movement of the transferring-receiver 55 is blocked during the weighing operation through the means which block the opening movement of the stream-controller of the overloading means.

It will be obvious that the means for actuating the transferring-receiver 55 may be variously modified within the purview of this invention.

Having described my invention, I claim--

1. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver and with overload-supplying means, of alternately-effective load-reducing means and resupplying means, the former of which includes a stream-controller or valve operative with the weighing mechanism, and the latter of which includes a rotary auxiliary receiver operatively connected to, and actuated by, the overload-supplying means.

2. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver and with overload-supplying means, of load-reducing and resupplying means including a horizontally-rotative auxiliary receiver, and means operative with the overload-supplying means for intermittently rotating said auxiliary receiver.

3. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver and with overload-supplying means including an oscillatory stream-controller, of means operative with the weighing mechanism for actuating the stream-controller; load-reducing and resupplying means including a rotary auxiliary receiver; and actuating means connecting the rotary receiver with the stream-controller, and effective on each opening movement of said controller for imparting rotative movement to the auxiliary receiver.

4. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver, of overload-supplying means; surplus-discharging means; and surplus-reconveying means operative in the order named, and the latter of which includes a rotary receiver positively operated by a member of the overload-supplying means.

5. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver having a closer for controlling the discharge of the load, of overload-supplying means; surplus-discharging means; closer-actuating means; and surplus-reconveying means, all of which elements are operative in the order named, and the latter element of which includes a rotative surplus-receiver positively actuated by a member of the overload-supplying means after the closer is in its closed position.

6. In an automatic weighing-machine, the combination, with a load-receiver or bucket, of instrumentalities operative in the sequential order named--viz., overload-supplying means, surplus-discharging means, load-discharging means, and surplus-reconveying means, the latter of which includes a rotary receiver positively and intermittently actuated by a member of the overload-supplying means.

7. In an automatic weighing-machine, the combination, with a load-receiver or bucket, of instrumentalities operative in the sequential order named--viz., overload-supplying means, surplus-discharging means, load-discharging means, and surplus-reconveying means including a horizontally-rotative surplus-receiver operative by a member of the overload-supplying means for reconveying the surplus to the load-receiver during the making up of the next succeeding load.

8. In an automatic weighing-machine embodying a load-receiver, overload-supplying means, surplus-discharging means, and completed-load-discharging means operative in the order named, in combination with resupplying means including a rotary receiver; means operative for blocking the movement of the resupplying means during the weighing operation; and means operated by the overload-supplying means for imparting an effective movement to said resupplying means subsequently to the discharge of the completed load.

9. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver, of overload-supplying means including an oscillatory stream-controller; overload-reducing means including an overload-reducing outlet and valve; stream-controller-actuating means operative with the weighing mechanism; means for actuating the overload-reducing valve during the weighing operation; a rotary receiver in operative relation with the overload-reducing means and adapted for receiving the overload as it is discharged from the load-receiver; a conduit for directing the material from the rotary receiver to the load-receiver; and means connecting the rotary receiver and stream-controller and adapted on each opening movement of said stream-controller for imparting a rotative movement to said rotary receiver.

10. In an automatic weighing-machine embodying a load-receiver, overload-supplying means, surplus-discharging means, and completed-load-discharging means operative in the order named, in combination with surplus-resupplying means; means controlled by the weighing mechanism for blocking the movement of the resupplying means during the weighing operation; and means operated by the overload-supplying means for imparting an effective movement to said resupplying means subsequently to the discharge of the completed load and preceding the completion of the next succeeding load.

11. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver and with overload-supplying means including a supply-valve, of alternately-effective load-reducing means and resupplying means, the former of which includes a valve operative on the descending movement of the load-receiver, and the latter of which includes a rotary auxiliary receiver; means in connection with, and operated by, the supply-valve, for imparting an opening movement to the valve during the weighing operation; means operative for blocking the movement of the rotary receiver during the weighing operation; and means for imparting an effective movement to said rotary receiver on the ascending movement of the load-receiver.

12. In an automatic weighing-machine, the combination, with overload-supplying means, of a reciprocatory load-receiver having an outlet and an inlet opening between the receiving and discharging ends thereof; a horizontally-rotative auxiliary receiver; means controlled by a member of the overload-supplying means for imparting intermittent rotative movements to said auxiliary receiver; a conduit for directing material from the load-receiver to the auxiliary receiver; and a conduit for directing material from the auxiliary to the load-receiver.

13. In an automatic weighing-machine, the combination, with overload-supplying means, of a reciprocatory load-receiver and a rotary surplus-receiver supported side by side for movements in relatively-intersecting planes; means operative on the descending movement of the load-receiver for discharging a portion of the contents of said receiver into the surplus-receiver; and means controlled by a member of the overload-supplying means for imparting intermittent progressive rotative movements to the auxiliary receiver whereby the surplus is returned to the load-receiver on the return of the load-receiver to its normal load-receiving position.

14. In a weighing-machine, the combination, with stream-supplying means including an oscillatory valve, of a vertically-reciprocatory load-receiver and a horizontally-rotative auxiliary receiver reciprocally effective at predetermined points in the movements of the weighing mechanism for alternately supplying material to one another, and means operated by the valve for imparting intermittent advancing rotative movements to the surplus-receiver.

15. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a reciprocatory bucket having a surplus-receiving conduit and a surplus-discharging conduit located intermediate the receiving and discharging ends of said bucket, and with overload-supplying means, of an auxiliary receiver supported, for progressively-advancing rotative movements in a plane intersecting the path of oscillation of the bucket, between the ends of the two conduits, and adapted for receiving material from one conduit and for intermittently returning the same in definite quantities to the other conduit, and means actuated by a member of the overload-supplying means for intermittently imparting progressive advancing movements to the auxiliary receiver at predetermined points in the reciprocatory movements of the bucket.

16. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a reciprocatory bucket having two conduits communicating with the interior thereof and located one above the other, of a rotative transferring-receiver supported between the outer ends of said conduits; means in connection with the upper conduit for controlling the supply to the transferring-receiver; means for supplying an overload to the bucket; and means controlled by the overload-supplying means for rotating the transferring-receiver.

17. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a reciprocatory bucket having two conduits in communication with the interior thereof and located one above the other, of overload-supplying means including an oscillatory valve located above the bucket; a horizontally-rotatable transferring-receiver supported between the outer ends of the two conduits and having discharge-openings adapted for successively communicating with the receiving-conduit; a valve operable on the reciprocatory movements of the bucket for controlling the supply of material from the bucket to the rotative receiver; and means operatively connecting the transferring-receiver and overload-supply valve and effective on the opening movement of said valve for imparting a rotative movement to said receiver.

18. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a reciprocatory bucket having a surplus-discharger and a surplus-receiver located intermediate the receiving and discharging ends thereof, of overload-supplying means including an oscillatory supply-valve; a surplus-receiver movably supported adjacent to the receiver and discharger and having a series of separated compartments; and means in connection with and operable by the supply-valve for actuating the receiver to bring successive compartments into operative relation with the surplus-discharger and surplus-receiver of the bucket.

19. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a reciprocatory bucket having a surplus-discharger and surplus-receiver located intermediate the main receiving and discharging ends thereof, of overload-supplying means controlled by the weighing mechanism; a surplus-discharging receiver rotatably supported adjacent to the surplus-discharger and receiver of the bucket and having a series of separated compartments so disposed with relation to the surplus discharger and receiver that during the rotation of said transferring-receiver diametrically opposite compartments will be simultaneously brought into vertical alinement with the surplus-discharger and surplus-receiver; and means controlled by the overload-supplying means for rotating the transferring-receiver.

20. In a weighing-machine, the combination of a rotary multicompartment surplus-receiver; a reciprocatory bucket having a surplus-discharge conduit the outer end of which is located above and at one side the axis of the surplus-receiver, and also having a surplus-receiving conduit the outer end of which is located below and at one side the axis of said rotary receiver, and which conduits are located between the main receiving and discharging ends of said buckets; a valve in connection with the surplus-discharge conduit and operative on the descent of the bucket for controlling the surplus supplied to the rotary receiver; overload-supplying means located above the bucket and including an oscillatory stream-controller; and rotary-motion instrumentalities connecting the rotary surplus-receiver and said stream-controller.

21. The combination, with a load-receiver, of two angular closers pivotally supported at their lower ends below, and opposite sides respectively of, the longitudinal axis of the load-receiver, the construction and organization of said closers being such that during the opening movement the material-supporting portions of said closers will move outwardly and downwardly in arcs intersecting at a point below the load-receiver.

22. The combination, with a load-receiver having relatively-oblique bottom walls, of two oppositely-disposed closers pivotally supported at their lower ends below the load-receiver and having material-supporting plates which, when the closers are in their closed positions, lie in relatively-oblique planes, and also having depending regulator portions which diverge relatively to each other in curved lines.

23. The combination, with a load-receiver, of two oppositely-disposed closers pivotally supported below, and at opposite sides of, the longitudinal axis of the load-receiver; a shaft mounted on the load-receiver and having a counterweighted closer-shutting arm; oppositely-disposed crank-arms fixed to said shaft; and closer-sustaining links pivotally connected at their inner ends to said arms and at their outer ends to the upper ends of said closers.

24. The combination, with a load-receiver having a discharge-opening, of two closers pivotally supported below said receiver in such manner that an opening movement of the closer will increase the effective material-supporting area of said closers without effecting a change in the distance between the discharge ends of said closers.

25. The combination, with a load-receiver, of two closer-supporting brackets fixed to said load-receiver at opposite sides and extending below the discharge end thereof; two oppositely-disposed angular closers pivotally supported at their extreme lower ends on said brackets at opposite sides, respectively, of the longitudinal axis of the load-receiver and having vertically-disposed curved regulator-plates and inclined material-supporting plates; a closer-actuator carried by the load-receiver; and means connecting the closer-actuator and closer.

26. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver and with a supply apparatus including a valve, of a counterweighted auxiliary beam operative with the weighing mechanism; a throw-out lever normally supported at one end on said beam; a hand-lever fixed to a crank-shaft journaled on the framework and having a crank-arm pivotally connected to the opposite ends of said throw-out lever and adapted for throwing said lever out of engagement with the auxiliary beam; and thrust members connecting said throw-out lever with the valve.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600042 ===

WEIGHING-MACHINE

United States Patent 600042

Filing date: September 13, 1897

Issue date: March 1, 1898

Inventor: FRANCIS H. RICHARDS

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Francis H. Richards, a citizen of the United States, residing at Hartford, in the county of Hartford and State of Connecticut, have invented certain new and useful Improvements in Weighing-Machines, of which the following is a specification.

This invention relates to weighing-machines; and the object of the invention is to provide an improved machine of this character for accurately weighing different kinds of materials; and it includes, in connection with the weighing mechanism, means, broadly and preferably independently of the stream-controller, for effecting the transmittal of the force or energy generated by a body of material supplied to the weighing mechanism to different points on said mechanism. My invention also comprehends poising and counterpoising means, the first-mentioned including a load-receiver, stream-supplying means for the load-receiver, and a device, termed a "stream-force transmitter," located to receive the impact of the supply-stream and to transmit part of the force or energy generated thereby to the counterpoising means.

The weighing-machine comprises a load-receiver and supporting mechanism therefor, the latter being preferably composed of one or a series of counterweigh ted scale-beams, as necessity may require, although other means for sustaining the load-receiver may be employed. In the construction illustrated the poising means consists of the load-receiver and a portion of the beam mechanism and the counterpoising means of the remainder of the beam mechanism. To the counterpoised side of the beam mechanism the stream force transmitter preferably applies its effect and transfers thereto part of the force or energy due to the impact of the supply-stream, which subsequently enters the load-receiver, so as to cause such force to be applied to opposite sides of the center of oscillation of the beam mechanism upon which the load-receiver is sustained, thereby neutralizing the effect of the stream and permitting the weighing mechanism to operate normally, notwithstanding changes in the volume of the supply or in the specific gravity of the material or materials being weighed.

In the drawings accompanying and forming part of this specification, Figure 1 is a rear elevation of my improved weighing-machine. Figs. 2, 3, 4, and 5 are side elevations of the machine as seen from the left in Fig. 1, showing the positions assumed by the different parts during the making and discharging of a load, portions being broken away to illustrate more clearly certain features of the invention. Figs. 6, 7, and 8 are side elevations of a modified form of machine, and Fig. 9 is a rear elevation of the same. Figs. 10 and 11 are side elevations of another modified form of the machine, and Fig. 12 is a rear elevation of the same.

Similar characters designate like parts in all the figures of the drawings.

The framework for supporting the several parts of the machine may be of any suitable character, it consisting in the present case of the chambered base or bed 2, the side frames 3 and 4, mounted thereon, and the brackets 5 and 6, which extend oppositely from the supply-hopper and which rest on the side frames 3 and 4, respectively. The hopper H constitutes a convenient device for supplying a stream of material to the load-receiver for building up the load, although it is apparent that other means may be substituted for this purpose without affecting the scope of the invention and that the material may be supplied by manual labor, if desired.

The load-receiver (see Figs. 1 to 5) is designated by G, and it is suspended upon the poising or inner ends of the two beams B and B1, which are mounted on the base 2, the axes of oscillation of the beams being denoted, respectively, by x and it.

The poising means of the machine comprises all that part of the weighing mechanism situated between the axes of oscillation of the two beams and includes the load-receiver, and the counterpoising means consists of 95 those portions of the beams located outside of the beam-supports 7 and 8, said supports being the usual notched plates upon which the bearing-surfaces of the projecting knife-edges 9 and 10 of the several beams are pivotally mounted.

The load-receiver G has the usual discharge-outlet normally covered by the closer or discharge valve L, pivoted to the load-receiver at 12 and counterweighted at 13, said counterweight serving to shut the closer on the discharge of a load. The means for holding the closer shut includes a latch L1 of the ordinary kind counterweighted and pivoted to the load-receiver and in proper position to engage the arm 14 of the rocker 15, carried by the rock-shaft 16.

The rock-shaft 16 is supported in the bearings 17 and 18 on the upper end of the load-receiver and is provided at one end with a crank-arm 18-1, to which and to the arm 19 of the rocker the rods 20 and 21 are pivoted, said rods being similarly joined at their lower ends to the opposite sides of the closer. On the completion of a load the latch L1 is tripped, which results in the release of the closer, and the weight of the load in the receiver G then forces said closer open.

The supply-hopper H serves as a convenient means for delivering a stream of material to the load-receiver G to build up the load therein, and for the purpose of stopping the flow into said load-receiver on the completion of a load a stream-controller of ordinary kind is provided.

The stream-controller shown consists of a swinging valve V of the "pan" type, reciprocatory beneath the discharge orifice or out let of the hopper and adapted when in its normal position to arrest the supply to the load-receiver, and this valve is provided with the oppositely-disposed laterally-projecting arms 25 and 26, supported between the side frames 3 and 4 by the pivots 27 and 28. Any other form of stream-controller suitable for the purpose may be employed as a substitute for that shown, if deemed desirable. For shutting the valve V the arm 25 therefor is equipped with a rearwardly-extending projection 30, having the weight 31, which tends normally to close the valve, this action, however, being limited by the beam mechanism or l greater-than you the auxiliary beam B2, against the inner end of which the rod 32 is adapted to bear. The rod 32 is pivoted at its upper end to the crank 33 on the arm 25 of the valve and is connected with the frame member 3 by the link 34.

The auxiliary beam B" consists of a counterweigh ted lever pivoted at the inner end of the beam B, its weight 36 being provided with the usual projecting pin 37, Figs. 3, 4, 6, and 10, resting on the adjacent weight W of the main beam B, so that the inner end of the beam B", against which the rod 32 acts, constitutes in effect a rigid extension of the beam B, whereby as the poising portions of the two beams descend the inner end of the beam B" will move away from the rod 32, thereby permitting the weight 31 to drop and close the valve V, the supply-stream being cutoff when the load in the receiver G is completed, as represented in Fig. 5. The auxiliary beam B", when it returns from the shifted position shown in Fig. 5 to its primary position illustrated in Fig. 2, imparts an upward thrust to the rod 32, which is transferred to the valve V for swinging the same open.

In connection with the weighing mechanism I provide a stream-force transmitter of suitable construction, which is situated, preferrably, intermediate the load-receiver and the stream-controller, the latter consisting in the present case of the hopper II. This stream-force transmitter is mounted to receive the impact of the supply-stream prior to its entrance into the load-receiver and to transmit part of the energy or force generated by the falling stream to the counterpoising means, the force of the stream after it leaves the said transmitter being applied to the load-receiver or the material therein, whereby the energy due to the momentum of the stream is distributed substantially equally at opposite sides of the center of movement of the weighing mechanism, so as to neutralize the effect of the stream and thereby prevent the weighing mechanism from being prematurely carried below the poising-line.

The stream-force transmitter is designated by S, and it includes a horizontal portion made up of the side bars 40, having at the opposite ends thereof the two pairs of legs 41 and 42, pointed at their lower ends to form 95 knife-edges, which rest upon the V-shaped bearings 43 and 44, situated at the counterpoising sides of the beams B and B1, respectively, the two legs 41 being pivoted to the bars 40, so that the latter will be maintained in a substantially horizontal position as the load-receiver and beam mechanism reciprocate.

The stream-force transmitter proper consists of two oppositely-disposed oblique blades 45 and 46, secured to and extending from the side bars 40, the blades being located in the path of and at such an inclination or angle relatively to the vertical line of flow of the supply-stream as to receive a part of the energy or force due to the momentum of said stream and transmit the same to the counterpoised side of the two scale-beams, the stream subsequently falling into the load-receiver.

For the purpose of preventing waste of the material after it leaves the hopper II and prior to its reception by the load-receiver the guard G1 is provided, the latter being in the form of a rectangular box disposed below the hopper and the walls of which serve to prevent the material from escaping. The front of the box is furnished with the lateral flanges or wings 47, secured to the side frames 3 and 4, respectively, in some suitable manner.

For the purpose of receiving the impact of the discharging load I preferably provide, in connection with the weighing mechanism, a regulator, such as R, adapted to control the action of the valve mechanism by preventing the opening of the valve V until the regulator has reached its initial position. The regulator R is pivoted at 50-1 between the arms 50 of the carrier or lever C, pivoted, as at 51, for oscillation between the end walls of the chambered bed 2. The arm 52 of the carrier or lever C is provided With a counterweight 53 of suitable efficiency, which acts to return the regulator and the lever to their normal positions when the material has passed entirely off from the regulator.

The regulator R serves substantially as a valve when in its normal position for the stationary discharge-hopper H, which is secured in the base 2. The load from the receiver G is emptied into the discharge-hopper H and falling against the regulator-blade will shift the same downward, thereby through proper instrumentalities holding the valve V shut while said regulator is shifted. When the regulator returns to its normal position, the valve will be opened by the auxiliary beam or actuator B", as hereinbefore described.

To maintain the regulator in its lower or shifted position for a comparatively long period of time it is connected, preferably, with the framework by toggle mechanism consisting of the pairs of links 60 and 61, the links 61 being pivoted to the rear wall of the base 2, as shown clearly in Figs. 2 and 5. When the regulator R is depressed, the several centers of the toggles will be thrown substantially into line, thereby requiring but a small amount of pressure against the regulator to hold it down. The shaft 51 is provided at its outer end with a crank-arm 62, to which the rod 63 is pivoted, said rod being also pivoted at its upper end to the crank-arm 64, which is sleeved to the valve-supporting pivot or shaft 28, as indicated in Fig. 1. The crank-arm cooperates with the hub or sleeve 65, which is fast on the pivot 28, the hub being provided with the projection or lug 66, which is intended to coact with the projection 67 on the crank-arm 64. As the valve V shuts, the pivot 28, and consequently the hub or sleeve 65 on said pivot, will turn with the valve and the projection 66 will move away from the projection 67. When the regulator is shifted, the rod 63 will be pulled clown, which action will carry the projection 67 against the projection 66 to lock the valve V shut until the regulator resumes its primary position, at which time the auxiliary beam B" will thrust the rod 32 upward for swinging the valve open.

When the load in the receiver G is completed, the tripper T, consisting in the present case of the lateral projection on the rod 32, will strike the pin 32-1 on the closer-latch L1, thereby lowering the working portion of the latch and disengaging it from the cooperating rocker-arm 14, so that the closer L will be released to effect the discharge of the load into the stationary hopper H for shifting the regulator R in the manner hereinbefore specified.

The operation of the hereinbefore-described machine (illustrated in Figs. 1 to 5, inclusive) is as follows: In Figs. 1 and 2 the closer L is represented shut and held in such position by the latch L1, engaging the rocker-arm 14, and the valve V being wide open a stream of large volume will pass from the hopper H and strike the stream-force transmitter S, so that the energy due to the momentum of the stream is applied, respectively and successively, to opposite sides of the weighing mechanism, as hereinbefore specified. When a certain proportion of the load has passed into 75 the receiver G, it with the beam, mechanism will descend, and the auxiliary beam B" by falling away from the rod 32 will permit the valve V to be closed or swung under the hopper H l greater-than you the weight 31 to cut off the supply-stream, this result being attained when the load is fully completed, at which time the tripper T strikes the pin 32-1 on the latch L1, thereby releasing the closer L, so that the complete load can be emptied into the hopper H, thereby shifting the regulator R and simultaneously throwing the valve-locking means into working position, as hereinbefore specified. When the closer shuts, the weighing mechanism returns to its primary position to repeat the operation as soon as the valve V is released by the regulator mechanism in the manner set forth.

In Figs. 6 to 9, inclusive, I have illustrated a modified form of stream-force transmitter, 95 the other parts of the machine being substantially the same as those illustrated in Figs. 1 to 5, inclusive. The load-receiver in Figs. 6 to 9, inclusive, is supported upon a single beam B, to the counterpoised side of which is secured the stream-force transmitter S1. Said transmitter S1 consists of a plate or stream-force transmitter proper, 70, set at an angle to the downflowing stream, so as to receive a part of the impact thereof and particularly of the drip-stream, as shown in Fig. 8, and the legs 71, secured to the opposite ends of the plate 70, said legs having tenons 72 at their opposite ends fitted in mortises 73 in the arm 74 of the beam. For the purpose of directing the stream at the proper angle to the plate 70 the spout S" of the hopper II is deflected from the main part thereof, as represented clearly in Figs. 6, 7, and 8. To guide the stream toward the load-receiver G after it passes from the plate 70, I provide a plate P, which is located transversely to said plate 70, as indicated in Figs. 6 to 9, inclusive, said plate P being disposed in the path of the stream and serving to deliver the same vertically into the receiver G and also to prevent spattering and waste of material. The plate P has at its opposite ends the arms 95, the upper ends of which are attached to the hopper H.

The operation of the machine shown in Figs. 6, 7, 8, and 9 being the same as that represented in the preceding figures a description thereof is deemed unnecessary.

In Figs. 10, 11, and 12 I have shown another modified form of stream-force transmitter, it being carried upon the framework and operable through proper connections for transmitting the force or energy due to the momentum of the drip-stream (this being the usual factor that tends in practice to impair the accuracy of the load) to the counterpoised side of the beam B. The device illustrated consists of a plate 80, secured to the rock-shaft 81, journaled in the brackets 82-1 on the side frames 3 and 4, respectively, the shaft 81 . having at one end the crank-arm 82, to which is pivoted the link 83, said link being likewise joined to the arm 84 of the force-transmitter F, which is pivoted at its angle to the bracket 85 on the side frame 3, the leg 86 of the part F being in position to act against the arm 87 of the beam B when said beam has nearly reached the so-called "poising-line." The plate 80 is held in the path of the dripstream from the hopper PI by the weight 88 on the arm, 89, affixed to the rock-shaft 81, the motion of the arm being limited by the stop 90, extending outward from the shaft support or bearing 82-1. By mounting the plate in the manner above set forth it will yield or slightly give if unusually large lumps of material in the mass composing the supply-stream should strike the same. When the parts are in their primary positions, (shown in Fig. 10,) the leg 86 will be slightly above the beam-arm 87 and will not touch the same until said beam-arm has nearly reached the poising-line, as indicated in Fig. 11, at which time the energy due to the momentum of the drip-stream, for the reasons hereinbefore set forth, is applied substantially equally to the beam at opposite sides of its axis to prevent the weighing mechanism from prematurely acting.

I have shown in the drawings certain valve and closer interlocking stop mechanism and valve-intercepting means for arresting the advancing progress of the valve, but deem it unnecessary to describe the same, such features being common in the art.

Having described my invention, I claim--

1. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver, of stream-supplying means for the load-receiver; a stream-controller; and means independent of the stream-controller and in position and adapted to effect the transmitting of the force generated by the impact of the supply-stream to different points on said weighing-machine.

2. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver and means for sustaining the same, of stream-supplying means; a stream-controller; and a device independent of the stream-controller and located to receive the impact of the supply-stream, and to transmit the force or energy generated by said stream to said weighing mechanism and thereby retard the descent of the load-receiver.

3. The combination with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver, of stream-supplying means for said load-receiver; a stream-controller; a device independent of the stream-controller and located to receive the impact of the supply-stream, and to transmit the force or energy generated thereby to one side of the weighing mechanism, the load-receiver being mounted to receive the force of impact at the opposite side of the weighing mechanism at a different period.

4. The combination, with poising and counterpoising means, the poising means including a load-receiver, of stream-supplying means; 75 a stream-controller; and a device independent of the stream-controller and located to receive the impact of the supply-stream, and to transmit part of the force or energy generated by said stream to the counterpoising means.

5. The combination, with poising and counterpoising means, the poising means including a load-receiver, of stream-supplying means; a stream-controller; and a device located between the stream-controller and the load-receiver, and adapted to receive the impact of the supply-stream and to transmit part of the force and energy generated by said stream to the counterpoising means, said device being supported independently of the stream-controller.

6. The combination, with poising and counterpoising means, the poising means including a load-receiver, of stream-supplying means for the load-receiver; a stream-controller; and 95 a device independent of the stream-controller and located to receive the impact of the supply-stream, and to transmit part of the force or energy generated by said stream to the counterpoising means, said device having a plate disposed in-the path of the supply-stream.

7. The combination, with poising and counterpoising means, the poising means including a load-receiver, of stream-supplying means for the load-receiver; a stream-controller; and a device independent of the stream-controller and located to receive the impact of the supply-stream, and to transmit part of the force or energy generated by said stream to the counterpoising means, said device having an obliquely-disposed plate situated in the path of the supply-stream.

8. The combination, with poising and counterpoising means, the poising means including a load-receiver, of stream-supplying means for the load-receiver; a stream-controller; and a stream-force transmitter intermediate to the stream-controller and the load-receiver and located to receive the impact of the supply-stream, said transmitter bearing at several points upon the counterpoising means.

9. The combination, with a load-receiver and supporting-beam mechanism therefor, of stream-supplying means for the load-receiver; a stream-controller; and a stream-transmitter independent of the stream-controller and located to receive the force of impact of the supply-stream, and to transmit part of the force or energy generated by said stream to the beam mechanism.

10. The combination, with a load-receiver and supporting-beam, mechanism therefor, of stream-supplying means for the load-receiver; a stream-controller; and a stream-force transmitter located between the stream-controller and the load-receiver and having blades resting on the counterpoised side of the beam mechanism.

11. The combination, with a load-receiver, of a plurality of scale-beams; stream-supplying means for the load-receiver; and a stream-force transmitter located to receive the impact of the supply-stream and having a horizontal portion provided with legs resting on the beams, said horizontal portion being provided with a device disposed in the path of movement of the supply-stream.

12. The combination, with a load-receiver, of scale-beams; stream-supplying means for the load-receiver; a stream-force transmitter located to receive the impact of the supply-stream and having a horizontal portion provided with legs resting on the scale-beams, some of the legs being movably connected with said transmitter, and the horizontal portion of said transmitter being provided with a device disposed in the path of movement of the supply-stream.

13. The combination, with a load-receiver, of scale-beams for sustaining the same; means for supplying a stream of material to said load-receiver; and a stream-force transmitter located to receive the impact of the supply-stream, and having a horizontal portion provided at one end with rigid legs and at the other end with pivoted legs, said legs resting on the scale-beams.

14. The combination, with a load-receiver, beam mechanism; stream-supplying means for the load-receiver; a stream-controller and a stream-force transmitter located to receive the impact of the supply-stream and having inclined plates independent of the stream-controller.

15. The combination, with a load-receiver, of a plurality of scale-beams having notched bearings; stream-supplying means for the load-receiver; and a stream-force transmitter located to receive the impact of the supply-stream and to transmit a part of the force or energy generated by the same to the scale-beam, said transmitter having legs with knife-edges resting on the notched bearings.

16. The combination, with a load-receiver, of an oscillatory scale-beam; stream-supplying means for the load-receiver; a stream-controller and a stream-force transmitter independent of the stream-controller located to receive the impact of the supply-stream and to transmit part of the force or energy generated by the same to said scale-beam at one side of the axis thereof.

17. The combination, with a load-receiver, of a pivotally-mounted counterweighted scale-beam for supporting the same; stream-supplying means for said load-receiver; a stream-controller and a stream-force transmitter independent of the stream-controller located to receive the impact of the supply-stream and to transmit part of the force generated by the same to the scale-beam.

18. The combination, with a load-receiver and supporting-beam mechanism therefor, of a supply-hopper; a stream-controller for the hopper; and a stream-force transmitter independent of the stream-controller and located to receive the impact of the supply-stream flowing from said hopper and to transmit part 75 of the force generated by said stream to the scale-beam.

19. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver, of a stationary discharge-hopper below the load-receiver; an independently-supported regulator serving normally as a valve for said hopper; a carrier for the regulator; a supply-valve; and means intermediate the regulator and the valve for blocking the action of the latter.

20. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver, of a stationary discharge-hopper below the load-receiver; an independently-supported regulator connected with the framework by a toggle; a carrier for the regulator; a supply-valve; and means intermediate the regulator and the valve for blocking the action of the latter.

21. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver, of a stationary discharge-hopper below the load-receiver; an independently-supported regulator; a counterweighted lever for carrying the regulator; a supply-valve; and means intermediate the regulator and the valve for blocking the action of the latter.

22. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver, of regulator mechanism located below the same; a rod connected to the regulator mechanism; a supply-valve; a shaft for supporting the same having a hub fixed thereto, said hub having a projection; and a crank-arm sleeved to said shaft and provided with a cooperating projection, the crank-arm being connected with said rod.

23. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver, of a stationary hopper; a regulator below the same; a counterweighted lever connected with the regulator; a shaft carrying said counterweighted lever; a toggle connected, respectively, with the regulator and the framework; an arm on said shaft; valve mechanism; and a connection between the valve mechanism and said arm.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600043 ===

WEIGHING-MACHINE

United States Patent 600043

Filing date: September 20, 1897

Issue date: March 1, 1898

Inventor: FRANCIS H. RICHARDS

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Francis H. Richards, a citizen of the United States, residing at Hartford, in the county of Hartford and State of Connecticut, have invented certain new and useful Improvements in Weighing-Machines, of which the following is a specification.

My invention relates to weighing-machines; and the object thereof is to provide means for effecting the transmittal of the force or energy generated by a stream of material to different points on the machine, the advantage being that said stream is intercepted and the load-receiver cannot be carried down prematurely, as forces are applied to the weighing mechanism at its opposite sides, one force serving, substantially, to neutralize the effect of the other.

In the drawings accompanying and forming part of this specification, Figure I is a rear elevation of my improved weighing-machine. Figs. 2 and 3 are side elevations of the same as seen from the left in Fig. 1, the load-receiver being shown, respectively, in its highest and substantially middle positions. Fig. 4 is a front elevation of a portion of the machine, illustrating more particularly the load-reducing and resupplying means on the load-receiver. Fig. 5 is a plan view of the valve mechanism; and Figs. 6, 7, and 8 are transverse sectional views of the load-receiver and adjacent parts, illustrating the load-reducing and resupplying means in the positions occupied thereby during the making of a load.

Similar characters designate like parts in all the figures of the drawings.

The framework for sustaining the different parts of the machine may be of any suitable construction, and it is represented consisting of the chambered base or bed 2, the side frames or columns 3 and 4, rising therefrom, and the brackets 5 and 6, which extend laterally from the supply-chute, the hopper H constituting a simple-and convenient means for delivering a supply or plurality of streams of material to the load-receiver of the weighing mechanism.

The weighing mechanism consists in the present case of a load-receiver, as G, and a scale-beam, as-B, therefor, these parts being supported in a well-known manner. The weighing mechanism includes poising and counterpoising means. The poising means consists of that part of the machine to the left of the axis cc of oscillation of the scale-beam B and the counterpoising means of the part thereof at the opposite side of said axis. In other words, the poising means is made up of the load-receiver G and a part of the scale-beam, while the counterpoising means consists of the remainder of the scale-beam, including the counterweight W.

The load-receiver has the usual discharge-outlet normally covered by the closer or discharge-valve L, pivoted to the load-receiver at 12 and counterweighted at 13, said counterweight serving to shut the closer on the discharge of a load.

The means for holding the closer shut includes a latch L1, of the ordinary kind, counterweighted and pivoted to the load-receiver and in proper position to engage the arm 14 of the rocker 15, carried by the rock-shaft 16.

The rock-shaft 16 is supported in the bearings 17 and 18 on the upper end of the load-receiver and is provided at one end with a crank-arm 18-1, to which and to the arm 19 of the rocker the rods 20 and 21 are pivoted, said rods being similarly jointed at their lower ends to the opposite sides of the closer L. On the completion of a load or the removal of the surplus the latch L1 is tripped, as will hereinafter appear, which results in the release of the closer, and the weight of the load in the load-receiver G then forces said closer open.

The floor of the supply-hopper H is composed of the two oppositely-inclined sections 25 and 26, forming the lower walls of two side outlets in said hopper, through which streams go of material may flow in different or reverse directions, for a purpose that will hereinafter appear, the streams being controlled by valves, as V and V, closable under the side outlets in said hopper to stop the passage of material to the load-receiver at the proper time.

The valve V (see Fig. 5) is secured to a two-part shaft consisting of the outwardly-disposed arms or members 30 and 31, terminating in journal portions supported in bearings in the end frames 3 and 4. The valve V is provided with the oppositely-disposed longitudinal sleeves 32 and 33, encircling the two sections 30 and 31, respectively, of the two-part valve-shaft, so that said valves may be simultaneously and reversely operated alternately to open and close the same. The shaft-section 31 is equipped with the crank-arm or projection 34, to which the link 35 is pivoted, said link being similarly joined at its lower end to the rod 36, pivoted at its tipper end to the crank-arm, or projection 37 on the valve-sleeve 33. The lower or free end of the rod 36 rests upon a projection (shown as an antifriction-roll 39) on the inner end of the auxiliary beam B1, pivoted on the main beam B and constructed and operable in a manner similar to that indicated in many Letters Patent granted to me.

The inner end of the auxiliary beam constitutes, in effect, an extension of the poising end of the beam B, and, it being in contact with the rod 36, the closure of the valves V and V will be properly governed as the load-receiver G descends, it being understood that the two valves close by gravity.

When the auxiliary beam B1 returns to its initial position, it imparts an upward thrust to the rod 36, which, being transferred to the two valves Y and V, swings the same open.

The hopper H, in connection with the two valves V and V, constitutes the means employed for overloading the receiver G, the filled receiver being carried to and below the so-called "poising-line" when it is overloaded, and during such motion the load-reducing means are brought into action for effecting the withdrawal of the surplus.

The load-reducing means consists of a spout on the front part of the load-receiver and a swinging spout or tubular conduit 41, oscillatory below said spout 40 and adapted, when swung in one direction, to permit the surplus to pass from the load-receiver G into a suitable receptacle, as R, hereinafter described. (See Figs. 6, 7, and 8.) The swinging spout 41 is provided with trunnions 42 and 43, carried in brackets 44 on the front wall of the load-receiver, the trunnion 43 being longer than the other and carrying at its outer end the crank-arm 45, having a roll or projection 46 at its free end adapted to strike against the actuator 47, consisting of an arm or extension on the side frame 3.

In Fig. 6 the load-receiver is represented empty and in Fig. 7 having an overload, in which latter case it is carried down sufficiently far to permit the roll 46 to strike the rigid arm 47, which results in swinging said spout to the left, thereby permitting the surplus to pass from the load-receiver, through the stationary spout 40 and spout 41, into the valved surplus-containing receptacle R, as illustrated in Fig. 7. As the lightened load-receiver rises on the withdrawal of the surplus the spout will resume its primary position, (shown in Fig. 8,) it having a preponderance of weight

below its center of movement to accomplish this result.

The surplus-receiver R is carried on the framework, it being provided with wings 50 and 51, secured to the side frames 3 and 4, respectively, as shown in Fig. 4, the valve therefor being designated by V".

The valve Y" is equipped with pivot-pins 52 and 53, working in bearings on the receptacle R, the pin 53 being also supported by the bracket 54 on the wing 51 and having at its outer end the crank 55, to which the rod 56 is jointed, said rod at its upper end being connected with the crank-arm or projection 37 on the sleeve 33 of the valve V. By reason of the connection just described the valve Y" will shut in unison with the main or supply valves Y and V1, so that the surplus will be discharged into the receptacle R, as indicated in Fig. 7. When the valves V and Y1 are opened, the valve Y" will also be opened to permit the material contained within the receiver R to pass therefrom, such material being emptied into the trough 57 on the front end of the load-receiver, which communicates therewith. The material thus discharged forms the first part of a new load.

In connection with overloading means I provide one or more devices for effecting the transmittal of the force or energy generated by a body of material supplied to said weighing mechanism to different points thereon, so that the load-receiver cannot be prematurely carried down. The means illustrated for accomplishing this result consists of devices termed "stream-force transmitters," and in this particular my present invention is a modification of that covered by my contemporaneously-pending application, Serial No. 651,503, filed September 13, 1897.

The stream-force transmitters D and D1 are mounted to receive the impact of the supply-streams of material which flow toward the load-receiver and are adapted to transmit the combined force or energy of said streams to no the counterpoised side of the scale-beam. Each of the devices D and D1 includes a plate (designated, respectively, by 60 and 61) carried, preferably, upon the framework and disposed in the paths of the streams issuing from the hopper H, as indicated in Fig. 3. The plate 60 is provided at its opposite ends with the arms 60-1, secured to the rock-shaft 62, journaled in hangers 63 on the front end of the hopper. The plate 61 is equipped with a similar pair of arms 64, secured to the rock-shaft 65, carried by the hangers 66 on the rear side of the hopper H.

The rock-shaft 62 is provided with the crank-arm 67, to which the rod 68 is attached, said rod being also pivoted to the crank-arm 69 on the shaft 65, so that the plate 60 will transfer the force generated by the supply-stream to the shaft 65, which also receives the force due to the impact of one of the streams upon the plate 61, and the combined force thus resulting will be transferred from the shaft 65 to the weighing mechanism, or, as represented, to the counterpoised side of the beam B. The shaft 65 is equipped with a second rock-arm 70, to which the link 71 is pivoted, said link being likewise jointed to the arm 72 of the angular force-transmitting device F, pivoted to the lug 75 on the side frame 3, the leg 73 on which device is in position to act against the counterpoised side of the arm 74 of the beam B when said side has been raised for a certain distance.

The plates 60 and 61 are disposed in the paths of movement of the laterally-flowing streams from the hopper H; but they do not transmit to the weighing mechanism the force generated by said streams until the poising side of said mechanism has descended a short distance, for if such were the case said mechanism would be blocked and could not operate. The leg 73 of the device F is shown in Fig. 2 situated slightly above the beam-arm 74, it being held in such position by the stop 80, extending laterally from the ear 81 on the hub 82, upon which the arm 83 rests, said arm being provided with a weight 84, which, in connection with a similar weight 85 on the arm 86, secured to the rock-shaft 62, holds the plates 60 and 61 in position to be acted upon by the supply-streams. The plates, by reason of their support in the manner described, may yield if they are struck by any large lumps in the supply, and may be promptly returned to their effective positions by the weights 84 and 85. The force of impact of the divided portions of the stream as they strike the two plates is transferred, through the described connections, to the counterpoised side of the scale-beam B, the material when it passes between said plates entering the load-receiver G, so that opposing forces are applied to the weighing mechanism at different periods, one force serving to neutralize substantially the effect of the other, whereby the weighing mechanism is compelled to operate in a predetermined order.

The usual latch-tripper of the "by-pass" type familiar in this class of machines is designated by T, it operating, on the upstroke of the load-receiver, to strike the latch-pin 90 thereof, thereby tripping the latch and releasing the closer, the load being discharged into the chamber or compartment of the base 2. The tripper T is jointed to the upper end of the post or riser on the wing-piece 51.

The operation of the hereinbefore-described machine is as follows: Fig. 2 shows the positions of the different parts of the machine at the commencement of operation, the valves V and V being wide open and the closer shut and held in such position by the latch �1, which engages the arm 14 of the rocker 15, whereby a supply of large volume may enter the load-receiver in two streams, which respectively strike the plates 60 and 61. When a certain portion of the load has been received by the load-receiver G, it will descend, thereby carrying the arm 74 of the beam B against the leg 73 of the force-transmitting device F, whereby the force transmitted by the two plates 60 and 61 as the stream of material from the hopper H strikes the same is applied in part to the beam, and subsequently, when the stream flows into the load-receiver, is also applied to the latter, the opposite forces tending to retard the downward movement of the load-receiver G. When the load-receiver reaches the limit of its downward movement, the load-reducing means will be rendered effective to permit the gravitation of the surplus therefrom, and this is accomplished When the crank-arm 45 strikes the actuator 47 on the side frame 3, as indicated in Fig. 7, thereby swinging the spout 41 to the left and emptying the surplus in the receptacle R, the lightened receiver G then rising. When the surplus has been entirely removed, the tripper T will strike the latch L1 in the usual manner, thereby releasing the closer L, so that the latter may be discharged into the chamber of the base 2. When the closer shuts, the other parts of the machine will be returned to their primary positions to repeat the operation.

Having described my invention, I claim--

1. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver, of overloading means for the same; load-reducing means including a movable spout; and means on the framework of the machine for actuating the spout to effect the removal of the surplus.

2. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver, of overloading means for the same; load-reducing means including a swinging spout, for effecting the removal of the surplus; and an arm on the framework of the machine, for actuating the spout.

3. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver, of overloading means for the load-receiver; load-reducing means including a swinging spout; a crank-arm connected with the spout; and an arm on the framework of the machine, for engaging said crank-arm.

4. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver, of overloading means for the load-receiver; load-reducing means including a spout; pivots for the spout, supported by the load-receiver, one of the pivots having a crank-arm; and an actuator on the framework of the machine, disposed in the path of movement of said crank-arm.

5. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver, of overloading means for the same; means mounted on said load-receiver for effecting the removal of the surplus and comprehending a swinging spout; a crank-arm connected with said spout; an actuator on the framework of the machine, disposed in the path of movement of said crank-arm; a surplus-receiving receptacle having a valve; and connections between said valve and the overloading means.

6. The combination, with weighing mechanism, of stream-supplying means; a pair of oppositely-oscillatory valves movable about the same axis; a shaft secured to one of the valves; a sleeve secured to the other valve and encircling said shaft; crank-arms on the shaft and sleeve, respectively; a link connected to one crank-arm; and a rod connected to the other crank-arm and also to the link and in position to be operated by the weighing mechanism.

7. The combination, with weighing mechanism, of stream-supplying means; valves; a shaft secured to one of the valves; a sleeve secured to the other valve and encircling said shaft; crank-arms on the shaft and sleeve, respectively; means connected with said crank-arms and governed by the weighing mechanism; a surplus-receiving receptacle provided with a valve; and a connection between said last-mentioned valve and one of said crank-arms.

8. The combination, with a load-receiver and supporting-beam mechanism therefor, of a hopper having a plurality of outlets; oppositely-oscillatory valves movable about an axis in common and serving to control the streams flowing from said outlets; oppositely-disposed shaft-sections secured to one of the valves; oppositely-disposed sleeves secured to the other valves and encircling the respective valve-sections; a crank-arm on one of the sleeves; an oppositely-disposed creaank-arm on one of the shaft-sections; a link connected to one of the crank-arms; and a rod connected with the other crank-arm and also to said link and in position to be acted upon by the beam mechanism.

9. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver, of means for supplying a series of streams of material to said load-receiver; stream-controlling means; and devices operating independent of the stream-controlling means and located to receive the impact of said streams and to transmit the force generated thereby to the weighing mechanism.

10. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver, of means for supplying streams of material thereto; a plurality of valves located to control the respective streams; devices independent of the valves and located in the paths of the streams and to receive the impact thereof; connections between said devices; and means for transferring the force applied to said devices from the respective streams to the weighing mechanism.

11. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver, of means for supplying streams of material thereto; devices supported independently of the weighing mechanism and located in the paths of the streams to receive the impact thereof; connections between said devices; and means for transmitting the force applied to said devices to the weighing mechanism.

12. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver, of means for supplying a stream of material thereto; a shaft supported independently of the weighing mechanism; a plate secured to said shaft and disposed in the path of movement of said stream; and means located between said shaft and the weighing mechanism for transmitting the force generated by the stream to the weighing mechanism.

13. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver and a scale-beam, of means for supplying a stream of material thereto; a plate disposed in the path of movement of said stream; and a device mounted on the framework and in position to bear against the scale-beam, connected with the plate.

14. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver, of means for supplying a stream of material thereto; a plate disposed in the path of movement of said stream and mounted on the framework; a device carried by the framework and in position to act against the weighing mechanism; and connections between the latter and said plate.

15. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver, of means for supplying a stream of material thereto; a Too shaft supported independently of the weighing mechanism; a plate secured to said shaft and disposed in the path of movement of said stream; means located between said shaft and the weighing mechanism for transmitting the force applied by the stream to said shaft to the weighing mechanism; and a weight connected with said shaft for holding the plate in its primary position.

16. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver and a scale-beam, of means for supplying a stream of material thereto; a plate disposed in the path of movement of said stream; a device mounted on the framework in position to bear against the scale-beam, connected with the plate; and means for holding said device in its effective position.

17. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver, of means for supplying a stream of material thereto; a plate disposed in the path of movement of said stream and mounted on the framework; a shaft carrying said plate; a counterweighted arm secured to the shaft; a stop in position to sustain said counterweighted arm; and connections between the shaft and the weighing mechanism for transmitting the force applied by the stream to the plate to the weighing mechanism.

18. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver, of means for supplying streams of material thereto; plates disposed in the paths of movement of said streams; shafts mounted independently of the weighing mechanism and having crank-arms, said plates being secured to said shafts; a connection between the crank-arms; and means between one of the shafts and the weighing mechanism for transmitting the force applied to the plates by the streams to the weighing mechanism.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600044 ===

WEIGHING-MACHINE

United States Patent 600054

Filing date: October 19, 1897

Issue date: March 1, 1898

Inventor: FRANCIS H. RICHARDS

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Francis H. Richards, a citizen of the United States, residing at Hartford, in the county of Hartford and State of Connecticut, have invented certain new and useful Improvements in Weighing-Machines, of which the following is a specification.

This invention relates to weighing-machines of the "rising-poise" class described in Letters Patent of the United States No. 572,067, granted to me November 24, 1896, to which reference may be had, one object of my present invention being to provide an automatic weighing-machine of this class comprehending improved and efficient means for supplying an overload to the receiver or receivers of the weighing mechanism, means for removing the surplus to bring the weighing mechanism to a true poise, and means for effecting the discharge of the true load to constitute a part of the next succeeding load. A further object of the invention is to provide an improved automatic weighing-machine comprehending a main and auxiliary load-receiver, the latter of which is carried by the former; means for supplying an overload, part of which is delivered to one of the receivers and the remainder to the other receiver; a valve for controlling the discharge of one of said receivers; instrumentalities operative at a predetermined point in the movement of the weighing mechanism for actuating the auxiliary receiver and its valve in proper order and relatively to each other to first discharge the surplus and then the remainder of the material in the auxiliary receiver, and a receptacle situated between the two receivers and in position to receive the surplus.

A further object of my present invention is to provide a weighing-machine embodying a main and an auxiliary load-receiver, the former of which is reciprocatory and the latter of which is carried by and is supported for oscillatory movement in a path transverse to the path of reciprocation of the former.

A further object of the invention is to provide a weighing-machine of this class comprehending improved instrumentalities for controlling the supply of material to the load-receiver or receivers and for controlling the discharge of the load from said receiver.

In the drawings accompanying and forming part of this specification, Figure 1 is a front elevation of a weighing-machine comprehending my present improvements. Fig. 2 is a side elevation of the weighing-machine as seen from the left in Fig. 1. Fig. 3 is a central vertical section of the weighing-machine, taken on the line corresponding to the dotted line a a, Fig. 1, as seen from the left in said figure. Fig. 4 is a side elevation, partially in section, of a portion of the weighing-machine seen from the left in Fig 1 and showing locking instrumentalities between the main valve of the supply apparatus and the closers of the main load-receiver, parts of the machine being broken away. Fig. 5 is a side elevation similar to Fig. 4 of a portion of the weighing-machine, showing the essential instrumentalities for controlling the movements of the valve of the auxiliary receiver.

Similar characters designate like parts in all the figures of the drawings.

The framework for supporting the operative parts of the machine may be of any suitable general construction and is shown consisting of two end frames or columns 2 and 4, mounted upon a chambered supporting-base 3, into which the completed loads are discharged from the main load-receiver bucket, said columns 2 and 4 being surmounted by the top plate 5 in the usual manner, and which top plate sustains the main supply-hopper H, the construction and organization of which will be hereinafter fully described.

The beam mechanism for sustaining the main load-receiver, which load-receiver is designated in a general way by G, may be of any suitable construction and organization, it preferably consisting, as shown in the drawings, of the counterweighted scale-beam B, fulcrumed on bearings on the side frames, preferably near the upper end of said main load-receiver, and provided with suitable knife-edges on the poising end thereof for supporting said receiver. This beam is shown comprising, as usual, two counterweighted parallel beam-arms located one at each side of the load-receiver and connected at their outer ends by a counterweight will. The beam mechanism for supporting the main load-receiver is in all essential particulars substantially the same as the beam mechanism described in the patent hereinbefore referred to. Therefore a detailed description thereof is in the present case deemed unnecessary.

The main supply-hopper II, which maybe of any suitable general construction, is shown in the nature of the two compartment-hoppers, one of which compartments, which is designated by c, is located above and communicates with the other compartment, which is designated by c1, said hopper having a series of material conduits or spouts, which are designated, respectively, by 6, 7, and 8. The one 6 constitutes the main supply-spout and is located in position to deliver material to the main load-receiver G. The one 7 constitutes an auxiliary supply-spout and is located with its discharge end above and at one side of the spout 6 and in position to deliver material to the auxiliary load-receiver, which is designated in a general way by G1, and the other one, 8, is in the nature of a drip-spout and has its discharge end in vertical alinement with and in position to deliver material to the auxiliary supply-spout 7. The bottom walls 9 and 9-1 of the main supply-hopper are shown inclined and conjugated to the side walls of the main supply-spout 6.

The auxiliary supply-spout 7 is shown located at and independent from the upper end of the inclined bottom wall 9-1 of the supply-hopper, as shown most clearly in Figs. 3 and 4 of the drawings.

The hopper H is furnished on the interior thereof with two oppositely-inclined divided walls or deflecting-plates 12 and 12-1, which are preferably located in parallelism with the inclined bottom walls 9 and 9-1 of said hopper and sufficiently remote from said bottom walls as to divide the hopper into the two compartments or chambers c and c1. At the upper end of the deflecting plate or partition 12-1 is a rectangularly-disposed plate or top wall 13, which extends downwardly and outwardly and terminates at a point in close proximity to and above the upper end of the bottom wall 9-1 of said hopper, this plate 13 constituting the bottom wall of the drip-spout 8, and separates the upper part of the compartment c1 from the compartment c. The discharge end of the drip-spout 8 is located slightly above the receiving end of the auxiliary supply-spout 7. (See Fig. 3.)

As a means for controlling the supply of material from the main supply-spout 6 to the load-receiver G, I have provided a supply-valve V, which is shown of the usual "oscillatory" type and is pivotally supported at 14 on the framework of the apparatus in the usual manner, and as a means for controlling the supply of material from the drip-spout to the auxiliary supply-spout 71 have provided an auxiliary supply-valve V, shown, pivotally supported on the side walls of the drip-spout 8 and having a cut-off plate 14-1 in position to oscillate between the discharge end of the drip-spout 8 and the receiving end of the auxiliary supply-spout 7, the range of motion of the valve V being such that when said valve is closed to cut off the supply of material from the spout S to the auxiliary supply-spout 7 the inner end of the plate 14-1 of said valve will project slightly beyond the inner walls of the two spouts 7 and 8 and into a drip-passage 15 of the compartment c1 of the hopper H, this passage, being located between the two inclined walls 12 and 12-1 and being adapted to conduct any material that may be forced inward by the closure of the valve V to the main discharge-spout 0 of said hopper. By so disposing the drip-spout 7 and by having" a drip-passage, as 15, in communication with the space traversed by the valve a closing movement of said valve will tend to force that portion of the material located between the two spouts and in the path of the cut-off plate of valve V in ward and into the passage-way 15, thus insuring a free and unobstructed movement of said valve and preventing the clogging of material between the valve-plate and the two spouts, which would otherwise tend to obstruct the free movement of said valve.

In the organization of mechanism illustrated in the drawings the main valve V is closed by gravity and is opened in a manner similar to that described in the patent hereinbefore referred to through the medium of a valve-actuator or auxiliary beam B1, pivotally supported on the scale-beam B in the usual manner, and a thrust-rod 16, supported at its lower end upon the inner end of the valve-actuator and pivotally connected at its upper end to said valve. During the descent of the load-receiver G the inner end of the valve-actuator B1 descends in unison with the inner end of the scale-beam B in the usual manner, allowing the thrust-rod to descend and facilitating a gradual closing movement of the main valve V. During the ascending movement of the load-receiver G the valve-actuator is blocked against movement through interlocking instrumentalities hereinafter described and is held in this position until the load is discharged from the load-receiver and the closer, hereinbefore described, of said load-receiver has returned to its closed position, after which said actuator is released, allowing the counterweighted end thereof to descend, which elevates the thrust-rod and imparts an opening movement to the valve Y, this operation of the valve and actuator being substantially the same as that described in the aforesaid patents.

As it is essential that the supply of material through the main supply-spout 6 and the drip-spout 8 be cut off simultaneously, I have provided an actuating-conductor between the main valve V and auxiliary supply-valve V, which in the preferred form thereof shown in dotted lines in Figs. 2 and 4 of the drawings comprises a connecting rod or link 17, the upper end of which is pivotally connected to a crank-arm 18 on said valve V and the lower end of which is pivotally connected to a crank-arm 19 on the main valve V, the disposition of the cranks 18 and 19 being such that on the opening and closing movements of the main valve V a corresponding movement will be simultaneously imparted to the valve V.

The weighing-machine is shown embodying two load-receivers G G1, the former of which constitutes the main load-receiver and is supported upon beam mechanism for vertically reciprocatory movements, and the latter of which constitutes an auxiliary load-receiver and is supported by and at one side of the longitudinal axis of the main load-receiver and is constructed and organized to have a vertically-reciprocatory movement in unison with the main load-receiver and also an oscillatory movement transversely of the path of reciprocation of said main receiver. This auxiliary load-receiver G1 is shown pivotally supported between arms 20 and 20-1, fixed to and projecting upward from opposite side walls of the main receiver G, the pivotal point 21 of said auxiliary load-receiver being preferably located above and somewhat in advance of the front wall 22 of the main compartment d of the load-receiver G, the purposes of this construction of the auxiliary load-receiver being hereinafter fully explained.

The main load-receiver G, which may be of any suitable general conformation, is shown divided transversely by the vertically-disposed partition or front wall 22 into two compartments d and d1, the former of which constitutes the main load-receiving compartment and is located directly beneath the main supply-chute 6, and the latter of which constitutes a surplus-receiving compartment and is located in position to receive the surplus material which is discharged from the auxiliary load-receiver into a surplus-receiver G2, the construction and organization of which will be hereinafter described. In the form thereof most clearly shown in

Fig. 3 of the drawings the front wall 22 of the main compartment of the load-receiver extends from the extreme upper end of said load-receiver and terminates at its lower end at a point somewhat above the extreme lower end of said load-receiver, and the outside wall 23 of the surplus-receiving compartment d1 of said load-receiver extends from the extreme lower end of the receiver and terminates at its upper end somewhat below the extreme upper end of said receiver. Thus it will be seen that the surplus-compartment d1 communicates at its lower end with the main compartment d of the load-receiver at a point near the lower end of said receiver.

The main load-receiver G is provided at the discharge end thereof backslash with closer mechanism (designated in a general way by C) for controlling the discharge of material from said receiver, and the auxiliary load-receiver G1 is provided with a load-reducing valve V3 for controlling the discharge of material thereof to the main load-receiver, and said closer mechanism G and valve V3 are so connected, as it will hereinafter appear, that upon an opening movement of the closer mechanism said valve will have an opening movement imparted thereto for discharging the load contained therein into the receiving-compartment d of the main load-receiver to be discharged therefrom simultaneously with the major portion of the load.

The closer mechanism in the preferred form thereof shown most clearly in Figs. 3, 4, and o comprises two closers, which are designated in a general way by L and L1, respectively, which closers are pivotally supported at 24 and 24-1 on the lower ends of the front and rear walls, respectively, of the load-receiver G, and an actuating-connector 25, pivotally secured at one end to the closer L and at its opposite end to the closer L1. This connector is shown in the nature of a link and is of such angular disposition relatively to the pivotal point of one closer as to constitute substantially a dead-lock toggle of sustaining the weight of the load and preventing the opening movement of one closer, as L1, until the other closer L is unlatched, as hereinafter described, and starts to open.

The closer L in the form thereof shown in too the accompanying drawings comprises a material-supporting plate 26, preferably having side flanges, and a counterweighted arm 27, extending rearwardly of the pivotal point of and normally exerting a closing stress upon this closer.

The closer L1 in the preferred form thereof shown in the drawings comprises a material-supporting plate 28, having side flanges and also having at the inner end thereof a depending regulator-plate 28-1 for preventing a premature closing movement of the closer, the two plates 26 and 28 of the two closers L and L1 being so disposed relatively to each other that when they are in their closed positions, as illustrated in Fig. 3, their inner ends meet at a point below and substantially midway between the pivotal points of said plates.

As a means for sustaining the major portion of the load within the main load-receiver G and relieving the closer-plates 26 and 28 of the weight of such load I have provided a load-supporting platform 29, and, when the closers L and L1 are in their closed positions, as shown in Fig. 3, the plane of said platform is substantially horizontal and at right angles to the line of flow of the material. This load-supporting platform is shown in the nature of a flat plate supported by arms 30 on the closer L1, said platform in practice being of an area somewhat less than the sectional area of the discharge end of the main load-receiver, so as to allow sufficient space between the edges of said platform and the walls of said receiver as to permit a small amount of material to flow from the interior of the load-receiver to the closer-plates 26 and 28. For the purpose of normally locking the closers against opening movement the closer L is shown furnished with an upwardly-extending detent-arm 31, which when the closers are in their closed positions has its upper end in bearing engagement with the counterweighted end of a latch Z, which latch is pivotally supported on the side wall of the load-receiver and is adapted to be actuated at a predetermined point in the ascending movement of the load-receiver by a latch-actuator 32, (shown in the nature of a counterweighted by-pass,) pivotally supported on the framework, with its inner end normally located in the path of movement of the outer end of the latch. This latch and latch-actuator may be of any suitable construction and organization.

For the purpose of locking the closers against premature opening movement in case the latch I should be accidentally tripped during the reciprocatory movements of the load-receiver I have provided a blocking device, which is shown in Figs. 2 and 4, consisting of a supplemental latch I1, (shown in the nature of a counterweighted angle-lever,) pivotally supported on the side walls of the load-receiver and having a catch on one arm thereof, which normally engages a projection 31" on the upper end of the detent-arm 31, and a supplemental-latch actuator 33, comprising a lever pivotally supported on one of the side frames, as 2, of the machine and having an elongated slot 33-1 at the upper end thereof, through which extends a pin 34 on the main valve V, and having a link 35, pivoted to the lower end thereof, which link is bifurcated at its rear end and straddles a pin 36 on one arm of the angular supplemental latch I1, the construction and organization of the parts of the blocking device being such that during the closing movement of the main valve the lever 33 will be carried with said valve about its axis until the inner wall of the bifurcated end of the link 35 strikes the pin 36 of the supplemental latch and throws the same out of engagement with the upper end of the dentent-arm 31, leaving said arm free for movement and permitting an opening movement of the closers when the main latch I is tripped on the arrival of the load-receiver at a predetermined point in its ascending movement.

It will be obvious that the general construction and organization of the closer locking and blocking device may be materially modified without departure from my present invention.

During the operation of the machine, assuming the load-receiver to be in its normal elevated position and the closers thereof in their closed positions, at which time the main valve V and auxiliary supply-valve V are in their open positions, material will be simultaneously supplied through the main supply-spout G and drip-spout 8 of the supply-hopper II to the main load-receiver G and auxiliary load-receiver G1, respectively, which supply of material is continued until the resistance of the weighing mechanism is overcome by the overload. During the descending movement of the load-receiver the main and auxiliary valves V and Y, respectively, are gradually closed. Owing to the rapidity with which the main and auxiliary receivers are supplied, said receivers will naturally contain an aggregate amount of material slightly in excess of a true load. Therefore it is necessary to reduce this overload to bring the weighing mechanism to a true poise and secure accuracy in the weight of material before the same is discharged from the load-receivers.

. As a convenient means for removing the surplus or reducing the overload to bring the weighing mechanism to a true poise the auxiliary load-receiver, which is pivotally supported, as before described, for oscillatory movement transverse to the path of reciprocation to the main load-receiver, is furnished near the upper end thereof with a projection or pin 37, which cooperates with a cam-face 38 on an arm 39, constituting a fixture of the framework of the machine, such cam-face being so disposed that during the descending movement of the auxiliary load-receiver the upper end of said receiver will be tilted so as to throw the discharge end of said receiver outward beyond the material-supporting plate of the valve V3, which normally closes the discharge-opening of said receiver, thus allowing the material in said receiver G1 to fall into the surplus-receiver G3, which is located below and in position to receive the surplus from said auxiliary load-receiver G1. This surplus-receiver is shown in the nature of a receptacle or chute having a valve Vs at the discharge end thereof, which valve is connected by a link 40 with a main valve V in such manner as to have opening and closing movements simultaneously with the opening and closing movements of said main valve. This supplemental receiver is carried on a bracket fixed to the framework and has its discharge end located at one side of the main compartment d of the main load-receiver and in position to discharge the surplus into the surplus-receiving compartment d1 of said receiver.

From the foregoing description it will be seen that the main valve V, the auxiliary valve V, and the surplus-receiving valve V3 are all connected together for simultaneous and corresponding movements--that is to say, the valves V, V, and V3 are all open when the valve V3 is closed and are all closed when the valve V2 is open, and it will be further seen that during the descending and ascending movements of the main load-receiver opening and closing movements are imparted to the auxiliary receiver relatively to the valves for controlling the discharge of the surplus material to the surplus-receiver G2, the volume of material flowing from the auxiliary receiver to the surplus-receiver G being gradually increased during the descent of the main load-receiver and gradually decreased during the ascending movement thereof, until on the arrival of the weighing mechanism at its true-poised position the outlet of the auxiliary receiver will be fully closed.

As a convenient means for actuating the valve Vs after the weighing mechanism has arrived at its true poised position to discharge the contents of the auxiliary receiver G1 into the main load-receiver G to be discharged therefrom with the balance of the true load I have provided valve-actuating mechanism cooperative with the closer mechanism of the main load-receiver for effecting an opening movement of the valve Va relatively to the auxiliary receiver G1 simultaneously with the opening movement of the closers L and L1. This valve-actuating mechanism in the preferred form thereof shown most clearly in Figs. 2 and 5 of the drawings comprises an actuating-lever 42, pivotally supported on one of the side frames, as 2, of the machine and having a link 43, pivotally connected at one end thereof at a point above the pivotal point of said lever and pivotally connected at its opposite end to the valve V3, a link 44, pivotally connected at one end thereof to the lower end of the lever 42 and pivotally connected at its opposite end to one arm 45-1 of a counterweighted stop-lever 45, pivoted on the side wall of the load-receiver and having an arm 45", which normally engages and is held against movement by a projection 31'" on the detent-arm 31 of the closer L, said detent-arm when the closers are in their closed positions holding the stop-lever in such position as to prevent a valve-opening movement of the lever 42 and facilitating a valve-opening movement of said lever during the opening movement of the closer, the counterweight w1 of the stop-lever 45 acting to impart a valve-opening movement to the lever 42 when released by the movement of the detent-arm during the opening movement of the closers. This detent-arm 31 during the closing movement of the closers engages the arm 45" of the stop-lever and causes said stop-lever to impart, through the medium of the link 43, a valve-closing movement to the actuating-lever 42.

As a means for preventing an opening movement of the valve Va when the main supply-valve V is in its open position and for preventing an opening movement of the valve V when the valve V3 is in its open position I have provided in connection with the valve V and the lever 42 two reciprocally-effective stop members 46 and 47, respectively, one of which, as 46, is in the nature of a stop-arm carried on the valve V and has a pin or projection 46-1 at the outer end thereof in position for cooperating with a stop-face 47-1 on the stop member 47 when the valve V is in its open position and preventing an opening movement of the valve V3, and the other of which is in the nature of an arm or projection carried at the upper end of the lever 42 and having a stop-face 47" in position for cooperating with the stop projection of the stop member 46 to prevent the opening movement of the valve Y when the valve V2 is in its open position.

Having described my invention, I claim--

1. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a main receiver and an auxiliary receiver, the latter of which is provided with a valve, of means for supplying an overload, part to one and part to the other receiver; means for actuating the auxiliary receiver and its valve independently and successively to first discharge the surplus and subsequently to discharge the remainder of the load.

2. The combination, with a main load-receiver supported for reciprocatory movement, of an auxiliary load-receiver supported for corresponding reciprocatory movement and for independent movements in a plane transverse to the plane of reciprocation of said receiver; means for supplying an overload, part to one and part to the other receiver; a valve for closing the discharge-opening of the auxiliary receiver; means for shifting the auxiliary receiver relatively to the valve to discharge the surplus outside of said main receiver; and independent means controlled by the weighing mechanism for shifting the valve relatively to the receiver for discharging the remainder of the load into said main receiver.

3. The combination, with weighing mechanism embodying a plurality of receivers, of means for supplying an overload, part to one and part to the other receiver; a valve for controlling the discharge of one of said receivers; means operative at predetermined points in the movement of the weighing mechanism for actuating one receiver and its valve successively and relatively to each other to first discharge the surplus and then the remainder of the load contained in said receiver; and a receptacle situated between the two receivers and in position to receive the surplus from one of said receivers.

4. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a main and an auxiliary load-receiver, of means for supplying an overload, part to one and part to the other receiver; a valve for controlling the discharge from the auxiliary receiver; a receptacle situated between the two receivers in position to receive the surplus from the auxiliary receiver; means operative at a predetermined point in the descending movement of the main receiver for actuating the auxiliary receiver relatively to the valve thereof, to effect a discharge of the surplus into the surplus-receptacle; and means operative at a predetermined point for actuating the valve relatively to the auxiliary receiver to discharge the remainder of the load into the main receiver.

5. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a main load-receiver supported for reciprocatory movement and having a closer, of an auxiliary receiver supported above and at one side of the main load-receiver and having a valve; means for supplying an overload, part to one and part to the other receiver; means operative on the descending movement of the main load-receiver for shifting the auxiliary receiver to discharge the surplus at one side of said main receiver; means controlled by the closer of the main receiver, on the opening movement thereof, for actuating the valve of the auxiliary receiver to discharge the remainder of the load contained therein into the main receiver.

6. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a reciprocatory main load-receiver having a closer, of an auxiliary load-receiver carried by the weighing mechanism and pivotally supported for oscillatory movement in a path transverse to the path of reciprocation of the main load-receiver; means for supplying an overload, part to one and part to the other receiver; means effective on the descending movement of the auxiliary load-receiver for imparting an oscillatory movement thereto to discharge the surplus outside the main load-receiver; and means controlled by the opening movement of the closer for effecting a discharge of the remainder of the load contained in the auxiliary receiver into the main load-receiver.

7. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a main and an auxiliary load-receiver and with means for effecting the discharge of material from the auxiliary load-receiver first outside, and then inside, the main load-receiver, of a surplus-receiver located at one side of the main load-receiver in position to receive a portion of the material from the auxiliary receiver and having a valve; a supply-hopper having a main and a drip discharge-spout, each of which is provided with a valve for controlling the discharge of material to the main and auxiliary load-receiver, respectively; means controlled by the weighing mechanism for actuating one of said valves; actuating-connectors between the main valve, drip-valve, and surplus-receiver valve for effecting corresponding movements of said valves simultaneously; and means for directing the surplus to the main receiver on the opening movement of the surplus-receiver valve.

8. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a main and an auxiliary load-receiver, the latter of which is carried by, and is supported for movement independent of, the other; a supply apparatus including a hopper having a main and drip compartment and having its discharge end in position to discharge material into the main receiver; a main supply-valve located in position to control the supply of material from the main supply-spout to said load-receiver; a drip-spout communicating with the drip-compartment and having its receiving end in vertical alinement with the discharge end of the drip-spout, and having its discharge end in position for discharging material into the auxiliary load-receiver; a valve pivotally supported on the supply-hopper and having a cut-off plate disposed to oscillate between the discharge end of the drip-spout and the receiving end of the auxiliary supply-spout, and adapted to force material located in the path of movement thereon into the drip-compartment of said hopper; and means controlled by the weighing mechanism for imparting corresponding movements to the main valve and drip-valve.

9. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a main and an auxiliary load-receiver, of a supply-hopper having a main supply-spout whose discharge end is located go above the main receiver, and also having a drip-spout and an auxiliary supply-spout located one above the other and in position to discharge material to the auxiliary receiver; a drip-passage communicating with the main supply-spout and auxiliary supply-spout; a main supply-valve in operative relation with the discharge end of the main supply-spout; a pivotally-supported drip-valve operative between the drip-spout and the auxiliary supply-spout; an actuating-connector between the main valve and drip-valve; means controlled by the weighing mechanism for actuating the main valve and, through the connector, the drip-valve; and means operative on the descending and ascending movements of the main receiver for discharging material from, the auxiliary receiver first to one side of, and then into, the main receiver.

10. A weighing-machine embodying a reciprocatory load-receiver having a main compartment and a surplus-compartment located side by side and-communicating with each other at their lower ends; a valve-controlled surplus-receiver having its discharge end in communication with the surplus-compartment; a valve-controlled auxiliary load-receiver carried by the main receiver and pivotally supported for oscillatory movement toward and away from the surplus-receiver; means for simultaneously supplying material to the main and the auxiliary receivers; means controlled by the weighing mechanism for simultaneously cutting off the supply to the main and the auxiliary receivers; and means operative on the descending and ascending movements of the load-receivers for actuating the auxiliary receiver and its valve, successively and relatively to each other, to first discharge material from said auxiliary receiver into the surplus-receiver and then into the main receiver.

11. A weighing-machine embodying a load-receiver having a main and a surplus compartment, of a vertical partition separating said compartments and extending from the upper end of said load-receiver and terminating at a point remote from the lower end of said receiver; a valve-controlled surplus-receiver located at one side of said partition and having an oscillatory valve; an auxiliary load-receiver supported for movement with the main load-receiver and having its discharge end located above, and in position to discharge the material into, the main compartment of said main load-receiver; a valve for closing the discharge end of said auxiliary receiver; means operative on the descending movement of the load-receiver for shifting the discharge end of the auxiliary receiver relatively to its valve and into position for discharging the surplus from the surplus-receiver; means controlled by the weighing mechanism for actuating the valve to discharge the remainder of the load into the main receiver; a supply-hopper having a spout located above the main compartment of the main load-receiver; a valve in operative relation with the discharge end of said spout; means for actuating said valve; an actuating-connector between said valve and the auxiliary-receiver valve; and a valve-controlled auxiliary supply-spout located above the auxiliary receiver; and an actuating-connector between the valve of the auxiliary supply-spout and the valve of the main supply-spout.

12. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a main receiver having a closer and an auxiliary receiver having a valve, of a supply-hopper having a valve-controlled main supply-spout and also having a valve-controlled auxiliary supply-spout; a surplus-receiver located beneath the auxiliary receiver and having a valve; means operative on the descent of the load-receiver for effecting the closure of the valve of the main supply-spout, auxiliary supply-spout, and surplus-receiver simultaneously; means operative on the descent of the load-receiver for shifting the auxiliary receiver relatively to its valve for discharging the surplus into the surplus-receiver; mechanism controlled by the closer of the main receiver, on the opening movement thereof, for actuating the auxiliary-receiver valve to effect a discharge of material into the main receiver; and interlocking instrumentalities constructed and organized to block the opening movement of the main-supply-spout valve when the auxiliary-receiver valve is in its open position, and for blocking the opening movement of said auxiliary-receiver valve when the main supply-spout valve is in its open position.

13. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver having a closer and with a supply apparatus having a main supply-valve, of a detent-arm carried by the closer; a latch normally engaging the detent-arm and holding the closer against opening movement; means for actuating the latch on the ascending movement of the load-receiver, to release the closer therefrom; a supplemental latch carried on the load-receiver and normally engaging the detent-arm of the closer; and means con trolled by the main Supply-valve at a predetermined point in the closing movement thereof for releasing the supplemental latch from engagement with the detent-arm of the closer.

14. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a main load-receiver having a closer and with an auxiliary load-receiver having a valve, of a valve-actuating lever pivotally supported on the load-receiver and having a link in connection with the auxiliary-receiver valve; a counterweighted stop-lever in operative connection with the valve-actuating lever; a detent-arm carried by the closer and normally engaging the counterweighted stop-lever and holding the valve-actuating lever against a valve-opening movement, and disposed to engage said counterweighted lever to effect a closing movement of the valve on the closing movement of the closer.

15. The combination, with a weighing mechanism including a main load-receiver having a gravitative closer and with an auxiliary load-receiver having a valve, of valve-actuating mechanism including a counterweighted stop-arm for imparting opening movements to said valve; means carried by the closer for controlling the valve-opening movements of said actuating mechanism and effective during the closing movement of the closer for directly engaging the stop-arm of, and for imparting to said valve-actuating mechanism a valve-closing movement; and means for supplying material to the two receivers.

16. The combination, with weighing mechanism including an oscillatory load-receiver having a closer, of an auxiliary receiver carried by, and located above, said load-receiver and having valve-actuating mechanism including a counterweighted stop-lever for effecting an opening movement of the valve; an arm carried by, and effective during the closing movement of, the closer for engaging and imparting closing movement to the counterweighted stop-arm of the valve-actuating mechanism, and for holding the same against valve-opening movement when the closer is in its fully-closed position; a latch normally for locking the closer-arm in its valve-locking position; and means operative at a predetermined point in the movement of the load-receiver for releasing said latch to facilitate an opening movement of the closer and to also facilitate a simultaneous opening movement of the valve of the auxiliary-receiver valve.

17. The combination, with a load-receiver, of closer mechanism comprising two oppositely-disposed closer-plates set relatively oblique, and one of which is furnished with a material-supporting platform, which, when the closers are in their closed positions, lies within the load-receiver in substantially a horizontal plane and supports the major portion of the load; and an actuating-connector between the two closers.

18. The combination, with a load-receiver, of two closers pivotally supported at opposite sides of said receivers, respectively, and one of which closers comprises a substantially flat plate, which, when the closers are in their closed positions, lies in an oblique plane relatively to the horizontal line, and which closer is furnished with a counterweight, and the other of which closers comprises two obliquely-disposed plates, one of which is located above the other and constitutes a material-supporting platform, which, when the closers are in their closed positions, lies in a horizontal plane and extends over the other closer; and a toggle connecting the two closers.

19. The combination, with a load-receiver, of two closers pivotally supported at opposite sides, respectively, of said receiver and one of which closers includes two relatively-oblique plates, one of which, when the closers are in their closed positions, extends into the load-receiver substantially in a horizontal plane and supports the major part of the material, and the other of which plate is downwardly inclined and is so disposed as to leave a space between the two plates to allow a portion of the material to pass from the load-receiver to the downwardly-inclined plate, and means normally for locking the closers in their closed positions.

20. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver, of two relatively-oblique, oppositely-disposed closer-plates having their inner ends in overlapping relation when closed; a material-supporting plate or platform carried by, and above one of, the closer-plates, which platform is so constructed and disposed as to lie substantially in a horizontal plane within the load-receiver when the closers are in their closed positions, and which platform is of an area slightly less than the sectional area of the discharge end of the load-receiver; a dead-lock toggle connecting the two closers; means for normally locking the closers in their closed positions; and means for releasing said closers at a predetermined point in the ascending movement of the receiver.

21. The combination, with weighing mechanism including a load-receiver, of two oppositely-disposed closers pivotally connected to opposite sides, respectively, of the load-receiver and so disposed that their meeting ends, when in a closed position, are below the pivotal points of said closers; a regulator-plate depending from the discharge end of one of said closers; a material-supporting platform carried above, and by, one of said closers and extending over the other closer, and which material-supporting platform is of an area slightly less than the sectional area of the discharge end of the load-receiver and lies substantially in a horizontal plane intersecting the axes of movement of the closers when said closers are in their closed positions; a counterweight carried by one closer and adapted for effecting a closing movement thereof; a link pivotally connecting the closers and having its pivotal points in a line intersecting the axes of one of said closers when the closers are in their closed positions; means for normally locking the closers in their closed positions; and means operative at a predetermined point in the ascending movement of the load-receiver for releasing said closers.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600047 ===

SHUTTER-FASTENER

United States Patent 600047

Filing date: October 19, 1897

Issue date: March 1, 1898

Inventor: JOHN C. STEELMAN

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, John C. Steelman, of Linwood, in the county of Atlantic and State of New Jersey, have invented a new and Improved Shutter-Fastener, of which the following is a full, clear, and exact description.

The object of the invention is to provide a new and improved shutter-fastener which is simple and durable in construction and arranged to securely hold the shutter in an open position and to permit the operator to conveniently release the shutter whenever it is desired to close the same. The invention consists of certain parts and details and combinations of the same, as will be fully described hereinafter and then pointed out in the claims.

Reference is to be had to the accompanying drawings, forming a part of this specification, in which similar characters of reference indicate corresponding parts in all the figures.

Figure 1 is a front elevation of the improvement as applied. Fig. 2 is an enlarged detached side view of the same engaging a shutter, shown in part. Fig. 3 is a similar view of the same with parts in a different position; and Fig. 4 is an enlarged sectional side view of the improvement, showing the keeper in a locked position.

The improved shutter-fastener is provided with a bracket A, formed with an attaching-plate A1, adapted to be fastened to the side of a house, as is plainly indicated in Fig. 1, and on the said bracket is fulcrumed at B1 a keeper B, formed at its upper end with a fork B2, adapted to receive the bottom edge of a shutter C when the latter is swung into an open position, as indicated in Fig. 1.

The keeper B is provided with a depending extension B3, preferably in the form of an eye or loop, through which loosely passes a catch D, fulcrumed at D1 to the bracket A, the said catch being provided at its under side and near the free end thereof with a notch D3, adapted to engage a projection or lug B4 on the lower end of the extension B3. When the notch D2 engages the said projection B4, then the keeper B is locked in a vertical position to securely hold the shutter C locked in an open position, as the lower edge of the said shutter engages the fork B3 of the keeper. On the catch D, and near the fulcrum end thereof, is formed a lug D3, adapted to engage a corresponding lug B5, formed on the pivot portion of the keeper B, so that when the operator swings the catch D upward to unlock the keeper B then the lug D3 presses against the lug B5 to impart a swinging motion in an outward direction to the keeper B, so that the latter assumes the position shown in Fig. 3 to permit the shutter C to swing clear out of the fork B2. Thus the catch D not only serves to lock the keeper in place, but it also imparts a swinging motion thereto whenever the operator swings the catch D upward to unlock the keeper.

When the parts are in an unlocked position, as shown in Fig. 3, then the front member of the fork B3 is below the lower edge of the shutter C, and consequently when the latter is swung into an open position it strikes the rear member of the said fork and imparts a swinging motion to the keeper B to move the latter into a vertical position--that is, until the notch D2 engages the projection B4, as shown in Fig. 4--to lock the keeper in place at the time the lower edge of the shutter is in the fork B2.

When it is desired to release the shutter, the operator simply swings the catch D upward, as previously explained, to cause the fork to assume such a position that the shutter can be readily swung into a closed position.

The device is very simple in construction, can be cheaply manufactured and readily applied, is not liable to get out of order, and it does not mar the lower edge of the shutter, as is so frequently the case with devices of this kind as heretofore constructed.

Having thus fully described my invention, I claim as new and desire to secure by Letters Patent--

1. A shutter-fastener, comprising a pivoted keeper for engaging and holding the shutter, said keeper being provided with an opening in its lower portion, and a pivoted catch projecting through the opening of the keeper and having an interlocking engagement therewith, substantially as described.

2. A shutter-fastener, comprising a pivoted forked keeper adapted to receive an edge of the shutter between its forks, said keeper being provided with an apertured extension having a lug in the aperture, and a pivoted latch projecting through the said aperture and provided with a notch to receive said lug, substantially as described.

3. A shutter-fastener, consisting of a bracket, a forked keeper pivoted to the bracket and provided with an apertured extension, a lug in said aperture, and a lug on the inner portion of its body, and a latch pivoted to the bracket in rear of the keeper and provided at its free end with a notch on its under face and between its ends a lug on its upper face, substantially as described.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600048 ===

SMOKE, SOOT, AND SPARK DESTROYER

United States Patent 600048

Filing date: April 25, 1987

Issue date: March 1, 1898

Inventor: GEORGE J. TERRELL

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, George J. Terrell, of Meriden, in the county of New Haven and State of Connecticut, have invented certain new and useful Improvements in Smoke, Soot, and Spark Destroyers, of which the following is a full, clear, and exact description.

This invention relates to means for destroying smoke, soot, and sparks issuing from furnaces.

It is well known that at manufacturing centers and about factories the smoke and soot issuing from chimneys constitute a great source of annoyance, and there is a constant danger from sparks. A number of devices--such, for instance, as so-called "smoke-consumers"--have been employed to remedy the evil; but such devices have not proved of value by accomplishing the desired result.

The object of my invention is to provide means to wholly destroy the smoke, soot, and sparks.

I will describe a device embodying my invention, and then point out the novel features in the appended claim.

Reference is to be had to the accompanying drawings, forming a part of this specification, in which similar characters of reference indicate corresponding parts in both figures.

Figure 1 is an elevation, partly broken away, of a device embodying my invention; and Fig. 2 is a sectional view of one of the spray-nozzles.

Referring to the drawings, A designates a chimney closed at its upper end, and into the lower portion of which the smoke-pipe a passes from the furnace or furnaces in the boiler-room. A draft-inducing fan a1 is shown as located in the smoke-pipe, and this fan is to be operated in the usual manner.

B is an auxiliary chimney connected with the chimney A by the smoke-pipe C. The pipe C leads from the closed upper end of the chimney A to the lower portion of the auxiliary chimney B, and in the said pipe C the circulating-fan D, operated in any suitable manner, is arranged.

E is a stand-pipe arranged within the auxiliary chimney B. This pipe leads from a suitable water-supply, and within the chimney it is provided with branch pipes e, terminating in spray-nozzles e3, designed to direct water downward and laterally in small jets, which will embrace the entire transverse area of the chimney. A series of water-sprays, as described, will effectually destroy the products of combustion--such as smoke, soot, and sparks.

Having thus fully described my invention, I claim as new and desire to secure by Letters Patent--

The combination with a chimney having its upper end closed, of an auxiliary chimney, a smoke-pipe leading from the top of the first-named chimney to the lower portion of the auxiliary chimney, a circulating-pan in said pipe, a water-pipe within the auxiliary chimney, and spray-nozzles on said water-pipe, substantially as specified.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600049 ===

CALIPERS

United States Patent 600049

Filing date: August 11, 1897

Issue date: March 1, 1898

Inventor: FRED A. THOMPSON

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Fred A. Thompson, of Eureka, in the county of Winnebago and State of Wisconsin, have invented new and Improved Calipers, of which the following is a full, clear, and exact description.

The object of the invention is to provide new and improved calipers more especially designed for properly alining the shafts, of a line of shafting, the calipers indicating accurately the distance from the center of the shafts to an auxiliary guide-line.

The invention consists of certain parts and details and combinations of the same, as will be fully described hereinafter and then pointed out in the claims.

Reference is to be had to the accompanying drawings, forming a part of this specification, in which similar characters of reference indicate corresponding parts in all the figures.

Figure 1 is a sectional side elevation of the improvement. Fig. 2 is a plan view of the same as applied and with the shaft in section. Fig. 3 is an inverted plan view of the same. Fig. 4 is a reduced edge elevation of the improvement as applied on line-shafting, and Fig. 5 is a sectional view on the line 5 5 in Fig. 2.

The improved device is provided with a main frame A, formed at one end with a rest A1, adapted to be seated on the peripheral surface of a shaft B, to be brought in alinement with other shafts B1 B2, as indicated in Fig. 4. The shaft B is adapted to be engaged at its diameter by the points C2 C3 of caliper-arms C C1, attached to slide-blocks D D1, respectively, fitted to slide in slots A2 A3, respectively, formed in angular guide-arms A4 A5, projecting from the sides of the main frame A.

The slide-blocks D D1 are provided on their under sides with projections D2 D3, engaging transverse slots E1 E2, respectively, formed in transverse arms E3 E4, respectively, formed on a bar E, extending on the under side of the frame A, and formed at its outer end with a socket E6, engaged by a line-rod F, formed with a point at its outer end for reaching and pointing on an auxiliary chalk or guide line I, arranged parallel to the axial line of the shafting.

The bar E is provided with a longitudinally-extending slot E6, engaged by a guide-block G, also extending loosely into a longitudinal slot A6, formed in the main frame A, and the said guide-block is held a clamping-screw G1, pivotally connected by links H H1 with the caliper-arms C C1, so that by shifting the clamping-screw G1 and slide-block G a sliding motion is given to the caliper-arms C C1 to bring their points C2 C3 in contact with the peripheral surface of the shaft B at diametrically opposite points and at right angles to the contact of the rest A1 with the shaft.

Now in moving the caliper-arms C C1 said arms follow the angular arms A4 A5 of the frame A to open and close the points owing to the said arms being secured to the slide-blocks D D1, fitted in the slots A2 A3 of the guide-arms. At the same time a sliding motion is given by the slide-blocks D D1 to the bar E, owing to the action of the said slide-blocks with the transverse arms E3 E4 of the said bar, so that the point of the line-rod F is moved inward and outward according to the movement of the caliper-arms.

The frame A is provided with a graduation (not shown) reading the diameter of the shaft upon which the calipers are placed and is read by a pointer or mark from the block G to indicate the distance from the center of the shaft to the guide-line I.

Now it will be seen that when a line of shafting B B1 B2 is to be put in proper alinement then a number of devices, as described, are employed, one for each shaft, the said devices being set on the graduation according to the distance between the center of the shaft and the guide-line I, so that the point of the rod F must stand exactly on the auxiliary guide-line I when the shafts are brought into proper alinement.

It will be seen that when the device is used the proper distance between the axial line of shafting and the guide-line I is positively indicated by the devices, as the latter measure from the center of the shaft to the line, no matter what the size or diameter of the shaft is on which the device is used, it being understood that in order to bring the shafting in proper alinement it is necessary to get the proper distance from the center of the shaft to the guide-line instead of from the periphery of the shaft.

It is understood that after the desired adjustment is made the several parts are securely locked in place by screwing up the clamping-screw G1 for fastening the bar E securely to the frame A.

Having thus fully described my invention, I claim as new and desire to secure by Letters Patent--

1. Calipers comprising a main frame provided with rigid angular guide-arms, caliper-arms fitted to slide thereon, a block fitted to slide on the said frame, and links pivotally connecting the said block with said caliper-arms to open and close the latter on moving the said block along on the frame, substantially as shown and described.

2. Calipers comprising a main frame provided with angular guide-arms, a rest on the said frame, and adapted to be seated on the peripheral surface of the shaft to be calipered, caliper-arms fitted to slide on the said angular guide-arms, a block held to slide on the said frame, and links connecting the said block with the said caliper-arms, to bring their points in contact with the peripheral surface of the shaft at diametrically opposite points and at a right angle to a radius at the point of contact of the said rest with the shaft, substantially as shown and described.

3. Calipers comprising a main frame formed with a rest adapted to be seated on the peripheral surface of a shaft, caliper-arms adapted to open and close on the said frame, a bar held to slide on the said frame and connected with the said caliper-arms to move in unison with the same, and a line-rod carried by the said bar, substantially as described.

4. Calipers comprising a main frame formed with a rest adapted to be seated on the peripheral surface of a shaft, the said main frame being provided with slotted angular guide-arms, caliper-arms fitted to slide on the said angular guide-arms, a bar fitted to slide longitudinally on the said frame and having transverse arms connected to and moving with the said caliper-arms, and a line-rod carried by the said bar, substantially as 50 described.

5. Calipers comprising a main frame formed with a rest adapted to be seated on the peripheral surface of a shaft, the said main frame being provided with slotted angular guide-arms, caliper-arms fitted to slide on the said angular guide-arms, a bar fitted to slide longitudinally on the said frame and having transverse arms connected to and moving with the said caliper-arms, a line-rod carried by the said bar, a guide-block fitted to slide on the said frame and on the said bar, and links for connecting the said block with the said caliper-arms to shift the guide-block longitudinally on opening and closing the caliper-arms to indicate the distance from the center of the shaft to the guide-line, substantially as described.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600050 ===

GARMENT DRAFTING PATTERN

United States Patent 600050

Filing date: March 24, 1897

Issue date: March 1, 1898

Inventor: MARIE TUCEK

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, Marie Tucek, of the city, county, and State of New York, have invented a new and Improved Garment-Drafting Pattern, of which the following is a full, clear, and exact description.

The object of the invention is to provide a new and improved garment-drafting pattern more especially designed for conveniently, quickly, and accurately drafting the outlines for ladies' seamless waists and skirts having but a single seam in the body.

The invention consists principally of a waist-pattern provided with an angular base, a waist-arm held adjustably thereon and pivotally connected with a slide held adjustably on the base, and a front arm held adjustably on the said slide, an arm-scye having two adjustable members, of which one is adjustable on the said slide and is connected by links with the said front arm, the other scye member being connected with the shoulder-measuring device connected with the back arm held adjustably on the base.

The invention also consists of certain parts and details and combinations of the same, as will be fully described hereinafter and then pointed out in the claims.

Reference is to be had to the accompanying drawings, forming a part of this specification, in which similar characters of reference indicate corresponding parts in all the figures.

Figure 1 is a plan view of the pattern for the waist. Fig. 2 is a similar view of the pattern for the skirt. Fig. 3 is a like view of the pattern for the sleeve. Fig. 4 is an enlarged plan view of part of the same. Fig. 5 is a transverse section of the same on the line 5 5 of Fig. 4, and Fig. 6 is a plan view of-the blanks for the waist and skirt cut according to the pattern.

The improved garment-drafting pattern is provided with a pattern for drafting ladies' waists, and this pattern, as shown in Fig. 1, is provided with an angular base A, formed with two parallel slots A1 and A3 and with graduations in centimeters along the edges of the said slots, the graduations indicating the size of the lady's waist, and a third slot A4 is likewise formed on the base A at an angle to the parallel slots A3 A1. In the slot A1 is held adjustably a clamping-screw B, engaging a lug C1 on the curved waist-arm C, on the outer edge of which is drawn the outline for the waist proper. The free end of the arm C is pivotally connected at C3 with a slide D, preferably made U-shaped, with the two side members D1 D3 extending outwardly and with the member D3 reaching over the base A. The outer member D1 is provided with a graduation D3 in centimeters and indicating the front measurement from the neck to the waist. On this member D1 is held a clamping-screw E, extending through a slot F1, formed in the front arm F and held slidably on the member D1 to indicate at its lower edge on the graduation D3 the size of the lady's waist. The parallel movement of this arm F is obtained on the member D1 by a pin E1, held on the outer end of the member T1 and engaging the slot F1. The extreme outer end of the arm F is formed with a curved offset F3 for drafting the front portion of the neck, and the outer end of this offset is pivotally connected with a link H, having a slot H1, engaged by a clamping-screw H2 and by a fixed pin H3, both held on a link H4, pivotally connected with the member I1 of the scye-pattern I. The member I1 is provided with a slot I3, engaged with a clamping-screw I2, also engaging a slot I4 in the other member I5 of the said pattern I. An arm I6 extends rigidly from the scye member I1 and is provided with a slot I3, engaged by a clamping-screw J, held adjustably in the slot A3, previously mentioned, and provided with a guiding-sleeve J1, held on the outer end of the member D3 of the slide D. The member D3 is provided at its end with a pin D4, engaging the angular slot A3 in the base, so that when the slide is shifted sidewise the member D3 moves laterally, owing to the pin D4 traveling in the slot A3.

The member I6 is provided with graduation corresponding to the graduation D3 and set at the clamping-screw J to the same number as that indicated by the lower end of the arm F on the graduation D3.

The upper end of the member I2 of the scye-pattern I is pivotally connected at K1 with a T-shaped arm K3 of the shoulder-measuring device K, and the member K3 of the said arm K3 is provided with a graduation in centimeters to indicate the shoulder measurement at the back of the person to whom the garment is to be fitted. A clamping-screw L and a pin L1 are held on the arm K3 and engage a slot K5 in a member K4, projecting at right angles from the back arm K6, formed with a slot K7, engaged by a clamping-screw N and a pin N1, both held on the angular offset A4 of the base A. The latter is provided on the offset A4 with a graduation A5 in centimeters and on which registers the lower edge of the arm K6 to indicate the length of the back from the neck to the waist.

The arm K6 is pivotally connected at its extreme outer end by a link K8 with a V-shaped bar K10 having slots, of which one is engaged by a pin O on the link K8 and by a clamping-screw O1 and slot O2 with a link K9 on the T-shaped arm K2. This link K9 is provided with a graduation similar to the graduation on the member K3 to indicate the shoulder-to-shoulder measure or the width of the back of the garment.

Now in using this device the scye clamping-screws are loosened and the waist measure of the person is first taken in centimeters. The clamping-screw B is then shifted in the slot A1 to the corresponding number on the graduation along this slot. The damping-screw J is similarly moved along the slot A2 to the same number. The next measurement taken on the person is the front measure from the neck to the waist, and this is indicated on the graduation D3 by the lower edge of the arm F, shifted laterally on the member D3 and then fastened in place by the clamping-screw E.

The back measurement for the length of the garment at the back is then taken and the arm K2 is shifted to indicate with its lower edge on the corresponding number on the graduation A5. The clamping-screw N is then fastened and the measurement from shoulder to shoulder to give the width of the garment is then taken, and the arms K4 and K10 are adjusted to indicate the corresponding number on the graduations of the member K3 and the arm K9. Now it will be seen that by the arrangement described and by the shifting of the arms referred to the remaining arms adjust themselves automatically, and when the measurements have been taken the several clamping-screws are all fastened and the pattern is placed on the doubled-up material with the outer edge of the arm K6 along the doubled-up edge of the material. The outline for the blank of the waist is now drawn along the outer edges of the arms, links, andc., and the material is then cut accordingly to form the blank P, as shown in Fig. 6.

The pattern for the skirt is illustrated in Fig. 2 and is provided with a series of arms Q, R, S, T, U, V, and W. The arm Q is provided with an angular member Q1, having a graduation in centimeters indicating the waist measure, and in the arm is formed a slot Q2, engaged by a clamping-screw R1, held on the adjacent arm R. A second member Q3 extends angularly from the arm Q and is provided with a graduation also indicating the waist measure, and on this member is held a clamping-screw Q4, engaging the slotted link Q5, having a graduation indicating in yards the length of the lower edge or bottom of the skirt. The link Q5 is adjusted so that the corresponding number of its graduation registers with the number of the waist measure--that is to say, if the waist measure is sixty centimeters and the bottom edge of the skirt is to be eight yards the link Q5 is adjusted on the member Q3 until the numeral "8" registers with the numeral "60" on the member Q3, it being understood that the arm R is adjusted by the clamping-screw R1 on the member Q1 of the arm Q to likewise read "60" on the graduation of the said member Q1. The link Q5 is pivotally connected with the arm R and R2, so that by adjusting the said link Q5 on the member Q3 the arm R is correspondingly adjusted relative to the arm Q. The next arm S is similarly arranged to the arm R and similarly adjusted relative thereto, and the same holds true relative to the remaining arms, as they are correspondingly adjusted. The arm R is for this purpose provided with the members R3 and R4, of which the member R3 is engaged at its slot by a clamping-screw S1 to adjust the arm S on the graduation of the arm R3 to the waist measurement "60", as above given. On the member R4 is held a clamping-screw R5, engaging the slotted link R6, pivoted at S2 on the arm S and having a graduation in yards to be adjusted on the graduation in centimeters on the member R4--that is," "8" and "60"--as above mentioned relative to the link Q5 and member Q3. The arm S has its member S3 connected by the clamping-screw T1 with the arm T, and the member S4 is provided with a clamping-screw S5, engaged by a link S6, pivotally connected at T2 with the arm T. The graduation on the link S6 and the members S3 S4 is the same as above described relative to the link Q5 and members Q1 Q3 of the arm Q. The arm T is in turn provided with the member T3, adjustably connected with the arm U by the clamping-screw U1, and on the member T4 of the said arm T is arranged a clamping-screw T5, engaging the graduated link T6, pivotally connected at U2 with the arm U. The latter is connected at its member U3 by the clamping-screw V with the arm Y, and the arm U4 is provided with a clamping-screw U5, engaging the graduated link U6, pivotally connected at V2 with the arm V. On the members V3 and V4 of the arm V are held adjustably the angular projections of the arm W by means of clamping-screws W and W2, and this arm W, with the arm V, is adjusted according to the length indicated for the plaits of the skirt. Now when the several arms are uniformly adjusted, as above described, according to the waist measure and the bottom edge of the skirt the operator places the pattern upon the doubled-up material and draws lines along the edges of the arms Q, S, T, U, and W to a distance corresponding to the length of the skirt from the waist to the bottom.

The arms S, T, and U are preferably made angular, so as to give two or more sets of lines for wide and narrow skirts.

The outer points thus formed are united with each other by a curved line, as indicated in Fig. 6, the waist-line being drawn along the members Q1, Q3, S3, T3, and U3 of the several arms and sufficiently rounded to properly connect with the waist-line of the blank P, as indicated in the said Fig. 6.

The portion P3 on the pattern P' indicates the plaits to be formed by the extra length of material given along the arms V and W, as previously mentioned.

The pattern for the sleeve is illustrated in Fig. 3 and is provided with a series of arms X, T, and Z, of which the arm X is made in two parts, X1 and X2, held adjustably one on the other by providing the arm X3 with a slot engaged by a clamping-screw X2, carried on the other part X1. A graduation X4 in centimeters is arranged on the part X1 and on it indicates the upper end of the part X2, according to the length of the sleeve as measured on the person. The arm Y is similarly constructed--that is, made in two parts Y1 and Y2, held adjustably one on the other, and adapted to be fastened one on the other by a clamping-screw Y3, the part Y2 being provided with a graduation Y4, on which indicates the upper end of the part Y1. The arm Z is made with the parts Z1 and Z2 adjustable one on the other and adapted to be fastened together by a clamping-screw Z3, and the part Z1 is provided with a graduation Z4, on which indicates the upper end of the part Z2. On the lower end of the part X2 of the arm X is held adjustably an extension X5, adapted to be fastened in place by a clamping-screw X6, and the upper end of the arm X1 is provided with a fixed extension X7, extending laterally to adjustably connect with the upper end Z3 of the part Z1 of the arm Z. A clamping-screw X8 serves to fasten the ends X7 and Z5 one to the other, and similar connection is made between the arm Y and the arm Z--that is, the part Y1 of the arm Y is provided with the angular curved end Y5, held adjustably on the extension Z6 of the part Z1, a clamping-screw Z7 serving to fasten the two ends together. On the lower ends of the parts Y2 and Z2 are held adjustably the L-shaped arms Y6 and Y7 one on the other, with the arm Y8 pivotally connected by a link Y10 with the extension X7. A clamping-screw Y8 serves to fasten the angular arm Y6 to the part Y2, and a set-screw Y9 serves to fasten the arms Y6 and Y7 one on the other, and the set-screw Y11 is used for securing the arm Y7 to the part Z2. Now it will be seen that by the arrangement described either of the arms X or Y can be laterally adjusted relative to the arm Z, and each of the arms can be lengthwise adjusted relative to the length of the sleeve to be drafted. The necessary graduations are arranged on all the adjustable parts, so that the measures taken from the person relative to the width and length of the sleeve at different parts of the arm can be readily laid out, so as to bring the arms and their parts into the proper position. It is understood that the arms X and Z, with their connections, are used for the outer part of the sleeve, and the arms Z and Y are used for drafting the inner parts of the sleeve.

Having thus fully described my invention, I claim as new and desire to secure by Letters Patent--

1. A garment-drafting pattern, provided with a waist-pattern, comprising an angular base, a slide held adjustably on said base, a waist-arm having sliding engagement with the base and pivotally connected with said slide, a front arm held adjustably on the said slide, a back arm held adjustably on the base, and an arm-scye having two adjustably-connected members, of which one is adjustable on the slide and is connected by links with the said front arm, the other scye member being connected with the said back arm, substantially as described.

2. A garment-drafting pattern provided with a waist-pattern comprising an angular base provided with parallel slots and a slot arranged obliquely to the parallel slots, a slide held adjustably on the said base and having a pin engaging the said oblique slot, and a clamping-screw engaging one of the parallel slots, a waist-arm pivotally connected with the said slide and adjustably connected by a clamping-screw with the base in the other parallel slot, a front arm held adjustably on the said slide, a back arm held adjustably on the said base, a scye-drafting device made in adjustably-connected members, of which one is held adjustably on the said slide, self-adjusting links for connecting the said device with the front arm, and an adjustable shoulder-drafting device connecting the scye-drafting device with the said back arm, substantially as shown and described.

3. A garment-drafting pattern provided with a skirt-pattern comprising a series of arms, each having members extending therefrom, one arm being held adjustably with one of its members on the corresponding member of the adjacent arm, and a link for adjustably connecting the other member of each arm with the adjacent arm, substantially as shown and described.

4. A garment-drafting pattern provided with a skirt-pattern comprising a series of arms, each having members extending therefrom, one arm being held adjustably with one of its members on the corresponding member of the adjacent arm, a link for adjustably connecting the other member of each arm with the adjacent arm, and plait-arms held adjustably on the outer arm of the said series of arms to draw the necessary amount of material for the desired plaits, substantially as shown and described.

5. A garment-drafting pattern, provided with a skirt-pattern consisting of a series of sections each of which has a longitudinal central member and two transverse substantially parallel members extending from said central member on the same side thereof, the upper and lower transverse members of each section being adjustably connected with the corresponding members of the adjacent sections and forming segmental top and bottom lines in a direction corresponding to the circumference or width of the skirt, while the central members of said sections normally radiate in a direction corresponding to the length of the skirt, substantially as described.

6. A garment-drafting pattern, provided with a sleeve-pattern having a plurality of longitudinally-extensible arms, one of said arms being pivoted at one end to an extension or link attached to one end of the adjacent arm, and the ends of all the arms, except the two pivotally-connected ends aforesaid, being connected to slide upon each other transversely, substantially as described.

=== UnitedStatesPatent600051 ===

CENTRIFUGAL RESISTANCE-CONTROLLING DEVICE

United States Patent 600051

Filing date: July 29, 1897

Issue date: March 1, 1898

Inventor: GEORGE H. WHITTINGHAM

Assignee: THE AUTOMATIC SWITCH COMPANY OF BALTIMORE CITY

To all whom it may concern:

Be it known that I, George H. Whittingham, a citizen of the United States, residing at Baltimore, in the State of Maryland, have invented certain new and useful Improvements in Centrifugal Resistance-Controlling Devices, of which the following is a specification.

This invention relates to a rheostat for automatically removing resistance in starting electric motors; and the object of the invention is to provide a revoluble device by means of which centrifugal force may be utilized in a way that is different from any attempt heretofore made to gradually reduce the resistance in the motor-circuit automatically when the current is turned on and the motor starting by cutting out the coils of resistance one after the other from that of the greatest resistance to that of the least resistance.

By my invention the starting resistance is attached to a revoluble head which also carries the mechanism controlled by centrifugal force developed as the motor speeds up. An important feature is also shown in the small retaining-magnet, which engages the switch-lever at its full movement. This magnet overcomes a serious defect in the centrifugal type of starter, as it prevents the restoration of the resistance should the speed of the motor be temporarily reduced by an overload after having safely reached full speed. Without this magnet an overload would have a tendency to replace part of the resistance in circuit, which would of course still further reduce the speed and negate the usefulness of the apparatus.

The invention is illustrated in the accompanying drawings, in which--

Figure 1 is a top view showing the revoluble head carrying the resistance-coils and also showing the base or feet. Fig. 2 is a cross-section showing all parts of the rheostat. Fig. 3 is a bottom or reverse side view of the revoluble head, showing the switch-lever and magnet.

The letter A designates the metal base of the machine, which may be made in any preferred form. It has a central bearing, in which turns the hub c of the revoluble head D. The wires e e2 of the motor-circuit connect with the base. The inlet-wire e connects directly with the metal base; but the outlet-wire e2 is attached to a bolt /, which is electrically disconnected from the base by insulation /1. The continuity of this circuit through the revoluble head of the rheostat will be hereinafter described.
