NTA - It sounds like she knew the dog was untrained and problematic, that's why she refuses to take it back and suggested you call animal control. Be cautious though, current culture is dog obsessed. There are people who'd rather you keep the dog and have it destroy your entire house along with everything in it instead of getting rid of the dog.

YTA because you expected the dog to come into your household and be perfect. That's not how it works. The dog was probably scared or nervous during his first time in a strange place and instead of welcoming him and working to help him to correct the behaviors, you're just willing to give up on him because he's not the one you wanted?

I seriously doubt that you'd have kept the other dog if it had come in having the same issues even though you "wanted" that one. Would you have called animal control on that one, too?

It's a shame about your mom's video tapes but you should have started correcting the behavior as soon as it happened. YTA.

This summer is the most competitive for jobs. You should have been looking in December if you wanted to have your pick of jobs. You will most likely have no other offers.  YTA.

HE has one week of PTO. This is his vacation not a you vacation or a family vacation. You get to hang with in-laws and SIL’s 4 kids, lucky you. You deserve a YOU vacation. His poor allocation of his PTO does not need to rob you of joy. Plan your own vacation.

Op isnt even talking shit, just stating the reality. Youre in denial if youre implying people like this dont exist.

If you gather and army to attack me with lies, I'll defend myself with the truth.

YTA. Although kudos for editing it so wasn’t noticed. But still, wtf

So is cussing someone out okay in your eyes? Because that's what OP did to her mother, and your judgment seems to imply she's not in the wrong for that.

Idk, let's say you spend 8 hours together and that the interruptions are each a full minute and happen every 15 minutes. That's only 30 minutes out of your full evening, 30 minutes on something that's clearly very important to her and is always going to be a part of her routine. I believe you that you feel disconnected from her and that you feel overall that having dog free date nights would lead to better connection. I just don't think focusing on the interruptions is an effective way to make that point. You just overall feel you don't have her full attention, and that sucks. I don't really understand where you're hoping to go though - she's made it clear it's not important to her to change. She doesn't want to live with your kid. Where are you guys headed with this?

Okay but like...  you could have spent time with the dog at their house, met at a park, spent some time with it?

 One of the reasons it's a "hassle" to get a dog from a shelter is because the shelter spends the time to make sure you and the dog are a good fit...

you spent zero effort getting to know this dog before you took it home.  This is what happens.

This.

 Thats it thread is closed. Everyone can go home now

But her attitude towards not caring about others is definitely a symptom.

please elaborate? I am not talking about not celebrating but just because i am young and on facebook, i should know and remember everyone's bday ON THE DAY ITSELF?

Thanks for checking my post history. I see now why you wouldn’t have friends or family who want to help you. 

Do you also ask people to address you by your husband’s rank?

I was teenager then, but I think in my 20 if I still live with my parent she would still do it, I would do the same to her after all caring for one another seems like basic decency as a family.

ESH. That’s not the way to go about getting a dog. Also how does the dog do that much damage if you were supervising it?  Did you do any research into what is involved in adopting a dog before you got it?

It's a backyard, the other houses haven't said one word about her being loud, the MIL and dad are being silly.  Until and unless someone else makes a comment, let the kid have fun.

ESH you are not ready for a dog. A dog is not a possession, it's a living, caring being that you are responsible for the care of. I have an 11 year old dog. Had him since he was a pup and he's developed some medical issues that have led to accidents in the house. I can buy more rugs I can't buy another Ollie. 

Also you're a double AH for calling animal control instead of finding a rescue or no kill shelter. Don't get any pets until you develop a heart or some empathy.

I asked animal control and they said they would rehome him, I even asked to the animal control “he isn’t going to be put down or anything is he?” And she said he would be going to a new home within the next 24 to 48 hours.

#PLEASE REVIEW THIS MESSAGE IN FULL. 

Your post has been removed.

We do not allow posts which concern self harm or suicide. Any mention of self harm or suicide disqualifies your post. ***Circumventing this filter will result in a permanent ban.*** Do not message us asking for an exception. 

If you or someone you know is considering suicide, please view /r/SWResources/ for support resources.

###Please review our rules in their entirety, then message the mods before attempting to resubmit your story. 

#Resubmitting without approval (including edited versions) will lead to a ban, no exceptions. Approval is ***exclusively*** granted via the "message the mods" link above. Yes, this applies to you *even if you believe this removal was in error.*

*You can visit r/findareddit for a comprehensive list of other subs that may be able to host this discussion for you.*

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Especially because the KA mixes are ridiculously delicious!

ESH because the poor dog will most likely be put down. You know this and should not have taken an animal in this manner so flippantly from someone who is clearly more of a stranger than anything. Your coworker sucks a*s and the two of you killed a dog together. People f*cking suck.

If it is true that because of visa status, BIL cannot stay in the country you and your wife live in, it could be MIL is getting you and your wife ready to move back to the wife’s country of origin to care for MIL and or BIL later. Truly the 3 month summer visit would be a marriage ended for me. Definitely do not have unprotected sex with your wife.

You know it's funny. My aunt and my dad send me texts every day to say good morning. Nothing else - just good morning. I found it annoying at first. I don't send anyone else good morning texts, it felt weird. 

But when they stopped, I missed those texts, and started initiating them myself. 

I was always told that when you are little, family matters most. As you grow older and become independent, friends become more important. But once you start a family of your own and start growing older, family once again becomes most important. 

For me that was very true. While sending birthday messages to extended family might seem silly and annoying now, in a few years your perspective might change. It might not make a difference to you, but those happy birthday messages might make one of your family members days. It might be the small line you have to rekindling or reconnecting with one of them. It might end up being one of the last times you talk to one of them. 

So for me, I would say you YTA to yourself if you don't. Even if the above doesn't persuade you, this is not a fight worth family drama.

3-4 week adjustment period. I’ve fostered and some of the best dogs were terrible the first week and some of the worst dogs were chill the first week. Stress does terrible wonders on creatures.

This so much. And just to add, think about how you would feel if your dad knew your boyfriend was speaking to you that way, being incredibly disrespectful and cruel. Would he accept that treatment for his daughter? Would you tell a friend this is okay? You are better than this, please respect yourself and move on to someone who treats you with respect.

She sounds exhausting and extremely manipulative. Do you really want to live this way? NTA. 

And yes, the age gap is a red flag. Even when the genders are reversed.

I agree there is a point where it’s unrealistic/unreasonable, and you have a point with the whole being glued to the phone thing. Idk where you live/grew up but it seems like your family has some classic, unchecked misogyny going on if the males aren’t expected of the same.

But at the same time it is considered rude to intentionally avoid at least saying happy birthday to people you are actually close with or see often

NTA. My best friend slept with my now-ex bf many years ago, and then said we ‘shouldn’t fall out over a boy’. 

You’re not breaking up over a muffin.

YTA you sound like you want an ornament not an actual dog. You didn't meet the dog first, didn't agree on a trial period. Dog is probably stressed out of its mind, its day 1...How much research into owning a dog have you done?

Op you need to set boundaries  don't listen to people saying oh you're this or ableist or that if seems you mil is trying to get you adjust to care for him sit down with both of them and leave a digital and physical trace that you do not want this listen its exhausting   and it'll wreck your mental health

If he needed the hours or he would get in trouble at school then she should have DONE the hours! NTA

Bishba knows typography!

Can you train the dog? If you call animal control they will put him in a shelter and most likely they will put him down

Or, you can have your wife “visit” them for a year? That would be equivalent to 3 annual visits at your house.

I’m very much a woman with a SATC kind of style, I typically dress hyperfeminine. Thanks for the validation!!

NTA for wanting to get rid of the dog, but YWBTA if you call animal control. He’ll likely get euthanized. Please contact a local rescue so this pup doesn’t lose his life for your coworker’s mistakes. 

It’s more effort than calling animal control, and it shouldn’t be on you to deal with it, but that’s the situation and the non-AH way of dealing with this situation

I’m sorry about the tapes. That’s a tough loss. I wish you well and hope the pup gets into the right hands.

Because it’s a bit of a hassle trying to get one through the animal shelter, and I thought the coworker could be trusted

I just looked up Tombolo... Is he serious? LMFAO

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

My boyfriend and I have been together for 12 years. We consider ourselves "basically married," as all of our finances are intertwined, we co-own cars, we live together, etc. We aren't opposed to getting married, we just haven't been in a rush to do so. 

A few years ago, my mother was diagnosed with a rare and aggressive form of cancer. She's done all the treatments (chemo, radiation, surgeries) but we've known for a while that it would eventually become terminal. It has now reached that stage. The cancer spread to her brain, and the latest scans showed it is in her cerebral spinal fluid, so the oncologists can essentially no longer do anything for her. She will die, likely, within a few months.

At the appointment where we found this out, she turned to me and asked me to marry my boyfriend before she dies. I was shocked, and told her than under no circumstances would we be doing that, and honestly I was offended that she would ask that of me. If/when we get married, I want it to be on our terms. I want it to be a joyous day about us and our love. I don't want to feel coerced into it and have the day be all about my mother's impending death.

My mother was angry at my refusal, and now all of my brothers are mad at me for upsetting her and refusing to go along with it. AITA?

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

YTA. Money is money, if you really need it, you’d take the job even if it is for a few weeks until you hear back from your other applications. You don’t have to be unemployed to apply to other jobs.

I told him that several times, then figured that telling him additional times wasn’t going to magically change his behavior.

Not on purpose per say, but I often check the date and then it dawns on me “so and so’s bday was three days ago” but by then it’s too late

NTA just tell them to get a Airbnb close by

you’re definitely not the asshole here. she misled you about the dog and you tried to handle it responsibly by offering it back. sounds like she’s the one who needs to take some responsibility for this mess.

I tried giving the dog treats and toys. The dog got pretty comfortable in the home right away and sat next to me on the couch.

In your formal wedding attire? Wtf

YTA.  If I'm told to get lost for several hours--dressed formally especially--I'm not coming back for part 2.

I've been to a wedding like that once. It sucked.

You may just be an asshole in general because why have you read through so many comments, responded defensively and then still blame it all on us not being catholic even though so many people who are catholic did not relate? It doesn’t matter it was two years ago, your family and friends loved you guys enough to suck it up - that’s beautiful. Just say whoops and appreciate your loved ones for rolling with the punches. You gain nothing by dying on this hill to the internet.

Not wanting to text folks happy bday does not make someone narcissistic.

19$/hr sounds like US lifeguarding rates. My mother ran a parks and rec program for 2 decades (hiring lots of lifeguards) and my sister was one as well. I also worked at a pool one summer as a non lifeguard aid. Also, well other countries use dollars, I think my American assumption is good here.

This detail is quite important, maybe you should include it in the post. NTA.

If you were aware, then why did you accuse the original commenter of not reading your post?

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

I’m 22F and my sister is 18F. I’ve been away at college for most of the year for the past 5 years but while I was away, while my sister was in highschool she got a dab pen and started smoking weed. When I was in high school, I smoked weed and did it a little bit throughout college and even owned a dab pen myself at one time. I matured, and started getting out of that scene as I finished up my graduate degree this year, so I no longer smoke weed or do anything like that, just an occasional social drink here and there. 

My younger sister who just graduated high school smokes weed, I believe frequently using a dab pen. As the older sister and someone who stopped doing stuff like that, I see the other side of things and realize smoking isn’t good for you and an 18 year old doesn’t need to be doing that because it doesn’t add anything good into your life. I’m conflicted if I should tell my mom that my sister smokes because my mom has asked me before if I know if she does ( i assume she might be suspecting she is) but i’ve always said that i don’t think she does. I’m conflicted because if I tell my mom, she would make my sister stop, but also on the other hand, I was in my sisters same spot just a couple years ago and I eventually figured it out on my own to stop. I also would have been so mad if I was in her spot. I just feel like as an older sister I have the duty to help her (by snitching) but I know my sister wouldn’t see it that way and i wouldn’t have seen it that way back either when i was her age. So, WIBTA?

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

NTA. Your home is not accessible, period. He would be much more comfortable staying somewhere where he can have privacy, move around freely, etc etc. Yes, it's not fair on you, but it's also not fair on BIL.

Yeah thats awful. 2.5 hours is ridiculous.

NTA—she lied to dump a destructive dog on you, it ruined priceless memories of your late mom, and you literally just followed her exact instructions to call animal control.

ESH.  

Why would you get a dog without meeting it first? 

Dogs need time to adjust, this 3 yr old dog has been rehomed for the X time in it's life, there will of course be an adjustment period.  

What did you do, other than let the dog out to make it feel comfortable?

NTA I don’t think I’ve really ever been to a wedding that wasn’t like this, especially the Catholic ones. The time in between has commonly been used for changing outfits, refreshing at home/hotel, hanging out with family or friends at a local pub/in hotel, etc. I’m actually more surprised how many people are commenting otherwise as it’s literally never been my experience unless it was a destination wedding of sorts.

NTA… mixing family and work often is not a good idea. Especially if you’re not interested in the line of work. It sounds like a recipe for unnecessary tension in the home. It’s hard to have a good work/life balance if you work with family and especially if you live with them. If you don’t think that would be an issue, consider asking to work part time, trial period, just to see if you’d hate it as much as you think. And let him know if you get a job offer somewhere that would help your resume you’d be going there. In the mean time keep applying for jobs, do more DoorDash. Apply for jobs you think you might not like even, just because you can still learn skills and it’ll make you well rounded in the future. 

Don’t sweat the free rent thing. You’re 19 and it’s very common for college students to go home during the summer. There’s a reason why you can be on your parent’s insurance until your mid-20s and why the government considers parents income for financial aid. The duties of a parent don’t end at 18 just because we decided 18 is “legal adult”.

YTA and I say that coming from a celiac family -- your parents brought you a whole assortment of gluten free baked goods to share,  and you couldn't even share 1 single muffin?  

I can't imagine making such a big deal over a treat, getting emotional about how good it is, and then telling your partner, no you can't have any.  But I guess your muffin is more important than your partner.  You do you.

ESH. Why are you getting a dog through your coworker???

That was what I was about to suggest. Take a photo each and every time and send it to HR and Management

You're at the age where you want to bank money, but most importantly, experience. There's nothing stopping you from taking the job in construction with the attitude to learn as much as you can in the already acknowledged limited time you will be there. There's also nothing stopping you from setting the expectation that you will be able to work with him on contingency, as in, you will be able to leave without complaint as soon as you accept and offer to the desired position.

It's hard enough to find jobs, lots of us end up with opportunity we would have never otherwise had without our personal connections. This isn't your dream job, but it's an opportunity disguised as hard work and you'd be foolish to turn it down.

General contractors make bank, and they got there by observing how all the other trades are done. Consider it a free college class, where you're actually getting paid. Ask questions. Whatever you learn, I promise you'll take it into so many other areas of your life.

definitely NTA here. your brother's gift was more about him than you and your fiancé, and it sounds like you were just trying to express that in a respectful way. people really need to learn that it's not just about the price tag, but the thought behind a gift.

Pets 👏are 👏not 👏gifts

NTA

Adults have to do things we don’t want to all the time. “Gotta do what ya gotta do.” It’s temporary. Put on your big boy underwear.

This is not normal at all

NTA. She brought a stranger into your home without your permission, ignored your instructions for caring for your dogs and left them without food and water. 
You only told her parents what happened after they contacted you to have a go. 

If she didn’t want them to know she shouldn’t have behaved that way then lied about it to them.

nta. they treat you like an afterthought when they cook but expect you to save them food when you do. you literally just gave them a taste of their own medicine lol. hope you find that apartment soon.

YTA. You shouldn’t be competing with his sister. You should be friendly with his sister, and taking on a girlfriend role with your boyfriend. You don’t want to be in the same role as his sister, it’s a different kind of love and bond. 

Admittedly, I may be bias here. My brother and I *used to be close*. His then gf (now wife) had similar insecurities and jealousy issues with me - starting with how we were *friends* not just siblings, including overlapping friend groups, music and tv interests, as well as hobbies; aka the things you mention above... But, my brother caved to his wife. She didn’t like that he was close to his family, or friends. And now, they’re married with a child, and don’t see anyone from his side - family or friends - because of her controlling issues and insecurities. But, hey, maybe you want this type of situation, too…

Take the job your father is offering. You’ll learn so much about working with people, and being part of a team. Construction skills into the future will last a lifetime. You’ll grow as you learn and make your father proud. YTA if you don’t take advantage of what he is offering.

OK, so I just looked these shirts up. They are very definitely not my taste either and quite a bold style. Giving you these is the opposite of thoughtful and kind. I think gifts should always be thoughtful and kind. Sorry you have to put up with this but I think that you need to grey rock them as they are not going to be interested in making you feel good and loved.

Can we include non dinosaurian prehistoric reptiles? I'm very partial to pterosaurs. Particularly Queztecoatlus and Jeholopterus.

You’re missing the point

Where did I say I was 28? Edit, I could have mistyped but please show me where I said I was 28.

Last sentence was more about how my dad and (other) uncle do not need to send any messages, nor do my cousins. But my uncle and mom give me shit for forgetting or thinking i should do this for everyone.

I also think in general this world of technology has made people think we should be glued to our phones and if the little black box doesn’t tell you your special you have no value. I don’t talk to you regularly but I am expected to open my device and reach out when it’s not something I use often? 

I want to go back to landlines so people do expect 24/7 availability. Family also gets mad because I don’t check messages everyday

NTA. Unless you have a sign outside saying hotel or motel then you do not have to provide any accommodation for them, they are adults who can sort out and pay for their own suitable accommodation. Be absolutely firm on this.

The FBI shot and killed the hostage taker at 4:30am and OP is pissed the tattoo artist won't open her shop at 8am like it's all normal outside when the cops still have the streets blocked off.

nta, their is no point in arguing with them

if they gift it you, thank them, and then resell them

you should do what feels right for you, man. it sounds like you're putting in the work trying to find something better that aligns with your goals. telling your dad how you feel might help him understand too.

I have agreed that how I reacted was not right. Re-read the post. I am totally aware I was in the wrong. I am reacting nicely to people who are not rude twits in the comments because why be ruder to people who are already down? It is not right wether you agree with me or not. I would never approach people the way you did when they are clearly struggling. I never once said I have "exclusive claim to struggling" I have said if you have not been in a situation like this why are YOU entitled to tell me that I cannot handle my child on my own? It is very difficult when you are injured any parent would agree.  I am handling it and I have taken responsability and even made this post so I can see if i was in the wrong or the right. I would tell you "Have the evening you so very truly deserve." but nope, be kinder. bye.

NTA girl you are not in the wrong at all

NTA. In real life, we don’t get paid if we don’t show up to work/do the work. If he showed up to a job and only stayed an hour, his job wouldn’t pay him for a full 8 hour work day. So it’s fair to say that if he only showed up for less than an hour for his volunteer work, you shouldn’t sign off that he was there for 4 hours. It’s just not fair and it’s not how life works. You don’t get credit for what you don’t do.

Thankfully I was dismissive enough in their eyes to call the whole thing off 😐

This is my thought as well. I just checked eBay and Tombolo shirts can fetch a pretty penny depending on the design. I saw a dirty martini shirt that sold for around $80.

In that case, if she was going to pay him back, and he had the cash, he is an asshole. 

Any of those two not applicable, he is good (assuming he is not the one withholding contact).

Wow so this is the worst of your problems?

That’s what I’m thinking, it’s odd cause he was originally going to get us tickets to a baseball game which we would’ve loved and appreciated!!

Thank you! I just said the same thing but less nice.

Risk? We're they playing Risk? Can't be Jenga because that doesn't take all night.

YTA. Big time. 

I am familiar with the event you are describing as it was all over the national news. Plus I live in SoCal myself. At 1pm yesterday, a deranged man held 10 people hostage with a bomb strapped to himself and he also strapped bombs to some of the hostages. It took the responders 16 hours to negotiate to get some of the hostages out and then the officers went in and took the suspect out this morning at 4:30am. 

They've still got to block off the area to conduct the investigation and make sure that any explosives are rendered safe, and you're over here like "WAHHH I WANT MY TATTOO!!! I THINK YOU'RE JUST TRYING TO GET OUT OF AN APPOINTMENT!!!"

Miss me with that selfishness. YTA

I agree with you, although presumably everyone was aware of the schedule beforehand since it's usually on cards / the website

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > I thought I might be the asshole but I feel like my coworker is just trying to guilt trip me

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

Golden child for sure! He gets along with my dad much easier (he’s a cop I’m the black sheep)

Thanks, saved me some typing.

This is what I did when my stepmother refused to use my daughter's name. All it took was once and she stopped

Your post and comment history are interesting to say the least...
To say the most.. get offline and grow up. You're embarassing and ridiculous. Why are you 28 in 1 post and 26 in this one? 
You sound like someone who thinks life is sooo unfair and nothing is your fault.. you probably think we're all out to get you lol.

driver controls the audio, full stop. my ex used to pull this shit and it turned every car ride into a negotiation, exhausting tbh. if he wanted to zone out with a video he coulda brought earbuds like a normal person

You are right and a woman must always back her man. Never say anything negative in public. The same goes for the man. Every time you know you have each other’s backs your marriage gets better.

NTA. My goodness. What an exhausting friendship. If you’re sincerely worried about his mental health, maybe speak with a counselor at your school.

I get it but to me it seems they just wanted to give a helpful suggestion so the downvotes are a bit jarring.

I, um... is your friend OK? I'm seriously wondering. 

NTA.

OP, the other thing you haven't considered - this is an entrée to you taking on BIL when MIL can't look after him any more.

3 months is crazy. 

NTA

It is courteous to look over your shoulder and recline slowly so you don't cause any problems for your neighbour. The dad never told you not to recline, he just wanted a heads up. I think that's appropriate.

Even if the kid was seated properly she could have been leaning forward with the tray out or something. It was probably an overreaction on the dad's part but protective instincts are a big hormone flood so that's to be expected.

Gentle YTA on this one for not obeying common courtesy and getting defensive in response to being called out on it.

NTA

I’m glad you’re sticking up for yourself by setting boundaries. 
When someone tells you who they are believe them.

He answered in another comment and she wanted him to pay for her ticket because she didn’t want to use her dad’s credit card lest she be found out.

NTA for the joke, sounds like he’s taking it way too far with his comments. Just because you made a one-off joke doesn’t mean he gets to put you down like that. His reaction sounds really uncalled for.

This actually seems like the best idea. If it’s a must they come for that long of a stay, then she needs to locate and pay for an Airbnb that ADA compliant and accessible for her brother. As well as give him a private room for such a long stay.

NTA they're your muffins tbh. Weird she can't see that

Tbh I’ve never seen someone not served well by working a construction job they didn’t want. Unwanted construction work, especially just over the summer, may be the base for true success in  any field.

Wildly unhinged behavior. Do you guys even like your families? Like I would never treat my mom or a grandparent that way, what the heck.

your bro sounds like a total jerk for acting like that, especially when you were just trying to help a dog in need. you did the right thing, man, can't believe he's giving you grief over it.

NTA, Ear buds if your that desperate to watch a YouTube video. Driver gets priority on the radio.

You're a narcissist but you do you.  Yta, btw.

Why would guests go eat a late lunch right before your reception? Honestly this sounds awful.

You're right. I didn't scroll up and see the rest of the story. I've deleted my wildly wrong post.

My bestie is celiac. We once drove two hours to a gf bakery when she was newly diagnosed and she unapologetically ate two donuts before leaving the parking lot bc they tasted “normal.” I would t have dreamed of touching her donuts knowing how special they were (I got one for myself though).

NTA for not wanting to work construction, sounds like you know what you want and are trying to build your path. Keep applying to jobs that fit your goals, you'll find something that works better for you.

nah you're not the asshole, it's tough but you gotta look out for yourself too. if he's been toxic and dismissive of your feelings, stepping away is totally valid even if he's going through a lot right now.

your brother sounds like he’s just being unnecessarily dramatic. you did the right thing by helping that dog, no way you could just leave it out there in that heat. keep doing what you’re doing, and hope your mom can help get her to the vet.

Info: Has he called you to ask you to visit?

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

So coworker of mine knew I was interested in getting a dog. She shows me 2 photos of 2 different dogs and I told her I wanted dog A not dog B. 

She then decides “I want to give you dog B I think he would be better for you” 

I then ask her, is he house trained. She says yes I ask how old he is and she says 3 years old. I say fine I’ll take the dog, even though it’s not the one I wanted.  

A day later I get the dog, I let it out several times a day and it’s literally pissing everywhere in my house despite letting it out multiple times. The dog was not house trained like she told me. The dog literally pissed all over my bathroom rugs, multiple times in the hallway and kitchen, on some old tapes of my mom before she passed away. 

Overall the dog wasn’t even under my roof for 24 hours and immediately does about a couple hundred dollars worth of damage. I tell the coworker, coworker throws a hissy fit and then says “call animal control if you don’t want him” then proceeds to block me on Facebook. 

Surely I’m not the one being unreasonable here? Coworker lied about the dog being house trained when it clearly wasn’t. I was more pissed about the dog ruining old vhs tapes of my mom more than some rugs that could be replaced/cleaned.  

But am I the bad guy here for calling animal control? I asked her if she wanted to take the dog back and she refused. So I just don’t know. 

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

YTA. Thats weird af. Wedding, immediately into cocktail hour while photos are taken, then immediately reception. People just sit around with nothing to do, dressed up for 2 hours.

NTA, it sounds like you’re just trying to find a job that aligns with your goals. You're putting in the effort to look for something else and it's totally fair to say no to construction if it's not for you. Just keep pushing for what you want.

Yes, imagine telling parents that they gave their child an old man name and you will not call him by their name and are going to change it. 

People who think like you don’t understand what is is like to grow up with parents like that. 

OP is NTA. People need to respect the name that parents gave their child.

Friend and toxic don’t go in the same sentence. NTA.

It's perfectly fine to stay away from toxic people. Don't feel guilty about it. If you still have his number in your mobile, send him a message expressing your condolences. It doesn't have to be deeper than that and you don't really owe him emotional support. NTA

yeah, he sounds way too sensitive if he's using your joke as ammo for those comments. you were just trying to be funny, and he took it way further than he should have. it’s not cool for him to make digs at your appearance while deflecting with your joke either.

definitely NTA here. it sounds like your brother was more focused on what he likes than what you and your fiancé would actually enjoy. presenting gifts that show he doesn't really know you both well is a big miss, and it's totally valid to want something thoughtful rather than just expensive.

NTA, sounds like you’re just trying to figure out what works for you. It’s fair to want a job that aligns with your goals, even if that means not taking your dad’s offer.

NTA

Which part of this vile, gossiping, shit-stirring person is your friend?

Actually, no. I didn't realize there was more. My post was terribly wrong, and I've deleted it.

honestly your brother sounds like a jerk for not understanding the situation. you definitely did the right thing bringing her home, who knows what could’ve happened if you hadn’t.

60 minutes a day? holy moly.

NTA, man. It's raw that your dad doesn’t get where you're coming from. You gotta do what works for you and construction just ain't it. Keep hustling and looking for a job that matches your goals.

He used to not be like this, we’ve been friends since we were 12, but it got a lot worse a year ago. I feel awful considering we’ve been friends for so long but you can’t justify treating someone like shit because you’re going through a hard time

I feel so sorry for you. 
Best wishes.

you're not the asshole for feeling burnt out over all the birthday texts. if it's not a big deal to you, then don't stress about it. people shouldn’t expect you to celebrate in a way that feels forced.

not at all, you're not responsible for his behavior just because he's going through a tough time. it sounds like you've put up with a lot of toxicity and prioritizing your mental health is legit.

And get your earphones back. Seriously.  And don’t ever let someone tell you when YOU need to text them. They will invariably use that against you.

you definitely did the right thing bringing that dog home. your brother sounds like he just wants to pick a fight for no reason. keep doing you and take care of that pup, she deserves it.

bro that's a wild situation. your brother should know better than to gift something based on his taste, not yours. keep standing your ground on what you and your fiancé actually appreciate.

NTA, it sounds like you know what you want and you're trying hard to find it. If construction isn't for you, that's totally valid, just keep looking for something that fits you better.

Yes, theoretically, in the abstract, it can work with a hypothetical couple.

I have never seen it work with a real (straight) couple, because men are so used to doing less than women that they start slacking immediately and everything drifts back onto the woman's plate within six months.

At least with a strict fifty-fifty split that is delineated in a very simple way (like by day), there is something clear to point to when the man broaches the agreement. Make the agreement any more complicated than that and it has no chance at all of success.

you’re definitely not the asshole here. gifting is supposed to be about what the recipient will enjoy, not just what the giver likes. sounds like they were more focused on their own tastes than yours or your fiancé's. keep standing your ground on what you value in a gift.

My bad. I didn't scroll up and see the whole story. I'll take down my reply.

nah, you’re not the asshole here. making a joke is supposed to be light-hearted, but his comments about your appearance are way more messed up than anything you said. sounds like he’s just deflecting because he doesn’t want to take responsibility for his hurtful remarks.

your brother sounds like he's just being dramatic for no reason. bringing home a stray dog is a good move, especially if it was in rough shape. can't believe he straight up called you stupid for caring.

he's definitely in the wrong here. joking around is cool but his comments about your appearance are way over the line. a joke is one thing, but that kind of criticism is just mean.

I use a vape pen and I agree they aren't anywhere near as strong and don't linger, but they absolutely do smell exactly like weed mixed with other shit lol.

And no, OP used the fact that her argument was at 1am and the neighbour's son said 2am as a "gotcha" moment, she's already admitted this in her comments. The fact is that it was second-hand information from an 84 year old woman about an event that happened 5 nights prior, so is it really that wild that she got the time wrong by ome hour?

you're definitely not the asshole here. gifts should be about the recipient, not the giver's taste. sounds like your brother was being selfish and didn’t even consider your style or your fiancé's background. keep standing your ground and prioritize what really matters to you two.

you're not an asshole for wanting to find work that aligns with your interests. everyone has their own limits and preferences. it sounds like you’re taking initiative, so keep at it and find something that feels right for you.

you’re not the asshole, birthdays can get super overwhelming and it sounds like your family has some wild expectations. everyone has different priorities, and it's totally fine if you’re not into the whole birthday hype. just do what feels right for you.

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

My reasoning is that I just figured that if you’re in the military, you’re prepared to die but you’re also prepared to kill. I mean, if you don’t have a problem killing people across the globe, what’s wrong with “killing” a fetus that isn’t even grown yet??? Anyways, my boyfriend got really mad at me. 

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

He finished the hang out when he ran off and climbed a tree. You’re not responsible for guarding the tree for as long as he’s up there. He’s being hugely unreasonable. NTA

She is an adult. She can't book her own flight or find a hotel. You literally said especially being a female, if you treat men and women as equals, that couldn't matter.

She definitely wasn’t struggling to pronounce it. Sure, if she said it once maybe, but saying Grah-Ham is *more* difficult than the correct pronunciation and she’s surely heard OP say it properly

NTA - they forgetting the purpose of engagement gifts. Shirts in general are not in line with the purpose.

YTA. I guess I wouldn't care. My grandma called me a version of my name, a nickname of my full name with "ita" added on the end as a loving term of endearment. My mom never freaked out and demanded every family member call me by my full formal name. I had the best relationship with my grandma and she stills calls me my nickname and its special between us.

You should let go of your issues with your mom for the sake of your child. There can never be enough love. Their legal name is set. If grandma calls them some silly version of that when they're a baby, I do not think it is going to cause any long term confusion or damage to their identity.

the whole "fighting my own battles" line is such a classic deflection, like nah fam you werent battling you were ghosting. my own dad pulled this same shit after years of no-shows, suddenly wanted to be besties when his health failed. youre allowed to be done with someone who only values you when theyre desperate

Yes. Nobody expects any man of that generation to remember if their wives didn’t. The same uncle who ranked on my brother has 2 boys that do not reciprocate to us, (but they do text my mom.)

My other uncle is divorced and I haven’t received anything from him in years. My only messages with his kids outside of the family chat are to send birthdays. I don’t think my dad even knows the birthdays of any of these people. If he does it’s not acknowledged because “he doesn’t think about those things” but I have too?

How do you have money to send her monthly but not to get yourself a new phone? Being indebted to her is not a great choice, and I think that you are getting to see that they really just see you and your siblings as cash cows to live off of.

Mason sucks. I’d put money on it that he was like this even before his dad passed. He needs therapy and he’s not your problem to deal with. 

Good for you for sticking up for yourself, keep at it. NTA.

I think you dont "like" construction because its the only available job. If your dad was offering you a painting job (which is sometimes apart of construction) I imagine this post would be the same but ablut painting. Point being no matter what job is offered your way it seems like you have 5 excuses lined up as to why you can't do it. YTA and sound extremely entitled, I guess college did one thing for you.

You need to start golfing and ask to come with 🦹

3-months? Are you two NUTS?  For me, it's a hard NO. It's not WC friendly. I was in one for a very short time. Our house is little and there's a hospital bed in the LR, for me. I was no weight bearing for 8-weeks. 4-weeks at home.  It was NOT fun. 3-months of that and I would have crazy. Can everyone pitch in for an Airbnb? One that's ADA Compliant?

Even if this was my family, a big NO! It's a quarter of a year! Hell no! I'm supposed to live with them criticized on everything I do? Or don't do? No!

People assume racist intent first because that’s very often the intent - I understand it’s different for you, but imagine it from your black coworker’s perspective and what she goes through on a regular basis

Be kinder? When your whole story is about you flying off the handle and acting awful? And your responses are awful unless people completely agree with you?  You aren’t entitled to kindness when you act like that. And the crap about “you’re not in my exact same circumstances so you don’t get to have an opinion” is obnoxious. Everyone has a hard life and everyone’s gone through things that YOU would find extremely hard. You don’t have the exclusive claim to struggling. Yet somehow everyone else manages to figure their stuff out without flipping out at their mothers. 

If you can’t handle opinions that don’t agree with you, then perhaps a diary is a better fit for you than Reddit is. 

Have the evening you so very truly deserve.

YTA. As a guest, I’d be skipping either the ceremony or the reception. I wouldn’t be doing both.

He is just as responsible for that baby as you. If you have to be with the baby 24/7, so does he. That is how parenting works. You do not get to go off and leave whenever you feel like it. Especially with a kid in diapers! I am not sorry to say that having a baby is a two person job, and to many men do not see it that way. NTA! This is a hill I am willing to die on.

I've been around dogs who don't like bald men, no rhyme or reason besides they're bald. They'll just straight up bark at them even when we're trying to give them treats to bribe the dog into liking the guys.

It's not rude to ask someone to redo a job they didn't do well. Missing a spot on a dish isn't the same as hanging a crooked curtain rod. Leaving a greasy film on every dish is the same as hanging a crooked curtain rod. If you came and saw that your husband, who had agreed to do the dishes, had misdone the entire load, would you just redo them without saying anything? Because that's problematic. There should be agreed upon standards for household chores. And sometimes expectations shouldn't have to be spelled out (like straight curtain rods). Her husband could have easily said "Oh, I would rather feed our toddler while you do it, let's trade."

whatever Derrick De La Rosa htx is, get someone better

NTA but why are you trying to reason with these weirdos? I’d say accept the gift and donate them except for the monkey shirt macro-aggression. That’s nasty.

Or do the pictures before the ceremony….

NTA. He wasn't getting you a present anyway, he was just spending money on being a racist AH. Is he just the golden child or another narc? Low/no contact for both imo.

YTA. Their birthdays are not about what you want. If you care about them, you can acknowledge them on their birthday.

YTA

I’m going around 50 mph when I hit another car that

You've admitted to being at fault

You may want to take this down. For legal reasons.

Agree - take the pictures earlier, move the ceremony to a later time, then go straight into cocktail hour. Most venues are set up to accommodate the logistics of changing the space over to a dinner venue like having the cocktail hour outside or a separate part of the building.

I've attended Catholic weddings. My family is Catholic. None of the Catholic weddings I've attended did this.

I honestly don't think you're getting negative comments because of the religious aspect of it.

I think you're getting a lot of YTAs because people find gap weddings frustrating and unfun, it often feels selfish to guest. And your attitude in the post and your responses makes it clear you didn't even really consider the experience of your guests in this situation, which seems selfish.

NTA, ur brother is being thoughtless about this gift. Why spend so much $$ on something the person has said doesn't suit them?? Hopefully if he goes ahead, you can return them and maybe find some accessories you like from the brand.

I think GF people just hear "alternatives" all the time and it can be frustrating. Sometimes you just want to to buy a muffin and eat it, and not have to go through the baking process.

“Thanks for the gift. Remember to include the gift receipt”

NTA, but at this point just accept the shirts if you get them and then resell them if they are so coveted. You are not obligated to keep a gift just because it was given. You've made it clear to both of them that this gift isn't something that you will wear or use, so if they still get it for you, that's on them. Let it go and move on with a focus on your happy day.

Oh this is exactly why I’m invited to a ton of parties! Bc I recognize it’s an honor to be someone’s guest , especially at a wedding. So I don’t complain about a “time gap”, but instead feel happy & excited to help celebrate the guests of honor. And also bc I feel that anyone who complains as a guest is rude and doesn’t get the point..

NTA you get to decide where you wanna work. Though I gotta be honest working for Amazon would be 100× more miserable than construction

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

My girlfriend lost her mother 4 years ago and she has never been the same since. I try my best to be a comforting boyfriend but her mood can switch on a dime and multiple times a day. I understand that I need to give her comforting words but there is just so much you can say. Her constant mood swings have put me into a corner where because she is always mad or sad irritated that I rarely if ever get to voice my own opinions. Her mood swings have come to a point where she lashes at me with harsh words for making minor mistakes like not getting something she is saying the first time she says it. It's not only emotional exhaustion from here but also financial, I'm just a broke college kid and all my money either goes on our dates or to help her out from time to time and it has drained me of any ability to treat myself with stuff that makes me happy, it has gotten to a point where she asked me to get small loans to help her out so I'm also paying someone else's loans. Fast forward to last month when her father passes away. It was unexpected as he was only suffering from high blood pressure. It has taken such a toll on her but it all came to a point yesterday morning where she claims I'm not doing enough for her and I outright told her that I'm drained too and also reminded her of the things I've done for her. Now she makes me look like I'm an insensitive dude who doesn't care about her loss. AITA?

(Quick addition just to inform but I also lost two close family members in the space of two months last year and I have never asked her for any emotional support and have never berated her for not doing enough. I just prefer to handle my grief in silence and I'm not the type to seek comfort from others)

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

The Y-T-A responses make zero sense to me. 

I was given nicknames when I was a kid and I hated nearly all of them. I was a people pleaser and didn’t know how to tell people I wanted to be called by my actual first name when I was very young. As I got older, I was able to speak up and tell people when I didn’t like a nickname. Once I told my parents when I was around five years old, they advocated for me and ensured family members called me the name I wanted to be called. 

OP is NTA, but should understand that Graham is the person who gets to decide what wants to be called. My suggestion is to ask her son what he wants to be called, and advocate for that. The only person who should be deciding what to call Graham is Graham. 

I am 47 years old. I legally changed my first and last name about four years ago, people call me by my chosen and legal name.

Yes you can automate.

I always forget birthdays until I get a thank yoi reply

and I mentioned, I am aware of this.

Apparently OP is too comments who aren't ruder.

NTA. 

You're mature enough to see how he's proven to have treated people that trust him. You're adult enough to know that continuing to risk the same injustices over and over again is crazy behavior. 

You can't forgive someone who doesn't apologize.

OP didn't loan the car. They were both in the car and for whatever reason, OP was driving. I used to ask my boyfriends to drive my car quite often when we were going somewhere to give me a break from driving. And if we were together in the car and someone else hit my car, I sure wouldn't have blamed my boyfriend. I think OP's additional information changes things.

I never forget.

I schedule a birthday, anniversary, holiday text

YTA. You developed an aversion for the construction trade as a kid, partly due to your bad attitude, and your dad's. That's coloring your views now.

Construction is honest work, and takes skill to do well. You can learn a lot in the trade that will be applicable throughout your life. Trades workers are usually willing to teach what they know, but they can smell someone who lacks respect for them a mile away.

Here's something you can try. Be straight with you dad. Tell your dad that you would like to work, but ask if he can have someone else supervise you. Working with family isn't always easy, so that could alleviate friction between the two of you. 

Also let him know that you are waiting on the hospital job, and be clear that if it becomes available, that you'll jump ship to do that.

This is a cultural difference, NAH. I have been to weddings of both types. I do find the break between the ceremony and reception kind of disorienting every time, but it's a thing and very normal in some circles.

Your wedding is in the past and he wasn't a guest anyway - he probably shouldn't be so invested. 😂

The monkey-coconut shirt seems a lot bigger than a micro aggression…

NTA. Your brother is being ridiculous.

Soft YTA. Are you sure she's doing it maliciously? In Australia we pronounce Graham like "Grey-Ham", with two syllables.

NTA, you might want to consider going low contact to no contact. I wouldn’t be surprised if they try to pull more stunts in the future, especially with your wedding coming up.

I've never hrsrd of such a huge tine gap between the wedding and cocktail hour. It seemscreallt disrespectful to the guests.

You can schedule a text to go out every year

nope, AI did that. I edited the comment because I forgot to mention my spouse was deployed.

Already stated my reasons but to add on, I think that growing up with my dad constantly telling me to study so I don't end up like him has really put construction work in a bad light for me + saw some guy die on the site as a kid so that shook me up a bit as well. I am grateful for being given the opportunity, but I think the fact that I even have a choice to go a different path strays me away as well. I would definitely work construction if worse comes to worse at the end of the day.

I was once advised if you’re a lifeguard you can’t save others if you don’t save yourself first. It sounds like you deserve to save yourself first. If he ever gets in touch to bring it up you can say I’m sorry I couldn’t be there for you but I needed to take care of myself. 

Being in a bad place is not actually an excuse to treat others poorly. NTA. Take care of yourself OP

If you want to spend time with people, do it on your own dime and spend your own vacation days to visit those friends and family outside of your wedding.

I personally don't understand why people like this either. But your family has made it clear they like it. People like a lot of stuff I don't understand. 

Sometimes it isn't for us to understand why, such is the human condition.

YTA.  It is a summer job, not a lifelong career, so you dont need to worry about advancing, but it actually *would* help you grow as a person, employee, and leader.  

If you are physically capable of doing it, take the job, make sure your dad knows you would leave for the hospital position, but at least you would be working while you are waiting. 

And again, there will always be aspects of our jobs or lives we just don't want to do; taking this summer job would teach you things you won't learn elsewhere that will help you in ways you can't imagine now.

NTA. Like someone else mentioned, he sounds mean and disrespectful. It doesn’t sound like a relationship I’d want to continue being in.

NTA because you’re allowed to be annoyed that a name you choose isn’t being respected BUT id reconsider making it a big deal. Your kid is going to have all kinds of nicknames through their life. My mom has nicknames for my dog (yes I know dogs aren’t children), and while I don’t care for the nicknames she chose, I find it endearing that she wants a special name for him because she loves him 🥰

Your comment doesn't change the fact it's a super strange and inconsiderate thing to do.

Is it not normal to have terms of endearment anymore? Why does that have to be some weird power struggle? Your mom's relationship with your son is separate from yours and when you love someone you often make up cute little nicknames - especially when they're babies? Like who wants to call a baby Edward? 

I couldn't imagine spending my time being mad over it unless the nickname was offensive or insulting in some way.

He is in a non deployable unit, so yeah, it came as a surprise when he deployed. It is a thing, but not when your unit does not usually deploy.

Yeah YTA, all I want to do is work except the only work that's actually there for me, the  you put the excuse that you "can not grow there as a person" can you dk that at Amazon? Or "painting walls, doing entry level mechanic work, cuting grass" it just sounds like an excuse, if you actually used your father's position to your advantage and actually wanted to work and grow you could learn in that job

Your scenario is actually super common for catholic church weddings in Toronto area especially Portuguese and Italian culture.  The wedding happened anytime between 11am and 1 pm latest.  After that wedding party go take pics somewhere and guests usually go home and do what needs to be done and then reception happens at around 6pm until 2am or so.  People who arent super close to the couple or live far away from church will just go to the reception.  Its not seens as rude and many people especially women like to change (Im one of them - more conservative for church and then party outfit for reception). 

Because Im used to this cultural type of wedding, Im going with NTA

I mean, if you put a list of fun activities that guests could seek out nearby on a poster board, I think your obligations are met. NTA.

Just hell no! I ADORE my family but I have learned that I CANNOT live with another woman for more than a few weeks unless I have a dedicated space that is MINE and THEY are living with ME. I need to be the one that sets the rules of the household otherwise any rule that doesn't seem "fair" feels like a cheese grater running over my nerves. Had to live with my inlaws for a few years when things got really tight and it was the worst years of my life. I love my mil but her rule that no one was allowed to sleep past 6am unless they worked the night shift killed me. I worked til midnight at a convenience store but she didn't consider that the night shift bc "there's plenty of time for you to sleep in between getting off work and 6am". Nty I don't play well with others for more than a couple weeks when I have my own space but someone encroaching on that space for 3 months would absolutely have me meeting them off the nearest cliff and laughing maniacally as I did so

NTA. You deserve so much better. Dump that AH and hold out for someone who actually loves and respects you. He ain't the one.

NTA, what a horrible cow, the fact she wouldn't let you have just one thing to yourself to enjoy is crazy and honestly just so mean of her. 
She sounds incredibly cruel and selfish. She should've been happy you had a muffin that was actually nice, but instead she wanted to steal your happiness, she's a thief of joy.

NTA. she's not mad you told her parents. she's mad you had the ring footage to prove it

NTA, but honestly I wouldn't make a huge thing out of it. 

I have a three syllable name, but a lot of people hear it and pronounce it as a two syllable name. Almost all of my dad's family members can't tell the difference. Would I like them to pronounce it correctly? Sure. Does it upset me that they pronounce it differently? Nah.

Your kid's got a whole life of this out ahead of him, so might as well get used to it now.

NTA. Why are YOU his perpetual babysitter?? That is taking advantage of you! Limit that severely, and start living your own life.

If you have never dealt with any of the 4 then you should not have an opinion on what it is like dealing with a toddler while being concussed. It is not for the weak. Be kinder.

so she wants you to hustle harder while shes already winning, thats not partnership thats a performance review with benefits. tbh this whole breadwinner discourse is giving 1950s cosplay but make it feminist, which is a weird flex. youre a junior solicitor, not some slacker playing xbox all day, the math isnt mathing here

YTA. You are being given the opportunity to get a job with zero effort on your part and are turning it down for.....?  It's not glamorous, but it's a lot better than saying you're unemployed. Sounds like you have a real personal stigma against the people who work with your father. Guarantee they work a lot harder for a better reason than you do driving for DoorDash.

Grow up, take the handout. Not a lot of people get that.

NTA  3 months?!! 3 weeks would be to much.  How about they find a short term rental? Or tell the wife that you're getting a hotel room every weekend, Fri-Sun since you need to relax.

So you don't want to get paid to workout for the day?

Construction isn't always easy, but typically pays decent and you can learn useful & practical skills.

What exactly is the issue? Even if you work out a 'cash at the end of the day' casual thing it's better than sitting around waiting/hoping for something else?

If/when something more permanent or to your liking comes along then you let the construction guys know and off you go.

Frankly OP you sound a little whiny & soft - go put in some manual labor and learn some work ethic. Not only will you have money to see your lady but will be getting paid to get in shape.

If the area you live in has a "Buy Nothing" group for your area/neighborhood, put an ask out for a phone.  I see people do that in our Buy Nothing group pretty frequently.  It's usually a few years older phones as the person asking either ruined theor own phone or looking for a phone for their kids. 

Another option is to look at switching to a carrier that offers free phones for new customers. You'll probably have to stay with that carrier for a few years but they usually offer some type of discount program for service for 6 mths to a year.

Check Facebook marketplace, people sell phones fairly cheap there. Ask on your personal Facebook page if anyone you know is getting rid of a phone (if you dont have one, see if a friend will post for you).

This ironically sounds like the opinion of someone that hasn't attended a lot of weddings or has incredibly unrealistic standards for what their future wedding will be like.

Culturally, weddings are not just for the two people getting married. They're a celebration of their love, but that celebration is a party, with the two people getting married as hosts.

If you plan a party and invite people you care about and then abandon them for two hours with no plans, so you can take a bunch of pictures, you're being a bad host.

Honestly you thinking that people should suck it up and be bored for two hours after they have dealt with travel, logistics and other hastles to attend your wedding, that shows your true nature and selfish mindset.

I hope you're posting from a naive place, and your empathy for what a wedding really is grows as you experience more life.

sounds like your sister has horrible self control like who can’t stop himself from responding to a text. I know damn well I have seen people straight up Call my phone and I just watch it go to voice mail and you honestly can’t say that she has not responded to a single text during her work hours because there’s someone somewhere that received one of her messages and it just happened to have been during her workout. I guarantee it at least 98%.

Or thanks for explaining it better

Well, if she can say graN, then she can say graM.

Deployment is not a surprise when you are in the military. It is expected.

It’s a summer job, and your dad isn’t going to care if you quit to further your career. The job market sucks, worst case the hospital doesn’t call and you go swing a hammer for a couple of months. YTA.

You admit it can go either way.  Showing that the whole story isn't here. I've never heard of weaponized incompetence in my life. I can't imagine failing at something just to weaponize it. I have OCD so everything's got to be perfect. It bother me it something is off. Being incompetent is something I can't imagine weaponizing it because that means I'm doing it on purpose.

Ehhh… ESH but lightly all around. You definitely put off finding a summer job too long. It can take weeks to get through a corporate process like a hospital’s. If your dad is willing to give you a temporary job, you might as well at least try it out. Even a job you hate can help you grow as a person and construction skills can be handy throughout adulthood.

the only point that matters

Are college students not proactive anymore? Me and my friends all had our summer jobs lined up before we were out for the summer.

It looks like she paid grace for everyone's food, then you used her card to buy yours anyway and that you would be expecting to be reimbursed. It looks like you were trying to eat free and then still get paid the total, stealing the money.

seriously, three months crosses the line from "extended holiday visit" to "part-time roommates." That is a massive lifestyle change to just assume your partner will accept.

YTA (soft)

I originally wanted to go with ESH because it sounds like your mom is ignoring a simple request out of pettiness, but I considered the possibility that maybe she just doesn't hear the difference very well, or can't pronounce it as well as you do, so she is likely trying to give him a nickname that is special for her and one she can pronounce well. Plus nicknames are between her and her grandson. Unless a nickname is clearly offensive, your son is the only one who will have the right to tell her to change it.

In addition to the matter that nicknames are between your son and her, there's also the fact that pronouncing Graham as "Grah-ham" is just as correct as the way you say it, "Graam". Some people will say it as you do. Some people will say it as your mother does. The name has existed long before you gave so you are not in a position to tell people to favor one over the other when both are correct.

(My own name also has two slightly distinct pronunciations. I do personally prefer one of them over the other, and it's the one I use when I present myself verbally to others. But whenever someone reads my name out loud using my less favored pronunciation, I don't correct them because that pronunciation is still correct. They are still saying my name, just slightly different.)

Now imagine trying to correct every nurse, doctor, teacher, or other parent who says your son's name with a little H in it. You'll be upset too often. 

I totally get that you may not want him to think you named him after your favorite cookies/crackers, but if you choose to die on this hill, you'll need to write your will soon.

Nothing I said was a reflection on my relationship with my family. You should probably have your concussion re-checked because it’s affecting your cognitive ability. Also your mother doesn’t owe you child care. Your minor child = your responsibility, nobody else’s. Grow up.

Not dying on the hill I still send the notes, I just feel fake if it’s because ir was automated or someone had to remind me. I do it for others but it seems a bit much nowadays

NTA, that’s too many people. Maybe keep it to your immediate family would be appropriate and expected.

I did, I just assumed you'd be smart enough so I didn't have to rewrite all the context.

I rephrase : While we don't like people trying to cut the line, keeping a spot in a waiting line for a friend or a partner who will join later is perfectly fine. I'm sorry I confused you with my restaurant comparison.

Your parents are providing you with free room and board. I guess you’re lucky to not work if you don’t feel like it.  You sound a bit entitled, though.

And you think if their wives stopped and they didn’t send any text it would be fine? Why was a comment made about your brother then?

Why did people downvote this so much?? lol

Considering your son is in a wheelchair and relies on you to take care of him, I feel bad for YOUR SON and your stupid ORANGE CAT.

I mean that’s true, but if you just think that they’re asleep, nonemergency number is the proper way

My mom has never been able to correctly pronounce her grandson's name.  She doesn't know why,  she didn't know for the longest time that she would say it wrong,  her brain just did that. 

She felt super guilty about it for a long time. It hurt her to feel like she was hurting him and his parents by getting it wrong and eventually went with a nickname or just called him "grandson".  

That sounds to me like what's happening.  Grandma doesn't want to get yelled at about a tub she can't control anymore so she's trying something else.

Idk what that last sentence is about but YTA

It’s basic social etiquette to wish the people you care about happy birthday. Granted, you can do what you want but people more than likely will believe you don’t really care about them.

Mild YTA. A job is a a job, especially when it’s temporary. Suck it up princess. I’ve done some shit jobs in my time, apple grading for three months really stands out. You just do what you’ve got to do. Your dad is frustrated that you could be earning a wage and you’re choosing not to, which as a parent is fair.

NTA

She cares about stupid social shit and has internalized patriarchal values about your roles. 

Gross.

YTA. Three days for someone’s wedding and “Time to get to know everyone”? This is my nightmare.

It sounds like Q needs more help than a fellow student is able to provide.

You are not his guardian, caretaker, or therapist. You are also not a an arborist or the rescue squad. How were YOU supposed to get him out of the tree?

You should probably take him up on his "break" suggestion. It's unfortunate that he's going through stuff, but it sounds like he expects you to take responsibility for it, and you're just not the appropriate person to give him the help he needs.

everyone is entirely missing the context. 

i wouldn’t even call it a “nick name,” it’s her purposefully mispronouncing his name after explicitly being asked to stop. she was asked to stop, and then decided to do it anyways. 

i have a friend named graham and we’ve always pronounced it “gram” and he’s never corrected us. if you live in the US, you’re going to pronounce it like people in the US pronounce it.

you’re his mother and you are the ONLY person who can say what his name should be pronounced as. you named him.

NTA only because it is typical in your culture and you notified the guests ahead of time

YTA. I’m struggling with the idea you are baffled this would inconvenience guests. I suppose in your family that’s normal and ok, I can buy that. But you really mean to tell me that people may attend shower/bachelor/bachelorette parties, buy wedding gifts, outfits to wear, maybe travel and have to get a hotel room and on top of all of that you ask them to stay all dressed up and go buy food out and entertain themselves for hours while you take photos? Surely you’ve been the guest at one of those weddings if this is common in your family and found yourself wishing they would get on with things. I’m sure your friends and family love you and were happy to celebrate with you. But strictly speaking, no I don’t find that wedding plan to be considerate of the guests.

NTA - deep down you know how toxic the construction industry is and intrinsically want no part in it

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > I believe I’m the asshole because I cut off someone whose dad passed away

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

That’s just the reality of it. Gary Owen’s just had a bit about this with his twin sons because despite them being half black one is as white as him (including blond hair and blue eyes) and the other isn’t. He joked that his white looking son is gonna have to carry a picture of a mom around every time he uses the n word.

NAH: you're welcomed to your opinions, but if nothing has come up, why not give your dad's offer a go? Talk about the terms with him like you would a real job (wages, hours, notice period). That will be good practice for you, but more important, cover you from dad trying to get free labour. 

It sounds like you have a negative stigma about construction and construction workers. If you get the contract right, it could be a sweet deal.

Also, reach out to the hospital again about the role.

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > 1) I told my brother not to purchase a specific gift because it wasn’t my and my fiancés taste
2) this might make me the asshole because I am not accepting a gift he believed was appropriate and also expensive

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

YTA.  People go and have lunch?   Are you not providing dinner in a couple of hours? They a go and take a nap so they get out of all their fancy clothes go take a nap and get back into the fancy clothes again. I can tell  you are a dude.

YTA though unintentionally. This girl wouldn’t have had that context and doing Caribbean accents out of nowhere does come across as racist. A lot of Americans don’t know about the history of Indian or Chinese people in the Caribbean, and as a white passing person it’d look doubly bad. You live and you learn though.

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

I (18m) met my buddy Mason (18m) in middle school. His dad just passed away and I feel awful for him. That being said, I refuse to hang out with him and am trying to cut off because he became really toxic last year while his dad was sick. Mason would constantly make fun of me, make personal attacks, and make me feel like I’m a joke. He will criticize every tiny thing I do which has been destroying my self confidence. I know I’ve always been an easy target for being picked on due to being a little more nerdy, but this is overkill. This guy is very fun to hang out with half the time maybe, but other half I feel like I’m being bullied. When I tell Mason how his actions affected me he would tell I’m overreacting and gaslight into believing I’m the problem. He claims everything is just jokes and to not be so emotional and sensitive. Refusing to take accountability at all when I tell him how he’s affecting me. When I would open up to him about my struggles with depression, he would completely dismiss it and tell me to just man up. I understand Mason’s going through a hard time with his dad, but he has turned into a bully, and I’ve decided to not talk to him anymore. I feel terrible for not being there for him through this but at the same time I don’t feel he deserves my support after how he’s started treated me. Am I the asshole?

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Don’t be so sure. He would mention if he did it.

Birthdays aren't my thing either, but if you know your family really values it, is it a big deal? Can you automate it? This seems like something you could automate today with chatgpt or something 

YWBTA if you chose this particular hill to die on

agreed, checking for missing stuff is a smart move. People who are that entitled usually don't stop at just looking around.

Guys, I am going to leave. I know this post is  stupid, but I just wanted everyone’s opinions because of how long he’s made it seem like things were always my fault. I almost began to believe that I was the problem but you all are helping me see that I am not.

NTA. It’s only been 3 weeks. You’re 19 and while you do need to adult soon, you’ll be working the rest of your life so enjoy the free time while you can. If you live in a tourist area you can get a job anywhere.

Gender does though. Most grown men in my family do not text for birthdays. Usually their wives do it and they get to take the credit

I took a taekwondo class as a teen. One of the kids was named Graham. His nickname was Graham Central Station. My advice. Accept Gran as a nickname and take the win

I hope your parents are proud of you

Cut your losses with this psychopath

You made a bad joke (he didn't find it funny, and did find it offensive so it was bad) withoutintendingto offend you. I hope you apologised for that and changed your humour accordingly.

If he has made bad jokes that offended you by accident, your mistake is a reason he should expect you to acept his apology.

If he is deliberately trying to offended to get back at you, he is an AH.

If you didn't apologis for your bad joke your are an AH.

I’m sure with a father in construction he has done is before enough to know he doesn’t like it.

Nta. As long as ur not asking him for money he doesn’t get a say

NTA. He's holding a grudge about an inoffensive joke and using it as an excuse to be verbally abusive? What a baby.

YTA a job is a job. I did construction clean up work in the summers when I was in college because it paid the best out of all the summer jobs I can do. I hated most of the work I did but the money was decent and I was able to afford what I wanted and saved the rest. What’s your plan when nobody calls back?

NTA. A 3 month visit, when you do not have the proper disability arrangements, is absurd. Look around to see if there is a summer rental they could get (often affordable IF you are in a college town with lots of student housing rentals open in the summer). 

If that is not feasible, I recommend you tell MIL that since you cannot give up your only living space for 3 months AND have no shower facilities for BIL, a few weeks is all that they can stay.

YTA. That whole thing has been on the national news. I'm sure the artist was traumatized, being in the area. The FBI was called in to get this guy out. He was eventually killed. Give this artist some downtime to process everything. My god.

I wonder if she means West Indian, as in from the West Indies

I hope you either find its owner or adopt it, your mom seems on board?

if you don’t care about these people why are you even asking us about it then. don’t text them, who cares how they feel (per you)

NTA.  Your cousin has very loose morals and zero sense of responsibility.

NTA. He made his own bed. But psychologically I wonder if being there will let you have a sense of closure that you won’t get otherwise. A child who’s been abandoned or neglected by a parent experiences a kind of complex grief - the grief of the lost/missing relationship while knowing the parent is out there living their life. Seeing him doesn’t have to be a positive experience, and probably wouldn’t be, but just a final experience that tells your attachment wounds, ‘ok, I thought I’d never see that abandoner again and now I know I DEFINITELY won’t because he’s gone - I chose to see him go for good.’ 

I read a thing online recently about a funeral home owner who encourages families of children who have lost a parent to see the body of the dead parent before the funeral - it sounds morbid, but it removes any confusion for the child that their parent is dead. Kids respond better to certainty and understand their parent can’t get back into their body to come home. It helps them grieve and move on. You’re not a kid, and the situation is different, but seeing him die and seeing his body might actually help you have a true sense of closure from this estranged relationship. You might not feel you need it now but I think you’re more likely to regret not being there (for YOUR sake, not his) than being there.

As I have mentioned I am not on my phone during work, and it’s usually late when I do see it. Should I text with 1 min left in the day? 

 it’s the expectation that I should be on my phone constantly to be a good family member?

I think that is more of an excuse than a reason, because, as a kid before Vatican 2, I remember being taken to a couple weddings that had that gap before they started doing Saturday Masses.

NTA - It is a common practice even at non-catholic weddings.

NTA—you’re already hustling on DoorDash and hunting for career-relevant jobs, so you're completely justified in refusing an industry that deeply burned you out as a kid.

The reason Americans are so “focused” on race is because the country was founded based on the attempted genocide of one race, enslavement of another, and barring of others from even coming into the country. A lot of our entertainment culture and social norms still reflect that because many of these laws were only repealed less than a century ago. As someone who’s also of Caribbean descent, I can say quite definitively that it’s unfortunately common for some white Americans to mock our accents as a form of racist joke, so the other girl wasn’t necessarily in the wrong to be so on guard. I hope this explains this aspect of our society to you— we still have a lot of racial wounds as a country to heal.

This. I’m super self conscious about my big nose. It’s not super big, but bigger than the average gal. My boyfriend constantly builds up my security rather than attacks it. “I love your big Italian nose” I wanna make out with your nose” *proceeds to make out with my nose.* all in a silly goofy way though, which genuinely does make me feel better about it, but I’m pretty sure I’ll always have that insecurity.

The parents needed to know because the cousin was putting their grandchild at risk.

1) you clearly have never had a swollen lip/face from stitches due to busting your lip wide open. 2) You have never had a consussion and 3) You do not have a toddler. 4) you have not dealt with all of those thing's together, I can handle my child on my own just fine. I have never been injured like this so it is awful. If you read the comments, we moved here to be closer to family while hubby is deployed, I am not hiring a babysitter I do not know to come help me with my child even if I am there, I will not allow strangers in our home especially with a 1 1/2 year old. I do not have a "unreal level of entitlement" I need help and there is nothing wrong with with asking for help, I went about it the wrong way, I am aware but if you are not close with your family, just say that.

Not invited to a lot of parties, are you?

NTA, you are welcome to be your own person with your own desires. You have to weigh your own risks and benefits to any job. Some are fun but pay terrible. Others are terrible but pay well. Occasionally you find the unicorn that is fun and pays well, but even the you will eventually find something to complain about. Such is human nature.

Absolutely NTA. If it is a neighbor’s dog, they will appreciate you finding her and taking care of her, nobody will be mad about that. My childhood dog ran away once, got about half a block and a neighbor let her inside and spoiled the shit out of her, we were so relieved. 

Your brother is being SUPER weird about this. You did the right thing.

NTA. He’s overreacting about the Madea comment. 

Perhaps more importantly than not being able to process an innocuous joke - if he’s hung up on your resemblance to your dad and a few facial hairs, you could dump him or get laser hair removal. Because - as a female 20 years older than you - I can warn you that there will be more hairs.

That’s what I thought, I’m ashamed we have to share half the population with this guy

Common "I'm going to pretend to be above it all instead of engaging because I've lost the argument" response

Not the point. If it’s automated then it’s not a real thing to me. If we only talk because it’s your bday, why am I doing this? 

If I need a machine to remember your bday, then I am not really remembering it

NTA. Unhoused people are one thing. You are describing vagrants. Many cities enforce vagrancy ordinances for things like laying across park benches or sidewalks, being drunk in public, etc.  You did the right thing, trying to get them removed to keep your community safe.

Yta, why are you so against working construction? You’ve never done it before. I could understand if you worked and suffered trauma. Having your father getting you a job there is something most people would die for in this economy.

No. You don't. Because you aren't OP and it isn't your kid. 

Names can have different pronunciations. 

I've never heard it pronounced any way other than as a homophone of Gram. Either as a first name or as a Graham cracker.

I had a 4pm Saturday Catholic wedding, and I’m either wrong nor lying. They had another wedding at 1pm as well.

**Hello, Generallyspeaking504 - your post has been removed.**

#Read the following information carefully and completely. Message the mods with any questions. 

This post violates Rule 6: There is no interpersonal conflict here for our community to make a judgment about. 

Rule 6 FAQs ||| Subreddit Rules

**Do not repost, including edited versions, without receiving explicit approval via modmail.** Reposting will lead to a ban.

Please visit r/findareddit to see if there's a more appropriate sub for your post.

This guy is an AH. You are NTA. A Madea joke? For goodness sake this guy is either a fool or so self-involved as to be useless. Maybe both. 

He gives you gas about chin hairs? And looking like your dad? Dude sounds like maybe he’s a little bit not straight and is terrified of anyone finding out. 

You have to look super duper feminine for him to feel manly. Either he’s closeted or desperately insecure. Again, could be both. 

Kick him to the curb.

So this is a fair point. I missed the point that OP said they attended their own cocktail hour. Still… if you’re going to attend as a guest and then complain about it, just don’t go or skip the actual wedding.

Yeah, I knew most people on reddit wouldn't be Catholic, but I didnt expect it to be this hated.

Yessss, this is the way!

Your family and friends are not a monolith. What is important to one person eg your uncle is irrelevant to another eg your dad. I prefer to spend my birthday alone and I put my phone down most of the day except for a dedicated period when I respond to the messages. I also value people who celebrate and want to be remembered so I make an effort to send them a silly gif or meme. Their birthday is not about me and it costs nothing but 60 seconds to make them feel loved. YTA for treating people how YOU want to be treated instead of how they want to be treated.

Your literal **joke** wasn’t bad. It was corny but not hurtful. He’s not even joking. This “man” you care about is literally choosing to say things to hurt you. Why would you want to stay with someone who wants to see you hurt?

Ok social etiquette has a limit though. Back before phones I’d maybe get 5 cards between aunts and uncles, nowadays it’s all over everyone’s social media and my aunt literally tried to argue because I have a Facebook I should know and reply to everyone’s bdays. Now my phone blows up every birthday to a point where I don’t want to open it on the day.

It just seems disingenuous to expect it from people I do not talk to regularly

That one only gets counted if it’s in all caps since “nah” is an actual word.

Lol what do you mean when you say they "live inside your shoes"

People really should figure out how to properly spell and pronounce kids’ names before sticking their kid with an unconventional spelling or pronunciation for life. “Micheal,” “Quinten” and “Emmalee” just don’t look good.

#PLEASE REVIEW THIS MESSAGE IN FULL. 

Your post has been removed.

This post violates Rule 8. We do not allow posts involving changes to contact levels with romantic/sexual partners, friends, family members or acquaintances. This includes ghosting, breaking off, cutting or reducing contact, or denying a relationship (or not) with anyone. We have a relationship focused sister sub, r/AITA_Relationships, as an alternative.

###Please review our rules in their entirety, then message the mods before attempting to resubmit your story. 

#Resubmitting without approval (including edited versions) will lead to a ban, no exceptions. Approval is ***exclusively*** granted via the "message the mods" link above. Yes, this applies to you *even if you believe this removal was in error.*

*You can visit r/findareddit for a comprehensive list of other subs that may be able to host this discussion for you.*

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

NTA  
Girl, you see how he is mistreating you, right?  
Your quote wasn't rushing him. Reading that, I don't see how it has anything to do with expressing urgency and frustration. It is just a dumb line.  
He, on the other hand, is being deliberately targeted and hurtful to you. He blew your first point entirely out of proportion, and is using it to justify him insulting you. The fact that you have said "whenever I tell him" demonstrates that this is a pattern of behaviour, and he does not respect your feelings. He wants to hurt you.  
Even if what you did was hurtful, you apologised for it in the moment, and he didn't accept it. He now holds a grudge against you for it and uses it repeatedly to justify his shitty behaviour. That's how an ex-partner behaves, if you catch my drift.

NTA, but you need to realize that when MIL can no longer take care of her son they will be moving in with you permanently. You need to discuss this with your spouse.

Ideally it's done right the first time, but it's pretty common to find it rude to ask someone to redo a favour you asked for. Like if I ask my husband to do the dishes because I'm busy and then I notice he missed a spot, I'm not going to ask him to rewash it unless my hands are injured or something. 

Anyway, it's a bit of a low stakes ESH or NAH situation to me, but if OP is totally incapable of doing that job for some reason then I change my judgement to NTA.

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

My fiancé (26m) and I (27f) recently got engaged. There has been some hinting by my dad about what my brother was thinking about getting us for our engagement, but my brother went ahead and told me what he was going to get us: two incredibly expensive Tombolo shirts. Mind you, I have mentioned in the past to my dad their interest in Tombolo is completely lost on me. I don’t like resort cabana style clothing, never have never will. My fiancé also certainly doesn’t wear this style of clothing (the man wears tabis). My brother shows me the shirt he was going to get me: a dirty martini shirt. I fucking love dirty martinis, everyone knows this. Doesn’t mean I wanna wear one. He shows me the one he was going to get my fiancé: a monkey catching a coconut. My fiancé is Filipino. The fuck? This felt like a micro aggression. I get a shirt with a drink I like and he gets a monkey? I simply stated I don’t wear that kind of clothing, more specifically I don’t wear clothing with images of the things I like on them. I said “I don’t wear my interests.” And that I don’t wear brands (meaning more that I rarely buy anything new these days except basics/ new shoes, I thrift/vintage shop). This was unfortunately incredibly offensive to both my dad and brother. Now, I’m 90% sure my dad is a covert narcissist. He only likes me when I’m agreeable and when I’m not I’m wrong and ignorant. These two have no clue who my fiance and I are as people. I appreciated that my brother was thinking about making this purchase until they went in on me together saying my perception of Tombolo was incorrect insinuating my taste in clothing is wrong I suppose?? And that my brother was no longer getting us an engagement present. In our family we call it a Hotwheel when someone gifts something that they would just want for themselves. I stated this feels like a Hotwheel gift. That was apparently offensive as well. Personally, it reads as though he doesn’t know us well other than that we like to match so he decides to get us something matching from somewhere he likes. I told my dad you don’t buy engagement gifts you want the pair to like, but something you know they will appreciate and use. My dad blew up on me. I don’t appreciate something based on its monetary value. I appreciate something when it’s thoughtful. After my brother left and I talked to my fiancé, I decided to attempt to continue the conversation with my dad because I’m tired of him and my brother enabling each other only for the conversation to quickly turn into an argument where he shouts over me because I’m always wrong. It ended in him slamming the door on me. When I tell you this doesn’t even scratch the surface of our relationship. 

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Depends on the dynamics. I talk all kinds of shit to one of my friends but I’ll also have his back and it’s the same on his end as well.

Auto Text Happy Birthday

NTA. He sounds pretty emotionally abusive, and an exhausting guy to be around. There’s a lot of red flags, especially the degrading comments about your appearance and his lame justification. That type of behavior will likely never stop and you deserve much better.

This is how most weddings I remember from the 70s and 80s went. Ceremony, couple and bridal party disappear for a couple hours, everything gathers back at the reception location in the early evening. Generally family members who were local would open their homes and wedding guests (mostly more family) would hang out for the afternoon. However the bridal party was usually bar hopping during that gap not having photos taken 😂  In your case op as it doesn’t sound like you arranged for your guests to have a place to go during the gap, yeah YTA. Norms have changed in the last 40 years.

NTA but check out Gekks no shows that live inside your shoes

Based on how you described this, it doesnt come across that your mom is doing it in a malicious way or to undermine you, so I dont think shes being an asshole. The nickname is very close to your sons real name, and the "gray ham" pronunciation is another way to pronounce his name. 

I totally get why it would annoy you, but I dont think shes being malicious. Its not so serious to the point that you ban her from seeing him like other comments have suggested. NAH

Oh waaaah. White-presenting girl is crying racism? Come on...

Are you being serious right now?  If so, you are 100%NTA and this guy is crazy.  Leave.  Now.  In the future, if you ever feel the need to apologize for a joke...run.  No man who does not get you is worth your time.  Period.

These are my outlaws….😬

NTA 

People are going to have all kinds of names and nicknames for your kids. You have absolutely no say in this. Put on your big girl panties and buck up.

YTA, unless you've told him beforehand not to talk to you while you're on a work call. Or unless he was interrupting you while you were speaking, or while someone was speaking directly to you.

You were treating this very casually, so naturally he was under the impression that it was very casual. If you're going to take work calls in a shared space like this, then you should communicate beforehand that you can't speak while you're on the call.

To be clear, it's perfectly fine for you to have that boundary - even if you continue taking work calls on the couch in the living room. But your reaction was completely out of proportion for the situation (again, unless you've made it clear before that you don't want him to distract you during work calls).

Pretty much lol I think that's why it doesn't annoy me bc my shoes are so loose and it's an easy quick adjustment if I do feel the need to fix my socks 😅

Opinions will be very split on this. People who say Y T A will not have attended many Catholics weddings or be familiar with them. 

NTA. This is basically a requirement for Catholic weddings and people who’ve been to them know to expect it. Churches have vigil mass at 5pm, so the absolute latest they will do a wedding is 3, usually 2. Reception venues always start at 5 or 6. There’s nothing you can do about it, unless you get married on a not-Saturday. But then people will complain about “making your guests take a day off”.

You don't have to defend yourself. Very clearly NTA. She did this to herself and if she had a shred of accountability, her terrible behaviour wouldn't have been shared. She got off easy if anything.

It doesn't matter if a name is pronounced differently in a different country.  Plenty of names have different possible pronunciations.

nta she literally left your dogs without water for 15 hours lol

WOW no NTA, your boyfriend is a jerk. Even if you had been rushing him, making a joke about him being slow doesn’t come even close to mocking your appearance or implying you’re not a woman. 

Dump him.

maybe do not be nasty, you are so miserable in your life you take it out on strangers. Get off YOUR HIGH HORSE

My sister nicknamed my kids nugget and fries

Or just go to the reception duh

NTA

Tell your wife

1. She is focusing too much on the convenience/preference of her mom and brother and not AT ALL on your preferences or loss of convenience.

2. There are multiple ways to help them - it doesn't have to be a marathon stay with you. Whatever the two of you do should be agreed upon as a team of two - with ALL concerns/preferences/options given due weight and consideration.

\- They come every other year.

\- They come for no more than one month in a year.

\- You and wife find a wheel-chair friendly extended stay option near your home where MIL and BIL can stay. They can still spend much of the day at your home, but BIL doesn't have to camp in your living room AND he has a bathroom he can use for showering,e tc.

\- Instead of them coming to stay with you, you two give them some financial assistance to afford paid care to give your MIL some respite/ a wheelchair friendly stay in a cooler area of their country (e.g., a high-altitude resort)...

\- Your wife might travel to their country for a 2-3 week visit, and the three of them travel to that cooler locale.

Of course the options depend upon what you can comfortably afford to contribute; but some combination of different ideas might be (1) reasonably tolerable for both of you and (2) effective in supporting MIL/Bil. \[Note: you and wife's optimal solution does NOT have to be MIL/BIL preferred plan. But their choice is to appreciate what you can and are willing to offer them of take care of themselves.

Y\_T\_A.  Absolutely, what the heck is wrong with you wanting it to be straight?  what if it is bi?  I don't think you should be imposing your norms on the curtain rod /s

If hubby was going to half ass it, why did he bother?  Is this an exception or the rule with him when it comes to helping you out?

Well this post is definitely getting removed but while we’re here…

NTA

Why are you with this man? He gets pissy over a really simple and obvious joke (even if he hasn’t seen Madea I assume you told it in a joking tone) and repeatedly criticizes your appearance. I don’t even know how he could take it as comparing you to a drive thru worker.

As a man, I’m ashamed to share half the population with this guy. HE is the one being sensitive here, not you.

NTA but as someone with no friends and just my mum who's in contact me those texts mean a lot

NTA. It is also completely okay to acknowledge that disability can be inconvenient and guess what, *disabling*, at times. Your house is either going to be inaccessible for him or inaccessible for you and your wife in a different way. That's just the simple facts of it.

I agree with your decision. She needs to work things out with her dad, and with herself. NTA.

An alien is crazy lol

Good lord some people just can't stand not controlling everything in the world. Relax.

ESH. Why even go out together if you're going to bury your faces in your electronic toys? Whatever happened to engaging in conversation and paying attention to each other?

When someone begins to make you doubt your own perception of things, and feel you need a sanity check (advice from others), those are red flags. Don't ignore red flags. His issues are not your issues, and you can only do so much for him before you stsrt to harm your own mental health in the process. At some point, he needs to take responsibility for himself. NTA

Your brother is so  annoying wtf nta

Long socks annoy me lol

I’m more concerned that you don’t tie your shoes? Seriously? Your feet are flopping around inside your shoes so much that your socks slide down and you’re just like, I don’t give a shit?

NTA. But make sure to make a Medea joke before you dump him.

Because it's relevant when her cousin is trying to play victim and paint her in a negative light? 

This person is a parent in her 30s which is absolutely old enough to take accountability for her mistakes and crying to her parents absolutely opens her up to being exposed. 

How in your right mind could you justify omitting that? Because it would embarrass her? Cheating on your BF in your cousins house with your daughter asleep in the other room **is** embarrassing. She did this herself.

NTA. She put her kid and your dogs at risk with some dude, and then neglected your dogs, defeating the point of her staying there. People who struggle with addiction are always going to point the finger to make other people look bad to take the heat after themselves. She probably lashed out at you because she had her parents convinced she was doing well and you just ruined that narrative and now her parents are probably confronting her about her drinking. One of the scariest things I have ever witnessed was when my niece's (Who was allegedly 6 months sober) best friend called told me she was drunk and had been secretly drinking for weeks. My niece knew that the whole family was going to find out and the house of cards she'd been constructing was going to come crashing down, the family was sick of her shit and she wasn't going to be able to get any more money out of anyone after that. Your cousin is probably in a similar mindset and is lashing out at anyone who may hinder her access to alcohol.

That would be weird even if she looked “Caribbean” to do in the WORKPLACE especially after talking about how she assumes some random client is Caribbean. Even if she again looked “Caribbean” you can’t say people within the same group don’t make fun of people who are also part of the same group. If it’s not your natural way of speaking then yes, it can be perceived as making fun of somebody else regardless of how you look. You can say whatever you want to say in your natural way of speaking. You don’t need to imitate other people.

YTA. People were probably too polite to say anything but most people hate that shit. Not the end of the world or anything but also not being a very considerate host.

i’m sure if you search there is an app or company that will send a text or card for you. if this is such a big deal to you and them, make the effort once to get them all on an platform, spend the money and be done with it. Gmail might be able to do something where it sends a pre-made message every year.

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > 1. I should be judged whether my response to my father and declining his offer was wrong, 2. Many people might call me the asshole due to me not just accepting a job when I need one.

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

How do you pronounce it?

NTA, you are a compassionate person who cared to make sure the dog was safe. Definitely take it to the vet to see if it is chipped and be on the lookout for missing dog flyers and online posts. I hope the best for the dog, either returned to a loving responsible home or to you to give it what it needs and deserves, a loving and responsible home.

“You” felt they needed to move?    Well how generous of you to decide.   YTA.

Agree 💯 with you. It’s literally insane to me how some ppl make everything about them

Did your parents teach you anything about social etiquette? If someone thinks enough to spend some wishing you a happy Birthday then you should follow up with theirs. Sure some distant fb friends are not necessary but for the most part kindness should be met with kindness. Just because it means nothing to you, what does it cost you to be human and send a birthday message?

It’s kinda weird lol get longer socks

this isnt about punishing a baby, its about him wanting a prop for his new redemption arc without doing any actual work. he ghosted your childhood and now wants you to show up for photo ops twice a year, no apology required. thats not family, thats free childcare with extra steps

Yes close family and friends and of course if they ask to celebrate I am there.

I just hate when my mom reminds me, I go to send a text, and the last text was me saying it the year before. Texted my cousin and the last years message was there…he didn’t even say to me since mines after his. If we got together, I’d buy him a gift but he doesn’t like to celebrate it at all. So why am I sending this thing?

NTA.  Q is some tulip!  Text me back in a week

I'll tell you what OP, you are really going to enjoy the week off!  If you continue the friendship you need to add boundaries with Q.  You are not Q's parent, he is responsible for himself.  If he runs off again, let him go....

NTA but might be an alien lol

This is not an interpersonal conflict.

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

I been in a relationship with my boyfriend going on 11years and have a child together. as any relationship we've had our downs.  He has a child (12) from a previous relationship. And unfortunately she is/“was” a typical bitter bm. he couldnt see or be w his child. she wouldn’t let him know about anything that was going on in his child’s life-important things. but recently I’ll say maybe 2-3 months now he’s been able to see his child and spend time together which is great im truly so happy for him, but as of recently ive been having some trust issues. hear me out. So a few years ago my bf went on a guys trip w his friends to Cali around this time we were going thru a rough patch, & well because of all of the bs we been thru I had some trust issues so during the time he was gone I found his old phone that I just so happened to know the password to still, something in me just told me to get on that phone and check his Facebook messages so did, & what do  see first HIS BM, andi found it odd because they had 0 communication before hand besides him trying to know about his child. (which I had absolutely no problem with) but when I open their messages I was shocked and hurt to see that he had randomly messaged her and sent her a screenshot of a fb memory that popped up over a decade ago about the pet names they used to call each other,  they laughed and sent emojis to each other, I keep reading and he’s talking about bringing her w..d when he get backs into town. they continue a conversation all the while at no time did he bring up anything about his child! no how they doing, what they up to none of that so I just went off. I don’t play that friendly sh\*t. all in all we spoke about it I needed a break and within two months or so we got back together. fast forward to the present. hes been actively spending some time with his kid, gets ’em basically anything they want/need which is cool I love that wish he could’ve been doing this since the beginning but my issue started when he would just randomly pop up at his bms house without at least letting me know because it’s something he would do before, he stopped communicating w me fully and I didn’t understand why and I still don’t bencause he would even ask me for my opinion or input in some cases like gifts and things of that nature. this past Mother’s Day was the last drop of water in the glass for me because i found out that he was buying his bm a Mother’s Day gift. he NEVER mentioned it to me. so I felt like that was just some sneaky sh\*t. when I questioned him about it he first said that he had asked his child if they wanted him to get something for Mother’s Day for their mom but then changed up and said that his child asked. I smelled bs. I told him how it made me feel and how I didn’t feel comfortable with him getting her gifts because that would mean that he needs to put thought into what he’s getting her. 

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

weird old name 

???? 

weird new pronunciation 

**?????**

it’s not actually ‘gram’ it just sounds like it 

so you agree it’s not a weird new pronunciation??? **????**

NTA Maybe this is church (or officiant) dependent? One of our neighborhood churches is beautiful inside, and the staff do not offer later wedding times. If you want to get married there and have a dinner reception, there’s going to be a gap. People make it work. Nobody ever seems stressed about it. I think I’d prefer a gap over a two hour cocktail hour.

NTA. Was confused though since I think you messed up the title, I think you meant "for NOT helping"

I have to ask--why are you bothering to ask? You need to get out, as of yesterday. There's no fixing cruelty like this. He gets off on it. NTA.

Please break up with this guy.  NTA

NTA

Disrupting your lives for 25% of every year is taking a pretty extreme advantage of your privacy and enjoyment. I get the solid sense that MIL is angling for your family to become his long-term caregivers.

i definitely like my bf lol. i’ve spent more money on him than he has for me 😭 it’s not about that

To most people, Graham is not one syllable. If you name your kid a traditional name and choose ti pronounce it in an unconventional way, you shouldn’t get upset when people pronounce it in the way that is usual and acceptable to most people.

The is the most obvious NTA ever. She neglected your dogs, brought stranger men to your house to sleep with, then has the audacity to play the victim to your family? Shes a bad person

Your boyfriend is an ass

But she shouldn't be looking at all dresses. An appointment has a hard end time. You're wasting everyone's time looking at dresses you won't purchase. This is like car shopping you should arrive at the boutique with a ton of research done already

I don’t even need to see the rest of this to know you’re NTA at all you did the right thing it was a really hot day you got her shelter, food and water while waiting to take her to a vet who can try and find her owners. With the state you said she was in and being friendly she may even be missing and could have been for a while. You might be the reason a dog gets reunited with a long lost family. If not the dog will get the help she needs and with her being so friendly I’m sure she’ll get a new home in no time!

Why does he  “want” to hurt your feelings? You tried to quote a movie he hasnt seen and make a joke he took as an insult. He’s intentionally trying to hurt you instead of talking it through. He’s rather immature. 🚩 Ask him why he thinks it’s ok to insult you. Why is he being disrespectful to you? what’s his goal??

One of my friends is a navy wife and they live near other navy wives and work together as a community.  I thought it could be similar for other military wives

But even if not in that situation, our street has a WhatsApp group for talking, sharing and helping each other.  Even before that, we'd share cups of tea and sometimes have evening drinks at someone's house.  If one of us needs help, some will be able to assist be there

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

I, (19m) have been out of college for 3 weeks, and will not return until August. I have not had a job, and quit my last one due to having to study for my classes a lot. I had the opportunity to connect with a director of a hospital for an entry level position, but I have not heard back, and my application has not yet been denied or accepted. I also had the idea to work for amazon, but there have been no positions in the past 3 days available. I have applied to dozens other jobs because I know i can not depend on them to hire me, but I have either been declined or given no response, so meanwhile I have been applying + doing a bit of Doordash to fund myself (My parents don't pay for my school, or anything else).   
  
My dad (50M) has offered me a job at a construction site, but there's something I hate about working construction. I would be willing to paint walls, I would be willing to do entry level mechanic work, I would be willing to cut grass, I would be willing to do ANYTHING other than construction, but that's all he has to offer. My dad believes that I am not trying, and that I don't want to work since I don't take his construction site offer, but that is anything but true, all I want to do is work, I can not see my long distance girlfriend without money, and I can not buy the long list of stuff I want without money, but I have some sort of hatred towards construction work. I truly think I can not grow there as a person, and I do fully believe i'd be miserable working at construction. I truly don't know where that comes from, my guess would be me being taken to his job at a young age and getting paid nothing, and being taught nothing. (For reference, he told me I didn't want to learn so he didn't teach me anything, but looking back on it as an adult I would've preferred if he forced me to learn instead of telling me to throw wood blocks in the dumpsters for 12 hours straight)

There's also the added fact that IF I were to be contacted by the hospital, I would automatically leave any job I would have at the moment, as the job helps my application towards my desired college program, so that has been holding me back from reapplying to my old job, since I do not want to suddenly leave a job where I have good ties with + my old job was more dependable on individuals. 

I am extremely grateful for the sacrifices my parents have done, for letting me stay at the house for free, and for the long hours my dad has worked, but I truly want to live my life MY way at the end of the day. 

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

the 'no budget' thing is such a flex until it isnt lol. she wanted that main character energy of trying on couture gowns with her friend and kids in tow, now shes shocked pikachu that math exists. youre not wrong for being annoyed, three appointments with kids in tow is a LOT of emotional labor for someone who was essentially playing pretend rich

Buy shit that fits you properly

Was coming to say the same thing😆

Anyone who is Catholic knows this sometimes happens. Oh Boo Hoo my hosts didn’t plan for every minute of my day. Deal with it and enjoy the $15k reception they invited you to, you spoiled ingrate.

I mean op did try to help her, she just didn’t wanna listen.

I totally misread and thought she was calling him glans…and was like uh why is she calling him part of a penis?! 

I’d be annoyed at it being a butchering of his name (as I often do with my name) but a good nickname would be fine. 

NTA- I too would be annoyed with grandma for the shit attempts at a “nickname”

NTA. She put your dogs, and more importantly, her own daughter in danger. Animal and child abuse, cheating, alcoholism, and lying. Then she chose to complain to her parents. She made her own bed and now has to lay in it. And someone should call child services on her. She’s not responsible enough to have unsupervised time with any young children.

I dont even think OP likes her bf, she juat likes free coffee lmao

This doesn’t belong here.

I don't get blisters though lol

It sounds like he thought it was casual because OP was treating it casually. You literally have *no* reason to assume that he's intentionally trying to sabotage anything, that's a wild take.

NTA. He sounds mean-spirited. Move on.

YTA you pronounce your kids name wrong

NTA. Is your brother 5? Why tf is he so insecure about a dog?

YTA for this post lol. Do you man.

They're already small lol and my shoes are super loose...

Your bf was looking for an excuse to put you down continuously. His mask is slowly coming off - I hope you dump him before you have to endure more. NTA

she might not be American. and lives somewhere where 18 is legal age.

He’s tried talking some sense into her hence why he’s threatened to cut her off and why she wanted Oop to help her out so she didnt have to go through him.

Omg I had to do the same for someone. She met the guy through following his sister, an influencer. The influencer, pretty big at the time, vouched for him. Well he left her in the motel with no ride to airport and her flight back was in two days and no way to pay motel. She figured it out. But was a different country!

YTA, put your shoes on right like an adult

Enjoy your blisters weirdo. No one cares.

What the hell makes you think that?? Jesus man this is seriously an insane take. You're probably spending too much time on reddit.

NTA but your man is.

Using something that small to blow up shows major instability, major lack of confidence, or both. To continue bringing it up is a parade of red flags so long that fathers are bringing their children to it and inspiring Emo songs.

He needs therapy and to work on himself before being in a relationship with anyone. A bad joke happens, bringing it ip at every argument is not normal.

NTA. This seems like like a 3 month long "visit" where MIL gets built in help with BIL's care. You both should inquire if she needs help with a care aid for him if she doesn't have outside help already. She's probably exhausted from having him the other 9 months. Also, how does he feel about being there for 3 months? Does he want to be in everyone's way and have to be dragged upstairs to be showered? I can't imagine its his idea of paradise either.

get smaller socks....

YTA. Your son will be called Graham Cracker the  first week in daycare. This is a silly hill to die on with your MIL. Do yourself a favor, and save the indignation for the more important issues.

Mama you need to run

Why is this even a question?

There’s jokes and then there’s disrespect. That man don’t like you.

NTA, he is emotionally manipulating you. It sounds like he is beginning the depreciation stage where he makes issues out of anything and everything to keep you in a constant state of panic trying to read his moods. He is mocking you and then turning it until you apologize for his bad behavior. You need to ditch him. These behaviors don’t improve.

I’m American and I pronounce it GRAYam.

Probably his longest lasting relationship. Too bad it’s over now.

What culture exactly ? 

You're also not in their home country so **your** culture should be taken into consideration as well. It's not like you have unlimited space and being relegated to what sounds like your bedroom for 3 months with no privacy is frankly ridiculous, especially in summer.

He's cried...and it worked. He got taken to your room. 

I sleep trained my triplets, I know it's hard. Sit in the room with him like you've said you've done before. You know he's safe and fine and the tantrum is just that, a tantrum. At two he is old enough to know how to break you lol

Okay, well as long as the positives outweigh the negatives and he is working on trying to fix those negatives then that makes sense. Based on his current reactions to problems, it sounds like he is treating your support of him as an expectation, leading to conflict when you don't meet it. He should be understanding that your support does take a toll on you too. That's not to say that he should be in your debt, that's not how relationships work, but it does mean that if you are the one who always drives him around then maybe you should at least be able to set up that environment to be comforting for you.

I will say though that another thing he probably wants to work on is trying to broaden his support network. I used to be engaged to a partner with a disability and one of the biggest grivers of problems across our relationship was that she relied so dependently on me. She fortunately had a mother who also helped a lot in terms of physical care, which was great, but she barely ever interacted with her friends. She relied so heavily on me for her social interactions and, given she was largely house-bound, this was really draining in the long run. I knew constantly that any time I chose to be away from her she was going to be lonely, and she expressed being upset about this at multiple points. She both directly and indirectly guilted me for sometimes choosing friends over her. Eventually the guilt cemented and I felt bad for every moment I wasn't spending time with her.

What I'm trying to say, from someone who has been there, that dependency can become a really bad problem. He has explicitly stated that he doesn't know what he would do without you. Even if he doesn't mean it, he has planted an idea in your head that will trigger guilt if you ever did decide you didn't want to be with him. He needs to wokr on this so that your relationship is helathier for both of you.

Thank you! It’s not like I am intentionally not texting. I am just really bad at connecting the day to someone especially if my mind is elsewhere.

Not to sound like the stereotypical Reddit commenter but you should break up with him lol. He can dish it out but he can’t take it. NTA

Do you have student loans?  Did your family help cover your college costs?  Life looks a lot different without loans and 10-15% more expensive can be a lot for folks who do have them.

Is any of that actually a big deal? It’s clearly not even recognizable as a fart sound so why the fuck would you care?

YTA. Your wedding guests spent their time and money to show up for you. When you host an event, your guests comfort and entertainment should be a priority. It’s incredible selfish and inconsiderate to expect your guests to block off an entire weekend or even the day of to attend your wedding and reception and then go off to take TWO hours worth of pics without any consideration for the people who showed up for you. You cared more about photos than your guests. 

I’ve attended weddings like yours before. I can assure you that your guests remember that experience and probably talked shit about it.

Echoing what another commenter said. What woman in their right mind would go home to take a nap between the ceremony and reception after doing their hair and makeup.

NTA. I would find this very irritating and intrusive too. You’re already having to share space with someone when you have a roommate- and now their company is there all the time too? No way. There is no reason you need to get to know your roommate’s girlfriend. You can be roommates and maintain just a casual friendship or no friendship at all and you’re just two people splitting the bills because it’s mutually beneficial. There’s nothing wrong with that. It’s unfortunate that the girlfriend is having a hard time with work but she has friends, family and a boyfriend that can help her. You’ve been empathetic and generous with the space you pay for. You didn’t sign up for any of this. This really bugs me bc I’ve been in situations like this.  Your roommates girlfriend is the one who should be feeling awkward and be doing everything possible to stay in the bedroom - not you. The least your roommate owes you is an acknowledgement of your generosity and a promise to respect your space and no gaslighting or guilt trips about it.

NTA. Are the pups all okay after all that?

NTA - wedding sounds completely normal for Catholic or Anglican traditions and mirrors every family wedding I’ve attended as a child and adult. The in between time people usually either go home, or go to a relatives home and day drink before the reception lol

NTA for not necessarily caring about birthdays, but if it is someone you care about and they care about being seen on their birthday, it could really mean a lot to them to honor the day and celebrate them. So like if you didn’t say happy birthday to a close family member or friend that you really care for and that also cares about their birthday, you may be TA then for disregarding their feelings on purpose, with there being a difference between knowing about their birthday and willingly not sending a message and just forgetting by accident. 

For more extended family and people you aren’t as close to, I’d say NTA. I think if your birthday is special to you, then you should realistically only expect those closest to you to celebrate with you and that doesn’t mean all family is obligated to go out of their way to honor the day. 

All in all, a text is really just that. Not really too grand of a gesture to show appreciation for and celebrate someone anyway so if they really cares to hear from you, they’d likely be having a party or hoping to see you around their bday to include you in the celebrations. A card can be a nice gesture for those who might live too far away to realistically visit too.

Not even just vapid and shallow, but *so* vapid and shallow that she’s too stupid to know how to do basic things like ride a bike. Why do men date women they hate?

YTA for not even doing it for your family. It takes seconds to do, and is an absolutely tiny act of kindness and thinking about someone else, very briefly.

Dude are you kidding me? Break up with him. He doesn’t care about you at all. And that is clear by what he says to you. If my husband disrespected me that way we wouldn’t be married today. Saying you look like a boy? That you have hair on your chin? That’s not normal behavior in a relationship. Normal healthy partners don’t take something they know you’re self conscious about and attack it.

Maybe if the cousin didn’t make up a story to paint op in a bad light as if she just kicked her out of her house for no reason, op wouldn’t have had to resort to telling her parents. Op was simply defending herself by telling the truth on what events actually transpired.

NTA but your brother sure is.

NTA in my opinion. 

I actually kind of hate getting a flood of “happy birthday” messages from people I rarely see or barely know, it spams up all of my inboxes and I have to go through and delete a million messages that JUST say “happy birthday” to get to the real ones. 

It’s one thing if you’re close to someone, and you’re sending them like a real substantive message with other information, but tons of messages just saying “happy birthday happy birthday” over and over again are annoying.

Yes. Thanks for summarising my point exactly.

Most ways to remember birthdays are through phones and during the work week I am not on it. I do send when I get the reminders but if I don’t text on the actual day, it’s apparently a big deal

Also note my dad doesn’t say happy bday to anyone, since my mom does it, he gets grandfathered in.

NTA.  he might be gay

Not saying it was a bad thing!

?? That’s the way that name is spelled? If OP is in the US, that’s how we pronounce that name. I know the UK (among other places) pronounce it closer to Gray-um, but in the US it would be way more of a tragedeigh to name a child “Gram” imo

Oh, dear thing - you edited your post after I commented. Get off that high horse and look at timestamps.

Super we are on the same page then.

Yta literally takes 10 seconds to do, your mum is doing all the work to remind you so you don’t even have to do that. Has nothing to do with gender either since they made a comment about your brother not doing it. You wish someone a happy birthday usually because you love or at least like that person.

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > I might be an asshole bc I actually prefer the feeling of my socks slipping off in my shoes and everyone is trying to convince me that I'm insane, does that make me ans asshole?

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

YTA. Birthdays are about the birthday person. If you don't care about texts great. If people you care about want that in their lives then it's not hard to set a calendar reminder to reoccur every year. Takes 30 seconds.

I've always disliked when people use the phrase 'attention seeking' as if it's a bad thing... sometimes people need attention! In fact we all need attention at times. Attention seeking behaviors are how we communicate our wants and needs to each others.

To me it sounds like this person needs professional help not just friend help, and maybe this situation was meant to demonstrate that clearly

YTA - the bar for effort is so low with an calendar app reminder and a text.  

If you generally have a good relationship with your family then a birthday text and an emoji is pretty damn easy in the scheme of things.  Especially if it means something to your relatives.

The level of learned helplessness some adults have is honestly mind-blowing.

Nah…NTA.  I’m almost never on social media.  If I’m close enough to you that I know your birth date without the Facebook reminder, I’m already calling or texting.  Otherwise, it’s overwhelming and ridiculous.

It's literally the second word in the post.

"I said something like, “Funny how family matters now that everyone else is gone and you are broke.” "

HA!  Accurate.  NTA.

NTA.

This guy has more issues than National Geographic. He wants attention, your attention, ALL of your attention, thisverysecondrightnow.

As for leaving him stuck in the tree? That’s a him problem. You said he’d gone nonverbal, so it wasn’t like he was pouring out his problems to you. Were you supposed to be using your super-sensitive psychic powers to figure out what was bugging him?

He climbed the tree (was it REALLY 80 feet up?), so he was responsible for getting himself down. Was he expecting you to climb up and take him by his widdle hand and bwing baby down the big bad mean tree?

He sounds absolutely exhausting. You said you constantly feel like you’re babysitting him, so maybe it’s time to distance yourself a bit. If he really is having mental health problems, suggest to him that he tell a parent/counselor/other trusted adult. If he refuses and you do think he’s seriously at risk, talk to his mom.

Don’t beat yourself up about it. There’s only so much you can do if someone really wants to wallow in their own misery.

Not projecting at all. One of my dogs was abused and she generally mistrusts men. Not all, but enough to be relevant. The other one is fine with everyone, but character limits don't allow me to go into that much detail. When I saw this man arrive and was talking to my cousin aggressively,  I became worried that my dog would react aggressively and this man would do something to her.

NAH technically but people can and will consider you an asshole over this and you need to accept that.

There are some things in life you just need to do if you want to make the people who are important to you happy. This is one of them. Is it really such an inconvenience to you to open a text message app and fire off two words and an emoji? 

Like, you do you, I guess. But yes, a lot of people like getting text messages from people that care about them on their birthday, and will get their feelings hurt if their loved ones don't acknowledge it.

That makes sense. I think in a marriage, it can be frustrating and breed resentment to have a partner consistently “help” you with things but complete the job poorly or incompletely. And hanging curtains doesn’t require contractor experience to do well. But I see where you’re coming from.

I went to a wedding where there was a huge gap like that. We didn't know what we were supposed to do. We all went to a bar. A lot of people stayed there. Why would we need cocktail hour for? We're already sloshed.

as soon as Christianity comes up your brains just stop working

That perfectly encapsulates why there are so many Christians.

You're assuming intent.  Given the struggle with H, could it be grandma's first language isn't English?

But also would be common courtesy to send wishes to people that took time to send you some

NTA.  

Tell your wife this is not about inconvenience, this is about your home being not-yours for 1/4 of the year.

Did you read absolutely none of the post lol?

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > The joke wasn’t my best. He didn’t know it was from Madea off rip so it probably just sounded like I was snapping at him while he was doing his own thing which is fair. I could’ve just said “hey I’m hungry, I’m ready when you are” instead of going the joke route. It landed wrong, and I apologized for it.

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

Justifying your edit to people who commented early isn't a good look. Timestamps are a thing.

YTA but I think you assumed bad faith where it wasn't clear there was any. I would have cancelled my working day if there was a bomb threat and it probably would have impacted me mentally ie: you want someone to tattoo you who hasn't been extremely activated by a bomb threat. It's also not uncommon for people not to respond straight away or even the next day. Is it frustrating on your end- yes.  Should she have blasted you on social media- probably not.

YTA, you have a million different ways to remember/be reminded, you know what it means to them. It’s annoying but only takes a minute out of your day, and they appreciate it, clearly. For some elder family members, birthdays are the only time people bother to reach out to them so it’s important for them. Sometimes we have to do little things we think are silly and annoying for the people we love, a birthday text is one of them.

NTA but is she really emphasizing the H, because I’ve never heard anyone pronounce it like that? Or is she saying it more like “GRAYum,” because that is a legit pronunciation of Graham, and if that’s his name, he is going to hear many people in his life pronounce it that way over the years, so you and will need to get used to it. If you really really want it to be a one syllable name, like “Gram,” as in the measure of weight, you can explain that to her, but you’ll need to realize you can’t police the whole world when “GRAYum” is a widely accepted pronunciation of the name you have chosen for your son.

I know a Gina who pronounces her name “Jenna” and is always correcting people. Can’t blame them for pronouncing the name the way it is pronounced.

It's always going to be a personal choice to make little efforts for things that are important to the people you care about.

Why don't people take wedding photos before the wedding?

You were a snot about her struggling to pronounce his name, she chose a nickname instead, you're still mad.  Will you do this do your sons friends as well?  *This* is your hill to die on?  YTA

It’s the “Catholic gap” and it’s because Catholic Churches have Saturday 5pm mass. So the latest possible service in a Catholic Church is going to be 3-4pm. This means at least a 1-2hr gap until the reception begins. 

I hate it. But that’s the reason.

It’s really not. It’s a very common spelling and pronunciation. It’s derived from the Scottish surname Graeme.

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > (1) what action you took that should be judged: bringing home a stray dog

(2) why that action might make you the asshole: because i didn't know if it was a neighbors dog or not, but wanted to make sure it was safe and didnt get heat stroke or get hit by a car

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

I mean valid, you don’t exactly owe people birthday wishes. And 50+ people sounds like a chore especially if you aren’t close enough where you talk to them all very frequently. Maybe close friends and family you talk to often sending a happy birthday text is great but too many just becomes irritating

This is another one of those cases where I'd love to hear the other side of the story.

we're they hymns

We are they hymns?

YTA. There was a bomb threat. You don’t know anything about this person’s past and what a bomb threat may have brought up for them. 

You are also TA for expecting someone to respond on an immediate timeline. You don’t know what the deal is. Chill TF out. 

Your tattoo artist is clear about what days they work. They can work whenever they want to because it’s their business. You knew the days they work when you made an appointment. You are unreasonable to expect this person to reschedule on their off day. Would it be nice of them, given the circumstances? Yes, it would. Are you entitled to their kindness? No, you are not. Does it suck that you might lose a day of income? Yes, but sometimes life sucks. Get a helmet.

valid. he has told me he has no desire in reading the series for himself, so i don’t feel bad about the spoilers part

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

I only wear ankle socks and no show socks so at this point I've kinda accepted that my socks are going to slip off inside my shoes when I walk because I don't tie my shoes, my coworkers said that would drive them crazy but honesty I'm not bothered by it, AITA for embracing it? 

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

YTAH, it’s irrelevant that you don’t want to receive texts on your birthday, what matters is how friends and family feel about their birthday. Most people don’t want to be forgotten on their birthday. So it’s important to make the effort.

Depends on how close to most peoples homes it was.   If it was in the same town or town next door to where most people live NTA.  If you insisted on some sort of long trip to some sort of romantic place and everyone was twiddling their thumbs from 3.30 to 5.30 -  6 then bordering on being an A.

I hate it too but it’s the thought that counts. I could care less if ppl txt me or not but I know it matters to others so I send a quick message. Like you said it’s very superficial so thankfully I don’t get pulled into a giant convo. Sometimes ppl just like knowing a loved one thought of them.

100% she’s just mad her little stunt didn't work

NTA

This is pure FAFO. She tried to play the victim card and got served.

it is one common pronunciation of the the name and his mother says it is, so you are incorrect.

calling OP and idiot 

An*

How do you know what the dad does throughout the day???
You build your kids lives into your schedule.  You don’t let your kids dictate your schedule.  
He shouldn’t have to sleep elsewhere because his kid can’t sleep on his own.  It’s time for both of them to get their kid sleeping in their own room.

Never heard of it since i don't have dogs and not interested in them as well, so i thought it was a bit weird, not a bit actually. But hey i stand corrected my dear dog lovers.

Personally, NTAH, I think. I suck at birthdays and I don’t feel like anyone is obligated to remember mine sooooo

Ask her if she fancies a shag.
Pretty sure she won't be hanging around for much longer.
Either that or you'll get lucky.

Win win 🏆 🙌

I'm  a little confused about the timeline... the day before the appointment, there was a bomb threat nearby, so you guys texted to "wait and see," which you did and the issue was resolved by the appointment day, and the artist still wanted to reschedule? The story sounds really odd to me, but if thats how it happened, then NTA

YTA. 

In my opinion it literally costs nothing to wish someone a happy birthday. It takes 10 seconds to text them. 

I doubt you are doing this even once a day, or once a week. You are blowing this pretty far out of the water. 

Male or female doesn’t matter. People always need a village, but don’t ever wanna be a villager.

NTA. it's the tattoo artists job to try to reschedule at a time that works for both of you. If that time can't be found then you should have every right to get your deposit back and to find something more suitable. For all the tattoo artist knows you might be leaving the country and so can't reschedule. That's not your fault. They should have to give you your money back.

Yeah, I honestly don’t blame anybody who is an AH when they have a concussion and a sore lip. Feel better!

Yeah, OP did some creative editing and decided to get all uppity after the first comments were entered.

NTA. I also come from extreme food insecurity and similar issues and I would never do this to someone I love who has such severe food restrictions or allergies.

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

For clarification, I (23F) made a joke one morning to my boyfriend (27M) and quoted a Madea movie, saying “I don’t want no lunch, I want breakfast.” I was just trying to be funny and let him know that I was hungry and ready to go since we had plans to go out for breakfast.

After I made the joke, he asked if I was rushing him. I told him no, explained it was just a Madea quote, and that I didn’t mean anything by it. Could I have found a different way to say it? Yes. But I was just trying to be goofy.

He then said, “Do I look like I work at a drive thru? Why would you say that like you’re trying to rush me?” and kept going from there. He was basically turning it into something it wasn’t. Was it a bad joke? Maybe. But I thought it was funny, and I apologized for it right after.

Fast forward, and there have been several times since then where he’s made jokes about my appearance. He’ll purposely call me “sir,” tell me that having literally 3 small hairs on my chin (my hormones are all over the place) is unattractive, say that when he remembers I look like my dad it “weirds him out,” and make comments about me looking like a boy. I do look like a girl version of my dad, which is probably why he goes there but whenever I tell him I’m not okay with it, he brings up the Madea joke and says that me comparing him to a drive thru worker was a personal attack, so that’s his justification.

I feel like I’m being too sensitive and that I was wrong for making that joke in the first place. But I don’t know.. AITA?

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Exactly. But everyone else in the English speaking world doesn’t.

It really, really is, isn't it? Honestly, the people on this sub especially are some of the most self-involved people on the planet!

She has bile vomiting syndrome. If her stomach goes empty for too long, she will vomit bile and it is hard to get her to want to eat again.

To strangers though? Like to each other, fine, but even if I call my best friend an idiot to someone close to me, I don't go on the Internet and say she wouldn't have any redeeming qualities if she wasn't hot

Their current solution is to have the toddler’s bed in their room, so he doesn’t wake up multiple times per night. OP has the toddler fall asleep in her bed then transfers him to his own bed in their room. Husband doesn’t want the toddler falling asleep in their bed and he wants the toddler bed moved back to his own room. He can do that, but he knows that this is something that is guaranteed to cause them both to lose sleep. He shouldn’t make it solely OP’s responsibility to help the toddler fall back asleep because he has the excuse of “I have to be up at 3am.” He doesn’t have to be up at 3am, he chooses to do that.

? Plenty of dogs don't like specific genders. that's a very known thing and idk why you're acting like it's crazy talk.

Your friend had a cell phone and could have called 911 for help getting out of the tree as opposed to berating you. What on earth would you have done to help him out of the tree? You're not Spider-Man. You can't fly either, right? Do you have some telekinetic ability that has been heretofore undisclosed? Your friend is being a petulant whiner.  Clearly they got out of the tree on their own. It's attention-seeking behavior with intent to manipulate. Don't feed it.

your title says you helped but your post makes it sound like you didn't. Which is it? sounds like you want to fuck her right?

Shhhhh don’t tell OP.

You 2 could've hung it in like 5 minutes, especially if you have a level. ESH

NTA but is it possible that MIL just needs a bit of a break?  Does she have any family in her home country? Caregiver burnout is real. People need socialization. Being a primary caretaker is very isolating.

NTA. She’s the one who involved her parents by telling them lies. If she didn’t want them to know she could have just said nothing.

Esh. It's a dumb thing to get mad about, but to me as someone who listens to a ton of books I would hate to listen to some random spoiler from a book.

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

I (28 M) was walking to the corner store to get a drink. The walk is short, only about a block, but when I rounded the corner towards the store, I saw a dog. She was very friendly, and she approached me immediately with her tail wagging. I figured that it was a dog that was being walked off-leash, as that is not uncommon in the city I live in, but also bit dangerous as I live right next to a main road that's often busy with cars passing by. When I looked around, though, there was no one outside: not on the sidewalk or even on their porches. I also noted that she did not have a collar, her nails were overgrown, and she had what looked to be a rash (possibly dermatitis) on her stomach. I followed her for a couple blocks down past the store, hoping that she would lead me back to her home, but she didn't.

After about 5 minutes of this, I called my mom to ask if she could help me potentially get her in the car and take her to the vet to see if she is chipped since she was about to get off work. She agreed, and advised me to try and get the dog to follow me home, which I managed to do since the dog responded well to me calling for her. It was obvious that she was a stray, but was well-loved enough to be friendly to strangers. 

I got her home and let her in through the back gate which my older brother (30 M) opened for me since my mom had called him right after and asked him to do so. He was immediately hostile, stating that I should have just left the dog alone, because it could've been a neighbors dog. I told him that that would be cruel, as it was almost 90 degrees outside, I didn't see anyone walking her, and that I had to actively stop her from running into the street multiple times walking her back to the house. He brushed it off and went back to his room.

I made sure to get her some food and water, and kept her out of the house and in a shady spot under the porch awning because my family already has a dog, and I didn't want to risk either 1) a potential dog fight or 2) if she was carrying anything on her that could get our dog sick. She seemed content, and I sat in the backyard with her to wait for my mom. 

Then my brother came back outside. He decided that he "wanted to give his two cents" which was just him telling me that he thought I was stupid for bringing the dog back, and that he thinks I "stole the dog from someone." I honestly don't know how he could have come to that conclusion, as I have no history of doing anything like that. My brother has always been an erratic instigator, but this instance was particularly hostile and out-of-pocket. I told him that if he's not interested in actually helping me, then he can leave me alone. I didn't raise my voice, or scream at him, or call him names, simply stated that I don't want to hear it from him since it's not a situation he needs to involve himself with. He goes back in his room a second time. **(cont. in replies)**

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

You are not the asshole she is old enough to make her own decision and she decided to go even though you told her it’s definitely not on you

He most likely was not stuck and was fine. What would you have done for him if he was actually stuck? He just wants your attention and is throwing a fit that you didn't stick around to watch him be weird in a tree.

Apparently, OP isn't capable of accepting either reasoned arguement or accountability.

This. I couldn’t imagine policing my kids friends on them giving my son a nickname. I never even gave it a second thought if my family called my kids by nicknames, I always thought it was cute.

Don’t involve children in mocking their grandparents. That’s terrible parenting, and really unkind

Nah a lot of rescues have trauma from men and dislike or are nervous about them

we don’t. i spend about half my time at his place

Yepps time to run for real

Why would OP’s neighbor be on the hook to help her?

Your post has been removed for choosing a misleading title.

**If the opening of your post is** warning users the title sounds bad or otherwise encouraging them to read the full post **to explain it**, that should be your hint that you need to fix your title. Titles can be up to 300 characters long, you have room to use a title that isn't misleading.

Please repost with a better title that doesn't require you spend your first sentence explaining why it's misleading.

Please review the subreddit rules before attempting to repost.

Message the mods with any questions. 

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Our schools are fucked.  Try "critical thinking."  Try "objective listening."  This is why our country is the way it is. I guess it's hard to blame *you* specifically.  But this is exactly what 75 years of propaganda on your own citizens does to a country. Keeps them uneducated and unable to think for themselves.  You just regurgitate everything back that is said to you without any ability to analyze what is being said or formulate an opinion of your own.

And you're a business owner too.  Pathetic.  Does Fox News also tell you when it's ok to wipe the shit off your ass?

Sorry for the confusion, I do realise that it's the bf and not hubby. Im just saying it's gg to end up like that after marriage. And instead of the usual mama's boy, this one's like that with his sister.

This person sounds exhausting.

ESH - Take your business elsewhere and find another tattoo artist that works better with your schedule. It's not that artist's fault you're losing income because you're taking days off to get a tattoo. This artist should also be refunding your deposit since she cannot make your appointment time and based on your side of the story, she should not be bashing you on her social media. Reverse the charges with your bank if you are able to. Regardless, go elsewhere.

Omg… stfu. You’re so controlling and whiny. YTA and very hard to be around.

For the record: you can’t die from being stuck in  tree.

NTA.  What does that mean, is she not going to work at all, her money is just for her??  Or she simply does not want to earn more than you do?  

It seems a weird stance to take... It's probably worth getting into a deeper conversation with her about life expectations to see if you align?

YTA. Your mother doesn’t owe you *anything* and you have no right to tell her what to do. If you can’t handle your kid on your own, hire a babysitter like everyone else does. You have an unreal  level of entitlement.

Do y’all live together?

I'm not in the US so not so focused on race. If I heard someone imitate an accent well, and yours probably was, I'd ask. I would probably ask if you've lived there. 

I would not automatically assume racism. It's weird how many people here are offended. When you weren't being offensive. So, so focused on colour.

Communication is a two way street. If she didn't like it she could have asked? Instead she ran off and whined about it. Not an adult response.

Are we not allowed now to express ourselves without permission or explanation? 

What people on this thread are saying is that we can't do this stuff. We should close ourselves down. Imagine she'd asked and you both ended up knowing more about each other. You know, like normal people.

NTA

NTA. Enjoy the week off he's giving you!

If she is up there in age It'll probably before that happens

YTA. Get your kid sleeping in their own bed, in their own room.

nta, the guy literally followed you and then got mad when you avoided him. his reaction kinda proved your gut was right lol.

I did miss it, thank you!

I'm with you here, it's really not that difficult to do.

jesus christ. i don’t think i would consider a man, who i’m financially and physically supporting, who tells me i don’t give a shit about them, sweet or smart. i guess all i can really say is: good luck.

What a mess. You can't help people like that. She's going to have to hit bottom. Hopefully her daughter stays safe.

Finally a comment with sense

NTA. 

She's worthless. She opened it up to her parents knowing and lied about you. So you did the right thing. 

She needs to get her shit together.

God I had to scroll so far for this. 

Saying her only redeeming quality is looks and then that the men just want to fuck her--laughing in her face when she said he likes her. 

What an asshole

The dynamics change a lot when you realize OP is male apparently? it reads to me like delighting in the despair of a woman who never fucked him

Ive gone to one with a two hour gap (Lutheran wedding) and the drive between the church and venue was 45 minutes. It SUCKED as the guest. I drove home, let my dogs out and had water, then went to the reception. IMO, it’s an AH move, but I do understand it’s normal in certain religions. That said, it’s actually the worst.

If you were my kid, I’d consider that a blessing.

Even drug addicts usually quit the drugs for their baby when pregnant sooooo yea

It sounds like they live together so I think that’s a lot different than doing it with someone you only see occasionally.

I used talk to text, sorry but I'm home sick so I didn't really think to spell check 🤧

If he was in your office for an hour trying to hang a curtain rod, it wasn't an easy job for him. Maybe you could have waited a couple of days and then asked if he would mind moving them up an inch or so (with your help) instead of immediately criticizing his work.

Same to you. You could use another 18 years.

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

Im P a guy who just graduated high school recently. This all went down not long after that. D is a girl a little older than me. Weve been friends for a while but mostly online though Ive seen her in person a couple times.  
Some important context. D is super emotional sensitive and insecure. She breaks down over tiny things even minor stuff. Like one time she misremembered something I said or did. When I calmly corrected her she started crying hard and didnt talk to me for days.  
Another time we were playing Fortnite with her best friend. D got mad at both of us for not helping her with something. She started lashing out. I defended myself calmly and her best friend backed me up because what I said was true. She couldnt handle being wrong so she stopped playing with us. Later when we asked why she left she said ITS BECAUSE YOU GUYS WERE GANGING UP ON ME. Stuff like this keeps happening.  
The main story. D and I queued into Valorant. She was already having a bad game and upset about her own performance. She started whining in voice chat and might have been crying already before the team stuff kicked off. Everyone knows Valorant randoms can be toxic.  
Before the teammates really started on her D announced in the lobby that she hates men. Ive gotten used to her saying that. She threw some other insults at them too so it wasnt one sided.  
The teammates bantered back. The main rude thing was one guy saying women should not be able to talk. It was typical edgy trash talk going both ways not straight up harassment.  
D got super mad at me for not defending her. I didnt jump in because it seemed like regular back and forth that she helped start especially while she was already tilted. I didnt want to make it a bigger fight. She saw it totally different.  
AITAH for not defending her?

(I have adhd and kinda struggle to focus/juggle more then one task so idk if that adds to this or not)

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

NTA- You didn't do anything wrong. You are not Qs babysitter. you are not emotionally responsible for them. this friendship seems unbalanced. I'd not text them back for longer than a week.

grin and bare it

Bear*

until your

You're*

closer to having your prefrontal cortex

Jfc

My comment of the week 😄

I am so sorry! You are NTA! I would share the Trader Joe's double chocolate GF muffins from my freezer with you if I could.

I think it's safe to say that she's jealous, uninformed about medical matters, and feels like she's entitled to command people in situations she doesn't know x about. Mean, too. Keep her at a distance for at least seven years (it appears that around 25 the brain should be fully grown, probably why the Romans set the age of maturity at 25). If she hasn't apologized by then, well, she's related by blood, but not family.

YTA. The artist rescheduled for safety/availability reasons, not to avoid work, and assuming bad intent is what made this escalate.

It's not a new pronunciation or uncommon...it was the 120th most popular name for boys' in the US in 2025. And I'm not sure the point you're trying to make with "it's not actually gram it just sounds like it." That's what she's saying? That's how you pronounce it, but her mom is refusing to...

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > 1. I guess would be anti action. If I get busy in the week and don’t connect the date and shoot a text, I am the jerk.

2. Family makes it seem like I don’t care about them because I didn’t take the time to remember that it’s their bday. Most of the time, I’ll remember at 9 or 10 o clock after work…sometimes not until several days later

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

A non-licensed home health aid will cost $250ish a day. $100 a week is highway robbery. Tell him to kiss your ass

If I were your mother, I would call him Hammy.

YTA.  You really need to get your head on straight.  The problem wasn't caused by him "lying for no reason".  The problem was that you left him alone, and he got scared.  It sounds like he isn't at a developmental level to be able to tell time.  You've completely forgotten (granted, as most people do) how long time can seem to stretch when you're a very small kid; and that's his POV.

The reason was, he was scared.  And he didn't "lie".  He told the truth from his point of view, which is that of a toddler.

The part of this where I do have sympathy for you is where you note that you aren't able to deal with him physically if something happens.  That's definitely a problem, and if that's the case, you shouldn't have really been a candidate for watching him all day. Yeah, sure, he might just be quiet all day -- but you don't know what could come up.  Frankly, that's on your uncle.  He's the one who made the assumption that "there's a low chance of there being a problem if I leave him all day with someone who can't physically handle him; he's always quiet".  Yeah, he's always quiet until he's not.

Do you even know CPR?  Or how to do the heimlich maneuver?  Adult with developmental level of a toddler says to me "this could become a choking situation real fast".

Anyway.  You did fuck up by leaving him alone to go to the store. As others have pointed out -- unless you got your uncle's call when you were standing on your own doorstep, about to go into the house, you WERE gone for more than a half hour.  You made a bad call, when you were the one responsible.  Own it.

6 days on the ground and he wants to waste 3 golfing???

You are NTA

YTA! It does have a tie to something, he’s her grandson. Pet names are harmless and don’t have to be”tie” to anything anyway.

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > I may be making too many assumptions and handled the situation poorly

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

Its not my culture but i went to a couple of gap weddings as a kid and we just all kind of piled back to friends or relatives for a couple of hours. In my culture you are normally doing wedding related things from midday to 2/3am so the couple ot hour gap wasn't really a problem plus the weddings themselves generally started later and ended earlier than we were used to so it balanced out. I prefer our way of doing it but in some cultures and religions its normal. Its what you are used to i guess.

ESH - You for trusting an actual addict to take care of your vulnerable pets when they have a history of lacking sound judgment. They live with your aunt and uncle because they can’t safely care for themselves and their child. 
Your cousin for being unable to follow through with basic dog sitting duties that a teenager could do. 
Lesson learned. Addicts are incredibly irresponsible and stunted in their maturity.

YTA the way you spoke to your mother is not acceptable. if your husband is deployed and the only other person of support you have is your mother, honestly it’s on you to start building your own circle. Other family members, friends, neighbors?  Take your child to some kid events and make friends with some other moms in the area. It is very difficult to be alone and in need of help, so take this as a wake up call that you need to build your village.

I was picturing two cats

I think you might've misread? OP didn't say the cousin would end up alone because of her personality, the cousin said OP would. Cousin said she was horrible for telling on her parents, and then she went on to say OP would end up alone.

YTA-nicknames are given by others, not picked like a name.

Sounds like that was a little attention seeking. Not saying that depression or being sad is attention seeking, but it sounds like he was just seeing how long he could keep you following him
Edit to say NTA

I see where you're coming from, because incompetence is frustrating. But I also feel like OP could have been kinder about it. From her own words, it seems a little harsh. 

Like is this guy even a person that should be expected to be good at hanging curtains? My guy is a maintenance guy and contractor so he's good at that... but less good at other things. The other day he cooked an omelette with leftover salmon. Was it good? No. But it was serviceable and I didn't berate him about it... he tried his best. I want him to keep cooking. You know what I mean?

You lost me at summer camp wedding. For that alone, YTA.

NTA. 

You were put on the spot, not much you can do in that case. 

That said, there’s a lesson here in not placing people with substance abuse problems in a place of trust.

Wrong on the first champ, I proudly shoot 2 or 3 above par on the regular. Second correct I'm the middle child which notoriously has it the worst. So whats your point?

That's not a tragedieh... it's a correct way of spelling and pronunciation

Ah, okay.

Still would hardly call it a tragedeigh when it's a common pronunciation of a relatively common name.

Your friend sounds manipulative.  NTA.

More like the lesson that when you refuse to listen to someone who damwell knows what they're talking about,  and things happen just the way they warned you they would, that's on ***you.*** 

As long as you're safe and solvent, it's not on them to clean up the mess they told you would happen.

Graham doesn't have extra letters? It's a pretty common name - number 120 for boys in the US in 2025 and pronounced "gram."

You are absolutely being bamboozled. I am thinking any gift you were planning to get for her wouldn’t cost nearly that much. “BF currently has no income so we won’t be able to help with that but we will be happy to celebrate little precious’s birthday and we’ll get her something nice.”

My wife thinks I’m focusing too much on the inconvenience.

INFO what does she consider a *proper thing to focus on*?!  That's a wild reaction.  What about the fact that your home isn't accessible for him, and his spending a *quarter of the year* in a place that isn't designed for his ease of life is stupid AF?  Is that the proper thing to focus on?  Because it's the same thing, just from BIL's perspective.  But giving up your living from for a quarter of the year just because they want to visit?  Nah, fuck that.  Maybe it's a cultural thing, but having people visit for two weeks is a long visit.  Three months?  No.  No no no nope pass.

PS your BIL is a *wheelchair user*, not wheelchair bound.

If this a huge violation of privacy then lifeguards are touching people without consent to get them out of the water.

No that's not green that is blue. No that's aqua. No that's Sea foam. That's goddamn lime green. YOU LOOK AT THIS TEST NOW. WAIT HOW ARE YOU PASSING THIS?

We don’t know what time he goes to work though just said he gets up at three to work out. He may have to be to work at 4:30 who knows?

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

I had scheduled the appointment several months in advance and had to get out of work for the appointment. (The artist was only available wed-sat which is also my work week so it required me requesting time off). There was a bomb threatening a bank in the town that I live in. I was scheduled to get a tattoo appointment in the area of town the bomb threat was in. I didn’t know exactly where the shop was, just that it was in the same general area. The tattoo artist let me know that we may have to reschedule the appointment if the situation was on going, to which I was understanding. The next morning at 8am, the news reported the bomber had been dealt with by FBI and there was no longer an active threat. I communicated with the artist that the situation was resolved. She responded that she was away but would reschedule and asked when I was available wed-sat. I was confused, as I believed that there was no reason to reschedule if the problem was resolved and there were several business’ next to the bank operating normally. Also, I was frustrated that she was only offering to rescheduling on days when I worked, that took several months to get off originally and would also results in more loss of income for me. Furthermore, she was taking 2-4 hours to respond to my messages during our scheduled appointment time. From my perspective, her saying she was away, not responding, and rescheduling despite the situation resolving, indicated that she was using the situation to get out of doing my tattoo. I asked to get a refund (100$ deposit) because it was unclear to me why she was rescheduling and also not be accommodating with rescheduling. She responded by posting on her Instagram story about me lacking humanity and being disgusting for being upset about having an appointment rescheduled due to an active bomb. From my perspective, that’s not why I cancelled. I cancelled because it seems like she was an opportunist and tried getting out of work. Maybe I was making too many assumptions, I’m just frustrated. Am I the asshole?

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

NTA. As a parent, your 1st responsibility is your kids. I had to ban my husband's best friend from our house because of his drug problems. Not around my kids.

Ive never heard it pronounced like that. I thought "gram" was the common pronunciation. Learn something new every day lol

NTA but you did lose me at "my dogs don't like men", hilarious projecting. But for 3 zillion other reasons, of course no strangers in your house

It’s a common pronunciation in the states

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

Birthdays aren’t really a big deal to me. Me and my dad both agree that it’s annoying to get texted all day on our birthdays as well. I have a Facebook, but I rarely go onto that app, and my posts are just auto pulled from IG.

The rest of my family is kinda neurotic about either sending a card or shooting a text on someone’s birthday. One year I forgot my uncles and he made a big deal about it. The next year I did remember but a day late and he made a comment like “well late is better than never, like your brother (who also forgot)”

My mom literally shoots us a message on our family’s bdays to remind us to send a text. I talk to my family in person every few months or so, but some of my only messages with them are just me saying happy birthday every year. I know what days they are all on, but I rarely make the connection on the actual day.

I honestly think it’s kinda ridiculous that I am expected to remember and Text 50+ people (between family and friends) on their day of birth or else I am some kind of monster. If they invite me to celebrate or if I find a perfect gift, I will obviously partake. 

I am just tired of having to mark in my calendar to send an obligatory text because people want validation of their existence. I brought it up with my sister and she kinda made me feel like I am expected to do so but I feel if I were a man, it would not be that big of a deal. AITAH?

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

I’m not American. Not British either.

I hate catholic weddings for this very reason. An early wedding (got to get it in before the afternoon Saturday service). Then they break for a couple of hours. And then meet up at the reception later in the evening. It’s not horrible if you live nearby, still bad but not horrible, but those that don’t live nearby and just have to twiddle their thumbs? Awful. Absolutely awful. 

Edit: forgot YTA

NTA.  OR wrap up a booby gift and leave it - make it look super appealing.  

A book about stealing 😄

Devils advocate here, but my mom was a wedding planner for over a decade. While there are transition times between the ceremony and party, they have to have a tight flow time. When the wedding party is doing the pictures, that’s the cocktail time for the guests to get to introduce themselves and pre-party. So, when the bride and groom arrive, everyone is ready and have become one big family to celebrate. IMHO, you are hosting the day and need to figure out how to fill out any down time. Leaving it up to your guests to wander around in their nice clothes saying what do we do now? is not good party planning. Sooo, YTA for thinking you only needed to plan the parts where you were actually present.

Really depends on where they are. In America, it'll be gram, but in Britain it's gonna be a lot closer to gray-am.

nta, why does your dog need to eat every 8 hours? or do you mean 8 hrs between breakfast & dinner??

Try to remember that someone else always has it worse than you do.  For example, my mom was 29, had 6 kids ages 2-13 and was diagnosed with bilateral breast cancer and had a double mastectomy and was undergoing chemo and radiation therapy.  We lived way out in the country with only a couple neighbors nearby.  She was an only child so no siblings to rely on, her husband, our dad, worked for the federal government and traveled extensively for his job, her parents lived in another state. She just had to figure shit out and do the best she could.  Us kids had to step up.  Instead of being an asshole, why not be appreciative that your situation wasn’t worse, because it could have been.

In a just world you get got by the local homeless schizo

NTA. If cousin didn’t want her parents knowing all her business she shouldn’t have invited them to harass you.

Graham is the usual spelling of that name

As a non American who has known more than one person with that name I expected something much worse than ‘She’s pronouncing my son’s name correctly!!’  

The US version is hilariously metric. I’d nickname him Ounces just for the lol.

It was a combination of everything. The breach of trust was the beginning and the neglect from Friday to Saturday was the breaking point. I wanted to kick her out since the first night, but it was hard finding care and I figured that during the work week she would be calm. I was afraid that being Saturday, she would bring someone else through the back door. 

I also wanted them to know. They are the main caretakers of the little girl. My cousin lives with them and is 100% dependent on them. I think it is important for them to know the risk she is putting her little girl under.

NTA You trusted a grown adult to act like an adult. Hope your dogs are ok.

NTA

If being a lawyer isn't good enough for her, you need to let her find someone else who can meet her exacting standards.  She isn't being reasonable.

NTA even if he was still in the tree...I wouldn't feel bad.

Next time, call the fire department. Works for cats

I have been to a few Catholic weddings like this as well. It is annoying, like well now what do we do? Especially after the long Catholic ceremony. I'm saying this as a Catholic.

They were playing Twister.😝😈

It's a curtain rod. She can literally do it herself.

Except it was both. She didnt want a strange man in her house AND she wanted her dogs taken care of. 
Why did the cousin have to be so irresponsible at 32?

What are the extra porcine letters in there for if all that's needed is "gram"?

'it's fine, it's doing it job and up?!?!'

24 who’s had a 4 year relationship with a partner who was 18 when the relationship started? 
Get fucked, dude

I went to a wedding like that.  We went back to our hotel room and watched My Cousin Vinny.  It was fine.

NTA.  Make sure as best you can that nothing is missing and I'd consider changing the locks.   She disrespected your and your home and now is trying to play the victim.

Soft YTA, your kid is going to have tons of random nicknames over their lives, you will only get to chose the ones you give him. Especially as it's a grandparent, that's their job. Heck, as an aunt I gave my latest nephew a nickname in the womb. It was "Tadpole" 🤣😂

I think you misunderstood. They originally said "Assuming you've no spouse yourself, and no in-laws, father, nor grandparents to pinch hit, you're **still** offside." They are saying that even when assuming the worst case scenario where you don't have any family, you're still in the wrong for cussing your mom out.

We also live in an old house; the floors are not level with the ceiling, and so forth. We measure carefully, then finish up with the Eyeball Test to make sure we are both happy with the results. It really is a two-person job.

To me vaping in this specific situation is worse as there's a long term damage and higher chance to die due to asthma.

The adults failed both OP and sister.

They may. It's not absolute.

OP needs to check tenancy laws in their area. They would be stuck having to go thru a formal eviction process if the in-laws decided they didn’t want to leave when the 3 months is up.

**Hello, Vital550 - your post has been removed.**

#Read the following information carefully and completely. Message the mods with any questions. 

This post violates Rule 6: There is no interpersonal conflict here for our community to make a judgment about. 

Rule 6 FAQs ||| Subreddit Rules

**Do not repost, including edited versions, without receiving explicit approval via modmail.** Reposting will lead to a ban.

Please visit r/findareddit to see if there's a more appropriate sub for your post.

I totally agree I was out of line. I just do not agree with what else you said, she knew everything when she gave birth (yes, her choices in life, I can't control it, I will not control it.) My hubby deploying was a surpise to all of us. He has never left us this long. (Idk, I do not mean to come off so ignorant or harsh but I think this concussion is messing with my emotions and I did not realize it until I read that comment and took a step back and thought about how I acted and how I felt moody today., now that I said that, I have to annouce I was not moody towards my toddler)

So basically you have 2toddlers. NTA

Your husband needs to realize that you both have a child, a child that needs love and stability and he needs to feel safe. Your husband is expecting your child to bend to his schedule and his will and that's just not how parenting works. 

YTA IF you continue to allow this dynamic around your child.

Tell her you are there for her when it gets bad. She’s been brainwashed so don’t slam the door on her.

That sounds nearly identical to what Dean in supednatural says lol

NTA, I’d stay clear of him because he says one thing but wants another and is extremely unreasonable.

ESH

I hate this frenemy shit. You must have known laughing in her face and telling her that the guy only wants to fuck her would make her doubledown. 

She did a stupid dangerous thing to prove you wrong

You didn't help to 'teach her a lesson' (what are you, a witch from a fairytale?)

You called her your 'bestie' but also in the same breath said her only redeeming quality is her looks, the *same thing you say all the guys want from her*. 

I mean--exhausting.

You know you can be friends with people you actually like, right? Both of you need to grow up imo

Okay I'm confused because Graham is not an uncommon name and I've only ever heard it pronounced "gram."

NTA.

You guys don’t seem compatible and she will look down on you if your earn less than her. Do you really want someone that their respect is conditional?

To back this up, i thought Graham.....as in Graham cracker. Was pronounced Gram, like Kilogram. Is it actually "Gra-ham"

Im in the uk and we dont really have the crackers, but in reading the original name id pronounce it like "Gray-um" 

Google Graham Norton - irish comedian.... find an audio clip and that's my basis for how its pronounced.

As a self proclaimed wacky mom who gave her kids fifteen million nicknames and never understood why some people are anti nicknames, I still say NTA. But it’s not going to be easy to get her to stop. TBH, you’re better off ignoring it and hoping she stops on her own. But yeah, totally not the ah because you’re allowed to correct ppl with names

Unexpected twist:  OP and their friend are in their 70s.

NTA

Your roommate's GF is not a tenant or a roommate. She doesn't pay for the space or utilities she is using. Her personal challenges are hers and not yours. That doesn't mean you don't care. Your roommate hasn't even discussed this with you or asked if this is OK with you. He actually has no moral right to be offended by your comment.

NTA

What your cousin did is animal abuse. She cheated on her boyfriend.  She lied about everything.

Block her on all platforms and go no contact. She's bad news. With relatives like that, who needs enemies?

Literally every American I know pronounces it 'Gram'.

NTA. Tell him she needs to pay one third rent and utilities. And that she's not on the lease but is essentially living there. No way I'm having a third-party in my home when the roommate is gone.  She has to go.

Worst advice ever. It'll start with the name, then it'll be food you don't want him to have, and then bed time. She will undermine everything you Wan by that she doesn't believe in. 
What you permit, you promote.

The title alone makes YTA. It’s not about the fucking curtain rod and you know that

I still think that an audiobook you have no context with is frustrating to listen to. Too much to keep track of when you’re not invested and not caught up. 

That’s another thing though. If he always says he doesn’t care, then I think that this instance, the one time where he obviously *did* care, you could’ve let him finish his video.

I did 2 hours between start of the ceremony and start of the cocktail hour. It was a 30-40 minute drive, which wasn't ideal. We got married at the college we met at and had our reception in the town we planned to live in. My ceremony ended up running over due to a medical emergency and we evened up starting the cocktail hour late because everyone was delayed getting there. Probably the exception, not the rule, but I felt like if everything went according to plan the timing would have been perfect.

NTA Don’t do the crime if you can’t do the time.

NTA - sorry but all these people expecting to be entertained for 2 hours are entitled. They're adults that can organise things for themselves! Stop expecting an already expensive event to be overly catered for! It's not like 2 hours is very long. Jesus.

seems like the grandma doubled down on not saying the kids name, and when asked to say it, instead of doing that she’s calling the kid an alternative name “grans.” unless the grandma literally can not pronounce it, it is a bit odd

NTA . You churchin’ folk are an easy mark.

Totally agree. There is more going on here that OP is conveniently omitting.

\^\^\^ an actual adult correctly addressing the situation.

I thought GF in the title meant girlfriend and thought this was going to be an insane polyamory story lol

NTA. There's no forgiveness when there's no accountability for his past errors. He looks on track for making more of them and wants your forgiveness so you can't bring up your past experience when he continues to make the same errors as he did in the past.

No. And keep an eye on your mother. He might be exerting pressure on her as well. If she says you're bitter, remind her that you were telling the bitter truth. He can't undo past damage and he's not even trying.

I feel like it being pronounced the way you said as “Gray-am” is very different than emphasizing “Ham”.

I programmed my iPhone to replace the two separate characters with the proper one. I also have a shruggie programmed in for quick access.

¯\_(ツ)_/¯

YTA It's just a nickname. You've never given someone a nickname before? Maybe she has a hard time getting his name so she gave him one that's easier. That's how many nicknames work. It's not that serious

Don't start no shit there wont be no shit. The cousin went and tattled to her parents, they should expect the full broadside of truth to come back at them, including using OP's home to cheat on their boyfriend.

Just checked you out. All you do is “answer” questions so you can feel superior. Get a life off the internet and stop letting high school hurt you 🥱

Her parents needed to know that she’s putting her daughter in danger, too.

Is it possible your mom has hearing issues?  My father gave everyone what we thought was a nickname, but it turned out it's what he actually heard.

Otherwise, NTA.  Your kid gets to be called what you want him/her to be called.

You know that if you want something done right, you have to do it yourself, right? I'd never ask my husband to hang ANYTHING. It would all be crooked.

Wait,  so she’s being verbally harassed by someone and she’s not allowed to defend herself because…? It’s tattling? Pretty sure that ship sailed when the older cousin did it first.

Or the kid can sleep in their own room.

Sure, IATA, but I do not think so, they did not read my post where it says my spouse is deployed.  I also would have taken advantage of other family if they were still living and this post would not be made.

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > I was with one of my friends and he was not talking to me, I thought that he was mad at me because when we were sitting together he just got up and left. He then proceeded to climb up a tree because I thought that he was trying to escape me. So I decided to leave. Later he texted me that I left him stuck in a tree for 40 minutes, and says I’m an asshole.

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

She's in her 30's and still acting like a child. If she didn't want her parents to know what was going on she should have kept her mouth shut and not involved them.   

"Cousin just how drunk were you.  Did you really think that after you complained to your parents and left out the details they were not going to defend you.  Were you  still so hung over that you didn't think about when they called me and started complaining about how I treated you that I wouldn't tell them the truth as to why I did what I did. You messed up but instead of just saying sorry and going on with life like and adult you had to go crying to your parents because your cousin was mean to you."

And she doesn’t HAVE to choose her ADULT children every time. She’s allowed to prioritize other people….including her own sister who just gave birth and has 4 other children to care for at home. You blame your aunt for her situation (ie. having multiple children with a deadbeat) and as a result you don’t think she deserves to be supported by your mom when you also could use support. How would you feel if your aunt tried to blame you for your situation…marrying and having a child with a man who would be regularly deployed leaving you without a partner to support you? 

I understand your frustration and I’m sorry you’re dealing with a lot but how you treated your mother was unfair & wrong and an AH move. Just because you’re her daughter does NOT make you more important than other members of her family that she is close to.

Agreed, but the word you're looking for is "they're", not "there".

Your mom is being affectionate with her grandchild.

This seems like a really stupid line in the sand you've drawn.

My paternal grandmother had nicknames for me and my two sisters and they eventually didn't stick and we're none to the worse off for having had them.

Lighten up, Francis.

Your wedding, your rules. It’s nice to be considerate of the guests but NTA if this is what made your day special.

She knows. I only have the front door Ring Camera and would sometimes say hi to me through there. A few minutes after the guy arrived, she walked him towards the driveway and it looked like he left. My guess is she wanted to make it seem like he left then brought him back in through the back door.

YTA. Cocktail hour gives them something to do while you do the pictures.  Especially if there's nothing around you to do. You expect people to leave, sit around dressed up for hours, the come back? Lame

I had a friend named John- his nickname was Craig. Weird? Yes. But if he didn’t care no one else should

NTA. Letting a strange man into your house and leaving your dogs alone for 15 hours is a huge breach of trust, and once she lied to your aunt and uncle and made herself the victim, she opened herself up to your telling the truth. Plus it sounds like her parents need to know about the risks to her daughter.

Fair enough. I guess if I could sort of do a task but not well, I just wouldn’t agree to do it. But I suppose that is hard in a marriage.

This is a wild take!

This is her MOTHER. It’s Graham’s GRANDMOTHER.

OP is annoyed and hasn’t even spoken to her own mother yet and you want her to BEGIN WITH, stop it or you cannot see your grandchild?!?!?

It is just a nickname. Have a simple conversation without resorting to, “or we are cutting you out of our life.”

NTA. I don't wanna even stay with myself for three months.  Hard no for me.  Three weeks maybe.

Yeah, I was expecting that but damn you do not know my entire life to say I am no peach, This is a one off incident and it is crazy people just assume.

NTA: She behaved irresponsibly, put your home and your dogs at risk by having a strange man over. Then tried to defame you, so you showed receipts. She’s unreliable and unrepentant.

i mean he didn’t expect me to watch it. i think he expected me to just drive lol

Based on your story, anyone claiming you’re the asshole is dead wrong, period.

Nevermind a stranger in my home, but I would be absolutely out of my mind enraged if I had a dog sitter (family or not) that left for that many hours. That is dog abuse if anything and worth reporting even. I swear I hope you have a doggy door for those poor animals to get outside… Fucking bananas, I’m so sorry this happened to you. 

I’ve had some people do stupid shit in my house too and I forever regret not having cameras, good on you for being able to keep an eye out. 

NTA!

3 months is way too long for a visit. 

It doesn’t seem like your wife would agree to a shorter visit. If I were in your shoes, I would stay somewhere else and let the wife deal with her relatives. Though, it may be hard and more expensive to find separate accommodations but avoiding the stress might be worth it.

Nta. I'd never let her into your house again. Also how are your dogs?

YTA. You're 31 and she's 32? They're absolutely no reason to tell her parents something like that. If you're mad at her for doing that, discuss it with her, not her parents. 
Someone's inevitably going to say "OP told her parents do they could talk to her about being safe around strangers!"
BS. First of all, they should have already had that conversation 20 years ago and it clearly didn't work. The only reason for telling them now is to try and get her in trouble with her parents.

Not everybody pronounces that name the same. Im British and say it like your mom. It can be hard to completely change the way you say something and it not sound weird. I live in the US and have this issue with a few words. I sound strange trying to say the name Kara like an American.

the whole point of adult education is that shes supposed to actually learn this stuff, not just collect a piece of paper. had a friend whose mom pulled this same stunt with an online degree and she literally couldnt do the job she got hired for. youre doing her a favor by saying no tbh

I’ve had this happen, it’s brutal. Having long legs is awful for leg room and pants lol

NTA in theory but I would have been afraid for her safety and helped her. That's a dangerous situation.  I hope she's learned and does not continue to be so naïve.  Of course he wanted to hook up. That's the whole purpose.

Did I ask for judgment over my post or my personal life? My post. You do not know my personal life for you to be nasty.

No. We should assume that if she asked her husband and he said yes that he was okay doing it. The question is if you have someone hang a rod, is expecting it to be level/straight unreasonable? No. It's not.

Nta. She got them involved, not you.

YTA – Are you going to police his friends/classmates when he goes to school? His teachers? You can’t control what other people choose to be his name or nickname only your son can. He will decide whether or not to respond to what he likes soon enough.

so basically youre saying she gets to profile you and then make you do emotional labor to fix her wrong assumption. thats not how any of this works lol. im white passing mixed too and the number of times ive had to pull out family photos like some kind of racial receipt is exhausting. you dont owe strangers your ancestry to avoid their snap judgments

Judging you on a judgment sub is completely normal.

Respectfully chill out.

NTA. How are you supposed to watch a video while driving? Your bf is being ridiculous.

NTA- and now you know, you can’t trust her.

You are choosing a very strange battle. I have about 8 nicknames for my grandson. She loves your son and that’s what matters.

But it sounds like she was genuinely looking at all dresses. I mean I HATE shopping. But know people who take it all  very seriously and try on billions of things. And that is just casually.

Luvveli is perfect when I’m in the mood for hookups. It’s user-friendly and the hookups are usually hot and fun.

NTA, textbook abusive relationship. There isn't much you can do and it really sucks. I'm sorry OP, it's not easy

he doesn’t ask me for explanations 😭 i just like talking to him about what im listening to. i usually ask him if he wants to listen to the book or music before driving and he always says he doesn’t care.

the math here is bleak as hell. six days total, he wants three of them essentially solo, and the 'compromise' is dragging a toddler through 18 holes of mexican heat. my dude already golfed this exact course four times two years ago, its not like hes chasing some bucket list moment. this is just him wanting to relive his boys trip while youre stuck doing all the actual family vacation labor

I had a traditional Catholic wedding and we went directly to the lunch reception. There is no reason for guests who gave their time to celebrate to go hungry or be bored. A month later; went to a wedding with a five hour gap. People were getting cranky and even did not come back. Many people who went to both and said going from wedding to lunch immediately was smart. I was shocked to learn because I at that point like you have been to many Catholic weddings, and they always went directly to the reception.

You don't really get to decide the nicknames other people have for your kid. It's her way of being affectionate. As soon as he goes to school he'll have more nicknames. You can't control that. He can tell her to stop if it bothers him, but if it doesn't bother him and the nickname is not offensive then there is no real reason to be upset

True but they weren't asking, you know? It's a bit too strongly worded to be constructive

OP edited the post to add that information. It's possible that the original commenter was looking at the original version of the post when they made their comment. So you shouldn't criticize their reading comprehension.

I had this happen to me once. I lived an hour away and the only people I knew were in the wedding party who did photos and then bar hopping during the two hour Gap time.

I was by myself and an hour I said F it and just went home and skipped the reception.

Nope. My mother tried that with my son. Said I gave him an old man name she was going to call him a traditional nickname that made no sense. Think Edward/Teddy. 
I told her point blank his name is Edward and you can call him Edward or we won’t be visiting. 
This wasn’t something that she fought, but still ended up NC.

I mean like not the asshole in the situation, but posting it here was setting your friend up to be called a whore and whatever horribly misogynistic things faceless people on this app can conjure up. 

She didn’t make a smart decision but you’re dumb if you didn’t think the responses of a community like this on Reddit was going to ever going to say a woman putting herself in a less than ideal situation was wrong over her nice guy friend.

I guess I think back to all the times that I did something for the house that wasn't "good enough" even though I felt like I was going above and beyond. Like no it's not perfect, but if you wanted it a certain way do it yourself! Or give me feedback while it's happening. 

I can relate to that feeling of putting in a lot of work, then being criticized instead of helped or appreciated.

She’ll need you later. Try to not be too mad, she is going thorough things. Can you be the bigger person and wait for her to come back around?

But that was in OP's control just because your friend is fine or likes the kids joining. You can say no.

YTA 

Unless he objects, I don’t see how this is a fight worth fighting. Just let her call him what she wants.

You're on a sub asking for judgement and are surprised people are judging?

NTA. Your MIL plans and you two are just supposed to do what she wants? Also, it's now three months every year but if the heat starts earlier and lasts longer those three months will extend depending on the home country thermometer?

I understand being a climate refugee but wouldn't it be better off to make a sustainable planning? Assuming that family = free space does not qualify. If this will be every year other arrangements have to be made, starting with this year. 

Also, the inconvenience is exactly why you need the boundaries. If you had a mansion and could park them in the north wing and never have to see them during their stay the situation would be different. But losing three months of much of your living space and privacy sounds not merely inconvenient, it's impossible. Maybe they can negotiate a three-month stay with a hotel? Or register as house-sitters and find someone who loves to have their home occupied, pets fed and plants watered while they are off on a cruise?

Let it go….your son will eventually correct her if he wants.

Ridiculous. She’s saying his name wrong. It’s like calling a girl named Tara (rimes with Sarah), Tara (like tear a piece of paper). Or a guy named Louis (like St Louis) Louie. 

Further, if it’s a young kid it’s entirely appropriate to ask family to use the child’s actual name until they decide if they’re okay with a kick name. 

Parents name the kid and others don’t get to decide to call the kid the wrong name.

You know your little one better than anyone, even your husband. So do what *you* feel is best. Just know you can't give your little one too many cuddles!

I just (jokingly) give my husband shit for having more shoes, and more expensive, than I do! 😜

(He has lots of specialized shoes like water shoes and hiking boots)

The fact that he’s asking for explanations I think kind of proves that it’s frustrating for him. 

He’s not tuning it out when you have it on (that would be hard), and each time that you listen ahead a few chapters without him, it just gets more and more confusing because he doesn’t know what’s going on. So he needs more and more explanations. 

He’s reached the point where he doesn’t want to hear it anymore, doesn’t want the explanations, and would rather just get his own entertainment.

I’m sorry; that sounds incredibly stressful. Your husband’s unregulated reactions definitely aren’t helping. 

I don’t have any practical advice other than to keep trying (and don’t give up hope) until you find a system that works for your family and is sustainable long-term. But you can’t do this all on your own; your husband seems to need a bit of a reset on his priorities and how to parent IMO.

That’s Oz-WEE-pay, mom!

YTA don’t name your kid weird old names if your gonna insist on weird new pronunciations, it’s not actually ‘gram’ it just sounds like it

NTA these comments are all so weird. he's displaying weapons editing incompetence. his reaction shows me that he didn't want to do this job in the first place, so he intentionally messed it up in order to not have to deal with it any further. you cannot rely in his help because he's the intentionally incompetent AH

Except at school were it becomes a sexual orientation slur

INFO: Why did you need the extra letters?

Graham pronounced “Gram” is very close to a tragedieh.

NTA. If your cousin didn't tell her parents you treated her badly, you would not have shown them the video evidence of the reality of the situation. Regardless, they needed to know about this for the safety of their granddaughter. It does not seem that your cousin is sober. And she's certainly not reliable.

OP coukd have said at any time my kids can't come.

YTA but please update this if anything more happens

They accounted for that. They're saying you're still the AH even if you have no other family who can help you because of how you treated your mother.

Right?! The comments on my other comment had me 😭 their poor babies.

I've got a name with three pronounciations. When my family or me say my name, obviously we have a preferred pronounciation.

But I don't really care if people emphasize a different syllable. It's like speaking in accents.  Whatever, as long as people aren't calling me a totally different name like "Kimmy" instead of "Catharine".

I got tired of people asking if they're saying my name right, then trying over and over to emphasize differently and get it perfect.  I'm not a language instructor, I'm just trying to do an introduction.  Now when they ask if they say it right, if it's remotely close I just say yes.

A lot of these comments are odd trying to “correct” you of the proper pronunciation of the name you gave YOUR kid lmao. It’s understandable that you’re irked by it, like just say his name correctly. it’s one syllable. especially if you said something and she keeps doing it. NTA

NTA 

She's an adult. She didn't have to whine to Mommy and Daddy, but she chose to do so. You merely set the story straight.

Your aunt and uncle are also assholes, because it wasn't their business but they stuck their nose in anyway.

How is OP too self righteous? All he was doing was trying to prevent a friend from making a very dumb decision that she unfortunately followed through with and had to deal with the consequences.

I only told them after they started attacking me based on her version of events.

NTA.  Had you jumped straight to telling them, you would have been as your cousin is an adult.  However, she tried to defame you, and you have every right to protect your reputation.

Why did you need to mention her guest?
Why couldn’t you have just said she left your dogs unattended from 6 pm Friday until 4 pm Saturday?

You didn’t kick her out because of the man, you kicked her out because she was neglecting the dogs.

you're not the asshole here. wanting your space to look good, especially when you're on camera all the time, is totally valid. he should be able to take some constructive criticism, especially if he had trouble in the first place. communication is key, maybe try talking it out later.

you're not the asshole here. bedtime is all about what works for your kid, and your husband's early bedtime is messing with that. it sounds like a bit of communication could help, but it should definitely be about what’s best for your toddler's comfort first.

You said in your OP that you wanted it to be rehung, not that you were going to do it yourself.

Interesting read of the situation. I think it’s amazing to see how our own experiences form our perceptions. 
I would have read it as her mom just having trouble with the pronunciation. And after being told that her pronunciation is wrong, she just gave him a nickname, which just so happened to annoy OP as well.

yeah, you were wrong for how you handled it, but it's understandable considering your situation. being a single parent is rough, especially when you're injured. maybe you could try to talk it out with your mom once you're feeling better and tell her you just needed support.

not the a**hole, sounds like your husband needs to chill a bit. toddlers aren't robots and need comfort to wind down. you’ve got a good routine going, maybe suggest he finds a way to cope with the situation instead of trying to force everyone into his schedule.

Sounds like you’re still whining and crying. Imagine stalking someone’s Reddit page so you can respond to every comment. Maybe your peers were right about you being a weirdo hm?

you're definitely overwhelmed but you might've gone too hard on your mom. understandable to be upset when you need help, but maybe a convo after you're feeling better could clear the air

Oh wow, how'd you guess that's what it should have said?

My son is a Graeme (Gaelic spelling of Graham). We call him crackers. Or Graeme Cracker. Poor kid thought his middle name was cracker for a bit there.

We also say his gangster name is Baby G.

Kids get nicknames. It just happens. When kiddo is older, he will say if he doesn't like it or not.

You didn’t address the situation at hand

I will be repainting the bathroom and adding a screen to the outside of the small hopper window to help with spider reduction. 

You expect him to make his own medical appointments, but you'll be on the hook for making a bathroom "more accommodating" because he doesn't like the wall color?  That is absolutely batshit to me.  He can make his own appointments *and* paint a few fuggin' walls.  My god.

ESH

Putting a video when the book was turned off for not having noise is mean.

Putting the book up again when the video was playing and putting it louder so it hears over it is ah too.

None of you said each other a word, you just fighted with volumes like childs.

"Hey, just 2 more minutes i finish this 12 minutes video" or "hey, i will put my book up again, i want to keep hearing it"  would have been a way more nice way to solve this non issue

Not ALLOWING you to buy your own shoes seems oddly controlling. 

The only clothes I have ever bought for my husband as a routine thing is socks and underwear cause I know his size and brand. Plus the occasional funny Tshirt if is see one I think he would like. Never ever would I buy all of his clothes and definitely not shoes.

that really sucks, I'm sorry you're going through this. it sounds like there's a lot more going on with her and this guy than she's letting on, and it's tough to feel left out after being so close for so long. maybe try to talk to her again and get her to open up about what’s really going on.

man that's a tough spot to be in. it really sucks when someone you care about makes huge life changes and doesn't include you, especially after all you've been through together. just try to give her some space but don’t let go of that bond completely if you can help it.

the avocados thing sent me tbh, my dad used to do this exact shit with phone calls. youre not crazy, this is called parentification and its a documented form of emotional neglect. the fact that theyre dangling basic needs over your head when you set boundaries is the real tell here, not the chores themselves

Or, could it be bc she’s a grandma and is forming a bond with her grandchild?  I’m so sorry you see the worst in people and that your mom sucked or you just have such shitty people in your life.

you’re definitely not the asshole here. you gave her a chance and she totally violated your trust, especially with your dogs involved. sounds like you handled it as best as you could considering the situation.

By spending a lot of money to fly her out to south beach and house her…sure he just wanted to hang out.

You think you both might be assholes. Jenna is a perfectly normal diminutive for Genevieve.

Thank you. I will take the minor one lolol. I am going to be taking advantage of that and figuring it out tomorrow.

this is giving major 'i cant win so ill move the goalposts' energy from your mom. shes not 'forgetting' the pronunciation, shes performing forgetfulness to maintain control. grans sounds like a medication for elderly joint pain, not a childs name. nta but good luck, shes made this about her authority not the actual name

you definitely sound overwhelmed and it's a rough situation, but cursing your mom out isn’t gonna help anything. maybe try to have a calmer conversation with her later when you're feeling better, just so you can sort things out.

NTA houseguests should be two votes yes as to who comes and how long they stay. I’d tell your wife you can only do two weeks and then they can go visit someone else. I’d tell her it’s not just that length of time, it’s the expectation and habit of taking care of BIL, which mil is prepping you to do when she’s gone.

NTA, your husband's expectations are way out of whack

What's the long term plan for husband to act like a dad? What's the plan when the kid has soccer, gymnastics, school events that go later than 6:30? Dad needs to realize that kids needs take priority and adjust his schedule accordingly.

She has zero boundaries. NTA. Politely let her know that until she can correctly enunciate his name and call him strictly by that, you feel she shouldn’t have access to him.

I'm actually french and, while we don't like people trying to cut the line, keeping a spot for someone else is perfectly fine. It's like keeping the seat in a bar or a restaurant, even if it's full, nobody will be pissed because I have two empty seats.

If op is actually incapable of hanging it they should really include the context in the post

you're not the a-hole here at all. your cousin seriously crossed some major boundaries, especially with that guy in your house and neglecting the dogs. she needs to take responsibility for her actions instead of playing the victim. keep your ground, you did what you had to for your pets' safety.

Thank you, these comments are not it. This is very kind and I will do that.

It won’t stick. I named my son with his first and middle name starting with a J, my parents didn’t like it and tried calling him JJ. It didn’t catch and they call him by his first name or bubba (he’s a younger brother to his sister). Just tell him that sounds horrible every time, she’ll eventually stop.

I am not trying to guilt trip her over anything, I am frustrated because she does not choose her children every time. She is always people pleasing. Did I react wrong? Yes. This is just pent up frustration and I am in dealing with a lot.

YTA: you can try and control what other people call your son but you can’t. In this case, it sounds like your mum loves your son. She has given him nickname out of love. My son is William. He is call Will, WillYam, Will I Am, Bill, Billy, Wilhelm, Liam, by various family members. Each person is demonstrating love by giving a slightly different name. When he started school he chose one for himself. That’s the one you can try in enforce.

sounds like you and your husband need to find a compromise here. it's tough juggling a toddler's routine with differing sleep schedules. maybe try a sleep training method or adjust your husband's workout to ease the stress during bedtime.

you’re definitely not the asshole here. she put your dogs and her kid at risk and then tried to spin it like she was the victim. not cool at all. you had to look out for your pets and yourself, and it sounds like you gave her multiple chances to do the right thing.

you're not the asshole here. it's your kid and your choice how his name is used. just gotta be real with her about what you want for him.

Teens get into unhealthy relationships and can stay together long time without learning key skills.
Does that make better sense to you?

Light YTA, based on the assumption that you are the one managing your toddler’s sleep routine. 
Your toddler should probably start sleeping independently, your own bedroom should be a peaceful place for yourself and your husband to rest when needed

NTA, it's a legit request to have it straight. Renovating your space means you wanna keep it looking nice, and he should be cool with fixing it.

You are an adult, do what you want.

you definitely reacted out of frustration, but it sounds like you're in a tough spot. maybe talk to your mom when you're feeling better and explain how you really needed her help at that moment.

NTA if she’s just refusing to pronounce his name properly I’d take a long break from her 

Can she actually pronounce his name correctly? (My grandparents were from another country and mispronounced some of our friends names which turned into funny nicknames.) 

She could just be trying waaay too hard to make her own special nickname for him. I get it, it’s annoying, but there are worse things.

that’s so tough man, it sounds like she’s made some wild choices and is kinda shutting you out. try talking to her when you can, let her know how you feel, but also be ready for her to be defensive about it.

I mean I think everyone pronounces it Gray-ham other than a small amount of specifically accented Americans. 
It’s not really incorrect, she’s speaking correctly, you just don’t like it. Those are two different things.
I would let this go. 
YTA

NTA she not only didn't do what you needed her to do for your dogs health, but she allowed a stranger into your home. And I guarantee they weren't playing monopoly all night

NTA. I was willing to die on the hill of the nickname my MIL called my son. You have to decide if this is worth the fight though

**Hello, NoMycologist9798 - your post has been removed.**

#Read the following information carefully and completely. Message the mods with any questions. 

This post violates Rule 6: There is no interpersonal conflict here for our community to make a judgment about. 

Rule 6 FAQs ||| Subreddit Rules

**Do not repost, including edited versions, without receiving explicit approval via modmail.** Reposting will lead to a ban.

Please visit r/findareddit to see if there's a more appropriate sub for your post.

YTA. 

You can have opinions about your kid’s nickname but it really will end up being out of your control.   His friends will pick a nickname for him. His partner will make a nickname for him.    

I called my ex Bubba.  For years.  His mom didn’t care for it.   But it was my nickname for him.  He answered to it.  Some of my friends called him by it.  I had friends who asked, “who?” when I said his nickname that he used every day.   He had a friend who called him by his initials.  We are talking random letters, like BKS.  They don’t make a word or have any other significance.   They’re just nicknames.  It’s fine.

According to most commenters here she must be. I was thinking the same as you. I feel so bad for people who get so easily bothered and think everything is malicious.

Okay you are right I meant "I'm glad you didn't become a homosapiens dr. if you think they are hairless apes, most is not all have hair. They have less hair true, but they are not hairless. 

Edit: por que no los dos?

Do you not like your mom?

you're not wrong to feel crushed, that's a huge change in a relationship that meant a lot to you. it's wild that she didn't include you in such a big decision, especially after everything you've been through together. maybe give it some time and try talking to her about how you're feeling when the dust settles.

you’re definitely not the asshole here. it’s wild that she would keep something this big from you after everything you've been through together. it sounds like she’s caught up in some pretty sketchy stuff and needs to realize that family should be a priority. hopefully she comes back to her senses before it’s too late.

you're not the asshole, that’s honestly a lot to juggle in such a short time. it’s okay to take a step back if it’s overwhelming, they can be more mindful of scheduling these events too.

NTA, but also it really isn’t that big of a deal? We literally called both of my kids “baby” for the first 6 months of their lives, my mom (their nana) has called them approximately 100 million different nicknames and they change prettt constantly until they get older, or if they stick for a specific reason. I really don’t think the nickname will last, and if it does, it’s just something ONE person calls him, it will be okay. At the end of the day, you are mom and if you don’t like it, you are allowed to say something.

i don't think you're the asshole here. sounds like you're just trying to establish a calming routine for your kid while your husband's expectations are pretty rigid. maybe some compromise is needed, like reevaluating his workout schedule or finding a middle ground that eases the tension at bedtime.

I had no idea that it had a different pronunciation other than Gray-am.

My mom gave one of my kids a weird nickname.  I told him he could ask her not to use it, but he never did.  We all survived.

you're not the asshole here. you trusted her to watch your dogs and she totally blew it, plus bringing a stranger into your home is a huge red flag. if she can't handle that responsibility, it makes sense to let her parents know what happened.

YTA  I am an event manager, bartender, and staff member to a few catering companies in my medium sized city. That is completely unheard of as a staff member and a member of a very large family that has lots of weddings as well.

NTA but you also don’t sound like much fun. Nicknames are silly and unique, you don’t have to use it personally if you don’t like it. I call my son “Nugget” which has evolved into “nuggie bug” or “buggie” none of these names are even close to his actual name but it doesn’t matter. When he’s old enough he can choose if he doesn’t want to be called something and it’s important to respect that. At the early stage, it seems pretty harmless

This! It's such a non issue.

Assuming you did not read my post, my SPOUSE IS DEPLOYED AND HIS PARENT'S ARE DEAD (WHICH I DO NOT THINK I SHOULD MENTION BC I WOULD HAVE ASKED THEM FOR HELP ALREADY AND MY GRANDPARENT'S ARE ALSO DEAD).

What’s your mom’s name? Why not have some fun with it and see how she feels

Usually (at least where I am) it's drinks and passed hors d'oeuvres prior to a sit down dinner. Drinks are optional of course, especially if someone is driving.

Exactly, as I said : It's common practice and nobody in the line would frown upon it.

Exactly. Hanging a curtain rod isn’t exactly a high-level skill that takes an experienced pro. And as my parents always said, if you want something done right, do it yourself.

Only if it's the top comment.

You said “they were so kind as to bring US”….So you introduce her to gf, she likes it, you don’t have enough to share and get mad at her because you think she ‘has the option’ to eat gf? Why don’t you be a little less selfish, share, and find something else gf you can eat? Or maybe a way to find more $ to import said muffins? Or hell, why don’t yall learn how to bake and make it a date night thing?

You know what you’re right. That was absolutely projection on my end. Op I apologize for that if you’re not a man. But if you are I stand by what I said.

INFO;

\-does he regularly do a half assed job?

\-are you regularly picky/exacting?

Without this info it is hard to judge.  If this is a one-off, it is not worth stressing over.

Could he have fed the toddler whil eyou hung the curtain rod?  If he does not have an eye for such things, you might have been better off hanging it yourself whil ehe did some other task.

This is abuse and neglect. I’m so sorry but you need to leave. You’ve married a child.

This is so classic Reddit that everything you do that’s not for yourself is a “waste of time”

No, I do not. We moved here to be closer while my husband is deployed and I do not know anyone else but my mom

You don’t have to like it, but it’s not going to change. Try to keep in mind that it comes from a place of love. He will give her a nickname too. 

NAH

Just because it's normal does not make it ok

YTA. You’re ok w her using a nickname, you just don’t like the one she chose. Shes prob tired of hearing you police the way she pronounces his name - like how dare she emphasize the h.  You’re being weird about this.

I've had trouble with guys and colors.  No, that is NOT white, it's beige!  I now have sockets that are white with socket covers that are beige.  Maybe I'll get around to changing that but we currently call it a "design decision!"

Grans could be a nickname short for grandson from your mom. Obviously it triggers you but many grandparents give nicknames. Why does it bug you so much??

Graham (pronounced like gram)

I mean, it isn't, but whatever...

judging me from a post is crazy.

NTA - oh you are my twin! sorta... My little brother and were really close, then he meets this woman who is an alcoholic, then randomly *she has a baby and he signs the birth certificate as the father* \- he doesn't even tell me until the baby is basically born. 

He lets me think this is my new nephew and introduce my daughter to the baby. THEN he gets a paternity test and learns he's NOT the father.

And I am so mad.

So similar to your situation like... I get that he's hiding all this from me because he knows it's embarrassing and weird - I am SURE your sister is doing the same. But you can still be mad and want better for her

OP never said that they are a man, so what are you on about?

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > I might be the asshole because I told my aunt and uncle that their daughter took a strange man into my house while dog sitting.

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

Tbh, get over it. It’s never that deep and I’m simply answering a question.

Anger is often masking another emotion that is harder for us to acknowledge. I think, rather than being angry with your sister and lashing out, you should ask yourself what's underlying the anger. Are you scared for her? Fear and worry for her should be your overarching concern. This seems like it's out of character for her and her husband doesn't sound the greatest. She may need some help soon and you'd hate for her to be unable to come to you to help her out of a tough situation, yes? You can tell her you're upset, express your concern, but I wouldn't unleash anger on her.

Sadly, sis may never see it.

INFO: how does your son feel? If he hates it then no you wouldn't be. If he does like it, how does this affect anything? It's a nickname

NTA

Grace is a scammer.

NAH, I mean you picked his name it’s fine to ask that they call him that. However, he’s going to have a nickname at some point in his life. Grans is far better than something one of his peers may pick down the line.

they’re very understanding it’s just the fact they done this before yk

YTA, but a minor one because I don’t know how much having a concussion is affecting your mood. 

I’m so sorry you’re hurt. Someone else said this is good time to find out what resources are available for deployed military spouses, you may be able to get some help that way.

The OP owes it to himself to learn to give constructive feedback, since opportunities for hard constructive feedback comes up rarely, and in the future he might need it.  It is a very valuable skill if you want to, say, go into management.

The book Crucial Conversations is often recommended as a bible to deliver constructive feedback that will be well received and gets results, and that's an extremely useful skill to have as a human being.

YTA you picked on her pronunciation and then mad that she just tried to figure out something else? You gonna unenroll him from life when a friend makes up a nickname for him in school. You gonna not talk to his future gf when she gives him a different name?

I forgot to add that you both also have to decide about centering.  We've lived in old houses where nothing is straight, so do you hang something straight and parallel to the ceiling or to something else.  LOL!

If I was a kid I'd call him Ham Hamster

We flew from VT to CA for a friends wedding. There was a 4 hour gap between the ceremony and reception that we were unaware of until we saw the schedule at the church. Yes, we figured out what to do in the gap but found it annoying. If I lived in the city in which the wedding was held it might have been a different story. When I chose to marry, my partner and I ensured that photos were taken before the ceremony as well as candids during the reception.

She’s being affectionate. You just want a problem

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

hello:( so today me and my friend Q were hanging out for a bit after school, they seemed sad and I asked them what was wrong, it took a while to get an answer and he said that nothing brings him happiness anymor, I suggested that he should eat food(he didn’t eat lunch or breakfas) or that we should go walk to a park nearby. he said no that he was too tired, which I get. but eventually we decided to go to the food carts nearby. at this point he wasn’t talking(sometimes goes nonverba) so we just sat at a table while I scrolled on my phone because he didnt want to talk. this is all ok for me, pretty normal. until he just stands up and kinda jogs away, I get up and follow him because I lowkey feel responsible for him and don’t want him to hurt himself. he runs to a tree nearby and I sit next to him, not trying to talk to him just wanting to make sure he’s safe, he then proceeds to climb up the tree and I this point I’m just really tired of following him. I love q and don’t want him to hurt himself but I constantly feel like I’m baby sitting him. so I decide to leave. I walk back onto the sidewalk and look up at him in the tree (WITH MY HEADPHONES ON) he glances at me a couple times before I decide to walk home. Then he sends me this.(idk why but it won’t let me post pict so I’m gonna type this out:c)

Me: Idk what's wrong but I don't think you want my help so I'm leaving. You worry me but won't let me help you, It's difficult Q

q:thank you so much for leaving me. i was stuck 80 feet in a tree for half an hour i almost fucking died

me:That's not my fault, That's sucks you got stuck

q: you left me, what is wrong with you

me: because you didn’t want me there

q: I was calling for you, I never said that

me: I didn’t hear you I had my headphones on I’m sorry

q: that’s fucked up

me:You left when we were at the food carta. Dude I didn't hear you I'm sorry, You ran away from me then climbed up a tree I thought you wanted to be alone. It's not my fault you got stuck, But I'm still sorry for leaving

q:fuck you man, i could have died. i'm gonna need a break from you, text me back in a week

\*i get that I should’ve made sure he was ok before i left but i felt he didn’t want me there’s and wasn’t responding to anything i said to him.

help

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

This can be very exhausting. Try to find a way to communicate through these smaller issues because the can quickly pile up.

Good luck

Sorry OP, most of the world pronounces the name Graham as Gray-am. Only Americans pronounce it Gram, so it’s really not “incorrect” to pronounce it as two syllables, just as it’s not incorrect to speak in your own accent. Probably should just let that one go or you’re going to spend your whole life correcting people.

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

I (31F) went on an 8-day trip and asked my cousin (32F) to dog-sit. We grew up very close, but our relationship became strained because of her alcoholism. What really pushed me away was when she started taking her infant daughter to parties and getting blackout drunk. Recently, though, she got a job and seemed to be turning things around, so I started trusting her again.

She lives with her parents and has a 4-year-old daughter. Since her job is close to my house and she loves my dogs, she agreed to stay there while I was away. One of my dogs must eat every 8 hours or she gets sick, so I told her to make sure the dogs were fed and had water.

The first night, my Ring camera showed her arriving with her daughter. A few hours later, a strange man showed up. He rang the doorbell and angrily yelled, "I've called you 20 times!" when she answered. She let him inside, and the next morning he walked out of my house.

I was upset. I don't want strangers staying in my home, especially around my dogs who don't like men. My cousin also has a boyfriend, so I hated being put in a position where I knew something I didn't want to. Most importantly, her daughter was there. My cousin has a history of getting blackout drunk, and I saw her bring a case of beer into my house. All I could think was: what if she drank too much, passed out, and left her child alone with a stranger?

I texted her that bringing a stranger into my home was a huge breach of trust. She apologized and promised it wouldn't happen again.

The rest of the week, I noticed she was often gone for 15 hours at a time, so I knew the dogs weren't being fed every 8 hours. Then she left Friday around 6 p.m. and didn't return until Saturday around 4 p.m. My texts went unanswered, and I had to find someone else to check on my dogs. When my friend arrived, the water bowls were empty. When my cousin finally showed up, I told her I had arranged alternate care and she could leave the key.

The next day, my aunt and uncle started calling me ungrateful after hearing my cousin's version of events. They said I had treated her badly and kicked her out.

At that point, I defended myself. I explained that she had brought a strange man into my house overnight, neglected my dogs, and was now portraying herself as the victim. I also sent them the Ring videos showing him arriving and leaving.

My cousin was furious and said I was a horrible person for telling her parents and that I'd end up alone because of my personality. I replied that repeatedly disrespecting the people who care about her was more likely to leave her alone.

I only told them after they started attacking me based on her version of events. If she knew what she did was wrong and didn't want her parents finding out, then she shouldn't have done it in the first place.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

ESH hang your own curtain, it isn’t hard. how did he hang one part and you know it’s crooked? and why did it take an hour????

My sister has a boyfriend named Graham. I call him Honey Made. He said it was original, and doesn't mind it 🤣

I'm sorry. Just wait.

I’ve never *liked* gap weddings, and I think they’re kinda pointless… but I’d never think someone is an asshole for them. Whatever. But I also feel like yeah, all your guests will just go kill time at a bar, and then they’ll already be tipsy or more by cocktail hour. Which is not ideal for a wedding couple, but again, whatever. 

I’m going to a wedding this summer with a 2.5 hour gap, with a venue change that’s only a couple miles away, in the middle of Illinois. So… I guess my husband and I are gonna look way out of place at a brewery or something.

ik they don’t. the x factor here for me is that they’ve previously done this and it was lwky a shi show

Not giving your guests something to do while you disappear for photos is not going to go over well for you.

Coming from a guy who loves golf and normally would take a guys side in getting out to play. Three rounds is too much. Two is very reasonable with a two year old in the mix, generous even. He needs to wise up 

If he’s smart he’ll figure out something cool you can all do. Like a half day fishing charter.

Look, your homie will not care that you don’t show up to both events if you really have stuff to do. If not, show up for 30 minutes and have a beer, then go about your day. Homies will understand and their pregnant SOs will at least know you showed up, which could be beneficial in the future

Oh you know he doesn’t.

Thank you! I’ve spent the night looking in Nextdoor, the city lost pet posts, and some websites with 0 matches. I think she was a neighborhood stray living outside and now she’s living the dream. Obviously if our neighbors see missing posters we won’t ignore it.

There is no way that’s all there is to this.

Okay, but I'm not even arguing the reasoning behind why a landlord would want to know that information. 

I'm arguing that there's a better way to *get* that information than asking "are you dating anyone". Because not only is that an extremely inappropriate and unwarranted question coming from your *landlord*, you don't have to be dating someone to have them over all the time or violate occupancy limits.

This is pretty obviously a newborn son from context.  So they probably don’t have any strong opinions about anything yet.

This is a workplace… like do your job, get paid, go home. You really want to die on this hill about how it’s totally ok for you to make fun of a client’s accent bc you’re Caribbean and how that’s totally not perceived as racist by other ppl? 
Yta

I wouldn’t deal with it, but an alternative solution to divorce and/or having your wife or in laws hate you could be getting a stairlift. As ridiculous as the arrangement is, op is going to take the brunt of the ire for this one. This is the type of thing that should have been considered before marriage.

Seeing as I didn’t even go to my own college graduation, why would I personally give af about someone not showing up for my high school one?Let’s critically think before itching to insult someone on the internet lmao. I’m very obviously providing perspective from a class view point and his mother’s view. Unclench.

i’m slowly learning this. i’m not saying the world is centered around my schedule but maybe if they would’ve asked when’s a good time for everybody yk

I think sometimes that’s true. The people who helped me with this task love me a lot, and I suspect here they just don’t care about symmetry themselves as much as I do haha

Upvoted for using an interrobang

YTA. You don't just leave guests on their own for two hours. It's so rude.

NTA my mil tried that. My husband told her to quit her shit, if he wanted the child to be called <insert random name> he would have named child that. He doesn't put his foot down often but he was not having her nonsense on this issue. Never happened again.

NTA.  Your mom is doing that for two reasons.  The first is just to annoy you because she can.  The second reason is that it is a power move. 

Stop letting her know that it annoys you.  This follows the rule that if people know what you like or dislike, it gives them power over you.  My guess is that this is a lifelong pattern with her.  My suggestion is that when she does this in front of others, point out to them that she seems to have word-finding difficulties, as if she had had a stroke but that she refuses to see a doctor.  Just be so concerned that she may be slipping mentally.

The baby is 2! A baby! Husband can adjust to being an actual parent and let his baby adjust easier instead of making the entire household anxious because of his absolutely ridiculous expectations while having a toddler.

Never, well almost never. My mom visits once a week for a few hours to occupy our son but I use that time to do stuff I need to get done. Otherwise I’ve never been away from him for more than 10 minutes his entire life. Unless you count the 3 months he was in the Nicu. His dad gets off work and usually sits on his phone or plays video games .

Like Gran's..... grandma's......

Life's to short your nta.... but you might be a little too tightly wound

Esh why can't you hang your own curtain rod, it's not hard (with a level)

NTA. I see this as you putting up a boundary for your own sake rather than being mean and teaching her a lesson. It’s exhausting having a friend who asks for your advice and never follows it even to their detriment, and you having to invest yourself on so many levels every time only to be left in the dust, picking up pieces of the mess they made. Just say I am sorry you feel that way but I cannot be a friend to you if you’re going to always go against my advice and common sense, put yourself in danger and expect me to suffer the consequences. You’re an adult and it’s time to take responsibility for your own actions. I can’t be there to bail you out.

we are talking about 1or 2 people, not groups.
Also french people are pretty much racist so they definitely gonna be pissed if the person isn't white.

as long as we’re not arguing he’s an amazing partner. he’s sweet. he’s funny. he makes me feel great. i can see a future with him. he’s smart. 

he’s disabled. so he can’t drive. if he needs to go somewhere i’m his most reliable option other than expensive car rides. he also can’t work so he’s not getting much money. and he has no family here (college town) so im his biggest lifeline. he says he doesn’t know what he’d do without me.

I don’t have very much family support and I am the same age as you so I understand how hard it is to have a toddler right now. I would not be ready to take care of my toddler concussed at all. 
I would suggest drinking lots of water to stay hydrated baby proof as much as possible, and if you want let the baby explore some ms Rachael or super why or between the lions.

Maybe her weaponized incompetence. It’s really not that hard to hand a curtain rod. And why didn’t she help him? Especially if it took an hour. Hanging a curtain rid should take 10 minutes. So obviously he was struggling. 

ESH she should have helped and he should have asked for help.

All children are different and will have different needs. The last thing parents need is generalised advice like this. OP should follow her instincts.

i do i have apartment tours to do on the day off and im also in the process of restoring some furniture before i leave and at the same time im taking online classes

YTA this is what showing up for your friends looks like as u get older. Each thing is only a few hours.

It’s not an “affectionate”. The mother is just trying to have her say. If she doesn’t knock it off tell her you will be referring to her by the grandma we don’t know.

I think I'm too old for this but can someone explain what iPhone face is? Or how someone can look like they ride a bike or not?? Am I missing something?

This is a prime example of "don't ask questions you don't want the answer to". You wanted to know if you were the AH, and yes, you are.

Family is family. People can be JUST as close to their siblings as they are to their adult children. Does your situation currently suck, yes….but your Mother is allowed to be there for her newly post-partum sister without you trying to guilt trip her over it.

How old is your son? My son is 5 and is pretty straight forward with what he is and isn't ok with people calling him. Which i love

Obviously, you're not a golfer.  Or the youngest child in your family.

If it really bothers you, ask mom if she wants to continue seeing Graham. Or start using a corrupted form of her name. Or if old enough, ask Graham what they think about granny’s inability to say his name properly. Or “Graham, merman is silly. She can’t talk right can she?”  

Or tease her about it unmercifully.

ESH

Your husband's bedtime and wake time are ridiculous. He needs to sleep in his own room.

Your toddler should also be gently moved into his own separate fall-asleep routine, perhaps in your room then to his own room.

Best of luck in working it out. Sleeping badly is  stressful.

THANK you! And we wonder why so many people are so maladjusted and broken today. I’m sure a lot of it starts with crap like this.

Honestly no one’s an ahole but you’re def overreacting

NTA but the secret wedding is the least concerning part of this. restraining order, no job, isolation from family, and now moving 25 hours away is a pattern. she might need you more than either of you realize right now

Sorry, what??? He’s the one that accused OP of not giving a shit about him for… unpausing what she was listening to? I think it’s pretty standard practice to not loudly watch YouTube videos in someone else’s car then complain that what they’re listening to (which they were ALREADY listening to) is too loud for them to hear the video. He was disrespectful, if responding to disrespect makes someone “spoiled as hell” to you, it seems that you have a bit to work through yourself lol

Cocktail hour is to entertain the guests while you do photos. YTA

Not an asshole but they will think you are. But that’s also fine. 

I named my daughter Genevieve. My dad tried calling her Jenna. No sir no. Not today

Yes, you’re right, if your best friend is having a problem YOU LISTEN. You don’t start though. You don’t tell your best friend that you have a problem with their problem. You support your friend, you don’t make it about yourself or become the problem. You STFU and keep your opinions to yourself. 

Like I said. 

Your apology is accepted.

I know a couple Grahams.. they both pronounce it Gram

It depends. If the ceremony and reception are in the same place, then Y T A. If they are in separate places, especially if there's a little drive, having a slight delay isn't bad.

not where i am lol totally depends on regional dialects. i don’t think its “grah-ham” anywhere though.

🙄Cool bro. Vets never ever hear we aren’t “real doctors”. You have any actual thoughts or counterpoints or are you just here for ad hominem attacks?

There's a point where hospitality as an expectation becomes abusive of the host... I mark that at about two weeks. Three months is ridiculous. 

NTA, help them stay somewhere near, but away!

Kinda YTA. It sounds like your mother has difficulty hearing the difference between Gram and Graham. I am always surprised at what people hear and are able to pronounce. 

I mean only you know but is your mother usually obstinate ? 

Nicknames are typically not mispronouncing someone’s name unless it’s a pun or funny. Which gram, Graham and gran are not. So it feels like she just isn’t able to hear or pronounce the difference.

I had a co worker who mispronounced my name for almost 30 years. I don’t think he was being an ass. But who knows.

Yeah, it's a dumb hill to die on. Kids are going to call him Graham cracker in daycare and grade school.

Naming kids is 100% a parent's prerogative.

NTA

I'm starting to think the wife plans to move them in permanently at some point and these visits are just to normalize them being there and desensitize op to their presence.

Regardless of his gym habits, the routine of a child sleeping in bed with the parents is not good for the marriage/relationship. I'm not talking about being sick or nightmares.  The loss of intimacy always has the potential for ruining a relationship. 

There are some things you and your partner need to work on by how you feel and talked about. But as far as the child sleeping regularly in your bed, that's an issue you have full control over.

Do you have actual errands or stuff planned both weekends or do you just not wanna go to both? It’s a special thing for your friends so if you deadass just don’t wanna go you’re an asshole.

" It has no tie to anything"
"Grans"
Grandma
Grandma's Grandson 

Have you considered that she finds it a cute way to express her familial connection to your son?  

Is your mom a monster?  If not,  let her have a special name with her grandchild.  Bonding and connections with grandparents are important,  jeez.

nta it’s your body, so it’s your choice.

#PLEASE REVIEW THIS MESSAGE IN FULL. 

Your post has been removed.

We do not allow posts which concern self harm or suicide. Any mention of self harm or suicide disqualifies your post. ***Circumventing this filter will result in a permanent ban.*** Do not message us asking for an exception. 

If you or someone you know is considering suicide, please view /r/SWResources/ for support resources.

###Please review our rules in their entirety, then message the mods before attempting to resubmit your story. 

#Resubmitting without approval (including edited versions) will lead to a ban, no exceptions. Approval is ***exclusively*** granted via the "message the mods" link above. Yes, this applies to you *even if you believe this removal was in error.*

*You can visit r/findareddit for a comprehensive list of other subs that may be able to host this discussion for you.*

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

I’m lucky because my husband will bust out the level to hang a silly picture in the bathroom. I hung a picture in the dining room 3 years ago and it’s still crooked. 

All this, to say, do it yourself OP, you’ll find it’s not as easy as you think.

Because OP's mom purposely mispronounces their child's name? Lol OK.

NTA but make sure this is a hill u want to die on

Definitely NTA! He knows the money he is offering you is ridiculously low and he is just being cheap. There is no way he can get a caregiver to come in for $100 week and he knows it. Those are slave wages. 

I don't know where you live but you should be getting paid a minimum of $20 hour. With the long commute and gas and tolls, that job is not worth it. You could look for a similar position closer to home and get paid a fair wage.

Yeah exactly daddy’s talking about cutting her off and is gonna be pissed but that sure as hell ain’t OP’s problem, even if he hadn’t tried to talk her out of it.   So it kind of comes off like he’s not doing it to teach her a lesson but it’s just not his responsibility anyway.

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

First time poster! My husband and I do NOTbwantnto get pregnant. I am off birth control and expressed wanting tubal ligation (removal) surgery. At one point he said no, the gave an excuse as to why he said no thr first time leaving it open to interpretation. It has been nearly 1 year since the first time I expressed (and set up an appointment!) and he expressed his fear. We not don't have sex due to his "fear of pregnancy" but he still isnt open to me taking care of my end with tubal ligation and is "freaked out" by how a vasectomy is performed. WIBTA if I went and scheduled my own tubal ligation and simply told him it was happening instead of respecting his wishes of an unneccesary surgery for me? Advice of any kind is appreciated. 

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

nta. you picked out the name. i don’t let other people, no matter our relationship, call my son anything besides his name or nickname that i approve. the only other person who gets to decide the name or nickname is the child.

I think most of the NTA reactions are because he lept straight to saying she didn't give a shit about him. That's super guilt-trippy and is designed to make her feel bad rather than have a discussion about his feelings.

INFO: It's your son's name. What's his opinion?

I have a cousin named Christopher. His parents opposed calling him Chris. When he was 5 he went to school and has been Chris since. It was his choice, not the parents. He's now 40.

this might be the method lol😂

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

Hello, 

so i live in a town house with an alley the connects 8 units. 4 units in a row with all our garages opening to each other into the alley, In the back of the alley there is a spot for 2 cars, mind you, we all have 2 car garages, 

its normally a first come first serve spot situation. The reason ud want to use these is because there is practically no parking closer to us in the back and there's no designated parking for visitors. 

  
When me and my husband moved in months ago, practically no one used these spots

Out of the 8 units, 3 are 1 car households, 2 were vaccant, and 1 unit seemed to use the back alley parking along with us, 

  
We never had issues for months, and we just had a new baby so tons of visitors who always used those back spots because again there's not really clear visitors parking 

One week new neighbors moved into one of the vaccant units , the next week i was doing a DIY and needed our garage for the space so me and my husband had both our cars in the two spots, 

I didnt think anything of it because our new neighbors had a perfectly clear garage , i knew this because they leave their garage open and it faces ours, 

  
The next morning as my husband is leaving for work , to which he planned on parking back in our garage when he returned , our new neighbor was waiting in his car in the middle of the alley, when my husband was attempting to leave, the neighbor got out and very sternly told my husband "we live here and we pay rent too" and my husband was confused, realizing he was talking about the parking spot said "okay, well im leaving now so you can take the spot" 

  
A week goes by, the neighbor starts watching everyone through his window, and then anytime we have guest over calls our landlord, who calls us always checking to confirm we know the visitor who is parked there, after like 3 calls we asked if we were doing anything wrong and she said no its perfectly fine for us to have visitors , they just cant park there for more than 4 days in a row, we had a visitor in town with us, he has parked there for 2 days so we politely asked him to move his car and find street parking 

Then i noticed him and his wife taking both spots religiously,  he sits in his open empty garage with nothing in it but a single fold out chair and watches everyone come down the alley then have to back out and go find parking on the street around the corner.. its so weird to me

  
He also started waking up at 6 am, getting into his car, waiting in the alley for my husband or who ever else was parked there to leave , and then immediately taking the spot, even though he was perfectly parked in his own garage 

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

How much is it bothering you? Because you can get it fixed with appropriate boundaries, but it might not be worth it long term. Are things good with her otherwise, or is this an indication of someone that does these little power plays with you regularly? Because this could be just silliness and ADHD forgetting to do the right thing, or it could be passive aggressive.

Was that one wedding two years ago?

wise words thank you!

I would have had somewhat of a discussion about it before booking or in the process of doing. If my bf was a literal tattoo artist. At least it could have opened up a new pathway in your relationship one way or the other. You don't owe him anything obviously but if you are working on a relationship. Even mentioning wanting to book with so so artist before doing it would have been the decent thing to do. So yeah YTA. Not a big one but I'm trying to understand why you wouldn't have brought this up at all to them before hand?

That is still insane!

I was about to say, “never take that kid to any British/British adjacent country. You’re gonna be furious.” Lol

NAH. It sounds like you left some stuff out and it was a mistake? Apologize and try to have an honest conversation about it again. Her phrasing could be less passive aggressive but maybe you do it all the time. It's hard to tell from the text of the post.

That is about crazy as hell! Thank god you were close to home 😂😂 now I would just decline the invite because just no.

NTA surprise when their mom passes away your BIL will be living with you. They are working toward both of them moving in and living with you because MIL can’t take care of him anymore

Or it means he agrees to do things he only plans to half-ass instead of, like a good adult communicator would do, saying he’s not able to do it

You're nta and as others have said, your mom is misdirecting her anger at Grace on you.  

You're young, so take this as a lesson that just because someone is active in church, it doesn't mean that they're a trustworthy or godly person.  Grace in particular is shady as hell.  With cash in hand she intentionally picked a cheaper place, with a smaller group no less.  You said your meal was an expensive one at $25.  So even if all of you picked that expensive option, Grace would still have the majority of that second $100 leftover.  What happened to that money?  She's yet to pay you back even; so what's happened to the entire $200?  It's gone into Grace's pocket.  Has she even responded to your mom's inquiries yet?  Expect a whole bunch of excuses about misunderstandings if she ever does.  And don't trust Grace with so much as a nickel in the future.  

Oh, btw, the reason she normally has you all pay her back is so she can get extra rewards back from her credit card.  So she's been profiting off of you all well before this brazen theft.

He is prioritising himself above the needs of his family. NTA.

The dude may have said that or the OPs friend may have been hearing what she wanted to hear. This third guy being an AH has no bearing on why it's ok for OP to not be responsible for bailing out this girl when he explicitly warned her that the third party guy definitely wanted to have sex with her. As an adult, you can't get mad at someone else for not immediately giving you access to their money.

i like that idea. thank you!

NTA. But your husband is. He is a parent now. He doesn’t get to just do whatever he wants anymore. The baby’s needs come first. He can sleep somewhere else. How much time are you getting for yourself?

aight bet thank you for a solution !!!

I spent a long time in France. I saw many people try this, and every time people got pissed. Your bullshit doesn’t match experience.

Only response I've got: MISMAAAAAATCH! 

You're not good enough now, and you're unlikely to ever be good enough, regardless of your professional or personal ambitions. 

NTA

A baby shower isn’t all day. If the friendship is important to you, make the sacrifice. If you don’t care about the friendship, then politely decline the invite. You need to RSVP either way. 

As a woman with kids, I don’t like baby showers, but I do like my friends. You can always go for an hour and bring a gift and let them know you unfortunately have to leave early (I wouldn’t do this at both though). For a gift, there should be a baby registry-buy something off that. 

These lifestyle transitions can be hard on friendships when not everyone is doing the same thing. Just think about how much you value the friendships.

They can do it right, they just don't want to

NTA that's a terrible nickname and it's awful that your mom is choosing to mispronounce your sons name. She's not accidentally getting it wrong, she's choosing to ignore your wishes and disrespect you and your son. 

I have a daughter named Audrey and my sister  kept calling her ree ree and I was like absolutely not. I named her that for a reason and you will use her name. Luckily she stopped before my daughter was able to speak

well your a saint for that lol, i’m just in a very busy busy time in my life , moving out, etc

It's pronounced gray-am, but ok...

NTA. So he did a half assed job, then whined like a baby when he got called on it

I stg some of these men don't even like their wives. Like I wouldn't act like this to anyone except someone I felt contempt for

Your title is the opposite of what happened

Downvote me all you want but I hate the word “nag.” No one ever says a dude is nagging. If someone has a preference and expresses it and is a woman, they are often said to be nagging. But what’s wrong with wanting the job done right? “Nagging” has so many connotations that include: the thing is trivial, “she” is just never satisfied, etc.

NTA, dude sounds like an abuser. He has a history that isn’t great on its own but everyone deserves grace. But now he’s isolating her from her family and social circle by moving her away from y’all. Classic abuser tactics.

You either accept her marriage or lose her. She's made her decisions. I would drop anything about the marriage and try to still maintain some kind of relationship with her that far away.

wrong person i don’t have any naruto tattoos nor have i seen the show christ get a better support system for you and your toddler :*

NTA and I would be concerned for her. Keep in touch & try to hold judgement because she's going to need you in the near future. If this guy has so many issues, she's going to see the red flags & might feel like she can't get out especially now that they are married

NTA for asking, but it’s not worth pushing too hard if it’s just an affectionate nickname.

I agree, unfortunately, this is a very common start to a story about girls getting traffic. Or murdered

No you're not. Absolutely insane take

Idk… if anyone’s butthurt, that seems like OP. OPs getting real heated and for what? She wants to defend her right to make fun of ppl and their accents in the workplace, and hide under the fact that she Caribbean? 

Like.. sis it’s a workplace, do your job get paid go home. Definitely don’t be doing accents

wonder if you would keep the same energy if your mother needed help

It might be a cultural thing but I cannot see it as a complete negative. Family is family and is there to help each other out. I’m not saying that they should stay the whole three months. They can talk it out and maybe just stay one or two months.

The US National Institute of Health begs to differ with you on the idea that it’s “barbaric”. It’s not for every baby, but nothing is, and that doesn’t make it harmful.

This is cultural. Americans tend to value letting very young babies sleep alone. Personally, I want to be there with my child if they want me. Children always transition when they feel ready, and I’m happy my child feels safe and loved with me. 

OP, your husband’s expectations are incredibly unreasonable.

absolutely valid. we do listen to this book together a lot and i explain it to him when smth happens

Adults don't have relationships with their siblings?

They're on different weekends, saying he already has something on isn't going to work here

If he can’t do it correctly he could just say he’s not able to do the job. It’s very common for couples to handle tasks for one another. I don’t  think her asking or him accepting is the issue here.

"We've been living together for a few months" and already she's seeing she's expected to clean up after you & do it with a smile on her face or risk you throwing a tantrum. Whew. Enjoy being single in a few more months time. YTA.

YTA- he isn’t your handyman. You sound absolutely entitled.

YTA. You don't get to demand people wait on you hand and foot. Hire a babysitter if you need help. Or, suck it up and deal.

NTA Accessible hotel rooms exist.

It was a dumb and dangerous thing to do. And it is a lesson she will hopefully learn from. 

But you are still kinda in the wrong here 

This is not the situation for “I told you so”, this is the situation where she needs a friend. 

If she needed you to help her figure out how to get back, then yeah, you’re the A.

If she wanted you to pay for her ticket, then no. You’re not. 

More info needed 

Afterwards you can talk to her about choices, and what the lesson was here. 

Whether you’re the A here or not, kinda depends on what kind of help she wanted from you, and how much that help would “cost” you.

But why? What is it specifically about him that you love? I'm not trying to say you should break up with him, this is a very small snapshot of your relationship. But you have presented a very negative and kind of abusive traight that he has, and the reasons you've given for why he is good are:  
\- He's amazing: completely non-descript, could just be avoiding the question  
\- He needs you: that's not something he is giving you, that's something you are giving him. Also, why does he NEED you? You are making him sound dependent which, again, is a very unhealthy relationship trait.

**Hello, ImaginationHuge166 - your post has been removed.**

#Read the following information carefully and completely. Message the mods with any questions. 

This post violates Rule 3: **No Violence.** This includes any mention of violence in any context. This includes animal violence (reactive dogs, biting people/other animals, etc.).

Rule 3 FAQs ||| Subreddit Rules

**Do not repost, including edited versions, without receiving explicit approval via modmail.** Reposting will lead to a ban.

Please visit r/findareddit to see if there's a more appropriate sub for your post.

She already has one foot out the door of this marriage. She's basically admitting she's already checked out and the only reason she's still in is because currently you make more than her. 

This is not a marriage, it's a transaction. 

NTA. I really hope you don't have kids together.

NAH, one of my best friends couldn’t make my baby shower, no one will be offended if you can’t make it, just send regrets and buy them a gift off their registry.

If "the kid" means "the husband", I agree.

Installs things but crooked

NTA

No way man. That sounds ridiculous. If they come out they should have to rent their own accommodations.

As a mom of 3, you're doing just fine. Don't let anyone tell you differently. The husband needs to buck up as a father tho or he'll risk his relationship with his son.

Bring your fiancé to the baby showers for an hour or two and then head out

This is not at all the same situation. That is how you NATURALLY speak. She is taking on a random accent that’s isn’t hers in the WORK place after talking about a CLIENT who she assumed is from the Caribbean. You’re comparing apples and oranges and actually yes imitating other people’s accent even if they’re you’re family is rude and ignorant.

Sure that’s what im saying. You can reach to a mutual agreement where both parties can have a positive outcome. I understand it might be hot where they live but that’s their house still. 6 months out of the heat sounds like a good deal.

you’re not judgmental but you are judgmental. She made choices you don’t like, not your problem. YOU made choices that result in you being alone when you need help, that’s too bad but not your aunt’s or your mom’s fault. Not everyone has a village but everyone has to keep going on. Hope you get better soon !

I wonder what accident her husband had then?

NTA.  I have never hesitated saying that something is not in my budget.  People invariably look at me with a smile as if waiting for the punch line.  My husband can’t say “No”, and I have had to go back to decline.  “Can’t do it.  Sorry, but it isn’t in my budget.”

It was multiple scenarios so it makes it more likely at least one could happen

I’m not seeing the issue here.. these events are on two different weekends. Presumably they’re only lasting half a day at most so you will still have 80% of your weekend to do whatever else it is you want to do. Part of being a good friend is showing up to life events. I once attended 3 weddings in 8 days, located in 3 different states. YTA

I'm going to go against the grain and say ESH.

Yes, it's nuts for your husband to suggest that you and your toddler stick to his schedule and wake up at 3a. He's also TA for seemingly expecting you to do 100% of the nighttime routine. That's insanity. He should be doing the routine, at least on the weekends if he works and you're a SAHM. 

You're TA though for hijacking your and his bedroom so that he can't go to sleep early at least some of the time. You need to get your toddler used to going to sleep in their own room. You're not dealing with an infant anymore.

I can see you are having a hard time being seen by your family because you have a lot of serious stuff going on. It’s hard to drop everything you have planned for a major event like a birth. I know you have some experience because you have your toddler but giving birth alone is terrible. You two are in equal if not her situation worse. I know if you really care about your family member you don’t mean what you said about them giving birth alone. If anything goes wrong they could suddenly pass away. 
I’m sure if there was calm communication about how terrible you feel right now and you really need help the next day someone possibly would be willing to help but all of that is out the window being rude. No one will want to help you if you’re cussing them out.

But I honestly get the vibe that she needs to be the center of attention. She pouts and acts like a child in front of all of us towards my brother and I do feel like she is threatened by me for some reason despite me being welcoming.

YTA. Where the hell were they going to take a nap? And since when have you been able to spontaneously nap on demand like a toddler?

Passenger playing a video is still distracting to the driver, and distracting the driver is a major risk.

Discuss this disconnect you guys are having & set up the compromise friendly options. Listen to a podcast together so you can concentrate on driving & it also opens up conversation. We listen to Stavvys world most of the time when we're not listening to music that we both tolerate or like

you’re right honestly

If it walks like a creep and talks like a creep, it’s probably a creep.

I’m saying ur BIL is a creep.

NTA. Also, if you don’t gtfo with ur fiancé, then please don’t consume any food or drink that creep touches at all.

ESH. Your child needs to learn how to self soothe and sleep in his room.  What is the long term plan?  
Your husband shouldn’t have to sleep outside his bedroom.  Expecting both of you to get up at that time is ridiculous.

Tell one friend you’re going to one and tell the other you’re going to the other, send a card with some cash and enjoy your day 😎🤣

By your black and white terms, we are all bad people. I imagine it’s difficult for you to deal with conflict in relationships

Im gonna actually say YTA here. Hear me out.

When it’s something like music, “driver controls the radio” makes sense. But a book? It’s different. 

Unless he’s been listening along the whole time he has absolutely no context for the parts he’s hearing. It’s like tuning into a movie that’s half over; you have no idea about what the plot is, who the characters are, and it’s impossible to catch up which makes it kind of frustrating to listen to. 

Music is something you both can enjoy. A book halfway through is not. 

Also, you could have at least asked him to turn his video off before you decided to play your book over it, I think that was kind of passive aggressive if not straight up rude. That’s not a kind way to treat your partner.

I think that's a fair take. I agree the partner was extremely immature, and definitely didnt handle things like an adult. Though I dont think OP would have changed their mind on wanting the muffin to themselves. Which is understandable, but unfortunately as another person said, it technically wasnt their muffin, as the parents bought the baked goods for both of them, not just OP.

My best friend in the world lives out of state and when we get to see each other it’s usually for a few days stay. This long even with her would be a nightmare, not even factoring in the additional changes with losing the living room and arranging for showers.

I will take shit from anyone else in the comments, I will be DARNED if I  take shit from someone with a Naruto tattoo. Christ, get a better artist.

i can but this is the second time they have scheduled back to back

That's my gut feeling too. She's not listening, to anyone. Not me not her daughter. And now, they're leaving. I don't know how to get thru. I am so upset and angry.

NTA but my mom once told me something that has proven wiser than it sounds on the surface: “Men can help you install things but they usually seem to lack understanding of symmetry, so don’t expect it to come out straight.” 

  At first I was like, okay mom, but I have now had assistance installing three things in my home from three different men and, while I’m grateful, they are ALL crooked. To the point I’ve decided that next time I need something installed straight, I can’t ask my dads or dude friends, I gotta do it myself 😅

Yup, YTA, but not for long cuz you’ll soon realize your friends are outgrowing you. They are developing their personal family life which has NOTHING to do with YOUR calendar… so in due time you will likely be less and less in touch and it won’t matter much that you’re the asshole bachelor. Soon you’ll find a new crowd that’s more on pace with your lifestyle and priorities. May last a while or may not. Maybe next year you’ll be the one sending out invites for a life event. Life keeps on turning. Just be polite to your friends, show up or not, but be respectful and don’t voice your conflict of scheduling too may baby showers in one month; instead say something about a date or maybe work or a family matter. Send nice gift cards if possible.

Either way I think it's a pretty shitty situation altogether. I do agree that she should help since you're injured, especially if your aunt has people to help her already.

I say this as a fellow survivor, your radar is unfortunately more finely honed after being assaulted, not over active. That feeling you're getting, the discomfort, it's real. You've been around bad people before, when you feel that same energy or pick up on inappropriate behaviors, it's pattern recognition. 

There are always going to people who will be a creep and then gaslight you. Sometimes there will be people who do it on their behalf. But never ever gaslight yourself ❤ you can trust your gut on this and anything in the future. 

You are NTA, but, you are at risk of things escalating. If you can't live somewhere else, it's time to treat this as the danger it is. Locks on doors, never alone with him, you and fiance on the same page on what a danger this is and can be. I am so sorry you're going through this, you DESERVE to feel safe in your own home my dear. Sending you strength 💪

Because it requires a penis to operate a measuring tape, screwdriver, level, and pencil.

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > My action was correcting my mom. Does that make me the asshole?

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

It's ok for you to have your feelings & boundaries with your Uncle. Your Mom isn't seeing the situation like you are & that's ok too . You need to do what you think is best & hopefully your Mom can not give in to your Uncle. 

After my Mom passed away my Unlce who was married to my Mom sister was being weird & acting like my sister & I were close to him. My sister went off on him & to this day we don't speak to him. 
It's better to not have toxic family area. 

I hope things work out for you & your family.

She can yell but you can’t? She can yell while you’re in labor but you can’t clap back? WTF was she doing walking into your L&D room, anyway?

i know that and there’s just so many moving parts , i’m in the process of moving and i’m in a long distance relationship so i spend my weekends with my fiance most of the time

NTA, you should remember that you are 18 which is still a teen. It doesn't matter who it is, no one should be inviting a teen to have a one on one "hangout", much less trying to offer substances. His behavior is in no way okay, and your fiance shouldn't be excusing that behavior

i mean if the ages are correct, then your future FIL was 16 when your fiancé was born... then ontop of the absence in his kid years? yeesh. trust your gut girl

Remember the recent one about the girl who broke up with her bf bc he’d just go in his pants if he wasn’t home?
Maybe this is his new gf.

Yes.   Thank you---that is very kind of you.  That's very flattering amongst all these other erudite and eloquent folks who express themselves on solutions/opinions/gratitude and a few chastisements on occasion.

I think we're down enough on the thread where I can just be straight with you. I'm feminist like you. I agree he should pick up after himself if he's a fucking adult. 

But I'm a literal person. And if it were a man in a relationship with a literal woman then she's just getting spoonfed very specific rules she's gotta learn. And at what point does she learn that it's not healthy or normal to just accept that kind of treatment?   
What it if was a woman being told the same exact thing "what you're doing is not attractive to me". And she bends over backwards to every demand? That it's unattractive to him that she spends so much time with her brother, her mother, studying for school, or working. It's unattractive to him that she is on the phone with anyone when he gets home because he wants her all to himself. We are assuming one person is making *only* reasonable demands. But we know that people aren't always reasonable. We need to advocate people to act in good faith but also protect themselves. 

OP may be a fucking messy idiot. 

This is still not a safe or normal way to correct a partners behavior.

Nightmares are made of this! Beyond gross. Nta.

he’s not the best at having tough conversations lol

YTA go to both, stay for an hour or so to show support if you’re truly busy, and bring a nice gift dude.

and your mom would’ve had a much needed break from her insufferable ungrateful daughter

Seems like you're getting downvoted a lot for some reason. I agree with you.

Who is out here saying you can’t be white in the Caribbean? They’re commenting on you doing a random ass accent that is not the natural way that you speak after talking about a Caribbean client. Yes, it comes off as racist and ignorant. Your mom is from the Caribbean and you’re half white and very white passing. It’s going to look racist without context. Even with context it’s inappropriate in a WORK setting. Do some self reflection and at minimum recognize you behaved unprofessionally and should definitely correct that behavior. Even if you looked like the stereotype of a Caribbean person it would still be odd to imitate them after talking about a CLIENT and suddenly taking on an accent that’s not yours. You think just because you belong to a group of people that it’s not considered making fun of them? I would still look at you like you’re ignorant and weird to do that even if I knew your family was from the Caribbean. My grandma had a very heavy accent when she spoke English and I never once imitated her because that’s rude and not funny.

Same here, I’d be tripping over myself to let my partner have every last crumb.

"I told him that I would like it to be re-hung because I just remodeled my office and I don’t want to have a crappy looking curtain."

If those were your actual words, YTA for unnecessary cruelty. There are ways to tell someone they've done a half-assed job without telling them directly.

Actually, you just reminded me of this. Thank you for being kind in the comments.

It’s not like they last very long, 1-2hrs tops. YTA

Eh I think ESH, husband for getting up early and expecting other to do the same, and OP for going along with the toddler in the bed when the other parent does not want it. 

Child sleeping in parents bed is a two yes one no situation. 

But if OP is doing solo parenting from 6:30 pm to bed time husband should be picking up similar slack in the morning and let op sleep.

Obviously, it's only in her favor. I doubt she shares precious things of her own with everyone else in her life. 

OP shouldn't break up with her over a muffin, but over her selfishness.

You’re saying I’m being unreasonable. I’ve explained more of the situation. How do you feel like it’s okay to him to ditch his wife and kid for 15+ hours on a family trip to golf?! I don’t care about equal alone time. We’re taking a family trip to spend time together as a family.

NTA. Don't go. You mom has made it her personal tradition to rip you to shreds every holiday. Everyone knows this. Noone does anything to redirect her or stand up for you. Tell each person who is telling you to go that you'd be happy to go... if each one of them shows you proof that they've contacted your mom and told her she has been being unkind to you and that she should lay off. They don't get to side with you in private while not standing up for you in public while your mom is badmouthing you. But no matter what happens, sit the holidays out this year at least. Only start going again when you see evidence that things will change.

Your reaction seems quite justified to me.  I’d be worrying about her, that she is being taken advantage of or that he might be abusive or controlling.  Abusers always isolate people from their friends and family. 

If she told her daughter, I would make sure her daughter is talking to her regularly so at least someone in the family is making sure she is ok.

NTA

NTA, if she didn’t want to be shouted at, then she shouldn’t have been the one shouting in the first place. Her good intentions are not more important than the very real impact she’s inflicting. She needs to use this as an opportunity to take an L and grow up

I would be cleared by then.

Yeah, it’s a big difference between sitting on the edge of the bubble of the level and 5+ degrees.  With this explosion I’m guessing it’s closer to the former than the latter.

YTA, the couple takes photos during cocktail hour

that’s the thing because i have been distant due to just life and priorities so im putting those first and i already know at these events they have it’s gonna mostly their families ofc but i sit there quiet most of the time

Three months is too long for anyone to stay.   This isn’t a visit it’s almost moving in.  An air b&b is the way to go.  They can rent something that is more handicap accessible.  You two still have privacy.   Everyone can have some space.

I take it back. NTA 
Is this a recurring behavior? If so there's a bigger issue here. This is very childish of him.

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

I have a son named Graham (pronounced like gram or Graham crackers) but when my mom says his name she emphasizes the H. It sounds like Grah-Ham. I’ve corrected her several times and she’s beginning to stop but now she calls him a nickname. Very similar to his name but just wrong enough to bug me. She calls him Grans. It has no tie to anything and just sounds like another poor pronunciation of his name. I don’t understand why she is changing the M to an N. AITA for wanting her to use a different nickname? 

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Not because you havw bipolar and BPD that he is making you uncomfortable....it is because he is being a creep. Consider moving.

NTA!!! The gasp I let out on the train reading this! WOW

read the post again. He is deployed.

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

AITA for booking a tattoo with another artist even though my boyfriend is a tattoo artist?

My boyfriend is a tattoo artist. Recently I booked a 5-6 inch tattoo with a female artist whose work I really like. This is only my second tattoo and it’s my first “bigger” tattoo. I paid the deposit and told my boyfriend about it because I was excited.

His reaction was basically: “Your boyfriend is a tattoo artist and you go book with somebody else?” He later told me not to expect him to ever tattoo me and said he had a “one rule” about tattoos that he claims we discussed before, but I honestly don’t remember that conversation.

For context, he has never directly asked to tattoo me before, never shown interest in tattooing me, never planned a tattoo for me, and we never had an appointment or design in the works. I also wasn’t trying to hide anything from him, I told him as soon as I booked it. We’ve also only been together 5 months. 

I told him I still think he’s an amazing artist and that I’d love a tattoo from him someday. I even offered to cancel my appointment because I felt so guilty, but he didn’t respond.

I understand why he might feel a certain way about it, but I also feel blindsided because I genuinely didn’t think this would be a major issue. I honestly didn’t realize it meant that much to him. 

AITA for booking with another artist?

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Gah, I'd much rather your 2 year old comfortably co-sleep a while longer while learning independence. He'll get there eventually, but it'll be impossible unless your husband's on the same page. (Hubby evidences rather selfish behaviour - screaming at a toddler is a really incredibly poor move. That shit sticks far more than the positive lessons.)

Hanging around wasting 2 extra hours between events would be a bigger problem  for geriatrics and toddlers than for teens and other adults. What's 94-year old Grandpa Joe and Great-Aunt Milly supposed to do...or bridesmaids with 2-year old twins?

Nah my girlfriend has celiac and when she eats something genuinely good the light in her eyes makes it feel like a balloon is expanding in my chest. If it’s the most delicious thing she’s ever eaten then I am stoked and I want her to have all of it. Y’all are wild

"If your husband wants your toddler to sleep in his own room then he can put him back to bed every time your toddler wakes up and wants to be soothed back to sleep."

It is very reasonable to not want a toddler in your bed and want them to sleep in their own bed. And for both parents to have a hand in working on it together. Yes it will get worse before it gets better. But imo letting your toddler sleep in the bed because they need comfort is unreasonable unless both partners agree to it/want it. Otherwise toddler should sleep in their own bed, and both parents should work on it.

So you are not always present when it's time to eat. That's your choice.

OP and some other commenters, I am sorry that y’all screwed the pooch from the get go with your kids and being independent sleepers.   
There are better ways to set kids up for sleep success that start early and don’t end up with toddlers unable to sleep on their own.   
Didn’t start a year ago? Start now. Don’t wait another year.    
It won’t be easy or fun(it could be though!!) but the sooner you figure out how to, the easier it will be.   

Yup, some kids are fussy, Whatch child has different needs, some people have houses that are set up too far from a kids room, some parents have wack schedules, and a million other things. 
Everyone is different but everyone is also the same in so many ways. Don’t think you are the once exception, commitment is going to be the biggest barrier. 
Choose your sources for advice on how to manage that carefully, I bet Reddit is filled with posts of clever parents who solved that issue)and make a game plan and be willing to pivot to get to your goal of an independent sleeper. There’s likely not one straight perfect pass but it takes commitments to your end goal.)
 

Oh and husband sucks, he doesn’t care how you or the kid feel and that’s a deeper issue. What if kid was in their own room and once a month came into your bed from a bad dream? Will husband snap over one fussy night? (imo, that is reasonable for a toddler to end up doing)  

I’d bet that husbands behavior-or rather the root of it-has visible fruits of fuckery allllll over that you have put up with or don’t even see because you have allowed him to not give a fuck about you for too long. 

Please, if you want your marriage to work, get counseling. You see an issue and it’s hurting you, have someone help you solve it together so everyone’s needs are met. Or you will resent him and waste years of your life unhappy.

okay, have fun choosing your siblings over your children and wonder why they do not talk to you.

yta you can tough it out for two weekends

If op can't get out of this arrangement somehow, that is a really good idea!

Reading is not an option

I am sorry, that really sucks and was completely unfair. I just don't think it's the same phenomenon as someone reacting badly to another person using an accent not their own for comic effect, especially in the workplace. Nobody is ever wrong to use their own voice and accent, whereas sometimes people really do use put-on accents to mock other people.

You're actually suggesting that your husband sleep in another room instead of sleep training your toddler? I was on a sleep schedule by 2 weeks old. My father is a doctor and would go to work at 3am. He slept in his own bed.

I've hung rods too. I think it's easier with two people. She could participate since it's for her office?

lol this happened to us too. My close friend had a church wedding at 2 pm but he couldn’t book a reception hall until 7pm - that’s cocktail hour and then wedding was from 9-12 midnight.   I got lucky and reception place was 10 min from my house, so I went home.  Another friend lived 3 hours away so he came over to my place to hang out.   I am not sure what everyone else did!

Thank you. He’s still very young. I have tried to put him on his own. It just ends horribly. I know he won’t need me forever. His bed is right next to mine. I do put him in it, but I’m next to him so if he wakes up or is scared I’m there to comfort him. His actual bedroom is completely across the house and I just don’t feel comfortable putting him in it.

NTA, but your sister is likely in an abusive relationship. Abusers isolate their victims, and cut them off from family. Your sister knew you wouldn't approve of the marriage... that is why she didn't tell you. Please go to the National Domestic Violence website and read up

Agreed! I hate how many stories I've heard of men creating incredibly stressful situations and then being hateful to everybody involved as if it was everyone else that did this to them

Yes, this! Red flags for abuse!

Exactly, at least put on a podcast that they both have interest in

Yeah we’re missing so much information that OP conveniently left out

Why did it take an hour? Did your husband have trouble/lack the tools to install it properly? 

Is this a common occurrence, where you ask him to do something for you and you don’t like the outcome? If your husband isn’t particularly handy, why not do it yourself or hire someone to do it for you?

No one’s gonna be able to tell you if you’re an asshole or not because you gave us 0 info to go off of

Your sister is in an abusive relationship. My advice would be to let her know you're there if she needs help and then take a step back from the relationship.

He should be able to sleep in his bedroom though.  The child needs to sleep in their own room.

Then NTA. 

While I agree with other commenters saying it may be time to wean him to his own space. Your husband and yourself are still very much in the thick of raising a tiny human. The fact he even has the luxury to get up and go to the gym at that time is beyond me. 

He should adjust himself accordingly and not expect a toddler who hasn’t been here long enough to know what’s “normal” to. If he’s getting frustrated/angry at his child for being a child, he’s a nitwit too.

This is really it.  Going to bed at 6:30, not for work reasons, and expecting everyone to do the same?  That's nonsense.

This is extreme. Self-soothing is 100% a thing. It's just that some babies are better at it than others. 

My baby is 10 months and has slept through the night, in her down space, since 5 months. A couple of times each night she'll rouse and maybe fuss for a minute but then she does this head-rubbing motion and goes back to sleep. She isn't crying at any point.

NTA. He IS a creep and ALWAYS listen to your intuition! Try not to be around this perv at all!

yta lol they’re not scheduling around you

YTA you could’ve brought this up to your mother without cussing her out if you had just spoken to her like a human being she might’ve considered helping you out but i’m hoping she stays with her sister for two weeks and leaves you to fend for yourself

I am not judgmental of her life, I am judgmental of the choices she has made, she has been through this 4 other times. If she knew her child's father is awful to her and the kid's she should not have anymore children, any rational person would do this. I don't have any friends here, as we are in a different state and my husband is deployed.

You're 19. Get your own credit card, and stop using you mother's. This level of micromanagement is not appropriate for a young adult. 

Good luck, OP.

This would be a good time to use the spousal resources that are offered by your husband's command.

There seems like more going on here than a curtain rod. Yes it's valid for you to want it hung straight. But if that's his response to a reasonable request, and then you run to reddit instead of talking things out with your partner, you guys have more to work on than a curtain rod.

I’m against cosleeping, but I can’t say I wouldn’t do the same thing if my husband never took a turn at getting our kid to bed.

Mine, too. 

OP need to ask MIL just what the plans are if she dies before BIL.

The obvious and only solution is that the kid sleeps in their own room the entire night. It’s ridiculous that you think this is a good plan.

Where did you get that they were only listening to an excerpt???? They were clearly just listening to a portion of an audiobook. Why is that a bad thing?

So what are you going to do, pick the friend you like the most? How do you see this panning out for the friendships?

I hate those weddings. I generally skip the ceremony. Nta because it is a standard thing in catholic weddings but it’s also not enjoyable

Dude is definitely a creep

Oh, I wouldn’t assume that. There might be a mechanism where your wife gets him in with a caretaker situation of some sort. OP, many posters unthread have told you that you have a wife problem and you have responded that in her culture, relatives are expected to stay at the home and not in a hotel. Other posters have pointed out that she is still trying to be the good and dutiful daughter at the expense of her marriage. If that’s the case, you need to take the traditional husband role in this dynamic and demand and order that this stop. That may be the only way that happens. Western manners aren’t going to solve this one.

YTA

Who do you think you are to "call out" the owners of the home they have VERY GENEROUSLY allowed you to live in rent free, despite only knowing their son for 6 mo?  Rent even for single rooms in a shared home often can rent for 900-1000 a month excluding utilities which run another $500 conservatively.

So despite your bfs parents generously tolerating you and saving you at least $1500 a month in expenses, you think its too much to watch their dog for 7hrs?  🤣🤣🤣

Wow just wow!  Not only are you extremely ungrateful and entitled, you are a delusional one in all your 19 years of glory, to have the audacity to even think of calling your bfs parents out.  

But sure, go ahead, "call them out",  remove any doubt in their minds that their son has made a terrible choice in choosing a gf (freeloading, moved in after 6 mo, thinks watching a dog for 7 hrs is too much, uses weaponized incompetence "i dont even know what the dog eats" ).

If you were my son's 19yr old gf of 6mo, there is no scenario that would involve you moving into my home rent free. And your lack of willingness to  watch the dog  on Easter Sunday for only 7 hrs, therefore causing them to have to take the dog with them, it is unbelievable that you wouldn't go above and beyond to help them in whatever way they ask.  And based on your post they are asking VERY little of you, and you couldn't even step up and do what little they ask.

Whatever circumstances cause you to move out of your parents home at 19 with only a 6mo relationship is not a reason for them to take you in they had and still have no obligation to house you, so if I were you, I would adjust my attitude stop using weaponized incompetence and apologize to them for not watching the dog on Easter and tell them you are more than happy to watch the dog while they go to greece.

No, it’s easy to add another tenant. Not have a forever guest. If she wants to be a tenant and pay 1/3 rent, that’s another discussion.

I understand your concern, but it was not your place to question the parents’ child care.  That may have been normal for them.  In any event, you were out of line.

Definitely YTA and an entitled one at that.

This post has been removed due to the status of the original poster's account. This account is currently shadowbanned or suspended, suggesting this account is in violation of Reddit terms of service.

                This type of ban/suspension is issued by the Reddit site-wide admins. The AITA mods have nothing to do with this ban and cannot assist in resolving.

This post has been removed due to the status of the original poster's account. This account is currently shadowbanned or suspended, suggesting this account is in violation of Reddit terms of service.

                This type of ban/suspension is issued by the Reddit site-wide admins. The AITA mods have nothing to do with this ban and cannot assist in resolving.

" I do fine, but the exact same job on hairless apes would have been mayyyyybe two years more of school and I would make 5x."

Idk about but most people I see at the Drs office have hair and lots of it, not just on their head but all over their body. I am glad you didn't become a Dr. Because you don't seem to know what you are talking about......

i made small talk w him while he put on a video

Your husband doesn’t like fixing things so he *%#s it up. Call a handyman. It’s cheaper than a divorce lawyer. He’ll either be shamed into improving his skills, or resign himself to paying a pro.

NTA Come on, though. Would you have told you that you were about to drive off a cliff?

Your sister knows she’s blowing her life up. She knows you know it, too. 

She just doesn’t want to hear it.

I wrote this on another comment. 

There is no such thing as self soothing, the cry it out method is known to be barbaric. Young children NEED their parents to co-regulate, they are not born knowing how. Mom is doing the right thing. Dad needs to either deal with it, start his workouts later, or go sleep in another room. 

2yo is still SO young. We still co-sleep with our 4yo. This is an age of new experiences, and dreams can also be intense. He always says he is so happy to wake up next to mom or dad, and feels safe. Plus, they're only little for so long. Enjoy and soak up all the cuddles you can. 

Btw, NTA.

I did not know siblings come before your literal children. I know birth is tough but it is not like she gave birth at home or that my mom is a doctor (she is not) that my aunt needs.

As someone currently wedding dress shopping, it’s REALLY hard to pick a budget when you have no context as to how much things cost! And it’s easy to get caught up in the excitement, only to leave and realize how ridiculous spending XYZ amount on a dress. 

YTA for how you phrased it - she’s probably stressed about this experience which is very vulnerable and ultimately 4 different appointments isn’t a ridiculous amount to go to

You have a toddler. Toddlers don't adapt to parental schedules: it's the other way around for many parents. 

Time for hubby to get a reality check, change his schedule, and maybe - just maybe - even start assisting with the nightly wind-down routine instead of expect it to be transparent to his life. 

NTA

I have no doubt they (mil/bil) have already thought about that future and so has his wife.

But yall couldn't even chat while in line?

YTA
He's your husband and you talk about *my* office. Don't you share a home?
Sure it's the office you redesigned and use for the most part, but isn't it technically shared? Did he do other stuff for the remodel and maybe he has gotten frustrated with asks over time. 
Talk to him, it not just about the curtain. There is a bigger picture missing.

All of OP’s comments read like “ gen z main character syndrome”

NTA your spidey senses are tingling for a reason

This is exactly what I was meaning when I commented. Thank you for verbalizing it more clearly (I assumed people would be able to read between the lines)!

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > i don’t believe i am because it’s not the first time they have made things inconvenient

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

This isn't an AH question.  You should be panicked for your sister's safety.  He's violent and manipulative, and he's isolating your sis from her family.  This is terrifying.

NTA… it just doesn’t seem like the guy is a good guy at all. And your sister seems very attached to him

NTA but I would be way beyond my limit at this point. I wouldn’t be writing notes, I’d be walking up to that person directly, asking them if they grew up feral, and demanding that they clean up their mess. This is wild. I genuinely think this person should be fired if they’re going to do that sort of thing repeatedly to a bathroom at their workplace

lol major there buddy. There’s many developmental changes that need to happen before a toddler becomes a teenager. Haha

Seems like he's figured out that this 6:30pm bedtime is a great way to avoid the 5-to-9.

ESH I agree that you should have help taking care of a toddler when you have a concussion, but I think you took it too far saying those things.

NTA. Walk away now. That kind of threat is not from a person who loves you. That was a relationship ending ultimatum

YTA. Yall are adults and it’s time to move on.

Or he didn't want to do it, and this is weaponized incompetence. Could go either way honestly

Mother-in-law is planning on leaving him there someday. You guys are going to inherit responsibility for him unless you put a stop to that right now. NTA

The Eyeball Test is the final and true test for hanging curtain rods, artwork, mirrors and other things on the wall. She should have helped out and not treated him like a servant.

NTA

What you are doing with your son has a term attached to it:  the family bed. Usually, though, both parents are in agreement with the arrangement. 

This is what we did with our first daughter. She actually slept *with* us until she was two, and then we moved her into a toddler bed, still in our room. When she was 3.5 years old, we moved her to her own room. 

She never had any issues adjusting to the changes and also has, according to her, wonderful childhood memories. 

Your husband sounds very egocentric. Unless there is a specific, valid reason for *needing* a 3:00 am workout, he should be willing to adjust his schedule, even by an hour or two.

That makes your husband so much worse. He’s willing to destroy you and your toddler’s sleep to go to bed at dinner so his workout isn’t too hot? Wtf he should be prioritizing his child’s welfare not his workout he can literally do at any time of day

when i tried to discuss it w him he told me “boohoo” 😭

YTA - You have no leg to stand on talking about your Aunts "P0S baby daddy" when you make no mention of the father of your child in your post. Where is he in all this? You are 26 years old, responsible for yourself and your small child. Your mother is responsible for herself. You have an injury but will live. But you know who may not? Any woman giving birth.

It is okay to feel the way that you do and be frustrated. However it is not okay to treat your mother the way you did

I didn’t say the child was at fault…?

Me and my brother aren't THAT close, compared to other siblings. And I give them lots of space. We talk maybe once a month. And they have very high paying jobs compared to me and my boyfriend.

Where I’m from (Nebraska) we had a homeless man living on a popular bike/walk path through some in town wooded areas. A college student who ran the path almost daily noticed he had moved very far in a few days. They decided to call it in for a wellness check. Turns out he was deceased and had passed away quite a few days before. 

If there’s any sign of distress, help should be called.

NTA, it wouldn't hurt to give your partner a lil bite (especially since they are typically very accommodating), but it is ultimately your call as you are the one who received these muffins. **she is definitely the asshole** in this situation; calling you manipulative and then eating the whole muffin after you set the boundary (she truly took what your mother said about sharing and ran with it).

if you truly don't want to end the relationship over a muffin, you'll need to find a solution that works for the both of you. your partner seems to really value sharing foods together-- so if there's a gf food that she REALLY wants to try but there isn't enough for the both of you, the onus should be on her to find out how to find enough for you both. that said, i'd consider the perspective that your partner may genuinely feel hurt/left out for not being able to try yummy foods with you simply because they are gluten-free when she goes out of her way to include you whenever she goes out to get food. you've mentioned that fights about this come up often, and will come up again if the occasion arises. in your partner's eyes, you're talking so much about how yummy these muffins are and *she'll* never get to try them again unless she goes abroad (plus, your mom said they were for you both to share). it seems that she feels entitled to try your special gf treats since she's established a 1:1 ratio and compromises for your dietary restrictions. you've fought over this before and she's made it clear that she thinks you're "manipulative" when you set your boundaries, there isn't much hope in changing her mind over this.

i personally do not think you should get back together with your partner, she's acting quite immature, entitled, and inconsiderate for her age, you're still young and can definitely do better. if you'd still like, you can also get back together with her-- just be prepared to make some sacrifices for yummy gf foods you like, or else you'll have this fight again.

YTA you’re very judgmental of your aunt’s life. She needs help, it’s a fact. Your mom helping her is great. Too bad she can’t be everywhere at the same time but that happens. Don’t you have friends that can help you ?

This is more than a curtain rod issue

YMBTA.
Is there anything preventing you from hanging the curtain rod yourself? That’s a sincere question.

Maybe. My guy would be very insulted if I just did that myself. Granted he doesn't really have time for it, but that's the reality of it. And sometimes people have things going on (afraid of ladders, disabled and not able to lift arms above head, she said elsewhere that she was feeding the toddler dinner but wanted it done before toddler went to bed so they didn't wake kid, etc.).

Do you have any data to back that up?

I agree, I should not have spoken to her like that. I am injured and tired (not an excuse, I know, I am just overwhelmed)

ESH you WERE ungrateful and rude. Especially if your wish list has lower priced games on it, it's reasonable for your mom to think you like games in general and that you'd have fun with this. And even if it was out of left field, it's rude to act ungrateful, say thank you and move on. 

Your mom also sucks for continuing to bring it up. She's probably hoping for an apology but if that's the case she should have discussed it with you directly rather than just be passive aggressive forever.

Update: My brother talked to her and apparently she apologized to him and said she was joking by trying to make a joke so ridiculous because obviously it wouldn't happen, and that she felt like my boyfriend felt left out, since we all knew eachother for so long. Which wasn't the vibe at all because my boyfriend was very comfortable with them and was talking often and everyone was getting along. Also the comments about him carrying her or the banana just don't add up. She's basically saying that she was trying to include him more by flirting with him. My brother told me I should talk to her about it if I'm still upset because 'he's good with her answer'. Which made me feel like he downplayed the whole situation after talking to her. 

  
Should I reach out to her? I feel uncomfortable around her still and don't want her around my boyfriend if she will make comments like that. But She will most likely just tell me she was joking and give the same response to me.

You are not assholes by any stretch of the imagination. Your coworker is the asshole for dumping on you, probably out of jealousy for getting attention for being so nice. But, just in case someone ‘s  family is looking for her, please put up notices and do mention the cost of the shots and the microchip and say you would appreciate a reimbursement if possible because you befriended what appeared to be a helpless orphan by mistake.  Slim chance you will get a reply. In my book you are an angel. 😇

It's not a two person job, I've hung many all by myself, from regular straight rods to traverse rods. It's really not that hard. 

If he needed help he needs to put on his big boy pants and ask, not incompetently hang the rid and throw a tantrum.

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

so i have two close friends, both have pregnant significant other, so recently they have scheduled baby showers. They also did gender reveals months before. the problem is they schedule them i. the same month and two weekends back to back. so AITA for not wanting to show up to both? i’m not saying my time is more valuable but it’s like bro at least space it out more yk……lmk

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > I've been very hateful towards my Father in law because I believe he is a creep from behaviors he has exhibited that make me feel unsafe and uncomfortable, however I'm not sure if it's the behavior he's showing or if it's my trauma taking over, so I'd love a response from real people instead of thinking about it in circles by myself

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

That's not at all true. The people I know with stay at home wives have a great relationship because the wifes want to be home especially during their kids formative years. Unfortunately for younger marriages this is a  luxury most couples can't achieve as the husband has to make way higher than average income.

NTA. Sounds like he doesn't understand what it means to have a family or be a family man. It comes with adjustments and lots of self sacrifice for the people you love.  
Apart from the ridiculous sleep at 6:30 wake at 3:00 thing, it also doesn't sound like he's involved in your baby's sleep routine, settling, comforting etc. I don't know what happens before 6:30 but parenting a baby is a fulltime job for BOTH parents

YTA. Just because you're her kid and you have a kid doesn't mean you get to tell her what choices to make. She's a grown woman, as are you. Act like it.

Of course the Caribbean isn’t only black people and nobody is saying the contrary. The odd behavior is you taking on an accent that isn’t yours in the work place. I’m not white passing, I’m very obviously Latina (I even get Arabic which I am very slightly or Indian which I’m not at all but that tells you how much I’m not white passing) and I wouldn’t just randomly do a stereotypical Latino accent at work. (I personally wouldn’t do it outside of work either because I think that’s ignorant and offensive regardless of your country of origin.) That WAS odd behavior on your part especially in a professional setting. Even if you looked like the stereotypical Caribbean person it would still be odd to break out into a random accent at WORK.

It’s crazy how many people have this insanely black and white view of the world where the driver just picks the music and everyone else gets FUCKED. My gosh. Personally I wouldn’t put on an audio book when someone is coming to buy me dinner I would probably talk to them but I guess im somehow an asshole because I value people around me. YTA

My son was fine sleeping in his own room from birth. My daughter was totally different. I didn’t want to let her sleep with us, so from around 10 months I would silently stay in her room with her by sitting in the rocking chair until she fell asleep. By the time she was around 20 months I could put her to bed without having to stay. I felt it was important that she learn to sleep independently but I didn’t want to have her “cry it out”. It worked surprisingly well. Just took a little while.

ETA. Husband's gym time should not be prioritized over his child's sleep time. Sounds like husband needs to contribute to parenting more. But also, your kid should have his bed in his own room. Yeah, it's gonna be hard at first switching his routine, but you and your husband will have to suck that up for a bit until he gets use to it. For the sake of both your child and your marriage, encourage your child to grow and be a little more independent.

Giving you a reason for your mother travelling isn't gaslighting, dear. It's your mother's reason, and whether you think it valid or not is of no import to her decision.

NTA your partner is selfish, cruel and doesn't respect you. I would end the relationship on that basis. 

I feel so lucky right now that when my partner and I are sharing something, and he can see how incredibly happy it makes me, he just offers me the rest (I usually decline because I want to share, but occasionally I'll take him up on it, and I always return the favour when I know he especially loves something). I can't ever imagine a scenario where I would fight him for something he truly wanted, especially if it was hard to find.

To each their own, I’ve never been to a Catholic wedding, but I would be flabbergasted and super annoyed if I went to a wedding like this. Ceremony straight into reception is always how it goes. Don’t make me leave and come back.

Update:

I called him today and told him I was still bothered by the situation and how I feel about the whole situation. He just listened and kept saying OK. When I asked him if he had anything to say, he said that he has already said everything before and he was "too lazy" to talk about it again. He made me feel unappreciated and as if our 4 year long history of friendship meant nothing to him. As of now I plan to cut ties with him and deal with the consequences of our mutual friends as they arise. If he did not care to try to resolve this then in my opinion he was not the best friend I thought he was.

...do you actually like each other?

A 1 year old, yeah. Big difference between a 1 year old and a 3 year old. A 3 year old doesn't need to be in their parents bed still if either of those parents would prefer their own space.

I feel like this is very common with Catholic weddings where people are mostly local. We always just went to one of my aunts' and the adults drank.

NTA. Take it down and hang it up the correct way. Then tell him it was easy and he's an incompetent  baby.

Serious question, not trying to be demeaning, but couldn't she just do it herself?

Because he is a parent he doesnt get to go to bed at 6:30. He needs to put his own child to sleep at least half the time.

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > i'm wrong for. wing upset that my sister got married. i'm supposed to be happy for her

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

NTA, I've been to plenty of weddings that run the exact same way and a few that offer entertainment in-between. I prefer weddings with that break in-between as a guest. We usually go for a coffee run and chat with relatives and friends we haven't seen in awhile and catch up before going to the reception. I prefer that over having to stay at the reception hall with some live band playing any and every day.

Do you really think you can get people to help you by cussing them out and dictating who they should prioritize? I mean, I sympathize that you're in a tough spot, but by your age you should know how to ask for help.

There is no such thing as self soothing, unless you mean cry it out, which is known to be barbaric. Young children NEED their parents to co-regulate, they are not born knowing how. Mom is doing the right thing. Dad needs to either deal with it, start his workouts later, or go sleep in another room. 

Btw, NTA.

NTA but maybe you could get someone to check on the welfare of the dog.

Yeah, but she can still Use it.  She just didn’t want daddy to know.

My daughter is now 28 and stupid people said the same thing to me when she was a toddler- reality, she didn’t need or even remotely want me to go off to college with her. Snuggling with your kiddos to get them to sleep or even in the middle of the night works for some and not for others…the real issue here is a husband/father  wanting to go sleep at 6:30PM so he can wrk out at 3 AM….

YTA and judgmental to boot. It’s up to your mom who she helps and from the sounds of it, you’re no peach to deal with so helping out her sister might be more pleasant

I’ve already responded to others above. Also wild that so many are so focused on race and not the entitlement.

I mean sure. But that’s true about literally everything as an adult. You get to do what you want.

That doesn’t mean you shouldn’t take others into consideration.

I also have a two year old. Don’t get shamed for being available to your child. Hyper independence obsessed western culture is weird.  He won’t sleep in your bed forever.

ESH- this just sounds unsustainable at every level. 

Your toddler needs to have his own room at some point and learn some type of self soothing before he’s a teenager. 

And your husband goes to bed at 6:30 every night?!   How does he spend any time with his partner and his child?!

If OP gets upset people don't stay there I agree they would be an ahole. But that is not the sense I got, especially because they said the price of the independent booking cheap cabins would be the same price as the lux cabin site. 

Even on the cheap cabin site it would be very similar issues to the lux cabin area, the only thing that is easier is independent booking, so it's you pay $250 directly to cabin site for cheap cabins, or pay $250 to the bride for lux cabins. 

Also OP said hotels are only 15 mins away and have nj problem with people staying there. 

"There are hotels within 15 minutes of the camp grounds that others are welcome to use."

Cold- maybe. Unreasonable? Meh. Is it cold and unreasonable not to date someone for a physical attribute? Or another personality trait? Of course not. That’s how we pick. We have things we like and we look for the best match to that. 
If ambition and success are important to her, it’s better to say it. We have his side of the story too. I’ll be real- I wouldn’t want to be with someone who wasn’t ambitious. My career is important to me, and I want someone who shares that value.My husband and I both picked careers where we would do okay financially but would have made far more with different paths also available to us. Like I’m a specialist veterinarian- I do fine, but the exact same job on hairless apes would have been mayyyyybe two years more of school and I would make 5x. He also picked a niche within his field. Could have made more, but that wasn’t his passion. But it’s not about the money persay, or who is making it. Sometimes I’ve more, sometimes my husband has. But the drive to dedicate yourself to a career and be good at it. I have friends who just have a job that they dont give a shit about other than paying bills. I can respect that’s their choice, but wouldn’t want that in my partner.

the whole 'driver picks the music' thing exists for a reason and its not just tradition, its safety. youre already focused on the road, you dont need to be fumbling with headphones or getting into a volume war over some youtube video. he can watch that later, your audiobook was already playing and youre literally doing him a favor by driving

Assuming you've no spouse yourself, and no in-laws, father, nor grandparents to pinch hit, you're still offside. I can't imagine what on earth entitles you to your mother's time sufficiently that you can cuss her out for HELPING someone else. 

Your opinions of your aunt do you no service either. 

YTA.

This wedding I attended was in a town literally 1.5 hours' drive away. It was actually even worse than OP - the ceremony was at like 11:30am or noon and the reception/cocktail started at FIVE O'FUCKING CLOCK PM. 

We literally went to a fucking movie theater in some random town to kill hours of time. We also ate fast food as there was nothing but mcdicks in this town, and no food at all came out at the reception until literally 7:30pm. 

This was like 15 years ago and I am still mad. Don't do this to people!!!! Why would you do this????? It is insane to me. 

When I got married, there was nonstop food, booze, and entertainment for all guests from the moment he kissed the bride until we shut er down. In fact there were literally glasses of champagne at the end of the aisle for us + all guests to kick off the party.

When are the meals in the weddings you go to?    All at 3 or 4 pm?

Make sure your insurance company knows that. 

If he’s suing for injuries, those previous crashes will heavily impact that decision and payout because there will be doubt about what injuries your crash causes vs what was pre-existing from him. It will likely put it back on him to prove he wasn’t previously injured in those crashes which can be hard.

If he wasn’t injured and it was sustained from your wreck, then your insurance will cover it. If he’s just trying to milk you for a payday - he can have fun with their lawyers once they have a full picture.

Like I said, idk if she legitimately meant him needing to make more money than her or if she just wanted someone on more equal grounds with her / not being the one making more money by a long shot.

I don't think there's any woman who would want someone who isn't ambitious and have an equal partnership.

But like I also said: idk i don't know them and wasn't there for the conversation lol

You are being groomed to be a future caretaker for your BIL.

YTA  I understand your frustration, but cussing your mother out is completely unacceptable.  

Do you have a neighbour who can help a bit?

The person has to be waiting for you and it's easy to know if it's the case or not, although it might work however I'm quite sure the person won't save you the spot, there is no reason for them to have waited and you can just skip because you know them (depending on what you are waiting) except if it's a very close friend or family. There are some ethics here. It's just the POV: are both genuinely happy to be together and there is no problem for the person joining them (we don't call this cutting the line) or is the person trying to cut the line?

Agreed .. I don’t know what everyone’s so annoyed about especially cause invites generally lost both start times .. the church is generally close friends and family anyway

ESH except the toddler for reasons everyone else has already stated. The only victim here is the poor baby

some people are short

Or they should get an airbnb that is wheelchair accessible. And wife can visit them there.

It's also a bit homophobic IMO, not everything needs to be straight.

NTA - I feel bad for you and for your wife , she must feel so torn and it’s not easy for her to tell her mom and brother NO. But, let’s be realistic, how comfortable is your BIL at your house? He’s sleeping in your living room and he can’t even shower without finding alternative arrangements. That sounds awful for him (and for you obviously!) Maybe they can stay 2- 3 weeks? Three months is way too long, and as hard as it is for your wife to tell her mom that, I think she has to. It’s not fair to you. As for the reason being escaping their own country due to extreme summer heat (Italy? Greece?) can’t they get an AC? What do other people in their country do, surely they can’t all escape for the entire summer.

Honestly like that idea and I agree.

I still don’t really understand the concept of stinking up your entire living space when there’s another option, but I guess that’s just me

Is your husband kind to you?

yeah same. but they’ve always had a long cocktail hour and/or snacks and/or entertainment.

NTA. I would cap the visit at 4 weeks. Your wife can go visit them. It’s your house too. You and your wife need to sit down and hash this out. I wouldn’t have agreed for this year. That’s just too long to disrupt the house like that. Im a loner and would move out for the 3 months.

Usually the cocktail hour is immediately before dinner at the reception hall where dinner and dancing will take place, so at least you still only have to drive two places total.

Ridiculous comparison. The kids weren't in immediate danger, such as what you described. If they were, of course OP would've had to react Brevard time was imminent. All OP said was that they were awake and wandering around.

We won't know these hosts. We don't know how old these kids are. We don't know if this was a social occasion for the kids to be awake (as what we all assume) as late as they were. 

Even the situation of the party itself. Not much is known of their friends except that OP felt uncomfortable. Maybe the hosts were comfortable with their "friends" 

I will tell you that for me, when my kids were young like that, I would only bring people around whom I knew were going to be village.

My main point is that OP doesn't give me enough to go off of to say whether or not she really was TA. She could've been right. Or wrong. Who's to know?

NTA because it’s not like you are doing the bare minimum rotting away with your life or anything like that. You both are about to have good and respected careers that take a lot of effort to even get to this point. I wouldn’t take the disrespect from her.

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

We're not young. 50's. Raised our kids in same town. Very close as we lost our mom 20 years ago and dad right before covid. Dealt with their deaths together. Used to be each others BFF. She got divorced two years ago. She Met someone with a lot of trauma in past, doesn't see his pre teen kids due to a restraining order; they get serious. He sells his car and starts driving hers. He moves in with my sister. No job, retired early. He wants nothing to do with me or my kids, doesn't spend holidays with us instead he goes to casino. Found out he was arrested two months ago at casino for breach of peace. Not sure if my sister knows this...   
Welp my sister married him without telling anyone but her daughter. Even her son was out of state.   
I flipped. Couldn't believe she didn't tell any of us (very contrary to how we've been for 50 y). She now can't believe my reaction.  
She's moving 25 hours away in a month. Idk wtf to do. I'm crushed.  
We have no other family but our kids- early 20's. I am losing my best friend and family, and she seems to have not one f to give.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Not sure why it did not post, he is deployed. I fixed it in the post.

NTA that is an unreasonable bedtime, sleep in a different room as him of the schedules don’t align. I will also say that if his schedule can change it should- it’s putting unnecessary stress on the family.  As a tidbit, my experience with toddlers involved sleeping in the same bed as them - as it felt the most natural to me - they now sleep on their own!

Talk with your partner and find a sustainable bedtime plan.

driver picks the music, passenger shuts their cakehole. you had already started your book, he jumped in with a video during a pause like some weird audio turf war. get this man some headphones or get a new man tbh

Our toddler started waking up at night in her room crying for us so we left a radio on. After that, when woke up, she heard voices and went back to sleep. Now she’s an adult and leaves the radio on for her dogs when she’s at work.

That might help your toddler stay asleep, but your husband is still going to wake you up at 3am so you have two toddlers.

I’m white and I call white people entitled all the time. It’s because we are. I’ve been on my anti racist journey for a long time and still finding new ways that I need to learn to break free from white supremacy. I don’t blame anyone being mad at me for being a white woman. You cannot live in a country based off of colonization and slavery and complain as a white person that you’re a victim because someone understandably doesn’t trust white people.

cosleeping is the end of many relationships YTA for keeping your toddler in your bed instead of teaching him how to sleep independently

I feel stuff was left out. My wife says yes you are. The husband doesn't just randomly say I can never do anything right in your eyes. Meaning he probably has done a lot for you and you never thanked him. What do I know. Context is left out.

Yeah three months is too much. This is more than just inconvenience. It's about your space, privacy and boundaries getting violated.

Maybe as a compromise, you could find a rental place for them to stay? The fact that they're staying in your place for three months is the reason why the visits are so long.

My sister claims her 6 year old needs “comfort to sleep” like you.  My sister’s sleep is trash, my niece is up way too late and it’s easier for virtually anyone else to get this kid to sleep. 

That said, your husband needs to sleep in another room if he wants to go to bed that early.

This is almost every wedding I’ve been to .. while the church info is listen on the invite .. the reception card has the start time - so unless you’re close friends or family you go to the reception .. and most people going to the church are aware of the gap and plan accordingly..

“Driver picks the music, shotgun shuts his cakehole.” — D. Winchester

Our son is 2. I’m working towards getting him in his own bed, but I’m going to be honest when I say I don’t feel comfortable putting him all the way in his room, because it’s on the complete opposite side of our house. If you have any recommendations I’d love them, I’m willing to try. The few times I’ve tried to get him to go to sleep on his own even with me in the same room, he has cried so hard he’s thrown up. I’ll admit I should be trying harder, but it’s definitely not easy because the one time I tried to transition him, my husband got so fed up he screamed at him telling him to go to sleep and it made the situation terrible.

He is deployed, I editted it in the post. I forgot about that, I have not been in the right mind.. It won't click because she put's her siblings before us (my siblings and I) if it was just my daughter and I with me not being injurded I can handle my child.

NTA

Tell him he was AWOL for your childhood and you dismissed him from your life long ago.

I bet he'd retire and start asking for money

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

Hi, this is my first time posting on reddit, so I'm sorry if I mess up. 

Background Tim was BARLEY in Sam's life. He was addicted to substances and was absent for a long time. It's only been recently that Tim has been in Sam's life. His mom took care of him for most of his life. 

I have BPD and Bipolar disorder, so this may also be a factor in why I'm feeling the way I am.

I 18F live with my fiance 18M who is going to be called sam and his father 34M called tim, my fiance and I take up the third level of the house and tim lives in the basement, the main floor is shared between us. We've been living here since mid to end of April. When we first moved in, everything was pretty good. We were all getting along, and it was good. However, about 2 weeks in, I started noticing Tim staring at me a lot (my boob's and butt) it was when Sam was never around, I ignored it for a while but then he started offering me substances when Sam wasn't around and won't offer it to him, I brought it up to Sam and he was pissed we decided not to say anything and see if things got worse. It did, tim started inviting ME only to watch TV with him or make pastries with him, but again, not sam. I have been assaulted before, and it makes it hard for me to actually know if someone is being a creep or just friendly. But I brought up the new stuff with sam, and he texted his dad saying to back off and that he was creeping me out his dad responded with " I moved from the third level floor to the basement to make her more comfortable, and I've never done anything to creep a woman out" but I'm freaking out and I don't know how to feel, sam wants me to talk to his mom about how I feel and how to deal with my BPD. He said he'd talk to his dad but sam and his mom just think he has social issues because he's been living alone for 2 years and doesn't know how to act around 18 year old women, however I feel like he's a 34 year old man he should know, my mind is going crazy so please help

So AITA for thinking my Father in law is a creep?

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Yes,  mine. We arranged for places to stay for four out of town relatives that we wanted there. There were certainly other people from out of town we could have invited, but didn't because they were not in the budget. (There were also people in town we didn't invite because they weren't in the budget, and i think that goes for most weddings.)

Our son is 2… I’m working towards getting him in his own bed, but I’m going to be honest when I say I don’t feel comfortable putting him all the way in his room, because it’s on the complete opposite side of our house. If you have any recommendations I’d love them, I’m willing to try. The few times I’ve tried to get him to go to sleep on his own even with me in the same room, he has cried so hard he’s thrown up. I’ll admit I should be trying harder, but it’s definitely not easy because the one time I tried to transition him, my husband got so fed up he screamed at him telling him to go to sleep and it made the situation absolutely terrible.

Info, how old is your toddler?

If he goes to bed so early and the wakes up to go work out, when is he spending time with you and your toddler? How does he help with the day to day care?

Why is he so focused on his workouts? Does he need to be in shape for work?

Either way, work on transitioning your toddler to their own room.

YTA.
Hang your own curtains.

INFO: why can’t you hang the curtain rod?

Sorry non parents are adorable w these suggestions. I also thought my toddler would never sleep in my bed when they weren’t real. Fascinating people want a three year old to get his sh*t together but a grown man going to bed at 630 and expecting silence is ok

You should still be checking behind you.

She’s a HS dropout using her adult child to cheat. Doesn’t scream intelligent to me.

"I guess I’d want to know the price of the cabin rental and how far from anything else is it? "

Do you mean as a guest or to make a judgement? I think either way it does not really matter. 

As a guest, is you have no info and all you have is a price, it is still your choice, even if nearest hotels are 30/50+ mins away.  Your options are pay the price to stay onsite, find and book a hotel X mins away, or just don't go to the wedding. 

I think to make a judgement it is enough to know OP is not forcing anything on anyone they are just providing a choice/option but are not forcing anyone into it. 

But also OP said hotels are only 15 mins away from campground. 

"There are hotels within 15 minutes of the camp grounds that others are welcome to use."

Does brother-in-law even like this set up? It seems like it’s extremely difficult for him to be at your house for more than a day. I can’t imagine he’s happy about this.

NTA. You made sure she had a safe place to stay, and you knew she had options to pay for a ticket home.  You answered her call and listened.  You did everything required of a good and helpful friend in this situation.  She WANTED you to pay for her ticket home, she didn't NEED you to pay.  And she wanted to avoid getting in trouble with dad, which really shouldn't be an issue in a 26 yo woman's life.

the math here is bleak as hell. six days total, he wants three of them essentially solo, and the 'compromise' is dragging a toddler through 18 holes of mexican heat. my dude already golfed this exact course four times two years ago, its not like hes chasing some bucket list moment. this is just him wanting to relive his boys trip while youre stuck doing all the actual family vacation labor

That's on you though.  Don't show up to meals, fend for yourself.

Fr, there’s so much we don’t know. Either or both could easily be complete assholes depending on context. Curtain rods are so simple, anybody with YouTube could do a good job in 20 minutes. Why couldn’t she do it herself? Why did he take an hour to do a half-assed job?

It’s not a racist comment. Racism requires power dynamics. A black woman does not have the same power as OP who is visually white.

Black women in America have been treated awfully. Her anger while misdirected and rude is not unfair.

What do you mean only one part?

Yeah, this isn’t about the curtain rod.

Yep, people who have a wedding like this are the reason that people skip the ceremony and only go to the reception

Your husband’s expectations are ludicrous. He should be supporting you and your toddler getting enough sleep not giving you anxiety/making you walk on eggshells to “accomodate” a grown ass man. My husband would be sleeping on the couch if he carried on like that. He is the adult, not the toddler who is still learning how to sleep: he can adjust his sleep/work out schedule so that it fits with the family he’s a part of just like you do by default.

This - I 100% agree. It's time to pop the toddler in his own room & do bedtime there - OP doesn't have to do the self sooth if she doesn't want to, she can lay in bed with the toddler still, just in the toddlers room instead but I do think it's unrealistic & unfair to ask hubby to give up his bedroom when the toddler will eventually transition to their own bedroom shortly anyway, so why not begin the move now?

Stop sending money. You have your own family to worry about.

90% of reddit is fake bullshit.

I hope I'm not reading too much into this, but certain things you have said makes me wonder if your wife is from a culture where "family takes care of family"?

That doesn't make you the bad guy, but it doesn't make her one either. It might not have even occurred to her to talk about it with you, if that's the culture she grew up in. She probably assumed that you married into her family, and she married into yours.

It's time to have an open & honest conversation about expectations when it comes to your future with both her family and yours. And see if you can find a compromise you can both live with.

NAH

He says it’s “too hot” in the afternoons. He has an industrial sized fan though. Says it doesn’t do anything.

You’re white passing which comes with a lot of privilege that people who aren’t white passing are not afforded. It is not weird that your black coworker thought your behavior was weird to do an impression that is typically associated with a person of color. I’m Latina and not white passing. I’m a native English speaker and you can’t tell I’m a POC if you speak to me on the phone without ever looking at me. I would not do an impression of other Latinos with an accent to imitate them. Could I and get away with it? Sure. I think it’s rude and ignorant regardless especially depending on the context it’s done in. I assume you weren’t saying anything offensive about your mom when you imitated her but it is weird behavior and can be hurtful to people who actually have accents and struggle or are made fun of when they speak. I think you’re definitely overreacting here and need to have some more self awareness.

NTA. Wow your husband wants everything the revolve around him? It's bad enough when you have a child but no one goes to bed at 6:30. If he needs to get up at 3:00 to work out he needs to sleep somewhere else or you need to sleep somewhere else with your kid and not have him wake you guys up. This way he can go to sleep at 6:30 and get his beauty sleep. But this Cuts him off from the kid he's never going to ever see his child if he's at work all day comes home and goes right to bed and then gets up at 3:00 a.m. to work out before work. What's the point in being married at this point?

She has given you a gift: she's shown you who she is.

Believe her.

And get out of there.

That’s what we did when we went to Mexico just us two. He played one round of golf and I spent the day at the spa. I don’t mind that just maybe 1-2 times and not three times. Also since we have a 2 year old that were brining it makes it harder cause then I just end up being default parent the whole time.

Where’s your kids dad? Why can’t he help?

YTA, because you don’t get to decide that for her. You are in pain, and yes concussion can be serious. But it’s no excuse to speak to someone like that.

they are trying to gaslight me into thinking she needs to take care of her sister because she will be alone and nobody will be there to help her when she get's home from the hospital and at the hospital..fml.

Girl, get some self esteem.

I’ve lived on the east coast of the US for my entire life & it is not at all common here.

NTA.  WTF?  He's a grown man?  Sounds childish to me and if he has problems with the paint color and it prevents him from evacuating his bowels (several times a morning), he needs help.  Why isn't he painting the bathroom since it's his little poopie problem?

INFO: How old is MIL, actually, and how is her health currently?

Wait. If only one part was done how on earth could you know it’s crooked?

NTA this definitely shouldn't go on. Honestly it's setting everyone up to have a falling out at some point. You'd be better off helping them fund an accessible Airbnb rental near you or, if you have the finances and space, put a little guest house in the backyard or something.

Why is he working out at 3am?  

He could just work out in the evening instead, so then he can just go to bed and wake up at a normal time.  Would be the same exact thing.

Incompetent Avoidance. I'm going to do it wrong, because I never do anything right?  Are you critical usually or is he just in a bad mood?

NTA in my last relationship if she was driving and playing music or a podcast and I wanted to listen to something else I put in headphones

I had to scroll way to far for this

NAH. You each had different expectations oh how sausages would be served. Then you communicated so that you understood how each other's expectations differed. Noone was an asshole to anyone.

NTA. I just hung two curtain rods for my boyfriend at his house. All you need is to mount one side, put the rod up, use the level, and mark where the other side holder goes. No measuring involved.  You can do it yourself. Woman power, activate! 

Btw don’t let him make you feel bad about wanting something done right.

Yeah, I’m dying to know!

NTA at all. You’re injured, concussed, caring for a toddler alone, and your mom chose to go play third parent for your aunt’s 5th kid with a deadbeat dad instead of helping her own injured daughter.  

You snapping was from pain and stress, not just pettiness, and honestly someone needed to say that her kids should come before her sister’s chronic bad choices.

The problem is her definition of ambitious is ridiculous compared to the average woman. She doesn’t need OP to make more than her for any reason, she just arbitrarily wants it.

Sometimes it's painfully obvious reddit is mostly teenagers and 20-somethings.

yeah its way better, take this downvote.

Pretty major thing to spring on a spouse two years into marriage. Did your wife tell you these were her intentions before you got married?

NTA. Waking up at 3am is optional. Your husband cannot expect you and your 3yo to wake up at 3am to… do what exactly? watch him work out? If your husband wants your toddler to sleep in his own room then he can put him back to bed every time your toddler wakes up and wants to be soothed back to sleep. Your husband can go to the gym during the day like a normal person, or perhaps while you’re doing the nighttime routine so that your son is already transferred into his bed when your husband gets home.

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

We were at a house party a town over Saturday, May 30 and this little munchkin wandered to the front of the house from outside, it was close to midnight, someone brought her in, and she let everyone hold her. The homeowners said they thought someone was feeding the neighborhood cats, but she didn’t have an owner.  We weren’t certain the homeowners wouldn’t just let her back outside, so we said if she’ll let us take her to the car, we’ll take her home. We have 2 strays and 1 rescue and keep them as our well-fed and well-treated prisoners. 

We kept her in my husband’s office overnight with the necessities and took her to the vet Sunday morning. Negative on a chip, negative on feline leukemia, and positive on fleas with no microchip. Vet said about 4 months. She said kittens can look well cared for even as strays because they groom so well. I didn’t get the indication she thought we stole anyone’s cat. 

A coworker said this cat is obviously not a stray and we stole someone’s cat. Are we the assholes?

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

“Why is she so offended by what she looks like” 

Genuinely, what are you on about? How does one look or not look like they ride a bike? The incredible irony here is that the only people who know what “iPhone face” would mean are people who spend far too much time on the internet. 

YTA

Slight E S H but mostly NTA, you should have said something before just turning it back on and turning it up maybe, but drivers legally can't wear headphones!!  My partner and I commute together and whoever is driving gets the aux and the other person uses their headphones.

I don't understand why you keep taking this so incredibly personal. Why are you acting surprised she doesn't know everything about you? You guys are coworkers not friends. The only thing she knows about you is the way you look and your brief interactions with her. Of course she's judging you--she doesn't even know you. 

YTA for doing those types of impersonations at work, and double YTA for not understanding that you are a tiny blip in a persons life, not the main character.

You’re generous. My limit is 1 week with a day either side as a grace period for flights. So 9 days.

It sounds like your husband's being a bit unreasonable, but you're also not doing anyone any favors by letting your toddler sleep in your room.

I'd say YTA because where I'm from it is normal to take the pictures BEFORE the wedding. So it would be:

Groom picks up bride
Pictures
Guests arrive at the church
You both head to the church
Wedding
Going to the venue all together
First dance
Eat/drink
Party

Sometimes after the wedding, if the venue is a bit further away, there is even a bus arranged so the immediate family can all go together.

So yeah, I think your coworker is definitely right. In my opinion it is very strange to leave your guests for two hours.

Our son is 2. I’m working towards getting him in his own bed, but I’m going to be honest when I say I don’t feel comfortable putting him all the way in his room, because it’s on the complete opposite side of our house. If you have any recommendations I’d love them, I’m willing to try. The few times I’ve tried to get him to go to sleep on his own even with me in the same room, he has cried so hard he’s thrown up. I’ll admit I should be trying harder, but it’s definitely not easy because the one time I tried to transition him, my husband got so fed up he screamed at him telling him to go to sleep and it made the situation terrible.

YTA , him saying he can't do anything right in ur eyes means this is an ongoing thing. Just hang the rod urself or appreciate he even did it for you in the first place

ESH. Your husband should not have snapped at you the way he did. However, that doesn't make you blameless. It feels like there's far more to this story than you're letting on. Reactions like that don't typically come out of nowhere. This is clearly about more than just the curtains to him.

YTA. Went to wedding with a 2-hour gap and a bunch of us ended up going to a random Arby’s in our fancy clothes because there was nowhere else to go. I would have preferred a tighter timeline or a longer cocktail hour over a big beef and cheddar.

Why is your husband prioritizing his workout schedule over his toddlers sleep?? Why doesnt he participate in settling. You know whats great for a kid before bed?? Rough housing with dad! Heavy work like pushing or lifting or pulling things, crashing onto the couch, having dad toss him around safely!
Get all that final energy out so he can sleep! 

Maybe dad should be the one to settle him if its so desperately important for him to sleep at 6:30, the time when most people are eating dinner.

NTA but your husband sounds like one

So you basically ruin MMOs with real money transactions for a living. Nice. Thank you for fucking up MMOs

the whole influencer economy runs on this exact delusion that male attention comes without strings attached. shes not dumb shes just been told her entire life that being pretty is a career strategy that protects you from consequences. her dad cutting her off might be the first real feedback shes ever gotten tbh

Like, his suggestion isn't good either, your suggestion is somewhat more reasonable than his, but why have neither of you chosen to have your toddler sleep in his own room? He'll get over it and then be used to having his own space, and your husband will have his quiet time. Obviously you could still tuck the kid in and read to him or something before bed, but toddler age seems a bit old to literally have his bed in your room

get your dad to hang it.

It's 4 people in a food court - Grace could have given each some cash or if it was notes that couldn't split, she could've gone with each person to whatever food spot they wanted and paid from the cash.  
AND since there was going to def be change left over, it should have been sent back to OP's mom with a warm thank you

NTA why does your husband need to wake up at 3AM to workout? Is he an Olympic-level athlete? does he work a very early shift? Sounds like he’s being extremely difficult with his chosen schedule. If your husband wants to go to sleep at 6:30pm and wake up at 3am… and gets so annoyed that everyone else isn’t on his schedule… then he should sleep in another bedroom, not expect you all to adjust to him.

For things like this (and I include pictures), we do it TOGETHER with a level and our eyes.  Someone holds the thing to be hung and the level on the wall and then we double-check with the eyes.  The one not holding the thing to be hung uses a pencil to lightly mark where the screws go and then my spouse usually finishes it since he is better with power tools.  Then I dust the item and clean up anything off the floor and make the minute adjustments.

Not having been there, how did you tell him?  Would you have said it the same way to someone you hired?  If no, then YTA.

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > Am I the asshole for going off on my mother and telling her she should not choose her sister over her daughter who is injured and needed her

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

NTS

My parents booked a hotel room when they visited me and rented an apartment on a short term lease when they visited my brother for an extended number of weeks.

It is unreasonable to anyone to stay for three months - and to have them in the living room is absolutely unacceptable.

This isn't an inconvenience - an inconvenience is when you have house guests for a week.

Okay, but why do you have to be considerate of their culture if they aren't being considerate to you?

Just stating in general...anyone around the child is part of the village. If comment was "toddlers were wandering near a pool edge" would you think adults should turn a blind eye to the potential danger? 'Mind their business' whilst a child is at risk of falling in?

A 6:30pm bedtime is not a normal bedtime. Do YOU want to go to bed at 6:30pm? If no, then it’s absolutely unreasonable to expect that of you and your child. The person with the abnormal schedule needs to create their own accommodations, not expect their family and the world to bend to their will

What you're saying is valid when it comes to certain issues in a relationship, but some are just non-negotiable for most people - picking up after yourself being one of them.

Her delivery at this point is less important since she has already made him aware that it bothers her. She's just being direct and not sugar-coating her feelings.

Jfc you both will be bread winners 

That term is for like people who need two incomes to survive

NTA. 90% of the weddings I've been too are like this, and it's fine. Frankly, it's often my favorite part, because my friends and I would go to a bar or a friend's place nearby and relax a bit. 

Even if other people don't like it, there's no excuse for your co-worker to rant at you over your choices for your wedding. It's nothing to him and extremely odd for him to care.

“Baby men” bro just admit you’re on this guy’s side and don’t want to hear other perspectives. Telling him it was unattractive the FIRST TIME should have been enough for him to reflect on the behavior. The fact that you think his hand needed holding past that point is frankly insulting to HIM. 

If a romantic partner told me something I did was unattractive, I would take the time to consider whether what they’re saying is valid, and if so, try to change my behavior accordingly. If it’s not a valid complaint, that’s a separate matter to address, but that’s NOT the case here.

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

I am a 26 (f) and I fell yesterday and busted my lip open and needed to get stitches, I also have a consussion and I am in so much pain. I have a toddler and nobody to help me because my mom left yesterday to go visit her sister (2 hours away) who just gave birth and her baby daddy was being a POS (this is her 5th child) I cussed out my mom and told her she was selfish for going to her sister and leaving me alone with my toddler and a busted lip (it is incredibly swollen today) and a consussion and told her her kids come before her siblings and it was not my fault she decided to have 5 KIDS with a dead beat. She has the nurses to help her if she was by herself (bc the dead beat had the kids in daycare and he was somewhere, other than with his wife.) AITA???

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Found the whiny boyfriend lol

Has he acknowledged the bad things he did, accepted responsibility, and apologised for them? 

No? Then why is he expecting forgiveness for anything?????

The child is not at fault. Dad needs to accomodate his baby, not the other way around. Expecting a whole household to accomodate 6:30 bedtime / 3 am wake-up is not realistic

I don't know the conversation they had, but what I mean is she was probably talking about in general and not him specifically, because agreed, a solicitor is not a broke boy, sorry for the confusion, I should have worded that better!!

It’s time you start working with the child on falling asleep without you and sleeping in his own room. He needs to learn to self soothe and while it will be a struggle for a while, the sooner you start the faster the transition will be. 

I’m baffled that you and he don’t wake up at 3am with your husband anyway.

A toddler is typically considered 1-3. More and more research is showing that sleep training can have long term negative consequences, especially if paired with a "cry it out" method. I'm not here to judge parents who opt for sleep training, but there is  no reason to expect a 1-3 year old to sleep independently.

ESH except your toddler. Husband for obvious reasons. You, because you aren’t setting your child up for successful independent sleeping and don’t appear to have a long-term plan for transitioning him to sleeping on his own in his own room.

i agree. his responses were extreme however.

You're going to have to ween the kid off of sleeping in your room/needing you to fall asleep eventually... Your husband is valid for wanting his own space/to have peace and quiet to go to bed. It's confusing to me why the solution would be your husband having his own room instead of your kid

NTA Is a short term rental, accessible and nearby, possible?  Between the 4 of you can you afford it?  Frankly, sounds like BIL might prefer that too.  I'm guessing he would like privacy, and an accessible living space.  This isn't denying them accommodations, its about helping them find appropriate accommodations.

I don't blame them trying. I blame them for not taking the minimal effort needed to recognize that it's not going to work by taking a quick peak back, and instead continuing to mash my knees.

I’m confused why he had to do it? Can’t you just hang them ur self?

NTA. Having extended family regularly stay for 3 months is exhausting to begin with, once you add in the complete disruption of your space and routing needed here, that's exponentially harder. Are there any nearby summer rentals already set up in a single floor to consider if this will be an annual thing? Maybe you can budget to help with the cost and you and your wife can also spend time there?

INFO: Is she currently paying all the bills? Does she want to be a stay at home mum at some point? Otherwise I feel like she doesn't know what a breadwinner is. It's not really applicable to a two-income household.

We live in a remote community. And he'd be traveling to the place where he could get the equipment. So not really an option there. I trusted the little shit tooo much I guess.

YTA he's not your slave. Hang it yourself or help him out, it's probably a two person job.

Your husband’s expectations of you and the toddler going g to bed to accommodate him is ridiculous.  He can adjust his workout schedule.

I don't understand all the N  T  A responses, that was hella rude - YTA.   All you had to do was say "hey, is it okay if I turn my book back on" or "how much longer is that video I want to keep listening to my book". Or, I don't know, anything else. Put on your big girl pants and leave how to be a considerate person who uses words.

I agree that he deserves his sleep, but when I lived at home my parents never gave me a bed time so having this huge restriction at the place where I am supposed to have more freedom was a hard change. Plus I have recommended for him to get earplugs or a sleep mask but he told me he just simply didn't want to.

This isn’t about the curtains. Yes, if it’s not straight it needs to be redone. But fundamentally, it sounds like both parties here aren’t approaching this as partners helping and or supporting each other. Thank him for trying, try to straighten it yourself, and figure out what’s going on that he feels that way and that you need Reddit to tell you who’s right.

Info: is your DH generally good at DIY stuff?  If he is, then NTA.  If he isn’t, then do it yourself.

So as an Indian Muslim, I'm not aware what cocktail hour is. Is it were alcohol and other beverages will be served? 

If yes, this is ridiculous. So we have to spend time, energy and fuel to go to the ceremony. Then spend more on food and fuel to roam around during the gap hours or spend on hotel room to take a nap. Then go to a different venue just for the drinks?

ohhhhh thank you lol

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

My husband and I are expecting our first baby in a few weeks. Before we got married, I told him that one of my few hard preferences was that I didn’t want motorcycles once we had children. I grew up seeing them as dangerous, and the thought of my child’s father riding one has always made me uncomfortable.

Recently, he bought one anyway.

To be fair, we discussed it, and I eventually told him he could get it because I knew it would make him happy. I didn’t want to be controlling, and I didn’t want to be the reason he couldn’t enjoy something he loves.

The problem is that now I’m realizing the motorcycle isn’t actually what bothers me most.

What bothers me is the pattern.

My husband is incredibly capable of following through on things that matter to him. If he wants something, he researches it, plans it, buys it, upgrades it, talks about it, and makes it happen.

Meanwhile, I struggle to think of times he’s shown that same level of initiative toward me.

He didn’t do anything for my birthday. He didn’t do anything for my MBA graduation. I often feel like if I don’t explicitly ask for something, it simply doesn’t happen. He doesn’t stop me from doing things. He’s not controlling. But he rarely seems to proactively think, “What would make my wife feel loved, appreciated, or celebrated?”

Lately I’ve found myself feeling resentful because it seems like the motorcycle received more planning, excitement, and effort than major milestones in my life.

I know that’s probably not literally true, but emotionally that’s how it feels.

I also realized something else: every time there’s a disagreement, I seem to be the one who eventually bends. Not because I’m forced to, but because I don’t want conflict, I want him to be happy, or I convince myself I can live with it. Then months later I realize I’m still carrying the discomfort.

So I guess my question is:

Has anyone else been in a relationship where their partner wasn’t necessarily selfish or controlling, but seemed highly motivated by their own interests and surprisingly passive when it came to their spouse’s emotional needs?

How did you handle it?

Did it get better? Did you learn to advocate for yourself differently? Or was it a sign of a deeper incompatibility?

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

He doesn't need to get up at 3am, but you also don't need to do that wind down time in the bedroom. You aren't doing the kid any favors by waiting until they're asleep to transfer them. That's not building good sleep habits.

You're a lawyer and presumably you make good money. If she's not satisfied with your salary, that's a "her" problem, not a "you" problem. Address this head on. Sit down and lay it all out on the table for her. If she's not satisfied with who you are and what you make, cut the cord now.

Also, are you currently supporting her during medical school or residency? Because if so, she's got some cheek.

NTA, tell Chad to man up. The workouts can wait

Next time, ask him what equipment he wants and buy it directly if you want to help him, but NTA for getting annoyed as you helped him out with the expectation he would use the money properly and he didn’t, that’s on him, not you.

It’s an old Supernatural reference

YTA

**even though she has asked me not to**

Yes, Western Fig.  👍

YTA-The floor, counter or sink are not substitutes for the garbage can and what you are doing is extremely unattractive.

Your husband is TA for expecting his family to go to bed at dinner time so he can work out in the middle of the night

YTA

I hate gap weddings…, one wedding I went to they never even cut the cake before people left!, & this was an hour after the ceremony…

Not a parent, but to be honest I would suggest putting your toddler into their own bed at bedtime, not after he falls asleep. He wiill have to sleep on his own eventually, and it sounds like that would be beneficial to you and your husband. It may be a tough transition but probably best to start earlier than later or he will be 6, 7, 8 sleeping in your bed.

why are so many people saying this 😭

NTA 

"Driver picks the music, shotgun shuts his cake hole."

Ask him if it’s right in his eyes.

Sure, if that set up exists, great. But that won't always be the case. I've been to more weddings in the suburbs (where walking to and from isnt exactly possible) than in walkable cities. And that's despite having lived my entire adult life in an extremely walkable city.

Yta do it yourself it’s not that hard

YTA for playing over the top of his (presumably short) content that he started watching fair and square in a gap. You should have waited or asked him to put in headphones once you were able to resume your content.

NTA. Those two dresses will look identical from 10 feet away, which is how most people will see them. The dresses won't be touching much if at all.

Tell the bride she approved this dress, you're happy to wear another dress if she purchases it herself, but you will not be reimbursing her. This is a non-issue, and probably wedding jitters or something.

NTA.  Your roommate is.  And she's not only entitled but kind of disgusting.

In what universe is a solicitor an unambitious broke boy?

NTA. She wants a man to pay for her. Not a partner.

Unsure on this one because it depends on the kid’s age. 

Leaning towards ESH. Husband for obvious reasons but also you because it doesn’t sound like y’all are setting your kid up for being able to sleep independently away from y’all. Y’all need to get on the same page with bedtime routines and expectations. And teach your kid to sleep in his own bed in his own room.

NTA

Sharing is well and good, but not at the expense of the other person. And I don't mean financially. 

**The issue is not the muffin. The issue is equity vs equality**.

Equality is "we both got one muffin". Equity is realising that the muffins available to be had by each of you do not have the same value or accessibility. 

SHE can buy a muffin anywhere, at any time. YOU cannot. How does she "share" her gluten foods with you???

In healthy relationships people make accommodations for each other's limitations. If one person has a medical restriction the other person usually recognises that, and the impact it has, and seeks to make sure that person misses out on as few things as possible.

So her stance is selfish from the very start. Her escalating the argument by throwing money at you, when she knew damn well money was NOT the issue here, knowing that you cannot access said food easily - and then eating it in front of you, was more about proving a point and winning an argument than building a caring and sharing relationship. Over one muffin. ONE muffin. 

  
I am not saying you should break up with her. I will say, however, that you need to address the core issue here which is that she is not recognising how limiting your condition is, and how being equal is not the same being equitable or fair.

husband needs to adjust, not the toddler. 3am workouts aren’t holy. sounds like he wants roommates not a family

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

My brother came to me one day asking for $1000 to buy all new hockey equipment for an upcoming tournament. I gave him the money? He returns from the tournament with 1 new helmet? The rest was used for weed and drug paraphernalia? I basically gave him shit for lying to my face about what he needed the money for. My mom backed him and told me I was being an asshole and that it's just money? Really?! I'm the asshole for helping someone out when asked? 

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Ok yeah that's relatable to me for sure. I don't like how mean your bf was to you over this. Like, not watching his video in a car while he's beside you is something he shouldn't be at all upset over.

I live in south Louisiana where 99% of our weddings are Catholic and NO ONE does this. YTA. I have literally never been to a wedding/reception with an hours’ long gap between the two, and that’s saying A LOT as I’m a sorority alum as well. 

Photos are either taken during the cocktail hour immediately following the ceremony, or if the bride doesn’t care about being seen in her wedding dress beforehand  and really wants to celebrate the whole event with family and friends, some wedding parties even take photos before everything begins so that all hair and makeup is fresh and perfect (my bestie did this). 

While it’s too late now as your wedding has already taken place, this may be a situation that gives you pause next time you are planning an event. Perhaps before setting the schedule or finalizing the plans, you can ask about the social norms associated with the event, what is typically expected or even required of the host/ess, and how best to arrange the event so that something like this doesn’t happen again. It’s definitely a faux pas that you don’t want to repeat.

YTA . Wow, absolutely YTA. I had a Catholic wedding and I've been to several weddings, both Catholic and non Catholic and I've never experienced a gap like this. Wedding happens, guests go to reception place while we take pictures, guests enjoy music and snackies while pictures are happening, then the wedding party comes in and all the other wedding festivities happen

nta  6:30pm bedtime expectation is unrealistic with a toddler. If the child is sleeping well, that’s what matters. This is more about needing compromise than parenting failure.

I have already apologised they won’t let it go x

Both your husband and your toddler need their own rooms

The thing is that they can get around it. They just say no. It clearly isn't a vacation for anyone. It's getting them used to how things are going to be when MIL and BIL come without a return ticket.

Nah, they’d right to lose their shit. The disrespect OP’s girlfriend showed is deeply wrong and just selfish, cruel, petty entitlement.

Stealing food from somebody, especially somebody who has a Medical Condition, is wrong. You do understand medical conditions are not the same as entitlement, right?

i tried 😭 then he told my “boohoo”

Are you the partner or the hired help? Getting up at 3:30, if not for employment is a luxury. He can sleep in the garage.

I’m not saying he’s not being an ahole, but is there a reason you can’t do it yourself so it’s how you want it to be?

I’ve been to literally hundreds of weddings (including Catholic), & have only experienced this twice. Once it wasn’t terrible (I knew a lot of other people attending, & we went to a local restaurant to kill time), but the other was awful.

Both times there were a lot of comments among guests about how awkward & inconsiderate it was. YTA.

I disagree with the out of towners assessment. I ran a bar next to a wedding venue where people did this a lot. People would come to us, pregame, then check out the museum next door, come back do a round of shots and then head back to the wedding. It was a blast for everyone involved. But the requirement was that people wanted to go to the museum, which local’s it is a one in done experience. However out of towners always seemed grateful to not have had their time monopolized.

You guys do realize that vaping is not really all that bad for you, right, like air pollution probably causes more harm.

You sound spoiled as hell. Learn to communicate and compromise

Or she could do it herself because it isn’t 1950 and women can use drills. It could have been an accident, maybe he thought it was straight. With something as long as a curtain rod, if it’s slightly off it’s going to be very noticeable

I'm betting he would have been insulted if you had just done it? Or would he have been okay with that?

NTA divorce his childish ass

Even 2 weeks every year is too much. How crazy.

YTA but it's far enough in the past and you'll (hopefully) never get married again, so I don't think it's worth feeling bad about. 

But yeah, I went to a wedding where the couple did all the photos between the wedding the reception, and it was worst wedding experience I've ever had (although, tbf the wedding party was gone WAY longer than two hours). Everyone who wasn't family just had to sit there and stare at each other making awkward small talk without any music or entertainment. And then have to watch the catering and cake we couldn't eat be brought out while we were all starving. Everyone was pissed at the bride and groom by the time they got there. So, yeah, it's definitely inconsiderate, but there are far worse fates.

i’m anxious driver so listening to someone helps me a lot. talking can distract me but we do talk to each other while in the car other times too

NTA for wanting it straight but obviously your husband didn't want to do it or it wouldn't be crooked. Rehang it yourself correctly.

NTA  Give them a list of local AirB&B listings, and long-stay hotels.

NTA

This would drive me absolutely wild.

Is your wife of a culture that expects adult children to take care of their parents and disadvantaged siblings?

NTA  
I’m trying to not read into your relationship too far with this little clip, but that seems to be weaponized incompetence. I’d ask him to possibly help you in hanging it. Try to twist it into a positive light, hey I appreciate you hanging it but it’s a bit crooked I’ll redo it I just may need your help! Maybe he was having a bad day, maybe there was tension from something previous. But I would try to talk it out, easier said than done, ik.

I don't like your language about her, but mayn she's a little off. You daddied her enough. Let her grow up. Learn her own lessons (like this one). 
Adults can figure things out for themselves. And you can't control someone's life. No matter how much you care

I mean I use an imitation American accent often just to avoid issues about my actual accent. As my uncle explained to me before moving to the USA as a kid “Accents don’t get sexy until high school,” so I was bullied and attacked (yes as in physically ambushed) frequently in my first few years here. Even had to go to a speech pathologist to learn the American accent after getting expelled for fighting too much (bully was the principle’s grandson so only I ever got in trouble).

It wasn’t until those damned Harry Potter movie came out that I went from being a target of torture to being someone with an intriguing accent that people want to know more about. 

Now I mostly use the American accent to avoid drama with all the right wingers that live in my area and can’t decide if my accent is just off or too foreign for their delicate sensibilities.

It does come with zero obligations. I’m not obligated to help my friends. I want to because they’re my friends, and if they’re genuinely in need, I will of course help them. But that doesn’t mean it’s my job or responsibility to do so, and it doesn’t mean I will “help” them out of shit they shouldn’t have been in to begin with and that they only got into through their poor decisions. Will I be there for support? Sure. But I will not be the one to bail them out of their own bad choices.

His defensive response is not your fault. Tell him that having a straight curtain rod is an expectation and if he can't do it you are happy to hire someone. And then hire someone if it's not done by whatever day you tell him it needs to be done.

Thx for support. I literally would just open the door and go to the bathroom to prepare for bed, not even turning on the lights to the room and I would walk quietly which slowed me down. This was still too much noise for him apparently.

So in Germany, there is a long queue somewhere, and I see someone I recognize at the front, then I can just skip the entire queue and everyone would be okay with it? I am sure that person would retroactively want to save the spot for me...

NTA but you should never be alone with a woman in that situation.  She could have a screw loose and say you tried to come on to her or raped her and your life is screwed.  Don't put yourself in that situation.  You signed up to live with ONE other person not two

How far out of level is it?  Are we talking glaringly obvious or something that you’d never really notice unless you look for it

But from the beginning. Why didn’t you do it? You seemed miffed it had taken him so long , so you clearly have an idea of what it takes to know how long it takes… so why didn’t you do it yourself?

NTA it's unreasonable for your discomfort to be dismissed. 

What have you offered as alternatives?  A shorter stay, different (more accessible) lodging that you and wife can chip in for?

Can your wife visit for a month instead and install and AC system while there?

Why can't YOU hang it?

It’s not ending a relationship over a muffin. It’s ending a relationship over your girlfriend being selfish, cruel, entitled, and unyielding. The fact that she was willing to have a tantrum, then tried to put you in your place by buying the muffin, and then forced you to WATCH while she stole and ate the muffin, is all her. I his is who she is and what your life will be like if you stay with her.

In short, you are NTA. Your girlfriend, however, is. And good riddance. She went out of her way to hurt you out of spite and greed.

Driver controls the stereo, NTA. However, do you each have to be independently entertained by media every second you're out and about? Can't you talk to each other?

NTA if he can't handle simple criticism without exploding on you, that's concerning. What does je do for a job?

It would be one thing if you were earning a little over minimum wage, but this doesn't bode well for the relationship long term.

Info: are getting active treatment for your OCD including direct focus on this issue?

The thing is people who can eat gluten (me) actually CAN understand this, we simply just have to choose to, OPs partner is just choosing not to care

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > I might be the asshole because I allow my toddler to fall asleep in my bed and then transfer him to a toddler bed in our room, rather than enforcing a strict bedtime routine where he falls asleep independently in his own bed. My partner believes this setup disrupts his ability to go to sleep early (around 6:30 PM due to his 3 AM wake-up schedule) because our toddler is still moving around and settling during that time, which frustrates him and leads to conflict. I may be wrong if I’m prioritizing my toddler’s comfort and sleep routine over my partner’s need for an earlier, quieter bedtime environment, and if that is negatively impacting his rest and our household dynamics.

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

YTA. I have been to one wedding like that and it was absolutely shitty. We went to the reception venue and it wasn’t even open. We had to go to McDonald’s to kill two hours in our formal wear and we were starving by the time it all started up again. It’s fine if you open the reception venue and let people be comfortable, but shitty how you did it. We swore to have the exact opposite wedding, and we did. We made a point of taking our photos before the ceremony to make it work.

Not your choice to make.

The dude specifically said he just wanted to hang out though

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

I hope I can explain this properly. It just happened and I still feel kind of numb. I (29f) have a kiddo (11m. Jay fake name) who's bio dad dipped. I've been with my fiance (34m. Darren fake name) for a little over 2 years. He loves my son and sees him as his own. Darren also has a kid (6m. Blake fake name) from a previous relationship who spends most of his time at Darren's mom's.  
  
Today Darren was meeting his mom at a park with Blake so they could play baseball & my son Jay tagged along. About an hour later fiance calls me asking if Jay can go with Darren's mom back to her house so the kids could hang out more. I'm autistic & have expressed a desire to avoid last minute plans because it sends me into a panic. My fiance has sort of tried to accomodate this and I've appreciated the effort. But when I said no, not today, I cant process last minute plans like this, my fiance pushed back. He said a lot of things but I stood firm that I wasnt okay with this last minute. Then he puts my son on the phone to ask & I reiterate. At this point I'm tell them I feel like a cornered animal. My son accepts my answer reluctantly, fiance says he'll call me back and hangs up.  
  
My fiance planned to work Doordash at 5. At  5:12pm my son isnt home. I call fiance to ask why & he said "I let him go with my mom to her house." Every cell in my body froze & caught on fire & felt like they were put through a blender. Argument ensues. I told him he needed to pick up my son & bring him home(I do not currently have access to my car). He is actively Doordashing & refused to bring my son home to me. He continues hanging up on me, ignoring my calls. Our conversation is half arguing over the phone half texts mostly ignored. He defends his actions saying "she's his grandma they should get to know each other" she is not as we arent married. "He said my son could use a bigger support system(he is also autistic) & that he "shouldn't miss out but you need notice. Jay isnt like that." Which isnt true because my son hates last minute plans unless they are his.  
  
I'm so upset because he 1)admitted he hadn't originally planned on asking my permission & was just to let my son go without telling me. 2) went behind my back & disregarded what I said. 3) did not call me to tell me where my son was. 4) refused to make things right by going to get my son 5) doesnt at all seem to care or even recognize that this was not okay and he should feel sorry. I feel betrayed and heart broken. He said if Jay had fun then he stands by what he did. This entire time my son doesnt have his cell phone and I dont have Darren's mom's #.   
  
Am I overreacting? Is it fine because he had my son's best interest at heart and my son is home now and had fun? Or is my anger valid? I dont currently have a therapist (until June anyway) so I dont have any resources except my mom but dont want a biased opinion.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

ESH  
Why couldn't you do it together? Then again, this does make it seem like you two don't really work well together...

YTA. Cocktail hour is during the photos. It's not for you. It's for your guests.

yeah your a garbage person, not sure why you had to ask.

Because it isn’t a better nickname when he wants to be called Peezy.

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

I(m23) and my group of friends (male and female 20-25) all know eachother online, and have been doing annual trips for the last 4 years, and are planning another this September. A friend in the group (M20), over the past year or two, he has had some low moments that keep getting worse, these include, lots of complaining about not having a girlfriend, often times he is very depressed, and smokes too much weed and struggles financially. I have no problem with any of these things, but he gets pissed off if we try and do anything sober, and he brings up being alone romantically every time we hangout, and constantly texts us about it. We are planning another trip in September, and we haven't told him yet, and we aren't inviting him. Recently he went to the mental hospital, and he has no support where he lives, and we are planning stuff behind his back. So reddit, are and my friends the Assholes?

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Idk about asshole, but I'm kinda thinking you're overreacting or possibly overthinking this:

It sounds like she's just wanting: ....somebody who is as ambitious and can match her. 

Maybe by bread winner she means that she just doesn't want to be with someone she has to financially support / carry and have more of an equal partnership.

To anyone saying she sounds like a gold digger: she's literally on track to being a *consultant doctor* - she just doesn't want a broke boy

But I could be entirely wrong, who tf knows, I don't know you two lol

Info. i feel like there is something deeper causing his reaction

Sounds like hubby isn't supportive of your career, and is using weaponized incompetence against you. NTA for wanting your work area to look professional. Drop the subject with hubby and hire a handyman, PDQ.

I didn’t originally hang it because I was feeding our toddler dinner. My office is right next to her room so I wanted to have it done before it was her bedtime.

The guy specifically said he just wanted to hang out

I said “ I think I’m going to rehang it myself because I would like it to be straight”

This either has to be fake or you should honestly break up if she refuses to seek therapy. I kind of feel like she is using past food insecurity as an excuse to be an incredibly selfish person but there’s a chance there’s some actual trauma, either way something has to happen because this is not normal behavior. I grew up poor too but I would never do this to my husband if he had a dietary restriction and he sure as shit wouldn’t do it to me (vegan)

Your comment has been removed because it violates rule 1: Be Civil. Further incidents may result in a ban.


"How does my comment break Rule 1?"

**Message the mods if you have any questions or concerns.**

I was a wedding photographer for years. The cocktail hour was always when we did photos. Wedding ended and guests went to that while family and the bridal party did photos.

It’s not your place to decide if Perry is better than his chosen nickname, stop making it about what you want.

But we don't know that he's "at work" when he's doing this. He could be upstairs getting ready for the day before heading down. 

He's still the asshole obviously, but it slightly affects the level of how much of one.

NTA. You're unsure how you feel about that? Sounds like this is maybe the first time you've thought about your self worth and what you want from a partner. She's not it.

**Hello, Wise-Lab-7676 - your post has been removed.**

#Read the following information carefully and completely. Message the mods with any questions. 

This post violates Rule 8: **No Relationship/Sex Posts.** We do not allow posts where the central conflict is about romantic relationships, dating, sex, and similar topics.

Please give our sister sub, r/AITA_Relationships a look if you'd still like to post about this. ***You do not need our permission to repost there.***

Rule 8 FAQs ||| Subreddit Rules

**Do not repost, including edited versions, without receiving explicit approval via modmail.** Reposting will lead to a ban.

Please visit r/findareddit to see if there's a more appropriate sub for your post.

They aren't. Some foods can give them pancreatitis, such as pork products. Some foods can cause their blood to clot abnormally. Some foods can just flat kill them, such as grapes or chocolate. Also, too much sodium is very bad for dogs.

As someone who has a sibling with celiac and as someone who’s gluten intolerant, NTA. It can be hard to find GF stuff and when you do it’s exciting especially if it’s good. Feels a bit of an overreaction from your partner

Yes, seriously, does she not have arms?

That's still a lot of assumptions man. There are lots of people who live in trash, date while living in trash, and then bring that same into the mutual home without knowing anything is wrong with the extent of it all while the poor partner thinks that he'll just learn what's acceptable. 

Baby boys may become baby teens may become baby men. They don't know different. So if you confront them, what's the way to do it then? Just tell them that's unattractive over and over? Is that the emotionally intelligent response to try and work through something that's problematic in your relationship?

i love him and he needs me lol. other than arguments he’s amazing

YTA-Stop bullying him and impersonating him. Grow up.

Gentle YTA here. You have other options for photos. 

You can do a first look with your partner and take the bride/groom/wedding party photos _before_ your actual ceremony. That way you can do a ceremony and roll straight into your cocktail hour where you take photos with family.

Yes, why would OP want to spend his life with someone so superficial? That doesn’t not sound like a quality of life to me

Info: How did you say it? I am guilty of this myself sometimes my tone comes off as harsh especially when asking for something to be done.

I'd tell the wife 3 months will not work for you. Maybe a month at the most. Or tell them to get an air b&b.

NTA and I would report the incident to his school.

"AITA for working 12 hours, going to school for 2 hours, spending a couple more hours helping my daughter with homework and attending her medical appointments and not ALSO putting dinner in the oven, even though my husband has been home for literal hours before me?"

Uhh no. No.

You husband is the asshole. For 1, not taking initiative and helping you out on a very busy and long day, and 2, getting angry at you for not doing something you didnt have the time to do, when he had all the time to do it. Not to mention storming out, pretending nothing happened and then tryna get intimate after being so mean?

This man really needs a lesson in team work and the devision of labour in the home. And just like.. kindness in general?

I am the one that does the majority of lawn work in our household. We have 1.5 acres and it's a piss easy job.

Maybe two hours of mowing every 2-3 weeks depending on growing condtions, weeding and fertilising might be an extra 2-3 hours each fortnight if I'm feeling particularly motivated. But if I *don't* do it, or don't do it well, no one really cares. If I'm a week late mowing the lawn, it doesn't affect anyone's wellbeing at all.

How many hours do you spend on dinner each week? What happens if you're a week late with dinner?

Those two tasks don't even compare in terms of time spent or the impact it has on the family's wellbeing.

Info needed. 
do you always nag him ? 
Or is he always dismissive to you ? 
Can you put up the rod ?

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

I (F) have a toddler with my husband. We currently do bedtime in a way where he starts off either in our bed or with me, because he does best with comfort while winding down. Once he falls asleep, I usually transfer him into his toddler bed, which is in our room. The reason his bed is in our room is because if he wakes up during the night, he tends to get upset and come back into our bed. When he sleeps with us or has access to us, he sleeps through the night. The issue is my husband, who prefers to go to sleep extremely early (around 6:30 PM) because he wakes up around 3 AM for workouts. At that time, our toddler is usually still in his wind-down phase—moving around, talking, and playing a bit before he actually falls asleep. He does eventually settle and sleep fine. This has been causing a lot of tension. My husband gets very frustrated and angry when our toddler isn’t immediately still or asleep at that early time, and he also dislikes him being in our bed while he’s still settling. He has suggested things like me and our toddler also waking up at 3 AM with him, which isn’t realistic for us. I’ve suggested alternatives like him adjusting his workout time or sleeping in another room if he needs to go to bed that early, but that hasn’t really happened. Instead, bedtime has become a stressful situation where he gets upset, and I’ve noticed I’m starting to feel anxious and even snap at my toddler because I’m anticipating his reactions. I’m trying to figure out if I’m in the wrong for keeping our current bedtime setup (toddler falls asleep in our bed, then moves to his toddler bed in our room, and sleeps through the night), or if this is more of a mismatch in expectations that we’re struggling to resolve.

AITA?

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

NTA
Been to meny weddings like this. Unless its been held in the same place then I see no issue. 

We just go to the pub and have some drinks and snacks before getting to where the reception is being held - again important that there is a pub nearby otherwise you would be a bit of an arse.

NTA. I cannot fathom being okay with my teen claiming volunteer hours while doing nothing. It's June. That kid has had a very long time to get those FOUR hours.

If you are that educated/ maybe try paragraphs

Like I’m going to go for a nap as a woman with my hair and makeup done. 🙄

Why couldn’t **you** hang the curtains to your specifications?

Wow. Sounds like weaponized incompetence to me. 

Thr job isn't done until it is done right

Welp, if he's not having problems now, he definitely will in the future. Will it help make him stop if you tell him that is a great way to get hemorrhoids?

Why isn’t your partner partnering? Since you both work dinner should be a 50/50 chore, why not trade nights?

NTA at all. He is. And I doubt he'll change. If he won't go to counseling divorce his useless, self-centered ass. I'm sure there are plenty of other things he's a dick about.

You're both AH.

Try talking or silence for 15 min FFS.

OP didn't really do anything wrong, they were gonna go, he offered to go and pay. Plus as driver, OP should have say in what in played because again, they are driving. It's childish of him to be mad at all. Personally for me, if my bf wanted to listen to something but I didn't want to, he's the driver. I'm not. He gets to pick ultimately because I'm not the one driving. Tbh (in my personal opinion) OP's bf is being rude for not giving OP the chance to listen to their book. Especially because that's what was playing originally, again with the drive being short, did he really not expect it to be unpaused? Not even talking to you directly, who doesn't kinda assume if the driver pauses something, they will eventually unpause it? Idk man, sorry to argue. I do really think, especially to be kind, let the driver control what they want to play. My verdict is definitely NTA, because it's a kinda dumb thing for him to be getting mad at anyway.

It's time to talk with him and use the D word. Maybe make an outline so you can organize your thoughts beforehand m.

Okay, he is a bad partner. He can't even have a mature conversation about it and chooses to be condescending and mean. Why do you want a partner who is mean to you? What is it he offers you that you seem to feel off-sets this behaviour?

YTA. Rehang it yourself.

Nta. It's not your responsibility to provide for someone else's disability for one. I'm disabled myself, I refuse to make it someone else's problem. 
Second, you can not be expected to turn your family's life upside down for three months. 
If they can not afford their accommodations for the stay, they can not afford the trip and that is not your responsibility.

He had been at home doing nothing for hours … wtf are you talking about?

I've been with a massive asshole like you describe in your story. It's way better on the other side. Good luck.

Your have a relationship problem, but it is not curtains. Luck.

Sounds like your mil and bil are a package deal in this situation. I'd greatly reduce the length of stay since they both have to come. Also, maybe make it every other year or something. Three months every year is WAY too much to ask.

Don't be jealous, be free.  Get an exit plan together.

we don’t always talk in the car. it often distracts me and i’m a very anxious driver but it rlly depends on the day

NTA. You are using the term partner incorrectly. She’s not it

YTA. Firstly, it’s a somewhat innocuous comment. Secondly, you’re leaving rubbish everywhere. Her reaction seems right on point. Just because you work doesn’t mean you can’t put rubbish in the bin or clean your plates.

NTA

3.months is too long and your partner shouldn't have agreed without discussing with you.
Maybe they could rent out their home while they are visiting and use the income to fund a nearby Airbnb that is more suitable for bil.  If they aren't interested in that, maybe you know someone with an rv and you could rent it for a month and he and mil could sleep in there rather than inside your home, or you and partner could pay for an Airbnb or hotel for them for a month.

Sorry it is very hot where they live but if its that bad that they cant live there for 3 months maybe they should relocate to a more amenable climate.  But I dont see it as reasonable expectation from them or your partner to expect the hot weather where THEY live To disrupt YOUR routine and life for 1/4 of each year.

You have a year to come up with a better solution for next yr. Shorten the time to a month for starters.  Not sure what you will choose but you are Def NTA for not wanting guests occupying the shared spaces of your home for 3 mon.

Obviously NTA. Why are you doing so much and your husband doing so little. He had been home for 4+ hours he should be the one cooking dinner. The. He went and got only himself food. Not even his own child. Then she expects you to sleep with him?! What a failure of a husband and father.

NTA. Not everyone can afford a cocktail hour?? It can add thousands to a wedding. Anytime I’ve been to a gap wedding we have (once) skipped the ceremony bc we had an infant or we find a bar in between and hang. It’s not the end of the world. People sound really entitled.

NTA. Driver picks the music. Also if he couldn’t hear, he could have brought the phone closer to his ear. But do you guys not talk in the car? Listening to a book or watching/listening a video is generally viewed as solo errands activities.

But even if your money problems went away and you had the ability to work less and not stress over it, would it improve matters?  
Again, he wants a mother to baby him because he can't be an adult by himself. He can't even cook something when he gets hungry. You need to set some boundaries around what you are capable of doing and expect him to meet you part way. If he is spending less time at work than you and has more free time then he needs to be doing more around the house because he has the capacity to do so. If he pushes back, then he doesn't care about your needs and wellbeing. You're going to get burnt out keeping this up, and that's going to lead to more issues and more fights.

Your kind of marriage is exactly why more women are choosing to remain single

i have two full blood siblings that i live with all the time. 3 step siblings that i live with when i’m at my dad’s house. and 4 half siblings that i don’t live with but i’m close with 3 of them

Give him a hug for me too and tell him thanks for being one of the good ones.

Then I saw the sonofabitch making out with my mom

Yatah!!!
For staying with this worthless person. 
For showing your child that its ok to be treated this way

We would eat the cost

No. You are wrong or lying.

Because you put nah first, it will be counted instead of nta.

YTA, if you were actually afraid of these people you would have called 911, if you actually thought they were ODing or hurt, you would have called 911... because any of those things would have been an emergency that needed an instant response as lives were on the line... you knew that wasn't the case and just don't like the idea that homeless people "exist", and want them moved somewhere you don't have to feel uncomfortable by looking at them, you knew that was a non-emergency request, that makes you the ass hole.

I’m a fan of raptors myself! I remember as a kid my mom tried to tell me they weren’t real and I got mad af 😂

NTA- I have the same experience as you growing up Catholic. I do  understand how people dislike the gap. People don't always have the opportunity to fill that time easily. His reaction seems a bit much. Why is he so upset that you aren't filling the time for him? I wouldn't want people to have a 2 or more hour cocktail hour were they could get drunk before the reception.

The only cost is their travel to the site and to pay for their accommodations. How is that any different than any other wedding?

I don’t disagree with you. I’m just saying OP is in a prison of his own making.

NTA, but why are you with a man who neither likes nor respects you?  You wouldn't treat a friend this way (and I suspect neither would he), so why accept it toward yourself?

I absolutely identify as a partnered single mother. I did leave him once it was so much easier I wish I stayed strong.

the avocados thing sent me tbh, my dad used to do this exact shit with phone calls. youre not crazy, this is called parentification and its a documented form of emotional neglect. the fact that theyre dangling basic needs over your head when you set boundaries is the real tell here, not the chores themselves

Fucking insane to think that your daddy should pay for her ticket though.  Christ on a cracker.

Right. I’ve been seeing a loooot of women online complain about their shitty husbands just to end up doing nothing about it or even worse, defend him when he gets rightfully criticized by others. I have very little hope she’ll actually divorce him but I hope she does for the sake of her daughter.

If my friends wanted to go ahead with doing clear potencially life threatning stuff despite being warned several times I'd just cut them off. They're my friends, not my kids.

Also, OP's friend could have bought the ticket, she just didn't want to get caught by her father. Which, as far as I'm concerned, it's fucking pathetic.

NTA. It's your car, you're driving, and he knew you were listening to yout book. He sounds clingy af and terrified of not commandeering your attention at every interval. I couldn't.

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > Because I told my husband, I would like him to rehang my curtain rod straight

Should I have just accepted the crooked curtain rod without comment?

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

Yeah if you look at the other replies he said it’s his third language and I said no worries it’s a joke. The humor was that the valedictorian can’t spell. Irony. The joke is better now that I’ve explained it. It’s also why I said “Jokes aside” before giving the serious response.

Posts like these made me leave the Marriage sub Reddit.

It sounds like he's upset you're trying got better yourself with school, like he is using his own incompetence as a way to hold you back.

..But idk I'm just an internet stranger who could just be reading too much into the few paragraphs from your life that you posted online. Idk, you deserve better than that, and even though i don't know you I hope you're able to get out for you and your daughters sake

The best GF muffin I have ever eaten is still not better something you could get at Starbucks with gluten. I have dietary restrictions and my husband would happily forego any shared restricted food and go to Paris Baguette or Starbucks for something as good or better. He might ask for a bite just out of curiosity. This fight should never have occurred.

NTA you need to talk to your husband.

NTA but as others have said this isn’t a partnership. You basically have an extra child at this stage and is this how you want her to see women being treated? To think it’s okay? A long talk and strong communication is needed here so he can pull his head in and start to actually contribute to his family before he loses them.

I understand where you are coming from believe me. He's a fake and a phony and catfished me good.

we’re always off our phones and stuff when actually hanging out. it’s on and off whether we talk in the car or not

The thing is you're essentially asking guests to fund your venue because you want the luxe site. That's TA territory. Even if people need accommodations, they should not be guilted into paying for your venue.

Also, have sex with him on demand, regardless of her needs

Yep, having a 2hr window with nothing for your guests to do and nowhere for them to be sucks for the guests.  I would say lightly YTA.

And intrude upon her space.

Grace is scamming you and your mom and you mom just realized.

NTA

Next time he walks out to feed himself only, don't let him back in until he has food for everyone. Easy.

Or when you get home rush to him and start screaming where your dinner is. Apparently that's fine. Sounds like he is upholding good practice, but you aren't, which is a shame.

She doesn’t respect you. Leave before she leaves you anyway.

NTA, but you would be the AH to yourself and to your daughter if you continue to be a married single mother. You’re showing your daughter that you’re okay staying with a man who’s dead weight, and she’ll internalize that. She’ll see your relationship as something that’s normal and to be expected. Would you want your daughter to be treated like a personal servant all while she works long days and still has to take care of children? I watched my parents have a shitty relationship my entire life and it severely affected the way I viewed love. I stayed in abusive relationships way longer than I should’ve. That’s the future you’re setting your daughter up for.

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

I work from home and the light in my office makes it really weird for me to appear on camera for meetings. I decided that I needed it to have curtains in my office to filter the light.

Today I asked my husband to hang the curtain rod. He was up in my office for over an hour, and he only hung up one part of the rod.

When I went in, it was very obviously crooked. I told him that I would like it to be re-hung because I just remodeled my office and I don’t want to have a crappy looking curtain.

He snapped at me and told me that he wasn’t gonna help me anymore because he can never do anything right in my eyes

AITA? 

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

She wanted to make a quick coffee run and that overgrown infant insisted on tagging along. He knew OP was listening to their book. He just wanted to take over their space and assert his dominance. On a 5-minute drive.

I adore my sisters. They are my best friends. I’d lose my mind if they were in my house for three months.

I had a 6pm catholic wedding. I have been to 5 and 6 pm catholic weddings. You are wrong.

I sound like a leprechaun trying to act like an old mob gangster when I say that line according to my ex.

He doesn't handle anything besides anything for himself. The appointment was for her ADHD meds which he doesn't believe in and says this is an excuse and it's my fault because I coddle her.... She is formally diagnosed with autism ADHD and ODD she's been in early childhood development for early intervention since she's 2.

Gently YTA. Thats a very long gap and the cocktail hour is for your guests while they are waiting between ceremony and reception.

You both should more considerate of each other and pay attention to each other when you're together, for the most part. There shouldn't be loud distractions in the car - don't distract the driver because you don't want to cause an accident. If you are not going to watch or listen to the same thing, wear earbuds.

he’s often rude or angry during arguments (it’s worse over text). he told me “boohoo” when i tried talking about it with him which caused a silent ride the rest of the way

The writing is on the wall. Time to cut bait.

I hope you weren't affectionate and especially not intimate after the way he treated you.
Tell him that you are not his servant, that he is a grown man who is more than capable of preparing a meal for the family, and that he is in fact an asshole for going out, getting himself food, but not bothering to bring you back some as well.
Does he always manipulate you like this.
This is such abusive behavior. 
You're NTA but why put up with this abuse??

The bar is in hell and some men choose to play limbo with the devil... 

NTA

Exactly! Were his arms broken or fingers unable to move? Dude needs to pull his weight because it sounds like OP is doing all the heavy lifting in that relationship.

Driver picks the music, shotgun shuts his cakehole

NTA. Personally, I would never agree to this kind of arrangement, even if I absolutely adored my in-laws. Certainly not for that length of time. This is much too big of an ask and you should at least be able to establish some boundaries, such as the length of stay. 

Is it feasible for your MIL and BIL to find some kind of nearby rental arrangement?

Good luck, man. I'd be having anxiety non-stop  if I was faced with this situation.

I’m willing to bet that Grace is embezzling from the church. She pays the bill, gets reimbursed from the church and then you all pay her through Venmo. It’s never been her money that’s being spent, your church has a budget for it.

NAH, but what did you expect to happen? you don't want people to assume that you're being racist/ignorant simply because you're white-passing, but what else was she supposed to think?

if my "white" coworker started hyperfixating on our client's nationality and then started imitating their accent, then at BEST i would assume that this is the caribbean's equivalent of a weeaboo. there are plenty of non-caribbean people that appropriate aspects of the culture and try to imitate the accent (first thing that comes up is that one episode of Fresh Off the Boat where eddie wears the wig with dreads).

she doesn't know your mom's background, and you didn't explain the context that was sorely needed after noticing the tension. **if you don't want to explain, then you have to suck it up when people make assumptions about what they don't know.**

This is incredibly common for Catholic weddings. Usually wedding ceremony is around noon or early afternoon because the church has to be cleared out for a Saturday late afternoon/evening mass. So the options then are a gap or a very late lunch/early dinner that would probably be over by 6 pm.

I’ve only been to one Catholic wedding that went with an early reception. Given the earliness of the reception (3 pm), it wasn’t a full banquet dinner and they didn’t do a full on open bar- so of course people still complained.

I am a husband who cooks. And respects his wife. He's a selfish mommy boy. He should be helping  the family.
He's TA.

NTA his carer needed to keep a better eye on him. I have 2 kids on the spectrum, it’s not a hall pass

NTA. She is a doctor who will make a good amount of money. She needs to find another doctor.

You know the answer to this. You're not the TA here. 

I do have to ask why you put up with this at all.

Maybe you need to take a 3 month vacation!

I mean this in an entirely non judgemental way - is this how you want the rest of your life to be? Think on that. Maybe talk to a therapist or trusted friend. I wouldn't be ok with a presumptive partner treating me like an insubordinate employee.

And I think you're hiding behind this idea that people HAVE to know everything when OP's behavior, and yours, has spoken for itself thoroughly.  You probably also think that the massive downvoting you're receiving is "mob mentality" because accepting and understanding how, and how badly, your assertions have fumbled would be too much, or too inconvenient to process.  It's weird that you keep doubling down and trying to frame this like you're just being willfully misunderstood.  It's also weird that you tried to drag the merit of my relationship experience into it.  I know what I know because I have been the one who messed up before.  I have been the one who deflected and couldn't fathom that I was the source of all the friction in my interpersonal relationships.  But you don't seem to have come out the other side of that yet.  I shouldn't have even wasted this much time entertaining any of this.

NTA Be prepared. MIL is going to leave BIL there one year. She is strategically planning this!

I definitely don't want to continue like this I don't want it to be routine I know it's not right but I can't just let it mind f*k me anymore....

Look forward to seeing you on r/divorce

NTA but your husband certainly is. 

You definitely do not have a partnership there,  you have a one sided relationship.

You’re home at 6:30 and he’s home at 2:30? Why didn’t he have it ready? This is an antiquated expectation.

Again, I'm far more concerned by his response. How people respond to arguments is a real sign of how they feel about their partner: are they calm and try to balance firmness with understanding, or do they try to steam-roll you and pressure you into siding with them? Based on your response, it sounds like this is a pattern. That is far more concerning.

yeah i tried to but got met w what i said in the post and “boohoo”

YTA. It doesn't matter what you think of the name. He likes it, so use it. How is this difficult?

No, nta, he can bring ear buds, though I don't listen to books with someone else in the car because they never stop talking over it in my experience.

Lmao you’re right on it. This woman is so full of herself. She has been told how important she is and how special she is for going into her field and now she thinks her financial worth makes her a fucking diamond. 

OP, find someone who doesn’t suck. This one sucks. Imagine becoming a medical professional strictly for the money. I know it could be a stretch, but look at how she’s treating you.

yeah asked if i could start my book again. and sometimes we talk while im driving sometimes we don’t. just depends on the mood or if someone has smth they want to talk about.

Especially when the original debt may not exactly be strictly legal. Probably best to write this one off and never join a league with that guys again.

YTA why are you enabling this AH. It’s not the 1950’s. Tell him you expect him to do half the cooking and half the house work. There’s no free rides here buddy. FFS stop being a doormat.

Well I think the people in your life are lucky to have you, because they can rely on you to be there. In the same breath, I hope they don't take advantage of your kindness :)

NTA

Your poor excuse of a husband disgusts me.

YTA. This is especially inconsiderate for your out-of-town guests. And where on earth are they supposed to take a nap? This is assuming that people live (or are staying) right next to the church or reception hall. I attended a wedding once with a gap between the ceremony and the reception. Several people got together, took over a patio at a beachside bar, and completely missed dinner at the reception. Frankly, those of us who did get to the reception on time were quite envious and wished we had thought of doing the same thing.

Look, I think dress shopping is dumb and someone wanting to spend 20K on a dress they'll wear once is extra dumb, but YTA. Who are you, her mother asking her to keep in mind her budget? If this is more about your time (as I'm expecting it is based on you going three times and dragging kids along) be upfront and say you're busy. The budget is honestly not your business unless you're signing checks.

What are the " alternative arrangements " you have to make some BIL can shower? How does he feel about living in your LR, which must lack privacy, and not having adequate bath facilities? Maybe he could be the best ally to getting MIL to see that you are NTA-- she is.

YTA

If you were truly worried enough about the weather and photos to book a studio session that could have easily been done any other day after the wedding.

If you get all educated and independent you might not need him so he’ll just keep you under his thumb so be on the safe side. NTA

I know what you are. (A supernatural fan)

Men can cook.  Not always all that well but it is possible.  My dad used to do dinner every Wednesday night for years because my mom worked late.  Sure it was always the exact same thing overcooked the exact same way but we ate.

YTA

JFC. Adulting is attractive.

Are you sure Grace isn't adding in a surcharge when she has everyone pay her? Each person should pay for their meals separately going forward, after Grace returns the full $200. NTA

NTA- I don't think she likes you very much. I couldn't imagine saying this to my partner. I make more than twice what his salary. He is much more educated though. Good luck with her because she sounds superficial.

Okay now I'm curious to hear you say "say hello to my little friend" 😹

I love this, thank you!

Then she doesn’t sound like the right fit. NAH

Yes. It's fine I got dinner in the oven me and the kids ate.

Also, intimacy on demand

NTA live by driver picks the music, shotgun shuts his cake hole. And on top of that, you were gonna go on your own originally.

NTA - He is the AH. Why couldn’t he make dinner if he got home at 2:30? Why didn’t he get food for everyone in the house?

But now you know. So divorce. That ring on the finger isn't physically tying you to him.

ESH here. Both of you should have had a talk like adults and decide what to listen to, not stonewalled eachother and decided to do whatever you want.

But that means you would be enabling very stupid behavior.  Your friend seems very intent on learning some hard lessons.  Sometimes you gotta step back and let life provide them.

Or skipped one or the other if it doesn’t work out. 

I don’t know why so many people are offended that they have an hour or two to hang out during.

I know right! Lol ty

He may end up caring for both BIL and MIL at the same time. Definitely need a convo about planning for the future.

Have you read Lundy Bancroft's book? Could definitely help you navigate this situation and figure out what you want to do next.

Asked for what? Permission to listen to a book? Also, do y’all typically ignore each other when going out?

Thats why I said everyone sucks. He shouldn't have lost his temper, but also OP could've been nicer. He was nice and went so he could buy food for her.

Aka OLD ENOUGH TO FUCKING KNOW HE SHOULD BE BEHAVING BETTER, HE JUST CHOOSES! NOT TO.

And I'm going to leave I just can't right now.

When I got to "We both work but she is mostly the one in charge of cleaning the house because I work more hours". I immediately went 'wow that is unattractive'

It's one thing if, after a discussion, one partner does most of the maintenance cleaning like vacuuming or sweeping.  It is totally another of one partner just leaves a giant mess trailing through the house like a toddler with grease crayons and expects the other person to clean up after them like a maid service.  It shouldn't be more work to have a partner than to live alone.  That is unhinged, disgusting, unattractive behavior.

My therapist suggested instead of crying to try this to get reassurance that I'm not crazy. I do not have any family nor do I have any friends I just have my children an him.

Nta. Your husband is though

I do tend to lead with my heart! You’ve read me well there 😂

And you’re not his Mom

NTA. I also work 12 hour shifts. You know what I come home to? The children already in bed and my husband half way, if not all the way done, making us dinner. (I get home at 8 pm). You seem to have an additional petulant child, not a partner.

Exactly, it doesn't matter.  A few years back I didn't have access to a car to commute to work and I bought a bike.  And prayed, since I hadn't been on one in 30 years and an embarrassing number of pounds.  Day 1 I stayed upright.  Day 2 I cycled about 2 miles just making rings around the parking lots.  Day 8 I was on the road with cars.

yeah…i should have asked him first but that’s just extreme

Exactly. Also, love it when the Supernatural fandom appears in the wild.

He was home for FOUR HOURS before OP 

surely he could have figured out how to feed himself in all that time instead of starving to the point he was incapable of handling or helping with dinner and having big feelings over it

My immediate answer every time

So he KNOWS how to act and treat people properly?! So he's DELIBERATELY, KNOWINGLY, and WILLINGLY not doing so to you. Because he doesn't respect/care for you, so you "don't need/deserve it". 🚩🚩🚩 Run away!

I mean, even if my friend didn’t listen when I warned them I’d still help if she told me some guy threw her out because she didn’t sleep with him. 

Like, who knows how far that went and what he did to her.

Is this the relationship example you want to set for your daughter? If you had a friend/family member/coworker tell you this was going on in their relationship what would you tell them to do? Not only did he not help with dinner, he didn't even make sure his kid was fed. YTA not for dinner but for allowing yourself and your daughter to be treated like this. Talk to whoever you need to but gtfo.

NTA

But I think a popular cleaning method might apply here. Hold your husband up, really really take him and his behavior in. Then ask yourself "Does he bring me joy?" Discard as needed.

Exactly, because the driver *can't* use headphones!

His responsibilities are work the lawn taking the trash out and taking care of himself... He just never has.... I've asked but he just gets angry so I stopped asking

NTA.

Your boyfriend just wanted a reason to argue and this was by far the dumbest reason. 

He asked why my book was more important than his video and said I didn’t give a shit about him.

I can’t even come up with a statement about this because it makes no sense at all

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

hello:( so today me and my friend Q were hanging out for a bit after school, they seemed sad and I asked them what was wrong, it took a while to get an answer and he said that nothing brings him happiness anymor, I suggested that he should eat food(he didn’t eat lunch or breakfas) or that we should go walk to a park nearby. he said no that he was too tired, which I get. but eventually we decided to go to the food carts nearby. at this point he wasn’t talking(sometimes goes nonverba) so we just sat at a table while I scrolled on my phone because he didnt want to talk. this is all ok for me, pretty normal. until he just stands up and kinda jogs away, I get up and follow him because I lowkey feel responsible for him and don’t want him to hurt himself. he runs to a tree nearby and I sit next to him, not trying to talk to him just wanting to make sure he’s safe, he then proceeds to climb up the tree and I this point I’m just really tired of following him. I love q and don’t want him to hurt himself but I constantly feel like I’m baby sitting him. so I decide to leave. I walk back onto the sidewalk and look up at him in the tree (WITH MY HEADPHONES ON) he glances at me a couple times before I decide to walk home. Then he sends me this.(idk why but it won’t let me post pict so I’m gonna type this out:c)

Me: Idk what's wrong but I don't think you want my help so I'm leaving. You worry me but won't let me help you, It's difficult Q

q:thank you so much for leaving me. i was stuck 80 feet in a tree for half an hour i almost fucking died

me:That's not my fault, That's sucks you got stuck

q: you left me, what is wrong with you

me: because you didn’t want me there

q: I was calling for you, I never said that

me: I didn’t hear you I had my headphones on I’m sorry

q: that’s fucked up

me:You left when we were at the food carta. Dude I didn't hear you I'm sorry, You ran away from me then climbed up a tree I thought you wanted to be alone. It's not my fault you got stuck, But I'm still sorry for leaving

q:fuck you man, i could have died. i'm gonna need a break from you, text me back in a week

\*i get that I should’ve made sure he was ok before i left but i felt he didn’t want me there’s and wasn’t responding to anything i said to him.

help

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

NAH.  Was he angry or frustrated?  Is he not allowed to be frustrated?  Did he specifically say that he blamed you for not having dinner and how dare you not be a perfect wife?

Or was he frustrated, maybe from his day before he got home knew he didn't want to be an ass and left to go ear and manage his emotions.  

You're writing a pretty big story about how he expected dinner to be ready and was angry at you.

YTA they can go watch titanic in that gap, then still have cocktail hour then the reception, that must have felt like the longest wedding ever

NTA

She’s not 19. She’s 26. She traveled down there all on her own. Why would it be her best friend’s job to buy her a ticket home? Did she say she’d pay you back? It’s not even like an “I told you so situation” - you just didn’t want to buy her a ticket. That’s a lot of money to give to a friend.

NTA, it sounds like you have a wife problem.

It sounds like you are married to a jerk. Why can’t he make dinner?

YTA. Every destination wedding I’ve been to (and I count this as that since a summer camp wedding is presumably in the middle of the woods and not near a bunch of hotels…) has been fully paid for room and board. It is tacky to ask people for money. Either do the place you can afford or find another way to pay for the lux place.

He handled it the best way he could by being rude to his wife because dinner wasn’t on the table ready for him immediately when he wanted it?? And then only getting himself takeout dinner?? No. She works a full time job, went to school, AND took care of their child. When both people work, cooking and other home chores need to be shared by both parents. He needs to help out with dinners and quit acting like a child himself. I’m curious as to how much he helps with their kid. OP should not have to parent a grown man.

"lives in another country" means they can be booted out quite easily in these days.

NTA and why are you still with him? He's a narcissistic AH. Why didn't he start dinner? Let me guess, he thinks because you are the women, you are expected to do all the household chores, take care of the kids, cook dinner while he sits on his a** with a cold beer in his hand watching tv.

Lol silly he worked all day! Believe me I know it definitely is like having another child.

Yeah... he's acting about half that. If this isn't his first time acting like this, it's time to start considering your options, because your daughter is seeing this and probably thinking it's normal.

NTA- He is lazy. You are entitled to equal rest. And he was resting for hours while you were busy with childcare after getting home. My father would argue just so he could leave the house. The fact that he left and only got himself food says a lot about his character. He could have easily had a simple dinner prepared instead of only doing things for himself.

Not at all. You are not the ahole. In most countries and even the east coast of the US, it’s common to wear church attire for a wedding, then break up and dress up for a gala party for 4-6 hours. Rarely the same attire. Catholic, Jewish are big partiers, though less sure about Protestant weddings which may restrict dancing and cocktails, or budget weddings which might restrict some luxuries.

That’s the way it is, tell your friends to go have a snack and drink at a local pub or relax in their hotel for a while. What is the big deal? The bride and her family usually plan the event. Let your friends stay home if they are in a snit about this. Who cares?
They obviously haven’t experienced how others celebrate, nor do they want to. They sound closed minded and petty to me.

Because that's how you worded it lol, he's a grown man that can just ask for something different rather than getting mad immediately. He also asked to go, he could have waited till home to finish said video. As anyone else (with sense) would do.

Nta it does sound like he's taking you for granted. It's almost as if the words wife and woman have put the idea in his head that it's your job solely to care for kids cook work go to school etc then gets mad when things can't be done in a timely fashion. The fact he fed himself in front of you and your CHILDREN says a lot. He doesn't care for them like he should nor does he care for you like he should. The proper response should have been nah forget cooking let's all go out n grab a bite. The fact he expects intimacy after that behaviour when youre clearly not into is also says a lot. I think you all have serious issues. He should be helping more and caring more.

I think it's a very empathetic viewpoint you have, but you also need to realize you can't be everyone's savior. That kind of behavior could lead to unhealthy dependency, and while I know the action of ensuring your loved ones are safe come from a good place, you also need to draw boundaries so that some aren't taking advantage of your caring nature.

Nah you’re correct. NTA. She’s made her views very clear. Off you pop go find someone who actually likes you, not just your pay packet.

Anyway you can afford an vrbo or Airbnb during their stay?  It may be worth it.

Agree. This is weird antisocial behavior on both parts.

NTA.

She is going to leave you OP, just be ready for that

NTA…what does he bring to your relationship, it seems like the bar for being a decent husband is on the ground

He's home for 4 hours before she are, leaves the kid's homework for her, leaves the kid's appointment for her, leaves dinner for her, only gets a quick fix for himself, then expect sex, while acting like he did nothing wrong. What he's acting like is an toddler, with the emotions of a teenager. She might as well officially make herself a single parent, cause he's acting like her extra kid

What you are describing has nothing to do with a Catholic wedding. It may be regional, it may be local,  it may be familial but it is definitely not Catholic, IME.

NTA. So this a hole went and got food for just himself leaving you and kids to starve. Wtf.

AIRBNB, accessible and paid by your wife 1/3 and 2/3rds your in-laws.  You could be nice and do 1/2 each but... I'm not nice and I've never hosted my in-laws since they are local.

Believe me I do. It's just that I'm financially in a spot and there's really no wiggle rooms to save. I'm trying to do better though I am in college full time is always working full time plus....

NTA. 

You’re being kicked out of a large part of your home for 1/4 of the year to accommodate guests whose needs you cannot meet. Living there robs BIL of independence, and puts him at risk of injury. They are getting everyone used to the idea of him moving in with you when MIL can’t look after him any more. Refusal might cause issues but unless you’re willing to have that be your future, likely including moving house or significantly altering your home, this cannot happen. They either find somewhere else to stay or don’t come.

that’s valid. i definitely should have asked. i just assumed he’d know i only paused the book for the drive through. and he’s not the best during arguments lol

Still doesn't mean you have to let them spend all 90 days in your front room.

Agreed. Doing photos before the ceremony is another possibility. If I had to wait 2 hours, I probably would choose whether to attend the ceremony or the reception.

How hard would it have been to say “my mom is from the Caribbean “……that would have solved the problem immediately.

NT I think that’s not very nice of her, she knew what career u were gonna have going into it and it’s not like you can just decide to make loads more money that easily like some career paths just have certain expected outcomes? Not sure what she even wants from you.

NTA and you should actually leave. You're not happy there. He's actively making you miserable.

NTA. I can’t imagine your BIL would be comfortable, either. I’d look for options where they can stay nearby (accessible house or long term hotel rental, etc.)  Offer to split the cost if you can.

I’ve never attended a church wedding that started after 2! That’s very interesting how common it is in France. Here in Canada it’s not done that way.

Girl don't even with this comment 😭 this argument is just dumb, he's not a child.

I love my in-laws but three months of them, or any person, in my personal space and I would lose my mind. You’re not unreasonable, that is way too much. Maybe look into them renting a spot near you so you have privacy and can meet up with them easily. Maybe your wife wants it like this, but you have an equal say in this. This is a two yes one no situation

There's a vast difference between a roommate's girlfriend and a brother-in-law. A roommate is just someone you're sharing accommodation with, temporarily. Not even a friend. A family member is someone you're going to see at family events for life. 

Some people are socially awkward. OP sounds like one of these. The fact that he hides in his room when she's around and doesn't date would seem to confirm this. 

No one should have another person foisted on them in their own home, around the clock. No one should feel that they have to hide in their room or drastically change their habits for someone who doesn't belong there. 

The fact that she's going through a hard time is irrelevant, if her boyfriend's not even there to provide comfort. Why does she need to be at his place and not her own?

ESH  
You could have asked instead of just deciding.  
He is worse though. He lept straight to saying you "didn't give a shit about him"? That's extreme, and really seems like a guilt trip.

What does that have to do with anything

NTA  
She knows your career, she should know odds are that she will out earn you. Maybe she was saying this to inspire you to “work harder”, but if she knew your career already I’d bet that there’s something else going on.

He sounds like a real asshole, and you’re far from that here. I wouldn’t tolerate that bs

NTA at all. I lived through this with a best friend/roomate for 4 years and she always claimed she “wasn’t going to go that far” then she would come home upset about getting sent home or kicked out and not getting the money they always offered. I kept telling her to stop falling for it but it never worked.

I agree with everything you wrote. He does work, he is actually an exemplary worker and friend and neighbor...... He lacks when it comes to me and the kids.

You sound a lot like my mom. She worked all day, picked my brother and I up from my grandparents house, and came home to do chores and cook dinner every night. And more often than not my dad would find some reason to get upset with her over something she hadn’t done. Then he acts as if all is normal. It is normal for her now. She barely reacts. It’s like a routine. Just think about if that’s something you want.

Sounds like you're a single mom who has to sexually satisfy a selfish person too lazy to put dinner in the oven.

Does he listen to manosphere red-pill podcasts that tell him you're his domestic and sexual slave?

If he doesn’t stop teasing the dog, he’s going to get bitten. Probably right in the face. NTA.

Woah, so he got home 4 hours before you and couldn’t be bothered to help with homework, the telemedicine appointment or even putting food in an oven?  Why was all of that on your shoulders after a 14 hr+ day?!?

He's... not a child..

I would ask some very open-ended questions and see where the conversation takes you. You may have a very different relationship with status and money than she does, and you need to consider if that's going to cause issues.

NTA you knew that, he does too. He sounds like dead weight. He was home at 230 but couldnt do anything you did after you got home? Then thought he was sooo appealing youd want to sleep with him? Girl, if he wont change, its gonna be a long "till death do us part".

He's home for 4 hours before you are, leaves the kid's homework for you, leaves the kid's appointment for you, leaves dinner for you, only gets a quick fix for himself, then expect sex, while acting like he did nothing wrong. What he's acting like is an toddler, with the emotions of a teenager. You might as well officially make yourself a single parent, cause he's acting like your extra kid. Absolutely NTA!

we listen to this book together all the time. i usually ask if he wants to listen to music or the book and he always says he doesn’t care.

Apologies, I misread on the gender! My speed reading does me no favors 😂

But the emergency fund thing counts for us queers too, as we are subject to high rates of abuse from our partners as well, unfortunately. The whole "Hope for the best but prepare for the worst" type deal. I get how hard it is to save. Especially with the way things are priced currently, I'm personally barely keeping my head above water, but even just a couple dollars a month will make a huge difference for safety. 

However, I'm so glad it's only a couple months away! Having a date to look forward too can help with the anxiety this kind of stuff causes, by quite a bit. I do hope you'll update us when you get safe. I'm still worried about the way your stepfather is acting & the risk of escalation has me hoping that by a miracle, a spot opens for your BF to get you out happens sooner. 

🫂🫂🫂🫂🫂

Lololol. Many women do want to be homemakers.  If you had a comfortable income otherwise, who wouldn’t prefer to spend most of their time with family and focusing on hobbies and connections in the community?

NTA. You tried to warn her and she didn't want to listen. It's not like she was stranded with no options. She just didn't like the solution available to her and that is not your problem. She needs to face reality and grow up.

Some guys just want a maid they can have sex with and whom they don't have to pay.

Also, NTA.  Is it even in question?

You did an immature thing because a girl dented your ego. And then you lied to cover it up.  And then you were foolish enough to reveal what you did as some kind of joke.  That adds up to YTA.

NTA. Become very forgetful. "I could have sworn I texted mom to buy the avocados. Oh, no, I completely forgot to pay that bill." Say you haven't been sleeping well to explain your forgetfulness. Perhaps if you act like you can't be relied on without actually saying no to their request... just being real forgetful and inconsistent... they'll eventually start doing that stuff for themselves.

Oh believe me I know I kick myself in the ass multiple times a day. In my slight defense he was giant catfish... Had me fooled since our first interaction.

ESH, you both sound exhausting. Why would a passenger want to listen to a 20 minute excerpt of a book they aren't reading? And why would the driver want to listen to a video they cannot watch?

NTA but your husband sure is. 

Why is making dinner your obligation only? If he knew what you were making and it only needed to be put in the oven, why couldn't he? Why can't he help your daughter with homework? Does he know anything relevant to medical information for your daughter? 

And getting food only for himself??? That's a Major Asshole right there.

yeah that’s fair. usually when we drive i ask if he wants to listen to the book or music and he always says he doesn’t care so i just pick.

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

Hi I’m (m16) and when I was younger I liked a boy but I didn’t understand it I was confused but I ran to the only person I could trust my mom I told her I like this guy and for a second she was happy called it cute I was happy and felt like wow it’s normal so I did what any kid would do tell his friends who I liked, my friends were supportive they also didn’t understand but they were alright, fast forward to when I was 11 I started seeing that people didn’t find gay people normal and when I started reading the bible my life crumbled seeing that the god I believed in didn’t like it either, but one day I was watching a gay YouTuber and my mom entered the house a bit drunk and yelled at me telling me I don’t like men this is just “influence” cause of all the things I watched and that if I carry on like this I would go to hell and burn,and she ended it saying something like”I’m gonna have a wife and kids and live a holy life” I agreed and she banned me from watching tv or YouTube. Than a week later my sisters were talking about a bl and she yelled at all of us tell us how bad it was so I kept quiet I didn’t say who I liked I started hating myself and praying day and night to change. Fast forward now my mom lies to herself infront of me saying that she was supportive when I thought I was gay and I agree cause I haven’t come out im to afraid and I don’t think I ever willl

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

When you were explaining everything to him
You forgot to mention that it’s also not 1950 anymore. Maybe that’s where the confusion came from?

NAH She’s clear about the plan she has for her life and it doesn’t sound like that’s the life you want.  Part amicably and find people who do match your values and ideals.  Much better to find out now than after marriage and/or years of built up resentment.

Right? This whole scenario is so weird to me. I wouldn’t be able to listen to an audiobook with someone else in the car. Put on some music and talk to your partner.

That's too old for him to be throwing a tantrum, especially when he's absolutely capable of putting eats in the oven. His behavior was rude. Didn't ask if you need anything or your daughter. I am so sorry. NTA.

Yes it has been explicitly said that she wants me to earn more than her.

NTA 100%

As someone who volunteered literally every second I could in high school to the point where I became a leader of the club before the end of my freshman year was over, that mom is the AH. 

As a student, I would have stood by your decision and would have called that ish out, idc call me a snitch lol. He doesn't do the hours, he doesn't get the credit. It's literally that simple. Like others have said, the kid's behavior of just standing there on his phone is evidence of his mom constantly reinforcing this kind of irresponsible behavior. 

He'll get in trouble because it's a school requirement? Shouldn't have thought about so blatantly cutting corners. FAFO as they say

NTA, she sounds like a gold digger

Definitely not okay with it. I guess I'm just a little stuck.

Who broke his hands that can’t put a dish into the oven?  What does he do from 2:30 on?  

He needs to be helping with dinner, homework and other household chores.

Do you think every book is more important than every youtube video?

NTA, where I'm from that's actually super standard. Do I like it? Not particularly, but the times are on the invitation so it's not like I'm blindsided. You make plans and figure it out.

I’m surprised by all the YTA comments. Maybe it’s regional. All weddings I’ve been to that had a separate church ceremony not at the same place as the reception were like this. If I can make the church and then go home and get ready for the party I do that. If I can’t make the church, then I just go to the reception. 
If it’s not a wedding near my home I’m probably getting a hotel, and then I want time to go from the church to the hotel and check-in before the cocktail hour and reception anyway. And then most of the time the couple has shuttle service from hotel to the reception. 
Definitely not weird or rude to me. One time I had this happen when I wasn’t staying over and the wedding was too far to go home in between I just enjoyed the area before going to the reception. Honestly it was still a little bit of a drive away, so the extra time to get from the church to the reception was nice.

yeah, she's disrespecting you right now.

I guess your decision is whether you want to live with someone who views you as a burden, not a partner.

It was an audiobook. That does suck as a passanger. Music’s different.

It is at this point I would align my career to only make a few dollars more than more.

My spite knows no bounds.

But her mom had already given grace $200 for her to pay for everyone. Based on the information it sounds like grace pocketed the money. It makes no sense that grace had the cash and still had the group pay individually.

I mean if you're not going to leave what are you looking for, a space to vent? 

NTA

Sounds like you’re the breadwinner now. So she’s staying with you for money until she has enough to find someone she’d rather be with. I’d be gone

I am forever saying I don't understand why nobody if I'm not home.

Did she actually say you needed to out earn her? Because hinting at could mean a lot of things.

I too didn't/don't want to be the bread winner, but that means I sought a partner who has similar earnings potential as me and can contribute more or less equally to the bills.  It doesn't mean I want him to earn more (he doesn't).  I just don't want the pressure of feeling like my paycheck is the only reason we're getting by or being trapped at a job I hate because my partner is reliant on my salary. I also prefer having a lifestyle we can both afford comfortably. I have no desire for the inverse to be true either and was never interested in dating a man who greatly out earned me either.

ESH, I don't think you have to listen to his video but he also doesn't have to listen to your book. Can't you find something you both want to listen to?

Her dating pool just got a whole lot smaller and much more full of narcissistic people.

NTA: why is your husband not helping your daughter and putting dinner in the oven? He sounds like having another kid in the house rather than a full grown adult.

That's assuming they're in a town and close enough to stuff? Lots of weddings happen in the middle of nowhere where it's a trek to get to anything

NTA, but your husband sure is

I’m guessing her answer will just be ‘more than me’ which, for a doctor, is nuts.

i just wanted to get 7 brew 😭 we’ve been talking and hanging out for the past 4 hours. i also don’t like talking and driving. im a very anxious driver and will either have a bad conversation or worse driving

Nothing like a 12-hour shift + school + childcare + medical appointments followed by a dinner “performance review.”

Definitely not TAH. You’re probably the first person in this kid’s life to try to hold him accountable and model what being a responsible adult looks like. His mother sure isn’t teaching him that!

She sounds extremely shallow. Earnings are not the only measure of ambition. NTA

Who the fuck are you bruv OPs husband?

I've been a wedding photographer for 20 years. 

YTA

You expect your guests to sit around hungry and wait for you. No. The entire purpose of the cocktail hour is so guests can eat, drink, and have fun while professional photos are taking place. 

Making your guests either sit around for two hours or leave to get food is selfish.

True, I could do more if I had more money

I'm going to go kiss my husband and tell him he's wonderful but whenever I do that out of the blue, he gets suspicious and asks if I am telling him that because I read or heard about some man being the absolute worst.

80% of the time he's right.

Yeah I'm team ESH. If your partner says that a term/phrase bothers me, please don't use it, you're being a bad partner if you keep using it. Especially if there are a dozen other words you could use to say the same thing

But yes, at the same time, it's easy to not be that messy

NAH  
She's entitled to say what she wants from a partner. If she wants someone who earns more money than her and opens avenues for her to be a stay-at-home mother or something one day, she's is entitled to that desire.  
And you are absolutely entitled to tell her to shove it. She is pushing a patriarchal and outdated view that entitles her to be looked after by a man. She's allowed to want it, sure, and there are plenty of tranditionalist men out there who will happily keep her round as long as she is still young and pretty to them. However, she shouldn't force this expectation on you.

What? Why?

They could both listen to the audio book, and it sounded like she told him she wanted to do this ahead of time (or at least when he got in the car).

Only he was watching the video. I honestly can’t imagine watching a 5+ min video while my SO was driving me around, it’s just rude? 

he said I didn’t give a shit about him 

This is also an extreme reaction and completely uncalled for…

I am 43 and he is 44

Picking up your trash- especially food trash, since it can attract pests- is a basic expectation of people living together. If this post was addressing something with more nuance, like differences in how they like dishes washed or how laundry is separated/combined, your point would make more sense. 

If she was yelling, or violent, or insulting him personally, her style of communication would also be a point of contention, but that’s not what she’s doing. She’s clearly and calmly stating HER response to him failing to meet very basic co-living expectations. His feelings being hurt doesn’t mean she’s the one in the wrong by default.

Nta... you need to have a conversation with him about how adults are supposed to behave, and the example hes setting for your children. 

I cant believe theres actually still people out there who act like this.. 

The fact that anyone couod say you were at fault here is... mind blowing.

that’s fair. also, the drive lasted just as long as the wait at the drive through lol.

OP and their spouse is the plan, surely.

Your car, you listen to what you want.

NTA... I'd be curious to know how old both of you are. Your husband is TA and entitled.

Just an excuse. She's probably already with someone making more than you or flirting with one.

Yes it does -believe me I know.... But sometimes I just need to check I'm not insane

YTA. You have 9 months every year to make plans and find alternatives that make this tenable for everyone, including yourself. Your lack of imagination and willingness to find acceptable alternatives are the real problem here.

Posts like this make me even more grateful that I never got married.

She wants to marry for $, we know what kind of woman that is. GL in your next relationship.

I would rather eat great pizza at home than go to a mid restaurant anyway.

ESH People listen to audiobooks or watch YouTube videos when they're spending time with someone else? That seems rude and really disconnected. Have you tried having a conversation together?

NTA, You know that, too.

NTA. 

I would either be getting on the same page as your wife about shorter visit (1 month max) or I would be buying a different house that is set up with an in law suite.

NTA but a little empathy can go a long way in a relationship. You've been listening to the book the entire ride, and he didn't argue or complain. 

You're not an asshole, but sometimes its nice to think about others.

“On track?”

So you’re supporting her in that phase of a doctor’s life when they give 100% to the hospital and 0% to a lover

Genuine question for you, have you ever had to go without a food due to allergies or similar? 

I will admit I was a similar vibe person. I didn't get it. You're freaking out over a freaking piece of food? For real? Just share it. Im assuming you're in that mindset because you've never had to do without and make due.

I developed a bizarre allergy while pregnant. (It ended at the end of my pregnancy, but has since flared permanently as MCAS.) With that first pregnancy, my entire perspective shifted. Dude... when you can't eat "normal" food, and you watch people eat incredibly delicious food ALL the time... trying to pretend that GF goop is as good as the real deal is hard. You try to be content, but everything is lackluster and often kinda gross. When you finally find something where you can have it, and its... actually... good, it's great to share. But when you find that unicorn. That one treat that you can have, and is actually pleasurable and amazing and lights up that dopamine for the first time in years and you know you can't get it again.... it's something you savor and enjoy to a weird level. It's a level of appreciation that crosses beyond "normal" because you can't have normal.

He's a red flag (that you chose)

The solution here is definitely NOT to create any scenario in which they can stay on a more permanent basis. 

It’s not simply taking over the living room that is the issue. Even if you have lots in common with someone, which they don’t with the BIL, you don’t necessarily want them in your house for an extended period of time, regardless of space and amenities. OP needs his house back.

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

Edit because I needed to fix my wording\*\*\*\*

So this happened a while ago, but I still question whether I was in the wrong.

I had a friend — let’s call her Libby — and we’d been friends since we were babies. She had been in and out of my life for years, though the “outs” were usually short until these last almost six years.

Looking back, it honestly never felt like she really liked being my friend. She would constantly ask when my mom was picking me up, cancel plans last minute, and especially once we got into high school, it got worse. At first I brushed it off because I was homeschooled and figured maybe I just wasn’t “cool enough” to fit in with her friends once we finally attended the same high school.

Then we went to Spain together, and she treated me horribly the entire trip just to impress a guy who was openly talking crap about me. Somehow, despite all of that, I still made her a bridesmaid in my wedding. Honestly, I don’t even know why.

Everything completely fell apart after that.

While I was on my way to my honeymoon, my sister-in-law messaged me and told me my brother had been cheating on her… with Libby. Apparently everything came out right after my wedding.

A few months later, Libby texted me wishing me a happy birthday and asking what I wanted for my birthday. At first I kept it polite and said I didn’t want anything. Then she said, “I’m going to give you a picture of me so you won’t forget me!”

That’s when I lost it.

I told her, “You know what? I’ve decided what I want. I want you to leave my family the f alone, and I don’t want to speak to you ever again.”

She went on about how sorry she was and how she didn’t know how or why it happened, but honestly, I didn’t buy it. She had already cheated on two of her boyfriends before, so I just left her on read.

A couple years later, my uncle passed away and she texted me saying she was sorry for my loss. It caught me off guard and made me feel conflicted. Then later, when I got pregnant, she signed a card for my baby shower… even though she wasn’t invited.

So now I still wonder sometimes: am I the asshole for telling her I didn’t want her talking to me or my family anymore, and for continuing not to contact her?

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

It's not the dollar amount of the budget, but if we're dress shopping and you're not genuinely looking for a dress then you should say that. It changes the urgency of the occasion. 

And bringing the kids complicates the situation because everything takes longer with kids in tow.

As someone who rented a lot for years, a lot of rental contracts are very specific about how many days overnight guests can be over a week, especially if the rent payment includes utilities. 

Another reason for strict occupancy limits including how many nights a week the same guest can be over is insurance purposes. Many landlord insurances have strict occupancy guidelines and will consider overnight guests who are staying overnight more regularly (some as little as 3 nights a week) as an additional occupant. This can void the policy for overcrowding if the insurance’s occupancy limit is spaced on square footage or if that additional “occupant” causes damage to the apartment or building and during the insurance claim investigation, it’s discovered that person is a more regular overnight stayer (they have stuff there), the claim can be denied. 

And these reasons will often have an effect on the monthly rental cost. And yeah landlords can ask outright but it’s pretty common for landlords to have major issues with tenants that do not follow occupancy guidelines listed in leases, and deal with tenants intentionally hiding their partner being over more during the week than they’re suppose to be or even moving them in and trying to hide it because they know it can increase their rent. It’s a major problem that regularly occurs.

He was well aware of the day I had. He lacks ... Many situations where there is lack ... Daily -

it would’ve been 15 minutes there, ordering, and back. and i like listening to my book while driving. talking can distract me

Im gonna say NTA, as it's not really that big of a deal. However that is not ho Catholic weddings work in Ireland. 
Have the ceremony, couple go do photos. Guests have finger foods and drinks, dinner, dancing/entertainment, more finger foods. Then a good auld sing song in the residents lounge.

NTA, have you thought about divorcing this man? he's only adding more stress to your plate and is not a good role-model to have for your children. what is he even doing? OP, you deserve so much better and shouldn't even have to write this post!

I notice we usually end up at a bar

Whose car was it? Your car, your rules.

ESH. She should be respecting that it bothers you and changing her language. You should be cleaner

For visa reasons they cannot stay here for more than 90 days in one stretch though

Wtf... NO

ladies... if your husband is home waaaay before you, youre working 12 hours a day and 2 hours if classwork... he can bloody well make dinner. 

Its completely unacceptable that he didnt at least offer to help, instead of storming off in a huff to go feed himself, leaving you home to feed the kids. 

The fact that anyone anywhere wouod thing you were the asshole for being upset about his behavior is... wild...

Nobody wants them anywhere because of exactly what they're doing. Passed out drunk and making a mess of public space.

This is a non issue.  Just apologize and say drop it and move on.

This is one of those where if you only look at the logic, it makes total sense. I they paid for their own lodging, it would be the same price, so i see why if you don’t think about it too hard, you think it’s a good idea. 

However, social expectations, rules, manners, and conventions are just built on logic. The minute you are asking for money for attending your wedding, YTA.

Nta he could stay home if he wants to be a baby. Drive kicks the music and passenger shuts his cake hole.

NTA and if it's that important he can do it himself

YTA, you did this to yourself. She was venting, you didn't need to go hunting for a reason to hurt your own feelings.

Just started after we got married 2 years ago. Wife says mom is ageing and wont be able to travel forever so she should be able to spend time with her mother. She can’t visit her for long in her country as she won’t get that many holidays from work so most feasible option is to have the MIL visit. The problem is the BIL tags along on every trip which we both don’t even want as we don’t get along well with him.

NTA

And good grief! Considering that it's a serious effort to become a solicitor,  that's a messed up take on her part. 

It's absolutely a cold attitude,  money=success with that being her primary focus.  Hey, at least you got to see the red flags early.

Find yourself a partner who's someone you enjoy spending time with,  and who shares interests.  All the money in the world  doesn't  make  up for hating your  life.

Nta. He's a giant asshole.

NTA, why are you okay with being the only adult in the house though? I say this with love, but you and your daughter deserve better

YTA

You should have made sure the out of town family had accommodation for the 2 hours.

Even if that was making sure the Aunt Soandso was cool with hosting your Uncle Whoever for the time between.

Even tho your wedding is your day, you're still the host of the event.

You sucked as a host

7 brew is 5 minutes away. i was just gonna go there and come back. he wanted to come w me. we listen to my book together in the car all the time

NTA. Yeah a book is more important than a yt vid. Other than that he invited himself to the outing, he should have respected that it's "you" time. 

But like MAINLY do you guys not talk? You open a book and he opens a video? He wanted to tag along for that? Ok.

NTA I’ve been to lots of weddings like that

Attraction *should* be conditional. Way different from the unconditional love a parent shows their child

Is this OP's husband responding?  What prevented the husband from putting already prepared food in the oven?

Three months is way too long, both for your sanity and for legal reasons like tenancy. They need to stay in an accessible place somewhere else, for as long as they can afford, and then go home. It's hot? Buy them an air conditioner, but do not become their default squat. One day they simply... won't leave. 

Talk to your wife about her expectations; if she's planning to become their permanent caregiver, you should have a vote.

Yta y'all were terrible hosts

I'm gonna vote NAH, but I might be a bit of a special case. Personally I would kill for a little downtime for myself and without any socializing during such drawn out social events like this.

Nta why is he watching a video while driving?

He needs to grow up and stop expecting a slave.  You did nothing wrong except marry the wrong guy.

Ambitious? Does she want you to be an astronaut? NTA. A solicitor isn’t a slouch job.

yeah after i gave him like 10 minutes i asked him to bring headphones from now on. he does love to jump to the worst possibilities and assume i have the worst intentions 😭 but i love him and we’re working on it lol

ESH why go out together if you're not even going to talk? At the very least put on music yall both like

I say this all the time!! How I better keep healthy!

How often does this happen? Is this frequent?

There is definitely an AH but it’s not you!!

yes i do, which is why i understand the social costs of isolation. Which is why i understand that the landlord is your enemy.

OP had _one_ conversation. There's dozens of steps he can take besides appealing to violence-backed authority.

Or bread that tastes like unseasoned cardboard. Even "good" gf bread is a shadow of any normal bread. I'm already happy if it has any significant taste. There are gf bakerys with decent bread, but it is a hassle to get there and it is a rare treat. All the supermarkt options are... well...a thing to put stuff on.

NTA  
You realise this is entitled and abusive, right?  
You put in, essentially, a 14-hour day then did the parenting around the house. What was he doing? Why does he expect you to do it when he was home 4 hours before you?  
Your husband isn't expecting you to be his partner, he's demanding you be his mother.

Yes strangely we’re kind of on the same page 😂.

I enjoy people like you on Reddit who can have a genuine discussion without getting nasty!

NTA. You are allowed to set boundaries in a relationship. Do that now and stick to it. You will not be sharing the GF treats your parents buy you. You will need to let that sink in for her and if she continues to act as if she doesn't understand why this is a necessary boundary of yours then you can encourage her to ask others or her therapist to explain it to her because it is non-negotiable. And if she really can't control herself then you should literally lock up your gluten free treats. Be that petty.

If you didn’t attempt to have a conversation with them first then yes, YTA

It is pretty cold, and also unreasonable... Which is basically asshole.

He's a lawyer. Not exactly lack of ambition or poorly earning compared to a doctor.

YTA i’ve been to more catholic weddings than non catholic and ive NEVER had a long break in between the ceremony and reception. im glad it worked out for you but acting like it’s totally normal is weird af

NTA. Get outta there. It’s be one thing if you didn’t have a great job yourself. But expecting someone to earn more than her as a Dr is unrealistic and unfair on you

Nta

Are you guys "partners" or are you the woman appliance who does things for him? 

Really consider. Why didn't he notice you were busy, and offer to help? Are there other situations where he lacks empathy for you and your mutual daughter?

Is the bar really this low??

NTA men being the provider in relationships in this age is such an outdated tradition that needs to end. Try asking her that if you become the provider will she stay at home and be the homemaker. If she wants you to be traditional then she should be traditional as well.

I think I, you, and most of Reddit know the issue here isn't that you didn't have dinner ready immediately upon your return from work.

What prevented your husband from putting the food into the oven? And what set up this dynamic that you're expected to work, deal with your child and their needs, and then have dinner ready instantaneously for someone who's been home for several hours?

NTA

Why do you put up with this schedule?  Let alone your husband’s petulance? You will be no help to anyone if you have a stroke and die because of all of the stress you are under.

There’s nothing to judge. She wants a man who makes more than her. 

She is clear on what she wants and that‘s a man who makes a lot of money. She told that she expects you to work more and make more money.

If you are not okay with this then break up.

And she not too bright. Unless she is paying all your bills she is not the breadwinner and she won’t be the breadwinner if you have your own income.

Sorry, she's developed feelings for one of the doctors she works with. He most likely thinks she's garbage, but it sounds like her fantasy world slipped out of her mouth and landed on you a bit. All women are not like this.

NAH. But make her put a specific minimum range she wants. Thatll make her feel terrible.

YTA . He is handling it the best way he can but you can’t be angry about his feelings. He may have had a long day too and was hungry and a bit snappish bc of that. Requiring him to offer you a full round of conversation on it may be more than he is capable of. We teach everyone to hide emotion and exhaustion and for what reason? It’s unfair to require a response from him that suits your feelings if you aren’t acknowledging his.

Girl if you don’t dump him 😭😭

But on a serious note, think about why he needed to jump to escalation and confrontation like that instead of asking if you would wait or if you wanted to watch the video with him. Or, I don’t know, using headphones or waiting a few minutes until you got back like a normal person?

Your boyfriend isn’t a toddler. He should be able to practice critical thinking and emotional regulation like any other adult or even teenager. Him offering to pay doesn’t cancel out him acting like a reactive dog over the car audio of choice. If this is a regular occurrence instead of one bad day, consider a change of scenery (dump him). NTA!

NTA.  Her superficiality is a great warning to run.  If she just want someone who earns more than her she can find some superficial AH who has no time for her and has no soul.

NTA,  mostly  because  every  Catholic  wedding  I have attended  followed the same script, but nowthat she mentions  it she's  right.

Most certainly NTA. I’m sorry you have to deal with that. Can’t your husband cook a meal for himself and the family? Sounds like weaponized incompetence

NTA driver picks the music. Shotgun shuts his cake hole.

I only give respect to people who deserve it. You deserve none.

Then OP and their partner can have a reasonable discussion instead of the partner trying to bribe the OP and then just cramming the other muffin in to their mouth, you know - reasonable adult things.

NTA, but I suspect you know that. You need to have a serious talk with your husband about partnership and support. That sequence you just described is absolutely ridiculous; a grown man should be able to deal with a dinner for the family, at least occasionally.

You said MIL "is planning to stay with us for about 3 months this summer. My BIL (10 years older), who has been wheelchair-bound since an accident 10 years ago, is also coming" 

How were those plans made? Because of prior visits do they beleive they have an open invitation and just need to tell you when they will arrive and depart, and your wife  kept you out of the loop and its presented it to you as  a fait accompli, if so, NTA.  You can't have visitors and or your wife  set a precedent like that. which excludes you from important life decisions.

YTA, though that still isn't as bad as some gaps I've been too. One wedding had the ceremony at 11 and the reception at like 6pm in a completely different city. It is in my top two of worst weddings I've been too. Unfortunately that is still not the first lol

I’m in Ohio! But definitely Midwestern. 🙂

Went to a very traditional catholic wedding in Ireland years back. The women get dressed to the nines, hair and makeup professionally done, etc. Long ceremony with communion, the whole bit. The ceremony lasted well over an hour and a half, I remember because I had to pee and there was no bloody bathroom in the church. The only break between was to drive to the hotel where the reception was being held (and where most guests were staying overnight because Irish weddings last until the last man standing… or is dug out of the bush he passed out in). We had cocktail hour and visiting, then a nice dinner, and then more cocktails and dancing, and I finally had to turn in but my partner at the time who was friends with the couple, the groom, and all their friends didn’t roll in until 6am or so. The couple had libations and snacks in their room for anyone who was able to stay awake along with them too. No breaks lol

yta, you’re not frustrated with her budget, you’re frustrated with her demand for your time and lashed out at her over something irrelevant for it. just apologize and say you got overwhelmed with the amount of appointments & taking the girls.

Nta.  Was it The City Museum?

Your bf was ok with the book playing so long even though he didn't choose it. Can't you extend the same courtesy to him and let his video at least finish before you start playing your book again?

Why is your mother still monitoring your bank account?. You're 19 go and open an account in your name only.

NTA. Regardless of how much you will earn in the future, are you sure you'd want to spend the rest of your life with someone like that?

NTA. handling your own payment instead of routing it through grace isn't an asshole move, it's just paying for your food. if she prefers to collect and get venmo'd back, that's a logistics preference, not a rule you broke. as the one person who's unemployed, paying your own smaller order directly is completely reasonable.

Yes and if no one chooses to go because it's too much of a hassle then OP will be butt hurt. 

Being a good host means making things reasonably easy for your guests to participate in an event. They shouldn't have to jump through a bunch of hoops to make someones dreams of grandeur come true.

NTA. If he wants to watch a video in the car he can put on headphones.

Driver picks the music/stereo settings, shotgun shuts his cakehole.

Listen, it's clear you're just OP with an alt account. I'm sorry going through this situation. It must suck.

For what it's worth, I do understand your overall point about your mom and see why you are frustrated. I was really just trying to discuss which car was better because I like cars and work on them regularly.

this has only come up twice for us, and we go to a lot of weddings, and for one we sent our regrets and a gift and for the other we attended only the reception. you can’t monopolize my entire day like that - i only get 365 of them a year. either the whole thing is one continuous event or i’m going to treat it like it is à la carte. YTA

Ne honestly, I'd be stressed just having family stay the weekend, I sure as hell wouldn't be ok with 3 month's.

If they weren't apparently unhoused, but still passed out there, would you have called emergency services or still non-emergency? 

Were they breaking any laws, aside from existing where you could see them? 

Did you attempt to rouse them? Or did you skitter away and call non-emergency from the comfort of your property? 

YTA. You don't know what their situation was. If they needed emergency medical help, you denied them that help and dignity. You saw people, stuff, and alcohol bottles, then made an assumption.

It sounds like you've got a good career underway and if that isn't "ambitious" enough for someone, that's *their* issue, not yours. 

It's a mercenary view to have. If you, as a person with a respectable career, aren't enough for someone, it probably isn't someone you want to be with.

NTA

NAH, but i would think a little more about if you'd like to be friends with this girl. while you've technically done nothing wrong, your attitude towards your friend is a little mean and i question if you're building up some resentment towards her.

your friend seems to have already learned her lesson after being thrown out. if there was truly nothing you could've done to help her in the situation, then that's that. but, if she was truly asking for your help to help her out of the situation and you didn't simply because you wanted to "teach her a lesson", then all you've really taught her is that you're not a trustworthy friend in a dangerous situation.

she knew after being thrown out that she'd made a mistake, and you made it clear that you don't want to help her after the fact. not saying that you both shouldn't be friends anymore, but you should be prepared for that to be a possibility.

NTA he should help with homework and have dinner ready by the time YOU get home.

Ugh YTA but only because please be the bigger person, trust me, act the way you want her to act. That way you’ll know that YNTA, and she’ll be the obvious A. Kill it with kindness.

Yes, a selfish asshole. Not up for debate.

Well you are obviously used to be disrespectful so what can I expect ?

NAH. A quarter of the year is too long for an inaccessible home

ESH. Your family are TAs for expecting you to cook all their meals for them regardless of your work schedule. Also, I’m not sure why you are asking to eat later, but if you are eating later because you need to wind down after work, that would also make them TAs because they are only letting you have food if you basically act like their maid. Either way, they are taking advantage of you. But you are also TA for feeding the food to your pets because the food may have ingredients that are toxic to them like garlic.

NTA.

Meet someone else, become highly successful.

All the best to you!

Also, doing the assignment and learning how to use Microsoft Office (even if the new one sucks) is part of the point of the assignment. She won't have OP to be able to do her PowerPoints at work.

My dad had me help him with an assignment exactly once. He had handwritten his essay and asked me to type it up for him. (This was almost 20 years ago so I don't remember the reason). He did all his other assignments by himself.

That is essentially how I see it. If there is means to help (which it's completely understandable that there wouldn't be, not everyone can just buy a plane ticket) then I would say "You were too trusting. Now you know how the world works. It's now on you to make sensible decisions because I won't hold your hand any more."

NAH. So, it’s a pretty cold take- but it’s good to be up front about these things in a relationship. If that’s a core value for her and her picture of the relationship, good for you to know that now.  Communication around this is the most important part.

Daughter is old enough to handle her own life. It's long past time for her to be required to act like an adult.  Mom needs to stop coddling and making excuses

Conversation with the Mrs.  Tonight.  Don't sit on this one.  The earlier the two of you take the bull by the horns, the better.

I'm thinking, 2 people who work all yr, usually want to go on vacation themselves in the summer, so with this yearly visit, you and your wife never get to go on vacation and enjoy yourselves?

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > I guess I could be the a****** for not starting dinner first?

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

my ex had the same issue, turns out it was the coffee. not saying thats teh case here but worth a thought

Check with your sister the amount mum has sold it to you for,how much and if mum has paid her directly. 

Stands to reason if you have stopped helping out she would want owed money straight away. Sounds standard to me.

Yea I get that. But what if OP decided they liked another thing too and wanted to have all of something else. Im not saying I understand what its like to need to be gluten free, but do understand wanting things to be fair. Im sure all of the baked goods have an argument to let OP just have them and to get the partner something else, but clearly OPs parents bought the stuff for both of them. I dont think its right how OPs partner handled things either, that's why I'm partial to ESH

NTA. But you shouldn't have paid "again" grace should have paid it out of the 200 because that was already your payment. So instead. You cost your mom 225 instead of the 200 she approved.

Grace needs to give you the 25 back.

"Someone is planning on staying with us for 3 months. I don't want them to."

You are an adult, and adults have to make uncomfortable decisions and alternative plans sometimes.

Decide now, and start planning.

Best wishes, whatever you decide.

Respectfully disagree.  Obviously cutting is deeply dangerous, but I wouldn't call either better than the other.  Asthma kills swiftly and brutally.

Mate, I couldn’t even put up with three weeks, let alone three months.  I could only just about handle three days!  Most definitely NTA.

Talk with your wife, it sounds like they are getting everyone used to BIL being there because MIL is getting older and he will eventually need to live with or near family.

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > turning on my book while he was watching a video might be rude since it was interrupting him

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

NTA anyone expecting to stay in my house for 3 months every year would be a no. wtf? That level of entitlement is wild

Nta..sell it. Your daughter is more than old enough for you to stop enabling her.

I did say to use this as an opportunity to set boundaries, so the amount of times she should continue to do this is zero.  
I get people haven't liked my response and I accept that. To me, I feel this is, as far as I can get from the post, the first time something really bad has happened to her due to her lack of thought. She's naive and too trusting. I would hope this experience has now opened her eyes. If it hasn't, then there is no helping her.

Well, it is if you're wasting other people's time to do it.

Same! Was a bridesmaid 7 am getting ready call time. Wedding ended at midnight. Such a long day 

Breakfast at 8 and then no food until cocktail hour at 5. I was starving

We don’t have kids yet and we try not to plan any travel during the june-aug season. We usually plan vacations in other months. We’ll go around the country with them on weekends while they visit.

NTA. They probably think since you don't pay rent, you should agree to dog sit. Saying no could be a big problem; however, I wouldn't agree to it. Once you do it, they'll expect you to do it anytime they need a dogsitter.

YTA 

Guests travel, buy gifts, dress up, dance, mingle. 

The least a host can do is provide for guests.

YTA. I get it, but your motivation is being right, holier-than-thou. The event itself was quite a punishment, that would leave a lasting impression even if you treated her with compassion.

TBC, if you were like "i was so emotionally burnt out from trying to help her understand, i just had nothing left in the tank". Or like "i have no money, but is there anything else i can do?" (did she want money?). 

The sentiment "i think I'm justified" is antagonistic to loving harmonious relationships

imo NTA. I get that they're homeless, but I also wouldn't dare to interact with a guy surrounded by alcohol bottles. I have no idea how high he is and whether he's going to attack me or not

did a baked good kill your mother or something?

NTA I would never touch a mf sleepin on the street it's none of my business, cops are correct response

Good lord. Could you be any more entitled?

Absolutely NTA you did the right thing

NTA, 3 months is waaaayyyy too long. 2 weeks tops.

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > I became annoyed and challenged my partner after she told me she didn’t want to be the breadwinner and implied she might not stay with me if I never earned more than her. I told her I thought that was a cold and unfair expectation, particularly given that she is training to be a doctor and may out-earn me regardless of how ambitious I am. She feels I overreacted and that she’s entitled to want a partner who is at least as financially successful as she is. I think she is placing too much emphasis on income, but I may be the asshole for getting upset and arguing with her rather than accepting her preference.

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

So you did not agree. You have a spouse problem. Any visitors of this type are a two-yes situation. And it is extremely crappy to use your circumstances to make you feel like you can't have an opinion on your home being taken over for 1/4 of the year.

That crossed my mind too.

Yeah, this is the most common scenario and most of my wedding experiences have also been Catholic ones. I don't find the religion the ceremony is celebrated in to be a particularly justified reason for leaving guests hanging for hours. The weddings I have been to that had a gap like that at the very least had a list of suggestions for things to do locally, like ice cream or a pub, before the reception (one bridal couple even did the tour of those places with their guests).

She had 200 in cash. If she handed everyone 50 in cash dollars that would cover all four people there and would have been more than what OP spent. There would have been change.

NTA, that's an insane amount of time for ANY house guests, even family. They can stay a weekend if they're from the same country or a week max if they're coming from overseas. Honestly I wouldn't have them at all, y'all can visit them sometime.

YTA — people’s “quality” isn’t based on their level of affluence

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

AITA for not having dinner ready immediately after getting home from work?

I work full-time and had a particularly long day. I worked a 12-hour shift, then went straight to class for another 2 hours. I got home around 6:30 PM.

As soon as I got home, I helped my daughter with her homework and then got on a telehealth appointment for our daughter's medication management. The appointment ended, and I was literally about to go put dinner in the oven.

Before I could, my husband came upstairs and asked where dinner was. I explained everything I had been doing since I got home and told him I was just about to start it.

Instead of waiting, he got angry, said, "Forget it, I'll just go get something," left the house, got food for himself, ate, came home, and then acted like nothing happened.

This isn't the first time something like this has happened. What bothers me is that after working all day, going to school, helping with homework, and handling our daughter's medical appointment, I was treated like I had done something wrong because dinner wasn't ready the second I walked through the door.

To make things even more frustrating, he later expected me to be affectionate and intimate as though the argument never happened. Id also like to add that he gets home around 2:30..... He knew what I planned for dinner all he had to do was put it in the oven. We spoke about it that morning and that it was gonna be a long day for me.

AITA for not having dinner ready immediately after getting home and handling everything else that needed to be done?

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

sorry but screw your wife for not seeing your struggle with this one. this is way too much to be asking. I would allow this to happen. what is the reason they have to visit 3 months straight anyways?

They really aren't. Most human food is going to be pretty bad for dogs. A little as a treat is one thing, but feeding them multiple portions isn't healthy at all.

Bud, if you have friends, it's not one day once. Weddings happen regularly. Sometimes you get multiples in a weekend.

There are social contracts that exist, and timing your wedding well is one of them. You can always go outside of social contracts. They're loosey goosey that way. But people are going to have thoughts. Free to disregard them, but they will happen.

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

Tonight my partner told me that she doesn’t want to be the bread winner in this relationship and hinted that she wouldn’t stay with me if I don’t earn more than her in my career, reason being “she doesn’t want to be with somebody who isn’t ambitious” 

For context, I am a junior solicitor and she is on track to be a consultant doctor. It’s likely she will earn more than me to begin with and as for me, it’s very dependant on the economic state of the world.

Unsure if my thinking is scenes, but I feel like it is quite a cold take.

AITA?

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

It it only changed after you got the house, then the primary reason is not more time with your wife.

and the things his boyfriend was asking him to do **was simply things that my sister and I knew weren't possible all things considered**

So again, the speculation is that he only did that because the siblings were already making the assumption that he couldn't do it, and rather than fight them about it, he cut off the argument and just delegated the tasks to them from the getgo.

Yes, this is speculation, but that is the basis of the comment.

INFO: was this in America? 

If so then unless everyone was local and used to bug Catholic style weddings, YTA. People dress fancy and come from all over, to expect them to entertain themselves for hours is likely going to be super confusing and off-putting. Did everyone show up for the reception? Did you get any feedback? 

If this was not - I'll say I went to one big Catholic wedding in Mexico once, and this was par for the course. Was new to me, but there was a big church thing, then a couple hours later a big reception somewhere else. That was just the way it was done, everyone else expected it, we were along for the ride so we just rolled with it. 

Really depends on if the expectations were clear from the get go, if that was a cultural expected thing. Average American wedding I've been to happen all in one spot or very nearby, and are one big thing, no long break. Ceremony, cocktail hour and photo time, then dinner, speeches, dancing.

Doesn't sound like anybody I'd want to hang out with. Move on

ONLY a quarter of the year? This is for a QUARTER of the year! That is ridiculous!

Your still young. To me Grace's behaviour set off alarm bells and I would have not agreed to her payment plan. That's probably because I have had a lot more experience dealing with people like Grace. You trusted Grace and did nothing wrong. If Grace had stayed true to her word you would have been reimbursed and there would be no issue. NTA

Probably both parties at fault.   
1. They warned you to claim your food or it would be gone. You ignored warning. Food was gone. 

Question: **who bought the food that you fed to pets instead of leaving to humans?**

NTA. Noise is a part of the uni experience. My flatmates bring me hell and we all have en-suites. Luckily for him it’s literally just you opening a door once at night so he should just get some ear plugs.

You're making a lot of assumptions. Where does coddling come in? My only position was to be respectful and have a full conversation with them if it wasn't already had. 

I think you're mad at a lot of things outside of this and you're reading a lot more into this than it merits.

2 weeks max, once a year. Anything more is torture.

Reading my comment correctly was super hard, eh?

I'm disabled, there actually are bikes that are specifically made for us to ride! So that's no excuse OP!

Yeh that’s my thinking too.

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

i decided i wanted to go to 7 brew today, and my bf wanted to tag along and pay. (which i thanked him for). on the way there, i was playing my book. while we were in line i paused it so i could give my order. the line took about 5-7 minutes. my bf decided to watch a youtube video during that. then when we left 7-brew, i turned my book back on and he was mad. he asked why my book was more important than his video and said i didn’t give a shit about him. to me, the driver in the car has control of the radio, and i had already established i was going to play my book. he said he couldn’t hear his video over my book, and i had just turned up the volume because i couldn’t hear my book over his video. AITA for turning my book back on?

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

NTA. I don't want friends that stupid.

YTA: this isn't like she had to step out of line for the bathroom or some other emergency. She wasn't there and you both ignored that. 

On the plus side, you seem like a good match. She's the AH as well.

I guess I’d want to know the price of the cabin rental and how far from anything else is it? Like if it’s 250 a night and you’re 30 min+ from the nearest hotel vs being 10-20 min from the nearest hotel. And also how will pro rating work do I have to pay for 3 nights if I’m only staying for 1? Idk this all just feels kinda tacky and over complicated.

But they are coming for those 3 months specifically to escape the heat. So while they might be open to adjusting that, the length and timing is what it is for a specific reason.

They're just getting you used to the idea of him being there. One trip your MIL will not take him home at the end of the 3 months.

I went to one of these weddings. From the time I arrived until they cut the cake it was something like 6-7 hours. I hated it.

NTA.

You and your wife needs to work out alternatives that you both agree on because anyone staying at your own home for 1/4 of the year, every year is a 2 yes / 1 no scenario.

Your inlaws need to look at renting their own place with all the amenities they need if they want to visit and if theu won't do that (which I suspect theu won't because their 3 month vacation is currently extremely low cost to them), then your wife could go visit them for shorter more regular stints or 1 long stint. Like someone else said, your ageing MIL seems to be getting you ready for your BIL to move in with you.

I don't think you're an asshole but I also don't think you get out of this without your wife, MIL and BIL thinking you are. 

Sucks to suck, bummer. NTA.

NTA. Get into marriage counseling. Having family stay with you for a week is exhausting, 3 months is unbearable!  I wouldn't even want my own mother staying with me for 3 months! You don't have enough room. Your home is not accessible. You are entitled to your privacy, and having them invade your small space for a quarter of the year, every year is ridiculous. Your wife needs consider your feelings and set healthy boundaries... her family can stay close by, in a place that is accessible. It just is not fair to you.

What if they can’t easily fit the family in their home. I have a very small house and can’t have very many people over comfortably so we end up eating out together when people come visit as we can’t all fit here without people having to stand on top of each other not comfortably to eat pizza

It's like she was built off the definition of Schrödinger’s Feminist 

A woman is simultaneously a victim and empowered, until something happens. Then she chooses which state benefits her the most…

This really needs to be higher. It’s the first thought I had

It also gives the MIL and BIL their own place to have their morning and evening routines in place that aren't as heavily tied to the ones OP and his wife have.

Nah This is just a cultural difference. Personally I would have appreciated it as someone with food allergies who no longer trusts caterers. (Too many times) But tbh I've never been to a wedding without at least an hour block between ceremony and cocktail hour.

NTA- 

Your mom is actually mad at Grace, and is frustrated this wasn't something that seemed odd to you given Grace was supposed to pay. Your Mom isn't considering that you would do whatever Grace tells you to do. 

For example: 

If $200 cash was supposed to cover 4 people... Each person could have been handed $50 dollars.... That would have covered the $32 you paid and then some. 

Instead what did happen is Grace collected 200 dollars. 

You paid an additional $32 dollars and it doesn't seem like you got paid any money back/did recieve that venmo. Did you receive the money back already? 

Your mom is upset because it sounds like you've been taken advantage of. Which isn't your fault.

This is a trial run of them moving in permanently.  Do you have kids?  What about family summer vacations?  Are you expected to take your MIL and BIL, too?

Did you call to make sure they were okay (i.e. not unconscious due to an OD etc.) or to have them removed for your convenience? Therein lies your answer.

NTA OP I am not celiac but have gluten intolerance and my partner does not. I bake gf treats and regular stuff weekly so I can have it throughout the week. At no point has he ever eaten any of the stuff I bake for myself without asking unless there's a large quantity or I've already told him he can have some. 

I've also purchased GF items like muffins for myself and he's never asked for a whole one for myself. My mother has also given me gf treats and he still never asks to have something that he knows is a limited quantity - especially if it's particularly good. I offer him pieces and frequently he straight up refuses to take it because he knows that extremely good gf treats are hard to come by. 

All to say OP that you either gotta have a conversation with your partner or somehow accept that they're selfish bc that's not right at all for someone you want to spend the rest of your life with.

Dad says he is about to cut her off. Usually means financially

YTA, and I don't get how people are saying thats not the case (or well, more specifically you could argue your girlfriend is the asshole).

There is a queue, and she is jumping the queue, how can anyone say that is perfectly fine behaviour? If you both arrived there at the same time, and she just had to go to the toilet, for example and you were holding her spot, sure. I can still imagine people being pissed since it is hard to see what happened exactly, but with the full info it is not unreasonable. 

But thats not the case, your GF just arrives way later and skips ahead. And why? Because someone she knows is standing there? What would you think if you have to take a bus later (or wait longer in some other queue), because a bunch of people see that their friend is standing at the front, so they can also skip in front of you?

OP said nothing about how they should be in jail. They said they should be moved, which is a no-brainer.

3 months is insane even for someone you like, love, respect and whom doesn’t “inconvenience” your whole family. 

I’m personally on the 5 days is enough thank you very much plan. Maybe, maybe compromise on 1 month.

Or get a stairlift. It would be worth the money to get your living room back, give him some privacy, and not have to shuttle him around for baths.

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > I might be the asshole because I told my friend that her friends weren’t of high quality

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

Ah that’s a difficult one, you say they are asking to escape the heat and are obviously disadvantaged so not an unreasonable request, but also your own needs and mental health are important. I don’t envy you. I’m not sure the answer sorry! I hope you’re able to think of a good compromise. Good luck!

NTA. I’m sorry but 3 moths of uncomfortableness it’s too much, so tell her to compromise and she can go visit them one summer and they can come for a month next year or why don’t you plan a vacation for you and your wife? That way they can’t come since nobody will be there. Also… seems like if something happens to your MIL you’ll end up taking care of your BIL.
NTA, you need to talk to your wife and tell her that she needs to reduce their stay.

Your "lesson" likely ended your bestie relationship. The main problem you seem to have is her getting stranded after not listening to your advice...I hope you leave her alone and you both move on. Nothing healthy about your "friendship".

Have you considered that they may be leaving there son behind because they want a "guest sitter" more than a dog sitter? It's quite likely you are the reason your boyfriend is no longer invited to away.

This family have only known you for less than 6 months by the sound of it and you don't come across as particularly reliable especially since you couldn't bring yourself to be responsible for their dog for 7 hours. 

By all means though you should try 'calling out" his parents and see how it goes, I doubt you're as valued of a member of the household as you think you are.

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

I’m going to try and keep this kind of short. 

My (23m) friend (23f) sometimes sets me up with her friends, or the friends of her friends. Most times it doesn’t work out, usually ended by me. 

. One time it actually did work out for a few months, but I realized I wasnt really feeling it really. But for example, I ended it with one girl because she had no car, and another because she lived with her parents (Before you guys get on my ass, I live in my parents house, but they dont really live here anymore, and will sell the house when my younger sister graduates in two years). I wouldn’t tell them to their faces these reasons of course. 

My friend though, I tell her the actual reasons. But I learnt recently that she had been telling these actual reasons to her friends. When I found out, I asked her why she was purposely trying to start problems. I don’t remember what she said, but I also said that instead of trying to start problems, she should look for higher quality friends. We haven’t talked since then. I feel I might have been kind of mean, but my fwb thinks I’m not that wrong. We would Meet up after my dates, and we’d Talk about it no problem;  just between me and her. So I believe that i should be able to expect that of another friend too. 

AITA?

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

YTA. As are all the selfish commenters on this thread.

If you don't seem this dynamic changing, maybe an accessible bungalow is needed for your own sanity. Or an accessible air bnb. It's too much to expect no living space for 3 months. Also, what are plans for BIL once her parents can no longer care for him? Make sure that is planned.

Any way you could assist them in getting an ADA room, or B&B for a few weeks?

Nah it's just normal to save the spot for someone close to you. In Germany they do and love lines and it's still a normal thing to do .

Her budget choices are not really your concern. If you are sick of going with her to try them on, that is fair. Be busy next time.

But your comment was uncalled for and condescending. YTA

I think a good compromise would be limiting them to a month and a half or renting them an air b&b with handicap accessibility somewhere nearby so your house isn’t taken over for the entire summer.

Definitely look into alternate housing. AirBnb or other types of rental arrangements that specifically accommodate your BIL. 3 months is a ridiculous amount of time to have your life upended.

So have a cocktail hour while doing pictures. That’s what everyone I know has done.

We had a gap in our wedding. We put everyone on a trolley with wine and other alcohol and gave them a tour of San Francisco with fun stops. 

Gap weddings need entertainment. 

YTA.

This sounds SOOOO Wisconsin!

Love this thanks for spreading awareness and for your important work

Even a week in close quarters can get uncomfortable, especially with a communal area turned into a bedroom. Three months, having the space BIL and MIL staying on another property affords can benefit more because frustrations and tensions don't build up as fast. I bet your wife feels the same way you do, but is facing more family expectation enough to not be on the same page as you. At the very least a property that does have the necessary accessibility has to be a better prospect than trying to make a house that's not wheelchair accessible work. 

How were you handling the shower thing before? If he had to go off-site just to shower it's not a long term practical solution.

They need to rent a HA VRBO or AIRBNB close. Your wife needs to handle this.

The real problem is your friends suck.

This matches my thinking.  Grace wanted to pocket the $200. It's unlikely that anyone will be able to successfully dispute the charges if Grace never pays them back, because they did, in fact, authorize the charges and received the service for the money. 

They could take Grace to small claims court if she doesn't reimburse them, but I doubt many people would do so. It could also be difficult to win there,  since there was no specific timeframe given for the reimbursement 

Grace made a simple transaction unnecessarily complicated. Most likely, to pull off a shady scam

The OP should have suspected something was up,  being so gullible may be part of the reason Mom is upset, but the bulk of her anger should go towards Grace

Came here to say something very similar - first thing that popped in my head when MIL age was mentioned… how will BIL be cared for when MIL is no longer able to? This feels more like practice runs for the future. You are NTA, this is too much and too long of a “visit”.

YTA. If it's non-assigned seating then you join the queue when your fiancé is there, too.

Her credit card is her dad’s.

Nta. Say no. 3 months is more than enough to establish residency, which you definitely don't want

Apparently very little respect for the line happens if people are cutting in front of others all the time...

extra pointing to this, grace didn't go to an expensive place after the 200, but to hmart, a cheaper option.

she totally meant to keep all that she could

NTA You went to the City Museum which legit is one of the coolest places on earth! You did nothing wrong. I am a special education teacher and it is important that my students learn appropriate boundaries and behaviors, and waiting your turn is one of those behaviors.

Can they get a one story rental for the 3 summer months nearby? Might not be financially possible, but it would make everything so much easier. And yes, 3 months is too big of an ask.

“The break up came out of nowhere!”

NTA- There is a reason for the "Catholic gap." Churches have set times for weddings, and those times need to work around mass- which is usually held everyday, including Saturday evenings. Catering halls have set times, so you can't just start your cocktail hour at 3:30/4 bc you've got a 2pm mass.

Personally, this has never been an issue for me or most people I know. People go to the church in their Sunday best, then use the gap to change into their formal wear. On the few occasions I've been too far from where we're staying that evening to do so we'll just go grab a drink or a coffee or something. It's all fine. Is it as convenient as if everything is in the same place, no, but it is also important for people to be able to have a religious ceremony if they want to, and if that means a bit of inconvent timing that's ok.

The main one is spending more time with their daughter. I never saw them visit once before we got married and we dated for 4 years. But things changed after we married and got a house.

What you are frustrated with is not her budget but her lack of respect for your time.

UPDATE: i just got kicked from the discord server. perry saw the damn reddit post and went ballistic on me, he had no idea i was running the instagram account and he blocked me on everything. He said i was the asshole but i still dont truly agree with his mickey mouse bullshit. im just gonna find new friends.

If that is the case I would say you have a bit of a point, but just slightly. I imagine OP would give all that information and accomodations are all the same or tiered pricing. 

But even if say what you suggested is the case that it's a "pay $xxx for unknown accomodations for a room." You still have a choice, pay the price for a blind room at the property, or boom a hotel somewhere else. You are still getting to decide if the convenience and price of staying on site is worth it to you or you would rather book off-site and travel in for everything. Just because some choices are better/worse than others does not mean you are being forced into anything/have choice taken away.

I would look into a short term rental in your area

Maybe this is all Astrology... 👀

Idk how to feel about this one. I feel bad for the homeless, but at the same time scared for the kids that may walk that way. Some homeless aren’t bothering people at all and some are drug users who attack people.

INFO: Has your wife looked into handicapped accessible short term rentals for her mother and brother?

It's not something I would ever agree to, considering it causes so much chaos, but it's not my family.

Actually, I think it was the kindest way to act in the circumstances, because:
1. The dog’s wellbeing is an important consideration too, and I have no sympathy for people who think it’s funny to abuse animals, regardless of mental disability. I’ve known some very disabled people who get great joy from being kind and generous to animals.
2. It’s also important not to tiptoe around the issue when he’s making other people in the bar, especially women, feel uncomfortable.
3.  When someone has the kind of neurodivergent condition that makes it hard for them to pick up on social cues, it’s much kinder to talk directly than to drop hints or quietly get annoyed with them.

NTA. I got stuck with a "relative" (not by blood) for 3 months a couple years ago. They had their own room and are not physically handicapped, basically a roommate that doesn't pay rent and I felt obligated to feed.

I can't stand the person now.

Not my preferred either but considering the posts I've read about people basically waiting in parking lots or fields, a coffee shop is a step up.

That’s kinda AHish. Not even really enough time to return to the hotel, shower, and change, but too long to sit around

obviously the explanation is not catholic weddings because some know it the way you do and some don’t. In France that would be shocking to invite someone to your wedding and expect them to go napping or go to a bar during the day. We don’t need a bar to gossip because that‘s the cocktail hour(s) purpose. 

First, church weddings don’t have to happen before 2PM, that depends on the church but it can begin until around 4PM I would say. If your ceremony is early in the day, you still go to the reception venue and you can mingle with others, eat and drink and maybe have some planned activities because people are your guests for the day and it would be disrespectful to not plan the day accordingly. The gap between the ceremony and reception would be for going from the church to the other location. People can be invited just for the ceremony or just for the reception but if you‘re invited to both there is no occasion to do something else than wedding things. If a couple has a wedding that ends by 2PM and a reception that starts around 5:30PM… that would just means they didn‘t plan their wedding day very well and people would be disturbed.

If you are happy to drink at a random bar on someone’s wedding, good for you. But that’s not being a toddler to have different expectation

It's not punishing her. It's making her responsible for her own actions.

You can certainly agree that someone needs to be more clean while also not presenting it in a mean way. If my partner called my actions unattractive and then called me sensitive for not liking it, I'd be pretty upset.

NTA and anyone saying otherwise or trying to guilt you has never lived in a city that isn’t safe. We can all soapbox the “check your privilege don’t police the homeless!!” mentality but end of the day these people were intoxicated and certainly a threat to themselves and could be to others. It’s really easy to sit and shame you for not doing the progressive thing or for not checking in on them first but you never know what passed out people are on. If one of them was high on something and you checked in on them, things could get dangerous. This isn’t being harsh or conservative, it’s just living in reality. NTA and you might’ve saved their lives or someone else’s.

This post could really use a tldr.  
I’m just gonna say ESH, because stupid teenage drama.

NTA. I couldn’t handle this at all. And shame on everyone else for deciding without you that buying the house means they’d move in for a quarter of every year.

One of the best lessons someone can learn is to ask at the outset “do you want support, my opinion, or help problem-solving”

Your excuse for leaving “a large paper bag of fast food on the living room floor” because you were “busy with work” is really childish. Unless you’re performing emergency life-threatening brain surgery in your living room, you can pick up a damn bag. Or not put it there in the first place.

She’s being kind by saying these habits of yours are unattractive. There are plenty of much stronger words that would be more appropriate.

YTA.

‘Let the poor homeless people pass out on the sidewalk in peace.‘ - Redditor

NTA but you DO realize where this is going right ?

WHERE do you think BIL is gonna be staying once your mil can’t take care of him anymore ?

Him taking over your living room for three months every year is just them training ya’ll to get used  to accommodating BIL in the near future.

It’s your home too and you should get a say in it.

Tell your wife they can stay for thee weeks if they want but not the whole three months and if she doesn’t like it, tell her then you will be getting you own place if this continues.

And having to act like a mommy is the biggest turn off. She’s being completely honest in saying it’s unattractive. He will be totally confused when she no longer wants to sleep with him.

Yes, its going to be 3 months here and 2-3 weeks there (since we are both working) each year

My MIL comes for a week and both me and my husband are more than ready for her to go home when the time is up.

So you’d be okay with watching your friends suffer when you could have helped them just so you could say I told you so?

Crazy.

If the main problem is the extreme heat where they live is it possible that you could do something to help with that? Maybe the cost of air conditioning etc will be worth it as opposed to having them in your house for months. Then perhaps they could visit for a shorter more reasonable time.

I'm glad your eyes have been open! Stop sending that money to them and save it for your child.

NTA. I know your son will want his grandparents present but is it really going to ruin his whole bday party if they don’t? If you give in to blackmail once (grandparents won’t attend if the little thief isn’t invited) then they’ll continue to blackmail you in other ways. And if Caleb has no consequences then he’ll keep stealing. He’s old enough to know better. Let it be known the thief isn’t welcome or snatch every gift back he tries to steal. You can’t protect him for deserved embarrassment. Your husband is TAH.

NTA. I would tell her I just don't have the time.

…what? Have you ever attended a wedding as an adult where the couple, assuming not filthy rich, has offered to find free accommodations for all of their out of town guests? Assuming you actually want to attend the wedding, how is this any different than traveling and paying for a hotel room? You don’t have to go if you don’t want to, the weddings I attend I am happy to pay for travel to spend time with friends and family. If I don’t want to go and I don’t want to spend the money, I don’t go.

Gee, if only the internet existed. Also, he may have only been to Catholic weddings, but I'm quite sure he knows people who aren't Catholic and could have asked them.

Finally, not all Catholics do this.

No one can realistically say this. Something needs to be said, but this ain’t it.

NTA. That’s a public safety issue.

So I can talk shit about my friends as long as I'm being honest about it? Come on. You can be honest and still be respectful.

NTA. If this is what your wife wants and you can’t get out of it…..do you want to stay in this mess?

I fear for that day tbh, I have no idea how to care for anyone in that situation

3 months.

Yikes. NTA.

My ultimatum. They find a motel or I do.

That sounds like almost too much for a long weekend. A whole week is out of the question.

Good luck.

Grace should have paid for the dinner right there with the cash, no nonsense of Venmoing it back. The change should have been given to you and you to your mom. 

Grace should be giving explanations to your mom, or better say, your mom should be asking for explanations to Grace; not you.

NTA.

I think a lot of people have the ceremony and the reception in the same place these days, so maybe it's less common. But I've been to both Jewish and Christian weddings that had the ceremony in a synagogue or church and left a 1-2 hour buffer to let everyone get to the reception without feeling rushed. Especially if they were more than 20 minutes from each other. That's perfect to socialize a bit after the ceremony, figure out who's driving with who, and find your way to the reception.

That cannot happen since he has a different citizenship and cannot change countries thankfully.

NTA - Also, a thing most people might not consider, which you might need to mentally prepare yourself for, is that MIL might soon start to mention “alternative housing” for your BIL due to her age. Aka your home. I’m not saying that IS what’s going to happen, I’m just saying that if it ever came up, I have a feeling your wife might push for this arrangement despite your concerns. Just mentioning it. You might need to have a more serious talk with your wife before your MIL becomes unable to care for him.

My in-laws were just here for a week and I was ready to burn my house down. That would be an absolute relationship-ender for me. NTA.

That’s all fair.  I don’t completely disagree with you.  But also, what I read in the post I think covers most of the things you said, in the sense of OP saying he spent more than one day trying to prevent this from happening in the first place.

I don’t think she deserves to be punished by OP either, but I also don’t think OP should be responsible for fixing what she broke to begin with.

Anyway, it sounds to me like we aren’t too far apart in our opinions.  Maybe just the nuance of it all?

In my experience with Catholic weddings the attire for the church and the reception isn't the same. In fact, the time in between was when all the women got dolled up after attending the ceremony in their Sunday best.

YTA. Your entire post is 2 long, run on sentences. WTF?

Given the length of these visits, and my crystal ball tells me things won’t improve for these in-laws with time as your MIL ages, might an option be to combine forces and get a bigger home with accessibility features so they can stay on a more permanent basis but everyone has their own living space? Maybe some other outside the box option?

I physically cringed when reading that.

The obligation to help is that of a friend. You’re not seriously telling me friendship means zero obligations otherwise what we doing. And atp it’s not ‘enabling poor choices’, it’s bailing her out of one. Part of being a good friend is knowing that she fucked up, knowing you told her so but going and helping anyway. That’s what a non-asshole friend does. Where I’m from anyway

It’s also lame! It wasn’t cute or funny, so it’s odd that they would bring it up again.

NTA. The kid isn't one, but his grandmother definitely is. She could've told him something like "Let's not push people, that's rude", because his autism doesn't really matter in this case. Sure, his autism might explain the behavior but considering his "supportive" grandmother, she can help him to expand his skills and should've said something to him. Not to be laughing it off as "cute" or "that's just who he is" or whatever.

NTA, although there is definitely an AH involved. Anyone who called me a pig would not see me often. Focus on spending time with your BF and friends on the weekends, and even some alone time. When you work full-time, there’s so little time to relax. Why spend any with shitty people?

Buy them an air conditioner for their home.

Who is still supported by her father!

NTA three months is waaaaay too long for any guest, and they really should be finding an accessible rental for that time.  I can't imagine having to travel elsewhere to shower.  For three months.

Yes this is something I will definitely try convincing my wife on. In the culture though they won’t agree to staying in a different place when in town but if its close by and accessible, it might be a good alternative and easy to convince.

I'm going with NTA. 

  
While the concept of "if you came to eat on time you could have had food" might sound logical to them. The problem is, if they had cooked enough food or ordered enough food for you, there would be food leftover. The fact that there's no food left over means you were never in the equation or someone overindulged so that you would have no food.

At least the wife can go visit.

Doesn't solve the shower problem though.

Op said it was a food court so I am guessing it might be because people ordered from different spots (stalls? Idk what they call them) so it was easier that way.

If there are enough spots on the bus for everyone to go sitting then this isn't an issue. But if it's crowded and people think they might not get a seat then it's a problem

3 months isn’t visitors, it’s squatters. If they have their mail delivered, it’s also establishing residency. Make sure that doesn’t happen.

NTA for objecting to the relative invasion

NTA, these people are loopy and are not going to make it in real life.

You have a wife problem. She doesn’t care about your needs or feelings. She still trying to be that good daughter. You need to remind her she is a wife now, a partner that you make decisions together. NTA, 2 days is too long for me, 3 months is pure torture.

NTA, this was her 'fuck around and find out moment'. She needs to understand that these 'fly you out' type of guys are really just interested in one thing. Hopefully she learns from this.

My own parents came for one week and I breathed a sigh of relief when they left!

YTA I've seen people throw hands over this. 

As others have said, you're taking away a spot from someone who waited longer. 

Its pretty shitty - would you be cool if someone further ahead of you in line let someone cut and that meant either you or your fiance couldnt get on the bus?

Exactly. What if people drove a distance to get there? Why would they go to eat of they will be served food at the cocktail hour and reception!

It depends on the type of wedding. If the ceremony was at a church and the reception was held at another venue, then no, you’re not an asshole. If you had the ceremony at the same place as the reception and had a big gap until the reception, you’d be an asshole. I’ve been to many Catholic weddings like the one you described.

A SUMMER CAMP WEDDING. Dear god, just kill me.

This is about respecting the queue. You were ok holding her place when that had no effect on others and the bus wasnt standing room only  but on this crowded day YTA for taking a seat away from someone on line. Doesn't that seem unfair to you? In those cases, I suggest you find a compromise. Share with your wife the seat and the standing space next to it and swap places with each other mid ride..

Sure you have a bit of a point, but all that are still choices you can make, and are not forced to stay there. 

Is it more convenient sure, but that is still not take away options.

Please stand by what you said, as long as she stands by not taking to you until you apologize. 

That way she'll never have to see you again and her life will have one less AH in it

NTA Ask yourself what would be the point of having a relationship with him now? What would you get out of it? He gets family back in his life and you get...?

NTA

What plans are being made for BIL once MIL can no longer care for him?

Unless you want to have these summers be your new life, you need to have *that* conversation with your wife NOW.

Three months? Wow.

NTA. Plenty of times in my life that I've let my lack of discipline be an excuse to drop the ball. Never once have I expected someone else to approve of it, nor reward me for it.

We can all be lazy shits sometimes, but this is just one of many lessons that kid needs about consequences.

Best friends don’t want to teach each other lessons. YTA

NTA. Fast food places are paying in the same range as your current job in my area. They suck but at least your brother won’t be there. Your mom is TA.

NTA. Have you offered to go visit them, instead?

You need to bring this up now.  Your wife needs to start pressing her Mom for what plans regarding brother are, because he will not be living with you.  Help them do research to find resources, because you will not be the solution when MIL gets too elderly to care for him or she passes away.

"Why not? When he physically can't do something, he will have to have a conversation with the boyfriend about it." I think with what they said they meant something along the lines of, eventually the siblings will leave and have families of their own so they wouldn't be able to help brother out as much anymore. They would have to care for their families plus working and more. So the brother would eventually have to have that conversation with his boyfriend about his limitations from his disability or see if his boyfriend could help him come up with a way to do those things but in a way he can do it. 

Take for example someone who is deaf but they want to drive. So they rigged their car to help them and they have a service animal help them as well so they can drive versus relying on someone else to bring them wherever. Another example is for some people who don't have arms because of an accident, born that way or something else. So they learn how to do things with their feet so they can write, do art, do make-up, cook, drive and so much more. They just found a different way to do something versus the normal way a lot of us do it. The way I see it having a disability doesn't mean we can't do things it just means we may have a different way doing it then what is "normal".

I get what you mean with the "he made his siblings do it because he asked knowing they would say yes". However I know the OP and sister could always say "NO" and maybe it is time they say "NO" to doing something. That way bro could have this conversation with their partner. I can understand though why bro might not have told his partner because he could be scared of losing him. I know when I dated my ex's I kept my disabilities to myself because I was scared they would leave when things got hard. Turned out they still left me so eventually I dated my husband and was upfront with him. He has supported me through it all. I just hope one day OP's brother can get that same support from his partner. This is all just my thinking though and how I took things. Have a wonderful morning, day or night though.
😊😊😊😊

NTA.  But another conversation you should have with your wife is if these 3 month visits are the warm up for BIL eventually moving in permanently. 

If this is something that your wife would feel obligated to take on, you really should start looking at moving to a house that would be more accessible to your BIL.

3 months is a bit much. I’m suffering here and it’s only😩for 5 weeks.

the whole 'joke' setup is giving major mean girls energy, like they manufactured a situation specifically to trap you into being the unreasonable one. your cousins are doing that thing where they create chaos then act shocked when someone reacts to chaos. you already apologized for delivery, they dont actually care about A's feelings they just want to keep this joke alive bc it gives them power

**Hello, Yeeterbeam600 - your post has been removed.**

#Read the following information carefully and completely. Message the mods with any questions. 

This post violates Rule 6: AITA's focus is on interpersonal conflicts with real world consequences. We do not allow posts about online conflicts, including Reddit matters.

Rule 6 FAQs ||| Subreddit Rules

**Do not repost, including edited versions, without receiving explicit approval via modmail.** Reposting will lead to a ban.

Please visit r/findareddit to see if there's a more appropriate sub for your post.

? cats are more complicated but dog are litteraly made to eat lefttovers.

You would be offended if your partner didn't want to hear and smell you pooping??? 

Being in a couple doesn't mean you have to be completely comfortable with every single thing. And maybe you are comfortable but should people really be so impolite that they subject their loved ones to a long period of producing noises and smells in the kitchen?

Also he has a full bathroom next to his office and he's choosing to do it in the kitchen bathroom because he doesn't like the wall color? He's an AH.

My vote is also NTA and I think this is a good suggestion.

Just one thing I would add is that *they* should be paying. And their card should be used when paying for this.

I have a sneaking suspicion that they would try to get out of the payment.

I was made to feel the A who doesn’t understand family and connection because i never grew up with my parents or have a close family of mine.

NTA. Is it possible to look into local Air BnBs or something? Somewhere with your BIL's accessibility needs in mind and that he and your MIL can have a space outside of your home? People can book those for several weeks for more longer term trips.

Your wife is underestimating the situation by calling it an inconvenience when it means upending your home life for a quarter of the year.

We had a long gap (venue issue), and we definitely felt like AHs about it, but we also made it clear to everyone that they could attend only the ceremony or only the reception if the day was too long for them, and our wedding website listed local stuff they could do if they decided to attend both.

NTA.

Just because someone doesn't identify as a woman doesn't mean there aren't people in the world who will target them as a woman. 

AFAB non-binaries still grew up with AFAB problems and have to exist in a world that is regularly hostile to AFAB people.

NTA—the problem isn’t the muffins. It’s the lack of empathy and respect from your partner. As someone with food restrictions, I’d be done too.

Should we just take your word for it or are you willing to link the Reddit post you’re referencing?

I think finding 3 people, any people, unconscious on a sidewalk warrants calling for help.

So me being half white, and my mom’s ancestors being enslaved from India instead of Africa - justifies ignorance towards me forever? Do you see how frustrating that is? The us is only getting more and more diverse. We’re on track in only a few years to have almost the entire population of some mixed race. It’s so unproductive to just say you have some white in you so automatically your intentions are always bad or perceived as bad and you have to make up for it

The people agreeing with you think the homeless should be in jail.  Let that sink in.

NTA 

they don't like living by the rules they established 

Unless you are deceiving us by changing details about asking them to come eat the way they asked you to come eat.

For example, you can't skip announce that dinner is done and call it the same thing.

So, you are 19 and under a conservativeship?  This is a really big deal.  You should not be at fault for your church group leaders' choices.  Your mom should talk to her.

You don't pay rent. That's very generous on their part, even though you don't expect it. They occasionally need help with their dog which you're unwilling to do. 

No, you're not absolutely obligated. But do the right thing & get a place of your own. Your 'family' instincts seem to run thin. 

With a place of your own it's unlikely they'll expect you to help. You'll be dog free with no worry of accumulating resentments will  living rent free in another's home. 

Imo, your attitude says you're already TA.

I see your points but I would be helping to look for flights, maybe picking her up from the airport if I was available. If I had the money I would offer to pay as long as I got the money back. I wouldn’t be saying ‘sort it out yourself’. 
I’d have a serious chat when she’s home and maybe then say I won’t be helping if you do this again in future. 
Idk if I were her, I’d be scared and hating myself for making a stupid decision. If my best friend then refused to help I’d be even more upset. 

I don’t find my friends to be burdens and I think society is becoming too accepting selfishness.  Yes she’s in the wrong for putting herself in that position but she doesn’t deserve to be punished by a so called friend because of it.

NTA but 3 months is only a 1/4 of the year and you would be doing a good deed for a family member that might be looking forward to a change of environment for his own mental health. Maybe try to break into two visits a year to avoid the fatigue?

I got lucky. I never dated any man who couldn’t clean up after themselves or cook for themselves. Don’t know how I got so lucky but I did.

Thank you, I don’t want to be the one keeping her away from her family as well if she wants to spend more time especially as her mom is ageing. Maybe we just need a bigger house if we can ever afford one.

NTA.  You sound calm, logical and based in reality.  You have nothing to feel bad about.

I was as wise as you when I was in my own relationship that lasted four years starting when I was eighteen. It was a dysfunctional relationship where I just listened to this dude that was years older to me because he argued more fiercely than I did and I just wanted to be a likeable girlfriend. 

Learning to communicate doesn't just happen naturally.

NTA 
You ensured she was safe and she had family to call (I would argue she should have called them first instead of burdening a friend). At least now hopefully she realizes that her impulsive actions have consequences that she may not be able to bail herself out of. This was actually best possible outcome. She will see it one day.

NTA you're not wrong to want boundaries and privacy in your home and marriage. A one-off visit is different but not 3 months out of every year. And that's even without the disability - just having inlaws or outsiders in your private space for that much time each year is unreasonable.  
And it's intrusive - did anyone ask what you'd like to do with your summers every year or was this just imposed on you?

“What week would you like to stay?  And where will you be staying for the rest of the 3 months?”

3 months is no longer "'Guests", they are tenants :P

NTA

You don't hate them.
It's a massive amount of time.
It's a massive disruption.
You aren't set up to accommodate.

3 months are a LOT for anyone! Even if you love someone... it's too much.

It's wonderful if you can do this and want to... but you aren't an asshole for struggling to make it work a full season out of the year... and needing things to change.

A disabled friendly long term motel, A long term air B&B, a shorter visit... etc. There has to be a creative work around.

3 months of being a host is awful. So you never get to have a summer break or vacation? You need to either shorten this to a few weeks, or to at most only a month. It's too much, and your wife needs to work with you.

Obviously from the way you described it you're not the asshole. A 3.8 GPA is awesome! Be proud of it.

Yeah I was thinking the same thing! Even if it's a stretch to pay for it, an Airbnb for a few months where the brother can have an accessible bathroom that works for his disability and you all, OP, can have enough space seems like a great option. 

NTA

Ugh..wrong vibe entirely so yeah you would be YTA

You go. Dressed to the 9s ready to celebrate bestie. You either pretend not to remember him at all..or you call him by the wrong name, but only after he greets you first...otherwise you ice him out.

We do not get the feels for boys like this. Don't drink if that's what it takes but we always support our girls 💯

NTA. Has anyone asked you if you agree with this arrangement?

Okay so your relationship isn’t ending over a muffin. It’s ending because your gf has no ability to appreciate your perspective. And she’s vindictive. And those are good reasons to end a relationship. 

I’m sorry. But I’m also glad you found out now. NTA.

NTA - if this is going to be an annual tradition I would seriously consider moving to a space that accommodates these arrangements. 

We only have one life to live and if your wife wants to spend that time with her family, she should. But there should be an alternative solution that meets everyone’s needs. What about an Airbnb?

Yeah the father sucks.

Idk how USA busses system work. 

The U.S bus system is nowhere near as frequent and efficient as other countries (even "developing" countries). A commuter bus in the US is one that has only 100-200 seats and leaves 4-5 times in the morning and 4-5 times in the afternoon. In my city, people frequently get shut out the commuter bus because they get full. Also commuter buses tend to only run once or twice an hour during typically hours that people get off work. Given that it is a commuter bus, these people often live 1-2 hours away from the city which increases anxiety and frustration because you don't want to have to pay $100 for an Uber to get home if you can't make the bus.

Sure. Enjoy me cranking a huge speaker up with death metal at 3am every night. Fucking selfish fuck wits.

YWBTA

You're 27. Don't drink if you can't control yourself.

Seems like the three months is to get you used to taking care of him once the mil goes.

Do you want to get bugs in the house?  You left food trash ON THE FLOOR. That is a bit disgusting. And with that “unattractive”. She’s telling you the fact that you are leaving trash around the house is causing her to lose interest in you. Believe her. 

You don’t want her to make you feel like you’re a slob?  But you are. 

YTA. 

And just because you work more hours doesn’t make her the automatic maid. You need to figure out how to do basic things like cleaning up after your own meals. 

Prediction:  you guys will definitely be broken up by the end of the lease or one will move out/be evicted if one of you owns the house. She’s seeing what her future with you is looking like and she doesn’t want to be a full time worker and maid for you. She’s thinking about how much worse it would get if you two had kids. My husband and I used to both work and had long hours. We figured it out. You can too.

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > I might be the asshole because during the argument I said that Amira isn’t really my friend, she’s my cousin’s friend. Even though I meant that we don’t have an independent relationship, the way I said it could come across as dismissive or hurtful, especially since we do spend time together in a group and have been on holiday together.

She felt like I was implying she was “begging to be my friend,” and I can see how my wording could have made her feel excluded or unvalued. So even though I was frustrated in the moment, I might be the asshole for how I phrased it and how it affected her.

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

Our reception went until 3am LOL

**Hello, BeginningConcept3302 - your post has been removed.**

#Read the following information carefully and completely. Message the mods with any questions. 

This post violates Rule 4. Posts must be written by you, from your point of view. Do not post on behalf of others, from the point of view of another person in the story, or use a shared account.

Subreddit Rules

**Do not repost, including edited versions, without receiving explicit approval via modmail.** Reposting will lead to a ban.

Please visit r/findareddit to see if there's a more appropriate sub for your post.

YTA. Believe it or not, people are actively grossed out when people act sloppy, and it does have an impact on one’s attraction. You’re upset that she doesn’t let it slide and that she actually tells you how your behavior makes her feel.

Here’s a hypothetical that might help it make sense: imagine your girlfriend had a habit like leaving never flushing the toilet after taking a dump. Like maybe she will do it once in a while, but basically she doesn’t flush. And imagine she does this for a similar reason you leave trash everywhere—she’s busy! 

Im going to assume that if you walked into the bathroom just about every single day to a fresh dump in the bowl, it would have a detrimental impact on your attraction toward her. 

You’re doing this. You are leaving a dump in the bowl every day.

That’s asking too much

OP just told her that a lot of guys would expect sex in this situation - and guess what, he did. I don't see how he's perpetuating anything.

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

Hi! I’d like to clarify everyone in this situation is okay and no harm was done. This was my dad’s story but he wanted more opinions so i am posting for him (I am the daughter). So my grandfather has cancer, and his life expectancy isn’t looking great. He wasn’t answering any of our family members phone calls, messages etc so like anyone would do my father and 12 y.o brother went to check on him. My uncle lives in the house right next to my grandpas and he isn’t the most social let’s say. So they go to check on him and all is perfectly fine. They go to get back in their car (parked in the street) and they look back and my uncle was pointing a (you can guess) directly at them. Literally one of the people being 12. As anyone would do they obviously left as fast as they could and called the police. However, my grandfather was very upset with my dad saying he caused lots of problems and stress by calling the police and if he called them on my uncle, he would never talk to us again, which so far has been the truth. He is fully defending my uncle, and my uncle ended up getting arrested and my grandpa is enraged with my dad. The problem was the authorities may have condemned my grandfathers house if they saw it, (it is in very bad shape). So what do you think? Did my dad do the right thing of calling the police on his brother for this act or is he the asshole 

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

NTA. That's an incredibly long time for a visit. I can't imagine having anyone stay over for more than a week or two at most. 3 months is way too long, even without the other issues you have.

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

I need an outside opinion on a situation.

I’m close with my cousins and we game together a lot. One of them has a friend (A) who joins us. I’ve known her for a while, we’ve even been on holiday together (I went to Canada and she was there), but that was only because my cousin invited her. Same with gaming—we only ever play together when my cousin is there. Me and A have never had our own separate friendship (no one-on-one calls, messages, etc).

Recently we all had an argument late at night (literally just as it turned the day of New Year’s Eve). They told me we were doing fireworks for new years and that it would cost £40 each, even though they know I don’t have money legit in bad debt. They also claimed this was planned a week ago, which made me more confused as to why no one told me because I could have gathered money by then.

While I was questioning it, they kept going back and forth saying things like “I told her to tell you” “No I told her to tell you” just blaming each other, which felt like they were trying to wind me up even more.

During that, they asked me why I’m mad at them but not mad at A for not telling me either. I said I’m not mad at her because she’s not really my friend—she’s your friend. I didn’t mean it in a rude way, just that we don’t have our own relationship.

After all that, they revealed the whole fireworks thing was actually a joke, which just made it worse because it felt like I was being set up to get annoyed. I left the call to go calm down little did I know what was in store for me later.

Now they moved completely away from what happened with me and I’m being told that what I said about A was wrong and that I should apologise because it made her feel like she’s “begging to be my friend.”

From my perspective, I was just answering honestly based on the dynamic, especially since they brought her into it first.

It’s now an ongoing joke till this day and they quite literally keep saying just because you guys don’t have a one on one friendship doesn’t mean you aren’t friends. They bring in their own life experiences of what they think is a friend and I think personally they just use the word to freely.

I took fault for the way it came about me saying she wasn’t my friend and understood that could have came out harsh and apologised. The argument now is my cousins saying how is she not your friend when you play games together and you’ve been on holiday together. It’s been an ongoing joke for a while now.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Then choose to go to one or the other if the timeline doesn't work for you?

The invite is not a summons

NTA 3 times? Your friend is taking herself way too seriously.

Hell, they're part-time residents at this point.

Hmm let’s see, she didn’t purchase her own ticket. The guy cancelled her ticket, she had a safe place to stay after she got kicked out but couldn’t afford to fly home. OP didn’t help so she called her dad, it’s presumed her father bought her plane ticket.

someone has to.

No. Literally nobody has to if the brother doesn't want to.  The boyfriend deserves to know, sure, but if the brother doesn't want to tell him that's end of discussion.  Anything beyond that is ab huge overstep

My position, that I described in a standalone comment, is that her way of communicating this isn’t fair, kind, or healthy.

Your "position" is the argument a child would make. Or someone who still thinks like one.

"This behavior is unattractive to me" is in no way, shape, or form unfair, unkind, or unhealthy. Any functional adult capable of self-reflection or change can and will recognize that this is very healthy, fair, and kind direct communication of her bpundary on what is acceptable.

When adults in functional relationships communicate, this exact kind of statement is the most needed from either psrty with a grievance because it directly lays out standards of acceptability. She is clearly and frankly communicating that this is unacceptable behavior. She is being quite mature: she is openly communicating that the disrespect for her cleaning contrubutions (as well as the *literal trashiness* itself) is unattractive to her and putting strain on the relationship.

You are experiencing this as her being "unfair" and "unkind" and "unhealthy" because you want her to meekly coddle this man and manage his feelings in addition to managing her own.

Ironically, your (and his) demand that she soothe and coddle his ego and manage her tone to be more gentle and sweet (because he can't be a mature adult who picks up after homself *or* even recognizes he is straining the relationship with both this behavior *and* getting in his feelings when she clearly communicates like an adult how his actions affect her) is what is unkind, unfair, and unhealthy. 

You and OP are both upset that she is not managing his ego and being 'nice' enough as though he is a child in toddler / preschool emotional developmental stage. He is an adult. It is not her responsibility to adjust her tone to be meeker and nicer and dim her light because he can't handle his own emotions maturely. 

She is being very fair and healthy with him. You're just upset that he isn't being coddled lke she's his mommy instead of his adult partner; the same readon OP is upset (and why both OP and you are being dragged.)

Adults who know how yto communicate say things like "when you do x, that is unattractive to me" -- this is a healthy and normal and mature adult statement of grievance.

NTA my family has done this to other members when they travel across continents and stay for 3 months (kinda a cultural thing), and it turned out to be miserable for both parties eventually. This is actually a LOT of work for you two esp if youre working full time. Catering to 2 more people’s need, food, schedules for such a long time is a lot. It also precludes you from any vacation/time off with your wife. Plus it’s also not nice for your BIL to go without a proper shower and bedroom for 3 months. 

I’m sorry that your wife isn’t being the most understanding of this right now - I see her side too - after all it’s her own mum and brother. But you are totally NTA and your position is very reasonable

how it's selfish once they get the exact same treatment they've been giving you.

NTA. Three months isn’t a visit or vacation, that’s living with you for 1/4 of the entire year

I think OP should reach out personally to the people she thinks will take her up on renting a cabin and explain how it works. It’s a very reasonable ask but it takes a bit more explaining than you can tactfully fit on an invitation. A more detailed write up on the wedding website if they’re doing one would also help.

INFO: have you been Venmo’d back yet? And what about the change- does Grace still have it, or did she give it back to you?

NTA.... One should never be forced to accept visitors. (Even if related)

Well they come from a culture where it would be offensive to not stay at same place when in same town. But yes 6 weeks here and 6 weeks there could be a good compromise I can suggest.

If it had been 2 or more your holding the line for That's a no. Next time say she was in the bathroom.

I have a feeling that Grace never intended to pay you back. She basically just stole that money. I think your mom just realized that and she's pissed but she's yelling at the wrong person.

Yep this would’ve been a last straw for me. She can pay for an Airbnb for all of them and take care of them herself if they wanna stay 3 months.

That large of a catholic gap, as we called it, happens more frequently in smaller towns. My family would go to the one local or grandmas house between the ceremony and reception.

It doesn’t really hurt to apologize, regardless of whether you thought it was fair at the time. Some kids rest their heads on their parent’s laps, while others use those foldable bed-like products that attach to the seat in front of them. There are also plenty of products for adult travelers that attach to the seat in front to improve comfort on long-haul economy flights.

Personally, I have never reclined my seat because those extra couple of inches make little difference and can easily lead to arguments.

NTA but grace is definitely the ahole here and your mom should be mad at her not you. Why did grace decide to have everyone pay for their meals and Venmo her when your mom gave her cash to pay for the food?

Warning your friend about the implication is NOT the same as upholding it.

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > I might be the asshole because I got a little petty clapping back at them and now I’m kinda feeling bad about how I responded and should I even responded

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

She had a place to stay, it's not like she was stranded on the street or something.

NTA. Grace was planning on keeping whatever was left over after she paid everyone back for the meals. Your Mom’s frustration is directed at the wrong person.

What Grace did sounds odd...why would she venmo money to everyone if she had 200 in cash. Idk but it sounds dodgy - Grace could have walked around with all 4 people, paid the cash then given you the change to take back to your mom since there were prob less people than your mom anticipated

I agree with you, but im popping in to answer that last question. Shopping with kids suuuuucks. It makes a potentially fun trip into a game of "how much more indoor, still time do the kids have in them". She has to entertain her children instead of kicking back and getting some down time while she switches dresses.

This is true for every wedding I’ve been to or know of….. I’m genuinely surprised at all the yta’s. Usually we go back to the hotel and change into a more dance-y outfit eat a lil something or rest before going to the reception. I come from a Hispanic background maybe that has something to do with it? Our receptions tend to go on all night so we appreciate the break tbh. NTA

I felt the same way until I realized them doing this means someone in the line may get cut off from getting on that bus after waiting so long.

WTH is wrong with you that you would think, let alone say publicly, something so evil?

NTA but maybe, if you're better off, you could assist them with getting a rental near you?

Autistic people not being taught to wait/being taught that autism excuses everything leads to situations like this:

NTA. But I got a feeling you got a thing for this chick and would have her turn down even the safest of meet ups. Make your move or get out the way, playa.

No, I'm sick of I considerate wankers deciding that if they want to do something it's everyone else's job to out up with it.

But fuck it. Let's all just blast music at 3am because I WANT TO and whatever you want is irrelevant.  

People like you are why we have so many fucking rules because you never consider anyone else unless there's a fucking legal threat to behave like a civilized person.

This is waaay more complicated than it needs robe. 

Also, as someone who you used to work for a church we always footed the bill when we took people out. This would be a very awkward situation if someone was in a position not to be able to afford lunch.

3 months is a REALLY long time. They should be helping with utilities at this point if it's an annual thing. NTA 

Marriage is all about compromising, if it's something you can get past, maybe suggest to your wife that you get a bigger house.

NTA. 

I know a lot of people will view OP as TA because he didn't help but it's my opinion that people don't truly learn lessons unless they have to deal with the consequences of their bad choices. OP repeatedly tried to warn her and she didn't listen. If he helped her then the takeaway would be that it doesn't matter if she doesn't listen or makes bad choices, because she has someone to bail her out. She's an adult and had a place to stay so what further help was OP even going to offer? Let her muddle through it on her own and she'll remember for next time.

NTA, she sounds exhausting.

I actually do think so but haven’t brought it up with my wife. Considering they have a different citizenship, he cannot move in with us forever though.

she's got it in an interest bearing sweep account to collect some free money until she pays it out.

NYS, Grace should have paid the full bill using the cash your mom put towards the meal, and ideally either splitting the change equally, or putting the change into next weeks pot. Your mom is right to be angry, but at Grace.

YTA you're only thinking of yourself and not your supposed best friend. If you don't trust yourself not to get drunk and sad, then the obvious answer is don't get drunk.

Benjamin Franklin famously said, or rather he wrote in Poor Richard’s Almanac: “Fish & visitors stink after 3 days.” 

Not a new problem, NTA.

NTA. Three months seems hugely excessive, regardless of the practical issues.

So just ask that. Or don't even ask that, just make it clear in the advertising for the unit that you don't allow subletting or you want a quiet tenant who's not going to constantly have random guests over. 

Even then, it wouldn't make the landlord any less of an asshole for restricting the tenant in who they can allow into their apartment that they're paying for. Obviously if you have a problematic tenant who's constantly throwing parties or doing illegal shit like selling drugs out of their apartment, that's one thing, but if someone happens to have a partner who's going to be visiting frequently or spending the night every now and then, how is that the landlord's business or problem? 

Either way, there are ways to ask about things like guest frequency *without* just asking bluntly if the tenant is dating anyone. A lot of AFAB's, such as OP's friend, are rightfully going to be suspicious that the landlord is asking for personal reasons or fishing for a date, as is the case with many guys who ask that question unprompted.

NTA, this was a strange thing for Grace to do and I think your mom is taking her frustration out on you.

we have to turn our main living room into his bedroom for the entire visit.

No.
No.
No.

Under no circumstances this is going to happen. Also this will, unfairly, make your BIL the assholes for always being in your way.

No. Not gonna happen. Ludicrous, halft ass baken plan.

NTA, obviously.

I’m one of the YTA’s and I definitely didn’t grow up in a good situation. OP will be a parentified older sibling without a doubt, the confiscating vape pens is not actually achieving the goal that she wants: to help keep her sister safe and healthy long-term. If she’s gonna be the parent, she might as well do it in a way that is actually gonna help her sister.

Parents could have saved all the drama by not saying they were brought back for them both, maybe getting something else for the gf if she didnt want to make her feel bad or getting g them to her son without girlfriend in attendance. A little dramatic with 'taking food from your mouth' its a little inconsiderate of gf but also who wpukdnt want to TRY something from another country.

I get your point but it's still enabling instead of correcting. The 12 year old needs consequences and frankly op's husband to. 
but I see your point it's a better solution then no solution. Still feels like the father would rather let is son get stolen from than having words with is family.

Personally I think NTA, because if I was in your shoes, I would’ve flipped out the first time they came. A week would be manageable, but 3 months??? You guys should’ve at least been allowed to go on holiday for most of it or they should’ve rented elsewhere. It’s your home, your space, and they’re not your relatives. Wife needs to also consider your feelings, because this is a shared home between the two of you, not her family’s home.

That’s a very very long time to have houseguests.

And “You’re like a son to me.“

I would call it an acceptable practice for one person to hold a spot for their partner. 

You aren't buying movie tickets, this is a commuter bus with limited seating. Also OP's fiance isn't even at the station yet which completely changes the dynamic of the situation. If were behind them and I saw OPs girlfriend come with him to the line and leave then I wouldn't say anything if she rejoined him. But in this situation, OP needs to take himself out of line and wait for his partner to actually arrive onsite and only get in line when they are both there.

NTA. You have a wife problem. That is your future. Good luck.

Tbh i don’t mind just my MIL coming as she will keep herself busy and be in her room at times but my BIL is a lot more dependent on us and we only have one TV room that gets taken over.

YTA.  You're behaving like a 16 year old.  Grow up!

They could split the cost if that’s feasible. Well worth it for your privacy, peace of mind, and harmony between all involved.

NTA. Sounds like your wife isn’t listening to you in this regard. 3 months is incredibly long. Maybe a compromise of 1 month in the summer & 1mth during a holiday. Or 1 month to 6wks with you both in the summer & you visit them. Have you looked into the cost of a summer rental that can accommodate BIL?

I would say a soft YTA depending on where you are located.  We had this and there were very few places to spend the in-between time. However, your wedding  already happened and they weren't there. So dont worry about what they have to say.

Nta your mom is mad at the wrong person, she should be mad at Grace. There's was no reason for y'all to pay for your meals if your mom gave Grace the money. Grace should have paid for everyone with the 200. You should just keep telling mom that is what Grace said to do and ask mom to reach out to Grace. I wonder what Grace is doing with the money though, if she is having everyone pay for their meals. I hope that she still has it and will reimburse you

You don't call non-emergency for either of those. Dead or dying are emergency.

NTA. 3 months is way too long. I could understand 1 or 2 weeks, depending on how far they have to travel. Is your MIL trying to set this up so you and your wife will take care of your BIL when she gets too old or passes away?

NTA You can't live her life for her. It's time to drop the white knight act.

Those are literally two different things. I have experienced boredom, and I also take steps to avoid it where possible? I mean, I used to always have a book on me because I commuted by train, and now I have the Kindle app on my phone. 

But that doesn't matter because it's not the point I was responding to. All of the analog things I mentioned are "occupying \[oneself\]." The person I was responding to was poo-pooing OP for having a tablet. I just don't see what the difference is between having a tablet to draw on versus some paper. There's no need to make a moral judgment just because one needs a charger.

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

I posted on another subreddit about a job interview I had for chipotle . The interview itself was normal except for a random lady interrupting it to talk about her son, which threw things off. I shared the story just to vent.

Instead of talking about the interview, people in the comments immediately started attacking me. One person said my writing looked like “hieroglyphics,” another said they’d “unhire” me if I typed like that, and someone else straight up called me stupid.

Then another commenter jumped in and asked, “Is a 3.8 GPA the best you can do in the age of grade inflation?” So I answered honestly. I explained that 4.0 is the highest you can get in unweighted classes, and that my weighted GPA is 4.3 because of AP and dual enrollment. I also mentioned I scored a 1450 on the SAT. I wasn’t bragging I was literally responding to the question they asked me after calling me dumb.

After I answered, they flipped it and acted like I was the problem for “justifying” myself. Someone else complained about punctuation like that mattered more than the actual story I posted.

I never insulted anyone first. I didn’t call names. I just defended myself when people came at me and answered the question they asked.

Now I’m wondering if I should’ve ignored it instead of responding I even went back and fixed the punctuation since they seemed so pressed about it

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

NTA. Three months out of every year is too long to go without a living room.

You should look at the other spaces in the house and see if you can repurpose one of the rooms upstairs into the new living room since your current living room is a guest room.

If this isn’t an option, then you probably should discuss extended stay hotels, or Airbnbs for the relatives.

Your house is simply not equipped for that number of people they to get a hotel or other lodging.

Tell them "you did same as they did when they leave small portion for you at end" why are they acting like there is no food? I didn't act like that

NTA even a little bit.

In my family the same shit happens, it's normally the responsibility of the similar aged cousins to have parking lot or hotel room coolers ready for anybody that needs entertainment before the reception, and everyone else either goes home or to their hotel room to freshen up and get ready for the night.

There's two things happening especially at a Catholic wedding.  You guys getting married, and the family reunion happening in the background

And sometimes like to live in a fantasy world but once the rubber meets the road they don’t like it when someone points out their fairy tale waste of time…🤪

YTA. If you are frustrated with so many trips, say so. Dont rain on her parade. Maybe she was enjoying the trips with her best friend and kiddos so she just had fun with it. If you feel like it has to be some serious mission, and she's just enjoying her moment with you, you need to back up and not ruin this for her. Be busy, let her find a friend that has fun too.

**Hello, jinx_0929 - your post has been removed.**

#Read the following information carefully and completely. Message the mods with any questions. 

This post violates Rule 8: **No Relationship/Sex Posts.** We do not allow posts where the central conflict is about romantic relationships, dating, sex, and similar topics.

Please give our sister sub, r/AITA_Relationships a look if you'd still like to post about this. ***You do not need our permission to repost there.***

Rule 8 FAQs ||| Subreddit Rules

**Do not repost, including edited versions, without receiving explicit approval via modmail.** Reposting will lead to a ban.

Please visit r/findareddit to see if there's a more appropriate sub for your post.

Nta. I bet though that the culprit is one of those people that squat onto of the toilet seat and thats why its going everywhere.

We're they asleep? Or unresponsive? Because that's not super clear. If they were genuinely unconscious and unresponsive then call an ambulance not the police. The police do not help in these situations unfortunately and only make things worse.

This is one of those situations where I'm not sure what I would do...

I think that I would at least look up the price of a greyhound bus ticket and offer that or nothing. She would be able to think about her stupidity on the 2-4 day bus trip home.

Infantilising how exactly?

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > I got very upset and refused to believe anything that my boyfriend has said and have not been speaking to him since, he says that he has not done anything wrong and that the posts are extremely old even though my own eyes showed that they were posted and commented on within the last 9 and 10 days, I haven't contemplating any of the relationship for a myriad of reasons but this is one of them and I would like to know if I would be the asshole for throwing the towel in on this relationship.

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

I would put on my big girl panties and remember the world isn't about me.

If you can't trust yourself not to drink, that in itself is a concern

Did you ask and they said ok? If no, then YTA.

I think this heavily depends on the friendship. Me and my best friend talk about each other in a similar way - much like someone would talk about a family member. You love them regardless so there’s no real harm in being honest sometimes

NTA, she gets to learn the consequences of her actions, both with going to a stranger for a weekend and somehow thinking sex wasn't going to be expected and also in that she can't treat you like her backburner boyfriend/white knight.

NTA by far! I have a lot of intolerances to food (like chicken or egg or bell pepper or cauliflower) I just can't have a lot of food. My husband knows that when I get specific food I can have that doesn't cause my issues, he doesn't get to share it. He can have any and all food he wants, I can have a very small amount of most foods. He has never once tried to take a snack or the rest of my food because he knows it's probably one of the few outside things I can eat and enjoy, and not die for the following 12 hours. 

He would lose a hand if he took my food that doesn't upset my stomach.

NTA. Having family stay with me three months out of the year every year would be a HUGE discussion even if the house WAS set up for everyone's needs and had plenty of room. This is something you and your wife should be deciding together,r egardless of what your in-laws want, and definitely feels like one of those "two yes, one no" decisions.

YTA a three day summer camp wedding that is expense upon the already astronomical price to attend a wedding sounds like a nightmare. (I say this as a financially comfortable person who loves weddings. )

Three months every year is a huge ask especially when the setup basically takes over part of your home.

YTA....Commuter buses have very limited seating and if you are left outside looking in then you either have to wait for another 45 minutes to an hour for the next one or find another (more expensive) way home. If you want to be with your fiancee then you get out of line and wait for her to get off work and get in together. If I just had a 8-9 hour day at work and have been waiting in line for 45 minutes then I'm going to tell your fiancee to get out of line or skip you both.

The vast majority of weddings I attended in my 20s had the giant gap, and yes, it's always a huge fucking pain in the ass. Often people would just go and have lunch and start drinking. My own wedding was one of the first we went to that had zero gap and no location change and the whole thing happened in the evening, except for photos, which we did during the day. It was fantastic, no one was waiting for us, we got great photos, our bridal party joined us about two hours before the ceremony so we could take photos with them, and then we got a few family shots in during the cocktail hour.

All of our friends still talk about how it was the best wedding because the experience was designed to be fun for our guests, as well as ourselves.

Why is it his responsibility to fly her home? They’re friends not partners lol she had her parents to help her and they did. She’s just mad at him cuz she’s embarrassed, dumb, and stubborn

YTA. Check your privilege. They weren't hurting anyone

Cocktail hour happened immediately after my ceremony.

YTA. Are you saying you care more about a guy who ghosted you than your own best friend?

Are you sure that is your best friend?

Also, your alcohol intake is yours to manage and if you can't handle yourself drunk, then you should regulate yourself.

You need to get over it. He ghosted you.. so what and move on. I’m really not trying to be rude here…but if drinking is going to cause you to open your mouth and go left…you absolutely do not need a single drink. You’ll make a complete fool of yourself publicly

That’s way too long to ever be a guest at someone’s house. Maybe it’s a cultural thing but a two week stay for out of country would be my max.

NTA. Your sister sounds like a not insignificant portion of this subreddit tbh. Quick to judge and taking a specific genders side without considering anything else involved.

Your husband did more than he probably should have from a health standpoint, good on you for picking your person over your blood.

If finances allow for either/both of you/them and you cannot get around the 3 month timespan, rent a nearby place.

YTA. I’ve never heard of this. I had a cocktail hour in between church and reception, while my hubby and I were taking photos, everyone had free cocktails and a jazz band. Expecting people to just wait around or *check notes* TAKE A NAP (excuse me ladies who took the time to do their hair and make up??) feels like incredibly poor hosting

At your age you should be able to hold your shit together and be there for your friend. YTA.

NTA. Every wedding I’ve ever been to (though none Catholic) has been the same. Ceremony, wedding party goes to take pics for a few hours, reception.

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

I (F30) I've caught my boyfriend doing something like this before on Instagram, he will have his main account and then he will have a secret account that is connected to it where he will message other women and send inappropriate pictures in exchange for inappropriate pictures as well, he has also offered money in the past for "links", and this was not just to random girls on Instagram, this was to people that we knew in real life who worked in the same restaurant we did, so as you can imagine I was incredibly fed up when I went on his email and found in his trash file an email that led me to a secret Reddit account where he was looking up more inappropriate stuff and posting inappropriate things and speaking inappropriately to other people, I took a bunch of screenshots of everything because it was saying as recently as 10 days ago and 9 days ago, but then he took my phone and not only deleted all of the screenshots but also deleted the Reddit account, however he was not smart enough to delete the email that led me to all of it in the first place, so I would like to know am I overreacting here or is this a pattern of behavior that is never going to change considering I have caught him once before and he is continuing to do the same thing over and over again, I need to know if I am overreacting or if this is something I need to start to try to separate myself from because it is far from our only problem.

Additionally I'm not an avid Reddit user so I'm not sure how to attach the screenshot to this so once I post I will put it in the comments if possible but essentially the screenshot is of someone replying to a post of his on a NSFW Reddit page centralized around our town of Havasu.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

As a former bartender I used to see people do this all the time, idk

NTA. This is an extreme amount of time for any guest to visit even if they had a dedicated private space. I think a couple weeks is reasonable. If your wife wants more visitation time, perhaps she can visit them in their country.

If it weren’t for the fact that OP said in their post that he made sure she was safe and had a place to stay, I would agree.

This post also makes it come across as if this isn’t the first time her bad choices caused a burden on OP…

they were unconscious though?? is that not medical emergency

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > As said in my post, my mom said I should've asked my group leader Grace about the payment plan for dinner. I didn't, and my mom responding in frustration only made me feel bad about myself, believing her claim that I'm to blame for her anger.

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

wedding was 2-3 at the church, the cocktail hour started at the reception hall at 5:30. Its about a 20min drive

At first it was a clear NTA for me until I understood this could have caused someone who had been waiting to not catch that bus. 

When you saw that the lines were longer than usual and people were very tense, you should have stepped out of the line until your wife was there. In other situations I think it's pretty normal to have another person join you in the line, but not this one where there are limited seats.

even though they were UNCONSCIOUS on the sidewalk? that sounds like a 911 call to me

U do know that his relationship with his sister is no where near the same type of relationship as urs with him right? I'm sensing some jealousy. And its kinda weird that ur jealous of a relationship he has with his sibling

They present as feminine but you mention them growing out their facial hair in the post. Gotcha, sounds real. Either this story is entirely fabricated or you're presenting your non-binary friend in the most unflattering and borderline offensive way possible in order to make them look mean and irrational, where they identify as non-binary and grow facial hair but still want to be able to lean on their womanhood whenever they want to allege that you're being dismissive or unsupportive. Again, awesome, sounds unbiased and true.

YTA. If your friend is real, they deserve a better friend.

Hang out at bar while wearing formal wear for a wedding? No thank you.That's what cocktail hour is for. So the couple gets their picture times and the guest can relax.

NTA, most weddings have been the same format, and I find it works well, If you need to do something or drop off some kids than you have time. The only way YTA is if the wedding was in the middle of nowhere, or you didn't put the details in the invite. Your guests aren't all children and can amuse themselves for a couple of hours.

I didn't understand that either

YTA I went to a wedding with a large gap between the wedding and the reception. It sucked, and I guarantee your guests were just as annoyed and bored as I was.

Be there for your friend and don't drink.

YTA. Are they inconvenient? Sure. But nobody wants them anywhere, which is sort of understandable until you put yourself in their shoes. They have nothing and nowhere and only have each other. Often when police are called any belongings they do have are thrown away and that's if police don't escalate things. Could you not have just asked them to clear a bit of a path for others?

Visiting ones significant other is fine, but she has installed herself as a permanent resident without consulting you whose home this dwelling is. So is she paying third of the rent ? Or is she just a shameless freeloader ? Your legit roommate is responsible for the situation, but does not seem to want to fix it. He really seems to seriously believe that a third person can move in without the consent of BOTH existing occupants. 

Move, but don't tell the roommste. Just disappear and leave him with all the expenses. You were not asked – why would you tell...

According to OP they are waiting for an hour for their fiancee to arrive.  This is a little weird, but I guess they find it cute currently.

I know that. You know that. But most people in the U.S.? Don’t know that.

WTF is a BBQ stick.  I want one!  Kebab?

YTA this is one of the reasons I hate weddings. There’s no reason to drag the whole thing out for the entire day.

I think this is extremely inconsiderate to your guests who likely don't have a whole day to dedicated to your wedding. Why not take pics beforehand, then have the ceremony? I would have skipped your wedding and labled you in my mind as incredibly rude and narcissistic.

I always hated when my stbx would take a dump while I was in the shower. And it seemed like he’d wait and do it on purpose.

Let's face it, the whole thing is a money grab preying on childhood fantasies.  Unless you're in the top 5% of income, you'd be far better off with saving the money or offering it to buy a house.

YTA. Put on your big girl pants, keep it to one drink and be there for your friend. It's not all about you.

NAH, but he is right that a gap in between (especially a fairly short one) leaves guests at loose ends. Most weddings have cocktail hour for this reason.

Absolutely NTA. You're not holding the line for a family of 10, it's insane that anyone thinks you're an a-hole for this.

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > The action I’m asking to be judged on is telling my wife that I don’t want her mother and brother staying with us for 3 months every summer and that I would prefer shorter visits or alternative arrangements.

I think I might be the asshole because my BIL is disabled and has limited options, and my MIL is getting older. They want to spend time with family and escape the extreme heat where they live. By pushing back on these visits, I may be prioritizing my own comfort, privacy, and routine over family needs. My wife feels I’m focusing too much on the inconvenience to me and not enough on supporting her family, which is why I’m wondering if I’m being selfish.

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

im always present when its time to eat because iknow that one day icould move out and might never experience eating together with my family again, but there are times when im just too exhausted from work or too busy, and iend up missing mealtime

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

(19F) Usually on Sundays after church, my small group goes out to eat dinner/dessert and hang out until at least one person decides to go home. My small group leader, Grace, usually pays for the whole group, and then everyone pays her back through Venmo or any type of payment exchange app based on how much our orders cost. For me, though, I'm the only unemployed member in the group so my mom pays for me. As payment for the previous week, this recent Sunday, my mom was feeling generous and gave Grace $200 in cash to pay for everyone's dinner altogether. Dinner didn't take place at a sit-down full-service restaurant though, we went to eat at an HMart food court since there was only 4 of us which is where things got tricky. Grace decided that we'd each pay for our own food, and that she'll use the $200 to Venmo us back based on our individual orders so we all agreed. My mom even texted me that I could order my favorite dish at HMart because it would be covered by the $200, and how she doesn't usually let me have it since it's expensive compared to other dishes (it's $25.67). So, I paid for my dinner and dessert with my own money, costing $32.07 altogether. 

  
The next day, my mom got the notification on her BofA app saying that I spent $32.07 (she's my conservator so my card is under her account), and she asked what it was. Suddenly she got very angry, asking me why would I pay knowing that it's already been paid. I explained to her that Grace said to pay for our own food as she will pay us back using the given $200. But my mom kept saying things like I should've asked Grace about the payment plan, that I shouldn't have paid anything and blaming me as the reason for her frustration. She even threatened to remove my card if I paid such a price again. We're still waiting to hear back from Grace, but my mom is very much still angry. The way she's been acting lately definitely makes me feel like an a-hole. AITA?

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Since OP does not have the freedom to discipline the cousin, then protecting their son is more important.

I would agree the best option would be for the thief to get consequences. Specifically not being invited. But if that option is not within reach it seems foolish to just let their son be stolen from, or have to constantly guard the gift pile. 

But read victim blaming into that one if you like, I guess.

In some places when the ground freezes it can unfortunately be a while before burial. My dad was 2 months before the town would allow digging at the graveyard. It added a lot to my grief because I knew how much he would have hated that. He spent a lot of his fight with cancer trying to live until spring to avoid that exact outcome

I think it's one thing to think someone's racist for their own natural accent, but it's not the same when they're imitating someone else's accent. Imitating anyone's accent at work is a minefield you just don't want to dance through, no matter what you look like.

INFO: actually two hours? Because that's right in the AH window. Half hour, no problem. Hour? Maybe if you have passed hors d'oeuvres and an open bar. Two hours? GTFO...

But then 6 hours, like a ceremony ending at noon and people can head out and then return for a reception at 6 pm? Sure, no problem. The difficulty is leaving them sitting around with their thumbs up their asses for hours, too short to leave, but too long for comfort.

YTA. If it was just 30-60 minutes it’s not that crazy. If it’s like 5 hours at a different venue then people can leave. Do their own thing. Come back. But 2 hours (which will probably go over that length of time because hey it’s a wedding) creates a very weird amount of time that it’s hard to do anything about besides just stand around unless there is apps, drinks, etc.

So youre more worried about your time than spending your time, one day, for someone else. Shows your true nature and mindset. Hope you're not invited to any

YTA - it can mean others having to wait for another bus when people cut.  You both should be getting in line once you're both there.

People are confronting families, too, over it.

I wouldn't risk doing it because some people have a lot going wrong in their lives and can be dangerous.

The absence of a relationship with a half sibling is not a punishment to the child. They can grow up perfectly happy and loved without knowing their much older half siblings. The whole ‘punishing an innocent child’ bs is just your father gaslighting you to get what he wants. The *only* way it would be damaging to the child is if they make a big fuss to the kid about ‘your siblings dont want to know you’, and even then it would be 100% on them and their actions, not you.

Nta I dont have celiac. 

Nobody close to me does. But if my husband did and was this happy over a muffin because he hasn't been able to eat good food in however long, id probably ask for a bite to see for myself, but absolutely let him have it.

tbh i want them to stop asking me daily - i feel like im pretty understandable later on in the week since ik its been a bit since i wrote ab it but to be asked by multiple people on monday the literal day after i sent it is so annoying to me. technically i can drive myself to school but the best situation is to be dropped off since parking is difficult and my family can still use the car then

NTA I think you are right to enforce a single standard, because it's the only way you will get consideration. If you always save their food after you've cooked, no matter how long they wait to eat, while they deliberately don't save food for you and you have to come immediately in order to claim your share, then they have no motivation to change. The way things are now their food is guaranteed and you not eating straight away just means more food for them.

Of course at this point it's mainly symbolic -- but as you cook often and are moving out anyway, you are presumably in a strong position and can get away with it. (If you aren't and may suffer or are not sure how long it will take to move out, you may want to reconsider doing this for pragmatic reasons.)

If I were you I would do it another way -- tell them the next time they don't save you a full portion of food that is the amount you will cook for their portions next time you cook. Then do it. This way doesn't waste food and is hard to argue with if they have even the slightest sense of fairness.

So he couldn’t be bothered to show up in time, apparently did zero work and then expects you to lie on the paperwork.  absolutely not some may argue. It’s just volunteer hours, but that’s where this type of behaviour starts starts with little things that most people would consider inconsequential, but it will escalate he needs to grow up except responsibility and not expect people to just give him a pass because he demanded it.

No apologies needed. My initial comment wasn't perfectly clear and left lots of room for interpretation.

I'm happy there are good people like you out here standing up for everyone being independent individuals with autonomy.

Probably because 6 hours in total of trying to keep two kids entertained in a non child friendly environment while also having to give support and feedback to the bride sounds utterly exhausting and OP doesn’t relish the thought of another round of it.

There is nothing wrong with trying on dresses you can afford, but she could certainly be more considerate of her friend’s time and only have here there to give advice on dresses she might actually buy.

Chicks like trying stuff on they have no intention of actually buying.  It's like the act of experimenting, momentarily committing to it, and then changing their mind about it later is part of the rush.  No, I don't get it either.

Honestly, please take a moment to consider how you expect her to react to that question. All you managed to accomplish with “but I asked you multiple times, how are you only now realizing” is making her feel like an idiot and damaging your relationship. Like yes, YTA. Please think about what outcome you desire before you speak because that made no sense. That’s like Reddit speak right there—utterly pointless

Well at most it would just be 1 person got bumped from the bus.  Totally possible in an NYC commuter bus if all seats are taken.

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > I might be the asshole because (1) I chose to skip my best friend's birthday party to avoid a guy I used to hook up with, and (2) this might make me the asshole because I am prioritizing my own uncomfortable feelings over supporting my best friend on her milestone birthday, which could make her feel abandoned or unimportant to me.

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

NTA. This was a problem that should fall on daddy, not a friend. She’s just trying to kick the can of reckoning down the road as long as she can get away with it

Don't go, it ain't your wedding. Yoire celebrating their day. You can sacrifice a couple hours of one day for them

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

My MIL lives in another country and is planning to stay with us for about 3 months this summer. My BIL (10 years older), who has been wheelchair-bound since an accident 10 years ago, is also coming.

I want to be clear that I don’t dislike my BIL because of his disability. We just don’t have much in common and have never really bonded. He stopped working as well after his accident. I actually get along well with my MIL.

The issue is that our house is not wheelchair accessible. Since my BIL can’t easily get upstairs, we have to turn our main living room into his bedroom for the entire visit. That means losing our primary shared space for 3 months. No movie nights in the living room, no relaxing on the couch after work, and generally having much less privacy.

We also don’t have a downstairs shower, so whenever he visits we have to make alternative arrangements so he can shower somewhere accessible.

The last time they stayed, I found it exhausting. The house felt crowded and messy, and I really missed having my own space and routine. I haven’t lived with extended family in a long time, and I’ve realized how much I value having a quiet home.

What makes this more complicated is that before my wife and I bought our house, she and her brother weren’t particularly close. Because of that, we never expected him to visit for extended periods. Now it seems the expectation is that both my MIL and BIL will come every summer for around 3 months so they can spend time with my wife and escape the extreme heat where they live.

I understand why they want to come. My MIL is getting older, and my BIL’s disability limits his options. But if this becomes a yearly tradition, that’s a quarter of every year where we lose a significant amount of privacy and use of our own home.

I haven’t told them not to come. I’ve only told my wife that I’m uncomfortable with the length of the stay and the idea of this becoming an annual expectation.

My wife thinks I’m focusing too much on the inconvenience. I think it’s reasonable to want boundaries, even with family.

AITA?

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

YTA that is a very long weight for guests.

We did the cocktail hour when we were doing the photos right after the ceremony so guests had something to do before the reception

Ah I thought you were referring to the person who posted the comment above as OP, my bad

Yes obviously. If the lines were busy, her cutting meant the person down the line didn’t get a seat and had to wait for the next one. Even though they queued before her.

Go find somewhere to drink or eat, then go to reception. You're not in the desert.. you will find something to do on THEIR special day. It's not yours

NTA

I didn’t take you asking about her budget as you wanting to know how much her budget was, as much as simply making sure SHE knew what it was…which is perfectly practical & non-invasive. She may have been not happy about you stating the obvious. But TBH she should have at least had a ball park to start with, rather than to set herself up for heartbreak. 

I would go again with her & be supportive. It sounds like she knows where she went wrong & can hopefully find the right dress with the right tag this time. And only take the kids if you really want to this time! 😉

YTA but not because of using the language, but because you're operating like you're the centre of the universe. Why have you never told your coworker that your mother is Caribbean? Why are you annoyed with her when this isn't information you lead with? 

How hard is it to follow up the phrase with, "or whatever my mom / my family says"? Of course you looked weird. You don't feel like you should have to explain yourself... yeah because you're a full-blown USAsian who doesn't recognize that your specific cultural experience might not be automatically understood. 

Also, you're not from the Caribbean, your mom is. If you don't use a Caribbean accent / dialect on a regular daily basis, why would anyone assume that you would be half-Caribbean. Like, literally. Especially if it's not a more widely-known dialect. And **especially** because, as you and I both know, white Caribbean people are not that common.

But yeah keep making fun of your mother's foreignness for jokes with strangers (how does that excuse makes any sense if you don't even use it?), sounds like it really does something for you.

Conversations clearly havent worked.

NTA

You do the work, your entitled family is taking advantage of you and have the nerve to disrespect you and tell you to move out.

Okay, they can cook themselves.

Your family will regret once you move out.

because of where they live, they present as feminine and sometimes refer to themself as "she" or a woman

Finding a  bridal dress can be a challenge  but with that budget  she is being ridiculous.  Send her on a plane to Dubai and stay home.nta

YUP.  You knew it was going to go pear-shaped and literally had the opportunity to show her how a good guy treats her.  If it was the matter of funds, you could have ensured it was a loan and gotten her a ticket home.  That being said, it's good she called her parent and learned the lesson you wanted her to learn.  Unfortunately she learned that she can't trust you to help in a really sticky situation as well.

YTA if your in a line it’s just you, not you and anyone you want to bring along

The apology is a bit far though. It’s kinda like blaming OP for everything when it’s really not completely their fault… Everything else you said was on point.

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

My friend of like 16 years (27F) is having a bday party and I know a guy that I have a thing for is gonna be there. we hooked up last year and he ghosted me. I know I'm lame for still not being over it but I don't trust myself to not get a couple drinks in me and get in my feels while seeing him at the party especially because it's a smaller group. What would you do in my situation?

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

YTA, wait at the back of the line

Is it your wedding? No, deal with it or don't go.
Are you paying for the wedding? No, deal with it or don't go

He’s being honest. All the other comments simply understand this is a reality, whether you like it or not

Or poisoning; garlic and onion are toxic to dogs and cats, and are in a lot of human foods, for example.

damned great morals there. also if women don't want to be assaulted they should dress modestly... 
See how your "less temptation" argument becomes a big issue ?

YTA

You want the luxury option, and want your guests to pay for it for you. That’s beyond tacky, especially when you tell your guests to Venmo you for it directly in the invites?!

People might stay on site. Some might stay nearby. Some might only come for one day. “Highly encouraging” people to change their plans to help you pay for a luxury for your wedding is definitely tacky behavior.

My ex husband always insisted that I didn’t know how to ride a bike???? It’s such a weird thing to assume. Most people know how to ride a bike.

YTA

And I guess it's the case for most of the countries. Also here in Germany where Germans love waiting in lines it's something common.

She is an adult. Awesome job continuing to infantalize women!

yes, but there are times when im just too exhausted from work, so i take a quick nap, and when iwake up, there’s no food left for me,there are also times when they call me to eat, but icome down 30 minutes later and they’ve already finished everything,they don’t even ask whether ive eaten yet or not..

also my school (which again they chose) does not have a bus system and is a 20minute drive away on the highway. i dont own a bike as it is not safe to bike in my area. they are not picking me up or dropping me off. they have a nanny because she also handles errands like picking up groceries or cleaning the house.

So the fact that the two of you are in agreement about a dog is good.

I trust you already know to make sure he really really feels that way. Someone who is a dog lover might be fine living without one for a while but sooner or later they’ll want a dog. If he’s not, and can live his entire life without one? Nice!

But yeah- sorry. If they’re giving you a home, helping out with a dog now and then is a small price to pay. My personal suggestion would just be to grit your teeth and just do it, knowing when you finally move out on your own you will never have to deal with a dog again.

Nta, dont give em shit, but on that topic can I have 10k for my kid's education for life 😭

What is there to rescue? She didn’t have money for a return ticket? Why would you go somewhere without bare minimum financial stability?

NAH. You saved a spot in line for your girl. Yeah, thats technically cutting in line, and someone has the right to make angry noises about it. But it doesn’t really matter. Busses come every 20 minutes. If someone’s upset about it, just apologize and get in the back of the line. If no one’s upset, do what you normally do.

Seriously? NTA. “my wife isn’t feeling well, she was in the bathroom.”

Don't set yourself on fire to keep someone else warm. At 26 I would not be dropping money on a last minute plane ticket for a non-emergency situation.

that’s kinda messed up man. Not every homeless person is a drug addict or lazy. More people than not are homeless because someone else or life fucked them over. I talked to a lady yesterday who’s homeless because her and her grandmother, who also has some form of dementia had strokes and it’s too stressful for the grandmother to have her living there. This woman has limited mobility so she physically cannot work but is still trying to because she doesn’t want to be homeless. You think she should be in jail just because she had a stroke? Or how about the family of 5 i talked to last month whose home was destroyed in a hurricane. They should be in jail? Have some compassion man. Volunteer your time and learn why people are ACTUALLY homeless not what the news tells you.

I'm no Italophile but I'm enjoying prosecco more than champagne.

I actually read it more as OP saying "Don't forget, you DO NOT owe anyone sex in exchange for favors. But also don't forget that a lot of people think you do, this guy is likely one of them, and you need to be prepared for him to lash out when he doesn't get what he's hoping for." So specifically trying NOT to perpetuate that idea.

I don't think she'd learn the right lesson, if he had flown her home. All she'd learn is that there will always be someone to rescue her from stupid choices, so she doesn't have to take responsibility for herself. If she were a runaway teenager, then yeah, fly her home. But a grown woman who's safe for the moment? Nope.

NTA. Idk how USA busses system work. But if in my country a group or 2 people are together and I buy tickets for all then, it's okay to "cut the line" because the group is together. It's annoying but allowed.

For the few people who are saying that OP's girlfriend should have said it a different way, could any if you give an example on what she could say that would clearly communicate what her issue is that would have been accepted?

NTA. 
This is an issue that people with perceived coding, especially white presenting, have to deal with all the time. Never white enough to fully mesh because of your deep connection to a lineage locked out of that privilege, but your ethnicity isn’t written on your face so you ‘pass’.  You end up in this case constantly explaining your heritage and thus your deviation from expectation and it just gets old really really fast. 
No harm here, OP is parroting speech she’s familiar with and because of that familiarity doesn’t associate with negative stereotypes. Her work mate though, is the asshole for not just having a frank conversation with OP at the time and learning the deeper lore, choosing instead to spread gossip and a negative interpretation throughout the office.

YTA. Your wife is cutting in line.

I don't understand either, it's common practice where I live too.

I’ve always just gone to a bar

I can't believe noone here is talking about how you speak about her. YTA for that alone. If my best friend called me a "real case of thank god you're pretty" I wouldn't be talking to them anymore either.

Do you think being AFAB makes you a woman?

Are you a child? Do you have any real life experience? You clearly do not understand how the world works... FFS. Being roommates with someone does not mean you don't involve a landlord when it becomes necessary.

Ya but I bet you got to choose how many nights you spent there, what kind of room you got and actually got to see what the price of everything was not just hey Venmo me xxx and you have a room.

YTA , she is in fact ‘cutting line ‘ ( we call it queue jumping ) . lt is THE most infuriating thing and you both deserve all the angry responses you get.

I'm leaning towards YTA here, only because you never really get the chance to try on dresses that pricey. Plus, even if you can't afford them, it's nice to narrow down what you like and don't like about various dresses. I went shopping for mine wanting to look like a Disney Princess in the poofiest dress I could find... but after some experimentation with some outrageously pricey fun-dresses, realized that the mermaid silhouette was very flattering and tried to find that in my price range.

NTA. 

She had someone to call for help.  Someone that would also make her face some consequences.  

"Thank god she's pretty."  I bet she's perfectly capable of learning, she just hasn't had to taste the gift of fear so harshly.  Life is a great teacher.

Adding to this. The friend is presumably an adult person. Why can't she just fly home and then OP can console her or whatever it is she needs.

Lol no. Go in France and see how well a line is formed and respected.

yeah but my parents commute and are out of the house way before i need to be - they dont drive me to school. maybe we'll revisit the physical schedule - thank you for the tip!

Anyone saying YTA doesn't cook for their family, otherwise theyd know its heartbreaking when one child doesn't eat or have enough that youd make enough and make sure to keep some for later. Its a natural caregiver instinct, supposedly. My husband and I also have a rule to eat together but its not always possible, that doesnt mean either of us is more entitled to eat the other's portion. Even at the table eating at the same time, my husband would sneak more meatballs in my plate if he saw i put one extra for him - this is what care looks like. It's food - a primary need - you're not choosing a movie to watch or a new toy or shirt from a pile of others to say "first come first serve". I probably wouldn't have given food to the pets because that puts you on their level, and especially because family that doesn't care if you get food will never see your point if you do the same to them - they just see it in a selfish manner relating to themselves - so it's likely for nothing. I do love that you made sure the young ones were fed though, your parents are adults who can cook or order to make up for it ig. But I wouldve just moved out without saying or doing anything.

NTA. Explaining to someone with autism why you’re doing or not doing what you’re doing (in this case, why you’re not going) can be extremely helpful to them. You didn’t do anything wrong.

Yep you’re right. So they’re both AH’s but in my opinion that doesn’t mean you just leave your friend to be stuck in a potentially dangerous situation.

100%  That's the vibe I got too.  Jumping straight to and pushing the "deep, meaningful connection" would be unnecessary if he had really changed and was family focused now.  

Op is NTA.

In this case, tell him not to quit his job but start dropshipping as a side hustle and see how it goes. Once he's making money, then he can give up his job.

(Yeah making money is unlikely in this instance but the advice holds for nearly all, I want to give up my job and do x)

If you want to stir some, tell the girlfriend you were unaware she was willing to support him until the business got off the ground but now now you know he doesn't have to worry about money maybe you'll reconsider your advice.

this is a bad idea. appealing to authority whenever you have a dispute with someone you're in community with means you'll never have community. You gotta work this shit out

NTA. You don’t ask someone for a gift? You accept what they give you. If all you’re willing to give is $100 then they will need to look for more sponsors to fund their lavish ideas. 

$100 is a very generous gift for a two year old. Since it is a gift you could also back out entirely and just say this is not something you can afford right now. 

These people are assholes for this.

ESH you sound extremely childish. Your father was unwise to pick that moment to scold you but for your own sake - grow up and leave drama to the tv.

I'm not sure where you got the idea that I am refuting the clause, because I am not. You are correct on what you said, and I was just pointing out that it's easy to circumvent.

He is looking for someone to financially support his wife and new kid if he kicks the bucket.

NTA.

These responses are weird.  If the bride wants to try on crazy expensive dresses, fine, but then she should at least say they are for inspiration or do it alone.  

Dragging OP *and* her kids around is rude and inconsiderate and puts them in a weird spot.

YTA. Why not just go home and do something? Seems like an insane waste of time to wait for her to get off work and meet you to ride a bs together anyways

YTA. 

I'm from nyc originally and this would have annoyed me. I'd likely have said something too. It might not usually matter because the lines aren't usually long enough to result in people missing the bus. But if people who have been waiting longer end up not making it because of someone who came later cutting the line, then that is wrong. 

So, if lines are long because of delays or missed busses or whatever, you should change your behavior and wait until your wife is there to get in line for the bus. Simple as.

NTA sounds like your friend just isn’t real bright?

I don't understand why she didn't have cash or card to get home as her plan B, just in case. That was just as stupid as her original plan. I can understand your frustration. If you knew she had no way to get home and didn't help, then you would be TA.

It doesnt even come off as racist, it comes off as ignorant. In this situation, you are a white passing half carribbean making an accent to a black coworker. Its ignorant.

It's honestly a GOOD thing that she had to confess to her dad that she is doing these dangerous things. Maybe he can talk some sense into her.

YTA. This is completely unfair of you both. You got there early fair enough. When she turns up last minute and gets to the front of the line it is disrespectful to everyone else who got there before her. It is absolutely cutting. 

You should only join the line once she arrives. She is a grown woman, you dont need to sit together she is capable of standing or catching the next bus.

Just speaking as an older woman who has seen girls like you fall into this trap. Often girls leaving an abusive household find themselves in another abusive household and can't leave because they're financially dependent on their boyfriend. You've only known this guy 6 months, so he's still on his best behavior. You really don't know who he is yet and are probably idelizing him as your prince charming that saved you. I hope for your sake he is a good guy, but just in case, you need to build a life for yourself that will allow you to stand on your own two feet if need be. Get a full time job or start working on a degree that can get you into a well paying job that will allow you to support yourself. Keep your money separate and DO NOT get pregnant. Making yourself totally dependent on a guy at such a young age is a set up to ruin the rest of your life.

NTA - my daughter (AuADHD), my husband (neuro-boring) and I (ADHD) would love to get this question!  You did a nice thing to bring a little joy to the day and now you know this person is aggressively allergic to joy.

Yeah I actually have told family and friends not to text me while I’m at work because I’m busy and easily distracted. It hasn’t turned into an ongoing fight because they have respected that boundary.

Nope, she's still mad because they asked her to watch the dog for 7 hours. Because of her hissy fit, the parents ended up taking the dog with them.  But she absolutely loves the dog.  <rolleyes> 19 years of age isn't what it used to be.

I never knew this was a Catholic thing! My aunt married into a Catholic family and this is how they did it. Ceremony at 11am, pictures right after, and then the reception started around 4 or 5 pm, iirc.

And it would be one thing if it was just OP affected, which is still bad, but the bride wants OP to bring her kids to these appointments too? How much more work is that for OP? Carving out the time and wrangling the kids there and back and then dealing with their excitability for the rest of the day, if everything goes reasonably well. Worse if there's meltdowns or if they're coming down with or coming off of an illness. She's asking for a hell of a lot from OP and she doesn't have guardrails for anyone in the process.

YTA. Maybe his sister has better taste in music and movies

If it was one person holding and 15 had to wait for the next bus is that okay?  No.

NTA. That was so rude and inconsiderate of your partner. She could have been like “hey is it okay if I just try a bite? I’d really like to see the flavor.” But she made it a whole fight and then was disrespectful and ate it right in front of you. Knowing it would upset you.

Maybe it’s just me but I’d be there for my best friends in a heartbeat. To me it doesn’t matter if they’ve gone against my advice. I would rather know they’re safe and if something were to happen I would blame myself for not helping when I could have.

NTA.  his mother can make him a sandwich if she's keen.

What if this, what if that? They're adults who have been dating a year, they'll work it out or they won't. It's bizarre though to assume that a disabled person has managed to hide their apparently life-savingly important physical accomodations from their partner for months and also intended to keep these needs secret after moving in together. It makes more sense to assume that said disabled person is on top of his own life shit and doesn't need his sibling informing other people of his needs, which might actually have changed since OP was more involved in his recovery. 

People assume disabled people need decisions made for them, need to be protected, need someone to get out ahead of them and prepare others -- but OP's brother seems totally capable of managing his own life, he's an adult, and if he lied in a meaningful way then he can deal with the consequences. 

I don't think OP is a reliable narrator.

Why didn't they just start drinking while you were taking pictures?

Does he have a job too? You say he plans to move once he retires, kinda have to have a job to retire from...

NTA at all. Let her learn, and stop trying look put for her. Its a waste of your energy.

Yeah, a bit YTA to your guests.

Expecting people to stand around for hours with nothing to do makes you a bad host. 

If you expected people to go out and get their own “late lunch” (did you not feed your guests? Wth?), that also makes you a bad host.

It’s wrong there as well

NTA its nice that you let your younger siblings eat tho, but please dont let your pets eat your food

NTA by sticking to your word. Pa taught me a mans word was his bond and a hand shake sealed the deal.

I think this is a “read the room” type of situation. 

On a normal day it might be okay to hold a spot in line (I’m not sure I agree, but I can see how this would be okay/common).

It was not a normal day. YTA

When buses are packed and people are waiting saving spots for adults usually rubs folks the wrong way.

Because that would be too logical

I'm guessing they want to sit together, and getting on later means they may not be able to.

If that is the case, though, they should just wait for the next one.

Weddings usually have a cocktail hour or something similar for guests while the wedding party takes pictures. It feels kind of rude to just leave your guests to figure out what to do for a couple hours when they’re already dressed up and ready for the reception. This is normal at Catholic weddings though, so I guess it was expected by your friends and family. NTA as long as your guests knew there would be a gap. I still think it makes you a bad host... Just not an ah.

Gonna have to go with a light YTA. I do get where you’re coming from. At the same time, I’m Indian and have many white family members. I would feel pretty uncomfortable if one of them started imitating an Indian accent, and I would imagine an onlooker would feel even more uncomfortable seeing that without the added context of knowing we’re related. Additionally, there is the larger societal context of you being white passing. You are not treated the same in society as those who have darker skin, and honestly the fact that you are so unable to see where you might have been out of line in this situation is proof of that privilege.

nta I'm so tired of giving advice to people who won't listen. they have to learn for themselves how their decisions are stupid after a point.

Yes, 98% of the people there are toughing it out to drink. Open the bar.

I agree with everything but this

Her father should know

She is a 26-year-old grown ass woman. She is not a minor but an adult.

Do you go to eat immediately when called and it’s already gone? Or??

How exactly are those things fundamentally different as it relates to everyone else in the line?

Don't think it's as bad as some of these comments, but still would give a soft YTA, assuming no one missed the bus. While it's understandable and I think most people would try the same thing, it's still not fair to the people behind you, and even your post comes off as if that concept isn't registering.

Clearly there is a conversation occurring that you are not included in.  I would let fathers day pass and then have a direct conversation with him.  In the meantime, go with your friends who actually want to spend the time with you.

NTA. She doesn't learn lessons easily, so best to let her deal with her dad. Also, when making fun of someone's intelligence, you should be more careful. "Thank God you're (not your) pretty."

YTA. She literally is cutting line though...

NTA - Your intent was not to  “teach her a lesson”, but "Let her learn a lesson".

You are not the only one who thinks this is a bonkers take.

I’m trying to imagine a bunch of people, all dolled up for a wedding, heading out to the nearest McDonalds or something to kill time and apparently “get a late lunch” (did OP not even feed his guests?). And not all guests are going to live nearby enough for going home and taking a nap to be an option.

Because op is a child and that's the basic contract that parents enter into when they have a kid. I fear you're talking about the bare minimum

OK, but in a legal sense, you're wrong. lol. State law supercedes a contract, sure, but every single lease I've ever signed has included a clause about guests and that they cannot stay in the unit for longer than a very clearly specified amount of time. If that clause is broken, you (and the other person) can be evicted. Legally. 

I suggest you read more leases.

YTA, as someone who does Catholic weddings this is not the norm.  Most of the Saturday weddings I've done have been at 2:00pm with the cocktail hour (for the guests) starting at either 3:30 or 4.  The reception would then start at 4:30 or 5.  Friday weddings typically follow the same pattern but often start later.

YTA

Wait for your wife to get there, and then both of you get at the back of the line together. 

Did you both somehow skip elementary school and all other aspects of growing up where you had to learn how to wait in lines?

OPs girlfriend has their own issues with food and still made compromises in their life to be gluten free, I'd argue that shows they're generally not just a selfish person. Clearly OP and their GF were both triggered in different ways by this and they both reacted poorly.

hard NTA... you went WAY out of your way to warn her all the way up to the 11th hour, and she ignored it. Next, she called you to bail her out because I'm sure her father has ALSO warned her about these types of things over and over and over again, and she knew he had enough.

You made sure she was safe and then set her up to learn an expensive lesson; fair is fair. if you had paid for that flight back, she would have rationalized the whole thing as running into one dishonest dude, and she would have been back at it again next week.

No problem! I’m glad i could enlighten you! To find coalitions in your area you can google for them or you can check on the HUD website. HUD is the federal agency coalitions report to and there should be a list of them in your state (assuming you’re in America lol)

If it's the USA she's underage as well. All depends on the country. I think some European countries 16 can drink at home

My daughters are 10 and 8 years old. I mentioned them because after sitting through dress appointments for a couple of hours, they naturally start getting restless. They're surrounded by beautiful wedding dresses and sometimes want to touch things or wander around, so I have to keep an eye on them and make sure they don't accidentally damage anything. I also have other children at home who need childcare while I'm attending these appointments, so each visit requires planning and arranging for someone else to watch them. That's why the multiple appointments have been a significant time commitment for me.

NTA. This is a non problem. Don’t engage in any more conversations about it. And don’t lend it to her either.

My original comment is just a PSA about legality, not about mortality or specific to the original post.

Idk man, that's what OP said.

Nothing wrong with trying on a dress that you can't afford to see what it looks like and then look for something similar that is in your price range.

NAH because I can see both points of view.  If the lines typically aren’t that bad and everyone who is waiting is able to get onto the bus they want, then (personally) I see no issues with your fiancée joining you in line.  HOWEVER, you said so yourself that on this particular night the lines were worse than usual and people were already upset. Under those conditions, it’s highly likely that people are going to have to wait for later buses and it’s understandable for them to get upset at someone cutting to near the head of the line AFTER they’ve been having to wait awhile for that particular bus.  Knowing how bad the lines were, the proper thing for you to do that particular night would have been to wait for your fiancée to arrive and then you both join a line together.

lol by this logic everything we do is ok and nothing makes us TA because eventually it will be in the past

I don’t get your point here, but I’ll try to respond. Yeah, they’re all gluten free but OP, for the first time in years, had a muffin that they actually enjoyed eating, and that he won’t be able to get again easily. Due to this, OP asks their partner if instead of each getting a muffin, they can have both muffins because they know that their partner has other baked goods from their parents that they could also eat. So yes, they are all safe, they are all available to share, and OP is just requesting that they get all of one of the treats because they are genuinely enjoying it.

Aw, c'mon now. A drive thru Mickey Ds and a nap in the park...or wherever.

Good for you. You have to put your future and your new family first. She can wait for that money

INFO: is there no way for you to reserve the luxe cabins, but in such a way that the guests pay the fee directly? That’s how I’ve always seen it, and shouldn’t surprise anyone. (and your note is fine as it is, except for the bit about how to reserve.)

If you really have to pay the whole thing first, I really think there’s gotta be a way to phrase it, because the end result is the same. I’m stuck on the ideal wording though. NTA

NTA and normal here but I'm living outside of the US.

NTA at all, I’ve also only been to Catholic weddings so I always thought this was the norm you always find something to do, even if you don’t live nearby. To me cocktail hours is for the bride and groom to great guests. Are there really weddings where people go straight to the reception after the wedding? I’ve literally never heard of that or experienced it.

I was going to post this also.  My favorite quote!!

I think that we should stop sugarcoating how we feel to our friends. I feel like a lot of the issues around weddings would be solved if people actually understood people are people not props. 

Opie is rightfully annoyed with the friend because the friend is doing selfish behavior. They are dragging someone around to play dress up with and having no consideration for the life of other people. Brides need to learn that just because they're getting married it doesn't mean that they are the center of attention for however long it takes to get married.

NTA. If you gave her advice and very good advice at that and she choose to ignore it thats on her. Frankly her behaviour goes beyond stupidity, you can not be that ignorant of a mans intention for flying you out to spend the weekend with him.

I would say this should teach her a lesson but i dont think it will.

everyone comes to the reception for cocktail hour around 5:30

I don’t think that OP realizes that cocktail hour is often *separate* from the reception, usually to give the guests something to do while wedding photos are taken.

Saying that “people use that time to get a late lunch or take a nap” just sounds like an excuse. Did OP not feed their guests at their wedding? Were people supposed to run out and scrounge for food then come back for the reception? What about people who didn’t live nearby and couldn’t just go “take a nap” to kill time?

YTA, pretty cut and dry.

Telling everyone the details except us

And in this story, the man giving good advice and prudent warnings is also not trusted by a woman. So where do you go from there?

YTA - it sounds like the early stages of planning and getting to be the bride and try on a ridiculous number of dresses is all part if the experience. It's not a chore or task to be ticked off. 

Chill out and have fun.

NTA I’d be more angry that she’s wasting your time trying on dresses she can’t afford.

Weird, happed today. Wife is in a wheelchair guy had his stuff spread out all over the sidewalk. I tried to push her around it all but bumped a few items with the wheel. He waited until we left the store to yell at me about it. I told him the side"walk" is for walking not garbage storage and if he wanted to have further words about it he could come on over once I finished getting the chair loaded back into our van. He decided maybe it wasn't worth it in the end.

Depending on location, three laid out on tbe ground warrant a call to 911. You don't know why they are, but an OD on opioids leaves you looking like you're asleep. 

You called it in. They'll have triaged it into everything else, but a 911 won't just bring police but ambulance if narcan has to be used.

YTA.

Cutting in line wind seats are assigned and you both have tickets... Not an issue. 

When seats are not assigned and you risk not getting onto your bus because somebody let their partner cut, inconsiderate and makes you the asshole.

NTA. Bride forgot the most important thing in shopping "Can I pay for it?". Telling her she should have kept that in mind in just common sense.

When I was a kid a rule in the house was that you come to the table when it’s time to eat. If you don’t, tough luck. Meals were eaten as a family, especially supper. Maybe I’m just getting old, but not wanting to be present for meals is your own doing. You’re choosing to do that, just as you chose to feed the food to pets. 

YTA

This is the tackiest thing I’ve ever heard.  Three nights and 2 days?  Even if you paid for the accommodations that’s a ridiculous ask.  If anyone has to travel that’s 5 days.  Grow up and realize that you’re not the center of other people’s lives

Okay noted! I definitely am clueless and had no idea organizations like that existed, thanks for your insight :)

INFO: Do you seriously expect me to believe that your friend is non-binary but repeatedly refers to themselves as a woman and frequently asks you, a woman, not to speak over women or police women's bodies (even though they're not one)?

Then oh well, the two of them can work that out. 

But your scenario is unlilely. The brother already lives independently; surely his long-term BF has spent the night with him before, they've gone out and about together, the BF has a general idea of what the brother can and cannot do on a daily basis. What imperative accomodations could the brother realistically have hidden from his BF for the last year that would cause a breakup level event when they became apparent, or even a meaningful break of trust. OP won't tell us. So maybe they shouldn't meddle.

I don’t know what you’re talking about, because every Catholic wedding I’ve attended for the past forty years have gone exactly as OP described it. Wedding, a couple hour break, wedding. It has to happen that way because Catholic weddings have to be done by 2 or 3 so the church could be prepared for confession and vigil masses. You’re not going to have the reception immediately following, because 3:30 would be a weird time to start a reception. 

The invitation always had the wedding time on it as well as the reception time, so guests could decide how they wanted to plan their day. Most  people would meet at a bar nearby  to hang out before the reception, some went home to drop their kids with a babysitter, others found something else to do in the interim. Some people decided to skip the wedding and just go to the reception. And if there happened to be out of town guests, the local guests would welcome them into whatever they were doing. 

But no, if a couple has a wedding that ends by 2 PM and a reception that starts around 5:30-6 PM, they are *not* obligated to plan what their guests should do in the interim. And none of us complained because we weren’t toddlers who needed someone to occupy our time for us. We figured it out. And honestly, hanging out at the bar was my favorite part of the wedding day. We got to catch up and gossip without all the noise of reception activities and music.

My bad, you’re right.

You are quite right. Even people who thought it might be fun will have second thoughts as the reality gets closer.

Yeah, fuck grandma who can't move well or stay alert and active for long periods of time, that TikTok addicted maniac. 

I'm all for the wedding being the bride and groom's affair, but if you really don't want to factor in the comfort of your guests at all - elope.

nta, your tablet is your private property and nobody has the right to demand it, the woman should have brought something of her own to entertain her son and keep him occupied, besides he could have broken it

NTA. You do not need to provide all day entertainment for people. Anyone saying otherwise is entitled.

Funny how it’s selfish when you finally get to eat your own cooking.

Why would you assume they're in CA? Nothing has indicated as much. and if OP is also on the lease, they can decide to break the lease and end their tenancy. They can also refuse to sign a new lease with the girlfriend. She isn't on the lease, though, so this is all a moot point. She needs to be respectful of the place, and roommate needs to stay in his lane. It's not solely his apartment. She has no right to be there when roommate isn't there.

And a bit of "Shady Pines, Ma!"

Would it have been learned? And what lesson? That she can ignore all advice and do whatever she wants, and if anything bad happens someone will come to her rescue? 

That doesn’t seem like a very good lesson to teach someone, but it’s the lesson that is taught if OP buys her that plane ticket.

NTA, you spoke directly and were easy to understand,  it's a pity no one snapped back at grandmother because while there was no way for you to know the child was autistic the same goes for her, how would she know YOU weren't autistic,  if she behaves like her little precious is the only person to be treated with kid gloves then eventually she's going to find herself in a situation where she is the bad guy she's trying to berate!

NAH. What you’re doing is not OK. But the way she’s getting her message across isn’t either. You need to try harder to clean up after yourself and she needs to try harder to communicate better. It’s not that difficult to say, honey I really don’t appreciate it when you leave your trash on the floor. But instead, she’s continuing to do it in a way that’s offensive to you and obviously not helpful. But I don’t think either of you are assholes. I think the two of you should just meet in the middle.

A worthwhile point to bring up with him  if he ever gets a bit much to deal with.

YTA.  Your perspective only applies to you.  Reality can bite anybody in the butt and it sounds like that's what happened. Your job was to keep your mouth shut.  Your comment was unnecessary and unhelpful.

Formal wear, and most guests were local, the ones out of town were family, who I believe just hung out with other family members

YTA you are too self righteous for my stomach

NTA: You have sat through six hours of watching her try on dresses. To find out that time was essentially wasted would be frustrating.

I bet *she* didn't have a budget. But her fiancé did after she told him the price of the dress she chose.

NTA. Sister needs to stop jumping to conclusions. You only matched her energy.

ESH and get a grip you’re fighting over stealing a muffin. Your mom said it was to share, not just for you. You started this whole fight and escalated it so you’re definitely the bigger AH here but you’re both incredibly immature and should both independently reflect on your behavior and recognize you guys are not good together. She has altered her whole diet to make sure you don’t get sick and you’re so selfish that you can’t let her have the muffin that was intended for her. It’s actually says a lot about you that your mom had to specify it’s meant to be shared because she knew you wouldn’t share otherwise. It was totally fine to ask her if she’d be willing to give you the other muffin but once she said no that should have been the end since it wasn’t yours to begin with. You then proceed to cry and dump your gf over a muffin that wasn’t even yours to begin with. You do sound incredibly manipulative. You just ended a relationship over a muffin that you didn’t even want to end.

She’s obviously is the AH too because she threw the money in your face.

You’re both incredibly immature with the way you guys fight. Obviously the nicer thing to do was let you have the muffin but it was hers and she didn’t have to and that’s ok too. Hopefully she takes you at face value and follows through with the breakup. Threatening a break up over petty arguments is the same as when people throw around the word divorce. It’s toxic and immature. She needs to move on and find somebody less selfish.

At the end of the day OP has called a wellness check on those fellas. The fact that they're being relocated is secondary, what matters is that someone checks on them as three were unconscious.

I understand that some posters here feel police can be rough and unfair on homeless folks, but them ask yourself why you want to be an asshole yourself, harass everyone by spreading your shit in the sidewalk, pass out from the piss and then expect to be treated nicely. Yea, no.

NTA, obviously. I don't cordone getting on the piss and passing out on a sidewalk but OP made sure they were safe and this is what matters.

Fuck off, it’s literally right there in 42 U.S.C. § 3604(b), which provides that the FHA prohibits “**discriminat[ion] against any person in the terms, conditions, or privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or facilities in connection therewith,** because of race, color, religion, **sex**, familial status, or national origin.” 

Sexual harassment is a recognized form of sex discrimination under both Title VII and Title VIII, which is the FHA.

NYC commuter stress turns every bus line into a moral courtroom.

NTA and she's stupid

Yeah. That’s paused. That two hour gap for photos where guests are supposed to fuck off to wherever is a pause.

It is a societal fail on your part. You should have gone to the back of the line with her instead of making the people who had already waited wait longer to accommodate her. YTA.

OP is so far up his own ass that I don’t think the social norm is understood at all

You know there's other ways governments can provide people with housing and health care, right?

Depending on the state law, but assuming they are in California and the roommate is also on the lease, he has to legal right to request the landlord to have the gf added to the lease, which barring exceptional circumstances, the landlord has to accept within some amount of time.

The idea sounds pretty fun tbh, but I loved my big family camp outs when I was a kid. If that’s what the bride and groom want then they should do it. If you can’t make it then just rsvp no, an invitation is not an obligation for you to go.

Yeah but that could be 100% different from OPs situation. You have zero clue.

NTA You are human, and even if it was not said in the best way, I think it was something leaking out that has to be addressed at some point. I think you need to sit down and bring up how you can't center her feelings all the time and that you have limits yourself. 

There are going to be times when it's too much if you are expected to give without ever being able to decompress, even if you can't be in the position of being cared for or comforted, and have to look after yourself.

It sounds to me like you are in a very one-sided dynamic. Her emotions are centered, with you suffering along with her or comforting her. There is no space for her to pay attention to you or for your condition to be factored in and allowances made. You are the carer and she is the one being cared for. You have to be on duty.

I said, way harsher than I meant to, “I can’t keep fixing everything every single time.”

She got really quiet and just said, “okay… so I’m too much now?”

You didn't express yourself in the best way, obviously, but I do notice that her immediate response is self-centered rather than trying to understand where you are coming from. Instead of worrying about how she can make things easier for you, it sounds like she's worried if you will be able to continue just taking her behavior in your role as it is now.

She may want to be able to treat you like a bottomless resource and place of comfort and support, but you are human too. If there is no reciprocity then you have to bear a doubled burden -- that of supporting her *and* managing your own mental/emotional/physical stresses in ways that don't affect her when you crack.

That's too much.

I think she at the very least needs to realize that you can't be operating at 100% and centered on her needs all the time without any reciprocity, allowances, or consideration.

And really, I don't think you should have to be taken to task for not expressing yourself in the best possible, most considerate way to her when the reason you are at your breaking point is because you have been solely focusing on her needs even as your own go unmet. 

If there is no flexibility on her side, no allowance made for your flawed humanity, then there isn't even a starting point for your relationship to find a healthier dynamic. You need to give more time and attention to your own internal needs before reaching breaking point too. Even if you can't get support from her, you can try to give yourself the care and decompression time you need.

I’m sorry but wtf is iPhone face

Yes, the assortment of baked goods is for them to share. OP can still make a reasonable request to have all of one of the types.

NTA  They are mad because you treated them the same way they have treated you.  Too late no food for you.  Good luck, I hope you can move out soon.

Then start demanding respectful treatment and disengage when you don’t get it.  And don’t ever accept “oh it’s just a joke!” or “you are being too sensitive!” as a comeback.

NTA for caring about your brother and wanting to make sure his partner can care for him and help him with things he can't do. I can understand caring about your family and wanting the best for them.

YTA though for spilling his disability to his partner and telling him things your brother wasn't ready to share yet. Clearly the bf knew your brother had a disability because he could see it so he had some knowledge of it. You should have left it at that but you didn't. You told him more things without thinking how it could make your brother feel. I myself have disabilities and yes I was up front about them with my husband but I wasn't always like that. I kept things hidden from ex's because I didn't want to be treated differently or seen as a burden for things I couldn't do. I resented my disabilities because I wanted to be normal. I'm sure your brother has these same feelings, possibly. He could feel like less of a person because he needs help in certain areas and he could hate himself because he can't do what he wants to do. You should have kept your mouth shut about your brothers disability and let him open up to his bf in his own time because he needs to work through the emotions he feels from his disability. It doesn't happen over night just like that. Did you stop and think maybe he was scared to open up about it because he didn't want to lose his bf? Did you ever stop and ask your brother "hey do you want to tell your bf now about the disability, as a just in case something happens so he can help you properly" or "hey bro if you're scared to tell your bf about your disability do you want me here with you as support so you can tell him?" No you didn't. Instead you took that from him and you broke his trust. Once trust is broken it is very hard to get that back. So I don't blame your brother one bit for being angry at you and cussing you out. 

If you still don't see what you did wrong here then let's put it into simple terms. Let's say one day something happens and you had to sign hipaa forms saying Dr can only talk to blah blah blah about your health. Now let's say someone calls but isn't a person you gave consent to tell but the Dr tells them about your health anyway. (So you can understand the humiliation you caused your brother for what you did) So the Dr tells that person that you have STD and that you have to be on meds to help clear it up. You also have to clean that area blah blah blah times a day with blah blah blah. Then that person who now knows this then tells your partner who you haven't told yet because you were embarrassed and or scared to say you have one. Only then would you understand the pain and humiliation you caused your brother who trusted you. The way that hypothetical Dr would make you feel and the way you would lose trust in them is how your brother feel. Only difference is in your brothers case you were the "(not so hypothetical) Dr" that broke his trust. I hope you learn from this. If I were you I would grovel at your brothers feet for his forgiveness and for breaking his trust/hurting his feelings. It wasn't your disability to share it was his. Now to your brother you have probably made him look at you in a new light. That new light being you see your brother only for his disability and not as someone who can do things themselves independently. So he needs help sometimes. So he can't do it the normal way but it doesn't mean he can't do it. He just hasn't found a way to do it with his disability yet but he is still just as much a person with emotions like the rest of us. Instead of seeing your brother for what he can't do try looking at what he can do since you yourself have said he can live independently.

It also extends the wedding time. I don't care how much I love the bride and groom, it cannot be a like 6+ hour affair unless you're doing something extra. Especially if you're going to leave everyone to their own devices for 2 hours and expect them to come back. 

I've also been a bride and a bridesmaid and 2 full hours for photos is *a lot.*

I told you so” hits different when someone is actually stuck in another city.

While I agree with your general statement, in this day and age especially, it is the “unspoken bargain” of a random person flying you somewhere to “hang out”.

No, she nor any woman SHOULD be expected to do that…but, we are all adult enough to understand the expectations of “hookup culture” and online dating, etc…fair or not.

She also has the rest of the assorted bake goods (that are also gluten free by the way) to choose from. She could have had all of one of the other kinds if she wanted to be “fair”.

She needs adults to take responsibility and need an actual therapist as soon as possible. 

I would rather my sister vape until she gets help than cut her body. Yes, both are harmful but both are a substitute for a real support system in action and taking away someone's coping mechanism before they can access actual care is just going to result in her harming herself in a different way.

i dont think YTA

but for all the guests stuck waiting around, you had a boring wedding

for mine, straight after ceremony we did some group photos and then went off for just our photos, when we are having photos done, drinks and Hors d'oeuvres(had to google that spelling) are coming out then and we had a few lawn games that could be played, giant Jenga, lawn bowls and chess i think...I didnt actually get to play the games, it was what our venue had that they could bring out so my memory is a bit fuzzy on exactly what was available to them

NTA
Play stupid games, win stupid prizes.
Some lessons need to be learned the hard way. Hopefully your friend learns from this experience.

Why can’t you just wait for her, and then join the back of the line together? Just because others do it, doesn’t make it right. 

YTA

if the parents brought all the treats to share, then they were ALL gluten free. the muffins arent specially gluten free apart from the other snacks. it wouldnt have been safe for OP to eat them if the other snacks DID have gluten because it would contaminate the muffins.

Do you pay off the mortgage of your gambler friend who bet away his house payment? He is your friend after all. You wouldn’t want to abandon them.

If you saving her a spot meant others who had been waiting missed a spot on the bus, YTA.

NTA but if this were to happen again consider looking into if your area has a homeless coalition or any organizations with an outreach team. Government and law enforcement agencies are becoming increasingly aggressive with homeless folks. I work for a homeless coalition and we specifically have people whose entire job is to meet these people where they are get them treatment if needed and wanted and get them housed. We lightly partner with law enforcement but in certain instances refuse to tell them where homeless camps are because they just arrest them to rack up trespassing charges and release them into being homeless again. What you did isn’t necessarily wrong but theres a better and more humane way to go about it

NAH Technically it might be cutting the line, but I would call it an acceptable practice for one person to hold a spot for their partner. Why have both people standing for a long time when they can switch off, use the bathroom, etc. BUT I also get why people would be upset at someone walking to the front of the line when they had been waiting. Especially since it was a bad day with the lines.

Her budget is her business, but also, you can just say you don't want to go.

NAH

Not enough info

Depends on your guest list and how formal you wanted people to dress.

Did you have all guests waiting for 2 hours in formal tuxes/cocktail or was business casual jeans and a button down/nice top/dress?

Was everyone invited local and could go home in 10-15 minutes and chill for 2 hours and then travel 10-15 minutes to the reception location, or did people have to back to a hotel and just hangout for 2 hours?

YTA. You’re living there for free so of course you’re a free dog sitter. And no it does not matter that they are the ones who are insisting you do not pay rent. You still chose to live in a household with a family that is not your own rent free. That typically comes with the obligation that you will contribute in some other way to the household. One of those ways is helping to take care of any pets that also reside in the home. If you dont like this then move out.

I remember that time Santa Claus said to me, “I won’t try anything, I swear.”

NTA

I would advise due to health and safety reasons to report the company to a health standards agency. Your company will take it seriously then, because they can be fined a large amount. Although Im in the UK, not sure on your location.  Your health is at risk. Poo particles are real and will float in the air for hours!. Its why we get taught to cover our toothbrushes and close the toilet lid before flushing.

If none of that is available, then if you know who it is, take photos of them entering the bathroom and then the state they leave it in. If HR are not willing to prioritise everyone's health, take the company to court.

Or

You can stage a walk out citing no available toilets. By law, toilets must be available for use at all times during working hours. Basic requirement. Again i'm going off UK law.

While I have already replied to the main question elsewhere, I do feel compelled to disagree here. 

I watched a family member get a horrific cut on the back his head (and was only spared it happening to his face due to a lucky last second roll) due to a rickety, cheap backyard swingset. I would never recommend to OP, their friend, or anyone to get a cheap one. Kids can play rough and you want one that will withstand that. This is definitely a purchase that you want to spend enough money on to get a quality, stable, safe product. 

Nor should OP suggest to their friend they should get a cheaper one to solve the problem at hand. Friend should get the one they think is right for their family, accept OP's $100, and pay the rest themselves.

Info: are you new to the concepts of lines?

I’ve never even heard of a summer camp wedding before. Probably because I don’t associate with clowns.

Just stop going. You don't belong there. Keep your rain to yourself. YTA

NTA for not feeding you family but Y T A for feeding it to your pets. You are going to end up giving them pancreatitis.

clearly my oversight as a man. i don't know their landlord, what do i care if they're called creepy? i've got nothing to do with him. but yes, i see your perspective and think it's very accurate

More info needed: did your wife cutting mean that other people didn't make the bus? If so YTA.

The parents brought back an assortment of baked goods - she can eat all of one of the other kinds of baked goods.

I taught for 30 years and I have seen this happen multiple times. I too would refuse to sign for the students who left or just stood around while everyone else was working. You just taught that young man that he can’t coast and he will be held accountable. The mom should be ashamed of herself. She knew what was up and thought she could bully you into signing. I would suggest you call the school and let them know to check his sheet for the hours submitted. I bet dollars to donuts they changed the 1 to a 4!  Students would do this all the time!!!!!!!!

ESH 

Your family could have been saving you a plate when they cook.

You could have eaten with them. 

You could have made yourself a plate and saved it for later.

They could have cooked for themselves.

YTA. How immature could you have been? I get you were hurt at the time, but a better solution would have been telling him how you felt in that moment of time. 

But also, you never dated, and if you had, she’s allowed to like other people, even if they were your friend.

Same here. My non-vegan partner is happy to share good vegan food together. But he always leaves any second helpings, leftovers, or hard to find treats to me. If it's something tempting and chocolatey, he might ask to taste a bite. But he knows my stuff is more expensive, and harder to come by. And that vegans usually suffer a food deficit at conferences and fast food places and family gatherings. So sometimes 1:1 equity requires a broader perspective on even-ing out the universe, not just the two of us. NTA.

That is fine. If she was a complete stranger and you waved her forward because she was cute, then that would be a problem.

NTA imo. They shouldn’t dish it out if they can’t take it, pun intended.

Wedding photos are the worst, never looked at them again.

We definitely want to go back when given the chance!

What good would that do? The conversation was already had, and she ignored it.

I was thinking the same thing

YTA. Jeez, 2 hours!  You expected your guests to feed themselves lunch and have a nap?? wtf

Only the “highly encourage” part is tacky. If you just offer the option, it’s not much different than having a hotel block which lots of people do.

Yes but it's harder to prioritize the request without all the proper information

Glad you found it, it’s kind of a hidden gem in StL. 💜

NTA - Being homeless should be illegal, and they should be in jail.

YTA. She didn’t ask for financial opinions. If she wants to spend the money on her own wedding, then so be it.

YTA

I'm not sure why you don't know this already.

She's a dreamer who just got a reality check (pun intended). You're a realist

I mean isn’t that what a summer camp wedding js? Just with camping instead of staying in a hotel?

A dramatic situation she found herself in?

Or do you mean the exact situation OP warned her about multiple times, which she deliberately ignored, and put herself into?

Of this happens ten more times, on the tenth time is OP still obligated to buy her a plane ticket? After the seventh time? What’s the number of times such that OP, after being deliberately ignored, is no longer obligated to buy plane tickets for her?

When your bad choices cause you to become a burden on those around you, you’re the AH.  

“Especially being a female…” - That argument went out the window as soon as she flew to that “new place” to meet a random dude from the internet.

He’s definitely not the AH for refusing to be used when things didn’t work out.

NTA, holy *SHIT* that was such an asshole move of her. The protocol should be if someone has food restrictions they get first pick of the food that adheres to their restrictions. My MIL is dairy free and is always so kind to offer her dairy free treats but I always turn her down if its the last one because I can just eat something that has dairy, she can't and I would rather she have something she can for sure eat than have nothing.

Look, 2 hours is too short to actually do anything and too long to just hangout.  Our (Catholic) wedding we had about an hour for photos and travel, but there was access to sit and get a drink after about 30 minutes.  With a 4 hour gap you can actually do something.  My brother just did this nonsense with his wedding so we had to go find a coffee shop to sit in for an hour in our wedding clothes.

ESH. The comment was unnecessary and only served to make things worse. She should’ve figured out a set budget before yes, but you (and your kids) don’t have to agree to go to all these appointments for her to try them on. Just tell her you are busy the next few times and she’ll get the message.

This wasn’t that unusual when a lot of my friends got married in the ‘80’s and ‘90’s, especially for Catholic weddings.  Sometimes a group would go to a bar, sometimes people would hang out at a friend’s house, sometimes DH and I would go someplace for an appetizer and drink.  No one thought anything of it.

I think the problem is the muffins were among an assortment of baked goods. OP wasn’t asking that their partner eat none of the baked goods, just that OP gets both muffins. So sure, maybe they could have let their partner try a bite but based on the over-reaction to a simple request that OP get one type of baked good to themselves, I don’t think that would have gone well either

The muffin she ate was given to her by OP's parents.  OP was being possessive and insecure about food that wasn't hers

What kind of comment is this???

Eh, it wasn't a helpful thing to say, y'know? 

 One wedding dress excursion is about my limit, and obviously you don't need to keep going endlessly, but I would go once more just so it doesn't end on a sour note. Maybe go one more time later when she has a short list. 

Let your daughters decide for themselves.

NAH Not being able to access the main bathroom for a long time is a reasonable issue to bring up. I assume you can’t easily brush your teeth and get ready easily while he’s painting the toilet. But being told you aren’t allowed to use your own bathroom would be upsetting. It sounds like he needs to go see a doctor and also adjust his diet. 

Per your update, communication for the win 👍👍👍

This is maybe a cultural thing. I went to my first Catholic wedding this year and was annoyed about the three hour gap, but the bride and groom had at least outlined several suggestions for things to do - museums, coffee shops, breweries, etc. I would say that most American weddings do not have this gap, as it's traditional for cocktail hour to happen at the same time as wedding party photography. I think this makes for a better guest experience.

NTA

Point him at the openings and encourage him to apply. Especially if youre a PEng

Your comment has been removed because it violates rule 1: Be Civil. Further incidents may result in a ban.


"How does my comment break Rule 1?"

**Message the mods if you have any questions or concerns.**

What weddings are you going to that a 2 hour gap between the ceremony and cocktail hour is short?

She was safe with daddy's credit card, not stranded

NAH. She’s not the first person to get caught up in the idea of “the perfect dress, no matter what,” only to realize later that, no really, she can’t actually spend that much. Honestly, given what I’ve seen, good job on her for eventually coming back to reality.

I know it feels like a waste of time, but maybe it means she’s also narrowed her search now, to dresses that ha e some of those same design elements.

NTA

Hard disagree because as soon as you bail someone out who refuses to listen and insists on seeing for themselves they think it’s all okay.

She wanted to fuck around and so she found out.

Maybe re-evaluate your life choices if baked goods are worth THAT much to you? You flip out on someone wanting to share something that was specifically given to the person TO SHARE?? Both you and OP and anyone who is "nta I have celiac too" are actually beyond entitled.

YTA if your wedding was in the middle of nowhere and guest had to , in their dressed up clothes, find something to do for three or four hours . Like sit in their car , waiting, or sit in the only pub within miles, drinking . Ask me how l know .

as someone with celiac in a committed relationship, he knows not to ask to eat my gluten-free food when gluten options are readily available. celiac sucks, and it’s totally reasonable to not want to share food that is specifically yours, especially when that sharing can’t be reciprocated.
i’m so territorial over food lol.

YES! That was it! Yeah, my dad was super on guard when we were going in and coming out lol! We were at the Saint Louis Aquarium on the Ferris wheel and could see the City Museum’s ferris wheel on the building and knew we had to go check it out lol!

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > (1) I held a spot in a line for a busy bus for my fiancée
(2) Other commuters protested

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

So they are treating you as if you were their older child, same as your bf. The parents have the right to ask for occasional dog watching. You could refuse. Maybe talk to your bf about how uncomfortable you would be left all alone as the reluctant dog sitter. Ask him to be the dog sitter, with your help.

Do NOT "call them out" unless you want to end up out. It would be very disrespectful.

This. OP seems very bitter and proud of it.

Yes- the cocktail hour exists to give guest something to do while pictures are being taken. The bride and groom shouldn’t be there…

Race was indeed relevant. The grandmother made a specific comment about “the entitlement of white people”. She went there, not OP.

Yeah, I've used a similar situation (ignored advice, bad outcome) as a chance to say essentially, "I'll help you this one last time because you're in a dangerous situation, but this needs to be your wake-up call that you can't do things like this again. If this isn't a wake-up call for you, then I can't help you in the future, because I'll be enabling you."  
  
Technically OP isn't obligated to help the friend if he did try to talk her out of it, but it could've been a chance to tell her this is a "scared straight" moment that needs to be the final straw, instead of basically going "play shit games win shit prizes".

That doesn't work lol. They aren't married yet!

They also should have told him not to push people while making demands aggressively.  I understand its harder for Autistic children.  But they  can learn manners, too.  Their parents can also correct them when they make mistakes like that.

Exactly, though... OP is not her parent. She’s in no way obligated to help, especially when it would just be enabling poor choices.

This happened to me once when my husband was in the wedding party but I was not, and he got to go on the party bus and I did not (not that I really wanted to). I sat in my car and read a book until the reception.

I don’t think YTA, because obviously there are people here who agree with you. But the only weddings I’ve been to where there was a significant break in between, there was something included with the invitation that gave suggestions on what to go, where to go, etc. Nearly every wedding I’ve been too, been a part of, you go straight from church to reception, and that’s when the cocktail hour starts. 

So as long as there is some guidance on what guests can do during that break, NTA

Blocking a sidewalk is a safety hazard. What if an individual in a wheelchair needs to get by? NTA.

No, the crap friend was her…she knew the situation, did it anyway, then turned back to him after discounting him to begin with.  He’s definitely not the asshole.

You were a real friend. Too bad she cant see that. Shes lucky she was kicked out and embarrassed and nothing more

The next weekend, I hit my breaking point. I was not excited for my grandma to ask if I had put on more weight, or my grandfather to talk me out of my major, or listen to my cousin complain again. So, I took an edible. 

Seems like the family being horrible is the main reason tho?

Depending on where you are located you may have just triggered very bad days for those people. Police steal the homeless’ belongings and throw them out, including medications. Homeless people are not often moved in a kind or compassionate manner. So it really depends on where you live. If it’s a more urban place, I’d say you’re the AH. But most people don’t realize how truly horrible the police are to homeless people. So I doubt you meant to cause them harm.

It wasn't paused. Ceremony at church was 2-3PM. Cocktail hour at the reception hall was 5:30-6:30, with the rest of the reception (ie dinner) afterward.
We took photos in the gap between 3 and 5:30

Never know if they’re overdosed or dead. You could be helping them by calling, who knows. With all their stuff around where kids go it’s probably better they relocate. We had needles around my building from some homeless folks once.

NTA - but you both need to agrees and shut this down NOW. A simple text that you can copy and paste of she brings it up again BUT DO NOT ENGAGE in conversation as it opens the door.
Example message; 
Thank you for sharing your feelings and we are sorry that you feel hurt. In any relationship, particularly between couples, there are moments that are personal and private and not every moment is intended to be shared with others. These private moments and photos are not unique, nor will they be the last to remain strictly private. We want to reassure you that this was not about hurting you, but about us and our moments and our boundaries. We hope that you can understand and respect that, both now and in the future. From Son & DIL

So she even had the means to buy her own ticket? Smfh

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > 1. cooking food for my family and ended up feeding it to my pets
2. only leaving them rice for my whole family to eat

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

You're not necessarily an *asshole*, but that's what the cocktail hour is for. To give your guests something to do while you do photos. It's not for you and your wife.

The "Catholic gap" is a real thing and I get why it's there. Your co-worker probably isn't familiar with it. It's less annoying if most people are local and can just go to their own homes instead of having hours to kill in an unfamiliar place. NAH I guess.

YTA. That comment was completely unnecessary, it did nothing for anyone.

Im catholic so I've been a ton of catholic weddings and none of them ever started at noon. I've had one or two with a sizable gap between the ceremony and reception and it was pretty annoying. And that wasnt even while traveling out of town or something. Youre cocktail hour should start shortly after your ceremony ends so your guests have something to do while your taking pictures.

You don't have to do anything. You can just go or not go, with or without the kids. It's a request, not a summons.

NTA but damn it’s annoying. 

I’ve been to zillions of weddings and a bunch have been Catholic weddings with an awkward gap. It’s annoying. I need a daytime dress and a nighttime dress and the extra logistics of getting back and forth to hotel is an added stress when traveling.

Then a handful of those time gap weddings a few of the guests will spend those 3 hours at a bar getting toasted and now the people at their table and every unsuspecting person on the dance floor has to put up with them.

I get that those gaps are seen as necessary- church requires an early ceremony so they can have evening mass and American culture is to have a nighttime reception. It doesn’t change the fact that it’s not enjoyable for the guests. 

If you must have an early ceremony- Have the early wedding and then a banging brunch and everyone who wants can be home by 9.

Is the vaping good for her? No. Is it a whole lot better than her cutting? Yes. OP's heart is in the right place, but unfortunately he fucked up

NTA. You explained it calmly and reasonable it’s not like you shoved the kid. Kids with autism also need to learn how to wait their turn. 
I got called racist just for moving further back in an elevator as to not over crowd the patient and family member getting on while the other people stayed crowded up front 😐 so yeah I think you’re fine

But she should have told OP it’s an inspiration try on day and not actual shopping day. Going to select the dress is so fun and a big honor, but playing dress up with kids over multiple weekends is exhausting. By now she should not only know her budget, but her preferred style with neckline/beading/all the things. Look around online and then go to those stores for fittings. She is wasting OPs time

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

I am trying to avoid being an asshole, so advice is appreciated.

Every year, we plan a 4th of July picnic and it's a pot luck. Our town does a great fireworks show and we go early and lay down the blankets and reserve the spot and invite a group of friends, about 20. My brother always makes fabulous smoked ribs. I usually make dessert. We ask other people to brings things like salads and appetizers, plus drinks.

Here's the issue: no one follows the brief! Last year, one friend said they wanted to bring chicken salad, but I said we were fine on proteins since we already had ribs and grilled chicken, but they show up two hours late with the chicken salad and expect people to try it. No one brought the salads that they were supposed (one person brought a cake because she felt more like baking a cake! This meant we had two cakes and no vegetables).

How can I strictly dictate what people contribute so we can have a balanced meal and do it nicely so I am not an asshole?

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

NTA but also not the norm. I’d just show up at 530 and skip the ceremony tbh.

I'd give him grace.... But no money.

YTA, if she wants to try on a million-dollar dress, more power to her. What's it to you? Maybe she had an idea but still wanted to try on more expensive dresses for the HE\*\* of it. Maybe she wanted to dream a little about getting a more expensive dress. Who cares.

Nta tell him if he wants a care giver for his mom he should hire a professional. Maybe even send him links with price quotes if you can find any. That should show him just how big of a ripoff his offer is.

I feel like OP shouldn't have to buy the ticket, but more so just give her advice on what to do next steps. leaving people stranded in an unknown place? hell no...like especially if she is not very experienced in the 'real world'

Is OP perpetuating the idea, or warning his friend that this is a situation where a guy likely expects sex in exchange for this plane ticket?

Right? True crime, ID channel

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

My fiancée and I ride the same route home from work (NYC) on a bus each night. It's similar to a Greyhound bus. There is not assigned seating, and busses run every fifteen to twenty minutes -- if everything is working correctly.

I always arrive at the station around an hour before her. Usually, I'll sit on a bench next to the gate for a while, and then when the line for the bus I expect her to make forms, I'll get in line.

She arrives, we scan tickets, we get on the bus, all is well.

TODAY however, lines were worse than usual, and people were angry. People were yelling at the dispatchers and workers.

Two different people confronted us about her "cutting the line" because she came to join me near the front. I was taken aback. We do this frequently, and the staff and dispatchers are well aware. Families do this all the time, for larger groups.

Feeling lost and confused. Is this just tempers being high or is this a societal failing on my part?

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

NTA. But your friend Amy sounds like a real piece of work.

NTA, have been to plenty of weddings like this and not a drama! A little inconvenient but it’s not about us

This is not a huge deal one way or the other. But would I find this mildly annoying as a guest and kinda exhausting? yes. I’m Catholic and Catholic weddings I’ve been to have not followed this format. Photos during the cocktail hour is more common. Light YTA.

Well. Actually yes, friends should still help each other out when something bad happens, even if one friend didn’t take the other’s advice. That’s life. Not sure anyone is talking about shelling out money for a ticket though, not sure why you’d assume that’s what the situation was.

It was City Museum, wasn’t it?  That place is like no other children’s museum.  Highly recommend but buck up for the parking, unfortunately the neighborhood can be sketch and car break-ins are not uncommon on the side streets.

We did. It went, wedding was 2-3pm, cocktail hour started at 5:30-6:30. Food and whatnot at 6:30

This is not at all common in my region. There is no gap like you are describing.

Thanks, I won’t lie, it hurt when I had people on both sides saying the relationship was over, especially when this was our first real conflict.  

It’s a little early for me to make snap judgments about the extended family, but it wouldn’t surprise me if there turns out to be something more behind the comments than just believing his outfit wasn’t formal enough.

NTA. She is lucky she didn't get raped, or worse! What did she expect you to do? Buy you a plane ticket after you warned her? Hell no. Her father should know what she's been doing. It is very dangerous!

NTA. Your last sentence about LEARNING is the key.

YTA

You seem way too overly concerned with her budget. 

She picks a dress but then does look at her money and makes a smart decision to look elsewhere but you have to basically go:  I told you to keep in a budget in mind? 

She hasn't done anything wrong as far as I can tell, beside want a good dress and a lot of woman I am sure really invest in the dress as it's probably the 2nd most important part of the process after actually getting married. 

Also, what do your kids being there have to do with anything?

NTA He’s the human equivalent of herpes or cancer. Just ignore or grey rock him. I doubt he’s actually changed (probably needs money), but who cares if he has. The relationship between you two is already dead, so why pretend otherwise. If any other family questions why you are cold to him, explain everything in detail. Tell the full truth and make it awkward.

Maybe because they both had the opportunity to verify that he worked four hours, and rather than doing so they tried to weasel out of it? Maybe that’s not a red flag for you but it would be for most people. I’m a business owner, if an employee of mine claims they worked a shift but it doesn’t look like they did, I’m not going to just take their word for it. But if they did and it takes bery little effort to prove it, then why wouldn’t they do it?

Reading comprehension hard. He said he’s only been to catholic weddings. How is he supposed to know differently?

I had my wedding in an garden at a golf course, right off the reception venue, had an hour for family photos, and had the bar serving drinks until we started the reception. The golf course cleared out the seats for the ceremony and put out small patio tables. I honestly have no clue if the venue or dj played music during that hour, but there WAS drinks, shade (indoor and outdoor), and tables. And bathrooms.

If I have to pack up and drag my kids with us each time knowing you can't afford any of the stuff we're looking at it, it is a waste of my time. I'm specifically carving out time to help you find a dress not to watch you play dress up.

Honestly, it would come off better if you DON’T book the luxe option and just let everyone make their own decisions about accommodation. 

If you can’t afford the luxe options without passing on the cost, you can’t afford it.

YTA 

You have creepy, unhealthy ideas about women. And friendship.

I've been to a bunch of weddings. Both my cousins had the ceremony and the reception at the same venue, which all ended relatively early (around 10:30-11) and my one cousin had the rest of the wedding party (if they wanted) to go to a local bar and dance/drink. They didn't reserve it.

I've been to three other weddings where the ceremony was at a church that was a distance from the reception and there was a bit of down time (about 2 hours). The first was my bestie from high school and we then traipsed over to her husbands relatives ranch that was some distance away that was very fun and casual (one of the groomsmen did a break dance show while still keeping his beer level). My good friend from college got married in a catholic ceremony for her parents and then we went to a campground where the bride and grooms parties were sleeping in bunk beds (I was the lady in the groom party) We danced and drank (no bartender we just had coolers) and had a gigantic bonfire (legit 15 ft of wood to start) in the back to roast marshmallows. The last one I went to was as the plus one for my ex and we were shuttled to the reception space an hour ish *driving* away and there were at least 200 guests...open bar, a shit ton of snacky food, a whole dessert buffet thing after dinner, and after hours bar with pool and other games that lasted until 2am...they probably spent near 150-200k on that wedding whereas the bonfire one was about 25k.

I was raised Catholic and I have been to multiple weddings with 2 hour breaks. Going to one in 2 weeks.

yeah, so that's why I thought OP is also TA (ESH) for just leaving her there. it's quite clear that she (*probably)* learned her lesson and now stranded in LA. considering that she probably doesn't have much experience in the "real world", being alone is really scary even if you have a hotel etc.

It looks like you're trying to post an update to your AITA post.

#Read our update guidelines here.

If your post meets the outlined guidelines, please message the mods for approval. We appreciate your patience while mods review for approval.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

I don't usually ESH but she should have said "I would love to try on dresses I can't afford as part of my bridal experience" and you should have said "I'm only bringing the kids one time when you are ready to make a final decision". Her budget is none of your business unless it impacts your own spending.

NTA. 

You made sure she was safe. She had other means of help but didn’t want to use them. You repeatedly advised her not to go due to the dangers and expectations - your friend doesn’t owe that man sex in exchange for the flights and lodging. 

Also, she’s 26. She should know better. At least that dude only kicked her out and cancelled her stuff. He could have been a psycho. She could get hurt doing these kind of things with the weirdos around.

Help her out how?  He determined she was safe with a place to stay.  She’s a plane ride away.  What help are you suggesting should have been provided that makes OP an asshole?

YTA lol. The cocktail hour and the reception are typically two separate things. You and the wedding party are typically supposed to take photos *during* cocktail hour. I’ve never heard of a wedding pausing for everyone to take photos for two hours.

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

I live with my family, but not for much longer because ill be moving out once ifind an apartment,i usually cook breakfast, lunch, and dinner for my family, although sometimes idon’t because im exhausted from work,not once, but every time my mom cooks or they buy food, my whole family my parents and siblings eats together,they would call me and say “come faster and eat, or youll get nothing” iwould reply, “just leave me some food, ill eat later” but, whenever i come to the table, theyre already done eating and have left no food for me,sometimes, if theyre eating barbecue, theyll leave me two barbecue sticks for dinner, which isn’t enough to fill me up,whenever i complain or bring up the issue, they tell me its my fault for not eating sooner..

one day, ihad enough,i cooked, set the table, and ate my meal, and let my younger siblings eat as well, and once they were done, ifed the leftovers to my pets, leaving only rice for the rest of my family,when it was time for them to eat, they were furious,they kept lecturing me and saying im so selfish and that it’s time for me to move out,,, AITAH??

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

This is so true. The sales assistants must hate women who are playing this dressing up game !

So OP should have said fornicate instead of bang?

NTA. I would have told the grandmother she needs to mind hers cuz she’s too old for that and to the parents that their kid shouldn’t be touching strangers.

The guests have the obligation to be cordial and understanding to the bride and groom. This is a wedding not a house party.

YWBTA

Look, if you're not paying rent, utilities, etc then they're not your landlords, therefore you're staying there as part of the family. Sometimes, that means doing a chore you don't want to do. 

I might lean a bit towards ESH, since it is probably unfair to your boyfriend to be excluded from a family trip, but if he doesn't have a problem with it, then you certainly shouldn't.

I once went to a wedding with a 6-hour gap in the middle. No idea why. But everyone already knew, a bunch of people brought RVs and other large vehicles and they set up a tailgate sort of situation near the reception venue. No one cared and everyone had fun. NTA.

hang out in their hotel, go to the bar? It’s really not that uncommon. I like the chance to have a breather especially when I’m traveling

Wait…so you didn’t feed your guests either? Why would they have to go get something to eat in wedding attire?

NAH. I think both you and your dad need to learn how to communicate better. You lashed out which maybe wasnt right, but it also seems like he heard you.

Maybe you could try writing a letter? It'll remove the heat of the moment emotions and allow you to formulate your thoughts better. You can use it to apologize for HOW you said what you said, and ask to open up a dialogue.

It’s not belittling to tell your partner their childish behavior is unattractive. He’s lucky to be getting a warning instead of her just leaving him for being a disgusting slob. He doesn’t need her to sugarcoat that his behavior is grossing her out. He’s a fucking adult, not a child, he was taught these things decades ago, he’s choosing to be foul.

I meant it was relevant in the fact of what she said about white people being entitled. I should’ve been more clear, sorry!

NTA. This is very common for catholic weddings and is disclosed on the wedding invitation. For people that it is too inconvenient to attend both, they usually just attend the reception. 

It’s really not that big of a deal and people saying otherwise are really not being inclusive. Catholic churches usually have a late afternoon mass on Saturday which is why Saturday weddings are held earlier in the afternoon. 

And, I am not Catholic but understand and support their traditions.

While the total judgement is NTA, you still need a soft YTA here. Not because you are wrong but because your attitude is slipping through. You are perfectly valid to setup the boundaries you did. She made a stupid choice after being warned and now wants you to bail her out without any likelihood of change or learning having occurred. Your boundaries and your reasoning is solid. Your attitude is not. 

You chose not to be taken advantage of this time. No need to hold that against her emotionally, just firmly love her with your “no, you be the adult and figure it out”. Unless you are firmly trying to end this friendship, just be proud of your own personal growth here this time. You are also giving her a chance to grow, so no need to feel bad there either. 

So drop the attitude and truly let her live her adult choices and you’ll be in full NTA territory. Your call of course.

I've never heard of anyone leaving a wedding to nap and come back. 

Most guests arent aware of how the day is going to be, they just show up.

Why would you be the asshole? They don't have to take over a public sidewalk,  no matter how bad their childhood was.

The help was the multiple warnings and accurate predictions about what would happen that she ignored.

NTA and I'm sorry, but your friend sounds exhausting.

It may be his wedding but you have an obligation to your guests to be good hosts and not rude fucks.

I still feel bad about getting signed off for 24 hours after doing 18 straight.

You do what you think you need to do. It is reasonable to expect performance during those hours.

if it's a close friend you should want to spend time with them. It should not feel like wasting time.

NTA but the whole being scared of having a lone woman roaming your house is hilarious to me

Honestly I just skip the ceremony and go to the reception. I’m not waiting around

She went shopping with champagne tastes and then remembered she had a prosecco budget.

Sounds like you communicated well and struck a reasonable compromise.  Nice work.

Jenna's extended family sounds a bit much if they are going to gossip behind fellow family members' backs.  Or maybe they are "traditional" (read: bigoted) and cannot handle the fact that Jenna's brother has a same-sex partner.

Dude, gluten free people don’t have high standards for baked goods. If I say a muffin is the “most delicious thing” it’s because it doesn’t actively taste like preservatives and have the texture of sand. The GF could get a better muffin at a gas station. Taking away a treat that’s not at all special for her, just for OP, is just mean.

I was a little surprised when he grabbed me, so maybe it made me sound rude or something? I’m not really sure.

NTA, this was a justified crash out on your part. Even when I was 6 and my sister gave birth I behaved better. Her behavior was unacceptable and immature as hell.

How was it not relevant?

Sounds like typical uncle behavior, double down and do it more often. Call him then hang up mid sentence and say some off the wall shit like, sorry went through a tunnel and lost service.

Both Church and reception are in the city. About 30min drive between them. Most of the guests also live nearby

Once you experience it with your parents it is difficult to not see it when it pops up in other aspects of your life. This is even as a physician who has a degree of expertise in dealing with geriatric patients and mitigating their risks with surgery and hospitalization. Back at you, I am sorry to hear about your mother.

YTA — a cocktail hour during this time would be much more considerate, especially for folks who don’t live nearby but don’t live so far as to need a hotel.

Yes, most guests are presumably adults, so I think they are more than capable of figuring out how to entertain themselves for a whopping 2 hours. 

Most weddings I have been to have had a gap. I’ve never had issues figuring out what to do in between the ceremony because I’m not a precious little princess and can handle the fact that not everything is about me. It’s someone’s wedding day for fucks sake. It’s not about me. And it’s a minor inconvenience. Who the fuck cares if I have to figure out what to do for 2 hours of my life? NTA

NTA And you absolutely should have snapped at your sister, you matched her energy. If you don’t want people to yell at you, don’t yell at people. Your sister is also horribly entitled, and honestly sounds like a bad person. Under no circumstances should you apologize to your sister, in fact you should be demanding an apology for your husband. Your sister/family is your problem, and you need to “protect” your husband from them.

Well, you are acting like a lazy slob. If the shoe fits, op……

NTA.

And race doesn't matter in this case. Their entitlement attitude is just plain dumb in all the possible colors of the rainbow.

Louisiana Catholic here. I have never experienced a gap in between the ceremony and the celebration.

That being said, what does it matter? It was your wedding and you had a good time.

NTA

ESH. she might have wanted the search for the perfect dress to not be limited by practicality: to have fun with a friend and find out what she likes and then find the best alternative within budget.

She should have told you. And you could have made it sound less like you are completely fed up of spending time with her.

Oh hell nah, you're NTA.

INFO: I really think it depends on the location of the wedding and cocktail hour. I've been to weddings that were located downtown around tons of restaurants and coffee shops and everyone was pretty much staying in hotels nearby or at resorts where there are plenty of lounge areas and other amenities on site. Either of these types of weddings it probably wouldn't be a big deal. 

But if it's off in some remote locations with nothing else to do or only like one or two options that wouldn't accommodate all your guests, I would say YTA.

I work with autistic people (20's to 55 year olds). As long as you're polite (as you would be with any other person), don't worry about it.  We watch for stressful situations, self-soothing and other signs of triggers, but I've also told people to stop doing something or that they need to wait their turn.

All of the weddings I’ve been to have had events the day before and the day after that were not just for the wedding party, but there wasn’t an expectation to attend if you rsvp yes to the wedding itself. I don’t see an issue with that. It was a “if you can make brunch the day after we’d love to have you there” kind of thing.

NTA

The mom sure was though...  That is why autistic boys grow up not learning boundaries and respect that THEY CAN LEARN. 

It's a big problem.

Those people who annoyed you, are called people who annoy you, theyre a menace and perma victims / poor little babies

YTA. My husband's cousin did this but it was a dry wedding and the ceremony and reception were at the same place out in the middle of no where. We were all just standing there starving with nary even a drink. Absolutely terrible. Unless it's like an hour drive to the reception hall I promise people were gossiping about how inconsiderate this was.

NTA, you are fairly are over it after going with her three times already. Do your daughters enjoy going or are they just being friendly? If they'd rather go do something else I'd say you would be a YTA if you keep forcing them along.

because I wouldn't fly out to meet some rando who paid for me to do so.

Yes, why? We're discussing this particular issue.

The rest happened as you expected. OP's friend DIDN'T have sex with the guy just because it was his expectation.

NTA. 

“Sorry, I’m busy this weekend. Best of luck with the search!”

I’ve always hated it, killing time between the ceremony and reception but just accepted as the norm with most Catholic weddings I’ve attended.

INFO If all of your family who are fine with it book, how many rooms does that take up? What about close friends?

Also, is this wedding supposed to be summer 2026 or another year? I hope it’s next year. You are late for invitations (especially ones that require reservations) if it’s this year. 

I think it’s extremely tacky to put it on your invite with your Venmo. I think asking people who are most likely to book anyway directly is a better option. Be transparent about what you get and that you are not asking them to pay more than they would have booking the other cabin. Even if they are willing to book, they may not want to Venmo you and have no control over their own booking. I wouldn’t want that. 

The venue might also have a better method to do this. Destination weddings at resorts allow guests to book themselves in a block of room. The couple are not handling everyone’s money, but they still get perks and kickbacks when wedding guest bookings total a certain number of nights.

YTA. There was no need to the gap, this is rude and annoying. You're not Catholic, you were just wasting everyone's time.

NAH i mean i get why you’re frustrated- i just think it was unnecessary to say that. she’s probably also frustrated and stressed but if it’s too much you can just say no to going instead of trying to call her out while she already stressed

I'm not sure what type of backwoods weddings you've gone to but....hard no.

Going to lunch before a wedding reception with food?   Mmmmmkay.

Honestly it's prob in their best interest as you don't know all the substances they might have possibly conssumed 

You phoning non emergency and getting the police out could end up saving one of their lives especially if they are on drugs

Have you ever been to a wedding? This is very normal. People go off and have lunch with their own groups or go home and freshen up or whatever. Plus not everyone goes to both the wedding and reception

NTA. I too come from a large Catholic family, with 28 first cousins, and this was how all of the weddings went. Sometimes we went to another aunt/uncles house in between the ceremony and reception. Since there were so many kids, they usually napped while adults had cocktails. Sometimes we even changed outfits. 

Although now I prefer to not have the break in between ceremony and reception, I didn’t know any different having grown up with the break after the church.

so basically youre saying you warned her, she ignored you, and now youre supposed to bail her out? thats not how consequences work. the whole "unspoken bargain" thing is gross dont get me wrong but she made her choice knowing exactly what she was getting into. NTA for letting her deal with the fallout of her own decisions

YTA. With friends like you, who needs enemies.

YTA for saying that race was relevant, it wasn’t.

NTA for what was said to the kid. My kid has that diagnosis and I wouldn’t be ok with them putting others safety at risk. They require accommodations, but side safety at others detriment isn’t an acoomodation.

Do you have easy access to gf products? Or would getting a special gf muffin you actually enjoy require a trip to a different country? If you begged your husband to let you have a special gf treat, would he shove it into his mouth and eat it? Start a massive fight? 

The girlfriend is an asshole. She has issues that are hers to deal with and figure out.

NTA, call the police, get them moved. If you live in a city that will do anything about it anyway.

nah you’re fine, she wasted your time and set herself up for sticker shock. some people just don’t plan anything

Let her stew. Don't reach out, just let her be. Nobody is on her side, and she'll realize it eventually or she won't. Sucks to be her.

It feels more like she’s naive rather than an asshole. She is fairly young and wanted to believe what someone told her. She learned a lesson most women learn at some point. Actually more like two lessons - men like that just want to sleep with you, and OP isn’t really her friend.

NTA, Let her continue to not speak to you then. Don't apologize. That just enables her to do it again thinking she's in the right.

NTA. Every wedding I've ever been to has had a gap between the wedding and reception. It's completely normal.

Depending on the location, guests either go home or find a pub or restaurant to hang out at inbetween.

Then you need to tell your boss he left early and left you with the job that he was being paid for as well as you. That is not cool to leave without telling your boss!

It’s true. She doesn’t have to listen to him. Which means she’s pretty damn nervy coming to him to be rescued after deliberately ignoring his repeated warnings.

There was some serious racism in this story, but it wasn't you!

I wouldn't be in OP's friend's shoes, because I wouldn't fly out to meet some rando who paid for me to do so. 

But even if I was in the friend's shoes, I wouldn't sleep with someone I didn't want to simply because it was his expectation.

  
Are you saying that women should sleep with a man who bought them an expensive dinner? Because that's the same logic.

If you charge, they are your customers.   You don’t charge guests

Boundaries and structure are even more important for autistic children to learn to help them to become functional adults. NTA

Some people like to use neurodivergent as an excuse to get away with bad behaviour.  It can explain some behaviour.  But we are still responsible for our actions within the limits of our understanding/control.  This sounds more like the grandmother exploiting the situation instead of helping the kid learn how to handle it.  NTA.

NTA. Unless you said it in a rude tone. 
Seems like they were spacing turns out for safety. No matter where on the spectrum that child is, they will need to learn how to wait in a line and take turns. Let them be and pay no mind.

This is different though. As someone with celiac I also don’t have access to food people have ever day. If OP went somewhere local and got these muffins then you wouldn’t be wrong, but this is a food OP specifically doesn’t has access to and has never had in their life. It’s not just an everyday thing, and having celiac can make eating anywhere so difficult and frustrating to where food is only safe at home. OP was even willing to share the rest of the food just not this one, so this isn’t really a case of OP being a bad partner. The girlfriend could have gone to any bakery in the area to get a muffin that is probably delicious and OP cannot have.

NTA, but it does suck.

NTA. My friend had a Catholic wedding and this is literally how it went. When you have the ceremony and reception in separate places this makes sense.

NTA

The thing is, you can't keep this up, it's sucking all of your energy, and leaving nothing for you.

Your partner needs to learn to self soothe. This is something you can help with, but a professional really needs to be leading the process. It also sounds like she has a lot of trauma, so a therapist who specializes in family based trauma would be ideal. I f you're willing, and the therapist thinks it's appropriate, you might even do a few remote sessions with them, so you can get information on how to support her healing, rather than just get sucked into her spiral.

Telling a kid to wait their turn isn't rude Autism doesn't change the fact that there was a line.

NTA. You didn't tell him off and you weren't rude. You just explained that you all had to follow the rules and wait for the staff member to give you the go-ahead. That was a pretty good way of explaining it.

Quite frankly, I'm disappointed in the staff member who didn't stand up for you - and enforce the safety rules - when Granny inserted herself into the situation and accused you of being racist.

A swing set suited to a toddler isn’t going to last into childhood.  This isn’t just a lot of money, it’s going to be aged out of instantly. 

Is there no park or community playground?

NTA. Everyone who lives in the islands had ancestors that came from somewhere else. I worked for a guy that had the thickest Jamaican accent and his great grandparents had come over from Germany, blue eyes, blond hair and all. It was racist of her to assume what an islander should look like.

YTA, not for not helping her, but for making this post shaming her. It seems really petty and comes across like you just want to talk shit about her to the internet. She said you were trying to teach her a lesson, and you agree with that, so there’s really no conflict to judge. Seems like you just wanted to feel good having everyone else dogpile on her too.

People in the wedding party will have an extra day of  rehearsal and a dinner. Everyone else is one day. Some of those people don’t even attend the ceremony and come to the reception only.

Nobody, even your closest friends and family, wants to drop their lives for 3 days to celebrate your wedding. People truly don’t even want to attend the one day if they’re being honest.

Jesus yes! Are you like a toddler or something?

Depends on who the guests were. If they're all from in town, they can go home and nap or change or chill, whatever. If not, YTA. Honestly even if I were in town, I'd hate a two hour gap. I'd either skip the ceremony or reception.

I thought the spelling error was really funny too....OP gives off this superiority vibes and should get over it.

For that reason, grow up, OP. great job trying to talk her through as I'm not many people would do that, but you aren't her real friend considering that you write this post like a 'better' person than her.

Although many people say the opposite, I do feel like you could have (so ESH?, leaning more on her friend as the TA) maybe given some advice (knowing that she probably won't take the advice) like call an uber, or you should do \_\_\_...ESPECIALLY if you think she is "naturally stupid"...I mean you are her friend right? (/sarcasm for being her 'real friend' supposedly)

please tell me if my reasoning is off. again, I'm not exactly sure if this would be the ESH but I feel like it can be.

I wonder if this is an HR issue since he technically stole from the work team? NTA

my dad used to do this with the remote, id just stop responding after a while

NTA for being frustrated with her, but the budget is not the real problem.  She hasn't fallen in love with expensive dresses--rather, she has fallen in love with the "shopping for dresses" experience, including the attention she gets from you and your daughters, the sales clerks, etc. Just stop going with her and I'm guessing she'll settle on a dress within her budget fairly quick.

ESH, but not that much. I used to be exactly like you, and it never works. What in your head is a clever way of making her deal with the situation, to her will seem just cruel and unnecessary. 

Consider that she probably knew how you'd react and was possibily counting on you as a backup, since you knew the whole thing. Consider how your choice ultimately forced her to confide in someone she didn't want to.

That being said I'm not saying you have to agree with that nonsense lol. But I'd advise you to cut yourself from the situation fully next time. Just be clear that this stresses you out cause you care about her well being, and hopefully she realizes its having an impact on you too.

It is that mother's responsibility to provide entertainment for her child, not yours. She's very entitled.

Yeah that's so fair. I'm white as hell so I can't really talk from experience, but I've heard from friends that being white passing is a double edged sword - you sometimes get privilege, but you also have your heritage/identity ignored or assumed for you. Like how she expects you to explain your heritage in order to make a joke - if you didn't pass as white, she wouldn't have expected that.  That sucks for you! She definitely made an unfair assumption.

Also, if she was Caribbean in any way, wouldn't she have recognized that your accent was probably quite good (I'm assuming! Kids can often mimic their parents accents excellently), so she was just jumping the gun in this case. But also I don't really blame her for that, given the current climate around racism. I do blame her for being a gossip though, she should have clarified with you first if she was offended. 

Just a frustrating situation to be in, sorry you had to deal with that.

NAH. I have never been to a wedding that had a gap in between and some were catholic. Usually everyone goes to the reception center and the wedding party takes photos there. Everyone does things differently.

Nta, you tried to help her by talking her out if going.  She didn't listen and learned the hard way.  That and she has family that can help her in situations that involve money.

They don't deserve anything

So, she was safe, had a place to stay. What was she actually asking of you? And eventually her dad? 
I assuming she has a credit card, and can book a flight…or is THAT what she needed someone else to do for her?

I can see her being flustered/embarrassed/ angry in the moment, and wanting to vent. But she had to learn that lesson…it was her own poor judgement that delivered hard news, not you! You’re not the asshole. But! Reach out if you want to save the friendship, and put this episode behind you-meaning, drop the topic.

YTA. It’s not normal for a landlord to ask a tenant if they have a bf. I have only ever had one landlord ask me that question. I proceeded to then find out he was a pervert from my roommates. He tried to kiss one of them and groped the other one’s boobs once. I was fucking terrified and moved out secretly in the middle of the night bc I also found out he had a key to the unit (illegal in the country I was in). 

Anyways, all this to say that pervert landlords are extremely common bc they have power and authority over the tenant. They literally control their housing. Many landlords intentionally rent out to younger women so they can creep on them. This is an extremely common phenomenon. 

It is more likely than not that a landlord who asks if his female tenant has a boyfriend is a creep. To assume otherwise literally protects creep landlords for no reason.

Wait... are you saying he's an asshole for not picking up after himself, or are you saying he's an asshole for sticking up for himself?  He seems to know he has some things to improve on, he didn't like the "unattractive" phrase.  If she's belittling him now, it's only going to get worse no matter what he does if he let her know.

They went to boarding school and it sounds like she doesn’t have a “real job” to me. OP also said that the father has threatened to cut her off. That usually means financially. 

It sounds like her father didn’t prepare her for the real world and he is at his wits end. I would say NAH, but it’s unfortunate that this girl is learning some hard lessons… she is just very naive at this point but can learn.

Sounds like the only person who couldn't wait their turn was Grandma.

It depends on your tone when you spoke the kid, if your tone was rude or condescending, then YTA. If you were polite and were trying to explain yourself, then NTA. It’s as simple as that, race and disability don’t matter here, your tone is all that mattered in this situation.

NTA. Neurodivergence doesn’t automatically mean getting everything done your way. He can be autistic and entitled because his family has allowed to use his disability as an excuse. This could have been a teaching moment for him but his family disagrees and believes autism gives you a free pass to ignore rules.

NTA. Some people have to learn the hard way.

NTA - she’s a grown lady. She chose to believe the sweet nothings of a stranger over objectively looking at reality. If she wanted to go so badly, then she should have *also* had plans and resources in place just in case **the literal stranger** decided to deviate from the plan.

Was she considering her safety? Was she considering various contingency plans so that she could ensure her safety or stability on this trip? No. So it’s not your job to then financially cover or clean up her mess.

I do feel bad that she doesn’t seem to have the capacity, or is too sheltered, to know these things. And you tried to advise her. I think you may just need to take the distance she’s creating at face value. **Because instead of learning from this and truly thinking about her actions and choices, she’s choosing to place blame on you.** But for what?

Could you define upholding? Upholding as in assessing?

I see it differently. Manipulators, users, abusers exist regardless of an inferred implication from a third party. OP isn't an asshole because she understood what this transactional situation ended up being. She gauged the situation correctly.

Now the person seeking leverage from an implication like that south beach guy is a major effing asshole. He watched Sunny and took it as gospel instead of seeing it as the deplorable bs that it is.

Its great you are reading this at the 4 year mark in the realtionship. Do you really think those conversations have not been had. What do you think couples do all the time. This seems more like a breaking point than anything else.

but we’re talking about a gap between the ceremony and the cocktail hour, not the same

**Hello, Emergency-Garden3200 - your post has been removed.**

#Read the following information carefully and completely. Message the mods with any questions. 

This post violates Rule 4. Posts must be written by you. Do not use AI to write and/or edit your post. Tools such as Grammarly are AI.

Subreddit Rules

**Do not repost, including edited versions, without receiving explicit approval via modmail.** Reposting will lead to a ban.

Please visit r/findareddit to see if there's a more appropriate sub for your post.

NTA. He needs to learn boundaries. I feel sorry for the poor dog. I think I might tell him that Animal control may take away his dog if he doesn't treat it nicely.

That was my exact thought, what a tool this guy is

Tell me what would you think in OP's friends shoes?

This answer needs more upvotes and to be higher up. 
OP this is basically what my former sister in law did and it was perfect. The wedding party , family stayed in cabins/ yurts. There was another section other people could stay at and camp / rv sites that people stayed in. It was a 3 day weekend filled with hiking , canoeing, tubing etc. it was a lot of fun. But the answer is this. Have the important people pay for the resort area and give a link to everyone else who is invited.

NTA i went to a wedding where they had a huge break between ceremony and reception. my husband was a groomsman, so i hung out with other friends, went back to one of their homes and watched a movie. 

your wedding was two years ago, the time to go off on you has well and truly passed. saying something now does nothing; you can't change what happened, so there was really no point in him saying anything other than "ah, okay". 

personally, i had my photos taken at the same venue as the wedding and reception. i had no entertainment for the guests. they could mingle amongst themselves and order drinks or snacks (we paid for drinks and dinner at the reception but not beforehand).

NTA. It’s your wedding and if it’s normal for church weddings then it is what it is.

If you are not paying rent, this feels like a really small ask for living somewhere rent free. Paying for and cook your own food is not a plus, it is a non negative. They could ask you to start paying $500/m in rent and get a really good dog sitter with one month's rent, right?

What woman, who is all dressed up, hair done, make up applied is then going to go home to take a nap between the ceremony and reception? 

Ladies, am I the only one who thinks this is a bonkers take??

Of all the weddings I've attended, and photographed, most being catholic, only one had an awkward break between the ceremony and reception...and we all talked about how strange it was. We basically hung out at someone's house who lived near the reception. Just chatting and waiting. 

Not normal in my region/catholic circles at all.

So yeah, I'll say that you guys were TA. If you want a late reception schedule a later ceremony. Cocktail hour should have covered the taking of photos.

NTA, but when the baby grows up and comes looking for you on their own, you would be TA if you outright rejected them. Like you said the baby has no blame. I do understand your attitude toward your father as my own father neglected his kids severely.

People in this comment section thinking 2 hours without someone hand feeding everyone entertainment is peak tiktok brain rot. NTA. It's YOUR wedding, it will be structured how it works best for YOU.

NTA, she said that she was safe. If she couldn't afford to buy a plane ticket back, then her calling her dad was the right option. If you don't feel comfortable spending that kind of money for a plane ticket that doesn't make you an asshole at all.

We don't need our hannds held but we don't need our time wasted either. We are already giving up a Saturday for this without a wasting time sitting around

I change my answer to ESH.

No one could take a second to write a time on a calendar? Sounds like you all need to just communicate. "hey mom, I have to be here at this time" "ok!" 

Does your school time start a different time each day? You also said you had a Nanny who drives you. Just tell the Nanny?

YTA for having a 3 day wedding where most people are traveling from out of state already. I hope you realize that nobody is excited to attend, and people are talking shit about you behind your back.

Weddings are already inconvenient enough. You don’t need to make it a torturous 3 day event.

Ridiculous. Even autistic people need to learn to wait sometimes. My granddaughter is autistic and I frequently tell her to wait for things. You weren't being nasty to him and you were right - he had to wait. Yes, his response may not be what you or I would do, but he has to learn.

You don’t understand what the fair housing act is. You said that this context doesn’t qualify as sexual harassment under the FHA. But the FHA doesn’t cover sexual harassment. You are likely completely misunderstanding the purpose of the FHA lmfao. The original commenter didn’t mention the FHA bc sexual harassment has absolutely nothing to do with the FHA. Employees and business owners can be charged with sexual harassment. Has literally nothing to do with the FHA

NTA most weddings I’ve attended have ceremony and reception in two different locations for one. Two - it’s your wedding!

NTA, I’m from a small town where wedding were often like that, and a whole day event.

In my experience it has been pretty common with church weddings in Australia too. More often the ceremony is in the afternoon rather than morning, but usually a gap of a few hours before the reception begins. 

NTA

NAH - lots of things unknown here. I come from a huge family so weddings tend to be small affairs if they are not massive with about 200 people (wish I was joking - have a sibling who had a European destination wedding and still had just over 200 guests in attendance). So to celebrate with anyone else who we may want to celebrate with its at the wedding showers and such.

This to me is an incredibly normal thing it never even occurred to me that people might be offended…

YTA The only way to not feel like a lazy slob is well to not to be one. And yall have been dating for 4 years. So I assume she did not do this at the start. But is only doing this now because she is getting fed up with having to clean the whole house AND after you every time you move around the house when you want to do anything. She is telling you the truth and well you will lose her if you dont shape up.

NTA. That is incredibly rude. She just thinks she can get an extra gift out of you. That's tacky as hell. The shower is supposed to be a fête for the friends that will be in the wedding. 

I would send her a nice card with a handwritten, polite decline (no need for a reason,) and her your heartfelt congrats!

I disagree. Should a person be there for another "no matter what"? While I completely understand the danger, especially a woman, of being in an unknown place with a complete stranger, OP tried to talk her out of it and she refused. 

Her own father is apparently fed up with her antics and is threatening to cut her off (whatever that means, whether it's financially or low contact or both). 

I don't think we can operate in a vacuum. Every single instance where someone does something dumb or ill-advised, meets the consequences, and then decides to do this whole cycle all over again wears down on someone else's patience and understanding.

How many times do you see the same thing happen over and over before you put your foot down and say that's enough? How many times do you have to warn someone they're making a bad decision before you let them go because they have agency of their own actions? You can't set yourself on fire to keep others warm; you can't go out and save everyone when they choose to be this obtuse and put themselves in harm's way.

Nah, you good. Autism or nautism, a tantrum is still a tantrum. You didn’t yell down on the kid or disrespect him from what you wrote. Them pulling the race card was just a sign of a lack of better arguments.

NTA, you couldn’t have gone because it was unsafe, and the boy’s parents and grandparents should have been telling him to wait too. Nothing to do with race.

NTA. I've been to 2 weddings with large gap between the ceremony and cocktail hour.  Stopped at a local bar both times. One was a Catholic wedding and the other Protestant.

NTA. Granny is bold for playing both the race card and the autism card at once.

took me a minute too

YTA. A friend needs help, you help them. not ‘teach them a lesson’. You are not her parent

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > 1. i called police on homeless people 2. they are homeless and dont have a home to be at

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

NTA it's different when the ceremony and reception are at different venues. It's not like people are being held hostage for 2 hours, it's just a gap between events and locations. I went to a Catholic wedding once with this kind of gap and it was totally fine. Everything was planned out ahead of time so it's not like it was a surprise.

They're entitled to none of it

NTA.  But, if you get the chance, I’d pull up as many documentaries on human trafficking that you can find and invite her over for a viewing.

During labor with my first son I kicked an L&D nurse out of my room because she kept telling me I was doing everything wrong.  She picked apart everything.  So I yelled at her to get out.  Labor was so much easier without her.

Nta I get wanting to try on dresses with no concern about budget but it's rude to waste other people's time like that.

NTA
  You found out she was safe, secured, no further danger. You knew she'd have to own up to her behavior, but, had options like her dad if she finally bit the bullet and did so.
 *I assume had that not been the case you'd have done something* 
(My judgement is fully based on that.)
  THEN you refrained from bailing her out again. 

  She made a dangerous decision. As long as she was fully safe and secure, only having to eat crow and own it, publicly... is a small, but painful enough choice to hopefully make her think twice.
  It seems kind of like she does this shit... and "yeah...but...it always works out alright!" Because you will quietly help her out, ensure she's good. Protect her from consequence. (Like her dad. Like owning it. Transport. Etc) 
  You are enabling her. At some point, she has to get burned so she stops touching the damn stove. 
  She could have been fucking killed. Raped. You name it. All because of some guy seemed wealthy, and who he said he was... that's idiotic. 

  My dad is like this. So enabled. So fucking helpless. You know what's not fucking cute at 60, 70? This shit. My grandparents did him no favors keeping him safe from himself. I'm guilty. Spent most of my life doing it. 
No. He never had to learn. He never naturally matured out of it.

Yta. What the heck are people who don't live near by supposed to do for two hours?

INFO: how did you tell him? What you told him and how you told it to him might be factors here, if you were rude, etc. But nothing you've said suggested that. Unless you gave them some reason to react, then obviously NTA.

Why does some coworker you hardly know opinion matter to you?

Ignore him. It’s none of his business.

NTA, I wouldn’t go either.

I dont live with my own family as it was unsafe to stay

I pay for my own food and transport, I dont pay rent but it was their choice, I did offer to pay. I do chores in the house like everyone else: doing the dishes, taking the bins out, laundry, walking the dog etc.

My bf is staying at home whilst they are on holiday but this isn't his choice

They treat me as part of the family but also as my own adult

Yes me and my bf are saving up to move out

reading comprehension just is not your strong suit, huh.

Next time (if any) bet her some nontrivial amount of money that it will go badly.  This will make the lesson more educational for her.

I've been to a few types of weddings. One where the ceremony is in the same place as the reception. There's usually appetizers served and some type of entertainment whole the bridal party does pictures. Second where the ceremony (usually at a church) and the reception are in different places. Once the ceremony is finished, there's a gap while the bridal party does pictures and everyone gets to the location for the reception.

I've been to a wedding where the ceremony was from 9:30-10:30 and the reception started at 5:30. They should have just had a brunch.

No because this happened 2 years ago lol

The difference is that, at least in many jurisdictions, a bicyclist *is not* a pedestrian (pedantically, they would never be a pedestrian unless they were walking the bike). They are required to follow the rules of the road. 

So, while there could be contributory fault on the part of the driver, OP would also maintain fault if they crossed without the right-of-way.

Why? They did their job, so what?

I've never been to a Catholic wedding. The weddings I've been to always had a gap between for pictures. We entertained ourselves. I wouldn't have ever expected to be entertained.

I went to a wedding once where the ceremony took place walking distance from the reception venue, where we were directed to go immediately, and then asked to just kind of exist in there with no food, music or drinks for two hours until the reception started. 
  
So as long as you did anything but that NTA

**Hello, throwaway493833 - your post has been removed.**

#Read the following information carefully and completely. Message the mods with any questions. 

If you or someone you know is engaging in self-harm, struggling with an eating disorder, or similarly struggling with mental health, /r/AmItheAsshole is not the right subreddit for you.

Such challenges are not interpersonal issues that this community can make a moral judgement about. This is a health issue. Please consider reaching out to a trusted friend, family member, or your health care provider.

**Do not repost, including edited versions, without receiving explicit approval via modmail.** Reposting will lead to a ban.

Please visit r/findareddit to see if there's a more appropriate sub for your post.

That is better than what my stepson and his bride did. Took a few pictures in front of the church with her parents and we asked about photos with his parents. They said oh we’ll do it later at the reception. They showed up two hours later to the reception hall. We had nothing to eat or drink that whole time and what did they do while we were waiting? They went to buy a video game that came out that day in their wedding attire, hoping that the video of it would go viral. oh, and then forgot about the photos so quickly took some with his parents in front of the bridal party table with all the dirty dishes on it.

That was my thought and my experience even with catholic weddings.

The barrier is the landlord and the lease. That is why OP needs to talk to their landlord.

ESH. She began as the asshole by being judgmental and rude (even if these actions came from a place of true worry which we readers cannot know).

You also became TA by yelling at her about it.

You’re near the edge of “healthy” BMI. You have one piece of data from one person who thinks you’re fitness/food obsessed. If you’re conflicted about being right, ask other people in your life (who aren’t gym rats) and collect a better data pool on these changes to your life/body.

They did their fucking job, so what?

You know the solution to this don't you? You don't want to look after their dog, don't move in with your boyfriends family when you've been dating less than a year, and not pay rent.

YTA. you are a free dog sitter.

People with coeliac are often unable to eat at group events, eat at restaurants, or enjoy a tasty treat that those of without coeliac get to enjoy at any time. I couldn’t imagine denying my partner a little bit of that joy for the one time? And she’s 29? Selfish and mean

YTA for that title being yhe opposite of what you did

Her doctor doesn't seem concerned

It’s not normal for your landlord to ask if you have a boyfriend, at all. The only landlord who has ever asked me that turned out to be a pervert and assaulted both of my roommates. 

You guys are acting like it’s so crazy to perceive a landlord as a potential threat and it blows my mind. Do men genuinely not realize how common it is for landlords to creep on their female tenants? Hide cameras in the unit? It’s very common sadly.

The cocktail hour is here to let people meet, discuss, drink and eat appetizer while photos are taken. It‘s really weird to me because you invite people for your day and they have to just wander for hours waiting for your reception to begin. If your wedding begins at noon and lasts until the evening, then you have to plan all the duration of the festivities, even if you know people will take some time to go from church to the reception. And I’m talking about catholic weddings too

Of all the bullshit takes.

I'd say ESH. You for leaving your guests to 'float', as it were, while you got photos but also your co-worker because what's done is done; it was two years ago so nothing can be done now so judgement is irrelevant.

I was wondering the same - if it was the floor, sure, I could see that. But not the wall color.

Well, obviously she was right lmfao.

You are just as delusional as the friend if you think a random person on the Internet splashing money at you, whom you absolutely do not know, is not playing into the exact playbook that you’re asserting is so offensive. No one would have the idea if the behavior hadn’t happened so many times before. It’s called pattern recognition and having the ability to learn from the experiences of others.

Because the only reason OP can succeed is because parents support them

NTA. You set a boundary and she didn't care about it. You had outlined good reasons for it, too. You're setting yourself up for healthy lifelong habits. You showed her how serious you were about it. And that's all she's got to offer up? Trying to drag you back down to her level? She probably only remembers the "gym" talk because it stood out among the usual topics. Maybe a sudden cutoff isn't in order yet, though definitely start keeping your distance.

NTA, also she's not your friend. Maybe your mood is affected for the changes you made, work better in how to respond to those attacks without yelling.

I think you read that funny.

OP stated the very obvious truth of the situation. A man doing that for a woman is expecting sex. Which he was, and kicked her out for.

He was warning her about exactly what happened. Which any woman who wasnt naive would realize.

It wasn't that OP was saying friend owed the man sex (like you seem to have read) but the man was expecting sex from said friend for paying for the trip (which is exactly what happened).

YTA. Gap weddings suck, especially for any guests that have to travel. I’m not waiting around for hours until the next event for anyone

NTA she should be cheering you on not putting you down. She is NOT your friend. Also way to go great work on the weight loss and healthy eating

I think you're missing the point:   
I don't think OP is saying that because she flew there she was going to have to have sex with the guy.  
I'm pretty sure they were saying that if I guy like this does things for a woman then HE is going to expect sex from her and is likely to react negatively when he doesn't get it.  
She wasn't saying it was an expectation, OP was warning her friend that she was being manipulated and coerced without realising it.

That's where the nap time goes.

NTA and I can't believe the amount of people here saying Y T A. Are you all toddlers that need to have your hands held through every moment of your life? I've been to dozens of weddings, both Catholic and not, and they almost all had a similar gap between the ceremony and the cocktail hour.

YTA. Unless you’re paying market rent, they’re doing you a huge favor. So do favors for them.

Worse, it sounds like the only reason she didn’t call her dad first was because her dad was threatening to cut her off, I’m assuming financially? So instead she puts the financial burden of her travel arrangements on her friend. I can’t believe so many people here are suggesting that OP is somehow wrong for saying no, after assuring that she had a safe place to stay. From the context OP offers, this clearly isn’t a case where their friend would be stranded if OP didn’t help. It’s just a case where a friend would have to suck it up and call her daddy to bail her out rather than have it swept under the rug without her father’s being aware.

YTA

This is bias of my own experience ofc but I've never EVER EVER heard of the reception being several hours after the ceremony. At best I've seen the bridal party take photos for the hour - 2 hours time it takes transitioning venues with a large crowd.  Expecting your guests to keep in formal wear, provide their own meal, and entrain theirselves ir *nap* elsewhere for *hours* *IS* rude. Especially if you had guest from out of town/state, or if it was particularly hot/cold. Regardless of your religion, custom dictates that you're coming off as a bad host.  You inconvenienced people who came to celebrate you and I could never imagine NOT feeding my guests and expecting them to go eat and NAP before the ceremony.

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > I told my girlfriend, who has abandonment issues and a difficult past, “I can’t keep fixing everything every single time” during an emotional moment after she said I’m all she has. I think I might be the asshole because it probably came across like I was calling her a burden or “too much,” especially knowing she struggles with fear of people leaving, and I may have been unnecessarily harsh when she was vulnerable.

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

A soft YTA from someone who obsessively ate and exercised her whole life and now weighs more than ever. What you’re doing is AWESOME and I’m happy for you. But rigidity of the type you’re describing is nearly impossible to maintain. You may not have an eating disorder, but this is disordered eating disorder - that is to say, it’s too rigid and obsessive. You will have better long term success if you build some flexibility into your plan, both for exercise and diet. That way, you’ll develop healthy, sustainable, habits. For instance, meal prep right now at home is viable and you’re thriving. What about vacation? What about when life gets busy? What about if you’re ill? Or any other disruptive reason where you wouldn’t be a failure for deviating from calorie counting and exercise, but you would need to be able to adapt without considering yourself a failure. Food for thought (ha!).

This is how you tell if a person is a real friend or if you're just a convenient acquaintance.  Real friends don't say shit like that.  Real friends support your goals and encourage you to reach them.  Don't waste your time on people like this.  For them, you'll never be more than a convenience because they're jealous of you.  For you, you'll just keep getting your friendship heart broken until eventually you'll choose not to have any at all.  Walk away from that, and stick to your goals.  The ones that support those goals are the ones you need to have as friends.   Good luck on your fitness journey!!

YTA as a guest who experienced this last October. The bride and groom didn't go to a studio but spent 2 hours doing a whole ass photo shoot. Most everyone lived too far to go home, and 2 hours is just that amount of time that's long but not long enough to go somewhere (wedding was rural) and get back in time. It was so boring and felt super inconsiderate.

IDK if she actually learned from it, just saying.

Uh fuck no. They're not entitled.

NTA, she is selfish and doesn't respect you.  It's not about the muffins, it's that she refused to accept your boundary
She is not acting like a partner. I wouldn't live with someone like that

YTA, you don’t abandon your friends when they need help as an I told you so or your a crap friend….

You don’t know that.  Not saying OP does but my sister thought her 1000 calorie a day diet was healthy Now has early onset dementia as a result of b vitamin deficiencies.  She cut calories and nutrients to much

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

My girlfriend and I have been together a little over 2 years. Weird story but we met during COVID playing cs. I’m from the states and for some reason my ping used to be complete trash on local matchmaking servers, so I’d randomly end up on EU ones and that’s how we met. She’s German and about 5.5 years older than me. She was my first actual relationship too. Before her I was honestly kind of a loner. Tiny social circle, mostly online friends (and yeah, half of them were somehow teenagers because gaming lol), basically no dating experience. So when we clicked, I got attached pretty hard because it genuinely felt like “okay, this is my person.”

She’s had a rough past. I don’t want to overshare because it’s her story, but family stuff, people leaving, bad relationships, instability, abandonment issues. At first I actually liked how emotionally open she was. If something upset her, she’d say it. But over time it started feeling like her emotions quietly became the center of everything. If she’s having a bad day, suddenly we’re both having a bad day and the story continued.

But somewhere along the line I feel like I slowly stopped having room for myself. If I reply slow because I’m out or busy I get “everything okay?” then “did I do something?” and eventually “sorry for bothering you.” If I ask for space she’ll say “alles gut” or “it’s fine” but like… it very obviously is not fine. I stopped doing certain things because it honestly became easier than dealing with the sadness after. I also kind of stopped bringing up when I’m upset because somehow it turns into me reassuring her that she isn’t ruining everything or that I’m not leaving. Which sounds harsh writing it out because she’s genuinely not manipulative or cruel. I think she’s just terrified of being abandoned.

Last week something kind of snapped in me. Work has been awful, family stress, barely sleeping, mentally fried. She had another emotional night over family stuff and after hours of crying she said, “you’re all I really have.” I know she meant it lovingly but honestly all I felt was pressure. Like panic almost. And I said, way harsher than I meant to, “I can’t keep fixing everything every single time.”

She got really quiet and just said, “okay… so I’m too much now?” I immediately felt like shit because that genuinely wasn’t what I meant. I tried explaining I’m just overwhelmed lately, but she kind of shut down after that and apparently one of her friends thinks I’m insensitive to trauma. Also random detail that probably makes me sound ridiculous, but before bringing this up I literally practiced the conversation because I’m terrible at conflict and either shut down or say the wrong thing. I used  because I was overthinking the whole thing for days. Didn’t exactly stop me from screwing it up apparently.

AITA?

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Yes of course it is right. Because the landlord incurs zero harm by being called a creep by his tenants. Whereas if the tenants assume he is not a creep, and give him the benefit of the doubt, he may assault them continue to ask invasive questions plant cameras in the property etc. I don’t think you guys realize how predatory many landlords are??? I am one person but just two years ago my landlord was a pervert and assaulted both my roommates. And I remember him asking if I had a boyfriend, and he is the only landlord who has ever asked that. 

Men lose nothing by being called and thought of as creepy whereas for women it allows us to protect ourselves distance ourselves from them be on watch etc. the only person who thinks it’s not worth it to call a guy a creep would be a creep or a selfish man who doesn’t care about the safety or comfort of women

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > 1.) Told an autistic kid to wait

2.) Because I probably could’ve been nicer

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

It's definitely possible if the friend just has facial hair that's very dark or a hormonal disorder like PCOS. You don't necessarily need to be on HRT.

I would like to know what the person that had to travel an hour or 45 min to the wedding did?  No hotel room to "take a nap"- must be their guest list was all geriatrics and toddlers.... and not enough time to go home and freshen up?  So they just..... plodded around town in their wedding costume for hours?

So he shouldn’t have said anything to his friend? That is not good friend behavior

Yes, YTA.  Nobody wants to hang around and kill time for 2 hours while you get pictures or do whatever.

Why would OP call the police ? The guy didn’t do anything wrong in the legal sense so the police are going to want nothing to do with this.

Apparently, OP thinks he's too busy to walk to the trash can.

NTA. Your wedding, your schedule.

You are not compatible. Leave the relationship.

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > The action I took was telling my friend that I didn't understand how she was only now realizing the dress was outside her budget when I had asked multiple times what her budget was and she had repeatedly told me she didn't have one.
She became upset and felt that I was criticizing her decisions instead of supporting her during an emotional part of wedding planning.
I think I might be the asshole because, while what I said was factually true, I may have come across as judgmental, unsympathetic, or dismissive of her feelings when she was already stressed about wedding costs. Instead of helping her work through the problem, I essentially pointed out that she could have avoided it, which may have made her feel worse.

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

NTA.  She is 26 and this is not the first time you have tried to or have successfully stopped her from doing something stupid.  She is lucky all he did was kick her out and leave her with no way home.  She could have been trafficked or killed.

It is possible (and I think maybe it’s likely)  that you do not have an eating disorder, but that your talk about meal prep and gym is annoying.  

Both can be true.

NTA.

Nta. That's not a good partner. Seems like they dont care about your feelings.

NTA, but if you really are dominating the conversation with talk of your weight loss journey (per her comments), you may need to rein that in a little. It's big and important, absolutely, but balance is good too. If that's not the case, then she's just being terrible/jealous. I have a friend who really likes to golf, it's his whole thing. I don't really care for golf. If all he talked about was golf all of a sudden, it would be uncomfortable. A little golf, because its important, is understandable, but in balance with the other person too.

UK wedding answer:

The people I know who did traditional religious church weddings had the ceremony in the morning, and then reconvened in the late afternoon. It's *only* a thing I've ever seen with church weddings, never secular weddings at a non-church venue. At those, the photos happen at the venue, and at the same time the cocktails are flowing, a charcuterie table is available, and there's general mingling amongst guests; the ceremony and reception are taking place in the same property.

The non-religious coworkers who were invited to church weddings went for a boozy brunch in the middle of the church ceremony and the reception hall, and had a great deal of fun. But they knew in advance that there would be a gap, and booked a brunch to keep themselves busy.

But receiving gifts is her love language! /s

Have you tried king arthur baking mixes?

YTA and you don’t understand the point of the cocktail hour

The point is to fill the gap between wedding and reception, if there is one, so you don’t leave your guests (20, 50, 100, 200 people , whatever) sitting around doing nothing for hours

Where are they supposed to go when they’re all dressed up for your wedding and dragged themselves there? How are they supposed to kill that 2 hours? Most public places that let you just sit around and exist in their space require you to spend money to be there, and if you have a large wedding there’s not enough space in the nearest coffee shop for all your guests to go chill there for a minute. If you’re in the city they’re supposed to what, wander around the shops in their heels for two hours? If you’re in a small town or countryside they’re supposed to what, sit in their car or just drive around aimlessly?

There’s a reason it’s gone out of fashion to make your guests wait around for hours. Because it’s rude and inconsiderate to your guests.

I appreciate the explanation. All the more reason to not stress the dog thing. I mean, they are arranging for it to be BF who does the bulk of the care, not you. And if they really stepped dupnwhen you were in need, I think being at least neutral to their dog is the least you can do.

Cheers

Respectfully, can you take photos before the ceremony?

Her credit card is her dad’s. She was trying to avoid getting caught.

Maybe cut her some slack but distance yourself for a while. Perhaps you ARE always talking too much about your workouts and food prep. ? Congrats on your dedication to staying healthy. Good luck.

NTA.

It has always been the way you describe it for wedding i have gone to.

Most often a group of people will gather for lunch for something in between time but it is not up to the wedding arranges to do so.

Weddings are very different from culture to culture though .

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

Hi. So, I posted here like a week ago I think? Post got removed for I can’t remember what, but the only reason I mention it is because I was reminded of this story today and thought I had this throwaway account already, so might as well use it even tho I already posted. Here goes.

This story happened last year in I believe late June if I recall correctly. At the time I was eighteen, and me and my family had gone to Saint Louis for a vacation and we had a really good time, 

We also went to this really cool children’s museum that I unfortunately forgot the name of, but it had like 5 floors plus roof access, I think and was the coolest one I’ve ever been to. Well, as we were leaving, me, my dad, and little brother spotted this slide that led straight down to the entrance from the second or third floor, I forget. We decided we wanted to ride it down while my mom would be us at the door. 

So we went to the slide, got in line, which wasn’t too long thankfully. There’s also a staff member there directing you when to slide, kinda like at water parks, so you couldn’t just slide whenever you wanted, you had to wait your turn. 

My brother was first, then my dad. Well, while we were waiting, there was a black family behind me(I promise the race is relevant). My dad was getting ready to slide, when a young boy grabbed my shirt, telling me to “go go go go” while also pushing me and jumping up and down at the same time. I told him I can’t, that we have to wait. 

His grandmother LOST it on me. She told me not to talk to her grandson like that, that he had autism and couldn’t help it, and that I was being entitled. I was a little stunned, and at that point my dad was already sliding, so he didn’t hear any of this. The attendant and myself were visibly uncomfortable so I just didn’t say anything so not to cause a scene and got ready to slide whenever I heard the woman murmuring something about the entitlement of white people(I’m white), but I can’t really remember exactly what she said. 

So I kinda just, slid down the slide and left, and told my parents about it. I don’t think I’m on the wrong but also like, I don’t know much about autism or if I was really being entitled for telling the kid to wait, idk tho, AITAH?

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Honestly, you're 19, this may just be where your two roads part. You both have separate interests now than what you used to have. That's life. The reactions from both people involved here seem a bit overblown (more on her part though probably). If you want to keep her in your life, I guess try to talk about more than just the gym, if it's true that that is mainly what you talk about now, but otherwise this just may be two personalities growing in different directions at the end of the teen years.

Exactly, in many cultures this is normal. Both my parents have two cousins each that share their name. In my mum’s case 3 daughters born from 3 brothers so they all had the same first and surname until they all married

That's my immediate thought is how is this different than saying if you'd like to stay with us in the hotel then here's your way to book the room. 

I don't know people rich enough to have just bought the whole floor for us, so this is standard to me. Accommodations are not included for guests although they can be at a discounted rate. 

NTA

Or change from church outfit to reception outfit. Or rest after all that kneeling and praying and singing and confessing.

YTA It's tacky to ask your guest to vemmo you to essentially pay for your wedding venue and I honestly think a three day two night wedding is way too long. If I got an invite for something like this it would be a hard no.

YTA, but I still feel somewhat mixed. It's your brother's disability, so that's his fish to fry. What you could've done instead was talk to him about telling his boyfriend. On the other hand, I understand that you did this out of concern and responsibility.

I feel I would need more context on the OP's financial situation because you're absolutely right: unless she is very well off financially where she can easily gift or loan the money to her friend (which is unlikely), then she is justified in looking out for herself, regardless of the situation. If I were OP I would have helped, but *only if I had the means to do so*. It is hypocritical for her friend to expect her to drop money on a flight because she obviously can't. People are not made of $$$

We'll agree to disagree I think its very different to provide guests info for a hotel block that they can book with the hotel vs. the bridal couple making up how much a room should cost and telling guests to venmo to their private account.

Every catholic wedding I attended between 2000 and 2020 had this format. It’s absolutely the standard. It’s also common for other religious weddings to have the reception on an entirely different day! Gasp. 

Don’t worry about the people who have limited life experience. You go to church, you go home and chill and then put on your party dress and go to the cocktails and dinners and reception.

NTA

Very common in Catholic weddings in NY.

OP taught her the lesson that your friends won't always help you. I guess.

NTA. This is very normal for places where the wedding ceremony is in a church and often held in the morning. Then the reception happens in evening. People change from their more church going clothes to more formal evening dress. 

It also assumes few guests were from out of town.

I do personally think this is annoying as a guest, but it's also very common with church weddings, so I wouldn't call you an AH over it. I think your coworker is definitely overreacting though, especially since it was 2 years ago.

I’m not saying that it’s right, but it is quite literally the expectation, and if I was a woman, I wouldn’t fly out to be alone with a guy I don’t know that obviously expecting sex.

YTA. If you can't afford to host people, then don't have a 3 day wedding.

This is so so standard and actually super short. Wtf??

The difference is that his way of looking at it is the dominant way of looking at it and how things have been looked at forever. Recognizing that men are fucking creeps towards women is a relatively new phenomenon since in the past women couldn’t do anything about it. So I think it’s more so the fact that OPs perspective is something an unselfaware person without critical thinking skills would say that doesn’t add value to the conversation at all

Info: what kind of help did she need? Like did she expect you to pay for a flight or just look something up? And why couldn't she do it herself?

Also that guy is a real asshole. It might not be to unusual to expect sex in return for favors, but it's still really shitty. Especially kicking someone out and taking something back that you gave them (in this case a return flight). He fucking promised her he just wanting to hang out, this is the type of guy that makes women distrust men (and thus also ruins it for the good guys!). Just pay for a damn hooker if that's what you want! Or at least be upfront!

I know women like this chick. They're always right until it turns into something like this.  Then they want you to rescue them.  I can't count how many times girls/ladies I've known have disappeared for a while, leaving me to wonder if they're missing, dead or having a good time when they take off and go do unwise things. It's frustrating to have to worry and then go to their rescue. 

He didn't leave her on the streets.  He made sure she had a safe space and then told her to figure it out. 

She didn't want to call her dad because she knew he'd be angry with her. It's time the 26 year old grew up. Life is rough out there, pretty or not - she needs to get smarter before she gets hurt.

NTA. You made sure she was safe, I think that's as far as your responsibility towards her goes. If she holds a grudge because you didn't rescue her from the consequences of her own actions after ignoring every warning (even if she still wanted to go she could have heard you and prepared a backup plan) then that's just the kind of person she is, I guess.

NTA. You’re not her keeper. She had resources.

He doesnt have anxiety medication no, I dont think they've brought it up at the vets before.

NTA but you will find that many people do not support someone who drastically changes their life to be healthier. They loved and enjoyed being unhealthy together and they now feel like they are being judged for not improving their own health.

She could have bought her own plane ticket. She should be able to take care of herself at 26.

Oh brother, she wouldn't have died if she didn't get to eat the muffin. She could've asked for a bite. It's not just about the muffin itself, it's about how spiteful it is to take something like that from him, just bc he asked her to let him have this one good thing to himself. It's not like she'd have missed out on anything major, it's so incredibly greedy.

NTA. Politely decline. It is unbelievably tacky to invite someone to a shower, but not the wedding.

NTA. l am incredulous that a man who abandoned his family and now plans to see his new baby twice a year thinks he can lecture you,  or indeed anybody,  about familial commitment.

Don't allow him to guilt you into anything  , the baby does not know or care and if when they are older wants to contact you,  fine. Unless and until, you owe him nothing .

Sounds like she was more frustrated that every conversation became gym related than the meal prep itself.

YTA

I'm a cradle catholic. I married a cradle catholic. I've attended a ton of catholic weddings. I have NEVER experienced a gap like you're suggesting. There is typically a small gap (30 or 60 minutes) for a photo session while the guests have access to a cocktail hour.

YTA for yelling. Just explain it to her rationally if you value your friendship.

YTA. The cocktail hour is supposed to happen while the pics are being taken

NTA, you were absolutely right to snap at her!! How dare she waltz in and start yelling at your husband right after the birth of your baby!?! She needed to be put in her place.

I dont make enough money from my part time job to be renting, also me and my bf are actively saving so we can buy a house and plan to in around 2 yrs so we dont have to go through the renting process

NTA - not only is the scheduling of your wedding day none of your coworker's business, but giving guests time to do their own thing between the ceremony and the reception is completely normal for some types of weddings. 

If you had expected all the guests to wait for you at the reception space for two hours with no refreshments while you did your photo shoot (or if your wedding took place in the middle of nowhere with nothing for guests to do but wait for you), that could be pretty inconsiderate. But if guests were left to do their own thing with the option to have a rest or go out for food, then met you at the reception space at cocktail hour, that's completely fine and not terribly unusual. 

Also, it was two years ago and it seems like nobody complained, so feel free to ignore your coworker and completely let this go.

ESH

You're a man who isn't picking up after yourself so you're gonna be called the asshole for sure but your partner shouldn't insulting you either even if you should be cleaning up. You're not too busy to put something in the trash stop making excuses. The phrase makes you feel like a bad partner because you're being a bad partner. CLEAN UP AFTER YOURSELF

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

I’m a hairstylist, and I’m wondering if I was rude or if I’m overthinking this.  
A little background: I recently got a new client, and yesterday was only the second time I had ever done her hair. She’s nice enough, but she’s pretty quiet during appointments. I don't mind at all, but because she’s only been in my chair twice, I really don’t know her beyond basic salon conversation.  
Yesterday I worked a long day—over 9 hours straight with no real breaks and no time to eat. By the end of the day, I was exhausted and ready to go home.  
After finishing her appointment, I walked out to my car and realized we were parked directly facing each other. Her car hood was popped open, and she had some wrenches in her hands, apparently trying to fix something. She definitely saw me come out, get into my car, and leave.  
The thing is, I know absolutely nothing about cars, so I wouldn’t have been much help anyway. At the same time, I didn’t even stop to ask if she was okay or needed assistance. I just got in my car and drove home because I was tired and honestly running on empty.  
Now I'm wondering if that came across as cold or uncaring. Part of me thinks a quick “Everything okay?” would have been the polite thing to do. Another part of me feels like she’s essentially still a stranger, I wasn’t qualified to help, and after a long workday I wasn’t obligated to stop.  
AITA for leaving without saying anything?

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

No, that is creepy. Esp if landlord is an older man with a younger girl. The last landlord I had that asked me that was a pervert who assaulted both of my roommates. I wish I would have let myself call him creepy instead of giving him the benefit of the doubt. His friends in the post are right.

YTA. I say this as someone who had to go to a lot of out of town Catholic family weddings. 

Two things can be true here: it can be “common” and “normal” in certain circles to have a gap and it can still be an asshole move to make your guests fend for themselves for two hours after you’ve invited them to your wedding.

My friend had a wedding where the couple wanted to be at cocktail hour. 

Wedding at 1, 90 minute mass. With cocktail hour at 5. So people had basically 2 hours to drive the one mile to the reception 

Bonkers

Ehhh in her defense, we both live off a daddy’s money. So I could’ve bought her a plane ticket

Hopefully she learns that she was lucky that she wasn't trafficked or murdered.

I get your point in general, but in this specific situation I think OPs instincts were spot on

6 months is quite awhile they should have the funeral sooner.. like now then they can choose if their budget can afford both. It's totally way too long to have a funeral after a death.

You don't have an eating disorder but she might. She's just jealous NOR

Oh duh. I think I'm done for the day. When he said she was dumb and couldnt book a ticket I automatically thought it was a skill issue?

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

I need an outside perspective because I'm wondering if I'm being too rigid or practical about this.

One of my close friends is getting married. I've already gone with her to try on wedding dresses three different times. Each appointment lasts around two hours, and I bring my daughters because she specifically wants them there.

During the very first appointment, I asked her what her budget was for the dress. She told me she didn't really have one. I asked again on later visits and got the same answer every time: no set budget.

Because of that, she started trying on extremely expensive dresses—some in the $18,000–$20,000 range. I didn't say anything because, honestly, it's her wedding and her money. I just assumed she could afford whatever she was looking at.

Eventually, she found a dress she absolutely loved, and I thought the search was over.

Now she texted me asking if I can go with her again this Saturday because she's looking at other options. When I asked why, she said she finally added everything up and realized that, once alterations and other wedding expenses are included, the dress would end up costing around $6,500 more than she feels comfortable spending.

I was genuinely confused and said something like:

"But I asked you multiple times what your budget was, and every time you told me you didn't have one. How are you only now realizing it's outside your budget after trying on dresses that cost nearly $20,000?"

She seemed a little annoyed by my response.

From my perspective, if you know budget is a concern, shouldn't you figure that out before falling in love with dresses that are way above what you ultimately want to spend?

AITA for pointing that out, or was I being unnecessarily insensitive?

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Yeah. Something like this isn’t the time to be “teaching lessons.” If something really bad ended up happening to her, OP would never live with themselves if they are any kind of normal human. Help now, get mad later. OP is making this about them by being stubborn.

Nobody wants to go to a 3 day wedding. Anyone who would plan a 3 day wedding thinks they’re way more important than they are.

They’ll find out when people they consider to be close start making excuses why they can’t attend.

To be fair I’m skeptical that’s its about “keeping even”. If my gf’s parents gifted us something from their vacation and my gf tasted it first and said it was the most delicious thing she’s ever eaten so I’m not allowed to have ANY of it, I’d probably be mad too. This thing is super good, was gifted to use both to share, and they don’t want to give me even a piece of one of them? I wouldn’t act like a child and eat it anyway to provoke her but still. 

Sure the celiac sucks so no one wants to call op TA but it’s not like that 1 extra muffin or half a muffin will change their life. ESH

NTA. She’s old enough to suffer the consequences of her actions, especially since she ignored your warnings.  If your friendship ends over this, do not be sad.

NTA. Your "friend" is jealous of your success and willpower. She is not really your friend, you know what you need to do.

YTA- We had a RCC wedding and took the photos before the ceremony. The one time I was at a wedding where they took the photos after the ceremony, we all went bowling but it was very weird. Don’t leave your guests with a two hour hole between the ceremony and reception. We all lived too far away to “go home and take a nap” before the reception.

YTA. For my wedding the photographer took photos of each side individually, then after the ceremony the guests had cocktail hour while the rest of the photos were taken. Wth are guests supposed to do for 2 hours in between??? Sit in their cars?

In all of these situations they could simply tell their parents when they have to go to school? I fail to see your argument

I thought this was a poly question and was very intrigued about the story behind your girlfriend muffins and your non girlfriend partner.

NTA. You were kind enough to ask if she had a safe place to stay. 

I’m guessing she wanted you to pay for a return ticket? Having financial boundaries with friends isn’t even “teaching her a lesson”…it’s just the mature thing to do, especially if you know this friend likely won’t repay an expensive last-minute one way ticket.

She might not like calling her dad because it’s uncomfortable for her and she might experience financial consequences. But at 26, that’s the option she’s left with if she isn’t prepared to pay her own way when things go sideways.

Facts, my thing is just I guess the burden shouldn’t or isn’t on me, or her. Just like DONT ASSUME THINGS ABOUT PEOPLE

ESH. Yeah her behavior is reckless and naive, but you did something that is pretty friendship ending worthy IMO. At the end of the day your friend called for help after a man tried to pressure her into sex. Your response was to wash your hands of it and leave her on her own. Conversations and boundaries could’ve waited till she was home safe.

Your comment has been removed because it violates rule 1: Be Civil. Further incidents may result in a ban.


"How does my comment break Rule 1?"

**Message the mods if you have any questions or concerns.**

NTA my dad, when talking about his honeymoon on Tobago with my mum, loves to mention the time a white dude drove up beside them walking down the road and offered them a lift with the thickest local accent. Your co-worker would probably call that dude racist too. Bet she doesn't get upset when watching things like 'The Amazing Spiderman' where the British lead actor is putting on an American accent.

NTA. 
She has to clean her own mess. Remind her that she was lucky to return home in one piece. And, that the next time may be unlucky. 

You can't look after her for the rest of your life.

And I'm saying that people upholding the implication is asshole behavior. Again, women do NOT owe men sex for any reason.

Isnt this fairly normal? Thats when the bridal party does pictures and guests run out to a local bars for pregame  😆

That's not even close to what OP is saying.

YTA. Been to 15-20 catholic weddings, including my own, there’s always a cocktail hour or something to do between the church and start of the reception. Maybe it’s a cultural thing. My family is Hispanic if that adds any context.

NTA. Sounds like karma comin round the bend. Don’t let it hit you after it runs him over. You don’t get “ do overs “ for a lifetime of bad choices. Mostly I feel for your mom , as it sounds like she’s still being emotionally manipulate. Stand your ground while continuing to support / protect her.

YTA, sorry. You sound more smug than concerned for your friend, and flippantly laughing at her and saying the dude just wanted to bang her from the get-go was mean, even if it was true. A more compassionate approach would likely have gone a long way for both of you.

Also, it should be "thank God *you're* pretty."

I’m not wearing a cocktail dress to hang out at a coffee shop.

I mean I’ve never been to a wedding that was only one day, they usually have events the day before/day after than are optional. I’ve also never been to a wedding where my lodging was paid for. Weddings are expensive, if I can’t afford to go I RSVP no

Yelling is never the most effective form of communication but NTA. You are meal prepping and working out, lots of people do this and you are under the guidance of a doctor. It’s possible your friend was projecting her own insecurities which is definitely unfair. Congratulations on your progress

Everyone sucks here, but I feel more her than you.  
She did a stupid thing, and she should have been more cautious in her actions. Being naive doesn't necessarily make someone the AH, but the fact that you warned her against this specific thing, and then she expected you to bail her out once she went through with it, does.

On the other hand, I think there is a softer YTA here too. She is your friend and she was stranded a plane flight away and you chose that moment to teach her a lesson. That's harsh. You did check she had a safe place to stay first, so that is why it is only a soft YTA; you would absolutely be TA if you didn't ask or didn't care. However, it is still made worse if you already knew she had a strained relationship with her father that this would exacerbate.

I feel if I were in your shoes, and had the means to help her, I would have done so because this was a pretty dramatic situation she found herself in. I would, however, have used it as an opportunty to set a boundary that assistance like this wouldn't come again, especially if she rejected advice given to her in good will to protect her from this specific outcome. I would also make it clear that expected her to pay back any money she was leant, or it wouldn't just be my assistance she would miss out on but my friendship too. She does need to learn responsiblity. I just think, unless there is a pattern of her relying on you to bail her out, then this is a bit harsh right out of the gates.

I always thought the purpose of cocktail hour was occupy your guests while the wedding party takes pictures?

Were all your guests local?

My bf doesn't pay for things but I do like i pay and cook my own food as an example, also they were gone between 12pm and 7pm and his lunch and dinner are 12:30 and 6:30. And yes his family have stated this is the reason he is staying at home

YTA. The cocktail hour should have been when you were doing photos.

ESH I honestly think both of you suck. I could never imagine intentionally doing something to hurt my partner like your gf did but I also can't imagine not wanting to share something that made me cry from joy with my partner, especially when they had every right to assume one was for them? Maybe y'all shouldn't be in a relationship, not because the muffin, but because I can't see an otherwise happy and healthy couple having these reactions at all.

I guess it really depends.

If guests complained a lot about, then yeah I would say YTA. 

If no one was fazed then NTA.  

I would say that it's kinda weird and inconsiderate to leave your guests hanging with nothing to do. That being said, my family was Baptist, most of the weddings I've been to were either Baptist or non-religious. The expectations for those are different from more traditional Catholic weddings, I'm sure. That's why i say it depends.

NTA. This is very typical for many weddings I’ve attended. The church crowd is normally much smaller than the reception. Any guests from out of town seem to appreciate the opportunity to freshen up in between events. 

Me? I just go to the bar.

Right, so it's a difference without distinction.

NTA

Oh my lovely, this is toxic.

I understand some cultures look after their families, nothing wrong with that. But where is the motherly and fatherly love, now you are in times of need?

If your own parents cannot be kind to you, then they are not keeping your relationship alive for the love....its for the money. 

I know you want to keep your new phone. But is it worth it? Emotional damage vs a phone. 

Or

For the fact they treat you like a bank and not a son. Just stop paying and responding to them, until you have the money or just cut them off for good. What are they going to do? There is no legal binding here. Focus on your life and ignore them. Don't forget to protect your mental health.

YTA. You cannot be serious? You leave shit all over the apartment, for her to clean up, then get upset when she makes you feel like a lazy slob, even though you’re being a lazy slob? Oh my god.

YTA. There’s nothing wrong with saying she finds that you leaving a mess is an attractive behavior. A lot of people I do (myself among them). You know what would stop her from saying it, right? If you cleaned up after yourself. You’re making it her job to clean up after you. Just because “she’s in charge of cleaning the house”, doesn’t mean she’s your maid. 

P.S. Literally leaving a bag of fast food on the floor is the epitome of “lazy slob”. If you don’t want her to think of you that way, don’t behave that way.

End this relationship now! It’s not over a muffin. It’s because she doesn’t care if you get sick from non gf food. She is selfish and entitled and you need a girlfriend who actually considers your needs. Eating your muffin in front of you is what a 6 year old would do. Did she say na-na na-na as she did it? 

You deserve so much better.

YTA. You initially presented as a noble guy but did not offer help when she needed it the most. Anyone can advise and warn, but you should have flown her home and just made her pay you back. Lesson would have still been learned.

I’m dead at Indian slaves being considered colonizers 😭

NTA.
Not everyone can drop $$$ for a flight with no warning. Why assume OP wouldnt be going short on groceries to help her friend out of a - completely predictable and easily preventable - situation of her own making?

Like...I wouldnt be able to afford surprise plane tickets. Does that make everyone who cant afford surprise plane tickets for a friend TA???

It's because of the implication.

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > I told my girlfriend, who has abandonment issues and a difficult past, “I can’t keep fixing everything every single time” during an emotional moment after she said I’m all she has. I think I might be the asshole because it probably came across like I was calling her a burden or “too much,” especially knowing she struggles with fear of people leaving, and I may have been unnecessarily harsh when she was vulnerable.

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

NTA You would probably be wasting your breath, but explain he’s just your sperm donor not your father. That’s thousands of babies are born each day, and you don’t meet any of them. Why would you go meet a random baby from people you don’t know or have a relationship with.

Be blunt and nuke (what’s left) of the relationship from orbit. Do it by text or email so you can forit to anyone who questions you, especially his new wife. I bet she is asking questions about his kids and doesn’t know he effectively abandoned you.

Did OP really leave her friend stranded though? It sounds like her friend stranded herself. OP at least made sure that her friend was safe, which is more than her friend did for herself.

If you don’t know by the age of 26 that getting on a plane to somewhere to meet a total stranger, when you can’t afford to buy a ticket back if things go bad, are you ever going to learn?

Gap wedding suck. 

People are usually not near their house in fancy clothes. So what are they suppose to do for a couple hours in a place they might not know? 

Go to bar? Take a walk in a park? Sit their car? Drive around? 

YTA

It sounds like she can’t afford it hense why she had to go to her dad for money

YTA in my book.  You should have taken pics during cocktail hour so that your guests aren’t bored to tears or spending more money looking for a place to eat lunch or whatever. People seem to forget that the bride and groom are not just the focus of the day, but they’re the HOSTS as well.  When you invite people to something, it’s the hosts duty to make sure guests are comfortable and taken care of.

She can't book a flight on her own? Or call an uber?

Fuck you, OP isn't restricting his girlfriends access to food. Food trauma isn't an excuse to be greedy, selfish, and spiteful. Good food is a commodity for her, and when OP wanted a rare treat to himself, she decided that was unacceptable?? She could have asked for a bite if she wanted to try it, she did not NEED to eat their food. It's perfectly normal to have food to yourself in a relationship, you are not entitled to everything your partner has, especially if that specific food item is not something they can easily/frequently find. I would NEVER eat something out of spite, or  AT ALL if my partner said they wanted it for themselves, whether they had dietary restrictions or not.

INFO - were most of the guests local or did you have a significant number that traveled in for the event?

If the latter, YWBTA mildly, as they are left milling about in a strange place with not enough time to really do anything. You also can get mad if people show up to cocktail hour already well into their own cups, as that is a common way to pass the time.

Having also grown up attending (many, many) Catholic weddings, I don't recall any gaps like that, as the cocktail hour generally started in about an hour (to let guests move from point A to point B) while the wedding party took pictures essentially during the cocktail hour (it is there to fill the time for everyone not tied up with pictures).

YTA - with some unattractive behaviors that shouldn't require being pointed out to you.

Work didn't keep you from picking up the food bag.

Ok this is fairly common for catholic weddings.

YTA but go ahead and speak your mind. Let us know how that works out for you.

You very clearly have never had of lived with someone who has coeliac. My ex partner is coeliac and is constantly scared of eating out anywhere in case of exposure. When we did eat out there was at least two dollars extra for anything they needed to be GF and most of the time it tasted much worse than whatever I had.

Good gluten free food that is safe and is consistently safe is ridiculously hard to find and is usually expensive as. OP was given good gluten free muffins that were likely incredibly hard to come by and they wanted to savour it for themself. That's okay. They offered their partner to get equivalent muffins, and it honestly seems like they begged for her to just let them enjoy this one good thing and what did she do? She ate it just to spite them without even pausing to savour the taste. Talk about adding insult to injury. 

What she did was mean-spirited and cruel. She can eat food with gluten in it and it seems like she does. OP offered to buy her muffins and bring them back to her which I assume means their home is not GF and she has gluten food at home. 

Baking GF food at home can yield some good food but just like not wanting to make a flour cake from scratch and buying it from the store, gluten free people can also want to buy premade items.

NTA, OP, and I'm sorry your partner has so little regard for you

#PLEASE REVIEW THIS MESSAGE IN FULL. 

Your post has been removed.

This post violates Rule 8. We do not allow posts involving changes to contact levels with romantic/sexual partners, friends, family members or acquaintances. This includes ghosting, breaking off, cutting or reducing contact, or denying a relationship (or not) with anyone. We have a relationship focused sister sub, r/AITA_Relationships, as an alternative.

###Please review our rules in their entirety, then message the mods before attempting to resubmit your story. 

#Resubmitting without approval (including edited versions) will lead to a ban, no exceptions. Approval is ***exclusively*** granted via the "message the mods" link above. Yes, this applies to you *even if you believe this removal was in error.*

*You can visit r/findareddit for a comprehensive list of other subs that may be able to host this discussion for you.*

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

NTA if she is grown enough to fly after random men she is grown enough to book a flight and return. If she was in danger then that’s different but she wasn’t…so you are not obligated to help

Nta but I would change the wording to take the pressure off. Something like " we have 30 cabins reserved for guests on-site. If you would like to reserve one, please contact x person for pricing. If not, there are other options nearby"

It's your wedding, so NTA, but be aware that that is absolutely not the norm for most folks — and your guests might have a bad time if they aren't aware.

This is not uncommon for catholic weddings.  The last two I went to had hours between the ceremony and sit down reception.

NTA. and the hide of him to suggest you are immature if you don’t forgive him! You can bet your ass he’s  after money and/or somewhere to live . Keep your distance , no need for anymore confrontation unless he becomes insufferable.

The woman she was talking to was black... Making it seem even more racist.

*touches ground* something terrible happened here

They planned the trip before I came into the picture

Then find roommates. Don't make yourself dependent on a man so early in life.

Just 3 days of your time😂

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > 1. Yelling at my friend for accusing me of having an ED 2. Was I being too harsh or did I stand up for myself?

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

I mean I don't think it's worth getting worked up over, especially considering there's nothing you can do about it now, but I do think mild YTA for leaving your guests for two hours to entertain themselves before coming back to the reception. 

I (and by the sounds of it, most of the other people on this thread) have literally never been to a wedding where that's been the case.

She had a place to stay and was warned over and over again.

NTA.   That has happened for a lot of weddings I've been too.   I will say I've only been to weddings in a big city were the people could easily find a place to hang out for a couple of hours, if only at a coffee shop.   If they are stuck out in the middle of nowhere with nothing to do, no shelter from the elements, nothing to eat or drink and no bathrooms my answer would change.

I’m leaning on YTA. I do think it’s inconsiderate for the guests and I hated it when one of my friends did it. We had to scramble for in-between plans, because we were stuck in a spot where we were too far to go back home but too close to get an hotel.

I also had a Catholic wedding, and we did the ceremony at 3pm and took pictures during cocktail hour.

So wait after he warned her multiple times he is supposed to pay for her flight back cause she is a dumb ass, we don’t even know how this would effect him financially. As a women, she should know better and for the sounds of it this isn’t her first time getting herself stranded even her own dad is getting fed up with her antics

I don’t see why that matters.

Was the help she expected from you anything other than you buying her ticket? Because if it was, she didn’t want help, she wanted a bailout.

That doesn’t sound like a friend, but a user.

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

My girlfriend and I have been together a little over 2 years. Weird story but we met during COVID playing valorant. I’m (28F) from the US and for some reason my ping used to be complete trash on local matchmaking servers, so I’d randomly end up on EU ones and that’s how we met. She’s German and about 5.5 years older than me. She was my first actual relationship too. Before her I was honestly kind of a loner. Tiny social circle, mostly online friends (and yeah, half of them were somehow teenagers because gaming lol), basically no dating experience. So when we clicked, I got attached pretty hard because it genuinely felt like “okay, this is my person.” And a few years later we made it official after taking it slow.

Now, she’s had a rough past. I don’t want to overshare because it’s her story, but family stuff, people leaving, bad relationships, instability, abandonment issues. At first I actually liked how emotionally open she was. If something upset her, she’d say it. But over time it started feeling like her emotions quietly became the center of everything. If she’s having a bad day, suddenly we’re both having a bad day and similar stuff.

But somewhere along the line I feel like I slowly stopped having room for myself. If I reply slow because I’m out or busy I get “everything okay?” then “did I do something?” and eventually “sorry for bothering you.” If I ask for space she’ll say “alles gut” or “it’s fine” but like… it very obviously is not fine. I stopped doing certain things because it honestly became easier than dealing with the sadness after. I also kind of stopped bringing up when I’m upset because somehow it turns into me reassuring her that she isn’t ruining everything or that I’m not leaving. Which sounds harsh writing it out because she’s genuinely not manipulative or cruel. I think she’s just terrified of being abandoned.

Last week something kind of snapped in me. Work has been awful, family stress, barely sleeping, mentally fried. She had another emotional night over family stuff and after hours of crying she said, “you’re all I really have.” I know she meant it lovingly but honestly all I felt was pressure. Like panic almost. And I said, way harsher than I meant to, “I can’t keep fixing everything every single time.”

She got really quiet and just said, “okay… so I’m too much now?” I immediately felt like shit because that genuinely wasn’t what I meant. I tried explaining I’m just overwhelmed lately, but she kind of shut down after that and apparently one of her friends thinks I’m insensitive to trauma. Also random detail that probably makes me sound ridiculous, but before bringing this up I literally practiced the conversation because I’m terrible at conflict and either shut down or say the wrong thing. I used  because I was overthinking the whole thing for days. Didn’t exactly stop me from screwing it up apparently.

AITA?

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

*He got quiet and said he was fighting his own problems too and maybe one day I’d understand*

So was your mother.

*My mom ended up helping him financially more than once*

*I remember overhearing arguments about money and my mom crying sometimes because things were tight.* 

*My mom struggled after divorce.* 

*Didn’t show up when she had surgery*

And so did you.

*When I was having a rough time in college*

Despite all your mother went through, she was still present for you and for him. And you went through a lot, living through all your mom went through. And the divorce, was that with your dad? That must sucked for you too. Not just for your mom.

The point is, your uncle wasn't the only one going through shit. You guys were too. Your mom was there for him when he needed her. But he wasn't there for anyone. And he needs to own that. And make amends, work on repairing the relationship while acknowledging his wrongs. And not just sweep them under the carpet.

You're an ass doctor and your ass doctor.

I holy doubt your coworker “went off” on you. He stated the obvious to most people but not to you I guess. A two hour gap is a long time to be doing noting when you blocked out your whole day to be at someone’s wedding. Not to mention that some of your guests probably had to travel from far.

Weird I was raised catholic, and the couple wedding I've been to the reception is almost immediately after with food being served at most an hour after so the newlyweds can do their photos while everyone meets up and waits for them to be announced.

If you make it crystal clear to your guests that there is nothing planned and they will need to organize food/drinks for themselves for that time, you’re less of an asshole. As a guest I wouldn’t be thrilled, but would be a lot better equipped than the wedding I went to as a college student where this happened. Myself and a lot of other guests had no idea it was the plan, did not have transportation since it was a destination wedding and didn’t know our way around. We ended up sitting at the reception venue with access to alcohol but no food for over two hours…I will leave it to your imagination how that went down in a group consisting of many, MANY college students.

NTA they just want gifts.

I mean, the whole reason she got stoned is because she's not religious and is being forced to be at a religious event. Thats kinda crucial to the story. 

Also the judgement from the brother at her being an asshole was based purely on religion.  Im not sure how you think religion isn't the main plot line here.....

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

So for the last 6 months or so, I have been very conscious about what I eat and exercise. I was diagnosed with prediabetes, and I am only 19, so I needed to get serious about my health. I have started meal-prepping everything, using a scale to calorie count all my food and not eating out. I have lost 40 lbs so far and am pleased with my progress, I have visible abs and leg and arm definition. I went to the doctor just last week, and all he said that my BMI was healthy (18.9).

My friend texted me yesterday to go get dinner (through a drive through), and I told her I would come with her but I wanted to bring my meal prep. She disliked the message, and when she came to pick me up, I actually had my food and she was shocked because she thought I was joking. I told her I needed to stay on track, and eating at restaurants made it so there was too much variability in caloric intake and nutrient density.

We went through taco bell and she started eating her food. She said that I had an obvious eating disorder, and "it was sad for her to see." I told her I didn't and ate appropriately for my fitness goals, and she just said my obsession with going to the gym and talking about it all the time when we used to talk about other things, was annoying and she pitied me.

I felt really hurt, and also just feel like she undermined all my hard work by accusing me of having an eating disorder. It also hurt that she said I was annoying now because I was just excited to talk about my interests, the gym being one of them, now. I yelled at her, saying if she can't support my successes than she shouldn't be in my life. AITAH? I feel bad and she hasn't texted me today. I don't know if I was too harsh or if I rightfully stood up for myself.  

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

well no as this has been the norm for you and several others i know

NTA, a gap is perfectly normal. (Source: married into a large Catholic family.)

If you are really afraid for her safety, I would call the police in the city she visited. Give them the whole story, including the guy's name and location, if you have it. Don't hold anything back from them. I do hope that she is just so mad at you that she is blocking or just not answering your calls. Do you know either of her parents or siblings?  Call them! Do you know where they live? Go there. I hope she turns up and forgives you. If she is home, send her a nice friendship card.

NTA bc you're allowed to copy your mum, and you  weren't doing anything wrong or insensitive. 

I would say to give her some grace for the misunderstanding though, bc as a Black woman she's probably faced a lot of weird racism in her life and very likely has to be constantly wary of potential racist behaviors for her own peace of mind and safety. 

You say you're essentially white passing, so to her, the optics aren't great (bc unfortunately racists love to mock accents). 

She's a kinda TA for spreading it around to your coworkers and not just saying something to you about it directly, and it would be fair to say she over reacted, but again:  I'd cut her some slack if it were me, because it's understandable to be sensitive about racism, or perceived racism in our current times.

YTA. It's a horrible experience for the guests. 

The first time I went to a wedding like this I was like what the actual fuck. We went to see a movie. 

Unimaginable to treat friends and family like this who are spending their time and hundreds or thousands of dollars to come support you, some of whom even traveled to get there. Inconceivable.

YWNBTA. If you feel like it, include a message in your decline about not being able to go, but would love to catch up over a drink/coffee/whatever sometime. If they're interested in reconnecting, they'll take you up on it. Otherwise you were a gift mule/consolation invite.

NTA she’s lucky she just got kicked out and her flight canceled, he could have done a lot worse. 
 At 26 she should be capable of booking her own travel and figuring things out. Maybe it’s time for her dad to cut her off.

That is insane. Eat a late lunch? Part of hosting people at your wedding is to feed them.

I realize that but for me personally that’s how me and my friends are it’s just how it is between us

I dont pay rent but I have offered to (more info in the edit of the post) and I dont get invited to family events

He was her first option not her only one.

YTA for the way you talk about someone you supposedly are close friends with. “It’s a real case of thank god your [sic] pretty.” (Kind of diluting your point there with that spelling error, embarrassingly for you.) Also, not sure what you meant by “refusing to help,” but if it was something you could have managed fairly easily, you should have done it. You’re not her dad or her manager or supervisor, and she doesn’t have to listen to you. Get over this superiority complex you have over your poor friend who has just learned she can’t count on you.

It’s pretty obvious they’re taking about high school or even middle school.

A grown ass woman who can rent a car or buy a plane ticket wasnt stranded. Unless she was broke and didn't have money for those things. But even still to be grown and broke and leave the house on your own accord is you agreeing to the terms and conditions.

This is fairly standard where I come from.  Many people however only come to the Reception.

Genuinely curious here, what's wrong with a summer camp wedding?

It was you and your wife's wedding.

Were any of the guests upset about it?

Screw what he thinks

NTA

So SHE put her self into this situation while HE probably beg her to not go and it become HIS problem to not help her ?!? What the actual...? 

Not his job to always rescue a dum friend who doesn't listen all the time. 

There is limits to what a friend can do. She literally put herself into this situation thinking that a stranger would not want to have sex with her.

I'm not exactly sure from a completely logical standpoint, but lipstick does feeeel more feminizing than a wig. Like maybe the difference between wearing a woman's top as a joke and wearing women's panties.

Why does it matter? It was 2 years ago 

Anyways. 2 hours isn’t that bad. Nta

The thing I'm stuck on is your idea that women have to have sex with men based on what they've done for the woman. There is this pervasive idea that a woman "owes" a guy sex because he did something for her, and you put it blatantly as "her end of that unspoken bargain". 

I'm all for letting people experience the consequences of their own actions. NTA for trying to talk her out of it, or ensuring she's safe, or not stepping in to fix her problems, but slightly TA for perpetuating the idea that women owe men (or anyone) sex.

Not defending OP at literally all (infact the opposite), but someone without legs or arms and are 10. I think that would count and basically only that. But if the OP is dating a 10 year old who has been in a horrible accident there are soooooooooo many other concerns lol.

He’s right, you should rent a bouncy castle outside the church to keep the guests occupied.

2hrs?!?!?!?! Oh man YTA 
I skip the ceremony and go to the party. 2hrs!?!?! I would never wake up from my nap

Run.  This dudes a creep. Also so is coach w.

“You can lead a horticulture, but you can’t make her think.” - Dorothy Parker

Well, you has the wedding. Did others think you were inconsiderate or does this coworker just want to argue?

Uh yeah, YTA. Very baffling.

I would'nt call them racist for pointing out the fact my articulation is'nt perfect, its a fact but I dont see the relevance of bringing it up.

She can probably book it but not pay for it.  Evidently her “influencer” money doesn’t amount to much; note she’s living off daddy.

Eeks I think it's pretty entitled to expect other people to bail you out when you make mistakes

Why is this guy so worried about a wedding he wasn't invited to? NTA

I would want to make sure that the invitation to the wedding wasn’t lost in the mail. Is the only reason that you believe you weren’t invited because someone else received one?

I mean… I would say YTA. Cocktail hour is meant to be for the guest’s entertainment while the wedding party and family is taking photos.

She's 26 years old and can't figure out how to book a plane ticket? But she can book a hotel room? No, my best friend would have rightfully told me to get myself home and we could have a comfort meet up to talk about what happened. Treating this girl like a spoiled child will continue to enable her to act like, well - a spoiled child.

NTA you warned her and and are not responsible for fixing other people's mistakes

Getting yelled at publicly by your dad would stick with anyone Wanting your sister there instead makes sense.

the GF obviously does value them. its one muffin the parents said specifically was to share. she has changed her entire diet and makes daily sacrifices. if that isnt valuing someone to you then I think you need a better understanding of how relationships work.

I was escaping an unsafe home and also im not american im from the UK

Kind of the asshole.  She learnt her lesson from being kicked out and having flights canceled, she could have used your help.

throw him in the garbage. his mother, too. His duty is to you and his new baby. His mother’s duty is to give you whatever space you need or to provide support. shame on them both.

NTA because you ascertained she was safe - l assume had she not had somewhere you would have done more ( not sure what, did she expect you to fly out to hold her hand or something-? Or just send money?) 

It was the absolutely stupidest thing for her to do and l sincerely hope it’s taught her a lesson, it could have been SO much worse.

Yeah tbh I don’t get it either. I could never. I also wanted to move out and be independent asap so I just rented places with a bunch of roommates. I know people like to say the economy is bad (which it is), but living with a bunch of roommates is still affordable for the majority of young people I’ve seen on these subs. I made $28k after college which is equivalent to probably around $40k now, and my parents didn’t support me financially. It was super tight but doable.

Do you live with any kind of dietary restriction?

Here I was trying to decipher the title as if GF meant girlfriend.A

This is so valid thank you

"I didn't want my sister to come because she wanted to go for herself and not to celebrate all the work I did to get there"

INFO - what does this even mean?

Yta. Got to help a homie out and then call them a dumbass afterwards.

Naw, he’s just a spoiled child/man who wants the best bathroom.

Your comment has been removed because it violates rule 1: Be Civil. Further incidents may result in a ban.


"How does my comment break Rule 1?"

**Message the mods if you have any questions or concerns.**

Yeah doggo sounds like he could use some Trazodone to take the edge off

I wish I had a dollar for every time I guy said "I won't try anything, I swear." Right. I believe in Santa Claus and the Easter too.

You are under their roof. You kind of have to live by their rules. You don't have a landlord tenant agreement. So suck it up Buttercup

NTA - this was textbook. You warned her multiple times and you checked she was safe, wasn't on you to do anything else.

Just because she learned a lesson doesn’t mean you taught it to her

Thank this actually helps alot!

exactly this!! i’m still so surprised some women don’t have any sense of self awareness around men in today’s climate.. honestly if it were me i would’ve tried to scare the shit out of her with horror stories to try and drill some sense into her

Yes you are the AH. 

Doesn’t matter if she made a stupid decision. As her ‘bestie’ you should be there for her no matter what. Especially being a female left alone in a new place. 
You essentially told her ‘ha ha I told you so. You’re on your own now’. I wouldn’t talk to you either.

My bf doesn't want a dog in the future and yes I was escaping an unsafe home

NTA. I have to eat gluten free too. My spouse and kids don’t. Even my children know that they do not eat mom’s food. Ever.

Send back the phone after you wipe it. (Registered so she can't pretend she didn't get it back.) Use your old phone until you can get a newer one or a payment plan. NTA

I have 5 kids, all of them were serious achievers like you. They would NEVER have gone to any such event. But, that did not matter to me so we did not go.

One of my son's won a national writing contest. He refused to go to New York to the awards ceremony because it would take too much time, too much money (he would have had to miss work and was saving for college), for something that was not important to him. He felt that he had already won the prize, standing on stage to be acknowledged had zero interest for him.

It sounds like it matters a great deal to your mother. I think you should decide if it is worth the disappointment to her to skip it. She might feel a great deal of pride at all you have done and her part in helping you to achieve it. What opportunities did she have to excel? 

Allowing her to stand in a pride filled moment seems to be a small ask. You will have many great moments in the future, this is one she can really relate to.

NTA. If she's not living there officially, she should not being basically living there if it makes you uncomfortable. She can split bills 3 ways with y'all and that may make a difference! But he never even asked or had a conversation with you about her "hard transition". That's your home, too.

I don't know a ton of insults that I would even hint to off the top of my head. I'm sure your vocabulary is much more nuanced in that genre

Two days of golf is totally fair.  And at least half of one of the other days it's your husband's job to take care of your son and you go to the spa or some other relaxing thing. (And maybe your SIL wants to join you and HER husband can parent foor that time too)

Tell your dad the school banded him for yelling on their premises 
However 
YTA. In your parents eyes, your award is as much theirs as it is yours (it’s not fair or right it just is) Parents live vicariously through their children. Imagine someone told you you won an award but you weren’t allowed see the award 
Well done on doing so well!

Did their answer satisfy you?

She's so selfish that she'd rather buy a muffin off you, than let you have something nice to yourself?? And to eat it in front of you, simply because you asked her to just let you have this one thing? What is she trying to prove, that you don't get to have good food to yourself? 

I don't know if breaking up is totally necessary, but I'd strongly lean towards it if I were you. If someone behaves so selfishly over something like good food, which mind you, is a commodity for her, then I wonder how much better they can be in other aspects of your lives. It's such an incredibly spiteful, immature thing to do. This is the kind of problem I had with my brother when we were little kids.

And you live by yourself and pay for all your expenses?

NTA. 

Sounds like she needed to learn this lesson. My personal distaste for influencers aside, this girl put herself in a very dangerous situation that could have led to her disappearance or death. She needs to grow up, hopefully she sees this as an opportunity to do so.

YTA it’s fine to say I told you so and next time you’re on your own, but leaving your friend stranded sucks.

Your subject is actually the opposite of what happened. By help her, does that mean provide $ for a plane ticket? Or is it working out logistics of how to arrange a flight out? Either way it seems like if she was able to afford a hotel room and had a phone that she could use to figure out how to get home, you are NTA. She needs to grow up.

NTA. You warned her, and when it turned out you were right, you made sure she had a place to stay. That's the end of your obligation. If she doesn't learn now, she never will.

NTA. Tell your father that his shouting at you ruined last year’s ceremony, you are not inviting hem to make sure this one goes better. And that now you and your sister are closer, she can come be with you for this one.

I get overwhelmed easily, I was taking care of the dog recently with my partner for 4 days and on day 2 I asked my partner if he we could essentially swap shifts so he goes down and I stay upstairs for a bit cause I couldn't handle the barking anymore. Its part of the reason why I feel uncomfortable taking care of the dog for even longer whilst they are on holiday but obviously if it needs doing ill do it just wanted to let his family know how I feel on the matter yk?

NTA. I would feel gross about this too, its the bridal equivalent of tipping culture.

Its tacky if you ask them to venmo you, but most hotels/resorts will allow you to do a group block and allow people to pay directly. If you were planning on paying a portion of the rooms they can usually set up a portal that your guests can book directly at the discounted price, and invoice you the rest. You need to give a deadline at which they release the remaining rooms but overall it's a lot simpler than you booking for each individual

NTA. She’s an adult, she didn’t listen to you, she gets to own her mistakes.

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > I might be the asshole because I did not consider that some guests might have been offended by the large gap between the ceremony and the reception. As someone who only been to religious weddings, I dont have the experience of going to a non-religious wedding, which might have different standards

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

I (18F) worked part time at a law firm while I was still in high school. I had (still have) a boyfriend (20M), we met in high school. My boss was very supportive and caring for me because I was the youngest person there. He used to text me for work stuff. One night we kept texting until 2am and we got closer. Long story short, he took me to his cabin like 2 hours away and we were drunk. I was in the middle of a fight with my BF so we hadn’t talked in like 2 days. We only snapped to keep the streak. One thing turned into another and we were having sex. He was very good at it. I felt bad and awkward after. But I had sex with him 2 more times on different occasions to get back at my BF during fights. My BF still doesn’t know. Idk if I should tell him or not.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

NTA shes 2freaking6. Time to grow up. Shes lucky being thrown out was all that happened to her.

I could'nt understand why a general elitist tone was called to be present.

This was my take too, it was her gift, and the gf changed her whole diet out of consideration for OP

Here's the thing. We live in a racist society, and everything is filtered through a racist lens, whether we like it or not. You're white/white-passing and there's a lot of privilege that comes with that that you mostly get to benefit from. Occasionally it means you don't get to do or say certain things. It's not because you're bad if you do, it's just because people who look like you have a long history of, sometimes maliciously, sometimes just ignorantly, causing a lot of harm to people from minority/marginalized communities. One of the ways they've done that is through language and mockery. You don't owe anyone an explanation, but you owe your culture the acknowledgement that you are white passing, and with that comes the responsibility to not cause white harm. 

That said, I'm going NAH. You weren't thinking; you got called out. In the future, you'll (hopefully) do better. If you don't, then you'll be TA.

NTA. Does she have an actual place to live?  Don’t let her chase you into your room.  You pay rent.  You should absolutely work where you’d rather.  Start making her not WANT to be there

You can be white and be Caribbean tho !

It wouldn't be "normal" for an Indian presenting or Chinese presenting person to suddenly start doing a Carribean accent to a black coworker either.

But is he actually trying to make amends. Amends isn't everyone sweeping everything you did under the rug. Amends is acknowledgement, accountability, repair and change of behavior so your actions match your words

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

My mother was sick last week, and we all thought it was ulcer, so she took some meds in the morning only for her condition to not be getting better in the evening, so we took her to the hospital and she was remanded there for the night, I have 3 younger siblings and we all live in the same house with both parents. When she was being taken to the hospital during the evening, I wasn’t home, I was out running a few errands for her. Came home to see she had left for the hospital, I couldn’t go there that night because I had to look after my siblings , while my dad and aunt was with her at the hospital, during her 6 day stay I only visited twice, because I had to assume more responsibility of looking after my younger siblings, cooking and doing almost every chore, Although she had her sister always with her, but regardless of how well I handled the house while she was away, she still thinks am the asshole for not visiting often.

AITA 

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

NTA, you repeatedly told her the dangers and she chose to ignore them. Not your monkey, not your circus

NTA What the heck is this comment section? I mean she's totally gonna keep getting vapes whether you confiscate them or not. And sure she's replacing one very harmful habit with another "lesser" bad habit but considering she has Asthma i could argue it's more harmful than what she was doing before. 

What sucks though is that youre dealing with this at such a young age

Exactly, that's not her place so she shouldn't be there while bf is at work! I'd be pissed if I'm paying rent and someone is staying even when my roommate isn't home. I'm an introvert and I would never share rent with multiple roommates because I don't want to be in that situation

NTA for trying to talk her out of it but in my opinion YTA for not helping her while she’s stranded. I can’t imagine my own best friends doing that to me or me doing that to them.

She can't book an airplane ticket on her own?

It seems that both of you are trying to prove something without even acknowledging each other. It's also good to start a conversation without making the other person feel like their feelings are invalid. Try to acknowledge the fact that you are indeed leaving a mess (which makes her frustrated even after giving a hint to not do it again) then you can proceed on explaining your end why stuff like that happens (due to work) and why calling you like that is uneasy for you. 

It that case, she MIGHT wanna do the same thing for you. What's important is you both acknowledge each other.

The “Caribbean race” are the native peoples who inhabited the islands before they were colonized and enslaved. As a white/Indian person you have way more privilege than those folks. Your mother be virtue of being Indian is also not native to the region, and also has her own privilege in that society and society at large. You are a part of the colonizers. And the fact that you can’t see where you are at fault is honestly way more problematic imo than some white girl at work thinking you were racist for using an accent that you have never used around her.

NTA. You can lead a horse to water but you can’t make it drink

This is absolutely the way. It's possible the onsite cabins in the lux package are a legitimately good deal that people will want to take advantage of. Just involve them in the discussion ahead of time and nobody can accuse you of sticking them with an unwanted bill.

One of the best weddings I've been to fit this description, actually. The bride sent out an email blast with a note saying "uh, would y'all be into staying at this awesome place? It'd be $xxx a head, let me know" and the answer was a resounding "YES, we are into that". Especially since it *was* awesome, and it was also a destination wedding and nobody really wanted to figure out their own accommodations. In the long run, she was doing us a favor.

the n word is incomparable to “perry”. You sound dumb as hell.

For some people it's easier for them to put their feelings down in writing rather than verbalizing them.   If OP had tried to have this "discussion" with Andrea over the phone or facetime do you honestly think that she would have allowed him to fully express himself BEFORE she tried to interrupt him to "correct" his perception of his own childhood?  Should they have had a discussion AFTER Andrea read his email, yes....but only if she was willing to accept his feelings & perspective on their relationship rather than insisting he treat her how SHE expects their relationship to be.

Wow, you basically described my dad to a T. NAH, if it helps at all, mine eventually got better as I got into adulthood but the emotionally distant part might just be your dad's personality.

NTA. Tell her you'll send the money to your sister directly. Then never send them anything again. You have your child to worry about.

Info: 

1. Do you and your boyfriend pay anything to his parents for the two of you living there (i.e. rent, a share of utilities, groceries, etc)? 

2. Is his watching the dog the only reason he isn't going on the family trip?

Also, I will just note that you probably could have watched the dog for seven hours without having to feed him.

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

I'm(M33) already married 2 years to my wife, but I was talking to a new coworker(M29) today about weddings. I mentioned how after the wedding ceremony, we had our wedding photos taken at a studio because we figured a fall wedding could have gloomy weather.

He then asked what entertainment I had for the guests during the photos. Now full disclosure I've only ever been to Catholic weddings. And those seem to follow the same script: wedding ceremony around noon, bridal party goes to take photos, and the guests go off on their own until everyone comes to the reception for cocktail hour around 5:30. So, I told him we had nothing planned for them, we just met up with everyone at the reception in the evening. He went off on me saying that I was inconsiderate to the guests and how I should have made plans to entertain them until cocktail hour. Now, ignoring the fact that people need time to go from the church to the reception hall, I told him that seemed ridiculous, since I've never had a problem with the break because most people use that time to eat a late lunch, or to take a nap. He's very insistent that what I did was inconsiderate, so AITA?

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

It’s frustrating because it shows the ignorance of people who don’t understand the diversity of the Caribbean. Why is it my fault you don’t know people who are not black can be Caribbean !

YWBTA

You are living with bf's family while having dated only 6 months? What's the story there, OP? How long have you lived there? Why did you move in with another teenager's family rather than stay with your own?

How much do you contribute to the household? Rent? Utilities? Groceries? Regular chores beyond taking care of your own spaces, belongings and messes?

Are you contributing fairly as an adult in the household, or do they treat you as your bf's attachment and another older child, as he is?

I am confused about why you live with your bf in his family home, yet he would leave you there and travel with the family.

You would certainly be biting the hand that feeds you if you start criticizing and making rules for the actual adult owners of the house. 

Are you saving money for your own place soon? That's where you can decide whether pets are allowed and what chores you might be expected to do.

Gf in the title refers to Gluten Free. They ask are the TA for not wanting to share their gluten free muffins with their non-gluten free partner.

Because it was unsafe to live with my parents

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > I could be the asshole because yes this was an attempt for me to teach her a lesson by leaving her to solve a dumb thing she caused after I tried to talk her out of it.

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

NTA. Someone who claims he “did the best he could” while doing literally the bare minimum, isn’t a person who should lecture anyone on discipline or “blaming circumstances.” 

Tell your mom that you’re an adult, and he’s an adult, and you can have a respectful relationship between adults (which is not what he was doing), or he can speak to you like you’re still a child he can parent, and you’ll finally hold him accountable for the many ways he failed the child version of you. 

He can’t pretend to have any claim, credit, or responsibility in raising you to be the man you are today, when he didn’t put the emotional and physical work in back then. So he doesn’t get to decide what type of man you are now. Only you do.

INFO have you spoken to her or her mom or anyone?  You should just give her a call and talk it over.  Say you were touched and you'd love to reconnect at the Bridal Shower - when is the wedding?  She might have a perfectly legitimate reason (budget, space, chairs, food, venue whatever) that she wanted to reconnect with you but is not able to invite you to the actual wedding.  Weddings are weird and can be ugly to plan and figure out who's in and who's out.  If you wish to reconnect with your friend, why not attend the Bridal Shower?  who cares about the wedding, maybe you're in maybe you're out, but that's not a place to get reconnected with the bride anyway - she'll be hardly available to you there.  

the question is whether you want to reconnect with this person.  You can skip the registry and get a nominal gift - don't worry about that.  Put a bottle of wine and some nice lotion in a gift bag with a handwritten card.  you're out \~$30 and it's fine, you can attend the shower and chat with old friends

NTA-send your congratulations and maybe a McDonald's gift certificate

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

i (21) usually take my dogs out on walk after work around 5pm, we usually take a route that passes by a grocery store which has a side walk with a metal railing to the side. On todays walk we came across 4 homeless people laid out on the side walk, 3 of then unconscious and 1 was laid out but awake. there was no way around them other than tip toeing around them and with the metal railing we couldn’t exit the side walk to walk around them. I had to scoop my dogs up and walk out as soon as i could. They were surrounded by alcohol bottles and most of their belongings on the sidewalk, typically kids in the neighborhood will walk to the store so i figured i would call the non emergency line to hopefully get them relocated. They usually hangout in that area which is not a problem but with that side walk being a pretty active sidewalk i felt they needed to move. AITA?

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Your friend sounds insufferable

ESH. Not saying the gf is in the right but you can’t really call her entitled if OP’s parents gifted it to both of them, they’re technically her muffins too. OP could have at least let her try it or given her half of the second one or something.

**Hello, Adventurous_Win979 - your post has been removed.**

#Read the following information carefully and completely. Message the mods with any questions. 

Your post has been removed due to Rule 2: **Poster Requirements.** Titles should be descriptive, giving readers an idea of what the post is about. Clickbait or generic titles like “AITA for this?”, “AITA in this situation?” or “AITA family edition.” are not permitted.

Subreddit Rules

This post violates Rule 8: **No Relationship/Sex Posts.** We do not allow posts where the central conflict is about romantic relationships, dating, sex, and similar topics.

Please give our sister sub, r/AITA_Relationships a look if you'd still like to post about this. ***You do not need our permission to repost there.***

Rule 8 FAQs ||| Subreddit Rules

**Do not repost, including edited versions, without receiving explicit approval via modmail.** Reposting will lead to a ban.

Please visit r/findareddit to see if there's a more appropriate sub for your post.

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

So I(26M) have a close friend(26F) who I’ve known since boarding school, who has always been very conventionally attractive. Unfortunately, she’s not very smart. It’s a real case of “thank god your pretty”. This isn’t to be mean, she’s one of my besties, but i am very frequently concerned for her.

I do my best to look out for her and try to talk her out of doing things that aren’t the best choice. I attempted to do this last week. She’s a bit of a TikTok influencer, and she frequently receives DMs from men. She received one from a guy claiming to live in South Beach that wanted to fly her out and spend the weekend with her. 

After talking about it, I made sure that she at least wasn’t going to get catfished or something, and I recommended that she still not do it if she’s not seriously into this guy, cause she’s probably gonna have to uphold her end of that unspoken bargin, being have sex with him.

She said the guy said she just wanted to hang out with her and honestly I laughed in her face and told her that the guy wants to fuck her, but this one just has money and a lifestyle that he can offer her that the other horny guys in her DMs can’t. She pushed back very hard and said she was going to do it anyway.

I spent just about every day until her trying to talk her out of it, but she went through with it. Come Sunday, she calls me distressed saying the guy cancelled her flight and threw her out because she refused to fuck him. I asked her if she had a place to stay, she said yes and I told her I was glad she was safe, but she’s gonna have to figure it out on her own.

I didn’t help her, and she eventually had to call her dad for help, which she did not want to do as he has been threatening to cut her off and this situation didn’t help.

We haven’t spoken since because she told me I was being an asshole and trying to “teach her a lesson” by not helping her. Which kinda yeah, but i think im justified. This was a really dumb and dangerous thing to do.

AITA?

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Its not about the muffin. She couldn't let you have one thing on your own that was special to you. She couldn't put your needs above hers. This is a pretty big red flag. NTA

NTA. You’re looking out for her. The way you’re doing it isn’t the greatest, but you don’t have a ton of options. As others have mentioned this isn’t a sustainable cycle (she’ll always buy more, you’ll confiscate them, around and around you go). You could look into some of the alternatives for her - I know there’s fum which is like flavored air or something, and there’s necklaces that are basically just metal ‘whistles’ (they dont whistle but idk how else to describe it) that give the sensation of sucking on something but don’t have anything in them.

Yes YWBTA.  You're barely 6 months in a relationship and already living not just with him, but his family out of the kindness of their hearts. If  they have any boundary issues, it’s because they took in you, not because they took in a shelter dog as a family and are asking an adult family member that lives with them to help so they can travel. Your concern about being a freedog sitter is laughable, entitle, and honestly a bit disgusting.

Thank you for replying. That was a smart move, IMO 🙌🏻

This is what I don’t understand. People are raking OP through the coals over working in a “shared space” but they live together, the whole apartment is shared lol

I think it’s insane people expect OP to confine herself to the office if she wants to work and can’t at all work in an apartment she lives in and contributes financially to.

Your comment has been removed because it violates rule 1: Be Civil. Further incidents may result in a ban.


"How does my comment break Rule 1?"

**Message the mods if you have any questions or concerns.**

NTA but your girlfriend sounds like she might be autistic. The inability to understand grey areas and being so stuck with rules.

Your comment has been removed because it does not address the OP in good faith.

If you suspect a post breaks one of our rules, please report it instead of commenting. **Do not feed trolls.** This includes calling out what you believe may be AI posts/comments, etc. Why can't I call out fake/AI/etc. comments?

Continuing to post comments like this will lead to a ban.

**Message the mods if you have any questions or concerns.**

And why is his golf more important than caring for his son? Do you ever call him to take his son when you want to enjoy a day out and son isn't behaving? Why doesn't he give up his round of golf if the kid plays up on hole 5?

Maybe I’m going against the grain here, but I think it’s nice that she reached out.  You don’t have to bring a gift , you could just bring something simple like under $10 or five dollars.   A wine opener or a bottle top - It really doesn’t matter.   I say go -you’ll know if she’s your friend if the gift matters that much.

NTA! He didn’t do the work and his mommy keeps trying to bail him out of things and that’s why he has zero work ethics. Do not feel bad for this bc you didn’t create it he did and until he can take responsibility seriously he doesn’t get credit for work not done!

Had a neighbor when I was younger that used the hell out of his hand pedal bike. That man was going every night, no matter the weather. I didn't even know he was a wheelchair user until I met him separately at some neighborhood thing - I thought he just had a cool bike thing that he preferred to a regular bike.

**Hello, stonarab - your post has been removed.**

#Read the following information carefully and completely. Message the mods with any questions. 

This post violates Rule 4. Posts must be written by you. Do not use AI to write and/or edit your post. Tools such as Grammarly are AI.

Subreddit Rules

**Do not repost, including edited versions, without receiving explicit approval via modmail.** Reposting will lead to a ban.

Please visit r/findareddit to see if there's a more appropriate sub for your post.

He deserves to no longer have that lying dad of shit in his life.

But that’s not the reality is it? What indication would she have had that you weren’t just being a racist asshole? Anyone would have assumed the same. You say yourself that you are white passing, and using an accent for comedy at work is always a no-no. I don’t know why for a single second that you thought that you are in the right.

NTA. This is not how you reconnect. I think your read on the situation is correct. It's tacky to invite someone to a gift-giving event when they're not invited to the main event. 

I'd politely RSVP no.

we asked for no gifts

NTA. He needs telling, without any obfuscation or attempt to save his feelings, that he is cruel to his dog and hearing about it upsets everybody who hears about it.

Maybe, but I'm gonna get down voted to hell on that one.

So I did an onsite wedding with a bunch of tiny cabins and large communal kitchen. It was a fantastic time. For mine, it was a wedding of about 45 people and the accommodations were about $300 for the full 3 nights. We provided all food as well. Guests paid the venue directly for their accommodation the way they would a hotel block.

I think some questions would be:
-How big is the wedding? How many folks would stay onsite/offsite?
-how much would it be for them to stay onsite?

If you’re curious, my wedding was at Blue Moon Rising by Deep Creek Lake, Maryland.

I'm going to say NAH, but also kinda chuckling about that is what the guy gets for poor elevator etiquette.  Wait to see if people need to come out before you try to get on, sir.

You're supposed to leave that group because they are clearly not your friends. Friends bust each other's balls and there are studies about such behavior as bond creation and a way of showing affection. The N word is not a nickname and does not show underlying affection.

YTA just for how many times you said "my muffins" when you made it clear your parents gave them to BOTH of you. It's evident that you don't respect your partner's property or their no, and you're the one who escalated the issue to breaking up.

I might say the partner is also TA for the dramatics of throwing money at you, but the tone of this post screams "I hate my partner" so much that I'm disinclined to believe that you're portraying the interaction without bias. I would equally believe that your partner was just offering to buy you another muffin because you were upset.

I'm not surprised that your partner's food insecurity issues are persisting when as you say this is a frequent occurrence between you.

That said, even though your partner is not gluten free out of a dietary need, it sounds like they are gluten free by choice. Are dietary restrictions not legitimate if there is no medical basis in your mind? If you value a muffin over your partner, just break up.

**Hello, Lorraine_Creamer - your post has been removed.**

#Read the following information carefully and completely. Message the mods with any questions. 

This post violates Rule 4. Posts must be written by you. Do not use AI to write and/or edit your post. Tools such as Grammarly are AI.

Subreddit Rules

**Do not repost, including edited versions, without receiving explicit approval via modmail.** Reposting will lead to a ban.

Please visit r/findareddit to see if there's a more appropriate sub for your post.

NTA.

But it's not clear to me - did the shower invitation come directly from the bride, or from someone else (whoever is hosting the shower)? If it came from the bride, I think I *might* feel like I was being hit up for a gift, but if it's from a host, then it's hard to be sure how the guest list was determined.

It could be the case that this one is family and "friends from home", in which case you could see a bunch of old high school friends and the bride's mom, sisters, cousins, grandmas and aunts. If one of those people were responsible for the guest list, it's entirely possible that you were invited BECAUSE you were such a big part of her life for so long and the host remembers that relationship and wanted to be sure to include you.

If you'd like to reconnect with this friend, then go to the shower. That's probably the only way to really know if she's interested in resuming your friendship or if you were included simply as a meaningful part of her past. If you're not interested in having her in your life again, then decline the invitation and wish her well.

INFO can you send some sort of interest check similar to a save the date to see if people are even interested in staying on site? A guest count would probably also be helpful to understand the scale since 33 cabins would be a lot for a 50 person wedding. 

If only like 10 cabins would be needed then the luxe site would probably not be super affordable. People are already traveling to your state so I don’t think guests paying for a 3 day 2 night stay is unreasonable, they might just feel weird about it having one overall cost. 

I think it really just depends how risky you want to be financially because if say 25 cabins worth book but 8 cabins cancel last minute, are you refunding them?

Leave him  with the kid and book something for yourself for that same amount of time

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > Ima asking this because I replied to his message with just a like. Which weve established is means to end a conversation because we’re frustrated with what was said. I’ve also told him I want to have a talk with him explaining why I’m canceling his bday. I just want to know if my reasons are valid before I do so.

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

And please take that baby to the amusement park

My partner has celiac, I do not. I would never DREAM of eating a GF treat he had access to! They are so rare and special for him when I can go anywhere and get myself something yummy. This is so selfish and mean-spirited of your girlfriend.

YTA, but maybe I’m not reading this correctly. It sounds like you are making your guests subsidize your choice of wedding venue, and if that’s accurate, you don’t get to pat yourself on the back for telling them not to bring gifts — you’ve already built your gift into the cost of attendance. Are you planning on hosting group entertainments at the more expensive site that would justify your recommendation that everyone stay there?

I’d also be annoyed if the glamping site cost as much as or more than a nice hotel room. As an aside, is either campsite ADA accessible?

You may overreact to things in your life (you would know best) but THIS is not one of those times.  He has shown no acceptance of personal boundaries. Good for you for not giving him more opportunities to violate them.

NTA - being a mother (or a father) is more than just a biological connection or a title given given to the people who conceived you.  Being a parent means showing up for your children day after day, being there for them through all their milestones, being there for them when they're sick or get hurt, and actively raising them to be happy & healthy adults.   In every way that is important, your "grandparents" were and are your parents.  Andrea wasn't the one who raised you....when she WAS present in your life as you were growing up it was in the "sibling" role and NOT in a parental role.  Just because she gave birth to you....just because she now has regrets about having her parents raise you as their own doesn't mean she is entitled to be call your mother if that is NOT something that you feel comfortable with.  And that is something that she needs to accept if she wants to continue to have a relationship with you.

She would never see my kid again. Nta

NTA, unfortunately he needed to hear it. The nice approach isn’t working, the nice but frim direct approach isn’t working. Sometimes you have to harsh.

NTA. 

yall both should have brought it up in the moment, but that can be tough sometimes mid convo. 

everyone should stop assuming they know anything about people and communicate, instead of turning around and yapping about that person to someone else.

YTA.

Are you a tenant renting a room or are you living with his family?

Because if it’s the latter, you’d be a huge asshole for not helping around the house, which occasionally would include helping with the family dog. 

ESPECIALLY since it’s just while they’re away on vacation. 

Don’t want to own one? Okay sure. Don’t buy one. But you live in a dog household. That means helping when you need to. 

Besides that, have you thought through this long term?

Does your bf like dogs? Does he want to own his own dog when he’s an independent adult?

You and your bf may be incompatible on a fundamental level if you don’t want to own dogs but he does. 

Also you’ve only been dating for 6 months and you live with his family? What’s up with that? It seems massively rushed unless you were escaping a bad situation at home.

Is she also not busy w work? Why does she have to clean up after you? YTA

the dog stuff is whats really doing it for me here, like youve told him multiple times its not okay and he keeps bringing it up anyway. at some point being 'kind' just becomes enabling repetitive behavior that makes everyone uncomfortable, disability or not

What do you mean,  you didn't want your sister to go because she warmed to go for herself and not you? What does that even mean? Was she too invested in her outfit or something?

Curious to know if they treat you like a family member and include you in family dinners, functions, etc? 
If you are paying rent, then try to work out a compromise where you will occasionally help with the dog. If you don’t pay rent then I think it is reasonable to help your bf’s family with their dog.

YTA for the delivery alone. Your feelings are valid, but you have had some built up resentment you should have sorted through, through some therapy. He may have thought he was showing up for you (for some people, their version of showing they care is through financial provision. This was probably was the best he could do for you), and yes, this was probably his slap in the face with reality. But the delivery could have been much better.

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

For safety and confidentiality reasons, I won't be sharing anyone's ages and will use initials instead.

I had been friends with S for about five or six years without any issues. It was generally known that he had a small crush on me, but he always respected my boundaries and never made me uncomfortable.

During rehearsals for a musical, I became friends with J, who was in special education with S and worked on the lights and sound crew. He seemed nice, and I had no problems with him at first. I often spent lunch in the theater classroom, sometimes with S. One day, J joined us. The only concerns I had were that he frequently interrupted me and once told me he knew where I was all the time, listing places where he had seen me eating lunch.

A few days later, I was in a classroom with S, J, and another friend, L. While talking with L about my ex, J interrupted to ask if I had a boyfriend. I answered no and continued my conversation. I noticed S staring at J as if he had realized something.

That evening, after a choir concert, S tried to kiss me. I had to tell him no multiple times before he stopped, which made me very uncomfortable. I went to sit with another friend, R, hoping to avoid both S and J. Shortly afterward, J appeared and tried to hug me. I politely declined and offered a fist bump instead.

While sitting with R, S tried to sit next to me, but I told him there wasn't enough room in the hallway. He accepted that and returned to his seat. As soon as he left, J sat in the same spot. When I pointed out the lack of space, he moved even closer. Because I'm claustrophobic and uncomfortable with physical contact from people I'm not close to, I moved away and placed R's backpack between us.

Later, a group conversation turned to celebrity crushes. After several people shared theirs, (saying they wanted to marry them as a joke), J looked directly at me and asked if we had to say who we wanted to marry. I immediately said no. When the bell rang, he interrupted another conversation to ask whether I liked anyone at school. I replied that I liked someone at another school, which was a lie.

Around this time, S also began posting photos of me on his social media accounts and making posts with hearts and captions saying things like, "I love A." I reported the posts because they made me uncomfortable and I did not want to confront him directly.

Since then, and for quite some time now, I have avoided both S and J as much as possible due to how uncomfortable their behavior made me feel.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

True, when i read it was trying to imagine if the genders were reversed and OP was a woman dealing with a roommates boyfriend. from that perspective it seemed fine, but at the same time it does feel like there may be something more at play here.

I would say NTA as well. The roommate is though, and they should either be offering to pay more rent or find a new place to live with their GF.

YTA Why dont you go to downstairs if its an issue for you. Even made the poor dude apologise for using the bathroom.

Nope I go to a free public school

YTA. Whether you pay rent or not, your standard of living is much higher by living in an established and managed household that you don't have to manage like when you will rent or own in the future. 

When you are part of a household there is communal work everyone must participate in to manage the whole thing, because even if you're paying for utilities and food, shopping your own groceries, making your own meals, and barely using the rest of the house - you're actually still adding work to the household. You're saving having to buy a vacuum, oven, washing machine, linens, etc, but you're adding to the wear of those existing appliances. An extra person in the household means everything gets dirty just a bit quicker and all that small stuff counts in the long term. People are not going to want you in their established households if you can't understand that.

Learn what the process is for looking after the dog. It's really not that arduous when you feel prepared and know what to do in an emergency, etc. Dogs sometimes just are anxious, especially small ones, it doesn't have to be due to a big trauma. Looking after a dog isn't the same of owning one. Think of it as good experience for trying something uncomfortable for you, it's important to be able to do things we're unsure of and give it a good try. You'll have to experience uncomfortable things for the rest of your life, may as well get accustomed now.

You sound really adverse to this and I'm assuming you haven't been around dogs very much, are you perhaps uncomfortable with dogs in general? Is there an experience or sensory thing you don't like about them?

That’s how it’ll be. I don’t really understand why all my relatives are picking on me, since they seem to know the whole truth.

Its very shady that OP is determining the so called "cost" of the accommodations, if her guests find out that she decided how much to charge for the rooms, she runs a very good chance of damaging relationships. A hotel block, a guest can call the hotel, book and pay the hotel; they aren't sending a venmo to someone's private account.

I know I like to leave the office early to beat rush hour traffic. Sometimes it can take more than two hours and it makes more sense to finish the workday from home vs spending a good chunk of the evening in traffic. OP said it was only one hour, while headphones is an easy solution I don’t think working in the living room is a cardinal sin. Her partner sounds immature, he couldn’t have waited until she was off the call or done with work to ask questions?

YTA. You live there. So does the dog. Taking care of the dog is part of the house chores and house care.

But, may I ask, what is with the uptick of posts I see, people living with their partners parents who have only been together for like 4, 6, 8 months. What is that? Is this becoming more normal in the USA (I'm not American.) why don't people keep living with their own family, or move out with friends? 

I wouldn't let a stanger my child has known less then a year live with me. This post is a perfect example; if the person is such a stanger I don't even know how they feel about pet care, how could I live with them?

Depending on court order, the child support could continue until finished post secondary education.

My brother & I knew from a very young age that grandma Ida liked the other cousins more than us. She hated our father & our mother was her least favorite kid. It didn't ruin my life bc I realized grandma was a jerk.

You aren’t harsh enough. This would be No Contact from me because no one is going to make me kids feel badly about themselves.

NTA

YTA

You live there. They accommodate you although they don’t even know you for long. It’s not a big ask imo and can be shared with your bf

Sometimes you need to be the villain in someone else's story. NTA

**Hello, Mysterious_Blood9396 - your post has been removed.**

#Read the following information carefully and completely. Message the mods with any questions. 

This post violates Rule 8: **No Relationship/Sex Posts.** We do not allow posts where the central conflict is about romantic relationships, dating, sex, and similar topics.

Please give our sister sub, r/AITA_Relationships a look if you'd still like to post about this. ***You do not need our permission to repost there.***

Rule 8 FAQs ||| Subreddit Rules

**Do not repost, including edited versions, without receiving explicit approval via modmail.** Reposting will lead to a ban.

Please visit r/findareddit to see if there's a more appropriate sub for your post.

So your first child was 3 months pre-term?

YTA. You are acting like a baby. Let me guess your parents support you and pay for your expenses/school?

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

Im 15 year old in highschool, i also sing and hope of one day becoming a singer and everyone around me knows that. My first friends when i got to highschool were a girl and a guy, let's call the girl E and the guy D. They're the ones who came up to me and were like we're gonna be best friends etc.I went out a few times with them everything was going well and then out of nowhere i noticed that the girl E started leaving me out or being lunatic as if one day she would absolutely love me and the other despise me and would totally ignore me. I just told myself to ignore it and i didnt care that much since i've had other friends even though we were all in the same friendgroup. One day we're in english class and my friendgroup and i are all laughing with each other, and E starts singing a justin bieber song extremely bad on purpose so that we could laugh. We all laugh and i as a joke tell her "Don't drop out of school" ( it's a joke used a lot in france when someone is bad at something artistic ). She laughs, and then tells me " yes well YOU should quit school music, everything" at first i just laugh even though i feel a bit uncomfortable and she keeps on adding on her joke "you? a professional singer? my god when we hear you our ears start ringing". I laugh once again to not create drama in class but i personally did not find it funny and kept on overthinking it when i came back home. So i'm home, and i talk to my bestfriend about how i felt bad because of what E said to me earlier because i took it as disrespect in regard to the thing i'm most hard working about, my music. My bestfriend tells me to not overthink it and that it's just E's type of humor and that she probably didn't mean it in a bad way but if that hurt me i should communicate about it to her. So i write E a short little paragraph where i tell her that i don't think that she meant for her joke to hurt me but that it did and that i would like for her to not use that type of humor with me. To that she just answers "ok"  and i don't know i found that rude that like ur friend comes and communicates about her feelings to u in a really nice paragraph and all you answer is "ok". So i just tell my best friend about what E told me and so she texts her (out of her own free will, i absolutely did not ask her to do that) and tells her "Hey E that's really messed up what you just did" And E just starts insulting her and being really rude whilst my best friend remained nice. So the next day my best friend and i go to school and ignore them and i only went for one hour in the morning and skipped class the rest of the day but my bestfriend didn't. And while i wasn't there E and D went and told the story to our whole class and then started spreading some of our secrets and spreading rumours as well. And the worst part is that everyone took her side even the people from our friendgroup because in their opinion i started it by making the joke about her singing on justin bieber.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Arranging lodging is not uncommon for weddings. It's either to get a group discount or just to make attendance easier for guests. But planners need to be open to not everyone taking that option for whatever reason (too much money, can't stay overnight, don't want to be on site, have other lodging in the area, etc). In this case, you are putting out the money up front for all 30 cabins. Are you going to be okay (financially and emotionally) if guests choose to come to the wedding but stay elsewhere? If you aren't, then this is more of a requirement to attend and I can see why they are balking.

Stick up for your son. My grandma favorited my cousin over me big time. She would pay her 20$ to clean her house and me 2. Or for christmas she would get her a jewlery box with multiple earrings and necklaces and I would get Socks. She constantly compared our looks and would let her eat whatever she wanted but would only allow me a small portion and never dessert. 

It absolutely crushed me as a child and really damaged my self worth and esteem. Stick up for your child, they dont deserve this and your mom is awful for treating them this way, she is being a bad grandmother and person and needs a harsh reality check.

NTA. She is a bad grandmother and you can tell her I said so.

Harsh is making a child sit at an amusement park and watch someone else ride and be told it's too expensive for him.

NTA I did something similar but chose the people who i wanted to stay in the cabins and asked them directly if they would like to stay for $xx. If they said yes then they sent me money. 

Framing it as a special invitation for your favorite people takes the edge off a little of you asking for money.

YTA. You are living in someone elses house rent free. Go look at the dog food bag, ask what time he gets fed, and be grateful that they're letting you live in their house after only knowing you for 6 months.

YTA because you meant it as an insult  - you think her lazy/inactive/uncoordinated/some kind of limited ability/overweight/something negative

It clearly isn’t a compliment and she is upset about it. But you don’t care about that, you only care that you think you are in the right. 

This is someone you are meant to love. She is hurt by your comment. That should matter to you but it doesn’t. 

Your argument and reasoning is immature and you do not seem to place any value upon her feelings.

Go. You don't need her permission.  Enjoy their company. If she's that bent out of shape, she's not that good of a friend.

YTA for not posting this to off my chest or another venting sub. You aren’t looking to be judged; you’re just telling your story.

NTA for feeling hurt, but banning people because you don’t feel they have lauded you enough is… childish. As is timing how long you cry for. Not saying your father behaved well of course.

Then you don't know how to shop. Even with inflation, you can buy things to make the most basic of meals for less than $12 (rice and a protein, canned food, pasta, ramen, etc.)

My grandmother was like this growing up. She had three favorites out of 20ish and the difference in gifts was glaring. My cousin Paul would get a stereo system and we the rest of us boys got some avon cologne or an open bottle of skin so soft. When I was 11 I refused to go to her house on Christmas. The year after most of my cousins did the same and the traditional fizzled completely. I never visited her once as an adult and neither has any of her other, now, 30 something grandkids. 
She was once at her mothers house when I stopped in for a quick hug on a visit home from college. She was upset and asked why only only visit my great grandma, and without skipping a beat I just shrugged and said, "well I love her." My Aunt Nancy laughed into her hands and my great gran just said my oh (my name). 
So in the end your mother will get back what's she's put in. Which seems like not much.

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

My boyfriend (22) and I (22) both work at a warehouse where we can basically make our own schedules between 4-60. I usually work close to 60 hours a week. He just started, but he’s constantly leaving shifts early or using pto or upt to take long breaks.

Money is already tight for us. We’re pretty much living paycheck to paycheck, and we spent a lot of time planning out June so we could finally get ahead financially—budgeting, meal prepping, ride sharing to work, all of it.

At the same time, I’ve been working my butt off trying to make his birthday special. I planned a whole scavenger hunt with $500 at the end because he wants to upgrade his streaming setup. I also bought him and his dad tickets to do something they both enjoy (around $200), and his family is throwing him a surprise party with all his favorite foods (seafood buffet). I only make $20/hour, so this is bit cheap

What pushed me over the edge was today. I worked a 12-hour shift, and he was only scheduled for 7 hours… and he still left early.

I don’t know. Maybe I’m being dramatic, but it honestly turned me off. I’m over here breaking my body down, picking up extra hours, stressing about bills, and trying to give him a great birthday, and it feels like he can’t even stay for a full shift.

Lately I’ve been feeling really disconnected from him. It feels like I’m always the one picking up the slack and thinking about the future. I love him, but I’m starting to question whether we want the same things out of life. I’m even questioning whether I see a future with him anymore because I don’t see the kind of work ethic or responsibility that I’d want in a husband.

Part of me wants to cancel everything I planned and put the money into savings instead because I’m honestly starting to feel resentful. Is that too far?

Am I being too harsh because we’re young? Or am I justified in feeling this way? And how would you bring this up without sounding mean or condescending

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Exactly what you should be doing. I was harsh on your husband because I was your son. My dad took the soft approach with my grandmother (his mom) and I still have issues to this day that I'm working on in therapy because the soft approach doesn't work with someone who doesn't think they're wrong. To put it in perspective, I'm 36 and I haven't spoken to my grandmother or my dad since 2011.

YTA for abandoning your baby, and a little for not just saying no when they pushed you to marry that man.

Something missing in the story

Fake AI content. You should be ashamed.

To elaborate, it's not impossible it's just a lot to put on guests. One of the weddings I went to at a camp had all parents and grandparenrs bussed down to a hotel at the base of the mountain. But the couple paid for the bus.

YWBTA

You've been with your boyfriend for 6 months and are already living with him and his family? Whether or not you pay rent - you should be the absolute best house guest/roommate to them ever. That means taking care of the dog and with whatever else they need. You have no authority here because you've put yourself in a situation where there are no boundaries. 

Either move out or accept that this is your life now. The last thing that you want is to create a negative situation with the people who are putting a roof over your head.

This isn’t an AITA question

YTA

Also: what about your children? I hope you at least pay child support.

Nta. But if your husband wants to die on this hill, I would say go get a hotel for a month. Or at least refuse to cater to them. There is a difference between a guest and a byrden

Does no contact include your children?

If so YTA for abandoning the children of course. Your trauma is valid but you brought children into it. You didn’t have to leave the kids to get divorced and live your truth. You’re just passing down disfunction

Why are you living with a guy you've only been dating 6 months?

YTA

Your basically having a destination wedding and expecting your guests to subliment your venue choice.

YWBTA. 

You live with them, not sure how much you pay for rent and utilities though. Your bf should speak up for himself if it’s about his family. You’re basically an internal outsider. 

Why are you living with them after only being with your bf for 6 months??

Despicable is the word I would use.

YTA for abandoning your children. Addiction and trauma turn people into messes but it’s still an asshole thing that you left your first family- not your parents, but your kids. It doesn’t make you a horrible, irredeemable person but those were asshole decisions. I hope your relationship with them is good and that they have learned how to be stable parents, and just about everyone deserves to be happy.

"weaponizing access" when in reality you are protecting your child from abuse because that's what this is mental/emotional abuse. Way to protect your kid, I'd be going LC/NC if this was my mom.

Personally, I would tell him you’re willing to compromise. He gets 3 golf days, but one is with your son. On the day of your choosing (NOT HIS as it will be subject to availability), you will be at the spa doing something for yourself. You will be there for 6 hours, and your phone will be off during that time. If there’s an emergency (eg: someone needs to go to the hospital), he can ring reception at the spa but you will not be leaving for anything short of significant bloodshed or limb loss. 

You don’t actually have to pay for services for the whole 6 hours. Most spas have amenities (ex: pools, saunas, daybeds/lounge areas, hot tubs, etc.). Treat yourself to a You Day (your husband obviously is three times). Get a massage, a facial, whatever and spend the rest of the time reading, relaxing, and not playing Mommy/Wife/Peacemaker for once. 

If your son wants to play with his cousins, dad can take him. If your son decides he’s done with golf, your husband can turn back at any time. There’s no reason for you to not actually have time with your nuclear family or yourself because your husband is so selfish that his hobby needs to be the center of the trip.  And, instead of thinking of it as punishment for your son, recognize that your husband should want opportunities to bond with his child. He needs to step up and be a parent, and he will never do that as long as you keep bailing him out.

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

I know the title sounds harsh, but I really need an outside perspective because my family is making me feel like a monster.

For Christmas, our parents bought my sister (15F) and me (14M) identical VR headsets and gaming laptops. I am incredibly careful with my stuff. I always put everything back in its case, wipe the lenses down, and make sure my laptop is stored safely away from the edge of my desk. My sister is the exact opposite—she leaves her gear on the floor, kicks it by accident, and never charges anything.

Well, two days ago, she was playing a VR game in her room, got way too into it, and literally blind-sprinted into her desk. She knocked a full glass of sweet tea directly onto her laptop, and then fell right on top of her VR headset. Both are completely fried and broken.

She was devastated and crying, which I felt bad for, but then my parents stepped in. Instead of telling her she needs to save up to replace them, they came to my room and asked me to give her *my* laptop and headset. Their logic is that she uses them way more than I do for social games, whereas I "mostly just use mine for homework and single-player stuff anyway." They promised they would buy me a replacement "eventually," but said money is tight right now so it might be a few months.

I immediately said absolutely not. I saved up my own money from birthdays to buy extra games and accessories for my setup, and I take care of it. I told them it wasn't fair that I was being punished for her being careless.

My sister called me a selfish brat and ran off crying. Now my parents are giving me the silent treatment, and my mom said she’s "disappointed in my lack of empathy for my sibling." My phone is blowing up with texts from my aunt saying I need to just keep the peace.

I’m starting to feel a bit guilty seeing her sit around with nothing to do, but I really don't think I should have to give up my hard-earned, well-maintained stuff because of her mistake.

So, Reddit, AITA?

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

NTA but listen, I read 'gf' as girlfriend, not 'gluten free', and that made the subject line read a WHOLE different way for a minute there. 😃

I don't know how I didn't notice it before that he's such a person

NTA Sadly there are people who would imitate an accent to denigrate people of another race so I can understand why someone might take the use of an accent wrong. To assume that the use of the accent was racist and spreading that assumption without seeking clarification and then criticize you for not clarifying in advance is justification of an error they made.

I’m gonna say NAH. I kinda get how you feel. My parents are still together, but I refer to them as having been physically present but emotionally absent. They were providers, but not parents. That being said, I’, 48 and have been in therapy a LONG time. My parents are older, dad 94, mom 85. Do I wish I could talk about stuff like this with them? Kinda. Do I think it will change anything or that they’re capable of understanding what I needed growing up? Not really. You’re not at all wrong for feeling the way you do, but it’s likely at some point you’ll reconcile that your parents did the best they could, and sometimes, it’s still not going to be what you needed.

Man, you know there was a trend where girls would say to their boyfriend, "You look like you don't know how to swim."

It was a super annoying, super off-putting trend where it put down men, like what the fuck? Anyways, that's what you did to her. It'll be funny in that same toxic manosphere but is that the flock you want to run with? Don't be like those little girls.

My grandpa did something like that with me. He wanted to take my two cousins and my brother to the zoo and not me. He said there wasn’t enough space in the car for all four of us, his wife, and him. My dad freaked out at his father-in-law and said you either take all of them or none. 

I felt really left out. Even though he ultimately took all of us. I had to sit in the truck of the car (it was a hatch back suv). I was only about ten and I remember that to this day.

Ya know, I have a solution for you. It's the exact same solution that virtually everyone else is going to suggest, so I'll just leave it to you to figure out.

NTA - Your parents are though. It sounds very much like they had manipulated much of your life to be a certain way. 

Between your parents and his guilting you both into a shotgun wedding, it was never going to work out well, even if you were straight. 

I am glad you enjoy your life with you wife and grown kids worked out. 

I hope your ex was able to have a decent life too, for sure better than what he would have if you had stayed together, you would end up making each other miserable for the rest of your lives.

Are you serious? YTA. There's nothing unfair about it.

YTA-it's for what a week or so?  Suck it up and do your duty to your family.  They are your family since you're living with them.

Nta you’re valid for feeling hurt and not wanting a repeat of last year, but completely excluding your parents will likely escalate the conflict. A better move might be setting clear boundaries for behaviour and focusing on having your sister there for support.

You are both the AH

Maybe you weren’t ready at 18 but that leaves 22 plus years on you. 

Divorced when you were 10 and spent more than 30 years disparaging her. 

Puts you in your 40s. How blind were you? And silent the rest of the families?

At some point in your adult life you had the ability to question, you didn’t want the answers and now that you’ve got them you’re heartbroken. Because you realize you really are your father’s child. 

You couldn’t even give her funeral the time of day. 

Everything you found out afterwards you could have learned years prior. You didn’t want to know what you’d find out. 

In a way you accepted the devil you knew rather than the one you didn’t. 

Your father kept you apart 8 years. You did the rest.

Agreed. I just don't think the kid is an asshole for doing his best to help. Hopefully one day his sister will look back & see his efforts were out of love.

If you called them out? YWBTA

If you're not okay with the assumed dog sitting have a conversation about it. Are you okay to do it short term? Do you need more support/a write up of dogs needs? Is your boyfriend upset he doesn't get to go due to assigned dog care? Are you willing to solo dog care so he could go? 

You live with and presumably like these people? You can always escalate to confrontation, but it's harder to communicate about needs, emotions, expectations and how they clash once you do.

NTA. But your mom sure is. As is your sister. SHE should be stepping up and saying "both or neither."

I am very happy that you’ve found your bliss! but this might be better suited to r/AMA

Tbh I told them I returned to the office 4 days a week and by the 5th day I'm peopled out. A small lie in exchange for my sanity.

One you are paying an independent business an amount of money that can be verified in terms of how much something costs and the other you are sending an individual money to their venmo an amount they are making up to their private account.

I don't see where we are disagreeing here - I think it is completely fair of her to communicate what she is feeling about this. And based on the original post, it doesn't even seem like he's saying that she shouldn't be communicating that information, just that the specific method she is using to present it is bothering him.

If your partner has a bad habit that you want them to stop, but you are phrasing that in a way that makes them defensive and feel bad about themselves, how is that effective communication?

Working together in a relationship also requires communicating your needs in a way that your partner will respond to. Just because the things you are saying to your partner are factual does not mean they are kind or reasonable.

Definetly NTA, you have to protect your son

My son’s bio dad stopped paying child support when he was 3. My son is turning 20 soon, and me and his mother have never mentioned that fact to him, and always made sure he still had a relationship with him including driving him 2400km round trip to visit, because that’s between us and his dad. Your dad is an absolute sack of crap for his behaviour

I don't think either of you are the asshole.

She shouldn't have to feel bad for seeing a seemingly-white person imitating an accent, while you shouldn't feel bad for imitating your mother's accent.

Both of you could have gone about it better - she could have talked to you about it instead of other coworkers, and you could've noticed why it got awkward and immediately said something instead of allowing it to stew, especially since you noted that it got awkward after you made the joke.

Ultimately, it's a misunderstanding and while you're fine for defending yourself since it's your family, I think she shouldn't be vilified either for her assumption since it's difficult to clarify that at the first interaction with someone who appears white.

YTA . Gang just give a small apology .

If I was the parent, and you complained then I’d either kick you out or start charging you rent. Your rent money would go to the dog sitter I hire. Or if I kicked you out, I’d  sign up on Trusted House Sitters and get a person to watch my dog for FREE.
YTA (& about to be homeless if you keep up this entitled behavior)!

YTA. Sweetie, if you don't like the conditions of living in their home, feel free to yanno, MOVE OUT. 
Seems like you want all the perks and none of the tasks. You're 19, not a child.

Yta, but, I understand what pressure made you do. At the end of the day there was a guy that was unfortunately put into this situation as well, and then having a second child makes the situation worse. 
Regardless , I’m glad you’re now in a better and safe environment with a partner you care about.

I wasn’t necessarily surprised. I just think it’s fair that I have an equal reaction of “it’s not cool that you think you can assume things about people”

Clearly I stated that OP is very caring.  

I think the best OP can do is figure out how to not suggest anything because the pal doesn’t see any value in his responses or is taking offense. 
  
OP, seems to inadvertanlty say the wrong thing. I have male friends who don’t get the subtleties around this kind of topic. I don’t bring these topics to them. I suspect he could be saying “the wrong thing” because he doesn’t understand the pal’s position. That’s fine. Why regularly provide suggestions when there is such a high probability you’ll be punished? OP is being an AH to himself hence everybody.

Yes absolutely, I forgot this was AITA lol. It’s very nuanced so I agree, no one’s TA yet in my book

This is a great response, I appreciate the clarification. Thank you.

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > That I have held a grudge to my parents for ruining my award night last year and now I believe they should not come to my one this year

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

Screw Reddit. You don't owe anyone an explanation regardless of your skin color, and I can't believe I have to say this. NTA

Tell gramma that you'll let grampa see the kids, but she can't see either of them.

NTA. Your mom is a bad grandmother and she needs that reality check. And your sister is enjoying the preferential access - what makes her kid “easier”? Is it that she’s a girl so she “knows” her better or is it that she does whatever grandma says? Or is it something else?

It depends. If she's paying a very low, family-and-friends discount rate for rent, then sure, because the low rent is doing her a big favour.

If she's paying standard rent, then no, she shouldn't have to take care of the dog unless it's part of her rental agreement.

Yta but not a huge one. 

I would have just phrased that you reserved a block at the cabins if they want details contact the maid of honor or someone and have them handle the logistics.

Why can’t people just have a simple ceremony without making it a Hollywood production?  Why do you require guests to travel, pay for a hotel, gift, maybe attire?  It’s too much.

Yes, YTA for not allowing guests to go directly to the venue to book. If that option isn't available, it's because the venue expects YOU to pay as the cost of the venue. You do not EVER pass the cost of the venue to your guests. EVER. This is like a wedding 101 thing. You never expect people to pay for your wedding. That's just rude AF. 

Also, summer camp weddings are a bit of an AH thing too, but whatever. If everything else is in order,  peiple will overlook that and just attend what they want. But yeah, you are definitely the AH for expecting them to reimburse you for the cabins (venmo and all). Cringe.

NTA. There is no harm and no foul by turning down an invitation like this regardless of the motive. Were you invited just for a gift? Probably, but I also wouldn't let it eat at you. This friendship sounds like it was great when you were young, but it has since run its course. Don't let this stain those probably good memories.

NTA thanks for teaching boundaries

I'd rather focus on what the OP deserves, not the asshole dad. The OP deserves to feel like he's making his own decisions based on fact and not on manipulative parenting. If that means cutting off a painful relationship and a difficult expense, then by all means, OP, live YOUR life now. Dad doesn't have much time left anyway.

Ask about getting the dog some anti-anxiety meds from the vet for when they’re gone.  Both you and the dog will be much happier!

NTA- If your husband agrees with you then he should agree the outcome is not harsh, you’re doing the right thing. Your mom isn’t owed access to your children, good on your for calling her out.

Then yeah since its their vehicle they’ll have to stay in the loop. 

For the first 2 yrs of my relationship I was the only driver. I’d get frustrated sometimes (borderline personality doesn’t help) but also had to be reminded about her times since I had my own schedule. 

I know its a tough spot to rely on someone else for transpo. Just remember they’re your folks and trying to help. When it gets tough, take a sec to breathe and think before replying, and always remember they have their own things going on.

Going by the math OP’s mother more than likely dropped out because she was pregnant at around 15/16 and not from lacking basic skills.

Wow. You sound like a really good parent. : )

Same with me and my brother. My grandmother would take my female cousins all the time to do all sorts of things when we were growing up.  My brother and I were literally never taken to do anything, ever.  We never developed a bond and never saw her for over a decade till she passed.  Though I guess this isn't too surprising with a Mormon family with a ridiculous amount of cousins.

Im confused. Your prior post you were married to a woman, now a man?

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

I have been recently selected to be in an award ceremony for my work in art and history. I was also nominated last year in art,science, and computing. For context last year, I didn't want my sister to come because she wanted to go for herself and not to celebrate all the work I did to get there so she did not come. Sadly, this annoyed my parents, but mainly my father as he not only pulled me out of a room I was in with my art teacher and like 20 others \[including two of my best friends\] and shouted at me in a SCHOOL BUILDING. This upset me for the rest of the night and embarrassed me so much that when I came home, I cried for almost 30 minutes. So this year I have decided that I do not want my parents to come because of last year and me an my sister ar enow extremely close and I want her to come as she wants to celebratehow wars I work, as she realises that and supports through everythingI revise and annoy her with. They do not agree and feel that I am being selfish and quite cold, but I believe that my grudge is fair and that I deserve someone like my sister to support me when I know full well she is the only one within my family home who does. So am I and asshole for being quite nit picky, or am I being completely valid in only wanting one day to celebrate me and MY hard work this year ??

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Yeah this is why some of us didn’t show up to graduation. Once I was done with the place I never went back personally.

iPhone face is an acting term; I think it originated in a tweet about Ben Affleck? It’s a face that looks like it knows what an iPhone is and thus isn’t believable in period pieces. No idea how it translates to bike riding

Ma’am this is a Wendy’s.

I have no doubt you are, so please treat yourself accordingly!

Right? He showed up financially. That's not nothing. 

I understand why OP is hurt, but they're 24 and can say something "I wish you had shown up differently when I was younger, but can we have a more meaningful relationship going forward"

What a horrible horrible woman.

this. i couldn’t agree more. i don’t think OP’s the A, but i don’t think their dad is either. this is one of those very nuanced situations - where individual perspective matters a lot - and i think an open and honest conversation would heal them both going forward.

Basic etiquette is not inviting people to a gift giving event when they're not invited to the wedding. There's nothing wrong with having a limited wedding but that means you also have a limited shower.

I dont know it just feels as if we are being free dog sitters for a dog that has separation anxiety and a way for his family to save money by not taking my bf with them on a family holiday.

Yes, that's exactly what you're doing as a member of the household and psuedo-member of the family.  It's completely normal of them to expect this.  What do you think the alternative is--for them to hire a pet sitter to *come live with you* while they are away on their vacation?  To board the anxiety-ridden dog so that it feels it has been abandoned by its family once again just so you don't have to be inconvenienced?

Personally, I vote for them to keep the dog and send you away.

YTA.

NTA you handled it perfectly. There was nothing to be gained by going off on anyone. You were smart to walk away calmly.

I think it’s perfectly reasonable to just say “we are happy to contribute $100 toward the swing set as her gift, but we really aren’t able to contribute more than that.” NTA

Good for you! If you don’t stand up for your child no one will.

My girls also have a cousin who is the favorite on my wife’s side. They have not really noticed yet, but it hurts my wife a lot. It brings up a lot of wounds from when she was a child. This, and your reaction to it, is the kind of thing that will stick with him for life.

You are doing great! Don’t let them bully you into going along to get along.

Do you eat the meals the mom makes ? Do you clean the house ? Do you do the outside work , cut grass etc 
Do you pay a fair price for the upkeep of the home ? 
You are in a family role in this house , you do what the family says or move out ! That’s how a family works

YTA

If I was a mother and gave my son treats to share with his girlfriend, I wouldn’t give him a pass to be greedy because of dietary restrictions.

She probably didn’t know she was raising a selfish piggy that values food treats for himself so much he no longer knows how to share, or maybe she would have gotten you 3-4.

The question is, how many muffins should someone else have gifted you both before your dopamine first brain would be willing to share?

Love is about sharing. And just because the first muffin tastes incredible, doesn’t mean you need a second if it was gifted to someone else.

You are being manipulative and childish and if you were my son I would stop giving you muffins altogether.

Gifts to couples, are for both people. Period.

I don't understand how I didn't notice this for so many years

ESH, he clearly doesn’t read the room, but also working on the couch isn’t super reflective of “I’m on an important meeting don’t talk to me”. He sounds childish for not thinking he did anything wrong after you explained and you also sound childish for jumping immediately to he doesn’t respect you because you don’t work a physical labor job. What kind of leap is that? Instead of ignoring him repeatedly, did you try a simple “hey I’m on an important call, I can’t talk at the moment”. It sounds like you’re stressed out from work and snapped, he gets to leave work at work, you have to bring it home which can be stressful, so I understand snapping at times, but maybe that wasn’t really helpful to your situation

Agreed 💯 I wonder if he'll change his behaviour after she makes him aware. Did you parents stop coming around during work hours? I've had people still continue, even after I made them aware of how disrespectful & inappropriate it was 😭

NTA - I don't see anything wrong with this. If it were at a hotel, they'd have to pay for their hotel room. Just be prepared to eat some of the cost if not enough of them decide to stay on site.

I see you have lived a very cushy & privileged life to have such a narrow mindset! That, or you are painfully emotionally unintelligent.

Yeah, I see your point. I went with NAH because I didn't think that OP genuinely meant to be an asshole; she was just thoughtless. Where I personally think she crossed the line into AH territory was when she got defensive and decided that she was being "profiled" or "required to give some background information or disclaimer..."

Did I miss somewhere in OPs post where they already had a conversation of what they each expect when living together? If so then I retract what I said. If you're assuming they already talked about this or had a conversation, then that's premature. OP sounds like many immature men who 'are who they are'. And only when they start living with a partner for some time does a partner try and fix or change something they saw, but didn't see, or thought would change when they moved in together. 

But otherwise, what I wrote was just based on what was written by OP.

Nta, I 100% agree! I can’t imagine ever doing something so cruel and childish to someone I love. Op, I would take this as a big warning of how your future with this person will look if she doesn’t change.

You're right, that person doesn't even deserve to talk to me

YWBTA because it isn’t your place to start an argument with his family about how they treat him, especially when you are living in their home.  Stay quiet.
Yes, they seem to be treating him unfairly.  But perhaps you aren’t telling us the whole story?  Maybe they expect their kids to pay their own way once they finish school?  Harsh, but well within their rights.

I don’t think he was an asshole for asking two questions. Bothersome maybe, but not an asshole. 
I do think YTA for snapping the way you did. You could have told him “sorry, I need to focus on this call” the first time he asked a question instead of being dismissive and saying “why does it matter” and ignoring him. 

If you have concerns about him not respecting your job, that is something you should talk to him about and discuss as adults, but snapping is not the way to go.

NTA you never have to go anywhere you are invited to.

Difference in process, not really different overall.

Not seeing the issue.

It sounds like he made the right choice tbh, imagine tagging someone about a perceived slight in high school ten years later.

Yep, my maternal grandmother made it clear she merely tolerated my siblings and I, my mother was shocked when I told her I didn’t care, when I was around 16 in response to “your grandmother wants…” I’m 36 now and my kids have only met her once or twice. We live in the same small town 4 streets apart. 

Had a woman around my grandmothers age once tell me “oh your grandmother is lonely so I’ve been dragging her to this and that to help get her out of the house. Oh I’m sorry, I’m not sure what you call her: grandma? Nan?” She literally took a step back when I said “her name, we don’t have a relationship, and she made it clear for years she doesn’t want one with me”

My kids are 12, they’ve picked up on the fact they are the overlooked grandchildren of the family. My family “doesn’t understand” why I cut off contact with them for the most part. Well, when it was just me you were leaving out of things I was annoyed, when it’s my kids? Whole other issue.

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

I'm 19 and 8 months pregnant, 5 Months ago I had brought up to my MIL that I didn't want anyone kissing my baby cause of Risks that I had read online and the fact that she smokes both Weed and Cigarettes, I didn't want to risk anything happening with my baby (we also live with her so I had only told her at the time because she was the only one I had to worry about) and she told me "Whatever, I'm gonna kiss all over that baby." Which I thought was weird but also thought it was a joke at the time, so I let it go. Yesterday, Me and My husband had mentioned it again to her and the fact that I didn't want to risk anything and she said "Find Research and maybe I'll consider it." 

So we went online and found websites from different doctors to find risks for it, My mom had also told me that I had RSV as a kid and that it was a risk of kissing the baby before the babies immune system was built up, So I sent a screen shot of the research to her and she said "The baby will get RSV regardless of if you kiss him or not so not kissing him isn't doing anything besides depriving him of love." Me and my husband both replied saying "The only people we are depriving love from is people who aren't his parents", She then said " Whatever, I'm not fighting you on this, your reasoning doesn't stack up, I'm not going to be bullied into agreeing to that." My husband replied saying that "Welp, We aren't bullying you, We're setting a basic boundary and if you can't see that, we can make sure of it." which made her reply saying "You forget who is supporting you and your family, who helps you, This isn't a smart fight to pick." 

Are we the asshole for asking people not to kiss our son?

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

NOR
If she even starts on social media I'd be all over her.

Very true. I just feel like it gets so frustrating having to justify things that are normal for other people to do. Just because of how I look

No worries, you weren't unclear on the current calendar situation. I was just saying it seems silly to let the fact that you can't share this one specific calendar be the road block that kills that as a solution entirely.

I hope they're receptive to moving the calendar to a different platform and your scheduling struggles become a thing of the past! Good luck!

NTA

It's nothing more than a gift grab. Send her a nice (but empty) card.

Anyone who says she's trying to reconnect is missing the fact that it's incredibly tacky and poor manners to "reconnect" by asking for a favor or sending an invite to an event where gifts are expected.

And keeping them from going gives them live-in dog sitters. It's a win-win for the parents.

A hotel block the guests are still paying the hotel directly. This situation OP is getting 33 rooms included with her venue fees to have her wedding there so she's paying for 33 rooms regardless of whether anyone stays there. She's wanting to advertise to her guests that the cost of the rooms is X and they can venmo her the money. Reads like she's wanting a venue she cannot afford and needs guests to subsidize it which is tacky but also a massive gamble for blowback if people find out she picked the cost for the rooms she charged them

I used to be somewhat offended by not being invited to someone's wedding.  That changed after the experience of culling my own wedding list.

YTA. You live at their place. If your bf has any issues with this, he should be the one discussing it with his parents.

NTA - enjoy the day with your family and selling their tickets

You know you are NTA.  Your son's experiences at a young age will carry thru his later years.  Stand up for your son and for yourself.  Be polite, but be firm.

Exactly so I would say!

A boundary is something a person sets for themselves. It's what ~they~ will do or not do, not what they're decreeing someone else can or can't do. She doesn't control you and she really doesn't get a say about what you do. Tbh though, it sounds like you're awesome and she's afraid y'all will all dump her and be friends without her. Ironically she's on her way to making that a reality by being uncool to you.

NTA. 

Each day he continued the lies, he kept you from your innocent mother. When you became an adult, he continued this lie and accepted aid from you. He didn't let you make an informed decision about your mother. The fact that you cannot apologize to her is just horrendously cruel. 

Screw your father and his family members that kept up his farce. If they are so concerned then THEY can pay for his Healthcare needs.

People aren't being charged for any part of attending the wedding though (nor for something unskippable like a cruise). They're being charged for accommodation, which they can either choose, book elsewhere or make their way home. 

Do you genuinely think it's egregious to not pay for guests accommodation and travel?

NTA. If she wanted to reconnect she would have called or messaged you or something. Ask to get lunch, go out and catch up. This just feels like an extra gift opportunity and it's very weird she sent an invitation with no contact in 8 years. Declining is polite because if it was me I'd just toss the invitation and forget about it.

Even if she pays rent living in a home as family means you do family things and she is responsible to take care of the dog if it’s asked of her

I didn’t see that, I thought she was a few years older. Grandma is extra TA then.

There is to much info missing, do you pay rent? Do you have your own separate section or just a room? Do you function as one household? If you are living there rent free and they cook you dinner then you better start watching that dog

Are you seriously mad that you had to look after a dog for 7 hours? Grow the fuck up.

True, so OP can make sure grandma loses access to her son.

YTA. I didn’t read past you have a three day wedding but I have zero doubts.

"Let him sink or swim on his own"

Good advice for life, terrible advice for a lifeguard

Weaponize away. She is a bad grandma - your babe is clearly getting the message.  Nta

I really don't understand all the n  t a's here.

Her reaction makes her a bit of an ah too so ESH but you.... Damn.

That is her muffin. Your parents brought it, they bought you a muffin and probably to do the shopping in 1 place they bought her one too. 

And then you try to take that muffin away? Try to pay her off but when she refuses to give up HER muffin you also just go off? Would it be nice of her to give it up. Sure. But it's her freakin' gift. Yeah sucks that you can't eat gluten, but she already eats glutenfree to avoid problems for you. She, just like you, basically has a gluten free diet.

But after so many years of not being able to get decent gluten free baked goods maybe it's time to learn how to bake. There are tons of good recipes out there, and you will be able to get some nice baked gluten free goods with a little effort. But maybe it's not important enough and you rather try to coerce a loved one to give up their muffin for you, since that is easier.

however my bf is not going. He has been left behind with the purpose of "he can look after the dog" and ofc since I live there now its my responsibility as well.

Wow! Good to find out that your bf's position in the family rates below the dog's needs (I have two dogs).

If bf is taking responsibility for the dog, then HE looks after it. Not OP.  But do you think calling out his parents will help the situation? OP, you are living with his family. If you confront his parents this could go very badly for you.

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > I wasn't aware of the time constraints and due to my grandkids playing with my phone the notifications were turned off. Please reconsider verdict with this in mind

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

ESH 
Next time take thd bedroom. He should know better

Middle-aged Californian here. This would be considered rude and tacky.

I can't think of many circumstances under which it would be okay to invite someone to a shower but not the wedding. Showers at work organized by coworkers, I guess – everybody in the office is welcome to take a break from work and have some cake, but that doesn't mean they're close enough friends to invite to the wedding.

Let's see how it goes, but that's most likely how it will turn out

I’m autistic - NTA. A) how were you to know, b) it’s a fun question that you meant with good intentions and asked multiple people. 
Brachiosaurus because of the black ranger (Tommy) from Power Rangers Dino Thunder for any wondering! 🦕

She immediately accused me of calling her a bad grandmother.

the accusation is also a confession. yes, yes, she is a bad grandmother. NTA

Buy all the luxe cabins you need to. Say on the invite rooms available at luxe cabins, message for availability and price (or put price on invite). That way you can still have your venue and recoup some cost, but they don’t have to choose it. 

If you cannot afford it at the full luxe cabins price for all the cabins, then wouldn’t choose the venue.

"no matter how much we might like him" What is there to even like though (never mind love) seeing what he did?

The appropriate response is
"I didn't CALL you a bad grandmother, I don't need to.  Your actions are clearly demonstrating that you ARE a bad grandmother."

I’m saying the bands that let you skip lines that you have to pay extra for, are only for the lines for the big rollercoasters that little kids can’t ride. Kids rides don’t use those bands because the lines aren’t long enough to make them useful, usually.

YWBTA. This is a family dog, in a family home, where you live, and you don’t mention anything about paying rent. Caring for pets is a shared responsibility and since it’s both you and your bf taking care of the dog, bringing this up will make it seem like you’re just mad *you* weren’t offered a free trip. If your bf has concerns, it’s up to him to bring it up, not you. 

You can ask about making sure the dog has everything it needs before they leave (food, medication, clear instructions and routines) and possibly REQUEST info on pet sitters or trusted family friends if you and bf want to have a night out.

Eh I think OP is an ahole. 

Imo even if OP was say Chinese presenting and imitated a Chinese accent that is not their normal voice/accent in a work setting I would say they are an ahole. 

In social/family setting it is not a double standard to say/think that people of a certain ethnic group culture can joke about it but not others outside of it and people presenting outside of it.

Pick your battles before they ask you to move out.

Sweetheart, he doesn't respect you or your job. He is juvenile and clearly doesn't want you to succeed, because if he did he wouldn't be speaking to you during a work call like that.

I'll bet anything he's trying to sabotage you because he's afraid if you succeed you'll leave him. NTA

And what is the boyfriend isn’t okay with the idea that he lied to him up to the point to moving in with him where there’s specific things he needs to do to accommodate and decides and can’t trust the brother to be truthful with him and leaves. And leaves the brother with the lease break charge or he has the pay his portion of lease break and moving costs.

When I was growing up, it was extremely obvious my brother and cousin were favoured over me by my grandparents. I don’t see them anymore and don’t care to. Protect your baby because it really does hurt them

NTA. I have celiac and this behavior is beyond wild. I completely understand your struggles with finding gf food and the price, when my family brings me stuff they know and respect that it is specifically for me because I won’t find it anywhere else. Beyond that, you explained it well and with time and she had absolutely no respect for your feelings or situation. You even offered to share the rest just not these muffins, which is beyond what I would have done.

Her behavior was so mean especially to then eat the muffin in front of you, and she chose do it because she knew it would hurt and wanted to demonstrate power in the relationship which is so unfair.

Yes, YWBTA.

This is part of what it means to live with family. And if they're good enough to live with, they're good enough to help out.

Have they worked with a trainer and veterinarian to manage the separation anxiety?

NTA it's their dog, not yours. If they want to have a holiday they need to find care for the dog that isn't excluding him. Did they even ask or just say your BF is doing it? But then again is there a rent or money agreement because they could see it as a means if helping if there isn't one in place.

In theory, this is fine imo, but not the way you're thinking of putting it into practice. A better way would be to discuss the location/amenities and price per lodging with the people you want staying there with you, in advance, and see if they're interested and willing to participate. Making it first-come, first-served is a bad idea for several reasons, not least of which is the possibility that no one will be interested, but it'll also be received poorly. Imagine if one of your loved ones sent you a wedding invite like this - wouldn't it make you feel unimportant to them? I think it's pretty normal for a couple to get a package deal on accommodations and have the guests using them pay their portion, but not to just make it a free-for-all in the sense of not caring who, among all of the invitees, stays in those rooms.

Your friend is an AH.... she doesn't get to dictate who you have it with or consider friends.

Get rid of her and hang out with your new friends guilt free.

Could be either or both. We don’t know. The friend seems to feel consistently unsupported by OP with such topics. They shouldn’t bring this type of topic with OP. They have other stuff in common. OP may or may not ever “understand.” We don’t even know whether either OP or his friend is a good communicator.  Too many factors.  
  
At most OP can respond with “how can I help” or “I am here to listen.” Otherwise OP is going to have accusations lobbed at him.  
  
OP clearly cares.

Is he jealous? Asking who a man is and if you're emailing a man or woman makes him sound that way. And also, storming away and locking himself in the bathroom makes him sound immature.

YTA
You're a member of the household, helping feed and walk the dog occasionally is part of that. 
You think his parents wanted the responsibility of another kids under their roof?

I get that and agree. But do you want friends who just tell you whatever they think you want to hear or do you want friends who are open and honest with you? OP didn't say they were wrong and he was right, he just offered another possible way of looking at it.

If you don’t pay rent, then you absolutely should help with the dog sitting… Has this dog ever been given an anxiety medication? If it’s that severely attached to the boyfriend‘s mom, a quick vet visit before everyone leaves with some anxiety pills that can be used while they’re gone may make it a lot easier of a time. And more comfortable for the dog!

NTA, you had this building up for years, and you finally had it. I do think it came off harsh, but you are stating what you feel.  He responded by saying sorry I didn't know you felt that way in avoiding the fact that he was neglectful. Maybe he needs time to process it, but unless he can admit his wrong doings how can you rebuild your relationship? Your feelings do matter. I think this one is going to take some time, but doesn't sound like an unrepairable relationship. You both need to put in the effort though.

I bet those family members have no ***interest*** in how OP feels, having clearly taken the sperm donor's side.

Grew up with a grandmother like that. As an adult I don’t have a relationship with her whatsoever. I don’t feel I’m missing out at all and am grateful for having a mother who also called the favoritism out and separated us from her.

I think they just don't want to spend money on him, and it was really convenient for them when I was paying for all of it

Not really any YTA. It sucks that your dad wasn’t there emotionally for you during your childhood. It kinda depends if he has his own family with someone else, and is an active dad then maybe he is the asshole. However, if it is just you guys then no asshole. Just very needed communication with both parties. Talk it out at a neutral space not home I suggest.

Fair enough, and I do understand that. I feel like it just frustrates me that people put other people in a box and assume racist intent first ! Without knowing anything about them

The grabd daughter is 6 OPs son is 5, the rides they can go on shouldn't be so different that he couldn't get on any of them

Friend of mine just went to a campground for a wedding but they were able to rent a cabin themselves through Airbnb and choose how many days. The alternative was a hotel 15 minutes away and links were included in the invite. Its too bad the campground didnt have the option for the cabins to be rented separately. It wouldnt be as tacky if you weren't the middleman, imho.

INFO You are 19 and live with your BF's parents, what happened to your parents? Do you pay rent? Because otherwise you're a teenager and your head of household is assigning you a chore. If you don't like it, you can move out. And no you don't get to "call them out on behavior" thats what you do with your peers, after they come back you can have a conversation with them, but bear in mind, you are staying in their house.

Nta. And I'd go no contact with the part of the family that tries to make you out to be the bad guy. They're only enabling his behavior and making excuses for a grown man.

Your sister was being inappropriate and yelling and not listening to you so her actions forced you to be assertive in order to get her to listen. She was rude and inconsiderate first and if you couldn’t get her to stop any other way then your actions were necessary. Hers weren’t. 

While she was trying to advocate for you it isn’t helpful if it isn’t something you wanted or needed. 

You can try telling her that you appreciate that she cared enough to try to help you but the fact she walked in and stirred up unnecessary drama and wouldn’t listen to you when you tried to explain the situation meant that you had to act that way to get her to stop and that while she had good intentions she caused a lot of unnecessary stress while you were in labor.  

Most reasonable people would understand that if a woman in labor snaps at them not to take it personally but in this situation she really needs to understand what she did wrong and not to do it again but to talk to you first.

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

So I have been working for a museum for 1.5 years in the matienence department. We have a lot of events, i.e. weddings, receptions and ceremonies, work parties, lunches for field trips... Our daily task list revolves a lot around event set up & break down. We get our event requests from other departments.. it isn't our job to plan them just follow the requests as they order them... amounts of tables and chairs and where we are putting them mostly. Sometimes it gets complicated because we have a lot of events over lapping and very few maintenance staff. At this point there are 4 people who are present and capable of reading the requests and moving the items relative to when the events are happening and how many tables we have/need. We can't pre set for things days in advance often because we don't have enough tables or can't leave things out in the museum for very long before the events. We have a 5th employee who is physically capable of moving tables. He works 20 hours a week no more because he is on disability. If you give him the set ups and let him work independently it becomes clear that he is disabled. We also have a new boss. We can't keep a boss and this one doesn't seem to grasp the disabled guy's limitations. The new boss keeps giving the disabled guy too complicated instructions. Everyone kind of gives him simple tasks and lets him take care of the trash. It is universally understood that he has limitations. I also think, as the only female on staff that the new boss is sexist. He will give the disabled man detailed instructions and ignore that I am there. Then when the event set ups get "done".. they are consistently messed up and I, and everyone else on staff has to do damage control to correct his mistakes. On top of event set ups and break downs it is also our job to clean and do general repairs, paint, help with exhibit installs and manage a community service program. When he has to clean he does not do it very well and very often takes the work vehicles around the grounds to do trash runs that take everyone else 1 hour. He will take people from community service with him and make it last a 4 hour work shift. If he has community sevice with him he gives them little to no instruction. I am unbelievably annoyed having to work with him and I try to be considerate to his disabled status but honestly, he just sucks. Let me please mention that he does not have down syndrome you cannot tell immediately by looking at him or talking to him that he is disabled. He just kind of reads as someone a bit dumb with a hood rat mentality. Am I the asshole for being annoyed by this person? 

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Kind of yes kind of no. I see where you are coming from but realistically people are going to stay where they can afford. If they can not afford the cabins they won't book them. If not enough people book cabins you are still left paying for all of it on your own. Some people are definitely going to see it as tacky. Again your plan to have guests shoulder the cost could very well back fire and leave you in a bind. Also if people find out they are  paying for cabins that were included in the wedding package they will probably be upset.

27M here, parents divorced when I was 11.

First off I wanna say your feelings are valid. I have felt those same exact feelings for my own father and have gone through similar talks over the years, including a big blowout when I was like 20-21. 

This is just my opinion and there are definitely other viewpoints that I think are equally as valid or that can fit into your situation.

Divorce is really hard on people. Does that mean it’s an excuse to emotionally withdraw? No, but it is a very human and very common thing to happen. It’s not fair, but to me, it’s one of those “it is what it is” situations. I think it’s absolutely fair to want to discuss it and have your feelings be acknowledged by your father, but now that we’re adults, it’s my opinion that we have an emotional responsibility to meet our parents where they are at if they really did do okay in the grand scheme of parenthood. I wouldn’t say the same if a parent was excessively or intentionally abusive in any way though, but it sounds like this isn’t a severe case of neglect or abandonment. Lmk if I’m wrong though.

The reason I say this is because I was so bitter towards my father for so long and it wasn’t until the last ~4-5 years or so when I’ve been on my own now for 10 years that I am beginning to feel the crushing weight of existing in capitalism and being “alone” in the world etc.

It really humanized by father. Yes, he was emotionally absent before the divorce and especially so after, but he did show up to most things, and he did financially support me in ways that I truly do appreciate now. I truly believe that in my case, he did his best even if I still got hurt by it. 

I’m not saying you need to see things the way I do because I don’t know the intricacies of your relationship. But in my experience, it was worth it to me to sit down and ask him about how he felt during the divorce and ask all the why questions. I still feel a little hurt but overall I’m very grateful for the relationship I have with him today and consider myself lucky overall that I get to have a meaningful relationship with him today. 

I would encourage you to give it a few days to sit. I don’t think this irreparably damaged your relationship with him or anything, and your father sounds somewhat reasonable if he just said that and left. There’s probably some sore feelings on his side but there is an opportunity here to really connect in a way that might be beneficial to your relationship with him. I don’t know if an apology is warranted, but if it would make you feel better, you can say that while the feelings you have are real, you regret the way you communicated it or something like that. 

My father admitted to being emotionally absent and apologized. For me, it was nice hearing it be acknowledged. Idk if your dad would do the same but I think an open dialogue now that you’re both adults is at least a place to start. 

Good luck

I kinda wanna say NAH because it's not relatable for him to be part of work calls like this for his role and he's probably not really considering all the issues which could come from his actions - *including him being heard on the call if you weren't muted*, as well as being distracting when you need to focus and so on. Having said that, your reaction would seem to have been amplified by your frustration in the moment. I like to think that it's not him trying to be annoying as much as it is. him trying to interact with you and your work life or to show interest in some way and what you do for your 9:00 to 5:00 but obviously a bit misguided. You guys probably need a strategy for what you do in these situations, whether it's you taking the calls in the bedroom or letting him know that you're going to be on a call or whatever sort of thing would work for you since you're in a small apartment and it's difficult to be still working with somebody who's already knocked off the clock sitting right beside you for a number of reasons.

NTA!!! 

Absolutely unacceptable. I'm only an auntie but I would never treat my nephews like that. Either I can do for BOTH (in ways that fit them) or I do for neither. 

Why would you force a child to watch his cousin and his grandma ride rides all day!? The GRANDMA should be sitting and waving while the cousins have an exhausting day of rides, food and fun. Lasting memories for both. 

I'm so pissed for him. That poor kid! 

I don't even get snacks for the kids unless it's one of each kind they both love. Like pokemon fruit snacks and spiderman fruit snacks, I know it's petty of me but I want them to see I care about their interests. 

You do what you do need to do for your family and your son's well being 💜

NTA
You followed protocol, do not apologise for doing exactly what you were meant to do. There is a reason for the protocol 
My child was school friends with a child whose parent dressed their children with the expensive school uniform from the lost and found, and would laugh about it, incredibly irritating behaviour.

I agree, and I'd love to see the dad's point of view.

Right?!  Like if cost was the issue, she could've had OP pay for it.  be sneaky, be mean whatever, just do it behind the child's back.  And most rides seat 2 anyway, so it wouldn't have taken anything away from niece

That’s hella tacky lol 😂

NTA

Ywbta. You live with them presumably for free and aren't going to go on the trip anyway.

ESH - everyone needs to talk about responsibilities and expectations

What exactly does “calling his parents out” mean haha, what authority do you have with them? You’re a 19 year old freeloader who’s been with their son for half a year?

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

AITAH I left my husband after 21 months

So this happened many years ago but I see these everywhere on social media and thought I would share.

 So first some background, I came out as gay at 12, my Italian parents were unconvinced and said it was a phase, it wasn't! My parents were not good parents not even a tiny bit, I don't want to share just how bad it was, as its a lot.

 I left home at 15 and already 2 years into addiction to blot out everything I couldn't say too much about what I did or where I was, but at 19 wanted to try to see if my parents would ever be proud of me. (They never were) But I met and slept with a guy while completely wasted and almost 6 months later passed out at work and came to looking at a fully formed baby.

 This is where things get crazy, both my parents and his were mortified and decided that we were getting married, I hated him and hated the baby even more. 

So the day of the wedding soon happened and everything that could go wrong went wrong, the brides car broke down the rings got lost,and none of our friends turned up to the reception. Also the taxi that should have taken us home didn't turn up leaving me in a large wedding dress so get a lift home in a works van!

 I felt trapped and so unhappy, which wasn't my husband's fault it was just he was a man and I was gay! I used to lay in bed next to him plotting his deletion. We even had a second child which just made things worse. 

After my youngest son was 6 weeks old I left the house i had fully paid for and everything else and moved halfway across the country and filled for divorce. My parents were so unsupportive and took my husband's side. So I went no contact and eventually married my now wife.

 My first marriage taught me what I didn't want and we had a very small courthouse marriage and 10 years later we are still happy. Her family are wonderful and have made up for the fact that mine were awful. I'm sad that it took ruining someone's life, (for 21 months) for me to realise that nothing was going to make my parents react like human beings or to ever be supportive of me, and I know that you can't really ever know how things will work out, but I have chosen my family and they are all great

 Me and wife are very happy and both my boys have kids of their own now and I am sober and have been for years now. I know this isn't as bad as other things on here but I thought I would share, just incase it helps someone else. 

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Yeah - weaponizing access would be if OP demanded gas money for access to her son, or jewellery or some other shit.

She if simply and reasonably denying access to her son for people who hurt his feelings. No weapons here.

YWBTA if you don't go. 

I'm sorry your mom is trying to emotionally blackmail you to do this, but please do it. I know you think it's stupid, but you achieved something that's really hard. Even GOING to school every day when you don't want to is an achievement, nevermind becoming valedictorian.

I pulled so much crap like this when I was a moody teenager, to the point of almost being not allowed to go to my graduation at all. I really regret a lot of it. I'm not saying you will, I don't know you, but regrets in life are almost always about what you *didn't* do as opposed to what you did do. 

Be honest in your speech, talk about how school is a stepping stone to bigger things for all of you. Be positive and forward thinking, keep it short, and everyone will love that. I know that teenage instinct of wanting to burn it all down, but it doesn't help anyone. It doesn't make things better, doesn't improve your own life, just makes everything harder.

" thanks for the invitation but I cannot attend. Best wishes on your upcoming nuptials!" And then nothing else after that. No gift, no anything. Just that easy

Hmmmmm. This is a weird one. I don’t necessarily think it’s an asshole move, per se. The part I’m a little on the fence about is the size. It’s first come first serve, and im not sure the guest size. If guests are too late but are able to book a hotel room nearby, it could very easily create a situation of “why should I pay the couple AND give a present, when I can rent a room not too far for less?” This is of course, assuming there are places to stay not too too far away as Im not sure what state you’re in and the layout by you. 

Money and weddings are weird to begin with, drama will follow no matter what. As you said, people will already be paying for travel, and while they would be willing to pay for hotel rooms as well, I’m not sure they’d be as comfortable paying the bride and groom as they’re *already* paying a lot see you. Especially, if there’s a cheaper option too far away as mentioned.

Personally, I don’t have a huge issue with it. You *technically* making the wedding more streamlined, but you’re also giving yourself more responsibility and drama. Are you willing to handle recommendations if they aren’t able to book in time? Are you willing to be a hardass and require payment to reserve? This is absolutely a scenario that if I was in, would absolutely mandate payment in order to reserve, instead of reserve and pay later. No exceptions. Are you willing to do that? Are you willing to say tough to family and friends who may say, “well you know I’ll pay you so just hold it for me?” Are you going to give exceptions like to your parents or in laws? Or any siblings? Or grandparents? It can spiral easily. You have to be able to be equal to all. And still have to deal with drama no matter what. 

Regardless of what you decide, not everyone will be happy. That’s a good amount of time to have a wedding around the woods with nice clothes. Generally, you want to go with the place with more amenities and such to avoid nature making things a little tough for the guests (beyond whatll likely happen). 

I think ultimately you need to have a discussion with your husband(?) to be and make a detailed pros and cons list with every possibility down to crazy reactions, possible work you’ll have to handle, what you get or lose, so forth. And review with a few others close: parents, best man, made of honor. not much more, to pick their brains. Ultimately it’s your decision, but be prepared that it can get messy. I also think how much extra the cost would be (versus the pay on your own cabin) plays a MASSIVE factor too. If it’s significantly more money, people probably won’t be too happy.

Like I said, no matter what you do, no one is going to be happy. And like I said, this is going to create a lot of extra work for you. Are you sure you want to handle it?

Based on what I have right now, I’d say NTA. But it these other factors can change. 

Hope this helps. Destination weddings are always tricky, which to me, makes it impossible to determine what truly is or isn’t an asshole behavior, because (no offense) I feel destination weddings already make one an asshole. Just one people are generally fine with playing along with.

Best of luck and congratulations!

NTA. It's wildly inconsiderate to deprive someone of their already limited dietary options when she has the freedom to choose literally anything else—especially doing so out of pettiness. Not to mention the whole "you get one so I get one" thing isn't a healthy or sustainable mindset. I'd also wager parents said the snacks were to share to be polite more than anything else. Obviously the gluten free snacks are for their gluten free child. Partner is def TA; regardless of whether she's been careful about cross contamination and keeping gluten free at home, that doesn't negate that she is CHOOSING to take from someone who has no other options whilst having the privilege to eat whatever she wants any other time.

INFO: you say the conversation was about a client and you wondered where they were from were talking about random related things and then joking around copied your mothers accent. Did you say anything about this being a common phrase for your mother did you mention your mother/family at all?

If you didn’t I can see how she could make the valid conclusion that you were mocking the accent/culture of the client. Especially if it was done in a joking manner. While assumptions are not great you look white and plenty of racist asses do exactly what you said did in conversations exactly like you were having.

Especially in a 1 bedroom.

This is how it seems and is why I asked for more information.

NTA

Protect your kid. They take in and understand way more than you realise. Also you have no idea how they speak to him when you are not there. I have personal experience on that, and not all kids will tell their mums.

Your gut reaction was correct. Your little boy is already hurting. Grandma doesn't get to inflict more emotional pain and damage on him. If she can't treat them equally, then she can't have access. It's not a game or being done for control, you are protecting your son from emotional damage. Be that momma bear and protect, or risk your future relationship with your son.

My step dads family treated me differently from my siblings (my mum and his kids). I had no one on my side from the age of 8. I watched my sibilings get spoilt and taken on holiday to spain with his family. I didn't hold a grudge against my sibilings, i just didn't understand why his parents hated me and why my mum wouldn't stand up for me.
At 16 I realised it wasn't me it was them. I had enough and so packed my stuff and left. I cut them all off. And no, they never tracked me down and yes, my mum is still a friend on my facebook! I left her on there just in case. Some sad hope on my end. Instead she posts jabs every now and again on facebook. I hate to think how miserable i still would be in that toxic family. My friends and I just laugh now at her posts where she throws shade. I am now 39 and very happy with my life. I do not regret cutting them out of my life. My friends became my family.

I'd have put him in the hospital myself if I found this out tbh. 

NTA.

No one in this thread is even bringing up that being from the Caribbean isn't a race. There are entirely white Jamaican people that natively speak patwa. It's ignorant for your coworker to think that you were being racist. NTA

If you want my honest opinion, it’s probably not that they don’t want to pay for your boyfriend to go on holiday it’s probably that they don’t want to pay for you to go and now your boyfriend was been uninvited as an extension of that.

NTA. Crossing the friend group streams can be weird and uncomfortable. People behave differently around other people. Sounds like your friend doesn't know how to deal with that.

You are living in their house but want to lay down the law ? YTA. If your boyfriend has a problem he can say himself im sure you could both pay rent and bills in your own place if you dont want to help out ?

NTA. You never had a father, never had a dad, now he thinks he is that: "You don’t get to talk to me like you raised me.”. No different than a stranger in the street. 

Do not let the weak and fearful determine how you should be. You are your own person. 

"Years of resentment" that he caused and now wants to pretend he did not know. He knew. 

He does not get to tell you how you should live your life, when he was never a part of it. Just like a stranger in the street.

NTA I don't care if your mom said to share because: she probably didn't want to exclude gf and make her feel bad...  BECAUSE:  it is that serious.  Your gf is totally fine taking food out of your mouth, so to speak. I hate sharing my gf food because idk where I'm going to be able to find it again and it's so much more expensive.

YTA    
  
I'm white passing. Because of this I am careful about how I phrase things or how I present because someone who doesn't know me will see a white person and it's not up to me to correct that perception.

Nah, she's gone GF to help, that makes sense but she can still eat non GF food. He can ONLY eat GF food, thus when it is actually good she should prioritise him and go get someone. 

It's a sign of immaturity being a martyr like this and using it against a partner. Because being helpful and making adjustments is not the same as showing true empathy.

I understand that. It's a real shame this happened to me, since I've always thought of myself as a good person.

INFO: Do you know if she doesn't wanna go because she doesn't want you to go or if she's uninvited? Both reasons would be really telling. Also, have you talked about this with her friends? What do they think?

Tbh, I don't think she's a good friend. Why would be anyone upset because their friends become friends? It's a win-win situation.

Anyway, NTA. I would go to the birthday.

Lolol. I mean, the ol' "they're never really gone" "the people we love are always with us" shtick

Yup! Christmas pictures? Sorry you didn’t get any, texts are expensive and we don’t have unlimited data.

Mother’s Day Card? Well, I only had enough time to send one, and Husband’s mom had her turn this year. Maybe next time! 

Getting drinks on a hot day? Sorry, I didn’t know you were thirsty. Are you calling me a bad daughter? 

If she doesn’t get the hint for a taste of her own medicine, she never will.

NTA. Your friend is weird. If you were personally invited to the party, go.

There is no Caribbean “race” though, where my mom is from there are Portuguese, Chinese, Indian etc. I feel like that’s something people should familiarize themselves with first before assuming racist intent though I guess is my point

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

my daughter that says that she’s nonbinary introduced to this thing called polyamorphy and it’s the first good thing she’s ever said to me. now I’m no faggot but ive had my eye on the pool boy that comes to our house every saturfa. he left his number behind one day on a business card And I called that day. i then drove to his house and we got busy. Then my wife found out and yelled at me like a crazy person. i told her that we’re in a poly relationship so what’s the problem? she said that we’re not and i told her that my daughter told about this thing. She threatened to move out and I don’t believe her, she’s just being dramatic. I provide all of the money with my hard work and she doesn’t do shit AIAITA 

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Thanks. If said friend isn’t getting the type of support they want from
OP they shouldn’t be sharing this subject matter with him.  
  
OP is clearly caring.

It would be a strange amusement park that didn't have a single ride a 5 year old could go on but a 6 year old could.

My question too. There is nothing said about how OPs son behaves. The only comment is the niece is easier to take places. This screams to me the son is difficult and OP purposely avoided saying this.

im a homeowner. i have an inheritance from my grandpa, he invented crystal Pepsi.

NTA She is not acting like a friend but a kind of platonic girlfriend, a lousy one. I am happy if my friend has fun and makes friends.  End of story. It would be hurtful if you wanted to exclude her but that doesn’t sound like the situation at all. She needs to learn that friends are not about control and scarcity.

My thought as well. 

What you’re trying to do. NTA

How you’re doing. YTA

NTA. The relationship isn't ending because of a muffin, it's ending (or it should) because she has no respect for your predicament.  She can eat 100 muffins this month - you get one. 

She is not going to change... so, if you want a good life and to be able to eat the GF products that are so rare, kick her to the curb.

Poor kid. I wouldn't even call your ultimatum harsh. For years your mother's treatment has been hurting your son and it's about time she gets called out for it. Favoritism ruins people's lives and self esteem. To the point that they have to get therapy in order to heal from it.

NTA, OP. You're only standing up for your son. This will give him the confidence that his grandma destroyed. Your mother said it herself. She is a bad grandmother.

NTA.  You didn't pick the time, place or topic.  Dad introduced it, so that's all on him.  If he is so emotionally unavailable that he had no clue about this, that's on him.  If you want to try to build a better relationship with him, you might consider jointly meeting with a family counselor who could help guide the process.

Most likely, Dad recognized these things, but by putting them out there in words he had to actually confront them and recognize that he was deficient as a parent.  That's got to be tough, but it shouldn't have been a surprise to him.  If it was, he needs to spend more time in counseling.

Please, do not insult my mother! She is 80 years old, and is very good at using her computer for anything she needs. She mostly taught herself... 

Though my dad, 2 years older than her, doesn't touch a pc if he doesn't have to. Only for his online banking, I think.

I do agree that a 35 year old should be able to do simple tasks on a computer.

Have you read this post? She's no longer with us.or what do you mean?

But, the difference is that OP seems to be saying that these spots aren’t just being held, they come with the reservation. On top of that, the only way she can afford this place is if the guests pay her. She is using this as an opportunity to get her money back.

You are absolutely correct with this.

NTA.  
No wedding invite= no shower gift.  
She sees you as a new towel set, not someone to celebrate with.  
Girl, bye.

Agreed, it’s a very recent thing that men feel permission to express any emotion other than anger. He may have been trying his best to be emotionally available, but had no concept of what that looked like because he never had a male figure like that in his life.

Are you paying them rent for living with them? If not, then it's clearly the least you could do.

NTA Bingo.  Just send your regrets and be done with the situation.  Bride to be is looking for a gift grab, which is tacky as hell.  Once upon a time you invited the people to such things if you were also inviting them to the wedding as well.

This is the weirdest advice I’ve read online today. Divorcing her husband because he agrees with her but thinks she’s been too harsh? Isn’t that like, overreacting by a million times?

Do you pay rent to live there?

the whole 'respect your elders' thing falls apart real quick when they cant show basic respect back, huh. you gave him multiple chances to stop being a dick and he chose to keep going, thats on him. nta

Info:
Do you want to see her or not? Maybe it's a gift grab, maybe it's a chance to reconnect, maybe it's both. 

Here's a secret that will blow people's minds: You don't have to take gifts. If you get grief for it well you wasted a couple hours to learn where you stand and hopefully,  for cake out of it.  Fair trade to me.

Your son has already told you the answer with his lack of enthusiasm. Is there a more diplomatic solution? Perhaps. Are you the AH for calling it out? Absolutely not.

NTA. Southern Belle here, also. Miss Manners & Dear Abby would have a field day with this bride.

YTA. Nobody fucking asked you.

I have worked several jobs with referral programs and it was stated at a few of them to be very careful who you refer because it will reflect directly on yourself. So it is a thing at least in the parts of the industry I work in.

omg never thought of pinning it - thanks!

I'm sorry: "remembered birthdays *most* years"???!!!!? This is not someone who was there for you and raised you. He did not "do his best". NTA and your dad is kind of a deadbeat.

You need to figure out what is going on that you consider that she is your closest friend, there is a big discrepancy in how the 2 of you view each other.

YTA. Paying to attend someone's 3 day wedding event, plus a gift, is ridiculous.

Thank you I dropped it immediately and I’ve moved on but I was curious to see if I was in the wrong so I know better for next time

NTA, but yeah—for sure. Learn to bake your own GF if you miss treats this much. Tapioca starch is your friend.

Summer camps are so isolated and big that staying elsewhere isn't generally feasible. You'd miss out on so much of the activities there's no real point. And if it's a drinking event ubers probably doesnt exist and driving mountain roads at night with a couple drinks is very dangerous.

It sounds like they are now your friends, too. It's unfortunate that she feels insecure about your new friendships, but setting boundaries is more about what the person does, not what others do. "If you do X, I will do y" not "you cannot do X because I don't want you to." A boundary is a line, everyone has a right to have a line, but clarifying the line doesn't mean controlling others' actions 

If she truly had your growth and happiness in mind she'd try to encourage deeper friendships for you. 

NTA

Are you racist if you are making racist comments of people within your family of that race?  Black people think they can call each other a certain word but it still does not change the fact that the word has extremely bad connotations regardless of who says it.

NTA, but I don’t get the sentence “either both or neither”. Is your sister on board with you? Cause you can only force her not to babysit your son but not really block her from your niece.

You're right, no matter how much we might like him, we can't have someone like that in my circle.

YTA

You’re so busy with work you can’t put a fast food bag you *just used while at home* in the trash? Get a grip. 

Your behavior and attitude on this are, indeed, unattractive. No one wants to be with someone who treats them as less-than the way you did in the conversation you had with her about this. By “less than” I mean you are making it clear you consider yourself better than her. 

Also, calling it unattractive is a far kinder approach than she could have chosen.

I've never had a free hotel room either (well once I could use my loyalty points from work travel,  guess that's technically free) but I could choose my hotel which meant my expenses were controlled by me not the bridal couple.  And OP is gambling no one finds out the cost of the rooms is included in the venue price for the b wedding and they are electing to charge the people they invite. Its going to read like profiting off people who have already shelled out expenses to come celebrate your wedding.

they dont chauffer me places - i am dropped off by a nanny who borrows their car. they both commute so i either drive myself or am driven but regardless not by them. the drive to my school is in the suburbs but no safe bike paths as it is close to a dangerous highway.

NTA, I am allergic.to wheat and no where near as bad as coeliac, and f-me my partner wouldn't do that even if they "were to share". He'd get that he can go get muffins anywhere. He'd get that good baked goods that are GF/WF are rare.

The fact she threw a 20 at you and went and ate it is the problem. It isn't the muffin, it's the lack of empathy and understanding. She acted immaturely and honestly I'd be done with someone who acted like that.

I'm seeing a lot of asshole votes but isn't this basically the same thing as a hotel block? People all stay at same hotel and if enough people do the bride and groom get a free suite. Pretty common.

Hopefully through the other ways to go about this that should be tried first you would figure out some stuff about the person and could then not do it if the reason is out of that person's control

And I've lived experience on both ends that it can in fact change behavior for the better

INFO

How much time and money has been expected of you/your parents for other weddings in your families?

Snipping at me for reading comprehension, but using "meaningful relationship" and "marriage" as synonyms. Only one of these is a legally binding contract. When you end a meaningful relationship, you need friends, maybe some booze. When you end a marriage you'll likely need a lawyer. And I don't think OP's fiance should be entering any legally binding contracts other than sharing a lease with his partner. Either he admits horror movies are that important to him (which is fine) or he accepts OP is not going to be involved in that aspect of his life.

For all we know the sperm donor threatened the whole mum's family - just as he did the mum - with ghastly consequences if they ever made OP aware of the truth.

If your working, you need a designated work area. I kinda think YTA for using common space to concentrate. I bet you would be mad if he used his spare time to watch a movie in that space too. Just because you're choosing to work in a common area...

Reconnecting after 8 years via a bridal shower is a weird way to do it.

Reread. "Will often choose" is not the same as giving up something permanently. Weird take on your past.

Exactly! A few minutes of smiles and laughter aren't worth the risk.

Cleaning up after yourself isn’t hard. Throw away your trash and you won’t hear comments anymore.  Very simple.

NTA! You are doing the right thing here. Thank you for stopping the favoritism!

NTA. You are prioritizing your son over a grown woman who should know better. It hurts him every time he is rejected by her. She shouldn't have access to keep doing that if she isn't going to accept her favoritism is painful to him.

He then stormed off and locked himself in the bedroom.

He's a child. I would tell him not to talk to me when he knows I'm working. 

NTA

I thought it might be that nieces mom bought her the unlimited rides wristband and OP just didn't (know to) get her son one.

I agree that boys are a bit more difficult to babysit than girls are. But the amusement park situation was definitely not okay at all and made me very sad for the little guy. Based on my opinion that boys are more difficult. I would understand babysitting the girl more, however, I would never ever treat them that differently especially in front of each other.

NTA grandma needs to understand that she's hurting her grandsons feelings. If I were a grandma that would break my heart if my grandkid didn't get excited to see me.

NTA - I gave a referral for a fried once, they did not work out and I was banned from referrals going forward. Don't attach your name to someone you don't fully know or trust.

I keep reading these posts about monthly payments to parents that are breaking the kids but are "culturally expected" and it seems shitty. I think expecting money from your kids when they are trying to build their lives whether or not you need it and when you have decided to stop supporting yourself is gross. But I am always going to think that because I fended for myself from 19 including all the debt for school. Your kid isn't your retirement package and they aren't an accessory. Corollary, your parents don't owe you college or anything beyond getting you to adulthood.

NTA but I think folks outside of your cultural dynamic will think this. Are you trying to break the cultural cycle? I hope so for your kids sake.

My brother brushed it all off and delegated those tasks to me or my sister.

Looks like the brother pushed the tasks to someone else, so maybe he knows he can't do them?

I would gauge interest first.  Talk to immediate family, bridal party, and close friends you know will come and stay, and see how many cabins that would fill, and then see if it's feasible to fill at least 30 of them.  Then I'd say book it, and invite the guests, letting them know there are a limited number of onsite accommodations on site, and to contact you for information if interested, and also include the info for the other place as well, and you could even say "similar priced accommodations".  People can then look them up and decide.

I think it's normal for guests to pay for their own accommodations, but I think it would be tacky to send out the venmo info and say you highly encourage them to stay there.

You're in your mid 30s making an impersonation account of a person you actually know??? Dude don't you have a job and rent to worry about?

Whilst you can't get your mum back, you can love and stand up for yourself by refusing your sperm donor any access to you ever again.

NTA - It seems like a childish thing to fight like that and threaten to break up over a muffin, but the actual issue was she refused to put her needs after your own. And it wasn’t a selfish need from you, as you have a condition that severely impacts your relationship with food while you could make an even trade (or even an upgrade!) for her need at any store. Everyone deserves something special, and a muffin that makes you cry from pleasure because you are literally unable to enjoy otherwise IS special. My partner is diabetic so I’m in a similar situation as your gf; however if we had a special sugar free drink that he couldn’t find otherwise, you bet your butt I’m letting him enjoy all of it (but he would share a taste anyway so we could enjoy the experience together).

Hmm. Well having a discount for blocks of rooms is one thing and the norm. But booking the luxury site that includes the costs of the rooms and then asking ppl to pay is another thing. Personally you made the decision to go with that luxury site, which I get, but that cost is yours to shoulder. What if nobody wants to stay there…you’re still paying for the full costs regardless.  If the cost includes 10 rooms then I would just provide the rooms to my family and closest friends.

NTA. He was your enemy all along.

As an outsider looking in, one thing you may have to realize is he may have been telling you the truth. He may have genuinely done the best he could. I’m not sure how much knowledge you have about his parents, but that 1000% impacts the relationship people have with their kids, their thoughts on upbringing, all of that. My dad wasn’t super emotionally available, but he was practically an angel compared to his parents. 

Was his best good enough? You’re the only one who can really answer that question.

I honestly can’t answer for you my man, I would say if you want to have more of a relationship with your dad, give it a shot. If you feel you have a right to be angry, find a healthy way to deal with it, even if you can’t express it to him. 

I feel like you’re really only the asshole here if you don’t manage to communicate properly moving forward aren’t willing to let him try.

I think it's a matter of the way you word it.  I might include language along the lines of, "For the convenience of our guests, we have prebooked a block of cabins at Venue, which can be reserved on a first-come, first-serve basis.  Please message Bride at Contact Information for more information or to reserve a cabin.  The price is $X total per cabin, which includes both Date 1 and Date 2, and each cabin has beds for Z number of people.  Information about Venue is at This Link and about the cabins is at This Second Link."

NTA. My step-MIL did the same but there were layers. Her bio grandson first, then my daughter, then my son last.

She would want to do grandma-granddaughter things and leave my son on the couch watching TV. Her bio grandson lived states away but at Christmas there was a disparity in gift giving. It was OK until the kids got old enough to notice. My kids were mature enough and secure enough that they didn't fuss, but they took note. My daughter asked why she was treated different from her brother. When my FIL passed, we cut ties with her and they never asked about her again. They were 12 and 10 at the time.

Yeah, and I even thought she was a bad person, which is just awful since it's not true

You are trying to get your friends and family to pay for the venue. Will you be mad if they decide to stay somewhere else, and then you will be stuck with a bill which you can’t afford? Why even run the risk of that happening?  YTA.

NTA. I’m half Cuban and half Irish, both parents from their respective island country. I’m a pretty good blend of the two but it means that I don’t look white enough for some on my Irish half and I definitely don’t look Latino enough for the Cuban side either. I was raised with members of both aides when I was youn so I have a unique accent that has been described to me as “the lucky charms leprechaun trying to do a Tony Montana impression”. So I sound odd to Americans. I get comments about my accent being offensive regularly despite the fact that this is just the way I sound due to my upbringing. 

Also I want to note that Americans getting offended by a foreign accent is just plain racism hiding as social justice a lot of the time. So don’t worry too much, maybe just distance yourself from that coworker until she realizes what she said is idiotic. I’ve found that deliberately ignoring people after calling them out tends to dwell in their heads. They either double down or realize they’re being the AH and try to make amends. Either way it’s not really your problem.

Did he warn the others when he did it? I wish I knew that info

NTA.  Grandma is hurting  your son, and has hurt him in the past, so badly  he is shrugging it off. This is not trauma in the making, this is a traumatized child trying to deal with  it, and I don't  give a damn what your husband  says. This woman is inflicting hurt on your son and it needs to stop.

I'm sorry, what? Friends aren't personal property. You can hang out with whomever you want, whenever you want.

Nobody was arguing that OP was CORRECT to guess that a fat or disabled person can't ride a bike. OP is clearly TA, and people are trying to guess why an asshole would assume someone he knew couldn't ride a bike.

Personally, I'm he was making that assumption because she was very traditionally feminine and he has shitty mental stereotypes about that, but the point is, people are trying to guess what OP was thinking l, not agreeing with him.

Yeah, they are a lot more expensive now. Especially if they are powered (both adjustable and fold in) and have the defroster. Obviously surface scratches might be able to buff out, but without pictures you have to assume significant damage.

I’m old and northeastern.  It’s bad manners here too.  I had one friend that did, but we knew it was a micro wedding we weren’t invited to, the bride told us.  Lol

ESH.  Your partner absolutely should have respected your boundaries over the gluten free needs, but come on... It's a muffin!  If she wanted it that bad, could you not have compromised on the last muffin?  Not even to split it?  I understand gf things are harder to find / more expensive, but we're not talking a food necessity here, it's a snack, a luxury item if you will.  It sounds to me like there are some deep-seated respect issues between you and your partner that should honestly be worked out, one way or the other, as soon as possible.

NTA it's not about the muffin at this point. It's about your partners lack of understanding and respect towards you and your condition. Your partner SPITEFULLY ate the muffin to screw you over, knowing full well you can't get a replacement as easy as they could. If they wanted a small nibble to experience the taste I could understand, but to throw money at you and eat it anyway is just a big slap in the face.

That was my immediate response in OP's place. "You think I'm a bad grandmother?" "Well, yes, you are as a matter of fact."

Its not a fee to attend it's a fee for lodging. 

All weddings ive been to I have had to pay for lodging, sometimes at the room block other times at my own Airbnb/hotel.

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > I am part of their family now and being family comes with the agreement that I can look after the dog if need be

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

NTA. He wasn't there for you, he doesn't get to comment on how you have turned out. As the saying goes, "Any man can become a father, but it takes someone special to become a daddy." He had a very small part in creating you, but he lost the chance to tell you what to do. Stay strong, keep your head up.

NTA - maybe you can reconnect without having to go to the bridal shower? and if they get mad at you for not attending the bridal shower and they don't want to (let's say) meet in person for a quick chat/coffee (to reconnect), shows that maybe they've changed since HS (which happens sadly). :))

One of my best friends and her sister have a VERY prim and proper mother. Nobody cursed in that house ever or they faced the wrath of a Texas belle. Every time my friend's sister had a baby, her mom just stood there and let the profanity wash over her without flinching. Childbirth is not for the faint of heart!

I don’t really want him to come other if I’m honest. She has been blatantly giving me abuse since, while I haven’t really heard from my dad. I want to exclude both, and cut ties in reality (there’s been many other incidents over the past two years) but then feel like an even bigger AH to take away the option of Father’s Day at all. Even though I know he won’t want to go without her.

First of all no one here is going to be able to digest this appropriately here and I really recommend going to a therapist or find someone you can talk to about this. 

This is reality shifting information you have just been given, you are not the asshole for feeling betrayed and it is completely understandable to be angry about what you have discovered. 

Your father lied to you for decades, and robbed you not only of a relationship with someone of great importance to your life, but of your relationship to him. He pushed your mother away and then built a relationship with you based on lies. And to top it all off, he never allowed you the opportunity to rectify any of this while your mother was still alive.

I'm not going to comment on the medical support but I am going to say the family members angry at you have no idea how you're feeling right now and have no right to tell you what to do.

My mother in law did this to my son. Now she only gets to see him because her husband, my son's grandpa, has less than a year to live. Once he passes she won't see him at all. FAFO.

NTA - Kinda weird it took you a long time to actually realize though. Grandma might have been doing things like this for a long time, and stopped trying to hide it because she did it for such a long time.

NTA. 

But in reality, you won’t be able to dictate her behavior (aka setting rules for her to follow).  You can only set boundaries for how you will behave, what you will allow.  If that means Grandma no longer has access to your son, then so be it.  It sounds like he’ll be better off without her treating him as she has been.

NTA. That was so selfish and unnecessarily petty to go and eat your muffins. I know it seems like you're fighting over a muffin, but really it's about blatant disrespect. You rarely get good treats, while she can get whatever she wants because she doesn't have celiac. She does not sound, in this moment, like a very good partner.

Look at the resort website & the available tee times.

Book your husband the 6:30-7:00 AM tee time every day - playing 9 holes.   Front nine one day, back nine the next. 

Tell him not to wake you or the kids when he’s leaving. 

Try to keep kids asleep until 8:00AM and then do breakfast.  

Hubby should be back while you’re having breakfast. 

He gets in 36 holes over 4 days.   

If he’s the first one out and plays fast he might even finish 18 holes in under 3 hours. 

———————-

Another option is he plays 9 holes early morning on day 1; plays the back 9 the next afternoon day 2; skip a day; repeat on day 4&5.  

That way he plays 4 days but in 2 hour chunks. 

————————-

One other thing to do is book yourself some solo activities so you both have equal time alone with the kids - aka bonding time.

He didn't even apologize what's there to say

i apologize for the lack of clarification. we have one set up which one person controls and accesses. the rest of us all use our own platforms. we have tried setting up the group calendar into our calendars but for some reason we cannot access it. the platform the group calendar is on is not compatible with anyone elses besides one persons. i will suggest trying to move it to a move common platform. thank you!

That's very possessive and insecure of your friend. It depends on how the relationship is with your friend, going may blow that up.

NTA your friend is incredibly insecure and it sounds like her friends might like you more than her. Go to the party. Your friend can alienate herself if she wants to.

I don't think so because OP is paying the full fee upfront to the place for the entire thing. 

Aka OP pays $5k upfront for 20 rooms, no matter if only 1 room or 18 rooms get booked.

so you propose OP take meetings in their bedroom..? or would you prefer the kitchen? where, in a one bedroom apartment, is OP supposed to go to be out of "common space".

NTA.  The AH is the person who invited you to a bridal shower and not the wedding.  The gift is in exchange for the meal/drinks offered at the reception.  Youre not invited to the reception so you dont need to go or even get a gift

I mean, you look white. Don’t be shocked when people react to you as if you’re white. I’m half Mexican and pass for pale European. I don’t do my terrible impression of a lazy day laborer around anyone but family. You don’t need to give anyone your background, just stop doing shit that other people will see and think is racist if you want people to stop thinking you’re racist.

YTA.

Does he take these calls in the living roo., while there is someone else in there?

Good on you, and again let no one make you hesitate. If they try, you know to write them off as well.

Over a muffin? This is just advocating domestic violence

I mean, if you look like a woman, a lot of people are going to treat you like one, including creeps. It doesn't matter how you feel inside or identify, you're still going to be dealing with a lot of the issues that affect anyone female presenting. 

(This isn't me saying that that the landlord was definitely being a creep, just that OP's friend isn't necessarily wrong when saying that being female presenting still affects how they interact with the world and vice versa. Assuming that's the case, which it seems to be.)

Soft YTA. If you have to explain... probably shouldn't do it.

That's why I think most will disagree with me, but I stand by it. There should never be a minimum amount required to attend a wedding, and paying for hotel rooms falls under that. I think that if you invite someone who has to travel to your wedding, it is on you to find them appropriate accommodations. That could be staying with other family members, and of course people would be free to choose elsewhere.

NTA - my partner has gluten intolerance and if they find an actual good gluten free treat, even if it was ment for sharing, it's 100% theirs. It's so hard to find. I can have the easier to find non gluten free stuff

NTA. Your mom sucks.

NTA. Unfortunately your friend is not being a good friend to you. She's having jealousy and insecurity issues, and trying to make you responsible for them. There's nothing wrong with you becoming friends with her friends. It doesn't sound like anyone is excluding her, other than herself.

If you want to reconnect with her and her family go.  I probably wouldn’t because it’s tacky to send a shower invite to someone not invited to the wedding.

I looked up "summer camp wedding" - that's a fresh hell being pushed on wedding guests.

I hope your wedding includes an RSVP option for ceremony+reception only and then an RSVP option for wedding+ all activities. Not everyone is going to want to spend their whole weekend at your summer camp wedding.

I agree with this. But also, it hurts other student’s education when someone who has a learning disorder is helped significantly more than those who don’t have one. The point is to bring the students to equal ground for equal opportunity. If all the effort goes to over accommodate learning disorders then those are struggling without a learning disorder is often over looked. Under the guise that they must not be struggling as hard as someone with a learning disorder which is simply not true.

" I think it's rude to only give people one option for accommodations and then make them pay for it."

That is not how I am understanding it, because OP is suggesting people stay at the cabin/campground, not saying they have to. So people can book their own place if they want. 

Imo no different from a couple including a room block reservation info, but people can book their own individual/seperate hotel.

NTA. She wanted to include you then not? Wild. 

Boundaries are set for yourself! Not to control others.

NTA.  Weaponize away, Gramma is seriously lacking in grandmotherly skills.  I wouldn't let her within 100 miles of my kid.  (Oh, and if anyone thinks that the kid will forget / get over it?  Dream on.  He's recognized it and won't forget that, no matter how she may try to make amends.)

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

Hi so, I (19F) have been with my bf (19M) for 6 months now and I live with his family. Mum (51), dad (54) and sister (16)

For 3 years now they've had a dog who is now 10. They got him from a shelter and he has separation anxiety presumably after his previous owner left him there and his favourite person is my bfs mum. When she is not there he will cry, howl, and bark and never be able to fully relax, he does have a thundershirt that we can put on him to keep him quiet but he doesnt like to wear it so we only tend to use it when he needs to settle down eg. Night time or when bfs mum is in a work meeting.

Now my partners family loves the country Greece and are having another trip there in July (last day of term) however my bf is not going. He has been left behind with the purpose of "he can look after the dog" and ofc since I live there now its my responsibility as well. And ofc I absolutely love the dog but ive said many times in my life I would never want to own one due to the responsibility it takes but this is unavoidable.

This isn't really the first time this has happened either as on Easter Sunday they planned to leave me here on my own with the dog which my bf said was unfair (at the time I didnt even know what he got fed so I was i expected to take care of him for the 7 hours they were gone?) and they decided to take him with them.

I dont know it just feels as if we are being free dog sitters for a dog that has separation anxiety and a way for his family to save money by not taking my bf with them on a family holiday.

WIBTA if I called his parents out on this behaviour?

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

For context, I watched the ‘Backrooms’ movie on Monday night (this is super important), and after the movie I had an analysis rant with my mom about the characters in the movie, and how I specifically empathized with Clark who was a flawed and morally grey, which lead me to being too emotionally invested to the movie and cried about it.

Last Tuesday night, I (F17) asked permission from my (F49) mother to go to the movies with my friend, to which she replied saying “No, I don’t want you crying about another movie, you already went to the movies this week too anyways” (Backrooms), which in my fault was a miscommunication that I assumed she would still take me regardless —also, the movie was ‘Passenger’, so I’m pretty sure it wouldn’t affect me since people said the movie was mid + not psychological horror from what I’ve heard.

Fast forward to today around 1:55-2 pm, I reminded her about the movie and to drop me off, to which she said no. Keep in mind, my friend had already arrived there around 1:30 pm due to her parents being busy later on, so I wanted to arrive early as well (the movie starts at 3:15). But, my mom kept saying she was busy (she was on the phone calling her aunt + doing nothing and else), and did not want to drive 15+ mins to the movies theater.   
As a result, I had to cancel last minute on my friend who had waited 40+ minutes at the movies all alone, I’m unsure if she has gotten home unsafe now as she left me on delivered when I sent a paragraph apology an hour ago, but earlier did say her mom would be on the way to pick her up.

AITA? I feel really shitty for wasting my friend’s time out of her day for nothing, and poor planning and communication was all my fault as well. I did not care for missing out on the movie, for I only cared about spending time with my friend since summer break had begun, and I possibly ruined all chances with her hanging out with me again. I’m really sorry.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

I don’t think it’s tacky at all. I would love to have the option of staying on site. And not having to worry about  finding somewhere to stay for the weekend.

NTA.

This is extremely tacky.  Usually more people are invited to the reception, and only the couple's closest relatives and friends (or female spouses/SOs representing men in their lives if it's a women only event) are involved with the shower.  In other words, the very closest people who are also giving them something to help set up their home in addition to a monetary gift at the reception.  Not the other way around.  Blatant gift grab.

YTA because the cabin rentals enable you to get the venue, thus you're asking people to subsidize your more expensive venue. 

It's different to get a room block and say "we have 20 rooms reserved for you to book here".

Maybe QUICK to assume?

YTA not because your points aren't valid but this isn't how you start productive conversations. You seem to want a closer less authoritative relationship. That's wonderful. That starts with clear and kind communication

3 day wedding ?  Hope you have really close friends and family that’s a huge ask

She was on a business call not a fricking group chat.

He KNEW it was for work and he still didn’t give a shit and interrupted her to ask questions that have nothing to do with the job because he couldn’t tell if it was a woman or man talking. 

And then to get mad that she got mad the he interrupted her call is just plain immature. 

Loser behavior through and through .

ESH.  No, he should not have applied where you work. Yes, I get working with  him will be a pain in the butt. Just ask whoever schedules you not to put you guys on shifts together.

My thoughts exactly.

NTA. Go to the party, they invited you because they want you there.

I was in the second of the 4-seat in the middle of economy. It was hard not to elbow people while eating. I only have my experience with Airbus last year to compare it to for long haul, and I don't remember feeling as cramped. And I'm only 5 foot tall and 60kg so it's not a height or weight issue.

I wouldn't recommend going on a 747-400 on Lufthansa unless you can get an upgrade. Irrelevant to the post but multiple other parts of our seats were broken (tablets, my table was tilting too far downwards so I had to wedge napkins under my tray to stop food sliding onto my lap). Not helped either by the tray being made of slippery material. Might have been bad luck with where we were seated but I much preferred my other long-haul experience on an Airbus with Finnair - I don't remember being jammed in quite as much.

Having said all that, the service and food was great, so if you still think it's fine then Lufthansa will be great to fly with.

I get that, and I agree that the grandma is clearly out of line. And hopefully the little guy got to ride something fun.

However, if the band was for a fast-pass type system it is usually only really used for big rides with long lines. 

It would be kinda a waste of money to buy one for a kid too small to actually use it. 

If it’s a band to ride any rides at all, that is definitely egregious.

Either way the grandma is TA for sure. It’s not fair to drag a little guy around an amusement park and make him wait for rides he can’t go on. Unless an equivalent amount of time was spent with the cousin waiting around so the little dude could ride the kiddie rides.

But the choice of venue might be the issue here, not whether or not a band was purchased for both.

I don’t think you’d fully be an asshole but that would be super tacky. You 100% shouldn’t be attempting to have your guests subsidize your venue cost. I don’t think you should book the luxe site unless you can afford it without other people booking it too. You can offer the on-site cabins as a room block and emphasize the convenience, but I would add all that to the wedding website under accommodation, not on an invite. Filling 33 cabins for 2 nights is a lot of logistics to try to take on in addition to a wedding, would not recommend.

NTA.  She wasn't trying to help you, if that was true she would have asked if you were okay, needed anything etc.  You told her to stop - thus displaying your ability to communicate. 

She continued on being an ass until you had to yell.  She is the one who should be apologizing, to both of you.  

Do not chase her down, and do not apologize.  She's an a$$!

NTA. Your girlfriend sounds... not very smart at best. You asking her not to eat these muffins makes completely sense to me as a non gluten free person

Protecting from what exactly? She is not doing anything bad to him.
She in fact is weaponizing this situation. I know from my experience parents can be difficult regarding their kids and overly protective and defensive if you say anything bad about their kid.

Regarding the park, it might be that OPs kid not a kid you can leave to do the rids. She was with him, purchased something to snack on. 
I am 100% OP is not telling us the full story and is seeing this from a lenses of a parent that has a perfect life angel. 
And I can tell you that it’s better to say you didn’t had enough money for tickets for both, than to say your kid id difficult to handle. 
Few times ai have mentioned bad behavior of some kids to their parents and never again. It’s like I have told them their kids is the worst human on the planet. 

Obviously OPs mom wants to have a relationship otherwise if OP calmed she didn’t like spending time with him…she wouldn’t care if she restrict access unsupervised.

I was one of the first responders so didn't have the additional context from her comments.  It does sound like a deeper issue than typical teen behaviour.  I'd still suggest OP keep things simple and maintain boundaries for her little family.  Teen sis is the responsibility of her parents, but sounds like she'll be in a for a rude awakening when she faces the adult world without the buffer of her parents.

Why is your dad still invited to this concert when he also excluded you from the family holiday? NTA but he deserves the same treatment.

It’s so much more than a muffin. Get you a GF who values you. This one doesn’t.

That would be the only excuse tbh!

I think most people pay for the hotel room themselves. At least I have never been to a wedding with a free room.

NTA. the amusement park thing alone would’ve done it for me. making a kid sit and watch while the other gets unlimited rides is honestly cruel and inhuman

It became demanding instead of asking when he kept asking over and over again when they had already repeatedly said no.

And of course he's mocking them. This whole post is full of contempt for them. I don't believe for a second that attitude hasn't leaked out into real life.

I don't think your an AH, but this does seem a little bit of a strange set up. This is my recommendation. 

Talk to the people you legitimately want to stay with you, your parents, your friends, etc, people who aren't just coming to be polite and won't mind spending a bit. Arrange for accommodations at the cabins WITH them, like a little vacation. Do not put this in your general wedding invite.

On your invitation just put the normal stuff and add: If you're in need of accommodations, cabins are available for rent on site and provide a link to the website. That gives people the ability to do what they want without feeling micromanaged.

OP isn’t bringing gluten into the home though? And there are no barriers on access to food for gf except what seems to be her laziness. Why couldn’t she go buy a chocolate muffin for herself knowing how rare it is for OP to get gf free treats?

OP also mentioned that the 2 muffins are the only thing they requested for themselves. The gf is being petty and childish

Or it could be different parenting styles.   Like if the son is an ipad kid or they do permissive parenting,  you can see a bunch of behavioral differences.

I can see that thought process! She said he didn't agree with the ultimatum which is why I thought differently.

Yeah, YTA. So you know how much you are white passing, and you still did something that the average person would consider wildly inappropriate. Yeah, you don’t owe anyone an explanation of your background, but that means you don’t get to act surprised when people call you out on your shit. As a fellow light skinned biracial I also would have looked at you all kinds of sideways. Being white passing comes with privilege, and you should recognize that. You are really lucky she didn’t go to HR with a complaint, because you would have had a way bigger problem on your hands.

Can the invitation be reworded to sound like blocking hotel rooms? I have been to many weddings that have a reserved hotel block specifically for the wedding. 

I also don't know if you want to keep track of people's reservations on your wedding day. You'll become the default contact for everyone during their trip with the "text the bride" language.

I love it when people say “you’re trying to make it seem like I’m a bad _____” when all you’re doing is telling them exactly what they’re doing.

God forbid they take responsibility for their actions lmfao. Like you’re the one who did it to begin with!

At a minimum, they're getting a bedpan chucked at their noggin. Preferably a full one. NTA at all!

Yes, this. If he won’t allow you work in peace at home, you’ll have to stay at the office

It’s less about being ableist and about distrusting others success when it looks to be improbable. OP would’ve picked anything to pin on her regardless of physical or mental ability.

YTA. The wording could be better. 
If they want to stay there and they have to pay through you, say that otherwise it seems like you’re getting a profit off of them. If a lot of people decide not to stay there, I hope you and your husband to be are able to afford cost to have the ideal wedding. Either way, if you want a summer camp wedding, pay for the accommodation otherwise people will go the traditional route: hotels and airbnb.

She is saying that the price for the accommodation at the luxe site is already included in what she is paying. She is trying to make this affordable, and get her money back, by charging her friends and family.

NTA, your mom took your son to an amusement park and had him sit on a bench eating fries while his cousin rode everything and somehow YOU’RE the villain?? the fact that your five year old just shrugs when grandma calls now is genuinely devastating and she created that. “weaponizing access” is wild when all you said was treat him fairly — that’s the lowest bar imaginable. your sister’s “she’s just easier” excuse has absolutely nothing behind it and everyone knows it. protect your kid, you did the right thing.

No. The idea of a 5 year old coming up with that on their own is ridiculous.

NTa, is he abusing the dog in the stories? Maybe you should report him :/

Yes, you are the asshole!

What's more problematic than the smell is the germs she is getting on her tools and supplies she uses to get ready, by keeping them in the bathroom at all.

She should not be keeping them in either lavatory, which is why I suggested a vanity in the bedroom.

As someone with a celiac partner I am aghast at the Y T A responses - absolutely NTA here

Taking two kids to an amusement park and giving one full acess, and making the other sit on a bench, is straight up cruelty. She knew exactly what she was doing. Cut her off, no excuses. Your son deserves better

Your relationship wouldn’t end over a muffin. It’d end because she’s treating you beyond reasonable. Look, it’s nice and all that she’s started following your diet out of empathy, but she can’t wash the line away where you have no choices and she does. That line remains. Calling you manipulative was a sh*t move. Throwing money at you was demeaning. Eating the muffin right in front of you after all this was a power move. And this is not your first argument. So not only do you have to be extremely cautious about what you eat, but you also have to think of your girlfriend, and THEN comes you.

Eating shouldn’t be this hard, man.

YTA.        
Doing accents, any accent, can come off as racist. Doesn’t matter if that’s where your family member is from. Also, you should have given her context, that may have helped you not look so ignorant.       
Also that’s not even getting into the fact that you were talking about clients from the Caribbean, so I am just going to assume you were not talking about them in a professional way. Not appropriate workplace behavior.

NTA, I am terribly sorry for this to happen to you. I would also go no contact with everyone on his side.

This is a much classier way to phrase it 👏🏻

Bride and groom should be prepared to cover the full cost in the case that people want to stay in a hotel with hotel amenities and not guilt or “highly encourage” them.

NTA. He doesn’t respect you. Do you have any self-respect?

Not an expert, but feels like an attempt to drag her down to overcompensate for dissatisfaction with his own job and envy at hers.

I think that’s what I’ll do. I don’t want to help the man who took my mother away from me and deprived me of her money. We lived in poverty, and I blamed my mother for it and that’s terrible.

your dad is enabling her with his silence.

Dad isn’t talking to OP since OP said he couldn’t afford to send them money anymore. He’s not just being silent about mom’s AHness: he’s actually being worse than she is.

Don’t add your venmo to an invite EVER, that is tacky. Include a separate card stating that a block of luxe sites are available, and provide a link to book through the venue, or the link takes them to a page that includes info to book through you. Be prepared to eat the cost if not enough people book, maybe gauge interest first. 
NTA if you do it correctly

YTA. I’m not even going to get into whether he could or couldn’t stay home safely alone. That’s not your judgement call to make. You were asked to watch him, you agreed. That doesn’t include leaving him alone unless previously agreed with your uncle.

I totally understand OP and as I mentioned, I don’t agree with him sharing the photo, just tried giving a reason why he might have. Regardless, he shouldn’t have pushed the boundary of contacting the coach, who sounds like a total creep, because you established that you didn’t want that happening. Again, I do not agree with what your date did.

After I stopped talking to him, his friends and I would see each other at local bars and events. We'd catch up and it seemed like he hadn't told them anything about me

This might come as a shock to you, but those are your friends 

He does not have ownership of them

So no, YWNBTA if you invited *your* friends to *your* party

NTA, you’re actually the complete opposite because you’re protecting your son like a mother should.

NTA. She is absolutely a bad grandmother

I've actually been thinking about this and I poorly described the issue. The issue is that it's demeaning. It is saying that he only has value so long as he is doing things that are attractive to her.

If the genders were reversed and a man was telling a woman to do something or not do something because of how attractive or unattractive to him it was, it wouldn't be viewed positively.

I think there is a big difference in connotation between, say, "that's a turnoff for me" vs "that's unattractive to me". The former implies a default of desire or appreciation. The default is that I am attracted to you and this is going against that. The latter implies a default of no desire or appreciation, unless you do things that are attractive. The default is that I'm not attracted to you unless you do these things.

The former allows for intrinsic value in another human being, the latter implies you don't have value unless you earn it.

The former is clear communication of feelings, while the latter reeks of narcissistic manipulation where you have to earn value through your actions that benefit the subject.

NTA. I look completely white and I am only about a quarter white. I just say, “We don’t all look the same! Don’t stereotype me” as I feign offense when I really dgaf, but then those snowflakes can feel bad for bothering me.

NTA, your mom sounds like a bad grandma. People like that are the worst, like how could you look at someone as more worthy or less than. 

My significant others mom always used our son to look good to her friends, she’d parade him around (There was some other stuff too) but it’s been like 3 years since we’ve talked to her.

I once got my invitation to a destination wedding after I came back from rhe destination. 

A simple text/email/phone call and I didn't have to secretly feel bitter I wasn't invited, and my friend didn't have to feel sad that I didn't RSVP.

My grandma took all my cousins on her side to Disney World, staying in the Grand Floridian besides two adult men… and me. I was 12 at the time (F). Yeah, I’m not a fan of grandparents playing favorites. NTA.

don't give them money. you're an adult and you won it. if you want to give them a little bit in the future maybe do that. but not half.

NTA. My brother did this for his wedding, three days, two nights. Subsidised the accommodation, which also included breakfast before the wedding and a reception lunch/dinner after. The days of the average young couple fully funding their own wedding are long gone; way too expensive. The only FYI is if people are paying to come to your wedding expect some people not to attend, and for gifts to be quite a bit more modest.

I looked around some, is this the original story you're referring to? It DOES seem very similar... 🤔

NTA. Feels like a cash grab?  

Just decline, as has been stated here before more than once, it's an invite not a summons/subpoena!

YTA

You’re having a destination wedding. Your loved ones need to book time off work, sort out travel, etc. Be grateful people are even going.

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > I believe I would be the asshole in this situation due to the fact that I'd be severing trust with a friend who'd be very close to for multiple years if I go to this event that I was really excited for. She's gotten mad at me for talking to her friends and felt like I'm stealing them.

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

My grandson shrugs when I tell him tomorrow he goes to visit mom.   breaks my heart.

If you’re expecting guests to pay, I wouldn’t advertise it as a summer camp style wedding. This implies that you’ll be covering cost of lodging, especially if you’re “highly encouraging” guests to stay with you. The verbiage will need to change so that you are clearly conveying what you want to say. I wouldn’t book anything like that unless you know for sure people will pay and have a way to ensure they do/have, or you’re gonna need to be comfort eating the costs associated. If those don’t work, then I wouldn’t suggest going a different route.

YTA but only for the way you said it. I don’t think you resent her. I think you resent the clearly unbalanced treatment of students. Bc if they had treated you and others the same as her, perhaps the scores of the school would go up. I don’t think you made the comment to hurt her but to bring up the conversation of the clearly biased treatment. But the way you said it seemed like you blamed her for it. Which is why you are the asshole, unfortunately. Had you said something like “you’re a very good student so maybe you don’t notice but the school support system is biased towards specific individuals. At least thats how I feel, maybe it’s just my education tho.” Might’ve shown your true feelings better.

YWBTA, aside from the Venmo thing (which I think is tacky), I think it is absolutely crazy to expect wedding guests to attend your wedding for three days and two nights? Maybe I’m missing something? Even people who like going to weddings only like staying, like, six hours or so. I can’t imagine a lot of people would show up for this? Maybe I’m just boring though.

How when it seems like ALL food triggers her?? She could’ve taken the 20 bucks and walked to a grocery store or café but chose to be spitefully petty

NTA kids absolutely notice this kind of thing, and you need to protect your son. Grandma only cares about the Golden Child and your son is an afterthought (at best). I’m so sorry.

This is the problem with stuff like this in a workplace environment. Whether you meant to or not, what you did was perceived as racist.  The thing to do is to steer clear of imitations of **anyone's** accent, manner of speaking, or whatever. Misunderstandings like this occur, people get their feelings hurt and ultimately it's just not worth it.  NAH.

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > The action I took was that I shouted at my dad, and it might make me an asshole because, in general, in the geography that I am raised in, it is inappropriate to speak back to elders.

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

No, he hung out on the bench with grandma. The person he was supposed to spend the day with. That’s not weird. Sure he’d probably have had fun with aunty and niece, they aren’t so old and boring. It’s mom that’s going to put the idea in the kids head that grandma should have been more fun and taken him on rides.

Ah, I read that as he thought the delivery was too harsh since he agrees with her, not that he thought the whole thing was too harsh.

I've never thought of bridal showers as a gift grab. To me it's more like girl time with the bride?

NTA
I also don’t think it’s about the muffin, OP’s GF is not getting it and seems pretty self centred. I think this is probably more indicative of a bigger pattern of behaviour. Even though her mom said ‘to share’ I would absolutely allow someone with a restricted diet to have both rather than being focussed on it needing to be fair. The money thing is also weird and evidence she doesn’t get it. Eating it in front of OP shows a lot of immaturity for a nearly 30yo and I think OP needs to consider if this relationship is really working for her.

NTA. You’re being up front regarding the accommodations available to your guests. It’s their decision from that point on.

Oh shyte, I didn't notice that! Now I want to hug that little boy and tell him he's wonderful. I'm glad OP realizes what's happening will shield him from this. I hope her husband reads this and sees he needs to stand with her.

These comments are cancer. This story is like a siren song for "empowered" "if you can't handle me at my worst, you don't deserve me at my best" binary-thinking types to show off their "assertiveness" and draw a line in the sand as though it represents any of the facets of a healthy relationship to cite a dictionary definition as evidence of your righteousness.

The language she is using is incredibly loaded and anyone who thinks that constantly reminding your partner of ***just how conditional*** your love/attraction is (REGARDLESS of any truth), at every opportunity, is how you found a good relationship, is not someone who I would ever consider taking relationship advice from.

I mean, your mom specifically made a point to say that these are "to share" and it doesn't seem like you objected to that. By my understanding, that is you agreeing to share. You then found out how delicious the muffins were and then decided you didn't want to share anymore.  
You asked your GF if we can change the agreed upon deal and then got into a big fight that might end your relationship when she wanted to stick to the original deal. YTA.

NTA. Pay no attention to the butthurt brigade.

NTA - I wouldn’t go.

He was too young to notice before.

The hot dog conundrum, it's great as long as you don't find out how it's made

NTA. 

Part of me wants to just politely decline and leave it at that.

That's what you should do, then. If I'm not invited to the wedding, I'm not going to a shower, either. It just looks like a gift grab.

I disagree.  They don’t need the exact same things.

She has made the choice to “often” eat gluten free products.  She does not always eat gluten free.  She has choices that OP doesn’t.

On top of that, the 1:1 principle she is living by is deeply unhealthy.  She doesn’t need a treat when OP has one, and OP shouldn’t have to avoid food in order to avoid sharing things exactly equally.  She really needs to work through that.

NTA. It wasn't a mistake. It was a deliberate *and repeated* act of parental alienation over many, many years. 

Which he did not confess to at any point - even when your mother was dying - does not regret, and has freely admitted that he would do it again.

ESH you need headphones and he needs to leave you alone when working

I'm gonna be pretty honest here. I *am* a child rape victim that was told by my father that he would have put a stop to it 'if I had only told him'. 

As I was reading this, it engendered the same feeling. So you've pretty much hit the nail on the head.

This seems like a silly excuse to not set up a shared calendar. You may all have different devices, but something like the google calendar app can be downloaded on pretty much any device and it's very likely you all have individual google accounts already set up (and if not it takes 2 seconds to set one up)  

There's no reason the shared family calendar has to be done through any specific device's native calendar app. Just pick one you can all download (again I suggest google calendars- its easy to use and understand), share it with everyone, gives those who need it read/write permissions and call it done.

He had the goal to then hang up on you?

NTA.  If the 5 year old can see the treatment difference, how did none of the other adults see it?

Grandma is a bad grandma.

NTA. Your gf is being selfish and a brat

So she "looked at you weird and it got awkward", but you didn't discuss the issue on the spot?

your mom will pay for this when your son grows up and has zero connection to her grandson.

NTA at all but he sure is! You were entirely right to snap at him, because as you wrote, he doesn't respect you or your job. I'm sorry, but I fail to see what foundation there is for a respectful, mutually beneficial relationship between you at all.

I think yes, only because you take away the option of staying somewhere else and push off guilt. If you want the luxe what you can do is expect to pay most if not all of it and one the invites be honest 

“We have reserved x amount of rooms on site, if you would like to reserve one please contact the bride regarding price and availability” 

You’ll possibly have to pay for a few extra rooms but that’s kinda the price you pay for upgrades. At which point you let it ruin your night or you say fuck it and offer them to people you care about last minute who couldn’t find accommodations or something. Essentially the default is in you for the payment, but it’s doable to recoup some of that money. Just don’t alienate your guests who want to/can spend two days for you.

Yeah, this doesn't make sense at all. Somehow the whole family kept quiet. Despite knowing the truth. And also did nothing when your mother tried to contact you. 

I guess NTA for this piece of fiction.

NTA, one could play it off as you being the "overprotective mom" but the difference is so clear that even your OWN KID noticed which is sooo heartbreaking. And the immediate "oh so I'm a bad grandma now" thing pisses me off. If you simply pointing out her behavior makes her feel like a bad grandma then maybe she IS being a bad grandma. Literally calling herself out. Your ultimatum is just a basic boundary you're setting for something very valid and reasonable.

Nta

It got under your skin because he's expecting you to have forgiven him without him having to apologize, take responsibility, and articulating his plan to be better in the future. Which is to say he hasn't made a single step towards earning forgiveness.

the kid is 5 and the grandma is a grown up being an asshole to a 5 year old.

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

I (24M) got into a pretty ugly argument with my dad last weekend and now I genuinely don’t know if I crossed a line.   
  
My parents divorced when I was around 13. Nothing dramatic, just messy and sad in the way divorces usually are. I mostly lived with my mom after that.   
  
The thing is, my dad was technically around. He paid for stuff, called sometimes, remembered birthdays most years, sent random “eat healthy” or career advice WhatsApps. From the outside I think most people would say he was a decent dad.   
  
But emotionally... I don’t know. It always felt like he was kind of half-there.   
  
Even before the divorce he worked constantly and mostly talked about school, discipline, practical things. After the divorce it somehow got even more distant. We’d meet for lunch sometimes but it felt weirdly formal, like catching up with a relative instead of a parent.   
  
Tiny things started bothering me more as I got older. He’d say “I’ll call you back” and forget for days. He came to maybe one or two school things and seemed distracted. In college when I was having a rough time mentally my mom was the one actually sitting with me through it while his advice was mostly stuff like “be mentally strong”  
  
And I know this sounds childish because I’m 24 now, but I think I quietly built up resentment without really realizing it.   
  
Anyway, last weekend he came over because my mom needed help with paperwork and we all ended up having dinner.   
  
At one point he started giving life advice, the usual discipline/responsibility talk. Then he said something about how young people sulk too much and need to stop blaming circumstances.   
  
And something in me just snapped. I said, louder than I meant to, “You don’t get to talk to me like you raised me.”   
  
The room went dead quiet.   
  
Then I kept going, which I probably shouldn’t have. I said he was never there when things actually mattered, that paying bills isn’t the same thing as being a father, and that he mostly shows up to lecture me.   
  
My mom immediately told me to calm down.   
  
My dad just sat there for a second and said, really quietly, “I did the best I could.”   
  
Then he left.   
  
Since then he’s barely spoken to me except for one text saying he didn’t realize I felt this way.   
  
My mom thinks I went too far and says divorce was hard on him too and that I’m being unfair.   
  
Part of me feels awful because maybe I unloaded years of resentment onto him in one night and said things I can’t really take back.   
  
But another part of me feels like if I never said anything, I’d just stay angry forever.   
  
AITA?  
  
Because I knew this conversation was long-time coming (and I would sweat balls!), I practiced it beforehand. There’s this conversation practice thing a professor introduced me to some time back ( I think) and I kinda used it to figure out how not to completely lose my shit. Still didn’t go great apparently.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Tacky to charge people for a cabin that is included in the venue pricing. Tacky to ask people to Venmo you to subsidize your wedding

yta, why do you not have a large sign above your body warning people of your mixed heritage?

NAH, IMO. But I think it would be prudent for you to give the context of your background in future. Others can't know that you aren't a white person being racist, and I'm sure you'd want white racists to be called out for doing racist impressions?

NTA.  He doesn't get to tell  another adult  where they live or what to do.

I think gf as in gluten free

YTA. You said yourself you don't know what he was doing in the woods. Maybe he didn't have a group and he was floating, helping other groups. You screwed him out of his hours with no real proof.

NTA. My grandfather would do this shit. We went with my grandparents to one of the boardwalk places in NJ (Seaside Heights, I think), there was no money for my sister and I for rides or games, just walking around in the heat. Then we went to visit my aunts in-laws who had rented a beach house there and my grandfather made a big show of handing out $20 bills (this was the 80's, mind you) to all the other kids there. Like even the 3 year olds who didn't even know what to do with them. It was the most disappointing and heartbreaking thing to watch him do.

YTA. Wow. Did you ask for donations from your guests to pay for the venue, dress, and cake too? I get it, you want lux. Then pay for it honey. If they have to pay to be there, they're not guests.

As far as I'm concerned, YTA, but I'm probably going to end up a minority here. I, personally, take the view that you don't charge people to come to your wedding. At all. No cash bars, no buying food, no paying for parking. Anything that has to be paid for is paid for by the people throwing the party.

But even ignoring that, this is one of those egregious ones where it is really about leveraging people's desire to go to a wedding to get them to pay for something extra for the planners. The worst are cruises, where people getting married can get a free cruise if the get enough other people to pay to be on the cruise with them for the wedding. I don't think it sounds like you are doing that, which mitigates it to a degree, but asking people to pay for anything at a wedding just doesn't sit right for me.

The people getting married pay for the wedding, the guests give gifts to help start their lives.

I can say one thing for sure - including any requests for money on a wedding invitation is incredibly gauche.

NTA but I don't think your coworker is TA either. If someone that looked white came up to me and did a Chinese accent I would like at them sideways. You don't necessarily have to start with that/disclose but from an outside perspective it's not crazy to assume that is a weird thing to do without additional info

Society "works" that way because we've been fed propaganda for half a century that the onus is on the accused to prove innocence and that the accuser is automatically right unless proven otherwise.  If you accuse someone of something you better have proof to back it up. It's ridiculous that you and everyone else here just accepts that since this kid has an accusation thrown at him that it's on him to prove what his accuser said is not true.  The fact you accept "this is how it works" is troubling.

You don't know this kid and you don't know OP. Why so quick to accept her accusation?  Because she gives her first hand biased account of events?  You don't even hear what the kid has to say and immediately accept her accusation of guilt. Why is she so trustworthy?  Why is the kid so untrustworthy?

But he essentially took away two people’s loved one, and that’s why he’s being punished

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

One of my closest friends about a month ago introduced me to her new college friends who I was very excited to meet and it was great we got along so so well and had a great night. Over the next couple of weeks I casually see them out in nightclubs and hang out with them there, they invite me over to the college but I refuse unless my friend invites me directly.

Recently though my friend gets annoyed if she finds out that her friends and I have messaged about something. I bought this up to her to clear it up and she said it was because she “didn’t want me saying anything embarassing in front of them” well along those lines.

Today I texted a groupchat we all have from the night we met for them to all come to my work since they’re around the corner. She then texted me saying this was “overstepping a boundary”.

I then text her if it's about something deeper, reassuring things like how I wouldn't steal her friends/hang out with them without her unless I saw them out and we were at the same place or I was invited to something big like a birthday. However she somewhat skirted around that.

This comes to the birthday. About a month back I was invited to a party of one of her friends which I was really excited to go to and was preparing to plan my entire trip with her (for reference the party is in another state). However I find out today that she’s not going anymore, when I’d spent a couple of weeks trying to plan the trip out and being really excited for it.

I feel really disappointed by it but I know I can’t go anymore because of the “boundaries” she’s set and I feel really sad because I don’t want to disappoint these friends who took their time out to invite me and my only excuse is that I can’t go because my friend doesn’t want me to go without her. I also get massive FOMO so that’s a factor.

I know if I go that I’ll severe trust with her and she’s one of my closest friends but I’d also feel so shitty not going especially after I’ve been really excited for it, and these people actually invited me to go. I really don't want to squander possible new relationships with people I get along with just because my friend doesn't want me to go.

Been feeling really confused and anxious about this for a while now and just seeking some clarity because I do feel this is somewhat unfair towards me, especially since I'd never do this to her with my other friends. I understand her concerns but I've also reassured her and I don't know what else I can do.

If you guys need more clarity in the comments, I'm very glad to give it! Thanks for taking the time to read this.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

YTA who wants to pay to attend a 3 day wedding.

It's an invitation. If you don't want to go, don't. 
But it's not an insult. I have been invited to bridal showers for friends who are having small weddings that I didn't get an invite to

YTA guests paying for hotel accommodations is one thing, giving cash to the wedding party for the room is pretty tacky. imo paying directly to the camp is more suitable. I would get the icks thinking that maybe the bride jacked up the price to make a profit

Nta. People are always quit to ASSume

nothing wrong with that. any ways what are you doing on june 8th and what is your income bracket?

NTA good for you for sticking up for your son. Your mom absolutely new what she was doing and money my ass. Similar happened in my family with favoritism and it did not end well. it was between parents and step kids. Your son will remember this. Don't let him be with your mom anymore. She sucks for playing favorites and rubbing it in his face.

Rubbish. Weddings can be limited for various reasons hence why having extended family or friends for a casual celebration is totally ok. 
Basic etiquette is not ignoring an invitation and at least RSVP no.

I think the fact that you don't understand her intentions is a sign that you don't know enough to take this personally.

Maybe this is a gift grab. Maybe she could only invite her 50 closest friends and family to the ceremony but wanted to celebrate with other people in some manner, and this was the compromise. Maybe she had no involvement in planning this event whatsoever.

If you want to reconnect, then reconnect. Accept the invite, give something off the registry that hits a price point that you wouldn't be mad you paid if nothing comes of this, and celebrate this event with her. If you don't care to reconnect, then don't; you're not required to go just because you're invited, or to reconnect even if this is her attempt to reconnect. Just don't do the "I'll only go if you treat me, a person who hasn't spoken to you for almost a decade, as if we're still best friends" thing.

ETA: NAH

Lux site includes all the cabins in the venue price, so OP would be fronting the money and wants her guests to pay her back.

I actually don't think it's totally insane as long as guests have the option of choosing other accommodations. OP has to consider what would happen if people see "strongly encouraged" as "optional" and she ends up paying for a bunch of vacant cabins.

This is what I’m wondering too because if OP’s son is hard to handle or badly behaved then I can understand grandmas actions.

NTA. My condolences on the loss of your mother. **IF** she was still alive and **IF** you could build a new relationship with her, you could possibly consider forgiving him. 

But since your mother's death has made that impossible, then your father's continual lies have created his own punishment.

Ill try to remember to remind u!!

Obviously OP's son is not a "difficult" child since he just sat on a bench. Even if OP goes NC with her mother, she isn't the one breaking up the family, her AH mother is the one who's responsible for that. Treating a 5 year old so cruelly is certainly a worthy  reason.

NTA.  He lied, played you for a sap, and then sent his flying monkeys in to try to guilt you into making  his life comfortable.  Not merely  liveable, COMFORTABLE. And it's  your  fault? I don't think so.

NTA. This is no different (except for the handling of the reservations/money) than reserving a block of hotel rooms for a wedding. The bride/groom don't pay for the rooms in the block. They just have the hotel hold them for their guests to make their own reservations. It would be better if you could have your guests reserve their cabins directly with the venue rather than sending the money to you - just in case anyone should start to suspect you are putting an upcharge on the cabins to help pay for the wedding.

NTA he should respect your work time - but i do feel like instead of ignoring him/asking him why it matters the first time he asked, you could’ve just told him that you were busy and wouldn’t be able to talk - and yes you shouldn’t have to tell him that while you are clearly already in a meeting - i just think that would’ve been a better response as opposed to snapping. 

i also feel like maybe when you’re on a business call, taking the call in your bedroom and not a communal living area would also probably help the situation.

NTA, she’s 18 and doesn’t understand being a parent. If anything she is the asshole for being sour about it!

I am SO fucking sorry he destroyed a chance for you two and I am so very sorry you are going to carry this for the rest of your life. Even if you cut him off permanently you would not be the ah. Sending you love and strength, FUCK him.

Listen, as someone who has been a lifelong slob and also has ADHD I get this. For me it’s two fold: first, I genuinely have a hard time even recognizing that something needs to be cleaned up. If I leave a glass on the counter, it just seems like that’s its new home and it doesn’t even occur to me to pick it up. Second, like you, I’m easily distractible.

Buuuut….I recognize that  this is a “me” issue. My cleanliness (or lack thereof) has been an issue in literally every relationship I’ve ever had (parents, roommates, husband, etc). I’m the common denominator. My job is to actively try to be better and listen to criticism. It’s something I struggle with, but that’s my issue. My ADHD explains my behavior, but if this is bothering people close to me I need to figure out how to deal with it.

NTA. He committed the worst sin as a parent...he used his child as a pawn in a dispute with his ex, and permanently damaged your relationship with your mom by throwing her under the bus.  In a divorce, the dirty details aren't the kids business and it's incumbent on the parents to keep the kids out of it.  Your father is a horrible and selfish human being.

ESH he shouldn't be trying to talk when you're clearly in a meeting, but the living room is clearly not a suitable place to take the meeting. What's the use in coming home early and working from home if you need to focus that intently and have to multitask etc? It sounds _more_ stressful.

Technically e/s/h because it sounds like the second muffin was meant for her, but ultimately I’m going with NTA because her side of this is way worse. There’s no way she “doesn’t understand” why you want the only accessible treat in the area. I struggle with good issues too but just like me, her issues are purely emotional and psychological and will not cause her physical pain and discomfort the way your food “issue” does. At best, she needs more help for her issues and may benefit from an inpatient program for disordered eating. At worst, it sounds like she wanted a younger person who she could boss around without having to fix her problems.

A lifetime of having to agree on every single thing you get to eat sounds exhausting.

NTA Playing favorites is never okay

A 2006 car absolutely has blindspot detection and automatic braking. It's called PAYING ATTENTION WHILE YOURE DRIVING.

NTA.  You were only invited for a gift.  You haven’t spoken in nearly a decade.  I wouldn’t even decline, I would just ignore it.  This is a bridal shower; do you expect there to actually be any time to catch up on pretty much your entire adulthood?  It’s not the lack of wedding invite, it’s the lack of 8 years of communication.  If she wanted to catch up, she would have called/emailed/texted at some point.  Instead, she decided to do it a point in time where is gift is pretty much mandatory.  If she really wants to see you and talk, she’d contact you personally.

sometimes people want support.

People probably don't like your "highly encouraging them to stay onsite." People will stay where they want to. Maybe they don't want to stay in a cabin. 

No judgment from me.

NTA. And usually a friend or family member organizes the bridal shower. You can decline the invite or choose to reconnect. If you haven't spoken in 8 years it's really up to you.

He gambled that OP wouldn't find out. He lost that bet.

I considered this, I had a thought of taking my best friend and her son instead of either of them. But felt a bigger AH for doing that on Father’s Day. Unfortunately I am happy to walk away from them both as it’s been many things over the last 2 years.

It's too bad you found out so late, definitely NTA

NTA.

When you decline list it as a schedule conflict you can't change. If she really wants to reconnect that leaves space for her to invite you to another thing.

At my office, a group of people will organize a "cake and punch at lunch" for someone getting married or having a baby. Usually co-workers chip in a few bucks for a gift card, or bring small gifts for a baby.

Ask to take the kids to a new waterpark - your treat, buy an unlimited pass for your son and make your niece request permission to get ride tickets. I bet that gets some feedback…

This is tacky as hell.

It doesn't sound like that at all. The questions were probing questions to find out more about her work. GTFOHWTBS

NTA
If I were you, I'd stop talking to the part of the family that sided with your father

I was going to suggest you end this relationship from the title,  but hearing that he frequently shows that he doesn't respect you,  you definitely should. He was almost certainly hoping someone would overhear him, and it would embarrass you.  

Being frustrated by this is understandable.  If your work colleague is a man or woman is completely irrelevant. Does he think you're actually having phone sex with someone else in your living room? Please work on leaving this relationship. You deserve respect. NTA.

Made me laugh out loud

Literally no one does this ever

What happens if you book the lux site, but not enough people rsvp to book a cabin?

I think that I hear what you are saying, but some kids are easier to manage than others. That being said, unless this boy is completely and totally out of control, this is a terrible way for the grandmother to behave. The wristband thing suggests that she likes the girl better and the boy is getting the message. I’m sad for him, for the mum and for the grandmother, because she will be filled with regret eventually

NTA. I WFH full time and my husband knows not to interfere with my work calls unless it’s serious. When we lived with his parents though….that was a different situation. His parents would regularly talk to me while I was on a work call. It was very frustrating.

Your hopefully stbx is a goddess. You, on the other hand - yta

This is really fucked up, I fell for you. NTA

I think there is quite a bit of nuance when it comes to nonbinary people because just like everything else, it's a spectrum. Some may lean more towards one gender but don't fully identify one way or another. One day you may feel more like a man, other times more like a woman. Or you may not feel like either. I personally feel like gender fluid is a more accurate description for many who fall under the NB umbrella, but I'm sure there are others who prefer non-binary. When it comes to pronouns, people who identify more with one gender or another often state their pronouns as she/them or he/them when asked. Its also not connected to their assigned sex so even if OP's friend is AMAB, they could still identify as she/them or anything else.

Don't get surprised when people won't show.

If both of them were involved then why should she celebrate father's day? Surely by not going to the concert, she is automatically punishing both her sister and her dad? 

NTA, OP. Your sister and your dad have shown you exactly where you stand in their life. Go ahead and enjoy the show without them.

You still think a dude not giving a speech 10yrs ago was an asshole? 10yrs might go by quick cause you're not really growing up

i want to elaborate - we do not have a completely gf household. she has her own gluten products

Can someone remind me to come back in a day or two

even though this is a week old I still don't get how you're the AH, reddit is unhinged sometimes. you did what your wife wanted.

If it were my child she would never see him again. Did you read the above about a 40 year old who still hurts from this treatment.?

NTA.  Past mistakes my a$$.  That is straight out abuse. 

Good for you!!

If I don’t get invited to the wedding I def don’t go to the shower.

Did you want to reconnect before you received the shower invite? I mean, if you truly want her back in your life, rather than just being hurt and wanting to prove something to yourself, then don’t make this bigger than it needs to be. Just get her a small gift and go to the shower and celebrate her. Then the door will be open to try and further connect with her after the wedding.

Um, she ain't paying rent, she doesn't get to live there which is what you're basically describing.

NTA

I doubt that partner gave up gluten *for* OP. It seems more that they have disordered eating and want to mirror whatever OP eats.

Guilting OP that they gave up gluten for them is the cherry on the muffin.

YTA any summer camp wedding I've heard of or been to the couple paid for everything but travel to the venue. I think it's rude to only give people one option for accommodations and then make them pay for it. 

From a logistics perspective not everyone is going to want to stay 2-3 nights and then you're talking prorated amounts which is complicated.  Go for what you can afford

OP never said that others should not be proud of themselves.  Why are you claiming that they did?  It sounds like you are the one who needs to get over yourself.

She sat down in the "living" room to do work. She also didn't communicate at all that she was on a work call. The last paragraph is also complete bullshit. I work from home, and do you know what I do when I need privacy for a call? I go to my room, tell my roommate that I'll be on a call, and close the door.

NTA. Politely send your regrets. It’s a gift grab.

The "both or neither" line stood out to me too; that's a line usually reserved for siblings, not cousins. Honestly makes me suspicious of the post's authenticity, but it's not hard to imagine that a frazzled parent might choose the wrong words.

lol be mad at the airline, not the person using the function they were provided

So sorry you suffered this as well! Sending you my strength!

I think yes TA, and yes tacky as fuck. I hope you don't expect expensive gifts, or any at all. Invited to a wedding, but then charged a fee to attend? I'll stay home.

Thank you. This isn’t the first time. I have made no effort with my dad either since as he doesn’t seem to care that it’s upset our family. She’s been doing shady behaviours for years (sending my other half messages and innapropriate cards, images etc) but I thought when mum died it would stop. Now they both seem to be sneaking around and lying about it without care of consequence to us.

She is a bad grandmother though. She’s a bad person. That theme park story is sickening if true. I’d probably just fire her at this rate, seems like she is doing more harm than good. You’re NTA.

That’s just a normal human interaction though. Not every stranger is going to put on a polite voice for you, and even if you did hit the kid on the head, the likelihood of an actual serious injury is low.

And this is why I can’t trust Reddit. Is anything here real anymore?

It’s just weird that your mom won’t let you leave the house when she’s not home, but then she’s going to leave you on your own for 2 weeks. 

Do you have other siblings?

NTA. Yea my grandma on my dad’s side was the same. All my cousins and aunts lived at my grandmas house still. Watching all the love, gifts, and biggger parties while we were all the same age. My cope was yea I mean they live with her but seeing treatment like that and then getting bare minimum sucked

Have you ever flown in your life before? No one turns around and “gives a heads up”. That’s not a thing. You recline your seat if you want to, or don’t.

NTA I feel for you it must be so frustrating. What shocks me the most is that even when she saw how much you cared and how it impacted you she still went and eat it. 
I would never in a million years do this to my husband. I would be so happy that he found something that he really likes and is good for him it would be a non subject, I wouldn’t even want the second one except maybe a small bite just to taste.

She is incredibly selfish. 

On a side note you should have a discussion with your parents asking them to please not say it is for sharing in the future even if I’m sure it came from a good place.

Thanks for your support. I hope I can handle all of this.

NTA: There is a time when the baby birds have to leave the nest. Two adult males have problems even if they are not father/son. Get a job, then pack. He's not wrong, he's another generation and see's your offer of help as him not being able to provide.

It looks like you're trying to post an update to your AITA post.

#Read our update guidelines here.

If your post meets the outlined guidelines, please message the mods for approval. We appreciate your patience while mods review for approval.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

NTA.  Gluten free for you is not a choice; it is a necessity.

I think she should do what she said: say she wants a regular makeup and pay the $100 or whatever for it. 

I was responding to the comment above mine, not OP. Notice I didn’t pass a judgement, I simply explained why it was expensive.

NTA. She’s really immature if she can’t be understanding that you simply can’t have delicious treats whenever you want due to availability while she can eat anything from anywhere if the mood strikes.  If her inner child just can’t stand to let you have this, she’s too selfish for a grownup relationship.  What a freaking a-hole move on her part.

Nope. NTA. And where were they while he was gambling away the money and lying to you? Any one of them could have told you the truth long ago and saved your relationship with your mom.

INFO: Can you not provide the link for guests to arrange the lux sites? I think it's tacky where it's venmo the bride vs. here's the booking link.

NTA

But where were all these relatives who confirmed what happened when it was happening???? Obviously your father is the primary, active offender, but where the hell were all of these passive culprits?? Your aunt!? She waited until your mother was dead to give you the proof of your mother's commitment to you? I understand that the physical proof, your mom's possessions, wouldn't be available until after her death, but, still.

I am so sorry OP. That is a terrible injustice that you will have to carry for the rest of your life and I cannot imagine how difficult it will be. You 100% need therapy, an outlet for this delayed grief.

He doesn't respect you. But also just work out your day in the office. Nta

NTA but think of it as her way to include people she wants to see but couldn’t make it to her wedding. Buy her a spatula or something and go to the shower if you want to see her. The gift doesn’t really matter if you actually want to reconnect. Feel free to rsvp no if you don’t want to rekindle the friendship.

NTA. Not even close. Thats so cold and cruel. Your poor Mom 😭😭

He already noticed (cuz like I said 5 year olds notice Everything!) OP original quote: "He cried and asked why grandma liked his cousin more."

You're recommending gaslighting.

To answer 3 and 4: she trusted him!

Yeah, I guess that's just the way he is

YTA. She is communicating a very important point to you. Your habits are making her find you unattractive. Now that doesn’t mean you have to change your habits. But it does mean you can’t be surprised if she breaks up with you because she is no longer attracted to you as a partner. You want her to ACCEPT your habits (of leaving fast food on the floor, for Christ’s sake) and she is clearly communicating to you that she does not.

That was going to be my question. Is this a regular occurrence, the remote days/hours you work are worked in the living room on the couch?

NTA. She has the option to buy a nice muffin everyday, any time she wants and you don't.

YTA.

You BOTH have food struggles.

You should be keeping food that triggers her issues away from her. Especially food that is precious and rare for you - you each need your own private food space, for different reasons.

If you haven't told your parents this food issue- you need to.  And given her issues and your parents promise, in front of her, that some was actually for her, it really doesn't matter how good your muffin was.  The other one was never yours.

YIKES dude I thought you were like 14

weaponizing access to your son ?? tf?

kids need consistency - keep her consistently away until she can show come consistent care

nta at all. she IS a bad grandma for playing favorites. nonsense!!

NTA

MIL has a golden grandchild.  Was your sister also the golden child?  That’s how that usually works.

Your mother is a bad grandmother and you can feel free to tell her the truth.  Odds are she was a bad mother as well.

Protect your child from her.  It’s very sad no one protected you from her.  Don’t let her repeat her mistakes with another generation.

I’m also thinking about cutting off all contact with people like that. I don’t understand why they react that way when they know how he behaved.

NTA.  Actions have consequences.

NTA. Wild behavior on her behalf 

I’m vegan. It’s by choice, but comes with dietary restrictions nonetheless. My partner is not and weve always enjoyed sharing my vegan goodies. There have been times that I’ve found something incredibly tasty and hard to come by and wanted to enjoy it to myself. He never causes a fuss about it at all. In fact, there have been times where he can tell how much I’m enjoying something and will only have a small taste and save the rest for me. 

I wouldn’t look at this as breaking up over a muffin. I’d look at this as breaking up after your partner displayed toxic behavior, including manipulation and a complete disregard for your feelings. Healthy relationships involve give and take. Sometimes you have to give up something small (for her, an easily replaceable muffin) for your partner to have something big (for you, an irreplaceable muffin). IMO, a strict 1:1 principle isn’t sustainable and is a sign that she can’t handle someone else getting something without her getting something as well.

NTA. She is a bad grandmother, there's no two ways about it.  

YOUR SON sees this, frankly I think you will do him a disservice by letting him be around her again.  

Who does that, come and watch your cousin have fun!  She's such a $hithead!  

Additionally, this will probably cause a rift in the kids relationship. 

I can't stand your mom, I want to push her in a pool wearing her favorite outfit!

I know, right?  Easiest solution is to send a text each morning for that day’s schedule. 

I think the parents could be a little more proactive by getting a physical calendar that everyone can see each morning, or investing in one of those electronic calendars, but this kid doesn’t realize how much adults have to juggle, and handle, and plan for, and adjust, and readjust, and schedule, etc. 

Just this week I have my regular workload, I’m expected to also cover all the email/phone/daily work load for a coworker who is on vacation the next two weeks, assemble a patio set, call the manufacturer to track down missing parts of said patio set, schedule when I can be home for the delivery of those parts, go to the grocery store, cook dinner and make lunches, do some financial stuff for my parents, reschedule appointments with their doctors, made time to visit them and also made time to visit my in-laws (all elderly), scheduled my own dental and vision appointments, have to still go to the pharmacy and pick up a prescription, had to call a specialty pharmacy for a medication delivery, do some laundry, some yardwork, gotta stop to fill my gas tank and, oh I need to get the oil changed soon, and had to schedule a gas meter inspection for my parents, and i have a wedding to go to this month so I need to buy a card and go to the bank and get some cash, and then my dad decided he wants cable again and now I have to research that and get that set up for them, and his garage door opener needs to be reprogrammed so I have to figure out time to drive 45 minutes to their house to do that. 

I would blow my lid if my kid (who is old enough to drive  it still has a NANNY?) whined that I asked him to tell me again when I need to pick him up. 

How about you ride your bike, take the bus, or start walking???

YTA. Graduations are for the parents too. 

Lots of life is learning when it’s worth doing something you don’t want to do. 
Show respect to your mom who at the very least gave you some of the DNA to be smart enough to do so well. 

People need milestones and while a graduation ceremony may be boring, it’s an important way for parents to close a chapter in their child’s life. If you don’t want her to treat you like a child going forward, don’t act like one. Suck it up and let her be proud of you.

Your girlfriend literally changed her diet to make sure you don’t get sick

Did OP even *ask* for this? I bet it has more to do with partner wanting to mirror what OP eats because of partner's disordered eating than a genuine desire to not contaminate.

It really doesn't. If someone tells you to stop doing something, you stop. If you can't stop being an asshole, remove yourself from true life and go to therapy

Reread. I'm not arguing that she needs to keep reminding him. My comments are strictly about her current method of trying to shape his behavior if this has been her only method of communicating her cleanliness expectations. He didn't share if they've had previous conversations. 

I agree wholeheartedly he should shape up and be a clean partner. I disagree if her method is exclusively "I find that unattractive" with specific, one off actions, while hoping for a broader behavior change towards cleanliness as a whole.

Did your mom play favorites with you and your sister?
Your son should be treated the same as his cousin. You need your sister on your side. Sit down with her and talk it over.

Sounds like an obvious gift grab to me. I'd politely decline

It’s definitely not the “exact same”. OP’s partner assumes a diet similar to OP’s (at least as far as being gluten free) with significantly less risk than if OP were to do so. As a person with a gluten allergy, I’ve come to learn some people without dietary restrictions don’t seem to appreciate just how much freedom they have, relative to myself.

While it’s very considerate for OP’s partner to change their diet for them, the partner still has the option to walk into the nearest bakery and pick out whatever they like. OP doesn’t have that same privilege. NTA but I understand why the partner would at least want to try what OP appears to enjoy so vividly.

NTA. Was he not raised well? I feel like children know not to talk to someone when they're not the phone. Does he have a developmental disability?

I had an issue similar to this where two student who weren't friends and were both known to have behavioural issues and had been caught lying in other instances were both claiming ownership of a speaker. I asked if either could prove it, which they couldn't at the time, so I gave it to their head of year to deal with. Eventually, the kid whose it wasn't admitted it after they realised there could be serious consequences. The parent of the boy whose it was, was a bit huffy about it and said I should have just given it to their kid. The head of year and I both pointed out I had no way of knowing whose it was and they would have been more upset if I had given it to the other student, since her only reasoning was "he said it was his". That shut her up. It's unreasonable to expect people to just hand over expensive items without proof of ownership.

NTA. I'm gluten intolerant and am desperately grateful that I'm not coeliac. What she did was cruel. You pass over delicious food every day because you know it will make you sick, and when you finally get hold of something you can eat she decides to take it from you? Even though you offered fair recompense? Unbelievable. I would not want to stay with anyone who did that to me either.

What's good for the goose is good for the gander. I think you need to start cutting back your contact with these people, especially since it sounds like their behaviour is escalating. Nta

NTA - I don’t get why people are acting like your parents didn’t sign up to be parents when they had you or like you don’t have a valid reason to be frustrated. I’m an adult in my 30s who luckily doesn’t have children but I do have memory of being a teenager and relying on other people for rides and how frustrating that time in my life was. My life now, working full time and doing grad school part time and having hobbies, is much less busy and usually easier compared to when I was a teenager and had such limited control over my life. I very much do not miss having so much stress about the future and having people expecting me to be grateful for every little thing. 

It is good to thank whoever gives you rides, especially to optional fun things but you don’t need to be grateful for rides to school when you legally have to go and didn’t ask to be born. Your parents should be the ones who have set up a system for them to know what’s going on with you and any siblings you may have. There’s no point in getting your schedule ahead of time if they’re going to ask you about it every day anyway. Not quite the same thing but when my wife tells me her schedule, I put the parts that are relevant to me into my calendar so I don’t forget about it and I don’t get why your parents aren’t doing the same thing.

Your case is an example of why I tell people with harmonious loving families to cherish every moment with them and never take them for granted, since you never know what day is the last.

NTA.  As his mother it is your job to protect him, including from family.

And if they are behavioural issues then I could see why the niece might be her favourite too.

If this has been going on since he was a baby is going to be as hard as the chicken and the egg problem.

If the kid is neurodivergent thats one thing and they need to get him tested (but he would be showing signs of that with everyone) but if he is just being a shit for grandma he  could have realised a long time ago that being difficult got attention and good or bad a toddler/child doesnt care, attention is attention.

OP also needs to be wary if her sons relationship with his cousin because its not just the relationship with grandma being affected here, of cousin has caught on that she is the favourite, there could be issues coming from there as well

NTA - I think it’s super tacky to do that. Usually the gift is the cost of your seat at the wedding. That’s the idea anyway. I can’t imagine not getting invited but being asking to give a gift?

You are most certainly an asshole.

NTA, my MIL does this exact thing. My SIL lives 6 hours away and we live an hour from them. They go visit my SIL every other weekend, we see them on holidays.

It did, that's why it's bullying. Do better.

I would, at the very least, stop associating with someone like that. Unfortunately, there’s nothing else you can do.

When you are a gambling addict you know you might end up with nothing and having a child helps not ending up in the streets because it makes people sad to know a child will end in the streets 

A man alone who has gambling addiction don’t have the same resources to be helped

I really feel sorry for you, your father doesn't deserve your attention. He treated you very badly and should face some kind of punishment.

Nope, it’s a blatant gift grab.  Send your regrets and lose her number

Exactly, and in this case the kids are 5 and 6!  Unless the 6-yr old is insanely tall for her age, they should easily be able to go on all of the same rides at an amusement park.

ESH.  If you are on a business call, you shouldn't  be in a common room and yes, it was none of his business.

Agree- It’s possible her mom added you to the list (after all, you were childhood besties.) 

NTA if you go or don’t go. It’s up to you. I’d probably go just to say hi. Shower gifts don’t have to be expensive.

Because he thinks that removing access from someone actively harming their child is too strict.

I'm celiac. I would have flipped out on her. It's been literally years since I've had decent baked goods. I'm upset on your behalf just sitting here. There's only one sure-fire way to guarantee it doesn't happen again.

Yeah, your friend is an areshole. Wants to be non binary but a woman at the same time? Nah. No time for that bullshit.

he was calling me jizzum first

NTA. But you should sell the extra tickets and just go with your family. Your sister and your dad suck, so you may need to take a step back from that situation. Sorry.

I hadn't even thought of that! Thank you for your perspective

NTA.

Could be a delay in mail for the wedding invite, but could also be that you simply weren't invited.

You could skip the shower and save any gift for if you later discover you are inviter to the wedding.

Really? You don't think a 5 year old is going to notice that his cousin got to go on all the rides at the amusement park while he sat on a bench?

NTA in the slightest. She sounds rude, entitled, and like she doesn't actually like you. This isn't about a muffin, it's about respect.

Did he say why he didn’t want her to have contact with you?

My mother treated my nephew worse than his sister because he looked more like my dad's side of the family! 

They've been divorced for over 30 years and she's still holding a grudge even though she's the narcissist! 😆 

Now my sister finally made a point and keeps both kids from my mother. You gotta do what's right, she can go kick rocks...

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > Oh because they tried to turn it on me that it was my responsibility to disclose information about me and my life, just to make them feel better.

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

YTA.  If you're daughter being celebrated is frustrating to you, I don't know what to tell you.  If you didn't want to go all out, that's on you for choosing to do so anyway.  You can't choose to make sacrifices, then hold it over someone's head when they are wanting to do something different from you.  She literally didn't say anything about not wanting to go out or have a dinner.  She said she didn't want THAT restaurant that everyone is going to.  She is perfectly fine with spending time with family.  And if the family are there for a week, why can't you do it a different night than everyone else? You know it's going to be crowded af.  And she knows it, too.

What an awful, unhelpful, uncalled for thing to say.

I agree. What the father did was a cruelty beyond imagination. He deserves nothing but a lonely end.

NTA your partner can go get other muffins.  You are limited in what you can eat.

If my partner asked me to not eat this magical muffin like you have, I'd say of course, because I love him, and can't fathom fighting over a muffin.

Woah, loads of cheesy michael haters in here

NTA it's about doing what is in their best interests and that really means Luna should go with you.

NTA. 

1.  You are NEVER obligated to attend an event simply Becaise you were invited.   As my mother used to say - it’s an invitation not a jury summons.  

2.  It’s weird and goes against etiquette rules to invite someone to a bridal shower and not the wedding.

NTA. I’m not providing gifts just because someone want gifts.

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our voting guide here, and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > 1. Charging my guests for a cabin at my wedding 2. Because that's charging someone to basically attend your wedding which I'm told is an asshole move

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 Click Here For Our Rules and Click Here For Our FAQ

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*

YTA you made joint plans to celebrate father's day with this concert, it is for your dad and what would make him happy, it would be unfair for you to exclude her. It would upset your dad. It would leave her last minute without a gift for your father. 

It's also unfair because you're punishing her but not your dad for behavior that sounds like came from both of them. Both of them excluded you from these things.  That's like a woman who's husband has an affair and she only blames the mistress. 

As for whether either of them excluding you was wrong, we don't have enough info about their reasons but generally I think you're overreacting - they're not obliged to include you and your family on every trip. It's unfair to get mad at them for it, and depending on your behavior, they may have been entitled to tell you off for being entitled.

If they can’t sit in their seat safely, they shouldn’t be flying until they can. I have seen flight attendants threaten to deplane a family before if they couldn’t get their kid to sit in the seat before takeoff. They screamed and cried the entire flight lol but by god they sat in their seat.

NTA. Go to the shower but don't bring a gift. That way she'll enjoy your presence and you won't feel taken advantage of. Not bringing a gift cancels out her not inviting you to the wedding.

NTA. It's fine for him to be disappointed that you couldn't attend. It's another for him to be giving you the silent treatment. Tbh he does sound like he's acting like a giant baby right now.

Was he there for your previous mental health spiral? I can't imagine watching a loved one going through something like that because of a movie I had encouraged them to watch. I would have felt so terrible and gone out of my way to avoid putting them in similar positions. 

If he needs a partner who can watch horror movies with him, that is so clearly not you. But you deserve someone who legit cares about your well being.

In all honesty, I would rather not invite him either and go with my kids and friends (I have 6 tickets) but then I felt like a proper asshole to do that on Father’s Day? While we were away just us, he told me he doesn’t feel that close to me or my kids, and since then the whole dynamic changed. Originally it was only supposed to be me and her, she guilted me into inviting my dad and his wife, because it was Father’s Day.

Fuck no and fuck him

NTA! 

I think your partner has some issues the need to work on with a therapist. Specially, food and what we eat will NEVER be a 1:1 thing. Even in cases where no one has a food allergy or preference, our individual food needs are different for every person. People have different caloric and nutritional needs, and that's even before you consider preferences and specific dietary needs. Trying to force equivalent intakes on people is controlling behavior, and doing so in a relationship with lopsided available is deplorable. 

It's not only not fair of them to eat items that meet your dietary restrictions when they have other options available, but it's actually disgusting that they would take that item from you and taunt you with it. 

They have a severe issue, and unless and until they choose to work with a therapist to make sure their issues don't negatively affect you, they are NOT a good partner.

I don't see how you would be the A. Whether or not other people agree, your feelings about your job and having a separate place from your brother are valid. I liked my brother as a teenager and I wouldn't have wanted to work with him. As a sister, I would also be highly irritated that I applied and got my own job and my brother didn't and just had to do the last part. You need money though, so apply to other pools before your give notice at your job and if you can get a job with the same rate or higher than take. Based on how you've described your brother (I don't know how fair or unfair you are being) you clearly don't want to have to work with him and have to pick up his slack or be embarrassed by him not working. 

Be prepared that your work friends will likely befriend him so if you stay friends you will probably overlap in some hang outs

He probably couldn’t step out long enough to get everything set up. Maybe he needed someone to watch over the setting so that nothing went missing or got stolen (thinking it could’ve been a picnic-type set-up or something)

I'm middle aged and a Damn Yankee and up here it is extremely rude and seen as a tacky gift grab.

YTA- I understand that your feelings may be hurt but in this day of expensive weddings, micro weddings, kid free weddings,  it is becoming much more common for people to limit who is invited to a wedding but may still want to celebrate with everyone. 

I would take it as a compliment she thought of you.

YTA Your parents bought them to share. I’m sorry you can’t get good gf food where you are - that genuinely sucks - and I get that she’s not gf, so she doesn’t have those same restrictions. Doesn’t change the fact that they were a gift from your parents to share. Any other time she would be TA. I don’t think this is worth having a breakdown over. She ate 1 muffin.

NTA.  This is a gift grab and nothing more.

Some brides think a shower invitation is some sort of runner up invitation. which it is not. only wedding guests

all my parents commute and do not participate in driving and dropping off - i apologize that i did not clarify this earlier.

NTA. If you want to respond in a way that leaves open the idea that she's reconnecting, politely decline with some sort of schedule conflict and send a lovely card with a note.

If she's fishing for gifts, she will be unlikely to continue to reach out. And you learn this for the price of a card and some postage. If she is hoping to reconnect, you've left that door open.

ESH.  You should not be on a work call in a shared space like the living room when your partner is home and he should not be interrupting.  It’s a meeting, not the latest episode of some tv show.  Neither of you are showing respect to your job honestly.

It depends on if you want to go. Maybe  you want to see her and old chums?  Nta though.  Bridal showers are boring, usually.

Ngl I’d rock her shit

This exactly. When you said you were sitting on the couch you can’t really expect him to assume you’re on an important business call. That’s pretty unprofessional in a shared space. But he should’ve got it a bit quicker than he did.

NTA for reclining your seat, but there are fewer than 60 commercial passenger Boeing 747s worldwide, and most of them are the 747-8 version. I've always wanted to fly on a 747... They're beasts. I've never heard feedback that they're "cramped" before.

I actually think how she is phrasing it it incredibly polite! Like what an ingenious communication hack. She isnt 'nagging', she isn't ordering or asking him to do anything, she isn't shaming him. She is exclusively and directly letting him know how his behavior impacts her and the relationship. He gets to choose, does he want her to find him attractive or does he want to continue as is.

NTA it is not paid employment it's doing him a favour.

I honestly cannot imagine depriving someone I care about - let alone a partner I presumably love - of something that they love - especially something so scarce - because of a selfish desire to keep even / try something. I’d prefer for them to enjoy it, because I care about them. What I find particularly incomprehensible in your partner’s attitude is her complete lack of understanding and stubborn desire to get her way even when she knew her actions hurt and frustrated you. This is not about the muffin. It was her willingness to inflict hurt and her cruel dismissal of your feelings. NYA, from my perspective.

Eh. Doesn’t seem like you’re that close anymore, I’d just decline. Wish her best and move on with your life.

"This is unattractive to me" is not describing her future actions. It's describing her *present feelings.* The fact that present feelings influence future actions doesn't mean saying, "I feel X" is therefore the equivalent of saying, "Do this or I won't have sex with you."

Just because you can infer the latter from the former doesn't mean they're functionally the same. Otherwise, a person literally couldn't express *any* negative feelings in a relationship without it being construed (rightly, per your logic) as a "transactional" threat of a particular action. E.g., "Do this or I'll leave."

I didn't see any indication that OP's girlfriend was using the term "unattractive" to describe everything that even slightly bothers her. It sounds like, on the contrary, she's using it accurately to describe how she feels about repeated patterns of behavior (which he acknowledges he engages in) that are impacting the way she feels about him.

There is nothing wrong with being clear & direct about your feelings.

If he doesn't want to stay in a relationship with someone who wants him to clean up after himself, he doesn't have to. But if he *does* want to stay in this relationship, he should care just as much or more about the fact that his actions are seriously eroding her satisfaction with their relationship as he cares that she is expressing this in a way that makes him feel insecure.

Both of you are NTA, but it does sound like you aren't compatible with each other if you are living together.

He literally told her he was going to buy her muffins (non gluten free meaning it doesn’t have that much of an impact) he can’t have other muffins she is selfish an the issue here.

Weird. My cousin did the opposite. Less people at the shower and everyone including the families with kids and people coming from out of town for the wedding.

Maybe. I think they just never cared about me, and now they're doing whatever suits them

I support this message

NTA- if youre not worth the appetizer and plate service she doesnt need the free gifts

NTA. After 8 years of no contact, it's just a gift grab. I would decline.

A plane seat is not a crowd situation.  Expecting people to make an awkward 180 degree turn to address the row behind them and asking permission to utilize their seat is unrealistic and unnecessary.  The expectation is that the seats may recline.  If you're a drama queen who's going to act like you're risking a mortal injury from someone reclining their seatback three inches then the AH line is over there.

my schedule does not change daily. i tell them at the start of the week the whole weeks events. i understand what you are saying but there are no changes to my schedule weekly. this week is abnormal compared to previous weeks but it is not like events are changing the night before. I send the schedule the weekend before and it remains unchanged (unless some freak circumstance occurs). im not totally sure thats what you are saying so i would love to chat more.

Well...  hmm... considering that the wedding would mean 2 presents, if that were the only reason.   One wonders at how likely it would be for it was just an oversight.  

  
And ... beyond that, well, its been 8 years.  ITs not beyond the pale that you didn't make the cut at the wedding.  Its a time of hard decisions.  You got a budget, X number of chairs, X number of meals, X amount of space.   Perhaps they were looking to reconnect, but, It was down to  either you or Great Uncle Gus and Great Aunt Virginia.  Family wins.  

I don't think you'd be an asshole to decline.  But you don't know enough to assume  ill (or greedy) intent.  The relationship did fade for a reason.  

NAH

NTA

Though reading between the lines of what would happen if your mom fought for custody I would never be alone with him or half of the relatives.

He may be sick and old but let’s not give him that chance

This is exactly what I was thinking. 

Also, what's with husband saying the ultimatum is too harsh? It's quite black-and-white. Grandma's actions are hurting their son so OP removed access to their son unless Grandma can stop essentially bullying her grandchild. What is 'harsh' about telling Grandma to treat the kids fairly? What is 'harsh' about protecting their son? That's really weird of him.

NTA, this is your thing, you are allowed to feel this way, but you also get to choose your actions. I think maybe just try and be open to the possibility that it might not be terrible. Definitely if you tell all your coworkers about the situation you will look bad to really try and just chill and let it unfold.

NTA

As a high school teacher,  I say you shouldn't even make the powerpoints for her. It's not great but true that for many students 90% of the thing they are going to learn from any given class is just how to use Powerpoint, Excel, etc. If she's planning on using this diploma to get better jobs they won't really care if she can do algebra but they will absolutely care if she can't use Powerpoint or an equivalent.

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

I am half white and half Indian but my mother is from a Caribbean country. My mom is fairly light skin so I pretty much just look fully white. I was at work one day and talking to a black coworker who I’m pretty friendly with. I don’t remember exactly what we were talking about but we had a client from the Caribbean and I mentioned I wondered the exact country they were from and couldn’t tell exactly, We were talking about random shit related and I at one point did an impression of my moms accent joking around, I think I was imitating some phrase my mom always used to say. 

I remember the girl kind of looked at me weird and it got awkward. To be completely honest I forget it’s not necessarily normal to see a white girl use a Caribbean accent. Because my family is so multicultural though, it’s just not something I even really think about. Anyways,I find out later that she was talking to some other girls at work about it, and basically wrote me off as weird and said it was offensive and almost kind of racist to imitate Caribbean people or an accent like that.

Now, this girl did not know that my mother was born and raised in the Caribbean and that the accent I imitated wasn’t just some random Caribbean person, but my own mother. Basically, when I heard how she interpreted that I clarified. The thing is though she did a complete 180 and said I should have started with that and mentioned that because of how it may be perceived. I told her no, I don’t have to explain myself or give context just because YOU didn’t think it was possible for someone who looks like me to have family from the Caribbean. 

I was completely irritated that her profiling me and assuming things about me was what started the issue. And that I’m required to give some background information or disclaimer while talking about MY families culture or else I’m the problem. 

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Maybe it got lost in the mail? Reach out to confirm.

YTA Your partner has emotional trauma surrounding food AND is willing to eat an all GF diet so they don’t contaminate your home and kitchen. 

But, you’re putting up barriers on their access to food and trying to bring gluten into your home (which is a strange choice and can make you sick!)

My husband eats whatever I (celiac) can eat. Can he eat gluten? Yes. Does he eat gluten in other people’s homes or at restaurants? Also yes. But our home is completely GF. He eats whatever I eat, therefore he has unrestricted access to the expensive baked goods as well. 

You can’t have both things. 

Do you want a supportive partner who is careful about cross contamination? If so, you need to share.

YWNTBA. on the condition there isn't a normal reason to exclude you from the wedding (like an intentionally tiny/small wedding or destination wedding).

Inviting someone to a shower but not the wedding is a Faux Pas because it signals that you don't matter that much or she could be just wanting a gift from you. If it is one of the exceptions, it may be the only time to celebrate with her, but even so, the bride should have communicated that.

nta it’s not about the concert t’s about broken trust in the family. If you paid for the tickets, you can keep or remove whoever you want. Just don’t make it a revenge move, because it’ll escalate things even more.

Yes.  Type it.  Hit send at an appropriate time. Texts are distracting and really mess with my flow when I’m working.

It's against etiquette, IMO, to invite someone to the shower if they're not invited to the wedding. Gifts are the whole point to a shower so it's just the bride wanting a gift.

I’m gonna go with a gentle YTA. I’m pretty greedy when it comes to food as I’m diabetic. It irritates my soul when some eats the last of my low carb/sugar free stuff, so I was with you in the first half which should tell both of us that we are wrong lol. Your girlfriend literally changed her diet to make sure you don’t get sick and you’re begrudging her a muffin. I appreciate being emotional about it because GOOD specialty products can be expensive and hard to come by, but at the end of the day it’s 1 treat 1 time. She has already made daily sacrifices and I don’t think this is the hill to stand on. Just eat the loss this time and move on.

Hope you can get some really good long-term therapy, because you deserve nothing but happiness and health for the remaining half of your life. Rooting for you with all my heart!

NTA. 

The ultimatum wasn't harsh and your mom is a terrible grandmother. Hopefully you also go LC after this because anyone who treats my child like that is not going to have access to them again.

NTA but it sounds like you are trying to punish her and are letting your dad off the hook for this behaviour.

Get a $50 gift certificate to a divorce lawyer.

I can understand, wanting to have your own scene apart from working at home. However, you are siblings, and this is just a summer job. Considering your age, this isn't going to last for much longer. I would just try to enjoy the time that you get to spend with him. When I was about the same age, I worked summer jobs with a sibling. I'm glad I did.

NTA if you decline, I would

NTA, but you need to have a serious discussion with your partner. Your dietary needs are strict enough that you should not have to share with someone who isn’t as restricted. With that said, you should probably compartmentalize your food versus your partner’s. Also, you might want to learn how to cook from scratch. That way, you’ll probably come up with better options than premade, sold in store items.

I would explain to him that if she is here, she needs to remain in the room and I get the area - I pay my share of the rent and expect to have my opportunities with the open space - gotta set your boundaries- doesn’t listen - then

Start hanging out in the open space with her… create conversations with her and let her do 80 percent of the talking… agree with her on 70 percent of it… offer to message her feet or back when she seems stressed out, encourage her and have her back when she is failing with these jobs search’s, while talking with her, check her out and make sure she sees, but act like you got caught, compliment her on how pretty she looks or the shorts or shirt makes her really stand out and looks good…. 

1 - either your going to start having relations with her and then it’s cool if she is hanging out with you or she might think your pervert and hide in the bedroom… or her attention will start moving your way instead of his way and then he will have the problem and he can either fix his girl friend or share her with you… just don’t fall in the love

NTA im so sorry this happened to you. Even if you arent spiritual at all, it might help you to speak/write to your mother, leave offering for her etc. to "reconnect"/express your feelings to her even though she has passed. I would do the same as you if my father did this to me and my mother, please dont fall for the guilt trips!

YTA your partner gave up gluten FOR YOU. That's such a huge commitment. To throw it back in their face and say "I can just buy you other muffins", when your folks clearly bought one FOR HER is wild. And now you're dumping her over a muffin, knowing her trauma and relationship with food. Wild. She deserves better. Wild selfish behaviour here. (Sidenote: get ready for your parents to only bring you single muffins going forward since a muffin for your partner somehow ended your relationship)

NTA. If they are so different and your son is soooo poorly behaved that she is forced to leave him out of things and give them to his similarly aged cousin right in front of them, then she shouldn’t take them both. If it was out of character behavior that warranted excluding him from the actual fun then she should have discussed the behavior with you afterwards. If it’s a money issue, she should have picked a different activity.  

Bottom line is she was a bad grandma in the examples given. If she’s bad all around, only you can say. But it’s to the point your son recognizes he isn’t as loved and wanted. So she needs to stay away. Her presence is hurting your son and his feelings need to matter more to you than hers. As far as your sister, well it’s easy to say it’s no big deal when it isn’t your kid wondering why they are unloved.

Is your GM named Ken?

I can't imagine the betrayel you are feeling right now. 
Don't blame yourself however for believing him while growing up, you were only a child and did not know any better. 

Your mom knew what kind of person your dad was/is and probably knew why you went no contact. Just know that she loved you with every fibre in her body, because that's how deep a mom's love runs.
Take your time to heal from this, so that the maliciousness from your father does not get carried around for the rest of your life. 

You are NTA to stop paying the bills, absolutely not.

You’re not ending something over a muffin, you’re ending it over disrespect and incompatibility. Some people just aren’t meant to be together. Your partner has a lot to work through for their eating issues, but it doesn’t matter what history you have with food, if you are an adult and know something is special to someone and they VOICED EMOTIONALLY how important it was to them and ATE IT ANYWAY…THEN YOU ARE A BAD PERSON.

You’ve made this very clear to them how little you get to enjoy things due to your diagnosed condition. A good partner would understand and instead go get themselves a muffin from the local bakery. You’re both adults. This is petty behavior for no reason.

I’m not your therapist or relationship counselor, but I would see if you two can find a way to dig into what drove her to want to do this and how you can fix it in the future. If it’s something like, “I just wanted it bc you made it look so good and I really like good sweets so you made me want it.” Then that’s addiction that needs to be really worked on, if a grown person can’t regulate their impulses then that’s where it becomes a problem.

NTA, and I hope you both find a way to work through this or realize it’s not working.

I’m older, and Southern, so take that for what it’s worth. But traditionally in the South it’s considered bad manners to invite someone to the shower if they aren’t invited to the wedding.

I unfortunately don't think the wedding is either of the former, seems like a lot of my other childhood friends were invited to both

My son in law works from home sometimes. I would not dream of talking to him while he's on a call. His 4 and 6 year old kids know not to interrupt when he's working.

NTA, but you also can’t really deny her babysitting the other grandchild. That’s beyond your reach imo

Just ignore him and the rest of that side of the family as needed. 

Therapy is a thought. 

Or trying to get to know some of your mom's side of your family. 

I'm petty, so skip his funeral.  Maybe happen to be on a great vacation at that time

That's true, but not every man IS being a creep and it IS possibly, even likely, that's the case. Especially given broader context. It's not invalidating or dismissive to entertain other possibilities, it's maturity. Wisdom. 

Also, friends share their thoughts and opinions. OPs friend mentioned the interaction and OP gave his take. He didn't say, "No you're wrong and being mean to that nice old man". Why bring it up if you only want validation. If you bring it up, be open to discussion.

we have a family calendar that only one person has access to see. we've tried sharing it but we all use different platforms (i use google). the shared calendar i cant access on my phone so i would have to audibly dictate it to alexa. every single event which is kinda annoying to do for multiple events in a day for multiple days a week.

Right but she offered to take both kids to the amusement park, and only one got to go on rides. That isn't a situation where one is difficult to babysit, she volunteered to babysit both of them and then treated one to a great day of rides and the other to a day of watching somebody else go on rides.

NTA, and you're not weaponizing access to him, you're protecting him.

friend might be femme presenting or afab which would lead to why they're still leaning towards women's issues but the whole mustache thing threw me off. a little peach fuzz is totally normal, but wanting to grow out a full mustache without hormones sounds odd.

The only time my family eat my GF stuff is on my birthday as the cake is GF.

They may eat incidentally GF stuff such as veggie chilli, a curry etc but GF cakes and biscuits are so expensive they are mine. 

Your GF is selfish

NTA. She needs to be more understanding of your situation. If gf products were more available to you, her wanting a muffin would make sense. However this seems selfish of her to center herself when you are the one with the food restriction.

Amusement parks usually have rides for the kids too. I find it hard to believe there wasnt one single ride he COULD go on

NTA. this "we share everything" rule doesn't make any sense. what if she gets regular muffins from her parents, is she forced to share them with you even if you don't eat gluten? or if it's food that one of you particularly dislikes?

I see how it's also weird to break up over a muffin, but I just can't see how this sharing rule can work in the longer term

Obviously, NTA, if this were a true story. 

I think there are some plot holes. 
1) your parents divorced when you were 10 and your mother paid child support for 15 years? Really? 

2) your mom dies and an “aunt” appears in your life with a box full answers? Did you not see this aunt throughout your life? Wouldn’t she have mentioned your mother before this day? 

3) what proof did you find that your father cheated?

4) but oh kk you checked with relatives to confirm the story? Had you not spoken to these relatives, like before then? Just no contact with any family but your dad for years but now you have contact? Huh

why should she have to constantly remind her boyfriend to clean up after himself? he’s not a child. why should she have to have these conversations? this is something you should know since you were a child.

NTA - those are stupid questions he has no reason to ask. But I would find a quiet place and let him know you aren’t available unless it’s emergency.

^^^^AUTOMOD  **Thanks for posting! READ THIS COMMENT** - ***MAKE SURE TO CHECK ALL YOUR DMS***. **This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything.**

I'm getting eaten alive by some family members for suggesting this while some day it's completely fine.

Essentially, we're having a summer camp wedding, three days two nights. We have the option (1) of a very affordable simple site with cabins that people can book independently or (2) a very expensive lux site that comes with 33 cabins in the venue price.

I want the luxe site and if we charged guests the same price as the simple site for the cabins, it would be affordable.

Here's the issue:

If in the invites, I add an option of booking a cabin, first come first serve, for the cabins at the luxe venue, is that an asshole move? Essentially on the RSVP saying, " We highly encourage you to stay onsite for accommodations. If you would like to reserve one of the cabins, please text the bride and venmo her $XXX".

They would have to pay for accommodations anyways because we're getting married in the state we live in currently, neither of our home states. 

I didn't think this is tacky because I've paid for my hotels for literally every wedding I've been to. I'm open to the asshole judgment or any advice!

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

Obviously, NTA, if this were a true story. 

I think there are some plot holes. 
1) your parents divorced when you were 10 and your mother paid child support for 15 years? Really? 

2) your mom dies and an “aunt” appears in your life with a box full answers? Did you not see this aunt throughout your life? Wouldn’t she have mentioned your mother before this day? 

3) what proof did you find that your father cheated?

4) but oh kk you checked with relatives to confirm the story? Had you not spoken to these relatives, like before then? Just no contact with any family but your dad for years but now you have contact? Huh

I was confused as well, GF is gluten free in this case 😅

NTA my parents do this shit all the time. They love to stop by in the middle of the work day so we can have lunch and then get mad when I don't answer the door. 

Wait till things calm down. Ask him if you could just walk up to him on a job site and ask a bunch of questions. He might not be malicious he might just be unaware.

Info: if you do this regularly, and you've a bug proper job, why are you working from the couch? I personally couldn't.

ESH. The living room couch probably isn't an appropriate place to take work calls. Your bf should obviously not have bothered you on a call.

Right, we don't know what other methods have been attempted. Your assumption is that she's tried them because that's logical. 

But that's not what this post is describing. The post is describing her specific actions and his specific growing feelings of frustration. 

I could likewise assume that he's been adopting every single comment as gospel because he's literal to a fault and he doesn't get the connection to other patterns of behavior. 

So why are you giving advice based on assumptions you've made that aren't clarified or made clear in OPs post?

He needs to STFU  when you're working and stop being a m*n-b*by..

Period, end of story.

Nta. You can't eat regular muffins and she can. She doesn't need to eat yours. If she has such issues around food then she needs therapy.

NTA. If anything, you could have also told your mother that her grandson has noticed. That he's not excited when you want to see him because he has realized how you treat him differently from his cousin. Gotta nip this in the bud now, she'll be doing this for the rest of her life unless it's corrected. Imagine when she takes her granddaughter on a european trip for high school graduation, and then gives your son a book or something when he finishes high school.

NTA 

Usually, I would assume bridal showers would be for people also invited to the wedding. Or at least those are the only ones I've been invited to. The only exception I could think of is if it's a destination wedding that very few people were invited to. 

But, if this person is concerned that you declined the invitation, they can always reach out to you to rebuild a relationship. If not, it was probably just a gift grab.

NTA, she sounds really selfish; I haven't struggled with food in the way she has, but I can't imagine doing what she did (like... any of it lololol)

For some people, everything just goes smoothly right from the start, and they don't think it could be any other way and that's awesome.

I'd like to reconnect, but I can't help feeling a bit used, so that's where my internal conflict comes in

“ Overall, I just feel like he doesn’t really respect me or my job because as much because I’m not doing physical labor like he has to ”

Sounds like he’s trying to sabotage your work from home job so you can do physical labor and be miserable like him.

This won’t be the last time he fucks with your job. 

What a loser.

Nta

Jesus Christ is he a toddler? NTA.

have you confirmed your not invited? NTA either way but it might just be they missed it or thought of you later and it’s on the way.

Your relationship should end over this; this is beyond cruel

Not at all. Using you as a gift bringer is terrible behavior.

When I was a child, my mother made a point to subliminally give me and my sibs a message that we weren't as good as the other branches of the family and her parents / my grandparents didn't like us as much. It was never anything overt; always little sides and snide comments; but it was chronic and over the years I came to feel like I wasn't as good as my cousins. Years of therapy helped me to overcome that inferiority complex of not being as good as other people, because it translates outward to the rest of your environment and you don't think you're as good as anybody. 

You need to nip that crap in the bud now! Your mother needs to understand that she's doing damage that is going to last for years and what she thinks is a minor difference of treatment is monumental in the mind of a child who perceives that they are not being treated as an equal. So it's time for Mom to s*** or get off the pot; the pot being the ability to babysit your son. And without getting all weird about it you should definitely start reinforcing him and making sure that he understands that he is loved and valued. Good luck with that hot mess

It's an invitation, not a command appearance, so you're NTA for not going.

It is worth considering context, though. Where I live, it's customary to invite your friends who can't be invited to the wedding to the bridal shower or bachelorette. Not for gifts, as an opportunity to celebrate with the bride. I've gone to a number of bridal events for people having small weddings, destination weddings, and people with big families who genuinely don't have the seats to invite friends to the ceremony or reception. 

It's not necessarily an insult. You can take it that way and lose the friendship if you want to. Your call

Oh no! you accidentally put your phone on airplane mode...how careless :/

No, because what she is saying is actually cutting through that and showing OP the consequences of what he is doing aka when he's messy, she loses attraction to him. Someone shouldn't NEED a sit down conversation about why picking up after themselves is a good idea, it's basic adulting, but saying "hey, if you act like a 7 year old with your cleaning, I'll be attracted to you at the same level" skips a lot of waffling.

They are most likely female but if they wish to be non binary, they cannot simultaneously be a woman.

Why is he asking if the person is male or female? That screams that he is insecure NTA

Yes, you are going to come second to another woman every time - even if it is his sister.

He makes an effort for her but not you. In fact he makes his disinterest in you pretty clear.

I would run from this and find someone who is actually interested in you. NTA